{
  "article_text": [
    "the currently favored @xmath1 + cold dark matter ( @xmath1cdm ) cosmological model successfully reproduces many of the observed large - scale properties of the universe , including the properties of the cosmic microwave background recently observed by wmap @xcite , the number , size and clustering of galaxy clusters ( e.g. @xcite ) , and the evolution of galaxy cluster counts @xcite . however , several major discrepancies between the predictions of @xmath1cdm and the observed properties of the universe on small scales have presented challenges to the paradigm .",
    "one outstanding challenge is that cold dark matter models predict over an order of magnitude more low mass , dark matter halos around the milky way than the number of observed satellite dwarf galaxies .",
    "this discrepancy was first pointed out by @xcite , and was later confirmed by high resolution n - body simulations @xcite .    within the @xmath1cdm framework ,",
    "a plausible explanation for the discrepancy between the number of predicted sub - halos and observed satellites lies within baryonic physics .",
    "the fraction of dark matter halos with @xmath2 50 km sec@xmath3 that may host a luminous galaxy can be significantly reduced by reionization , feedback , and/or tidal effects ( @xcite , among others ) .",
    "these baryonic processes are difficult to model .",
    "therefore , the exact extent to which each effects the present day luminosity of dark matter sub - halos remains uncertain .",
    "a comparison of the total number and the radial distribution of predicted visible satellites with that of the observed milky way satellites may provide a test of the feasibility of particular models ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "a number of the above implementations of baryonic physics have been able to reproduce the observed milky way dwarf population .",
    "unfortunately , existing comparisons are rendered less meaningful by the uncertain completeness of the milky way dwarf satellite population . due to incompleteness",
    ", the observed satellites may not reflect the properties of the underlying population .",
    "models that provide a good match to the current observations may , therefore , actually underpredict the underlying population .",
    "past searches for milky way companions , although very successful , suffer from unavoidable observational biases that could lead to an undercounting of milky way satellites both at low galactic latitudes and at large ( @xmath4 100 kpc ) distances ( see  3 for discussion ) . furthermore , the extent of these possible biases is not well understood due to a lack of systematic analyses ( however , see @xcite for a systematic analysis of their survey s sensitivity ) .",
    "@xcite are currently implementing a new search for resolved milky way dwarf satellites in the sloan digital sky survey data .",
    "in contrast to past surveys , this search is sensitive to dwarfs similar to and much fainter than any among the known population , at any distance out to the milky way s virial radius .",
    "the sdss may thus provide the means to evaluate the possibility of undercounting in the outer halo .    in light of",
    "the new willman et al survey , we reevaluate the evidence for incompleteness to milky way satellites similar to those in the known population and highlight the possible impact of such an incompleteness on comparisons with substructure models . in  2 , we describe the n - body cosmological simulation of a milky way like galaxy that we use to compare with observations . in",
    " 3 , we review observational evidence for bias in the census of milky way companions and estimate the possible number of undetected galaxies similar to those known , based on primarily observational arguments . in  4",
    ", we compare the radial distribution of milky way dwarfs with that of both the oldest and highest v@xmath5 dark matter sub - halos of the simulated galaxy .",
    "we use this comparison both to demonstrate how well radial distributions may be used to distinguish between models and to underscore the possible impact of observational bias on such a comparison .",
    "finally , in  5 we estimate the number of dwarfs similar to the known population that the willman et al .",
    "( 2002 ) survey could detect and still be consistent with either of the two models that we consider .",
    "@xcite recently simulated the formation of a milky way - like disk galaxy in a @xmath1cdm universe .",
    "they performed a dark matter ( dm ) only simulation of a milky way sized galaxy halo , using pkdgrav @xcite . in the following , we use `` dmgal '' to refer to this galaxy .",
    "the details of this simulation are in @xcite , but we summarize its properties here .",
    "they adopted @xmath6 , @xmath7 , @xmath8 = 0.7 , @xmath9 , and @xmath10 = 0.21 , where @xmath10 is the shape parameter of the power spectrum .",
    "table  [ tab : simulations ] lists the main parameters of the simulation at z = 0 .",
    "we use @xmath11/@xmath12 @xmath13 100 to define the virial radius of the galaxy @xcite .",
    ".simulation data [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "in this section , we compare the observed radial distributions of milky way and m31 satellite galaxies with the radial distributions predicted by two different simplistic substructure models applied to the milky way - like galaxy from a the high resolution @xmath1cdm cosmological simulation described in  2 .",
    "we use these two models to highlight the impact of a possible incompleteness on the robustness of such comparisons .",
    "we then estimate the number of additional milky way dwarfs possible at @xmath14 110 kpc for the observed and the model distributions to be consistent .",
    "following taylor et al ( 2003 ) , we use either the oldest or the highest v@xmath5 sub - halos to characterize two popular substructure scenarios . the oldest sub - halos",
    "would preferentially be observable as luminous satellite galaxies in a scenario where reionization is the dominant physics that effects the observability of low mass sub - halos . in this scenario , low mass sub - halos that form after reionization",
    "can not accrete as much neutral gas as halos that formed before reionization , if they can accrete any at all , making it difficult for sub - halos that collapse after reionization to ever form stars .",
    "on the other hand , @xcite and @xcite recently suggested that the highest v@xmath5 sub - halos ( at z = 0 ) may preferentially be observable as milky way satellites , if the circular velocities of the observed milky way satellites have been grossly underestimated . in that scenario",
    ", a combination of reionization , feedback , and tidal effects could have rendered all of the less massive sub - halos thus far unobservable .",
    "although these two models clearly are not complete descriptions of the physics that affects sub - halo luminosity , they are sufficient for the purposes described above .      to select the oldest sub - halos , we reconstruct the trajectory of each sub - halo within r@xmath15 of the galaxy at z = 0 back to z = 9.7 .",
    "we used the mass history of each sub - halo to interpolate the time at which each contained both 50@xmath0 and 25@xmath0 of its peak mass .",
    "a sub - halo was the progenitor , p@xmath16 , a of a sub - halo , s@xmath17 if it contained the highest fraction of the number of particles in s@xmath17 .",
    "if multiple halos contained @xmath4 10@xmath0 of s@xmath17 s particles , we selected p@xmath16 as the sub - halo that contributed the highest fraction of its 10 most bound particles to s@xmath17 , following @xcite .",
    "we defined the highest v@xmath5 sub - halos as those with the highest peak circular velocities , @xmath18 , at z = 0 .",
    "the circular velocities are simply determined by @xmath19 , out to each sub - halo s tidal radius .",
    "we find that the 15 sub - halos with the highest @xmath18s at z = 0 include the 12 sub - halos with the highest masses along their past trajectory .",
    "figure  [ fig : numvsdistlog ] shows the radial distributions of the entire dmgal sub - halo population , the oldest and highest v@xmath20 sub - halos , and the dwarf populations of the milky way and m31 .",
    "the spread in m31 radial distributions due to distance uncertainties is also overplotted ( see  3.2 ) .",
    "we used the sub - halos that accreted 50@xmath0 of their peak mass at the earliest time to define the oldest population .",
    "again , we have normalized the distances by the virial radius of the parent halo to account for differences in the size and mass of the milky way , m31 and dmgal .",
    "we have also normalized the radial distributions to the cumulative number of dwarfs within 0.43 r@xmath21 , the most uniformly sampled volume around the milky way . due to small numbers ,",
    "ks tests show that all of the plotted distributions , except for that of the entire sub - halo distribution , are at least marginally consistent with each other .",
    "this consistency highlights a potential difficulty in using the radial distribution of a single population to rule out models .",
    "however , some of the distributions are much more similar than others , which we discuss below .",
    "this figure shows that sub - halos with the highest peak velocities at z = 0 are biased to lie at smaller radii than the overall sub - halo population .",
    "a ks test of the two distributions shows they are not inconsistent with being drawn from the overall sub - halo population with @xmath1330@xmath0 certainty .",
    "this radial bias was also found by @xcite and @xcite for galaxy sub - halos , and @xcite and @xcite for the highest v@xmath22 sub - halos of galaxy clusters . to understand this radial bias ,",
    "consider that the radial distribution of the highest v@xmath22 sub - halos is very similar to that of the sub - halos with the highest mass along their past trajectories , as stated in  4.1 .",
    "the sub - halos surviving at small galactocentric distances at z = 0 are those that were , on average , the most robust to tidal disruption .",
    "sub - halos with the highest masses in the past were both more robust to tidal disruption , and would have experienced dynamical friction that would have reduced their apocenter distances .",
    "the fact that the highest v@xmath5 sub - halos have a distribution that is much less biased to small radii than that of even m31 s satellites , suggests that the stoehr / hayashi model may not be correct .",
    "a recent dynamical study by @xcite reaches the same conclusion . nevertheless , to evaluate the possibility of using radial distributions to distinguish between substructure models , we compute the number of undetected outer halo milky way satellites necessary for the same fraction of them and of the highest v@xmath5 sub - halos to lie within 0.43@xmath23 ( as we did in  3.2 ) .",
    "the resulting total number of dwarfs similar to the known population , in the highest v@xmath5 sub - halo model , ranges from 20  33 , depending on the assumed latitude distribution of the satellites .",
    "these numbers are summarized in table 2 .",
    "similar to the highest v@xmath5 sub - halos , the oldest sub - halos are biased to lie at smaller radii than the overall sub - halo population , but even more so .",
    "in fact , there is a striking similarity between the radial distribution of the oldest sub - halos and the observed satellite galaxies , particularly of m31 s .",
    "the scatter in the m31 satellites radial distribution , due to distance uncertainties , reduces its similarity to that of the oldest sub - halos .",
    "however , a ks test shows that , at worst , they are consistent with each other at @xmath24 , which is more than any of the other distributions",
    ". the radial distribution of the oldest sub - halos defined by the time they had accreted 25@xmath0 of their peak mass , rather than 50@xmath0 , also matches the plotted distribution very closely",
    ". we again compute the number of undetected milky way satellites necessary in the outer halo for the fraction of milky way satellites within 0.43@xmath23 to exactly match that of the oldest sub - halos .",
    "the numbers are summarized in table 2 .",
    "the close match between the radial distribution of the oldest sub - halos and that of m31 seems to indicate that reionization is a primary factor effecting the observability of sub - halos .",
    "however , @xcite used a more detailed approach and found that the observable properties of galactic satellites are primarily a function of the physics of galaxy formation , rather than reionization .",
    "this different result demonstrates that cosmic scatter intrinsic to both observed and simulated satellite distributions may be a large enough effect to make it difficult to distinguish between substructure models solely using a small sample of radial distributions .",
    "this potential pitfall is reflected in the fact that the numbers for the 3 different models in table 1 are all consistent within their poisson errors .",
    "in this section , we determine if any of the above predictions for the number of undetected outer halo milky way satellites similar to those known will be testable by the new sdss search for resolved dwarf galaxy companions to the milky way @xcite . to do this , we calculate the number of undetected dwarfs similar to the known population , but more distant than 110 kpc , that may lie in the sdss area under various sets of assumptions .",
    "because sdss only observes at @xmath25 , it can not constrain incompleteness at low @xmath26 .",
    "the number of predicted dwarfs in the surveyed area is independent of whether we assume a uniform distribution in latitude or assume that the observed distribution in latitude accurately reflects the underlying distribution .",
    "we thus compute the number of undetected dwarfs as :    @xmath27    where @xmath28 is the fraction of satellites observed to lie above @xmath29 = 30 , @xmath30 is the fraction of @xmath31 sky that sdss will image , and @xmath32 is the number of predicted undetected galaxies with no latitude correction .",
    "when complete , the sdss will cover @xmath13 25@xmath0 of the entire sky .",
    "based on the numbers in table  [ tab : predictions ] , we expect a total of only 2 - 3 @xmath33 1 undetected outer halo dwarfs from the m31 ` model ' , a total of 1 @xmath33 1 dwarf from the oldest sub - halo model , and a total of 4 @xmath33 2 dwarfs in the highest v@xmath5 sub - halo model . in the event of a null detection , the sdss coverage will not be sufficient to definitively assess whether the underlying radial distribution of mw dwarfs is exactly consistent with any of these three models .",
    "however , the detection of a substantial number of outer halo dwarfs would call the `` oldest sub - halo '' ( reionization ) model into question . in a future paper , we will assess the number of dwarfs fainter than those in the known population , as predicted by various substructure models , that the new sdss search should be sensitive to .",
    "in this paper , we have reviewed evidence for incompleteness in the known milky way dwarf satellites with properties similar to those in the known population .",
    "this possible incompleteness is due to past observational bias against detecting milky way satellites at low latitude and in the outer galactic halo .",
    "although the level of incompleteness is very uncertain , the fact that an empirical extrapolation from the m31 distribution yields an average total number of mw dwarfs that is 1.5  2 times the known population shows that incompleteness needs to be taken seriously when comparing to models of dwarf galaxy formation .",
    "we used the oldest and highest v@xmath5 sub - halos of a simulated milky way - like galaxy to demonstrate how radial distributions may be used to distinguish between proposed models of dwarf galaxy formation .",
    "however , ks tests comparing the radial distributions of the milky way , m31 , and the oldest sub - halos and the highest v@xmath5 sub - halos in simulations show that they are all at least marginally consistent with each other .",
    "interestingly , the m31 distribution is consistent with the oldest sub - halo distribution at @xmath34 , suggesting that reionization may have a substantial effect on the observabilitiy of sub - halos ( however , see kravtsov et al .",
    "2004 ) . however , small numbers and cosmic scatter permit at least a marginal consistency between a wide range of observations and models .",
    "it is thus difficult at present to use radial distributions alone to clearly distinguish between substructure models , although they certainly provide a complimentary test of model predictions . though faint galaxy membership in other groups is currently controversial ,",
    "when the satellite populations of galaxies in nearby groups are known more precisely , their radial distributions will provide a stronger discriminant between models .",
    "likewise , a large ensemble of high resolution simulations will allow a more robust assessment of the effects of cosmic scatter and small numbers on the predicted satellite population .",
    "the crude arguments presented in this paper result in predicted total numbers of dwarfs that range from 1  3 times the known number , with the most realistic estimates producing an incompleteness in the milky way dwarf census of up to 50@xmath0 .",
    "the exact level of incompleteness is strongly dependent on the distribution of milky way satellites with latitude .",
    "if the milky way census is incomplete at the level of 50@xmath0 or more , then many existing models underpredict the number of luminous milky way dwarfs . in particular , models with suppressed small scale power",
    "would not produce enough luminous dwarf galaxies , as has already been suggested by @xcite .",
    "note that our derived `` total incompleteness '' only accounts for dwarfs with properties similar to those known , not any fainter dwarfs , should they exist .",
    "currently , the largest uncertainty in the known milky way population is the underlying distribution of dwarfs with latitude . before the milky way",
    "satellite population can yield a meaningful comparison with substructure models , this uncertainty needs to be investigated with more detail than presented in this paper .",
    "the average incompleteness in the current census , assuming a uniform distribution in latitude and no other incompleteness , is 33@xmath0 .",
    "any survey sensitive to faint dwarf satellites at low latitude would thus place very valuable constraints on the local galaxy luminosity function .",
    "we would like to acknowledge andrey kravtsov for conversations that substantially contributed to this paper .",
    "we would also like to thank mike blanton and andreas berlind for helpful conversations .",
    "bw was supported in part by nsf grant ast-0098557 , nsf grant ast-0205413 , and the uw royalty research fund .",
    "jjd and bw were partially supported through nsf grant career ast-0239683 and through the alfred p.  sloan foundation .",
    "fg is a brooks fellow and was supported in part by nsf grant ast-0098557 at the university of washington .",
    "dr acknowledges support from the nasa graduate student researchers program and from pparc .",
    "trq acknowledges support from nsf grant ast-0098557 and nsf grant ast-0205413 .",
    "s.  r. , patterson r.  j. , dinescu d.  i. , johnson w.  y. , ostheimer j.  c. , kunkel w.  e. , palma c. , 2000 , in the galactic halo : from globular cluster to field stars @xmath35 centauri : nucleus of a milky way dwarf spheroidal ? .",
    "pp 619+            h.  j. , yanny b. , rockosi c. , grebel e.  k. , rix h. , brinkmann j. , csabai i. , hennessy g. , hindsley r.  b. , ibata r. , ivezi ' c z. , lamb d. , nash e.  t. , odenkirchen m. , rave h.  a. , schneider d.  p. , smith j.  a. , stolte a. , york d.  g. , 2002 , , 569 , 245                  d.  n. , verde l. , peiris h.  v. , komatsu e. , nolta m.  r. , bennett c.  l. , halpern m. , hinshaw g. , jarosik n. , kogut a. , limon m. , meyer s.  s. , page l. , tucker g.  s. , weiland j.  l. , wollack e. , wright e.  l. , 2003 , , 148 , 175"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we review evidence that the census of milky way satellites similar to those known may be incomplete at low latitude due to obscuration and in the outer halo due to a decreasing sensitivity to dwarf satellites with distance . </S>",
    "<S> we evaluate the possible impact that incompleteness has on comparisons with substructure models by estimating corrections to the known number of dwarfs using empirical and theoretical models . under the assumption that the true distribution of milky way satellites is uniform with latitude , we estimate a 33@xmath0 incompleteness in the total number of dwarfs due to obscuration at low latitude . similarly , </S>",
    "<S> if the radial distribution of milky way satellites matches that of m31 , or that of the oldest sub - halos or the most massive sub - halos in a simulation , then we estimate a total number of milky way dwarfs ranging from 1  3 times the known population . </S>",
    "<S> although the true level of incompleteness is quite uncertain , the fact that our extrapolations yield average total numbers of mw dwarfs that are realistically 1.5  2 times the known population , shows that incompleteness needs to be taken seriously when comparing to models of dwarf galaxy formation . </S>",
    "<S> interestingly , the radial distribution of the oldest sub - halos in a @xmath1cdm simulation of a milky way - like galaxy possess a close match to the observed distribution of m31 s satellites , which suggests that reionization may be an important factor controlling the observability of sub - halos . </S>",
    "<S> we also assess the prospects for a new sdss search for milky way satellites to constrain the possible incompleteness in the outer halo .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : haloes  galaxies : local group  galaxies : dwarf  methods : n - body simulations </S>"
  ]
}