{
  "article_text": [
    "most cosmic bodies eject matter into space , but the solar wind is the first and , up to now , only stellar outflow to have been measured in situ @xcite .",
    "numerous sophisticated models have been developed since parker s pionnering papers @xcite using complicated mechanisms .",
    "the different acceleration mechanisms , the origin of the high - speed solar wind as well as the associated problem of coronal heating have been recently reviewed in a comprehensive way by @xcite . however the solar wind acceleration and its properties are still far from being well understood .",
    "the reason of this difficulty is that the solar wind is neither a collision - dominated medium nor a collisionless one .",
    "the knudsen number @xmath0 , which is defined as the ratio of the particle mean free path and the density scale height , is close to unity at earth s orbit ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "this means that neither the hydrodynamic approach nor the pure collisionless one ( also called exospheric ) are fully appropriate to model the solar wind expansion and to explain its observed properties .",
    "the classical fluid approach is applicable for the extreme regime when @xmath1 , that is when the medium is collision - dominated . in this case , the particle velocity distribution functions ( vdfs ) are maxwellians as the medium is assumed to be at local thermodynamic equilibrium .",
    "the euler or navier - stokes approximations are applicable and produce a thermally driven wind out of the hot solar corona .",
    "there are two problems with this approach .",
    "firstly , the particle vdfs might not be maxwellians at the base of the solar wind .",
    "secondly , the particle vdfs @xmath2 @xmath3 maxwellian in the solar wind .",
    "there is an increasing number of both theoretical @xcite , and observational evidences @xcite , which tend to show that non - thermal vdfs can develop and exist in the high corona and even in the transition region .",
    "this is because in a plasma the particle free paths increase rapidly with speed @xmath4 , so that high energy tails can develop for knudsen numbers as low as @xmath5 @xcite , i.e. even in collisional plasmas .",
    "a fortiori , high energy tails can be expected to be found in the weakly collisional corona and solar wind acceleration region .",
    "indeed , it is well known that the solar wind electron vdfs permanently exhibit non - thermal tails that can be modelled by a halo maxwellian population ( for e.g. @xcite ) or by the power law part of a generalized lorentzian or kappa function @xcite . in the frame of the fluid approach , which intrinsically can not handle suprathermal tails , the effect of non - thermal vdfs on the solar wind acceleration",
    "can be understood through an increase of the heat flux @xcite .",
    "an alternative way of taking into account the possible effects of coronal non - thermal distributions is to use a kinetic approach . among the various kinetic approaches for the solar wind , the simplest",
    "one is probably the exospheric one , which totally neglects binary collisions between particles above a given altitude called the exobase . the first solar wind model of this type was developed by @xcite by analogy with the evaporation of planetary atmospheres .",
    "this first exospheric model , modelling the radial expansion of the solar corona from the thermal evaporation of hot coronal protons out of the solar gravitational field , produced a solar breeze . the subsonic speed obtained by the theory was partially due to an inadequate assumption : the electrostatic field was taken so as to ensure hydrostatic equilibrium @xcite , which is inconsistent with an expanding atmosphere .",
    "the improved exospheric models by @xcite and @xcite were the first to be able to reproduce supersonic solar wind flows . in these models ,",
    "multiple exobase locations were assumed , in order to take into account the variable mean free path of the particles as a function of their velocity .",
    "however these models still used the inadequate pannekoek - rosseland electric field as an imposed external solution .",
    "the actual ( outward ) ambipolar electric field , which ensures plasma quasi - neutrality and zero electric current is greater , thereby accelerating protons to greater speeds .",
    "models using this correction @xcite produced supersonic winds , but too small speeds for explaining the fast solar wind @xmath6 .    more recently , @xcite have generalized these calculations by considering non - maxwellian velocity distribution functions for the electrons in the corona , e.g. generalized lorentzian or kappa functions . with such non - maxwellian distributions having suprathermal electron tails ,",
    "a higher electrostatic potential is needed to ensure zero charge and current , therefore producing larger terminal bulk speeds .",
    "in essence , this comes about because the electron tail tends to increase the escaping electron flux , so that , to preserve quasi - neutrality , the electrostatic potential increases in order to trap more electrons , which in turn accelerates the protons outwards .",
    "this model yields a reasonable description of bulk solar wind properties , giving densities , temperatures and speeds within the ranges observed at 1 au , even though the details of the vdfs are not reproduced , as expected since collisions are neglected .",
    "its major interest is the prediction of high speeds without assuming extremely large coronal temperatures and/or additional heating of the outer corona , as is needed in hydrodynamic models .",
    "more basically , the main achievement of exospheric models is to furnish a possible driving mechanism for the fast solar wind , with a single assumption : the suprathermal electron vdf at the exobase .",
    "however , the @xcite model can not be applied for low altitude exobases , which is the case of coronal holes , from where emanates the fast solar wind . in these deep coronal layers ,",
    "the gravitational force acting on the protons is stronger than the electric one , so that the total potential for the protons is attractive out to some distance where the two forces balance each other .",
    "farther out , the outward electric force dominates .",
    "this means that the total potential energy for the protons is not monotonic , presenting a maximum at a certain distance from the exobase @xcite and therefore not all the protons present at the exobase are able to escape .",
    "the presence of such a maximum is not taken into account in the @xcite model , nor in the @xcite one , since both models started beyond the vicinity of the sonic point .",
    "the purpose of the present paper is to study the effect of non - thermal electron vdfs in the frame of a transonic exospheric solar wind model .",
    "we use a special technique described by @xcite and @xcite consisting in mapping particle orbits in terms of the invariants of motion .",
    "the same problem has been recently considered by @xcite using a different formulation , which involves an approximation relative to the escaping particles rate ( see appendix [ emucalcul ] ) . the present work , which uses the same approximation , sets the basis of an exact exospheric description of the solar wind acceleration .",
    "the reader should , however , have in mind that the present model is still a very simplified one , which does not pretend to describe all solar wind properties . instead",
    ", it may be useful to determine some basic aspects and a possible driving mechanism of the solar wind , avoiding ad hoc assumptions on energy dissipation and using as few free parameters as possible .",
    "in section [ basics ] we recall the basics of an exospheric solar wind model . in section [ protons ]",
    "we outline the difficulties arising when dealing with a non - monotonic potential energy for the protons and describe the technique used to calculate the interplanetary electrostatic potential . in section [ electrons ]",
    "we deal with non - maxwellian electron distribution functions and consider three cases : a kappa , a sum of two maxwellians ( a core and a halo ) and a sum of a maxwellian and a kappa .",
    "the latter distribution is rather general and reproduces the main features of vdfs observed in space plasmas : a maxwellian profile at low speeds and a high energy tail with a power law shape . in section [ results ]",
    "we describe the results of our model and compare them with observations .",
    "a summary and final remarks are given in section [ conclusion ] .",
    "in exospheric or kinetic collisionless models , a specific altitude , called the exobase , is defined as an abrupt boundary between the collision dominated region ( in which a hydrodynamic approach is valid ) and a completely collisionless one .",
    "this boundary is usually defined as the distance @xmath7 from the center of the sun where the knudsen number @xmath0 is equal to unity , i.e. where the coulomb mean free path becomes equal to the local density scale height . although the mean free path depends on the particle temperature and , therefore the exobase should be different for protons and electrons , a common exobase is assumed in order to simplify the calculations .",
    "furthermore , in order to concentrate on the basic physics and since the exobase location is defined from parameters that are not accurately known , we put the exobase at the surface of the sun , i.e. @xmath8 .",
    "this stands as an approximation for a more realistic value that should be slightly greater and has no important qualitative impact on the results .",
    "the collisionless nature of the plasma above the exobase allows one to calculate the velocity distribution of each particle species as a function of the distribution at the exobase by using liouville s theorem with conservation of energy @xmath9 and magnetic moment @xmath10 in order to solve the vlasov equation for a time stationary wind .",
    "these two constants of motion are defined as : @xmath11 @xmath12 where @xmath13 is the speed of the particle of mass @xmath14 , @xmath15 its charge , @xmath16 the gravitational potential , @xmath17 the interplanetary electrostatic potential and @xmath18 the velocity component perpendicular to the magnetic field vector @xmath19 .",
    "the choice of using the constants of motion @xmath20 instead of the speed and pitch angle is convenient as it removes the spatial dependence in the distribution function . in a purely collisionless model , the magnetic moment",
    "is conserved , even though this may not be true for protons in the high - speed wind @xcite .",
    "the classification of particles in different species is based on their trajectories along magnetic field lines .",
    "these trajectories depend on the velocity and pitch angle at the exobase , or correspondingly on their energy and magnetic moment .",
    "there are four different classes of trajectories : incoming , escaping , ballistic and trapped particles , as defined in @xcite .",
    "escaping are the particles that have enough energy to escape from the sun , while ballistic are those with insufficient energy that are returning towards it .",
    "another kind of non - escaping particles are the trapped ones , which do not have enough energy to escape , but whose inclination to the magnetic field lines is large enough that they are reflected by the magnetic mirror force before reaching the exobase @xmath7 .",
    "finally there are particles coming from infinity , called incoming , which are neglected .",
    "indeed , due to the postulated absence of collisions above the exobase , no particles , in principle , are backscattered in the downward loss cone .",
    "this assumption can be relaxed in future applications of our model , but it is not unreasonable in the fully collisionless case .",
    "once a vdf @xmath21 is assumed at the exobase level @xmath7 , the vdf @xmath22 at any larger distance @xmath23 is uniquely determined by liouville s theorem .",
    "the electron and proton distributions @xmath24 and @xmath25 and their moments - in particular the electron and proton densities @xmath26 and @xmath27 - are functions of the electric potential @xmath17 .",
    "the quasi - neutrality condition @xmath28 is then used to determine , by an iterative method , the value of the potential @xmath29 at any altitude @xmath23 .",
    "the iterative process is stopped when the estimation of @xmath17 is adequate within the required precision .",
    "in addition we impose the equality of the electron and proton fluxes at the exobase , in order to ensure a zero electric current .",
    "( note that the current will also be zero everywhere because fluxes of both kinds of particles vary as @xmath30 ) .",
    "then , it is possible to calculate the other moments , e.g. pressures and heat flux , at any distance @xmath23 . strictly speaking",
    ", one should solve poisson s equation instead of imposing quasi - neutrality .",
    "however , for scales much greater than the debye length , which is the case here , the quasi - neutrality condition provides a very good approximation for the electrostatic potential distribution in the solar wind .",
    "another assumption is the use of a radial interplanetary magnetic field @xmath31 , varying as @xmath30 , which means that the rotation of the sun as well as a possible super - radial expansion of the wind are neglected .",
    "as was shown by @xcite with a fluid approach and more recently by @xcite with an exospheric approach using kappa distributions , a spiral magnetic field does not change significantly the wind density and bulk speed .",
    "however , temperatures are modified and especially their anisotropies . in any case",
    "the magnetic field is not very far from radial up to about @xmath32 so that this approximation is reasonable in the framework of the present model in which we study fundamental aspects of the fast solar wind coming from coronal holes , i.e. rather high heliolatitudes .",
    "nevertheless , a super - radial expansion of the wind is an ingredient that might influence the results , but it is neglected in this zero order approximation in order to avoid additional free parameters .",
    "solar wind protons are subjected to the attractive gravitational potential @xmath33 of the sun and to the repulsive interplanetary electrostatic field @xmath17 .",
    "their total potential energy is thus @xmath34 , which reaches a maximum at some radial distance @xmath35 .",
    "such a maximum occurs because the electric force is expected to decrease slower than @xmath30 , so that this force , which pushes the protons outwards , should dominate gravity at large distances @xcite . below this altitude @xmath35 ,",
    "the gravitational force is larger than the electrostatic one and the total potential is attractive .",
    "the opposite is true above @xmath35 , forcing all the protons present at these altitudes to escape .    until now ,",
    "exospheric models using suprathermal distributions for the electrons have considered a monotonic potential profile for the protons .",
    "this means that the exobase was located above the maximum , i.e. at @xmath36 , so that the wind was already supersonic at the exobase level .",
    "all protons were escaping , as they were experiencing a monotonic repulsive total potential .",
    "even though these models gave supersonic solutions , they were incomplete because they did not consider the transition from subsonic to supersonic speeds .",
    "note that in the general case the parker s critical point does not coincide with the potential maximum @xmath35 and is generally below it @xcite , even though these two points are relatively close to each other .",
    "this is also true in recent kinetic simulations taking into account coulombian collisions @xcite . in the special case of an increasing temperature with @xmath37 ,",
    "these two points coincide @xcite .    for coronal holes , from where emanates the fast solar wind , the relation @xmath36 is no longer valid .",
    "indeed , in that case , the exobase is located deeper in the corona , because of the lower density of coronal holes . at these altitudes",
    ", some protons can not escape from the gravitational well of the sun and become ballistic or trapped .",
    "such a case has been considered by @xcite , who , however did not consider non - thermal distributions for the electrons .",
    "recently , @xcite have given a more general theoretical framework for dealing with arbitrary potential profiles , while @xcite have applied it to describe the precipitation of a magnetospherically trapped hot population and the outflow from the high - latitude ionosphere .    with a non - monotonic potential ,",
    "the validity of previous exospheric models is questionable because of the violation of constraints given by @xcite regarding the first and second derivatives of the electrostatic potential with respect to the magnetic field .",
    "the technique described by @xcite consists in mapping particle orbits in terms of the invariants of motion .",
    "this technique has the interest of removing the spatial dependence of the distributions , which can now be written as @xmath38 .",
    "the density , flux and pressures are then given by the following expressions : @xmath39 @xmath40 @xmath41 @xmath42 the spatial dependence is now transferred into the region of integration ( over which the moments are calculated ) in @xmath43 space .",
    "the basic problem is the accessibility of the different particle populations in this space .",
    "this technique has been recently outlined by @xcite ; for a full detailed description of the method , we refer the reader to the paper by @xcite . in appendix",
    "[ emucalcul ] , we describe some elementary concepts of this technique , as applied to the solar wind .",
    "maxwellian distributions can be used for the solar wind protons , but solar wind electrons permanently exhibit significant suprathermal tails in their distribution functions . the fundamental reason for the electrons to be non - maxwellian is that fast electrons collide much less frequently than slow ones because of their greater free path , so that they can not relax to a maxwellian .",
    "usually the solar wind electron distributions are fitted to a sum of two maxwellians : a core of cold electrons and a halo of hot ones ( see for instance @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "an alternative to the core / halo model has been proposed by @xcite , that is a generalized lorentzian or a kappa function , which has been introduced by @xcite to explain high coronal temperatures by velocity filtration .",
    "an interesting combination of these two distributions is the sum of a cold maxwellian and a hot kappa as a halo component .",
    "the sum of two maxwellians is then a particular case of this last one .      the electron distributions in the solar wind",
    "are observed to have important high velocity tails and a convenient way to fit them is to use kappa ( or generalized lorentzian ) functions .",
    "this was done by @xcite using ulysses data .",
    "some recent observations @xcite suggest the existence of a superhalo - maxwellian population that does not seem to be fitted by a kappa function . however , this part of the distribution @xmath44 does not contribute in our model .",
    "the main interest of kappa distributions is that they require one fewer parameter than the core / halo model , whereas having a power - law suprathermal tail as often observed in space @xcite .",
    "recently , there have been some attempts to find a physical explanation of these distributions @xcite and to study how non - thermal electron tails can be generated in the lower chromosphere @xcite and the corona @xcite .",
    "@xcite have considered for the first time kappa distributions in a kinetic collisionless model of the solar wind , but with the restriction of a monotonic potential energy for the protons , thus resulting in a wind that is already supersonic at the exobase .",
    "the kappa function is defined as : @xmath45 where @xmath46 is the gamma function and @xmath47 is the thermal speed defined by : @xmath48 where @xmath49 is the boltzmann constant and @xmath50 the electron mass",
    ".    for speeds @xmath13 smaller or comparable to @xmath47 , the kappa distribution , for any value @xmath51 , is rather close to a maxwellian having the same thermal speed .",
    "however , the equivalent kappa temperature @xmath52 ( defined from the second moment of the vdf , as the ratio between pressure and density ) is related to the maxwellian one @xmath53 , by @xmath54 . for @xmath55 ,",
    "the kappa distribution decreases with @xmath13 as a power law @xmath56 . in the limit @xmath57",
    ", @xmath58 reduces to a maxwellian distribution with @xmath59 .",
    "note that when electron distributions measured in the solar wind are fitted with kappa functions , the parameter @xmath60 for the electrons ranges from 2 to 5 @xcite .",
    "the basic equations for an exospheric model with kappa distributions are given by @xcite .",
    "those concerning the electrons are still valid in our model since the potential energy of electrons is an increasing function of the distance .",
    "when considering a kappa vdf , we therefore use the equations ( 5)-(34 ) by @xcite , which give the density , flux , pressure and energy flux of the electrons above the exobase ; these quantities correspond respectively to the zero , first , second and third order moments of the kappa vdf .",
    "kappa vdf is the most convenient function modelling distributions with high energy tails .",
    "however , there are several reasons for considering other kinds of non - thermal vdfs .",
    "firstly , there is currently no agreed - upon physical explanation for kappa vdfs and , even though they are rather close to a maxwellian at low velocities , they may not be as close to it as observed .",
    "secondly , moments of order higher than @xmath61 diverge since @xmath62 at large speeds .",
    "note however that this is merely a mathematical difficulty , which has no impact on our model since it does not involve these higher order moments .",
    "thirdly , from liouville s theorem , the value of @xmath63 , which represents the non - thermal character , remains constant with altitude in the absence of collisions .",
    "actually , one should expect that as distance increases and there are less collisions , the electron vdfs should present stronger suprathermal tails , so that @xmath63 should decrease with distance .",
    "indeed , recent observations in the corona suggest distributions having a non - thermal character that increases with altitude @xcite .    for these reasons",
    "we also consider a sum of two maxwellians , which is the classical way of representing electron vdfs in the solar wind @xcite .",
    "such a vdf does not have any of the above - mentioned disadvantages .",
    "if @xmath64 and @xmath65 are respectively the electron density and temperature at the exobase for the cold ( core ) component and @xmath66 and @xmath67 are the same quantities for the hot ( halo ) component , we can define their relative importance by two parameters : @xmath68 and @xmath69 . the total density and temperature at the exobase",
    "is then given by : @xmath70 and @xmath71 . at any altitude",
    "the density is just the sum of the two densities , the core and the halo one .",
    "the same is true for the fluxes and pressures .",
    "what is interesting is that now the parameters @xmath72 and @xmath73 are functions of the distance , so that the non - thermal nature of the distribution is not held constant contrary to the case of a kappa distribution .",
    "note that in this purely collisionless model the core and halo components do not interact with one another ( as in e.g. the hydrodynamic core - halo model of @xcite ) .",
    "the density , flux and pressures are defined as the moments of the distribution function for each particle population ( escaping , ballistic and trapped ) as given in @xcite .",
    "analytical expressions of these quantities can be calculated in function of the electrostatic potential @xmath17 . for a maxwellian vdf , they are similar to those given in @xcite and will not be expressed here .",
    "these expressions are to be used for both the core and the halo components .",
    "a more general form for the distribution function is the sum of a maxwellian core and a kappa halo .",
    "this function is closer to a maxwellian at low speeds than a kappa distribution and has the advantage that the non - thermal character is not held constant as was the case with a kappa vdf .",
    "we use the same definitions of @xmath74 and @xmath75 as before .",
    "note that for @xmath57 the vdf reduces to a sum of two maxwellians .",
    "the expressions of the moments used are those for a maxwellian for the core and the equations ( 5)-(34 ) by @xcite for the kappa halo .",
    "as explained in section [ basics ] , the exobase location is approximated to be at @xmath76 with no serious impact on the results .",
    "we assume for the temperatures at the exobase @xmath77 and @xmath78 , in the range of values observed in coronal holes @xcite .",
    "the density at the exobase does not affect the results of velocity or temperature and is just a multiplicative factor in the density profiles .",
    "let us first consider a kappa vdf for the electrons as described in section [ kappasect ] .",
    "the calculated electric potential and the total potential energy of the protons are plotted in figures [ phikappa ] and [ psikappa ] respectively for different values of @xmath63 ranging from @xmath79 to @xmath80 , a case with a conspicuous suprathermal tail .",
    "note that we use @xmath81 in order for the energy flux to be finite .",
    "one sees that the value of the maximum of potential increases and its distance @xmath35 decreases as @xmath63 decreases .",
    "this is because with more suprathermal electrons , a stronger electric potential is needed to preserve quasi - neutrality . for a maxwellian vdf @xmath82 ,",
    "the total proton potential energy increases monotonically and tends asymptotically to zero ( remaining always negative ) .    the bulk speed - the ratio between flux and density - is shown in figure [ vitkappa ] for a kappa distribution .",
    "a high terminal bulk speed @xmath83 is obtained when the suprathermal tail is conspicuous @xmath84 .",
    "this is due to the large value of the maximum in ion potential energy @xmath85 , which is transformed into kinetic energy of the escaping protons as they are accelerated above @xmath35 .",
    "an important remark is that the major part of this high terminal bulk speed is obtained within a small heliocentric distance @xmath86 ; this is due to the large acceleration represented by the large slope of the potential above @xmath35 .",
    "note that this is the largest terminal bulk speed obtained by this model with a kappa vdf .",
    "the density profiles are shown in figure @xmath87 .",
    "one sees that they are nearly independent of the value of @xmath63 .",
    "the density at @xmath32 depends on the one taken at the exobase . in this figure we assumed an exobase density @xmath88 , which corresponds to the density of a coronal hole extrapolated to @xmath8 as given by @xcite in line with recent studies on atmospheric and coronal electron densities @xcite . with this density ,",
    "the model yields a density of about @xmath89 at @xmath32 , of the same order as observed in situ .",
    "note that the rest of the results do not depend on the density .",
    "this analysis bears out previous results of an exospheric model using kappa vdfs @xcite .",
    "there are however two basic differences . in the present work the velocity profiles span the whole domain from the subsonic to the supersonic regime , which was not the case when the exobase was located above @xmath35 .",
    "the second difference is that we obtain high bulk speeds with more reasonable temperatures at the exobase .",
    "note however that a direct comparison can not be done because of a slightly different exobase definition resulting in different proton temperatures at the exobase . in any case",
    "both models can produce high bulk speeds without assuming an additional ( ad hoc ) heating mechanism in the outer corona , as is generally postulated in hydrodynamic models .",
    "furthermore , the fact that a faster wind is obtained with low values of @xmath63 agrees with observations showing that vdfs have large suprathermal tails in the fast solar wind but are closer to a maxwellian in the slow wind @xcite .",
    "the large suprathermal tails for low values of @xmath63 have another important consequence .",
    "they make the electron temperatures increase considerably with distance up to a maximum @xmath90x@xmath91 within a few solar radii .",
    "this maximum in electron temperature is smaller for larger values of @xmath63 and disappears as @xmath57 @xmath92 as does the maximum in the total potential energy of protons .",
    "this temperature increase is a direct consequence of filtration of the non - maxwellian vdf by the attracting electrostatic potential @xcite .",
    "this large temperature increase is not observed , which suggests that kappa functions may not be adequate to model vdf having suprathermal tails in the corona .",
    "let us now consider the results obtained with electron distributions made of a sum of two maxwellians or a sum of a maxwellian core and a kappa halo . on the whole the results are rather similar .",
    "for the same acceleration we obtain approximately the same temperature increase as in the kappa case as we can see in figure [ tempecontrib ] @xmath93 and @xmath94 , which corresponds to a terminal bulk speed of @xmath95 .",
    "we deduce that the temperature increase is not an artefact of kappa vdfs , but a general behavior of non - thermal distributions . for a given terminal bulk speed the filtration mechanism results in the same temperature increase .",
    "it is important to note that collisionless models are expected to give correct electron temperatures @xcite , because collisions with other particles do not significantly affect the electron energy , whereas collisions between electrons do not change their total temperature . in any case",
    "we should remind that the present model is still a zero - order one , which is intended to explore the basic physics of the wind acceleration , but should not be expected to reproduce all observations in a detailed way , because it involves very few free parameters .",
    "figure [ tempecontrib ] shows also the contributions of the different particle species to the total electron temperature . at large distances",
    "the temperature profile is the sum of a term @xmath96 plus a constant .",
    "the @xmath97 term comes from the isotropically distributed electrons ( ballistic and trapped ) confined by the heliospheric electric potential , which is found to have the same radial variation at large distances .",
    "the constant term comes from the parallel temperature of the escaping electrons .",
    "this agrees with analytical results by @xcite that do not depend on the vdfs in the corona , but were obtained with a monotonic proton potential profile .",
    "when the proton potential energy is non - monotonic , the asymptotic electron temperature profile is still the sum of a term varying as @xmath97 plus a constant @xcite , but the relative importance of these terms is not necessarily the same .    in figure [ contourmm ]",
    "we show results for a sum of two maxwellians .",
    "the diagram shows contours of the terminal bulk speed ( at 1au ) as function of @xmath74 and @xmath75 , where we can see that this kind of vdf is able to explain the values of the fast wind speed @xmath98 .",
    "the terminal bulk speed increases with increasing @xmath75 , which is not surprising since the halo temperature increases . concerning the parameter @xmath74 , the terminal bulk speed behaves differently .",
    "one sees that the terminal speed has a maximum for some value of @xmath74 ( for a given @xmath75 ) .",
    "this is reasonable since for @xmath99 and @xmath100 we have just one maxwellian with temperature @xmath101 and for all values of @xmath74 between these limits , the electron vdf is non - thermal giving rise to a more important acceleration because of the velocity filtration mechanism . in addition , close to these limits the terminal bulk speed becomes independent of @xmath75 as there is just only one vdf .",
    "that makes the contour lines to be vertical .",
    "when using a sum of a maxwellian core and a kappa halo ( for instance with @xmath80 ) the contour plot of the terminal bulk speed is quite similar to the previous one as is shown in fig.@xmath102 .",
    "the main difference is the higher acceleration , which is due to the use of the kappa function .",
    "the maxima for a given @xmath75 are now displaced to the right ( to larger values of @xmath74 ) .",
    "this is due to the fact that for @xmath100 the vdf is now just a single kappa accelerating the wind more than a single maxwellian .",
    "it is important to note that we can obtain very high wind speeds even without using a kappa vdf ( fig.[contourmm ] ) .",
    "this shows that the acceleration is not just a consequence of the kappa function , but results from non - thermal distributions , as expected .",
    "there are no restrictions on @xmath74 and @xmath75 ( as in the case of the kappa vdf where we have to take @xmath81 ) , but one should constrain these parameters by coronal observations or by future in situ measurements close to the sun .",
    "in the present work we have described a collisionless model of the solar wind acceleration assuming non - thermal velocity distribution functions in the corona . the base altitude of the fast wind was taken to be low enough ( case of coronal holes ) , so as to consider the transition from the subsonic to the supersonic regime . that needed a special resolution method considering a non - monotonic potential energy of the protons .",
    "an approximation regarding the escaping particles rate has been used ( see appendix [ emucalcul ] ) in order to obtain the electrostatic potential in a self consistent way .",
    "there are two important results in our work .",
    "firstly , we have shown the fundamental role of non - thermal electron velocity distributions in accelerating the wind .",
    "the high value of the terminal bulk speed is not just an artefact of the use of kappa functions .",
    "such speeds can be obtained also with a sum of two maxwellians ( a cold and a hot one ) , which is the most commonly used model to represent the observed electron distributions .",
    "secondly , there is a more important acceleration of the wind compared to previous exospheric models .",
    "this is due to the non - monotonic proton potential profile that forces some of the protons to return back to the sun and , therefore , reduces the escaping proton flux . as a consequence",
    ", the interplanetary electrostatic potential accelerating the wind is enhanced .",
    "it is also important to note that the terminal bulk speed is anticorrelated with the ratio of proton to electron temperatures at the base of the wind and therefore there is no need to assume large coronal temperatures or additional heating of the outer region of the corona in order to explain fast wind speeds .",
    "an inherent property of non - thermal distributions is the velocity filtration mechanism @xcite .",
    "this results in an increase of the electron temperature within a few solar radii .",
    "one problem of the present model is the relatively high maximum reached by the electron temperature when using highly non - thermal electron distributions at the exobase to produce the fast wind .",
    "this problem could be due to the approximation used in order to obtain the potential in a self consistent way .",
    "a full treatment of the problem with no approximation would increase the terminal bulk speed , but the influence on the electron temperature is not known a priori .",
    "another ingredient that might influence the results is a possible super - radial expansion of the wind .",
    "an apparent inconsistency of our model is the population of trapped electrons .",
    "trapped electrons can only be produced if collisions decelerate ballistic electrons in order to be reflected before reaching the exobase .",
    "strictly speaking , in the present fully collisionless model , trapped electron orbits should not be populated .",
    "if so , however , the vdf would have a strong discontinuity which should be rapidly smoothed out by even a very small level of collisions .",
    "hence , we think that it is more reasonable - as was done in all previous exospheric models - to set this population at a level ensuring that the vdf has no discontinuity for non - escaping particles .",
    "the collisionless nature of our model is an inherent drawback .",
    "recent kinetic simulations of the solar wind taking into account binary collisions between particles @xcite suggest that collisions might be an important ingredient for accelerating the wind to supersonic speeds , but this latter work does not consider non - thermal electron distributions .",
    "the role of collisions has also been studied by @xcite and @xcite for the solar corona . the electron heat flux , which plays a key role in the solar wind acceleration , seems to be essentially determined by the collisionless high - energy tail .",
    "this suggests that even though the present model neglects collisions , it may correctly describe a large part of the physics involved in the effect of non - thermal electron distributions . in order to better explain the observational properties , additional physical ingredients should be taken into account , which will be the purpose of a future study .",
    "we are grateful to a. mangeney , m. moncuquet and f. pantellini for stimulating discussions and useful comments on the manuscript .",
    "we also thank the anonymous referee for an amount of helpful suggestions that improved this paper .",
    "in this appendix we recall some elementary concepts of the resolution method when dealing with protons in a non - monotonic potential energy structure",
    ". the conservation laws ( [ energy ] ) and ( [ magnmom ] ) determine the region where the function @xmath22 is defined as : @xmath103 the relation ( [ khazinequalitydefinitionregion ] ) defines the line @xmath104 for each altitude @xmath23 ; the distribution function @xmath22 is defined only above this line , as is shown in figure @xmath105 . from now on we will call this line at the altitude @xmath23 , as the @xmath23 limit line. note that the slope of this line is just the amplitude of the magnetic field @xmath31 ( noted from now on as @xmath106 ) . since in our case , the magnetic field is always decreasing , the sharpest limit line will be the one of the reference level @xmath7 .",
    "note also that the intercept of an @xmath23 limit line corresponds to the total proton potential energy @xmath107 at this altitude ( also noted as @xmath108 ) .",
    "let us now consider the case of a monotonic potential for the protons , i.e. a monotonically decreasing potential , which is shown in figure @xmath109 .",
    "all limit lines ( shown in fig.@xmath110 ) for all altitudes @xmath111 are below the @xmath7 limit line and they never intersect each other ( except for @xmath112 which is an unphysical case ) .",
    "this is due to the fact that both the limit line intercept and its slope are always decreasing . at a given distance @xmath23 , the distribution function @xmath22 is defined above the corresponding @xmath23 limit line .",
    "but if the particles which are present at an altitude @xmath23 are coming from the exobase @xmath7 , their function has also to be defined at the exobase , i.e. above the @xmath7 limit line . in other words , the only region where the vdf is defined in the @xmath43 space for particles coming from ( or getting back to )",
    "the exobase is above the @xmath7 limit line for all the altitudes .",
    "the fact that the escaping particle region is defined by only one limit line makes the case of a monotonic potential particularly simple .",
    "the opposite case of a monotonically increasing potential ( fig.@xmath113 ) is slightly more complicated .",
    "the limit lines slope is still decreasing , but the intercept is increasing , giving the configuration of figure @xmath114 . now",
    "the limit lines for the different altitudes intersect each other .",
    "if we consider two altitudes @xmath7 and @xmath23 , with @xmath111 ( note that @xmath23 could be the maximum altitude @xmath35 in the case of a non - monotonic potential ) , the vdf @xmath22 is defined , as before , only above the @xmath7 limit line and above the @xmath23 limit line for the altitude @xmath23 .",
    "this means that the escaping particles region is not any more defined by only one line , but by two ones that intersect at the point @xmath115 with @xmath116 .",
    "this is the @xmath72 region shown in figure @xmath114 . in the @xmath117 region",
    ", there are particles which are defined in @xmath7 , but are not present in @xmath23 , that is they are ballistic and can reach altitudes up to @xmath23 and then fall back to the exobase @xmath7 .    in figures",
    "@xmath118 and @xmath119 , we can see the same case as before , considering the potential maximum at @xmath35 and an intermediate altitude @xmath23 , with @xmath120 . if @xmath121 is the abscissa of the intersection point between the @xmath7 and @xmath23 limit lines , we can distinguish two different cases , the first one when @xmath122 , i.e. the @xmath23 limit line is located above the intersection point @xmath123 ( fig.@xmath118 ) and the opposite one when @xmath124 ( fig.@xmath119 ) . in the first case , the escaping region",
    "is not defined by only two lines as in figure @xmath114 , because these particles have also to be present at altitude @xmath23 .",
    "the consequence is that a new region appears , the region @xmath125 , which contains ballistic particles ( between @xmath7 and @xmath23 ) and not escaping ones .",
    "the totality of ballistic particles between @xmath7 and @xmath23 are defined in region @xmath126 .",
    "the @xmath117 region contains ballistic particles that can reach altitudes up to @xmath35 .",
    "we can therefore see that the escaping particles region @xmath72 is reduced ( by the @xmath125 region ) due to the obligatory presence of these particles in the intermediate altitude @xmath23 between the exobase and @xmath35 .    in the second case of an increasing potential ( fig.@xmath119 ) , the escaping region is not modified , but there is now a new region @xmath127 with trapped particles between @xmath23 and @xmath35 , which are defined below the @xmath7 limit line and therefore do not come from the exobase .",
    "it is now evident that definitions of the different species regions depend on the potential values at all intermediate altitudes between @xmath7 and @xmath35 , as is shown in figure ( @xmath128 ) .",
    "the geometrical definition of these regions is the main numerical difficulty of our problem combined with the fact that the potential values are not known but have to be calculated a posteriori using the zero charge and current conditions .    at a given altitude @xmath129",
    ", we can consider an elementary region of escaping particles between two consecutive points @xmath130 and @xmath131 and above the @xmath129 limit line ( fig.@xmath132 ) . in order to calculate a moment of the vdf in a given altitude @xmath23 for the escaping particles",
    ", we have to calculate the following integral : @xmath133d\\mu\\nonumber\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] with @xmath134 .",
    "@xmath135 is the appropriate kernel from definitions @xmath136 with @xmath137 and @xmath138 . for a bi - maxwellian vdf ,",
    "these expressions have been calculated by @xcite and will not be repeated here .",
    "all different integrals @xmath139 have then to be added for all altitudes @xmath129 with @xmath140 .",
    "this has to be done numerically .    up to now",
    ", we have not found a general method for calculating the exact solution of the self - consistent electric potential .",
    "therefore , we have to make an approximation on the escaping particles rate in order to find a self - consistent potential .",
    "all particles , which can be present at both @xmath7 and @xmath35 , are considered as escaping .",
    "i.e. we consider that the region labelled @xmath125 in figure @xmath118 corresponds to escaping particles at @xmath141 , instead of ballistic which do not overcome @xmath23 .",
    "this important approximation is used by jockers with a resulting error in the particle flux claimed to be in general less than 1@xmath142 @xcite .",
    "however , the errors due to this approximation may be much greater with suprathermal electrons . with this approximation",
    "there are only three unknown parameters , the position of the potential maximum @xmath35 , the electric potential @xmath143 at the exobase and at the maximum @xmath144 .",
    "the main problem is that there are only two equations ( equality of fluxes at the exobase and quasi - neutrality at @xmath35 ) , but the problem has a unique solution if we suppose the existence of only one maximum , which gives the following constraints : @xmath145 , @xmath146@xmath147 and @xmath148@xmath149 , where @xmath150 is the proton mass .",
    "the technical details about the solution of this system can be found in @xcite and equally in @xcite .",
    "an important point to note is that the approach used by @xcite , which consists in integrating the vdf in the velocity space , is leading to exactly the same results as our model , using the approximation on the @xmath125 region .    in order to verify that the solutions given by the present model are consistent with those of the previous models for which the proton potential was monotonic @xcite , we have calculated the electrostatic potential in a range of exobase temperatures including both types of solutions . for simplicity we assume for this comparison a single kappa vdf with @xmath151 and take @xmath152 in order to find solutions having a monotonic potential in a reasonable temperature range . in figure [ pottest ]",
    ", we can see the electrostatic potential @xmath143 at the exobase ( normalized to @xmath153 ) as a function of @xmath154 for different values of @xmath63 .",
    "the full lines correspond to the solutions given by the present model when the proton potential profile is not monotonic .",
    "the dashed lines correspond to the solutions obtained with a monotonic proton potential profile @xcite .",
    "these values are independent of the temperature and represent the lowest possible acceleration obtained by exospheric models .",
    "the dotted lines belong to the non - monotonic regime as well , but the solutions are not known because of a low precision due to the very small difference between @xmath143 and @xmath144 .",
    "one can see that the solutions obtained in both regimes are mutually consistent as there are no discontinuities .",
    "the approximation used on the escaping particles rate would have consequences only to the very left part of the curves in the figure [ pottest ] for which the acceleration is important and therefore the @xmath125 region would become significant . for the same reasons the approximation made has more important consequences for low values of @xmath63 . in a full treatment of the problem that would not make this approximation",
    ", the calculated terminal bulk speed would be higher .",
    "this is because protons in the @xmath125 region would be considered as ballistic ones ( instead of escaping ) and would thus need a stronger electrostatic potential in order to escape from the gravitational well of the sun .",
    "brandt , j.c . , and",
    "cassinelli , j.p .",
    "1966 , icarus , 5 , 47 chamberlain , j.w . 1960 , , 131 , 47 chen , w.m . , lai , c.s . , lin , h.e . , and lin , w.c .",
    "1972 , , 77 , 1 chen , y. , esser , r. , and hu , y.q .",
    "2003 , , 108 , doi:10.1029/2003ja009957 chiu , y.t . , and schulz , m. 1978 , , 83 , 629 collier , m.r .",
    "1993 , , 20 , 1531 cranmer , s.r .",
    "2002 , , 101 , 229 dorelli , j.c . , and scudder , j.d .",
    "2003 , , 108 , doi:10.1029/2002ja009484 esser , r. , and edgar , r.j .",
    "2000 , , 532 , l71 esser , r. , and sasselov , d. 1999 , , 521 , l145 feldman , w.c . ,",
    "asbridge , j.r .",
    ", bame , s.j . ,",
    "montgomery , m.d . , and gary , s.p .",
    "1975 , , 80 , 4181 hollweg , j.v . 1978 , rev .",
    "space phys . , 16 , 689 hundhausen , a.j .",
    "1972 , coronal expansion and solar wind , springer - verlag , berlin jensen , e. 1963 , astrophysica norvegica , 8 , 99 jockers , k. 1970 , , 6 , 219 koutchmy , s. 1977 , , 51 , 399 khazanov , g.v . ,",
    "liemohn , m.w . ,",
    "krivorutsky , e.n . , and moore , t.e .",
    "1998 , , 103 , 6871 lamy , h. , pierrard , v. , maksimovic , m. , and lemaire , j.f .",
    "2003 , , 108 , doi:10.1029/2002ja009487 landi , s. , and pantellini , f. 2001 , , 372 , 686 landi , s. , and pantellini , f. 2003 , , 400 , 769 lemaire , j. , and scherer , m. 1971 , , 76 , 7479 lemaire , j. , and scherer , m. 1971 , phys .",
    "fluids , 14 , 1683 leubner , m.p .",
    "2002 , , 282 , 573 liemohn , m.w . , khazanov , g.v . 1998 , phys .",
    "plas . , 5 , 580 lin , r.p . ,",
    "larson , d.e . ,",
    "ergun , r.e . ,",
    "mcfadden , j.p . , carlson , c.w . ,",
    "phan , t.d .",
    ", ashford , s. , anderson , k.a . , mccarthy , m. , and skoug , r. 1997 , adv .",
    "res . , 20 , 645 ma , c. , and summers , d. 1999 , , 26 , 1121 maksimovic , m. , pierrard , v. , and lemaire , j.f .",
    "1997 , , 324 , 725 maksimovic , m. , pierrard , v. , and riley , p. 1997",
    ", , 24 , 1151 meyer - vernet , n. , and issautier , k. 1998 , , 103 , 29705 meyer - vernet , n. , mangeney , a. , maksimovic , m. , pantellini , f. , and issautier , k. 2003 , in aip conf .",
    "679 , solar wind ten , ed .",
    "m. velli , r. bruno , and f. malara ( new york : aip ) , 263 neugebauer , m. 1997 , , 102 , 26887 olbert , s. 1981 , in proceedings of international school and workshop on plasma astrophysics , ed .",
    "guyenne , and g. levy , esa sp-161 , 135 pannekoek , a. 1922 , bull .",
    ", 1 , 107 parker , e.n .",
    "1958 , , 128 , 664 parker , e.n .",
    "1960 , , 132 , 821 pierrard , v. , and lemaire , j. 1996 , , 101 , 7923 pierrard , v. , issautier , k. , meyer - vernet , n. , and lemaire , j. 2001 , , 28 , 223 pilipp , w.g . , miggenrieder , h. , montgomery , m.d . , muhlhauser , k.h . , rosenbauer , h. , and schwenn , r. 1987 , , 92 , 1075 rosseland , s. 1924 , , 84 , 720 scudder , j.d . 1992 , , 398 , 299 scudder , j.d . 1996 , , 101 , 11039 shoub , e.c . 1983 , ,",
    "266 , 339 schwartz , s.j . , and marsch , e. 1983 , , 88 , 9919 treumann , r.a . 1999 , , 59 , 19 vasyliunas , v.m . 1968 , , 73 , 2839 vias , a.f . , wong , h.k . , and klimas , a.j . 2000 , , 528 , 509 vocks , c. , and mann , g. 2003 , , 593 , 1134 zouganelis , i. , maksimovic , m. , meyer - vernet , n. , lamy , h. , and pierrard , v. 2003 , in aip conf .",
    "679 , solar wind ten , ed .",
    "m. velli , r. bruno , and f. malara ( new york : aip ) , 315"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> because of the semi - collisional nature of the solar wind , the collisionless or exospheric approach as well as the hydrodynamic one are both inaccurate </S>",
    "<S> . however , the advantage of simplicity makes them useful for enlightening some basic mechanisms of solar wind acceleration . </S>",
    "<S> previous exospheric models have been able to reproduce winds that were already nearly supersonic at the exobase , the altitude above which there are no collisions . in order to allow transonic solutions , </S>",
    "<S> a lower exobase has to be considered , in which case the protons are experiencing a non - monotonic potential energy profile . </S>",
    "<S> this is done in the present work . in this model , </S>",
    "<S> the electron velocity distribution in the corona is assumed non - thermal . </S>",
    "<S> parametric results are presented and show that the high acceleration obtained does not depend on the details of the non - thermal distributions . </S>",
    "<S> this acceleration seems , therefore , to be a robust result produced by the presence of a sufficient number of suprathermal electrons . a method for improving the exospheric description </S>",
    "<S> is also given , which consists in mapping particle orbits in terms of their invariants of motion . </S>"
  ]
}