{
  "article_text": [
    "stellar streams represent the visible remnants of the merging process by which the halos of galaxies are built up . by studying these streams we can attempt to unravel the formation of galactic halos , seeing when , how and how many small galaxies arrived and were incorporated into large galaxies @xcite .",
    "streams are also of great interest as probes of the large - scale mass distribution of the dark halos they reside in @xcite .",
    "this utility stems from the fact that streams from low - mass disrupting stellar systems trace the orbit of their progenitor , giving a means to constrain the tangential motion of the stars in the stream .",
    "the stars must move along the stream , and the magnitude of the tangential velocity must be such that , when the star is integrated along the orbit , it ends up with the same velocity as the stars that are currently downstream on the same orbit .",
    "giant stellar streams may well be common structures around galaxies @xcite .",
    "indeed , the most conspicuous feature in the halo of the milky way is the giant rosette stream originating from the sagittarius dwarf galaxy , which contains approximately half of the high latitude ( @xmath7 ) intermediate age stars at distances greater than @xmath8 @xcite .",
    "it would appear that the milky way has not incorporated into the halo a more massive galaxy than the sagittarius dwarf over the last @xmath9 .",
    "this naturally leads to the question of whether the mw has unusual feeding habits . to answer this",
    ", we have undertaken a large photometric study of m31 , using the wide field cameras at the int and cfht telescopes to resolve stars over the entire disk and inner halo of that galaxy @xcite .",
    "this has given us an unprecedented panoramic view of the large scale and small scale structure of a disk galaxy .",
    "the analysis of this huge dataset is still in progress , but it has already yielded some surprising results regarding the incidence of substructure in the halo of m31 .",
    "the most prominent of these substructures is a stream - like over - density of stars near the minor axis of m31 @xcite , at first sight a facsimile of the sagittarius stream around the milky way .",
    "the red giant branch ( rgb ) stellar density in the halo increases on average by a factor of two in the on - stream regions and is statistically significant at the 50-sigma level .",
    "interestingly , this stream points toward the andromeda satellites m32 and ngc205 , and is aligned with the outer isophotes of ngc205 , suggesting a relationship between the andromeda stream and these two dwarf galaxies . if this interpretation is correct , the stream has to be the result of previous interactions with m31 , as there is otherwise not enough time to spatially separate it from either of the two dwarf galaxies .",
    "the proximity of m31 provides us with an opportunity to undertake a spectroscopic survey of individual stars within the stream ; indeed andromeda offers the only extragalactic giant galaxy in which such a study can be undertaken with current instrumentation , as in more distant systems such halo substructure would be smeared into very low surface brightness features .",
    "one useful property of the stream is that it is on a highly radial orbit .",
    "it passes very close to the centre of m31 , where a comparison of the rgb tip of the stream with that of m31 itself shows them to lie at the same distance @xcite ; whereas in the furthest field that it has been detected to date , the peak of its giant branch is 0.27  mag fainter , indicating that it is @xmath10 behind m31 @xcite .",
    "this fortuitous alignment close to the line of sight , allows us to measure directly the potential gradient over @xmath11 , and hence measure the halo mass .",
    "the layout of this paper is as follows : section  2 presents the spectroscopic survey of the andromeda stream , the results of which are used in section  3 to constrain the mass of the dark matter halo of m31 , and finally in section  4 we discuss the significance of the results and present the conclusions of this study . throughout this work",
    ", we assume a distance of @xmath12 to m31 @xcite and a systemic radial velocity of @xmath13 @xcite .",
    "to understand the nature of the substructures detected in our panoramic halo surveys of m31 , we undertook a follow - up programme to measure the kinematics of individual rgb stars with the deimos spectrograph on the keck2 10 m telescope .",
    "on sep 29 - 30 2002 , we used the instrument in the high - resolution configuration with the @xmath14 grating ( giving access to the spectral region 6400  to 9000 ) to obtain high quality spectra of 768 stars in 9 fields in m31 .",
    "this has given an order of magnitude improvement in statistics over previous radial velocity surveys of the m31 system @xcite .",
    "the present contribution examines data from four fields along the giant stellar stream .",
    "red giant branch stars were selected for observation from our cfht12k camera survey , which covers the region of the sky shown schematically on the left - hand panel of figure  1 .",
    "stars were selected by choosing point - sources with i - band magnitudes between @xmath15 and colours @xmath16 .",
    "both metal - poor and metal - rich populations will be present in this selection region ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the number of target stars per @xmath17 deimos field is approximately 100 .",
    "the slitlet widths were milled at @xmath18 to match the median seeing , and the slitlet - lengths were always larger than @xmath19 , giving access to a good estimation of the local sky .",
    "the spectroscopic images were processed and combined using the pipeline software developed by the `` deep '' consortium .",
    "this software debiasses , performs a flat - field , extracts , wavelength - calibrates and sky - subtracts the spectra . after extracting the spectra with a boxcar algorithm ,",
    "the radial velocities of the stars were measured with respect to spectra of standard stars observed during the observing run . by fitting the peak of the cross - correlation function with a gaussian ,",
    "an estimate of the radial velocity accuracy was obtained for each radial velocity measurement .",
    "the accuracy of these data are astonishing for such faint stars , with typical uncertainties of @xmath20 to @xmath21 .",
    "finally , m31-centred radial velocities are calculated by adding @xmath22 to the heliocentric values .    in the 4 stream fields",
    "184 stars were measured with radial velocity uncertainties less than @xmath23 .",
    "the right - hand panel of figure  1 shows the subset of 125 stars that have heliocentric velocity @xmath24 , as a function of projected distance @xmath25 \\kpc)$ ] along the declination direction . for clarity ,",
    "stars with @xmath26 , which are primarily galactic , have been omitted from this diagram .",
    "these four fields correspond to cfht fields 1 , 2 , 4 and 8 , and their locations on the sky are marked in the left - hand panel .",
    "the heliocentric distances of the fields , as measured from the magnitude of the tip of the rgb of the stream population @xcite , are displayed in the right - hand panel of figure  2 .",
    "the outermost field lies at ( @xmath27 ) at a heliocentric distance of @xmath28 , that is , it extends out to @xmath29 from the centre of m31 .",
    "this is the first time that it has been possible to measure the kinematics of a stellar stream over such a huge range in galactocentric distance .",
    "an immediately striking aspect of these data is the sharp edge to the distribution at negative velocities in figure  1 , with a velocity gradient that appears to be almost a straight line .",
    "the velocity distribution near this edge is very narrow , as demonstrated by figure  3 , where we show the distribution of velocity offsets from the straight line in figure  1 .",
    "we compare the data between @xmath30 to @xmath31 in figure  3 to a gaussian model using the maximum likelihood technique , and find that the dispersion is @xmath32 .",
    "the distribution appears slightly skewed to positive velocities ; defining skewness to be @xmath33 ^ 3 $ ] ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we find that the distribution of 82 stars in figure  3 that have @xmath34 have a skewness of @xmath35 . for comparison , the standard deviation of the skewness of samples of 82 stars drawn from a gaussian distribution is @xmath36 ,",
    "so the observed sample is not significantly skewed .",
    "some of the stars in the skewed tail may be contaminants from the halo of m31 , and others may be stream stars more distant along the line of sight .",
    "the nature of these objects may become clearer when n - body simulations are fit to the stream .",
    "before fitting an orbit model in a realistic galaxy potential through the position and velocity data , it is worth investigating what can be learned from a simple `` back - of - the envelope '' analytic calculation .",
    "we assume that the global potential @xmath37 at the distance of the stream is approximated by a spherical potential , and that the stream follows the orbit of the centre of mass so all stars have the same total energy @xmath38 , where @xmath39 is the three dimensional velocity of a star at radial position @xmath40 . if we assume further that the orbit is radial , which is a reasonable approximation given the distance information in figure  2 , then @xmath41 , where @xmath42 is the observed ( one - dimensional ) radial velocity , as a function of angular distance @xmath43           = \\sin^{-1}[{{r}\\over{780\\kpc } }   \\sin(\\gamma)]$ ] along the stream , and @xmath44 is the projection angle onto the line of sight . the m31-sun - field  1 triangle has an angle of @xmath45 $ ] , and lengths @xmath12 ( m31-sun ) , @xmath46 ( sun - field  1 ) , and @xmath47 ( field  1-m31 ) .",
    "thus the cosine of the projection angle onto the line of sight is @xmath48 .",
    "we take 2 data points @xmath49 and @xmath50 , for which the de - projected andromeda - centric distance and de - projected velocity are : @xmath51 , @xmath52 , to represent the stream . the uncertainty on @xmath53",
    "is calculated from the projection and distance uncertainties , while the uncertainties on @xmath54 and @xmath55 are estimated from the @xmath0 dispersion combined with the projection uncertainty .",
    "these two points correspond to the extremities of fields 1 and 6 ( we do not choose field 8 , as this region is much deeper in the potential , where the disk contribution is significant ) .",
    "in calculating these de - projected velocities , we have assumed that the tangential velocity of m31 is zero .",
    "it has long been suspected that this tangential velocity is small given that there is no other large galaxy in the local group to provide significant torque to the milky way - m31 system @xcite .",
    "@xcite have also pointed out that this tangential motion must be small , as there is otherwise not enough time for m31 and the milky way to have almost completed an orbit about each other in the age of the universe , as is required by the local group timing arguement .",
    "the result of @xcite is consistent with this possibility ; they find that the transverse motion of m31 is @xmath56 , under the assumption that m31 and the milky way have equal and opposite angular momenta .",
    "to provide a crude assessment of the effect of the possible transverse motion of m31 on the parameters derived from our dataset , we also consider in the analysis below the consequence of a transverse motion of amplitude @xmath22 ( i.e. equal to the radial velocity component ) in the direction parallel to the stream .",
    "for a kepler potential , the two chosen distance and velocity data points imply a central mass of @xmath57 ( the second uncertainty quantifies the effect of a @xmath22 transverse velocity ) .",
    "a slightly more realistic case is a logarithmic potential @xmath58 , which has a circular velocity that asymptotes to @xmath59 at large radius @xmath40 .",
    "following @xcite , we adopt a core radius of @xmath60 for this model . in this case , @xmath61 which gives a circular velocity of @xmath62 .",
    "we also investigated a simple model in which m31 is an nfw potential @xmath63 , where @xmath64 is the mass within @xmath65 , and @xmath66 is the scale radius . assuming the characteristic relation between halo mass and concentration in a @xmath67 lcdm cosmology @xmath68 @xcite , we find @xmath69 , ( @xmath70 , @xmath71 , @xmath72 , @xmath73 ) . for comparison ,",
    "the mass inside @xmath3 is @xmath74 for the logarithmic model and @xmath75 for the nfw model , respectively .",
    "the projected distance - velocity behaviour of these three toy models is compared to the velocity measurements in figure  1 .",
    "it is no surprise that the kepler potential over - predicts the radial velocity close to m31 , but both the simple logarithmic and nfw halo models manage to approximate the stream velocity profile well .    to constrain more realistic models of the potential",
    ", we adopted a recent composite galaxy model by @xcite , and calculate the potential due to a sum of disk , bulge and halo mass distributions .",
    "the bulge in this model has a mass of @xmath76 , while the disk has a mass of @xmath77 , and a scale length of @xmath78 .",
    "fixing the disk and bulge with the @xcite parameters ( with the further assumption that the disk scale height is @xmath79 , as suggested by @xcite ) , we investigate the spherical halo models compatible with our data .",
    "following @xcite , we take into account the adiabatic contraction of the halo due to the settling of baryons into the disk and bulge , which alters the potential of the inner galaxy significantly .",
    "we consider a halo of a given mass , with the appropriate concentration @xcite , and compress the halo using the @xcite relations .",
    "we then calculate the resulting potential by multipole expansion .",
    "using an `` amoeba '' minimization algorithm @xcite we launch orbits in the potential , iteratively improving on guessed values for the initial position and velocity of a test particle on the orbit .",
    "a @xmath80 goodness of fit statistic is minimized between the observed sky position , line of sight depth and radial velocity of the stars in our survey and the values predicted by the orbit model .",
    "this of course assumes that the stream follows the orbit of a test particle , an assumption that is reasonable if its progenitor was a relatively low - mass dwarf galaxy , which is consistent with the measured @xmath81 velocity dispersion in the stream .",
    "we assume that the orbit must pass through the field centres on the sky to within @xmath82 ( @xmath83 ) ; this corresponds to our estimate of the uncertainty in the measurement of the location of the central peak along the stream . to constrain the distance of the stream ,",
    "we take the measurements of @xcite together with their @xmath84 distance uncertainties ( these uncertainties include an estimate of the systematic error in the distance measurement ) .",
    "the fit is also constrained with the measured radial velocities ; we take all data - points within @xmath85 of the straight - line fit in figure  1 ( those that are shown with filled circles ) , and adopt the fitted velocity dispersion of @xmath86 as the expected uncertainty in the velocity fit .",
    "the relative likelihood of halo mass models can be analyzed by comparing the likelihood of the orbit fit as a function of halo mass .",
    "however , we find that the result depends strongly on whether the distance data of fields 12 and 13 are included in the the fit ( the stream rgb population was not detected in field 14 ) .",
    "we first investigate the consequences of rejecting the distance data in fields 12 and 13 . in those fields",
    "@xcite may have detected the metal - rich thick disk , or a warp in the disk instead of the actual stream itself . without confirmation from radial velocities",
    ", we can not be certain that the stream continues into that area of m31 .",
    "fitting only the data in fields 1 to 8 , we find that the most likely model has a total mass inside @xmath3 of @xmath87 ; the likelihood drops by a factor of @xmath88 ( i.e. @xmath89 ) for @xmath90 .",
    "we also reject at the 99% confidence level a mass lower than @xmath91 . the most likely orbit in this model galaxy potential",
    "is shown as a full line in the projections displayed in figures  4 and 5 , and its circular velocity curve is displayed in the same way in figure  6 .",
    "this orbit manages to fit the distance information in fields 17 very well , but it is peculiar in being exceedingly radial ( peri- to apocentre ratio of 70 ) .",
    "indeed , the orbit has a tangential velocity in field  1 , relative to m31 , of @xmath20 , that is , the orbit has only a very small non - radial velocity component",
    ". this may be partly responsible for the good agreement of the present mass estimate with those derived above for the three toy models in which radial orbits were imposed .",
    "in the present analysis we have again assumed that the tangential motion of m31 is negligible .",
    "however , the effect of a @xmath22 tangential velocity along the direction of the stream alters the derived mass inside @xmath3 by only @xmath92 .",
    "if we decide to also fit the distance data in fields 12 and 13 , the most likely model has a much higher total mass inside @xmath3 , with @xmath93 ( again , the the second uncertainty value reflects a tangential motion of m31 of @xmath22 ) .",
    "the most likely orbit in this potential model is shown with a dashed line in figures  4 and 5 , and the circular velocity of the potential is shown with a dashed line in figure  6 .",
    "this orbit does not manage to fit the large line of sight distances in fields 1 and 2 as well as the previous case ( although the discrepancy is not statistically significant given the large error bars on these distance data ) .",
    "the main shortcoming is that the circular velocity of this model at galactocentric distances below @xmath94 is at odds with the data displayed in figure  6 .",
    "the circular velocity of the halo alone ( without the bulge and disk ) is higher than the data allow .",
    "this model is therefore not acceptable .",
    "in this first kinematic study of the giant stellar stream in the andromeda galaxy , we have been able to measure the radial velocity gradient along the stream from the outermost field currently probed , @xmath3 distant from the centre of m31 , down to an inner field @xmath95 from the centre of that galaxy . over this huge distance , the ( projected ) radial velocity changes by @xmath96 , implying a de - projected velocity difference of @xmath97 .",
    "this velocity gradient is used to obtain a zeroth order analytic estimate of the mass of the halo , which for simple halo - only galaxy models such as a logarithmic halo or an nfw halo , implies a mass inside @xmath3 of @xmath98 and @xmath99 , respectively . in both cases ,",
    "the uncertainty associated with a possible tangential velocity of m31 of @xmath22 , is @xmath100% .",
    "we also investigate more realistic solutions , allowing the stream to have a non - radial orbit , and taking a galaxy model that is the sum of a disk , bulge and dark halo @xcite .",
    "the dark halo of this model is a perturbation on a spherical nfw model , to account for the adiabatic contraction of the dark matter as the baryonic components form .",
    "if we disregard the distance data in fields 12 and 13 , since we can not be certain that the stream is present in those regions , the most likely mass of this galaxy model is @xmath101 , with a lower limit of @xmath102 ( at 99% confidence ) .",
    "this result is fully consistent with the zeroth order analytic estimates discussed above , and suggests that the derived mass is not very sensitive to the adopted mass model .",
    "furthermore , there is a reasonable agreement of the resulting rotation curve with the kinematics of previously - observed disk tracers ( see figure  6 ) , despite the fact that the model was only fit to the kinematics of the stream .",
    "this agreement is due in part to the fact that we have taken previously - fitted models for the disk and bulge , but the halo contribution to the total rotation curve dominates beyond @xmath103 , and it is at these large distances that we have fitted the model to the stream data .",
    "this confers further confidence on the derived mass model .",
    "the uncertainty on the mass estimate due to the possible tangential velocity of m31 is likely not very large , approximately 7% for a tangential velocity of @xmath22 .",
    "one of the main uncertainties in the present analysis is the flattening of the halo , which we have not explored , as the current data set does not provide sufficient constraints .",
    "future studies , fitting n - body simulations to a larger kinematic sample of stream stars , can be expected to improve the mass estimate and also constrain the halo shape .",
    "it is only recently that measurements of the mass of m31 beyond the edge of its gaseous disk have been possible .",
    "@xcite analysed the velocities of 7 andromeda satellites , finding a total mass of @xmath104 .",
    "in contrast , using a larger sample of 10 satellite galaxies , 17 globular clusters and 9 planetary nebulae as test particles , @xcite found that the most likely total mass of m31 is @xmath105 , approximately half of their milky way estimate of @xmath106 . with improved radial velocities of the m31 satellites they were later able to reduce their m31 mass uncertainties , finding a value of the total mass of @xmath107 @xcite , which is fully consistent with our result of @xmath108 ( defined within a radius of @xmath3 ) .",
    "however , a definitive statement of the relative masses of m31 and the milky way awaits an improved measurement for the milky way .",
    "the best fit orbit in the best fit potential is prograde and in the region where it is currently observed , it lies close to the plane of m31 .",
    "thus it appears that the orbit of the andromeda stream is peculiar in being extremely radial , passing very close ( within @xmath83 ) of the centre of m31 .",
    "this requires very special initial conditions .",
    "the stream stars , which are spatially narrowly confined in fields  1 to 8 , will diverge dramatically upon passing close to m31 to form a low - density fan - like structure , since orbits that deviate only slightly from the orbit displayed in figure  4 on the plunging part of their course will take very different paths after being accelerated around the centre of m31 , as demonstrated in figure  7 .",
    "the fanning - out of the stream is likely to confuse efforts to measure the metallicity and age of the m31 halo ; for instance , the recent discovery by @xcite of a young halo component in m31 from main - sequence fitting of an extremely deep acs field may be due to stream contamination ( see figure  7 ) .",
    "thus the stream may be in the process of vanishing as a coherent structure , providing a supply of metal - rich stars into the halo .",
    "this also suggests that the stream was removed from its progenitor less than an orbital period ago ( the pericentre to pericentre period of the continuous - line orbit in figure  4 is @xmath109 ) , as we would otherwise not observe the structure as a stream .",
    "the ephemeral nature of the stream implies that the progenitor must have survived until @xmath110 ago .",
    "as we discuss further below , the progenitor was probably of low mass , implying that the rate of decay of its orbit due to dynamical friction was slow , so it followed ( or continues to follow ) an orbit close to the current orbit of the stream .",
    "however , any dwarf galaxy on the derived orbit must have experienced extreme tides as it repeatedly passed close to the centre of m31 .",
    "one option is that the progenitor was a very dense dwarf galaxy that was sufficiently robust to survive the huge tides .",
    "this brings to mind m32 as a candidate , though detailed numerical modeling is required to examine this possibility .",
    "the alternative option is that the progenitor of the stream deflected off another halo object , sending it plunging into the current orbit , analogous to the suggestion by @xcite to explain the longevity of the galactic satellite sagittarius .",
    "however , the connection with m32 presents some difficulties . although m32 appears to reside in the stream , its velocity is markedly different . for",
    "m32 to be associated with the stream would require it to be at a different phase in the orbit ( either lagging or trailing ) .",
    "furthermore , the low velocity dispersion of the stream would appear to preclude m32 as its progenitor ( which has @xmath111 outside of the nucleus , @xcite ) , though this can not be confirmed without a detailed dynamical study .",
    "the case for association of ngc  205 with the stream also appears weaker given these kinematic measurements , since the best fit orbit does not overlap with it in phase - space .",
    "future studies may allow us to examine this issue in more detail by following the stream beyond the region currently probed with kinematics .",
    "the velocities of the stream stars presented here also shed light on the recent identification of a possible new companion to m31 , and viii @xcite .",
    "the radial velocities of those planetary nebulae , which are located close to m32 ( see figure  1 ) , appear to have radial velocities consistent with an extrapolation of the stream , as they lie close to the straight line in the right - hand panel of figure  1 .",
    "this would suggest that and viii is most likely part of the andromeda stream , situated in the region of highest over - density reported by @xcite .",
    "however , it is interesting to note that the radial velocities of the @xcite planetary nebula sample tend to increase towards the north ( showing an apparent positive gradient in the right - hand panel of figure  1 ) , whereas the stream stars have a negative velocity gradient .",
    "the connection between the two structures therefore merits to be examined more carefully . during the refereeing process ,",
    "a study by @xcite was presented which also investigates the planetary nebulae around m31 . however , though their survey has also detected pne in a region at the base of the stream ( near our field  8) , their interpretation is inconsistent with the kinematics of the stars reported here .",
    "the direction of motion of the orbit they derive is opposite to ours , and the path of their orbit , which intercepts many m31-disk pne is substantially different to the orbit that we have fitted .",
    "it is possible that their finding reveals the presence of another kinematic structure in andromeda .",
    "the majority of the stream stars that were surveyed have a narrow velocity dispersion of @xmath112 , though slightly skewed to positive velocities .",
    "the fact that our line of sight looks down the stream ( see figure  2 ) , so that we probably see stars over a range of distance along the line of sight , and hence at different phases in the orbit , will tend to render the observed velocity dispersion higher than the intrinsic velocity dispersion .",
    "this indicates that the progenitor was most likely a low mass dwarf galaxy .",
    "the milky way satellite sagittarius , which has a velocity dispersion of @xmath86 @xcite , also has a gigantic stellar stream , but with a larger velocity dispersion of @xmath113 @xcite .",
    "however , it is unclear at present whether the lower velocity dispersion measured in the andromeda stream compared to the sagittarius stream implies that its progenitor was of lower mass than sagittarius , or not .",
    "ri would like to thank a. klypin and h .- s .",
    "zhao for kindly giving us their compilation of m31 disk kinematics , and for explaining the details of their andromeda galaxy model .",
    "the anonymous referee is thanked for comments that improved the paper .",
    "the research of amnf has been supported by a marie curie fellowship of the european community under contract number hpmf - ct-2002 - 01758 .",
    "brown , t. , ferguson , h. , smith , e. , kimble , r. , sweigart , a. , renzini , a. , rich , m. , vandenberg , don a. , 2003 , apj  592 , 17l bullock , j. , kolatt , t. , sigad , y. , somerville , r. , kravtsov , a. , klypin , a. , primack , j. , dekel , a. , 2001 , mnras 321 , 559 courteau , s. , van den bergh , s. , 1999 , aj  118 , 337 dehnen , w. & binney , j. , 1998 , mnras  294 , 429 einasto , j. , lynden - bell , d. , 1982 , mnras  199 , 67 evans , n. , wilkinson , m. , 2000 , mnras  316 , 929 evans , n. , wilkinson , m. , guhathakurta , p. , grebel , e. , vogt , s. , 2000 , apj  540 , 9l ferguson , a. , irwin , m. , ibata , r. , lewis , g. , tanvir , n. , 2002 , aj  124 , 1452 gould , a. , 1994 , apj  435 , 573 helmi , a. , white , s. , 1999 , mnras  307 , 495 ibata , r. , wyse , r. , gilmore , g. , irwin , m. & suntzeff , n. , 1997 , aj  113 , 634 ibata r. , lewis g. , irwin m. , totten e. & quinn t. , 2001 , apj  551 , 294 ibata , r. , irwin , m. , lewis , g. , ferguson , a. , tanvir , n. , 2001 , nature 412 , 49 ibata r. , lewis g. , irwin m. & cambrsy l. , 2002 , mnras  332 , 921 johnston , k. , zhao , h .- s . , spergel , d. , hernquist , l. , 1999 , apj  512 , 109l johnston , k. , sackett , p. , bullock , j. , 2001 , apj  557 , 137 kahn , f. , woltjer l. , 1959 , apj  130 , 705 klypin , a. , zhao , h .- s . , somerville , r. , 2002 , apj  573 , 597 lynden - bell , d. , lin , d. , 1977 , mnras  181 , 37 majewski s. , skrutskie m. , weinberg m. & ostheimer j. , 2003 , _ astro - ph/0304198 _ malin , d. , hadley , b. , 1997 , pasa 14 , 52 van der marel , r. , rix , h .- w . , carter , d. , franx , m. , white , s. , de zeeuw , t. , 1994 , mnras  268 , 521 mcconnachie , a. , irwin , m. , ibata , r. , ferguson , a. , lewis , g. , tanvir , n. , 2003 , mnras  343 , 1335 merrett , h. , kuijken , k. , merrifield , m. , romanowsky , a. , douglas , n. , napolitano , n. , arnaboldi , m. , capaccioli , m. , freeman , k. , gerhard , o. , evans , n. , wilkinson , m. , halliday , c. , bridges , t. , carter , d. , 2003 , astro - ph/0311090 morrison , h. , harding , p. , hurley - keller , d. , jacoby , g. , 2003 , apj  596 , 183l navarro , j. , frenk , c. , white , s. , 1997 , apj  490 , 493 pohlen , m. , martinez - delgado , d. , majewski , s. , palma , c. , prada , f. , balcells , m. , 2003 , in `` satellites and tidal streams '' asp conference , la palma , canary islands , 26 - 30 may 2003 , eds , f. prada , d. martinez - delgado , t. mahoney press , w. , flannery , b. , teukolsky , s. and vetterling , w. , 1992 ` numerical recipes ' ( cambridge univ press , cambridge ) reitzel , d. , guhathakurta , p. , 2002",
    ", aj  124 , 234 stanek , k. , garnavich , p. , 1998",
    ", apj  503 , 131l de vaucouleurs , g. , de vaucouleurs , a. , corwin , h. , buta , r. , paturel , g. , fouque , p. , 1991 ,",
    "`` third reference catalogue of bright galaxies '' , springer - verlag , berlin heidelberg new york yanny , b. , et al . , 2003 ,",
    "apj  588 , 824 zhao , h .- s . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 500 , l149 zhao , h .- s . ,",
    "johnston , k. , henquist , l. , spergel , d. , 1998 , a&a  348 , 49"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a spectroscopic survey of the giant stellar stream found in the halo of the andromeda galaxy . taken with the deimos multi - object spectrograph on the keck2 telescope , these data display a narrow velocity dispersion of @xmath0 , with a steady radial velocity gradient of @xmath1 over the @xmath2 radial extent of the stream studied so far . </S>",
    "<S> this implies that the andromeda galaxy possesses a substantial dark matter halo . </S>",
    "<S> we fit the orbit of the stream in different galaxy potential models . in a simple model with a composite bulge , disk and halo , where the halo follows a `` universal '' profile that is compressed by the formation of the baryonic components , we find that the kinematics of the stream require a total mass inside @xmath3 of @xmath4 , or @xmath5 at the 99% confidence level . </S>",
    "<S> this is the first galaxy in which it has been possible to measure the halo mass distribution by such direct dynamical means over such a large distance range . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting orbit shows that if m32 or ngc  205 are connected with the stream , they must either trail or lag the densest region of the stream by more than @xmath6 . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , according to the best - fit orbit , the stream passes very close to m31 , causing its demise as a coherent structure and producing a fan of stars that will pollute the inner halo , thereby confusing efforts to measure the properties of genuine halo populations . </S>",
    "<S> our data show that several recently identified planetary nebulae , which have been proposed as evidence for the existence of a new companion of m31 , are likely members of the andromeda stream . </S>"
  ]
}