{
  "article_text": [
    "the discrepancy between the amount of matter implied by the rotation curves of spiral galaxies and the amount of matter actually observed ( in the form of stars and gas ) is usually interpreted as dark matter ( dm ) halos that surround the directly observable parts of galaxies , although alternative theories of modified newtonian dynamics ( milgrom 1983 ) also provide an efficient description of the observed rotation curves ( sanders 1996 ) .",
    "early studies by e.g. kalnajs ( 1983 ) claimed that , based on the optical rotation curves that were used , there was no need to invoke dm within the optical radius for some galaxies .",
    "observations , however , showed a dramatically different picture ( bosma 1978 , begeman 1987 ) .",
    "substantial amounts of dm were needed to describe the observed flat rotation curves outside the optical disk .",
    "measurements of the distribution of the dm must be extracted from the rotation curve .",
    "this is usually done by computing the rotation curves of the visible matter and subtracting these from the observed total rotation curve .",
    "the residuals show the dynamical signature of dm .",
    "this procedure typically has the following free parameters : a length scale and density for the halo and a mass - to - light ratio @xmath0 of the stellar component .",
    "a major problem is that the value of @xmath0 is not known _ a priori _ , and may differ from galaxy to galaxy .",
    "many different values of @xmath0 , and therefore many combinations of halo parameters , yield equally good descriptions of the data ( van albada et al.1985 ) .",
    "it is for many galaxies possible to make a good fit to the rotation curve by completely ignoring the contribution of the stellar disk , even though it obviously plays an important role in the inner parts of many galaxies . without additional knowledge to constrain @xmath0 ( e.g.  information about vertical stellar velocity dispersion or derived from stellar population synthesis models ) it is not possible to unambiguously determine its value .",
    "goodness - of - fit estimators are sensitive to small variations and uncertainties in the data ( even when the data is of superior quality ) ( lake & feinswog 1989 ) and are thus less suited for simultaneously determining _ all _ free parameters in a fit .",
    "the mathematically `` best '' fit is therefore not always the physically most meaningful one .    using the observation that the rotation curves derived for the stellar components of hsb galaxies can usually be scaled so that they almost completely describe the observed total rotation curves in the optical disks of these hsb galaxies ( e.g. kent 1986 ) , van albada & sancisi ( 1986 ) introduced the maximum - disk hypothesis .",
    "this hypothesis reduces the number of free parameters in rotation curve fits by maximizing the contribution of the stellar disk [ i.e. @xmath0 ] and thus minimizing the amount of dm invoked to explain the observed rotation curves .",
    "it is still unclear whether the maximum disk hypothesis is a realistic one .",
    "for some hsb galaxies stellar population synthesis models yield values of @xmath0 that are consistent with the maximum disk measurements ( van albada & sancisi 1986 ) .",
    "the presence of disk features such as spiral arms or bars argues for a high @xmath0 ( athanassoula , bosma & papaioannou 1987 ) .",
    "kuijken & gilmore ( 1989 ) showed , however , that there is only enough matter in the disk of our galaxy for it to be about half - maximum disk .",
    "measurements of the stellar velocity dispersions in hsb galaxies ( bottema 1995 ) show that maximum disk may overestimate the amount of matter present in the disk by some 60 per cent .",
    "as the maximum disk hypothesis gives for each galaxy the _ maximum _ possible @xmath0 , any conclusions about structural parameters of halos are only `` lower limits . ''",
    "nevertheless , attempts have been made to find systematic relations between the observable properties of spiral galaxies and their dark halo properties .",
    "a general conclusion is that the importance of dm increases towards later types ( persic & salluci 1991 ) .",
    "coupled with the finding that the surface brightness also decreases towards later types ( de jong 1995 ) , this means that low surface brightness ( lsb ) galaxies are a prime example of galaxies that are extremely interesting for deriving structural properties of dm halos .",
    "these galaxies are very late - type spirals with central surface brightnesses much lower than those of `` classical '' late - type hsb galaxies ( de blok , mcgaugh & van der hulst 1996 [ hereafter bmh96 ] , zwaan et al .",
    "1995 , van der hulst et al .",
    "1993 ; see also the reviews by impy & bothun 1997 and bothun , impey & mcgaugh 1997 ) .",
    "their blue colors ( de blok , van der hulst & bothun 1995 , mcgaugh & bothun 1994 , rnnback & bergvall 1994 ) , low star formation rates ( mcgaugh 1992 , van der hulst et al .",
    "1993 , van den hoek et al .  1997 ) , low oxygen abundances ( mcgaugh 1994 , r \" onnback & bergvall 1995 ) and high gas - fractions ( bmh96 , mcgaugh & de blok 1997 ) , all give rise to the picture that these galaxies are slowly evolving and still in an early evolutionary state .",
    "recently a number of rotation curves of lsb galaxies have been measured ( bmh96 ) .",
    "a preliminary investigation showed a systematic trend of increasing total mass - to - light ratio within a number of scale lengths with decreasing surface brightness , from values of @xmath2 for hsb galaxies to @xmath3 for the dimmest measured lsb galaxies ( fig .  13 in bmh96 ) ,",
    "consistent with predictions made using the tully - fisher relation ( zwaan et al .",
    "the increasing importance of dm makes an investigation into the halo parameters extra interesting as the parameters will depend less strongly on assumed values of @xmath0 , and one can therefore be quite sure that the derived parameters are indeed close to the intrinsic parameters of the halo .",
    "a comparison of a hsb and a lsb galaxy at identical positions on the tully - fisher relation ( i.e. at fixed @xmath4 ) ( de blok & mcgaugh 1996 ) showed that lsb galaxy ugc 128 is almost a factor 10 less dense than the hsb galaxy ngc 2403 ( analogous with their low stellar and surface densities ) .",
    "ugc 128 also has a factor of 7 higher total @xmath5 ( measured within a fixed number of scale lengths ) and must therefore be more massive than hsb galaxy ngc 2403 ( which has the same luminosity ) .    in this paper",
    "we will discuss disk - halo decompositions of the sample of lsb galaxies from bmh96 and compare the structural parameters of the dark and luminous mass components of hsb and lsb galaxies . in section 2",
    "we describe the sample ; section 3 covers various aspects of the effects on resolution and beam - smearing on the rotation curves . in section 4",
    "the actual decompositions are presented , while in section 5 we discuss the results and compare them with what is known about other galaxies . in section 6 the systematic relations between the masses of the different components ( gas , stellar , dark ) are discussed , while in section 7 we discuss the trends of volume and surface density as a function of surface brightness . in section 8",
    "our main results are summarized . in appendix a a summary of the bottema disk ( sect .",
    "4.4 ) is given .",
    "we refer to bmh96 for an extensive sample description . we have supplemented that sample with the rotation curves of an additional 5 lsb galaxies as presented in van der hulst et al .",
    "the rotation curves in general have maximum rotation velocities between 50 and 120 km s@xmath6 , and rise more slowly than hsb curves with similar maximum velocity .",
    "only a few of the rotation curves show clear signs of flattening towards the outermost radii .",
    "optical properties of the sample are presented in mcgaugh & bothun ( 1994 ) , de blok et al.(1995 ) , and van der hulst et al .",
    "the properties of the sample galaxies are summarized in the top panel of table 1 .",
    "we adopt a hubble constant of 75 km s@xmath6 mpc@xmath6 .    [",
    "cols=\"<,>,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the value @xmath7 for the low - resolution case was determined by simply scaling the stellar rotation curve to match the innermost point .",
    "this procedure is thus for the low resolution case equivalent to a formal maximum disk fit in the high - resolution case .",
    "studying high - resolution curves in detail shows that this scaling to match the innermost point is usually what happens in practice when doing a formal maximum disk fit .      as is clear from fig .",
    "[ maxdisk ] , the rotation curves of the stellar disks in the lsb galaxies ( even in the maximum disk case ) do not even approach the maximum rotation velocities of the observed rotation curves .",
    "this is in sharp contrast with hsb galaxies where the rotation curve of the stellar disk is usually able to explain most of the rotation velocity in the inner parts .",
    "this is also illustrated in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ ratio ] .",
    "this shows the ratio of the peak velocity of the maximum disk at 2.2@xmath8 and the total observed rotation velocity at that radius . at central surface brightnesses brighter than 23 @xmath9-mag arcsec@xmath10 ,",
    "the maximum disk can account for 85% @xmath11 10% of the total rotation velocity , but this rapidly drops to only 40% or less for lsb galaxies .",
    "this increasing inability of the maximum disk to explain the observed rotation velocities is illustrated in the middle panel of fig .",
    "[ ratio ] , which shows the ratio of the peak velocity of the maximum stellar disk and the maximum observed rotation velocity .",
    "this ratio systematically changes from @xmath12 at high surface brightnesses ( i.e. the disk defines the maximum rotation velocity and the halo `` conspires '' to keep the rotation curve flat ) to values of @xmath13 for the lsb galaxies ( i.e. the halo completely determines the dynamics of the galaxies ) .",
    "the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ ratio ] again shows the ratio of of the peak velocity of the maximum disk at 2.2@xmath8 and the total observed rotation velocity at that radius , but as a function of @xmath4 .",
    "the maximum disk @xmath0 values are shown in fig .",
    "[ mlbmax ] as a function of @xmath14 , @xmath4 and @xmath15 .",
    "the relation between @xmath16 and @xmath4 ( top - left ) shows a clear segregation between galaxies of different surface brightnesses : at each value of @xmath4 the hsb galaxies have the lowest value of @xmath16 while the lsb galaxies always show high @xmath16 values .",
    "also shown is the relation @xmath17 which was previously derived for hsb galaxies by e.g. ashman , salucci & persic ( 1993 ) and broeils ( 1992 ) .",
    "clearly the conclusion that late - type ( i.e. lower surface brightness ) galaxies have smaller maximum disk stellar mass - to - light ratios than early - type ( i.e. higher surface brightness ) galaxies was , in the light of this new data , a selection effect .",
    "the maximum disk @xmath16 is not a simple function of @xmath18 ( or @xmath4 ) alone , but also depends on surface brightness .",
    "the absence of a relation between @xmath16 and @xmath19 ( top - center ) is a result of comparing galaxies with different global properties : at each @xmath4 there is a large range in @xmath19 ( and consequently a large range in @xmath16 ) . comparing galaxies at fixed",
    "@xmath19 means comparing galaxies of different masses and luminosities .",
    "the surface brightness segregation effect at fixed @xmath4 can not be an artificial effect caused by the lower resolution of the lsb observations .",
    "we have shown in section 3 that beam smearing effects are potentially most severe in hsb galaxies . if beam - smearing were to have affected the lsb curves this would imply even higher values for @xmath0 , thus making the difference between hsb and lsb galaxies seen in fig .",
    "[ mlbmax ] even more dramatic ( see also discussion in de blok & mcgaugh 1996 ) .",
    "=      the segregation in @xmath0 can be explained from the properties of the exponential disk and the systematics of maximum disk fitting . as lsb galaxies obey the same tully - fisher relation as hsb galaxies ( zwaan et al .",
    "1995 ) , this requires lsb galaxies to have larger scale lengths at fixed @xmath4 , in order to still reach the required value of @xmath18 .",
    "the maximum rotation velocity of an exponential disk is given by @xmath20 , where @xmath21 is the central mass surface density .",
    "in practice the value of @xmath21 is not known , and the distribution of the light is used to compute the rotation curve of the disk .",
    "this rotation curve of the light has a maximum rotation velocity of @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the central surface brightness in linear units .",
    "( in the following we will denote the rotation velocity of the disk with _",
    "v _ , while the observed total rotation velocity will be indicated with _",
    "v_. ) in the rotation curve fitting process the mass - to - light ratio @xmath0 is introduced to convert surface brightness to mass surface density and compute the disk rotation curve . under the maximum disk hypothesis @xmath0",
    "is scaled to its maximum possible value .",
    "the peak rotation velocity of the maximum disk is then given by @xmath24 from eqs .",
    "( 5 ) and ( 6 ) it is clear that @xmath25    we will now compare a hsb and a lsb galaxy at identical positions on the tully - fisher relation .",
    "we find for the peak velocity of the rotation curve of the light in the hsb , @xmath26 , that @xmath27 , and for the peak velocity in the lsb , @xmath28 , that @xmath29 , where @xmath30 and @xmath31 are the central surface brightnesses and scale lengths of the lsb and the hsb , respectively . as their luminosities @xmath32 are identical we find @xmath33 and we can write @xmath28 as @xmath34 using eqs . ( 7 ) and ( 8) we express @xmath35 in term of @xmath36 .",
    "@xmath37    for galaxies at identical positions on the tully - fisher relation , the ratio of their maximum disk @xmath0 values thus depends on the ratio of the surface brightnesses and the ratio of their peak rotation velocities .",
    "this latter ratio depends on the shape of the rotation curves or , more specifically , the change of shape with surface brightness at fixed @xmath4 .",
    "we have already seen that the rotation curves of lsb galaxies rise more slowly than those of hsb galaxies , so we expect the peak velocities of the maximum disk of the lsb galaxies to be smaller than those of the hsb galaxies .    in order to get @xmath38 , eq .",
    "( 9 ) requires that @xmath39 it is easy to show that if both lsb and hsb galaxies had flat rotation curves , we find that @xmath38 always . in practice , at each @xmath4 a large range of @xmath40 is found ( fig .",
    "7 ) . for the current sample , where a typical hsb galaxy has @xmath41 ,",
    "while a typical lsb galaxy has @xmath42 , we find that condition ( 10 ) requires @xmath43 on average .",
    "we find the largest range of @xmath40 at @xmath44 km s@xmath6 in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "7 . taking the ratio of the average value for the lsb galaxies @xmath45 and that of the hsb galaxies @xmath46",
    ", yields a value of @xmath47 .",
    "so although there will be individual cases where condition ( 10 ) will not hold ( as is shown by the overlap of hsb and lsb points in the top - left panel of fig",
    ". 8) , _ on average _ condition ( 10 ) is always fulfilled , and we find that the intrinsic properties of the exponential disk combined with the maximum disk recipe always yield larger values of @xmath0 for lsb galaxies than for hsb galaxies .",
    "no assumptions have been made on the stellar populations , ages , or evolution of the galaxies .",
    "the larger _ fitted _ maximum disk stellar mass - to - light ratios for lsb galaxies at fixed @xmath4 , therefore do not need to reflect the true evolutionary stellar mass - to - light ratio of the disk .",
    "but is it in fact at all possible to explain the systematically higher maximum disk @xmath0 ratios of the lsb galaxies at fixed @xmath4 in a consistent way by invoking systematic changes in the stellar populations ? the systematically larger ratios imply an increasingly more evolved population with decreasing surface brightness : population synthesis models ( larson & tinsley 1978 ) show that @xmath16 of an evolving stellar population is in general an increasing function of time , and hence of increasing @xmath15 color .",
    "two examples are shown in in the right panels of fig .",
    "[ mlbmax ] , where the upper dotted line represents @xmath16 as a function of the @xmath15 color of a stellar population with a declining star formation rate ( larson & tinsley 1978 ) .",
    "the lower dotted line is the track as derived by jablonka & arimoto ( 1992 ) who have used a model which also takes into account chemical enrichment .    to a certain degree",
    "the maximum disk results agree with the trend of increasing @xmath16 with redder @xmath15 : the lower envelope of the distribution of the points increases with redder color .",
    "uncertainties in the low - mass end of the imf make it very hard to derive absolute @xmath16 values from any population synthesis model .",
    "this uncertainty may therefore shift the model track up or down , while e.g. metallicity effects may make the slope of the track more shallow ( as the jablonka & arimoto track shows ) .",
    "however , the observed range at each color is too large to be explained by models with a constant imf and where the star formation history is well - behaved and a smoothly varying function of hubble type .",
    "the high maximum disk @xmath0 are furthermore in direct conflict with observational evidence on colors ( mcgaugh & bothun 1994 , de blok et al .",
    "1995 ) , metallicities ( mcgaugh 1994 ) and gas - fractions ( mcgaugh & de blok 1997 ) . as the stellar populations of lsb galaxies are in an earlier evolutionary state than hsb galaxies ( van den hoek et al .",
    "1997 ) one would expect them to have _ lower _ values of @xmath0 .",
    "the values of @xmath16 as derived under the maximum disk hypothesis are therefore _ not _ representative for the stellar population in lsb galaxies .      trying to explain the maximum disk results in a physical way",
    ", while having a stellar population with a lower @xmath0 than implied by the maximum disk values , requires an additional dark component in the disk which traces the stellar population .",
    "this component has to become increasingly important towards lower central surface brightnesses .",
    "this might be an invisible baryonic component like e.g. cold molecular gas .",
    "there has already been much speculation about this in the literature ( e.g. pfenniger , combes & martinet 1994 ) .",
    "lsb galaxies would be the ideal test cases for such theories as the major part of their disks should then be made up of this baryonic dm .",
    "again , this component should be of increasing importance towards lower surface brightnesses .",
    "this creates the unattractive picture of two dominant but distinct and differently distributed dark components : one that has to provide the extra mass in the disk to make it satisfy the maximum disk boundary condition , and one that has to provide the surplus velocity in the outer parts to produce the observed rotation curves .",
    "these two dominant components then have to `` conspire '' to produce the observed rotation curve . either way , dm remains of extreme importance in lsb galaxies .",
    "another possibility is that disks are simply non - maximal .",
    "part of the halo dm is wrongly attributed to the disk simply because the disk does not dominate the dynamics in the inner parts .",
    "this could in principle affect the derived values for the structural parameters of the halo , but this is only of minor importance in lsb galaxies .",
    "they are dm dominated , irrespective of the value of @xmath0 , so that changing the mass of the disk does not really matter .",
    "it is , however , of crucial importance in hsb galaxies where the disk is dominant , and the halo parameters therefore sensitive to the precise value of @xmath0 .",
    "the maximum disk hypothesis , in combination with the extendedness of lsb galaxies thus produces a balancing act where lsb galaxies have to have large @xmath0 ratios , or extra dark components , which are contrary to what we can derive from other evidence ( stellar populations , metallicity , gas fraction ) .",
    "maximum disk is therefore not the preferred way of making mass models in lsb galaxies .      for the lsb galaxies the asymptotic velocity @xmath48",
    "is well correlated with the observed maximum rotation velocity @xmath4 , showing that although many of the lsb curves are still rising in the outermost point , they are close to their true maximum velocity",
    ". we will use this observational parameter instead of the fitted @xmath48 .",
    "figure [ vmaxtot ] summarizes the halo parameters for the hsb and lsb galaxies under the assumption of maximum disk .",
    "the core radius @xmath49 is rather constant , both as a function of @xmath50 and @xmath19 .",
    "the group of points at large @xmath49 belong to hsb galaxies that are very much dominated by luminous matter , and are maximum disk in the true sense of the word : their inner rotation curve can be explained completely by that of the disk . to avoid having a hollow halo in these galaxies ,",
    "the maximum disk @xmath0 is usually slightly , but somewhat arbitrarily , lowered .",
    "the halo parameters are extremely sensitive to this .",
    "in most cases these galaxies have a bulge , that also has to be accommodated in the fitting procedure , with its own uncertainties in its @xmath0 .",
    "the hsb points at large @xmath49 are thus uncertain .",
    "the central halo densities @xmath51 as a function of @xmath19 tend to be somewhat higher than those of hsb galaxies , but again , the uncertainty in the decompositions of the hsb galaxies makes it difficult to say anything more definite .    the ratio between core radius and optical scale length changes with surface brightness from @xmath52 for the hsb galaxies to @xmath53 for the lsb galaxies . in the maximum disk picture",
    "the optical disks of lsb galaxies are massive and extend further out into the halo .",
    "we can illustrate that the halo parameters derived for the lsb galaxies are robust values , by comparing the values derived for maximum disk and minimum disk .",
    "this is done in fig .",
    "[ minmaxrc ] , where the core radii and central densities as derived using these two extreme hypotheses are compared .",
    "the difference in maximum and minimum disk halo parameters is clearly a strong function of surface brightness .",
    "the largest difference is observed for the hsb galaxies , where the central density @xmath51 changes by more than an order of magnitude .",
    "a similar conclusions applies to the core radius .",
    "this is in sharp contrast with the core radii derived for the lsb galaxies .",
    "the minimum disk values differ from the maximum disk values by less than a factor of two .",
    "the slope of the trend with surface brightness changes from negative to positive when going from maximum disk to minimum disk .",
    "this is entirely caused by the large change in parameters of the hsb galaxies .",
    "the dm dominance makes the parameters of the lsb galaxy halos insensitive to the precise @xmath0 value .",
    "the values we derive for the halo structural parameters , but also for the dark mass in these halos , are therefore likely to be very close to their true values .",
    "= 8.5 cm      the most important property which distinguishes the bottema disk from the maximum disk is its small range of @xmath16 .",
    "this is immediately apparent in fig .",
    "[ mlbmax ] .",
    "the bottema disk typically implies values of @xmath16 between 1 and 2 . in general",
    "the reddest galaxies have the highest mass - to - light ratios .",
    "the striking systematic offset in @xmath0 at fixed @xmath50 between hsb and lsb galaxies for the maximum disk hypothesis has disappeared ( compare with top left panel in fig .",
    "[ mlbmax ] ) . at fixed @xmath4 galaxies",
    "now have approximately identical @xmath0 ratios .",
    "the majority of the data points has a much smaller spread and is in much closer agreement with stellar population models ( larson & tinsley 1978 ; van den hoek et al . 1997 ) than the maximum disk values .",
    "the need for an extra dark component in the disk has disappeared .",
    "whereas in the maximum disk case the galaxies with the highest values of @xmath4 have the lowest central halo densities , in the bottema disk case they have the densest and most compact halos .",
    "the central densities of the galaxies with low @xmath4 are , as expected , less affected . the large change in halo parameters of hsb galaxies compared to their maximum disk values , results in trends of halo density and core radius opposite to those derived for maximum disk .",
    "paradoxically , the uncertainties in the decompositions of the _ hsb _ galaxies makes it very hard to make definite statements on the halo properties and their possible changes with surface brightness .      generalizing ( and running the risk of over - interpreting ) the maximum disk and bottema disk decompositions leads to two distinct different sets of relations between the dark and visible components of galaxies .",
    "the maximum disk decompositions suggest that at fixed @xmath4 all halos are equal , while the bottema disk decompositions suggest that the sizes and densities of dm halos are directly related to those of the optical disks that inhabit these halos . in summary :    1 .",
    "* maximum disk * towards lower surface brightnesses halos become denser and smaller .",
    "disks of lower surface brightness have higher @xmath0 at fixed @xmath54 , and extend further out into the halo .",
    "* bottema disk * towards lower surface brightnesses halos become more diffuse and more extended .",
    "disks of lower surface brightness have similar @xmath0 at fixed @xmath4 and are found in more massive halos .",
    "option ( i ) implies that the dimmest and most extended ( lsb ) galaxies live in the most compact halos .",
    "presumably the collapse of their massive , dark disks was not as complete as in hsb galaxies ( because of the larger angular momenta of lsb galaxies ? ) .    with option ( ii ) the properties of the baryonic part of the galaxy",
    "are reflected in those of the host halo : dim , diffuse and extended galaxies inhabit extended , low density halos . in both cosmologies the dominance of dm increases towards lower surface brightnesses .      if , for the moment , we assume the maximum disk results to hold , what are the implications for the evolution of lsb galaxies ?",
    "in other words , what if the only difference between hsb and lsb galaxies at fixed @xmath4 is that lsb galaxies stick out further into otherwise identical halos ?    the picture which can then be sketched is deceivingly simple . for a hsb and a lsb galaxy at identical positions on the tf relation ,",
    "the lsb galaxy has to be more extended optically ( zwaan et al .",
    "1995 ) , and in order to have the same luminosity as the hsb galaxy , the amount of past and present star formation per area ( the surface brightness ) has to be lower .",
    "the lsb optical disk simply encompasses more dm than the hsb optical disk , due to its larger extent in an otherwise identical halo , resulting in a lsb optically extended galaxy with a high total ( i.e. dm and luminous matter ) @xmath5 .",
    "the low star formation rate ( as averaged over the lifetime of the galaxy ) implies slow evolution in the lsb galaxy and a low @xmath0 , simply reflects that the lsb has not had enough time to build a large old stellar population as in hsb galaxies . ] which is difficult to reconcile with the maximum disk hypothesis assumed to hold to derive the these conclusions .",
    "current ideas on the formation and evolution of lsb galaxies ( bothun et al .",
    "1993 , mcgaugh 1992 , mo et al 1994 , dalcanton et al .",
    "1997 ) suggest that lsb galaxies form from lower amplitude density peaks than hsb galaxies . as they are also found to be more isolated from their neighbors , and to have a lack of companions with respect to hsb galaxies , they have presumably also undergone less interaction with other galaxies .",
    "the extended gas disks also suggest that the collapse of the baryonic matter has been much less efficient than in actively star forming hsb galaxies .",
    "although the bottema disk solution may seems the most one , both solutions do have their problems .",
    "the maximum disk solution has to explain why galaxies in otherwise identical halos have different collapse - histories as a function of surface brightness , while the other solution has to explain how galaxies with different halo masses but identical luminosities conspire to still end up at the same position on tully - fisher relation .    one conclusion is firm however , the dynamics of lsb galaxies are fundamentally different from those of hsb galaxies .",
    "for example , the rotation curves of lsb galaxies can not be explained in @xmath55 cosmological simulations ( moore 1994 , navarro 1997 ) , which is a problem , certainly in view of the implied numerical richness of lsb galaxies ( mcgaugh 1995 ) .",
    "the increasing dynamical importance of the gas component can readily be seen in fig [ mastot]a and b. galaxies of lower surface brightnesses have larger values of @xmath56 . a similar trend with hubble type",
    "was already noticed by e.g.  broeils ( 1992 ) .",
    "the trend is clear in both the maximum disk and bottema cases , although of course the gas - to - stellar mass ratios derived using maximum disk stellar masses tend to be larger .",
    "the ratio ranges from @xmath57 for the hsb galaxies , to @xmath58 in the lsb galaxies .",
    "clearly in lsb galaxies the gas component can be of a larger dynamical importance than the stellar component , even in the maximum disk case .",
    "this effect is more pronounced for the bottema decompositions because of the limited range in @xmath0",
    ". a fuller discussion of the gas fraction over a large range in surface brightness is presented in mcgaugh & de blok ( 1997 ) .",
    "@xmath59 ( as computed within the outermost measured point of the rotation curve , @xmath60 ( see table 1 ) , and assuming bottema disk ) is shown in fig .",
    "[ mastot]c and e. panels d and f show @xmath59 measured within 5@xmath8 .",
    "there is clear trend of increasing gas - richness towards low values of @xmath4 , an effect which is not entirely cancelled when measured within 5@xmath8 .",
    "slower rotating galaxies contain relatively more gas .",
    "the large range in @xmath19 found at each @xmath4 ensures that no clear trend is visible of @xmath59 with @xmath19 .",
    "the total luminous mass @xmath61 is defined as the sum of stellar mass and the gas mass .",
    "we here take the stellar mass as implied by the bottema disk .",
    "the ratio of the dark and luminous mass is related to the maximum velocity ( or luminosity ) ( persic & salluci 1991 , broeils 1992 ) .",
    "galaxies with low maximum velocities and low luminosities are more dm dominated than high luminosity galaxies .",
    "this effect is not very pronounced when @xmath62 is computed within the outermost radius ( fig .",
    "[ mastot]g and i ) : the extended and well - observed rotation curves of hsb galaxies encompass a relatively much larger fraction of the halo .",
    "the effect becomes much more pronounced when measured within a fixed number of scale lengths ( fig .",
    "[ mastot]h and j ) .",
    "the extreme dm domination of the lowest surface brightness galaxies has more general implications .",
    "one example is the baryon fraction @xmath63 of the universe .",
    "this is of direct cosmological significance since @xmath64 , where @xmath65 is the baryon density of the universe : a measure of @xmath63 combined with @xmath65 from primordial nucleosynthesis directly yields @xmath66 .",
    "a value of @xmath63 thought to be representative of the universal baryon fraction is given by x - ray observations of galaxy clusters ( white et al .",
    "1993 ; david et al .",
    "1995 ; white & fabian 1995 ) : @xmath67 .",
    "a similar result is obtained for compact groups of galaxies ( pildis et al .",
    "primordial nucleosynthesis gives @xmath68 ( e.g.  walker et al .",
    "1991 ) ; together these suggest @xmath69 .",
    "now consider the rotation curve data .",
    "dark matter is required to keep the rotation curves flat , and since there is no indication of declining rotation curves , the halos must be substantially larger than the last measured point .",
    "the dark to luminous mass within @xmath60 therefore gives an upper limit on @xmath63 ( fig .",
    "[ mastot ] ) , through @xmath70 and therefore @xmath71    to be conservative , let us consider the maximum disk case . for most hsb galaxies , @xmath60 is not sufficiently large to provide an interesting limit .",
    "however , the dm domination of lsb galaxies improves this situation . in our sample",
    ", there are a few galaxies for which the upper limit on @xmath63 is lower than the lower bound of the range of the cluster baryon fractions .",
    "these are f568v1 , ugc 5750 , ugc 5999 ( all with @xmath72 ) , and f5718 ( @xmath73 ) ( although this latter value is uncertain due to the inclination of the galaxy ) .",
    "the rotation curves of all four of these galaxies are flat or rising at the last measured point , so the dark halos must extend well beyond @xmath60 to avoid having a perceptible effect .",
    "the baryon fractions of these galaxies really are different from those derived for clusters of galaxies .",
    "it is not obvious why the baryon fraction should differ from halo to halo .",
    "if for the moment we assume our limit to be representative of the universal fraction , then the limits on @xmath65 and @xmath63 give @xmath74 .",
    "however , the methods used to obtain the cluster results have now been thoroughly analyzed by many groups ( e.g.  white & fabian 1995 ; evrard et al .",
    "1996 ) and seem robust",
    ".    it may be that @xmath63 really varies from halo to halo , perhaps depending on scale .",
    "what physics might cause this is unclear .",
    "dissipation acts in the wrong direction : if galaxies have dissipated a lot , their halos are very large , worsening the problem .",
    "it has been suggested that low mass galaxies experience significant wind driven mass loss ( e.g.  dekel & silk 1986 ) which might rid them of some baryons .",
    "however , this clearly has not occurred in the galaxies we are discussing .",
    "their gas has not been swept out ; they are very gas rich and massive .",
    "they show no evidence of blow - out events ( bothun et al .  1994 ) .",
    "it is therefore entirely ad - hoc to vary @xmath63 , and this would add yet another free parameter to the current cosmological models .    of course",
    ", until the nature of the dark matter is known , it is conceivable that some or all of it is baryonic .",
    "thus , another possibility is that some fraction of halos is baryonic , and relatively more baryons have been incorporated into the halos of lsb galaxies , perhaps as machos .",
    "how and why this should occur is again inobvious .",
    "lsb galaxies show little evidence of an early epoch of star formation which ought to provide the remnants that become machos ( mcgaugh & bothun 1994 ; de blok et al .",
    "1995 ) , and it is not obvious that these should be distributed in a halo .",
    "completely non - baryonic matter is still required unless primordial nucleosynthesis or large scale estimates of @xmath66 are wrong .",
    "the limits derived from the lsb galaxies are , however , hard limits , and they should be reconciled with the cluster values . if that does not prove to be possible , this might at last resort even indicate the break down of the dark matter hypothesis ( sanders 1997 ) .",
    "= 8.5 cm    a question which remains to be answered is whether the low surface densities now observed in lsb galaxies also imply that they are truly low _ volume _ density objects .",
    "this question is extensively discussed in de blok & mcgaugh ( 1996 ) where the lsb galaxy ugc 128 and hsb galaxy ngc 2403 ( which lie at identical positions on the tf relation ) are compared .",
    "the conclusion reached there is that the total mass volume density enclosed within a fixed number of scale lengths is a factor @xmath3 lower in ugc 128 than in ngc 2403 .",
    "we refer to that work for a discussion on the preferred length scale for measuring densities in galaxies .",
    "we have extended this analysis to our samples of hsb and lsb galaxies . the total mass density within @xmath75 was computed and shown as a function of surface brightness in fig [ voldens ] .",
    "the conclusion reached in de blok & mcgaugh is confirmed : the difference in @xmath76 between freeman like galaxies and lsb galaxies with @xmath77 is again a factor of 10 .",
    "although a large range in mass density is inferred at each value of @xmath19 , lsb galaxies are `` diffuse '' objects , even in the maximum disk case .",
    "the increase in optical scale length towards lower surface brightnesses is much faster than any change in the dm length scale .",
    "the increase in area spanned by the optical disk can therefore not be compensated by a corresponding increase in total matter enclosed by the optical disk . the enclosed mass increases with @xmath78 , while the enclosed area ( volume ) increases with @xmath79 ( @xmath80 ) .",
    "the increasing scale length therefore ensures that for lsb galaxies the average volume or surface density enclosed by the disk is always lower .",
    "the maximum disk results are a good way to demonstrate that lsb galaxies have truly low matter surface density disks .",
    "that is , they are not normal surface density disks that happen to have less light per square parsec , but the underlying mass surface density distribution is more diffuse too ( de blok & mcgaugh 1996 ) .    in fig [ voldens ]",
    "we show the central surface densities calculated by multiplying the central surface brightness with the respective @xmath0 ratios .",
    "the resulting surface density is the maximum density the disk can have within the constraints of the observed rotation curve .",
    "these values have not been corrected for the presence of hi , as the surface density of the gas becomes progressively lower towards lower surface brightnesses ( bmh96 ) .",
    "the increase in maximum disk @xmath0 ratio is not fast enough to compensate for the decrease in surface brightness : an effect which will only become more pronounced when hypotheses other than maximum disk are used .",
    "maximum disk is the most conservative scenario , but already here it is clear that the mass surface density in the disk is a function of surface brightness .",
    "we have presented rotation curve decompositions of a sample of lsb galaxies and compared the properties of their constituent mass components with those of a sample of hsb galaxies .",
    "lsb galaxies are very much dominated by dark matter thus proving to be the ideal test - cases for theories on the structure and formation of dark matter halos .",
    "the halo parameters derived for these galaxies are insensitive to the assumed mass - to - light ratio of the stellar disk , ensuring that the value we derive are in all probability close to the true values .",
    "this is in sharp contrast with hsb galaxies , where the halo parameters are sensitive to the assumed stellar mass - to - light ratio .",
    "comparison of the hsb and lsb samples shows that the maximum disk solutions imply an increasing stellar mass - to - light ratio for the stellar disk and an increasing compactness for the halo as the central surface brightness decreases , while the bottema disk solutions imply exactly the opposite .",
    "we argue , based on what is known about the evolutionary state of lsb galaxies from other sources , that the maximum disk solution is not representative . to explain the maximum disk results in a physical way",
    ", one has to assume large amounts of baryonic ( dark ) matter in the lsb disks .",
    "this would result in massive , evolved disks , which is not consistent with the observed past and present low star formation rates of lsb galaxies .",
    "the bottema disk solutions give lower @xmath0 values , more consistent with what can be derived from other evolutionary probes ( metallicity , gas fraction ) .",
    "they imply that lsb galaxies live in extended diffuse halos .",
    "the halos of lsb galaxies are thus fundamentally different from those of hsb galaxies of the same mass .",
    "this is a challenge for cosmological n - body simulations which will have to address this problem , especially considering the numerical richness of lsb galaxies .",
    "lsb galaxies are thus slowly evolving , isolated , diffuse , low - density and extremely dark matter dominated galaxies .",
    "we thank roelof bottema for allowing us to use his results prior to publication and for his extensive comments on early drafts of this paper .",
    "we also would like to thank thijs van der hulst , renzo sancisi and marc verheijen for the many discussions .",
    "we thank floor sicking and kor begeman for allowing us to use their rotation curve fitting software .",
    "we acknowledge remarks made by dr .",
    "kalnajs and the anonymous referee which helped to clarify some aspects of this paper .",
    "ashman , k.m .",
    ", salucci , p. , persic , m. 1993 , mnras , 260 , 610 athannasoula , e. , bosma , a. , papaioannou , s. , a&a , 179 , 23 begeman , k.g .",
    "1987 , phd thesis , university of groningen begeman , k.g . ,",
    "broeils , a.h . , & sanders , r.h .",
    "1991 , mnras , 249 , 523 bosma , a. 1978 , phd thesis , university of groningen bosma , a. , athanassoula , e. & van der hulst , j.m .",
    "1988 , a&a , 198 , 100 bothun , g.d . , schombert , j.m . ,",
    "impey , c.d . ,",
    "sprayberry , d. , mcgaugh , s.s . , 1993 ,",
    "aj , 106 , 530 bothun , g. d. , eriksen , j. , & schombert , j. m. 1994 , aj , 108 , 913 bothun , g.d . ,",
    "impey , c. , mcgaugh , s.s . , 1997 ,",
    "pasp , in press bottema , r. 1995 , phd thesis , university of groningen bottema , r , 1997 , submitted broeils , a.h , 1992 , phd thesis , university of groningen corradi , r.l.m . , capaccioli , m. 1990 , a&a , 237 , 36 casertano , s. 1983 , mnras , 203 , 735 casertano , s. , van gorkom , j.h .",
    "1991 , aj , 101 , 1231 dalcanton j.j . , shectman , s.a . , 1996 ,",
    "apjl , 465 , l9 dalcanton j.j . ,",
    "spergel d.n .",
    ", summers f.j . , 1997 , preprint david , l.p . , jones , c. & forman , w. 1995 , apj , 445 , 578 davies , j.i . 1990 ,",
    "mnras , 244 , de blok , w.j.g . , & mcgaugh , s.s 1996 , apjl , 469 , l89 de blok w.j.g . , van der hulst j.m . ,",
    "bothun g.d . , 1995 ,",
    "mnras , 274 , 235 de blok , w.j.g . , mcgaugh , s.s , & van der hulst , j.m .",
    "1996 , mnras , 283 , 18 de jong , r.s . , 1995 , phd thesis , university of groningen dekel , a. , & silk , j. 1986 , apj , 303 , 39 de vaucouleurs a. , de vaucouleurs g. , buta r.j . , corwin jr .",
    "fouqu p. , paturel g. , 1991 , third reference catalogue of bright galaxies ( rc3 ) , springer - verlag , new york evrard , g.a .",
    ", metzler , c. , & navarro , j. 1996 , apj , 469 , 494 fall , s.m .",
    ", efstathiou , g. , 1990 , mnras , 192 , 189 freeman k.c . , 1970 ,",
    "apj , 160 , 811 impey , c. , bothun , g.d . , 1997 ,",
    "ara&a , in press jablonka , j. , & arimoto , n. , 1992 , a&a , 255 , 63 jobin , m. , carignan , c. , 1990 , aj , 648 kalnajs , a.j .",
    "1983 , in : _ internal kinematics of galaxies , iau symposium no .",
    "100 _ , ed .",
    "e. athanassoula ( dordrecht : reidel ) , p. 87 kennicutt , r.c . ,",
    "1989 , apj , 344 , 685 kent s.m . , 1986 , aj , 91 , 1301 kuijken , k. , & gilmore , g. , 1989 , mnras , 239 , 571 lake , g. , feinswog , l. 1989 , aj , 98 , 166 larson , r.b . & tinsley , b.m . , 1978 , apj , 219 , 46 martimbeau , n. , carignan , c. , roy , j .-",
    ", 1994 , aj , 107 , 543 mcgaugh s.s . 1992 , phd thesis , university of michigan mcgaugh s.s . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 426 , 135 mcgaugh , s.s . , 1996 , mnras , 280 , 337 mcgaugh , s.s . , bothun g.d . , 1994 ,",
    "aj , 107 , 530 mcgaugh , s.s . , & de blok , w.j.g . , 1997 , apj , in press mcgaugh s.s .",
    ", bothun g.d .",
    ", schombert j.m . , 1995 ,",
    "aj , 110 573 milgrom , m. 1983 , apj , 270,365 mo , h. j. , mcgaugh , s.s . , bothun , g. d. , 1994 , mnras , 267 , 129 moore , b. 1994 , nature , 370 , 629 navarro , j.f .",
    "1996 , preprint , astro - ph/9610188 peletier , r.f . ,",
    "valentijn , e.a . ,",
    "moorwood , a.f.m . , freudling , w. , knapen , j.h . , beckman , j.e . 1995 , a&a , 300 , l1 persic m. , salucci p. , 1991 ,",
    "apj , 368 , 60 pfenniger d. , combes f. , martinet l. , 1994 , a&a , 285 , 79 pildis , r.a . ,",
    "bregman , j.n . , &",
    "evrard , a.e .",
    "1995 , apj , 443 , 514 r \" onnback , j. & bergvall , n. 1994 , a&as , 108 , 193 r \" onnback , j. & bergvall , n. 1995 , a&a , 302 , 353 sanders , r.h .",
    "1997 , apj , in press schombert j.m .",
    ", bothun g.d . ,",
    "impey c.d . ,",
    "mundy l.g . , 1990 ,",
    "aj , 100,1523 schombert , j.m . ,",
    "bothun , g.d . ,",
    "schneider , s.e . ,",
    "mcgaugh , s.s . , 1992 , aj , 103 , 1107 rhee , m - h , 1996 , phd thesis , university of groningen rubin , v.c . , boss , a.p . ,",
    "ford , w.k , jr . & kenney , j.d .",
    "1989,aj,98,1246 van albada , t.s , sancisi , r. , 1986 , phil .",
    "a , 320 , 447 van albada , t. s. , bahcall , j. n. , begeman , k. & sanscisi , r. 1985 , apj , 295 , 305 van den hoek , l.b .",
    ", de blok , w.j.g . , van der hulst , j.m . ,",
    "de jong , t. , a&a , submitted van der hulst j.m .",
    ", skillman e.d . ,",
    "smith t.r .",
    ", bothun g.d . ,",
    "mcgaugh s.s . ,",
    "de blok w.j.g . , 1993 , aj , 106 , 548 van der kruit , p.c . , &",
    "searle , l. 1981 , a&a , 95 , 105 van der kruit , p.c . , 1986 ,",
    "a&a , 157 , 230 walker , t.p . , steigman , g. , schramm , d.n . ,",
    "olive , k.a .",
    ", & kang , h. 1991 , apj , 376 , 51 white , d.a . , &",
    "fabian , a.c .",
    "1995 , mnras , 273 , 72 white , s.d.m . ,",
    "navarro , j.f .",
    ", evrard , a.e . , & frenk , c.s .",
    "1993 , nature , 366 , 429 zwaan m.a . , van der hulst j.m .",
    ", de blok w.j.g .",
    ", mcgaugh s.s . , 1995 ,",
    "mnras , 273 , l35",
    "bottema ( 1995 ) has shown from measurements of the stellar velocity dispersions in a sample of hsb galaxies that the maximum rotation velocity of the stellar disk ( i.e. the velocity occuring at 2.2@xmath8 ) is on average equal to 63% of the measured rotation velocity at that radius .",
    "this result was derived under the explicit assumption of freeman s law ( which applies to most of the galaxies in bottema s sample ) .",
    "it is therefore not possible to directly apply bottema s result to our sample of lsb galaxies , especially if one realizes that 63% of the observed rotation velocity in many lsb galaxies exceeds the maximum disk solution .",
    "the disk is assumed to be unaffected by dust and contains only two populations ( van der kruit 1986 ; bottema 1988 ) : a young component with a color @xmath81 and an old component with @xmath82 .",
    "the old component furthermore contains all of the disk mass .                for an exponential , locally isothermal , constant @xmath5 disk with density distribution @xmath93 , and @xmath94 and @xmath95 where @xmath96 is the central velocity dispersion , and",
    "@xmath21 , @xmath23 and @xmath97 are the central surface density , surface brightness and scale height , respectively .",
    "equation ( a5 ) and the identity @xmath100 , where @xmath18 is the total luminosity , @xmath23 the central surface brightness in linear units , and @xmath8 the scale length , imply an old disk tully - fisher relation @xmath101 as the old disk contains all the mass @xmath102 .",
    "@xmath103 is assumed to be the the same for all old disks .      for freeman galaxies",
    "@xmath19 is constant .",
    "the color is also assumed to be constant at @xmath104 .",
    "( a7 ) then yields @xmath105 , or @xmath106 combining eqs . ( a6 ) and ( a8 ) yields @xmath107 where @xmath108 is defined as @xmath109 following bottema ( 1995 ) the empirical relation between luminosity and scale length ratios is adopted @xmath110 together with the corresponding values @xmath111 , @xmath112 and @xmath113 .",
    "this results in        the result derived above strictly speaking only applies to galaxies that obey freeman s law . to generalize to different surface brightnesses rewrite equation ( a7 ) as @xmath115 where @xmath116 is the constant freeman central surface brightness of 136 @xmath117 pc@xmath10 .",
    "the scale lengths of the old and young populations are assumed to be equal , so that @xmath118 .",
    "this results in @xmath119    for bottema s sample , with central surface brightnesses approximately equal to the freeman value and colors close to @xmath104 , an average correction factor @xmath120 can be defined .",
    "combination of eqs ( a6 ) and ( a13 ) then yields @xmath121                with @xmath128 one finds @xmath129 the mass - to - light ratio does not depend on the surface brightness of the disk , which is due to our assumption that the old disk population has the same mass - to - light ratio for all disks . disks with identical colors therefore have identical mass - to - light ratios , irrespective of surface brightness ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present mass models of a sample of 19 low surface brightness ( lsb ) galaxies and compare the properties of their constituent mass components with those of a sample of high surface brightness ( hsb ) galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we find that lsb galaxies are dark matter dominated . </S>",
    "<S> their halo parameters are only slightly affected by assumptions on stellar mass - to - light ratios . </S>",
    "<S> comparing lsb and hsb galaxies we find that mass models derived using the maximum disk hypothesis result in the disks of lsb galaxies having systematically higher stellar mass - to - light ratios than hsb galaxies of similar rotation velocity . </S>",
    "<S> this is inconsistent with all other available evidence on the evolution of lsb galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we argue therefore that the maximum disk hypothesis does not provide a representative description of the lsb galaxies and their evolution . </S>",
    "<S> mass models with stellar mass - to - light ratios determined by the colors and stellar velocity dispersions of galactic disks imply that lsb galaxies have dark matter halos that are more extended and less dense than those of hsb galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> surface brightness is thus related to the halo properties . </S>",
    "<S> lsb galaxies are slowly evolving , low density and dark matter dominated galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> dark matter  galaxies : kinematics and dynamics  galaxies : spiral  galaxies : fundamental parameters  galaxies : halos </S>"
  ]
}