{
  "article_text": [
    "the gravitational lens system q  2237 + 0305 , known as the einstein cross , is one of the most promising objects to observe intensity variations due to microlensing of quasar images .",
    "the object , discovered by huchra et al .",
    "( @xcite ) , consists of four images of the same quasar at @xmath3 lensed by a foreground spiral galaxy at @xmath4 .",
    "the maximum angular separation of the components is about @xmath5 . due to the proximity of the lens and the high degree of symmetry of the system , the time delays between the images are of the order of one day .",
    "intrinsic variations of the source therefore show up almost simultaneously in all four quasar images , hence making them easy to distinguish from microlensing effects .",
    "this system with a low - redshift lens is an ideal case for studying microlensing effects , since the light paths to the different qso images pass through the bulge of the galaxy , hence increasing the probability of gravitational influence by single stars ( chang & refsdal @xcite , paczynski @xcite , kayser et al .",
    "@xcite , kayser & refsdal @xcite ) .",
    "in addition we note that the angular size of the einstein ring for a given lens mass is larger than for systems with higher lens redshifts .",
    "however , detecting faint intensity variations in multiply imaged qsos requires very accurate photometry . for most",
    "gravitationally lensed qsos , this is not a straightforward task , q  2237 + 0305 being one of the most complicated cases . given the blending of the qso images , aperture photometry is excluded and profile fitting photometry is not trivial . moreover , since the foreground galaxy has a sharp nucleus creating a non - uniform and fast - varying background , the light distribution of the lensing galaxy has to be modeled carefully .",
    "several methods and algorithms have been developed to perform psf photometry of blended sources and more specific codes have been developed to treat the einstein cross .",
    "we compare in the following , three of these methods ( described in section 3 ) : an automatic psf fitting technique ( m. remy @xcite , hereafter the fitting method ) , an interactive clean algorithm ( r. stensen @xcite ) , and a deconvolution method ( p. magain , f. courbin & s. sohy @xcite , hereafter mcs ) .    for this purpose , numerous images of the einstein cross were taken on two successive nights at the nordic optical telescope ( not ) at la palma , canary islands ( spain ) .",
    "a homogeneous set of data taken over a short time scale with a good temporal sampling was obtained .",
    "no physical intensity variations were likely to be detected in the object during such a short period so that the data set is very well suited for performing photometric tests . for each method , we measured the photometric robustness with respect to the seeing variations in optical @xmath6-bands .",
    "if we detected real variations during the two nights , we would have had the chance to observe either a high amplification microlensing event ( if the variation had occurred in one image only ) or an intrinsic fluctuation in the quasar itself , which could have led to the determination of the time delay for this system .",
    "the observations took place at the not on the nights of october 10 and 11 , 1995 .",
    "we used the ccd camera brocam 1 equipped with a thinned backside illuminated tek 1024 ccd with a conversion factor of @xmath7 , a readout noise of @xmath8 and a pixel size of @xmath9 .",
    "sequences of exposures were obtained through the filters @xmath10 and @xmath11 ( in this order ) .",
    "the total number of frames obtained of the einstein cross in each band , as well as the total exposure time and the mean seeing value are summarized in table  [ tab : log ] .",
    "the seeing of the frames varied between @xmath12 and @xmath2 .",
    ".log of observations of the einstein cross from the @xmath13 and @xmath14 of october 1995 .",
    "the first two lines show the total number of frames in each band .",
    "the next two lines give the total exposure time and the mean seeing value . [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     in order to make sure that the magnitudes of the qso images did not vary during the run , we looked for possible systematic correlations between the results of the different methods .",
    "no such correlation was found .",
    "therefore we can safely assume that the qso images did not vary and we can use the data set to compare the three algorithms .",
    "for the fitting method and the clean algorithm , the photometry depends on the seeing of the frame , i.e. , the errors increase when the seeing gets worse .",
    "one frame in the @xmath15-band and one in the @xmath16-band were removed from the analysis using these two methods , since they would have biased the results .",
    "we find that only the frames with a seeing better than @xmath17 allow us to obtain a photometric accuracy better than 0.05 magnitudes with these two methods .",
    "the mcs algorithm is less dependent on seeing and all the frames with a seeing up to @xmath2 gave photometric errors below 0.04 magnitudes .",
    "if we consider data with an integrated @xmath18 over one point source and a seeing @xmath19 , the overall @xmath20 error bar is below 0.02 magnitudes for the a and b components and below 0.04 magnitudes for the c and d components , for all three methods .",
    "[ fig : photometry ] presents the magnitudes for the @xmath21 , @xmath16 , @xmath15 and @xmath11 band frames respectively , measured with the three different techniques .",
    "the magnitudes are plotted as a function of seeing ( in arcseconds ) .",
    "one of the frames with a seeing of @xmath22 was discarded from the @xmath15-band figures .",
    "we notice systematic differences of the order of 0.1 magnitudes between the three methods for the c and d components in the @xmath15-band .",
    "this is more than the standard deviations calculated on the mean values and indicates that systematic errors introduced by the analysis algorithm might significantly affect the photometry of the einstein cross . in several cases ,",
    "a correlation between the four qso images is observed in the frames with bad seeing values .",
    "this may be due to inaccurate scaling of the galaxy .    the results displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : photometry ] have motivated photometric tests on simulated frames of the object , in order to investigate the effects of random and systematic errors on the photometry .",
    "synthetic images were created with the three different models of the lensing galaxy ( de vaucouleurs profiles and numerical models ) and with different seeing values .",
    "we found that the photometric results from the fitting method and the clean algorithm depend on both seeing and galaxy model . implementing an accurate numerical galaxy model into the fitting and the clean algorithms",
    "would therefore certainly improve their efficiency and accuracy , in particular for bad seeing values .",
    "the random errors are of the same order as the statistical errors we calculated from the real frames .",
    "the systematic errors are smaller than 0.05 magnitudes for the a and b component , but up to 0.1 magnitude for the c and d components both for the fitting method and the clean algorithm when tested on the images created with different galaxy models .",
    "no systematic correlation was found between the photometry of images with different galaxy models analysed with different methods , indicating that these systematic errors are difficult to correct for .    for the deconvolution method ,",
    "the systematic errors are smaller than 0.05 magnitude for all the components , and the results depend much less on the seeing of the frames since a detailed numerical galaxy model is used .",
    "the relative positions measured for the four components using the different methods are in fairly good agreement , not only with one another , but also with the positions determined from observations with the hst ( crane et al .",
    "@xcite , rix et al .",
    "@xcite and blanton et al .",
    "@xcite ) and the results from the photometric monitoring published by stensen et al .",
    "( @xcite ) .",
    "[ fig : comp ] presents the geometry of the object relative to component a , as derived from the three methods , and compared with previously published astrometry .",
    "note that only the frames with a sub - arcsecond seeing were used for the fitting method and the clean algorithm .",
    "we found that the astrometric accuracy of these two methods significantly decreases with bad seeing . with a seeing worse than @xmath17 , typical errors of @xmath23 are observed .",
    "the errors seem to be random with the fitting method , whereas with the clean algorithm , the positions measured for the c and d component tend to drift towards the galaxy s nucleus when the seeing gets worse .",
    "the astrometry obtained with the deconvolution algorithm is much less seeing dependent as soon as an accurate numerical galaxy model is used . however , obtaining such a galaxy model requires the nucleus position to be well estimated from high s / n data ( see section 3.3 ) .",
    "this is particularly true in the @xmath21-band where the nucleus is very faint and its position less accurate ( about @xmath24 ) .",
    "as described in section 3.3 and shown in fig .  [ fig : rima ] , the mcs code produces a deconvolved numerical galaxy both with and without nucleus . the contour plot displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : galcont ] clearly reveals a bar in the central 10 arcseconds of the galaxy .",
    "it has a very similar shape in the @xmath16 and @xmath15 bands whereas in the @xmath21 band the s / n of the data is too low to derive an accurate galaxy profile .",
    "the bar can not be correctly modeled by a pure analytical profile , even in the centre of the galaxy , as in fact suggested by the significant residuals obtained with the fitting and the clean algorithms .",
    "photometry obtained by using only analytical models is therefore likely to be biased .      from our analysis",
    ", we found that the a component is reddened relative to b , and that the c and d components are both reddened relative to a. fig .",
    "[ fig : colour ] shows the @xmath25 colour as a function of @xmath26 .",
    "the error - bars indicated are the errors on the mean ( @xmath27 in tables 2 - 5 ) .",
    "if the reddening is due to extinction from the galaxy , the four quasar images should lie approximately on a straight line representing the extinction law for the lens galaxy .",
    "since it has been suggested that this law is similar to the one of our galaxy ( yee @xcite ) , the mean extinction law for the latter is shown on fig .",
    "[ fig : colour ] , as a solid line with a slope of 0.86 ( vakulik et al .",
    "cardelli et al .",
    "( @xcite ) showed that in the @xmath16-@xmath15-@xmath11 domain , the shape of the extinction law is insensitive to the parameter @xmath28/e(b - v ) , thus independent on the origin of the extinction ( e.g. , interstellar matter , dense clouds ) . from fig .",
    "[ fig : colour ] , the results from the fitting and the clean as well as the a and b magnitude from mcs could be interpreted as extinction .",
    "the positions of components c and d compared to a and b on the straight line can be explained by reddening due to the tilt of the galaxy in the direction of c and d. this tilt might even explain the reddening of a compared to b. however , we point out that the magnitudes obtained with fitting and clean in the different bands do not agree with each other , but by coincidence the differences cancel out in this particular colour plot .    considering the differences in c and d between the three methods we can not confirm the presence of a mean extinction law . in particular , the c and d results from mcs could be interpreted as a long time colour dependent microlensing effect .",
    "when the source passes a microcaustic , its inner and hence bluer parts may be more amplified than the outer emission line region of the accretion disk .",
    "( kayser et al .",
    "@xcite and wambsganss & paczynski , @xcite ) .",
    "this is even true for sources angularly larger than the einstein radius of the lens ( refsdal & stabell @xcite ) .",
    "we found a colour excess of b with respect to a of @xmath29 , magnitudes .",
    "this is in agreement with vakulik et al .",
    "( @xcite ) who found @xmath30 magnitudes , also from observations taken in 1995 . however , yee et al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that b was reddened relative to a , @xmath31 .",
    "a possible change in the relative colours over time might be explained by colour dependent microlensing or , less likely , by dust extinction that varies over time ( e.g. , rix et al .",
    "the reason for a colour change in the einstein cross will remain unclear unless long term multicolour photometric monitoring ( or preferably spectrophotometry ) is carried out on a dedicated telescope .",
    "the two most complete light curves from photometric monitoring of the einstein cross have been published by corrigan et al .",
    "( @xcite ) and more recently by stensen et al .",
    "( @xcite ) .",
    "although several obvious microlensing events have been observed , no precise estimates of the photometric errors have been discussed so far . moreover ,",
    "better sampling of the light curves , as well as more accurate photometric measurements are needed in order to interpret the observed intensity differences in detail . in the present study , a set of observations in four bands",
    "was obtained during two successive nights .",
    "since the time delay for the einstein cross is of the order of one day , observations on a short time scale would make it possible to separate intrinsic variations from microlensing effects .",
    "a bright star is available on all our frames to perform psf photometry with the three different methods considered in this paper .",
    "the seeing during the two nights was variable ( @xmath12-@xmath2 ) , which allowed us to quantify the seeing dependence of the different methods applied .",
    "differences are observed between the photometric measurements obtained with the three methods ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : photometry ] ) .",
    "all the methods show random errors that , as one should expect , increase with bad seeing .",
    "in addition , systematic errors in one or more of the methods are also present , especially for the fainter components of q  2237 + 0305 . for each qso component ,",
    "the dispersion between the mean magnitude obtained with the 3 techniques is larger than the error measured ( @xmath27 ) for each method .",
    "photometric measurements performed on simulated frames also showed that the systematic errors depend both on the seeing and on the galaxy model used to describe the deflector .",
    "the fitting and the clean algorithms produce large errors ( 0.04 - 0.1 magnitudes ) for the two faint quasar components ( c and d ) when the seeing is worse than @xmath0 .",
    "the errors from the mcs algorithm are below 0.04 magnitudes and less dependent on the seeing when a numerical galaxy model is used .",
    "if only subarcsecond seeing frames are considered , we find that all three methods could have detected intensity variations with a minimum amplitude of 0.02 and 0.04 magnitudes in components a , b and c , d respectively .",
    "the latter errors are given for one individual measurement and can be improved by using several frames .",
    "when the exposures are of @xmath32200s , as in our case , about 10 frames can be obtained in one hour of observation .",
    "if 10 frames with a subarcsecond seeing are obtained , the random error will be @xmath33 and @xmath34 magnitudes for a , b and c , d respectively .    assuming that systematic errors are present , it is reasonable to think that they would be more important when an analytical galaxy model is used , rather than when a purely numerical model is applied . even if an analytical de vaucouleurs profile can fit the central bulge of the galaxy , it can not model the bar in the spiral galaxy , and we can not exclude that this may affect the photometry of the quasar images . moreover , a good numerical model obtained from high s / n data can represent high frequency structures in the galaxy which would be neglected by an analytical model .",
    "for example , hii regions in the lens galaxy can only be modeled by a numerical profile .",
    "such clumpy structures , likely to emit in the @xmath35 line , would then make inaccurate the @xmath15-band photometry obtained with any analytical galaxy model .",
    "in such a case , the photometry of the c and d components would be most affected since their positions are along the bar of the galaxy , where most of the hii regions should lie .",
    "the largest photometric differences between the methods investigated here are indeed present in the @xmath15-band , but @xmath35-imaging would be needed to confirm such an effect by directly imaging the hii clumps . we should also point out that finding a numerical galaxy involves a larger number of free parameters . in the present case",
    ", we can not rule out the possibility that the s / n in our frames was too low to obtain a unique numerical model .    based on the published light curves and the present study",
    ", we propose the following observational strategy for a future photometric monitoring of the einstein cross .",
    "the aimed sampling of the points on a light curve should be compared with typical time scales of microlensing events .",
    "since time scales as short as 14 days have been observed ( stensen et al .",
    "@xcite ) , a sampling of the order of a few observations per night should be aimed at . furthermore , since intensity variations of 0.05 magnitudes or less can be expected ( stensen et al .",
    "@xcite ) , it is important to ensure a photometric accuracy well below this value . as shown in our study ,",
    "using several data frames ( up to 10 with a 2 m class telescope ) to derive any individual photometric measurement would yield random error bars smaller than 0.01 magnitude for subarcsecond observing conditions , and would allow such a monitoring program .",
    "however , one can not expect subarcsecond conditions over observing runs as long as several nights . given this observational constraint ,",
    "it is likely that the best photometric accuracy will be obtained by using a detailed numerical galaxy model .",
    "we have shown that such a galaxy model can be constructed from high s / n frames with the mcs algorithm and that accurate photometry can be achieved by applying this model in connection with simultaneous deconvolution of all the frames .",
    "we wish to thank s. sohy for help with the mcs algorithm , and j.p .",
    "swings for support .",
    "ib , fc , and r are supported in part by contract arc94/99 - 178 `` action de recherche concerte de la communaut franaise ( belgium ) '' and ple dattraction interuniversitaire , p4/05 ( sstc , belgium ) .",
    "blanton , m. , turner , e.l .",
    ", wambsganss , j. , 1998 , preprint astro - ph/9805359 cardelli , j.a . ,",
    "clayton , g.c . ,",
    "mathis , j.s .",
    ", 1989 , apj , 345 , 245 chang , k. , refsdal , s. , 1979 , nature , 282 , 561 corrigan , r.t . ,",
    "irwin , m.j . ,",
    "arnaud , j. , et al .",
    ", 1991 , aj , 102 , 34 courbin , f. , lidman , c. , magain , p. , 1998a",
    ", a&a , 330 , 57 courbin , f. , lidman , c. , frye , b. , et al . 1998b , apj , 499 , l119 crane , p. , albrecht , r. , barbieri , c. , et al .",
    "1991 , apj , 369 , l59 huchra , j. , gorenstein , m. , kent , s. , et al . , 1985 ,",
    "aj , 90 , 691 kayser , r. , refsdal , s. , stabell , r. , 1986 , a&a , 166 , 36 kayser , r. , refsdal , s. , 1989 , nature , 338 , 745 magain , p. , courbin , f. , sohy , s. , 1998 , apj , 494 , 472 stensen , r. , 1994 , cand .",
    "thesis , university of troms stensen , r. , refsdal , s. , stabell , r. , et al .",
    ", 1996 , a&a , 309 , 59 stensen , r. , remy , m. , lindblad , p.o . , et al . , 1997 , a&as , 126 , 393 paczynski , b. , 1986 , apj , 301 , 503 press , w.h . ,",
    "flannery , b.p .",
    ", teukolsky , s.a . , &",
    "vetterling , w.t .",
    ", 1989 , numerical recipes ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) refsdal , s. , stabell , r. , 1991 , a&a , 250 , 62 remy , m. , 1996 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , lige university rix , h .- w . , schneider , d.p . , bahcall , j.n .",
    ", 1992 , aj , 104 , 959 stetson , p.b . , 1987 , pasp , 99 , 191 teuber , j. , 1993 , digital image processing , prentice - hall yee , h.k.c . 1988 ,",
    "aj , 95 , 1331 vakulik , v.g . , et al . , 1997 ,",
    "nachr . , 318 , 2 , 73 wambsganss , j. , schneider , p. , paczynski , b. , 1990 , apj , 358 , l33"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the einstein cross , q  2237 + 0305 , has been photometrically observed in four bands on two successive nights at not ( la palma , spain ) in october 1995 . </S>",
    "<S> three independent algorithms have been used to analyse the data : an automatic image decomposition technique , a clean algorithm and the new mcs deconvolution code . the photometric and astrometric results obtained with the three methods are presented . </S>",
    "<S> no photometric variations were found in the four quasar images . </S>",
    "<S> comparison of the photometry from the three techniques shows that both systematic and random errors affect each method . </S>",
    "<S> when the seeing is worse than @xmath0 , the errors from the automatic image decomposition technique and the clean algorithm tend to be large ( 0.04 - 0.1 magnitudes ) while the deconvolution code still gives accurate results ( 1@xmath1 error below 0.04 ) even for frames with seeing as bad as @xmath2 .    </S>",
    "<S> reddening is observed in the quasar images and is found to be compatible with either extinction from the lensing galaxy or colour dependent microlensing .    </S>",
    "<S> the photometric accuracy depends on the light distribution used to model the lensing galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , using a numerical galaxy model , as done with the mcs algorithm , makes the method less seeing dependent . </S>",
    "<S> another advantage of using a numerical model is that eventual non - homogeneous structures in the galaxy can be modeled .    </S>",
    "<S> finally , we propose an observational strategy for a future photometric monitoring of the einstein cross . </S>"
  ]
}