{
  "article_text": [
    "the most widely accepted mechanism to produce bars in galaxies is based on a global instability in cool stellar disks , where cool means rotationally supported ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "however , it was already argued by @xcite that a high central density disk would not form a bar since an inner lindblad resonance ( ilr ) would stop the bar instability @xcite .",
    "there are nevertheless several evidences for the presence of dense centres and ilr s in galaxies , including barred ones @xcite .",
    "recently , @xcite have numerically confirmed that even dynamically cool disks can not develop a bar if it has the observed high central densities .",
    "thus , how galaxies form bars remains a question to be properly answered .",
    "possibilities are discussed in the papers by sellwood cited above , but all are easily rejected in the same papers .",
    "the problem is even worse for lenticular galaxies , since these are not cool stellar systems and generally speaking have the most massive bulges among disk galaxies in the hubble sequence .",
    "but the existence of barred lenticulars is indisputable ! for instance , in the revised shapley ",
    "ames catalog @xcite , @xmath0 of the lenticular galaxies brighter than 14 in the b band are barred .",
    "a related issue concerns the role of halos in bar formation , which were once thought to stabilize disks against the formation of a bar .",
    "recent results , however , indicate that , while producing smaller growth rates of bar - forming modes , halos can induce stronger bars ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) . in this letter",
    ", we will present results of a detailed structural analysis on two barred lenticulars , which indicate that either their disks have almost completely disappeared , probably by secular evolution processes , or that bars were formed without disks . moreover , we present numerical simulations which show how the later possibility can be attained with non - spherical halos .",
    "the two galaxies discussed in this letter were observed in optical ( b , v , r , i ) and near - infrared ( ks ) broadbands in the steward observatory 61 \" and bok telescopes , respectively . after standard reduction procedures , the images were used in a 2d structural analysis algorithm developed by @xcite .",
    "the algorithm was constructed in order to model the surface brightness profiles of galaxies using two components : a bulge obeying the srsic luminosity profile and an exponential disk . besides of being thoroughly tested in model galaxies ,",
    "the algorithm has been already applied in a sample of 39 sbc galaxies @xcite and 51 ellipticals and lenticulars @xcite providing valuable structural information .",
    "the reader is referred to the above cited references for details on the algorithm .",
    "essentially , the galaxy images are transformed into a matrix in which each point represents a pixel value .",
    "the user provides initial values for the structural parameters of bulge and disk ( e.g. , effective surface brightness , ellipticity , srsic index etc . ) and the algorithm then tries to fit the galaxy image with model images of bulge and disk , by varying their structural parameters , minimizing the @xmath1 deviation at each pixel until it reaches a convergence limit .",
    "a total of 11 parameters are needed to fully describe the model and these are obtained from the image fitting . using the fitted parameters , one can build a model galaxy and construct a residual image which can be useful in showing hidden sub - structures .    an important point to clarify now",
    "is that , in the case of strongly barred galaxies , like those studied here , the code performs a decomposition in 2 components that may be thought as the bar / bulge and the disk .",
    "the reader should keep this in mind when we refer to `` bulge '' hereafter .",
    "ngc 4608 is catalogued as a sb0 galaxy in the revised shapley ",
    "ames catalog @xcite and by @xcite with ccd images .",
    "previous surface photometry analysis was done by @xcite , with 1d fitting on shallow photographic plates , and by @xcite , fitting ellipses to the isophotes on ccd frames .",
    "both studies concluded that this galaxy presents a low surface brightness disk .",
    "ngc 5701 is described as having an intermediate morphological type between sb0 and sba by a number of authors ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .    when applied to ngc 4608 and ngc 5701",
    "the algorithm retrieves a _ very _ low surface brightness disk .",
    "the major component is indubitably represented by the bar / bulge .",
    "thus one is left to conclude that there is practically no disk present in these galaxies .",
    "the presence of a large freeman disk like the ones observed in spirals can be readily discarded .",
    "figure 1 shows the 2 galaxies and their residual images after subtraction of the model images .",
    "the direct images at left have an isophotal map overlayed with 0.5 mag interval between each contour level .",
    "these images refer to the r broadband but similar results were obtained in all the other bands .",
    "it is worth noting that not even in ks a disk was found , which could be a possibility if the disk was hidden by dust or contained mostly very old population stars .",
    "our surface photometry reaches the level of about 26 mag / arcsec@xmath2 in b and 23 mag / arcsec@xmath2 in ks , with comparable values reached in the other passbands .",
    "thus our photometry is deep enough to indicate that the absence of a disk is real .",
    "even a faint disk would be detected .",
    "if there is a disk in these galaxies it has to have a luminosity far lower than the one measured in normal s0 s .",
    "moreover , we do detect disks in other galaxies with images taken during the same nights , with the same exposure times and applying the same analysis .",
    "looking at the images at left in fig . 1 , one can already notice what seems to be a somewhat empty region around the bar in both galaxies .",
    "these empty regions appear much clearer in the residual images at right . in the case of ngc 4608",
    "the residual image shows clearly the bar and the lens . for ngc 5701 , one",
    "is left with the bar , the outer ring and the inner ring , which is not visible in the direct image .",
    "the important point to stress here is that , after the subtraction of only a bulge model , there is no clear sign of the presence of a disk .",
    "we should remark that these objects are genuine s0 galaxies as many authors have argued and because the conspicuous bars _ should _ be a disk perturbation .",
    "thus , one must face the possibility of formation and maintenance of a bar in the almost total absence of a disk !",
    "another possibility is that secular evolutionary processes induced by bars in their host galaxies ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) have disturbed the structure of an originally healthy normal disk . in principle , these strong bars could have transferred material from the initial disk to the bulge .",
    "then , what seems now a lens in ngc 4608 could be the outer remains of the disk .",
    "the outer ring in ngc 5701 could also be the signature of a pre - existent disk .",
    "for this galaxy too , there is a hint of inner disk remaining in the residual image .    to test the evolutionary hypothesis",
    ", we may consider the question whether the stars we see today in the bar once belonged to a disk .",
    "could the luminosity we detect in the bar make up a disk if distributed accordingly ? to answer that , we have determined the luminosity in all bands within a radius equal to the bar length ( that was determined examining the ellipticity and position angle radial profiles ) for the direct and residual images .",
    "the difference between them corresponds to the bulge luminosity , while the luminosity in the residual images may be attributed to the assumed disk .",
    "thus we calculated what would have been a bulge / disk luminosity ratio for these galaxies before the secular evolution processes took place .",
    "this ratio is @xmath3 and therefore it is compatible with the secular evolution hypothesis since the bulge / disk ratio for normal s0 s is around 2 @xcite .    while bar formation without disks seems to be a quite unusual possibility , it is not at all trivial that secular processes can be so strong as to destroy a disk almost completely .",
    "we suggest , in the next section , how bars could be formed in galaxies without disks .",
    "the idea of having a bar forming without a disk is very powerful given its simplicity .",
    "it is based on the assumption that non - spherical dark matter halos should exist . as noted by @xcite model dark halos",
    "are generally triaxial and may be prolate .",
    "moreover , their axial ratios can be quite extreme , reaching values around 3 , while a ratio of 2 is common . given that these halos are large and massive , it is reasonable that they could exert a strong influence on the dynamics of a stellar system which is embedded in such a halo .",
    "we performed numerical simulations to check if such a configuration could make a spheroid turn into a bar , i.e. , a triaxial ( or prolate ) eccentric structure .",
    "thus , we simulated the evolution of a plummer sphere embedded in a rigid halo represented by a logarithmic potential , which produces flat rotation curves and can be used to easily modify the halo core radius , the mass within it and the halo ellipticity @xcite .",
    "the plummer sphere has a characteristic radius of 2 kpc , extends to 17 kpc , and a total mass of @xmath4m@xmath5 .",
    "the halo parameters modified were the axial ratios ( from 1 to 4 , prolate and triaxial ) , the core radius ( from 6 kpc to 10 kpc ) and the core mass ( from @xmath6m@xmath5 to @xmath4m@xmath5 ) .",
    "these values for the core properties are usually found in the literature ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the simulations were performed with the nemo package @xcite with @xmath7 particles , using @xcite algorithm .",
    "the softening parameter was @xmath8 , and the opening angle was @xmath9 .",
    "energy and the center of mass were conserved better than 0.1% , typically .",
    "several experiments were performed varying the halo parameters .",
    "we noticed that : * ( i ) * , the sphere is stable when the axial ratios are low , remaining approximately spherical for any typical values for the core radius and mass ; * ( ii ) * , oval distortions , weak and strong bars are formed when raising the axial ratios from @xmath3 to @xmath10 , not depending substantially on the other core parameters ; and * ( iii ) * , these results do not depend whether the halo is prolate or triaxial .",
    "figure 2 shows a clarifying example .",
    "it shows how a plummer sphere can be transformed into a bar within the dynamical influence of a triaxial halo with axial ratio equals 3 , after 1 gyr . comparing fig .",
    "2 with the left panels of fig . 1",
    ", one can see that the bar formed in our simulations is a good representation of the bars in ngc 4608 and ngc 5701 . also , the size of the bars in these galaxies and in our simulations is similar ( @xmath11 10 kpc ) .",
    "our new bar formation mechanism needs halos with axial ratios around 3 and the results from cosmological simulations by @xcite indicate that at least some halos must have these high values for their axial ratios .",
    "more recent cosmological simulations by , e.g. , @xcite , show that the axial ratios of halos have a wide distribution going to values as high as 3 , while the simulations of @xcite indicate a typical value of around 1.5 , but with extreme values going as high as 5 . concerning observations ,",
    "recent results indicate values ranging from 1.252 ( @xcite ) to more than 3 ( @xcite ) .",
    "there are thus two possible scenarios that could explain the existence of bars in systems ( almost ) devoid of discs .",
    "the first one is that bars can form in diskless systems , as described in the previous section .",
    "the second one is that such systems are extreme examples of the evolutionary scenario proposed recently by @xcite . a weak bar forms initially , and grows by losing angular momentum to the external disk and the halo , via resonant stars ( see @xcite ) . in extreme cases",
    "it could `` consume '' all or most of the disk material , so that the end product would be a bar in a halo , with very little , if any , disk left , i.e. , what we have found for ngc 4608 and ngc 5701 .",
    "thus , these galaxies can well be extreme examples of this evolutionary scenario . with this mechanism ,",
    "strong halos lead to strong bars , which is also the case .",
    "let us now evaluate the predictions of the athanassoula s model ( ath ) and our model of bar formation without disk ( gds ) and make a quantitative comparison with the results for ngc 4608 and ngc 5701 .",
    "for that , snapshots of the final result from both models were scaled in size and intensity to allow for a meaningful comparison with the observed galaxies .",
    "figure 3 shows radial profiles of the ellipticity of the two galaxies and of both models .",
    "one sees that gds provides a very good fit to the galaxies in most of the profile , while ath fits reasonably well only the last fifth part of it .",
    "figure 4 presents intensity cuts along the major and minor axes of the bar in the models and the galaxies .",
    "one can see that these cuts are better predicted by the ath model .",
    "another strong point favouring the secular evolution hypothesis is the fact that a boxy  peanut shape develops in the ath model when viewed edge  on , as we know is the case for many observed bars ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "this does _ not _ occur in the gds model .",
    "another powerful quantitative comparison of the face  on shapes may be performed if one calculates the fourier components of the intensity distribution projected onto the equatorial plane , like in , e.g. , @xcite .",
    "figure 5 shows the results of the fourier analysis .",
    "an inclination angle of 15 degrees was assumed for both galaxies to be deprojected before the components were calculated , in agreement with values found in the literature ( @xcite ) and from analysing single dish hi velocity measurements ( @xcite ) .",
    "the main difference between the behaviour of the fourier components in the ath and gds models is that there is a maximum in the former but not in the later .",
    "thus the data from ngc 4608 favours the ath model .",
    "the position of the maximum is not relevant here since it varies considerably from one simulation to another , depending on the q toomre parameter ( see , e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the maximum is nearer to the center in dynamically cold systems ( athanassoula , private communication ) .",
    "however , ngc 5701 does not seem to have a maximum , which supports the gds model , unless a maximum is found in a _ very _ deep image .",
    "the reader must bear in mind that both models are in no way a specific fit to the galaxies under study , but they show that extreme cases of barred galaxies with hardly any disc are possible .",
    "it is clear that a definite conclusion should not be taken at this stage .",
    "more data ( including spectroscopy ) are necessary on these two galaxies and s0 s in general . on the other hand , simulations may now be directed to address this question further .",
    "nonetheless , two not necessarily mutually exclusive conclusions can be tentatively postulated : * ( i ) * - bars can be formed in spheroids through the dynamical effects of a sufficiently eccentric halo , without the need of a stellar disk , and * ( ii ) * - secular evolution in barred galaxies can be strong enough to almost completely destroy their disks .",
    "the first possibility puts some hope in our struggle to understand how bars form in galaxies , since other mechanisms have several serious drawbacks .",
    "of course , this mechanism alone can not be responsible for all the observed bars , since it needs very eccentric halos ( and there are disk galaxies ! ) , but could be at least for some barred lenticulars .",
    "also , it not excludes the possibility of other bar forming instabilities acting together and thus can be explored to overcome some of the difficulties . on the other hand",
    ", it is based on very simplistic numerical experiments .",
    "more realistic simulations can be performed , e.g. , including a live halo and gas , which can then account for other observed sub - structures , like the rings in ngc 5701 .",
    "however , the essential idea , we showed now , seems to be correct .",
    "the second possible conclusion shows how strong secular evolutionary processes may be and so how seriously they should be considered in models of galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "we are indebted to the referee , lia athanassoula , for many suggestions and comments that helped to greatly improve our work , and for letting us use her results prior to publication .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank ron buta and ivo busko for help on deprojecting galaxy images and fourier analysis .",
    "dag would like to thank peter teuben for invaluable help on nemo .",
    "financial support from fapesp grant 99/07492 - 7 is acknowledged .",
    "athanassoula , e. 2002 , , 569 , l83 athanassoula , e. , and misiriotis , a. 2002 , , 330 , 35 athanassoula , e. 2003 , submitted to barnes , j. , and hut , p. , 1986",
    ", , 324 , 446 begeman , k. g. , broeils , a. h. , and sanders , r. h. 1991 , , 249 , 523 benedict , g. f. 1976 , , 81 , 799 binney , j. , and merrifield , m. 1998 , galactic astronomy , princeton university press binney , j. , and tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics , princeton university press bullock , j. s. 2001 , astro - ph/0106380 buote , d. a. , jeltema , t. e. , canizares , c. r. , and garmire , g. p. 2002",
    ", accepted for publication in , astro - ph/0205469 bureau , m. , and freeman , k. c. 1999 , , 118,126 de souza , r. e. 1997 , tese de livre docncia , departamento de astronomia , universidade de so paulo de souza , r. e. , gadotti , d. a. , and dos anjos , s. 2003 , in preparation dos anjos , s. , and gadotti , d. a. 2003 , submitted frenk , c. s. , 1988 , large scale structures of the universe , j. audouze , m - c .",
    "pelletan , and a. szalay , kluwer academic publishing , iau symp .",
    "130 , 259 haynes , m. p. , hogg , d. e. , maddalena , r. j. , roberts , m. s. , and van zee , l. 1998 , , 115 , 62 gadotti , d. a. 1999 , m. sc .",
    "thesis , departamento de astronomia , universidade de so paulo gadotti , d. a. , and dos anjos , s. 2001 , , 122 , 1298 jungwiert , b. , combes , f. , and axon , d. j. 1997 , , 125 , 479 sackett , p. d. 1999 , in galaxy dynamics , asp conf . ser .",
    ", 182 , 393 sackett , p. d. , and sparke , l. s. 1990 , , 361 , 408 sandage , a. , and tammann , g. a. 1981 , revised shapley - ames catalog of bright galaxies , carnegie institution of washington sellwood , j. a. 2000 , galaxy dynamics : from the early universe to the present , f. combes , g. a. mamom , and v. charmandaris , asp conf .",
    "series , 197 , 3 sellwood , j. a. 2001 , astro - ph/0107353 sellwood , j. a. , and moore , e. m. 1999 , , 510 , 125 teuben , p. j. , astronomical data analysis software and systems iv , r. shaw , h. e. payne , and j. j. e. hayes , asp conf series 77 , 398 toomre , a. 1981 , structure and evolution of normal galaxies , s. m. fall , and d. lynden - bell , cambridge university press , 111 van den bergh , s. , pierce , m. j. , and tully , r. b. 1990 , , 359 , 4 warren , m. s. , quinn , p. j. , salmon , j. k. , and zurek , w. h. 1992 , , 399 , 405 wozniak , h. , and pierce , m. j. 1991 , , 88 , 325"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have performed for the first time in the literature a 2d structural analysis on the barred lenticular and face  on galaxies ngc 4608 and ngc 5701 . </S>",
    "<S> the results indicate that these galaxies either have never had large disks or their disks were almost completely destroyed by their strong bars , due to secular evolution processes . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss these surprising conclusions checking for signs of secular evolution , considering bar forming instabilities , and suggesting , based on n - body simulations , a new mechanism to form bars in spheroids , which includes non - spherical halos . </S>",
    "<S> quantitative predictions from our new mechanism are compared with those from other recent models for bar formation and evolution . </S>"
  ]
}