{
  "article_text": [
    "in the last two decades it has become apparent that interactions between galaxies can play a significant role in their evolution . from the early dynamical simulations of @xcite to more modern works by barnes , hernquist , and others ( barnes & hernquist 1992 , and references therein ) it has become apparent that interactions and mergers between galaxies can radically alter their morphology by inducing shells , bars , tails , and other tidal features .",
    "perhaps more importantly , cancellation of angular momentum during the merger process can lead to a radical redistribution of the gas content of the galaxies , with very rapid gas inflow into the galaxy cores .",
    "this supply of fresh material could possibly fuel an active galactic nucleus , or provide the high gas densities needed to lead to a sudden burst of star formation .",
    "there is considerable evidence that enhanced star formation is associated with interacting galaxies ( sulentic 1988 , and references therein ) .",
    "the young ob stars that dominate the starburst radiate primarily in the optical and ultraviolet , but surrounding gas and dust reprocesses this radiation and thus strongly radiates at thermal wavelengths in the far - infrared .",
    "far - infrared luminosity is thus indicative of the magnitude of recent star formation activity @xcite .",
    "additionally , due to the increased temperature of the heated dust , we expect the far - infrared colors to be a good diagnostic of enhanced star formation .",
    "therefore , many studies have therefore concentrated on the far - infrared properties of interacting galaxies .",
    "several studies have also discussed the incidence of multiple bright galaxies being found within a given interacting galaxy system .",
    "@xcite found that for galaxy pairs separated by 2 - 10 , approximately 10% have multiple components brighter than 0.5 jy at 60@xmath0 m and 1 jy at 100@xmath0 m .",
    "@xcite also concluded that in the majority of interacting systems , only one galaxy is infrared bright .",
    "these results agree with an earlier work by @xcite which concluded , based on near- ir colors , that most often only one galaxy in a pair showed signs of unusual activity .",
    "this is an interesting result , because it suggests that specific properties of the interacting galaxies may determine whether or not they become emitters in the far - ir as well .",
    "testing this hypothesis requires resolution of the individual galaxies in the far - ir , which is the goal of this iras study .",
    "the canonical figure used by many authors to delineate interacting versus non - interacting systems is a projected separation of three average galactic diameters , as presumably galaxies this close to one another are also close enough to exert a considerable gravitational effect @xcite .",
    "however , for most galaxies detected by iras this typically corresponds to an angular separation of a few arcminutes . this is less than the resolution normally achieved by iras using the 1-d coadder addscan or the 2-d fresco imaging process . as a result",
    ", it has been impossible to study the far - infrared properties of the individual galaxies , and most studies have either made assumptions about the distribution of flux between galaxies within the interacting system @xcite or have concentrated on widely separated pairs @xcite . since previous studies of very widely separated galaxy pairs indicate that in a substantial fraction of interacting systems only one galaxy is unusually active in the far - ir @xcite , it is necessary to resolve these galaxies in order to properly study those properties such as morphology which are unique to the individual galaxies . additionally , @xcite found evidence that at smaller separations ( and hence greater interaction strengths ) there was a greater enhancement of far - ir activity",
    ". therefore it would be valuable if these studies could be extended to smaller separations where more observable changes are taking place .",
    "development of the maximum correlation method algorithm ( mcm , aumann et al .",
    "1990 ) for use in iras image reconstruction significantly increased the resolution of iras observations .",
    "as implemented in the hires process , mcm is an iterative image reconstruction technique that involves using the known response functions of the iras detectors to scan simulated image estimates which are then compared to the actual detector data . in this way ,",
    "a high resolution image estimate is formed .",
    "the result is typically a five - fold increase in resolution , varying from roughly 30@xmath145  at 12@xmath0 m to 72@xmath1130  at 100@xmath0 m , with the actual achieved resolution being highly dependent on the geometry of the detector coverage @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , the hires process is extremely computer intensive .",
    "when developed , a single field typically took a day or more to process .",
    "as a result , the earlier work by @xcite was rather limited in scope , with only 23 systems being resolvable . on a modern computer , this computing time",
    "is reduced to approximately 15 minutes , thus making feasible the processing of a substantially larger sample .    in section 2 of this paper",
    "we present the sample selection criteria for the objects examined here , and present the data reduction techniques used for reconstructing the iras images and measuring the galaxy fluxes .",
    "the fluxes at each _ iras _ wavelength are presented in tabular form , and contours of the infrared emission are shown overlaid on optical images of the galaxies .",
    "section 3 presents properties of the catalog , and some results derived from them .",
    "appendix a presents additional notes for selected galaxy systems .",
    "finally , in appendix b we include data for galaxy systems that were originally included in the bgs , but were subsequently dropped from the rbgs after a reanalysis of their fluxes .",
    "these objects are provided for the interest of the reader , but do not bear on the analysis of the catalog .",
    "all of the targets were selected from the iras revised bright galaxy sample @xcite .",
    "the rbgs consists of all 629 galaxies detected by iras having a 60@xmath0 m flux density greater than 5.24 jy , and is thus similar to and includes all of the well - studied bright galaxy sample @xcite , but extends coverage to the entire sky at galactic latitudes @xmath25 .",
    "the following criterion was applied in order to select close pairs from the rbgs :    @xmath3    where s@xmath4 is the distance between galaxy centers and d@xmath5 and d@xmath6 are their optical diameters , as measured from the palomar sky survey .",
    "this criterion therefore selects all systems where the galaxies are separated by less than three times their average diameter .",
    "note that this excludes very advanced mergers such as arp 220 , where the individual galactic disks can no longer be distinguished .",
    "this also has the additional benefit of selecting systems that are sufficiently separated as to be resolvable with hires .",
    "as such , the sample includes all of the galaxies listed in table 1 of @xcite .",
    "additionally , in an attempt to resolve sources listed in the rbgs which were likely to be confused due to small separations , we included all small galaxy pairs with apparent separation less than 4 .",
    "this separation was determined by the normal survey resolution of 4 , which in turn is set by the iras 100@xmath0 m detector size .",
    "the iras data were processed in a manner similar to @xcite .",
    "the raw detector scans were initially extracted from the iras database using the snipscan process .",
    "these raw detector scans were then flattened using an iterative fitting technique that removed the detector baselines , and they were then deglitched in order to remove artifacts such as cosmic ray hits using the laundr process . the hires process was then applied to the detector scans .",
    "restoration was done on 1  fields in order to improve detector baseline coverage , with a pixel size of 15pixel@xmath7 , which is sufficient to adequately sample the restored iras beam .",
    "the algorithm was iterated 20 times as further iterations tend only to increase noise amplification with little improvement in resolution .    in order to aid in the interpretation of the iras data ,",
    "optical images were extracted from the digital sky survey ( dss ) and the iras data were overlaid on them ( figure 1 ) .",
    "this was valuable in interpreting the correspondence between the resolved iras objects and the optical galaxies .",
    "in some cases there were small , uncataloged optical galaxies in the dss images , and the dss images were used to derive their positions .",
    "the optical images have a pixel size of 1.7 .",
    "the astrometry of the optical images is based on a linear approximation to the polynomial plate solution provided by stsci , and yields positions accurate to roughly 2  @xcite .",
    "the astrometry of the iras images is limited by the pointing accuracy of the satellite , which was approximately 2  in the in - scan direction and 10  cross - scan @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the astrometry of point - like sources produced by the hires technique is known observationally to be approximately 20  @xcite .",
    "thus , registration of the images should be accurate to within one or two hires pixel elements , and certainly should be better than the typical iras beam size .",
    "optical identifications were made using the coordinates and names given in the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which are in turn derived from the third reference catalogue of bright galaxies ( rc3 , de vaucouleurs et al .",
    "when no identifications were available , the galaxies were identified directly from the dss images and are labeled from northeast to southwest .",
    "photometry was accomplished in two ways .",
    "when the galaxies were cleanly separated , aperture photometry was performed via the ipac - skyview software using polygonal apertures of a size sufficient to insure that all of the galaxy flux was measured . in those cases where components appeared to be resolved but not separated ,",
    "the data were modeled with 2-d elliptical gaussians using the aips imfit and jmfit routines .",
    "this is justified in that although the geometry of the iras beam is variable , it usually has roughly the form of an elliptical gaussian whose exact size and orientation depend on the detector scan geometry .",
    "peak positions were constrained to the position indicated by the nearest separated iras wavelength .",
    "if none of the iras data were able to supply positions , then the gaussian centers were constrained to the locations of the optical peaks as given by the rc3 , where possible , and otherwise according to positions measured directly from the dss .",
    "note that the latter could introduce a bias in that it presupposes correspond between the infrared and optical centers . in cases where the galaxies are well - separated at optical wavelengths",
    ", the optical and infrared peaks do correspond .",
    "many of the galaxies that were decomposed using gaussian fitting are also well - separated at optical wavelengths , but are too close to one another to be separated by iras . in these cases",
    "it is reasonable to assume that the optical peaks will correspond to the infrared peaks . only in cases of advanced mergers , such as ngc  4038",
    ", would this assumption break down .",
    "table 1 presents the measured global photometry for each of the galaxies identified in the iras images from the rbgs sample .",
    "the supporting data in table 1 and table 2 were taken from the ned , and relevant notes regarding this database are given below .",
    "it should be noted that the magnitudes , morphological types , etc .",
    "listed by ned are generally not on any homogeneous system , although when possible data from ned is derived from the rc3 .",
    "the table is ordered by increasing b1950 right ascension of the galaxy systems , as given by the western - most component .",
    "the columns are as follows :    column 1 - the galaxy name .",
    "names are given in order of preference from the ngc , ugc , catalog of galaxies and clusters of galaxies ( cgcg ) , morphological catalogue of galaxies ( mcg ) , markarian ( mrk ) , and 2mass catalogs .",
    "relevant cross - id s are also given .",
    "the given names are those associated with a specific coordinate as given by the rc3 , ned , or the arp atlas .",
    "the arp name associated with a given galaxy group is listed with the first ( westernmost ) object , but no special significance is indicated by this .",
    "column 2,3 - equinox 1950 coordinates .",
    "the given coordinates are those of the centroid of the infrared emission in cases where there was a separated infrared detection .",
    "otherwise , the optical position from ned is listed . in almost all cases",
    "these coordinates originate from the rc3 , although currently ned lists values from the two micron all sky survey ( 2mass ) .",
    "if ned listed no coordinates , then the coordinates are those measured directly from the dss .",
    "equinox b1950 coordinates were chosen because this is the epoch of the positional calibration for the iras level 1 archive scans used to construct the hires images .",
    "column 4 - the position type .",
    "if `` o '' , then the given position is an optical center , and if `` i '' then a new infrared center derived from the hires images .",
    "column 5 - radial velocity in km @xmath8 s@xmath7 . in all cases where",
    "these are listed they are spectroscopic redshifts from a variety of sources as given by ned .",
    "uncertainties are typically 10 - 100 km / sec .",
    "column 6 - total optical magnitude as given by ned . in most cases",
    "this is the blue magnitude listed in the rc3 .",
    "column 7 - 14 - 12 , 25 , 60 , and 100 @xmath0 m integrated fluxes in jy , and the associated 1-@xmath9  uncertainties . in cases where the targets were also given by @xcite",
    ", the objects were remeasured in order to ensure uniformity of calibration with the rest of the survey ( see section 2.3 ) . in some cases",
    "the galaxies were still unresolved at all wavelengths . in this case only the global flux , as measured from the hires data , is given . in cases where one or more components remained unresolved , but",
    "some components were resolved , the brightest unresolved component in the resolved waveband gives the flux of all the components , and subsequent unresolved components are marked with ellipses .",
    "upper limits are denoted with a `` @xmath10 '' and are the flux measured at the known optical location of the galaxy in an aperture that has the same size as the effective iras beam .",
    "column 15 - log of the far - infrared luminosity , in units of solar luminosities .",
    "this is the luminosity from 40122@xmath0 m @xcite .",
    "h@xmath11 = 75 km s@xmath7 mpc@xmath7 is assumed .",
    "this quantity is useful for photometric study , is not very sensitive to the shape of the spectral energy distribution , and is the quantity tabulated by @xcite .",
    "the l@xmath12 described in the rbgs is the luminosity from 1500@xmath0 m .",
    "it was derived by applying a correction factor to the flux between 40 - 122@xmath0 m based on the 60/100@xmath0 m color ( lonsdale et al .",
    "for the galaxies described here , the median correction factor is 1.44@xmath130.09 . in other words , log l@xmath14 = log l@xmath15 + 0.16 .",
    "this is also different from the quantity l@xmath16 as described by @xcite , which is the flux from 81000@xmath0 m , but which generally can not be computed here since it requires detections in all four iras bands .",
    "evaluating the photometric uncertainty of the hires data product is quite difficult . in general , uncertainties arise from three sources , all of which vary in importance depending on the particular field .",
    "the integrated flux density uncertainties quoted in tables 1 & 2 contain measurement and confusion errors , but _ not _ systematic effects in the overall calibration .",
    "confusion is the first limitation .",
    "the dominant source of noise in hires is not photometric background noise , but confusion due to noise spike amplification .",
    "high sigma noise peaks are amplified by the deconvolution process ; they appear similar to weak point sources with a signal strength as high as 0.1 jy .",
    "these spikes are illustrated in figure 2 .",
    "this results in a highly non - gaussian single - sided noise distribution on spatial scales similar to the beam size , not the pixel size . in those cases where the galaxy fluxes are less than 0.3 jy",
    ", it becomes difficult to differentiate the target from amplified noise . as a result , quoted",
    "upper limits are often quite high , as this upper limit is set by the flux contained in these noise peaks .",
    "our achieved sensitivity is thus around 0.25 - 0.3 jy , depending on the wavelength and field geometry .",
    "similarly quoted uncertainties are often also high , depending on the amplitude of these spikes .",
    "apertures similar to the effective beam size were used to evaluate a median false signal due to the noise spikes .",
    "these spikes are the dominant source of uncertainty for faint objects .",
    "the technique used to derive the photometry is the second contributor to the photometric uncertainty . in cases where",
    "the galaxies are well separated and aperture photometry could be used , this typically contributes only a few percent to the total error . in those cases where",
    "the galaxies were not well separated and gaussian fitting was used , this becomes the dominant source of error and can range anywhere from 20 - 50% depending on the degree of resolution of the targets .",
    "absolute photometric calibration is the third major source of uncertainty , and which is not included in table 1 .",
    "as noted in @xcite , there are certain caveats to the photometric calibration of the hires data product . in particular",
    ", the calibration of the iras data is in part dependent on factors due to detector responsivity and dwell time .",
    "known as the ac / dc correction , it is the difference in responsivity for point sources versus extremely extended sources , which was characterized as a function of detector dwell time based on the nominal survey slew speed .",
    "this is well known for point sources , and hence the point source catalog ( psc ) is properly calibrated @xcite .",
    "however , it is slightly different for small extended sources , and is a poorly understood function of source extension .",
    "this was seen during the data analysis presented in paper i , where it was found that the majority of the hires fluxes were significantly greater than the values estimated using one - dimensional coaddition with the addscan / scanpi processing available at ipac . in paper",
    "i this issue was wholly avoided by forcing all of the data onto the same flux scale as the psc by using the component flux ratios indicated by hires to divide up the flux indicated by the bgs , which was produced using the addscan process which is known to have the same photometric scale as the psc .",
    "figure 3 through 6 show the difference in flux estimates between this paper and the addscan / scanpi values published in the rbgs ( sanders et al .",
    "the data points shown in these figures are limited to cases where the flux referred to in the rbgs was unambiguous .",
    "these are primarily systems which were either unresolved by hires ( and hence both catalogs have single fluxes ) or were sufficiently separated as to have been resolved by both addscan / scanpi and hires ( e.g. ngc 875 ) .",
    "the mean offsets between the two catalogs are 27.5 , 12.8 , 4.5 , and 5.5 % at 12 , 25 , 60 , and 100 .",
    "the observed scatter around the mean is similar to the estimated flux uncertainties in table 1 .",
    "these are particularly significant in the faint 12  channel , where although the miniumum requirement for reporting is a s / n@xmath173 , the average detection only has a s / n@xmath185 .",
    "the mean offsets are also similar in size to the observed scatter .",
    "testing of hires has shown that measured integrated fluxes of unresolved point sources have an intrinsic scatter of about 8 - 12% compared to those of the psc @xcite . in all cases the one sigma scattter in offsets observed for the galaxies is larger than the value of the systematic offset .",
    "there is no statistically significant trend as a function of flux . in several cases",
    "the statistically significant outliers seen in the brighter channels are a result of differences in background estimation between the one - dimensional addscan results and the two - dimensional hires results .",
    "while the version of hires used in this paper produces data believed to be on the ac scale , appropriate for point sources , it is clear that there are systematic offsets relative to other ac - calibrated iras data products .",
    "previous experiments in paper i showed that the hires data product correctly reproduces the photometry of point sources in accordance with the psc .",
    "as the exact source of this offset remains unclear , as does the calibration for small extended sources , this data has not been forced to agree with the rbgs , unlike @xcite .",
    "this is the source of the variations between the fluxes in paper i and this work .    as a result of this offset ,",
    "the results presented here differ from those based solely on psc - calibrated products by small amounts . the ratio of 60 to 100  flux remains unchanged , as the offset is the same in both bands .",
    "the infrared luminosities are 5% higher , a value considerably less than the typical uncertainty . the log of the 12 to 24  ratio differs by being 0.05 higher .",
    "when appropriate , these offsets will be discussed in the section 3 of this paper .",
    "the cumulative distribution functions ( cdfs ) of _ l_@xmath19 , log(@xmath20 ) , and log(@xmath21 ) are given in figures 7 , 8 , and 9 .",
    "these distributions only include the galaxies actually detected and resolved by hires .",
    "these distributions are nearly identical to @xcite .",
    "this is to be expected , since the shape of the cdf remains unchanged so long as the nature of the incompleteness in the data is random .",
    "since paper i differed from this paper in being drawn from a parent sample which was different from the rbgs primarily in spatial extent on the sky , the cdfs are expected to remain the same .    as in @xcite , a comparison sample of galaxies",
    "was constructed by selecting a subsample drawn from the bgs which had no visible signs of interaction and were not in close pairs ( this is the same sample described in paper i ) . from these isolated bgs galaxies we selected a subsample so as to have the same distribution of blue magnitudes as the rbgs close pairs .",
    "we can therefore compare the far - infrared properties of a far - infrared flux - limited sample of interacting pairs to a similarly flux - limited sample of isolated galaxies with the same distribution of optical luminosities .",
    "the cdf for log l@xmath19 , which is computed from the 60 and 100  fluxes , is shown in figure 7 .",
    "the median value of _ l_@xmath19 is 10@xmath22 _",
    "l_@xmath23 for individual , resolved galaxies in the paired and multiple rbgs systems studied here .",
    "this is somewhat higher than found in paper i ( _ l_@xmath24=10@xmath25 _ l_@xmath23 ) , and can not be readily attributed to the offsets in calibration , which are of order 5% at these wavelengths .",
    "kolmogorov - smirnov statistics indicate that the isolated and paired samples are not draw from the same parent sample at better than the 99.99% confidence level . in separated galaxy pairs",
    ", then , the interaction process enhances _",
    "l_@xmath19 by a factor of roughly 3 .",
    "similar differences are seen in the far - ir colors .",
    "the median value of log(@xmath20 ) is -0.36 for resolved component galaxies in pairs vs -0.19 for isolated galaxies .",
    "paper i found -0.43 and -0.2 .",
    "however , as noted earlier , this may be a result of the differing flux calibration between paper i and this paper .",
    "adjusting for this produces a mean log(@xmath20 ) of -0.41 for individual galaxies in the rbgs hires interacting galaxy sample .",
    "the maximum difference in the cdf is 0.31 and occurs at log(@xmath20 ) = -0.28 .",
    "kolmogorov - smirnov statistics reject the null hypothesis that these two sample are drawn from the same parent sample at better than the 99.99% level .",
    "a median log ( f@xmath26/f@xmath27 ) value of -0.25 is observed for galaxies belonging to pairs and groups in the rbgs hires sample , compared to -0.34 for non - interacting rbgs galaxies .",
    "this is the same result as seen in paper i. the difference in cdf between the two samples is less pronounced overall than at the shorter wavelengths .",
    "nevertheless the maximum difference in cdfs is 0.34 at log(@xmath21)=-0.29 .",
    "again , we can reject the null hypothesis that the two samples were drawn from tha same sample at better than the 99.99% level .",
    "while there is clearly evidence that pairs and groups of galaxies generally have higher star formation activity compared to isolated galaxies , there is still uncertainty regarding the relative degree to which enhanced star formation is triggered in individual galaxies during various phases of the interaction and merger process .",
    "naively , among spiral - spiral pairs that have companions with nearly equal b - band luminosities , one would expect that both galaxies contribute in similar proportions to the total far - infrared emission of the pair .",
    "previous authors , as discussed earlier , have generally concluded that for very distant pairs observed in the far - ir only one galaxy is infrared active .",
    "other authors , working at optical and near - ir wavelengths , have reached the same conclusion using indirect measures of star formation . using the higher resolution images presented here , it is possible to test this result over a much wider range and smaller absolute separations than previously possible .",
    "figure 10 plots the measured flux ratios ( solid circles ) and upper limits ( open circles ) at the longest resolvable wavelength between the brightest galaxy and its companion as a function of the total far - infrared luminosity , _ l_@xmath19 . for galaxy groups ,",
    "the ratio plotted is the flux of the brightest galaxy divided by the average flux of the companion galaxies in the group .",
    "these results provide little evidence that both companions contribute comparably to the infrared emission , and that there is no increased tendency for infrared luminous galaxies to be found with other infrared luminous galaxies .",
    "that is , 66% of the interacting systems have component flux ratios greater than 3 , 56% have ratios above 5 , and 36% have ratios greater than 10 .",
    "@xcite claimed that in approximately 2/3 of interacting pairs , the ratio of the flux densities of the companions are less than 10 , which is confirmed here in the much larger sample of infrared - bright galaxy system investigated here .",
    "figure 10 also shows that over the range of _",
    "l_@xmath19 spanned by this rbgs subsample , there is no clear correlation between the companion galaxy flux ratios and _ l_@xmath19 .",
    "although at flux levels log(l@xmath12/ ) @xmath17 11 there suggestively are almost no systems where the component flux ratio is less than three , our sample does not extend to such high luminosities as would produce a clearer result .",
    "this is because our selection criteria biases us against very advanced mergers , which are the majority of the luminous and ultraluminous infrared galaxies .",
    "since both components in an interacting system are presumably undergoing a similar degree of tidal disruption , it seems that in the relatively early stages of interaction sampled here , the details of the encounter itself are less important than characteristics of the individual galaxies in determining the degree of far - infrared enhancement .",
    "major factors expected to play an important role are the molecular gas content available to fuel star formation and the mass of the stellar bulge which may regulate the degree of accretion onto a supermassive black hole .    finally , we can examine whether or not confusion has caused galaxies to be erroneously included in the rbgs because their combined flux was high enough to meet the flux limit criterion , but which would not have been selected if they could be resolved .",
    "figure 11 presents the cumulative distribution functions of 60@xmath0 m fluxes for the hires - resolved galaxies above and below the 5 jy selection limit .",
    "an examination of table 1 shows that there are 2 systems that appeared in the rbgs by virtue of having a combined , unresolved flux above the 5.24 jy limit at 60@xmath28 but whose individual components were all clearly below this limit ( ic563/4 , ngc 7752/3 ) .",
    "an additional five ( ic 2522/3 , ugc 6436a / b , ngc 3991/4/5 , mcg -03 - 34 - 063a / b , and vv 414 ) have only one component whose flux including uncertainties may be as high as the rbgs flux limit .",
    "thus , close pairs in the rbgs verifiably affect the selection of the sample at only the 0.3% level ( 2/629 ) , and at worst may account for 1.1% .",
    "this statement applies to separated pairs resolved by hires in this study . very close",
    "pairs with separations less than @xmath1830(typically ongoing mergers in the local universe ) which can not be resolved by hires account for increasingly larger fractions of rbgs objects as a function of increasing total far - ir luminosity ( e.g. , see review by sanders & mirabel 1996 ) .",
    "the manner in which the total far - ir fluxes of such objects are distributed between the individual components remains unknown for such pairs , and these will be fruitful targets to study with higher resolution using observatories such as sirtf and sofia .      recent computational models by @xcite have predicted that the presence of a large central bulge in a galaxy will help stabilize it against tidal perturbation .",
    "specifically , they found that in major mergers of galaxies the presence of a central bulge inhibits the flow of gas into the central few kiloparsecs of a galaxy , thus preventing high gas densities from being quickly reached and suppressing any period of rapid star formation until the end of the merger @xcite .",
    "thus , late - type spirals are expected to experience starbursts during the initial stages of merger , while early - type spirals undergo strong starburst activity only during the completion of the merger process .",
    "this provides a mechanism to delay the onset of starburst activity in some systems until very advanced merger stages are reached , as otherwise it is difficult to invoke a starburst model for ultraluminous infrared galaxies ( which appear to be very advanced mergers ) given the expected timescale for starbursts .",
    "since very evolved mergers have such disturbed morphologies that it is difficult to determine the form of the merger progenitors , the most viable observational test is to examine young merger systems which have not evolved as far away from their original forms and look for evidence for the onset of enhanced far - ir activity in bulgeless galaxies .",
    "hubble types were taken from ned .",
    "a fraction of the galaxies either have not been classified at all , or are simply listed with generic types such as `` spiral '' .",
    "all other resolved spiral galaxies that were actually classified were considered to be either `` early type '' ( s0 , sb0 through sa , sba ) or `` late - type '' ( sb , sbb and higher ) . although the specific hubble type for each galaxy was kept track of , for purposes of this analysis it was felt to be more useful to group the types into such very broad categories in order to improve the counting statistics .",
    "only 11 ellipticals known from optical imaging of the galaxy pairs are found in the entire sample . of these , none are detected at both 60 and 100@xmath0 m and only three are detected by iras at any wavelength .",
    "these numbers agree with what would be expected based on a random pairing of elliptical and spiral galaxies given an elliptical / spiral fraction similar to that of field galaxies , or are perhaps a little low .",
    "in particular , this is the number expected if we assume that every system contains one bright spiral galaxy , and that the remaining faint galaxies are distributed according to the field elliptical / spiral ratio .",
    "this also agrees with the low detection fractions for elliptical galaxies found by other studies @xcite .",
    "an examination of the late and early - type spirals in the sample indicates that there are no differences between these populations .",
    "the rate of detection for both of the two classes is around 88% , indicating that they have a similar fraction of their distribution above our detection limit .",
    "this is further illustrated by figure 12 , which shows the cumulative distribution function of log _",
    "l_@xmath19 for the galaxies which were actually detected in the two classes .",
    "they are extremely similar .",
    "the k - s test can not reject the null hypothesis that the two samples are drawn from tha same sample with better than 65% confidence .",
    "results are the same for the color ratios log(@xmath20 ) and log(@xmath21 ) .",
    "similar results also hold for different combinations of hubble sub - types , such as considering only s0 galaxies as `` early '' .",
    "@xcite found that the detection rate for isolated spiral galaxies is roughly independent of morphological type .",
    "@xcite have confirmed this using large optical samples of isolated galaxies and comparing them against the iras data . the median , 25% and 75% percentile values of the distribution of _",
    "l_@xmath19 for the sample spiral galaxies are also very similar to those found by roberts & haynes for isolated ugc galaxies . this is unsurprising , since both the results presented here and previous studies have shown that only a small increase in _",
    "l_@xmath19 occurs for widely separated ( non- overlapping ) interacting pairs @xcite , and therefore any enhanced far - ir activity that could distinguish late from early spirals is likely to be slight .",
    "this enhancement would be further diluted by the presence of systems that have not yet reached first perigalcticon , and hence have not yet reached the point at which the two classes would separate themselves @xcite , and by the presence of systems which are unlikely to actually merge or otherwise strongly interact with each other .",
    "we have presented an atlas of high resolution iras observations of all 106 of the paired ( and in many cases interacting systems ) in the iras revised bright galaxy sample with a 60@xmath0 m flux density greater than 5.24 jy .",
    "the atlas contains infrared contours overlaid on optical images and a catalog of fluxes or upper limits in all four iras wavebands .",
    "we have presented the infrared luminosities and colors of the paired galaxy sample , and compared them to a sample of isolated galaxies .",
    "we find substantially the same results as @xcite , namely that the paired galaxies have a measurably different distribution of infrared properties than isolated galaxies .",
    "using morphological optical classifications for the galaxies we conclude that there is no difference between late and early - type spirals in terms of their far - ir properties .",
    "in particular , no significant enhancement is seen in the far - infrared luminosity or color of the late - type spirals as compared to the early - type spirals .",
    "we would like to thank ron beck and john fowler for their assistance in setting up our hires processing facility , and in particular diane engler for her speedy work in extracting the detector scans from the iras database .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for his or her comments that led to an improved presentation of these results .    this work has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "it has also made use of the digitized sky survey , produced at the space telescope science institute under u.s .",
    "government grant nag w-2166 .",
    "this was based on photographic data obtained using the oschin schmidt telescope on palomar mountain , operated by the california institute of technology , and the uk schmidt telescope , which was operated by the royal observatory edinburgh and the anglo - australian observatory .",
    "jas and jmm were supported by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with nasa .",
    "dbs acknowledges support from a senior award from the alexander von humboldt foundation and from the max - planck - institut fur extraterrestrische physik as well as support from nasa grant nag 90 - 1217 .",
    "_ ngc 520 _  the flux in this advanced merger appears to be centered between the two galaxies , in what appears to be a dust lane .    _",
    "ic 2163 _  this system is somewhat puzzling in that there is significant emission to the west of the center of the western galaxy in the pair . additionally , in general the peak flux appears to occur between the galaxies .",
    "it is notable that the reconstructed _ iras _ beam is unfortunately elongated at nearly the same position angle as the two galaxies , and hence the irregular beam is confusing the location of the emission .    _",
    "ngc 4038/9 _  the emission originates between the galaxy centers in the region where the disks overlap .",
    "this is consistent with the results of @xcite .",
    "ic 4153  there is a sizable discrepancy between the hires flux and the addscan flux used by the rbgs at 100 .",
    "furthermore , the hires flux given in table 1 agrees with the flux indicated by the fresco data product .",
    "fresco is a two - dimensional coadd data product available from ipac .",
    "this coadd is not an iterative reconstructed image , and hence should not suffer from iterative artifact amplification .",
    "an examination fo the complex structure seen in hires and fresco images surrounding this source , as well as the details of the addscan processing , show that this discrepancy is probably due to differences in the baseline ( background ) fitting .    _",
    "ngc 5953/4 _  given as cpg 468 by @xcite .",
    "the hires data agrees with the higher resolution isophot data indicating the dominance of the southwestern component .",
    "_ ngc 6907/8 _  the galaxy ngc 6908 is actually a small spiral galaxy superimposed on the ne arm of ngc 6907 , and is most clearly seen in near - infrared images",
    ". it can not be resolved by hires .",
    "this system appears in appendix b.    _ ngc 7752/3 _  also known as cpg 591 .",
    "@xcite find that the southwestern component is more peaked and dominates the isophot 60 and 100  data .",
    "the hires data supports this finding , particularly in the mid - ir .",
    "in addition to the 106 galaxy systems detailed in section 2 , several other systems were also processed . during the compilation of the rbgs @xcite",
    ", the iras data were recalibrated , and the choice of flux measures used to estimate the iras fluxes changed . as a result , there are a handful of systems which appear in the bgs@xmath29+bgs@xmath30 but not the rbgs , and vice versa .",
    "these are detailed in the rbgs , section 3.2 . as a result",
    ", some additional galaxy systems were processed with hires , but do not belong in the rbgs sample proper and were not included in table 1 of this paper .",
    "they are presented here for informational purposes .",
    "the images are shown in figure 13 , and the tabulated fluxes appear in table 2 .",
    "beichmann , c.a . ,",
    "neugebauer , g. , habing , h.j . , clegg , p.e .",
    ", & chester , t.j . editors . 1988 .",
    "iras catalogs and atlases , explanatory supplement .",
    "gpo , washington , d.c . )",
    "bushouse , h.a .",
    "1986a . , 91 , 255 byrd , g.g . ,",
    "sundelius , b. , & valtonen , m. 1987 , , 171 , 16 combes , f. , prugniel , p. , rampazzo , r. , & sulentic , j.w . , 1994 , , 281 , 725 dahari , o. 1984 , , 89 , 966 domigue , d.l . ,",
    "sulentic , j.w .",
    ", xu , c. , mazzarella , j. , gao , y. , & rampazzo , r. 2003 , , 125 , 555 elfhag , t. , booth , r.s .",
    ", hoglund , b. , johansson , l. , & sandqvist , a. 1996 , a&a supp .",
    "ser . , 115 , 439 haynes , m.p . & herter , t. , 1988 , , 96 , 504 helou , g. , khan , i.r . , malek , l. , & boehmer , l. 1988 , , 68 , 151 joseph , r.d . , meikle , w.p . , robertson , n.a . , & wright , g.s . , 1984 , , 209 , 111 laidler , v.g . ,",
    "rehner , d.m . , & sturch , c.r . 1994 . the digitized sky survey , ( space telescope science institute ) larson , r.b . ,",
    "& tinsley , b.m .",
    "1978 , , 219 , 46 laughlin , g. , engler , d. , & rice , w. 1990 , hires product validation : i. point sources .",
    "( infrared processing and analysis center memo 701 - 90 - 077/2 ) . lonsdale , c.j . , helou , g. , good , j.c .",
    ", & rice , w. 1985 , cataloged galaxies and quasars observed in the iras survey , jet propulsion laboratory lonsdale , c.j . ,",
    "persson , s.e .",
    ", & mathews , k. 1984 .",
    ", 287 , 95 mihos , j.c . , & hernquist , l. 1994 , , 425 , l13 mihos , j.c . , & hernquist , l. 1994b , , 431 , l9 roberts , m. & haynes , m.p .",
    "1994 , , 32,115 sanders , d.b . ,",
    "& mirabel , i.f . , 1996 , , 34 , 749          sulentic , j. 1988 , , 98 , 2066 surace , j.a .",
    ", mazzarella , j.m , soifer , b.t . , & wehrle , a.e .",
    "1993 , , 105 , 864 ( paper i ) telesco , c.m .",
    "1988 , , 26 , 343 toomre , a. , & toomre , j. 1972 , , 178 , 623 vigroux , l.  et al .",
    "1996 , , 315 , l93"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the importance of far - infrared observations in our understanding of extreme activity in interacting and merging galaxies has been illustrated by many studies . even though two decades have passed since its launch , the most complete all - sky survey to date from which far - infrared selected galaxy samples can be chosen is still that of the infrared astronomical satellite ( iras ) </S>",
    "<S> . however , the spatial resolution of the iras all - sky survey is insufficient to resolve the emission from individual galaxies in most interacting galaxy pairs , and hence previous studies of their far - ir properties have had to concentrate either on global system properties or on the properties of very widely separated and weakly interacting pairs . using the hires image reconstruction technique , it is possible to achieve a spatial resolution ranging from 30  to 1.5  ( depending on wavelength and detector coverage ) , which is a fourfold improvement over the normal resolution of iras </S>",
    "<S> this is sufficient to resolve the far - infrared emission from the individual galaxies in many interacting systems detected by iras , which is very important for meaningful comparisons with single , isolated galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> we present high - resolution 12 , 25 , 60 , and 100 @xmath0 m images of 106 interacting galaxy systems contained in the iras revised bright galaxy sample ( rbgs , sanders et al . </S>",
    "<S> 2003 ) , a complete sample of all galaxies having a 60@xmath0 m flux density greater than 5.24 jy . </S>",
    "<S> these systems were selected to have at least two distinguishable galaxies separated by less than three average galactic diameters , and thus we have excluded very widely separated systems and very advanced mergers . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , some systems have been included which are more than three galactic diameters apart , yet have separations less than 4 , and which are thus likely to suffer from confusion in the rbgs .    </S>",
    "<S> the new complete survey has the same properties as the prototype survey of @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> we find no increased tendency for infrared - bright galaxies to be associated with other infrared bright galaxies among the widely separated pairs studied here . </S>",
    "<S> we find small enhancements in far- infrared activity in multiple galaxy systems relative to rbgs non - interacting galaxies with the same blue luminosity distribution . </S>",
    "<S> we also find no differences in infrared activity ( as measured by infrared color and luminosity ) between late and early - type spiral galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}