{
  "article_text": [
    "although it is commonly accepted that quasars harbor a super - massive black hole ( bh ) in their core , neither the distribution of the physical characteristics of these bhs , nor their relationship to other properties of quasars is clear . in this paper",
    "we further explore the connection between bh mass and radio luminosity in a quasar .",
    "recently a range of methods have been used to determine the bh masses in galaxies and quasars . for nearby galaxies , stellar velocity dispersions and high resolution",
    "optical images are used to determine the bh and bulge masses . recently a tight correlation between bh mass and velocity dispersion in the bulge of galaxies has been found ( @xmath1 relation : * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in addition there is evidence that the mass of the bulge component of the host galaxy correlates with bh mass @xcite . in agn , it is difficult to determine bh mass using host galaxy dynamics or structure as the nucleus swamps the light from the host galaxy .",
    "also since the redshifts are large , the projected sizes of the host galaxies are relatively small . therefore indirect methods have been developed to measure bh mass in quasars .",
    "the mass of the bh in a quasar can be estimated using the virial technique .",
    "@xcite assumed that the h@xmath0-emitting clouds in the broad line region ( blr ) are virialized , and then required only estimates of the radius of the h@xmath0-emitting region and the rotational velocity of that region to determine the mass . in quasars ,",
    "the radius of the blr has also been estimated using reverberation techniques .",
    "this method tracks intensity variations in the continuum luminosity which , a certain time later , are reflected in the emission line flux .",
    "this time lag is interpreted as the light travel time between the core of the quasar and the broad emission line region and therefore gives the radius of the broad line clouds from the central continuum source .",
    "reverberation mapping measurements have been restricted to a few dozen seyferts and quasars as they require intensive regular monitoring over periods of years and highly variable quasars .",
    "the quasars so far studied may not represent the broader agn population .",
    "regardless of this , these observations give extremely interesting results .",
    "the time delay for different ionization species provides strong support for photoionization of the broad line region and evidence that the kinematics of the broad line region is dominated by the central bh @xcite .",
    "the blr clouds are assumed to have velocities related to the widths of the broad emission lines so if the velocities of the clouds are assumed to be keplerian , the mass of the central bh can be deduced .",
    "several low luminosity quasars have been studied using both reverberation techniques and galactic velocity dispersion to measure their bh mass @xcite .",
    "these results show that both these methods give consistent bh masses and that the m@xmath2 relation holds for both active and non - active galaxies .",
    "estimates of the bh masses of radio - loud quasars have been published for several samples .",
    "@xcite used the palomar - green sample of quasars ( pg ; * ? ? ? * ) with spectra provided by @xcite to deduce that a relatively powerful jet requires a bh with mass @xmath3m@xmath4 .",
    "the key point laor makes is that the bh mass does not depend on radio luminosity , but on the radio luminosity _ relative _ to the optical luminosity ( denoted by the ratio @xmath5 ) .",
    "the pg sample comprises quasars selected for their uv - excess , and a limiting magnitude @xmath6 giving a population biased towards low redshift quasars .",
    "@xcite consider a sample of very radio - loud quasars taken from the 1jy , s4 and s5 catalogues .",
    "they estimate the bh masses for these quasars also using the virial technique .",
    "they are able to divide their sample into steep spectrum and flat spectrum sources and find that the distribution of properties is similar for both subsets .",
    "they find 7 out of their 86 sources have bh masses @xmath7m@xmath4 unlike previous authors ( eg , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in another",
    "carefully matched sample of radio - galaxies , radio - loud and radio - quiet quasars , @xcite show that the host galaxies of each class of agn are nearly indistinguishable .",
    "however these authors confirm the @xcite result that radio - loud quasars have bh masses @xmath8m@xmath4 .",
    "a second line of enquiry relates radio continuum emission to the mass of the bh .",
    "@xcite used the first bright quasar survey ( fbqs ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) in their analysis .",
    "these quasars are the optically brightest ( @xmath9 ) , blue ( @xmath10 ) quasars in a radio sample selected at @xmath11 .",
    "these authors obtained a best fit relation @xmath12 giving a continuous , monotonic , dependence of radio luminosity on bh mass .",
    "these studies used the virial estimator for bh mass .",
    "this is similar to the result by @xcite who found a very steep dependence of bh mass on radio flux , @xmath13 , and attributed this to bh accretion in an advection dominated accretion flow .",
    "most recently @xcite has compiled a complete list of bh measurements which use robust methods to determine mass ( stellar dynamics , reverberation mapping or maser dynamics ) .",
    "he finds that the bh mass shows little dependence on @xmath5 and that the radio luminosity correlates poorly with bh mass .",
    "we have been studying the properties of the parkes half - jansky flat - spectrum sample ( phfs ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , to better understand the emission mechanisms particularly at optical wavelengths .",
    "we find that the optical emission in radio quasars is a mixture of several different components : a blue component similar to the ` big blue bump ' in optically - selected quasars , which is presumed to photoionize the blr , plus a synchrotron component which turns over somewhere in the optical - to - ir and is a significant contributor to the optical emission in a large fraction of sources @xcite .",
    "two major differences between our sample and those already published are ( 1 ) our sample is completely identified in the optical , and we have not selected optically bright sources , and ( 2 ) our sources are flat spectrum , which suggests that the radio flux may be be boosted by orientation effects .    in section  [ meth ] ,",
    "we discuss the method used for estimation of bh mass from measured optical parameters . in section  [ data ] , we describe our application of these techniques to the phfs dataset .",
    "results and discussion are given in section  [ disc ] . where required ,",
    "a cosmology with @xmath14 km s@xmath15 mpc@xmath15 and q@xmath16 is assumed .",
    "when the motions of the gas moving around the bh are dominated by the gravitational forces , virial estimates of the bh mass can be made based on the radius and velocity of this gas using @xmath17 .",
    "there is evidence that the blr gas emitting the h@xmath0 line is virialized @xcite . to estimate bh masses for this sample , we follow the work of @xcite who used reverberation mapping to derive an empirical relationship between radius and luminosity . to determine @xmath18 , the rotational velocity",
    ", we correct full - width half - maximum @xmath19 of the h@xmath0 emission line by a factor of @xmath20 to account for random orientation affecting the width of emission lines .",
    "the assumption of random orientation is discussed further in section [ bias ] .",
    "the mass is then @xmath21    the empirical relation of @xcite relates the radius of the emission lines to the continuum luminosity of the source : @xmath22^{0.700 } \\text{lt - days}\\ ] ] with an error in the fitted slope of this relation of @xmath23 .",
    "this correlation holds above a luminosity of @xmath24 erg s@xmath15 . below this value",
    "the correlation is less certain and at low luminosity most values of the emission line region radius lie well below the linear relation , which would lead to an even lower estimate of the bh mass .    although the slope of this relation can not be explained theoretically , the radius of the blr is approximately linear with the strength of the radiation field ionizing the blr gas .",
    "therefore , to use the h@xmath0 bh mass estimator , two measurements are involved .",
    "firstly , the luminosity at 5100  and secondly , the h@xmath0 fwhm .",
    "the data used in the analysis are taken from the phfs @xcite .",
    "the selection criteria for the sample are : ( 1 ) radio loud : 2.7ghz flux @xmath25 0.5 jy ; ( 2 ) flat spectrum taken from the 2.7  ghz and 5  ghz fluxes : @xmath26 , where @xmath27 ; ( 3 ) dec range + 10 to @xmath2845 and galactic latitude @xmath29b@xmath30 .",
    "the selection criteria produced 323 radio sources where optical identification has been made for 321 sources .",
    "therefore the sample has no optical selection criteria .",
    "the flat spectrum criterion may mean that sources where the radio jets are predominantly oriented towards us are preferentially selected .",
    "most of the radio morphologies are compact .    for the phfs , estimating the optical luminosity of the quasar is difficult as there is a very large range in colour for the sources @xcite .",
    "this means we can not use a general k - correction for all the objects . in the initial plots we will use the b@xmath31 magnitude to calculate the luminosity .",
    "the error in the b@xmath31 magnitudes from the cosmos catalogue is quoted as being @xmath32 magnitudes , but @xcite have found that some fields seem to be in error by more than one magnitude .",
    "this produces an error in the bh mass estimates of about a factor of 2 .",
    "given that the range of masses covers 4 orders of magnitude , these errors are not critical . in section [ bias ]",
    "we only consider the subset of quasars which have more accurate magnitudes .",
    "the radio flux of the sources given in @xcite comes from the parkes catalogue ( pkscat90 , @xcite ) at 5ghz .",
    "it should also be noted that there is a large range in b@xmath31 magnitudes , including very faint sources which have luminosities in the seyfert regime .",
    "187 sources in the sample have low to moderate resolution spectra ( discussed in @xcite ) . of these 101 were obtained at the aat and siding spring 2.3 m telescopes @xcite , and 86 are from the compilation of @xcite .",
    "the quality and wavelength coverage of the spectra is diverse ; many have low resolution and signal - to - noise .",
    "estimates of the likely errors are further discussed in the next section .",
    "all spectra with a wavelength range covering h@xmath0 were used in the analysis .",
    "this gave a list of 39 quasars .",
    "each h@xmath0 emission line was fitted by a gaussian and lorentzian using the _ splot _ package in iraf .",
    "if h@xmath0 was outside the observed wavelength range but h@xmath33 was observed then the fit was done for h@xmath33 .",
    "the lorentzian fits were better approximations to the line shapes by eye .",
    "the gaussian fits consistently underestimated the peak flux ; therefore lorentzian fits had consistently lower fwhms . in the analysis we used",
    "the lorentzian fits for measurements of the line widths .",
    "the errors in the estimation of @xmath19 are of the order of 10 - 20% . where there was both the h@xmath0 and h@xmath33 lines measured we calculated the bh mass using both values for the fwhm .",
    "the results of this is shown in figure  [ hahb ] .",
    "it can be seen that the h@xmath33 widths give consistently lower bh masses , on average , 0.157  dex lower .",
    "therefore a correction of @xmath34 was made to all bh masses estimated using h@xmath33 .",
    "the radio loudness parameter @xmath5 is defined by @xmath35(5100 ) .",
    "a value of @xmath36 is usually taken as the break in a bimodal distribution , dividing radio - loud and radio - quiet .",
    "all the phfs sources are clearly radio - loud with @xmath37 .",
    "table  1 gives the observed parameters for each source .",
    "considerable care must be exercised in searching for correlations between observed and derived quantities , particularly when the plotted quantities both depend in a similar way on distance . as an example , in a radio flux - limited sample , most quasars have a flux near the sample limit .",
    "therefore two quantities which depend on distance will be correlated , including bh mass calculated from the virial estimator described above , which uses the absolute luminosity .",
    "figure  [ bh_r ] plots @xmath5 , the ratio of radio to optical flux , against the bh mass of each quasar .",
    "contrary to some previous results but consistent with @xcite , we find a large range in derived bh masses .",
    "the apparent anti - correlation here is a consequence of using the optical flux in the measurement of bh mass and also using it in the calculation of @xmath5 .",
    "a significant fraction of the masses are well below limit of @xmath38 suggested by @xcite as a necessary condition for radio - loud quasars .",
    "in fact , the range in bh masses is similar to the radio - quiet population of the pg quasar sample @xcite . for 8 of the agn",
    "the host galaxies are visible but it is clear from figure  [ bh_r ] , where these galaxies are marked with a ` g ' or ` g ' , that these are not the only low bh mass . in these cases we expect the quasar luminosity to be over - estimated , due to the inclusion of galaxy flux . the likely increase in flux is @xmath39 @xcite .",
    "only two of the sources have redshifts @xmath40 .    a histogram of the bh mass is shown in figure  [ bhmass ] .",
    "the low values for the bh mass are a direct consequence of the low optical luminosities , with the range in the width of the h@xmath0 emission line introducing some scatter .",
    "this dependence is clearly shown in figure  [ bh_opt ] where the optical luminosity is plotted against the bh mass , and there is no evidence of a lower limit in either optical luminosity or bh mass for any of these radio - loud quasars .",
    "figure  [ bh_rad ] shows the relationship between radio power and bh  mass .",
    "there is no clear relationship between these variables unlike the results of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the fact that we are not seeing a relationship between bh mass and radio power is a consequence of the fact that there is nt a tight correlation between optical luminosity and radio luminosity in quasars @xcite .",
    "this has been investigated by @xcite for the lbqs who find that the distribution of radio luminosity does not depend on absolute magnitude over most of the range of m@xmath41 .",
    "furthermore the pg survey used by @xcite differs from this and other optically selected samples in its population of radio - loud quasars with respect to optical luminosity @xcite .",
    "the pg sample contains a higher fraction of radio - loud quasars which have bright absolute magnitudes compared to other surveys like the lbqs @xcite .",
    "if we consider figure 2 in @xcite , then our data points lie in the underpopulated upper left region of this plot .",
    "this confirms ho s conclusion that there is no obvious relationship between these two variables .",
    "however we note that our sources are flat spectrum and the radio - flux may be boosted by beaming which would tend to increase the value of @xmath5 .",
    "also included in figure  [ bh_rad ] is a line of constant observed flux .",
    "this is included to demonstrate the correlation that would be observed for objects with the same measured flux ( eg : the flux limit of the sample where the majority of object will be selected ) at the different redshifts of the sources .",
    "there are two measurements involved in deriving the bh mass for any object while using this method : firstly the optical flux , to derive the radius to the blr and secondly the velocity width , @xmath19 used for the velocity component in the virial assumption .",
    "there are several factors which might affect the applicability of the virial method to the quasars we are considering .    1 .",
    "all the sources in this sample are flat spectrum .",
    "one might speculate that the radio emission in particular is beamed , increasing the radio flux relative to the optical .",
    "the effect of the beaming would be that the points in figure  [ bh_r ] are at higher @xmath5 values than their non - beamed values , but this should be independent of bh mass unless the latter also effects the lorentz factor of the jet .",
    "interestingly , in a recent preprint , @xcite have shown using a similar sample to the phfs , that steep and flat spectrum quasars have similar distributions of bh mass compared to radio luminosity and radio loudness @xmath5 .",
    "the spectral energy distributions ( seds ) for radio - loud quasars vary greatly , making a uniform k - correction invalid .",
    "this means that for quasars at different redshifts we are sampling different parts of the spectrum by using the @xmath42 magnitude .",
    "+ to investigate this effect , we can use 24 of the quasars with measured velocity profiles which also have quasi - simultaneous photometry in seven bands covering the optical and near ir @xcite .",
    "four of these have evidence for dust reddening which is discussed further in item  4 .",
    "the original bh mass distribution of these 20 unreddened quasars is shown in figure  [ all_hist]a . using the simultaneous photometry we can now linearly interpolate between these sed data points to obtain an accurate flux at a rest wavelength of 5100 .",
    "the histogram of the results is shown in figure  [ all_hist]b .",
    "the range in bh masses has decreased , and the lower limit proposed by @xcite is even more strongly violated .",
    "it has been shown that the synchrotron radiation from the jet can extend into the near ir and optical @xcite .",
    "this will cause an increase in the observed continuum flux but , since the jet emission is beamed , would not contribute to the ionizing flux seen by the blr .",
    "@xcite have fitted models to the quasi - simultaneous photometry that consist of both a synchrotron component and a blue powerlaw ( representing the ionizing flux from the accretion disk ) .",
    "from these fits we can calculate the fraction of the total emission that comes from the accretion disk .",
    "the accretion disk flux will be less than the observed flux if there is a significant synchrotron contribution present in the optical .",
    "the results of this correction are shown in figure [ all_hist]c where some of the objects with a large synchrotron component now have much lower bh masses .",
    "nearly all the quasars are below @xmath43m@xmath44 .",
    "4 .   dust may affect the observed luminosity of the quasar .",
    "dust will tend to redden the spectrum of the quasar and reduce the observed luminosity .",
    "the dust extinction is modeled as an exponential function of wavelength with flux at the blue wavelengths depleted significantly more than the red . for quasars where we have simultaneous photometry , evidence of dust",
    "is shown by a steep decrease in flux at higher energies .",
    "for the subset of quasars that have photometry we see evidence of dust in the seds of four of the quasars .",
    "we have not used these quasars in the previous analysis as their flux will be underestimated . after removing these",
    ", we still see the very large range in bh masses including low mass bhs .",
    "5 .   the h@xmath0 line might be emitted from a disk - like structure , with its line width reflecting the rotation of that disk @xcite .",
    "then , since it is expected that flat spectrum sources are viewed face - on , the width of the h@xmath0 line may be underestimated . in the @xcite sample",
    "the median and mean values for their flat spectrum sample are lower than the steep spectrum sample .",
    "this data partially supports the flattened disk scenario ( see table  [ tab2 ] ) .",
    "however it can not be the whole story as the widths of the emission lines of the flat spectrum quasars are still a significant fraction of the steep spectrum ones and , the flat - spectrum sources need only to be oriented at an average angle of 53@xmath45 to the line - of - sight to reconcile to difference in the median values of fwhm .",
    "if we use the @xcite difference , this introduces a mean difference of a factor of 2 in the bh mass .",
    "contamination of the agn by the host galaxy light will effect all agn to some extent , however it is obviously more significant for the objects where the host galaxy is resolved optically .",
    "the flux measured is the integrated flux over the entire galaxy .",
    "the central source flux which is required to calculate the bh mass , is much smaller .",
    "this effect will be present for all objects , but where the galaxy is resolved it will be the most pronounced as the host galaxy is a bigger percentage of the total observed flux . the result will be that the actual bh mass , for the agn , is quite a bit smaller than calculated , so these masses are upper limits .",
    "the fwhm of the emission lines may also be effected by the host galaxy if it has strong h@xmath33 or h@xmath0 emission lines . as we havent resolved the broad and narrow components of the emission",
    ", the fwhm may be under - estimated due to a higher peak coming from the host galaxy emission .",
    "this is more likely to be a factor in the h@xmath33 emission lines .",
    "the resolution of the spectra was not sufficient to consider contamination by weaker nearby emission lines such as and .",
    "it is noted that the fwhm velocity of the h@xmath0 line , after deconvolution , would need to increase by a factor of 10 to be consistent with the @xcite finding - an unlikely result .",
    "the results suggest that bh mass is not connected to the radio - loudness of the objects .",
    "the question then arises : why have studies in the past produced a different result ?",
    "figure  [ bh_opt ] shows that the range in values that we calculate for the bh mass is largely a consequence of using the optical luminosity to estimate the radius of the blr .",
    "the velocity width of the lines has a much smaller effect on the bh mass distribution due to its smaller dynamic range .",
    "therefore , the reason that previous studies using this method have missed the low bh mass radio - loud objects is because they have missed the low luminosity radio - loud objects .",
    "we believe that optical selection is biased against selecting low optical luminosity , radio - loud quasars as shown in the pg sample @xcite .    the selection criterion for the low redshift pg quasars used by @xcite are : ( 1 ) uv excess ( u@xmath28b@xmath46 ) .",
    "( 2 ) morphological criteria where the objects must have a ` dominant star - like appearance ' .",
    "they are also bright with a limiting magnitude @xmath4716.6 .",
    "therefore we obtain a sample of bright , blue , point - like objects . the key difference in the phfs and the sample used by @xcite",
    "is that the phfs has a large range in optical luminosity which produces the large distribution in bh mass whereas the radio - loud quasars selected on uv excess tend to have the characteristic of being optically luminous which therefore gives large bh masses . from the phfs it is evident that not all radio - loud quasars are highly optically luminous .",
    "figure  [ l_colour ] provides evidence of an additional correlation which might effect selection into quasar samples . in figure",
    "[ l_colour ] , which plots optical luminosity against colour ( b - i ) , low luminosity quasars are shown to be redder . thus any additional selection criterion based on colour will further bias against low luminosity quasars .",
    "the photometry of these red quasars indicates that there are three types of reddening taking place .",
    "we find that a proportion of these are red due to synchrotron extending into the optical part of the spectrum and therefore boosting the red end of the continuum",
    ". this has been discussed and corrected for in section  [ bias ] .",
    "this is an effect that will only be evident in radio - loud quasars with high energy synchrotron jets and will not be observed in radio - quiet quasars .",
    "another subset of the redder objects in the phfs have a substantial fraction of galactic light included in the photometry so the 4000  break contributes to the red colour .",
    "this occurs mainly in the low redshift population which is a small subsample of our estimated bh masses .",
    "most of the sources classified as ` g ' or ` g ' in figure  [ bh_r ] do not have a significant galactic contribution in their spectra ( for example , a significant 4000  break ) , and are obviously agn due to their strong radio loudness and broad emission lines .",
    "a smaller proportion of the sample are very faint and show some evidence of dust reddening where the blue end of the continuum is strongly suppressed . in this case",
    "the bh masses will be underestimated but the previous two effects lead to overestimation of the bh mass . using the simultaneous photometry",
    "we have identified 4 out of 24 dust - reddened objects in the sample and have excluded them in the analysis shown in figure  [ all_hist ] : we still get a population of quasars with relatively low bh mass .    why do red quasars have low optical luminosity , and therefore ( under our assumptions ) , low bh mass ? we have argued that a significant fraction of red quasars have synchrotron turning over at optical wavelengths @xcite .",
    "this seems to be correlated with lower optical emission which could be interpreted in two ways .",
    "either , the synchrotron emission remains unchanged but appears dominant only when the blue disk emission is low , or secondly , when the blue disk emission is low , relatively more energy goes into the jet and the synchrotron is increased .",
    "we do not have a large enough sample to establish the correlation between low luminosity and redness unequivocally , but if the correlation could be substantiated it might provide physically interesting constraints on the jet formation mechanism .",
    "theoretical calculations considered by @xcite demonstrate explicitly that it is not necessary to have a relatively massive bh to produce powerful radio jets . in his model , based on current accretion and jet - production theory , the strength of the radio emission is tied to the rotation rate of the central bh .",
    "therefore , it is quite possible to have highly powered radio jets with small bh masses if the bh is spinning rapidly .",
    "the virial method for estimating bh mass in conjunction with the empirical relation between luminosity and radius @xcite has been applied to the phfs sample of flat spectrum radio sources .",
    "this is the first time the analysis has been applied to an optically complete radio - selected sample .",
    "the analysis is complimentary to the @xcite analysis which concentrates on optically luminous sources used in longterm monitoring programs .",
    "the errors and applicability of this method have been discussed .",
    "the main result are summarized as follows :    1 .",
    "we find no evidence for a lower cut off in the masses of radio - loud quasars as previously suggested in the literature .",
    "the previous lower boundary on mass of radio - loud quasars was an optical selection effect .",
    "low luminosity radio - loud agn have been shown to have redder optical colours .",
    "these red quasars will be selected against in optical surveys .",
    "we do not find any evidence for a relationship between radio properties and the bh mass of quasars .",
    "further investigation of this relationship is hampered by unknown orientation effects .",
    "to obtain more accurate bh estimates and improve our understanding of the relationship between the mass of the central bh and other properties of quasars , we need large samples of bh masses measured using the reverberation technique .",
    "this is now observationally possible using multi - fibre spectrographs .",
    "boroson , t.a .  & green , r.f .",
    "1992 , , 80 , 109 dietrich , m.  et al .",
    "1993 , , 408 , 416 drinkwater , m.  j. , webster , r.  l. , francis , p.  j. , condon , j.  j. , ellison , s.  l. , jauncey , d.  l. , lovell , j. , peterson , b.  a. , & savage , a. 1997 , , 284 , 85 dunlop , j.  s. , mclure , r.  j. , kukula , m.  j. , baum , s.  a. , odea , c.  p. & hughes , d.  h. , submitted to , astro - ph/0108397 ferrarese , l.  & merritt , d.  2000 , , 539 , l9 ferrarese , l. , pogge r.  w. , peterson b.  m. , merrit d. , wandel a.  & joseph c.  l.  2001 , , 555 , l79 franceschini , a. , vercellone , s. ,  & fabian , a.c .",
    "1998 , , 297 , 817 francis , p.  j. , whiting , m.  t. , & webster , r.  l.  2000 , publications of the astronomical society of australia , 17 , 56 francis , p.  j. , drake , c.  l. , whiting , m.  t. , drinkwater , m.  j. , & webster , r.  l.  2001 , publications of the astronomical society of australia , 18 , 221 gebhardt , k.  et al .",
    "2000 , , 539 , l13 gelderman , r. , & whittle , m. , 1994 , , 91 , 491 gu , m. , cao , x. , & jiang , d.  r.  2001 , , 327 , 1111 ho , l.  c.  2002 , , 564 , 120 .",
    "hooper , e.  j. , impey , c.  d. , foltz , c.  b. , & hewett , p.  c.  1996 , , 473 , 746 kaspi , s. , smith , p.  s. , netzer , h. , maoz , d. , jannuzi , b.  t. , & giveon , u.  2000 , , 533 , 631 kellerman , k. i. , sramek , r. , schmidr , m. , shaffer , d. b. , green , r. , 1989 , , 98 , 1195 kormendy , j.  & richstone , d.  1995 , , 33 , 581 lacy , m. , laurent - muehleisen , s.  a. , ridgway , s.  e. , becker , r.  h. , & white , r.  l.   2001 , , 551 , l17 laor , a.  1998 , , 505 , l83 laor , a.  2000 , , 543 , l111 magorrian , j.  et al .",
    "1998 , , 115 , 2285 masci , f.  j. , webster , r.  l. , & francis , p.  j.  1998 , , 301 , 975 meier , d.  l.  1999 , , 522 , 753 .",
    "peterson , b.  m.  & wandel , a.  2000 , , 540 , l13 remillard , r. a. , grossan , b. , bradt , h. v. , ohashi , t. & hayashida , k. , 1991 , 350 , 589 schmit , m. , & green , r.f .",
    ", 1983 , 269,352 stern , d. , djorgovski , s.  g. , perley , r.  a. , de carvalho , r.  r. , & wall , j.  v.  2000 , , 119 , 1526 wadadekar , y.  & kembhavi , a.  1999 , , 118 , 1435 white , r.  l.  et al .   2000 , , 126 , 133 whiting , m.  t. , webster , r.  l. , & francis , p.  j.  2001 , , 323 , 718 wilkes , b.  j. , wright , a.  e. , jauncey , d.  l. , & peterson , b.  a.  1983 , proceedings of the astronomical society of australia , 5 , 2 wills , b.  j.  & browne , i.  w.  a.  1986 , , 302 , 56 wright , a.  & otrupcek , r.  1990 , parkes catalog . astralia telescope national facility , epping ( pkscat90 ) ( 113 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the black hole ( bh ) mass in the centre of agn has been estimated for a sample of radio - selected flat - spectrum quasars to investigate the relationship between bh mass and radio properties of quasars . </S>",
    "<S> we have used the virial assumption with measurements of the h@xmath0 fwhm and luminosity to estimate the central bh mass . </S>",
    "<S> in contrast to previous studies we find no correlation between bh mass and radio power in these agn . </S>",
    "<S> we find a range in bh mass similar to that seen in radio - quiet quasars from previous studies . </S>",
    "<S> we believe the reason that the low bh mass radio - loud quasars have not been measured in previous studies is due to optical selection effects which tend to miss the less optically luminous radio - loud sources . </S>"
  ]
}