{
  "article_text": [
    "cosmological simulations have now advanced to a point where the formation of individual galaxy halos can be followed ( e.g.  navarro , frenk & white 1996 ) .",
    "unfortunately , the processes of star formation are not yet well enough understood for us to be able to translate these simulations into what we might expect for the luminous properties of galaxies .",
    "thus , if we are to test the cosmological models , we must determine quantitative properties of dark halos observationally , and compare these values to the predictions of the models .",
    "one important discriminant between models is provided by the shapes of the dark matter halos , which are usually quantified by the shortest - to - longest axis ratio of the dark matter distribution , @xmath5 .",
    "cosmological models which are dominated by hot dark matter produce rather round galaxy halos , with @xmath6 ( peebles 1993 ) .",
    "conversely , in models dominate by cold dark matter ( cdm ) , the halos that form are significantly flattened : dubinski ( 1994 ) found that the distribution of @xmath5 for the ensemble of galaxy halos formed in cdm simulations could be approximated by a gaussian with a mean of 0.5 and a dispersion of 0.15 .",
    "some dark matter candidates such as cold molecular hydrogen ( pfenniger , combes & martinet 1994 ) or decaying massive neutrinos ( sciama 1990 ) predict that the dark material should form a flattened disk , resulting in even lower values of @xmath4",
    ". clearly , the true distribution of @xmath5 for the dark halos around galaxies offers an important test for cosmological theories .",
    "unfortunately , measuring a dark halo s shape is a difficult process .",
    "the rotation curve ( circular speed as a function of radius ) of a spiral galaxy will tell us about the radial distribution of dark matter in the system , but it gives few clues as to the mass distribution s degree of flattening .",
    "measurements of @xmath5 therefore depend on subtler dynamical effects , such as : the manner in which a galaxy s gas layer warps with radius ( e.g.  hofner & sparke 1994 ) ; the degree to which its gas layer flares with radius ( e.g. olling 1996 ) ; the kinematics of the polar rings found around a few galaxies ( e.g.  sackett et al .",
    "1994 ) ; the distribution taken up by the x - ray emitting gas around elliptical galaxies ( e.g. buote & canizares 1996 ) ; or , in the case of ngc  4753 , detailed modeling of a precessing dusty disk ( steiman - cameron , kormendy & durisen 1992 ) .",
    "the results of such analyses are summarized in fig .  1 , together with the distribution of @xmath5 as predicted by a cdm simulation . as is apparent from this figure",
    ", the difficulty of the requisite analysis means that there are regrettably few systems for which @xmath5 has been determined .",
    "even more disturbing is the fact that different techniques seem to yield systematically different answers .",
    "the analysis of warped disks , for example , seems to imply that halos are systematically rounder than is inferred from the other techniques , while the flaring gas layer method comes up with systematically flatter halos .    in this paper",
    ", we derive the flattening of the dark halo in our own galaxy , the milky way , using the flaring of its gas layer .",
    "this analysis , presented in section  2 , allows us to add a further datum to the embarrassingly - sparse histogram in fig .  1 .",
    "perhaps more importantly , however , our position within the milky way means that we can also measure @xmath5 using stellar kinematics ( see section  3 )  a technique which is unavailable for external galaxies .",
    "thus , we can test the methods used to measure @xmath5 by checking for consistency between the different approaches ; the implications of this comparison are discussed in section  4 .",
    "the manner in which the gas layer in a disk galaxy thickens with radius provides a conceptually - simple method for measuring the shape of its dark halo ( olling 1996 , and references therein ) .",
    "the thickness of the gas layer is dictated by the hydrostatic balance between the random motions of the gas and the pull of gravity toward the plane of the galaxy .",
    "thus , the thickness of the gas layer measures the gravitational field close to the galaxy s plane , and hence the amount of dark matter in this region . for a given total mass of dark matter ( as derived from the galaxy s rotation curve ) , we can thus derive the flattening of the halo .",
    "if , for example , the gas is found to be confined in a very thin layer , then we know that it is being held there by the gravitational pull of a large amount of dark matter close to the plane of the galaxy .",
    "the presence of large amounts of dark matter close to the plane implies that its distribution must be highly flattened , and hence that @xmath5 must be small .    in order to apply this method , we need to measure a galaxy s rotation curve , @xmath7 , and how its gas layer thickness varies with radius , @xmath8 . for the milky way",
    ", these two quantities are intimately entwined . to convert the observed angular extent of the gas layer at some point in the galaxy into a physical thickness ,",
    "we need to know the distance to that point . in general , the only way to calculate that distance is to adopt a particular rotation curve for the galaxy , which will predict how the line - of - sight velocity of gas in a given direction should vary with the material s distance .",
    "thus , the line - of - sight velocity of the gas ( as measured from the doppler shift in its @xmath9 emission ) can be translated directly into the requisite distance .",
    "in fact , it is possible to disentangle @xmath7 and @xmath8 in the milky way by solving simultaneously for both quantities , providing one of the few direct methods for calculating the rotation curve of the outer galaxy ( merrifield 1992 ) .",
    "the only serious impediment to this analysis is that the derived functions depend significantly on the values that we adopt for our distance from the galactic center , @xmath3 , and the circular speed of the galaxy at the solar radius , @xmath10 .",
    "observationally , there are modest uncertainties in both these quantities : @xmath11 ( reid 1993 ) , and @xmath12 ( sackett 1997 ) .",
    "however , they are not independently variable , since local stellar kinematic measurements of the oort constants imply that @xmath13 ( kerr & lynden - bell 1986 ) .",
    "nevertheless , these uncertainties translate into quite large variations in the inferred rotation curve and gas layer thickness .",
    "the procedure that we have adopted for estimating @xmath5 for the milky way is therefore as follows :    1 .   pick values for @xmath3 and @xmath10 that do not violate the known constraints on these quantities .",
    "2 .   calculate @xmath8 and @xmath7 for these galactic constants using merrifield s ( 1992 ) method at radii outside @xmath3 , and data from the tangent points ( malhotra 1995 ) for the inner galaxy .",
    "one slight caveat here is that the gas layer is observed using its @xmath9 emission , which is measured with radio telescopes whose spatial resolutions are frequently comparable to the angular thickness of the gas layer ; it is therefore necessary to apply a correction for this finite beam size when calculating the physical dimension of the gas layer .",
    "3 .   calculate a mass model consistent with the observed rotation curve .",
    "this model is constructed by breaking the galaxy up into the usual components of a disk , a bulge , a gas layer , and a halo that is assumed to take the form of a non - singular isothermal spheroid of flattening @xmath5 .",
    "4 .   use the equation of hydrostatic equilibrium to calculate how one would expect the gas layer thickness to vary with radius in the galaxy . in this analysis",
    ", it is important to include the self - gravity of the gas layer , which significantly reduces its equilibrium thickness .",
    "the internal velocity dispersion of the gas is also an important parameter in the calculation ; here we adopt @xmath14 , as measured for the inner galaxy ( malhotra 1995 ) .",
    "we have neglected the possibility that non - thermal pressures due to cosmic rays and magnetic fields may provide extra support against gravity , but it has been argued that these forces make negligible contributions to the total pressure support of the gas layer ( rupen 1991 , olling 1996 ) .",
    "compare the model equilibrium gas layer thickness to the observed @xmath8 .",
    "if the data fit the model to within the uncertainties , then the value for @xmath5 in this model is acceptable .",
    "repeat for all plausible values of @xmath3 , @xmath10 and @xmath5 to see what range of values for @xmath5 is compatible with the observations .    the practical application of this procedure to @xmath9 observations of the milky way is described in more detail in olling & merrifield ( 1997 ) .",
    "the results of model fits to @xmath8 are presented in fig .  2 . clearly ,",
    "none of the models are consistent with the observations if we adopt the iau standard value of @xmath2 ( kerr & lynden - bell 1987 ) . however , by reducing @xmath3 toward the lower end of the range allowed by existing measurements , it is possible to reproduce the observed flaring of the gas layer quite accurately , even down to the inflection at @xmath15 .",
    "the best - fit values for @xmath5 decrease as @xmath3 is decreased , but for even the smallest acceptable values of @xmath3 the inferred halo shape is quite round . from the complete ensemble of models , we find that acceptable fits to @xmath8 can be obtained if @xmath1 , and that the corresponding uncertainty in the halo flattening is @xmath16 .",
    "as mentioned in the introduction , our location within the milky way presents us with a further method for calculating the flattening of the halo which is unique to this system .",
    "specifically , we can study the kinematics of stars in the galactic disk near the sun .",
    "the motions of these stars perpendicular to the galactic plane are dictated by the local gravitational field , and so provide a measure of the total mass located there . just as for the gas layer flaring technique described above , this measure of the mass close to the plane can be converted into a measure of halo flattening .",
    "kuijken & gilmore ( 1991 ) used the spatial distribution and kinematics of a sample of k dwarf stars in the solar neighborhood to carry out such a measurement . from these data",
    ", they found that the total mass within @xmath17 of the galactic plane can be robustly estimated to be @xmath18 .",
    "some fraction of this mass comes from the normal luminous stellar disk of the milky way .",
    "clearly , in order to find the mass contribution from the dark halo , we have to allow for this contribution to @xmath19 ; kuijken & gilmore ( 1989 ) calculated that the column density contributed by the stellar component is @xmath20 .",
    "the procedure necessary to use these values of @xmath19 and @xmath21 to estimate @xmath5 is essentially identical to that adopted for the flaring analysis : we create mass models that reproduce the observed rotation curve of the milky way , using values for @xmath10 and @xmath3 consistent with the existing constraints .",
    "we then calculate the values of @xmath19 for these models , and reject those that are inconsistent with the observed value .",
    "the values of @xmath5 for the acceptable models are plotted in fig .",
    "these plots show @xmath5 as a function of the stellar column density in the solar neighborhood as calculated for each model , @xmath22 .",
    "these quantities are strongly correlated : as @xmath22 is increased , it accounts for more and more of @xmath19 , so the contribution from the dark halo must be correspondingly reduced .",
    "since the rotation curve of the milky way is fixed ( for given @xmath3 and @xmath10 ) , the reduction in the contribution to @xmath19 from the dark halo must be produced by making the halo rounder . as fig .",
    "3 illustrates , there is a similar correlation between the values of @xmath5 derived from gas flaring and @xmath22 , but in this case the dependence is much weaker , since the fit to the thickness of the gas layer is made at larger radii , where the influence of the stellar disk on the amount of mass close to the galactic plane is greatly reduced .",
    "once again , the stellar kinematic analysis argues for a small value of @xmath3 . as fig",
    ".  3 shows , if we adopt @xmath2 , the gas flaring analysis and the stellar kinematic analysis only produce consistent estimates for @xmath5 for models where @xmath22 lies outside the observed range of uncertainty for the local stellar column density . if , on the other hand , we set @xmath23 , we find that both methods produce consistent estimates of @xmath24 for models in which @xmath25 , in good agreement with the observed value of @xmath21 .",
    "we have derived the flattening of the milky way s dark halo using two entirely different techniques : analysis of the global flaring of its hi gas layer with radius ; and local stellar - kinematic studies of the total mass in the solar neighborhood . both methods return consistent results as long as we adopt values for the distance to the galactic center toward the lower end of the observationally - permitted range .",
    "in fact , most of the error in the derived value of @xmath5 arises from the current uncertainty in @xmath3 . if future , better determinations of @xmath3 place the value closer to the iau - sanctioned @xmath26 , the apparent consistency between the different estimators for @xmath5 will have to be reconsidered . with this proviso , we can combine the results of the two analyses to obtain a best estimate for the flattening of the galactic halo of @xmath27 .",
    "the consistency in the values of @xmath5 derived by the two different methods goes some way toward justifying the various assumptions that have been made in these analyses , such as the neglect of non - thermal pressure support in calculating the degree of flaring in the gas layer .",
    "the value of @xmath28 derived from the application of the flaring technique to the milky way also shows that this method does not necessarily always return small values for @xmath5 .",
    "the relatively low values derived by this technique for other galaxies ( see fig .",
    "1 ) can therefore be put down to the very small number statistics .",
    "these findings mean that we now have rather more confidence in the application of the gas layer flaring technique to other galaxies .",
    "the only set of results in fig .",
    "1 that is clearly inconsistent with a mean value of @xmath29 is that produced by the normal mode analysis of warped gas disks .",
    "the inconsistency with other techniques means that this method must be viewed with some scepticism .",
    "indeed , recent numerical work has shown that the normal modes invoked by this method should be rapidly damped by dynamical friction ( dubinski & kuijken 1995 ) , suggesting that warps should not be described in this manner . if these points are neglected from fig .  1 , and",
    "the milky way result from this paper is added , then the resulting data are consistent with the simple cdm prediction shown .",
    "it should be borne in mind , though , that the data set is still embarrassingly small , and many more measurements are required if one is to test this model definitively .",
    "however , even with the sparse data available , we can rule out some otherwise - credible possibilities . as mentioned in the introduction ,",
    "some scenarios invoke dark matter distributed in a disk - like arrangement , for which one would expect to obtain consistently low values of @xmath4 .",
    "none of the available measurements of @xmath5 imply such flattened halos",
    ". if any of these measurements are to be believed , then cold molecular hydrogen ( pfenniger , combes & martinet 1994 ) and decaying massive neutrinos ( sciama 1990 ) are no longer plausible candidates for dynamically - significant amounts of dark matter .",
    "the analysis described in this paper also has implications for the interpretation of microlensing experiments .",
    "microlensing events in the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) are interpreted as arising from lensing by compact massive dark objects in the halo of the milky way ( e.g.  alcock et al .",
    "clearly , the number of such objects along the line of sight to the lmc depends not only on the radial distribution of these objects in the galaxy , but also on the degree of flattening of flattened their distribution .",
    "thus , the measurement of @xmath5 for the milky way has a bearing on the local determination of the nature of dark matter , as well as the more global , cosmological approach to this problem .",
    "alcock , c. , et al . , 1997 , apj , 486 , 697 buote , d.a . & canizares , c.r . , 1996 , apj , 468 , 184 diplas , a. & savage , d.s . , 1991 , apj , 377 , 126 dubinski , j. , 1994 , apj , 431 , 617 dubinski , j. & kuijken , k. , 1995 , apj , 442 , 492 hofner , p. & sparke , l. , 1994 , apj , 428 , 466 kerr , f.j . & lynden - bell , d. , 1986 , mnras , 221 , 1023 kuijken , k. & gilmore , g. , 1989 , mnras , 239 , 605 kuijken , k. & gilmore , g. , 1991 , apj , 367 , l9 malhotra , s. , 1995 , apj , 448 , 138 merrifield , m.r . , 1992 , aj , 103 , 1552 navarro , j.f . ,",
    "frenk , c.s . & white , s.d.m . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 462 , 563 olling , r.p . , 1996 ,",
    "aj , 112 , 457 olling , r.p . & merrifield , m.r . , 1997 , in preparation peebles , p.j.e . , 1993 , principals of physical cosmology , princeton : princeton university press pfenniger , d. , combes , f. & martinet , l. , 1994 , a&a , 285 , 79 reid , m.j . , 1993 , ara&a , 31 , 345 rupen , mp > p , 1991 , ph.d",
    "thesis , princeton university sackett , p.d . ,",
    "rix , h .- w . ,",
    "jarvis , b.j .",
    "& freeman , k.c .",
    ", 1994 , apj , 436 , 629 sackett , p.d .",
    ", 1997 , apj , 483 , 103 sciama , d. , 1990 , mnras , 244 , 1 steiman - cameron , t.y .",
    ", kormendy , j. & durisen , r.h . , 1992 ,",
    "aj , 104 , 1339 wouterloot , j.g.a , brand , j. , burton , w.b . & kwee , k.k . , 1990 ,"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the distribution of shapes of galaxies dark halos provides a basic test for models of galaxy formation . to - date </S>",
    "<S> , few dark halo shapes have been measured , and the results of different methods appear contradictory . here , we add to the sample of measured shapes by calculating the flattening of the milky way s dark halo based on the manner in which the gas layer in the galaxy flares with radius . </S>",
    "<S> we also test the validity of this technique  which has already been applied to several other galaxies  by comparing the inferred halo flattening to that obtained from a stellar - kinematic analysis , which can only be applied to the milky way . </S>",
    "<S> both methods return consistent values for the shape of the milky way s halo , with a shortest - to - longest axis ratio for the dark matter distribution of @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> however , this consistency is only achieved if we adopt a value of @xmath1 for the sun s distance to the galactic center . </S>",
    "<S> although this value is smaller than the iau - sanctioned @xmath2 , it is quite consistent with current observations . </S>",
    "<S> whatever value of @xmath3 is adopted , neither method returns halo parameters consistent with a disk - like mass distribution , for which @xmath4 . </S>",
    "<S> this finding rules out cold molecular gas and decaying massive neutrinos as dark matter candidates . </S>"
  ]
}