{
  "article_text": [
    "with a predominately young stellar population ( hunter & thronson 1995 ) and low elemental abundances ( e.g. , skillman & kennicutt 1993 ) , the nearby blue compact dwarf galaxy i  zw  18 may be undergoing its first , or at most second , star formation episode ( kunth 1995 ) .",
    "because of its fortuitous proximity ( @xmath5 mpc , so that 1 arcsecond = 48 pc ) , i  zw  18 is a prime target for studies of the early stages of the conversion of gas into stars in a galactic  sized object .",
    "further , this galaxy provides a unique environment in which to test models of elemental enrichment and subsequent dispersal into the interstellar medium ( e.g. , marconi 1994 ; roy & kunth 1995 ; kunth 1995 ) . despite the importance of i  zw  18 , surprisingly little",
    "is understood about its neutral gas dynamics and kinematics ; this paper presents new high sensitivity , high resolution hi observations of i  zw  18 in order to investigate the link between the neutral gas kinematics and the elemental enrichment of this enigmatic galaxy .    to understand fully the elemental enrichment of i  zw  18",
    ", it is necessary to consider its local environment , evolutionary history , and gas kinematics .",
    "recent hst observations provide excellent information on its local environment and evolutionary history . of particular relevance",
    "is the speculation that the high surface brightness compact system also has one or more faint companions , and that the unusual morphology and starburst activity result either from the merger of its components , or alternatively from tidal interactions between them . speculations about possible companions to i  zw  18 occur as far back as the original discovery paper ( zwicky 1966 ) . located spatially near i",
    "zw  18 are several faint , diffuse objects , many of which appear to be roughly aligned towards the northwest ( davidson 1989 ) .",
    "these stellar condensations have been interpreted as the remnants of previous episodes of star formation ( dufour & hester 1990 ; dufour 1996b ) , but the recent hst imaging observations of dufour ( 1996a ) reveal that most of these systems appear to be background galaxies .",
    "only one , component `` c '' in the nomenclature of davidson ( 1989 ) , resolves into stars in the hst images .",
    "subsequent spectroscopic observations suggest that this object , also known as `` zwicky s flare '' , is a physically  associated companion to i  zw  18 ( dufour 1996b ; petrosian 1997 ; this paper ) .",
    "investigations of the neutral gas distribution and kinematics in i  zw  18 have been hampered by the difficulties of observing this faint ( in hi ) and compact system .",
    "its hi flux density is relatively low , and disentangling hi components that might be associated with the complex features evident in the optical observations requires both high spatial and spectral resolution . a preliminary understanding of the hi distribution and kinematics of i  zw  18 were obtained from both wsrt ( lequeux & viallefond 1980 ) and multiconfiguration vla observations ( viallefond 1987 ; skillman 1996 ) .",
    "these observations indicated that the compact optical galaxy is surrounded by a more extensive cloud of neutral hydrogen .",
    "furthermore , the hi surface density peaks are associated with peaks in the optical surface brightness , although the precision of the coincidence remained unclear ( viallefond 1987 ) .",
    "in addition , drawing attention to the possibility that the interstellar medium of i  zw  18 may be diluted with primordial gas , viallefond ( 1987 ) identified several companion hi clouds . these observations provided intriguing first looks at the hi distribution of this complex object , but also clearly indicated that higher spectral and spatial resolution observations would be necessary to disentangle the kinematics .    in this paper",
    ", we present the results of new multiconfiguration hi synthesis observations of i  zw  18 with the very large array providing both high velocity ( 1.3  channels ) and high spatial ( @xmath05 , or @xmath0 250 pc at the distance of i  zw  18 ) resolution .",
    "these observations permit a detailed analysis of the neutral gas kinematics and dynamics of the entire i  zw  18 system .",
    "in particular , we are now able to compare kinematic features in the ionized gas , such as the `` superbubbles '' identified by martin ( 1996 ) , with features in the neutral gas component . in addition",
    ", ordered rotation has been detected throughout the main body of i  zw  18 , which is used to derive the dynamical mass of the system .",
    "further , the hi associated with the faint optical object 25  to the northwest of i  zw  18 ( component c ) is found to be kinematically distinct from the main body .",
    "finally , the combination of high spectral and spatial resolution observations permits a solid determination of the neutral gas velocity dispersion , which is critical for the determination of the o / h abundance in the hst detected cloud ( kunth 1994 ; pettini & lipman 1995 ) .",
    "this paper is organized as follows .",
    "the data acquisition and preliminary analysis are presented in section [ sec : data ] .",
    "the morphology and kinematics of the hi distribution are discussed in section [ sec : morph ] .",
    "section [ sec : sfhist ] contains a brief discussion of the past star formation activity in i  zw  18 ; we also speculate about the future possibilities of star formation in this gas  rich system .",
    "our conclusions are summarized in section [ sec : conc ] .",
    "multiconfiguration hi observations of i  zw  18 were obtained with the vla .",
    "complementary optical imaging and spectroscopy were obtained with the kpno 0.9 m , the hubble space telescope , and the palomar 5 m . in this section ,",
    "the procedures for observation and preliminary data reduction are discussed .",
    "multiconfiguration observations of i  zw  18 were obtained with the vla during 19931995 .",
    "the observing sessions totaled 3 , 8 , and 21.5 hours in the d , c , and b configurations , respectively ; the total on  source integration times are listed in table [ tab : vlaobs ] . during all",
    "observing sessions , the correlator was used in 2ad mode with a total bandwidth of 0.78 mhz , centered at 755 .",
    "the on  line hanning smoothing option was selected , producing final spectral data cubes of 127 channels , each 1.3  wide .",
    "standard tasks in aips ( napier 1983 ) were employed for calibration and preliminary data reduction .",
    "each set of observations was calibrated separately , using 3c 48 , 3c 147 , and 3c 286 as flux and bandpass calibrators , and b0831 + 557 as the phase calibrator .",
    "the continuum emission was removed prior to cleaning and transformation to the xy plane .",
    "the data were transformed with several weighting schemes and combinations of configurations .",
    "at least one map was made for each separate configuration ; in addition , many maps were made from the combined data sets using a robust weighting technique ( hereafter referred to as the `` bcd data cubes '' ) .",
    "the maps were created and cleaned simultaneously with the aips task imagr ( see briggs 1995 for a description of the robust weighting technique employed by imagr ) .",
    "the robustness parameter used in imagr and the beam sizes for a selected sample of the maps are listed in table [ tab : maps ] . to boost the signal  to  noise in some of the maps ,",
    "the data were smoothed in velocity space by three channels , resulting in velocity resolution of 3.9  and a decrease in the rms noise level by a factor of @xmath01.7 ; these maps will subsequently be referred to as `` binned '' data cubes . the majority of the maps , however , retained the high velocity resolution of the original data .",
    "all the data cubes were analyzed with the gipsy package ( van der hulst 1992 ) .",
    "a continuum image was created from the line  free channels of the spectral data cube . due to the small bandwidth of these observations ,",
    "the resultant map has low signal  to  noise .",
    "very little continuum emission was detected , although a weak radio source ( @xmath6 3 mjy ) appears to be located at approximately 09@xmath730@xmath830.2@xmath9 , + 552748  ( 1950 ) ( also noted by lequeux & viallefond 1980 ) .",
    "the remaining radio sources appear to be background objects .",
    "none are coincident with the extensive hi envelope described in section [ sec : mom0 ] .",
    "the optical imaging observations discussed in this paper were obtained from several different telescopes . as part of a larger program to image dwarf galaxies on the kpno 0.9 m ,",
    "a 5 minute r  band exposure of the 11.7  @xmath10  11.7  fov around i  zw  18 was obtained in 1995 march .",
    "the details of this observing run are discussed in van zee ( 1997b ) ; the seeing was approximately 1.6 .",
    "in addition , wfpc2 images of the i  zw  18 system were extracted from the hst archive ( pis : hunter go5309 and dufour go5434 ) .",
    "the observations were obtained on 1994 october 2931 and november 23 .",
    "the details of the hst observations are described in hunter & thronson ( 1995 ) and dufour ( 1996a ) .",
    "the hst images were processed in the standard manner .",
    "images with the f555w filter were obtained by both observers , with different rotation angles and placement of i  zw  18 on the ccds . a mosaic of the two images was created to extend the fov around i  zw  18",
    ".    proper registration of optical images is crucial for comparison of the neutral gas distribution with stellar and ionized gas features . in the past , however , it has been quite difficult to obtain accurate alignments . for instance , in dufour & hester ( 1990 ) , the registration is based on a single star .",
    "unfortunately , their epoch 1950 coordinates are incorrect , by 5  e and 2  n ; when precessed to b1950 , the original coordinates ( epoch 1988.0 ) given in davidson ( 1989 ) agree with those listed in the apm catalog ( maddox 1990 ) .",
    "even if their coordinates had been correct , it is impossible to derive a full astrometric plate solution with only one star . with the advent of new star catalogues such as the apm catalog and the hst guide stars , however , it is now possible to easily obtain astrometric accuracy to better than 1  for ground based images .",
    "further difficulties are presented for the registration of hst images since few , if any , of the catalogued stars lie within the small fov of the wfpc2 cameras .",
    "while plate solutions are known for wfpc2 ccds , we found systematic differences of 23  in the derived coordinates for objects in common between the 1994 october and november observations .",
    "we later discovered that the header coordinates were incorrect for these images due to an error in one of the ccd reference positions ( fruchter , private communication ) .",
    "this error was corrected shortly after the october and november 1994 observations , so additional wfpc2 observations of i  zw  18 on 1995 march 1 were not affected .",
    "this header problem is the source of the offset between the hi and optical distributions seen in skillman ( 1996 ) ( dohm  palmer , private communication ) . due to the apparent uncertainty in the wfpc2 astrometry",
    ", we elected to determine independently the plate solutions for the wfpc2 images , via a bootstrap method .",
    "the plate solution for the kpno 0.9 m image was determined based on the coordinates of 9 bright stars in the apm catalog ( maddox 1990 ) .",
    "the coordinates of 8 faint objects located spatially near i  zw  18 were then determined from the kpno image .",
    "the majority of these objects are not point sources , but are rather faint background galaxies .",
    "however , they were the only objects ( other than a saturated star and the i  zw  18 system ) that were visible in both the kpno and hst images . the plate solutions for the hst images were then computed using the 8 faint objects .",
    "the derived plate solutions provide positional accuracy to better than 0.5 .      as part of a larger program to determine elemental abundances in dwarf galaxies , optical spectra of the hii region in component c and the nw hii region of i  zw",
    "18 were obtained with the double spectrograph on the 5 m palomar telescope on 1996 march 21 .",
    "a dichroic filter with a transition wavelength of 5500   was used to split the light to the two sides ( blue and red ) , providing complete spectral coverage from 35007600  .",
    "the blue spectra were acquired with the 300 lines / mm diffraction grating ( blazed at 3990  ) ; the red spectra were acquired with the 316 lines / mm diffraction grating ( blazed at 7500  ) .",
    "the slit was 120@xmath10 2 .",
    "a single 1800s observation at a position angle of 129  was obtained ( here , and throughout this paper , position angles refer to east of north ) .",
    "further details of the observing run and data reduction are discussed in van zee ( 1997b ) .",
    "in this section we discuss the hi distribution and kinematics of the i  zw  18 system . in the following discussion",
    ", the `` i zw 18 system '' refers to the total hi distribution . to avoid confusion",
    ", we will adopt the nomenclature of components as identified by davidson ( 1989 ) throughout , with the modification that objects detected in hi will be preceded by `` hi '' .",
    "thus , the rotating gas associated with the main body of i  zw  18 will be designated hi  a .",
    "the gas spatially associated with component c will be designated as hi ",
    "c ; the gas between the two components will be designated the `` interbody gas '' , or hi ",
    "i for short .",
    "the extended diffuse gas found primarily to the south and east and not associated with the preceding objects will be designated hi ",
    "finally , davidson ( 1989 ) note that the optical component a has two condensations ; we designate the associated hi structures as hi ",
    "a(se ) and hi ",
    "a(nw ) .",
    "to determine if the total hi flux density was recovered in the vla observations , the lowest resolution ( robustness = 5 ) data cubes of each configuration and the combined configurations were examined .",
    "for each cube , the total flux density of the i  zw  18 system was measured within a rectangular aperture of size 2.4  @xmath10 3.0 , offset by 20  s from the main body of i  zw  18 . the derived global hi profile from the combined configurations is remarkably similar to a profile obtained with the green bank 43 m ( haynes 1998 ) , with deviations only on the order of the noise levels ( figure [ fig : gbflux]a ) . the total flux density ( 2.97 jy ) is also recovered within each configuration ; the total flux density of the combined bcd data cube was determined following the algorithm of haynes ( 1998 ) .",
    "the ratio between the flux density measured in each separate configuration and the total flux density of the combined bcd data cube is shown in figure [ fig : gbflux]b . even in the b configuration ( with a minimum spacing of 1 k@xmath11 ) , the total flux density is recovered .",
    "selected channel maps of the lowest resolution bcd data cube are presented in figure [ fig : chans ] . as seen in the channel maps , the neutral gas associated with i  zw  18 forms a complex system .",
    "one main component is traced throughout the full data cube ; we have designated this hi component as hi  a . at low velocities ( between 740 and 770 ) , extended , diffuse structures are seen in the northwest .",
    "this diffuse gas is spatially associated with the optical component c and also with the region between the two optical systems , a and c.    to further investigate the neutral gas distribution , the zeroth moment of the lowest resolution binned ( averaged over 3 channels ) bcd data cube was computed . to minimize the noise in the resultant maps ,",
    "it has become standard practice to blank regions of the cube which do not have signal prior to creating moment maps .",
    "this method may result in loss of low signal  to  noise features , however .",
    "further , this method tends to introduce artificially steep gradients in the hi column density near the edges of the maps because the low column density ( low signal  to  noise ) emission is blanked . to avoid these problems ,",
    "extreme care was taken during the blanking process to retain all of the flux .",
    "the blanking process began with a cube created from the combined b , c , and d configurations , but tapered at 13 k@xmath11 , resulting in a 17.4  @xmath10 16.9  beam .",
    "this tapered cube is essentially equivalent to a smoothed cube derived from the low resolution bcd data cube ; tapering was preferred over smoothing because it did not introduce edge effects .",
    "the tapered cube was clipped at + /1@xmath12 ( retaining everything above 1@xmath12 and below 1@xmath12 ) and the regions of emission were interactively blanked .",
    "the blanked tapered cube thus creates a mask of where the signal should be ; this mask is then applied to the untapered bcd cubes . to confirm that no flux was lost in this process",
    ", the global hi profile of the blanked cube was checked .",
    "the moments were calculated using a windowing function ( signal must appear in more than one consecutive channel ) to remove spurious noise spikes .",
    "the resultant zeroth moment map is shown in figure [ fig : mom0 ] .",
    "the hi envelope is quite extensive , with diffuse gas structures extending as much as 1  from the main component . in addition , the clumps of gas identified by viallefond ( 1987 ) are recovered in this map , but they are found within a large , low column density neutral gas envelope rather than in isolation . excluding hi  sx and the other small features , the hi size ( at a column density of 10@xmath13 atom @xmath14 ) is approximately 60  @xmath10 45  ( 2.9 @xmath10 2.2 kpc ) , at a position angle of 147 .    to determine the contribution of the hi components ( hi  a , hi ",
    "i , and hi  sx ) to the total flux density of the i  zw  18 system , the data cube was interactively clipped , isolating each component .",
    "the main hi component , hi ",
    "a , forms an elongated structure with two peaks in column density .",
    "the flux emitted from this rotating disk ( see section [ sec : rot ] ) was identified based on its kinematic separation from the other components . in the south , it is clearly distinct from hi ",
    "sx ( see section [ sec : piat ] ) ; in the north , it is difficult to disentangle hi  a and hi ",
    "i , but extreme care was taken to maintain spatial and velocity continuity . the total flux emitted from hi  a is shown in figure [ fig : flux ] .",
    "the hi profile of hi ",
    "a is remarkably symmetric ; the asymmetry in the global hi profile is thus due to the additional hi emission to the northwest and south of hi  a .",
    "furthermore , separation of hi  a from the larger diffuse gas envelope provides a very different picture of the gas density distribution in this object than that illustrated in figure [ fig : mom0 ] .",
    "the two main column density peaks remain , but the hi column density contours are relatively symmetric . in particular , there is no evidence of the precipitous contour crowding seen in the southern edge of hi  a as illustrated in figure [ fig : mom0 ] .",
    "this contour crowding must be due to the overlap of hi  a with hi  sx in the moment map .    in the northwest",
    "c appears as a secondary peak in the column density distribution ( figure [ fig : mom0 ] ) .",
    "the `` interbody gas '' , hi ",
    "i , connects hi  c to hi  a . since it is impossible to accurately disentangle hi ",
    "i and hi  c with the present spatial resolution , the combined flux density of hi ",
    "c is shown in figure [ fig : flux ] .",
    "the gas associated with hi ",
    "c contributes approximately 20% of the total flux density ( figure [ fig : flux]a ) and is localized in velocity space ( figure [ fig : flux]b ) .",
    "the low column density southern extension , hi  sx , is not easily seen in the individual channels ( note that since the emission is at or below the 3@xmath12 contour cut  off , the channel maps presented in figure [ fig : chans ] do not include this region ; spectral profiles are presented in section [ sec : piat ] ) .",
    "nonetheless , hi ",
    "sx contributes @xmath035% of the total hi flux density in this system ( figure [ fig : flux]a ) ; the flux density of this region was computed by summing the flux density remaining in the clipped data cube after excluding the hi  a , hi",
    " c , and hi  i components .",
    "spatially , this includes all of the diffuse gas to the south and east of hi  a .",
    "sx is also localized in velocity space and accounts for some of the asymmetry of the global profile between 720  760  ( figure [ fig : flux]b ) .",
    "a comparison of the hi and optical distributions is shown in figure [ fig : opthi ] . due to the registration problems discussed in section [ sec : reg ] ,",
    "previous results suggesting an offset between the peaks in the hi gas distribution and optical system ( dufour & hester 1990 ; skillman 1996 ) are not confirmed .",
    "instead , the hi column density maxima coincide with both optical components a and c. higher spatial resolution data cubes reveal that the peak column density in the main body of i  zw  18 is coincident with the hii region known as a(se ) ( figure [ fig : hahi ] ) .",
    "further , a second peak in the column density is roughly associated with the hii region a(nw ) ( the location of the peak optical surface brightness ) ; this secondary peak is slightly to the northwest of a(nw ) . in addition , the peak column density in hi ",
    "c is associated with an hii region in the optical component c. thus , as seen in other galaxies ( e.g. , van zee 1997a ) , local peaks of the neutral gas surface density in the i  zw  18 system are associated with the regions of active star formation .",
    "a main difference between this newer data set and the previous observations of viallefond ( 1987 ) is the much larger extent of the hi distribution .",
    "thus , figure [ fig : opthi ] conveys a quite different picture than figure 1b of dufour & hester ( 1990 ) .",
    "contrary to the previous impression , the ionized gas is _ not _ more extensive than the neutral gas .",
    "rather , the entire optical system is embedded in a diffuse , irregular and clumpy neutral cloud , such as is commonly seen in normal di galaxies .",
    "the velocity field ( moment 1 ) was calculated using a blanked data cube ( see section [ sec : mom0 ] ) with moderate spatial resolution and the full velocity resolution ( figure [ fig : vel ] ) .",
    "the derived neutral gas velocity field is remarkably similar to that of the ionized gas ( petrosian 1997 ) .",
    "the velocity field is complex , but in the region of hi  a a clear gradient is seen . as also illustrated in the position  velocity diagram ( figure [ fig : pv ] ) , hi ",
    "c is seen as kinematically distinct from hi  a .    in the interbody region , hi ",
    "i , between hi  a and hi  c , the velocity field changes direction and has a much less steep gradient .",
    "though limited by our poorer spatial resolution , this result may reflect the same phenomenon as seen by dufour ( 1996b ) .",
    "inspection of the individual channel maps in this region ( figure [ fig : chans ] ) suggests the presence of complex kinematics . whether hi ",
    "i forms a bridge between hi  a and hi  c , or is the result of gas bubbles or `` blow  out '' can not be determined with the present data set .",
    "it should also be noted that kinks and twists in the velocity field are quite commonly seen in dwarf galaxies .",
    "the velocity field displayed in figure [ fig : vel ] is not unlike that seen in the faint di galaxies mapped by lo ( 1993 ) .    in order to model the dynamics of hi ",
    "a , the contributions of hi ",
    "i , and hi  sx were clipped from the data cube ( see section [ sec : mom0 ] ) .",
    "the resulting blanked cube contained only the main rotating component . because the derived velocity field is only four beams across , it is impossible to constrain a standard tilted  ring model based on the kinematics alone .",
    "rather , a rough estimate of the rotation curve was derived based on parameters obtained from hi isophotal fits . while the kinematic parameters are not necessarily the same as the gas distribution parameters , such isophotal fits",
    "provide an estimate of the center coordinates , position angle , and inclination angle of the rotating gas disk .",
    "an ellipse centered at 09@xmath730@xmath830.0@xmath9 , + 552749.0 , with a position angle of 147  and an inclination angle of 55  best fit the hi mass distribution .",
    "the center of this ellipse is coincident with the nw hii region .",
    "the shape of the outermost ring used in the tilted - ring models is illustrated in figure [ fig : vel ] .",
    "the inclination angle was derived by assuming a planar hi distribution ; if the hi distribution is thick , as is seen in other dwarf galaxies , the inclination will be smaller than estimated here . in addition , a systemic velocity of 762  ( the center of the hi  a profile ) was adopted .",
    "the derived rotation curves for both sides are shown superposed with a position ",
    "velocity diagram ( from an unclipped cube ) in figure [ fig : pv ] . due to the poor spatial resolution of these observations relative to the size of hi ",
    "a , it is still unclear whether the steep velocity gradient is intrinsic to hi ",
    "a , or is caused by beam smearing . however , the steep , solid body  like , velocity gradient across component hi  a is suggestive .",
    "component hi ",
    "c appears as a kinematically distinct object offset 25  to the nw from the kinematic center of hi  a , and at a velocity of 740 , similar to that found by petrosian ( 1997 ) .",
    "a slight change in the velocity gradient may occur across hi  a . in the kinematic models , the receding side has a velocity gradient of 6.0  arcsec@xmath15 while the gradient in the approaching side is much shallower , only 2.2  arcsec@xmath15 .",
    "similarly steep and changing velocity gradients have been seen in the ionized gas ( e.g. , skillman & kennicutt 1993 ; martin 1996 ; petrosian 1997 ) .",
    "skillman & kennicutt ( 1993 ) hypothesized that the changing velocity gradient might indicate that the main body of i  zw  18 is actually two colliding clumps of gas .",
    "the present data set does not have sufficient spatial resolution to resolve this issue .    despite the above caveats , a dynamical mass , based on the assumption that the main body of i  zw  18 is a gravitationally bound system , was computed from the maximum velocity of the derived rotation curve , @xmath044  at a radius of 12 .",
    "the dynamical mass of the main body thus computed is approximately 2.6 @xmath10 10@xmath16 m@xmath17 .",
    "similar to other dwarf galaxies ( e.g. , skillman 1987 ; van zee 1997a ) , the ratio of the hi to dynamical mass in the main body of i  zw  18 is 0.1 .",
    "the spectral profiles across hi ",
    "a , hi  i , and hi  c are shown in figure [ fig : prfs ] .",
    "the majority of these profiles are asymmetric , and suggestive of two gaussian components .",
    "based on the ( unpublished ) viallefond vla maps , kunth ( 1994 ) quote a velocity dispersion of @xmath0 19  in the region of a ghrs absorption spectrum [ centered on 09@xmath730@xmath830.2@xmath9 , + 552748(1950 ) , the nw hii region ; note that the published coordinates differ from those listed in the hst archives ] .",
    "based on either a second moment map or single gaussian component fits to the spectra , the present data result in a similar velocity dispersion at this location .",
    "the highly asymmetric profiles , however , suggest that these approaches are too simplistic .",
    "asymmetric profiles are seen across most of hi  a ( the 3 across by 6 up rectangle in the lower left of figure [ fig : prfs ] ) .",
    "these profiles are well fit by a double gaussian model , where the second gaussian is offset by @xmath030  from the first . given the poor spatial resolution of these observations relative to the separation of the hi ",
    "a(nw ) and hi ",
    "a(se ) column density peaks , these asymmetric profiles may be the result of beam smearing .",
    "beam smearing can introduce an overlap of the two gas clumps in the spectra in an asymmetric manner in the presence of a steep velocity gradient . in the position ",
    "velocity diagram ( figure [ fig : pv ] ) , the combination of a steep rotational gradient and moderate gas dispersion can be seen to introduce such asymmetric features .    if the two gaussians arise from the overlap of hi ",
    "a(nw ) and hi ",
    "a(se ) , the gas velocity dispersion at each position may be computed from the width of the main gaussian .",
    "typical dispersions range between 1214  for the main gaussians ( this agrees with the dispersion in regions where the profile is more symmetric , such as the lower left hand corner of figure [ fig : prfs ] ) .",
    "the derived velocity dispersions are upper limits on the gas velocity dispersion since even the decomposed profiles may have significant rotational components given the steep velocity gradient in this system .",
    "thus , the fact that the derived gas dispersions are slightly higher than those seen in other dwarf galaxies ( e.g. , lo 1993 ; young & lo 1996 ; van zee 1997a ) should not be considered significant .",
    "hi gas is seen to spatially coincide with both optical components ( a and c ) of the i  zw  18 system .",
    "it is reasonable to assume that this gas is associated with the stellar systems in these regions .",
    "the hst images provided the first solid indications that components a and c are physically associated ( dufour 1996a ) ; this concept was further supported by optical redshift determinations ( dufour 1996b ; petrosian 1997 ; this paper ) .",
    "the present hi data suggest that both components reside within an extensive hi envelope . while hi  c appears to be kinematically distinct from hi  a , the interbody gas , hi ",
    "i , between hi  a and hi  c has a smoothly changing velocity field which connects the two systems .    other authors have used the term `` companion di galaxy '' to describe optical component c ( e.g. , dufour 1996b ) based on its similar redshift to component a. we have avoided such terminology in this paper to prevent the impression that these are tidally interacting systems .",
    "the picture developed here , based on the neutral gas distribution and kinematics , is that of a fragmenting hi cloud with at least two sites of star formation activity ( a and c ) .",
    "as both components appear to be very young ( see section [ sec : stars ] ) , it is likely that they are separate pieces of a single , rapidly evolving system .",
    "a large percentage ( @xmath035% ) of the hi gas in the i  zw  18 system appears as a diffuse envelope , unrelated to known optical counterparts .",
    "this diffuse gas is localized in velocity space , but does not connect smoothly to hi  a .",
    "spectral profiles of the gas in the southern extension ( hi  sx ) are shown in figure [ fig : sprfs ] .",
    "the gas in this region is centered at a velocity of 739 , with a velocity dispersion of approximately 10 , similar to that found in hi  a . however , as is seen in the center two panels of the top row of figure [ fig : sprfs ] , hi ",
    "sx appears to be kinematically distinct from hi  a ( which appears at @xmath0800  in these panels ) .",
    "the discontinuity in velocity field between hi  sx and hi  a suggests that hi ",
    "sx is not a tidal tail , stripped from hi  a .",
    "rather , hi ",
    "sx may be a remnant of the nascent hi envelope which perhaps produced both hi  a and hi  c and , eventually , their optical counterparts .",
    "in this section we summarize previous results on the evolutionary history of the i  zw  18 system in light of the new information of the neutral gas distribution and kinematics .",
    "a summary of the physical properties of i  zw  18 is presented in table [ tab : props ] .",
    "the two bright knots of star formation in component a of the i  zw  18 system are separated by @xmath05.6  ( zwicky 1966 ) .",
    "high spatial resolution h@xmath18 images of i  zw  18 reveal that the nw hii region , a(nw ) , resolves into a small hii region and a shell  like structure that encompasses a stellar association ( hunter & thronson 1995 ; figure [ fig : hahi ] ) .",
    "the se hii region , a(se ) , remains compact , even in the high spatial resolution hst images .",
    "one faint hii region has also been identified in component c. aside from the compact hii regions , large filaments and loops of ionized gas are seen to extend several hundreds of parsec from the center of component a.    two of these loops appear to be expanding `` superbubbles '' of ionized gas , with an expansion rate of @xmath0 3060  ( martin 1996 ) .",
    "the existence of such superbubbles suggests that i  zw  18 may not be undergoing its first episode of star formation ; further , the superbubbles provide a mechanism to remove the enriched material of previous generations of star formation , perhaps explaining the low abundance nature of i  zw  18 . the position  velocity diagram of the neutral gas in the vicinity of one `` superbubble '' is shown in figure [ fig : pv7 ] .",
    "the slice is centered on a(nw ) and cut at a position angle of 7.7 , equivalent to the positioning of martin s slit 1 .",
    "two doppler ellipses were identified in the ionized gas , one at a spatial offset of 1020  to the sw of a(nw ) , and one 1015  to the ne .",
    "any neutral gas associated with the more prominent feature in the ionized gas to the sw is not detectable in the present data set because the neutral gas column density drops precipitously in this region .",
    "furthermore , the peak flux of ionized gas occurs at @xmath0820 , which is at the edge of the hi bandpass .",
    "however , a hint of the ne kinematic feature is visible in the neutral gas position  velocity diagram ( figure [ fig : pv7 ] ) , at very low signal  to  noise .",
    "spectra of the hii regions are dominated by emission lines , with only weak , blue continuum emission ( e.g. , skillman & kennicutt 1993 ) .",
    "the very blue stellar continuum was the first indication that the main body might consist of young , massive stars ( sargent & searle 1970 ) .",
    "since the emission lines are strong relative to the continuum emission in this system , optical broad band images are also dominated by the emission lines .",
    "recently , emission ",
    "line corrected broad band magnitudes have been obtained : u = 15.727 @xmath19 0.053 , b = 16.608 @xmath19 0.027 , v = 16.637 @xmath19 0.025 ( salzer 1998 ) .",
    "based on the bruzual & charlot ( 1993 ) stellar evolution models , the derived colors are consistent with a very young burst of star formation , @xmath2010 myr old .    with the advent of hst , detailed studies of the stellar composition of components",
    "a and c are now possible . in their analysis of the stellar population of component",
    "a , hunter & thronson ( 1995 ) subdivide the main body of i  zw  18 into three regions : the shell stars within the shell of h@xmath18 emission in the nw , the stars associated with the se hii region , and the remaining stars associated with i  zw  18 . as might be expected , young ages are determined for the regions associated with the two hii regions .",
    "the brightest stars in the galaxy are located within the h@xmath18 shell in the nw .",
    "the absence of stars older than 6 myr in this region suggests that the shell stars are young , with typical ages of 25 myr ( hunter & thronson 1995 ) .",
    "further , the lack of bright and red stars suggests that the southern hii region may be even younger than 2 myr ; that is , the majority of the stars in the south still appear to be on the main sequence ( hunter & thronson 1995 ) .",
    "in contrast to these two hii regions , the general field stars ( those not confined to either the nw or se hii regions ) appear to be slightly older , and perhaps are not coeval ( hunter & thronson 1995 ) .",
    "based on an independent data set , dufour ( 1996a ) found several outlying blue b and a  supergiants , indicating that star formation began at least 30 myr ago , and perhaps as much as 50 myr ago , in the main body of i  zw  18 .    as mentioned previously , hst observations of the optical component c ( zwicky s flare ) by dufour ( 1996a ) resolve the object into stars , allowing the construction of a color  magnitude diagram .",
    "the presence of a well defined upper main sequence indicates that the blue stars have an approximate age of 40 myr .",
    "however , numerous red stars are also seen .",
    "these red stars correspond to 100300 myr isochrones , suggesting that component c has been forming stars for a significantly longer time period than component a ( dufour 1996a ) .",
    "further evidence suggesting that the stellar population in c has an older age comes from the hint of balmer absorption features in the optical spectrum of its hii region .",
    "figure [ fig : optspec ] shows the extracted spectra obtained with the 5 m palomar telescope for both the hii region in c and the nw hii region in a , a(nw ) ; the spectra confirm that both hii regions lie at the same redshift .",
    "in addition , only h@xmath18 and h@xmath21 are seen in the emission spectrum of component c , suggesting a soft radiation field .",
    "the very weak absorption features at the wavelengths of h@xmath22 , h@xmath23 , and h@xmath24 also suggest that this hii region is ionized by an early to intermediate b star .",
    "because of the absence of diagnostic lines , it is not possible to constrain the elemental enrichment of component c.      the two bright knots of star formation in component a have the lowest oxygen abundance of any known star forming galaxy , approximately 1/50th of solar ( e.g. , skillman & kennicutt 1993 ) .",
    "further , the derived metallicities are remarkably similar in these two knots of star formation , suggesting a coupled and relatively limited star formation history .",
    "alternatively , the products of stellar nucleosynthesis may not yet be mixed with the ionized medium , particularly if they are released in a hot , highly ",
    "ionized phase .    despite the extensive metallicity measurements of emission  line galaxies ( e.g. , masegosa 1994 ) ,",
    "not one has yet been found to have a lower oxygen abundance than the hii regions in i  zw  18 .",
    "kunth & sargent ( 1986 ) argue that the absence of similarly low metallicity objects is not a result of observational selection , but due to the self  enrichment of the hii regions observed .",
    "while such an argument is compelling , no such self  enrichment has been observed in actively star forming dwarf galaxies .",
    "in fact , multiple abundance measurements in dwarf galaxies almost universally result in negligible abundance gradients ( e.g. , smc and lmc , pagel 1978 ; ngc 4214 , kobulnicky & skillman 1996 ; ngc 1569 , kobulnicky & skillman 1997 ) , suggesting either that the mixing process is very efficient in these small galaxies , or that prompt self ",
    "enrichment is negligible .",
    "the discovery of a low abundance cloud around i  zw  18 ( kunth 1994 ) , however , suggests that the ionized material may have been significantly enriched , perhaps by self  pollution .",
    "further , an apparently sharp abundance gradient between the ionized and neutral gas led to speculation about _ inefficient _ mixing mechanisms in dwarf galaxies ( roy & kunth 1995 ) .",
    "the line was saturated in the ghrs spectrum , however , which meant that the oxygen abundance derivation for the cloud required an assumption about the neutral gas dispersion factor in this region ( kunth 1994 ) . in the absence of an independent estimate of the velocity dispersion ,",
    "pettini & lipman ( 1995 ) illustrated that the absorption spectrum was consistent with abundances between solar and 1/1000 of solar .",
    "in the original derivation of the abundance , kunth ( 1994 ) assumed a dispersion factor @xmath25 of 27  based on the ( unpublished ) low velocity resolution hi data set of viallefond as seen in section [ sec : sig ] , however , the steep velocity gradient across the main body introduces significant broadening of the hi line profile . with a derived neutral gas dispersion factor of 1314",
    ", a @xmath26 of 1820  appears to be appropriate for the region of the ghrs absorption spectrum .",
    "combining the analysis of pettini & lipman ( 1995 ) with this revised value for the dispersion factor allows us to derive an abundance for the o i cloud of @xmath41/60th of solar .",
    "higher spatial resolution hi observations will be necessary , however , to confirm the derived velocity dispersion ; it is quite possible that the asymmetric hi profiles arise from more complex gas kinematics than modelled in this paper .",
    "this new analysis of the abundance of the cloud suggests that the abundance gradient , if it exists , is very shallow between the ionized and neutral medium .",
    "given that the color ",
    "magnitude diagrams indicate that star formation has been underway for the last 3050 myr in i  zw  18 , products of stellar nucleosynthesis must have been released into the interstellar medium as the massive stars evolved .",
    "it is unclear how much enriched material from past star formation episodes has been ejected and mixed into the interstellar medium , but the mixing and dispersal process appears to be quite efficient throughout both the ionized and neutral medium .",
    "one significant question in such a low mass galaxy as i  zw  18 is whether the enriched materials are retained by the system . the superbubbles of martin ( 1996 ) could be the result of energetic processes expelling ionized gas into the intergalactic medium . whether that gas carries the enriched materials with it , and whether that material may eventually fall back into the galaxy , is unknown at this time .",
    "comparisons between neutral gas distributions and sites of active star formation suggest that the local gas column density plays a critical role in regulating star formation activity in dwarf galaxies ( e.g. , skillman 1987 ; taylor 1994 ; van zee 1997a ) .",
    "while both the atomic and molecular gas components should be considered , the common tracer of molecular gas , co , has proven to be extremely difficult to detect in metal  poor , low mass galaxies ( e.g. , elmegreen 1980 ) . observations of the co in i  zw  18 with the iram 30 m have resulted in an upper limit of l@xmath27 @xmath6 1.6 k  kpc@xmath28 , when scaled to d=10 mpc ( arnault 1988 ) . even if co were detected , the conversion factor from co column density to the more abundant h@xmath29 column density is highly uncertain in metal  poor systems ( e.g. , verter & hodge 1995 ; wilson 1995 ) . in the absence of such measurements ,",
    "we have elected to apply no correction for the contribution of molecular gas in i  zw  18 .",
    "thus , while a correction for atomic helium ( n@xmath30 = 4/3 n@xmath31 ) is applied , the gas column densities quoted below are lower limits .    the hi and h@xmath18 distributions for i  zw  18 are shown in figure [ fig : hahi ] .",
    "the peak column density of 3.02@xmath1010@xmath32 atoms @xmath14 is coincident with the se hii region in the main body of i  zw  18 . corrected for an inclination of 55  ( see section [ sec : rot ] ) and the neutral helium content , this corresponds to a peak neutral gas column density of 2.3@xmath1010@xmath32 atoms @xmath14 at a spatial resolution of @xmath0250 pc .",
    "this peak column density is high , but not atypical of column densities seen in other star forming dwarf galaxies ( e.g. , taylor 1994 ; van zee 1997a ) .",
    "an observed column density of 1.8@xmath1010@xmath32 atoms @xmath14 ( inclination corrected neutral gas column of 1.4@xmath1010@xmath32 atoms @xmath14 )",
    "well delineates the two main h@xmath18 knots , suggesting that the empirical gas column density threshold of 10@xmath32 atoms @xmath14 ( skillman 1987 ) is surpassed throughout the active star forming regions .",
    "the origin of the empirical critical threshold density seen in many dwarf galaxies is the subject of much debate .",
    "one possibility is that this threshold may correspond to a critical column density of dust necessary to shield molecular gas from uv radiation ( federman 1979 ) .",
    "if so , one might expect this threshold value to be a function of elemental abundance ( skillman 1987 ) .",
    "the preliminary results on the peak column density in i  zw  18 by viallefond ( 1987 ) suggested that a correlation might be found between high peak hi column density and low metallicity .",
    "the new observations , however , indicate that the peak column density in i  zw  18 is not unusually high .",
    "high spatial resolution observations of systems with a range of metallicities and uv fields will be necessary to fully investigate this issue , however .",
    "in summary , we have obtained new high sensitivity , high spatial and spectral resolution hi synthesis observations with the vla that provide new insight into the neutral gas distribution and kinematics of i  zw  18 .",
    "our results and conclusions are summarized as follows .",
    "\\(1 ) the total hi line flux densities detected in the b , c , and d configurations are consistent with that derived from the large beam 43  m green bank antenna observations of haynes ( 1998 ) , indicating that the total flux density ( 2.97 jy ) is recovered in the vla observations .",
    "the mass of hi present in the system amounts to @xmath33 , comparable to that seen in other nearby dwarfs ( lo 1993 ) .",
    "at least 4 kinematically distinct components are visible in the hi data cube .",
    "\\(2 ) the hi size ( at a column density of 10@xmath13 atom @xmath14 ) is approximately 60  @xmath10 45  ( 2.9 @xmath10 2.2 kpc ) , at a position angle of 147 . in its irregularity of shape and clumpiness ,",
    "the hi distribution is quite similar to those seen in faint di galaxies of comparable hi mass ( lo 1993 ) .",
    "\\(3 ) the main hi component , hi ",
    "a , forms an elongated , asymmetric structure",
    ". the peaks of the hi distribution are coincident with the regions of highest optical surface brightness .",
    "the hi column density reaches a maximum at 3.02 @xmath10 10@xmath32 atoms @xmath14 , coincident with the se hii region in the main body , a(sw ) .",
    "a peak of somewhat lower column density is associated with the other bright hii region , a(nw ) . as in other dwarf systems ,",
    "the neutral gas column density exceeds 10@xmath32 atoms @xmath14 throughout the active star forming regions .",
    "\\(4 ) although the overall kinematics of the hi associated with i  zw  18 are complex and the spatial resolution limited , evidence of solid body rotation is detected across the component hi  a .",
    "if the observed velocity field is truly reflective of solid body rotation , the dynamical mass of hi  a is approximately 2.6 @xmath10 10@xmath16 m@xmath17 . as seen in many other dwarf galaxies , the hi  to",
    " dynamical mass is approximately 0.1 , indicating a substantial contribution of dark matter .",
    "\\(5 ) a third peak in the hi column density coincides with an hii region in the optical component c , offset 25  to the nw from the kinematic center of hi  a . hi",
    "c is kinematically distinct from hi  a at a velocity of 740 .",
    "\\(6 ) the observed spectral profiles in the region of hi  a are strongly asymmetric , but well fit by two gaussians separated by @xmath030 .",
    "the asymmetric profiles are probably a result of beam smearing in the presence of a steep velocity gradient .",
    "after account is taken of the beam smearing , the derived gas dispersion is approximately 1214 , similar to what has been found in other dwarf galaxies , but significantly lower than that estimated previously for i  zw  18 , based on poorer resolution data .",
    "adoption of a lower dispersion for the region of the ghrs spectrum gives a gas dispersion factor @xmath26 of 1820 .",
    "combining this velocity dispersion factor with the analysis of pettini & lipman ( 1995 ) , the derived abundance of the hst detected cloud is @xmath41/60th of solar .",
    "\\(7 ) while kinematically distinct , the hi associated with the optical component c , hi ",
    "c , appears to be connected to hi  a by interbody gas with a smoothly changing velocity gradient .",
    "this apparent bridge could be the result of gas bubbles or `` blow  out '' .",
    "\\(8 ) about 35% of the total hi flux density arises in a diffuse extended component , hi ",
    "sx , not coincident with any optical emission . hi ",
    "sx is also localized in velocity space and accounts for some of the asymmetry of the global profile between 720  760 .",
    "in contrast to impressions conveyed by previous lower sensitivity observations , the optical system in i  zw  18 is embedded in an extensive cloud of low column density ( @xmath0 5 @xmath10 10@xmath34 atoms @xmath14 ) neutral gas . the neutral gas is therefore not embedded in a hot envelope , but rather the opposite situation occurs . the current data set remains limited in spatial resolution and signal  to  noise and does not allow discrimination amongs models of the overall hi distribution as a single nascent envelope or the result of a merger or tides .",
    "however , no velocity gradient is evident across hi ",
    "the lack of a gradient might result from geometry if the cloud is a disk or tidal tail seen face  on .",
    "more likely however , hi ",
    "sx is neither face  on nor disk  like .",
    "similarly patchy distributions are seen on comparable linear scales in the faintest dwarf galaxies mapped by lo ( 1993 ) which , those authors argue , are dominated by turbulence , not rotation .",
    "\\(9 ) a new optical spectrum of the brightest hii region associated with the optical component c reveals the presence of only h@xmath18 and h@xmath21 in emission plus weak balmer absorption features , implying that the hii region is ionized by an early to intermediate b star . in accord with the hst color  magnitude diagram reported by dufour ( 1996a ) , the spectral characteristics suggest that the stellar component of c is older in age than the bursting population seen in a.    in many respects , the hi distribution and kinematics of i  zw  18 are not unusual for dwarf galaxies .",
    "for instance , when the other components are excluded , properties such as peak column density , gas dispersion , m@xmath1/l@xmath2 , and m@xmath1/m@xmath3 for component a , are remarkably similar to those found in other low mass systems ( e.g. , skillman 1987 ; lo 1993 ; van zee 1997a ) .",
    "the main exception is the existence of diffuse gas extending to the south of the main body .",
    "`` i  zw  18 '' may actually consist of a conglomeration of low mass clumps of gas contained within a larger diffuse envelope .",
    "such a conglomeration might explain the unique properties of i  zw  18 , such as the extremely low oxygen abundance and evidence for a very recent onset of star formation in both the main body and component c. if i  zw  18 is in the process of accreting small gas clouds , such as those originally identified by viallefond ( 1987 ) , the interstellar medium will be diluted by this pristine material , resulting in a low oxygen abundance .",
    "further , the very process of accretion may have induced the present star formation activity , once the local gas density exceeded the critical density .",
    "while such a scenario has simplistic appeal , the absence of a strong abundance gradient in the neutral and ionized medium suggests a coupled and unevolved star formation history , rather than the slow accretion of pristine gas .    to resolve fully the effect of the neutral gas distribution and kinematics on the star formation history of i  zw  18 , higher spatial resolution observations with comparable spectral resolution",
    "will be necessary .",
    "in particular , with the present spatial resolution it is impossible to determine whether the steep and changing velocity gradient in hi  a is due to additional fragmentation of the gas cloud , or the result of gas bubbles and `` blow  out . ''",
    "further , determination of the gas velocity dispersion was significantly hampered by beam effects in the presence of a steep velocity gradient .",
    "given that the total flux density was recovered in the b configuration alone , such high spatial resolution observations are possible , and indeed necessary , to understand the neutral gas kinematics in this unique galaxy .",
    "we acknowledge daniel puche , who participated in the d and c configuration observations and the early stages of this project .",
    "we thank lisa young and evan skillman for many enlightening conversations about dwarf galaxies and gas kinematics .",
    "we acknowledge the financial support by nsf grants ast9023450 and ast95 - 28860 to mph , ast9553020 to jjs and from the new mexico space grant consortium to dw .",
    "arnault , p. , casoli , f. , combes , f. , kunth , d. 1988 , , 205 , 41 briggs , d. 1995 , phd thesis , new mexico tech bruzual , g. , & charlot , s. 1993 , , 405 , 538 davidson , k. , kinman , t. d. , & friedman , s. d. 1989 , , 97 , 1591 dufour , r. j. , & hester , j. j. 1990 , , 350 , 149 dufour , r. j. , garnett , d. r. , skillman , e. d. , & shields , g. a. 1996a , in from stars to galaxies , ed . c. leitherer , u. fritz  van alvensleben , and j. huchra ( asp conference series ) , 98 , 358 dufour , r. j. , esteban , c. , & castaeda , h. o. 1996b , , 471 , l87 elmegreen , b. g. , elmegreen , d. m. , & morris , m. 1980 , , 240 , 455 federman , s. r. , glassgold , a. e. , & kwan , j. 1979 , , 227 , 466 haynes , m. p. , hogg , d. e. , maddalena , r. j. , roberts , m. s. , & van zee , l. 1998 , , in press hunter , d. a. , & thronson , h. a. 1995 , , 452 , 238 kobulnicky , h. a. , & skillman , e. d. 1996 , , 471 , 211 kobulnicky , h. a. , & skillman , e. d. 1997 , , 489 , 636 kunth , d. , & sargent , w. l. w. 1986 , , 300 , 496 kunth , d. , lequeux , j. , sargent , w. l. w. , & viallefond , f. 1994 , , 282 , 709 kunth , d. , matteucci , f. , & marconi , g. 1995 , , 297 , 634 lequeux , j. , & viallefond , f. 1980 , , 91 , 269 lo , k. y. , sargent , w. l. w. , & young , k. 1993 , , 106 , 507 maddox , s. j. , sutherland , w. j. , efstathiou , g. , & loveday , j. 1990 , , 243 , 692 marconi , g. , matteucci , f. , & tosi , m. 1994 , mnras , 270 , 35 masegosa , j. , moles , m. , & campos  aguilar , a. 1994 , , 420 , 576 martin , c. l. 1996 , , 465 , 680 napier , p. j. , thompson , r. t. , & ekers , r. d. 1983 , proc .",
    "ieee , 71 , 1295 pagel , b. e. j. , edmunds , m. g. , fosbury , r. a. e. , & webster , b. l. 1978 , , 184 , 569 petrosian , a. r. , boulesteix , j. , comte , g. , kunth , d. , & lecoarer , e. 1997 , , 318 , 390 pettini , m. , & lipman , k. 1995 , , 297 , l63 roy , j.r . , & kunth , d. 1995 , , 294 , 432 sargent , w. l. w. , & searle , l. 1970 , , 162 , l155 salzer , j. j. , elston , r. , sudarsky , d. l. , & sinnott , k. 1998 , in preparation shostak , g. s. , & skillman , e. d. 1989 , , 214 , 33 skillman , e. d. 1987 , in star formation in galaxies , ed . c. j. lonsdale persson , nasa , cp2466 , 263 skillman , e. d. , bothun , g. d. , murray , m. a. , & warmels , r. h. 1987 , , 185 , 61 skillman , e. d. , & kennicutt , r. c. 1993 , , 411 , 655 skillman , e. d. , palmer , r. c. , garnett , d. r. , & dufour , r. j. 1996 , in from stars to galaxies , ed . c. leitherer , u. fritz  van alvensleben , and j. huchra ( asp conference series ) , 98 , 366 taylor , c. l. , brinks , e. , pogge , r. w. , & skillman , e. d. 1994 , , 107 , 971 van  der  hulst , j. m. , terlouw , j. p. , begemen , k. , zwitser , w. , & roelfsema , p. r. 1992 , in astronomical data analysis software and systems , ed .",
    "d. worall , c. biemesderfer , and j. barnes ( asp conference series ) , 25 , 131 van zee , l. , haynes , m. p. , salzer , j. j. , & broeils , a. h. 1997a , , 113 , 1618 van zee , l. , haynes , m. p. , salzer , j. j. 1997b , , in press verter , f. , & hodge , p. w. 1995 , , 446 , 616 viallefond , f. , lequeux , j. , & comte , g. , 1987 , in starbursts and galaxy evolution , ed . t. x. thuan , t. montmerle , and j. tran thanh van ( editions frontires : gif sur yvette ) , 139 wilson , c. d. 1995 , , 448 , l97 young , l. m. , & lo , k. y. 1996 , , 462 , 203 zwicky , f. 1966 , , 143 , 192"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of high velocity ( 1.3  channels ) and high spatial ( @xmath05 , or @xmath0 250 pc at the distance of i  zw  18 ) resolution hi synthesis observations of the blue compact dwarf galaxy i  zw  18 to investigate the link between its unique evolutionary history and the neutral gas distribution and kinematics . </S>",
    "<S> the hi distribution is extensive , with diffuse neutral gas extending to the northwest and south of the main component . </S>",
    "<S> this diffuse gas may be a remnant of the nascent hi cloud . </S>",
    "<S> the kinematics of the i  zw  18 system are complex , with 4 components identified : hi  a , hi  </S>",
    "<S> c , hi  </S>",
    "<S> i , and hi  sx . the gas associated with the main body , hi  </S>",
    "<S> a , has a steep velocity gradient ; although our analysis is hindered by poor spatial resolution relative to the extent of the system , the main body appears to be undergoing solid body rotation . the optical condensation to the northwest of i  zw  18 is embedded in the common hi envelope , and is found to be kinematically separate from the main body at a velocity of 740  ( hi  c ) . </S>",
    "<S> the interbody gas , hi  </S>",
    "<S> i , connects hi  a and hi  c . finally , a large diffuse , kinematically distinct , gas component extends at least 1  to the south of the main body ( hi  sx ) , with no known optical counterpart . </S>",
    "<S> the peak of the gas column density coincides with the se hii region in the main body ; two other hi peaks are associated with the nw hii region and an hii region in the optical condensation to the northwest . in many respects , the hi properties of the main body of i  zw  18 ( hi  a ) are not unusual for dwarf galaxies ; the peak column density , gas dispersion , m@xmath1/l@xmath2 , and m@xmath1/m@xmath3 are remarkably similar to other low mass systems . </S>",
    "<S> the neutral gas associated with i  zw  18 is best described as a fragmenting hi cloud in the early stages of galaxy evolution .    </S>",
    "<S> the derived gas distribution and kinematics are placed in the context of the known star formation history of i  zw  18 . in particular </S>",
    "<S> , the neutral gas velocity dispersion is critical for calculating the abundance of the hst detected cloud . </S>",
    "<S> while significantly affected by beam smearing in the presence of a steep velocity gradient , the derived gas velocity dispersion in the main body of i  zw  18 is approximately 1214 . </S>",
    "<S> based on the present analysis , the cloud has an oxygen abundance @xmath41/60th of solar , indicating that both the neutral and ionized medium are well  mixed .    2.5 truein to appear : _ astronomical journal _ , march 1998 </S>"
  ]
}