{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxy evolution is largely the story of how the masses , morphologies , and patterns of star formation in these objects vary with environment and cosmological epoch .",
    "luminosity functions ( lfs ) are very important statistical tools for studying evolutionary changes in galaxy populations and provide key observational constraints on galaxy evolution .",
    "the infrared ( ir ) lf , in particular , by tracing the ir emission of dust heated by star forming activities , remains one of the best probes to study the global evolution of the star formation rate ( sfr ) with environment and redshift .",
    "all the indicators show that the sfr is a strong function of epoch .",
    "the average sfr has declined by an order of magnitude to the present epoch from a peak near @xmath6 @xcite .",
    "we also expect the sfr to depend on environment . in crowded regions , e.g. , the cores of dense clusters , galaxies experience many interactions and mergers , which drive the accumulation of mass and redistribute the gas .",
    "the hierarchical galaxy formation models @xcite suggest that galaxies in a cluster gradually lose their gas reservoir as they are accreted into the cluster center .",
    "those environmental effects are expected to result in a systematic modification of the patterns of star formation in clusters .",
    "in fact , a number of studies @xcite have shown such effects , with a lower sfr in clusters compared with the field .",
    "the infrared lfs of clusters , as a global indicator of sfr , may also carry such an imprint and differ from the ir lfs of field galaxies .",
    "since the launch of the _ infrared astronomical satellite _ ( iras ) and the _ infrared space observatory _ ( iso ) , there have been many studies of the infrared lf of galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , these works concentrate on general field surveys and there is no systematic study of ir lfs with epochs devoted to the cluster population .",
    "such a study will enable us to disentangle the evolution of the sfr in different environments and help us understand where and why the changes in sfr occurred .",
    "the recently launched @xmath7 space telescope with the multiband imaging photometer ( mips , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , capable of high resolution , large sky surveys with high sensitivity , provides us the capabilities necessary for thorough studies of the star forming properties of dense galaxy clusters at different redshifts . in this paper , the first one of a series studying the ir lf of clusters up to @xmath8 using mips 24 and 70  observations , we present the ir lf of the coma cluster . the coma cluster , as the nearest rich cluster , provides us an excellent chance to study the properties of the ir lf down to a very faint limit . it also enables us to study the change of ir lf in different regions of the cluster , as well as the contributions to the total ir lf from different types of galaxies .",
    "this paper will show how the cluster environment shapes the current star formation in this prototypical dense cluster and it will provide a foundation for the future studies of the sfr patterns in other clusters , both nearby and at high redshift . in the paper , we use the cosmological parameter set @xmath9 .",
    "we assume a distance modulus of m - m = 35.0 mag for the coma cluster at z=0.023 @xcite .",
    "we used mips to observe the coma cluster in medium scan map mode on jun 6 , 2004 .",
    "our map covered a 4 deg@xmath10 area centered at @xmath11 , which included both the cluster core region and the ngc 4839 region .",
    "[ f_sky ] shows the region of the map .",
    "the 24  and 70  reductions were carried out with the mips data analysis tool @xcite .",
    "the total exposure time was about 88 seconds per pixel for the 24  observations and about 40 seconds for the 70  ones .",
    "sextractor was applied to the images to detect sources automatically and to obtain photometry parameters .",
    "first , the images were analyzed and sky background models were built . then the images were background - subtracted and filtered with gaussian functions with the full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) matching the fwhm of the mips 24  and 70  point spread functions ( psfs ) .",
    "all the objects with values exceeding a certain threshold of local background were extracted .",
    "we set this detection threshold , relative to the root - mean - square background noise , at 0.65 for the 24  image and 2 for the 70  image .",
    "after deblending the adjacent objects and ` cleaning ' the artifacts due to bright objects , sextractor gave a final catalog of sources .",
    "sextractor provides several types of magnitude measurements .",
    "we adopted the mag_best magnitude . in most of the cases ,",
    "the mag_best magnitude is measured in an adaptive aperture of 2.5 times the kron aperture , but in crowded fields , it is measured in an isophotal aperture and corrected for aperture losses . in our data , few regions are crowded .",
    "the completeness of source detection affects the lf directly , so it is important to know the detection limit of the observations .",
    "@xcite studied the source detection completeness of mips 24  images in several different fields . among these fields ,",
    "the botes image has almost the same exposure time as the coma image and the background levels are also similar , with a mean value of 22.7 mjy sr@xmath12 for the botes field and 33.4 mjy sr@xmath12 for the coma field . by inserting artificial sources in the images and performing source extraction on them",
    ", @xcite found a 80% completeness flux density limit of 0.27 mjy in the botes field .",
    "as a rough approximation , a simple linear scaling with the square root of the background level gives us a detection limit of 80% completeness at 0.33 mjy for the coma field .    at 70 ,",
    "the coma data were obtained at a lower detector bias than those in botes , resulting in an improvement in overall performance .",
    "therefore , we ignore the background difference and adopt the completeness limit of about 80 mjy obtained in the botes field with the same exposure time @xcite .",
    "to study the infrared lf of the coma cluster galaxies , we used a spectroscopic sample so that cluster membership could be confirmed .",
    "fortunately many spectroscopic surveys have been carried out in this region . among them , the catalogs from @xcite and @xcite have the largest overlapping area with the mips 24  observations and also go to fairly deep detection limits . @xcite generated a catalog ( hereafter bvdhc ) using all known coma cluster redshifts in a 5.2 deg@xmath13 region .",
    "this catalog covers almost the whole region of the mips 24  image except a few small patches at the edge and has a 93% completeness down to sloan @xmath14 mag .",
    "@xcite performed spectroscopic observations on two rectangular regions , one at the cluster core and the other near the ngc 4839 group , each @xmath15 arcmin@xmath10 .",
    "the core region is totally covered by mips observations , and the region near the ngc 4839 group is partly covered .",
    "its completeness is about 60% for the bright galaxies ( @xmath16 ) and decreases towards the faint end .",
    "the difference between the sloan @xmath17 filter bvdhc used and the cousins @xmath18 filter @xcite used is small .",
    "comparing the common objects in these two catalogs gives a difference of @xmath19 , so we do not differentiate them and just use @xmath18 to refer to both of them in this paper .",
    "furthermore , we complemented mobasher s catalog with the bvdhc down to @xmath20 mag , and generated a merged catalog in these regions ( hereafter mbc ) .",
    "we selected all the galaxies from these two catalogs ( bvdhc & mbc ) with 4000 @xmath21 as cluster members @xcite and cross matched them with our 24  and 70  sources .",
    "any 24  or 70  source within 10  of the optical galaxy was identified as the ir emission from this galaxy .",
    "this search radius is about twice as large as the fwhm of the mips psf at 24  and half of the fwhm at 70 .",
    "it allows a displacement in projected distance up to 5 kpc between the optical centers of galaxies and the peaks of their ir emission .",
    "about 90% of the cluster members with 24  emission above the completeness limit have a displacement between optical center and ir emission peak smaller than 5 , i.e. , 2.5 kpc . when multiple identifications occurred , the one with the smallest distance from the optical galaxy was selected .",
    "less than 2% of the sources had multiple identifications . therefore ,",
    "our final sample is not sensitive to the details of matching infrared and optical sources ; few cases yield ambiguous associations , and moderate changes in the acceptance radius have little effect on the results .    among the 498 coma galaxies in the bvdhc within the mips 24  field , 217 have 24  counterparts .",
    "in the part of the field covered at 70  , 58 were detected out of 477 members . in the mbc",
    ", there were 123 galaxies detected at 24  out of 333 galaxies and 33 at 70  out of 302 galaxies .",
    "the number of galaxies detected in both bands was 56 for the bvdhc and 33 for the mbc .",
    "although the total number of galaxies detected in the mbc is less than in the bvdhc , the overlapping area with mips observations is also smaller : it is about 0.8 deg@xmath13 for the mbc and about 3 deg@xmath13 for the bvdhc .",
    "therefore , the number density of galaxies detected in the mbc is still larger than in the bvdhc , consistent with their different detection limits .",
    "since we detected relatively fewer galaxies at 70  than at 24 , we based our lf calculations mainly on 24  sources .    to obtain the total ir luminosities of galaxies , which relate to the total flux from 8 - 1000 ,",
    "a single measurement of flux density at 24  is not enough .",
    "we need more constraints . using a self - consistent modelling of the spectral energy distributions ( seds ) of galaxies over a broad range of wavelength",
    ", @xcite published a sequence of galaxy seds with different ir luminosities based on a sample of nearby galaxies .",
    "their sample includes normal spirals , luminous ir galaxies ( lirgs ) and ultraluminous ir galaxies ( ulirgs ) .",
    "if we assume these seds are a complete assembly of representatives of nearby galaxies , the color correlation of these seds should be the same as the color correlation of the coma galaxies . more specifically ,",
    "if we know the color correlation between the ratio of ir luminosity ( @xmath22 ) and 24  luminosity ( @xmath23 ) and the ratio of flux density at 24  ( @xmath24 ) and r band ( @xmath25 ) from the template seds , we will know the color correlation of the coma galaxies as well .",
    "therefore , we can use observational data regarding @xmath23 , @xmath25 and @xmath24 to get the total infrared luminosity @xmath22 .",
    "however , the assumption that the template seds include all the galaxy types in coma is not correct . for a cluster as rich as coma , the early type ( e / s0 ) galaxies dominate the optical emission of the cluster . in the infrared ,",
    "the spiral galaxies are generally more luminous than the early type galaxies and hence are the majority of the ir sources .",
    "however , given the sensitivity of mips and the closeness of the coma cluster , we still detected the 24  emission from many elliptical galaxies and s0 galaxies . in the bvdhc , which gives information on the galaxy type ,",
    "about half of the galaxies detected at 24  are early type galaxies , and the rest are mostly spiral galaxies or galaxies without type identification .",
    "the infrared emissions of the early - type galaxies may come from different physical mechanisms or different dust geometry than that of the spirals , and their seds may have different shapes and colors than those of the template seds .    to check for possible differences between the early - type galaxies and the spiral galaxies in the colors that are crucial to determine the total infrared luminosity , we plot in fig .",
    "[ f_color ] the color correlation of the different types of galaxies in the bvdhc .",
    "panel @xmath26 in fig .",
    "[ f_color ] is the color - color plot of @xmath27/s@xmath28 for the galaxies detected both at 24  and 70  and with a morphology identification .",
    "the plot shows that early type galaxies ( open circles ) have smaller @xmath29 ratios on average than the spiral galaxies ( open triangles ) , but their @xmath30 ratios are similar to the spiral galaxies .",
    "although with a large dispersion , the template sed s ( crosses ) color correlation represents the average value for the whole galaxy sample fairly well .",
    "if the ir emission of the galaxy mainly comes from dust at a single temperature , then small differences in the @xmath30 color indicate a small difference in the @xmath31 ratio for these galaxies . in panel @xmath32",
    ", we show the 24  flux density _ vs. _ @xmath29 color of all the galaxies .",
    "the early type galaxies mostly reside in the lower corner of the plot but they are well mixed with the spiral galaxies and show no difference in this correlation from the faint spiral galaxies .",
    "the plot also shows that most of the galaxies with 24  flux density larger than 6 mjy are also detected at 70  ( indicated by the filled symbols ) .",
    "this result is consistent with the detection completeness at 70  assuming the average @xmath30 color .",
    "there also appears to be a trend between the 24  flux and the s@xmath33/s@xmath28 color of the galaxies , which indicates larger ir emission from the redder galaxies . using this trend",
    ", we can also obtain a detection limit set by the completeness of the 70  observation for panel @xmath26 shown as the dotted line ; the region at the left and below the line is affected by the incompleteness and large uncertainties of the 70  measurements . from both plots , we find that the early type galaxies are generally less luminous at 24  than the spiral galaxies and therefore have lower s@xmath33/s@xmath28 ratios , but their color correlation does not differ from that of the spiral galaxies with similar 24  flux density .",
    "this justifies the use of the template seds as a complete assembly of all types of galaxies to deduce the total ir luminosity from the @xmath34 correlation .    to obtain the flux densities of the seds at different bands , we convolved the seds with the response functions of the filters .",
    "for the 24  and 70  bands , we also account for the color corrections as described in the mips data handbook . in fig .",
    "[ f_ratio ] , we plot the correlation of @xmath34 obtained from template seds as well as the value interpolated from the coma galaxies .",
    "the log(@xmath29 ) ratios of the template spirals range from about @xmath35 to 1 and those of the lirgs and ulirgs from about 2 to 3.5 .",
    "most of the coma galaxies have log(@xmath29 ) ratios smaller than 1.5 and only one source has a color similar to the lirgs / ulirgs",
    ". the log(@xmath31 ) ratios of the lirgs / ulirgs are almost a constant of @xmath36 .",
    "these ratios for the normal spirals increase slowly with the decrease of @xmath29 ratios , with a little ( and insignificant ) dip at about log(@xmath37 .",
    "although a simple interpolation onto the correlation works for many of the coma galaxies , our template seds do not cover the range with log(@xmath38 as the data do , so the color correlation at this end is an extrapolation from the last few points of the template seds .",
    "this unbounded extrapolation may cause systematic errors when deducing the @xmath22 from the @xmath31 ratio .",
    "however , we can find some support for the higher value of the @xmath31 ratio at this end from panel @xmath26 of fig .",
    "[ f_color ] . despite the incompleteness and large uncertainties",
    ", the panel shows a slightly higher value of the @xmath30 ratio than the ratio given by template seds towards the lower end of @xmath29 ratio .",
    "it is worth noticing that this extrapolation is also consistent with the general expectations for thermal emission : galaxies with smaller values of @xmath29 have relatively less emission by warm dust and therefore a higher value of @xmath31 . in the future , a template sed with lower @xmath29 ratios will be needed to further constrain the @xmath31 color at this end , but for now we rely on the simple extrapolation . with the @xmath31 ratio of each galaxy in hand , we can directly deduce the @xmath22 of each galaxy from its @xmath23 .    an important result from fig .",
    "[ f_ratio ] is that @xmath29 is nearly independent of @xmath31 over the luminosity range of interest to us .",
    "therefore , our initial galaxy selection on the basis of a visible spectroscopic study will not introduce biases in the infrared properties of the sample .    to test the method we used here to determine @xmath22",
    ", we compare our result with the ir luminosities obtained with the method used by @xcite .",
    "they adopt a different set of sed templates that are luminosity dependent , e.g. , the templates given by @xcite .",
    "lagache et al.s galaxy templates include separate seds for normal galaxies and starburst galaxies .",
    "their normal galaxies , again , only include spiral galaxies . as we can see from fig .",
    "[ f_ratio ] , most of the galaxies in the coma cluster are normal galaxies and only one galaxy has a @xmath39 color similar to lirgs / ulirgs , so we plot lagache et al.s correlation between @xmath31 for normal galaxies in fig .",
    "[ f_ratio ] as the dashed line .",
    "this correlation agrees well with the @xmath31 ratios given by the template spirals and thus demonstrates the consistency between our method and that of le floch .    to test the self - consistency of our method",
    ", we use the data for the members of the bvdhc detected both in the 24  and 70  bands . using the same sed mapping method as before , but , using different combinations of bands , we estimated new values of @xmath22 for these objects .",
    "we plot them against the previous @xmath22 obtained from the correlation between @xmath31 and @xmath29 in fig .",
    "[ f_comp ] .",
    "the top panel in fig .",
    "[ f_comp ] is the @xmath22 obtained from the correlation between @xmath40 and @xmath41 compared with the previous one .",
    "the bottom panel is the @xmath22 obtained using the correlation between @xmath40 and @xmath30 .",
    "the @xmath22 values obtained from different color correlations are generally consistent with a standard deviation of about 0.10 dex for the top panel and 0.16 dex for the bottom panel .",
    "the galaxies with @xmath42 under the 80 mjy completeness limit , shown as the open circles in the figure , have large uncertainties in their @xmath42 measurement ( with errors up to 40 % ) and therefore show a more scattered correlation .",
    "the dispersions of the correlations are generally consistent with the dispersion caused by the uncertainties in the photometric measurements .",
    "it is also possible there are significant contributions to the dispersions by intrinsic color dispersions of the galaxies , as opposed to the tight correlation we assumed in fig .",
    "[ f_ratio ] .",
    "since the dispersions are modest and have zero averages , they will in any case have little effect on the lf we deduce .",
    "when we measure the ir emission from galaxies and study their star forming activities , contamination from agns is always an issue . the ir emission of agns comes from dust heated by the soft x - ray and ultraviolet emission of the active nuclei rather than from star forming activities ; therefore , their seds could be very different from the template seds we used .    to search for the agns in the coma cluster ,",
    "we cross matched the _ quasars and active galactic nuclei _",
    "catalog @xcite with the bvdhc and mbc .",
    "the @xcite catalog is not complete but it includes almost all the agns in the literature .",
    "there are three agns detected at 24  : d 16 , sy1 ; ngc 4853 , sy and kug 1259 + 280 sy . among them , only ngc 4853 has a @xmath22 greater @xmath43 .",
    "these agns , so few in number , do not have a noticeable effect on the ir lfs we obtain .",
    "after testing for the method we used to deduce the total ir luminosity as described above , we calculated the projected ir luminosity function of the coma cluster .    for the bvdhc , we obtained the number density of galaxies per projected area by directly counting the number of galaxies in each luminosity bin and dividing the number by the projection area .",
    "for the mbc , we assume the completeness function is unity for @xmath44 mag and behaves as described in @xcite for galaxies fainter than @xmath20 mag . in calculating the number counts of galaxies",
    ", we used the inverse of this completeness function as a weighting factor to correct for the incompleteness .",
    "both lfs are affected by the completeness of the spectroscopic surveys as well as the ir observations .",
    "the bvdhc spectroscopic completeness is about @xmath20 mag , and for the mbc , since we already correct for the incompleteness , the completeness limit can be extended to @xmath45 mag .",
    "the spectroscopic completeness levels of the bvdhc and the mbc are both well above the detection limits in surface brightness for the two surveys @xcite , suggesting our samples are not limited by the galaxy surface brightness . in the end",
    ", we need to estimate the ir completeness of samples selected in the optical for the spectroscopic surveys .",
    "we therefore need to relate the two spectral ranges . about 93% of our galaxy sample has a @xmath29 ratio smaller than 6.5 , so we can use this value to set the upper limit of the 24  flux density corresponding to the completeness in @xmath18 band . with the linear correlation between @xmath22 and @xmath23 given by @xcite ,",
    "we find the completeness limits of the two spectroscopic surveys in total ir luminosity are @xmath46 and @xmath47 , respectively . from section 4",
    ", we already know that the 80% detection limit of the 24  observations is about 0.33 mjy , which corresponds to a total ir luminosity of about @xmath48 . this detection limit is lower than the completeness levels set by spectroscopic surveys .",
    "thus , the spectroscopic data are the primary limit on the range at which the lfs are free from the effects of incompleteness , with only @xmath0 7% incompleteness at the lowest luminosities from the dispersion in ir properties .    in the above calculations of the completeness",
    ", we utilize the @xmath29 color distribution of our coma galaxy samples . however , an issue with these samples is that they are optically selected and therefore they are likely to miss galaxies faint in the optical while bright in the ir .",
    "the ir / optical color distribution of our samples might be tilted towards lower values and we might underestimate the number of galaxies we missed in the calculation of the completeness limit . to check the color bias of our optically selected samples",
    ", we use the catalog of @xcite , which provides a nearly complete listing of local galaxies within 10 mpc .",
    "the catalog gives the @xmath49-band magnitude of each galaxy .",
    "we obtained the iras data for these galaxies , and therefore have a complete sample which is not constrained at the levels of interest by the optical and/or ir detection limits .",
    "we calculated the ir / optical colors @xmath50 of the normal galaxies ( not dominated by agn and below the lirg luminosity range ) in the sample and compared them with those of the bvdhc . in @xmath49 band ,",
    "the bvdhc is complete down to @xmath51 mag , and the ir completeness limit of @xmath46 corresponds to a @xmath50 color of @xmath52 .",
    "about 95@xmath53% of galaxies in bvdhc have @xmath50 color smaller than this value , while in the karachentsev s catalog , this ratio is only slightly lower , 89@xmath54% , among the galaxies with same @xmath49 band magnitude cutoff . that is ,",
    "the small effect of the dispersion in infrared properties on the overall completeness is confirmed by the behavior of the complete sample of local galaxies .    in fig .",
    "[ f_lf ] , we plot the lfs obtained from the two spectroscopic catalogs along with the completeness limits .",
    "the filled circles are results from the bvdhc and the open squares from the mbc .",
    "the dotted vertical line is the detection limit at 24 , the solid line is the limit of the mbc , and the dashed one is the limit of the bvdhc .",
    "the shapes of these two lfs are similar , but the lf from the mbc has an overall higher number density than that from the bvdhc .",
    "the reason for this difference is that mobasher s spectroscopic survey covered the whole cluster core , where the galaxy number density is the highest , but only a small portion of the outer region , while the bvdhc is based on a much larger area including both the core and the outer region . also , the lf from the mbc has a larger variance compared to the lf from the bvdhc because it is based on a smaller sample .",
    "below the 24  detection limit , the loss of faint galaxies due to the limit of the ir observations causes quick drops in both lfs . above this limit , the faint end slope of the mbc lf is steeper than the bvdhc lf , which is consistent with the different completeness limits of these two lfs .    to have a more quantitative comparison , we fitted these two lfs with some analytical functions .",
    "we discarded all the data points below @xmath55 and use a chi - square minimization method to find the best fitting parameters . since we do not have many data points at the bright ends which are critical to determine @xmath56 , it is important to constrain the fitting beyond the last bin for the non - detection of brighter galaxies . in order to incorporate this factor into the fitting , we calculate the integrated expected galaxy number brighter than the brightest galaxy actually observed for each trial function and use this number to estimate the probability of the non - detection . this integration is carried out from the brightest luminosity observed to a luminosity 2 orders of magnitude brighter .",
    "the results change little when we extend the integration to a higher upper limit .",
    "we include the chi - square of this non - detection into the total chi - square value for the minimization process .",
    "we first fitted the lfs with the schechter function @xcite and the best - fitting parameters we found are :    @xmath57    @xmath58    the fitting results are shown as the solid curves in fig .  [ f_lf ] .",
    "the @xmath56 values of these two lfs are very similar .",
    "the parameters of the mbc lf have larger uncertainties due to the few data points at the bright end to constrain the fitting",
    ". it also has a steeper faint end slope than the lf for the bvdhc , which is in agreement with the fact that the mbc has been corrected for incompleteness at the faint end while the bvdhc has not . considering this factor",
    ", we expect that the ir lf for the mbc gives a better estimate of the faint end slope than the ir lf for the bvdhc .    a recent work of @xcite studies the 12  lf from the 24  emission of galaxies using the spitzer data in two deep field surveys , the chandra deep field south and the hubble deep field north . their results , coming from galaxies in the general field , provide a good comparison to our lf in a dense cluster .",
    "their lf for galaxies with @xmath59 gives the schechter parameter of @xmath60 and log@xmath61 . with a relation between @xmath22 and @xmath62 given by @xcite , @xmath63",
    ", the @xmath64 obtained by @xcite corresponds to a total ir luminosity of @xmath65 , which is only slightly smaller than the value we got ; the difference is well within the one sigma error .",
    "however , we found a somewhat steeper slope at the low luminosity end ( at about 2@xmath66 significance ) .",
    "@xcite suggest that incompleteness may have reduced the value of @xmath67 in their lf .",
    "@xcite obtained a lf using an all - sky 12  survey from the _ iras faint source catalog , version 2 _ , and fitted it with a two - power - law function @xmath68 for the non - seyfert subsample ( the majority are normal galaxies , and about 5% are starburst galaxies ) , they found the best - fitting parameters are @xmath69 , and @xmath70 .",
    "the average redshift of their non - seyfert subsample is 0.013 , comparable to our sample s average redshift .",
    "their result has a much steeper slope at the faint end compared to the @xcite result and a little larger @xmath64 , which corresponds to log@xmath71 . to make a fair comparison to their result",
    ", we tried to fit our lfs with the same two - power - law function .",
    "however , since the two - power - law function has too many free parameters and our small sample size gives poor constraints at the high luminosity end , a free fitting failed to give a reasonable result .",
    "we fixed the slope index at the high luminosity end to the best - fitting value given by @xcite and kept @xmath56 , @xmath67 and the normalization free .",
    "the fitting gives very similar results to the schechter fitting ; the best - fitting parameters are @xmath72 @xmath73 again , we note that the mbc lf gives a larger value for the faint end slope and the bvdhc lf gives a more reliable estimate for the @xmath56 value .",
    "the mbc lf has a faint end slope a little flatter than rush s lf , and both lfs give @xmath56 values smaller than rush s @xmath56 , with significance about one sigma .",
    "@xcite estimated the 60  lf of the local galaxies in the point source redshift survey of @xmath74 .",
    "based on this lf , @xcite calculate the total ir lf using the 60  total - ir iras correlation ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and fit the ir lf with a double - exponential function .",
    "the fitting gives a faint end slope index of 1.23 , @xmath75 and @xmath76 , where @xmath66 is the parameter used to adjust the shape of the bright end of the lf ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . to compare to their result",
    ", we fitted our lfs with the same double - exponential function .",
    "since neither of our lfs has enough data points at the bright end , we have to fix @xmath76 , the value they gave .",
    "by doing this , we found a faint end slope index of @xmath77 for the mbc lf and log@xmath78 for the bvdhc lf .",
    "again , the coma ir lf has a very similar @xmath56 to the field lf .",
    "the faint end slope of takeuchi s lf is similar to that of @xcite , and they both are flatter than the coma lf",
    ".    the comparisons between the coma ir lfs and the ir lfs from the general field do not show significant variation of the @xmath56 value in different environments .",
    "however , a difference in the ir luminosity as small as the 0.3 mag (  0.12 dex in luminosity ) difference in @xmath79 of cluster lf and field lf shown by @xcite , is beyond the capability of our study .",
    "the faint end slope of the coma ir lf is steeper than that of @xcite and @xcite , but a little shallower than that of @xcite .",
    "this comparison , although complicated by completeness issues , does not support a strong dependence of the shape of the ir lf on environment .    despite the similarity in the shape of the coma ir lf and the field ir lf , there might be a large portion of ir - inactive galaxies in the cluster compared with the field . assuming a line - of - sight dimension of the coma cluster of 13 mpc , the bvdhc ir lf has a @xmath80 value - the space density at @xmath56 - about 45 times larger than the @xmath80 value given by @xcite . because @xmath56 is far above our detection limits and those of the spectroscopic surveys ( using the proportionality we found for local galaxies between optical and ir luminosities ) , our study should be complete there . with the same assumptions , we find that the average density at @xmath81 is 62.9 @xmath82 15.2 times that in the field @xcite .",
    "that is , the infrared - emitting galaxy density is only slightly less enhanced in the cluster than the optical galaxy density ; there are few extra ir - inactive galaxies in the cluster .",
    "a second approach to this issue is to examine a sample of field galaxies , and see how many would be detected in the infrared using the same selection method as we have used in the coma cluster . to implement this approach ,",
    "we have again used the catalog of galaxies within 10 mpc from @xcite .",
    "we have compiled the iras data for galaxies down to @xmath83 = -17.5 mag , the completeness limit of the bvdhc .",
    "if these galaxies were at the distance of the coma cluster , we find that @xmath84 would be detected above our 24  limit , whereas the portion of infrared - detected galaxies in the bvdhc down to @xmath83 = -17.5 mag is @xmath85 .",
    "in agreement with our first estimate , there is only a small deficit of ir - active galaxies compared with the behavior in the field .",
    "it is possible that this difference is partly due to the morphology - environment correlation of galaxies because our coma sample has about 53% early - type galaxies while karachentsev s field galaxy sample only has about 17% early - type galaxies .",
    "so we divided our sample into early- and late - type subsamples and calculated the portion respectively .",
    "it turns out this portion just slightly increases in the late - type subsample compared with early - type subsample ( 57% @xmath86 55% ) .",
    "therefore , the morphology - environment correlation can not account for the different portion of ir - active galaxies in coma and the field .",
    "given the large coverage of the bvdhc , we can study the lfs in different regions of the cluster .",
    "although the bvdhc is only complete down to @xmath87 , our previous results show the incompleteness probably will only make the faint end slope a little shallower .",
    "since the completeness does not change very much across the cluster , incompleteness will not bias the comparison of lfs in the different regions .",
    "following @xcite , we define the core region of coma as the area with @xmath88 ( @xmath0 0.3 mpc ) centered at @xmath89 .",
    "we also define an annulus region outside of the core for @xmath90 ( @xmath0 0.6 mpc ) .",
    "another interesting area is the group of galaxies around ngc 4839 .",
    "it is the second densest region in the cluster and its x - ray emission suggests that the group is falling into the cluster @xcite .",
    "the interaction between the group and the cluster may trigger star forming activities and therefore affect the ir lf . therefore , we also select the circular region centered at ngc 4839 with the same radius as the coma core region .",
    "we constructed lfs in these three regions .",
    "apart from these regions , we took the rest of the area with mips coverage as a whole to be the outskirt region of the cluster . a sky map of these regions and all the galaxy members detected at 24",
    "is shown in fig .",
    "[ f_sky ] .",
    "there are 40 , 56 and 28 galaxies detected in the ir in the coma core , the surrounding annulus and the ngc 4839 region . in the outskirt region ,",
    "101 galaxies are detected .",
    "the two circular regions have an area of 0.13 deg@xmath10 , the annulus region has an area of 0.38 deg@xmath10 , and the outskirt has an area of about 2.41 deg@xmath10 .",
    "therefore , the ratios of the projected number density of infrared emitting galaxies in the coma core , ngc 4839 region , annulus , and outskirt region are about 6:4:3:1 .",
    "even the lowest - density region has a space density of infrared galaxies roughly 40 times that in the field .",
    "all the lfs were fitted with the schechter function .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ f_region ] and the best fitting parameters are listed in table 1 . because the small number statistics in small regions cause large uncertainties in the schechter function fitting , simple comparisons of the best fitting parameters between these lfs are ambiguous and need to be taken with care .",
    "the large uncertainties at the bright end of the lfs may cause very different fitting results for the exponential cut - off of the schechter function and , therefore , unreliable @xmath91 values .",
    "however , interesting variations are apparent in other aspects of the lfs .",
    "the coma core region has a flatter faint end and fewer luminous galaxies compared to the lfs in the other regions . in particular , when we compare it with the lf in the annulus region , which has similar total number counts as in the core , it is apparent that galaxies in the core region are lacking at the high luminosity end .",
    "a flatter faint end in the core indicates a lack of faint galaxies as well .",
    "the ngc 4839 and the annulus regions have similar number densities and their lfs are not very different from each other at the faint end .",
    "they both have a steeper faint end lf than the coma core . at the bright end",
    ", it seems that the annulus region has more luminous galaxies than the ngc 4839 region does , but the difference is not significant given the uncertainties .",
    "the lf in the outskirt region is better constrained at both faint and bright ends due to its larger number of galaxies .",
    "its faint end slope is steeper than the coma core region but shallower than the annulus and ngc 4839 region .",
    "however , this faint end slope is largely constrained by the lowest point in our fitting process ( the point at @xmath92 ) and we suspect that incompleteness may have a more severe effect on this point in the outskirt region than in the other regions ( e.g. , because of the lower density of cluster members on the sky ) .",
    "if we discard this point in our fitting , we have a much steeper faint end slope with @xmath93 . with this correction",
    ", there appears to be a trend of steeper faint end slope toward the outer regions of the cluster , similar to the behavior in the optical bands @xcite .",
    "although the faint end slope may be questionable , the bright end of the lf in outskirt region is well constrained and has a very similar @xmath91 value as the total lf . in summary",
    ", we found that the coma core region lacks both very faint and very bright galaxies compared with the outer regions .",
    "the ngc 4839 region does not show significant difference in the lf from that of the annulus region with similar number density .",
    "it is also worth noting that all the galaxies with @xmath94 reside outside of the core region .",
    "all the lfs in the coma cluster calculated above are actually the 2-d projection of the real lf , and therefore will be affected by projection effects @xcite .",
    "the projection effect is most serious in the core region and it will probably make the faint end slope steeper . that is , the flat faint end slope of the core region may become even flatter after deprojection . on the other hand ,",
    "the projection effect will make the lack of bright galaxies in the core region more severe .",
    "[ f_sky ] also shows the galaxies with @xmath95 as star signs .",
    "they are more or less uniformly distributed in the whole region , without any concentration in the core region or the ngc 4839 region .",
    "the deprojection from this 2-d distribution will make the bright galaxies move further outward .",
    "the interpretation of the galaxy population variations across the cluster only from the change of the shape of the lfs may be misleading without knowledge of the fraction of galaxy members detected in the ir .",
    "we already know that the overall fraction of optical galaxy members detected at 24  is about 44% for the bvdhc .",
    "this fraction is smallest in the core region , at about @xmath96 , and it is about @xmath97 in the outer region . the difference is not very significant considering the large statistical errors . if we only consider the fraction for the galaxies brighter than the completeness of the bvdhc , the difference is even smaller , with the fraction about @xmath98 in the core and @xmath99 in the outer region .",
    "also , a correction for the projection effect , if possible , would make the difference even smaller .",
    "thus , the fraction of the galaxy members detected in the ir does not change very much across the cluster , providing a uniform foundation for the comparison of the shape of the ir lfs .",
    "since the bvdhc also has morphology information for each galaxy , we can study the contribution of early type ( e / s0 ) and late type galaxies to the total lf . in fig .",
    "[ f_type ] , we plot the lf of the late type galaxies and early type galaxies along with the total lf for comparison .",
    "the late type galaxies here include all spirals and irregulars .    from fig .",
    "[ f_type ] , we find that the early type galaxies make a larger contribution to the number counts of the lf than the late type galaxies at @xmath5 , while the late type galaxies dominate the bright end of the total lf .",
    "this behavior indicates that although the late - type galaxies dominate the bright population , there are more faint early - type galaxies than faint late - type galaxies .",
    "however , we note that at the faint end , it is possible to misidentify a spiral as an s0 galaxy and , therefore , the number of early - type galaxies may be overestimated .",
    "we fit the lf of late type galaxies with the schechter function , and the best - fitting parameters are @xmath100 this lf has a flat faint end and a similar @xmath56 to the total lf . although the @xmath67 we derive would have a higher value if the incompleteness were taken into account , it is still smaller than the index of the total lf that is affected by the incompleteness in the same way .",
    "the steeply rising faint end of the total lf is boosted by the increasing number of early type galaxies with low ir luminosity .",
    "using iso data , @xcite deduced the 15  lf of the european large area iso survey ( elais ) .",
    "the index of the faint end slope they found for the spiral galaxies with @xmath101 is very close to our value , with @xmath102 .    using the lfs of early type and late type galaxies",
    ", we can calculate the surface density of the total ir luminosity of these two groups down to the detection limit of the 24  observations .",
    "it turns out that the surface density of ir luminosity contributed by early type galaxies is only about 15% of the total surface density .",
    "therefore , the early type galaxies make a rather small contribution to the total ir luminosity of the cluster , but they make a significant contribution to the number counts of faint galaxies and therefore affect the shape of the lf .",
    "since ir luminosity is a good tracer for star - forming activity , the ir lf allows us to estimate the total sfr of the cluster .",
    "although this paper is the first work reaching such a depth in the ir luminosity of the coma galaxies , which means detecting a lower level of star forming activities , there are other works measuring the sfr at a higher level by measuring the ionization lines .",
    "@xcite used a deep wide field h@xmath67 survey of the coma cluster to deduce the h@xmath67 lf .",
    "they detected 22 sources in the h@xmath67 band .",
    "five of them are not in either the bvdhc or the mbc .",
    "we detected all the rest of them at 24  and hence obtained the @xmath22 for them . using the conversion formula given by @xcite @xmath103 we deduce the sfr for these objects and compare them with the sfr given by @xcite .",
    "the result is shown in fig .",
    "[ f_sfr ] .",
    "the two results are basically consistent , but the sfrs measured from @xmath22 are larger on average , and this discrepancy is more pronounced in the galaxies with higher sfr .",
    "this discrepancy was also found by @xcite when he compared the sfr deduced from the measurement of @xmath22 and the br@xmath104 emission line .",
    "he justified the discrepancy by citing effects of extinction and the heating of dust by longer lived stars than those exciting the emission lines .",
    "these arguments are also applicable to our case .",
    "the h@xmath67 survey has a smaller area coverage than the mips observations and is much less complete than the ir survey .",
    "for the 18 objects detected with both h@xmath67 and 24  emission , 16 have @xmath105 , but in our sample we have 40 sources with @xmath105 . using the h@xmath67 lf , @xcite showed the sfr density of the coma cluster to be 1.36 @xmath3mpc@xmath106 by integrating the best fitting function over the whole range of luminosities and assuming the radius of the coma cluster to be 6.5 mpc . in our case , we calculate the total ir luminosities from the best fitting schechter functions in the range of @xmath107 .",
    "the upper limit corresponds to the brightest galaxies actually observed and the lower limit excludes the part of the lf with serious incompleteness .",
    "the formula we used to convert the ir luminosity to sfr will also become problematic below this lower limit .",
    "fortunately , from the shape of the lf , the galaxies in the @xmath107 luminosity range dominate the total luminosity and there is only a small difference between our integration and an integration over the whole luminosity range .",
    "the total sfrs of the cluster , deduced from the best fitted schechter functions of the mbc and the bvdhc ir lfs , are 24.48 @xmath3mpc@xmath108 and 11.41 @xmath3mpc@xmath108 respectively .",
    "the lower value given by the bvdhc lf is because the bvdhc covers more outskirt regions where the ir galaxy densities are relatively smaller .",
    "the bvdhc is also less complete than the mbc , and thus underestimates the contribution from the faint ir galaxies .",
    "the total sfr in the 8.5 mpc@xmath10 area of the bvdhc survey and mips observation is about 97.0 @xmath3 .",
    "if we assume the region we observed in the ir has the same line - of - sight dimension as assumed by @xcite , e.g. , @xmath0 13 mpc , these two ir lfs give sfr densities of about 1.88 @xmath3mpc@xmath106 and 0.88 @xmath3mpc@xmath106 . the sfr density deduced from the h@xmath67 lf is smaller than the value given by mbc but larger than that given by bvdhc .",
    "however , considering the @xcite survey also covers mostly the central region , we calculate the sfr from the bvdhc in the region of the h@xmath67 survey coverage and obtain a larger sfr of 1.7 @xmath3mpc@xmath106 .",
    "therefore , the ir lf gives a more complete estimate of the total sfr of the cluster than the available h@xmath67 lf .",
    "if we adopt 0.88 @xmath3mpc@xmath106 as the general sfr density of the coma cluster , we find it to be about 60 times larger than the sfr density of the general field @xcite .",
    "this difference is comparable to the difference in @xmath80 between these two lfs .",
    "thus , the higher sfr density in the coma cluster is mainly due to the overall higher ir galaxy density in the cluster than in the field , not to any differences in the shape of the ir lf .",
    "despite the evidence that the sfrs of galaxies are different in cluster and field regions @xcite , the comparison of our ir lfs of the coma cluster with the ir lfs of field galaxies does not support a strong dependence of the shape of the ir lf on environment .",
    "however , the measurements of the sfr in @xcite and @xcite are based on the bright galaxies ( @xmath109 mag ) with ionizing emission lines , which approximately corresponds to the galaxies with @xmath105 . in fact",
    ", @xcite found that the correlation of the sfr and the environment is most noticeable for the strongly star - forming galaxies .",
    "so , it is very possible that our ir lf , because it is not well constrained at the bright end , does not show a difference from the field lf simply because of the lack of enough very luminous ir galaxies in the small sample to draw any meaningful conclusions . in any case , the similar @xmath2 of the coma cluster to that of the general field lf , as well as the fairly good fit with similar functions up to @xmath1 , are evidence against a strong correlation between the global sfr for infrared - bright galaxies and their environment .",
    "explanations for this behavior may come from some recent works by @xcite .",
    "@xcite studied sfrs of galaxies in group and low - density environments and found that although the fraction of the star - forming galaxies is very sensitive to the galaxy density , the distribution of @xmath110(h@xmath111 ) , the equivalent width of h@xmath67 , in the star - forming galaxies is independent of environment .",
    "@xcite studied the color distributions of galaxies in different environments including the typical environment of a cluster core . after dividing their sample into red and blue components in several luminosity bins",
    ", they found that the ratio of these two components is a strong function of the local density but the mean value and the shape of the color distribution of each component are nearly independent of environment .",
    "they proposed that most star - forming galaxies today evolve independently from their environment .",
    "both these works suggest that interactions of the galaxies , probably happening in a very short time scale ( @xmath112 gyr ) , may be responsible for triggering star formation and leave the galaxies to evolve afterwards independently from their environments .",
    "our results appear to agree well with these works and push the independence of the global sfr of ir galaxies on environment to an even lower level of sfr .",
    "it is also possible that the lack of difference between the shape of the coma lf and lfs from the general field results in part from the effects of averaging .",
    "first , the general field also includes galaxies in clusters . secondly , and more importantly , the galaxies in the outskirt region have evolved largely in the field and are only beginning to fall into the cluster .",
    "however , their lf of dominates the total lf of the cluster at luminosities above @xmath2 . since the outskirt lf has a similar @xmath2 and a little smaller @xmath67 compared with the total lf , it is possible that the contribution from the dense region mostly goes to the faint end of the lf where we do detect an environmental effect .",
    "the early - type galaxies also contribute greatly to the number counts in this range . however , exact comparisons are complicated by the incompleteness .",
    "it has been reported that there is a group of dwarf galaxies contributing to the steeply rising faint end slope of the optical and near - ir lf in the coma cluster @xcite .",
    "these dwarf galaxies are beyond our completeness limit ( @xmath113 mag ) and are not the contributors of the steeply rising faint end of the ir lf .",
    "although we did not obtain any direct evidence of a correlation of sfr and environment in the comparison of the shape of the coma ir lf and the general field ir lf , there is some evidence of a change in sfr with the environment inside the cluster .",
    "we found that although the fractions of the galaxy members detected at 24  do not change very much across the cluster , the lf in the core region has a flatter faint end and is lacking the bright ir galaxies compared to the lf in the outer region .",
    "in addition , all the galaxies with @xmath114 lie outside of the core region .",
    "this behavior shows that the strongest star - forming activity happens in the lower density region of the cluster .",
    "this is consistent with the speculation that galaxies in a crowded environment lack gas and dust due to the interactions between the galaxies or between the galaxies and the cluster potential well and therefore can not support a large sfr .",
    "the flatter faint end in the core region , on the other hand , suggests a deficiency of faint ir galaxies as well .",
    "@xcite studied the gas stripping of dwarf galaxies by ram pressure in the cluster and found that dwarf galaxies will lose virtually all of their gas instantaneously if their core mass is smaller than a critical mass ( @xmath115 ) . for the coma cluster , log@xmath116 )",
    "is about 10.9 at the median distance of the cluster galaxies .",
    "this value increases to about 11.7 and 12.9 at @xmath117 ( @xmath0 0.6 mpc ) and @xmath118 ( @xmath0 0.3 mpc ) .",
    "@xcite would argue that galaxies with core masses smaller than these values will lose all of their gas very quickly ( @xmath119 ) .",
    "thus , even if the triggering of the star - forming activities in these galaxies happens in the galaxy group before they fall into the cluster core , gas stripping will prohibit them from keeping up such activities by depriving them of fuel .",
    "however , such an effective stripping contradicts our result .",
    "the faint ir galaxies in our lfs ( @xmath120 , about the range of the lowest two points in the lfs above the incompleteness ) have @xmath121 mag on average .",
    "the early type galaxies in the coma cluster usually have a stellar mass - to - light ratio smaller than 8 @xcite .",
    "the stellar mass is comparable to the core mass of a galaxy , so we can use this ratio to estimate the core mass of a galaxy from its luminosity . considering that faint galaxies usually have relatively large",
    "m / l , we take m / l @xmath122 as a conservative upper limit for these galaxies .",
    "we also assume all cluster galaxies have similar m / l ratios . with this ratio and the average @xmath18 magnitude of the faint ir galaxies",
    ", we obtained the upper limit of the mass for these galaxies as log@xmath123 .",
    "this mass is smaller than the critical mass for gas stripping at @xmath124 ( @xmath0 0.6 mpc ) , which means most of the faint galaxies in this region should already have lost all of their gas , so we would expect a drop in the number counts of the ir lf",
    ". however , the ir lf in the annulus region does not show such a drop , although we do see a flattening of the slope in the core region .",
    "if this flattening of the faint end slope is the result of the total gas stripping , there seems to be a factor of ten discrepancy between the critical mass mori & burkert deduced and the one suggested by the ir lfs .",
    "a smaller critical mass for these ir galaxies is also consistent with the small difference we found in the coma ir lf and the ir lf of general field .",
    "@xcite also pointed out that there were some issues they did not consider in their simulation that may affect the critical mass , e.g. , the heating of the gas from star forming activities . for the ir galaxies , this effect may be very important because it would lower the critical mass and provide a possible explanation of why these faint galaxies still have star forming activities .",
    "an underestimated m / l ratio can also contribute to this difference .",
    "however , to resolve the discrepancy in this way , the m / l would need to be as high as 100 , which seems unlikely .",
    "we also observed a high ratio of early - type galaxies in the core region of the coma cluster , @xmath0 80% ; this ratio drops to about 50% for the other regions .",
    "the change of the shape of ir lf in the core region is also possibly caused by a morphology - environment correlation rather than a sfr - environment correlation .",
    "using mips 24  observations and two spectroscopic surveys of the coma cluster , we present the ir lf of the cluster .",
    "the shape of the coma cluster lf does not differ from that of the general field significantly .",
    "the @xmath56 value of our lf is very similar to those given by @xcite and @xcite , which are both based on surveys of general fields .",
    "the faint end slope of the coma cluster is shallower than the slope of @xcite but steeper than that of @xcite and @xcite , again indicating little variation between field and cluster .",
    "in addition , the overall proportion of ir - active galaxies in the cluster is only slightly less than in the field .",
    "thus , the overall pattern of star formation in cluster members is surprisingly similar to that in the field , despite an increased galaxy space density by an average factor of @xmath0 40 .",
    "however , in the cluster core where the galaxy density is six times higher still , we found a shallower faint end slope and a smaller @xmath56 compared to the outer region of the cluster , which indicates a decrease in the number of faint ir galaxies as well as in the very bright ones .",
    "the ir - bright galaxies are distributed around the outer region of the cluster .",
    "all the galaxies with @xmath94 lie outside of the core region , e.g , @xmath125 kpc .",
    "no special feature of the ir lf was found in the ngc 4839 region .    in determining the lf of different morphological types",
    ", we found that early type galaxies only make about a 15% contribution to the total ir luminosity density , but they dominate the number density at the low luminosity end .",
    "the global sfr density in the cluster is about 0.88 @xmath3mpc@xmath106 and the total sfr in the 8.5 mpc@xmath10 area of the central cluster is about 97.0 @xmath3 .",
    "this work was supported by funding for _ spitzer _ gto programs by nasa , through the jet propulsion laboratory subcontracts # 960785 and # 1256318 .",
    "we thank emeric lefloch , casey papovich , pablo prez - gonzlez and kim - vy h. tran for helpful discussions .",
    "balogh , m. l. et  al .",
    "2004 , mnras , 348 , 1355 balogh , m. l. , baldry , i. k. , nichol , r. , miller , c. , bower , r. , & glazebrook , k. 2004 , , 615 , l101 balogh , m. l. , schade , d. , morris , s. l. , yee , h. k. c. , carlberg , r. g. , & ellingson , e. 1998 , 504 , l75 beijersbergen , m. & van der hulst , j. m. 2003 , thesis : the galaxy population in the coma cluster , chap . 4 beijersbergen , m. , hoekstar , h. , van dokkum , p. , & van der hulst , t. 2002a , mnras , 329 , 385 beijersbergen , m. , schaap , w. e. , & van der hulst , j. m. 2002b , a&a , 390 , 817 bernstein , g. m. , nichol , r. c. , tyson , j. a. , ulmer , m. p. , & wittman , d. , 1995 , aj , 110 , 1507 chary , r. , & elbaz , d. 2001 , , 556 , 562 cole , s , lacey , c. g. , baugh , c. m. , & frenk , c. s. 2000 , mnras , 319 , 168 colless , m. , & dunn , a. m. 1996 , , 458 , 435 de propris , r. , et  al .",
    "2003 , mnras , 342 , 725 de propris , r. , eisenhardt , p. r. , stanford , s. a. , & dickinson , m. 1998 , , 503 , l45 devriendt , j. e. g. , guiderdoni , b. , & sadat , r. 1999 , a&as , 350 , 381 dole , h. et  al .",
    "2004 , , 154 , 87 geller , m. j. et  al .",
    "1997 , aj , 114 , 2205 gmez , p. l. et  al .",
    "2003 , , 584 , 210 gordon , k. , rieke , g. h. , & engelbracht , c. , et  al .  2005 , pasp , 117 , 503 iglesias - paramo , j. , boselli , a. , cortese , l. , vilchez , j. m. , & gavazzi , g. 2002 , a&a , 384 , 383 jrgensen , i. 1999 , mnras , 306 , 607 karachentsev , i. d. , karachentseva , v. e. , huchtmeier , w. k. , & makarov , d. i. 2004 , , 127 , 3031 kennicutt , r. c. 1998a , , 498 , 541 kennicutt , r. c. 1998b , annu .",
    "astron . astrophys .",
    "1998 , 36 , 189 komiyam , k. , et  al .",
    "2002 , , 138 , 265 lagache , g. , dole , h. , & puget , j. l. 2003 , mnras , 338 , 555 le floch , e. , et  al .",
    "2005 , , 632 , 169 lilly , s. j. , le fevre , o. , hammer , f. , & crampton , d. 1996 , , 460 , l1 madau , p. , ferguson , h. c. , dickinson , m. e. , giavalisco , m. , steidel , c. c. , & fruchter , a. 1996 , mnras , 283 , 1388 mobasher b. , et  al .",
    "2001 , , 137 , 279 mobasher , b. , & trentham 1998 , mnras , 293 , 315 mori , m. , & burkert , a. 2000 , , 538 , 559 neumann , d. m. , et  al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 365 , l74 papovich , c. , et  al .",
    "2004 , , 154 , 70 prez - gonzlez , p. g. , et  al .",
    "2005 , , 630 , 82 pozzi , f. , et  al .",
    "2004 , , 609 , 122 rieke , g. h. , et  al .",
    "2004 , , 154 , 25 rush , b. , malkan , m. a. , & spinoglio , l. 1993 , , 89 , 1 secker , j. , & harris , w. e. 1996 , , 469 , 623 serjeant , s. , et  al .",
    "2001 , mnras , 322 , 262 schechter , p. 1976",
    ", , 203 , 297 somerville , r. s. , & primack , j. r. 1999 , mnras , 310 , 1087 struble , m. f. , & rood , h. j. 1999 , , 125 , 35 takeuchi , t. t. , yoshikawa , k. , & ishii , t. t. 2003 , , 587 , l89 takeuchi , t. t. , baut , v. , iglesias - pramo , j. , boselli , a. , & burgarella , d. 2005 , a&a , 432 , 423 trentham , n. 1998 , mnras , 293 , 71 valotto , c. a. , moore , b. , & lambas , d. g. 2001 , , 546 , 157 vron - cetty , m. p. , & vron , p. 2003 , a&a , 412 , 399"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using mid - ir and optical data , we deduce the total infrared ( ir ) luminosities of galaxies in the coma cluster and present their infrared luminosity function ( lf ) . </S>",
    "<S> the shape of the overall coma ir lf does not show significant differences from the ir lfs of the general field , which indicates the general independence of global galaxy star formation on environment up to densities @xmath0 40 times greater than in the field ( we can not test such independence above @xmath1 ) . </S>",
    "<S> however , a shallower faint end slope and a smaller @xmath2 are found in the core region ( where the densities are still higher ) compared to the outskirt region of the cluster , and most of the brightest ir galaxies are found outside of the core region . </S>",
    "<S> the ir lf in the ngc 4839 group region does not show any unique characteristics . by integrating the ir lf </S>",
    "<S> , we find a total star formation rate in the cluster of about 97.0 @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> we also studied the contributions of early- and late - type galaxies to the ir lf . </S>",
    "<S> the late - type galaxies dominate the bright end of the lf , and the early - type galaxies , although only making up a small portion ( @xmath4 15% ) of the total ir emission of the cluster , contribute greatly to the number counts of the lf at @xmath5 . </S>"
  ]
}