{
  "article_text": [
    "the two pulsars in the recently discovered double pulsar binary system , and ( hereafter simply `` a '' and `` b '' ) have periods of @xmath1  ms and @xmath2  s. they are in a 2.4-hr mildly - eccentric orbit that we view nearly edge - on , with an inclination angle of @xmath3 ( burgay et al .  2003 ,",
    "lyne et al .  2004 ) .",
    "the phenomenology exhibited by this system is extremely rich .",
    "the flux density of the b pulsar varies dramatically and systematically around the orbit ( lyne et al .",
    "2004 , ramachandran et al .",
    "2004 , mclaughlin et al .",
    "2004 ) , indicating significant interaction between the two pulsars .",
    "while the flux density of the a pulsar is constant for most of the orbit , for @xmath4 30  s around its superior conjunction , a is eclipsed by the magnetosphere of b ( lyne et al .",
    "this eclipse is asymmetric , with the flux density of a decreasing more slowly on ingress than it increases on egress .",
    "the duration of the eclipse is mildly dependent on radio frequency , with eclipses lasting longer at lower frequencies ( kaspi et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "theoretical models by arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and lyutikov ( 2004 ) explain these eclipse properties in the context of synchrotron absorption of a s radio emission by the shock - heated plasma surrounding and containing b s magnetosphere . because b s magnetosphere will respond differently to the pressure of the relativistic wind of a at different rotational phases of b , one prediction of these models is that the density of absorbing plasma , and hence the properties of a s eclipse , will depend on the rotational phase of b. in their early analysis of the exploratory observations performed at the 100-m green bank telescope ( gbt ) in 2003 december and 2004 january , kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) found no evidence for modulation of the eclipse properties with b s rotational phase .",
    "we have analyzed this publically available dataset and , in this letter , show that the eclipse properties of a are in fact strongly dependent upon the rotational phase of b.",
    "the double pulsar system j07373039 was observed at the gbt in 2003 december and 2004 january using receivers centered at at 427 , 820 and 1400 mhz . the 5-hr 820-mhz observation discussed here",
    "was acquired with the gbt spectrometer spigot card with a sampling time of 40.96  @xmath5s and 1024 synthesized frequency channels covering a 50-mhz bandwidth . for further details of the observations and data acquisition system , see ransom et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and references therein .",
    "the data were dedispersed and folded using freely available software tools ( lorimer 2001 ) assuming the nominal dispersion measure of 48.9  @xmath6  pc ( burgay et al .",
    "2003 ) and using ephemerides for a and b from lyne et al .",
    "we folded the data with 512 phase bins and , for each a pulse , calculated the mean pulsed flux density in two on - pulse phase windows centered on the two pulse components ( burgay et al .",
    "2003 ) . from these , we subtracted the baseline level calculated from two off - pulse windows .",
    "the on- and off - pulse regions contained 95 and 320 phase bins , respectively .",
    "for each orbit , we created a light curve of a s pulsed flux density with time by averaging every 12 pulses , for an effective time resolution of @xmath4  0.27  s. orbital phases were calculated using the modified julian dates of pulse arrival at the solar - system barycenter and the pulsar ephemeris .",
    "analysis of these light curves reveals that , for the majority of the orbit , the pulsed flux density of a is constant within measurement uncertainties , exhibiting no obvious orbital phase - dependent variations .",
    "however , close to superior conjunction ( i.e. orbital phase 90@xmath7 , where orbital phase is defined as the longitude from the ascending node ) , the pulsed flux density of a varies dramatically .",
    "= 9truecm    figure  [ fig : eclipse1 ] shows the light curves of a for all three eclipses included in the 820-mhz observation . in the lower panel ,",
    "we also show a composite light curve , averaged over all three eclipses and over 100 a pulses , for an effective time resolution of @xmath4  2.3  s. our measurements of the eclipse duration and of ingress and egress shapes from this composite light curve are consistent with the results of kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , who averaged data in 2 s intervals .",
    "they calculated an eclipse duration ( defined by the full width at half maximum of the light curve ) of 27  s , which was used to place a limit of 18,600  km on the size of the eclipsing region .",
    "they also found that eclipse ingress takes roughly four times longer than egress and that the eclipse duration is frequency dependent , lasting longer at lower frequencies .",
    "= 9truecm    inspection of the top three panels of figure  [ fig : eclipse1 ] shows that the rise and fall of the flux density during eclipse is not monotonic .",
    "in fact , up until orbital phases approaching 90@xmath7 , the light curves of a show amplitude peaks consistent with pre - eclipse levels .",
    "figure  [ fig : eclipse2 ] shows an expanded view of figure  [ fig : eclipse1 ] covering a smaller range of orbital phases centered on the eclipse . on this plot , we also indicate the measured barycentric arrival times of the pulses of the 2.8  s pulsar b. this demonstrates clearly that the pulsed flux density of a is modulated in synchronism with @xmath8 . in all three",
    "eclipses , we see negative dips in pulsed flux density occurring first at a time about 0.5  @xmath9 out of phase with the b pulses , and later also at a time in phase with the b pulses . in order to determine",
    "more sensitively how the flux density of a depends upon the rotational phase of b , we shifted the light curves of the second and third eclipses by up to @xmath10 so that the phases of the b pulses were identical to those of the first eclipse .",
    "we then summed the light curves of all three eclipses to create the bottom panel of figure  [ fig : eclipse2 ] . dividing each 2.8 s window of b s rotational phase into four equal regions",
    ", we can calculate an average light curves for each region , as shown in figure  [ fig : eclipse3 ] .",
    "the light curves for each of the b pulse phase windows vary smoothly .",
    "eclipse durations range from 20 s to 34 s for the four b phase windows , calculated , as in kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , to be the full width at half maximum of the eclipse .",
    "ingress occurs first at b phase 0.5 and then at 0.0 , when , assuming b is an orthogonal rotator , the magnetic axis of b is aligned with the line of sight to a. it occurs later and more gradually for the other two phase windows centered on phases 0.25 and 0.75 , when the magnetic axis of b is at right angles to the line of sight .",
    "the orbital phases of egress are similar for all b pulse phases . for light curves at b phases centered on 0.0 and 0.5 ,",
    "the eclipses are essentially symmetric , with minimum beginning at orbital phases near 89.4@xmath7 and ending at orbital phases near 90.6@xmath7 .",
    "the light curves for b phases centered on 0.25 and 0.75 are less symmetric , with the flux density minimum occurring briefly , around orbital phases @xmath11 . only at around orbital phase 90.5@xmath7",
    "is flux density of all phases of b consistent with being zero .",
    "it is important to recognize that the features we see in the 820-mhz data can not be due to confusion with the single pulses of b ( e.g. mclaughlin et al .",
    "2004 ) since the pulsed features seen in fig .",
    "2 are not in phase with the radio pulses of b , and , in addition , the latter , which have width of @xmath12  ms , would be removed by the on - pulse / off - pulse subtraction procedure used to determine a s flux density .",
    "our analysis of these data differs from that of kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) in one significant respect . while kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) calculated light curves with 2 s time resolution , we have integrated over only 12 a pulses , affording us @xmath4 7 times better time resolution .",
    "kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) did detect some emission from a on short time scales during eclipse , but their 2 s integration time was not sufficient to detect the b modulation .",
    "we have shown that the eclipse duration varies considerably with b phase and , hence , that the properties of the occulting medium are in fact different in different regions of b s magnetosphere .",
    "the observed eclipse phenomenology can be understood in the context of a model invoking synchrotron absorption of the radio emission from a in a magnetosheath surrounding b s rotating magnetosphere ( arons et al .",
    "2004 , lyutikov 2004 ) .",
    "much of the rotational energy of the faster - spinning a pulsar is emitted in the form of a relativistic , magnetized wind composed primarily of electron - positron pairs .",
    "the rotational energy loss rate of a ( @xmath13  erg  s@xmath14 ) is @xmath4 3600 times greater than that of the slower b pulsar .",
    "because the dynamic pressure of a s wind is balanced against b s magnetic pressure only at a point well inside the light cylinder of b , a s wind confines the b magnetosphere on the side facing a , with a long , magnetospheric tail extending behind b. the collision of a s wind with the magnetosphere of b leads to the formation of a bow shock consisting of hot , magnetized plasma .",
    "this plasma will surround the cometary shaped magnetosphere of b , creating what arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) call a `` magnetosheath '' . in figure",
    "[ fig : eclipse4 ] , we show a schematic of the interaction of a s relativistic wind with b s magnetosphere . the rotation of b inside the magnetosheath is expected to modulate the shape of the sheath and to produce cusps within it , leading to higher plasma densities in the cusps .",
    "note that the plasma will not reach all the way to the polar caps of b , but is confined at the `` magnetopause '' , where the plasma pressure equals the magnetic pressure .",
    "an excellent description of the shape of the magnetosphere and of the polar cusps , is given in arons & lea ( 1976 ) .",
    "as already discussed qualitatively by kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and quantitatively by arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and lyutikov ( 2004 ) , synchrotron absorption in such a magnetosheath can explain many of the properties of the a eclipse , including the sharp edge and the mild frequency dependence .",
    "if b is rotating prograde to the orbital velocity , it can also explain the asymmetry between eclipse ingress and egress .",
    "the observed changes in eclipse properties with b pulse phase give further support to the model .",
    "the pulses from a are first absorbed at the two b pulse phases ( i.e. 0.0 and 0.5 ) at which the magnetic axis of b is aligned with the line of sight to a. this can be attributed to the higher density of absorbing plasma in b s polar cusps .",
    "note that the pulses at b pulse phase 0.50 ( i.e. when the radio - bright pole is pointed towards a ) are absorbed before those at b pulse phase 0.0 . when the line of sight to a is at a right angle to b s magnetic axis , the pulses of a travel through regions of higher plasma density later in the orbit and start fading closer to superior conjunction , where the opacity of the magnetosheath tail could also become predominant . as shown in figure  [ fig : eclipse3 ] , the ingress phase and eclipse duration for these two b phases ( i.e. 0.25 and 0.75 ) differ , with absorption happening later at phase 0.75",
    ". this may be due to the rotationally - induced asymmetry predicted by arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) .",
    "the above discussion , and the simulations of arons et al .  ( 2004 ) , assume that b is an orthogonal rotator .",
    "as demorest et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) discuss , it is quite likely that this is the case as the wind torque from a should have aligned b s rotation axis with the orbital angular momentum .",
    "furthermore , it is very difficult to explain the similarity between the light curves at b pulse phases 0.0 and 0.5 and phases 0.25 and 0.75 if b is not nearly orthogonal .    from the measured eclipse durations ,",
    "it is clear that the size of the eclipsing region is much smaller than the light cylinder of b. however , because the plasma density varies greatly depending on the rotational phase of b , determining the extent and density of the eclipsing region is not trivial and will require detailed modeling of the plasma density variations within b s magnetosphere . due to the effects of relativistic periastron advance and geodetic precession , the durations and morphologies of the eclipse and their dependence on b",
    "rotational phase should change significantly with time .",
    "forthcoming observations will allow us to sensitively probe the dynamics of the wind / magnetosphere interaction and of the geometry of the system .",
    "these observations , at multiple frequencies , will also allow us to test the hypothesis of arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) that there should be no eclipse at frequencies above 5  ghz , already supported by the measurements of kaspi  et  al .  (",
    "2004 ) .    because pulsars emit a large portion of their spin - down energy in the form of a relativistic wind , understanding these winds is crucial for forming a complete picture of the pulsar energy budget",
    "however , because the winds can not be directly observed , progress in this field has been limited to studies of pulsar wind nebulae and bow shocks .",
    "if the eclipses of a are indeed caused by synchrotron absorption in b s magnetosheath , both arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and lyutikov ( 2004 ) reach the very interesting conclusion that the density of a s wind must be at least four orders of magnitude greater than is expected given currently accepted models of pair creation .",
    "the arons et al .",
    "( 2004 ) model also implies a very low wind magnetization .",
    "however , in our paper describing the drifting features observed in the single pulses of b ( mclaughlin et al .",
    "2004 ) , we concluded that that most of the spin - down energy is carried by the poynting flux rather than by energetic particles .",
    "clearly , self - consistent models which can explain both of these phenomena are needed .",
    "the rich phenomenology offered by the double pulsar system will offer us new ways to explore the physics of these winds on much smaller scales than has been possible with other systems .",
    "eclipse measurements of the double pulsar system may also be important for constraining pulsar pair creation scenarios .",
    "we thank a. spitkovsky for a very useful discussion which motivated us to look for this effect and d. melrose , f. graham smith and j. arons for helpful discussions .",
    "we thank the national radio astronomy observatory for making these observations publically available .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "ihs holds an nserc ufa and is supported by a discovery grant .",
    "drl is a university research fellow funded by the royal society .",
    "nda , ap and mb received support from the italian ministry of university and research ( miur ) under the national program _",
    "cofin 2003_.    arons , j.  & lea , s.  m.   1976 , , 207 , 914 arons , j. , backer , d.  c. , spitkovsky , a. , & kaspi , v.  m.  2004 , proceedings of the 2004 aspen winter conf .",
    "on astrophsics `` binary radio pulsars '' , asp conf .",
    "series , ( eds . )",
    "f. rasio & i. stairs ( astro - ph/0404159 ) burgay , m. et al .",
    "2003 , nature , 426 , 531 demorest , p. et al , 2004 , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/0402025 ) kaspi , v. m. et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 613 , 137 , d.  r. 2001 , arecibo technical memo no .",
    "200101 , see also ` http://www.jb.man.ac.uk/~drl/sigproc ` lyne , a. g. et al .",
    "2004 , science , 303 , 1153 lyutikov , m. 2004 , mnras , 353 , 1095 mclaughlin , m. a. et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 613 , 57 ramachandran , r. et al .",
    "2004 , apj , accepted ( astro - ph/0404392 ) ransom , s. m. et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 609 , l71"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have investigated the eclipse of the 23 ms pulsar , psr  j0737@xmath03039a , by its 2.8 s companion psr  j0737@xmath03039b in the recently discovered double pulsar system using data taken with the green bank telescope at 820 mhz . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the pulsed flux density at eclipse is strongly modulated with the periodicity of the 2.8 s pulsar . </S>",
    "<S> the eclipse occurs earlier and is deeper at those rotational phases of b when its magnetic axis is aligned with the line of sight than at phases when its magnetic axis is at right angles to the line of sight . </S>",
    "<S> this is consistent with the eclipse of a being due to synchrotron absorption by the shock - heated plasma surrounding b , the asymmetry arising from the higher plasma densities expected in the b magnetosphere s polar cusps . </S>"
  ]
}