{
  "article_text": [
    "this paper is the fourth in a series on triple - star systems .",
    "the overall goal of the series is to contribute to our understanding of the formation and evolution of multiple - star systems .",
    "paper i ( mazeh , krymolowski & latham 1993 ) presented an orbital solution for the single - lined spectroscopic triple star g38 - 13 .",
    "paper ii ( krymolowski & mazeh 1999 ) developed an analytical second - order approximation for the long - term modulation of the orbital elements of triple systems .",
    "paper iii ( jha et al .",
    "2000 ) analyzed the triple - lined system hd 109648 , presenting observational evidence for such modulations .",
    "the present paper is devoted to the nearby triple - lined system gliese 644 .",
    "gliese 644 ( = wolf  630=hd  152751=hip  82817 ; @xmath4=16:55:28.76 , @xmath5=@xmath608:20:10.8 [ j2000 ] , @xmath7 mag ) is a nearby system of m dwarfs at a distance of about 6 pc ( gliese 1969 ) .",
    "the study of its multiplicity began when kuiper ( 1934 ) discovered that gliese 644 is a visual binary , later found to have a period of 1.7 years and semi - major axis of @xmath8 ( vote 1946 ) .",
    "joy ( 1947 ) noticed large radial - velocity variations for gliese 644 , which led him to suggest that one of the two visual components is itself a spectroscopic binary with a period of a few days , making gliese 644 one of the nearest triple systems .",
    "weis ( 1982 ) used photographic plates to derive a photocentric orbit and confirmed fleischer s ( 1957 ) suggestion that the fainter component of the visual binary , b , is more massive than the primary .",
    "he concluded that b , which is about 0.1 mag fainter than a in the visual , is the short - period spectroscopic binary .",
    "weis derived masses of @xmath9 and @xmath10 , suggesting that the system is composed of three similar m dwarfs .",
    "these masses are consistent with the dm2.5 spectral type assigned by henry , kirkpatrick & simons ( 1994 ) to the blended image of gliese  644 .    in order to learn more about gliese 644",
    ", we started fifteen years ago to monitor the object spectroscopically .",
    "this was done within a radial - velocity study of a small sample of nearby m dwarfs carried out with the facilities at the harvard - smithsonian center for astrophysics ( cfa ) . from the beginning of the project we could see two and occasionally even three peaks in some of the one - dimensional cross - correlation functions , which were obtained by correlating the spectra of gliese 644 against our standard observed m - star template .",
    "given the visual orbit of the outer binary , the triple - lined nature of gliese 644 makes this system special , as it enables us to derive individual masses for each of the three components if spectroscopic solutions can be derived for both the inner and the outer orbits .",
    "this can add important information about the mass - luminosity relation in the solar vicinity ( cf .",
    "andersen 1991 , sderhjelm 1999 ) near the bottom of the main sequence ( e.g. , henry et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "the derivation of radial velocities for all three components in the gliese 644 system presented an unusually difficult challenge , because the inner and outer orbits both have small radial - velocity amplitudes , resulting from the nearly face - on inclination of the outer orbit , @xmath11 , from the relatively long period of the outer orbit , @xmath12 yr , and from the relatively small masses of the three stars , @xmath13 @xmath3 .",
    "the lines from all three stars are rarely resolved in our spectra ; in most cases all three are blended together . to solve the problem of extracting velocities for all three stars from blended spectra",
    ", we had to wait for the development of a more powerful algorithm than the one - dimensional cross - correlation techniques that we had been using .",
    "such an algorithm is todcor ( zucker & mazeh 1994 ) , which was developed originally as a two - dimensional correlation technique for extracting velocities for both stars in double - lined spectroscopic binaries , even when the two sets of lines were not resolved .",
    "the extension of todcor to three dimensions for the analysis of triple - lined systems ( zucker , torres & mazeh 1995 ) provided us with the tool that we needed to analyze the spectra of gliese 644 .    even with todcor , the extraction of radial velocities for all three components of gliese 644 proved to be difficult . to address this difficulty",
    ", we developed a new approach for solving spectroscopic orbits for systems with composite spectra .",
    "the new approach searches a model that includes the observed spectra _ together _ with the orbital parameters of the system .",
    "the final model is the one that gives the best match between the observed spectra and the corresponding set of composite spectra predicted by the model .",
    "the observations were analyzed with this approach by two different teams , one at tel aviv and the other at the cfa , with some differences in the details at various stages of the analysis .",
    "the two analyses led to similar results , and most of the orbital elements agreed within the internal uncertainty estimates .",
    "however , the velocity amplitudes for the outer orbit disagreed by 3.2 and 3.5 times the internal error estimates , suggesting the presence of significant _ systematic _ difference between the two analyses .",
    "therefore , we present the results from both analyses and document the procedures used in detail .",
    "for the final orbital parameters we adopt simply the averages of the values derived by the two analyses .",
    "visual observations of the wide pair gliese 644ab extend back more than 50 years .",
    "because some recent unpublished speckle observations were available to us , we decided to reanalyze the astrometric orbit of the outer binary .",
    "comparison between the results of the spectroscopic and astrometric analyses indicates some possible systematic scale differences between the two sets of data .",
    "this impression was supported by the observations and analysis of gliese 644 by sgransan et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , a work published about three months after we submitted our paper , while our paper was still being reviewed .",
    "their astrometric orbit , which was based solely on speckle and newly obtained adaptive optics ( ao ) measurements and did not include any visual observations , yielded a somewhat larger semi - major axis .",
    "we find a similar trend when we use only the modern astrometric observations to estimate the semi - major axis . because of the importance of the scale of the astrometric orbit for the mass determinations , and",
    "because the visual observations are more likely to be afflicted by systematic errors , we decided to rely only on the modern data to set the scale of the orbit .",
    "the details of the visual analysis are reported in section 2 . a new approach for solving spectroscopic orbits of systems with composite spectra",
    "is described in section 3 , together with the details of the tel aviv and cfa orbital solutions . in section 4 the solutions for the spectroscopic and astrometric",
    "orbits are combined to solve for the individual masses of the three m stars in the gliese 644 system .",
    "section 5 discusses in detail the visual and ir photometry we have in hand for the a and b components of the system , and section 6 considers the impact of our results on the mass - luminosity relation near the bottom of the main sequence .",
    "section 7 discusses the relationship of gliese 644 to gliese 643 and vb 8 , two nearby common - proper - motion companions .",
    "our radial - velocity measurements support the interpretation that all five stars are moving together in a physically bound system . in the final section",
    "we summarize our results and discuss the implications for two scenarios describing the formation and evolution of binary and multiple systems .",
    "for nearly 50 years gliese 644ab was the shortest - period ( 1.7 yr ) binary resolved by visual means , with an angular separation of @xmath1402 .",
    "only when interferometric and speckle techniques became available was it possible to resolve systems with even smaller separations .",
    "consequently , gliese 644ab attracted a great deal of attention , and a large number of visual observations have accumulated since its discovery .",
    "the history of the astrometric observations of gliese 644ab is far from uniform . during the first five seasons after its discovery more than 270 visual measurements were made , approximately 200 of them by the same observer , j.  g.  vote , at the bosscha observatory in lembang , java .",
    "vote was also the first to publish an orbit for the system ( vote 1946 ) . in the following 45 years",
    "some 80 additional visual observations were collected by a number of observers .",
    "the cumulative distribution of all the visual observations is shown in figure [ astrometry.cumulative ] , where the irregular pattern is obvious .",
    "# 1#20.45#1    in recent years speckle observations of gliese 644ab have also been made at both visual and infrared wavelengths , providing additional measurements of both the separation and the relative brightness of the two wide components .",
    "three of the speckle measurements were obtained by one of us ( henry 1991 ) in the infrared ( @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 ) , using the steward observatory 2.3-m telescope on kitt peak , and have not appeared in the literature .",
    "two are one - dimensional scanning observations in the north - south direction , and one is a two - dimensional observation . descriptions of the instrumentation and observing techniques can be found in mccarthy ( 1986 ) for the one - dimensional speckle observations , and mccarthy et al .",
    "( 1991 ) for the two - dimensional speckle observation .",
    "finally , sgransan et al.(2001 ) have very recently reported five adaptive optics measurements that are of very high precision .",
    "a listing of all the astrometric observations , with the exception of the three speckle measurements mentioned above and the ao measurements , was provided to us by the late charles e.  worley ( u.s.naval observatory ) and was extracted from the washington double star catalog ( worley & douglass 1996 ) .",
    "the three unpublished speckle observations are listed in table [ astrometry.tab ] .",
    "the type of measurement is indicated by `` 2ds '' ( two - dimensional speckle ) or `` 1ds '' ( one - dimensional speckle ) .    .unpublished speckle observations for gliese 644ab . [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ gliese643.velocities ]    the mean radial velocity we find for gliese 643 is @xmath18 kms@xmath19on the cfa system , i.e.  with the same zero point as the cfa velocities for gliese 644 .",
    "this is very close to the center - of - mass velocity of gliese 644 , @xmath20 .",
    "the projected separation between gliese 644 and 643 is about 450 au , which corresponds to an orbital velocity of about 1.5  kms@xmath19  for a circular orbit .",
    "the observed velocity difference is only 0.7 kms@xmath19 , consistent with the interpretation that gliese 643 is gravitationally bound in an orbit with gliese 644 .",
    "we have also secured one low s / n spectrum of vb 8 with the digital speedometer on the mmt and found its radial velocity to be @xmath21 kms@xmath19 , consistent with the interpretation that vb 8 is bound to the gliese 643/644 system in a hierarchical quintuple configuration . in this picture vb  8 moves around the center of mass of the gliese 644/643 system .",
    "the projected separation between vb 8 and gliese 644 is only three times larger than the projected separation between gliese 643 and gliese 644 .",
    "such a small ratio usually renders triple systems dynamically unstable ( e.g. , eggelton & kiseleva 1995 , kiseleva et al .",
    "therefore , we suggest that the actual separation between vb 8 and gliese 644 is significantly larger than its projected separation , by at least a factor of two .",
    "our picture of the gliese 644/643/vb  8 system can be summarized as follows :    * all five stars reside in an hierarchical system .",
    "the orbital sizes are of the order of 2000 ( projected ) , 500 ( projected ) , 1 and 0.05 au for vb  8 , gliese 643 , gliese 644ab , and gliese 644b , respectively . *",
    "the masses of vb  8 , gliese 643 , gliese 644a / ba / bb are of the order 0.1 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.3 , 0.3 @xmath3 , respectively . *",
    "the innermost two orbits , in the gliese 644 system itself , are probably coplanar .    in this section",
    "we briefly discuss two extremely simplistic scenarios for the formation and evolution of the system .",
    "first we consider a scenario in which the quintuple was formed by a sequence of fragmentation events during the collapse of a molecular cloud core ( e.g. , burkert & bodenheimer 1993 ) leading directly to the hierarchical configuration now observed .",
    "the cloud core collapsed until it was a few thousand au in diameter , at which point it fragmented into three parts .",
    "the two smaller parts ended up as vb  8 and gliese  643 .",
    "the larger fragment continued to contract by another three orders of magnitude , until a hydrostatic core was formed with a radius of a few au ( e.g. , larson 1969 ) .",
    "when the temperature of the core reached about 2000 k the molecular hydrogen began to dissociate , resulting in a second collapse within the hydrostatic core ( e.g.larson 1969 ) . during the second collapse",
    "the core may have been able to fragment again into the components of the visual binary , gliese  644a and gliese  644b , the latter of which fragmented again into ba and bb .",
    "this scenario is not free of some problems .",
    "although fragmentation calculations have successfully simulated the formation of wide binaries during the collapse of molecular cloud cores , there is still some uncertainty about whether or not this step can succeed in forming a stable binary with separation as small as 1 au ( e.g. , boss 1989 , bonnell & bate 1994 , bate 1998 ) .",
    "moreover , there have not yet been successful fragmentation calculations for the formation of very close binaries , such as gliese 644b with a separation of only 0.05 au .",
    "whatever mechanism was responsible for the formation of gliese 644b system , it is interesting that the mass ratio for this binary is close to unity , a mass ratio which is apparently quite frequent in spectroscopic binaries ( tokovinin 2000 ) .",
    "a mechanism that can lead , under the right conditions , to nearly equal masses in a close binary has been studied by bate & bonnell ( 1997 ) and bate ( 2000 ) .",
    "initially , two stellar seeds form , with masses at most a few percent of the final stellar masses .",
    "most of the mass of the collapsing cloud core is still in a gaseous envelope surrounding the seeds .",
    "the accretion of material onto the seeds then builds the masses up to the final stellar values .",
    "the smaller of the two seeds is favored in the amount of mass that it receives , and this tends to equalize the masses of the final components of the binary , after the envelope material has been exhausted .",
    "if the two orbits in the gliese 644 system are coplanar , as suggested by our spectroscopic results , then this might lend support to fragmentation as the formation mechanism for the innermost binary ; it is natural to suppose that the two orbital planes for gliese  644 should both be oriented perpendicularly to the angular momentum vector of the molecular cloud core from which they formed .",
    "dynamical evolution in a small - n cluster ( e.g. , mcdonald & clarke 1993 , 1995 ) is another possible scenario for the formation of the gliese  644/643/vb  8 system . in this scenario",
    "all five stars were formed independently within a loosely self - gravitating small - n cluster of stars .",
    "gravitational interactions between the cluster members then evolved the orbits of the five stars , the ones we see now , into a hierarchical configuration , while ejecting the other stars from the cluster . in this scenario ,",
    "the more massive stars are expected to settle into more tightly bound orbits , while the less massive stars are raised into less tightly bound orbits , just as is observed for the system .",
    "however , this scenario does not easily account for the coplanarity of the gliese  644 triple , a feature often found in other triple systems as well ( fekel 1981 , tokovinin 1997 ) .",
    "another possible way to explain the coplanarity of the close triple gliese 644 involves tidal interactions .",
    "it is well known that a large relative inclination between the two orbits of a triple can induce strong oscillations of the inner eccentricity ( e.g. , mazeh , krymolowski & rosenfeld 1997 ) , which can make the system dynamically unstable .",
    "therefore , the low relative inclination of the two orbits in the gliese  644 triple might be the result of some selective evolutionary process .",
    "triple systems with large relative inclinations simply could not survive .",
    "this argument still has to be worked out , though , because the amplitude of the eccentricity modulation does not depend linearly on the relative inclination ( e.g. , holman , touma & tremaine 1997 ) , and there are medium - sized angles , on the order of 1020 degrees , that do not produce large eccentricity modulations .    a potentially interesting feature of the gliese 644 triple  the very marginal evidence for a minute variation of the outer orbit s eccentricity",
    " might also be a result of tidal interactions ( mazeh & shaham 1979 , paper ii ) .",
    "a few spectroscopic triple systems have already been observed to display direct or indirect evidence for long - term tidal modulations ( mayor & mazeh 1987 , mazeh 1990 , jha et al .",
    "1997 ) , of which hd 109486 is the best example ( jha et al .  2000 ) . right now",
    "the effect observed in gliese 644 is much too marginal to rely on .",
    "many more years of observations will be needed to see if the effect is real .",
    "the gliese 644/643/vb  8 system is the nearest known quintuple stellar system .",
    "the next nearest system with five or more objects is castor ( = gliese  278 ) at 16  pc ( tokovinin 1999 ) . in order to better understand how multiple systems of low - mass stars form and evolve",
    ", it would be extremely interesting to find more m - star multiple systems in the solar neighborhood and to compare their features . in this vein ,",
    "it is amazing that another _ triple _",
    "m - star system exhibits very similar features to gliese  644 .",
    "this is gliese  866 , which was recently studied by delfosse et al .",
    "( 1999b ) and by woitas et al .  ( 2000 ) .",
    "delfosse et al.derived the two orbital periods , of 803 and 3.78 days , and masses of 0.12 , 0.11 and 0.096 @xmath3 .",
    "woitas et al .  ( 2000 ) derived a period of 821 days for the outer orbit . although the masses in the gliese  644 triple are almost three times larger , in both systems there are three m stars with similar masses , where the most massive star is 30% more massive than the lightest one , and the period ratio is slightly larger than 200 .",
    "moreover , both systems are probably very close to coplanar .",
    "one wonders if these features are common in m - star triples .",
    "we thank jim peters , ed horine , bob davis , dick mccroskey , skip schwartz , perry berlind , marc payson , ale milone , joe caruso , joe zajac , bob mathieu , mike calkins , john stauffer , and larry marschall for making many of the observations , and bob davis for managing the database of cfa digital speedometer observations .",
    "we are grateful to the late charles e. worley for providing us with a listing of the astrometric observations , extracted from the washington visual double star catalog .",
    "the referee is thanked for his wise comments and advice .",
    "this research has made use of the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france .",
    "we gratefully acknowledge support from the us - israel binational science foundation grant no .",
    "94 - 00284 & 97 - 00460 , and by the israel science foundation .",
    "douglass , g.  g. , & worley , c.  e. , 1992 , in mcalister , h.  a. , hartkopf , w.  i. , eds , asp conf .",
    "32 , iau coll .  135 , complementary approaches to double and multiple star research , astron .",
    ", san francisco , p.  311",
    "viti , s. , tennyson , j. , jones , h.  r.  a. , schweitzer , a. , allard , f. , hauschildt , p.  h. , 1998 , in rebolo , r. , martin , e.  l. , zapatero - osorio m.  r. , eds , brown dwarfs and extrasolar planets , asp conf .",
    "134 , p.  475"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a radial - velocity study of the triple - lined system gliese 644 and derive spectroscopic elements for the inner and outer orbits with periods of 2.9655 and 627 days . </S>",
    "<S> we also utilize old visual data , as well as modern speckle and adaptive optics observations , to derive a new astrometric solution for the outer orbit . </S>",
    "<S> these two orbits together allow us to derive masses for each of the three components in the system : @xmath0 ( 6.9% ) , @xmath1 ( 4.7% ) , and @xmath2 ( 4.7% ) @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that the relative inclination of the two orbits is very small . </S>",
    "<S> our individual masses and spectroscopic light ratios for the three m stars in the gliese 644 system provide three points for the mass - luminosity relation near the bottom of the main sequence , where the relation is poorly determined . </S>",
    "<S> these three points agree well with theoretical models for solar metallicity and an age of 5 gyr . </S>",
    "<S> our radial velocities for gliese 643 and vb 8 , two common - proper - motion companions of gliese 644 , support the interpretation that all five m stars are moving together in a physically bound group . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss possible scenarios for the formation and evolution of this configuration , such as the formation of all five stars in a sequence of fragmentation events leading directly to the hierarchical configuration now observed , versus formation in a small n cluster with subsequent dynamical evolution into the present hierarchical configuration .    </S>",
    "<S> = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupeurmn @mathgroup@bold@groupeurbn @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupmsamn @mathgroup@bold@groupmsamn = `` 019 = ' ' 016 = `` 040 = ' ' 336 = \" 33e = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 = = = = = = = =    psfig.sty epsf.sty    [ firstpage ]    methods : data analysis  techniques : radial velocities  stars : binaries : spectroscopic  stars : binaries : visual  stars : late - type  stars : individual : gliese 644 , gliese 643 , vb 8 . </S>"
  ]
}