{
  "article_text": [
    "the intercluster medium ( icm ) of some clusters of galaxies , in addition to the well studied thermal bremssstrahlung ( tb ) emission in the 2 to 10 kev soft x - ray ( sxr ) region , shows growing evidence for nonthermal activity .",
    "the first such activity discovered was the diffused radio radiation classified either as relic or halo sources ( see review by giovannini & feretti 2000 ) .",
    "this radiation is due to synchrotron emission by relativistic electrons of lorentz factor @xmath0 in a magnetic field of strength @xmath1 .",
    "more recently , radiations bracketing the thermal one have been discovered in form of excess flux at extreme ultraviolet ( 0.07 - 0.4 kev ; euv ) and hard x - ray ( 20 to 80 kev ; hxr ) regions in several clusters by _ the extreme ultraviolet explorer _ ( lieu et al .",
    "1996 , 1999 ) , and by _ beppo_sax and rxte ( coma , fusco - femiano et al .",
    "1999 and rephaeli et al . 1999 ; a2256 , fusco - femiano et al . 2000 ; and possibly a2199 , kaastra et al .",
    ". the reality of the euv signals from some , but not all , of the clusters is still disputed ( see the contributions by bowyer and berghefer in this proceedings and kaastra et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "even though the presence of nonthermal electrons in the icm was established decades ago very little theoretical treatment of the acceleration mechanism was carried out ( see e.g. schlikeiser , siervers & thiemann 1987 ) until the discovery of the euv and hxr radiations . since then",
    "there has been numerous discussions of the possible acceleration mechanisms .",
    "given the meager amount of the data , detailed calculations of the energy sources and the exact mechanisms of the acceleration may be premature .",
    "consequently , i will emphasize the general physical characteristics and not the numerical details of the problem .",
    "recently i have analyzed the merits and shortcomings of the various radiative processes in detail and described some possible scenarios for the acceleration of the electrons responsible for the nonthermal radiations ( petrosian , 2001 , * p01 * for short ) . in",
    "what follows i summarize these results . in  2 i will summarized the observations and compare emission mechanisms and describe what can be surmised about the spectrum of the radiating electrons . in  3",
    "i discuss several ways to resolve the difficulties with the value of the magnetic field and in  4 i will discuss possible acceleration scenarios for the production of the required spectrum of the nonthermal electrons . a brief summary is given in  5 .",
    "as mentioned above , several clusters have shown hxr emission and there are controversial claims of detection of euv emission from a somewhat larger number of clusters .",
    "the most detailed information comes from observations of the coma cluster . in",
    "what follows i will use the observations of this cluster as a guide .",
    "the left panel of figure 1 shows a broad and schematic view of all the electromagnetic radiation present in the icm of the coma cluster .",
    "what is plotted is the @xmath2 flux which can also be translated into energy spectral density @xmath3 , where @xmath4 is the observed angular area ( in sterradians ) of the cluster .",
    "the energy density rather than the flux will be a more appropriate description of the cosmic microwave ( cmb ) radiation , which of course is not limited to the icm . for other radiations",
    "this relation gives the average energy density in the cluster assuming optically thin sources for the observed fluxes .",
    "the two dashed lines in the microwave region represent a pure power law and a power law with an exponential cutoff fits to the observed radio data ( rephaeli 1979 ; schlikeiser et al 1987 ) .",
    "the heavy solid line represents the cmb which is the dominant radiation and the other solid line stands for the thermal bremsstrahlung radiation at 8 kev .",
    "the two short dotted lines show the excess euv ( represented as a power law with photon number spectral index of -1.75 ; lieu et al 1999 ) and hxr ( power law with photon number spectral index -2.3 ; rephaeli et al 1999 ) .",
    "the long dashed line is a very rough representation ( by a black body spectrum of 4000 k ) of the mean optical flux or density from galaxies .",
    "the upper limit in the gamma - ray range is from the egret instrument on board cgro ( sreekumar et al 1996 ) , and the double horizontal bars at the low frequency end represents the static chaotic magnetic energy density @xmath5 for a one @xmath6 g field .",
    "the accelerated electrons interact with all of these electromagnetic fields via the inverse compton ( ic , for short ) and synchrotron mechanisms , as well as with the coulomb field of the background electrons , protons and @xmath7 particles , losing energy mostly by elastic collisions and radiating some bermsstrahlung photons .",
    "the energy dependencies of all these processes are well known .",
    "the right panel of figure 1 shows the fractional energy lost by each of the above processes as a function of the electron energy @xmath8 for the indicated background icm plasma parameters . at high energies",
    "almost all the electron energy is lost by the ic process ( with a small contribution from the synchrotron losses ) but at lower energies ( below 5 mev for the parameters in the right panel of fig .",
    "1 ) bremsstrahlung ( shown by the dotted curve ) is the dominant radiative process .",
    "however , at such energies the elastic coulomb losses are much more important so that only a tiny fraction [ @xmath9 of the energy goes into radiation .",
    "most of it goes into heating of the background plasma .",
    "bremsstrahlung is not a significant energy loss process at any energy but it may be important radiation process in the hxr and high energy gamma - ray range .",
    "these considerations determine the radiation processes and the fate of the energetic electrons .",
    "* the radio emission * is obviously due to synchrotron radiation and provides the most reliable information on the range and spectrum of the nonthermal electrons . for the observed radio range",
    "this requires relativistic electrons with kinetic energies ( in @xmath10 units ) in the range @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is the magnetic field perpendicular the average electron momentum . for the two radio spectra shown in figure 1 ( left panel ) the required electron spectra",
    "are shown by the two solid lines in the left panel of figure 2 for the above energy range .",
    "the other solid line in this figure shows the maxwellian distribution of the electrons responsible for the thermal sxr emission .    *",
    "the euv * emission was initially attributed to a cooler thermal component ( lieu et al .",
    "1996 ) . however , as discussed in these proceedings by kahn and bowyer this is not a viable model .",
    "ic scattering of cmb photons by a nontherml population of electrons with energies in the range @xmath13 is a more likely candidate for this emission ( hwang 1997 , enlin & biermann 1998 , bowyer & berghfer 1998 , sarazin & lieu 1998 ) .    *",
    "the hxr * photons can also be produced by the ic scattering of almost exactly same electrons that are responsible for the radio emission ; @xmath14 .",
    "however , simple arguments show that this scenario requires a field strength @xmath15 g , which is much smaller than values of several @xmath6 g deduced from faraday rotation and equipartition arguments ( eilek 1999 , giovannini et al .",
    "1993 , kim et al .",
    "1990 , clarke et al .",
    "consequently , several workers have proposed nonthermal bremsstrahlung ( ntb ) for the hxr emissions ( enlin et al .",
    "1999 , sarazin & kempner 2000 , blasi 2000 ) .",
    "the dotted line in figure 2 ( left panel ) shows the spectrum of the electrons required for the production of the 20 to 80 kev radiation by this process .",
    "however , as stressed in * p01 * , because of the extreme inefficiency of the bremsstrahlung process ( see fig .",
    "1 , right panel ) , this will require input of @xmath16 times more energy than observed into the icm , which will approximately double its temperature every @xmath17 yr . to avoid rapid excessive heating of the icm the hxr ( and the euv ) emission",
    "must be short lived ( @xmath18 yr ) or the nonthermal electron spectrum is cutoff rapidly at low energies .",
    "the two dashed lines in figure 2 ( left panel ) show how the two radio producing electron spectra can be extrapolated to low energies without causing excessive heating of the icm . with the sharp cutoffs shown the rate of the heating of the icm will be comparable to the observed sxr luminosity of the coma cluster .",
    "of course if there are other sources of heating these cutoffs must start at even higher energies .    in view of this difficulty with the ntb model for hxrs and the thermal model for the euv emission",
    "we must explore the ic model further .",
    "the observed faraday rotation of the coma cluster implies a uniform magnetic field along the line of sight of @xmath19 g .",
    "however , the field lines are most likely chaotic .",
    "kim et al ( 1990 ) [ see also contributions by clarke ; kronberg ; and govani in this proceedings ] estimate a mean magnetic field of @xmath20 g . this is larger than the estimate of @xmath21 g one obtains using the simple ic model .",
    "however , there are several factors which indicate that a higher @xmath22 field can be tolerated in this model .",
    "since the energies of the radio emitting electrons are somewhat larger than those of the hxr emitting ones a high energy steepening of the electron spectrum reduces the radio flux relative to that at hxrs and increases the value of the @xmath22 field .",
    "secondly , it is often ignored that the estimates give the value of @xmath23 , where @xmath24 is the pitch angle of the electron . for an isotropic pitch distribution",
    "this increases the value of @xmath22 by factor of about 2",
    ". the enhancement could be even larger for a non isotropic pitch distribution ( epstein 1973 ) .",
    "other factors such as spatial inhomgeneities ( goldschmidt & rephaeli 1993 , see , however , the analysis presented by govani at these proceedings ) or anti correlation between the distributions of the relativistic electrons and magnetic field also increase the required value of the @xmath22 field .",
    "on the other hand , all faraday rotation measures of clusters indicate magnetic fields @xmath25 g ( see clarke ; kronberg ; or govani in these proceedings ) , while the few clusters with known euv or hxr fluxes require lower values . as pointed out in * p01 * , this could be affected by observational selection effect .",
    "the faraday rotation measurement is clearly more sensitive to higher values of the @xmath22 field while for a given population of relativistic electrons the ic hxr flux is higher for lower values of the @xmath22 field .",
    "little is known about the possible ranges or the distributions of the @xmath22 fields and the relativistic electron population .",
    "however , the preliminary results presented by giovannini in this conference the distribution of the @xmath22 field , based on equipartition assumption rises toward lower values . how far can this be extrapolated to even lower values is highly uncertain . in any case",
    ", the faraday rotation measures may give a somewhat biased view of the @xmath22 field in clusters .",
    "we now examine possible acceleration scenarios that can produce the required spectrum of the nonthermal electrons depicted in figure 2 ( left panel ) .",
    "the relevant time scales are shown in the right panel of figure 2 .",
    "the * energy loss time * is dominated by the coulomb collisions at low energies and by ic scattering at high energies . except for low non relativistic energies ,",
    "this time scale can be described as @xmath26 with @xmath27 yr and @xmath28 for the parameters presented in figure 2 ( right panel ) . while the * crossing time * across the cluster ,",
    "@xmath29 yr for relativistic electrons ( @xmath30 ) and for @xmath31 mpc radius of the cluster .",
    "thus , unless there are scattering processes to trap the electrons in the cluster , most of the accelerated electrons will escape the cluster without producing a significant amount of radiation .",
    "there are several processes that will increase the time the electrons spent in the cluster .",
    "because the charged particles are tied to the field lines , the above estimate assumes presence of no or a uniform magnetic field . for a chaotic magnetic field on the scale of @xmath32 the average crossing distance and time",
    "is increased by @xmath33 ; @xmath34 . furthermore",
    ", if there are additional scattering processes which change the electron pitch angle randomly , the time spent in the cluster is increases by the ratio @xmath35 , if the * scattering time * @xmath36 .",
    "the so - called * escape time * from the cluster can be expressed approximately as @xmath37 . both coulomb collisions and ic scatterings , in addition to causing energy loss , can change the electron pitch angle .",
    "at non relativistic energies the rate of this scattering is comparable to the energy loss rate .",
    "since at such low energies the coulomb collisions are the dominant interaction process , we have @xmath38 .",
    "the scattering rate decreases rapidly at high energies where the ic scattering could be more important .",
    "but at such high energies @xmath39 and the pitch angle scattering will have no effect and @xmath40 . using the above relations we have plotted in figure 2 ( right panel ) two curves representing @xmath41 , one for @xmath42 , _",
    "i.e. _ uniform field ( or more correctly for @xmath43 ) , and one for @xmath44 kpc or @xmath45 mpc .",
    "note that even for the latter case , electrons with energies around @xmath46 will escape the cluster before losing or radiating most of their energy .",
    "since these are the electrons presumably responsible for the euv emission , and because this emission is confined to the cluster , there must be other agents of scattering to keep these electrons in the cluster . the thin sold line with arrows",
    "show the required upper limit on the scattering time for ensuring that all accelerated electrons lose their energy inside the cluster .",
    "this upper limit is for the uniform field case .",
    "for the chaotic field case with @xmath47 this limit will be @xmath48 times larger .",
    "a natural candidate for this additional scattering is plasma turbulence or waves .",
    "this turbulence can also accelerate particles stochastically .",
    "clearly for efficient acceleration we require an * acceleration time scale * @xmath49 .",
    "the scattering time scale for alfven waves ( @xmath50 , with alfven velocity , in unit of speed of light , @xmath51 ) , or for sound waves ( @xmath52 , with sound speed @xmath53 ) , will be well below the required upper limit shown in figure 2 ( right panel ) .",
    "an example of a scattering , acceleration and and the resultant escape time is also shown in this figure .",
    "such time scales can arise with reasonable energy density and spectrum of turbulence ( dung & petrosian 1994 ; pryadko & petrosian 1997 ) .",
    "simple intuitive arguments can show that in a steady state situation the spectrum of the accelerated particles will have a cutoff above @xmath54 where @xmath55 due to ic scattering , or above @xmath56 where @xmath57 , whichever is lower .",
    "for the curves presented in figure 2 ( right panel ) this will occur at @xmath58 , where the expected cutoff for the exponential fit to the radio spectrum should be .",
    "there is , however , some problem about the origin of the seed electrons",
    ". the background plasma can not be the source of these electrons because simple alfven or acoustic waves ( or shocks ) can not do this , and because during the acceleration process of the electrons from kev range to the relativistic regime one must overcome the high rate of collisional losses , which will require an unreasonably high rate of production of turbulence ( @xmath59 erg / s ) and will heat up the gas to an unacceptably high temperature .",
    "these difficulties can be avoided if seed electrons having already relativistic energies @xmath60 mev ) are injected into the icm ( perhaps by galaxies or agns ) . however , even in this case the steady state situation is difficult to achieve because it either requires an unusually steep spectrum of turbulence or gives rise to a too flat a spectrum below @xmath61 . for further details",
    "see * p01 * , and contributions by brunetti , gitti and ohno in these proceedings .",
    "a time dependent situation with episodic injection of seed electrons or episodic creation of turbulence appears to be a more likely possibility .",
    "it can be shown ( see * p01 * ) that one can then obtain spectra resembling the required ones for periods extending @xmath62 to @xmath63 yr .",
    "figure 3 shows some examples of time dependent electron spectra , where the portions which can produce the observed radiations are highlighted .",
    "the nonthermal activity in the icm of some galaxies is well established and a population of 0.1 to 10 gev electrons in a magnetic field of 1 - 2 g and the bath of the cmb photons can account for the radio and the euv - hxr emission via synchrotron and inverse compton processes , respectively .",
    "the most likely acceleration process is stochastic acceleration by a turbulent icm .",
    "the source of the accelerated electrons can not be the background icm plasma .",
    "there must be injection of relativistic electrons , perhaps throughout most of the icm , which are then subject to energy loss by the coulomb and ic processes and to reacceleration by turbulence . this process can not be time independent and the injection process or the acceleration mechanisms must be episodic producing electron and photon spectra similar to those observed for periods extending @xmath64 yr .",
    "nonthermal bremsstrahlung is not a viable candidate for production of the hxrs but emission of bremsstrahlung photons by 0.1 to 10 gev electrons may be important contributor in the gev range where glast sensitivity is the highest .",
    "other processes may also contribute in this range .",
    "for example , as described by blasi in these proceedings , the decay of pions produced by the cosmic ray protons will produce a broad spectrum around 0.1 gev .",
    "another source of gev photons is the ic scattering of the optical and sxr photons ( instead of cmb photons ) by the gev electrons responsible for radio and hxr radiations .",
    "electrons with lorentz factors around @xmath65 to @xmath48 will give rise to photons around 1 to 100 mev and 1 to 100 gev , respectively .",
    "the former should have a total flux equal to the hxr flux times the optical to cmb energy density ratio ( @xmath66 , see fig . 1 left panel ) or @xmath67 erg/@xmath68 .",
    "this is well above the anticipated threshold of glast in this energy range .",
    "the scattering against the sxr photon would give a slightly larger flux of photons with energies above few gev , but here one is in the klein - nishina regime which will reduce the flux considerably , specially at higher energies , making detection by glast less likely .",
    "clarke , t. e. , kronberg , p. p. , & bhringer , h. 2001 , , 547 , l111 dung , r. , & petrosian , v. 1994 , , 421 , 550 eilek , jean 1999 , _ diffuse thermal and relativistic plasma in galaxy clusters _ , eds . h. boroinger , l. feretti & p. schucker , mpr report 271 enlin , & biermann , p. 1998",
    ", , 330 , 90 enlin , t. a. , lieu , r. , & biermann , p. 1999",
    ", , 344 , 409 epstein , r. i. 1973 , , 183 , 593 fusco - femiano , r. , dal fiume , d. , ferett , l. , giovannini , g. , grandi , p. , matt , g. , molendi , s. , & santangelo , a. 1999 , , 513 , l21 fusco - femiano , r. , dal fiume , d. , de grandi , s. , ferett , l. , giovannini , g. , grandi , p. , malizia , a. , matt , g. , & molendi , s. 2000 , , 534 , l7 giovannini , g. , feretti , l. , venture , t. , kim , k. t. , & kronberg , p. p. 1993",
    "399 giovannini , g. , & feretti , l. 2000 , newa , 5 , 535 goldschmidt , o. & rephaeli , y. 1993 , apj , 411 , 518 hwang , c .- y .",
    "1997 , science , 278 , 1917 kaastra , j. s. , lieu , r. , mittaz , j. p. d. , bleeker , j. a. m. , mewe , r. , colafrancesco , s. , & lockman , f. j. 1999 , , 519 , l119    kaastra , j. s. , lieu , r. , bleeker , j. a. m. , mewe , r. , colafrancesco , s. 2002 : astro - ph / o2o6235 kim , k. t. , kronberg , p. p.dewdney , p. e. , & landecker , t. l. 1990 , , 355 , 29 lieu , r. , mittaz , j. p. d. , bowyer , s. , lockman , f. j. , hwang , c .- y . , & schmitt , j. h. m. m. 1996a , science , 274 , 1335 lieu , r. , mittaz , j. p. d. , bowyer , s. , lockman , f. j. , hwang , c .- y . , &",
    "schmitt , j. h. m. m. 1996b , , 458 , l7 lieu , r. , ip , w .- h . ,",
    "axford , w. i. , & bonamente , m. 1999 , , 510 , l25 petrosian , v. 2001 , , 557 , 560 pryadko , j. , & petrosian , v. 1997 , , 482 , 774 rephaeli , y. 1979 , , 227 , 364 rephaeli , y.,gruber , d. , & blanco , p. 1999",
    ", , 511 , l21 sarazin , c. l. , & lieu , r. 1998 , , 494 , l177 sarazin , c. l. , & kempner , j. c. 2000 , , 533 .",
    "73 schlickeiser , r. , sievers , a. , & thiemann , h. 1987 , , 182 , 21 sreekumar , p. et al .",
    "1996 , , 464 , 628"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent observations of excess radiation at extreme ultraviolet and hard x - ray energies straddling the well known thermal soft x - ray emission have provided new tools and puzzles for investigation of the acceleration of nonthermal particles in the intercluster medium of clusters of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that these radiations can be produced by the inverse compton upscattering of the cosmic microwave background photons by the same population of relativistic electrons that produce the well known diffuse radio radiation via the synchrotron mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that the commonly discussed discrepancy between the value of the magnetic field required for the production of these radiation with that obtained from faraday rotation measures could be resolved by more realistic models and by considerations of observational selection effects . in a brief discussion of the acceleration process </S>",
    "<S> it is argued that the most likely scenario is reacceleration of injected relativistic electrons involving shocks and turbulence . </S>",
    "<S> the seed electrons can not be the background thermal electrons because of energetic considerations , and a steady state situation may not agree with the details of the observed spectra . </S>",
    "<S> episodic generation of shocks and turbulence or episodic injection of relativistic electrons is a more likely scenario for acceleration .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}