{
  "article_text": [
    "as the fundamental scaling relation between luminosity and rotation velocity for disk galaxies , the tully - fisher relation ( tf relation , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) evolves along with the galaxies that define it , reflecting general trends in mass assembly and star formation .",
    "numerous studies have sought to trace the star formation history of disk galaxies via the redshift evolution of the zero point of the tf relation , under the assumption that tf zero point offsets represent luminosity evolution .",
    "awkwardly , some studies find minimal luminosity evolution to redshifts as high as @xmath2 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while others report substantial 1.52 mag offsets at lower redshifts ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "efforts to reconcile these results have generally invoked differential evolution , in which only low - luminosity galaxies evolve significantly ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ".    however , some `` luminosity offsets '' may actually be velocity offsets . in the tf relation , underestimated rotation velocities look exactly like enhanced luminosities .",
    "the following three examples are particularly relevant to high @xmath0 studies .",
    "\\(1 ) optical emission - line data for high-@xmath0 ( @xmath0 @xmath1 0.251 for this paper ) blue compact galaxies may not extend to large enough radii to sample peak rotation velocities , based on 21 cm hi studies of analogous galaxies at low @xmath0 ( @xcite 2001 ; @xcite 2001 ; see also @xcite 2000 ; @xcite 2003 ) .",
    "of course , high-@xmath0 studies must employ optical lines rather than hi to measure rotation velocities . also , most high-@xmath0 studies have selection biases favoring the bright galaxy cores and strong emission lines typical of blue compact galaxies .",
    "one might hope that high-@xmath0 studies would be insensitive to radially truncated emission - line data , because unlike low-@xmath0 analyses , high-@xmath0 analyses usually derive rotation velocities by analyzing kinematic and photometric profiles together ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , such modeling techniques typically rely on simplifying assumptions that blue compact galaxies probably routinely violate , such as the assumption of a close correspondence between emission - line and underlying disk - continuum fluxes , or the assumption that rotation curves can be simply parametrised based on exponential - disk fits to the spatial flux distribution regardless of disturbances or central mass concentrations .",
    "\\(2 ) low s / n can also cause radially truncated emission and underestimated rotation velocities , especially in samples already biased toward galaxies with centrally concentrated emission .",
    "accounting for s / n - induced rotation curve truncation could significantly reduce discrepancies between high-@xmath0 tf studies ( as discussed for the simard & pritchet and vogt et al .",
    "studies by * ? ? ?",
    "\\(3 ) distorted rotation curves may also yield unreliable rotation estimates and systematic velocity offsets . in low-@xmath0",
    "tf samples that contain interacting or morphologically peculiar galaxies , disturbances in longslit optical emission - line rotation curves clearly correlate with apparent luminosity boosts from the tf relation @xcite .",
    "we suspect that these apparent boosts may not be pure luminosity offsets , especially when they are larger than would be expected based on colors or h@xmath3 equivalent widths @xcite .    at low @xmath0 ,",
    "large tf offsets associated with distorted or truncated rotation curves are most common for low - luminosity galaxies , and the affected galaxies often display emission - line s0 or irregular morphologies , sometimes with independent evidence of interactions ( @xcite 2002 ; see also @xcite 2000 ; @xcite 2001 ) .",
    "although most low-@xmath0 tf studies would reject such galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , all of the high-@xmath0 studies that report substantial faint - end luminosity evolution employ selection criteria that would admit them ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore , the frequency of such galaxies may be enhanced in high-@xmath0 samples to the extent that the interaction rate increases with @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "these points raise the obvious concern that high-@xmath0 tf samples may contain a population of galaxies whose velocity offsets mimic differential luminosity evolution .",
    "another key consideration in interpreting apparent luminosity offsets is the possibility of third - parameter dependence in tf residuals .",
    "numerous studies have examined possible physical drivers of tf offsets , including morphology , surface brightness , gas content , environment , and color , for tf samples chosen by a variety of criteria ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and additional references therein ) .",
    "in a recent analysis , @xcite demonstrate that tf residuals correlate strongly with star formation indicators  color and ew(h@xmath3 )  in the nearby field galaxy survey ( nfgs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a statistically representative survey of all galaxy types with no bias against interacting , peculiar , or early - type galaxies .",
    "the inclusion of such galaxies distinguishes the nfgs tf sample ( and most high-@xmath0 tf samples ) from the majority of low-@xmath0 tf samples , which restrict analysis to a limited range of morphologies that may show only weak correlations between color and tf residuals ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* see kannappan et al .",
    "2002 for further discussion ) .",
    "however , the ursa major cluster sample of @xcite , which approximates a volume - limited sample , shows a stronger color  tf residual correlation @xcite , and @xcite also find initial evidence for a color  tf residual correlation at high @xmath0 .",
    "the existence of this correlation implies that high-@xmath0 samples that differ in average color because of different selection criteria will also differ in average tf zero - point offset .",
    "if high-@xmath0 galaxies follow the same color  tf residual relation the nfgs follows , then we can use this relation to correct high-@xmath0 tf offsets for any bias toward blue colors ( or we can use the ew(h@xmath3)tf residual relation to correct for any bias toward strong emission lines ) .",
    "moreover , once such biases are removed , we can compare the remaining zero - point offset with the luminosity evolution predicted by the color  tf residual relation ( based on true differences in mean color between high and low @xmath0 ) , in order to determine whether tf zero - point evolution includes not only luminosity evolution , but also additional evolution reflecting the growth of stellar - to - total mass fractions over cosmic time @xcite .    obtaining a well - defined color ",
    "tf residual ( ctfr ) relation and measuring evolutionary offsets reliably may require special attention to galaxies with distorted or radially truncated rotation curves . in this paper ,",
    "we demonstrate such an analysis at low @xmath0 using the close pairs survey of @xcite .",
    "the interacting galaxies in this survey display luminosity enhancements and misleading velocity offsets much like high-@xmath0 galaxies , as previously shown by @xcite . however ,",
    "at low @xmath0 we can use high - resolution kinematic data to identify problem rotation curves objectively , using quantitative tests of radial truncation and asymmetry of shape based on those introduced by @xcite . without explicitly accounting for kinematic anomalies",
    ", @xcite could not decouple luminosity offsets from velocity offsets and found no statistically significant ctfr relation for the close pairs survey .",
    "we recover the ctfr relation for the close pairs survey by eliminating galaxies with severely truncated or asymmetric rotation curves based on quantitative criteria , and by analyzing modestly asymmetric rotation curves with a robust velocity width measure that does not assume a functional form . using these procedures , we find that the tf and ctfr relations for the close pairs survey look very similar to the corresponding relations for the nfgs .",
    "furthermore , the tightness of the close pairs survey ctfr relation suggests that if a similar relation holds at higher @xmath0 , determining whether galaxies lie on or off its locus may serve as a way to distinguish reliable luminosity evolution from tf offsets associated with kinematic anomalies .",
    "below , we describe the close pairs survey and the nfgs (   2 ) , as well as our analysis methods (   3 ) , including quantitative criteria for identifying strongly asymmetric or truncated rotation curves .",
    "we then analyze the tf and ctfr relations for the close pairs survey , with attention to kinematic anomalies , and compare the close pairs survey relations to the corresponding nfgs relations (   4 ) . in   5 we examine the possible drivers of kinematic anomalies .",
    "we go on to consider the implications of our results for high-@xmath0 tf studies in ",
    "finally , we summarize our conclusions in   7 .",
    "our analysis makes use of two statistical surveys drawn from the cfa redshift surveys @xcite : the nearby field galaxy survey @xcite , representing the general galaxy population , and the close pairs survey @xcite , representing galaxy pairs with line - of - sight velocity separation @xmath4  and projected spatial separation @xmath5 kpc ( the distance limit differs from the original reference because we quote all distances and magnitudes using h@xmath6 and correct both surveys for virgocentric infall following @xcite 2000 and @xcite 1984 ) .",
    "these two surveys were selected without explicit bias in morphology or global environment .",
    "the close pairs survey reflects the inherent luminosity bias of its magnitude - limited parent survey and also explicitly excludes galaxies with redshifts below 2300 .",
    "in contrast , the nfgs was selected with a greater representation of low - luminosity galaxies , in an effort to reproduce the local galaxy luminosity function @xcite ; in practice , the nfgs luminosity distribution varies slowly over the range @xmath7 and cuts off for brighter and fainter galaxies , with emission - line galaxies naturally favoring lower luminosities within the sample ( see * ? ? ?",
    "both surveys transmit the surface - brightness bias of their parent surveys , although the nfgs selection procedure was designed to minimize this bias @xcite .    for tf analysis we use one - dimensional optical emission - line rotation curves obtained with the fast spectrograph on the 60-inch tillinghast telescope at mt .",
    "hopkins ( nfgs ) and the blue channel spectrograph on the pre - conversion mmt ( close pairs survey and a few nfgs galaxies ) , as described in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "besides considering only emission - line galaxies , we further restrict our analysis to galaxies with @xmath8 and m@xmath9 , except for a schematic look at tf outlier behavior among nfgs dwarfs in ",
    "[ sc : hizsec ] .",
    "we also require good alignment between the spectrograph slit and the galaxy major axis ( @xmath10p.a .",
    "@xmath11 10 for the nfgs and @xmath10p.a .",
    "@xmath11 20 for the close pairs survey20@xmath12 are too small to cause the severe anomalies considered in this paper .",
    "the eight close pairs survey galaxies with 10 @xmath11 @xmath10p.a .",
    "@xmath11 20 have rates of rotation curve asymmetry and rotation curve truncation consistent with overall rates for the survey as a whole . ] ) .",
    "[ fg : twosampprops ] compares property distributions for the two tf samples , in luminosity , morphology , color , redshift , surface brightness , and global environmental density .",
    "sample properties are broadly similar , except for the luminosity and redshift distributions , which reflect the different selection methods discussed above .",
    "notably , the choice of _ local _ pair environments does not strongly affect the distribution of _ global _ density environments for close pairs survey galaxies , though these galaxies may show a slight underrepresentation of the lowest density environments compared to the nfgs ( fig .",
    "[ fg : twosampprops]f ) .",
    "the requirement of detectable emission lines implies that within the nfgs and the close pairs survey , the subsamples used for tf analysis have a higher proportion of low - density environments , as many cluster galaxies lack significant emission .",
    "tf samples also emphasize field environments , for similar reasons .",
    "the nfgs and the close pairs survey have three tf galaxies in common ( a00442 + 3224 , a22551 + 1931n , and ngc  7537 ) .",
    "for these three galaxies , raw velocity widths from optical rotation curves are in excellent agreement , all within @xmath18 .",
    "we also find reasonable agreement in rotation curve structure , despite different rotation curve extraction techniques (   [ sc : repro ] ) .",
    "redshifts agree within 1550 , and effective colors agree within 0.02 mag .",
    "total b - band magnitudes agree within 0.15 mag .",
    "the only parameter for which the two surveys do not track closely is inclination angle ( or equivalently , axial ratio ) , where we find differences of 1020@xmath12 in both directions for the three common galaxies .",
    "close pairs survey inclinations derive from careful analysis of new ccd data , whereas nfgs inclinations derive from low - precision diameter measurements tabulated in the ugc @xcite .",
    "to facilitate direct comparison of the two surveys , we recompute the velocity widths and inclinations for the close pairs survey ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter b01 ) with the methods used for the nfgs ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter k02 ) , and we correct the close pairs redshifts for virgocentric infall to match the nfgs (   [ sc : data ] ) .",
    "we calculate extinction corrections for both surveys using the results of @xcite as described in k02 , but without k02 s special treatment of s0 galaxies .",
    "the new inclinations , extinction corrections , and redshifts have quantitative , but no qualitative effects on the results .",
    "however , the new velocity widths do lead to some qualitative differences , because the `` probable min - max '' velocity measure @xmath13 adopted by k02 following @xcite is more robust than the velocity measure @xmath14 adopted by b01 following @xcite .",
    "@xmath14 requires that a rotation curve conform to a standard functional form , which may provide a poor fit to rotation curves distorted by interaction .",
    "in contrast , @xmath13 uses all of the data points without imposing a particular model . as in k02 , we define @xmath15 , where @xmath16 is defined as having a 10% chance of exceeding / lying below all velocities in the rotation curve . each data point is modeled as a gaussian distribution about the measured value , with @xmath17 equal to the measurement error ( see k02 for formulae ) . using @xmath13",
    ", the pattern of tf offsets changes in such a way as to clarify the correlations reported in ",
    "[ sc : pairsresults ] .",
    "( the parameter @xmath18 is related to @xmath13 via an inclination correction and a linear transformation that puts it on the same scale as the @xmath19 linewidths of radio observers , see k02 . )",
    "b01 and k02 have discussed the pros and cons of various tf fitting techniques . to avoid slope bias",
    ", we adopt an unweighted `` inverse '' fit ( minimizing residuals in velocity ) as our primary technique . a bias - corrected `` forward ''",
    "fit @xcite would give similar results , but such a fit would be very difficult to implement for the nfgs because of the intricacy of the survey s statistical selection procedure @xcite . in ",
    "[ sc : pairsresults ] we consider the effect of using a bias - corrected forward fit for the close pairs survey , following the methods of b01 , and we find no significant change in the results .",
    "note that kinematically anomalous galaxies (   [ sc : quant ] ) are excluded from all tf fits , although they appear with special symbols in tf plots .",
    "ideally , we would like to compute the tf residuals used for the ctfr relation according to the procedure described in k02 , in which the reference tf relation is defined by a fit over intermediate luminosities ( @xmath20 ) to avoid bias from high- and low - luminosity galaxies whose tf scatter is asymmetric .",
    "unfortunately , this procedure is not practical for the close pairs survey , both because the survey was not intended as a complete or representative sample of tf galaxies , and because the survey includes few galaxies fainter than @xmath21 .",
    "in fact , the low - luminosity cutoff we apply to the nfgs at @xmath22 is not necessary for the close pairs survey , which includes no galaxies fainter than @xmath22 because of its low - redshift cutoff (   [ sc : data ] ) .",
    "we therefore analyze tf residuals for the close pairs survey in two ways : ( 1 ) purely internally , i.e.  determining both the tf relation and the ctfr relation from the close pairs survey itself , with no luminosity cuts (   [ sc : pairsresults ] ) ; and ( 2 ) using the nfgs as a reference , i.e.determining the ctfr relation using close pairs tf residuals measured relative to the nfgs tf relation , again with no upper luminosity cuts ( but with the nfgs limited to @xmath23 ) to simplify comparison (   [ sc : combresults ] ) .",
    "we refer to galaxies whose rotation curves are severely truncated in extent or highly asymmetric in shape as kinematically anomalous .",
    "[ fg : rcegs ] shows several examples of both anomalous and normal rotation curves .",
    "the next two sections discuss the criteria we use to flag kinematic anomalies .",
    "both b01 and k02 have described methods for identifying anomalous rotation curves ; here we adapt the methods of k02 , who define continuous , quantitative measures of truncation and asymmetry .",
    "although these measures are objective , the cutoff values of asymmetry and truncation used to reject galaxies must be empirically determined in order to optimize the rejection of tf and ctfr outliers for a given sample .",
    "furthermore , strong asymmetries and severe truncation rarely coexist (   [ sc : asym ] and [ sc : interp ] ) , so both types of anomaly must be considered in order to reject outliers successfully . we note that our empirical approach does not depend on whether the observed anomalies are intrinsic to the target galaxies or just artifacts of the data",
    "; however , we will argue in  [ sc : interp ] that at least some anomalies are intrinsic and discuss their physical origin .      to evaluate rotation curve truncation",
    ", we consider the average of the radial extents on the two sides of the rotation curve .",
    "( this average measure is slightly more robust than the one - sided measure used by k02 . ) for a pure theoretical exponential disk , the rotation curve will reach maximum velocity at 2.2 disk scale lengths or @xmath11.3@xmath24 @xcite , so a rotation curve extent of less than 1.3@xmath24 could be considered suspect . in practice",
    "however , galaxies with rotation curves extending to @xmath11.01.3 @xmath24 are not outliers in our tf and ctfr relations , so we flag galaxies as anomalous only if their rotation curves are truncated at @xmath110.9@xmath24 .",
    "because measurements of @xmath24 are sensitive to details of profile extrapolation , the exact cutoff used to identify truncated rotation curves should be determined within a given tf data set .",
    "following k02 , we define rotation curve asymmetry as the mean absolute deviation between velocities on the two sides of the rotation curve , expressed as a percentage of the velocity width 2@xmath13 .",
    "this definition quantifies asymmetries in velocity structure between the two sides of the curve , e.g. , due to one side rising and the other falling .",
    "we measure asymmetries by a procedure that involves numerically searching for the coordinate center of the rotation curve that minimizes the inner asymmetry ( inside 1.3@xmath24 ) within certain constraints ( for full details see k02 ) .",
    "a key constraint is that the spatial center must stay within the error bars of the continuum peak position .",
    "pixel of the initial continuum peak position estimate ( equal to @xmath25 for our preferred binning of the close pairs survey data ) .",
    "asymmetries shown in this paper were computed with stricter constraints , typically @xmath26 pixel ( equal to @xmath27 for our preferred binning of the close pairs survey data ) . for galaxies with two continuum peaks ,",
    "we have attempted to choose the most appropriate continuum peak by eye , but in two cases , we switched to the second continuum peak after seeing that the first continuum peak was further from the kinematic center . ] therefore galaxies in which the continuum center and the gas kinematic center do not agree tend to have large asymmetries .",
    "in essence , the asymmetry index combines a measure of shape asymmetry with a measure of the offset between the center of stellar light and the center of gas motion , due to dynamical disequilibrium or possibly extreme dust extinction .",
    "note that the choice of center has no effect on @xmath13 or on our measure of rotation curve truncation , which averages the spatial extent on the two sides of the rotation curve .",
    "we adopt a purely empirical definition of `` strong '' rotation curve asymmetry , based on the observed asymmetry distributions for both surveys ( fig .",
    "[ fg : asymdist]a ) .",
    "most galaxies have asymmetries @xmath288% , but a few form a higher asymmetry tail to the distribution .",
    "these galaxies also scatter outside the rotation curve asymmetry  luminosity correlation reported by k02 ( fig .",
    "[ fg : asymdist]b ) . however , we find that most galaxies with moderately strong rotation curve asymmetries ( 8 - 10% ) and no rotation curve truncation follow the tf and ctfr relations , so we flag galaxies as anomalous only for rotation curve asymmetries @xmath2910% .",
    "notably , strong asymmetries are rare among the most truncated rotation curves , although there is no clear correlation between asymmetry and rotation curve extent ( fig .",
    "[ fg : truncasym ] ) . the pattern in fig .",
    "[ fg : truncasym ] is consistent with the view that severe truncation and strong asymmetries arise from related physical causes (   [ sc : interp ] ) , but the most extreme truncation leads to a loss of information , where rotation curves may simply have inadequate radial extent to reflect asymmetries that would otherwise be significant .",
    "measuring rotation curve asymmetries reliably also requires adequate spatial resolution .",
    "[ fg : binning ] illustrates the effect of degrading resolution for the close pairs survey .",
    "we show rotation curve asymmetries determined with the original spatial sampling of 0.6  per pixel ( 12  seeing ) and with the data binned by 2 and by 4 . at the lowest resolution , some information is lost and occasionally the code crashes with insufficient data .",
    "we adopt the binned by 2 results for this paper because higher resolution is not available for two of the close pairs survey galaxies , and because there are only minor differences between the binned by 2 and binned by 1 results .    for the nfgs",
    ", most rotation curves were binned on readout to 2.27  per pixel ( 2  seeing ) .",
    "while this resolution is lower than the resolution used for the close pairs survey , the loss of information is mostly offset by the fact that the nfgs tf sample is @xmath11.7 times closer in median redshift than the close pairs tf sample ( fig .  [ fg : twosampprops]d ) .",
    "we evaluate the reproducibility of our truncation and asymmetry measures by comparing results for the three galaxies common to the nfgs and the close pairs survey ( observed with the fast/60-inch combination for the nfgs and the blue channel / pre - conversion mmt combination for the close pairs survey ) .",
    "raw rotation curves from the two data sets agree well ( fig .",
    "[ fg : threecmp ] ) . in two cases",
    "we see small deviations in the inner rise region that probably reflect differences in spatial resolution and rotation curve extraction technique between the surveys . for a22551",
    "+ 1931n , whose rotation curve extends to only @xmath305 arcsec , the two times lower resolution of the nfgs data may partly account for the shallower rise of the nfgs rotation curve compared to the close pairs survey rotation curve .",
    "in addition , for both a00442 + 3224 and a22551 + 1931n , small differences in rotation curve structure may arise because these galaxies have complex line profiles in their central regions ( a00442 + 3224 shows multiple components and a22551 + 1931n shows asymmetric wings ) . in such cases",
    ", we expect discrepancies between the two surveys , because nfgs rotation curves were extracted from 2d ccd spectra using simultaneous gaussian fits to multiple emission lines , while close pairs survey rotation curves were extracted using cross correlation .",
    "as discussed in @xcite , these two techniques respond differently to non - gaussian or multiple - component line profiles : cross correlation seeks out the peak , while gaussian fitting finds something closer to an emission - weighted average . ] despite these small deviations , asymmetry measurements show the same general pattern in both data sets .",
    "truncation results also agree , in the sense that none of the rotation curves in either data set falls short of the cutoff radius at 0.9@xmath24 ( shown in fig .",
    "[ fg : threecmp ] with dashed and dotted gray lines for the close pairs survey and nfgs respectively ) .",
    "however , we see up to 30% disagreement in measured @xmath24 , presumably due to different techniques of photometric profile extrapolation .",
    "rotation curve extents also differ , with nfgs rotation curves generally extending further .",
    "examination of the raw data indicates lower s /",
    "n in the close pairs data .",
    "the individual points in the nfgs rotation curves would have to have @xmath14@xmath31 lower s / n to yield similar rotation curve extents for the two surveys ( with the nfgs rejection threshold set at s / n = 3 and the close pairs rejection threshold set at cross - correlation r = 2 ) .",
    "these survey differences confirm that estimates of rotation curve truncation are subject to noise and systematic effects .",
    "we therefore reiterate that the exact rotation curve truncation threshold used for rejection should be determined within a given tf data set .",
    "this section discusses tf results obtained by excluding galaxies with severely truncated or asymmetric rotation curves .",
    "we defer interpretation of these kinematic anomalies to   [ sc : interp ] .      because the previous analysis of b01 revealed no significant correlation between color and tf residuals for the close pairs survey",
    ", we must first demonstrate that our claim of a ctfr relation in the close pairs survey is robust .",
    "below we show how our treatment of kinematic anomalies allows us to detect the ctfr relation , in particular because of the very close correspondence between kinematically anomalous galaxies and ctfr outliers ( which constitute @xmath110% of the close pairs survey tf sample ) .",
    "[ fg : pairsalone ] shows the tf and ctfr relations for the close pairs survey , analyzing the survey purely on its own .",
    "the tf and ctfr fits exclude galaxies with highly truncated or asymmetric rotation curves ( extent @xmath11 0.9@xmath24 or asymmetry @xmath29 10% ,   [ sc : quant ] ) , which are marked with triangles and circles respectively . without these kinematically anomalous galaxies ,",
    "the ctfr relation emerges clearly .",
    "defining tf residuals relative to the inverse - fit tf relation shown by the solid line , a spearman rank test gives 6.5@xmath32 probability of no correlation . using a bias - corrected forward - fit tf relation based on the methods of b01 also yields a strong ctfr relation ( no - correlation probability 1.3@xmath33 ) , because the forward - fit and inverse - fit tf slopes are very similar ( solid and dotted lines in fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsalone ] , both shown with the zero point from the inverse fit . )",
    "as discussed by b01 and k02 , tf residual correlations like the ctfr relation should be tested rigorously , since any parameter that depends on luminosity will correlate with tf residuals if the tf slope is incorrect .",
    "k02 describe a fitting algorithm that avoids this problem , but this algorithm is not ideal for a sample like the close pairs survey with a top - heavy luminosity distribution (   [ sc : fittech ] ) .",
    "therefore we adopt the strategy of b01 , using the robustness of the ctfr relation under changes of slope as a sanity check . the dashed line in fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsalone ] shows the slope required to eliminate the ctfr relation ( i.e. , to increase the probability of no correlation to 10% in a spearman rank test ) .",
    "this slope is implausibly shallow and does not even pass through the bright end of the tf relation .",
    "even the fit including kinematically anomalous galaxies ( gray dot - dashed line ) is significantly steeper , confirming the reality of the ctfr relation .",
    "compared to sigma - clipping applied to the tf relation ( e.g. , b01 ) , our technique of identifying anomalous galaxies from their rotation curve properties is very effective at isolating galaxies whose tf residuals do not follow the ctfr relation .",
    "most kinematically anomalous galaxies are ctfr outliers .",
    "however , tf outliers and ctfr outliers do not always correspond .",
    "in particular :    * some kinematically anomalous galaxies are ctfr outliers , but not tf outliers .",
    "for example , the two ctfr outliers labeled n and o have very red colors and truncated rotation curves .",
    "because these factors cause partially canceling tf offsets , these galaxies fall within the general cloud of tf scatter in spite of their kinematic abnormality .",
    "however , their tf residuals are actually incorrect for their colors , so they do not follow the ctfr relation .",
    "likewise , galaxy p deviates slightly from the ctfr relation but remains within the cloud of tf scatter . *",
    "the tf outliers labeled f and k in fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsalone ] are not ctfr outliers , nor are they flagged as kinematically anomalous .",
    "their large tf residuals are actually in line with expectations based on their extremely blue colors , so they appear to define a young - starburst extension of the ctfr relation .",
    "whether their tf residuals are actually reliable is unclear : indeed , galaxy k has a moderately high rotation curve asymmetry that would have reached 10% if we had adopted a higher - resolution asymmetry measure (   [ sc : quant ] ) .",
    "these galaxies may have recently relaxed onto the ctfr relation from an earlier state of more severe kinematic disturbance .",
    "in addition to our rejection strategy , our method of measuring velocity widths is also essential for defining a tight close pairs survey ctfr relation .",
    "we use a robust velocity width measure , @xmath13 , that yields reliable tf offsets even when rotation curves are somewhat asymmetric , below our 10% rejection threshold .",
    "k02 find that for disturbed or otherwise non - canonical rotation curves , @xmath13 produces more reliable results than @xmath14 , the measure adopted by b01 following @xcite . as a result",
    ", we find a more meaningful pattern of tf outliers than b01 .",
    "consider the eight tf outliers identified by b01 ( labeled a  h in fig .  [ fg : pairsalone ] ) :",
    "( i ) five are still tf outliers in our analysis , and they are both kinematically anomalous and ctfr outliers ( c , d , e , g , and h ) ; ( ii ) two are no longer strong tf outliers in our analysis , and they are neither kinematically anomalous nor ctfr outliers ( a and b ; notably these two are the only galaxies for which b01 could not find a physical basis for outlier behavior ) ; ( iii ) one is still a tf outlier , but its offset is consistent with a strong starburst that follows the ctfr relation , and it is not flagged as kinematically anomalous ( f ) . using @xmath13 also reveals several new examples that confirm the close correspondence between kinematic anomalies and ctfr outliers , independent of whether a galaxy lies on the tf relation ( i , j , k , n , o , p ) .",
    "galaxies l and m deviate slightly from the ctfr relation despite acceptable asymmetry and truncation measures .",
    "we suspect misleading photometric inclinations : galaxy m is so distorted by interaction that its inclination is not well defined , while galaxy l has an enhanced spiral arm that may be lifted out of the plane of a more edge - on disk ( morphological classification notes courtesy r. a. jansen ) .",
    "galaxy m also shows an unusual feature in its rotation curve , with the appearance of a separate kinematic system on one side ( fig  [ fg : rcegs ] ) . ]",
    "we now turn to a comparative analysis of the close pairs survey and the nfgs , to see whether the tf and ctfr relations for the close pairs survey reveal evidence of interaction - induced luminosity enhancements relative to the general galaxy population ( represented by the nfgs , * ? ? ?",
    "[ fg : pairsandnfgs ] compares the inverse - fit tf relations for the nfgs and the close pairs survey .",
    "the formal fit results yield a slope difference , with a slope of 7.93@xmath300.29 for the close pairs survey ( solid black line ) and a steeper slope of 9.61@xmath300.41 for the nfgs ( solid gray line ) , excluding kinematically anomalous galaxies in both cases .",
    "the slope difference is formally significant at 3.3@xmath17 confidence .",
    "the size and significance of this difference agree with the results of b01 and may in part reflect enhanced star formation at the faint end of the tf relation .    however , in the region of fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsandnfgs ] where the nfgs and the close pairs survey overlap , the data look very similar ( excluding kinematically anomalous galaxies ) .",
    "in fact , we find that the entire slope difference comes from two sources : ( 1 ) galaxies f and k , and ( 2 ) the difference between the two surveys luminosity distributions ( fig .",
    "[ fg : twosampprops ] and   [ sc : data ] ) .",
    "we argue below that galaxies f and k may be the only galaxies in the close pairs survey with significant interaction - driven luminosity boosts that are not accompanied by severe kinematic anomalies . without galaxies",
    "f and k , the close pairs survey tf relation would have a slope of 8.8 ( dotted line ) .",
    "likewise , if we weight each data point in the nfgs tf relation by the ratio of the two surveys luminosity distributions ( i.e. , the ratio of the histograms shown in fig .  [ fg : twosampprops ] , but with kinematically anomalous galaxies removed ) , the resulting tf fit yields a slope of 8.8 . we conclude that the two surveys tf relations are quite similar , except for a population of disturbed galaxies within the close pairs survey , which includes galaxies f and k as well as the galaxies we have rejected because of severe kinematic anomalies ( not all of which are tf outliers ) .",
    "we stress that this disturbed population almost certainly reflects enhanced star formation from interactions , consistent with b01 .",
    "however , quantitatively separating luminosity and velocity offsets is impossible for most of these galaxies .    nonetheless , we do see possible evidence for pure luminosity boosts in the close pairs survey , based on the position of galaxies f and k in the ctfr relation . to construct the ctfr relations for the close pairs survey and the nfgs in fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsandnfgs ] , we compute the tf residuals for both surveys relative to the nfgs tf relation , which represents the tf relation for the general galaxy population . comparing the two ctfr relations , we find very similar locii , except for an extension of the close pairs survey ctfr relation toward bluer colors .",
    "blueward of @xmath34 , there are four close pairs survey galaxies , but no nfgs galaxies .",
    "if the frequency of very blue galaxies in the close pairs survey were representative of the general galaxy population , the probability of the nfgs containing zero very blue galaxies would be 3% in a random sample , implying that the difference between the surveys is probably real .",
    "two of the very blue close pairs survey galaxies are kinematically anomalous , but the other two ( galaxies f and k ) lie on the ctfr relation , extending it as far as @xmath35 .",
    "these two galaxies @xmath12.5 mag tf residuals probably reflect luminosity enhancements from starbursts .",
    "we can not rule out kinematic effects , especially for galaxy k (   [ sc : pairsresults ] ) , but the fact that both galaxies have objectively acceptable kinematic anomalies and also fall on the ctfr relation is reassuring . as argued by k02 ,",
    "the slope of the ctfr relation in optical passbands is consistent with the slope expected when the dominant physics determining tf offsets involves star formation .",
    "population synthesis models combined with a variety of galaxy formation models all yield similar predictions for the slope of the relation between color and stellar mass - to - light ratio @xcite , which may be converted to predictions for the slope of the ctfr relation given certain simplifying assumptions ( e.g. , that dark matter fractions are constant ) .",
    "the predicted and observed slopes agree well , suggesting that star formation explains most of the ctfr slope ( k02 ) . in this context , we interpret the blue extension of the close pairs ctfr relation as evidence of very bright , young starbursts driven by interactions . for reasonable star formation histories , even 10% mass starbursts generally extend rather than depart from the ctfr relation ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see their fig .",
    "5 ) . after 1 gyr ,",
    "such bursts tend to fall slightly above the ctfr relation , but still within the observational scatter set by our measurement errors .",
    "younger bursts may show more extreme luminosity offsets that do not follow the ctfr relation .",
    "unfortunately , most ctfr outliers have kinematic anomalies , so we can not readily disentangle luminosity and velocity offsets for these galaxies .",
    "even for those few ctfr outliers without kinematic anomalies , velocity offsets may play a role .",
    "all but one of the non - anomalous nfgs ctfr outliers labeled @xmath36@xmath0 in fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsandnfgs ] have companions that could be causing luminosity offsets , but these same companions may also cause velocity offsets , for example via systematic inclination errors from photometric distortion . in one case we also suspect a large asymmetry hidden by a poorly sampled rotation curve .",
    "k02 find that integrated h@xmath3 equivalent widths ( i.e. , with the spectrograph slit scanned over the entire galaxy * ? ? ?",
    "* ) also correlate with tf residuals for the nfgs , and fig .",
    "[ fg : bothew ] shows that galaxies @xmath36 , @xmath37 , and @xmath0 are outliers from the integrated ew(h@xmath3)tf residual relation just as they are from the color  tf residual relation .",
    "however , the integrated ew(h@xmath3)tf residual relation is more scattered than the ctfr relation , and the status of its outliers is less obvious .",
    "moreover , the use of central rather than integrated ew(h@xmath3 ) measurements degrades the relation considerably ( compare both panels of fig .",
    "[ fg : bothew ] ) .",
    "unfortunately , central measurements are the only type available for the close pairs survey .",
    "although some ctfr outliers remain outliers in the central ew(h@xmath3)tf residual relation , the latter relation does not offer a clean way to separate offsets affected by kinematic anomalies from reliable luminosity boosts .",
    "most blue starburst galaxies in the close pairs survey are fainter than m@xmath38 , despite the overall survey bias toward bright galaxies ( e.g. , fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsalone ] ) .",
    "the nfgs shows a similar tendency , resulting in asymmetric scatter at the bright end of the tf relation ( k02 ) .",
    "the absence of very blue galaxies at high luminosities may reflect a hierarchical formation history in which bright galaxies form early via mergers that consume most of the available gas , so that in later interactions these galaxies lack the fuel necessary for major starbursts .",
    "b01 show that the close pairs data are consistent with interaction - driven starbursts of relatively constant size , so that the fractional contribution of the starburst light to the total light is negligible for the largest galaxies .",
    "kinematically anomalous galaxies with severely truncated and/or asymmetric rotation curves represent nearly 20% of the close pairs survey tf sample , roughly twice the frequency seen for the corresponding nfgs sample .",
    "the bulk of the difference arises from the 34@xmath31 higher incidence of strong rotation curve asymmetries in the close pairs survey ( 10/88 vs.2/73 ) .",
    "truncated rotation curves also occur more often in the close pairs survey ( 9/88 vs.  5/73 ) , but with only marginal statistical significance .",
    "the significance of the frequency difference for strong rotation curve asymmetries depends upon interpretation .",
    "a k - s test finds no significant difference between the two continuous asymmetry distributions shown in fig .",
    "[ fg : asymdist ] .",
    "however , accepting that asymmetries above 810% are `` anomalous , '' i.e. , represent a discontinuously disturbed population , the difference in the rate of anomalies between the two surveys is highly significant .",
    "for example , if we assume that the nfgs reflects the underlying parent distribution of asymmetries , the probability of obtaining rotation curve asymmetries @xmath2910% in 10/88 close pairs survey galaxies is @xmath39 . in reality",
    ", systematics dominate this problem , and statistical tests are of limited utility .",
    "confirmation with other samples would be more valuable .",
    "most of our kinematically anomalous galaxies have either strongly asymmetric or truncated rotation curves , but not both .",
    "however , rotation curve truncation may prevent detection of non - central asymmetries (   [ sc : asym ] ) .",
    "[ fg : pairsandnfgs ] shows that large rotation curve asymmetries generally occur in blue galaxies , while truncated rotation curves generally occur in red galaxies ( though the latter may have relatively blue centers ,   [ sc : srctrunc ] ) .      the fact that strong rotation curve asymmetries occur more often in the close pairs survey than in the nfgs provides circumstantial evidence that close neighbors play a role in driving such asymmetries . in their selection criteria ,",
    "the two surveys differ primarily in local environmental distribution ( pairs vs.  any environment ) and luminosity distribution ( top - heavy vs.representing a broad range of luminosities , fig .",
    "[ fg : twosampprops ] ) .",
    "if anything , the difference in luminosity distributions causes us to underestimate the difference in rotation curve asymmetries : the top - heavy luminosity distribution of the close pairs survey should not favor large rotation curve asymmetries , because luminosity and rotation curve asymmetry anticorrelate in the general galaxy population ( k02 and nfgs symbols in fig .",
    "[ fg : asymdist]b ) .",
    "we conclude that the higher rate of strong rotation curve asymmetries in the close pairs survey very likely reflects the selection of close pair environments , barring any systematic difference in the data ( unlikely given our conclusions regarding resolution dependence and reproducibility in ",
    "[ sc : asym][sc : repro ] ) .",
    "interactions with neighbors or generally dense environments may induce rotation curve asymmetries via several mechanisms .",
    "all rotation curves show some degree of asymmetry , which correlates with inclination , hubble type , and galaxy color via the much stronger color  tf residual correlation . ]",
    "[ fg : colorasym ] ; @xcite 2001 ; @xcite 2001 ; see also @xcite 1999 ) and may be related to small satellite interactions or turbulence from self - regulated star formation .",
    "strong asymmetries may arise from tidally disrupted gas and/or decoupling between the gas dynamical center of the galaxy and the stellar continuum peak position during violent encounters ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "asymmetries may also reflect the presence of multiple gas components due to merging systems or strong bars , since standard rotation curve analysis techniques assign a single velocity per spatial position even when there are multiple velocity components , and which velocity component dominates the result may vary strongly with local changes in emission - line strength @xcite .",
    "@xcite find evidence that cluster interactions may produce long - lived disturbances in rotation curves ( but see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; we note that our surveys contain few galaxies in dense cluster environments , because field environments are statistically more common ( fig .",
    "[ fg : twosampprops ] ) .",
    "extinction in dusty starbursts can also cause rotation curve asymmetries , although in our surveys , most galaxies with large rotation curve asymmetries show blue colors atypical of dusty systems ( fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsandnfgs ] ) .",
    "we plan to investigate how these mechanisms combine to explain observed rotation curve asymmetries in a future paper using integral - field kinematics ( with m. bershady , in preparation ) . in the absence of understanding the origin of rotation curve asymmetries ,",
    "we can not at present explain their relationship to tf offsets .",
    "the large tf offsets we observe for galaxies with high rotation curve asymmetries may reflect concomitant luminosity enhancements and/or symmetric rotation curve distortions @xcite , in addition to the direct effects of rotation curve asymmetries .      the slight difference in rotation curve truncation frequency between the nfgs and",
    "the close pairs survey may reflect nothing more profound than s / n . if we edit each nfgs rotation curve to remove individual points that would be lost at the s / n of the close pairs survey ( using the relative s / n determined by comparing galaxies common to the two surveys in   [ sc : repro ] ) , three additional nfgs rotation curves become truncated , so that the frequency of truncation is indistinguishable between the surveys . , and in any case the median apparent magnitude for the close pairs survey galaxies with truncated rotation curves is only 0.5 mag fainter than the median apparent magnitude for the nfgs .",
    "we see no evidence for systematically poor weather conditions during observations of galaxies with truncated rotation curves . ]    however , physical arguments predict an enhanced rotation curve truncation rate for galaxies selected in pairs ( as discussed by b01 ) .",
    "neighbor interactions can trigger disk gas inflow and central starburst activity ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , causing optical emission lines to be preferentially detected at small radii .",
    "in addition , galaxies in cluster environments may show radially truncated emission due to gas stripping or tidal harassment @xcite , though only a few galaxies in the close pairs survey have sufficiently dense environments for cluster mechanisms to play a role ( and in particular , the galaxies with truncated rotation curves have modest densities on the scale of fig .",
    "[ fg : twosampprops]f , ranging from @xmath400.2 to 0.5 on the log scale , with median @xmath400.06 ) .",
    "these physical processes might have produced more truncated rotation curves in the close pairs survey if the survey were not deficient in low - luminosity galaxies . even with this deficiency , truncated rotation curves appear more common at lower luminosities within the survey ( fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsalone ] ; the luminosity distributions for truncated and non - truncated rotation curves differ at 95% confidence in a k - s test ) .",
    "moreover , _ physically induced _",
    "rotation curve truncation may also be more common at lower luminosities , based on a two - step chain of inference .",
    "( 1 ) several close pairs survey galaxies with truncated rotation curves have unusual color profiles suggestive of gas inflow processes : their colors within @xmath24 are bluer than their outer disk colors . in general , blue - centered galaxies include blue compact morphologies , such as blue - centered emission - line s0 galaxies , as well as many later - type morphologies , and they often show evidence of interactions and mergers @xcite .",
    "statistically , truncated rotation curves in the close pairs survey correlate with blue - centered galaxies at 98% confidence ( four of nine galaxies ) .",
    "( 2 ) blue - centered galaxies are nearly always fainter than m@xmath41 @xcite .",
    "thus rotation curve truncation associated with blue - centered galaxies will occur primarily at low luminosities .",
    "because low - luminosity galaxies are underrepresented in the close pairs survey compared to the nfgs (   [ sc : data ] ) , this trend probably weakens any statistical difference between the two surveys rates of rotation curve truncation , insofar as that difference is related to interaction - driven gas inflow . therefore in our view interactions remain a likely source of rotation curve truncation .",
    "the pattern of tf offsets for kinematically anomalous galaxies in the close pairs survey looks very similar to the `` differential luminosity evolution '' seen in some high-@xmath0 tf studies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "[ fg : zieglercmp ] shows the close pairs survey and the nfgs alongside high-@xmath0 tf data from the fors deep field ( the survey used by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , courtesy of a. bhm @xcite . @xcite",
    "derive velocities by fitting simulated rcs , including slit width and seeing effects , to observed ( extracted ) one - dimensional rcs .",
    "for both the high-@xmath0 sample and the close pairs survey , the largest tf offsets occur in the same region of parameter space , i.e. , at luminosities fainter than m@xmath38 and velocity widths less than @xmath42 . in both cases",
    ", this pattern of tf offsets creates a shallow tf slope compared to the reference slope defined by the nfgs .",
    "furthermore , at both high and low @xmath0 , this pattern of offsets is linked to kinematic anomalies . in the close pairs survey",
    ", the largest tf offsets correspond to kinematically anomalous galaxies , which have offsets of up to 4 mag . in the fors deep field sample ,",
    "much of the slope evolution is driven by `` low - quality '' data points , identified as such by bhm et al.because the corresponding rotation curves `` have a smaller radial extent and partly feature signatures of moderate kinematic perturbations like waves or asymmetries '' ( * ? ? ?",
    "* data table notes ; no quantitative criteria given ) . by analogy with the close pairs survey , we suggest that the slope evolution in the fors deep field may reflect kinematic anomalies caused by companions or minor mergers .",
    "the frequency of interactions and mergers is expected to increase with @xmath0 @xcite , and physically significant interactions are not always visually obvious .",
    "in fact , many kinematically anomalous galaxies in the nfgs show only subtle interaction evidence , with faint or already merging small companions .",
    "conversely , large , obvious galaxy pairs need not be influenced by interactions .",
    "the brightest galaxies in the close pairs survey all have companions ( by definition ) , yet they display minimal starburst activity and few strong kinematic anomalies , possibly because the galaxy formation process consumes most of the gas in massive galaxies early , inhibiting gas - dynamical processes in later interactions (   [ sc : combresults ] ) .",
    "interaction - induced kinematic anomalies may be more common at high @xmath0 than is generally recognized .",
    "rotation curve asymmetries like those in fig .",
    "[ fg : rcegs ] will not always be obvious at the resolution of high-@xmath0 data .",
    "moreover , the high frequency of blue compact galaxies in many high-@xmath0 tf studies probably reflects interaction - driven starburst activity that can cause rotation curve truncation via gas inflow processes ( b01 and * ? ? ?",
    "low s / n is another potential source of rotation curve truncation and thereby tf outliers in some high-@xmath0 studies , especially studies already biased toward centrally concentrated star formation ( as * ? ? ?",
    "*  suggests for the simard & pritchet 1998 study ; see also kobulnicky & gebhardt 2000 ) .",
    "to the extent that kinematically anomalous galaxies drive the apparent luminosity evolution in high-@xmath0 tf studies , the nature of that evolution is unclear . at present , disentangling luminosity and velocity offsets for galaxies with rotation curve asymmetries is not possible .",
    "estimating velocity offsets for galaxies with rotation curve truncation is also difficult , although we do know that for blue compact galaxies in particular , underestimated velocity widths may yield average tf offsets of order 2 mag for unresolved optical data ( based on studies of their low-@xmath0 analogues , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the exact effects of rotation curve truncation may differ at low and high @xmath0 , because most high-@xmath0 studies do not compute velocity widths directly from rotation curves but instead analyze kinematic and photometric profiles together ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these modeling techniques generally assume that emission - line flux and disk - continuum flux profiles are simply related by scalings in radial extent and intensity .",
    "the models further assume a basic form for the rotation curve constrained by exponential fits to the spatial flux distribution , even when hst data are available to model bulge components in the images .",
    "within these assumptions , using high-@xmath0 techniques may mitigate truncation - induced velocity offsets in the tf relation ( although probably not asymmetry - induced velocity offsets ) .",
    "however , the presence of bulges , bars , central starbursts , and morphological distortions will severely compromise such modeling .",
    "a realistic evaluation of the effects of rotation curve truncation on high-@xmath0 data will require simulating high-@xmath0 resolution , s / n , and analysis techniques using a low-@xmath0 sample like the nfgs that includes all hubble types , as well as barred , peculiar , and interacting galaxies .    in short , the contribution of velocity offsets to high-@xmath0",
    "luminosity evolution is uncertain but potentially large .",
    "discrepancies between high-@xmath0",
    "tf studies that report minimal evolution ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and 12 mag evolution ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) may in part reflect differences in sample selection criteria that lead to higher or lower percentages of kinematically anomalous galaxies .",
    "for example , the @xcite sample favors large , undisturbed disks , while the @xcite sample includes all types of elongated emission - line galaxies , and thus almost certainly galaxies with kinematic anomalies .",
    "measuring luminosity evolution reliably will require identifying and rejecting kinematically anomalous galaxies in high-@xmath0 samples and/or accounting for the velocity offsets inherent in these galaxies tf offsets .",
    "isolating tf evolution associated with kinematic anomalies may also be interesting in its own right , as a way to probe the evolving role of mergers and interactions as a function of luminosity and redshift . at low @xmath0",
    ", the nfgs shows a distinct population of kinematically anomalous galaxies fainter than m@xmath43 ( fig .",
    "[ fg : zieglercmp ] ) , perhaps reflecting late - epoch galaxy formation activity on the smallest mass scales .",
    "below we consider four possible strategies for analyzing high-@xmath0 tf data in the presence of kinematic anomalies .      by definition ,",
    "the most accurate way to identify kinematically anomalous galaxies is via their rotation curve properties .",
    "spatially resolved rotation curves combined with good @xmath24 measurements should be sufficient to flag cases of rotation curve truncation , using a rejection threshold optimized for the tf sample under study (   [ sc : trunc ] ) .",
    "however , high-@xmath0 kinematic data generally lack the spatial resolution necessary to measure reliable rotation curve asymmetries (   [ sc : asym ] ) .",
    "a new generation of 2030-meter telescopes with adaptive optics may enable such measurements in the future .",
    "most low-@xmath0 tf studies would reject the strongest tf outliers in the close pairs survey on morphological grounds .",
    "of the nine strongest tf outliers in the survey ( tf residuals brighter than @xmath401.5 mag in fig .",
    "[ fg : pairsalone ] ) , three are emission - line s0 galaxies , while the other six are distorted by interactions , including the two that follow the ctfr relation .",
    "tf studies typically compare against low-@xmath0 calibration samples that exclude such early - type or disturbed morphologies .",
    "however , the high-@xmath0 samples themselves may not exclude such morphologies , due to sample selection procedures that rely on spectroscopic galaxy types and/or low physical - resolution images .",
    "for example , the abundance of compact narrow emission line galaxies ( cnelgs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) in high-@xmath0 samples may in part reflect the inclusion of emission - line s0 galaxies .",
    "@xcite show that four tf outliers in the close pairs survey have properties that suggest they are counterparts to cnelgs at higher redshift ; of these four , two are emission - line s0 s and one is an early - type peculiar galaxy ( according to the classifications of * ? ? ?",
    "emission - line s0 galaxies form a prominent subpopulation of kinematically anomalous galaxies in the nfgs as well , as indicated by the asterisks in fig .",
    "[ fg : zieglercmp ] .    in general ,",
    "all high-@xmath0 tf studies that report differential luminosity evolution employ selection criteria that allow emission - line s0 and disturbed spiral morphologies .",
    "with hst imaging , a strategy of rejecting both classes of galaxy might successfully eliminate many kinematic anomalies at high @xmath0 and establish whether the non - anomalous galaxy population shows differential luminosity evolution .",
    "however , some anomalous galaxies would probably escape rejection , while some non - anomalous galaxies would probably be thrown out , possibly including galaxies essential to measuring luminosity evolution like the two galaxies that seem to extend the ctfr relation for the close pairs survey .",
    "also , this approach would be too imprecise to support a detailed analysis of kinematically anomalous galaxies for their own sake .",
    "if a color  tf residual relation can be established at high @xmath0 , then identifying kinematically anomalous galaxies based on their close correspondence with ctfr outliers may be easier than identifying them from their rotation curve properties , with comparable effectiveness for separating reliable luminosity evolution from the ambiguous tf offsets of kinematically anomalous galaxies . in the close pairs survey ,",
    "reliable luminosity offsets lie along the ctfr relation , possibly extending it toward bluer colors , while offsets that do not follow the ctfr relation nearly always correspond to kinematic anomalies .    with a large enough sample",
    ", it may be possible to establish a high-@xmath0 ctfr relation just using sigma clipping and rejection based on morphology or rotation curve truncation .",
    "@xcite report initial evidence for a high-@xmath0 ctfr relation based on a sample of disk galaxies spanning a broad range of colors .",
    "the low-@xmath0 ctfr relation may be used to help refine the locus of the high-@xmath0 ctfr relation , assuming closely standardized analysis techniques , though we caution that the ctfr relation may evolve .",
    "if defining a tight high-@xmath0 relation proves difficult , establishing its locus might require a small sample of galaxies with well - resolved rotation curves , free of kinematic anomalies according to the criteria presented here .",
    "obtaining such data at high @xmath0 would probably require deep ground - based spectroscopy with adaptive optics .",
    "fortunately , once a high-@xmath0 ctfr relation has been established , kinematic anomalies can be eliminated from a larger sample with unresolved or poorly resolved rotation curves simply by rejecting ctfr outliers .",
    "rejecting ctfr outliers can also help to eliminate galaxies with faulty inclination estimates or otherwise spurious data .",
    "any reliable luminosity evolution that remains can then be measured by comparing the high- and low-@xmath0 ctfr relations , perhaps with the precaution of obtaining well - resolved rotation curves for any high-@xmath0 galaxies that extend the ctfr relation .    since measuring equivalent widths is often easier than measuring colors at high @xmath0 , attempting to identify kinematic anomalies using the ew(h@xmath3) or ew([oii])tf residual relations might also be worthwhile .",
    "these relations have already proven useful for estimating bulk luminosity shifts related to differences in mean emission - line strength between high- and low-@xmath0 tf samples @xcite . however , the emission - line strength  tf residual relations are noisier than the ctfr relation even at low @xmath0 ( k02 ) , and equivalent widths can depend strongly on spectroscopic aperture (   [ sc : combresults ] , * ? ? ?",
    "thus it is not yet clear that emission - line strength can serve as a surrogate for color for identifying kinematically anomalous galaxies .",
    "an alternative to rejection at high redshift is greater inclusion at low redshift .",
    "for example , the nfgs includes kinematically anomalous galaxies similar to those at high @xmath0 , because it is a statistically representative , morphology - blind sample of the local galaxy population .",
    "many of the worst tf outliers in the nfgs are emission - line s0 or irregular late - type galaxies with kinematic oddities such as large rotation curve asymmetries , truncated rotation curves , or counterrotating gas and stars ( k02 ; see also @xcite 2001 ) .",
    "including such kinematically anomalous galaxies in determining the low-@xmath0 reference tf relation could help to eliminate apparent evolution between low and high redshift that really reflects different sample selection criteria .",
    "to first order , an all - inclusive low-@xmath0 reference sample should provide a good calibration for a magnitude - limited high-@xmath0 sample like the fors deep field @xcite .",
    "to illustrate , we compare tf fits for the nfgs , the fors deep field , and the close pairs survey in fig .",
    "[ fg : zieglercmp ] .",
    "the nfgs defines the reference relation , shown as a solid line in all three panels .",
    "the dashed lines show the best - fit tf relations for the other two samples with the slope held fixed to the nfgs value , where we include two lines for the fors deep field sample to show fits with and without the data designated as `` low - quality '' by @xcite because of kinematic perturbations or inadequate rotation curve extent . while we can not directly assess whether bhm et al.s low - quality data points would meet our quantitative criteria for kinematic anomalies , the 0.18 mag difference between fits with and without these low - quality points gives some idea of the likely contribution of kinematically anomalous galaxies to the tf offset for the fors deep field .",
    "this contribution is quite similar to the 0.16 mag offset for the close pairs survey relative to the nfgs .",
    "apart from the 0.18 mag attributed to low - quality points , we find an offset of only 0.28 mag for the fors deep field relative to the nfgs .",
    "@xcite find a larger mean offset in part because they follow other high-@xmath0 workers in using the tf relation of @xcite as a low-@xmath0 reference relation .",
    "this relation has a known zero - point error of @xmath10.30.4 mag @xcite , depending on whether one prefers h@xmath44 = 75 or 70 .",
    "a high-@xmath0 tf offset of @xmath10.4 mag would be expected for the fors deep field based on the sample s bluer mean color compared to the nfgs , assuming the same ctfr relation observed at low @xmath0 ( a. bhm , private communication ) .",
    "thus the observed @xmath10.3 mag offset is consistent with a combination of evolution in mass - to - light ratio ( as suggested by bhm et al . ) and perhaps some evolution in stellar - to - total mass fraction ( as discussed for the vogt et al .",
    "1997 sample in * ? ? ?",
    "however , uncertainties and systematics dominate at this level : ( i ) scatter in the high-@xmath0 data , ( ii ) differences between velocity measures ( e.g. , using a @xmath13 equivalent at high @xmath0 could decrease the evolution by @xmath10.1 mag from what we measure , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , ( iii ) differences in galactic extinction corrections data would increase the evolution by @xmath10.040.08 mag from what we measure , depending on the passband closest to rest - frame b for a given galaxy ( based on known zero point differences between different extinction maps , * ? ? ?",
    "] , ( iv ) the unknown true frequency of kinematic anomalies at high @xmath0 , and ( v ) differences in color or surface - brightness selection biases , which may affect the relative frequency of blue colors and/or kinematic anomalies ( e.g. , by favoring high surface brightness blue compact galaxies ) .    in addition to affecting mean offsets , kinematic anomalies also affect slope evolution .",
    "as previously discussed , the fors deep field tf relation is shallower than the nfgs tf relation ( inverse - fit slopes of @xmath45 and @xmath46 , respectively ; the high-@xmath0 fit is shown as a dotted line in fig .",
    "[ fg : zieglercmp ] ) .",
    "this result confirms the slope evolution reported by @xcite , although the exact slope differs because of different extinction corrections and fitting methods . unlike bhm et al .",
    ", however , we do not find statistically significant slope evolution for the high - quality points taken alone .",
    "separate inverse fits to the high and low quality data in fig .",
    "[ fg : zieglercmp ] suggest that the shallower slope is produced almost entirely by the low - quality subsample , which is subject to kinematic anomalies .",
    "specifically , the slope evolution is driven by anomalous galaxies with large tf offsets of up to @xmath12 mag at intermediate luminosities , m@xmath47 to @xmath48 ( fig .",
    "[ fg : zieglercmp ] ) . by comparison ,",
    "nfgs galaxies with strong kinematic anomalies and large tf offsets typically have luminosities fainter than m@xmath43 .",
    "@xcite report an analogous evolutionary shift in the characteristic luminosities of blue compact galaxies from high to low @xmath0 .",
    "these trends may reflect mass - dependent evolution in the rate of starbursts and gas - dynamical disturbances driven by galaxy mergers and interactions , following the hierarchical tendency for today s more massive galaxies to show peak formation activity at higher redshifts than today s smaller galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "in this view , both the number density and the luminosity distribution of kinematically anomalous galaxies would be expected to evolve , and _ the optimal low-@xmath0 calibration sample for isolating luminosity offsets from velocity offsets would be a sample that simulated the expected luminosity distribution of kinematic anomalies at higher @xmath0 . _ the simulation would ideally involve adjusting both the interacting galaxy distribution and the data quality ( e.g. , rotation curve s / n , inclination errors ) to match the high-@xmath0 sample under study .",
    "analysis techniques would also be essential , and such modeling might lead to development of a high-@xmath0 analogue of @xmath13 that would minimize velocity offsets from minor kinematic distortions .",
    "we have demonstrated robust methods for measuring luminosity evolution in tf samples with a high frequency of rotation curve anomalies , such as might be expected at high redshift .",
    "the close pairs survey of @xcite is ideal for this analysis , as a low-@xmath0 tf sample with high - quality data and many similarities to high-@xmath0 tf samples : optical emission - line rotation curves , morphology - blind selection , and a large number of interacting galaxies .",
    "the nearby field galaxy survey ( nfgs , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) offers a low-@xmath0 reference sample with similar features , but with a more typical number of interacting galaxies .",
    "we have extended @xcite s previous tf analysis of the close pairs survey , which showed that both starbursts and kinematic disturbances can create apparent `` luminosity evolution '' for galaxies in interacting pairs , by our demonstration of methods for isolating potentially spurious luminosity offsets associated with severe kinematic anomalies from reliable luminosity offsets clearly linked to star formation .",
    "the largest apparent luminosity offsets in the close pairs survey tf relation correspond to galaxies with severe kinematic anomalies ( asymmetric rotation curve shapes and/or radially truncated rotation curve extents , using objective measures adapted from * ? ? ?",
    "the pattern of these galaxies tf offsets looks much like the differential luminosity evolution claimed in many high-@xmath0 studies , with the largest tf offsets at luminosities fainter than m@xmath38 .",
    "excluding the galaxies with asymmetric or truncated rotation curves , however , and adopting a robust velocity width measure insensitive to minor kinematic distortions , we find that the tf relations for the close pairs survey and the nfgs are very similar , with no significant evidence for overall luminosity enhancement in paired galaxies relative to the general population .    nonetheless , we do find evidence for luminosity enhancement when we compare the color  tf residual ( ctfr ) relations for the two surveys .",
    "two galaxies that are not objectively flagged as kinematically anomalous extend the ctfr relation to very blue colors and large luminosity offsets , apparently reflecting interaction - induced star formation .",
    "of course , kinematically anomalous galaxies probably experience luminosity boosts as well , and in fact two such galaxies are also exceptionally blue . however , anomalous galaxies are typically outliers from the ctfr relation , and their tf offsets may include velocity offsets .",
    "unfortunately , it is presently impossible to separate luminosity and velocity offsets for these galaxies .    if , as expected from hierarchical merging scenarios , the galaxy interaction rate was higher in the past , kinematic anomalies may pose a serious problem for high-@xmath0 tf studies .",
    "severe anomalies are roughly twice as common in the close pairs survey as in the nfgs ( @xmath120% vs.  @xmath110% of galaxies brighter than @xmath49 ) .",
    "galaxy interactions probably explain the 34 times higher rate of strong rotation curve asymmetries in the close pairs survey compared to the nfgs .",
    "the externally triggered gas inflow associated with interactions can also lead to centrally concentrated line emission and thereby rotation curve truncation , a problem that may be compounded by low s / n data .",
    "however , our data are inconclusive as to the primary source of rotation curve truncation in the close pairs survey . to the extent that gas inflow processes play a role at high @xmath0 , some of the assumptions inherent in high-@xmath0 rotation - curve fitting techniques",
    "may break down , leading to artificially low velocity widths , as observed at low @xmath0 .",
    "the frequency of kinematic anomalies at high @xmath0 that would meet our criteria is presently unknown .",
    "we have shown that tf outliers associated with kinematic anomalies in the close pairs survey occupy the same part of tf parameter space as the galaxies responsible for tf slope evolution in some high-@xmath0 studies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these studies tend to have morphology - blind selection criteria that would include kinematically anomalous galaxies , which often have blue compact , emission - line s0 , or peculiar morphologies .",
    "in contrast , studies that show less slope evolution ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) tend to favor large disks and probably contain fewer kinematic anomalies .",
    "we have also shown that the slope evolution in the high-@xmath0 fors deep field sample @xcite is largely driven by `` low - quality '' data points , labeled as such by bhm et al.based on perturbations or limited radial extent in the rotation curves . using the fors deep field data , we find that most or all of the tf evolution measured at high @xmath0 can be modeled as an overall @xmath10.3 mag luminosity offset at fixed slope , consistent with evolution along the ctfr relation , plus a differential evolution component associated with kinematically anomalous galaxies , which show offsets as large as @xmath12 mag at low luminosities but add only a small @xmath10.2 mag enhancement to the total tf offset for the survey .",
    "we note that the use of the outdated @xcite tf calibration ( superseded by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) as a low-@xmath0 reference relation contributes 0.30.4 mag of spurious luminosity evolution to many high-@xmath0 tf studies .",
    "at present , only the @xmath10.3 mag offset consistent with the ctfr relation can be reliably interpreted as luminosity evolution .",
    "tf slope evolution associated with kinematic anomalies may be interesting for its own sake , as a source of data on mass - dependent evolution in the frequency of mergers and interactions ( or the frequency of gas - dynamical disturbances caused by these events ) .",
    "consistent with mass - dependent evolutionary trends in star formation histories and the luminosity function ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , kinematically anomalous galaxies in the nfgs tend to be dwarf galaxies , fainter than m@xmath43 , while analogous galaxies at high @xmath0 can be as bright as m@xmath38 .",
    "we have considered four strategies for isolating reliable luminosity offsets from offsets possibly associated with kinematic anomalies at high @xmath0 : identification of anomalies based on rotation curve properties , identification based on morphology , identification based on the color  tf residual relation , and inclusion of anomalies in optimally matched low-@xmath0 calibration samples that reproduce the distribution of anomalies expected at high @xmath0 ( as well as high-@xmath0 selection criteria , data quality , and analysis techniques ) . _ the color  tf residual relation may offer the simplest and most powerful tool currently available for measuring luminosity evolution independent of kinematic anomalies at high @xmath0 , _ especially when combined with optimal low-@xmath0 calibration samples .",
    "unreliable tf offsets associated with kinematic anomalies are typically ctfr outliers .",
    "conversely , reliable luminosity enhancements lie on the ctfr relation and extend it toward bluer colors .",
    "preliminary evidence for a ctfr relation at high @xmath0 has already been reported @xcite .",
    "if the high-@xmath0 ctfr relation proves as tight as the close pairs survey ctfr relation , then identifying ctfr outliers will serve as the preferred method for isolating kinematic anomalies in studies of luminosity evolution .",
    "once established , the high-@xmath0 ctfr relation may be applied to measuring not only luminosity evolution but also the evolution of stellar populations and stellar - to - total mass fractions @xcite .",
    "the ctfr relation and the analogous relations for ew(h@xmath3 ) and ew([oii ] ) can also be used to reconcile discrepancies between high-@xmath0 tf studies with different selection biases in color or emission - line strength @xcite .",
    "matching selection criteria at low and high @xmath0 is only the first step , however , because of the potential for luminosity - dependent evolution in the frequency of kinematic anomalies . by combining well - matched low-@xmath0 calibration samples with careful modeling of kinematic anomalies and",
    "the ctfr relation , future high-@xmath0 tf studies should be able to properly account for the major uncertainties of existing studies and reach consensus on how galaxy luminosities have evolved over cosmic time .",
    "data for the fors deep field were kindly provided by a. bhm , who also offered useful commentary on those data .",
    "we thank niv drory and david koo for valuable feedback on this work , and karl gebhardt , margaret geller , and an anonymous referee for helpful comments on the manuscript .",
    "we also thank dan fabricant and margaret geller for the use of unpublished data from the nfgs and the close pairs survey .",
    "ejb acknowledges support from nasa through hubble fellowship grant hst - hf-01135.01 , awarded by stsci , which is operated by aura for nasa under contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "this research has used nasa s astrophysics data system bibliographic services .                                                      , j. , appenzeller , i. , gabasch , a. , j \" ager , k. , seitz , s. , bender , r. , b \" ohm , a. , snigula , j. , fricke , k.  j. , hopp , u. , k \" ummel , m. , m \" ollenhoff , c. , szeifert , t. , ziegler , b. , drory , n. , mehlert , d. , moorwood , a. , nicklas , h. , noll , s. , saglia , r.  p. , seifert , w. , stahl , o. , sutorius , e. , & wagner , s.  j. 2003 , , 398 , 49                                                                                      , b.  l. , b \" ohm , a. , fricke , k.  j. , j \" ager , k. , nicklas , h. , bender , r. , drory , n. , gabasch , a. , saglia , r.  p. , seitz , s. , heidt , j. , mehlert , d. , m \" ollenhoff , c. , noll , s. , & sutorius , e. 2002 , , 564 , l69"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> studies of high - redshift galaxies usually interpret offsets from the tully - fisher ( tf ) relation as luminosity evolution . </S>",
    "<S> however , apparent luminosity offsets may actually reflect anomalous velocity widths . </S>",
    "<S> rotation curve anomalies such as strong asymmetries or radial truncation are probably common in high-@xmath0 samples , due to frequent galaxy interactions and in some cases low s / n data , although low physical resolution may mask these anomalies . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we analyze well - resolved , one - dimensional optical emission - line rotation curves from two low-@xmath0 samples : the close pairs survey , which contains a high frequency of interacting galaxies , and the nearby field galaxy survey ( nfgs ) , which represents the general galaxy population . unlike most low-@xmath0 tf samples , but in the spirit of many high-@xmath0 samples , these surveys reflect the natural diversity of emission - line galaxy morphologies , including peculiar , interacting , and early - type galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we adopt objective , quantitative criteria to reject galaxies with severe kinematic anomalies , and we use a statistical velocity width measure that is insensitive to minor kinematic distortions . </S>",
    "<S> severely anomalous galaxies are roughly twice as frequent in the close pairs survey as in the nfgs , and these galaxies tf offsets collectively resemble the `` differential luminosity evolution '' claimed in some high-@xmath0 studies , with larger offsets at lower luminosities . </S>",
    "<S> with the anomalous galaxies rejected , however , the tf relations for the close pairs survey and the nfgs are quite similar . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , the two surveys follow very similar relations between color and tf residuals . </S>",
    "<S> the close pairs survey color  tf residual relation extends to bluer colors and brighter tf residuals . </S>",
    "<S> strong outliers from this relation are virtually always kinematically anomalous . as a result , </S>",
    "<S> the color  tf residual relation can serve as a powerful tool for separating reliable luminosity offsets from offsets associated with kinematic anomalies . </S>",
    "<S> this tool may prove especially useful at high @xmath0 , where direct detection of kinematic distortions is not always feasible . </S>",
    "<S> although we can not reliably measure luminosity evolution for galaxies with kinematic anomalies , the tf offsets associated with these anomalies may offer a sensitive probe of evolution in the frequency and intensity of mergers and interactions on different mass scales . </S>",
    "<S> we perform a preliminary reanalysis of high-@xmath0 tf data from the fors deep field and find : ( 1 ) overall luminosity evolution of @xmath10.3 mag ; ( 2 ) strong slope evolution driven by kinematically anomalous galaxies , which show tf offsets of up to @xmath12 mag at low luminosities ; and ( 3 ) an additional zero - point offset of @xmath10.2 mag linked to kinematically anomalous galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}