{
  "article_text": [
    "broad emission lines ( fwhm up to @xmath10 kev ) at energies in the range 6.4  6.7 kev are often observed in the spectra of low mass x - ray binaries ( hereafter lmxbs ) , both in systems containing black hole candidates ( see e.g.  miller et al .  2002 ) and in systems hosting an old accreting neutron star ( see e.g.  barret 2001 for a review ) .",
    "these lines are identified with the k@xmath1 radiative transitions of iron at different ionization stages .",
    "sometimes an iron absorption edge at energies @xmath11 kev has been detected .",
    "these features are powerful tools to investigate the structure of the accretion flow close to the central source ; in particular , important information can be obtained from detailed spectroscopy of the iron k@xmath1 emission line and absorption edge , since these are determined by the ionization stage , geometry , and velocity field of the reprocessing plasma .",
    "to explain the large width of these lines it has been proposed that they originate from emission reprocessed by the accretion disc surface illuminated by the primary comptonized spectrum ( fabian et al . 1989 ) . in this model , the combination of relativistic doppler effects arising from the high orbital velocities and gravitational effects due to the strong field in the vicinity of the neutron star smears the reflected features .",
    "therefore the line will have a characteristically broad profile , the detailed shape of which depends on the inclination and on how deep the accretion disk extends into the neutron star potential ( e.g.  fabian et al .",
    "1989 ; stella 1990 ) .",
    "an alternative location of the line emitting region is the inner part of the so - called accretion disk corona ( adc ) , probably formed by evaporation of the outer layers of the disk illuminated by the emission of the central object ( e.g.  white & holt 1982 ) . in this case",
    "the width of the line is explained by thermal comptonization of the line photons in the adc .",
    "this produces a genuinely broad gaussian distribution of line photons , with @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the centroid energy of the iron line and @xmath14 is the electron temperature in the adc ( see kallman & white 1989 ; brandt & matt 1994 for more detailed calculations ) .",
    "this mechanism can explain the width of the iron line for temperatures of the emitting region of few kev .    the presence of several unresolved components , which can eventually be resolved by the high resolution x - ray instruments on board chandra and xmm - newton , can also contribute to broaden the line .",
    "705 is a very interesting source of the atoll class ( see hasinger & van der klis 1989 ) which also shows type - i x - ray bursts . as in other similar sources , the energy spectrum of 705",
    "can be described as the sum of a ( dominating ) comptonized component , a blackbody , and an emission line at @xmath15 kev .",
    "we selected this source for a chandra observation because a broad ( 1.1 kev fwhm ) iron emission line at 6.5 kev has been previously reported ( white et al .",
    "1986 ; barret & olive 2002 ) .",
    "one of the goals of our chandra observation was to study the iron line profile to discriminate among the various models that have been proposed to explain the large line width .",
    "the chandra / hetgs observation demonstrates that the iron line is intrinsically broad ( 1.2 kev fwhm ) ; possible broadening mechanism are discussed .",
    "705 was observed using the high - energy transmission grating spectrometer ( hetgs ) on board of chandra starting on 2001 july 1 .",
    "part of the observation , for a total integration time of 24.4 ks , was performed in timed graded mode , while a short part of the observation , @xmath16 ks , was performed in continuous clocking mode .",
    "the hetgs consists of two types of transmission gratings , the medium - energy grating ( meg ) and the high - energy grating ( heg ) .",
    "the hetgs affords high - resolution spectroscopy from 1.2 to 31   ( 0.4 - 10 kev ) with a peak spectral resolution of @xmath17 at 12   for heg first order .",
    "the dispersed spectra were recorded with an array of six charged coupled devices ( ccds ) that are part of the advanced ccd imaging spectrometer ( acis - s ; garmire et al .",
    "2003 ; see http://asc.harvard.edu/cdo/about@xmath18chandra for more details ) .",
    "the current relative accuracy of the overall wavelength calibration is of order of 0.05% , leading to a worst - case uncertainty of 0.004   in the first - order meg , and 0.006   in the first - order heg .",
    "we processed the event lists using available software ( ftools and the ciao v.3.1 packages ) .",
    "we computed aspect - corrected exposure maps for each spectrum , allowing us to correct for effects from the effective area of the ccd spectrometer .    for the part of the observation performed in timed graded mode , the brightness of the source required additional efforts to mitigate ",
    "photon pile - up \" effects .",
    "we applied a 400-raw  subarray \" ( with the first raw = 1 ) during the observation that reduced the ccd frame time to 1.4 s. the zeroth - order image is affected by heavy pile - up ; the event rate is so high that two or more events are detected in the ccd during the 1.4-s frame exposure .",
    "pile - up distorts the count spectrum because detected events overlap and their deposited charges are collected into single , apparently more energetic , events .",
    "moreover , many events ( @xmath19 ) are lost as the grades of the piled - up events overlap those of highly energetic background particles , and are thus rejected by the on - board software .",
    "we therefore will ignore the zeroth - order events in subsequent analysis . on the other hand ,",
    "the grating spectra are not , or only moderately ( less than 10% ) , affected by pile - up . in our analysis , we utilize the heg first - order spectrum , which is less affected by pile - up ( less than 6% at maximum , less that 3% below 3 kev and above 6 kev ) with respect to the meg first - order spectrum .    to determine the zero - th point position in the image as precisely as possible we calculated the mean crossing point of the zero - th order readout trace and the tracks of dispersed heg and meg arms .",
    "this results in the following source coordinates : ra = 17@xmath20 08@xmath21 54@xmath22.47 , dec = @xmath23 06@xmath24 07@xmath25.35 ( j2000 , uncertainty 0.5@xmath25 ) . note that this position is significantly different ( @xmath26 arcmin ) from the coordinates previously reported for this source ( see liu , van paradijs , & van den heuvel 2001 , and references therein ) .",
    "the data collected in continuous clocking mode do not suffer from photon pile - up in the first order dispersed spectra .",
    "however , due to the short exposure time of this observation , the statistics are quite low and we only used these data to check the results obtained with the timed graded observation . indeed the spectra acquired in continuous clocking mode are in good agreement with the heg spectra in timed graded ( both in the shape of the continuum emission and in the parameters of the iron line at 6.5 kev , see below ) . we therefore conclude that the effects of pile - up in the heg spectra of 705 acquired in timed graded mode are negligible .",
    "we selected the first - order spectra from the heg .",
    "data were extracted from regions around the grating arms ; to avoid overlapping between heg and meg data we used a region size of 26 pixels for the heg along the cross - dispersion direction .",
    "the background spectra were computed , as usual , by extracting data above and below the dispersed flux . the contribution from",
    "the background is @xmath27 of the total count rate .",
    "we used the standard ciao tools to create detector response files ( see davis 2001 ) for the heg @xmath28 and @xmath29 order ( background - subtracted ) spectra , which we fit simultaneously using the xspec v.11.2 data analysis package ( arnaud 1996 ) .",
    "the heg spectra were rebinned to @xmath30 .",
    "two large energy gaps at those wavelength corresponding to the junction between two ccds are present in the heg first order spectra , at 33.4 kev and 5.56.5 kev for the + 1 and 1 order , respectively . in these intervals",
    "the effective area is much smaller and is known with less accuracy ( see proposers observatory guide , pog , at http://cxc.harvard.edu/helpdesk ) . unfortunately in the interval between 6 and 6.6 kev ,",
    "the heg + 1 and @xmath29 order spectra give slightly different residuals with respect to the same continuum model .",
    "in the present work we therefore exclude the interval mentioned above corresponding to the junction between two ccds and in which the two orders give different results .",
    "the energy ranges used in the following spectral analysis are : 1.310 kev for the @xmath29 order , and 1.36 kev and 6.610 kev for the + 1 order , respectively .",
    "we fit the heg first order spectra of 705 to a continuum model .",
    "the best fit model consists of the comptonization model comptt ( titarchuk 1994 ) , modified by absorption from neutral matter , parametrized by the equivalent hydrogen column @xmath31 , which gives a @xmath32 of @xmath33 .",
    "this model also includes an overabundance of si by a factor @xmath9 with respect to solar abundances to fit a highly significant absorption edge at @xmath34 kev ( the addition of this parameter reduces the @xmath35 by @xmath36 at the expense of 1 degree of freedom ) .",
    "note that we can not exclude that this feature may be due to the presence of si in the ccds , and therefore this overabundance is not discussed further .",
    "finally , in all the fits we include an instrumental feature at @xmath37 kev ( usually present in the hetg spectra of bright sources , see miller et al .",
    "2002 ) which is fitted by an inverse edge ( with @xmath38 ) .",
    "a soft blackbody component has often been reported in the x - ray spectra of this kind of sources and has been detected in the spectra of 705 as well . in 705 , in spectral states similar to the one found during our chandra observation , this component has a temperature of @xmath39 kev and can contribute up to 20% of the total source flux ( barret & olive 2002 ) .",
    "we therefore added a blackbody component to the comptt continuum model ; this component has a temperature of @xmath40 kev and contributes up to 50% of the total x - ray flux .",
    "however , the decrease of the @xmath35 for the addition of this component ( @xmath41 for the addition of two parameters ) is not significant , and , for sake of simplicity , we preferred not to include this component in our continuum model .",
    "residuals in units of @xmath42 with respect to the continuum model described above are shown in figure  [ res ] ; several discrete features are still clearly visible in the residuals with respect to this continuum model , at @xmath43 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 kev , and , particularly , in the 67 kev range , where the k@xmath1 iron emission line is expected . from these residuals",
    "it is apparent that the iron line is intrinsically broad and shows a complex profile .",
    "the addition of a broad ( @xmath44 kev ) gaussian line centered at 6.5 kev proves necessary , giving @xmath45 for the addition of three parameters .",
    "we also added three narrow emission lines to fit the other low energy residuals mentioned above .",
    "the addition of gaussian emission lines at @xmath43 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 kev gives a reduction of the @xmath35 by 27 , 29 , and 32 units , respectively , for the addition of three parameters .",
    "the errors in the normalizations of these features give a detection at about @xmath46 confidence level .",
    "this is not a highly significant detection , and needs a confirmation with future observations .",
    "however , the fact that the energies of these features are close to the energies of ly@xmath1 transitions of h - like ionization stages of the most abundant ions emitting in the observed range ( that are mg xii , si xiv , and s xvi , respectively ) adds further confidence that these lines may be real .",
    "data and residuals in units of @xmath42 with respect to this best - fit model are shown in figure  [ spect ] .",
    "the best fit model is reported in table 1 together with the discrete features mentioned above as well as the identification of the line , when possible .",
    "the spectral analysis of the first order heg spectra of 705 from the part ( @xmath16 ks ) of the chandra observation performed in continuous clocking mode confirms the best fit model found for the timed graded spectra . in particular , the best fit continuum model is again given by the comptt model , which gives a @xmath47 .",
    "the addition of a broad gaussian emission line at @xmath48 kev ( @xmath49 kev , ew = 138 ev ) improves the fit giving a @xmath50 .",
    "the residuals in the k - shell iron line range are quite complex ( see fig .",
    "[ res ] ) , showing a broad feature centered at @xmath6 kev .",
    "we therefore try to fit this feature with the line profile expected from a thin keplerian accretion disk . substituting the gaussian line with the diskline model ( fabian et al .",
    "1989 ) , we obtain an equivalently good fit , @xmath51 using the diskline model . the line best fit parameters for the diskline model are given in table 2 .",
    "we have analysed a chandra 30 ks observation of the x - ray burster and atoll source 705 .",
    "the position of the zero - th order image of the source provides improved x - ray coordinates for 705 ( ra = 17@xmath20 08@xmath21 54@xmath22.47 , dec = -44@xmath52 06@xmath24 07@xmath25.35 ) , which significantly differ ( by about 0.15 arcmin ) from the coordinates previously reported for this source .",
    "we performed a spectral analysis of the heg first order spectra of 705 .",
    "the continuum emission is well fitted by the comptonization model comptt , with an equivalent hydrogen column of @xmath53 @xmath54 , and an overabundance of si by a factor @xmath9 with respect to solar abundance ( which might be of instrumental origin ) .",
    "the inferred unabsorbed flux of the source in the 0.110 kev range is @xmath55 ergs @xmath54 s@xmath56 , corresponding to a luminosity of @xmath57 ergs s@xmath56 assuming a distance to the source of 7.4 kpc ( haberl & titarchuk 1995 ) .",
    "the comptonization continuum is quite soft , with an electron temperature of @xmath58 kev and an optical depth of @xmath59 for a spherical geometry .",
    "we have detected a broad emission feature at @xmath60 kev , which we interpret as k - shell fluorescent emission of lowly ionized iron .",
    "the high energy resolution of the heg shows that the line is intrinsically broad ( @xmath7 kev ) , in agreement with previous measures ( see e.g.barret & olive 2002 ) .",
    "therefore the most probable origin of this line is an accretion disk ( in this case the large width of the line would be due to doppler and relativistic smearing effects ) or a hot corona ( in this case the large width of the line would be due to compton broadening ) .    in the case",
    "the line is produced by reflection in an accretion disk we estimate that the required inner radius of the disk is @xmath61 or @xmath8 km for a @xmath62 neutron star .",
    "note that the quite small inner radius of the disk inferred from this model is in agreement with the quite soft x - ray spectrum of 705 during the chandra observation , which would probably place the source in the banana state of its x - ray color - color diagram . in this model",
    ", the inclination of the disk with respect to the line of sight is constrained in the range @xmath63 .",
    "alternatively , comptonization in the corona could explain the large width of the line .",
    "detailed calculations give @xmath64 , where @xmath65 is the thompson optical depth and @xmath66 is in kev ( kallman & white 1989 , see also brandt & matt 1994 ) . assuming an average electron temperature of @xmath67 kev , as derived from the fit of our data to the comptonization model",
    ", we can explain the width of the iron line for a thomson optical depth of @xmath68 .",
    "therefore , it is possible that the line is produced in the outer region of the comptonizing corona , where the optical depth might be lower ( assuming that the temperature remains constant ) .",
    "this is not unreasonable given that any contribution to the line produced inside the comptonizing region , where the optical depth can be as high as 10 ( see tab .",
    "1 ) , would be completely smeared by comptonization .",
    "therefore , as expected , we only see that part of the line that is produced in the outer comptonizing region .    unfortunately with these data we are not yet able to discriminate between the two possible origins of the iron line and its broadening proposed above .",
    "higher statistics or detection of line variability would be needed for this .",
    "naturally , what would definitively discriminate between the two proposed models is the detection of a double peak in the iron line profile ; this would exclude the comptonization of line photons model and would indicate the relativistic / doppler effects as the origin of the line broadening .",
    "this detection would be possible with higher statistics ( large effective areas or long exposures ) .",
    "hence , more xmm - newton and chandra observations ( better if simultaneous ) would be ideal to this aim . snapshots observations at different intensity levels and/or spectral states of the source would also be useful to study the variability of the line parameters with the position of the source in the x - ray color - color diagram and/or the frequency of the so - called kilohertz quasi - periodic oscillations ( khz qpos ) .",
    "if the source position in the color - color diagram track is indeed determined by the mass accretion rate ( see e.g.  hasinger & van der klis 1989 ) and the frequencies of the khz qpos are related to the keplerian frequency at the inner edge of the accretion disk ( as envisaged by most of the current models , see e.g.  miller , lamb , & psaltis 1998 ; stella & vietri 1999 ) , then one would expect that the radius of the disk as determined from the line profile ( fitted with a diskline model ) should change accordingly",
    ". these kind of studies could give other pieces of evidence in favour of one or the other model .    to fit discrete residuals at low energies with respect to the continuum model we added to the model several gaussian lines . in table 1",
    "we report the most significant of these features , together with a possible identification of the line .",
    "the lines at @xmath69 and @xmath4 kev are identified with ly@xmath1 transitions from h - like mg at 1.4726 kev ( or , less probably , l - shell transitions from highly ionized iron , fe xxii  fe xxiv ) and s at 2.6227 kev , respectively .",
    "the identification of the line at @xmath5 kev is more uncertain due to the presence of a systematic feature at @xmath70 kev .",
    "note , however , that this line is quite close to the ly@xmath1 transition of si xiv at 2.0061 kev .",
    "finally , we note that there seems to be a correlation between the energy and the width of these lines , with the gaussian @xmath42 increasing with the centroid energy of the line .",
    "if the line width is due to velocity dispersions , we have calculated that @xmath71 ( where we have used for @xmath72 the fwhm ) , slightly increasing with the energy of the line , from mg xii to s xvi , as expected if more ionized elements are produced closer to the central x - ray source .",
    "arnaud , k.a .",
    ", 1996 in astronomical data analysis software and systems v , a.s.p .",
    "conference series , vol .",
    "101 , g.h .",
    "jacoby and j. barnes , eds .",
    "barret , d. 2001 , advances in space research , 28 , 307 barret , d. , & olive , j.f .",
    "2002 , apj , 576 , 391 brandt , w.m . , &",
    "matt , g. 1994 , mnras , 268 , 1051 davis , j.e .",
    "2001 , apj , 562 , 575 fabian , a.c .",
    ", et al .",
    "1989 , mnras , 238 , 729 garmire , g. p. , bautz , m. w. , ford , p. g. , nousek , j. a. , ricker , g. r. 2003 , spie , 4851 , p.28 - 44",
    "haberl , f. , & titarchuk , l. 1995 , a&a , 299 , 414 hasinger , g. , & van der klis , m. 1989 , a&a , 225 , 79 kallman , t. , & white , n.e .",
    "1989 , apj , 341 , 955 liu , q. z. , van paradijs , j. , van den heuvel , e. p. j. 2001 , a&a , 368 , 1021 miller , j. m. , fabian , a. c. , wijnands , r. , et al .",
    "2002 , apj , 578 , 348 miller , j. m. , et al .",
    "2002 , american astronomical society , 34 , 1206 miller , m.c . , lamb , f.k . , & psaltis , d. , 1998 , apj , 508 , 791 stella , l. 1990 , nature , 344 , 747 stella , l. , & vietri , m. , 1999 , phys .",
    ", 82 , l17 titarchuk , l. 1994 , apj , 434 , 570 white , n.e . , & holt , s.s .",
    "1982 , apj , 257 , 318 white , n.e . , et al .",
    "1986 , mnras , 218 , 129        the other best fit parameters are compatible with those reported in table 1 .",
    "index refers to the power - law dependence of emissivity which scales as @xmath73 .",
    "uncertainties are 90% confidence level for a single parameter of interest ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of a chandra 30 ks observation of the low mass x - ray binary and atoll source 705 . here </S>",
    "<S> we concentrate on the study of discrete features in the energy spectrum at energies below @xmath0 kev , as well as on the iron k@xmath1 line , using the hetg spectrometer on board of the chandra satellite . below 3 kev , </S>",
    "<S> three narrow emission lines are found at @xmath2 , @xmath3 , and @xmath4 kev . </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath2 and @xmath4 kev are probably identified with ly-@xmath1 emission from mg xii and s xvi , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> the identification of the feature at @xmath5 kev is uncertain due to the presence of an instrumental feature at the same energy . the iron k@xmath1 line at @xmath6 kev is found to be intrinsically broad ( @xmath7 kev ) ; </S>",
    "<S> its width can be explained by reflection from a cold accretion disk extending down to @xmath8 km from the neutron star center or by compton broadening in the external parts of a hot ( @xmath9 kev ) comptonizing corona . </S>",
    "<S> we finally report here precise x - ray coordinates of the source . </S>"
  ]
}