{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf elliptical galaxies are ubiquitous in high density regions . for example , in the local group , dwarf elliptical galaxies out number high luminosity galaxies by a factor of 6 @xcite , and more than 50% of the galaxies in the virgo cluster are des @xcite .",
    "however , while the clustering properties of dwarf elliptical galaxies appear to be an extension of the well known morphology - density relation for giant elliptical galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , their structural parameters suggest that dwarf ellipticals are not merely low mass versions of elliptical galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "unlike their giant counterparts , gas - poor dwarf elliptical galaxies and gas - rich dwarf irregular galaxies have similar stellar distributions which suggests that passive evolution of the stellar population could result in morphological evolution from one dwarf classification to the other ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in fact , many of the key morphological differences between dwarf elliptical and dwarf irregular galaxies can be traced to the cessation of star formation activity rather than to dynamical differences between the two classes . in support of this , @xcite note that the star formation histories of dwarf elliptical galaxies may be very similar to those of dwarf irregular galaxies right up to the point of the loss of their gas .",
    "these similarities led to the hypothesis that dwarf elliptical galaxies are evolved versions of dis whose ism has been disrupted by either internal ( e.g. , blow - out , * ? ? ? * ) or external ( e.g. , ram pressure stripping , * ? ? ? * ) processes .",
    "in addition to similar stellar distributions , recent kinematic studies of des in the virgo cluster indicate that a large fraction of des and ds0s have a significant rotational component @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the amplitudes of the de rotation curves are comparable to those of similar luminosity dwarf irregular galaxies @xcite .",
    "these results support the possibility that some cluster des are evolved dwarf irregular galaxies which have lost their ism and thus have little - to - no star formation activity at the present epoch .",
    "the possibility that some dis evolve into des is almost tautological since des must have been gas - rich , star forming low mass galaxies at some point in the past .",
    "thus , the key question for dwarf galaxy evolution is not _ whether _ des evolve from dis , but , rather , _",
    "when _ and _ why _ do some dwarf irregular galaxies lose their ism and stop forming stars .",
    "the strong clustering properties of des ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggest that environmental influences may play a key role in the gas - loss process .",
    "possible evolution mechanisms include triggered bursts of star formation with subsequent blow - out of the ism ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , or ram pressure stripping of the ism as the galaxy plunges through the hot intra - cluster gas ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . both of these scenarios will result in an overabundance of dwarf elliptical galaxies in high density regions , but the resulting star formation histories are quite different . in a triggered starburst scenario ,",
    "most of the star formation activity will take place in discrete events which may be correlated with passage through the cluster . on the other hand ,",
    "if the ism is lost through ram pressure stripping , most of the star formation activity will take place prior to the passage through the cluster , and may occur in a more quiescent manner , typical of dis @xcite .",
    "thus , examination of the stellar populations and relative chemical enrichments in dwarf elliptical galaxies may provide insight into which of these mechanisms is the dominant process for the evolution of dis to des in high density regions .    within the local supercluster ,",
    "the virgo cluster is the nearest high density region and thus provides an excellent environment in which to explore stellar populations and kinematic properties of low luminosity galaxies . at the same time",
    ", virgo is dynamically young ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) and contains several substructural units @xcite ; thus , with a well selected sample it may be possible to study the evolution of dwarf elliptical galaxies within the cluster itself .",
    "recent observations of surface brightness fluctuations @xcite have shown that the de population is stretched in depth similarly to the bright elliptical population @xcite but not as extended as claimed previously by @xcite .",
    "furthermore , nucleated des appear to be more strongly clustered than non - nucleated des in the cluster ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in this paper",
    ", we examine broad band optical colors and optical spectroscopy of 16 dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster to investigate their star formation histories and to search for correlations between kinematic properties and past star formation activity . the sixteen galaxies in this sample",
    "were selected as part of a kinematic study of dwarf elliptical galaxies in virgo @xcite ; approximately half of the sample have a significant rotational component .    as discussed in @xcite , it is likely that the rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies are remnants of dis that have been stripped of their gas ; the rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies tend to be located near the outskirts of the cluster and their rotation curves and maximum amplitude velocities are comparable to similar luminosity dwarf irregular galaxies . at the same time , the origin of the non - rotating dwarf ellipticals is unclear .",
    "are these low luminosity galaxies which began with little - to - no angular momentum ?",
    "were they formed through the collision of even lower mass galaxies and thus ended up with no net angular momentum ?",
    "did they transfer their angular momentum as they moved through the dense cluster ?",
    "in support of the latter process , @xcite have shown that `` tidal stirring ''  or repeated tidal shocks suffered by dwarf satellite galaxies  can remove the kinematic signature from a low mass galaxy without significant alteration of its stellar distribution . while it is difficult to distinguish between these scenarios based on the data at hand ,",
    "the common feature of all of these scenarios is that non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies may have been significantly altered by their interaction with the cluster environment .",
    "thus , it is possible that the galaxies which still retain their kinematic signature have been accreted relatively recently while the non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxy sample may contain galaxies with a wide range of cluster accretion times , from the very recent to several gyr in the past .",
    "since it is likely that the age of the dominant stellar population is indicative of the time of accretion , observations of the stellar populations in these galaxies could provide insight into the accretion timescales .    in this paper",
    ", we analyze the past star formation activity in virgo dwarf elliptical galaxies based on the combination of stellar population synthesis and spectral synthesis models .",
    "the imaging and spectroscopic observations are described in section 2 .",
    "we discuss the derived optical structural parameters of the dwarf elliptical galaxies in section 3 . in section 4",
    ", we analyze the optical colors in the context of simple stellar populations . in section 5 , optical spectra",
    "are analyzed in the context of simple stellar population models to investigate typical timescales for chemical enrichment .",
    "the implications for the observed stellar population ages and enrichment histories are discussed in section 6 .",
    "the conclusions of the paper are summarized in section 7 .",
    "optical images were obtained of 16 dwarf elliptical galaxies with the vatt 1.8 m and the wiyn 3.5 m telescopes .",
    "optical spectra were obtained with the palomar 5 m telescope .",
    "the kinematic results of the spectroscopic observations are presented in @xcite ; here , we analyze the spectra in terms of stellar population models . the sample selection and observations",
    "are described in this section .",
    "as described in @xcite , the sample was selected to optimize the detection of rotational motion in de galaxies .",
    "sixteen dwarf elliptical galaxies were selected from the virgo cluster catalog ( vcc , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) based on their apparent luminosity ( m@xmath2 ) , morphological classification ( dwarf elliptical or ds0 ) , and apparent ellipticity ( @xmath3 ) . the latter criterion was imposed to maximize the projected rotational velocity in the kinematic observations .",
    "in addition , the sample was restricted to those galaxies with measured recessional velocities that place them within the virgo cluster , at an approximate distance of 16.1 mpc ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "further details of the sample selection and distribution of the galaxies within the virgo cluster are described in @xcite .",
    "ubvri images of 16 dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster were obtained with the vatt 1.8 m on 2003 march 29 - 31 .",
    "the telescope was equipped with ccd26 , a thinned loral 3 2048 @xmath4 2048 ccd with 15  pixels .",
    "ccd26 has a read noise of 5.7 e@xmath5 and a gain of 1.9 e@xmath5 per adu was used .",
    "on - chip binning of 2 @xmath4 2 resulted in 0.375  per pixel and a field of view of 6.4 @xmath4 6.4 arcmin .",
    "the galaxies were centered in the field , but dithers of approximately 1 arcmin were taken between each exposure to assist with the flat fielding process .",
    "table [ tab : obs ] lists the basic parameters of the de sample and summarizes the observations .",
    "unless otherwise noted in table [ tab : obs ] , the vatt 1.8 m observations consisted of 2 exposures of 540 sec , 420 sec , 300 sec , 240 sec , and 300 sec with the u , b , v , r , and i filters , respectively .",
    "complete ubvri images were obtained for 9 galaxies in the sample ; bvri images were obtained for an additional 4 galaxies and 3 galaxies were imaged in only b and r. the observations were structured so that the b and r images were obtained on the same night under similar observing conditions ; similarly , the v and i images were taken sequentially .",
    "thus , the ( b - r ) and ( v - i ) colors for these observations are quite secure , while ( b - v ) and ( u - b ) colors have additional error propagation terms since the colors are based on the calibrated magnitudes rather than calibration of the instrumental colors .",
    "the final combined images were sufficiently deep to permit accurate photometry of the outer regions of the galaxies .",
    "typical surface brightness limits for the combined images are 25.8 , 26.8 , 26.0 , 25.6 , and 25.0 mag arcsec@xmath6 , in u , b , v , r , and i , respectively .",
    "all 3 nights were photometric .",
    "calibration coefficients were derived from observations of standard stars from @xcite interspersed with the galaxy observations .",
    "based on the derived photometric coefficients , the bvri images have 2% accuracy while the u - band images are accurate to 3% .",
    "the same sample of galaxies was imaged with the wiyn 3.5 m telescope on 2002 may 12 - 16 .",
    "poor weather hampered the usefulness of these observations , but the wiyn images provide confirmation for the structural parameters derived from the vatt 1.8 m data . in particular , the wiyn images have slightly better seeing characteristics than the vatt 1.8 m images .",
    "the wiyn 3.5 m telescope was equipped with the mini - mosaic camera , which consists of two site 4096 @xmath4 2048 ccds with 15  pixels .",
    "the two ccds are read - out by 4 amplifiers ( 2 per ccd ) , with typical read noises of 5.5 e@xmath5 and gains of 1.4 e@xmath5 per adu .",
    "the pixel scale of mini - mo is 0.14  per pixel , which results in a field of view of 9.6 @xmath4 9.6 arcmin with a 7.1  gap between the ccds . in all cases ,",
    "the telescope pointing was offset so that the dwarf elliptical galaxy fit on a single ccd .",
    "the wiyn 3.5 m observations consisted of 2 exposures of 600 sec , 600 sec , 300 sec , and 600 sec with the b , v , r , and i filters , respectively .",
    "r - band images were obtained for 13 of the 16 des in the sample ; additional bvi images were obtained for 6 of the 13 galaxies .",
    "all 5 nights were non - photometric so the limiting surface brightness varied significantly from exposure to exposure .",
    "typical image quality for the r - band wiyn images is 1 - 2 .",
    "the optical images were reduced and analyzed with the iraf package .",
    "the image reduction included bias subtraction and flat fielding .",
    "the vatt images were flat fielded to high accuracy using twilight flats .",
    "the wiyn 3.5 m images were first flat fielded using dome flats taken during the afternoon ; since these images had a residual flat field problem , a secondary flat field was generated from a combination of the object frames using standard tasks in the mscred package .",
    "both the vatt and wiyn i - band images were fringe corrected based on a fringe frame generated by taking the median of all i - band galaxy observations obtained during the night .",
    "for the wiyn images , data from the two ccds must be projected onto a common coordinate system prior to further data processing . for each image ,",
    "the wcs was updated using star lists from the usno catalog and the iraf tasks msczero and msccmatch .",
    "the multi - ccd images were then projected into single images using the mscimage task using a common coordinate system for all observations of the same galaxy .    for both the vatt and wiyn images , sky values were measured as the mode of galaxy - free regions of the images prior to combination of multiple exposures .",
    "the images were then scaled , aligned , and averaged together to make a final combined image . for the non - photometric observations ( wiyn ) ,",
    "the individual exposures were scaled to the image with the most counts ; scale factors were determined based on the relative intensity of several stars in each frame .",
    "the vatt data were photometric and required no additional scaling before combination .",
    "the vatt and wiyn images were processed independently in order to provide internal consistency checks for the derived structural parameters . since the vatt images are photometric and higher quality than the wiyn images , the subsequent analysis will focus on results from the vatt observations .",
    "the optical spectroscopic observations are described in detail in @xcite .",
    "briefly , optical spectra covering the wavelength ranges of 4800  5700    and 8250  8900   were obtained with the double spectrograph on the 5 m palomar telescope in 2001 and 2002 . here , we focus on the `` blue '' spectra , which were centered on the mg ib triplet and include a subset of the spectral regions appropriate for spectral synthesis using lick / ids indices .",
    "the observations were obtained on non - photometric , transparent nights .",
    "flux calibration was obtained from observations of several spectrophotometric standards @xcite and observations of standard stars from the lick / ids system .",
    "the long slit spectra were processed following standard practice [ see @xcite for complete data reduction details ] .",
    "after bias subtraction , scattered light correction , flat fielding , wavelength rectification , and night sky line subtraction , the 2-dimensional ( 2-d ) images were flux calibrated .",
    "one - dimensional ( 1-d ) spectra were then extracted from the 2-d spectra to create spectra of the integrated light from the galaxy .",
    "the 1-d spectra were doppler corrected for the systemic velocity of the galaxies .",
    "since the observed spectra have higher spectral resolution than the stellar spectra that define the lick / ids system , the 1-d spectra were then degraded from 1.6   resolution to 8.4   resolution .",
    "while the lick indices are based on stellar spectra with variable resolution , the spectral region covered by these de galaxy spectra correspond to a region of approximately constant spectral resolution in the lick / ids system @xcite .",
    "lick indices were then measured for the galaxies and the lick standard stars .",
    "the observed spectra include the spectral regions appropriate for the following spectral indices : h@xmath7 , fe5015 , mgb , fe5270 , fe5335 , and fe5406 .",
    "in addition , similar to @xcite , we define the average fe index , @xmath8 , as the average of fe5270 and fe5335 indices .",
    "the standard star observations were used to confirm that the indices measured here are consistent with previous measurements . however , since there were only a handful of comparison stars , and the stars observed comprise a restricted range of spectral types , it was not possible to determine a correction to the observed indices to place the measurements precisely on the lick system . nonetheless , for the few galaxies in common with the @xcite sample , the newly derived lick indices are consistent with the previous measurements .",
    "thus , while the derived indices may have some systematic errors , the amplitude of these errors should be minor .",
    "furthermore , the _ relative _ measurements for the de galaxies in this sample should be secure even if the absolute values may be less precise .",
    "the surface photometry for each galaxy was derived from ellipse fits to the final combined images . prior",
    "to ellipse fitting , the foreground stars were masked and replaced by the interpolated background of neighboring pixels .",
    "the surface brightness profiles , position angle , and ellipticity are shown as a function of semi - major axis in figure [ fig : surf ] .",
    "since the morphological parameters were similar for all filters , the apertures defined by the r - band fit were used for subsequent analysis of the surface brightness profiles and surface colors .",
    "the morphological parameters are summarized in table [ tab : results ] .",
    "listed in table [ tab : results ] is the semi - major axis at which the b - band surface brightness drops to 25 mag arcsec@xmath6 , r@xmath9 , and the average ellipticity and position angle from the isophotal fits of the r - band images for ellipses with semi - major axes between 5  and r@xmath9 .",
    "apertures larger than 5  were used for these average values since several of the galaxies in this sample have bright nuclear regions . also listed in table [",
    "tab : results ] are the b - band apparent magnitudes at which the curves of growth level off and the observed optical colors as measured within the r@xmath9 aperture .",
    "as illustrated in figure [ fig : surf ] , the surface colors and aperture colors reach similar values near r@xmath9 so these values were chosen as the most representative galaxy color .",
    "also tabulated in table [ tab : results ] are estimates of the foreground galactic extinction as calculated from the dust maps of @xcite .",
    "the images were examined for residual disky or boxy isophotes by subtracting the model surface photometry from the image .",
    "eleven of the 16 galaxies had residual structure that was readily apparent in the residual images ; the presence of disky or boxy isophotes is tabulated in table [ tab : results ] .",
    "deviations from the best - fitting ellipse as measured by b@xmath10 are shown in figure [ fig : surf ] .",
    "as previously noted by @xcite , there appears to be little correlation between the presence of disky or boxy residuals and the kinematic properties of the galaxies . as an indication of the kinematic properties of these galaxies , the rotation curve slope from @xcite",
    "is listed in table [ tab : results ] . due to the limited spatial extent of the stellar kinematic observations",
    ", we list the rotation curve slope rather than a maximum velocity width ; galaxies with rotation curve slopes greater than 20 km s@xmath11 kpc@xmath11 have significant rotation . based on the kinematic observations , vcc 178 , 437 , 543 , 965 , 990 , 1036 , 1743 , 1857 , and 2019 form the subset of rotation dominated des in this sample .",
    "table [ tab : results2 ] summarizes the derived photometric properties of the dwarf elliptical galaxies in this sample .",
    "the b - band absolute magnitude was calculated from the apparent magnitude assuming all galaxies are at the virgo cluster distance of 16.1 mpc @xcite and correcting for galactic extinction .",
    "also listed are the effective radius and effective surface brightness in b - band .",
    "for all of the following except the exponential parameters , size parameters are quoted in geometric mean radii where r = @xmath12 ; for the exponential parameters , the semi - major axis is adopted as the radius .",
    "the effective radius tabulated in table [ tab : results2 ] is the half - light radius based on the apparent magnitude listed in table [ tab : results ] ; the effective surface brightness is then defined as the average surface brightness within the r@xmath13 elliptical aperture .",
    "we note that while these values are model independent , they can be sensitive to systematic errors introduced by shallow imaging observations since the half - light radii are defined based on the observed apparent magnitudes .",
    "several of the galaxies in this sample have surface photometry reported in the literature .",
    "recent observations with partially overlapping samples include vcc 543 , 917 , 1036 , 1261 , and 1308 reported in @xcite ; vcc 965 , 1036 , 1122 , and 1308 reported in @xcite ; vcc 1036 and 1261 reported in @xcite ; and vcc 543 and 1743 reported in @xcite . in general , there is reasonable agreement between the literature values and those reported here , particularly given the variety of filters and telescopes used by these studies . however , there are notable differences between the values reported here and the magnitudes and effective radii listed in @xcite . with the exception of vcc 1261 ,",
    "it is likely that many of these differences can be attributed to differing image depths and to incomplete surface photometry as a result of the restricted field - of - view of hst imaging observations . for vcc 1261",
    ", the large discrepancy between the effective radius reported here and that reported in @xcite ( more than a factor of 2 ) can not be reconciled by mere observational differences ; the present value agrees with the surface photometry of vcc 1261 reported in @xcite .      to enable comparison with galaxies of other morphological types , the outer isophotes ( r @xmath14 10 ) of the b - band surface brightness profiles were fit to an exponential model : @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the observed surface brightness at semi - major axis @xmath17 , @xmath18 is the extrapolated central surface brightness , and @xmath1 is the exponential scale length .",
    "the face  on central surface brightness , @xmath19 , was calculated by applying a galactic extinction correction and a line  of  sight correction of @xmath20 , where @xmath21 is the inclination derived from the observed axial ratios and a thin disk approximation .",
    "while an exponential distribution does not necessarily imply a disk - like stellar distribution , the simplicity of this functional form permits a robust analysis of the light distribution of the outer regions of a galaxy , regardless of the actual shape of the galaxy ( disk or spheroid ) .",
    "the exponential fits enable a direct comparison between the structural parameters of de and di galaxies ( figure [ fig : struct ] ) .",
    "the top panel of figure [ fig : struct ] shows the scale length as a function of absolute magnitude while the bottom panel shows the face  on central surface brightness as a function of absolute magnitude . for comparison ,",
    "the structural parameters for dwarf irregular galaxies from @xcite are also shown . despite the fact that this comparison sample may not be ideal , since the dis were selected to be isolated galaxies and the des are cluster members , these figures confirm that the structural parameters of dis and des are quite similar ( as first discussed in * ? ? ?",
    "in particular , both the di and de samples contain low surface brightness galaxies with typical central surface brightnesses between 22 to 24 mag arcsec@xmath6 and scale lengths of only a few kpc .",
    "while the parameters for an exponential fit are sufficient to represent the stellar distribution in the outer galaxy , a more generalized surface brightness profile , such as the srsic function @xcite , can provide additional insight into the stellar distribution .",
    "the surface brightness profiles were fit to a srsic function of the form : i = i@xmath22 e@xmath23 . in magnitude space",
    ", this corresponds to @xmath24 where @xmath25 is the central surface brightness , r@xmath26 is a size parameter , and @xmath27 is a shape parameter . in this form",
    ", n=0.25 corresponds to an r@xmath28 law distribution , while n=1 corresponds to an exponential ( disk ) distribution .",
    "the surface brightness profiles were fit for geometric mean radii between 1  and the radius at which the r - band surface brightness reached 25 mag arcsec@xmath6 .",
    "since the derived parameters were similar regardless of filter choice , only the r - band fits are listed in table [ tab : results2 ] and shown in figure [ fig : surf ] .",
    "in general , the surface brightness profiles were well fit by the srsic function , with shape parameters , n , between 0.5 and 1 .",
    "however , the srsic parameterization proved to be quite sensitive to choice of fitting radii .",
    "thus , while errors are listed in table [ tab : results2 ] , equally valid solutions can be found with parameterizations that are outside of the range apparently permitted by these formal errors .",
    "several of the galaxies in this sample have srsic parameters listed in the literature .",
    "the present results agree with the literature values for vcc 1036 and 1261 @xcite , vcc 1308 @xcite , and vcc 1743 @xcite .",
    "however , when overlayed with the observed surface brightness profile , the srsic parameters for vcc 543 , 917 , and 1035 from @xcite yielded good fits only to the inner regions of these galaxies ( as mentioned above , their values for vcc 1261 do not match the surface brightness profiles obtained here )",
    ". similarly , the parameters listed in @xcite for vcc 543 are only applicable to the inner profile .",
    "the disagreement between the present study and the literature is not surprising since srsic fits are sensitive to the choice of fitting radii , and the previous analysis often restricted the fits to the inner 20 - 30 .",
    "the results of srsic fits for dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster are shown in figure [ fig : sersic ] .",
    "figure [ fig : sersic ] includes all de galaxies fainter than m@xmath29 of -17.5 with published kinematic data ( e.g. , the sample includes galaxies compiled from * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "structural parameters for many of the galaxies in @xcite and @xcite were compiled from @xcite . for those galaxies in @xcite",
    "without published b - band effective surface brightnesses , the published v - band effective surface brightness was converted to an approximate b - band value by assuming that the typical ( b - v ) color of a virgo de is 0.77 ( see section 4.2 ) .",
    "while figure [ fig : sersic ] indicates that there is a general trend of larger shape parameters ( n ) for fainter dwarf ellipticals , and for brighter central surface brightnesses for brighter galaxies , the rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies can not be distinguished in any of these figures . in fact , the kinematic samples are well mixed in terms of shape , surface brightness , and size .    in summary , there appear to be no strong morphological differences between rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster .",
    "underlying disky and boxy isophotes are seen in both kinematic samples ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "the structural parameters are similar as well . in the next section",
    ", we investigate whether there are stellar population differences between the rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies .",
    "as illustrated in figure [ fig : surf ] , many of the dwarf elliptical galaxies in this sample have a slight color gradient .",
    "however , this trend does not appear to be correlated with the presence of a nucleated region ; several of the nucleated des have no color gradients while several of the non - nucleated des do have a color gradient .",
    "color gradients are commonly seen in des , usually in the sense that the outer regions are redder than the inner regions @xcite . in this sample ,",
    "vcc 965 , 1743 , 1857 , and 2019 have color gradients in this expected direction",
    ". however , approximately one half of the current sample have color gradients in the opposite sense ; the inner regions are redder than the outer regions of vcc 178 , 543 , 917 , 990 , 1036 , 1122 , 2050 .",
    "a color gradient implies differing star formation histories , or differing metal content , in the inner and outer regions of the galaxy .",
    "it is likely that both of these effects are relevant to the interpretation of observed colors and stellar populations of virgo des .",
    "for example , a galaxy may develop a color gradient if the outer gas is preferentially stripped off as it falls into the virgo cluster . in this scenario ,",
    "the inner region of the galaxy may continue to have active star formation while the outer regions are reduced to an aging stellar population ( redder colors ) .",
    "such a scenario easily explains the observed color gradients in most dwarf elliptical galaxies ( redder in the outskirts ) .",
    "alternatively , a color gradient in the opposite sense can be created if the inner region retains a larger fraction of its enriched material ; if there is a metallicity gradient , the more metal - rich stars ( inner regions ) will be redder than the metal - poor stars ( outskirts ) .",
    "the relative importance of both of these effects will depend on the galaxy s detailed star formation history and the interface of the galaxy with the intracluster medium .",
    "as shown in figure [ fig : rot ] , the presence of a color gradient does not correlate with the kinematic properties of the des .",
    "galaxies with a blue core ( vcc 965 and 2019 ) or red core ( vcc 543 , 917 , 990 , 1036 , and 2050 ) are equally likely to be rotation dominated as galaxies with no strong color gradient . also shown in figure [ fig : rot ] is the luminosity - line width correlation for spiral galaxies @xcite and for field dwarf irregular galaxies compiled in @xcite . as discussed in @xcite ,",
    "the observed de rotation velocities are lower limits due to observational constraints ; reasonable extrapolation of the observed rotation curves result in linewidths comparable to galaxies that are 1 - 2 magnitudes brighter than the current de population .",
    "this fading estimate is in reasonable agreement with that expected if des are evolved dis ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . nonetheless , it is quite remarkable that the observed ( un - extrapolated ) rotation velocities show excellent agreement with the bright galaxy tully - fisher relation .",
    "the presence of a color gradient complicates the definition of a global galaxy color . to avoid systematic trends due to nuclear contamination of the colors ,",
    "the colors tabulated in table [ tab : results ] are measured within the b - band 25 mag arcsec@xmath6 isophotal aperture ; this aperture color was selected to be representative of the true color of the galaxies since the aperture and surface colors are quite similar at this radius ( see figure [ fig : surf ] ) .",
    "table [ tab : results2 ] lists the observed optical colors corrected for galactic extinction .",
    "the optical colors are remarkably similar for all of the des in this sample .",
    "the median colors are 0.24 @xmath0 0.03 in ( u  b ) , 0.77 @xmath0 0.02 in ( b  v ) , 1.26 @xmath0 0.05 in ( b  r ) , 0.48 @xmath0 0.01 in ( v  r ) , and 1.02 @xmath0 0.03 in ( v  i ) .",
    "observations of low luminosity elliptical galaxies yield similar colors for galaxies in the same absolute magnitude range @xcite .",
    "the optical colors are shown in figure [ fig : evol ] ; as expected , the dwarf elliptical galaxies are red systems in all color combinations .",
    "for comparison , the evolutionary tracks for 3 possible star formation histories are shown in figure [ fig : evol ] .",
    "the evolutionary tracks are obtained from the simple stellar population models of @xcite assuming a mean metallicity of 1/5 solar ; the low metallicity stellar population models were selected for this figure because low luminosity galaxies are usually low metallicity systems ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "the @xcite galaxy evolution code is an improved version of the composite stellar population models originally described in @xcite . as in @xcite , the mono ",
    "metallicity composite stellar populations are built through the synthesis of stellar evolutionary tracks ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the version of the galaxy evolution code run here includes options for sub and super  solar metallicity stellar populations , in addition to allowing the user to vary the star formation history and the initial mass function . for simplicity ,",
    "a @xcite imf was adopted for all of the models considered here ; a top or bottom  heavy imf will result in minor variations in the evolutionary tracks , but relative conclusions should be robust with regard to the choice of imf .",
    "the three fiducial star formation histories shown in figure [ fig : evol ] include ( 1 ) a simple burst of star formation that lasts 10 myr , ( 2 ) an extended burst of star formation with an e - folding time of 1 gyr ( @xmath30 ) , and ( 3 ) a constant star formation rate model .",
    "as expected , the constant star formation rate model can be ruled out for the virgo des since these galaxies have no current star formation activity ; this model is appropriate for dwarf irregular galaxies which have quasi - continuous star formation activity @xcite .",
    "the observed colors are consistent with both fiducial star burst models ( short and extended starbursts ) . in both cases ,",
    "the observed colors are indicative of an older stellar population with an age of approximately 6 gyr .",
    "while there is some ambiguity in this age estimate due both to the well known age - metallicity degeneracy and to possible different star formation histories , it is clear that the observed colors are indicative of a stellar population which has had little - to - no star formation activity within the last few gyr .",
    "thus , while the observed broad band colors do not permit a detailed analysis of the past star formation activity in these galaxies , they do indicate that none of the galaxies in this sample are _ recently _ stripped dwarf irregular galaxies .",
    "further , the small range of observed colors for the galaxies in this sample indicates that the dominant stellar population is quite similar for both the rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies .",
    "as illustrated in figure [ fig : colmag ] , much of the scatter in the observed colors can be attributed to the well known color - magnitude relation for dwarf elliptical galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "in general , the more luminous galaxies in this sample are slightly redder , as would be expected if the more luminous galaxies in the sample are also more metal - rich ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the two significant outliers to this relation are vcc 1857 and vcc 1261 , both of which are bluer than one might expect for their absolute magnitude .",
    "interestingly , neither of these galaxies have a significant color gradient , so their anomalous colors can not be explained by nuclear contamination .",
    "we note also that the present results for vcc 1261 are consistent with the b - r color reported in @xcite for this galaxy .",
    "it is suggestive that vcc 1857 is not only bluer than expected , but also has slightly different structural parameters than the other virgo des ; this galaxy is the best candidate in this sample for a recently stripped di .",
    "nonetheless , its optical colors are still consistent with an older stellar population , indicating that the last star formation activity occurred several gyr ago .",
    "unfortunately , the kinematic observations of vcc 1857 were inconclusive ; while the derived rotation curve indicates that vcc 1857 may have a significant rotational component , the rotation curve was poorly constrained because of the galaxy s low surface brightness nature .",
    "in contrast , the other anomalous galaxy , vcc 1261 , is the one galaxy in the sample with clear absence of a rotational component along its major axis .",
    "using these two outliers as indicative examples , the relative colors of the virgo des do not appear to be related to their kinematic signatures .",
    "rather , the small range of observed colors for the galaxies in this sample indicates that the ages of the dominant stellar population are approximately the same for both rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies .",
    "we note , however , that broad band colors do not permit a detailed analysis of the past star formation activity in these galaxies since the observed colors are consistent with both a short burst and with a more extended star formation history .",
    "we explore additional constraints on the past star formation activity by examining the chemical signatures of the dominant stellar population in the next section .",
    "the results of the spectral analysis are shown in figure [ fig : alpha ] .",
    "the expected lick indices for three possible [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios are shown based on the models of @xcite . unlike giant elliptical galaxies ,",
    "the majority of dwarf elliptical galaxies in virgo appear to have solar or sub - solar [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios .",
    "similar results are found by @xcite and @xcite for their samples of virgo dwarf elliptical galaxies ; in addition , similar [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios are seen in stellar abundances of nearby dwarf spheroidals ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . since type ii supernova produce the majority of @xmath1rich elements , the observed [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios trace the timescale of star formation activity in each galaxy @xcite .",
    "in particular , super - solar [ @xmath1/fe ] indicates rapid enrichment from type ii supernova and thus implies that the galaxy has undergone a short burst of star formation activity ; most giant elliptical galaxies have super - solar [ @xmath1/fe ] ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "in contrast , the solar and sub - solar abundance ratios for des indicate slow chemical enrichment , or a more quiescent star formation history . thus , the dominant stellar populations in virgo des may not be post - burst populations .",
    "rather , previous star formation activity appears to have occurred on more extended timescales in the low mass galaxies ; these and similar results ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) rule out various theoretical models for de formation , including the possibility that des and dsphs form all stars prior to reionization ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the observed [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios are consistent with the idea that virgo des are formed through the stripping of dis ; if star formation activity ceases when the ism is removed from the low mass system , the galaxy will evolve into a quiescent , red galaxy with structural and kinematic parameters similar to the progenitor di , and with a chemical enrichment history representative of a more continuous star formation history .",
    "comparison of the h@xmath7 and mgb indices provides an indication of the age of the dominant stellar population in the des ( figure [ fig : metals ] ) .",
    "also shown in figure [ fig : metals ] are the stellar population models of @xcite for solar [ @xmath1/fe ] . as expected from the optical colors ( section 4 ) ,",
    "the stellar populations are both metal  poor and evolved . based on these observations and stellar population models , virgo des have typical ages of 5 - 7 gyr and metal abundances between 1/20 and 1/3 of solar .",
    "similar results for virgo des were also obtained by @xcite .",
    "the derived age and metallicity estimates for these galaxies are also in remarkably good agreement with those obtained from the broad band optical images .",
    "as found with the optical colors , there is no clear separation of the kinematic samples in either age or metallicity of the dominant stellar population .",
    "thus , both stellar population models and spectral synthesis indicate that virgo des contain evolved low metallicity stellar populations with typical ages of a several gyr and solar or sub - solar [ @xmath1/fe ] .",
    "the derived structural parameters and metal enrichment histories indicate that the virgo des are similar in nature to field dwarf irregular galaxies with the exception of the age of the dominant stellar population .",
    "thus , the current observations are consistent with the idea that some cluster des are the remnants of dis which have been stripped of their ism",
    ". taken at face value , the derived mean stellar population ages indicate that the last major star formation episode in the virgo des occurred 5 - 7 gyr ago , or at @xmath31 .",
    "however , due to the inherent ambiguities in stellar population models , it is difficult to determine exactly how long it has been since star formation occurred in these galaxies .",
    "for example , the observed colors are not only consistent with the two burst models discussed above ( extended starburst and short burst ) , but also with a galaxy which has had a constant star formation rate which is abruptly truncated 3 gyr ago ( @xmath32 ) .",
    "unfortunately , the virgo dwarfs are too distant to produce detailed star formation histories as is possible within the local group ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "nonetheless , all of these models indicate that the virgo des have not had substantial star formation activity within the last few gyr .    furthermore , the observed [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios are solar or sub - solar , indicating that the stellar mass of the cluster des has been built gradually , rather than through a major burst of star formation .",
    "thus , not only do low mass cluster galaxies have different structural properties than their giant cousins , their stellar populations and star formation histories appear to be substantially different .",
    "while both giant and dwarf elliptical galaxies appear to have strong environmental dependences on their formation and evolution , it is likely that low mass cluster galaxies follow different evolutionary paths than their giant counterparts .",
    "for example , interactions with the cluster potential and the icm may be the key to formation of des , while galaxy - galaxy interactions may play a major role in the evolution of giant ellipticals .",
    "since the early recognition of similar structural parameters between de and di galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it has often been suggested that des could simply be dis stripped of their gas and left to fade .",
    "the extensive study of the virgo cluster resulting in the vcc ( c.f .",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) confirmed the strong overlap between these two populations , but led @xcite to conclude that the des are not formed from dis due to the apparent lack of a bright progenitor di population and to the presence of bright nuclei in a large fraction of des .",
    "while @xcite was careful to note that his arguments applied only to the brightest des , he argued that if one could not explain the entire de population with stripping then it did not make sense to invoke this process since it is inelegant to explain the well defined sequence in l , @xmath1 , @xmath33 space with more than one process .    in @xcite , we proposed that virgo des are formed through multiple processes .",
    "first , it is likely that the most massive galaxies near the core of the cluster formed with a coterie of satellite galaxies , which soon became de galaxies .",
    "however , we also know that the virgo cluster is still forming today , and that field galaxies and groups of galaxies are falling into the cluster @xcite .",
    "if the groups of galaxies that later fell into the virgo cluster were similar to our local group , then they likely consisted of roughly equal numbers of de and di galaxies before entering the cluster environment .",
    "in addition , the infalling di galaxies are likely to be affected by the cluster environment and may lose their ism through ram pressure stripping or through interactions with other galaxies .",
    "it therefore seems unavoidable that there are at least three different origins for the virgo des ( _ in situ _ formation near massive elliptical galaxies , infalling des that were once part of local group analogs , and converted infalling dis ) .",
    "thus , the narrow locus formed by des in structural parameter space may better be interpreted as the result of an inevitable structural form as opposed to a uniform process of creation . in other words ,",
    "the uniformity of de / di properties may be due more to the uniformity of their dark matter halos @xcite , rather than a single formation mechanism .",
    "additional arguments have been made against the stripping of infalling dis to form the virgo de population .",
    "@xcite reason that the scarcity of dwarf galaxies with blue colors and low hi content argues against extensive stripping of di systems in the last @xmath34gyr .",
    "however , recent observations have identified several likely candidates as recently stripped dis .",
    "the best case for stripping of a dwarf galaxy in process is that of the hi cloud between ngc 4472 and ugc 7636 discovered by @xcite .",
    "subsequent observations of this system have shown that the morphologies of the optical galaxy and the hi cloud , although separated by 15 kpc , are `` remarkably similar '' @xcite and that the ism abundance of the cloud agrees with that expected for the luminosity of ugc 7636 @xcite - essentially clinching the proposal that this is a recent stripping event .",
    "@xcite found blue star clusters with ages up to 10@xmath35 yrs associated with both the optical galaxy and the hi cloud and this provides a minimum time since the stripping event .",
    "in addition to ugc  7636 , ic  3475 has been identified as a recently stripped irregular galaxy @xcite , ic  3365 appears to be a di caught in the act of being stripped @xcite , and vcc  882 is a nucleated de that from a long trail of dust appears to have recently been stripped of its ism @xcite .",
    "anecdotal evidence allows us to be sure that the process of ram pressure stripping is viable , but a statistical approach is required to address the point made by @xcite . from a large sample of hi observations of virgo dis ,",
    "@xcite concluded that the hi depletion of dis is only moderate .",
    "however , this was based on comparing m@xmath36/l ratios of dis to those of spirals .",
    "the means of 0.2 for the bright virgo dis and 0.5 for the faint virgo dis are both significantly smaller than the typical m@xmath36/l of 1 for field dis ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . from this",
    ", one can conclude that a significant fraction of virgo dis are showing the effects of the cluster environment .",
    "@xcite have revisited this question , and a comparison of virgo dis with field dis show the majority of virgo dis in their sample have hi deficiencies . finally , from our color and spectroscopic dating of virgo des",
    ", it is clear that the majority have been des for several gyr .",
    "if most of the conversions happened long ago , a low transformation rate today might only imply that the process is slowing down , rather than excluding it altogether .",
    "in fact , the argument is based on the assumption of a constant rate of creation of des over the hubble time .",
    "given the stochastic nature of infall , a variable rate of infall would also be consistent with a low rate of de creation in the present epoch and a large population of des formed from stripped dis .",
    "arguments against conversion from dis to des by ram pressure stripping have also been made on theoretical grounds .",
    "@xcite revisit this question and offer a rough calculation of the time scale for ram pressure stripping and note that it is unreasonably long for distances greater than 300 kpc from m87 ( which excludes only the very core of the virgo cluster ) .",
    "they conclude that `` stripping was probably not the dominant gas - removal mechanism '' in the virgo cluster .",
    "however , they note that a more realistic treatment of the ism in a di might yield significantly shorter gas removal times .",
    "the empirical counter example to this theoretical calculation comes in the form of hi observations of the spiral galaxy ngc  4522 @xcite .",
    "they show this 0.5 l@xmath37 galaxy to be undergoing significant stripping at a projected distance of @xmath34 800 kpc from m  87 .",
    "the stripping of the hi is complete to significantly higher mass surface densities than seen in most dwarf galaxies , and thus any gas rich dwarf in this environment is likely to be stripped .",
    "binggeli s ( 1985 ) argument concerning the lack of a progenitor population for nucleated des remains as a possible constraint on the number of virgo des which are created as a result of stripping of an infalling di .",
    "unfortunately , without a consensus view on the formation of the nuclei of nucleated des ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it is difficult to judge the strength of this constraint .",
    "the fact that the nucleated des are more strongly clustered than the non - nucleated des ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) may be an indication that they are part of an _ in situ _ population of galaxies formed as satellites of the original cluster galaxies . based on specific globular cluster frequencies ,",
    "@xcite propose that the non - nucleated des are the more likely des to form as a result of stripping .",
    "however , in this regard , note that 3 of the 5 galaxies in the @xcite sample with strong rotational support ( v/@xmath38 @xmath14 1 ) are nucleated des .",
    "alternatively , it is possible that nucleated des could be formed from dis with large central starbursts @xcite . further study of their stellar populations and structure are needed to understand fully the origin of the nuclei and thus to determine if stripped dis can evolve into nucleated dwarf ellipticals .",
    "finally , a possible concern for di to de evolution through ram pressure stripping is a possible disparity in baryon - to - dark matter ratios in these low mass galaxies . while the characteristics of the dark matter halos of the local group dsph galaxies are currently a matter of debate ( cf .",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , it appears that dsph may have lower dark matter - to - luminosity ratios than similar luminosity dwarf irregular galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , such results should be viewed with some caution since dark matter halos are measured in different ways for rotating and non - rotating systems @xcite .",
    "thus , at this time , possible discrepancies in the masses of dark matter halos and baryon - to - dark matter ratios of non - rotating virgo des are not sufficiently robust to exclude ram pressure stripping as a viable evolutionary pathway from di to de .",
    "further , as shown in figure [ fig : rot ] , the rotating virgo des have maximum rotation velocities comparable to similar luminosity dis , suggesting that at least this subset of de galaxies may have similar baryon - to - dark matter ratios as field dis .    in summary , after reviewing the historical comparisons of the de and di populations in virgo which have been used to rule out the creation of the virgo des by infalling dis , we find no observational evidence which rules out the creation of a majority of the virgo des by the stripping of gas from dis .",
    "we note , however , that if ram pressure stripping is a common mechanism for transforming dis to des , there remains a fundamental difficulty of identifying the population of recently stripped dis . in all likelihood , the recently stripped dis are not ( yet ) classified as des ( ugc 7636 is di ) .",
    "in fact , any young stellar population must have already faded by the time a galaxy is classified as a de since the primary morphological criterion is that des have smooth and regular isophotes .",
    "thus , it should not be surprising that all the des in this sample have similar optical colors . by the time a galaxy is classified as a de ,",
    "its stellar population has aged sufficiently ( @xmath342 gyr ) that the observed colors are red and it is no longer possible to determine a precise time since the last star formation episode . in analogy with the local group dsph , however , it is likely that the detailed star formation histories of the virgo des ( as revealed by color magnitude diagrams ) will differ substantially even though the integrated colors are similar .",
    "the optical images and spectroscopy presented here indicate that there are no obvious differences between the stellar populations of rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies . in @xcite",
    ", we proposed the possibility that non - rotating des may have entered the cluster environment as des , while rotating des may have been converted from dis while entering the cluster environment .",
    "if this scenario is correct , then one would expect , on average , that the non - rotating des would have older stellar populations .",
    "unfortunately , the age resolution afforded by the present observations and the sample size are insufficient to provide a clear test .",
    "there is the additional complication that a rotationally supported de which is a result of a ram pressure stripping event may follow a trajectory in which a close encounter significantly alters its kinematics ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "thus , even if the rotating and non - rotating des are entering the cluster environment in similar distributions , the distributions of the observed rotating and non - rotating des could be significantly different .",
    "the best way to sort out this question observationally may be to study the population of recently stripped galaxies and those galaxies being actively stripped today .",
    "an unbiased hi survey of the virgo cluster environment may reveal a large number of hi clouds similar to the one associated with ugc  7636 .",
    "if so , then the distribution ( in both real space and velocity space ) of these objects and their association with rotating or non - rotating galaxies will offer significant constraints on all scenarios accounting for the de population in virgo .",
    "the new seven feed l - band array ( alfa ) at arecibo observatory is well suited to such a blind neutral hydrogen survey . with a relatively small beam ( 3 arcmin )",
    ", alfa observations of the virgo cluster will have sufficient spatial resolution and sensitivity to identify recently stripped hi clouds and gas  poor dwarf irregular galaxies within this high density region ; such observations will improve significantly our understanding of the population and location of recently stripped dis and their connection to the dwarf elliptical population .",
    "the abundant de population in the local universe implies the existence of a large population of star forming dwarf galaxies at intermediate redshifts , corresponding to progenitors of the local de population .",
    "the detectability and the nature of this population depend entirely on the evolutionary histories of des . if des build stellar mass rapidly , they could appear as luminous objects ( @xmath39 ) during their formation and then fade by @xmath40 magnitudes to the present epoch .",
    "such `` starburst '' scenarios are favored to explain the rapidly evolving population of faint blue galaxies at intermediate redshift ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "however , the observed [ @xmath1/fe ] indicates that des build their stellar mass more slowly .",
    "if most des form from dis , with their roughly constant star formation histories punctuated by , at most , moderate bursts of star formation , the forming des may be only 1 - 2 magnitudes brighter than those at the present epoch .",
    "thus , with expected magnitudes m@xmath41 ( m@xmath42 at @xmath43 ) , the population of de progenitors will be rare in most extragalactic surveys .",
    "we caution , however , that integrated colors and elemental abundance ratios provide only modest constraints on the detailed star formation history of a galaxy since a modest star burst , or period of quiescence , can be masked by subsequent star formation episodes .",
    "thus , while the present observations are suggestive that the di to de transition does not require a starburst episode , observations of the resolved stellar populations will be necessary to determine the detailed star formation history of dwarf elliptical galaxies .",
    "such observations are beyond the capabilities of current optical telescopes , but the next generation of ground based telescopes may make this a realistic goal even at the distance of the virgo cluster .",
    "such observations are crucial for our understanding and interpretation of galaxy counts at moderate to high redshift .",
    "we present optical images and spectral synthesis of 16 dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster .",
    "the major results of these observations are as follows :    \\(1 ) there appear to be no major morphological differences between rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies .",
    "underlying boxy and disky isophotes are seen in both kinematic samples .",
    "as first discussed by @xcite and @xcite , the cluster des have similar structural parameters as field dis .",
    "\\(2 ) the global optical colors are red , with median values for the sample of 0.24 @xmath0 0.03 in ( u  b ) , 0.77 @xmath0 0.02 in ( b  v ) , 1.26 @xmath0 0.05 in ( b  r ) , 0.48 @xmath0 0.01 in ( v  r ) , and 1.02 @xmath0 0.03 in ( v  i ) .",
    "\\(3 ) stellar population models and spectral synthesis indicate that the dominant stellar populations have ages of approximately 5 - 7 gyr . based on lick indices and simple stellar population models , the derived [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios",
    "are sub - solar to solar , indicating a more gradual chemical enrichment history for des as compared to giant elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster .",
    "\\(4 ) we argue that it is likely that several different physical mechanisms played a significant role in the production of the virgo cluster de galaxies including _ in situ _ formation , infall of des that were once part of local group analogs , and the conversion of infalling dis .",
    "the present observations support the hypothesis that a large fraction of the virgo cluster des are formed by ram pressure stripping of gas from infalling dis .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "we thank the vatt time allocation committee for awarding tbs time to complete this project .",
    "lvz acknowledges partial support by indiana university .",
    "support for ejb was provided by nasa through hubble fellowship grant # hst - hf-01135.01 awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "eds is grateful for partial support from a nasa ltsarp grant no .",
    "nag5 - 9221 and the university of minnesota .",
    "babul , a. , & rees , m. j. 1992 , , 255 , 346 barazza , f. d. , binggeli , b. , & jerjen , h. 2003 , , 407 , 121 barkana , r. , & loeb , a. 1999 , , 523 , 54 binggeli , b.  1985 , in star - forming dwarf galaxies and related objects .",
    "kunth , d. , thuan , t. x. , tran thanh van , j. ( eds ) ditions frontires , gif sur yvette , p.53 binggeli , b. , barazza , f. , & jerjen , h.  2000 , , 359 , 447 binggeli , b. , & cameron , l. m. 1991 , , 252 , 27 binggeli , b. , sandage , a. , & tammann , g. a. 1985 , , 90 , 1681 binggeli , b. , tammann , g. a. , & sandage , a. 1987 , , 94 , 251 binggeli , b. , tarenghi , m. , & sandage , a. 1990 , , 228 , 42 bothun , g. d. , mould , j. r. , caldwell , n. , & macgillivray , h. t. 1986 , , 92 , 1007 bruzual a. , g. , & charlot , s. 1993 , , 405 , 538 bruzual , g. , & charlot , s. 2003 , , 344 , 1000 caldwell , n. 1983 , , 88 , 804 caldwell , n. , & bothun , g. d. 1987 , , 94 , 1126 davies , j. i. , & phillipps , s. 1988 , , 233 , 553 dekel , a. , & silk , j. 1986 , , 303 , 39 dressler , a. 1980 , , 236 , 351 durrell , p. r. 1997 , , 113 , 531 elmegreen , d.  m. , elmegreen , b.  g. , chromey , f.  r. , & fine , m.  s.  2000 , , 120 , 733 ferguson , h.  c. , & binggeli , b.  1994 , , 6 , 67 fisher , j.  r.  & tully , r.  b.  1975 , , 44 , 151 gallagher , j.  s. , & hunter , d.  a.  1989 , , 98 , 806 gallagher , j. s. , iii . & wyse , r. f. g. 1994 , , 106 , 1225 geha , m. , guhathakurta , p. , & van der marel , r. p. 2003",
    ", , 126 , 1794 gilmore , g. , & wyse , r. f. g. 1991 , , 367 , l55 hoffman , g.  l. , helou , g. , salpeter , e.  e. , & sandage , a.  1985 , , 289 , l15 ichikawa , s .-",
    "wakamatsu , k .-",
    "okamura , s. 1986 , , 60 , 475 impey , c. , bothun , g. , & malin , d. 1988 , , 330 , 634 jerjen , h. , binggeli , b. , & barazza , f.d .",
    "2004 , , 127 , 771 jerjen , h. , binggeli , b. , & freeman , k. c. 2000 , , 119 , 593 kelson , d. d. et al .",
    "2000 , , 529 , 768 kenney , j.  d.  p. , van gorkom , j.  h. , & vollmer , b.  2004 , , 127 , 3361 kleyna , j. , wilkinson , m.  i. , evans , n.  w. , gilmore , g. , & frayn , c.  2002 , , 330 , 792 kormendy , j. 1985 , , 295 , 73 landolt , a. u. 1992 , , 104 , 340 lee , m.  g. , kim , e. , & geisler , d.  1997 , , 114 , 1824 lee , h. , mccall , m.  l. , & richer , m.  g.  2003 , , 125 , 2975 lee , h. , richer , m.  g. , & mccall , m.  l.  2000 , , 530 , l17 lejeune , th . , cuisinier , f. , & buser , r. 1997 , , 125 , 229 lin , d. n. c. , & faber , s. m. 1983 , , 266 , l21 mateo , m. l. 1998 , , 36 , 435 mayer , l. , governato , f. , colpi , m. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , & lake , g.  2001a , , 547 , l123 mayer , l. , governato , f. , colpi , m. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , & lake , g.  2001b , , 559 , 754 mcnamara , b.  r. , sancisi , r. , henning , p.  a. , & junor , w.  1994 , , 108 , 844 miller , b.  w. , lotz , j.  m. , ferguson , h.  c. , stiavelli , m. , & whitmore , b.  c.  1998 , , 508 , l133 navarro , j.  f. , frenk , c.  s. , & white , s.  d.  m.  1997 , , 490 , 493 neilsen , e. h. jr . , & tsvetanov , z. i. 2000 , , 536 , 155 oh , k.  s.  & lin , d.  n.  c.  2000 , , 543 , 620 oke , j. b. 1990 , , 99 , 1621 palma , c. , majewski , s.  r. , siegel , m.  h. , patterson , r.  j. , ostheimer , j.  c. , & link , r.  2003 , , 125 , 1352 pedraz , s. , gorgas , j. , cardiel , n. , snchez - blzquez , p. , & guzmn , r. 2002 , , 332 , l59 piatek , s. , pryor , c. , armandroff , t.  e. , & olszewski , e.  w.  2002 , , 123 , 2511 pierini , d. 2002 , , 330 , 997 postman , m. , & geller , m. j. 1984 , , 281 , 95 prugniel , ph . , bica , e. , klotz , a. , & alloin , d. 1993 , , 98 , 229 richer , m. g. , & mccall , m. l. 1995 , , 445 , 642 salpeter , e. e. 1955 , , 121 , 161 sancisi , r. , thonnard , n. , & ekers , r.  d.  1987 , , 315 , l39 sandage , a. , binggeli , b. , & tammann , g. a. 1985 , , 90 , 1759 schlegel , d. j. , finkbeiner , d. p. , & davis , m. 1998 , , 500 , 525 srsic , j .- l . 1968 , atlas de galaxias astrales , observatorio astronomico , cordoba shetrone , m. d. , ct , p. , sargent , w. l. w. 2001 , apj , 548 , 592 shetrone , m. , venn , k. a. , tolstoy , e. , primas , f. , hill , v. , & kaufer , a. 2003 , aj , 125 , 684 skillman , e.  d.  1996 , asp conf .  ser .  106 : the minnesota lectures on extragalactic neutral hydrogen , 208 skillman , e.  d. , bothun , g.  d. , murray , m.  a. , & warmels , r.  h.  1987 , , 185 , 61 skillman , e. d. , kennicutt , r. c. , & hodge , p. w. 1989 , , 347 , 875 skillman , e.  d. , tolstoy , e. , cole , a.  a. , dolphin , a.  e. , saha , a. , gallagher , j.  s. , dohm - palmer , r.  c. , & mateo , m.  2003 , , 596 , 253 stoehr , f. , white , s.  d.  m. , tormen , g. , & springel , v.  2002 , , 335 , l84 thomas , d. , bender , r. , hopp , u. , maraston , c. , & greggio , l. 2003a , ap&ss , 284 , 599 thomas , d. , maraston , c. , & bender , r. 2003b , , 339 , 897 trager , s. c. , faber , s. m. , worthey , g. , & gonzlez , j. j. 2000 , , 119 , 1645 tully , r. b. , & pierce , m. j. 2000 , , 533 , 744 tully , r.  b. , & shaya , e.  j.  1984 , , 281 , 31 vader , j. p. , vigroux , l. , lachize - rey , m. , & souviron , j. 1988 , , 203 , 217 van zee , l. 2000 , 119 , 2757 van zee , l. 2001 , 121 , 2003 van zee , l. , haynes , m. p. , & giovanelli , r. 1995 , , 109 , 990 van zee , l. , skillman , e. d. , & haynes , m. p. 2004",
    ", , 128 , 121 vigroux , l. , thuan , t.  x. , vader , j.  p. , & lachieze - rey , m.  1986 , , 91 , 70 west , m. j. , & blakeslee , j. p. 2000 , , 543 , l27 worthey , g. , & ottaviani , d. l. 1997 , , 111 , 377 young , c. k. , & currie , m. j. 1995 , , 273 , 1141"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present ubvri surface photometry for 16 dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster with previously measured kinematic properties . </S>",
    "<S> the global optical colors are red , with median values for the sample of 0.24 @xmath0 0.03 in ( u  b ) , 0.77 @xmath0 0.02 in ( b  v ) , and 1.02 @xmath0 0.03 in ( v  i ) . </S>",
    "<S> we recover the well known color - magnitude relation for cluster galaxies , but find no significant difference in dominant stellar population between rotating and non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies ; the average age of the dominant stellar population is 5 - 7 gyr in all 16 galaxies in this sample . </S>",
    "<S> analysis of optical spectra confirm these age estimates and indicate fe and mg abundances in the range of 1/20th to 1/3 of solar , as expected for low luminosity galaxies . based on lick indices and simple stellar population models , the derived [ @xmath1/fe ] ratios </S>",
    "<S> are sub - solar to solar , indicating a more gradual chemical enrichment history for des as compared to giant elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster . </S>",
    "<S> these observations confirm the marked difference in stellar population and stellar distribution between dwarf and giant elliptical galaxies and further substantiate the need for alternative evolutionary scenarios for the lowest mass cluster galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that it is likely that several different physical mechanisms played a significant role in the production of the virgo cluster de galaxies including _ in situ _ formation , infall of des that were once part of local group analogs , and transformation of dwarf irregular galaxies by the cluster environment . </S>",
    "<S> the observations support the hypothesis that a large fraction of the virgo cluster des are formed by ram pressure stripping of gas from infalling dis . </S>"
  ]
}