{
  "article_text": [
    "in the last few years , x  ray selected samples of clusters of galaxies have become a formidable tool for cosmology .",
    "deep surveys using rosat pspc archival data have been used to study the evolution of the cluster abundance and x  ray luminosity function ( xlf , e.g. borgani et al .",
    "the lack of evolution observed for @xmath0 erg s@xmath1 out to @xmath2 favours low values for @xmath3 under reasonable assumptions about the evolution of the @xmath4 relation . at the same time , the original evidence from the emss ( henry et al .",
    "1992 ) of significant evolution at the very bright end of the xlf has been confirmed ( vikhlinin et al .",
    "1998 , rosati et al . 2000 and references therein ) .",
    "the main statistical limitation of this conclusion rests with the small sky coverage of the rosat deep surveys , which clashes with the intrinsic rarity of highly luminous clusters .",
    "xmm  newton and chandra are already attracting justified attention as the likely source for future samples , but no significant sets of serendipitously selected clusters can be reasonably expected from these observatories for at least another 2 years .",
    "this presents the window of opportunity for our survey , which uses data from the rosat high  resolution imager ( hri ) archive . with respect to the pspc",
    ", the hri has lower sensitivity and higher instrument background .",
    "however , the hri offers superior angular resolution , and the archive contains many very long observations .",
    "our results indicate that it is actually a surprisingly good source of samples of high - redshift clusters .",
    "sq . deg . around @xmath5 erg @xmath6 s@xmath1 ) , and the depth of the sample ( 1 sq .",
    "deg . at @xmath7 erg @xmath6 s@xmath1 ) .",
    "the overall sky coverage is not only a function of flux , but depends also on the source extension .",
    "being constructed from a different instrument with greater angular resolution , the bmw sample provides an important independent check on possible biases inherent in the pspc data used for most surveys so far ]    the brera multi - scale wavelet ( bmw ) project has currently completed the systematic analysis of about 3100 hri pointings using a multi  scale wavelet algorithm ( lazzati et al .",
    "this resulted in a catalog of @xmath8 serendipitous sources with measured fluxes and extensions ( campana et al .",
    "1999 , panzera et al .",
    ". a clever selection of the hri energy channels produced a reduction of the background noise by a factor of @xmath9 , thus greatly improving the ability to detect low ",
    "brightness sources as clusters .",
    "cluster candidates were isolated on the basis of their extension , selecting at a high significance level ( corresponding to @xmath10 ) and using only the well  sampled hri area between 3 and 15 arcmin off - axis .",
    "after excluding fields with @xmath11 or pointed on the lmc and smc , we ended up with a list of more than 500 candidates , which were visually classified on the dss2 to reject obvious contaminants ( 95 rejections , mostly multiple detections of substructures in nearby , very extended abell clusters , plus a few nearby galaxies ) .",
    "our present goal is to complete first the identification of a high  quality sample of 164 candidates that remain after excluding cluster  targeted hri fields ( to avoid the bias produced by the cluster  cluster angular correlation function , for which we have a clear positive detection in these fields ) and then selecting the deeper hri exposures ( @xmath12 10,000 sec ) .",
    "80% of the sources in this sample show no counterpart in the dss2 and are therefore strong candidates for being distant ( @xmath13 ) clusters .",
    "optical follow  up is now underway with telescopes in both emispheres ( mostly the tng in la palma and the eso 3.6  m telescopes ) , using multi - band imaging to detect the presence of a galaxy overdensity while confirming its reality through photometric redshifts .",
    "we have recently reached a total of almost 40 candidates for which deep imaging has been secured .",
    "preliminary analysis of these observations suggests a success rate ( i.e. evidence for a galaxy overdensity correlated with the x  ray source ) of about 80% . for the still unidentified 20% fraction",
    ", we plan further nir imaging using sofi at ntt and sqiid at the 4  m kpno telescope .    in parallel",
    ", the very last @xmath14 hri fields from the archive ( several with long exposures ) , are currently being analysed and are expected to contribute an extra @xmath15 average increase in the sample size and sky coverage .",
    "borgani , s. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 517 , 40 .",
    "campana , s. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 524 , 423 .",
    "henry , p. et al . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 386 , 408 .",
    "gioia , i.m . , et al .",
    "1990 , apjs , 72 , 567 .",
    "lazzati , d. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 524 , 414 .",
    "panzera , m.r . , et al . , 2000 , in preparation rosati , p. ,",
    "1998 , apj , 492 , l21 .",
    "rosati , p. , et al .",
    "2000 , in `` large - scale structure in the x - ray universe '' , in press ( astro - ph/0001119 ) .",
    "vikhlinin , a. , et al . 1998a , apj , 498 , l21 .",
    "vikhlinin , a. , et al . 1998b , apj , 502 , 558 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we briefly describe the main features and first results of the bmw survey of serendipitous x  ray clusters , based on the still unexploited rosat  hri archival observations . </S>",
    "<S> the sky coverage , surface density and first deep ccd images of the candidates indicate that this sample can represent an excellent complement to the existing pspc deep cluster surveys . </S>"
  ]
}