{
  "article_text": [
    "in the absence of direct meausurements of extinction , the column density of dust in molecular clouds is often traced by dust emission . in many cases",
    "the data are maps at two wavelengths in the fir or sub - mm , and the column density is derived by assuming that dust along each line of sight is isothermal @xcite .",
    "however , each line of sight through a molecular cloud is likely to intersect regions with various amounts of shielding , and therefore a range of temperatures , so the isothermal assumption may lead to significant errors in the calculation of column density .    in this paper",
    "we use a simulation of an externally heated turbulent molecular cloud to produce maps of column density and thermal emission at various fir and sub - mm wavelengths .",
    "we discuss the bias in the emission - derived column density as a function of extinction and wavelength , and we compare the scatter in the emission - based column density estimate with that observed in @xcite in the perseus and ophiuchus molecular clouds .",
    "we find that assuming isothermality can account for all of the observed point by point scatter in comparisons of extinction and emission - based column density maps of perseus without the need to invoke variations in the dust properties within a molecular cloud or variations in the emission from stochastically heated grains . in comparison ,",
    "the scatter in ophiuchus is significantly larger than can be accounted for by the error introduced by the isothermal dust assumption alone .",
    "the method of determining the dust distribution , radiative transfer and dust heating , only briefly described in this section , are described in more detail in @xcite .",
    "the density structure is created by a three - dimensional simulation of driven mhd turbulence on a cubical grid with @xmath0 cells on a side @xcite .",
    "although the original ensemble of simulations was created with widely varying physical parameters ( mach number , plasma beta etc . ) , the radiative transfer through the resulting structures is largely insensitive to these differences . to simulate perseus and ophiucus we use one such model and scale the density and size of our model cloud so that the column density map has an average @xmath1 , which is the median @xmath2 in our perseus and ophiuchus extinction maps",
    "this choice of model is meant to be illustrative of the broad effects of including ` realistic ' clumpiness in radiative transfer calculations of molecular clouds . when compared to a uniform density distribution of similar mass",
    "the inclusion of clumpiness tends to expose more of the _ volume _ to the interstellar radiation field ( isrf ) while on average the _ mass _ is both less illuminated and sees bluer light . in the clumpy case there is also little correlation between the intracloud radiation field at a point and its proximity to the cloud edge .",
    "instead , there is a large point - to - point scatter , arising from the details of the clumpiness @xcite .",
    "a reverse monte carlo radiative transfer code @xcite is used to calculate the penetration of an external isotropic and homogeneous isrf , here the isrf given by @xcite .",
    "the reverse monte carlo technique enables the user to control the monte carlo photon noise in regions which are well shielded , in particular the clumps where most of the mass resides .",
    "the re - emission by dust of sub - mm radiation is assumed to be optically thin throughout our cloud .      to calculate self consistently the attenuation of the isrf by dust , the subsequent equilibrium dust temperature and the fir emission we use astronomical silicate and graphite grain opacities @xcitedraine . ] and a power - law grain size distribution @xcite .",
    "these are chosen to reproduce an extinction curve with @xmath3 .",
    "no attempt is made to include very small grains which are heated transiently to high temperatures , nor do we include polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon emission . both these populations contribute significantly to wavelengths shorter than 100 .    at far infrared wavelengths ( @xmath4 )",
    "the dust ensemble emission is described by a blackbody spectrum modified by a power law ( @xmath5 with an emissivity spectral index of @xmath6 . with the dust ensemble",
    "fully prescribed we can calculate the equilibrium grain temperatures of each grain type and grain size at each location . not only do dust temperatures vary along each line of sight , they also vary amongst grain types and sizes at any point within the cloud .",
    "the method used to determine the dust temperature and column density from two emission maps is similar to that used in @xcite .",
    "the dust temperature ( @xmath7 ) is determined by the ratio of two flux densities and the column density can be derived from either flux and the derived color temperature of the dust .",
    "the pairs of fluxes that we study in this paper are 60 and 100  ( the longest wavelength iras bands ) , 100 and 240  ( those used in @xcite , hereafter sfd98 ) , 100 and 850  and 450 and 850  ( wavelengths observed by scuba on the jcmt @xcite ) .",
    "to determine the dust color temperature , we use the equation : @xmath8 - 1}{\\exp[hc/\\lambda_1 k t_d]-1}\\right)\\ ] ] where r is the ratio of the fluxes and @xmath9 is the emissivity spectral index of the dust . we calculate the dust temperature with the assumption that @xmath10 , which is true of the dust in our model . note that in using the ratio of two flux maps to get the color temperature , we are assuming that a single temperature , @xmath7 , can be used to describe all the dust along each line of sight .    the optical depth is determined by the ratio of the flux to the planck function : @xmath11 with the assumption that the dust emission is optically thin .    the optical depth",
    "can then be converted to v - band extinction using : @xmath12 where @xmath13 is a parameter relating the thermal emission properties of dust to its optical absorption qualities .",
    "the extinction , @xmath2 , is derived from the column density of dust in our model , using the conversions @xmath14 @xmath15 and @xmath16 .",
    "we use the idl procedure amoeba to determine the value of @xmath13 that minimizes the difference between the emission - derived column density and the true column density in the simulation .",
    "the column density of dust derived from pairs of thermal emission maps depends strongly on the two wavelengths considered .",
    "figure [ fig1 ] shows that the 60 and 100  derived column density is a linear tracer of the actual column density for @xmath17 mag , but systematically underestimates the true column density for @xmath18 mag .",
    "the same trend is seen in the column density derived from the 100 and 240  emission maps , though the cutoff extinction above which the column densities are underestimated is @xmath194 mag .",
    "the column density derived from the 100 and 850 maps traces the true column density all the way to 10 mag @xmath2 , as does the column density derived from the 450 and 850  emission maps .",
    "the errors introduced by the assumption of isothermal dust along each line of sight for each pair of maps is shown in figure [ fig1 ] .",
    "the underestimation of column density at @xmath18 as derived from the 60 and 100  emission maps comes from an overestimate of dust temperature along lines of sight that pass through various environments with different temperatures .",
    "the emission is then dominated by the warmer regions , while the column density is dominated by the cooler and denser regions .",
    "the derived color temperature is thus more representative of the warmer regions , and the derived optical depth is therefore too low .",
    "this effect can be seen clearly in the leftmost panel of figure [ fig1 ] . because @xmath13 has been scaled to minimize the difference between the emission and absorption derived column densities , the derived column densities of points below @xmath20 are overestimated .",
    "this problem is much less significant when the emission maps are in the rayleigh - jeans portion of dust emission spectrum @xcite , which explains why the two panels on the right side of figure [ fig1 ] show a much tighter correlation between the derived column density and the true column density than the two panels on the left .",
    "similarly , the longer wavelength emission maps , shown in figure [ fig2 ] , trace the true column density much better than the shorter wavelength maps .      in order to isolate the effect of the assumption of isothermal dust along each line of sight through a molecular cloud on the emission - derived column density , we have kept the dust properties in our model invariant .",
    "however , recent observations have shown that the overall submillimeter emissivity of dust grains varies within a molecular cloud @xcite and that the emissivity spectral index of dust within a molecular cloud also varies @xcite .",
    "the scatter between emission - derived column density and the true column density shown in figure [ fig1 ] arises solely from the assumption of isothermal dust , and does not include the effects of variable dust emission properties . when the column density is derived from 60 and 100  observations , the effect of variable grain properties may not be important , because the assumption of isothermal dust makes deriving the column density from emission maps impractical above @xmath18 while dust properties are not seen to vary significantly below @xmath21 @xcite .",
    "when the emission maps are longer wavelength ( e.g. from dirbe , pronaos or scuba ) , the assumption of isothermal dust is less problematic ( as shown in figure [ fig1 ] ) and the variable dust properties may become the dominant source of error in the emission - derived column density .",
    "we have shown in @xcite that the 60 emission of molecular clouds comes predominantly from transiently heated very small dust grains ( vsg s ) . in order to derive the dust temperature ,",
    "we have removed the vsg contribution to the 60 iras flux . because we have no way to determine the vsg contribution on a pixel - by - pixel basis , we assume that the percent emission from vsg s at 60  is constant everywhere in perseus and ophiuchus",
    ". we then determine the 60  scale factor such that the median temperature in our maps is equal to the median temperature derived by sfd98 for the same area .",
    "the sfd98 temperature maps were derived using 100 and 240  data and are therefore unbiased by the emission from the vsg s .",
    "this procedure is identical to that performed in @xcite .",
    "the 60  flux from our model was not subjected to such a scaling factor because no vsg contribution to the flux was included .",
    "though scaling the 60  flux by a constant multiplicative factor can give the proper _ average _ temperature , each line of sight through our observed molecular clouds should ideally be treated with its own scaling factor . the variable vsg contribution to the 60  flux ca",
    "nt be removed on a pixel - by - pixel basis because the sfd98 resolution is too coarse , which introduces errors in the derivation of dust temperature and column density . applying a constant scale factor to the 60  flux",
    "does not correct for this error , nor does it introduce additional scatter in figure [ fig3 ] .",
    "the derived value of @xmath13 does depend on this scale factor .",
    "if high resolution data at 100  and longer wavelengths were available for a molecular cloud , then one could use those maps to avoid having to subtract the vsg contribution to the observed emission .",
    "unfortunately , the dust temperature and column maps produced by sfd98 using existing 100 and 240  data are of much lower resolution ( @xmath221 degree ) than the iras maps ( @xmath225 ) .",
    "even nearby molecular clouds require the higher resolution provided by iras , so we compare our model molecular cloud with the observations of perseus and ophiuchus using iras emission maps .      in real molecular clouds",
    "the best estimate of column density often comes from the measured nir colors of background stars and is calculated from the reddening done by the intervening dust .",
    "column density maps made this way have a fundamental uncertainty because the background stars have a spread in their intrinsic nir colors , and because the stars included in each pixel of the column density map sample slightly different lines of sight through the molecular cloud .",
    "the level of uncertainty is approximately 0.2 mag @xmath2 , and it is independent of column density @xcite .    in order to compare our simulation to observations , we haved added normally - distributed noise ( with 1@xmath23 mag ) to the simulated column density .",
    "assuming @xmath10 , we then derived the value of @xmath13 that best matches the emission - derived column density ( from the 60 and 100  maps ) to the new `` true '' column density .",
    "the result is shown in figure [ fig3 ] .",
    "the left panel of figure [ fig3 ] appears similar to the perseus and ophiuchus extinction scatter plots , produced as described in @xcite , shown here in the center and right panels .",
    "the emission - based column densities in perseus and ophiuchus are derived from iras 60 and 100  maps and the extinction is derived from from nir color excesses @xcite .",
    "the column derived from fir emission maps is overestimated at low extinctions and underestimated at high extinctions in both this paper and in observations .",
    "the @xmath24 width of the gaussian fit to the ratio of emission - derived column density and absorption - derived column density are 0.3 in our simulation , 0.3 in perseus and 0.4 in ophiuchus , as shown in figure [ fig3 ] .",
    "we are able to reproduce the scatter observed in perseus between the column density derived from 60 and 100  emission maps and the extinction in our simulation of a turbulent molecular cloud .",
    "the dust in our simulation does not have variable emission properties , nor is there a population of transiently heated vsg s .",
    "this suggests that any variations in dust properties within perseus do not dominate the uncertainty in the emission - derived column density , nor does the emission from the vsg s .",
    "instead , we find that in perseus the scatter is primarily explained by the assumption of isothermal dust along each line of sight . in contrast , the ophiuchus molecular cloud has a larger emission / absorption derived scatter than can be explained solely by the errors introduced by the assumption of isothermal dust along each line of sight .    we have shown in @xcite that in order to produce column density maps of nearby molecular clouds from iras emission maps , it is necessary to determine both the fraction of 60 emission that comes from transiently heated dust grains and the conversion factor ( @xmath13 ) from 100  optical depth to visual extinction , because both of these quantities vary from place to place .",
    "these parameters can be determined by the temperature maps of sfd98 and 2mass / nicer extinction maps .",
    "we have shown that column density estimates from longer wavelength thermal emission maps are less biased and have less uncertainty than estimates made from shorter wavelength maps . in particular , maps of column density derived from 60 and 100 emission maps or 100 and 240  emission maps",
    "systematically overestimate the dust temperature at high extinctions ( @xmath251 mag @xmath2 and 4 mag @xmath2 , respectively ) and underestimate the column density .",
    "we have also shown that the observed uncertainty in column density derived from iras emission maps of perseus can be fully accounted for by errors introduced by the assumption of isothermal dust along each line of sight through the cloud and uncertainty in the extinction - derived column density .",
    "we find no evidence of variable dust emission properties or variations in the fraction of emission at 60  from transiently heated vsg s creating significant scatter in column density estimates in perseus .",
    "the observed scatter in the emission / absorption derived column density in ophiuchus can be largely , but not fully explained by the assumption of isothermal dust along each line of sight , suggesting that the vsg emission and/or dust properties vary within the ophiuchus molecular cloud .",
    "t. bethell would like to thank fabian heitsch for making available his simulations of mhd turbulence .",
    "we would like to thank ellen zweibel for her numerous insights and helpful suggestions .",
    "the 60/100  and nir extinction maps of perseus and ophiuchus analyzed in this paper were created for the complete survey of star - forming regions @xcite .",
    "scott schnee is supported under a nsf graduate research fellowship .",
    "tom bethell is partially supported by nsf ast 03 - 28821 and nasa atp 04 0114 to u. wisconsin .",
    "this work has been partially supported by the national science foundation through award ast-0407172 .",
    "bethell , t. , zweibel , e. , heitsch , f. , & mathis , j.  s.  2004 , , 610 , 801 draine , b. , t. , & lee , h. , m.   1984 , , 285 , 89 dupac , x. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 404 , l11 goodman , a.  a.  2004 , asp conf .",
    "ser .  323 : star formation in the interstellar medium : in honor of david hollenbach , 323 , 171 heitsch , f. , zweibel , e. g. , mac low , m .- m . , li , p. , & norman , m.  2001 , , 561,800 holland , w.  s.  et al .   1999 , , 303 , 659 mathis , j.,s . ,",
    "mezger , p. , g. , & panagia , n.  1983 ,  , 128 , 212 mathis , j.,s . ,",
    "rumpl , w. , & nordsieck , k. , h.  1977 , , 217 , 425 ridge , n. et al . ,",
    "submitted to schlegel , d.  j. , finkbeiner , d.  p. , & davis , m.  1998 , , 500 , 525 schnee , s. , ridge , n. , goodman , a. , & li , j.  2005 , , 634 stepnik , b. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 398 , 551 wood , d.  o.  s. , myers , p.  c. , & daugherty , d.  a.  1994 , , 95 , 457"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used a numerical simulation of a turbulent cloud to synthesize maps of the thermal emission from dust at a variety of far - ir and sub - mm wavelengths . </S>",
    "<S> the average column density and external radiation field in the simulation is well matched to clouds such as perseus and ophiuchus . </S>",
    "<S> we use pairs of single - wavelength emission maps to derive the dust color temperature and column density , and we compare the derived column densities with the true column density . we demonstrate that longer wavelength emission maps yield less biased estimates of column density than maps made towards the peak of the dust emission spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the scatter in the derived column density with the observed scatter in perseus and ophiuchus . </S>",
    "<S> we find that while in perseus all of the observed scatter in the emission - derived versus the extinction - derived column density can be attributed to the flawed assumption of isothermal dust along each line of sight , in ophiuchus there is additional scatter above what can be explained by the isothermal assumption . </S>",
    "<S> our results imply that variations in dust emission properties within a molecular cloud are not necessarily a major source of uncertainty in column density measurements . </S>"
  ]
}