{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxies as distinct stellar , gaseous , and dark matter units have dozens of properties measurable by a variety of techniques from gamma - ray to radio wavelengths . some of the most basic properties include : spectral energy distributions , spectral line properties , sizes , internal velocities , structural features , and morphologies . from these observable quantities",
    "we can derive additional physical information , such as stellar , gaseous , and total masses , metallicities , the current and past star formation rates , and the fraction of light in various structural components .",
    "each of these features reveals potentially important clues for how galaxies , including their gas content and dark matter halos , were created and have evolved .",
    "these properties are also interrelated through well - known scalings , such as the colour - magnitude relation ( e.g. , sandage & visvanathan 1978 ) , the size - magnitude relation ( e.g. , romanishin 1986 ) , the tully - fisher relation ( tully & fisher 1977 ) , and the fundamental plane ( djorgovski & davis 1987 ; dressler et al .",
    "these correlations all describe the scaling of structural features of normal galaxies with each other , or with the internal kinematics of galaxies .",
    "it is however not yet clear what the most basic evolutionary processes and galaxy observables are , and whether or not well known relations between galaxy parameters capture essential galaxy features .",
    "is there a single , or a group of processes responsible for the diversity of galaxies ?",
    "although it is widely known that physical properties vary along the hubble sequence , galaxies within a hubble type have a large range of sizes , colours , surface brightnesses , masses , and so on .",
    "perhaps there is an alternative way to classify galaxies based on the properties responsible for driving evolution .",
    "one goal of this paper is determining what physical features of galaxies are the best for classification purposes .",
    "currently it is assumed by many that the optical morphology of a galaxy provides this classification , either in the form of a hubble type , or through quantitative methods .",
    "however there is no a priori reason that optical morphologies should reveal information needed to classify galaxies into a meaningful system .",
    "we utilise fourteen properties of 22,121 galaxies in the nearby universe to address this problem .",
    "we begin our analysis with the hypothesis that our fourteen measurable features provide the basic physical information needed to fully characterise nearby galaxies .",
    "we analyse these measurables through statistical methods , such as spearman rank and principal component analyses , to determine which observables are the most fundamental for classifying galaxies . we demonstrate that at a fundamental level many measured properties of galaxies correlate with each other . for example , scale features correlate strongly , and hubble types correlate with many properties , including colour and stellar mass .",
    "we argue that this correlation is the reason that hubble types have been successful in describing the nearby galaxy population .",
    "we further show through principal component analyses that most of the variation in galaxy properties can be accounted for by three eigenvectors dominated by scale ( e.g. , mass ) , the presence of star formation , and the degree of recent interaction / merger activity . as a result",
    ", our main conclusion is that these three features are needed to understand the current and past evolutionary state of a galaxy .",
    "we further argue that galaxy mass , star formation , and mergers / interactions are responsible for the diversity in the galaxy population in the nearby universe , and should be used to construct a galaxy classification system .",
    "this paper is a more general companion , and in some ways a prequel , to the quantitative cas ( concentration , asymmetry , clumpiness ) structural analysis paper presented in conselice ( 2003 ) . in conselice ( 2003 )",
    "we created a new quantitative way to classify galaxies under the assumption that mass , star formation , and recent mergers were the critical properties for understanding galaxies .",
    "we now show that this assumption is justifiable through our statistical analysis of @xmath3 nearby galaxies .",
    "conselice ( 2003 ) furthermore developed a quantitative and reproducible method for retrieving this information through the optical light of galaxies .",
    "the outline of this paper is as follows . in  2 we give a summary of the physical features , and formation histories of various types of galaxies we study .",
    " 3 describes our galaxy sample , and the properties we use to characterise each system . ",
    "4 gives a detailed description of the nearby galaxy population , including the relative numbers and number densities of various morphological types .",
    " 5 presents our statistical analysis of our sample , while  6 utilises this information to produce a new physical classification system , and  7 is a summary . for distance measurements we use a hubble constant of h@xmath4 km",
    "s@xmath5 mpc@xmath5 , unless otherwise noted .",
    "there are a few generally agreed upon major nearby basic galaxy types , generally classified according to morphology , whose properties and range of possible formation histories are becoming well understood .",
    "these types are : ellipticals , spirals , lenticulars , dwarf spheroidals / ellipticals , low surface - brightness galaxies , irregulars , and mergers , which we review below .",
    "these groups can , but do not necessarily include , other types of galaxies such as starbursting systems ( e.g. , ultra luminous infrared galaxies , ulirgs ) , galaxies with active galactic nuclei ( quasars , radio galaxies , etc . ) .",
    "most * ellipticals * , particularly those in clusters , contain old stellar populations that likely formed early in the universe ( kuntschner & davies 1998 ) .",
    "many of these galaxies are thought to form by the mergers of smaller galaxies ( barnes & hernquist 1992 ) , or from a rapid collapse of non - rotating gas ( van albada 1982 ) .",
    "the merger idea for the origin of ellipticals is currently popular , with both indirect and direct supporting evidence ( e.g. , schweizer & seiter 1988 ; conselice 2006 ) .",
    "* spiral galaxies * are a mixed galaxy class , but all generally show evidence of recent star formation and past merger / accretion activity ( e.g. , kennicutt 1998 ; zaritsky & rix 1997 ) . the stellar populations in spirals are also younger , on average , than those found in giant ellipticals ( e.g , trager et al .",
    "2000 ) .",
    "the * lenticular class ( s0s ) * are disk - like galaxies without the presence of strong spirals arms , star - formation , obvious dust , or gas usually associated with spirals and other star - forming galaxies .",
    "s0 galaxies are usually found in galaxy clusters ( dressler 1984 ) , but can also exist in the field ( e.g , .",
    "van den bergh 1997 ) .",
    "it has been suggested since spitzer & baade ( 1951 ) that s0s originate from spirals due to environmental effects .",
    "evidence for this includes spirals in nearby clusters that are highly depleted in gas ( haynes & giovanelli 1986 ) , and might be evolving into s0 galaxies .    *",
    "dwarf ellipticals ( de ) * , the most common type of galaxy in the nearby universe , are almost always located in dense environments such as galaxy clusters and groups ( ferguson & binggeli 1994 ) .",
    "these objects resemble ellipticals due to their symmetric structure , and elliptical isophotes , although they differ in several significant properties , such as containing different light profiles , and how they follow scaling relations ( e.g. , wirth & gallagher 1984 ; graham & guzman 2003 ) .",
    "these objects likely have several formation mechanisms , including a primordial origin and evolution from stripped galaxies ( conselice et al .",
    "2001,2003c ) .",
    "* low surface brightness galaxies ( lsbs ) * are one of the last major class of galaxies discovered to date ( disney 1976 ) .",
    "these objects come in many shapes and sizes , but generally mimic the hubble sequence in terms of bulge to disk ratios , but at a much lower surface brightness , at @xmath6 @xmath7 mag arcsec@xmath8 ( see impey & bothun 1997 ) .",
    "it has been suggested from several pieces of observational evidence that lsb galaxies have had few , if any , major merging or interaction events with other galaxies , and are found in relative isolation ( e.g. , knezek 1993 ; mo , mcgaugh & bothun 1994 ) .",
    "lsb galaxies therefore potentially represent a class of objects formed mostly through the collapse of gas , with gradual and continual ongoing star formation , with few interactions throughout their history .    * irregulars * are typically smallish star forming galaxies that often lack a distinct spiral structure . for our purposes ,",
    "irregulars include dwarf irregulars , blue compact dwarfs , and classical irregulars such as ngc 4449 .",
    "star formation dominates the appearance and evolution of these small , but common , galaxies that have a wide range of surface brightnesses ( see gallagher & hunter 1984 for a review ) .",
    "they are also the bluest type of non - interacting galaxy known ( huchra 1977 ) .",
    "a large amount of attention has been spent studying the dirr members of the local group , although these objects also exist in clusters ( e.g. , binggeli , sandage & tammann 1985 ; gallagher & hunter 1986 ) .    finally , * interacting and merging galaxies * , while rare in the nearby universe , were much more common in the distant past when roughly half of all massive galaxies were undergoing major mergers ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "mergers are likely a critically important galaxy formation / evolution process especially if the first galaxies were all of low mass .",
    "mergers are also observationally more common at earlier times ( e.g. , conselice et al . 2003a , bundy et al .",
    "2004 , lin et al .",
    "2004 , pope et al .",
    "the sample of galaxies with which we performed our statistical analyses were taken from galaxies in the third reference catalog of bright galaxies ( hereafter rc3 ; de vaucouleurs et al .",
    "these rc3 galaxies were chosen based on their size ( @xmath9 ) , apparent magnitude b@xmath10 and radial velocity ( v @xmath11 ) , although the catalogue is supplemented by objects that met only one of these criteria .",
    "this catalog is however inhomogeneous , which we deal with in several ways , described in the following analysis . for each galaxy we culled from the literature , or derive , the following features .",
    "our total sample consists of 22,121 galaxies distributed across the sky as shown in figure  1 .",
    "the average galaxy in our sample is at l@xmath12 , and its average galaxy colour is @xmath13 .        *",
    "i. t - type ( t ) * : the mean de vaucouleurs ( 1959 ) t - type is an expression of the gross morphology of a galaxy .",
    "the t - type values we used are means for each galaxy , computed from a variety of sources ( rc3 ) . these t - types can be equated with hubble types as : -6 through -4 are ellipticals , -3 through -1 are s0s , and ( 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9 ) are ( s0/a , sa , sab , sb , sbc , sc , scd , sd , sdm , sm ) , respectively . the rc3 is the largest eye - ball estimated morphological catalogue to date .    *",
    "ii . size ( r ) * : the sizes of each galaxy is computed from the isophotal major axis diameter ( d@xmath14 ) measured in arc - minutes and converted into kpc by using the distance modulus for each galaxy . while petrosian radii , or a radius which does not use isophotes , is more ideal , the effects of using an isophotal radii for these nearby systems is minor .    *",
    "mean effective surface brightness ( @xmath15 ) * : the mean effective surface brightness is the surface brightness within the half light radius of each galaxy .",
    "this parameter , effectively combines the size and magnitude of a galaxy and gives us a rough idea of the projected density of stars .",
    "* iv . @xmath16 and @xmath17 colours",
    "* : these are photometrically determined colour indices corrected for galactic and internal extinction .",
    "we used these indices as a measure of the average luminosity weighted age of stars in galaxies , although for older ( @xmath18 gyr ) stellar populations these colours can be dominated by metallicity effects ( e.g. , worthey 1994 ) .",
    "* v. hi linewidths ( w@xmath19 and w@xmath20 ) * : the hi line widths at the 20% and 50% of the maximum level in the 21-cm line profile .",
    "* vi . hi linewidth ratio ( @xmath21 = w@xmath19/w@xmath20)*. we used this number , based on the arguments in conselice , bershady & gallagher ( 2000b ) as a measure of the importance of recent interactions and mergers .",
    "values of i@xmath22 are interpreted as systems that have recently undergone interactions or merger with other galaxies .",
    "we discuss this index in more detail in  3.2 and conselice et al .",
    "( 2000b ) .",
    "central velocity dispersion ( v@xmath23)*. this is usually only defined for early type galaxies , and v@xmath24 times a size can be used as a measure of early type galaxy mass .    *",
    "hi line index ( hi ) * is defined as m@xmath25 = 16.6 - 2.5 log @xmath26 , where @xmath26 is the flux of the hi line measured in units of w m@xmath8 .",
    "we further subtract this value by the distance modulus ( dm ) to obtain physical quantities that are independent of distance .",
    "we use the hi line index as a measure of the cold neutral gas content in a galaxy .",
    "far infrared index ( fir ) * is defined in a similar manner as the hi line index ( hi ) , as m@xmath27 log(fir ) - dm , where fir = 1.26[2.58 @xmath28 , and f@xmath29 and f@xmath30 are the total flux densities in the iras 60 and 100 @xmath6 m bands ( rc3 ) and where dm is the distance modulus of the galaxy .",
    "* x. luminosity class ( @xmath31 ) * : @xmath31 is the van den bergh ( 1966 ) ddo , morphologically determined luminosity class index , which have been extended to fainter magnitudes in the rc3 .",
    "the luminosity class values we used are weighted averages , just as the t - types , and have values that range from @xmath32 to 11 with higher @xmath31 values for fainter galaxies .",
    "the maximum rotational velocity ( v@xmath33 ) * : v@xmath33 is defined as the maximum rotational velocity of a galaxy , as measured from hi or h@xmath34 rotation curve profiles .",
    "the size of a disk galaxy times v@xmath35 is sometimes used as a measure of its total mass .    *",
    "xii . the absolute b - band magnitude ( m@xmath36)*.    * xiii .",
    "the environmental galaxy density @xmath37*. this is defined as the number of galaxies within 3 mpc and @xmath38 of each galaxy in our catalog . to avoid severe incompleteness for faint galaxies",
    ", we only compute this number for bright galaxies with m@xmath39 and at declinations @xmath40 .",
    "galaxy stellar mass*. stellar masses for our sample were computed by deriving the stellar ( m / l ) ratio in the b - band using the ( b@xmath41v)@xmath41m / l ratio relation discussed in bell et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , using their ` diet ' salpeter initial mass function .",
    "there is a general correlation between stellar ( m / l ) and colour , such that bluer colors have lower stellar ( m / l ) ratios .",
    "we used this relation , and the measured @xmath17 colours for our galaxies to derive the ( m / l ) in the b - band for our sample .",
    "we then compute stellar masses by multiplying the luminosity in the b - band for each galaxy by its derived stellar ( m / l ) ratio .",
    "not all galaxies in our sample have each of these parameters measured , therefore when comparing different parameters we often had to use a subset of the data .",
    "we also associate with these parameters an error that reflects the variation in the measured values .",
    "the galaxy interaction and merger index , @xmath21 , defined by the ratio of the width of the hi line at 20% and 50% of maximum ( property vi in  3.1 ) is used in this paper as the principle indicator for finding galaxies undergoing mergers and interactions .",
    "it is a dynamical indicator and has been used at least once before for this purpose in conselice et al .",
    "( 2000b ) . however , it is not a standard galaxy measure and it is worth describing it , and the galaxies it selects , in more detail .",
    "the idea behind its use is that a normal galaxy with hi , will present a regular hi profile that is relatively narrow , or at least does not significantly change shape .",
    "if a galaxy is interacting or merging , and hi gas is disturbed by these dynamical events then the hi profile will have a shallow rise , or will have wings .",
    "this leads to higher values of @xmath21 = w@xmath19/w@xmath20 .",
    "conselice et al .",
    "( 2000b ) show that the @xmath21 index correlates well with the asymmetry parameter , such that galaxies with very large asymmetries due to merging have large @xmath21 values .    .",
    "as can be seen galaxies in interactions , in pre - mergers and post - mergers will all produce high hi line width ratios . , width=317 ]    however , beyond the sample in conselice et al .",
    "( 2000b ) , this index has not been tested to determine its success rate in finding merging galaxies . to understand this better we examined the literature and digitised sky survey ( dss ) imaging for several hundred systems with @xmath42 .",
    "what we found was a diversity of galaxy morphology , from spirals and obvious mergers , to galaxies classified as s0s / ellipticals .",
    "however , it was nearly always the case that a system with a regular apparent morphology was in a galaxy pair , such that it is likely involved in an interaction with another galaxy .",
    "examples of the optical morphology of the high-@xmath21 systems taken from the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) and the dss are shown in figure  2 .",
    "it is clear from these images that the @xmath21 indicator is a more sensitive probe than the asymmetry index ( conselice 2003 ) , which is designed to find galaxies that have already merged .",
    "it appears that the @xmath21 index will become large during an interaction as well as throughout the merger of two galaxies .",
    "there is however some contamination from non - interacting galaxies into our high @xmath21 sample , as might be expected .",
    "this rate is however low , and does not affect our results , as it is only at the 5% level .",
    "much of this contamination seems to arise from edge - on disk galaxies .",
    "our primary goal using our large sized - limited sample of nearby galaxies with morphologies is determining the strongest correlations between measurable parameters (  5 ) . before doing this",
    ", we examine the nearby galaxy population , its overall distribution of properties , and how each relates to morphological type .",
    "one purpose for this is having a well defined morphological census of nearby galaxies to compare with more distant samples studied with the hubble space telescope .    ) . the box formed by the solid line outlines the nearly complete sample we used for analyses that require near complete samples brighter than m@xmath39.,width=317 ]      as the hubble space telescope can now reveal the morphological properties , and stellar masses of thousands of galaxies at @xmath44 ( papovich et al .",
    "2005 ; bundy et al .",
    "2005 ; conselice et al .",
    "2004 , 2005a ) , direct morphological and stellar mass comparisons with the @xmath45 galaxy population are now possible ( e.g. , van den bergh , cohen & crabbe 2001 ; conselice et al .",
    "it is thus desirable to determine the morphological distribution of galaxies at @xmath43 and how these relate to stellar masses and colours .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     from  5.1 and table  3 we know that the interaction / merger index , @xmath21 , does not correlate strongly with any other galaxy property , with the exception of the luminosity index .",
    "the meaning of this is that galaxies which are undergoing a merger can not be accounted for by other measurable features .",
    "when we analyse only galaxies undergoing mergers , defined as objects with @xmath46 , we find that three principal components are necessary to describe these systems .",
    "in fact , for systems with @xmath47 the correlation between t - type and @xmath17 colours breaks down .",
    "we conclude from the above analyses that our hypothesis , described in conselice ( 2003 ) that mass , star - formation and the presence of mergers are fundamental criteria , is a reasonable assumption .      in this section",
    "we examine whether the principal component projections for our sample are correlated , and if different galaxy types separate cleanly within pca space ( see madgwick et al .",
    "2003 for examples of this using galaxy spectra ) . for this analysis",
    "we examine the principal components shown in table  8 .",
    "figure  9 shows the correlation between the projections of our galaxies onto their first three eigenvectors listed in table  8 , which as we have discussed , generally correlate with colour ( p@xmath48 ) , interactions / mergers ( p@xmath49 ) , and stellar mass ( p@xmath50 ) .",
    "we furthermore label the morphological type of galaxies on figure  9 , which shows that this relatively simple pca analysis separates nicely the major galaxy classes : early - types , disks , irregulars and merging galaxies .",
    "the left panel of figure  9 shows a correlation between the projection of the eigenvectors dominated by recent star formation ( colour ) and scale ( stellar mass ) .",
    "there is however a perpendicular relation as well which is occupied mostly by disk galaxies .    to 110 mm        [ fig ]",
    "the correlation between p@xmath48 and p@xmath49 shows a similar patten , but with only a slight correlation between the two eigenvector projections .",
    "however , it is clear that interacting and merging galaxies , with @xmath42 , deviate from the nominal relation .",
    "examples of these high-@xmath21 systems are shown in figure  2 .",
    "there is also a correlation between the second and third eigenvector projections for most galaxies in our sample .",
    "just as in the right panel of figure  9 , galaxies with a high @xmath21 index deviate from this relation with a larger projection onto the second eigenvector .      with our current data set",
    "we can address which scaling relations are statistical the strongest for nearby galaxies .",
    "while most of these relations are well known and characterised , we discuss several below which are found independent of sample selection .",
    "these correlations are : t - type with @xmath17 colours , t - type with log v@xmath33 , radius with absolute magnitude , radius with v@xmath33 , @xmath17 with log v@xmath33 , and absolute magnitude with log v@xmath33 .",
    "the relationship between these parameters are shown in figure  10 .",
    "the best fits between these parameters are ,    @xmath51    @xmath52    @xmath53    @xmath54    @xmath55    @xmath56    to 130 mm        [ sample - figure ]    most of these scalings are already well known , and have been described in various contexts previously .",
    "many become stronger when only considering certain types of galaxies ( e.g. , ellipticals for the faber - jackson , disks for tully - fisher ) . we are particularly interested here in the correlation of t - type with colour and v@xmath33 ( as a proxy for other scale features ) .",
    "figure  10 plots the relationship between these properties . as can be seen ,",
    "later t - types are both bluer and have lower internal velocities .",
    "these are in particlar strong correlations , as shown in table  3 .",
    "as we argue in this paper , these two correlations are the reason why the hubble sequence has been generally successful at separating galaxy types . however , as can be seen there is a large scatter in these correlations , such that at every t - type there is a wide range in colour and v@xmath33 values .",
    "this is also true for the relationship between @xmath17 and v@xmath33 .",
    "this diversity can not be accounted for by errors on classifications , or on the measured values .",
    "this shows that there are variations in colour and scale which is not accounted for by hubble type .",
    "for the remainder of this paper we address whether the results of the first part of this paper can be used to construct a classification system for galaxies that is physically meaningful .",
    "first , it is worth asking if we need a physical classification system for galaxies .",
    "is it possible that relations between observables and ( non - morphological ) galaxy properties are enough to characterise the population ?",
    "the first classification schemes by wolf ( 1908 ) , hubble ( 1926 ) , de vaucouleurs ( 1959 ) and sandage ( 1961,1975 ) are purely descriptive , and the idea that a galaxy s classification should be based solely on the most obvious features seen in optical light persists ( sandage 2005 ) .",
    "the reason given for this philosophy is that no physical understanding of what drives galaxy formation / evolution should be used to create a classification system .",
    "as sandage ( 2005 ) explains , `` a good classification can drive the physics , but the physics must not be used to drive the classification . ''    sandage s ( 2005 ) argument , which follows hubble s original philosophy , likely resulted from the earliest attempts to classify galaxies through the use of theoretical arguments by jeans ( 1919 ) .",
    "hubble quite rightly avoided theory when developing his classification system , yet physical morphology does not necessarily rest upon theory , but empirical observations .",
    "physical morphology in this sense is not a theoretical morphology .",
    "if we knew with reasonable certainty what the physical effects were that drove the properties of galaxies , a classification based on these features would be superior to theoretically , or subjectively based systems .",
    "several features of galaxies also make them fundamentally different from other objects which have been successfully classified based solely on their appearance , including stars , plants / animals and the chemical elements .",
    "galaxies are fundamentally different from these types of objects as they are not stable or passive systems , nor do they have a well defined life / death as do living organisms and stars .",
    "furthermore , elements , plants / animals and most stars spend most of their life span in the same form .",
    "this is not the case for galaxies , where it has been shown that systems of the same mass change their appearance in optical light dramatically in the last 10 gyr ( e.g. , van den bergh et al .",
    "2001 ; conselice et al .",
    "2005a ; ravindrinath et al .",
    "galaxies are not static systems - they are always changing and evolving due to the complex mixtures of stars , gas , dust , dark matter , and from interactions with other galaxies .",
    "another reason that the physical properties of galaxies can be used to devise a classification system is the fact that it is not a given that the rest - frame optical light of galaxies reveal the most important features of galaxies .",
    "for example , we now know that the bulk emission from an average galaxy is in the mid infrared ( e.g. , dale et al .",
    "2005 ) , and if any wavelength should be used to classify galaxies it would naturally be where most of the light is emitted .",
    "fundamentally , if we want to classify galaxies through structure , the best approach is using a map of the distribution of mass , which would be mostly dark matter . a mapping such as this , with enough resolution for classification , does not currently exist . in blue light , where the hubble system was and is being used , we are examining only the stars in galaxies , and often only the brightest ones , which tend to be young .",
    "this leads to physical classifications , where if we think we understand the major properties of galaxies , we can utilise these for classification .    knowing which properties of galaxies are not important for classification is just as critical as uncovering the dominant ones .",
    "we can understand why through analogies with other sciences . in biological taxonomy , such as separating different populations of mammals , features such as hair or eye colour , or exact size ,",
    "are not classification criteria .",
    "similarly , features such as rings , bars and even spiral arms are important for the immediate appearance of a galaxy , but these are not basic features .",
    "classifications using these criteria are purely descriptive .",
    "their inclusion as major classification criteria are also arbitrary , as other properties , such as the steepness of light profiles , the clumpy nature of light seen in many galaxies , the spokes and spurs seen in spiral arms , etc .",
    "were never considered important , or were technically infeasible to measure , by early morphologists .",
    "we can use the results of this paper to construct a physically based method for classifying galaxies .",
    "physical morphology is not a new idea , and attempts to construct a meaningful system for galaxies started with the work of morgan ( 1958 ; 1959 ) who attempted to correlate `` the forms of certain galaxies and their stellar content as estimated from composite spectra '' from morgan & mayall ( 1957 ) .",
    "later attempts include van den bergh s ( 1960 ) study on the correlation between spiral arm structure and intrinsic brightness .",
    "modern studies have attempted to classify ellipticals by their structures ( kormendy & bender 1996 ) , and at using interacting and star formation properties to classify all galaxies ( e.g. , conselice 1997 ; conselice et al .",
    "2000a ; conselice et al . 2000b",
    "; bershady et al . 2000 ) . as we argued in  5 , star formation ,",
    "interactions / mergers , and the masses of galaxies are the three most fundamental parameters that can be used together to form a new physical galaxy classification .",
    "we concluded in  5 that the underlying mass ( scale ) of a galaxy is a fundamental property , which is responsible for the major component in our pca analyses . while few would argue that the mass of a galaxy is not a fundamental criterion for classification , it is not obvious that it is possible to classify galaxies based on their mass , without direct measurements .    however , there are structural indicators in optical light which can be used as a proxy for the underlying mass in a galaxy . as shown by e.g. , graham et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and conselice ( 2003 ) the concentration of a galaxy s light , measured through either parametrised fits to light distributions , or from direct measurements using a concentration index ( bershady et al .",
    "2000 ) , broadly correlate with the stellar and kinematic masses of galaxies .",
    "this is true at low redshift , as well as out to @xmath57 ( conselice et al .",
    "2005a ) .",
    "to 120 mm        [ fig ]    the degree of apparent concentration of stellar light in a galaxy has been used ( even if not explictly stated ) since hubble ( 1926 ) as the main axis for nearly all galaxy classification systems . as shown in e.g. , conselice ( 2003 ) galaxy concentration relates to the bulge to disk ratio and hubble type , although this breaks down for dwarfs .",
    "furthermore , light concentration has continued as the main axis in all galaxy classification systems , such as in de vaucouleurs ( 1959 ) and morgan ( 1959 ) , and continues as a quantitative system through fitting bulge to disk ratios .",
    "while bright hubble types generally correlate with the masses of galaxies , they do not account for other galaxy properties needed for a full classification .",
    "the fact that late - type galaxies , which generally have low : masses , bulge to disk ratios , and light concentrations , are blue is a result of evolutionary processes , rather than an inherent success of the classification .",
    "it is a coincidence that hubble types correlate well with colour in the nearby universe , as this is not the case at higher redshifts where morphologically classified ellipticals are often blue in colour and star forming ( e.g. , stanford et al .",
    "2004 ; bundy et al .",
    "this correlation breaks down even more at @xmath58 , where the hubble sequence itself begins to dissipate .      as shown in  5",
    "we find a morphological dichotomy between galaxies that are dominated by recent star formation and those that are not .",
    "our principal component analyses reveals that colour is the major contribution to a significant principal component , which is not accounted for solely by the hubble type , as galaxies at a given morphology type have a range of colours (  5.1 , figure  10 ) . therefore ,",
    "if we knew the current star formation rate of a galaxy it would be a very powerful classification parameter .",
    "typically the current star formation rate is derived from either ultraviolet , h@xmath34 or far - infrared fluxes ( kennicutt 1998 ) , although these measurements are typically time - consuming and hard to obtain for large samples .",
    "it is therefore desirable to use a method that can estimate the star formation properties of galaxies based on optical imaging . for most galaxies ,",
    "this can be done by combining colour information along with high - frequency structural features produced by young stars ( isserstedt & schindler 1986 ; conselice et al .",
    "2000a ; conselice 2003 ) .",
    "the clumpiness index , @xmath59 , ( conselice 2003 ) is a good measure of the unobscurbed current star formation rate in galaxies , and can therefore be used as an indicator .",
    "like the scale of a galaxy and its current star formation rate , galaxy mergers and interactions are an important aspect for driving galaxy evolution .",
    "although mergers are rarely found in the local galaxy population , they have strong effects on the evolution of galaxies and their properties .",
    "ellipticals and high surface brightness bulges are likely the result of major mergers , and other accretion processes . in reality , all merger events for any one galaxy are nearly impossible to trace with certainty , especially old mergers that have gone through violent relaxation , after which the original orbital information is lost .",
    "recent interactions between galaxies however will almost always have obvious signatures that will change the way galaxies appear , as well as their internal evolution , as has been shown in various methodologies .",
    "figure  11 shows how galaxies of various types fit into a 3-dimensional parameter space defined by galaxy mass , recent star formation , and interactions . on this diagram",
    ", the @xmath60-axis signifies the mass , while the @xmath61-axis represents the recent star formation , and the @xmath62-axis represents the degree of recent interactions with other galaxies .",
    "as opposed to previous classification systems , the one presented in figure  11 can account for all the major galaxy types described in  2 .",
    "classical ellipticals , with little sign of recent interactions or star formation will occupy the high - mass , low star formation and low interaction corner .",
    "the top of this classification volume also contains the s0s , dwarf ellipticals / spheroidals .",
    "s0s have little evidence for recent star formation , but are lower - mass systems than ellipticals , and they occupy the same star formation and interaction space as the ellipticals .",
    "des are systems with low - mass , and as such they occupy the far end of the mass sequence for these galaxies .",
    "the dwarf irregulars have a similar internal structure and mass to the des , except they contain star formation , and thus fall in the same mass and interaction space , but are separated in star formation space .",
    "this system is not completely new and various aspects of it have been published in different forms .",
    "for example , van den bergh ( 1976 ) proposed a revision of the hubble system where s0 galaxies occupy a parallel sequence to the spirals , instead of lodged between the ellipticals and sa galaxies as in the original hubble sequence . van den bergh s ( 1976 ) classification also contains an anaemic galaxy sequence for objects with little gas .",
    "this system also classifies galaxies in terms of their bulge to disk ratios , making it very similar in some ways to the star formation / mass plane presented here ( see figure  12 ) .",
    "low surface brightness galaxies , as discussed earlier , have little evidence for companions or signs of interactions with other galaxies",
    ". they also have a very gradual star formation history that is still ongoing . as such",
    "they occupy the same mass sequence as the spirals , but are located on the low interaction side of the interaction sequence .",
    "the dichotomy between ellipticals that appear boxy and disky can also be represented by this system ( kormendy & bender 1996 ) , since these galaxies naturally fall along different regions of interaction and mass space .",
    "disky ellipticals , with rotation , would have a lower mass , while the degree of boxiness correlates with the interaction history .",
    "other galaxies can also be classified in this system .",
    "starbursts induced by major mergers , are placed at the high end of the interaction and star formation sequence .",
    "galaxies undergoing violent relaxation , such as arp 220 , containing spheroidal components and step light profiles ( wright et al . 1990 ) , would be classified towards the high - mass end of the mass sequence .",
    "this system is constructed based on the results presented in the earlier part of this paper .",
    "measuring the star formation , merging , and masses ( either stellar or dynamical ) properties of a galaxy are not trivial , but are likely to become easier in the future .",
    "we are therefore not setting out in this section a stringent method for classifying galaxies by these properties .",
    "one could do these classifications directly by measuring the star formation rate through emission lines , masses through dynamics or spectral energy distributions , and mergers / interactions through an asymmetry index or a dynamical indicator .",
    "we discuss in  6.3 a possible way to use the apparent morphologies of galaxies in optical light to carry out these classifications .",
    "future work will reveal better ways of carrying out these measurements , which can then be applied for classification according to figure  11 .",
    "other morphological systems , including physical morphological ones , can be viewed as projections of this system .",
    "the hubble sequence , to first order , is a one dimension projection with the star formation and interactions collapsed onto the mass sequence . as discussed before",
    ", the hubble sequence does not take into account these features , thus there exists a wide range of properties at each hubble type ( roberts & haynes 1994 ; kennicutt 1998 ) .",
    "the colour - asymmetry diagram is a projection , in part , of the star formation , interaction sequence ( figure  13 ) .",
    "this is not an exact projection since the asymmetry parameter measures interactions , as well as star formation ( conselice et al .",
    "to first order the @xmath17 colour measures the star formation history of a galaxy .",
    "galaxies with purely old stars have very red colours , while those with recent star formation are bluer . the concentration - asymmetry diagram used by bershady et al .",
    "( 2000 ) and others , is furthermore a projection of the mass - interaction sequence .",
    "more recently , driver et al .",
    "( 2006 ) argue that light concentration and colour are fundamental properties that separate galaxies into early and late types , which is again a two - dimensional projection of this new system . likewise , blanton et al .",
    "( 2005 ) suggest that colour and and luminosity are the most important galaxy properties , which is also shown in our analysis .",
    "when hubble invented his classification , he did so with specific examples of galaxies , however hubble types are now thought to characterise ideal types .",
    "there are few galaxies that fit this ideal , nor is any one galaxy exactly similar to any other .",
    "this is due to the chaotic interaction and star formation history of galaxies that are , at present , not easily retrievable .",
    "the classification system presented here replaces ideal galaxies with parameters that are in some ways idealised measurements .",
    "it is not trivial to determine the star formation history of a galaxy , or even accurately measure its current star formation rate .",
    "star formation does have a morphological appearance in most galaxies , the exception being systems heavily enshrouded by dust .",
    "the system presented here can still account for those galaxies , as it is very general .",
    "the method for classifying the star formation properties of a galaxy does not have to be based on morphology , but can also be done through other properties , such as fluxes at various wavelengths .    the same is true for measuring the merger history of galaxies .",
    "while many galaxies have some clues left over from merger events , these clues can be quite diverse , requiring various methods to retrieve them .",
    "structural methods , such as the asymmetry cas parameter ( conselice et al .",
    "2000a , b ) , are useful for determining the presence of , and quantifying , current major mergers . determining the history of past interactions is more difficult .",
    "one way is to investigate the outer parts of galaxies where the dynamical time scales are long , and where apparently normal galaxies show evidence for past merger activity ( schweizer & seitzer 1988 ) .",
    "other methods include searching for distorted hi halos surrounding galaxies , galaxy core depletion from merging black holes ( graham 2004 ) , and finding distorted rotation curves ( swaters et al .",
    "1999 ) or line profiles ( haynes et al . 1998 ; conselice et al .",
    "these features are potentially all remnants of accretion , merging or interactions with other galaxies , and can in principle be used to quantify the interaction history of galaxies .",
    "the system presented here can classify all known galaxies , but it also has classification ` corners ' where no nearby galaxies are known to exist , or have not been identified .",
    "one type are massive , low interaction high star formation systems . there are plenty of galaxies that have these features at high redshift .",
    "these are likely ellipticals or disks in formation that will evolve into spheroids .",
    "for example , systems with high mass , high star formation , and little merging could originate from gas accreted onto elliptical - like systems .",
    "other possible galaxies not yet identified are those with various mass ranges , but low star formation and high interaction strength .",
    "perhaps the population of distorted , but non - star forming galaxies , or compact dwarfs found in clusters ( conselice & gallagher 1999 ; drinkwater et al .",
    "2003 ) are examples of these , where the gas has been removed by the intracluster medium .",
    "another example are the dry mergers between spheroids with little gas ( e.g. , hernandez - toledo et al .",
    "other possible galaxy populations can be hypothesised by studying figure  11 .",
    "we have argued that the three parameters : mass , star formation and interactions can be used together to classify and trace the evolution of galaxies .",
    "these parameters have a direct correlation with the semi - irreversible processes of mass assembly or removal , and star formation where gas mass is converted into stellar mass by some conversion efficiency @xmath34 .",
    "therefore , in principle these features can be measured through stellar light distributions , which has been the primary method for classifying galaxies for nearly a century .",
    "we show in this section that this is possible .",
    "the following description follows closely the more detailed calculation given in appendix b of conselice ( 2003 ) .",
    "we can write the initial baryonic mass of a galaxy after its initial formation , ( m@xmath63 ) as ,    @xmath64    where m@xmath65 and m@xmath66 are the initial stellar and gas masses . over time , mass will accrete or be removed from a galaxy due to interactions and mergers . at a time @xmath67 ,",
    "the amount of mass added to or removed from the system , @xmath68 is given by ,    @xmath69    with @xmath70 the mass accretion , or removal , rate as a function of time , and @xmath67 is the age of the galaxy when observed .",
    "we can further divide the mass flux into stellar @xmath71 and gas @xmath72 components .",
    "some gas will be converted into stars at each time , t , by a conversion rate , @xmath73 , such that the mass converted into stars , @xmath74 , is given by    @xmath75    where @xmath73 and @xmath76 are the gas conversion rate , and gas mass as a function of time .",
    "we can then write the total stellar and gas masses as a function of time by :    @xmath77    @xmath78    the three axes of our system ( figure  11 ) can be represented by three terms in these equations .",
    "an interaction parameter can be represented by @xmath79 , and a star formation parameter by @xmath74 .",
    "we can also create dimensionless parameters that in principal correlate with measurable stellar light features .",
    "we can write the integrated interaction , @xmath80 and star formation @xmath81 strengths weighted by the final mass , and time as :    @xmath82    @xmath83    these two ideal morphological parameters are quantities that should correlate with the appearance of a galaxy , and are further elaborated in appendix b of conselice ( 2003 ) .",
    "they are weighted by time since older star formation and interactions will have less of an effect on the appearance of a galaxy .",
    "likewise , more massive galaxies will have appearances that , in general , will be less affected by relatively lower amounts of gas converted into stars , and stars lost or gained from galaxy interactions .",
    "what this section shows is that the main galaxy formation processes - star formation and interactions / mergers can be traced through optical light .",
    "typically , a galaxy which has undergone recent star formation will contain clumpy light , occupied by clusters of young stars .",
    "likewise , a galaxy undergoing a merger or interaction will appear lopsided and/or distorted in some manner .",
    "the mass of a galaxy often correlates with the light concentration , which can be estimated by eye .",
    "therefore , by estimating the degree of : disturbances , clumpy structures , and how concentrated a galaxy is ( i.e. , bulge vs. disk structures ) it is possible to classify galaxies into this new system using optical light.a detailed exploration of this idea in terms of eye - ball classifications is however beyond the scope of this current paper .",
    "quantitatively , this approach has been successfully used to classify both nearby ( conselice et al .",
    "2002 ; conselice 2003 ) and high redshift galaxy populations ( conselice et al . 2003b ; conselice et al . 2004 ; grogin et al . 2005 ; papovich et al . 2005 ; lehmer et al . 2005 ; conselice et al .",
    "2005c ; lotz et al .",
    "2006 ) within the cas system .",
    "this papers attempts to answer a few very basic questions about galaxies and their properties .",
    "the first is how galaxies of different morphological types are related to each other , including the relationship between various major evolutionary processes .",
    "another question we address is whether or not the structural appearance of a galaxy contains enough information to offer this classification . to answer the first question , which constitutes the bulk of the paper",
    ", we carried out a series of statistical analyses , including principal component analyses , of fourteen properties in 22,121 galaxies .",
    "the major results of our investigations are :    i. spearman correlation analysis show that most measurable properties of galaxies are correlated with each other , and that hubble types correlate strongest with stellar mass and @xmath16 and @xmath17 colour . scale features ( m@xmath12 , m@xmath36 , radius , hi gas content , far - infrared luminosity ) correlate strongly with each other independent of morphological , colour , or luminosity selection .",
    "furthermore , the strong correlation between m@xmath12 and colour is independent of hubble type .",
    "we carry out several principal component analyses ( pca ) to determine how many pca eigenvectors are needed to describe the major properties of all nearby galaxies .",
    "our conclusion from this is that the major eigenvector is dominated by the scale , or mass , of a galaxy , while the next two major eigenvectors are dominated by the star formation , and galaxy interactions / mergers , respectively .",
    "\\iii . based on points i and ii",
    ", we conclude that the three major processes that should be used to classify a galaxy are : the scale or mass , interactions and mergers with other galaxies , and recent star - formation .",
    "we argue that these three features ( mass , star formation and interactions ) are revealed through the stellar mass distributions within galaxies .",
    "thus the optical structure of a galaxy can be used , in principle , to accurately classify galaxies into a physically meaningful system .",
    "one way this can be done is through the cas parameters described in conselice ( 2003 ) .",
    "v. based on our analysis we present a morphological break down of @xmath43 galaxies , including the fraction and number densities of different hubble types ( ellipticals , spirals , irregulars ) at different luminosities .",
    "we find that the bulk of nearby bright galaxies with m@xmath39 are spirals ( 69% ) , while 19% are elliptical , 10% s0 and 2% irregular .",
    "we also investigate which types of galaxies are barred , and the number densities of barred galaxies in the nearby universe .",
    "these are intended to be useful for higher redshift comparisons , which are just now becoming possible .    in summary",
    ", this paper presents a new basic methodology for understanding and classifying galaxies .",
    "it is a physical system that uses the quantifiable parameters of mass , star formation , and interactions , and is not based on galaxy morphology .",
    "the system can account for all known galaxy types , and is a naturally outgrowth of detailed studies of galaxies over the past century .",
    "future work on this classification scheme will include understanding the origin of the mass sequence , and why it correlates at @xmath43 with star formation and bulge to disk ratios .",
    "furthermore , our new classification system is by no means finalised . in the future",
    ", we will likely be able to measure galaxy masses , star formation rates , and ongoing interactions with a high accuracy . whether these measurements are done morphologically or not is irrelevant , as these three properties measured in any way can be used to classify galaxies .",
    "this work , in one way or another , has been in progress since 1995 , although the bulk of it was completed and written in 2001 - 2002 and 2006 .",
    "i thank the university of wisconsin - madison , the space telescope science institute , caltech and the university of nottingham for their support while this work was completed .",
    "an early form of section 6 was originally included in the conclusions to my phd thesis .",
    "i thank jay gallagher and matt bershady for their collaboration which led to many of the ideas discussed in this paper , and alister graham , michael merrifield and sidney van den bergh for reading and commenting on various drafts .",
    "i also thank the referee for a very constructive report with many useful suggestions .",
    "finally , i thank sylvia and scott mencner for the inspiration to produce figure  11 . financial support for this work",
    "was provided by the national science foundation through a astronomy and astrophysics postdoctoral fellowship , nasa , and the uk particle physics and astronomy research council through grants to the university of nottingham .",
    "this research has made use of the lyon extragalactic database ( leda ) and the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "99 abraham , r.g . ,",
    "merrifield , m.r .",
    "2000 , aj , 120 , 2835 baldry , i.k . , et al . 2004 , apj , 600 , 681 barnes , j.e . , hernquist , l. 1992 , ara&a , 30 , 705 bell , e.f . ,",
    "mcintosh , d.h . , katz , n. , weinberg , m.d .",
    "2003 , apjs , 149 , 289 bershady , m.a . ,",
    "jangren , j.a . ,",
    "conselice , c.j .",
    "2000 , aj , 119 , 2645 binggeli , b. , sandage , a. , tammann , g.a .",
    "1985 , aj , 90 , 1681 blanton , m.r . ,",
    "eisenstein , d. , hogg , d.w . ,",
    "schlegel , d.j . ,",
    "brinkmann , j. 2005 , apj , 629 , 143 brotherton , m.s .",
    "1996 , apjs , 102 , 1 bundy , k. , ellis , r. conselice , c.j .",
    "2005 , apj , 625 , 621 bundy , k. , fukugita , m. , ellis , r. , kodama , t. , conselice , c.j .",
    "2004 , apj , 601 , 123l bundy , k. , ellis , r. , conselice , c. , et al .",
    "2006 , apj , 651 , 120 buta , r. , combes , f. 1996 , fund . cosmic phys .",
    ", 17 , 95 conselice , c.j .",
    "1997 , pasp , 109 , 1251 conselice , c.j . , gallagher , j.s .",
    "1999 , aj , 117 , 75 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . ,",
    "jangren , a. 2000a , apj , 529 , 886 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . ,",
    "gallagher , j.s .",
    "2000b , a&a , 354 , 21l conselice , c.j . , gallagher , j.s . ,",
    "wyse , r.f.g .",
    "2001 , apj , 559 , 791 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "gallagher , j.s . ,",
    "wyse , r.f.g .",
    "2002 , aj , 123 , 2246 conselice , c.j .",
    "2003 , apjs , 147 , 1 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . ,",
    "dickinson , m. , papovich , c. 2003a , aj , 126 , 1183 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "chapman , s.c . , windhorst , r.a .",
    "2003b , apj , 596 , 5l conselice , c.j . , gallagher , j.s . ,",
    "wyse , r.f.g .",
    "2003c , aj , 125 , 66 conselice , c.j . , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 600 , 139l conselice , c.j .",
    "2004 , in `` penetrating bars through masks of cosmic dust : the hubble tuning fork strikes a new note '' , p. 489",
    ", astro - ph/0407463 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "blackburne , j.a . , papovich , c. 2005a , apj , 620 , 564 conselice , c.j . , bundy , k. , ellis , r.s .",
    ", brinchmann , j. , vogt , n.p . ,",
    "phillips , a.c . 2005b , apj , 628 , 160 conselice , c.j .",
    "2005c , apj , 633 , 29 conselice , c.j .",
    "2006 , apj , 638 , 686 curtis , h.d . 1918 , lick obs . pub .",
    ", 13 , 12 de vaucouleurs , g. , de vaucouleurs , a. , corwin , h.g . ,",
    "buta , r.j . , paturel , g. , fouque , p. 1991",
    ", third reference catalogue of bright galaxies ( rc3 ) de vaucouleurs , g. 1959 , handb .",
    "der physik , 53 , 275 dale , d.a . ,",
    "2005 , apj , 633 , 857 disney , m.j .",
    "1976 , nature , 263 , 573 djorgovski , s. , davis , m. 1987 , apj , 313 , 59 dressler , a. 1980 , apj , 236 , 351 dressler , a. 1984 , ara&a , 22 , 185 dressler , a. , lynden - bell , d. , burstein , d. , davies , r.l .",
    ", faber , s.m . , terlevich , r. , wegner , g. 1987 , apj , 313 , 42 drinkwater , m.j . ,",
    "2003 , nature , 423 , 519 driver , s. , et al .",
    "2006 , mnras , 368 , 414 faber , s.m . 1973 ,",
    "apj , 179 , 731 faber , s.m .",
    "2005 , astro - ph/0506044 fall , s.m . ,",
    "efstathiou , g. 1980 , mnras , 193 , 189 ferguson , h.c . , binggeli , b. 1994 , a&arv , 6 , 67 gallagher , j.s . , hunter , d.a .",
    "1984 , ara&a , 22 , 37 gallagher , j.s . , hunter , d.a . 1986 , aj , 92 , 557 graham , a.w . ,",
    "trujillo , i. , caon , n. 2001 , aj , 122 , 1707 graham , a.w .",
    "2004 , apj , 613 , 33l graham , a.w .",
    "r. 2003 , aj , 125 , 2936 grogin , n.a .",
    ", et al . 2005 , apj , 627 , 97l han , m. 1995 , apj , 442 , 504 haynes , m.p . , giovanelli , r. 1986 , apj , 306 , 55 haynes , m.p . ,",
    "van zee , l. , hogg , d.e . , roberts , m.s . ,",
    "maddalena , r.j .",
    "1998 , aj , 115 , 62 hernandez - toledo , h.m .",
    ", avila - reese , v. , salazar - contreras , j.r . , conselice , c.j .",
    "2006 , aj , 132 , 71 holmberg , e. 1958 , lund medd .",
    "ii , 136 hubble , e. 1926 , apj , 64 , 321 impey , c. , bothun , g. 1997 , ara&a , 35 , 267 jeans , j. 1919 , problems of cosmogony and stellar dynamics .",
    "cambridge : cambridge univ .",
    "press jogee , s. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 615 , 105l kennicutt , r.c .",
    "1998 , ara&a , 36 , 189 knezek , p.m. 1993 , phd thesis , univ .",
    "massachusetts kuntschner , h. , davies , r.l .",
    "1998 , mnras , 295 , 29l kormendy , j. , bender , r. 1996 , apj , 464 , 119l lehmer , b.d . , et al .",
    "2005 , aj , 129 , 1 lin , l. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 617 , 9l lotz , j.m . , et al .",
    "2006 , astro - ph/0602088 nakamura , o. , fukugita , m. , yasuda , n. , loveday , j. , brinkmann , j. , schneider , d.p .",
    ", shimasaku , k. , subbarao , m. aj , 125 , 1682 madgwick , d.s . , et al .",
    "2003 , apj , 599 , 997 marzke , r.o . ,",
    "da costa , l.n . ,",
    "pellegrini , p.s .",
    "willmer , c.n.a . , & geller , m.j .",
    "1998 , apj , 503 , 617 mo , h.j . ,",
    "mcgaugh , s.s .",
    ", bothun , g.d .",
    "1994 , mnras , 267 , 129 morgan , w.w . , mayall , n.u .",
    "1957 , pasp , 69 , 291 morgan , w.w . 1958 , pasp , 70 , 364 morgan , w.w .",
    "1959 , pasp , 71 , 394 papovich , c. , dickinson , m. , giavalisco , m. , conselice , c.j . ,",
    "ferguson , h.c .",
    "2003 , apj , 598 , 827 papovich , c. , dickinson , m. , giavalisco , m. , conselice , c.j . ,",
    "ferguson , h.c .",
    "2005 , apj , 631 , 101 patton , d.r . ,",
    "carlberg , r.g .",
    ", marzke , r.o . ,",
    "pritchet , c.j .",
    ", da costa , l.n . , & pellegrini , p.s . 2000 , apj , 536 , 15 pope , a. , borys , c. , scott , d. , conselice , c. , dickinson , m. , mobasher , b. 2005 , mnras , 358 , 149 postman , m. , geller , m.j .",
    "1984 , apj , 281 , 95 ravindranath , s. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 604 , 9l ravindranath , s. , et al .",
    "2006 , astro - ph/0606696 roberts , m.s . ,",
    "haynes , m.p .",
    "1994 , ara&a , 32 , 115 romanishin , w. 1986 , aj , 91 , 76 sandage , a. 1975 , in galaxies and the universe , eds .",
    "a. sandage , m. sandage & j. kristien , u. chicago press , chicago , 1 sandage , a. 1961 , the hubble atlas of galaxies , carnegie institute of washington , washington , d.c .",
    "sandage , a. , visvanathan , n. 1978 , apj , 223 , 707 sandage , a. 2005 , ara&a , 43 , 581 schweizer , f. , seitzer , p. 1988",
    ", apj , 328 , 88 spitzer , l. , & baade , w. 1951 , apj , 113 , 431 stanford , s.a . , et al .",
    "2004 , aj , 127 , 131 swaters , r.a .",
    ", schoenmakers , r.h . , sancisi , r. , van albada , t.s .",
    "1999 , mnras , 304 , 330 trager , s.c . ,",
    "faber , s.m . , worthey , g. , gonzalez , j.j . 2000 ,",
    "aj , 119 , 1645 tully , r.b . , fisher , j.r .",
    "1977 , a&a , 54 , 661 van albada , t.s .",
    "1982 , mnars , 201 , 939 van den bergh , s. 1960 , apj , 131 , 215 van den bergh , s. 1966 , aj , 71 , 922 van den bergh , s. 1976 , apj , 206 , 883 van den bergh , s. 1997 , aj , 113 , 2054 van den bergh , s. , cohen , j.g . ,",
    "crabbe , c. 2001 , aj , 122 , 611 whitmore , b.c .",
    "1984 , apj , 278 , 61 wirth , a. , gallagher , j.s . 1984 , apj , 282 , 85 wolf , m. 1908 , pub .",
    "heidelberg , vol .",
    "5 worthey , g. 1994 , apjs , 95 , 107 wright , g.s . ,",
    "james , p.a . ,",
    "joseph , r.d . , &",
    "mclean , i.s .",
    "1990 , nature , 334 , 417 zaritsky , d. , rix , h .- w .",
    "1997 , apj , 477 , 118"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present in this paper a new three - dimensional galaxy classification system designed to account for the diversity of galaxy properties in the nearby universe . to construct this system </S>",
    "<S> we statistically analyse a sample of @xmath0 galaxies at @xmath1 ( @xmath2 ) with spearman rank and principal component analyses . </S>",
    "<S> fourteen major galaxy properties are considered , including : hubble type , size , colour , surface brightness , magnitude , stellar mass , internal velocities , hi gas content , and an index that measures dynamical disturbances . </S>",
    "<S> we find , to a high degree , that most galaxy properties are correlated , with in particular hubble type , colour , and stellar mass all strongly related . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that this tight 3-way correlation is a result of evolutionary processes that depend on galaxy mass , as we show that the relation between colour and mass is independent of hubble type . </S>",
    "<S> various principal component analyses reveal that most of the variation in nearby galaxy properties can be accounted for by eigenvectors dominated by : ( i ) the scale of a galaxy , such as its stellar mass , ( ii ) the spectral type , and ( iii ) the degree of dynamical disturbances . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that these three properties : mass , star formation , and interactions / mergers are the major features that determine a galaxy s physical state , and should be used to classify galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> as shown in conselice ( 2003 ) , these properties are measurable within the cas ( concentration , asymmetry , clumpiness ) structural system , thus providing an efficient mechanism for classifying galaxies in optical light within a physical meaningful framework . </S>",
    "<S> we furthermore discuss the fraction and number density of galaxies in the nearby universe as a function of hubble type , for comparison with higher redshift populations .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution , formation , structure , morphology , classification </S>"
  ]
}