{
  "article_text": [
    "the x - ray emission from radio - quiet active galactic nuclei ( agn ) shows persistent variability that is stronger and more rapid than in any other waveband .",
    "this rapid x - ray variability provided early support for the black hole / accretion disc model of agn ( e.g. rees 1984 ) and suggested that the x - ray emission is produced in the inner regions of the central engine ( see mushotzky , done & pounds 1993 for a review ) .",
    "the x - ray fluctuations appear erratic and random , with variability occurring on a range of timescales ( e.g. m@xmath3hardy 1989 ) .    in the study of time - variable processes one of the most widely used statistical tools",
    "is the variability power spectrum ( e.g. priestley 1981 ; bloomfield 2000 ) .",
    "the power spectral density ( psd ) describes the amount of variability power ( i.e. amplitude@xmath7 ) as a function of temporal frequency ( timescale@xmath8 ) .",
    "the long , uninterrupted observations provided by  allowed for the measurement of the first accurate x - ray psds for seyfert 1 galaxies . these  psds were shown to rise at lower frequencies as a power - law : @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the power at frequency @xmath11 and @xmath12 is the psd slope , found to be @xmath13 over the frequencies @xmath14 to @xmath15  hz ( green , m@xmath3hardy & lehto 1993 ; lawrence & papadakis 1993 ) .",
    "this type of broad - band variability , rising to lower frequencies with a power spectral slope @xmath16 , is usually called `` red noise '' ( for an introduction to red noise in astronomy and elsewhere see press 1978 ) .",
    "the red noise psds of seyfert 1s are similar to those observed in galactic black hole candidates ( gbhcs , see e.g. van der klis 1995 ) on much shorter timescales , and suggests the x - ray emission mechanisms may be the same in these objects that differ in black hole mass by factors of @xmath17 ( m@xmath3hardy 1989 ) .",
    "the psd of the best studied gbhc , cygnus x-1 in its low / hard state , can be approximated by a doubly - broken power - law with a steep slope at high frequencies ( @xmath18 above @xmath19  hz ) , breaking to a flatter slope at intermediate frequencies ( @xmath1 in the range @xmath20  hz ) then breaking to a flat ( `` white '' ) spectrum at low frequencies ( @xmath21 below @xmath22  hz ) .",
    "see nowak ( 1999a ) and belloni & hasinger ( 1990 ) for more details of cyg x-1 .",
    "other gbhcs such as gx 3394 show similar behaviour ( nowak , wilms & dove 2002 ) .",
    "the position of the breaks in the psd represent `` characteristic timescales '' of the system , but these timescales have no clear physical interpretation at present ( e.g. belloni , psaltis & van der klis 2002 and references therein ) .",
    "the featureless  psds of seyfert 1s provided no such timescales .",
    "such breaks must exist , however , or the total power would diverge at low frequencies ( for psd slopes @xmath23 ) .",
    "indeed , in recent years dedicated x - ray monitoring programmes with  have revealed deviations from the power - law psd in a few seyfert 1 galaxies ; at low frequencies the psd breaks to a flatter slope ( edelson & nandra 1999 ; uttley , m@xmath3hardy & papadakis 2002 ; markowitz 2002 ) .",
    "the timescale of this break frequency is consistent with the idea that the psd of agn and gbhcs are essentially the same , with the characteristic timescales scaling linearly with the black hole mass .",
    "such a linear scaling of timescales with black hole mass might be expected if the characteristic timescales are related to e.g. a light - crossing timescale or an orbital timescale .",
    "this linear scaling also means that a 100  ks light curve of a seyfert galaxy ( such as presented here ) is comparable to a @xmath24  s light curve of cyg x-1 . on these timescales",
    "a bright seyfert 1 galaxy provides many more photons ( by more than two orders of magnitude ) than the gbhc , i.e. seyferts have a higher count rate per characteristic timescale .",
    "this means that intensive monitoring of seyferts can provide a view of the very high frequency variations in accreting black holes that is difficult to access even in bright gbhcs .",
    "not only do agn and gbhcs show similar psds , but they display other striking similarities in their x - ray timing properties .",
    "uttley & m@xmath3hardy ( 2001 ) showed that both x - ray binary and agn light curves show a tight , linear correlation between flux and rms variability amplitude ( see also edelson 2002 ) .",
    "the variability properties of gbhcs such as cyg x-1 are a function of photon energy .",
    "the psd shape above the high frequency break is energy - dependent , with the harder energy bands showing flatter psd slopes ( e.g. nowak 1999a ; lin 2000 ) .",
    "in addition the variations between different bands are highly coherent ( well correlated at each fourier frequency ) and show time delays , with variations at softer energies leading those at harder energies ( miyamoto & kitamoto 1989 ; cui 1997 ; nowak 1999a ) .",
    "the magnitude of the time delay is frequency dependent , with the delay increasing at lower frequencies . to date these properties",
    "have only been measured in one agn , ngc 7469 ( nandra & papadakis 2001 ; papadakis , nandra & kazanas 2001 ) , and in this object the energy - dependence of the psd slope , the coherence and time delay properties appeared remarkably similar to those seen in cyg x-1 .",
    "these similarities re - enforce the idea that the x - ray emission mechanisms are the same in gbhcs and agn .",
    "this paper presents a detailed analysis of the x - ray continuum variability of the bright , variable seyfert 1 galaxy ( @xmath25 ) using a long  observation .",
    "the large collecting area , wide band - pass and long orbit ( @xmath26 day ) of  make it ideal for examining the high frequency ( @xmath27  hz ) timing properties of seyfert galaxies .",
    "the analysis concentrates on frequency domain ( i.e. fourier ) time series analysis techniques , as these are used extensively in the analysis of gbhc data .",
    "the rest of this paper is organised as follows . in section  [",
    "sect : data ] the data reduction procedures are outlined . in section  [",
    "sect : timing ] the basic properties of the light curves are discussed , followed by an analysis of the psd in section  [ sect : pds ] .",
    "spectral variability is then examined in detail by measuring the coherence and time lags between different energy bands , as discussed in section  [ sect : cross ] . as these analyses are relatively new to agn studies we discuss the methodology in some detail .",
    "finally , the implications of these results are discussed in section  [ sect : disco ] and some concluding remarks are given in section  [ sect : conc ] .",
    "( jansen 2001 ) observed  over the period 2001 july 31  2001 august 5 ( revolutions 301 , 302 and 303 ) , during which all instruments were operating nominally .",
    "fabian ( 2002 ) discuss details of the observation and basic data reduction . for the present paper",
    "the data were reprocessed entirely with the latest software ( sas v5.3.3 ) but the procedure followed that discussed in the previous paper ( except that the extraction region was a circle of radius 35 arcsec for both mos and pn ) .",
    "light curves were extracted from the epic pn data in four different energy bands : 0.210.0  kev ( full band ) , 0.2 - 0.7  kev ( soft band ) , 0.7 - 2.0  kev ( medium band ) and 2.0 - 10.0  kev ( hard band ) . these were corrected for telemetry drop outs ( less than 1 per cent of the total time ) , background subtracted and binned to 100  s time resolution .",
    "the errors on the light curves were calculated by propagating the poisson noise .",
    "the light curves were not corrected for the @xmath28 per cent `` live time '' of the pn camera ( strder 2001 ) , which is only a scaling factor .",
    "the epic mos light curves were also examined , but these are essentially identical to the pn light curves except with lower signal - to - noise .",
    "therefore , in the rest of this paper the analysis concentrates on the pn data , but the mos data are used to confirm the pn results of section  [ sect : cross ] .",
    "the full band light curves are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : lightcurves ] .",
    "the revolutions provided three uninterrupted light curves of 80 , 123 and 124  ks duration .",
    "as discussed in fabian ( 2002 ) ,  observed  simultaneously with , but these data are not used in the present paper .",
    "the lecs and mecs data cover approximately the same bandpass as the epic ( but with lower signal to noise ) and the higher energy pds data ( with a count rate @xmath29 ct s@xmath8 ) do not have sufficient statistics to determine the high energy variability properties accurately .",
    "in addition , analysis of the  data is complicated by the poor sampling of the light curves ( due to repeated earth occulatations and saa passages ) , indeed the amount of `` good '' exposure time obtained for the pds was @xmath30  ksec spread over a @xmath31  ksec observing period .",
    "the source shows a factor of five variation between minimum and maximum flux ( both occurring during revolution 303 ) , and significant variability can be seen on timescales as short as @xmath32  s.    as a first measure of the variability amplitude the root mean square ( rms ) amplitude , in excess of poisson noise , was calculated as @xmath33 where @xmath34 is the total variance of the light curve @xmath35 of length @xmath36 data points @xmath37 where @xmath38 is the mean of @xmath35 and @xmath39 is the contribution expected from measurement errors @xmath40^{2},\\ ] ] and @xmath41 is the error on @xmath35 .",
    "the fractional excess rms variability amplitude ( @xmath42 ; edelson 2002 ) and mean count rate ( @xmath38 ) were calculated for each of the three revolutions and are tabulated in table  [ tab : revs ] .",
    "the errors on @xmath43 were estimated using the prescription given by edelson ( 2002 ; but see their appendix a for caveats on the interpretation of these estimates ) .",
    "the medium band showed the highest variability amplitude .",
    "this can also been seen in fig .",
    "6 of fabian ( 2002 ) , where the fractional rms spectrum peaked in the 0.72.0  kev band .    .",
    "mean count rates ( @xmath38 ) and fractional excess rms variability amplitudes ( @xmath43 ) for the light curves from each revolution and in each energy band .",
    "[ tab : revs ] [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      the binned periodograms used above reached down to @xmath44  hz in the lowest frequency bin .",
    "it would in principle be possible to treat the three consecutive light curves as a single , longer light curve ( top panel of fig .  [",
    "fig : lightcurves ] ) and use this to reach even lower frequencies in the power spectrum .",
    "however , this three revolution light curve is no longer uninterrupted , due to the gaps between revolutions .",
    "this means that the standard dft ( as discussed in section  [ sect : periodogram ] ) is no longer suitable .",
    "there do exist periodogram estimators designed to deal with data containing gaps , such as the lomb - scargle periodogram ( lomb 1976 ; scargle 1982 ) but there are drawbacks to using such techniques .",
    "firstly , the gaps in the sampling mean the periodogram estimates at each frequency are no longer independent of one another ( scargle 1982 ) , so the binning and error estimation used above is not strictly valid .",
    "secondly , the more complicated window function introduces much greater distortion on the low frequency periodogram , which would severely limit the amount of information that could be recovered from the lowest frequencies . for these reasons",
    "the results presented in this paper are based entirely on the more robust , standard dft method , but for completeness the lomb - scargle periodogram ( computed using the algorithm of press & rybicki 1989 ) of the full - band light curve is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : lomb ] .",
    "down to low frequencies this appears broadly consistent with the results presented above .",
    "the fundamental assumption underpinning the above analysis is that the variability process is stationary .",
    "a stationary process is one whose statistical properties do not depend on time ( see section 1.3 of bendat & piersol 1986 for more on stationarity in random data ) .",
    "specifically , the assumption made here is that the psd is stationary , i.e. that the light curves are all realisations of the same process .",
    "the rms - flux correlation found in section  [ sect : rms - flux ] shows that the variability of  is in some sense non - stationary ( the variance does change ) , but in a `` well - behaved '' fashion .",
    "indeed , the linear correlation between @xmath45 and @xmath38 means that the average @xmath43 is constant . in other words ,",
    "the variations , when normalised by the local flux , appear stationary .",
    "the method outlined in appendix a of papadakis & lawrence ( 1995 ) was used as a simple check of the validity of this assumption .",
    "if the psd @xmath10 is constant then the ( unbinned ) periodograms obtained from each revolution should be identical except for the scatter dictated by equation  [ eqn : pds_scatter ] .",
    "papadakis & lawrence ( 1995 ) define the statistic @xmath46 from the logarithm of the ratio of two periodograms , summed over a range of frequencies .",
    "@xmath47-\\log[p_2(f_i)]}{\\sqrt{{\\rm var}\\{\\log[p_1(f_i)]\\}+{\\rm var}\\{\\log[p_2(f_i)]\\ } } } , \\ ] ]    where @xmath48 and @xmath49 are the two periodograms , and @xmath50\\}=0.31 $ ] ( papadakis & lawrence 1993 ) .",
    "if the underlying psd is the same in the two periodograms then @xmath46 should be normally distributed with a mean of zero and a variance of unity .",
    "a normalised periodogram was computed for the first 80  ksec of each of the three revolutions ( the light curves were clipped to equal duration so that their periodograms had identical fourier frequencies ) and @xmath46 was measured for frequencies below @xmath51  hz , where the source variability dominates over the poisson noise . comparing rev .",
    "301 and 302 gave @xmath52 , comparing rev .",
    "301 and 303 gave @xmath53 and comparing rev .",
    "302 and 303 gave @xmath54 .",
    "these three estimates are all within @xmath55 of the expected value assuming stationarity in the data .",
    "therefore , to first - order at least , the assumption of stationarity in these data seems a reasonable one .",
    "the psd is often called the auto spectrum because it is the fourier transform of the light curve , multiplied by itself ( equation  [ eqn : ft2 ] ) .",
    "the cross spectrum is a related tool used for comparing the properties of two simultaneous light curves , such as from different energy bands , say @xmath56 and @xmath57 .",
    "the product of the fourier transforms of the two light curves gives the cross spectrum ( compare with equation  [ eqn : ft2 ] ) : @xmath58 in the same way that the psd ( auto spectrum ) and the acf are fourier pairs , the cross spectrum and cross correlation function ( ccf ) are also fourier pairs .",
    "thus , mathematically speaking , the cross spectrum contains the same information as the ccf .",
    "the cross spectrum is complex valued and can be represented in the complex plane by an amplitude and a phase .",
    "the complex fourier transforms of the two light curves can be written as @xmath59 and @xmath60 and the cross spectrum can be written as : @xmath61    the phase component of the cross spectrum represents the phase difference between the two light curves ( which corresponds to a time delay at that frequency ) and is discussed more fully in section  [ sect : phase ] .",
    "the squared magnitude of the cross spectrum is used to define the `` coherence '' of the two light curves .",
    "the coherence , @xmath62 , is a real - valued function and is essentially the squared cross spectrum normalised by the auto spectra ( psds ) of the two light curves .",
    "@xmath63 here the angled brackets represent an averaging over an ensemble of realisations of the processes .",
    "coherence differs from the periodogram and time lags in the sense that it is only meaningful to talk of the coherence from an ensemble of independent measurements ( either from separate light curve segments or consecutive frequencies ) .",
    "equation  [ eqn : coherence1 ] defines the linear correlation coefficient of @xmath64 and @xmath65 ( see section 9.1 of priestley 1981 ) defined by equation  [ eqn : coherence1 ] is often referred to as the _ squared coherence _ ( priestley 1981 ; bendat & piersol 1986 ) and it gives the square of the linear correlation coefficient .",
    "this function is simply referred to as the coherence in this paper . ] .",
    "the coherence can thus be thought of as a measure of the degree of linear correlation between the two light curves as a function of fourier frequency , and is related to the amplitude of the ccf .    in order to illustrate coherence , consider two light curves that are related by a transfer function @xmath66 , e.g. @xmath67 then from the convolution theorem @xmath68 where @xmath69 is the fourier transform of @xmath70 .",
    "therefore : @xmath71 and @xmath72 the squared magnitude of the cross spectrum then becomes : @xmath73 therefore the coherence is @xmath74 .",
    "this means that if the two light curves are related by a single , linear transfer function ( e.g. a delay or a smoothing ) then they will have unity coherence . in other words ,",
    "if knowledge of one light curve can in principle be used to predict the other , the two are said to be perfectly coherent . if , on the other hand , the light curves contain contributions from completely independent processes then the coherence will be less than unity .",
    "another way of thinking about coherence is in terms of equation  [ eqn : cross_spec2 ] .",
    "if the light curves are related by some simple transform then , at a frequency @xmath11 , there will be a fixed delay between the light curves , i.e. the lag will be the same in each realisation of the process . if the phase difference is constant then the value of the numerator of equation  [ eqn : coherence1 ] ( the squared mean of equation  [ eqn : cross_spec2 ] ) is equal to the denominator and hence the the coherence is unity .",
    "the interpretation of coherence is illustrated more fully in vaughan & nowak ( 1997 ) and nowak ( 1999a ) .      in an analogous manner to the psd",
    ", the cross spectrum is estimated using the cross periodogram .",
    "if the two discretely sampled light curves , @xmath75 and @xmath76 , have dfts @xmath77 and @xmath78 then the cross periodogram is given by the discrete form of equation  [ eqn : cross_spec ] , namely : @xmath79 where @xmath80 and @xmath81 are the real and imaginary components of the complex cross spectrum : @xmath82 and @xmath83 and @xmath84 are the real and imaginary components of the dft of the light curve @xmath75 as defined by equation  [ eqn : sine ] .",
    "the coherence is estimated using the discrete form of equation  [ eqn : coherence1 ] : @xmath85 the angled brackets here represent an averaging over light curve segments and/or consecutive frequencies . in practice",
    "however , the coherence will be compromised by photon noise , which is independent between the two light curves and so will lead to an apparently reduced coherence .",
    "as the poisson noise power is known , this effect can be removed using the recipe outlined in vaughan & nowak ( 1997 ) . in the following analysis",
    "the noise - corrected coherence and its uncertainty were estimated using equation 8 of vaughan & nowak ( 1997 ) .",
    "the coherence was calculated only for frequencies below @xmath51  hz , above this frequency the poisson noise power becomes comparable to the intrinsic source variability and equation  8 of vaughan & nowak ( 1997 ) becomes increasingly inaccurate .    as mentioned above , the coherence needs to be averaged in some fashion . for the present analysis",
    "the cross and auto spectra were calculated separately for each revolution .",
    "the data from the three revolutions were then combined by sorting in order of frequency and then averaged in bins of @xmath86 frequency points .",
    "the coherence function was calculated for the three possible combinations of the three energy bands ( soft / medium , soft / hard and medium / hard ) .",
    "this was repeated using data from mos1 and mos2 as well as the pn and the results were consistent between the detectors .",
    "( the coherence was also estimated individually for each revolution of data and the results were consistent between the three revolutions . )",
    "the resulting coherence functions are shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : coherence1 ] . at low frequencies",
    "the coherence is close to unity for all energy bands . at higher frequencies",
    "the coherence becomes much lower , particularly between the soft and hard bands . for comparison , fig .",
    "[ fig : coherence1 ] shows the function @xmath87 compared to the coherence between soft and hard bands .",
    "this apparent loss of coherence at high frequencies could be an effect of poisson noise in the data , since at high frequencies the intrinsic source power is weaker compared to the noise power . in order to test this possibility",
    "the coherence was evaluated by comparing light curves in identical energy ranges from the three different detectors .",
    "the light curves extracted from the three detectors should be identical , in a given energy band , except for poisson noise .",
    "therefore the coherence should be unity and any deviation from unity will be a result of poisson noise .",
    "as can been seen from fig .",
    "[ fig : coherence2 ] , the coherence is close to unity until the highest frequencies , and the deviation from unity coherence at high frequencies is much smaller than the observed loss of coherence between the different energy bands .",
    "this , and the fact that the loss of coherence is repeated in all three detectors suggests that poisson noise is not seriously biasing these results , and that the error bars are reasonable estimates of the true uncertainties .",
    "simulated data were used as an additional test of the accuracy of the coherence estimation .",
    "two simulated light curves were constructed , representing light curves in two different bands , and the coherence was calculated for them exactly as for the real data .",
    "these simulations were used as a further test of the effect of poisson noise and to measure the effect of different psd slopes on the coherence function .",
    "the effect of poisson noise was tested by simulating coherent data in two bands using the same psd .",
    "the psd model used was taken from the fit to the soft band data using model 2 ( table  [ tab : pds_fit2 ] ) .",
    "two long light curves were generated using this psd and an identical random number sequence .",
    "the two light curves , having identical psds as well as fourier phases and amplitudes , were thus identical and therefore have unity coherence at all frequencies .",
    "the simulated light curves for the two bands were resampled to match the window function of the real data , i.e. three consecutive light curves were extracted from each to band match the three revolutions of data .",
    "the light curves for the first band were rescaled to match the average count rate of the soft band light curve and the light curves from the second band were rescaled to match the count rate of the hard band data .",
    "( the simulated light curves were produced using the absolute psd normalisations found from fitting the data .",
    "thus the absolute variability amplitude of the rescaled simulated data is as expected based on the real data . )",
    "poisson noise was then added independently to the simulated light curves ( i.e. the number of counts in each time bin was randomised according to the poisson distribution ) .",
    "these two sets of simulated data represent soft and hard band light curves in terms of their poisson noise , but intrinsically are perfectly coherent and have the same psd .",
    "one hundred sets of simulated data were produced and for each set the coherence and its error were calculated as discussed in section  [ sect : coh_est ] ( i.e. using the recipe of vaughan & nowak 1997 ) . the average and standard deviation of the coherence estimates from the 100 sets of simulated data",
    "are shown in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : coherence_sim ] . also shown",
    "are the average error bars .",
    "the coherence is clearly very close to unity over the frequency range examined , and the standard deviation of the estimates is close to the mean error bar , indicating that the vaughan & nowak ( 1997 ) method did accurately recover the intrinsic coherence from the effect of the poisson noise .",
    "( note that these error bars are slightly smaller than those derived from the real data because the uncertainty is itself a function of the intrinsic coherence , which is lower in the real data . )",
    "the tests above used intrinsically coherent data with identical psd shapes .",
    "the psds fits of section  [ sect : e - psd ] show that the psd shape is energy dependent . in order to confirm that the coherence is not biased because of the psd shape being different in different energy bands",
    ", the experiment was repeated using psds appropriate for the two bands .",
    "specifically , the best - fitting psd models for the soft and hard bands ( listed in table  [ tab : pds_fit2 ] ) were used to generate simulated soft and hard bands light curves , but again the two sets of data used an identical random number sequence .",
    "thus the simulated soft and hard band light curves again have unity intrinsic coherence but different psds .",
    "as before , 100 sets of simulated data were used and the average coherence and error were calculated .",
    "the results are shown in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : coherence_sim ] .",
    "the average coherence is again very close to unity , indicating the different psd slopes in the different bands did not bias the results .",
    "the loss of coherence observed in  is thus not an artifact of poisson noise in the data , nor the change in psd slope with energy , and is repeated in each of the three epic cameras . as such , in the discussion below , it is assumed that this loss of coherence is intrinsic to the continuum variations of the source .",
    "as mentioned in section  [ sect : cross spectrum ] , the cross spectrum also contains information about the phase differences between the two light curves ( equation  [ eqn : cross_spec2 ] ) .",
    "this information is similar to the delays measured by the ccf , except measures the delay as a function of fourier frequency .",
    "the phase lag is measured from the phase of the averaged cross periodogram : @xmath88 where @xmath89 is calculated using equation  [ eqn : cross_spec3 ] and the angled brackets denote an averaging over consecutive frequency points and/or light curves .",
    "this phase difference can then be converted into a time delay at fourier frequency @xmath11 : @xmath90 only if the coherence is high at a given frequency is the time lag meaningful . if the two light curves are not coherent then the individual phase estimates from the two light curves are poorly correlated and so the phase difference of the average cross spectrum has no useful interpretation .    for the present analysis , the time lag was calculated using equations  [ eqn : phase1 ] and [ eqn : time_lag ] , with the averaging of the cross spectrum performed in bins of @xmath86 frequency points .",
    "the error on the time lag estimate was computed using equation 16 of nowak ( 1999a ) .",
    "see section 9.1.3 of bendat & piersol ( 1986 ) for a derivation of this equation .",
    "the effect of poisson noise is to add an independent , random component to the phases of the two light curves and hence randomise the phase difference .",
    "this means that small time lags are difficult to detect due to photon noise .",
    "the recipe outlined in nowak ( 1999a ) ( see their section 4.2 ) was used to estimate the effective noise limit , below which it is difficult to detect reliable lags . the estimated error on the phase lag",
    "is computed using their equation 14 : @xmath91 this uncertainty was calculated using values appropriate for the hard band ( psd normalisation , slope and noise level @xmath92 from section  [ sect : pds_results ] , and coherence estimated using the function given in section  [ sect : coherence_results ] ) .",
    "this estimated uncertainty , which should be considered merely a lower limit on uncertainty introduced by poisson noise , was compared to the function used in section  [ sect : phase_results ] to illustrate the observed time lags and the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : sensitivity ] .",
    "this indicates that above @xmath93  hz the lags are too small to be detected , i.e. they fall below the sensitivity limit defined by the poisson noise .",
    "a further point is that the coherence is significantly below unity at higher frequencies ( @xmath94few @xmath95  hz ) , in which case any measured time lag is no longer meaningful .",
    "therefore , from these data , significant time lags will only be detectable below @xmath96few",
    "@xmath95  hz .",
    "the time lags were computed ( for each epic detector ) for the three combinations of energy bands .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : phase1 ] . in each test",
    "( three combinations of energy bands and three different detectors ) there was a significant lag at the lowest frequencies , with the softer band leading the harder band . at higher frequencies the lag becomes consistent with zero .",
    "the lag is small , only about @xmath97 per cent between soft and hard bands ( e.g. on a timescale of 20,000  s the lag is only @xmath98  s ) .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : phase1 ] , which shows the function @xmath99 compared to the measured time lags between the soft and hard bands .",
    "the time lags were calculated using light curves for the three different detectors in identical energy ranges , to test the possible influence of poisson noise ( see section  [ sect : coherence_results ] ) .",
    "these are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : phase2 ] . in these tests",
    "the lag was consistent with zero over most of the useful frequency range .",
    "this , combined with analysis of section  [ sect : phase_noise ] and the fact that the lags were recovered independently from each epic camera , suggests that the lags observed between different energy bands are not an artifact of poisson noise ( which in any event would destroy any time lag signal ) .      the simulated data used in section  [ sect : coh_sim ] to assess the accuracy of the coherence function were also used to assess the accuracy of the time delay spectrum .",
    "in the first set of simulations the data in the two bands were generated using the same psd and the same random number sequence .",
    "in addition to having unity coherence , the pairs of simulated data also have identical fourier phases and therefore zero intrinsic phase lag between them .",
    "the top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : phase_sim ] shows the average of the time delay estimates , their standard deviation and the average error estimate from the 100 pairs of simulated data ( including poisson noise as described in section  [ sect : coh_sim ] ) .",
    "this average spectrum is close to the zero - delay expectation meaning that the poisson noise did not bias the time delay measurements , and the average estimated error is close to the standard deviation of the estimates .    in the second set of simulations the pairs of simulated data",
    "were generated using different psds for the two bands .",
    "the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : phase_sim ] shows the average time delay spectrum , which again is as expected if the delay estimate is unbiased .",
    "it therefore seems reasonable to assume that the time delays observed in  at low frequencies are intrinsic to the source .",
    "this paper presents an analysis of the x - ray continuum variability of . a strong , linear correlation is found between the rms variability amplitude and the source flux ( section  [ sect : rms - flux ] ) .",
    "the psd was examined by fitting model power spectra to the data after allowing for the distorting effects of sampling using a monte carlo procedure ( section  [ sect : pds ] ) .",
    "however , the excellent sampling of the light curves means that these biases are in any case minimised and so there was a minimum of information lost from the psd .",
    "the psd is well represented by a power - law of slope @xmath100 at low frequencies , breaking to a slope of @xmath101 at a frequency @xmath102  hz . however , it should be re - iterated that these psd results are model - dependent , and that parameterising the psd using a different model yields slightly different results .",
    "the psd is energy dependent , with the variations in the higher energy band showing a flatter psd slope ( above the break frequency ) than variations in the softer bands .",
    "there is no evidence for any energy dependence of the break frequency .",
    "[ fig : unfolded ] illustrates the psd shape and energy dependence .",
    "fitting the psd as a function of energy revealed tentative hints of energy - dependent , high - frequency structure in the psd ( section  [ sect : e - psd ] ) .",
    "this could be due to subtle instrument effects or may represent low - amplitude structure intrinsic to the source psd ( see also nandra & papadakis 2001 ) .",
    "these timescales ( @xmath103  hz ) are comparable to the dynamical timescale at innermost stable orbit around the black hole . however , further progress on the very high frequency variability of relatively faint sources such as seyfert galaxies must await future high - throughput missions such as  and .",
    "the variations observed in different energy sub - bands are highly coherent at low frequencies ( long timescales ) but the coherence falls significantly below unity above @xmath96few @xmath95  hz , close to the break in the psd ( section  [ sect : coherence ] ) . the high coherence between soft and hard bands at low frequencies means that the two bands are linked by a single , linear transfer function .",
    "the direction and magnitude of the time lag shows that the hard photons lag the soft photons , on average , by @xmath104  s at a frequency @xmath105  hz ( section  [ sect : phase ] ) .",
    "it is not possible to reliably constrain the frequency dependence of the time lags , but the data seem consistent with an approximately @xmath106 dependence of the lag ( i.e. constant phase difference @xmath107 ) similar to that seen in the seyfert galaxy ngc 7469 ( papadakis 2001 ) and in gbhcs ( nowak 1999a ; pottschmidt 2000 ) . on shorter timescales",
    "the coherence falls well below unity implying there is no simple transfer function relating soft and hard bands .",
    "uttley ( 2002 ) presented an analysis of long timescale monitoring of  using .",
    "the psd was found to be best described by a broken power - law with slope of @xmath108 at low frequencies , breaking to @xmath109 at a frequency @xmath110  hz . using the same psd model , the break frequency found from the high - frequency  data is @xmath111  hz , consistent with the  result .",
    "the slope of the psd above the break is different , but this is most likely an effect of the energy dependence of the psd . indeed , using the 210  kev  data ( i.e. the same energy range used by uttley 2002 ) the slope of the high frequency psd is @xmath112 , which is consistent with the  result .",
    "the break frequency presented here ( and in uttley 2002 ) is model dependent .",
    "this is because a model psd had to be assumed and fitted to the data to derive the appropriate parameters .",
    "however , the broken power - law model ( with a break to @xmath108 at low frequencies ) provides consistent results when applied to the long timescale  monitoring and the short timescale  observation .",
    "this , and the similarity of the observed psd to those of gbhcs ( see section  [ sect : comparison ] ) suggests that the chosen model ( and therefore the derived break frequency ) is reasonable .",
    "nowak & chiang ( 2000 ) used  and  data to measure the psd of .",
    "they found the psd to break from @xmath21 to @xmath1 at a frequency @xmath14  hz and then break again to @xmath18 in the range @xmath113  hz , the position of the high frequency break , as well as the psd slopes , are roughly consistent with those found from the  data .",
    "however , as noted by uttley ( 2002 ) , the method employed by nowak & chiang ( 2000 ) did not account for distorting effects of sampling ( see section  [ sect : bias ] ) and underestimated the errors at low frequencies . once these effects are included",
    "the low - frequency flattening found by is no longer significant ( section  6.2 of uttley 2002 ) .",
    "nowak & chiang ( 2000 ) also place a limit on any time delay between soft ( 0.52.0  kev ) and hard ( 815  kev ) bands of @xmath114  s , consistent with the time lag results presented here .    hayashida ( 1998 )",
    "also estimated the psd of , this time using  data .",
    "they found a broken power - law to be a good fit to the data .",
    "however , these authors also did not account for the biases in the periodogram , which will be significant due to the patchy sampling of the  light curves .",
    "the unusually flat low - frequency slope ( @xmath115 ) found by these authors is most likely a result of bias in the low - frequency periodogram , and therefore the position of their claimed break frequency should be considered with some caution .",
    "the only other agn for which detailed cross spectral analysis has been performed is ngc 7469 ( nandra & papadakis 2001 ; papadakis 2001 ) . in this object",
    "the psd does not show any significant breaks , but does show the same energy dependence as found in .",
    "the present analysis shows that the energy dependence of the psd is due to the slope of the psd becoming flatter at higher energies , rather than a change in the break frequency .",
    "in addition , ngc 7469 shows time lags between energy bands in the same direction ( soft leading hard ) and with the similar relative magnitude ( @xmath97 per cent ) as in .",
    "papadakis & lawrence ( 1995 ) showed that in ngc  4051 the harder band showed a flatter psd than the softer band . recently ,",
    "m@xmath3hardy ( in prep . )",
    "used  data of ngc 4051 and also found this energy dependence of the pds .      since  first showed the medium timescale psds of seyfert galaxies to have a power - law form , their timing properties",
    "have been compared to those of gbhcs .",
    "now , with long timescale monitoring available from  ( edelson & nandra 1999 ; nandra & papadakis 2001 ; uttley 2002 ) and short timescale observations possible with  ( this paper ) it is possible to re - assess this comparison .",
    "the best studied gbhc , cyg x-1 , when in its low / hard state shows a psd with an approximately broken power - law form .",
    "the psd breaks from a low frequency slope of @xmath21 to @xmath1 and then to @xmath18 at high frequencies .",
    "the position of the high frequency break is typically @xmath116  hz ( belloni & hasinger 1990 ; nowak 1999a ) . the comparable break in the psd of  occurs at @xmath102  hz .",
    "this suggests the characteristic timescales in these two systems differ by a factor @xmath117 . under the assumption that the timescales scale linearly with mass of the central black hole , and assuming cyg x-1 to contain a @xmath118  black hole ( herrero 1995 )",
    ", then suggests the mass of the black hole in  is @xmath119  ( in the range 1.55.0 @xmath120  using the 90 per cent limits on the break frequency in ) . assuming a bolometric luminosity of @xmath121  erg s@xmath8 for  ( reynolds 1997 ; converting to @xmath122  km s@xmath8 mpc@xmath8 ) then implies that is radiating at the eddington luminosity .",
    "however , since independent mass estimates ( such as from reverberation mapping ) are not available for  it remains possible that this mass estimate is inaccurate if the relevant timescales do not scale linearly with black hole mass ( as assumed above ) .",
    "if the frequency of the psd break is related to the orbital frequency of matter close to where the peak emissivity of the accretion disc occurs , @xmath123 , then it will depend on @xmath124 , where @xmath125 is the inner radius of the disc . for a standard disc , @xmath126 .",
    "this will also introduce a dependence on @xmath127 ( where @xmath128 is the gravitational radius of the black hole ) and thus the spin parameter of the black hole @xmath129 .",
    "if the black hole in  has a higher spin parameter than that in cyg x-1 then the mass deduced from the above scaling could be increased .",
    "the other temporal characteristics seen in  are remarkably similar to those observed in cyg x-1 , implying there is indeed a strong connection between these two types of source .",
    "the psd ( above the break frequency ) is flatter in harder energy bands in both and cyg x-1 ( nowak 1999a ; lin 2000 ) .",
    "the strong rms - flux correlation first seen in x - ray binaries ( uttley & m@xmath130hardy 2001 ) is exhibited by  ( see section  [ sect : rms - flux ] ) .  also displays a loss of coherence between hard and soft bands at high temporal frequencies ( i.e. above the break in the psd ) very similar to that seen in cyg x-1 ( nowak 1999a ) and time lags between these bands that appear similar ( in direction and relative magnitude ) to those observed in cyg x-1 .",
    "in particular , the time lags measured in  between soft and hard bands is @xmath98  s in the lowest frequency bin , where the coherence is near unity . in cyg",
    "x-1 the shortest time lags observed are @xmath131  s ( nowak 1999a ; pottschmidt 2000 ) at frequencies just below where the coherence falls significantly below unity .",
    "the ratio of these two time lags is @xmath5 , similar to the ratio between the psd break timescales .",
    "it should also be noted that it is not yet clear whether seyfert galaxies more closely resemble the low / hard or high / soft states of gbhcs ( see also the discussion in uttley 2002 ) . in the high / soft state",
    "the psd of cyg x-1 is steep at high frequencies ( @xmath132 ) and flattens to @xmath1 at @xmath133  hz , with no further flattening evident at lower frequencies ( cui 1997 ; churazov & gilfanov & revnivtsev 2001 ; reig , papadakis & kylafis 2002 ) .",
    "this ratio of characteristic timescales in this case is @xmath134 and the corresponding mass estimate for  is @xmath135  , implying a luminosity @xmath136 per cent of the eddington limit .",
    "this high ( but nevertheless sub - eddington ) accretion rate might be expected if  is indeed in a state similar to the high / soft state seen in cyg x-1 .",
    "it is interesting to note that the best - fitting linear model to the rms - flux correlation observed in  is consistent with passing through the zero - flux origin ( section  [ sect : rms - flux ] ) .",
    "the simplest explanation of this is if there is no significant constant component to the light curve .",
    "a strong constant component ( @xmath137 per cent of the source flux ) is observed from the rms - flux correlation in cyg x-1 ( uttley & m@xmath3hardy 2001 ) , but only when the source is in the low / hard state ( gleissner 2002 ) .",
    "this is perhaps also indicating that the variability properties of  are more similar to the high / soft state than the low / hard state of cyg x-1 .",
    "( the time delay properties of cyg x-1 when in its high / soft state are rather similar to those seen in its low / hard state , see e.g. pottschmidt 2000 ) .",
    "the x - ray emission mechanism operating in seyfert galaxies is usually thought to be inverse - compton scattering of soft photons in a hot corona ( e.g. sunyaev & titarchuk 1980 ; haardt & maraschi 1991 ) . in the simplest models the harder photons are expected to lag behind the softer photons due to the larger number of scatterings required to produce harder photons , and the delay should be of order the light - crossing time of the corona .",
    "the longest observed time delay in  between soft and hard bands is @xmath98  s. assuming a black hole mass of @xmath138  , this lag corresponds to a light - crossing distance of @xmath139 ( @xmath140 ) .",
    "thus the direction and magnitude of the observed lag in  are consistent with an origin in a comptonising corona . however , if the lags are frequency dependent ( as expected by analogy with cyg x-1 and also seen in ngc  7469 ; papadakis 2001 ) the lags at lower temporal frequencies would become much longer than expected for a compact corona ( see discussion in nowak 1999b ) .",
    "indeed , the simplest such models predict the time delay between soft and hard photons to be independent of fourier frequency ( miyamoto 1988 ) , contrary to what is observed .",
    "in addition , some models of compton scattering coronae predict the high frequency psd should be steeper for higher energy photons , due to the high - frequency fluctuations being washed out by multiple scatterings ( hua & titarchuk 1996 ; nowak & vaughan 1996 ) , again contrary to the observations .    alternatively",
    ", the time delay between soft and hard bands could be due to the spectral evolution of individual x - ray events .",
    "if the spectrum of the event becomes harder as the event unfolds this can lead to an average lag between soft and hard bands .",
    "such models have been discussed by bttcher & liang ( 1998 ) and poutanen & fabian ( 1999 ) .",
    "another alternative is that the delay between soft and hard bands could be due to a propagation effect , i.e. a `` trigger '' signal reaching the soft emission region before the hard emission region . in this scenario",
    "the magnitude of the lag is related to the propagation speed and the distance between soft and hard emission regions .",
    "the following section describes a model based on this kind of signal propagation .    at higher temporal frequencies the coherence falls well below unity , meaning",
    "there is no longer a simple transfer function between the soft and hard band emission . as a static corona",
    "should maintain a transfer function ( whatever the physical mechanism ) , on timescales longer than the break in the psd ( @xmath141  s ) , where the coherence is high , the corona may be effectively static ( i.e. it maintains its average properties on these timescales ) .",
    "on shorter timescales the corona may be dynamic and so the steep psd above the break and the loss of coherence may be due to changes in the corona itself .",
    "the timescale of the break in the psd from @xmath142 to a steeper slope is @xmath143  s , which corresponds to a light - crossing distance of @xmath144 .",
    "the orbital timescale at @xmath145 around a @xmath138  black hole is @xmath146  s , while the thermal timescale for a standard , thin accretion disc is @xmath147  s ( assuming a viscosity parameter @xmath148 ) , which is of the same order as the timescale of the break in the psd . the viscous timescale in such a disc is many orders of magnitude larger than these other timescales ( see the discussion of accretion disc timescales in section 5.8 of frank , king & raine 1985 ) .",
    "however , if that part of the accretion flow responsible for modulating the x - ray emission is geometrically thick , the break in the psd could correspond to a viscous timescale ( which depends on the ratio of disc height @xmath149 to radius @xmath150 as @xmath151 ) .",
    "various models have been considered to explain the variability of gbhcs and seyfert galaxies .",
    "these include : various examples of `` shot noise '' ( e.g. terrell 1972 ; lehto 1989 ; merloni & fabian 2001 ) ; rotating `` hot spots '' on the surface of an accretion disc ( abramowicz 1991 ; abramowicz 1992 ; bao & stgaard 1995 ) ; occultation by moving clouds ( abrassart & czerny 2000 ) ; self - organised criticality in an accretion disc ( mineshige , ouchi & nishimori 1994 ) ; fluctuations in the accretion rate propagating through the disc ( lyubarskii 1997 ; churazov 2001 ; kotov , churazov & gilfanov 2001 ) and magnetohydrodynamic instabilities in the inner accretion disc ( hawley & krolik 2001 ) .",
    "most of these models were developed to explain only one aspect of the variations ( e.g. its red noise nature ) .",
    "now , however , it is possible to compare the predictions of these models with the well - determined timing properties of .",
    "a viable physical model has to be able to reproduce not only the correct psd shape and timescales but also the other temporal characteristics such as the rms - flux correlation , the energy dependence of the psd , the time lags and the coherence .",
    "it is not clear whether any of the above mechanism can explain all the observations , and indeed some models ( e.g. the obscuration model of abrassart & czerny 2000 ) seem to offer little hope of explaining properties such as the coherence and time lags .",
    "a simple phenomenological model has been developed by lyubarskii ( 1997 ) , churazov ( 2001 ) , and kotov ( 2001 ) that seems to explain ( qualitatively , at least ) the temporal properties of cyg x-1 .",
    "as the timing properties of  discussed above are very similar to those of cyg x-1 , it is worth discussing this model as a possible explanation for the behaviour of seyfert galaxies .    in its high / soft state",
    ", cyg x-1 shows a @xmath142 psd over several decades in frequency ( cui 1997 ; churazov 2001 ; reig 2002 ) , down to timescales far longer than would normally be associated with the x - ray emitting region itself ( which is assumed to be compact ) .",
    "the model put forward by lyubarskii ( 1997 ) to explain this very broad range in timescale has variations in accretion rate occurring over a large range of radii from the central black hole and propagating in towards the x - ray emitting region ( assumed to extend over only a few tens of gravitational radii ) .",
    "if the viscosity parameter of the accretion flow is varying randomly and with the same amplitude at all radii , variations in mass accretion rate at much smaller radii will have an @xmath142 psd .",
    "the accretion rate at the x - ray emitting region ( assumed to be concentrated at small radii ) is thus being modulated by variations produced over a large range in radius .",
    "if the x - ray emission emerging from this region is proportional to the local accretion rate then the x - ray variations will also have an @xmath142 psd extending down to low frequencies .",
    "each radius produces variations at a characteristic timescale comparable to the timescale for inward propagation , hence long - timescale fluctuations are produced at large radii and shorter - timescale fluctuations are produced closer in .",
    "this works because any variations on timescales shorter than the propagation timescale are damped as they move through the disc ( see lyubarskii 1997 , and churazov 2001 ) .",
    "this naturally explains both the @xmath142 part of the psd ( i.e. below the high frequency break ; churazov 2001 ) and the rms - flux correlation ( uttley & m@xmath130hardy 2001 ) .",
    "once these variations reach the inner regions , where accretion energy is released as x - ray emission , variations on shorter timescales are further suppressed , leading to a steepening of the psd .",
    "thus the high frequency break in the psd from @xmath142 to a steeper slope ( as seen in ) is due to suppression of fluctuations within the x - ray emitting region , and the timescale of the break in the psd corresponds to the characteristic timescale at the outer radius of the x - ray emitting region ( churazov 2001 ) .",
    "the emissivity as a function of radius defines a green s function for the incoming @xmath142 fluctuations . in frequency terms , the radial extent of the x - ray producing region makes it act as a `` low - pass filter '' for the incident @xmath142 fluctuations , resulting in a break in the psd , to a steeper slope , at high frequencies .",
    "the specific model described by churazov ( 2001 ) has a relatively stable , optically thick , geometrically thin accretion disc sandwiched by an optically thin , geometrically thick corona .",
    "the disc produces relatively slowly varying thermal emission ( which would emerge presumably in the optical / ultraviolet for a seyfert galaxy ) while it is the variations within the corona that propagate inwards to produce the x - ray variability .",
    "the timescale of the high frequency break thus corresponds to the accretion timescale ( @xmath96the viscous timescale ) of the geometrically thick corona at the outer edge of the x - ray emitting region .",
    "kotov ( 2001 ) extended this model by adding the simple condition that the spectrum of the x - ray emitting region is a function of radius , with the outer regions producing a softer spectrum than the inner regions .",
    "this model can then reproduce the observed time lags between soft and hard emission .",
    "accretion rate variations propagating inwards reach the softer emitting region ( larger radii ) before the harder emitting region ( smaller radii ) , explaining why the soft emission leads the hard .",
    "this can explain the energy dependence of the time lags ( as delay increases with the separation between energy bands ) as well as the frequency dependence ( since different radii correspond to different characteristic frequencies as well as different energy spectra ) .",
    "in addition , this model explains the energy dependence of the psd above the high frequency break .",
    "the harder emission is produced from smaller radii , which can be modulated by high frequency fluctuations , hence the harder emission will have more high frequency power than the softer emission ( i.e. the hard band psd will be flatter ) , as observed ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : unfolded ] ) .",
    "also , as the variations on short timescales are occurring within the x - ray emitting region , i.e. are a result of the dynamic corona , the coherence between bands will fall off at high frequencies , as mentioned in section  [ sect : physics ] ( see also the discussion in nandra & papadakis 2001 ) .",
    "such phenomenological models require that variations occurring at large radii can be fed into much smaller radii and so influence the psd .",
    "the observed iron line profile of  from this observation ( fabian 2002 ) indicates that the disc extends down to less than @xmath152 , and , from the steep inferred emissivity profile , that much of the x - ray power is generated very close to the black hole .",
    "this presents a challenge for all such models , given that the dynamical timescale of this innermost region is @xmath118@xmath153  s , whereas the timescales measured ( e.g. the psd break timescale ) are orders of magnitude longer .",
    "if the @xmath142 psd of  is similar to that in the high / soft state of cyg x-1 ( reig 2002 ) then the variability timescales will extend to many orders of magnitude longer still .",
    "indeed , the total power in @xmath142 spectra diverges so slowly that the psd could in principle continue as @xmath142 until very low frequencies without the total power becoming large .",
    "( for example , model 2 from section  [ sect : pds_results ] could continue down to the unphysically low frequency @xmath154  hz without the integrated power exceeding @xmath155 ! )",
    "this paper presents a detailed time series analysis of the continuum variability of .",
    "the psd shows a break from @xmath142 to @xmath156 at a frequency @xmath157  hz . comparing the break timescale with the analogous timescale seen in cyg x-1 , and assuming that these scale linearly with black hole mass , gives a black hole mass of @xmath6  for  and suggests it is accreting at a significant fraction of the eddington limit .",
    "the slope of the psd above the break is energy dependent , with the harder band showing more high frequency power than the softer band",
    ". the variations in different energy bands also become incoherent above the break in the psd .",
    "this leads us to speculate that on timescales shorter than the break timescale , the x - ray emitting corona is dynamic , and that harder photons are produced at smaller radii than softer photons . at the lowest fourier frequencies the soft and hard bands are highly coherent and the soft band",
    "is found to lead the hard band by @xmath104  s. the direction and magnitude of this lag is consistent with simple comptonisation models .",
    "a phenomenological model , originally developed to explain the @xmath142 psd of gbhcs such as cyg x-1 , is discussed and found to be able to reproduce ( qualitatively ) the observed temporal characteristics of .",
    "although this model is rather simple and phenomenological it can explain the observed temporal characteristics of the x - ray continuum in .",
    "based on observations obtains with , an esa science mission with instruments and contributions directly funded by esa member states and the usa ( nasa ) .",
    "we are grateful to phil uttley for many valuable discussions on power spectral issues and to mike nowak for discussions on coherence estimation .",
    "sv acknowledges many valuable discussions with p. thomas and financial support from pparc .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for useful comments .",
    "abramowicz m. a. , bao g. , lanza a. , zhang x .- h . , 1991 , a&a , 245 , 454 abramowicz m. a. , 1992 , in s. holt , s. g. neff , c. m. urry eds .",
    "_ testing the agn paradigm _ , p69 abrassart a. , czerny b. , 2000 , a&a , 356 , 475 belloni t. , hasinger g. , 1990 , a&a , 227 , l33 belloni t. , psaltis d. , van der klis m. , 2002 , apj , 572 , 392 bendat j. s. , piersol a. g. , 1986 , _ random data : analysis and measurement procedures _ , wiley ( new york ) bevington p. r. , robinson d. k. , 1992 , _ data reduction and error analysis for the physical sciences _ , mcgraw - hill ( new york ) bloomfield p. , 2000 , _ fourier analysis of time series _ , wiley ( new york ) bao g. , stgaard e. , 1995 , apj , 443 , 54 bttcher m. , liang e. p. , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 506 , 281 brandt w. n. , boller th . , fabian a. c. , ruszkowski m. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , l58 churazov e. , gilfanov m. , revnivtsev m. , 2001 , a&a , 321 , 759 cui w. , zhang s. n. , focke w. , swank j. h. , apj , 484 , 383 deeter j. e. , boynton p. e. , 1982 , apj , 261 , 337 done c. , madejski g. m. , mushotzky r. f. , turner t. j. , koyama k. , kunieda h. , 1992 , apj , 400 , 138 edelson r. , nandra k. , 1999 , apj , 514 , 682 edelson r. , turner t. j. , pounds k. a. , vaughan s. , markowitz a. , marshall h. , dobbie p. , warwick r. s. , 2002 , apj , 568 , 610 fabian a. c. , 1979 , proc .",
    "london , ser .",
    "a , 366 , 449 fabian a. c. 2002 , mnras , 335 , l1 frank j. , king a. , raine d. , 1985 , _ accretion power in astrophysics _ , cambridge univ . press ( cambridge ) gleissner t. , wilms j. , pottschmidt k. , uttley p. , nowak m. a. , staubert r. , 2002 , in ph .",
    "durouchoux , y. fuchs and j. rodriguez eds .",
    "_ proceedings of the 4th microquasar workshop _ , in press ( astro - ph/0207610 ) green a. r. , m@xmath3hardy i. m. , lehto h. j. , 1993 , mnras , 265 , 664 green a. r. , m@xmath3hardy i. m. , done c. , 1999 , mnras , 305 , 309 haardt f. , maraschi l. , 1991 , apj , 380 , l51 hawley j. f. , krolik j. h. , 2001 , apj , 548 , 348 herrero a. , kudritzki r. p. , gabler r. , vilchez j. m. , gabler a. , 1995 , a&a , 297 , 556 hayashida k. , miyamoto s. , kitamoto s. , negoro h. , inoue h. , 1998 , apj , 500 , 642 jansen f. 2001 , a&a , 365 , l1 jenkins g. m. , watts , d. g. , 1968 , _ spectral analysis and its applications _ , holden - day ( san fancisco ) kotov o. , churazov e. , gilfanov m. , 2001 , mnras , 327 , 799 lampton m. , margon b. , bowyer s. , 1976 , apj , 208 , 177 lawrence a. , papadakis i. , 1993 , apj , 414 , l85 leahy d. a. , darbro w. , elsner r. f. , weisskopf m. c. , kahn s. , sutherland p. g. , grindlay j. e. , 1983 , apj , 266 , 160 lehto h. j. , 1989 , in j. hunt , b. battrick , eds , _ two topics in x ray astronomy _ , ( esa sp-296 ; noordwijk : esa ) , p499 lin d. , smith i. a. , bttcher m. , liang e. p. , 2000 ,",
    "apj , 531 , 963 lomb n. r. , 1976 , ap&ss , 39 , 447 lyubarskii y. e.  1997 , mnras , 292 , 679 markowitz a. 2002 , apj , submitted m@xmath3hardy i. m. , 1989 , in j. hunt , b. battrick , eds , _ two topics in x ray astronomy _ , ( esa sp-296 ; noordwijk : esa ) , p1111 merloni a. , fabian a. c. , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 958 mineshige s. , ouchi n. b. , nishimori h. , 1994 , pasj , 46 , 97 miyamoto s. , kitamoto s. , mitsua k. , dotani t. , 1998 , nature , 336 , 450 miyamoto s. , kitamoto s. , 1989 , nature , 342 , 773 miyamoto s. , kimura k. , kitamoto s. , dotani t. , ebisawa k. , 1991 , apj , 383 , 784 mushotzky r. f. , done c. , pounds k. a. , 1993 , ara&a , 31 , 717 nandra k. , papadakis i. e. , 2001 , apj , 554 , 710 nowak m. a. , vaughan b. a. , 1996 , mnras , 280 , 227 nowak m. a. , vaughan b. a. , wilms j. , dove j. b. , begelman m. c. , 1999a , apj , 510 , 874 nowak m. a. , wilms j. , vaughan b. a. , dove j. b. , begelman m. c. , 1999b , apj , 515 , 726 nowak m. a. , chiang j. , 2000 , apj , 531 , l13 nowak m. a. , wilms j. , dove j. b. , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 856 papadakis i. e. , lawrence a. , 1993 , mnras , 261 , 612 papadakis i. e. , lawrence a. , 1995 , mnras , 272 , 161 papadakis i. e. , nandra k. , kazanas d. , 2001 , apj , 554 , l133 poutanen j. , fabian a. c. , 1999 , mnras , 306 , l31 pottschmidt k. , wilms j. , nowak m. a. , heindl w. a. , smith d. m. , staubert r. , 2000 , a&a , 357 , l17 press w. h.  1978 , comments on astrophysics , 7 , 103 press w. h. , rybicki g. b. , 1989 , apj , 338 , 277 press w. h. , teukolsky s. a. , vetterling w. t. , flannery b. p. , 1992",
    ", _ numerical recipes",
    "_ , cambridge univ . press .",
    "( cambridge ) priestley m. b. , 1981 , _ spectral analysis and time series _ , academic press ( london ) rees m. j. , 1984 , ara&a , 22 , 471 reig p. , papadakis i. , kylafis n. d. , 2002 , a&a , 383 , 292 reynolds c. s. , ward m. j. , fabian a. c. , celotti a. , 1997 , mnras , 291 , 403 scargle j. d. , 1982 , apj , 263 , 835 stella l. , arlandi e. , tagliaferri g. , israel g. l. , 1997 , in t. subba rao , m. b. priestley , o. lessi eds . , _",
    "applications of time series analysis in astronomy and meteorology _ , chapman & hall ( london ) ( astro - ph/9411050 ) strder l. 2001 , a&a , 365 , l18 sunyaev r. a. , titarchuk l. g. , 1980 , a&a , 86 , 121 terrell n. j. , 1972 , apj , 174 , l35 thorne k. s. , 1974 , apj , 191 , 507 timmer j. , knig m. , 1995 , a&a , 300 , 707 uttley p. , m@xmath3hardy i. m. , 2001 , mnras , 323 , 26 uttley p. , m@xmath3hardy i. m. , papadakis i. , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 231 van der klis m. , 1989 , in h. ogelman , e. p. j. van den heuvel eds . , _ timing neutron stars _ , kluwer ( dordrecht ) , nato asi series c 262 , p27 van der klis m. , 1995 , in w. h. g. lewin , j. van paradijs , e. p. j. van den heuvel eds . , _ x - ray binaries _ , cambridge univ . press ( cambridge ) , p252 van der klis m. , 1997 , in g.j .",
    "babu , e. d. feigelson eds . , _",
    "statistical challenges in modern astronomy ii _ , springer - verlag ( new york ) , p321 vaughan b. a. , nowak m. a. , 1997 , apj , 474 , l43"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper presents a comprehensive examination of the x - ray continuum variability of the bright seyfert 1 galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> the source clearly shows the strong , linear correlation between rms variability amplitude and flux first seen in galactic x - ray binaries . the high frequency power spectral density ( psd ) of  </S>",
    "<S> is examined in detail using a monte carlo fitting procedure and is found to be well represented by a steep power - law at high frequencies ( with a power - law index @xmath0 ) , breaking to a flatter slope ( @xmath1 ) below @xmath2  hz , consistent with the previous results of uttley , m@xmath3hardy & papadakis . </S>",
    "<S> the slope of the power spectrum above the break is energy dependent , with the higher energies showing a flatter psd . at low frequencies the variations between different energy bands are highly coherent while at high frequencies the coherence is significantly reduced . </S>",
    "<S> time lags are detected between energy bands , with the soft variations leading the hard . </S>",
    "<S> the magnitude of the lag is small ( @xmath4  s for the frequencies observed ) and is most likely frequency dependent . </S>",
    "<S> these properties are remarkably similar to the temporal properties of the galactic black hole candidate cygnus x-1 . </S>",
    "<S> the characteristic timescales in these two types of source differ by @xmath5 ; assuming that these timescales scale linearly with black hole mass then suggests a black hole mass @xmath6  for . </S>",
    "<S> we speculate that the timing properties of  may be analogous to those of cyg x-1 in its high / soft state and discuss a simple phenomenological model , originally developed to explain the timing properties of cyg x-1 , that can explain many of the observed properties of .    [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  galaxies : seyfert : general  galaxies : individual :   x - ray : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}