{
  "article_text": [
    "measurements of cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) anisotropies have proved invaluable in establishing the current @xmath1cdm model and are widely used in cosmological parameter estimation @xcite .",
    "an important check on the accuracy of cmb measurements is to compare the data obtained from instruments which are subject to different systematic effects .",
    "the cbi and vsa instruments have significant design differences and the comparison of our data is a check that known systematic effects have been accurately corrected for , and that neither dataset is seriously contaminated by unrecognised systematic errors . in the cmb community , the focus has been on the comparison of power spectra",
    ". however , maps of cmb anisotropies also contain important information .",
    "in particular , they are used in tests of gaussianity ( see for example , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) , a key assumption of cmb analysis .",
    "it is therefore an important exercise to check the correlation between maps of cmb anisotropies . to this end",
    "the vsa has undertaken a programme of observing fields previously imaged by the cbi . in this paper",
    "we present the results of these observations and assess their consistency with the cbi data .",
    "key scientific results from the measurement of cmb anisotropies are the cosmological parameters .",
    "an essential ingredient in converting the flat bandpower estimates into cosmological parameters are the window functions which allow a theoretical power spectrum to predict a flat bandpower .",
    "both the cbi and vsa groups use a maximum likelihood method of estimating the bandpowers , with some differences in the implementation , but there are important differences in the type of window functions used for parameter estimation .",
    "the cbi group computes the bandpower window function which fully takes into account the anti - correlations between neighbouring bins @xcite .",
    "the vsa group use variance windows as an approximation to the bandpower windows when computing parameter estimates @xcite , although anti - correlations are not accounted for .",
    "we assess the bias resulting from this approximation by re - evaluating vsa parameter estimates using bandpower window functions .",
    "in section 2 we summarise the key differences between the vsa and cbi instruments and the implications for observing strategies . in section 3",
    "we describe how the differenced maps are produced and present the results of the comparison .",
    "section 4 contains our assessment of the impact of window functions on the vsa parameter estimation .",
    "finally , in section 5 we present our conclusions .    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the ` cosmomc ` software was run on a 24-node linux cluster .",
    "the chains were run until the largest eigenvalue returned by the gelman - rubin convergence test reached 0.08 .",
    "after burn - in a total of more than 100,000 samples were collected . as successive samples in a markov chain are , by nature , correlated , the samples were thinned by a factor of 25 resulting in approximately 4000 independent samples .",
    "these samples were then used to calculate the marginalised distributions and parameter estimates ( see table [ tab : res1 ] ) .",
    "figure [ fig : mar ] shows the marginalised distributions for each parameter .",
    "it is clear that no significant bias has been introduced as a result of using variance windows to approximate bandpower windows .",
    "the largest discrepancy is seen in the parameter estimate for @xmath2 where the bandpower windows reduce the estimate by one - third of the 1-sigma error . for all other parameters the estimates",
    "are consistent to a much smaller fraction of the error .",
    "the width of each distribution is also shown to be unchanged by any significant amount . furthermore , the correlations of the parameter estimates are also consistent using both methods .",
    "these results are perhaps to be expected given the sparse nature of the covariance matrix . for",
    "the vsa extended array data , approximately 5% of the elements of the matrix are non - zero and in the limit of a diagonal covariance matrix the bandpower and variance windows are equivalent .",
    "however , the validity of the approximation also depends on the signal - to - noise level and on the binning used .",
    "the level of correlations between the bins and the gradient of the power spectrum across the bin also has an impact on the bandpower predicted .",
    "for example , using a standard @xmath1cdm power spectrum and the binning used above , we can compare the bandpowers predicted from each window function . in the majority of bins , the agreement is within 5% but there is a 13% difference in bin 3 where the gradient of the power spectrum is steep and there is a strong anti - correlation with bin 4 .",
    "the effect of doubling the size of the bins increases the discrepancy between the bandpower predictions to a maximum of 28% .",
    "differences of this size would be likely to bias the parameter estimates .",
    "however , the level of agreement between the bandpower predictions is not a simple function of bin size and will fluctuate depending on the exact binning used .",
    "the vsa is currently undergoing an upgrade to increase the sensitivity of the instrument and to enable a measurement of the power spectrum up to @xmath3 .",
    "the upgrade will involve the fitting of larger mirrors with a diameter of 0.55 m . in this case",
    ", the fraction of non - zero elements in the covariance matrix will increase slightly to 7.5% .",
    "the suitability of the approximation also depends upon the signal - to - noise achieved .",
    "the upgraded vsa will have increased sensitivity , but taken in conjunction with the reduced signal , then the overall signal - to - noise level will remain about the same . given the significant difference between the expected bandpower values which may arise and to ensure that this does not bias future vsa parameter estimates , analysis of the upgraded vsa data will be carried out using bandpower window functions .",
    "in this paper we have presented three sets of coincident cmb observations observed at different epochs by the vsa and cbi telescopes .",
    "we have chosen to analyse the full datasets , rather than focusing on the power spectra , in order to investigate any possible systematic effects which may not otherwise be revealed .",
    "the correlation of the datasets from each group was found to be as expected for the 02h and 14h mosaics . in the third mosaic the data disagreed with the monte carlo simulations at a level of 2@xmath0 .",
    "however , this is consistent with the phase calibration errors expected from vsa data during the summer months .",
    "it has been established that this does not affect the power spectrum estimation due to the correlated nature of the phase errors .",
    "the results of this analysis reaffirm that both groups have correctly characterised the noise properties and systematics of the telescopes as well as other , potential data contaminants .",
    "we have investigated the use of variance windows as an approximation to bandpower windows , for the vsa , and found that for the data obtained so far , this is a valid approximation .",
    "we note that alternative binning schemes may reduce the suitability of this method and plan to use bandpower window functions for parameter estimation from super - extended vsa data .",
    "we thank sarah smith for useful discussions .",
    "we thank the staff of the mullard radio astronomy observatory , the jodrell bank observatory and the teide observatory for invaluable assistance in the commissioning and operation of the vsa .",
    "the vsa is supported by pparc and the iac .",
    "n.rajguru , a.scaife , k.lancaster and r. s. savage acknowledge the support of pparc studentships .",
    "a. slozar acknowledges the support of st .",
    "johns college , cambridge .",
    "g. rocha acknowledges a leverhulme fellowship at the university of cambridge ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present coincident observations of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) from the very small array ( vsa ) and cosmic background imager ( cbi ) telescopes . </S>",
    "<S> the consistency of the full datasets is tested in the map plane and the fourier plane , prior to the usual compression of cmb data into flat bandpowers . </S>",
    "<S> of the three mosaics observed by each group , two are found to be in excellent agreement . in the third mosaic , there is a 2@xmath0 discrepancy between the correlation of the data and the level expected from monte carlo simulations . </S>",
    "<S> this is shown to be consistent with increased phase calibration errors on vsa data during summer observations . </S>",
    "<S> we also consider the parameter estimation method of each group . </S>",
    "<S> the key difference is the use of the variance window function in place of the bandpower window function , an approximation used by the vsa group . </S>",
    "<S> a re - evaluation of the vsa parameter estimates , using bandpower windows , shows that the two methods yield consistent results .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmology : observations  cosmic microwave background </S>"
  ]
}