{
  "article_text": [
    "x - ray observations of globular clusters have uncovered many compact binaries ( for a review see * ? ? ?",
    "recent years brought considerable progress in our understanding of these sources , thanks to observations with the chandra x - ray observatory and further identifications with the hubble space telescope @xcite . among the weak ( @xmath4 )",
    "x - ray sources discovered , one identifies cataclysmic variable stars ( cvs ) , quiescent low - mass x - ray binaries ( qlmxbs ) and binaries containing stars with active coronae .",
    "the presence of a large number of cvs in globular clusters is expected on theoretical grounds ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "cvs are close binary systems in which a white dwarf accretes matter lost by a roche - lobe filling low - mass stellar companion ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in cvs of am - her type (",
    "also called  polars \" ) , the white - dwarf s magnetic moment is sufficiently strong to synchronize its spin with the binary s orbital rotation and to preclude the formation of an accretion disk .",
    "polars are soft x - ray emitters with luminosities @xmath5 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in intermediate polars ( ips ) , g @xcite ] magnetic moments",
    "are weaker and the white - dwarf s rotation is not synchronous with the orbital motion .",
    "these systems may or may not possess an accretion disk depending on their specific parameters ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . when the disk is present , it is truncated by the white - dwarf s magnetic field .",
    "ips are the strongest x - ray emitters among cvs , with luminosities @xmath6 @xcite . in high optical - luminosity",
    "persistent cvs of the nova - like type and in erupting dwarf - nova systems , the presence of accretion disks is well established , but constraints on the weaker white dwarf magnetic moments are generally poor ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "`` normal outbursts '' in dwarf novae have amplitudes of 2 - 5 mag and last 2 - 20 days . their recurrence times are typically from @xmath7 days to months , and up to years in some cases .",
    "some dwarf novae show `` superoutbursts , '' which have brighter amplitudes by @xmath8 0.7 magnitudes , last  @xmath9 times longer and also have recurrence times longer than those of normal outbursts .",
    "nova - like cvs and dwarf novae in outburst are rather weak x - ray emitters , but in their low - state , quiescent dwarf novae have typical x - ray luminosities @xmath10 @xcite .",
    "cvs identified in globular clusters have x - ray luminosities very similar to those of field cvs , even though some differences exist in the luminosity functions and one finds that cluster cvs have on average higher optical to x - ray luminosity ratios @xcite .",
    "one is tempted to classify candidate cvs in gcs as quiescent dwarf novae , or perhaps ips , on the basis of their x - ray luminosities . since in the solar neighborhood ,",
    "about half of the observed cvs show large amplitude , recurrent outbursts , the same should be true of cvs in globular clusters , if the the two populations have similar characteristics",
    ". this expectation is not supported by observations .",
    "for instance , among the 22 confirmed cvs in 47  tuc only 2 showed variability that could be interpreted as a dwarf - nova outburst @xcite . in the dense cluster m15 , only one erupting dwarf - nova",
    "was observed @xcite .",
    "other observational studies have consistently found that dwarf nova outbursts in gcs are rare ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this strange quietness of cvs in globular clusters has been noticed and commented upon before ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "one explanation offered is that most globular cluster cvs are strongly magnetic : the magnetic field of the white dwarf could suppress the instability at the origin of the dwarf - nova outbursts by truncating otherwise unstable regions of the disk ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "according to this proposal , the magnetic fields would be of the ip strength , i.e. @xmath11 g. as it turns out , however , at least 7 field ips show dwarf - nova outbursts @xcite",
    ". not all of these systems exhibit bona fide dwarf - nova outbursts but several have @xmath12 mag outbursts lasting 5 days or longer .",
    "in addition , @xcite observed in ngc 6397 two ( unexpected ) dwarf - novae outbursts from cvs classified as magnetic on the basis of their heii 4686 emission lines . even though most known ips ( more than 30 have been identified )",
    "do not indeed show dwarf - nova outburst , it is clear that both in the field and in globular clusters , some magnetic cvs still undergo dwarf - nova outbursts .",
    "this indicates that strong magnetic fields alone may not be able to explain the paucity of outbursts in gcs .    as an alternative",
    ", it has also been proposed that globular cluster cvs accrete at much lower rates than their counterparts in the field ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this would lead to less frequent outbursts and could in principle explain rare cataclysms in gcs .",
    "however , to this day , there has been no detailed , quantitative investigation of this proposal .",
    "implicitly , the low mass transfer rate hypothesis invokes the disk model instability ( dim ) to describe ( the lack of ) dwarf - nova outbursts ( for a recent review of the model see * ? ? ?",
    ", we use the dim to determine whether indeed low mass transfer rates alone could explain the very infrequent outbursts of candidate cvs in gcs .",
    "we argue that , given the observed x - ray luminosities of these systems , it is not a satisfactory explanation . instead",
    ", we propose a solution to the rare cataclysm problem that invokes a combination of low mass transfer rates and moderately strong white dwarf magnetic moments to stabilize the disks of candidate cvs in gcs against outbursts .",
    "we determine quantitatively the conditions which must be satisfied by the mass transfer rates and the magnetic moments in these systems to allow globular clusters to be quiet systems of stars , rather than being the sites of incessant dwarf - nova outbursts .    in  2",
    ", we explain why , on the basis of dim predictions and observed x - ray luminosities in gcs , one would naively expect candidate cvs in gcs to be subject to dwarf nova outbursts . in  3 , we argue that , even though the low metallicity of the gas accreted in gcs affects the ionization level of the disk , it is unlikely to be the explanation behind rare cataclysms in these systems . in  4 , we investigate whether it is possible for these candidate cvs to be subject to much less frequent outbursts than field cvs by having , on average , much lower mass transfer rates than field cvs .",
    "we conclude that it is not easily the case and explore in  5 an alternative possibility involving a stabilization of the disks at low mass transfer rates by truncation due to moderately strong white dwarf magnetic fields .",
    "this appears to be the most satisfactory explanation for rare cataclysms in gcs . in  5 , we comment on additional consequences and possible extensions of our work .",
    "in the disk instability model ( dim ) , outbursts of a steadily - fed , thin accretion disk are caused by a thermal - viscous instability in regions of partial gas ionization ( leading to large opacity variations ) .",
    "there exist a range of accretion rates for which the instability operates , determined by the existence of partial ionization regions . according to the model",
    ", there are three possible global regimes of accretion for a disk : a hot - stable regime at high accretion rates , an unstable regime at intermediate accretion rates and a cold - stable regime at low accretion rates .",
    "the critical rates determining locally whether or not the disk is partially ionized and unstable are strong functions of radius : @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the white - dwarf s mass , @xmath15 is the usual viscosity parameter , @xmath16 the radial distance from the center of mass and these specific criteria refer to a disk with solar abundance material . at each radius @xmath16 , @xmath17 is the critical accretion rate below which the disk is cold / neutral and stable and @xmath18 is the critical value above which the disk is hot / ionized and stable . note that , in the dim , it is necessary to postulate different values of @xmath15 for the disk in the hot state and in the cold state ( @xmath19 ; @xmath20 ) to successfully reproduce dwarf nova outbursts .    for a disk to be in a globally hot - stable regime , the accretion rate must be everywhere larger than the value of @xmath18 at the outer edge .",
    "similarly , to be in a globally cold - stable state , the accretion rate must be everywhere smaller than the value of @xmath17 at the disk inner radius . if neither of these criteria is satisfied , then parts of the disk are partially ionized and subject to instability , which results in large amplitude outbursts .",
    "the x - ray luminosities of candidate cvs in gcs are useful in that they provide constraints on the rate at which mass is being accreted onto the white dwarf in these systems .",
    "boundary layers in cvs accreting at low rates ( @xmath21  g  s@xmath1 ) should be hot , optically - thin and emitting x - rays @xcite . using the standard virial argument for half of the energy being released in the boundary layer , the x - ray luminosity is roughly expected to be @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the efficiency of conversion of the energy released into x - rays and @xmath24 is the accretion rate at the disk inner radius , @xmath25 ( assumed to extend all the way down to the white dwarf , for now ) . given the uncertain efficiency @xmath26 , observed x - ray luminosities provide only approximate lower limits on @xmath24 .",
    "still , it follows rather simply from the x - ray - inferred accretion rates and the dim stability criteria that candidate cvs in gcs should typically be subject to dwarf nova outbursts if they contain extended disks reaching down to the white dwarf s surface ( see  [ results ] for detailed criteria ) . this would also imply that , at any time , most of these candidate cvs should be in a quiescent phase of accretion , during which mass is being accumulated in the disk , until the next outburst is triggered . by comparison with the outburst properties of cvs in the field ,",
    "however , one is forced to recognize that candidate cvs in gcs do indeed appear to be erupting very infrequently .",
    "one of the well - known characteristics of stellar systems in gcs is their lower average metallicity compared to systems in the field : could this be the underlying cause of rare cataclysms in gcs ? following the conclusions of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see also menou 2000 ) , it seems possible that dwarf nova outbursts are effectively triggered when a critical ionization rate is reached that is sufficient for mhd recoupling , turbulence and transport to develop fully in the disk , in conditions approaching ideal mhd .",
    "this is likely to occur at much lower values of the ionization fraction ( perhaps @xmath27 ; gammie & menou 1998 ) than the fraction @xmath28 at which ionization affects opacities : this low critical ionization value for mhd turbulence appears to be the relevant `` master '' trigger for the outbursts , which would then be followed by disk heating and then opacity changes ( as postulated in the dim ) when the ionization fraction approaches @xmath28 .    in the bulk of the quiescent disk , thermal first  ionization of alkali metal",
    "is the dominant mechanism contributing to the low level of ionization required @xcite . given the exponential dependence on temperature of the ionization fraction in the saha equation , relative to the linear dependence on electron density , it appears very unlikely that a change by even one or two orders of magnitude in the metallicity of the gas can affect much the condition for outburst triggers , which will be entirely dominated by what sets the temperature conditions in the disk .",
    "this indicates that , in the unsteady evolving disk postulated to be present during quiescence in the dim , metallicity is not expected to have much of an effect on the conditions triggering outbursts .",
    "if the structure of quiescent dwarf nova disks were to be layered in quiescence , however , the situation could be quite different @xcite . in the simplest version of the layered accretion scenario ,",
    "the temperature of the isothermal dead zone is constant and determined by the level of activity of the mhd - turbulent surface layers .",
    "the only time - dependent component in the model is the gradual accumulation of mass in the dead zone . at a fixed temperature but increasing density",
    ", one can imagine how the metallicity of the gas being accreted in a given system can be important in determining the exact level of ionization present in the disk and thus when the next outburst will be triggered . as it turns out , however , mass accumulation alone can not trigger an outburst through mhd recoupling . using for simplicity the saha equation for a first - ionized , single species gas ( e.g. the most easily ionized alkali metal ) , and fixing the temperature",
    ", we find that in the low ionization limit ( @xmath29 ) , the ionization fraction @xmath30 varies with density as @xmath31 , where @xmath32 and @xmath33 are the electron and neutral densities , respectively .",
    "the same scaling obtains for the magnetic reynolds number , which goes down as a result of mass accumulation in the dead zone .",
    "the importance of hall terms also goes down relative to the ohmic terms at larger densities ( * ? ? ?",
    "therefore , even though the absolute value of the ionization fraction would depend linearly on metallicity in this simple fixed - temperature model for layered accretion , the ionization fraction would go down with time as mass accumulates in the dead zone and there would be no way of triggering an outburst on the basis of mhd recoupling at later times",
    ".    we also note that if one were to invoke the possibility of finite stresses and dissipation in the dead zone @xcite , this layer would then no longer be isothermal and at a fixed temperature as gas accumulates .",
    "the exponential dependence on temperature of the ionization fraction is then again very likely to overcome any linear metallicity dependence .",
    "we conclude from these various considerations that , according to existing models for quiescent dwarf nova disks , it does not appear that the low metallicity of donors in gcs is the underlying cause of their rare cataclysms .",
    "one remaining possibility related to low metallicities is that the quality of magnetic coupling in the donor s atmosphere and thus the amount of magnetic flux being transferred to the disk are actually able to influence the disk evolution by modifying its mhd conditions , as proposed by @xcite .",
    "if it were the case that , on average , the material being transferred in gcs carries less magnetic flux than in field cvs , it could in principle explain the reduced activity of candidate cvs in gcs .",
    "however , since the influence of metallicity on the magnetic properties of a stellar atmosphere or the resulting effect that this would have on the disk mhd behavior are not understood at a quantitative level , it is currently difficult to rule in favor or against this scenario .",
    "in this section , we want to determine whether it is possible for candidate cvs in gcs to be quiescent dwarf novae in which the donor star transfers mass at such a low rate that outbursts are much rarer than in field cvs . although the direction of this effect is obvious , its magnitude is not .",
    "we have therefore decided to quantify how the outburst properties of a representative system depend on the mass transfer rate with a series of detailed time - dependent disk instability models .",
    "we have not explored scenarios in which differences between field and gc cvs are attributed to different values of the viscosity parameter @xmath15 .",
    "if there is a `` universal '' saturation value for the turbulent transport driving accretion in these disks , it would presumably not differ between field and gc cvs .",
    "it should be noted that , to the best of our knowledge , there has not been any systematic study of the observational statistics of dwarf nova outbursts in gcs .",
    "the quantity of most interest probably is the duty cycle of the outbursts . in principle , given a number of candidate cvs , a typical duty cycle , and the statistics of observations for a given cluster , one can predict the number of dwarf nova outbursts one ought to be observing at any time or through repeated observations ( modulo the small number statistics ) .",
    "additional outburst diagnostics may also be useful in determining the regime of accretion present in candidate cvs in gcs .",
    "we hope that the detailed study of outburst properties presented here will motivate a statistical study of observed duty cycles and perhaps new observational programs to obtain additional constraints .",
    "in this section we use a standard version of the dim , in which the disk extends all the way down to the white dwarf s surface , the mass transfer rate from the secondary star is constant and effects of disk irradiation are neglected .",
    "the numerical model , described in detail in @xcite , follows the thermal - viscous evolution of a geometrically thin disk around the white dwarf .",
    "the equations of conservation of mass , angular momentum and energy for a keplerian disk are solved on an adaptive grid which resolves narrow structures in the disk .",
    "a grid of disk vertical structures , which determine the local cooling rate of the disk as a function of its surface density , central temperature and vertical gravity , is precalculated before running the disk evolution .",
    "we only use models after they have converged to a periodic outburst pattern : the results shown are robust in the sense that memory of the initial conditions has been lost .",
    "we show results for a specific model with parameters close to appropriate for the field dwarf nova vw hyi ( @xmath34  hr ) .",
    "the model has the following parameters : primary mass @xmath35 , time - averaged value of the disk outer radius @xmath36 cm , value of the disk inner radius @xmath37 cm and values of the viscosity parameters ( unless otherwise specified ) @xmath38 and @xmath39 .",
    "the numerical resolution adopted is n=800 radial grid points .      in the dim ,",
    "the value of the disk inner radius ( @xmath40 , which is also the white dwarf stellar radius ) does have some influence on the outburst properties of an unstable disk .",
    "therefore , before launching into an extensive study of the dependence on the mass transfer rate , we have conducted a series of tests to determine the magnitude of the @xmath40 dependence .",
    "figure  [ fig : one ] shows v - band lightcurve predictions from models with different @xmath40 values , at a given mass transfer rate , @xmath41 .",
    "figure  [ fig : one]a shows models with @xmath42 g s@xmath1 , for which outbursts are triggered in the innermost regions of the disk ( `` inside - out outbursts '' ) .",
    "figure  [ fig : one]b shows models with @xmath43 g s@xmath1 , for which outbursts are triggered in the outermost regions of the disk ( `` outside - in outbursts '' ) . in each panel , the solid line corresponds to a model with @xmath44 cm , the short - dashed line to @xmath45 cm and the long - dashed line to @xmath46 cm .",
    "the recurrence times predicted in the model shown in panel ( a ) depend on the value of @xmath40 because inside - out outbursts are triggered close to the disk inner edge , and the value of the critical surface density , @xmath47 ( @xmath48 ; see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , at which mass accumulation triggers the thermo - viscous instability , increases with increasing @xmath40 ( the ignition radius @xmath49 is @xmath50 in each one of these models ) . on the contrary ,",
    "the recurrence time is basically independent of @xmath40 in the model with outbursts triggered in the outer regions of the disk ( panel ( b ) ; @xmath51 cm in all 3 cases ) .",
    "models in fig .",
    "[ fig : one]a , with a mass transfer rate on the low side and inside - out outbursts , are probably the most relevant ones for candidate cvs in gcs .",
    "even when multiplying the disk inner radius by a factor of three , however , the effect is only a doubling of the outburst periodicity . despite uncertainties associated with unknown white dwarf masses in gcs ( which may be systematically larger than in the field because of mass segregation ) , the corresponding uncertainties for disk inner radii will remain small compared to the large factor of three variation shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : one]a . therefore , we conclude from these tests that fixing the disk inner radius to a reasonable value , @xmath44  cm , is unlikely to affect much our conclusions on the effects of variations in the mass transfer rate .      we have sampled a range of mass transfer rates from @xmath52 g s@xmath1 to @xmath53 g s@xmath1 with about ten models . above a few @xmath54 g s@xmath1 ,",
    "the disk becomes globally stable .",
    "for each model , three different @xmath55/@xmath56 viscosity prescriptions were investigated .",
    "each model produces a lightcurve of the type shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : one ] .",
    "the morphology of these lightcurves changes with @xmath41 and the @xmath15 values adopted . in order to quantify and better characterize the lightcurve properties , we have defined nine useful attributes that we have systematically measured for all the calculated model lightcurves .",
    "as we elaborate further below , some of these attributes are direct observables , and as such , they could allow further observational tests of a given regime of accretion in cvs .",
    "peak v mag .",
    " this is the v - band magnitude of the disk when it is most luminous ( at the peak of an outburst ) .",
    "the v - band magnitude has been calculated by integrating the multi - temperature blackbody emission from the disk ( magnitude scale arbitrary ) .",
    "@xmath49  this is the ignition radius , i.e. the radius of the disk annulus which first becomes ionized , unstable and subsequently triggers a global outburst in the disk .",
    "@xmath57  the recurrence ( or cycle ) time is computed as the time between two successive lightcurve peaks .",
    "@xmath58  the outburst duration time is computed as the time during which the disk v - band magnitude is within 3 magnitudes of its peak value .",
    "we have checked that this definition ensures that @xmath58 is estimated at a value very similar to what an eyeball estimate would give . also , with this definition , we do not have to worry about defining properly a quiescence level , which would likely depend on contributions from a hot spot and the secondary star .",
    "@xmath58 is the sum of @xmath59 ( defined below ) .",
    "duty cycle  it is simply calculated here as the ratio @xmath60/@xmath57",
    ". it basically captures the fraction of the time the dwarf nova is `` on '' ( given our specific definition of @xmath58 ) .",
    "@xmath61  it is calculated as the difference @xmath62 , where @xmath58 is taken for the outburst following the corresponding quiescence phase .",
    "@xmath63  the rise time is calculated as the time taken by the disk v - band magnitude to rise from its peak magnitude + 3 to that peak magnitude .",
    "@xmath64  the decay time is calculated as the time taken by the disk v - band magnitude to decrease from its peak magnitude to that value + 3 .",
    "note that this definition includes any `` plateau '' phase in the decay , which are found to exist at large values of the mass transfer rate , @xmath41 .",
    "v fluence ",
    "this is the fluence ( time - integrated luminosity ) of an outburst in the v band , calculated over the estimated outburst duration time @xmath58",
    "( i.e. covering a range of 3 magnitudes around the peak v value ) . here",
    "again , the absolute energy scale is arbitrary .",
    "note that , as is evident from their definitions , all these quantities are not independent from each other .",
    "figure  [ fig : two ] shows how these nine outburst cycle attributes vary as a function of the mass transfer rate , @xmath41 .",
    "solid , dashed and dotted lines in each panel show results for three different viscosity prescriptions : ( @xmath65 , @xmath66)=(0.2 , 0.04 ) , ( 0.2 , 0.05 ) and ( 0.3 , 0.04 ) , respectively .",
    "changes in outburst attributes from one to the other of these prescriptions is only quantitative in nature .",
    "the qualitative trends with @xmath41 shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] are therefore robust with respect to uncertain @xmath15 prescriptions .    note that we have not explored dependencies in our models related to the value of the disk outer radius , @xmath67 , which is itself determined by the binary s orbital period , @xmath68 .",
    "@xcite has argued in a related analysis that the dependence of the duration time , @xmath58 , on the orbital period should scale as @xmath69 . according to this scaling , even for a change by a factor 3 in orbital period , the corresponding change in @xmath58 ( and possibly other outburst time attributes , such as the duty cycle ) would only be about a factor of 2 .",
    "this is comparable to uncertainties related to our poor knowledge of @xmath15 , according to the results shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] . for this reason ,",
    "we have chosen to focus our numerical exploration on variations of @xmath41 at a fixed disk size ( i.e. same time - averaged value of @xmath67 ) . in the future , it may be interesting to explore further this dependence of model predictions on the binary s orbital period , especially if there were reasons to believe that candidate cvs in gcs have a different period distribution than cvs in the field .    as @xmath41",
    "is decreased , we find that the outburst fluence , its duration time @xmath58 , its decay time @xmath64 and the duty cycle all decrease , while the quiescence time @xmath70 , the recurrence time @xmath57 and the outburst peak magnitude increase .",
    "the variations in the ignition radius , @xmath49 , and the rise time , @xmath63 , both reflect the transition from outside - in to inside - out outbursts occurring at a mass transfer rate of a few @xmath71 g s@xmath1 ( see also fig .  [",
    "fig : one ] ) .",
    "this transition is characterized by a significant increase in the rise time of the outburst ( in the v band ) . at the highest accretion rates ,",
    "the existence of extended plateau phases during outburst becomes obvious as the values of , e.g. , @xmath72 and the v - band fluence , become large .    the trends with @xmath41 shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] are strongly correlated with each other , and as such , they could be used to statistically test the notion that mass transfer rates are , on average , smaller in the population of cvs found in gcs , than in the field . as shown by fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] , this would require shorter duration and decay timescales for the outbursts , less luminous outbursts and reduced fluences ( in the v band ) .",
    "although it would be dangerous ( and probably misleading ) to do a comparison between individual systems , we believe that the trends shown in fig .  [ fig : two ] are rather robust and therefore meaningful in a global statistical sense .",
    "one would expect them to be followed by the few cvs showing dwarf nova outbursts in gcs , if it is true that their disks are fed , on average , at much lower rates than cvs in the field .",
    "perhaps the most easily used attribute which is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] is the duty cycle of the outbursts . at mass transfer rates",
    "@xmath73  g  s@xmath1 , a duty cycle @xmath74 obtains , depending on the @xmath15 values adopted .",
    "it is already interesting to ask whether these values are consistent with the paucity of dwarf nova outbursts in a gc such as 47 tuc .",
    "with 22 confirmed cvs and this type of values for the duty cycle , one would expect about 2 - 0.5 dwarf novae to be active ( i.e. in outburst ) at any time when 47 tuc is observed ! to do this comparison properly requires taking into account effects such as source crowding , the weaker nature of the outburst expected ( see values of peak v magnitudes in fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] ) , etc ... but this simple scaling already suggests that mass transfer rates @xmath75  g  s@xmath1 may not necessarily easily explain the paucity of outbursts in at least one well - studied gc . the possibility that several tens of additional x - ray sources in 47 tuc are in fact unconfirmed",
    "cvs @xcite would make this comparison even more meaningful .",
    "in addition , it is important to note that one is not free to pick low values of @xmath41 to justify a low frequency of outbursts in gcs and posit at the same time that the observed low luminosity x - ray sources are the same systems , seen as dwarf novae in a quiescent phase .",
    "indeed , the dim requires the accretion rate in a quiescent disk not to be constant but rather fall with decreasing radius at least as steeply as the critical scalings given in eqs  ( [ mdmax1][mdmin1 ] ) . for the specific model we are considering here ,",
    "if the disk is fed at a rate @xmath76  g  s@xmath1 , the implied accretion rate onto the white dwarf is @xmath77  g  s@xmath1 , i.e. so low that it becomes essentially impossible to power the observed x - ray luminosities even with a @xmath78 efficient x - ray conversion ( see eq .",
    "this limitation is the main reason why we did not extend our detailed models below values of @xmath76  g  s@xmath1 in fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] .",
    "by extension , given a distribution of x - ray luminosities for a population of candidate cvs in a gc such as 47 tuc , one would have to pick a distribution of mass transfer rates which is compatible with these x - ray luminosities . combining this constraint with the allowed values of the duty cycle shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : two ] suggests that it would be rather difficult to explain the paucity of dwarf nova outbursts in gcs by invoking only very low mass transfer rates and stay consistent with the observed x - ray luminosities .",
    "clearly , it would be interesting to derive in the future an improved , more quantitative version of this argument by using a better sampled statistics on the frequency ( and perhaps additional attributes ) of dwarf nova outbursts in a given gc .",
    "we have thus argued that it would be difficult for the population of candidate cvs in gcs , if they possess fully extended disks , to experience outbursts with recurrence times that would be much longer than those in the population of cvs in the field .",
    "we reached this conclusion using the dim with standard parameters , in particular viscosity parameters @xmath79 and @xmath80 .",
    "although the value of @xmath65 appears to be universal @xcite , it may not be the case for @xmath66 .",
    "indeed , there exist dwarf novae in the field with very long recurrence times , the best known example of which is wz sge ( with a recurrence time @xmath81 years ) .",
    "this class of systems has been mentioned as a possible explanation for rare outbursts in gcs @xcite . for these exceptionally long recurrence times ( and the long outburst durations ) , the dim requires a very low value of @xmath82 @xcite .",
    "such very low values of the efficiency of angular momentum transport in quiescent disks would require a physical explanation .",
    "@xcite have suggested that the viscosity in quiescent accretion disks is determined by the amount of magnetic flux transferred from the companion star together with the matter being accreted .",
    "according to this suggestion , when the companion leaves the main sequence to become degenerate , near the cv period minimum , its atmospheric temperature becomes so low that the amount of magnetic flux transferred is much reduced , resulting in much lower @xmath56 values in quiescent disks .",
    "since wz sge is very close to the cv minimum period , this could explain its extremely low viscosity in quiescence . to extend this interpretation to candidate cvs in gcs , however ,",
    "would require most of them to have  brown dwarf \" companions .",
    "at this point , observed cv periods in gcs do not support this expectation ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "an alternative solution to the wz sge long recurrence time puzzle , which does not involve any unusually low @xmath56 value , has been proposed by @xcite ( see also * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) . noting that inner truncation can stabilize an otherwise unstable disk",
    ", these authors suggested that the quiescent disk in wz sge may be truncated by the magnetic field from the white dwarf or by `` evaporation '' of the innermost disk regions ( see e.g * ? ? ? * ) , sufficiently so that the disk becomes only marginally unstable . as a result of the truncation",
    ", one also expects an accretion rate at the inner edge of the ( truncated ) disk which is consistent with the observed x - ray luminosity .",
    "this model requires a rather strong enhancement of the mass transfer rate during outburst to reproduce observed outburst properties , however .",
    "this point is subject to theoretical controversy ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and reference therein ) but it seems to be supported by observations @xcite . whether this explanation for the very long recurrence times of wz sge is correct or not , the idea of disk stabilization by truncation is worth exploring for candidate cvs in gcs , as it seems to be a reasonable explanation for their resounding silence",
    "most cvs in gcs could contain stable disks , which are not subject to the thermo - viscous instability responsible for outbursts in field cvs , if regions of their disks which would normally be subject to the instability are systematically truncated . in this section , we first show that it is not possible to have such stable disks in candidate cvs in gcs unless truncation of the disk inner regions indeed happens .",
    "then , we quantify the conditions under which the magnetic field from the accreting white dwarf is sufficiently strong to achieve stabilization of the disk by magnetospheric truncation . given the unknown orbital period , nature of the donor star and composition of the material being transferred and accreted in these systems , we consider a number of possibilities successively below . in each case",
    ", we directly compare the values of the mass transfer rate , @xmath83 , required to satisfy the dim global stability criteria , eq .",
    "( [ mdmax1]-[mdmin1 ] ) , to the typical values of @xmath83 necessary to power representative x - ray luminosities @xmath84 and @xmath85  erg  s@xmath1 according to eq .",
    "( [ lx ] ) , for @xmath86 .",
    "we adopt the white dwarf mass - radius relation ( @xmath87@xmath88 ) of @xcite for the accretor whenever it is necessary for our calculations .      as mentioned in  [ stable ] , for the disk to be in a globally hot and stable state , the mass - transfer rate must exceed the value of the accretion rate @xmath89 given by eq .",
    "( [ mdmin1 ] ) at the disk outer radius .",
    "we adopt for simplicity a value of the disk outer radius @xmath90 , where @xmath91 is the primary s mean roche - lobe radius , @xmath92 where @xmath93 is the mass of the secondary and @xmath94 is the binary orbital separation , determined by kepler s law @xmath95 with @xmath96 and @xmath97 is the orbital period in hours . for the main - sequence mass - period relation ,",
    "we use @xmath98 ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , where @xmath99 .",
    "the condition @xmath100 for values of the mass - ratio @xmath101 , @xmath102 and @xmath103 are shown as a function of the primary s mass , @xmath87 , as the three upper solid lines in fig .",
    "[ fig : three ] . above these lines ,",
    "the disk is hot and stable .    for a disk to be in a globally cold and stable state",
    ", the mass transfer rate can not exceed the value of the accretion rate given by @xmath104 in eq .",
    "( [ mdmax1 ] ) at the disk inner edge , which is also the white dwarf radius in the case of a fully extended disk .",
    "the condition @xmath105 is shown as a function of the primary s mass , @xmath87 , as the lower solid line in fig .",
    "[ fig : three ] . below this line ,",
    "the disk is cold and stable .",
    "in addition , the two long - dashed lines in fig .  [ fig : three ] show , as a function of the primary s mass , the typical mass transfer rates required to power x - ray luminosities @xmath106 and @xmath85  erg  s@xmath1 according to eq .",
    "( [ lx ] ) for @xmath86 .    as already emphasized by @xcite and @xcite",
    ", globally hot and stable disks would be too bright to explain the faint optical luminosities of candidate cvs in gcs .",
    "these candidate cvs also appear much too x - ray bright to contain globally cold and stable disks extending all the way to the white dwarf s surface . from the comparison shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : three ] , one would naively expect these candidate cvs in gcs to contain unstable disks and thus show dwarf nova outbursts much like their counterparts in the field .",
    "field cvs are supposed to evolve through a period minimum at @xmath107  min , at which point they become degenerate ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "mass - transfer rate for such post - minimum systems are very low and if such systems were to exist in globular clusters , they would be interesting candidates for cvs containing cold and globally stable accretion disks . to test this hypothesis",
    ", we modify our analysis and assume the following mass - radius relation for the secondary @xcite @xmath108 which leads to a mass - period relation m_2= 1.5 10 ^ -2 ( 1+x ) ^5/2p_h^-1 .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : four ] , where @xmath109 was assumed .",
    "although some of the candidate cvs in gcs with x - ray luminosities at the high end of the observed luminosity function could be described as systems containing hydrogen - rich degenerate donors and globally hot and stable disks , this could not be a solution for the entire population unless one is willing to consider extremely low values of the x - ray conversion efficiencies , @xmath26 .",
    "in addition , the faint optical luminosities of candidate cvs in gcs appear to be inconsistent with globally hot and stable disks @xcite .",
    "one should also consider the possibility that the donors in candidate cvs in gcs are helium - rich wds , i.e. that these systems are members of the am cvn class of double degenerate binaries @xcite .    for our purpose , we will simply assume the mass - radius relation eq .",
    "( [ deg1 ] ) with x=0 and rederive the corresponding stability criteria .",
    "more realistically , the mass - radius relation for donors in am cvn binaries would depend on their formation channel @xcite , which could be rather complex in globular clusters ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "one also has to modify the global stability criteria for disks which are now composed primarily of helium , with ionization properties which differ substantially from those of hydrogen . the criterion for a disk to be hot and stable becomes @xcite @xmath110 the value of @xmath17 for a disk to be cold and stable was derived following the same algorithm as @xcite or @xcite .",
    "the stability condition in this case is obtained by requiring that the maximal temperature in a cold and stable disk ( @xmath111 ) be lower than the typical ionization temperature of helium ( log  @xmath112(k)@xmath113 ) .",
    "[ fig : five ] shows the results of our stability analysis for am cvns in the usual format .",
    "although some of the candidate cvs in gcs with x - ray luminosities at the low end of the observed luminosity function could be described as systems containing globally cold and stable disks ( depending on @xmath87 ) , this does not appear to be a solution for the entire population .",
    "on the other hand , the faint optical luminosities of candidate cvs in gcs also appear to be inconsistent with globally hot and stable disks in these systems @xcite      a simple way of reconciling the observed x - ray luminosities of candidate cvs in gcs with the dim and the rare occurrence of outbursts is to consider the possibility that disks in most of these systems are sufficiently truncated to be stabilized .",
    "there is growing evidence that even the so - called  non - magnetic \" cvs posses magnetic moments sufficiently large ( @xmath114 ) to partially truncate accretion disks in quiescent dwarf - novae ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    using the magnetospheric radius @xmath115 and the stability criterion for a hydrogen disk in eq .",
    "( [ mdmax1 ] ) , one can deduce , for a given mass - transfer rate , the minimum value of the magnetic moment required to truncate the unstable regions of the disk and thus effectively stabilize the rest of it in the cold state : @xmath116 fig .  [ fig : six ] shows critical values of the magnetic moments , @xmath117 , required to stabilize the disks for four different values of the mass - transfer rate , @xmath118 ( solid lines ) .",
    "representative x - ray luminosities , calculated from eq .",
    "( [ lx ] ) with @xmath86 , are also shown for comparison ( dotted lines ) .",
    "magnetic moments in the range @xmath119  @xmath120 g  @xmath3 are sufficient to stabilize disks and at the same time be consistent with the observed x - ray luminosities of candidate cvs in gcs . redoing the same analysis for disks composed of helium , we find that the magnetic moments required to stabilize helium disks are only slightly lower , by a factor @xmath121 .",
    "the uppermost values of the magnetic moments shown in fig  [ fig : six ] correspond to magnetic moments of the intermediate polar ( ip ) class but they would be required only for the highest x - ray luminosities observed among candidate cvs in gcs . for the bulk of the population , values of @xmath114 are sufficient to stabilize disks",
    ". these values may in fact be relevant to some of the dwarf novae in the field .",
    "however , it is the combination of these moderately strong magnetic moments with mass transfer rates lower than in the field that is sufficient to stabilize the disks of candidate cvs in gcs and explain their rare cataclysms .",
    "using a series of quantitative stability criteria and detailed time - dependent models , we have argued that it is not sufficient to invoke lower mass transfer rates relative to cvs in the field to explain the very infrequent outbursts of candidate cvs in gcs .",
    "the argument relies on observed x - ray luminosities to set lower limits on the rate of mass transfer in these systems . by contrast , we found that a combination of moderately strong white dwarf magnetic moments and low mass transfer rates can stabilize most disks in these systems and therefore explain rare cataclysms in gcs .    our proposed explanation for the rare occurrence of cataclysms in gcs shares some similarities with a number of proposals previously made in the literature ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) but it is also specific in requiring that both magnetic truncation and low mass transfer rates be present in these systems .",
    "we have calculated limits on the mass transfer rates and magnetic moments which must be satisfied in candidate cvs in gcs for their disks to be stabilized . as a result of these specific requirements",
    ", one should be in a better position to put this theory to the observational test .",
    "in that respect , we note that the comparatively low optical to x - ray luminosity ratios of candidate cvs in gcs may already be providing evidence in support of our scenario . at a given ( low ) mass transfer rate ( thus fixing the amount of x - ray produced in the vicinity of the white dwarf ) , by truncating the inner , most optically luminous regions of a cv accretion disk , one may indeed reduce the optical to x - ray luminosity ratio of a system , relative to the untruncated case .",
    "detailed models would be required to address this point more quantitatively .",
    "various properties of the few outbursts observed in gcs may also contain valuable information on the regime of accretion present in these systems , as we argued in  [ sec : low ] for fully extended disks .",
    "probably the most revealing observation for any candidate cv in a gc would be a period and/or mass - transfer rate measurement , which may tell us right away whether or not outbursts are expected from this system , for a given value of the white dwarf magnetic moment .",
    "a measurement of the magnetic field strength itself would obviously be a most interesting test of our scenario , but this type of measurement is expected to be very challenging for any gc given the field strength values that we have been considering .",
    "we have stressed throughout this work the need for , and the usefulness of , robust statistical studies of outbursts in gcs .",
    "given that some outbursts may be missed by crowding effects in some clusters and that , for instance , a count of the total number of cvs in a gc as well - studied as 47 tuc is barely known at the order - of - magnitude level , it is a priori difficult to use existing reports on observed outbursts to constrain the models in a meaningful way . @xcite",
    "have shown how completeness tests for a given cluster observational campaign can greatly help interpret outburst searches in gcs : more statistical studies of this sort , combined with long - term monitoring campaigns ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , would clearly be useful .",
    "if our interpretation for the origin of rare cataclysms in globular cluster cvs is correct , it points to lower average mass transfer rates and stronger white dwarf magnetic moments in these systems than in the field .",
    "this would indicate important and systematic evolutionary differences between field and cluster cv populations .",
    "although such differences may be expected on the basis of distinct dynamical histories for cvs and their progenitors in gcs vs. the field ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , our scenario is useful in making specific predictions for what these differences might be .",
    "mass transfer rates @xmath122  g  s@xmath1 are comparable to or lower than the already low value of @xmath123  g  s@xmath1 inferred for the very long recurrence time system wz sge @xcite . these low @xmath41 requirements could thus provide important constraints on the mechanism responsible for angular momentum loss in these binaries .",
    "for instance , using the same @xmath124@xmath125 relations as in  [ hdeg ] and  [ hedeg ] , white dwarf masses in the range @xmath126 to @xmath127 and a standard formula for the rate of mass transfer driven by gravitational wave braking @xcite , one finds that typical x - ray luminosities of candidate cvs in gcs can be explained by orbital periods ranging from a fraction of an hour to several hours .",
    "we note that , based on a study of white dwarf compressional heating , @xcite concluded that gcs may possess a rather large population of cvs with very low mass - transfer rates ( @xmath128  g  s@xmath1 ) , which could be post - turnaround binaries , i.e. cvs which have evolved past the minimum orbital period .",
    "low mass transfer rates also imply long accumulation times for classical nova outbursts , which may thus be rarer in gcs than in the field .",
    "finally , the low values of mass transfer rates in cvs may be related to the systematically low @xmath41 values inferred by @xcite for the population of quiescent lmxbs in gcs .    in the same vein , the typical values of white dwarf magnetic moments required in our scenario are below ip - class values but they remain larger than the values implicitly assumed in standard models of erupting field dwarf novae ( which are usually such that the disks are never truncated , not even in quiescence ; but see also @xcite ) .",
    "systematically higher values of white dwarf magnetic moments in gcs relative to the field , as suggested by our interpretation of rare cataclysms , would then point to different stellar / dynamical evolutionary histories for the progenitors of these two cv populations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "we thank mike shara for very useful and informative discussions and craig heinke for insightful comments on the manuscript , which helped improve its quality . a.d .",
    "acknowledges support from the marie curie fellowship program of the european union under contract no .",
    "hpmt - gh-00 - 00132 - 63 and the slovak academy of sciences under grant no .",
    "4015/4 . this research was supported in part by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "phy99 - 07949 ( at kitp ) .",
    "menou , k.  2002 , in the physics of cataclysmic variables and related objects , asp conference proceedings , vol .",
    "261 , eds b. t. gaensicke , k. beuermann , and k. reinsch ( san francisco : asp ) , p. 387",
    "( astro - ph/0108287 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) should be present in large numbers in globular clusters ( gcs ) . </S>",
    "<S> numerous low - luminosity x - ray sources identified over the past few years as candidate cvs in gcs support this notion . yet , </S>",
    "<S> very few `` cataclysms , '' the characteristic feature of this class of objects in the field , have been observed in gcs . </S>",
    "<S> we address this discrepancy here , within the framework of the standard disk instability model for cv outbursts . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that the paucity of outbursts in gcs is probably not a direct consequence of the donors low metallicities . </S>",
    "<S> we present diagnostics based on outburst properties allowing tests of the hypothesis that rare cataclysms are entirely due to lower mass transfer rates in gcs relative to the field , and we argue against this explanation . </S>",
    "<S> instead , we propose that a combination of low mass transfer rates ( @xmath0  g  s@xmath1 ) and moderately strong white dwarf magnetic moments ( @xmath2  g  @xmath3 ) stabilize cv disks in gcs and thus prevent most of them from experiencing frequent outbursts . if it is so , rare cataclysms in gcs would signal important evolutionary differences between field and cluster cvs . </S>"
  ]
}