{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf novae are highly variable mass - exchanging binary star systems containing a white dwarf and a late - type k or m star .",
    "they are characterized by occasional outburst episodes which typically take place on a timescale of 100 days and last for about 15 days .",
    "outbursts are believed to be triggered by a thermal instability in the accretion disk that drives the disk from a low - temperature , low mass accretion rate , quiescent state to a hot , high-@xmath1 outburst state .",
    "about every 120 days prototypical dwarf nova u gem exhibits outbursts , where the v magnitude of the system rises from @xmath2 to @xmath3 @xcite . during outbursts",
    "u gem is a bright euv source .",
    "this emission is interpreted as optically thick radiation from a @xmath4 boundary layer @xcite .",
    "besides , there is observational evidence that the observed energy from the boundary layer and that from the disk is comparable @xcite which is in accordance with the simple mass accretion scenario @xcite . in quiescence",
    "the uv spectra of u gem is dominated by the white dwarf emission as observed with iue @xcite , hopkins ultraviolet telescope ( hut ) @xcite and hubble space telescope ( hst ) @xcite .",
    "studies of the white dwarf in u gem indicate evidence for an equatorial accretion belt , which is cooling during the quiescence interval .",
    "x - ray emission ( 0.2 - 10 kev ) has been observed from u gem both in quiescence and outburst , , . unlike other well known dwarf novae systems , like ss cygni , hard x - ray flux of u gem does not decrease in outbursts @xcite .",
    "the fact is that the increase in the hard x - ray ( 2 - 15 kev ) flux is less than that of the soft x - ray flux ( 0.1 - 4 kev ) , .",
    "chandra observations of u gem in quiescence indicate that the hard x - ray emission arises from a gas with a small scale height ( @xmath5 ) close to the white dwarf @xcite , ( hereafter s02 ) .    here",
    "we present detailed hard x - ray emission properties of u gem in outburst phase for the first time .",
    "we find an extra non - thermal x - ray component arising during outburst which can be intrepreted as a sign of a transient magnetosphere occuring in the boundary layer of u gem as a result of the increase of the mass accretion rate @xcite .    in section 2 , we present observations and our data analysis . in sections 3 and 4",
    ", we show observational differences between quiescence and outburst phases , respectively . in section 5 ,",
    "we discuss these results .",
    "we use four pointed observations of u gem with three satellites namely chandra , xmm - newton @xcite and rxte .",
    "these observations enable us to study both the outburst and the quiescence states of the source .",
    "details of these observations can be found in table [ obs_list ] . we should note that although both outbursts are normal outbursts , the outburst in 2004 is a few days longer than the outburst in 2002 .",
    "second chandra observation was made during the peak of a normal outburst in 2002 ( see figure [ obs ] ) , while in 2004 , a series of rxte observations were made in order to cover the whole outburst .",
    "time of the chandra x - ray observation is marked on the aavso data of the outbursts in figure 1 .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ sub ]      to examine the timing characteristics of the hard x - ray emission from u gem during the february - march 2004 outburst , we performed a standard timing analysis as follows .",
    "we generated the 2 - 15 kev light curves with time binning of 16 ms using the pca event mode data and converted the times to the solar system barycenter .",
    "for each rxte pointing , we divided light curves into 512 s long segments .",
    "we then applied fourier transformation to each of 512 s data segment and computed associated fourier ( leahy ) powers .",
    "we obtained the power spectrum of each pointing by averaging the fourier power spectra of all available segments .",
    "we find that the power spectra were dominated by red noise structure below about 10 mhz and consistent with powers due to poisson count fluctuations at frequencies above .",
    "we determine that the rms amplitudes of low frequency fluctuations vary in the range of 1.2% and 7.3% .",
    "interestingly , we detect a quasi periodic timing structure in the rxte observations on 2004 march 13 .",
    "the power spectral density of this pointing is shown in figure [ timing ] .",
    "we fitted the power spectrum with the sum of a constant , a power law and a lorentzian function to account for the poisson noise , low frequency red noise and the qpo structure , respectively .",
    "for the qpo feature , we obtain the peak frequency as 73@xmath69 mhz and rms amplitude as 1.0@xmath60.3% .",
    "the peak frequency of this oscillation corresponds to 13.7 s.",
    "in this work we have investigated u gem s x - ray behaviour during outburst .",
    "we found that unlike quiescence , one can not fit the x - ray spectrum of u gem with a simple mekal based multi - temperature spectral model .",
    "instead , an additional non - thermal component , most likely a power - law , is needed .",
    "we should also note that when fitting the excess hard x - ray emission with a power - law , deviations from the continuum can be seen ( see figures [ subtracted ] and [ outburst_spectra ] ) . we think that these deviations arise because of the broadening and increase of the fluxes of the x - ray emission lines when compared to the quiescence phase . in",
    "order to be able to obtain better fits to the outburst data one should also be able to model the broadening of the lines physically , which is currently unavailable .",
    "interpretation of the extra x - ray component can be made as follows : since this component was observed only during outburst phase , there must be a mechanism which is temporarily available in outbursts . during quiescence ,",
    "the mass accretion rate is not enough to create an optically thick boundary layer , but in outbursts there is observational evidence for such a boundary layer @xcite . comparing the x - ray spectra obtained in quiescence and outburst",
    "we see that the optically thin plasma observed in quiescence , can also be seen in outburst with approximately the same temperature , but there exists an additional spectral component .",
    "reflection of this x - ray emitting plasma from the optically thick boundary layer might occur in outburst giving rise to the extra x - ray component .",
    "such reflection models are applied to agns , furthermore a similar detection for reflection during an outburst was reported by for ss cygni . according to the reflection scenario , besides this extra component , one would expect to see @xmath7 fluorescent lines and , due to the reflection of hard x - rays from the relatively cold euv emitting boundary layer .",
    "unfortunately in the high resolution chandra spectra of u gem during outburst those lines are either very weak or absent especially when compared to the resonance lines of fe appearent near 1.86  .",
    "moreover such reflection components are most effectively seen as a bump around 20 kev @xcite .",
    "another plausible explanation for this hard x - ray component arises with the help of low inertia magnetic accretor model ( lima ) @xcite . according to the model , during outbursts the spin up of an accretion belt of the weakly magnetic white dwarf",
    "will enhance the intrinsic magnetic field and with this way , magnetically channelled accretion can occur even on low field cv primaries .",
    "with such an accretion onto the equatorial belt of the primary , accretion curtains and shocks in the same manner as in the standard intermediate polar structure are possible @xcite .",
    "this model is useful for explaining the dwarf nova oscillations ( dnos ) observed in outbursts . in the model",
    "these dnos are interpreted as the pulsations at the rotation period of this transient magnetosphere .    as we have noted above",
    ", an equatorial accretion belt has been deduced from uv observations @xcite , @xcite .",
    "so if accretion curtains and shocks are likely to occur in u gem during outbursts then a thermal bremsstrahlung or a power - law like emission may be observed from the cooling post - shock gas showing us an extra x - ray component . from the chandra observations in quiescence ( s02 ) and hst observations during outburst @xcite",
    "it has been suggested that magnetic accretion is possible for u gem .",
    "we find a significant structure in one power spectrum that is similar to quasi periodic oscillations ( qpo ) .",
    "this feature appears around 73 mhz ( @xmath8 s. ) .",
    "transient dnos have been observed for u gem , during outbursts , in the 25 s. range , by exosat @xcite and euve @xcite .",
    "these oscillations may be arising from the transient magnetosphere which is predicted by the lima model .",
    "we , therefore , suggest that the extra x - ray spectral component as well as transient qpo we detected originates from a transient magnetosphere .",
    "another issue is the appearent changes in the emission line profiles , whose some of the properties are summarized in table [ emis_line ] .",
    "increase of the fluxes can be understood by assuming an high mass transfer to the inner disc during outuburst .",
    "this will increase the probability of collisions between particles , which will of course increase collisional ionization .",
    "however , explanation of the broadening of the lines can not be made as easy as increased fluxes , one assumption we can make is that the emission lines are now coming from a region rotating with keplerian velocities , which influences the idea that the matter , at the outer parts of the accretion disc , moving towards to the white dwarf during the outburst .",
    "although this idea is mainly in agreement with the standard outburst theories @xcite , it is not obvious from only one observation , because there are still some lines which are not as broadened as expected to form in a region rotating with a keplerian velocity .    in order to understand this phenomenon further broadband observations of u gem and as well as other cvs ,",
    "are needed to investigate the overall variations , particularly in the boundary layer , between the quiescence and outburst phases .",
    "authors are grateful to the anonymous refree for useful suggestions .",
    "e. g. acknowledges partial support by the turkish academy of sciences through grant e.g / tuba - gebip/2004 - 11 . this work is made use of observations obtained with xmm - newton , an esa science mission with instruments and contributions directly funded by esa member states and the usa ( nasa ) .",
    "we acknowledge with thanks the variable star observations from the aavso international database , contributed by observers worldwide and used in this research .",
    "28 arnaud k.a . , 1996 , astronomical data analysis software and systems v , eds . jacoby g. and barnes j. , p17 , asp conf .",
    "series volume 101 .",
    "beardmore a. p. , done c. , osborne j. p. , ishida m. , 1995 , mnras , 272,749 cheng f. h. , sion e. m. , horne k. , hubeny i. , huang , m. , @xmath9 vrtilek s. d. , 1997 , aj , 114 , 1165 cordova f. a. , @xmath9 mason k. o. , 1984 , mnras , 206 , 879 done c. , osborne j. p. , beardmore a. p. , 1995 ,",
    "mnras , 276 , 483 done c. , osborne j. p. , 1997 ,",
    "mnras , 288 , 649 jansen f. et al . , 2001 , a@xmath9a 365 , l1 kiplinger a. l. , sion e. m. , @xmath9 szkody p. , 1991 ,",
    "apj , 366 , 569 long k. s. , blair w. p. , bowers c. w. , davidsen a. f. , kriss g. a. , sion e. m. , 1993 , apj , 405 , 327 long k. s. , sion e. m. , huang m. , @xmath9 szkody p. , 1994",
    ", apj , 424 , 49 long k. s. , mauche c. w. , raymond j. c. , szkody p. , @xmath9 mattei j. a. , 1996 , apj , 469 , 841 mattei j. a. , mauche c. , @xmath9 wheatley p. j. , 2000 , javso , 28 , 160 mason o. k. , cordova f. a. , watson m. g. , king a. r. , 1988 , mnras , 232 , 779 mukai k. ; kinkhabwala a. ; peterson j. r. ; kahn s. m. ; paerels f. , 2003,apj , 586l , 77 pandel d. , cordova a. , howell s. b. , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 1231 pandel d. , cordova f. a. , mason k. o. , priedhorsky w. c. , 2005 , apj , 626 , 396 patterson j. @xmath9 raymond j. c. , 1985 , apj , 292 , 535 pringle j. e. , 1977 , mnras , 178 , 195 swank j. h. , boldt e. a. , holt s. s. , rothschild r. e. , @xmath9 serlemitsos p. j. , 1978 , apj , 226 , 133 szkody p. @xmath9 mattei j. a. 1984 , pasp , 96 , 988 szkody p. , long k. s. , sion e. m. , @xmath9 raymond j. c. , 1996 , apj , 469 , 834 szkody p. , nishikida k. , raymond j. c. , seth a. , hoard d.w . , long k. , sion e. m. , 2002 , apj , 574 , 942 ( s02 ) sion e. m. , cheng f. , szkody p. , huang m. , provencal j. , sparks w. , abbott b. , hubeny i. , mattei j. , shipman h. , 1997 , apj , 483 , 907 turner et al . , 2001 , a@xmath9a , 365 , l27 warner b. , woudt p. a. , 2002 , mnras , 335 , 84 warner b. , woudt p. a. , pretorius m. l. , 2003 , mnras , 344 , 1193 warner b. , cataclysmic variable stars , cambridge university press , cambridge woudt p. a. , warner b. , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 411"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we report the discovery of a high energy component of the x - ray spectra of u gem , which can be observed while the source is in outburst . </S>",
    "<S> we used chandra and xmm - newton observations to compare the quiescence and outburst x - ray spectra of the source . </S>",
    "<S> the additional component may be the result of the reflection of x - rays emitted from an optically thin plasma close to the white dwarf , from the optically thick boundary layer during the outburst . </S>",
    "<S> another possible explanation is that some magnetically channeled accretion may occur onto the equatorial belt of the primary causing shocks similar to the ones in the intermediate polars as it was suggested by @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> we have also found a timing structure at about 73 mhz ( @xmath013.7 s. ) in the rxte observation , resembling dwarf novae oscillations ( dnos ) .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    binaries : close -stars : dwarf novae -stars : individual : u gem -novae , cataclysmic variables -x - rays : stars . </S>"
  ]
}