{
  "article_text": [
    "clusters of galaxies provide an opportunity to study the formation of massive structures through gravitational accretion .",
    "the cluster dark matter potential well is an environment in which infalling and virialized galaxies interact with intra - cluster gas in a complex , time - dependent fashion involving dynamical friction with dark matter as well as galactic winds and ram - pressure stripping .",
    "measurements of cluster galaxies and gas temperatures as a function of radius , element abundances , luminosity - temperature relations and the evolution of these quantities with redshift all provide data to test theories of cluster formation and evolution .",
    "clusters also provide a probe of many cosmological parameters .",
    "the density of clusters forming as a function of redshift can be used to measure quantities such as 0 and the spectrum of density perturbations in the early universe .",
    "one problem which arises in exploring the topics described above is the @xmath0problem .",
    "assuming that gas and galaxies are both tracers of the dark matter potential well , and that no source of energy other than gravity is operative , there is a relation between the ratio of the internal energy of the galaxies and the gas temperature ( determined using spectroscopic data and generally termed ) to a quantity related to the gas and galaxy density profiles ( determined by fitting isophotes to the x - ray gas and optical emission and generally termed ) .",
    "the failure of these two quantities to agree in most clusters was noted some time ago @xcite .",
    "numerous solutions have been offered over the years .",
    "these include adjustments of to properly account for the galaxy distribution as indicated by galaxy - galaxy correlation measurements @xcite ; galaxy velocity distribution asymmetries @xcite ; incorrect determinations of due to contamination of velocity dispersions by cluster substructure @xcite ; and presence of significant galaxy - gas feedback or dynamical friction with dark matter @xcite .",
    "@xcite have proposed that the @xmath0problem is solved by excluding late - type galaxies when estimating the cluster velocity dispersion since such galaxies are still infalling and therefore not virialized .",
    "the @xmath0problem is significant for several reasons .",
    "the measurement of @xmath0 from x - ray and optical data provides information about the nature of galaxy - gas feedback .",
    "it is complementary to other methods used to probe the galaxy - gas interaction such as heavy element abundance gradients .",
    "the @xmath0problem will become increasingly important as more accurate cluster temperatures become available from _ chandra _ and _ xmm_. with improved temperature measurements , @xmath0 uncertainty , which appears in the conversion from gas temperature to mass in the press - schechter formula @xcite , can contribute significantly to the mass uncertainty .",
    "it is essential to confirm that the gas dynamic - dark matter simulations are correct , since they are utilized to obtain @xmath0 .",
    "in fact , the comparison of @xmath0 values derived from modeling with those obtained from optical observations indicate marginal agreement given the observational and theoretical uncertainties @xcite .",
    "many problems can lead to a cluster violating the assumptions required for to equal .",
    "these problems include use of non - virialized galaxy populations , use of galaxies associated with infall or other peculiarities in the velocity field , local sub - clustering , presence of cooling flows or magnetic fields etc .. there are several approaches to evaluating the possibilities .",
    "the first approach is to observe many clusters , with the number of spectra collected per cluster generally limited to @xmath1 or less , and to statistically analyze the resultant data . with adequate temperatures and substructure analyses the calculation of `` average '' cluster properties",
    "may then represent a `` typical '' member of the sample population , with any scatter being random . as a complement to this statistical approach , an analysis of individual clusters through use of extensive x - ray and optical data permits correction for many effects and thus provides an alternative testbed for comparison with both theory and the results of the statistical approach .",
    "such detailed analyses are rare because they require much high quality optical and x - ray data .",
    "we are obtaining large numbers of redshifts for several clusters for eventual comparison with _ xmm _ and _ chandra _ data .    in this paper",
    "we describe a detailed investigation of a262 .",
    "we augmented existing galaxy redshift data with a sample of new redshifts obtained with the automated multi - object spectrograph at lick observatory .",
    "we have also analyzed previously unpublished _",
    "rosat _ and _ asca _ data .",
    "the complete data set allows us to address the problems discussed above .",
    "we combined new observations of a262 with published redshifts to produce the sample from which we derived cluster optical properties . here",
    "we describe the new observations , compare our data to published data , and discuss the generation of a uniform catalog .",
    "we also present our analysis of the x - ray data to derive the profile and temperature of the x - ray gas .",
    "we use @xmath2 mpc@xmath3 in our analysis .      the automated multi - object spectrograph ( amos , craig et al .",
    "1993 ) consists of a robotic fiber positioner at the prime focus of the lick 3 m telescope , a fiber feed , and a floor - mounted spectrograph .",
    "sixty fibers ( 39 more are planned ) can be positioned within a @xmath4 field of view to an accuracy of 0.1 arcsecond .",
    "constraints on the fiber placement typically limit the number of fibers that can be assigned to objects and the unassigned fibers are used to monitor the sky background .",
    "we used the red channel of the spectrograph with the 700 line / mm grating giving a spectral resolution of 0.7 /pixel over the range 6200  7500 .",
    "a preliminary target list of galaxies brighter than @xmath5 in v within a262 was generated from a @xmath4-square digitized sky survey image centered on the cluster .",
    "our goal was to improve the velocity sampling within the virial radius of the cluster .",
    "we used two amos pointings , offset by only 18 arcminutes , to improve the density of targets selected within this region .",
    "final target selection by the fiber placement algorithm results in a random spatial sampling of this region .",
    "combining our observations with previously published velocities ensures that spatial biasing of the cluster is minimized .",
    "figure [ spat_sam ] shows the spatial distribution of our sample and the sample of previously published velocities .",
    "the elongation of the cluster in the sw to ne direction has been seen in every study of a262 ( see section [ applic ] for references ) .",
    "spectra were obtained using amos on the nights of 1998 november 1920 .",
    "the two pointings yielded 46 object spectra , 29 with an exposure time of 5400s and 17 with an exposure time of 9000s .",
    "since the spatial overlap for these two pointings is significant , the effect of the differing exposure times on our analysis of the cluster dynamics is negligible .",
    "the unassigned fibers monitored the night sky lines during the exposures and were used for the night sky subtraction .",
    "all observations were reduced and analyzed using iraf @xcite .",
    "the specred package was used to extract one - dimensional spectra from the registered and coadded ccd images .",
    "a wavelength solution was generated from calibration lamp spectra and was checked against the night sky lines and measured to have an internal error of less than 0.5 .",
    "we generated a master sky spectrum for each pointing and used the skytweak task to scale and shift the master sky until the rms of the object spectra was minimized .",
    "we chose to examine each spectrum individually to eliminate spurious velocities due to poor sky subtraction .",
    "the redshift of a262 ( @xmath6 ) puts the h-@xmath7 absorption feature in a region that is relatively free from night sky lines ( 6671 ) . for absorption systems",
    "the rvsao @xcite task xcsao was used to cross - correlate with a zero - velocity k giant spectrum from @xcite . for emission systems",
    "the rvsao task emsao was used with a line catalog that included h - alpha , nii , sii , and oii .",
    "heliocentric corrections were applied to derive the final velocities .",
    "as described below , @xcite r values , which measure the quality of the cross - correlations , were one of the criteria used for removing spurious velocities before combining with observations from the literature .",
    "the error in the velocity is calculated from the width of the cross - correlation peak and the r value ( see @xcite ) and also contributed to the selection process .",
    "the cfa redshift cataloghuchra / zcat/ ] @xcite formed the basis of our literature catalog . a search for more recent data , not included in the cfa catalog , revealed only the @xcite study of early - type galaxies .",
    "galaxies in common were used to check for systematic offsets between the three catalogs ( cfa , sgh98 , and ours ) prior to combining them .",
    "figure [ comp_ab ] shows the comparison for the absorption line systems in our catalog with both literature catalogs .",
    "we calculated the average and standard deviation of the velocity offsets with respect to each of the published catalogs .",
    "for the cfa catalog the offset is @xmath8  for 15 galaxies in common .",
    "the offset for the three common galaxies with the largest r values is @xmath9 . for the sgh98 catalog we derive an offset of @xmath10  with 5 galaxies in common .",
    "we also checked the previously observed emission line galaxies .",
    "this comparison is shown in figure [ comp_em ] .",
    "the calculated offset for the cfa catalog in this case is @xmath11  for 5 galaxies in common .",
    "there are only two galaxies in common with sgh98 and these yield an offset of @xmath12 .    based on these offsets and standard deviations",
    ", we concluded that there is no statistically significant velocity offset between the catalogs .",
    "we combined the catalogs into a master catalog of 207 velocities covering a262 out to a radius of @xmath13 .",
    "the velocities of galaxies with multiple observations were combined with a weighted average after checking each observation for quality . in the cases where there were three observations , any velocity that disagreed significantly with two velocities that agreed",
    "was removed before averaging . in the cases where there were two observations that disagreed significantly ,",
    "the good observation was chosen to have an r value of greater than 5.5 ( see figure [ comp_ab ] ) or to have the smaller quoted error .",
    "table [ tabobs ] lists the new velocities .",
    "the morphologies of our galaxies were derived from their appearance on the digitized sky survey image .",
    "most of the brighter galaxies had previously been classified and we used these classifications whenever possible .",
    "the previously unclassified galaxies in our catalog were divided into two broad categories depending on the presence or absence of disk - like structure .",
    "this division was refined using the spectroscopic appearance by classifying any galaxy with emission lines as a generic spiral , classifying any disk - like galaxy with no emission lines as an s0 , and classifying the remaining non - disk galaxies with no emission lines as generic ellipticals .",
    "we checked this classification scheme against the previously classified galaxies and confirmed its accuracy .",
    "50 galaxies , from 15 different sources within the cfa catalog , had no published classification . of these , 32 have published @xmath14 magnitudes and average 0.5 magnitudes fainter than the classified galaxies .",
    "this unclassified population has interesting properties and will be discussed in sections [ applic ] and [ discussion ] .",
    "we supplemented our optical data with x - ray data from public archives .",
    "hri data taken on 1996 july 25 , _ rosat _ pspc data taken on 1992 august 10 , and _ asca _ gis2 and gis3 data taken on 1994 january 2223 .",
    "all datasets were downloaded from the heasarc data archive .",
    "we used the hri data to fit the gas distribution because of its high spatial resolution , and because of a262 s very small core radius ( 0.01 mpc @xmath15 0.4 arcmin ) .",
    "we examined the _",
    "rosat _ pspc data to see if we could identify infalling galaxies by their x - ray emission and remove them from the sample . only 4 of our galaxies had an appreciable count rate in the pspc image ( @xmath16 0.01 ct s@xmath3 ) and removing these from the sample produced no detectable change in our results .",
    "figure [ hri_cont ] shows the x - ray contours for the _ rosat _ hri and figure [ gis_cont ] shows the x - ray contours for the _ asca gis _",
    "overplotted on an image from the digitized sky survey of a262 .",
    "all of the x - ray images show a centrally peaked , slightly elliptical , smooth profile .",
    "none show any sign of bi - modality and all have monotonically decreasing intensity profiles from the cluster center .",
    "djf96 analyzed the pspc image in detail and discuss the correlation between the x - ray and optical structure .",
    "they found that a modified king profile was consistent with the profile for a262 .",
    "the x - ray gas profile of a262 was fitted using the vignetting - corrected hri image available from the archive .",
    "this image includes data from hri spectral bands 2 to 10 and has a total exposure time of 14616s .",
    "we applied the isophote fitting routine ellipse from iraf @xcite and fit from 0100 pixels ( 013 arcmin ) using the geometric bin spacing algorithm which creates larger bins for the lower signal wings and smaller bins in the inner region where the signal is high and the profile is steep .",
    "we then fit the isophotal values with a modified king model .",
    "@xcite showed that a point source at the center of a cluster can systematically bias and recommend a process for fitting the profile that involves removing data points from the center until the reduced @xmath17 statistic stops getting smaller .",
    "others have used a similar technique to remove the influence of a central cooling flow @xcite .",
    "fitting the entire range of data gives a of @xmath18 and an x - ray core radius ( @xmath19 ) of @xmath20 mpc with a reduced @xmath17 of 3.05 .",
    "using the technique of na99 we removed the central 5 points ( out to 0.2 arcmin ) and fit a of @xmath21 with an @xmath19 of @xmath22 mpc at a reduced @xmath17 of 1.07 . to test for the influence of the central cd on this profile",
    ", we also fit the data after removing the data points out to the core radius ( 0.4 arcmin ) .",
    "this fit yielded values that agreed within the errors .",
    "the agreement of all these values indicates that the influence of a cooling flow or a central point source is small .",
    "djf95 used pspc data to derive a of @xmath23 which is consistent with our value to within the error bars .",
    "the core of a262 would be only partially resolved in the pspc and this may have produced a lower .",
    "our @xmath19 also agrees well with the optical core radius ( @xmath24 ) measured by @xcite .",
    "g98 measure a value of 0.02 mpc using a modified king profile for the surface density of galaxies in the optical .",
    "we adopt a value for of @xmath21 and @xmath19 of @xmath22 mpc for the remainder of our analysis .",
    "we utilized the _ ascascreen _ procedure from the heasarc software archive , with the strict background rejection setting , to filter the raw event files for the two gis detector data sets .",
    "the method outlined by @xcite for spatial - spectral fitting was followed .",
    "this consists of using xselect to extract spectra in annuli centered on the peak emission .",
    "we divided the central 12 arcminutes of the image into 4 annuli each 3 arcmin wide .",
    "the temperature gradient of a262 reported in djf95 is consistent with an isothermal profile and we did not attempt to fit temperatures for the individual annuli .",
    "the corresponding background spectra were extracted from the standard blank - sky observations covering the same cutoff rigidity range and with the same selection criteria .",
    "the xspec package @xcite was used to perform the spectral fitting using the _ ascac _ model which calculates the energy - dependent scattering between annuli given the spatial distribution of the emission .",
    "we used our derived profile convolved with the gis point spread function for the spatial model . for the spectral model we used a raymond - smith thermal plasma with photo - absorption and allowed the temperature , abundance , column density and normalization to vary .",
    "this produced a temperature for the gas of 1.79 kev ( 1.711.91 kev 90% cl ) at an abundance of @xmath25 z@xmath26 and a column density of @xmath27 with a reduced @xmath17 of 1.01 .",
    "we tested for possible contamination from the higher temperature background cluster 20 arcmin to the west of a262 ( see djf96 ) .",
    "we performed the same analysis , first dividing the image into a west half and an east half .",
    "the derived temperatures for both halves agreed with our previous result to within the errors and we conclude that this background cluster does not affect our analysis .",
    "our value for the temperature lies between that derived from _",
    "pspc data djf95 ; 1.36 kev ( 1.211.48 kev 90% cl ) , and that derived from einstein @xcite , _ exosat _ @xcite ; 2.4 kev ( 2.22.7 kev 90% cl ) , and _ ginga _ @xcite ; @xmath28 kev .",
    "the _ einstein _ , _ exosat _ , and _ ginga",
    "_ temperatures may be higher because they are contaminated by the background cluster due to their larger fields of view .",
    "the limited spectral coverage of the _ rosat _ pspc ( 0.22.0 kev ) may have biased the analysis of those data to lower temperatures .",
    "the _ asca _",
    "gis has a narrower field of view and good spectral resolution and coverage and so it does not suffer from either biasing or contamination .",
    "an x - ray temperature of @xmath29 kev ( 1@xmath30 ) is used for the rest of this paper .",
    "in this section we present the analysis of our redshift catalog to determine the dynamical properties of a262 .",
    "we used our expanded catalog of velocities to identify the subpopulation of galaxies within a262 that is the most relaxed and representative of the dark matter potential well .",
    "other studies have examined a262 using all populations and have not found significant substructure @xcite .",
    "girardi et al .",
    "used a multi - scale wavelet analysis with equally weighted spatial and velocity contributions for a large sample of clusters .",
    "they reproduced well - documented substructure in other clusters , but did not detect any in a262 .",
    "we find a complex picture emerges when the galaxies are examined by subpopulation .",
    "the completeness limit of our catalog ( @xmath31 in v , determined using the aps database ) does not allow us to draw strong conclusions about substructure from the spatial distribution of the catalog .",
    "however , our conclusions from the analysis of the velocities should be much more robust since the galaxies are then simply test - particles in the potential well of the cluster .",
    "the distance dimming through the cluster is only 0.1 magnitude so the sampling through the cluster is uniform .",
    "we first touch on the picture derived from the spatial distribution of the subpopulations and then examine the velocity data in detail .",
    "previous studies have noted that a262 has a centrally - concentrated early - type population of galaxies overlaid with a later - type population that is infalling from the pisces - perseus supercluster ridge , of which a262 is a member @xcite .",
    "figures [ spat_all][spat_late ] display the spatial distribution of the galaxies with velocities within the range @xmath32   and the peculiar velocities with respect to the cluster average . figure [ spat_early ] shows that the early - type population is centrally concentrated , while in figure [ spat_late ] the later - type population is clearly more dispersed .",
    "we present the velocity histograms for four subpopulations of galaxies within the virial radius in figure [ velhist ] .",
    "we used the rostat algorithm @xcite to test each of these histograms for gaussianity and to derive the average heliocentric velocity and velocity dispersion with errors using the bi - weight estimators which are robust to the presence of outliers .",
    "table [ tabvel ] presents the results of this analysis .",
    "the last three columns present the gaussianity test statistics .",
    "the first statistic is the scaled tail index ( ti , bird & beers 1993 ) which varies from 0.84 for a uniform distribution up to a 1.62 for a cauchy distribution .",
    "a gaussian distribution has a ti value of 1.0 .",
    "the early population is closest to gaussian using this statistic , the late population tends toward the uniform distribution , and the unclassified population is more centrally peaked than a gaussian , in agreement with the appearance of the histograms in figure [ velhist ] .",
    "the second and third statistics ( the a- and w - tests ) are described in @xcite . for",
    "the a - test an infinite gaussian distributed sample would have the value 0.7979 .",
    "again , the early population is closest to this value .",
    "the w - test statistic for a gaussian has a value of 1.0 .",
    "the early population has the value closest to 1.0 and also has the highest probability of being drawn from a gaussian parent population ( 92% ) .    as a test for the effects of incompleteness on our conclusions , we isolated a complete subsample of our catalog with @xmath33 and derived the same statistics .",
    "the values were identical within the much larger errors ( due to the smaller sample ) and we conclude that incompleteness has not effected our velocity analysis .      the average projected integrated heliocentric velocity profiles are presented in figure [ vhelio ] . the integrated projected velocity dispersion profiles ( vdps ) appear in figure [ vdp ] .",
    "each point was calculated with rostat as described above for each population and within the radius indicated .",
    "the cluster center is defined to be the position of ngc 708 , the central cd .",
    "there is some evidence that ngc 708 may be slightly offset from the dynamical center of the cluster ( see djf96 ) .",
    "we chose not to account for this due to the small magnitude of the offset and the large uncertainty in its value .",
    "the values for the entire cluster population , the early and late - type population , and the unclassified galaxies are plotted in the figures .",
    "the error bars are the 1@xmath30 confidence limits .",
    "several important features are apparent in these plots .",
    "each population shows an isothermal profile both in the vdp and in the heliocentric velocity .",
    "we tested 2nd order polynomial fits against flat fits using reduced @xmath17 statistics and found that the flat fits did as well or better than the polynomial fits in each case .",
    "there are two offsets that are significant in these plots as well .",
    "the early population is offset from the other populations in heliocentric velocity and the unclassified population is offset from the others in the vdp .",
    "we tested the significance of these offsets by using a chi - squared fitting technique which explicitly accounts for the fact that the true parameter values for the galaxy populations are unknown , and themselves estimated from the data .",
    "the best fit value for the early and late populations have them offset by 260 .",
    "the probability that the early and late type heliocentric velocity profile data is drawn from a common parent population is @xmath34 .",
    "the same analysis was performed to test the reality of the offset of the vdp profile of the unclassified population versus that of the classified galaxy population .",
    "the unclassified population vdp is offset from the classified population vdp by 230   and the chance that the two data sets are drawn from a common parent population is @xmath35 .",
    "the vdps for the late and early type galaxy populations are statistically indistinguishable .    the spatial distribution of the unclassified population is presented in figure [ spat_uncla ] .",
    "these galaxies can not be considered relaxed , despite their lower velocity dispersion , since they have a very dispersed spatial distribution , more like the late - type galaxies in figure [ spat_late ] .",
    "the profiles and spatial distributions are consistent with the previous studies of a262 described above .",
    "the isothermal vdp , centrally concentrated spatial distribution , and gaussianity tests confirm that the early - type population is relaxed .",
    "if infall of the unclassified population occurs along the supercluster ridge , which is coincident with the plane of the sky , this could explain their low velocity dispersion .",
    "table [ tabvel ] presents the derived properties out to @xmath36 for the four population samples of our catalog .",
    "we consider only the early - type population to be relaxed and will use their values for the remaining analysis .",
    "it can be seen from table [ tabvel ] that the influence of the late - type population on the velocity dispersion is small because of its similarity to the early - type velocity dispersion .",
    "the unclassifieds lower the velocity dispersion only slightly due to their small number but , since they are on average 0.5 magnitudes fainter than the the classified galaxies , a survey to fainter magnitudes may reveal a greater impact .",
    "we discuss potential explanations for this phenomenon in section  [ section - unclass ] .",
    "the equation for determining the radial velocity dispersion and velocity anisotropy parameter from the projected dispersion is derived in @xcite . using the notation of djf96 , @xmath37 where b is the projected radial coordinate in the line - of - sight , is the projected velocity dispersion , i(b ) is the projected galaxy surface brightness , is the volume density of galaxies , is the radial velocity dispersion , and @xmath38 the velocity anisotropy parameter @xmath39 . using a modified king profile for the galaxy density of @xmath40",
    ", we can solve this equation for the curve @xmath41 that reproduces the measured . in practice , due to observational errors ( primarily from ) , we find a region in the ( @xmath42 ) plane that satisfies the constraint .",
    "the optical core radius of the cluster galaxies is @xmath24 .",
    "the core radius we used for the king profile was @xmath24 determined in g98 .",
    "the influence of a central cd galaxy can complicate the determination of this quantity , but the solution region is fairly insensitive to its value .",
    "we note that djf96 simply used the @xmath19 they determined from the _ rosat _ pspc data , assuming that @xmath24 and @xmath19 were equal .    we assumed that @xmath38 and are independent of radius in the cluster . in order to further limit the solution set we impose a second constraint on and @xmath38 which comes from the virial mass .",
    "the connection is in the form of the jeans equation @xcite @xmath43 djf96 deduced and @xmath38 using the x - ray determined virial mass in equation ( [ eq2 ] ) .",
    "recently g98 has shown that excellent agreement can be obtained between x - ray and optical virial masses provided the optical virial masses are corrected for a surface energy term .",
    "this term accounts for the fact that observations are made out to a finite radius in the cluster .",
    "this correction has been emphasized in work on cnoc clusters @xcite .",
    "the corrected optical virial mass can be expressed in terms of the standard virial mass according to the following equation ( g98 ) : @xmath44 ^ 2 \\right ) , \\label{eq3}\\ ] ] where b is the boundary radius , @xmath45 the galaxy density evaluated at the boundary radius , @xmath46 the radial optical dispersion at the boundary radius , @xmath47 the total optical dispersion ( @xmath48 ) averaged out to the boundary radius .",
    "the uncorrected ( or standard ) virial mass is given by @xmath49 ( g98 , eq . [ 4 ] ) . given the virial mass , equations ( [ eq1 ] ) and ( [ eq2 ] ) further constrain the solution for ( @xmath42 ) .",
    "the values of ( @xmath42 ) so obtained will also provide a more accurate corrected virial mass .",
    "in quoting the virial mass below we refer to the total virial mass .",
    "as discussed by @xcite this is the mass contained within a radius of virialization defined by @xmath50 where is the critical mass density at redshift @xmath51 and @xmath52 the mean density of the cluster out to the virial radius .",
    "essentially all the virialized mass is accounted for if @xmath53 @xcite .",
    "g98 give an approximate method for determining the radius of virialization and @xcite give more exact iterative methods for determining the radius of virialization for different cosmological models .",
    "the virial mass we quote below is based on equation ( [ eq4 ] ) which gives @xmath54 mpc ( @xmath55 ) and , for the low redshift of a262 , differs by @xmath56 from the @xmath36 quoted in g98 .",
    "we used the following method to determine the range of orbital anisotropy , @xmath38 , and radial velocity dispersion , , that produce consistency between equations ( [ eq1 ] ) and ( [ eq2 ] ) .",
    "we used @xmath57 from g98 .",
    "we calculated the standard virial mass from equation ( [ eq3a ] ) using the early - type .",
    "then , from equation ( [ eq1 ] ) we get a range of and @xmath38 .",
    "we use these values to calculate the corrected virial mass from equation ( [ eq3 ] ) as a function of @xmath38 and use this in equation ( [ eq2 ] ) . figure [ ani_early ] plots",
    "the locus of , and @xmath38 from equation ( [ eq1 ] ) ( dashed lines ) and from equation ( [ eq2 ] ) ( solid lines ) for the early - type galaxies in a262 .    unlike djf96",
    ", we get complete overlap between these two distributions over all reasonable values of @xmath38 ( see below ) .",
    "we get a standard virial mass of 4.2@xmath5810@xmath59 m@xmath26 which is slightly higher than the value in g98 due to our higher , however our corrected virial mass ( 2.5@xmath5810@xmath59 m@xmath26 ) is greater by @xmath1525% ( at @xmath60 ) .",
    "g98 used a statistical method for determining the value of @xmath38 used in computing the mass correction .",
    "they divided all vdps into three categories : centrally rising , flat , and centrally falling .",
    "they assigned a262 to the centrally rising category . with our larger catalog",
    ", we measure a flat vdp for the global population as well as each subpopulation .",
    "this accounts for the difference in our correction to the virial mass .",
    "this analysis does not strongly constrain the range of a. in the following analysis we will take @xmath38 to be zero , but will also consider the implications of a range of velocity anisotropies for the determination of .",
    "the cluster gas is assumed to be described by the equation of hydrostatic equilibrium @xcite and this leads to an expression for the cluster mass @xmath61 where @xmath62 is the mean atomic weight of the gas and @xmath63 the intra - cluster gas temperature . equating the masses in equations",
    "( [ eq2 ] ) and ( [ eq5 ] ) leads to an expression for the ratio of galaxy radial velocity dispersion to gas temperature @xcite . using the notation of g98 with the modified king profiles and performing the logarithmic derivatives we obtain @xmath64 @xmath65 and @xmath66 in the case where the gas is isothermal and where the anisotropy parameter @xmath38 is negligible we can identify with the ratio of cluster galaxy internal energy to gas kinetic energy . in this case",
    "just reduces to @xmath67 .",
    "the failure of to equal is the @xmath0problem .    using @xmath68 , t@xmath69 kev , and assuming @xmath60 we get a of @xmath70 . with @xmath71 and from g98 of 0.73",
    "we get a of @xmath72 .",
    "our analysis obtains values for and which are consistent to within statistical uncertainties ; there is no @xmath0problem .",
    "the obtained in this study is twice as high as that previously obtained ( see table [ tabbetas ] ) .",
    "the we report is @xmath73 higher than prior determinations due to a new , lower for a262 reported in g98 . as a check on the g98 value",
    ", we used our complete galaxy sample to calculate .",
    "our is statistically indistinguishable from the g98 value , but has a larger uncertainty . for the early type population",
    "we obtain a slightly higher but the errors are even larger for this very limited sample and our result is , within errors , consistent with g98 .",
    "therefore we have adopted the g98 number as the best current value of .",
    "our conclusion that there is no @xmath0problem in a262 , while the same as that drawn by djf96 , is based on very different observational inputs and contains considerable subtleties .",
    "moreover , although we both conclude that there is no @xmath0problem , our higher has different implications ( discussed below ) for galaxy - gas feedback models .",
    "it is probably correct to discount the late - type galaxies in calculating but not because they have a different velocity dispersion from the early - type galaxies , as djf96 suggested .",
    "indeed , the late - type galaxies velocity dispersion and vdp are statistically indistinguishable from the early - type galaxies and thus they do not affect the calculation of at all .",
    "but , they clearly represent a distinct , unrelaxed cluster population .",
    "this manifests itself in their heliocentric velocity which differs from the early - type galaxies , their spatially extended distribution , and their non - gaussian ( but isothermal ) velocity distribution .",
    "the unclassified population has an isothermal vdp but does have a statistically significant difference in velocity dispersion ( see section [ section - unclass ] ) .",
    "this population also has a peculiar heliocentric velocity .",
    "they should definitely be excluded from any calculation of in a262 , but as a practical matter they are a small enough population ( at least in a262 ) that they do not seriously affect the value of .",
    "finally , the isothermal temperature profile of the galaxies , and lack of a significant x - ray temperature gradient ( reported in djf95 ) all argue against anomalies that might alter the conclusion that the @xmath0problem does not exist in this cluster .    the basis for the difference in between this work and djf96 is twofold .",
    "firstly , our measurement of the velocity dispersion of the virialized early - type galaxies ( 569 ) is much higher than the 330   @xcite used by djf96 .",
    "the low value of velocity dispersion was based on only 9 elliptical galaxies , which shows the importance of obtaining a statistically large sample for analysis of subpopulations within a cluster .",
    "secondly , the x - ray temperature we determined from the asca data is higher than that determined by djf96 from the rosat data .",
    "it is , however , the large difference in velocity dispersion between our samples that dominates the difference in .",
    "the solution to the @xmath0problem presented here , at twice the previously reported , has implications for the general state of a262 .",
    "we have quoted a solution for the assumption that the velocity anisotropy parameter @xmath60 .",
    "the flat vdps that we measure for the early - type galaxy population suggest @xmath60 is a plausible supposition .",
    "however , as figure [ ani_early ] indicates , the radial velocity and @xmath38 are not well - constrained by either the jeans equation method or the line - of - sight velocity dispersion method .",
    "indeed , these two approaches produce virtually identical constraints on radial velocity and @xmath38 .",
    "the two methods should give the same constraints but often do not .",
    "our excellent agreement results from using the corrected optical virial mass as determined by the method of @xcite ( equation [ eq3 ] ) in the jeans equation and then iterating to demand self - consistency between the jeans equation and the corrected virial mass equation . with this procedure",
    "the jeans equation is determining the correct and @xmath38 relation , just as the line - of - sight velocity dispersion method does ( equation [ eq1 ] ) .",
    "indeed , it is precisely because we are properly utilizing the jeans equation that it provides no extra information about the relation between and @xmath38 beyond that obtained from the line - of - sight velocity dispersion equation .",
    "however , the excellent agreement between these determinations does tell us that the early type galaxy population used in the analysis is well - virialized .    aside from assuming the plausible @xmath60 , we can draw a coarse conclusion about the maximum value of @xmath38 in this cluster .",
    "the very largest values of , measured for clusters in which there is minimal substructure , is @xmath74 ( bmm95 ) . for our nominal curve of @xmath41 , this would imply a rough upper limit of @xmath75 .",
    "this is entirely consistent with the work of @xcite who found a range of @xmath38 from @xmath76 to @xmath77 for their cluster ensemble derived from 16 clusters in the cnoc1 survey .",
    "the higher we have found for this cluster is most relevant to discussions of galaxy - gas feedback and entropy - floor models . if @xmath60 , then our for a262 is consistent with the mean value of ( @xmath78 , see table [ tabbetas ] ) determined for several large cluster samples which either had substructure corrections applied or involved luminous x - ray selected systems claimed to be less likely to have substructure .",
    "a larger has been obtained from a cluster sample of more heterogeneous morphology ( @xmath79 , see table [ tabbetas ] ) .",
    "our 90% lower limit on is 0.95 for @xmath60 . assuming that @xmath80 , the lowest @xmath38 obtained in the van der marel et .",
    "sample , the lower limit on is @xmath81 .",
    "these lower limits both imply that a262 could have at most a @xmath82 enhancement of gas temperature with respect to galaxy temperature .",
    "this ( at most ) mild overheating of gas with respect to galaxies we obtain for a262 is in marked contrast to the factor of 2 overheating inferred from the of djf96 .",
    "it is interesting to place our results in the context of models for galaxy - gas feedback through winds in early galaxies or through dynamical friction in galaxies .",
    "several authors have suggested a correlation between cluster velocity dispersion and gas temperature steeper than predicted by the virial equation ( see bmm95 and references therein ) but the scatter in the cluster data is large .",
    "nevertheless , a steeper relation between velocity dispersion and gas temperature ( effectively a temperature - dependent ) can be argued as resulting from winds injecting energy into the cluster or from dynamic friction of galaxies in the cluster .",
    "the simulations of @xcite as presented in bmm95 , which include the dark matter , galaxies and winds , offer support for the contention that is temperature dependent .",
    "their simulations would predict , given the temperature of a262 , that @xmath83 .",
    "this is substantially lower than the lower limit we have derived for .",
    "the simulations suggest that a cluster would need a @xmath84 kev to obtain the type of we measure .",
    "there are possible problems with this analysis . as pointed out by bmm95 , to obtain this t - dependent , the simulations required the use of much greater wind luminosities for early galaxies than are realistic .",
    "the assumption that galaxies can be modeled as collisionless particles is also questionable @xcite . since a262 gives results consistent in all respects with a well - relaxed system suffering from minimal substructure complications in the early - type galaxy population , the discrepancy with the predictions of wind models are hard to ignore . while the analysis in bmm95 lends support to the idea of a t - dependent , it is not clear on the whole whether that translates into support for the galaxy wind models . clearly , further work is warranted on models attempting to predict this velocity dispersion - temperature correlation .",
    "we have demonstrated there is no @xmath0problem in a262 .",
    "our solution is consistent with @xcite , who suggested the @xmath0problem is likely associated with improper determinations of velocity dispersion , as emphasized in bmm95 .",
    "alternately , it should be pointed out that bahcall and lubin ( 1994 ) have proposed that the beta - problem vanishes in general when one utilizes the proper average net galaxy density around clusters , as determined from galaxy - cluster cross - correlation .",
    "this approach provides a shallower dependence on ( @xmath85 , schombert 1988 ; bahcall 1977 ) than the canonical king approximation ( @xmath86 ) .",
    "it produces a value of which is in better agreement with when both are suitably averaged over an ensemble of clusters .",
    "the agreement is purported to hold even in the case of non - isothermal clusters ( cf .",
    "[ eq5 ] ) .",
    "this is not in agreement with bmm95 , since their solution requires only gravitational energy to feed the cluster processes .",
    "it is possible that all these works suffer from the shortcoming of relying on ensembles of clusters to draw conclusions about .",
    "additional insights should be obtained as more individual clusters are scrutinized with detailed optical and x - ray studies to form a comprehensive picture of their interactions .",
    "two unvirialized galaxy subpopulations have been identified in a262 .",
    "the late - type galaxies have a mean velocity dispersion averaged over the virial radius and a vdp which are statistically the same as those for the early - type galaxies .",
    "they are dynamically distinct in that they show a much less concentrated spatial distribution and have a significant velocity offset with respect to the early - type galaxies .",
    "the unclassified galaxies are distinct from the early - type galaxies for these same two reasons , but in addition have a significantly lower ( but flat ) vdp . based on their appearance in figure [ vhelio ] ,",
    "the unclassifieds are a mix of early and late - type galaxies in the central bin and become more dominated by the late - type galaxies as @xmath87 increases .",
    "the most peculiar aspect of the unclassified galaxies is their low vdp .",
    "if they represent a more recent infalling wave of galaxies whose peculiar motion is along the plane of the sky , this would explain their lower velocity dispersion .",
    "they could also be a ` local field ' population originating from the pisces - perseus supercluster ridge which is coincident with the plane of the sky .",
    "these low - luminosity and presumably low - mass galaxies could have been ejected from other clusters in the supercluster ridge through mass segregation . in this description ,",
    "the early - type galaxies trace the cluster potential well , the late - type ( classified ) galaxies have infallen , but not yet equilibrated with the cluster potential , and the unclassified galaxies trace the background supercluster at a constant velocity offset and lower velocity dispersion .",
    "have previously discussed how such field galaxies , if not properly accounted for , may contribute to the existence of a @xmath0problem .      using the optical and x - ray analyses we can compare the virial masses determined by the two methods .",
    "the equation of hydrostatic equilibrium ( see djf95 , eq .",
    "3 ) yields an x - ray mass of @xmath88 . from our velocity dispersion within the virial radius ,",
    "assuming an anisotropy parameter of @xmath60 and using the correction of @xcite , we derive an optical mass of @xmath89 .",
    "the agreement between the two determinations is quite good ( 25% ) and well within the statistical errors .",
    "g98 reported that optical and x - ray determined virial masses for a large ensemble of clusters could on average be brought into a statistical agreement of @xmath90 if the optical virial masses were corrected for the surface term in the virial equation as prescribed in @xcite .",
    "we have shown here that the same techniques , employed on individual clusters in which a virialized galaxy subpopulation can be identified , also yields good agreement between x - ray and optical masses .",
    "djf96 concluded that the gas temperature in a262 was a factor of 2 higher than the galaxy temperature . a high ( but not that high ) gas temperature",
    "relative to the galaxy temperature fits comfortably into a larger theoretical framework for understanding clusters .",
    "observations of low richness class clusters , including a262 , show that the cluster entropy , when plotted as a function of radius normalized to the cluster virial radius , tends to be flat in the interior regions , and increases sharply at larger radii .",
    "this is roughly consistent with predictions of the `` entropy floor '' model ( evrard & henry 1991 ; djf96 ) . in the entropy floor model there",
    "is assumed to be substantial preheating of the proto - intracluster medium at high redshift .",
    "this heating leads to an adiabatic cluster inner region , and increasing entropy in the outer regions due to shock heating of infalling gas .",
    "the entropy floor model not only makes a specific prediction about the entropy as a function of cluster radius ( normalized to the virial radius ) , but it also makes a definite prediction about the cluster @xmath91 relation .",
    "recent observational data on several sets of clusters @xcite suggest an @xmath91 relation for the entropy floor model which is roughly consistent with the observed slope of the @xmath91 relation .",
    "the entropy floor model also correctly predicts the observed minimal ( or no ) evolution of the @xmath91 relation with redshift .",
    "more complex models also make predictions which are in accord with current data , including semi - analytic models in which the @xmath91 slope changes with cluster temperature @xcite , the punctuated equilibrium model @xcite and certain wind models @xcite .",
    "the entropy floor model does appear to provide agreement with the radial entropy profile in a262 as determined by djf96 .",
    "the flatter gas profile is also in accord with models in which there is early heating of the gas .",
    "these models also predict substantially higher gas than galaxy temperatures in poor richness class clusters .",
    "the higher gas temperature is expected because energy input from the galaxies into the gas is roughly independent of the richness class , leading to disproportionate heating in the low richness class clusters .",
    "our range in a262 is consistent with no overheating of gas with respect to galaxies , or a very mild overheating ( @xmath92 ) .",
    "this is in accord with observations of other clusters with minimal substructure . given the x - ray temperature of a262 , one would estimate from the model results presented in bmm95 that the of a262 would be @xmath93 .",
    "the error on this quantity could be substantial , so it is difficult to ascertain whether or not there is a statistically significant disagreement with our results .",
    "it is possible that the flat entropy profile of a262 is commensurate with very mild overheating of gas with respect to galaxies , rather than the gross overheating argued for by djf96 .",
    "the fact that galaxy - gas feedback models predict the entropy profile , but may be inconsistent with typical values near unity  indicative of either non - existent or mild overheating of the gas  is a conundrum .",
    "this conundrum prompted us to look into the entropy - floor model in more detail , independent of the a262 study .",
    "we have found significant new support for the model in that it provides a theoretical basis for understanding a recently discovered empirical relationship between @xmath19 , @xmath36 , and for a given cluster ( na99 ) . in na99",
    "a quadratic correlation was discovered between and @xmath94 .",
    "a two parameter empirical fit was utilized which involved an overall normalization and a cluster scale length .",
    "as explained below we have produced a fit to the correlation using the data set of na99 , obtaining it at higher statistical significance and without removing any select clusters ( as was done in na99 ) .",
    "moreover the entropy floor model requires only one , not two free parameters .    to obtain this correlation we used the entropy - floor model relation as given in @xcite for",
    "the central gas density scaling with temperature , @xmath95 , along with an expression for the virial density at radius @xmath36 , @xmath96^{3\\bgas/2}}\\;r^2 dr , \\label{eq7a}\\ ] ] where @xmath19 is the core radius and @xmath97 the baryonic mass fraction .",
    "this relation can be manipulated to obtain a relation between @xmath19 , @xmath36 , and : @xmath98 in this equation , @xmath99 is a scale length which depends on the thermodynamics of the energy input and cosmological model ( largely irrelevant for the na99 sample which was at low redshift ) .",
    "equation ( [ eq7 ] ) provides a definite relation between the quantities of relevance , and the only fit parameter , the scale length .",
    "in addition , na99 were unable to definitively conclude whether the correlation they deduced was simply between and @xmath19 or @xmath94 .",
    "the entropy - floor model clearly indicates that the relationship is between and the radius ratio .",
    "we have compared the predictions of the entropy - floor model in this case directly with the cluster data set of na99 .",
    "we have followed exactly their procedure for assessing the significance of the correlation . in particular , we used @xmath17 fitting to assess the significance of the results and we increased the error bars on the observational quantities in the manner prescribed by na99 to account for the highly correlated errors between @xmath19 and .",
    "figure [ beta_rcrv ] presents the data overlaid with the model predictions .",
    "our best fits indicate that the model and data agree at better than the 99% confidence level .",
    "this agreement is much better than the @xmath100 confidence level obtained in na99 .",
    "moreover , we used all the cluster data and one less free parameter in our fit .",
    "even the @xmath100 confidence level of na99 was only obtained when 4 clusters were dropped from the data set .",
    "our relation is more complicated than just a quadratic relation , but it also rests on a firmer theoretical foundation .",
    "the scale length @xmath99 that we derive is , within fitting uncertainties , comparable to that of the 2 parameter fit of na99 .",
    "the na99 sample consists of fairly high temperature ( @xmath101 kev ) clusters .",
    "thus , the assumption of the entropy - floor model that the luminosity is dominated by bremsstrahlung and not line emission is certainly valid .",
    "however , the sample of na99 does not constitute a homogeneous class of clusters and one might expect more detailed fitting , perhaps with different scale lengths , to be required .",
    "na99 pointed out the need for a cluster sample covering a wider range of temperature and richness class .",
    "viewed in this fashion , the above derived relation within the entropy - floor model seems very encouraging and surprisingly robust .",
    "na99 argue that the regularity they find in gas density profiles outside the cluster cores , independent of temperature , is evidence that non - gravitational heating is negligible in their sample .",
    "they point out that this is consistent with the recent work of @xcite , who demonstrated that lower t clusters have higher entropies .",
    "however the entropy - floor model assumes a non - gravitational heating effect that decreases with increasing temperature .",
    "the fact that equation ( [ eq7 ] ) fits the relation between , @xmath19 and @xmath36 fairly well , regardless of temperature , validates the idea of substantial early heating of the proto - intracluster medium ( as do flat entropy profiles in low richness class clusters ) .",
    "the cluster sample does not go to low enough temperatures to determine whether or not the derived relation will also hold for lower temperature , lower richness class clusters .",
    "for these clusters the heating is relatively stronger but this effect is perhaps offset by the increased dominance of line emission cooling compared to bremsstrahlung .",
    "nevertheless we show the a262 data point in figure [ beta_rcrv ] , and the prediction of equation ( [ eq7 ] ) .",
    "the agreement is good .",
    "\\1 ) the early and late - type galaxy populations in a262 both have isothermal vdps .",
    "there is no evidence that the early - type galaxies have a much lower velocity dispersion than the late - type galaxies .",
    "the velocity dispersion of the early populations is 569 , much higher than the 330   used in a previous solution to the @xmath0problem , and based on a sample of only 9 elliptical galaxies .",
    "the main population of late - type galaxies do differ from the early - type galaxies in having a non - gaussian velocity dispersion , a different heliocentric velocity and a spatially extended profile .",
    "\\2 ) the derived for a262 on the basis of improved velocity dispersion and x - ray gas temperature measurements is @xmath70 , consistent with the global mean for clusters with minimal substructure .",
    "the gas temperature is not a factor of 2 higher than the galaxy temperature , as previous measurements had suggested , but rather comparable .",
    "therefore there is no evidence for strong galaxy - gas feedback .",
    "the new observations may be in better accord with models since they do not require artificially high wind velocities or strong dynamical friction to produce a dramatic factor of 2 difference in the gas and galaxy temperature .",
    "\\3 ) to within the observational uncertainties there is no @xmath0problem in a262 . for a velocity anisotropy parameter of @xmath60",
    "the galaxy temperature is slightly higher than the gas temperature ( @xmath102 ) , although within the observational uncertainties the galaxy temperature could be slightly less than the gas temperature by an almost comparable amount ( @xmath82 ) . even for reasonable anisotropies",
    "the best fit gas and galaxy temperature are also approximately the same .",
    "the important point is that the @xmath0problem is solved in a fashion which does not require significant gas heating with respect to galaxies .",
    "the derived is in much better agreement with that obtained from a statistical analysis of for either x - ray selected clusters or optically selected clusters with substructure corrections applied .",
    "\\4 ) we have discovered a population of unclassified , low luminosity galaxies with an isothermal vdp but with a much lower velocity dispersion than the standard cluster galaxy populations .",
    "these galaxies have a roughly uniform spatial distribution unlike the main virialized early - type galaxy population , which is centrally concentrated .",
    "they may represent a second population of infalling late - type galaxies or a ` local field ' population which distinguish themselves from the primary population only by their smaller velocity dispersion .",
    "they are probably associated with the pisces - perseus ridge in which a262 is located .",
    "\\5 ) we have used the entropy - floor model to develop a relation that explains the recently discovered correlation between cluster and the ratio of @xmath103 to @xmath36 .",
    "the correlation can be explained with a one parameter fit , rather than the two parameter empirical fits previously employed .",
    "this provides additional support for the entropy - floor model in addition to its ability to approximately predict the @xmath91 relation and the fact that flat entropy profiles are found in low richness class clusters .",
    "we acknowledge useful discussions with jacqueline vangorkom and david j. helfand .",
    "we also acknowledge the useful comments from the anonymous referee .",
    "optical observations were made using the automated multi - object spectrometer at the university of california s lick observatory .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained from the high energy astrophysics science archive research center ( heasarc ) , provided by nasa s goddard space flight center .",
    "we have also used nasa s extra - galactic database , ads abstract service , and the digitized sky survey at stsci .",
    "arnaud , k.a .",
    "1996 , astronomical data analysis software & systems v , eds .",
    "jacoby g. & barnes j. , p17 , asp conf .",
    "series volume 101 arnaud , m. & evrard , a. e. 1999 , , 305 , 631 bahcall , n. a. 1977 , ara&a , 15 , 505 bahcall , n. a. , & lubin , l. m. 1994 , , 426 , 513 beers , t. c. , flynn , k. , & gebhardt , k. 1990 , , 100 , 32 binney , j. , & tremain , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics ( princeton : princeton univ . press ) bird , c. m. & beers , t. c. 1993 , , 105 , 1596 bird , c. m. , mushotzky , r. f. , & metzler , c. a. 1995 , , 453 , 40 ( bmm95 ) carlberg , r. g. , yee , h. k. c. , ellingson , e. , abraham , r. , gravel , p. , morris , s. , & pritchet , c. j. 1996 , 462 , 32 cavaliere , a. , & fusco - femiano , r. 1976 , , 49 , 137 cavaliere , a. , menci , n. , & tozzi , p. 1997",
    ", , 484 , l21 cavaliere , a. , menci , n. , & tozzi , p. 1999",
    ", , 308 , 599 crone , m. m. , evrard , a. e. , & richstone , d. o. 1994 , , 434 , 402 craig , w. w. , cook , k. h. , hailey , c. j. , brodie , j. p. 1993 , in gray , p. m. , ed , proceedings of the second `` fibre optics in astronomy '' conference , asp , 37 , 106 david , l. p. , slyz , a. , jones , c. , forman , w. , & vrtilek , s. d. 1993 , , 412 , 479 david , l. p. , jones , c. , & forman , w. 1995 , , 445 , 578 ( djf95 ) david , l. p. , jones , c. , & forman , w.(1996 , , 473 , 692 ( djf96 ) edge , a. c. , & stewart , g. c. 1991 , , 252 , 414 edge , a. c. , & stewart , g. c. 1991 , , 252 , 428 evrard , a. e. , & henry , j. p. 1991",
    ", , 383 , 95 fabricant , d. , lecar , m. , & gorenstein , p. 1980 , , 241 , 552 frenk , c. s. , evrard , a. e. , white , s. d. m. , & summers , f. j. 1996 , , 472 , 460 girardi , m. , escalera , e. , fadda , d. , giuricin , g. , mardirossian , f. , & mezzetti , m. 1997 , , 482 , 41 girardi , m. , giuricin , g. , mardirossian , f. , mezzetti , m. , & boschin , w. 1998a , , 505 , 74 ( g98 ) girardi , m. , borgani , s. , giuricin , g. , mardirossian , f. , & mezzetti , m. 1998b , , 506 , 45 gunn , j. e. , & gott , j. r. , iii 1972 , , 176 , 1 henry , j. p. 1997",
    ", , 489 , l1 huchra , j. p. 1999",
    ", cfa redshift catalog , unpublished jacoby , g. h. , hunter , d. a. , & christian , c. a. 1984 , , 56 , 257 jedrzejewsky , r. i. 1987 , , 226 , 747 kurtz , m. j. , & mink , d. j. 1998 , pasp , 110 , 934 lubin , l. m. & bahcall , n. a. 1993 , , 415 , l17 menci , n. , & fusco - femiano , r. 1986 , , 472 , 46 metzler , c. a. , & evrard , a. e. 1994 , , 437 , 564 moss , c. , & dickens , r. j. 1977 , , 178 , 701 press , w. h. , & schechter , p. 1974 , , 187 , 425 neumann , d. m. , & arnaud , m. 1999 , , 348 , 711 ponman , t. j. , cannon , d. b. , & navarro , j. f. 1999 , , 397 , 135 sakai , s. , giovanelli , r. , & wegner , g. 1994 , , 108 , 33 sarazin , c. l. 1986 , rev .",
    "phys . , 58 , 1 schombert , j. m. 1988 , , 328 , 475 scodeggio , m. , giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m. p. 1998",
    ", , 116 , 2738 ( sgh98 ) tody , d. 1986 , proc .",
    "spie , 627 , 733 tonry , j. , & davis , m. 1979 , , 84 , 1511 van der marel , r. p. , magorrian , j. , carlberg , r. g. , yee , h. k. c. , & ellingson , e. , submitted , astro - ph/9910494 yahil , a. & vidal , n. v. 1977 , , 214 , 347      1 & - & 01 50 33.40 & + 36 16 42.5 & @xmath104 & 3.5 & - & -2 & + 2 & - & 01 50 45.83 & + 36 12 31.5 & @xmath105 & 3.6 & - & -7 & + 3 & ic 1732 & 01 50 47.89 & + 35 55 57.7 & @xmath106 & 15.4 & - & -2 & cfa + 4 & - & 01 50 51.78 & + 35 40 33.6 & @xmath107 & 3.4 & - & -2 & + 5 & - & 01 50 56.76 & + 36 08 41.0 & @xmath108 & 2.7 & - & -2 & + 6 & - & 01 51 26.56 & + 35 56 03.1 & @xmath109 & 7.9 & - & -7 & + 7 & 01485 + 3549 & 01 51 29.20 & + 36 03 57.5 & @xmath110 & 5.8 & 6 & 5 & cfa + 8 & a0148 + 3537 & 01 51 32.48 & + 35 52 32.2 & @xmath111 & 4.3 & - & -7 & cfa + 9 & - & 01 51 51.70 & + 36 15 01.8 & @xmath112 & 5.4 & - & -7 & + 10 & a0148 + 3614 & 01 51 53.26 & + 36 29 08.3 & @xmath113 & 3.7 & - & 20 & cfa + 11 & ngc 700 & 01 52 12.74 & + 36 05 50.6 & @xmath114 & 6.0 & - & -2 & cfa , sgh98 + 12 & 01493 + 3547 & 01 52 16.86 & + 36 02 12.2 & @xmath115 & 9.0 & - & -2 & cfa , sgh98 + 13 & ugc 1339 & 01 52 24.85 & + 35 51 23.0 & @xmath116 & 17.2 & - & -2 & cfa + 14 & a0149 + 3615 & 01 52 28.03 & + 36 29 52.3 & @xmath117 & 4.3 & - & 20 & cfa + 15 & - & 01 52 34.14 & + 36 03 09.5 & @xmath118 & 3.9 & - & -7 & + 16 & 01497 + 3615 & 01 52 34.73 & + 36 30 03.0 & @xmath119 & 4.7 & - & 1 & cfa + 17 & ngc 704a & 01 52 37.71 & + 36 07 36.6 & @xmath120 & 6.8 & - & -2 & cfa + 18 & ngc 709 & 01 52 50.66 & + 36 13 24.3 & @xmath121 & 8.0 & - & -2 & cfa + 19 & ngc 710 & 01 52 53.94 & + 36 03 11.5 & @xmath122 & 4.7 & 5 & 5 & cfa + 20 & 01500 + 3615 & 01 52 57.46 & + 36 30 46.2 & @xmath123 & 4.9 & - &",
    "3 & cfa + 21 & a0150 + 3551b & 01 52 59.59 & + 36 06 26.1 & @xmath124 & 6.4 & - & -7 & cfa + 22 & - & 01 53 04.07 & + 35 51 01.7 & @xmath125 & 4.2 & 5 & 20 & + 23 & - & 01 53 04.92 & + 36 35 24.4 & @xmath126 & 5.0 & - & -2 & + 24 & a0150 + 3606a & 01 53 09.47 & + 36 20 44.6 & @xmath127 & 4.8 & - & 20 & cfa + 25 & 01504 + 3546 & 01 53 23.82 & + 36 00 43.8 & @xmath128 & 6.4 & - & -5 & cfa , sgh98 + 26 & ngc 714 & 01 53 29.66 & + 36 13 16.6 & @xmath129 & 5.4 & - & 0 & cfa , sgh98 + 27 & 01509 + 3606 & 01 53 50.15 & + 36 21 01.1 & @xmath130 & 3.0 & 3 & -5 & cfa , sgh98 + 28 & - & 01 53 51.49 & + 36 12 11.9 & @xmath131 & 3.7 & - & -7 & + 29 & 01513 + 3540 & 01 54 11.32 & + 35 55 20.5 & @xmath132 & 4.9 & 5 & 1 & cfa + 30 & - & 01 54 47.50 & + 36 01 20.4 & @xmath133 & 4.4 & - & -7 & + 31 & - & 01 54 51.54 & + 35 57 32.4 & @xmath134 & 4.9 & - & -2 & + 32 & - & 01 54 54.28 & + 36 01 57.8 & @xmath135 & 6.7 & - & -2 & + 33 & a0151 + 3537 & 01 54 55.05 & + 35 52 28.2 & @xmath136 & 4.1 & 4 & 20 & cfa +    lrrrrrrr all & 101 & @xmath137 & @xmath138 & 0.967 & 0.804 & 0.983 ( 66% ) + early & 38 & @xmath139 & @xmath140 & 0.973 & 0.799 & 0.985 ( 92% ) + late & 40 & @xmath141 & @xmath142 & 0.861 & 0.832 & 0.962 ( 28% ) + unclass & 23 & @xmath143 & @xmath144 & 1.036 & 0.766 & 0.978 ( 85% ) +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an investigation of the dynamical state of the cluster a262 . existing optical line of sight velocities for select cluster galaxies have been augmented by new data obtained with the automated multi - object spectrograph at lick observatory . </S>",
    "<S> we find evidence for a virialized early - type population distinct from a late - type population infalling from the pisces - perseus supercluster ridge . </S>",
    "<S> we also report on a tertiary population of low luminosity galaxies whose velocity dispersion distinguishes them from both the early and late - type galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we supplement our investigation with an analysis of archival x - ray data . a temperature is determined using _ asca _ </S>",
    "<S> gis data and a gas profile is derived from _ rosat _ </S>",
    "<S> hri data .    the increased statistics of our sample results in a picture of a262 with significant differences from earlier work . </S>",
    "<S> a previously proposed solution to the `` @xmath0problem '' in a262 in which the gas temperature is significantly higher than the galaxy temperature is shown to result from using too low a velocity dispersion for the early - type galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> our data present a consistent picture of a262 in which there is no `` @xmath0problem '' , and the gas and galaxy temperature are roughly comparable . there is no longer any requirement for extensive galaxy - gas feedback to drastically overheat the gas with respect to the galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we also demonstrate that entropy - floor models can explain the recent discovery that the @xmath0 values determined by cluster gas and the cluster core radii are correlated . </S>"
  ]
}