{
  "article_text": [
    "the gamma - ray bursts which _ swift _ detects depend on the physical properties of the burst alert telescope ( bat ) , _ swift _ s gamma - ray detector , and on the bat s triggering system .",
    "the dependence of the bat s detection sensitivity on a burst s temporal and spectral characteristics shapes the burst population that _ swift _ studies .",
    "while the _ swift _ observations are revealing a wealth of new phenomena through the study of individual bursts , we also want to relate these bursts to the bursts studied by previous missions . in particular , because of the large and statistically well - defined sample of more than 2700 bursts it collected , the burst and transient source experiment ( batse ) on the _ compton gamma - ray observatory ( cgro ) _ is the reference detector to which subsequent detectors such as the bat are compared .",
    "therefore , in this work i use the bat s on - orbit calibration to gain a deeper understanding of the detector s sensitivity to different types of bursts . the insight from this study",
    "will help the design of future missions , such as _ exist _ ( grindlay 2005 ) .",
    "the bat detects approximately 100 bursts per year .",
    "compared to batse s burst sample , a higher fraction of the bursts the bat detects are long duration ( @xmath0  s ) bursts ( see figure  1 ) , although the few short duration bursts that have been detected have been particularly revelatory . understanding the observed duration distribution is a goal of this work .",
    "understanding the bat s burst detection sensitivity requires the sequence of events on board the spacecraft .",
    "bursts are detected by the bat ( barthelmy et al .",
    "2005 ) , a large field - of - view ( fov1.4  sr ) , 15150  kev coded mask detector with a 5200  @xmath1 cadmium - zinc - teluride ( czt ) detector plane .",
    "the bat s detector plane is sensitive to higher energy photons , but burst imaging and spectroscopy have an effective high energy cutoff of @xmath2  kev . once the bat detects a burst , the spacecraft slews autonomously ( within operational constraints ) to place the burst location in the center of the much smaller fovs of the x - ray ray telescope ( xrt  osborne et al .",
    "2005 ) and the coaligned uv - optical telescope ( uvot  roming et al",
    "thus the bat s trigger system determines which bursts are detected , although the other two detectors performance and operational constraints affect whether the afterglow is followed by _",
    "swift _ immediately after the burst .",
    "the bat s flight software detects bursts on board in two steps ( fenimore et al .",
    "2003 , 2004 ; palmer et al .",
    "a rate trigger monitors the count rate from the czt detectors for a statistically significant increase ; the bat s rate trigger is complex , testing the count rate from the detector plane ( and subsections of the plane ) on timescales ranging from 0.004  s to 32  s using a variety of different background estimates .",
    "once a rate trigger occurs , an image is formed through the coded mask system . to maximize the signal - to - noise ratio of the counts used for imaging ,",
    "the software varies : the energy band ; the ` foreground ' time period over which the counts are accumulated ; and the ` background ' time periods before , and perhaps after , the foreground time period from which the background during the foreground period is estimated .",
    "a number of images may be formed using different foreground time periods before the significance exceeds a detection threshold or the software concludes that a detection is not possible . only if a new statistically significant point source is evident in an image is a burst considered to be detected .",
    "periodically ( once every 64 and 320  s , and when the spacecraft changes its orientation ",
    "palmer et al . 2004 ; mclean et al . 2004 ) an image is formed and checked for a new point source even without a rate trigger . because a burst detection requires the imaging of a new point source , the threshold for the rate trigger is set to permit many false positives that are subsequently rejected by the imaging step .",
    "consequently , the imaging step is usually the most restrictive step and therefore determines the bat s burst sensitivity .",
    "the bat s trigger system is complex with many triggers and background estimates ( fenimore et al .",
    "2003 , 2004 ; palmer et al .",
    "the flight software turns triggers on and off based on the computational load .",
    "while diagnostics are telemetered to the ground , the telemetry stream can not provide sufficient data to reproduce on the ground the behavior of the trigger system precisely at all times .",
    "the complexity of the trigger system maximizes the bat s sensitivity_swift _ s design goal  at the expense of making an accurate determination of this sensitivity at a given time very difficult if not impossible .",
    "in particular , the bat achieves high image sensitivity by accumulating counts over much longer timescales than batse did , making the trigger sensitive to the details of the burst lightcurve .",
    "in contrast to burst spectra whose shapes are adequately described by two or three parameters , lightcurves differ greatly from burst to burst when considered on timescales greater than a second , and can not be parameterized for sensitivity calculations by only a few parameters .    despite all these caveats ,",
    "i develop a semi - quantitative understanding of the burst populations that the bat detects using a simplified model of the bat s trigger system that captures the essential features of the trigger .",
    "i assume that imaging is the most restrictive step of the trigger , and therefore ignore the complexity of the rate trigger .",
    "i use a signal - to - noise ratio estimate of the sensitivity of the imaging step .",
    "this calculation captures the fundamental dependence of the bat s sensitivity on a burst s hardness and duration .",
    "calculations with greater verisimilitude would result from applying the bat trigger code to simulated burst data ; the bat team maintains a working copy of the trigger code incorporated in the flight software . before launch such simulations were run to verify the performance of the bat and its flight software ( fenimore et al . 2004 ) and to determine the trigger system s initial settings ( mclean et al .",
    "the simulated bursts should be accurate representations of the bursts the bat might detect .",
    "i separate my evaluation of burst sensitivity into the dependencies on the burst s spectrum and lightcurve .",
    "this is an approximation , since a burst s spectrum changes during the burst  usually the spectrum softens with time ( ford et al .",
    "1995)and the lightcurve depends on the energy band  usually individual pulses and the duration of the entire burst are shorter at high energy . after first providing the formulae for the detection significance for rate and image triggers (  2.1 ) ,",
    "i evaluate the bat s energy - dependent (  2.2 ) and duration - dependent (  2.3 ) burst sensitivity .",
    "i use these results to understand the observed burst population (  3 ) .",
    "while i have discussed the factors affecting the bat s sensitivity with the members of the bat instrument team , the conclusions are my own .",
    "i use preliminary values for the performance of the instrument and the mission , and thus my calculated sensitivities utilizing a simple model of the bat trigger should be regarded as illustrative , not definitive .",
    "while they involve very different operations , rate and imaging triggers both analyze the counts accumulated by a burst detector over an energy band @xmath3 and accumulation time @xmath4 ; the bat s flight software analyzes overlapping energy bands ( see  2.2 ) and accumulation times ( see  2.3 ) . for the bat , the initial rate trigger and the image with a statistically significant point source detection need not use the same @xmath3 and @xmath4 .",
    "if a burst is present then the number of observed counts in @xmath3 and @xmath4 is the sum of the counts from the burst @xmath5 and the background @xmath6 .",
    "rate and imaging triggers have similar dependencies on source and background counts , and thus analogous methods can be used to evaluate the resulting sensitivities . before _",
    "hete - ii _ and the bat most burst detectors , such as batse , used @xmath7 as the detection significance for a rate trigger : the increase in the number of counts over the background is compared to the background s fluctuation scale . for a trigger , @xmath8 must exceed a threshold value . to mitigate difficulties that occur",
    "when @xmath6 is very large or very small , the bat s rate trigger replaces the background @xmath6 in the denominator of eq .  1 with a sum @xmath9 of terms ( see eq .  3 of fenimore et al .",
    "when @xmath6 is small @xmath9 asymptotes to a constant , while @xmath9 asymptotes to @xmath10 when @xmath6 is large , converting the detection criterion from a signal - to - noise ratio to a signal - to - background ratio . for intermediate values of @xmath6",
    ", @xmath9 is approximately equal to @xmath6 .",
    "the significance of a point source in a coded mask image is ( g.  skinner 2005 , personal communication ) @xmath11 where the factor @xmath12 compensates for the finite size of the detector pixels relative to the mask elements .",
    "one interpretation of this factor of @xmath12 is that the finite size of the detector pixels smears images on the sky , thereby lowering their significance .",
    "skinner ( 2005 , personal communication ) finds @xmath13 for the bat , which explains why the rate trigger significance is greater than the image significance for the bursts the bat detects ( d.  palmer 2005 , personal communication ) . the fluctuation level for an image includes the source counts in addition to the background counts ( i.e. , the denominator in eq",
    ".  2 is @xmath14 and not @xmath15 ) because the burst counts are merely background for positions on the sky other than that of the burst ( the origin of @xmath5 ) .",
    "the rate trigger significance @xmath8 in eq .  1 is applicable to batse but not to the bat s rate trigger for which the significance differs significantly from @xmath8 in eq .  1 for both small and large numbers of background counts .",
    "however , imaging almost always is the most restrictive step in the bat s burst detection algorithm , and therefore i only consider the sensitivity resulting from imaging .",
    "in comparing the batse and bat sensitivities , i use eq .  1 for batse and eq .  2 for the bat .",
    "i also assume that the bat flight software successfully finds the ` foreground ' time period ( the time period used for imaging ) that maximizes the signal - to - noise ratio , thereby optimizing the image step .    in the analysis that follows",
    "i first consider the energy dependence of @xmath16 holding the accumulation time @xmath4 fixed at 1.024  s (  2.2 ) , a background - dominated case that allows me to use the methodology developed for rate triggers ( band 2003 ) .",
    "subsequently i consider the dependence on burst duration (  2.3 ) .      in this subsection",
    "i assume that @xmath4=1.024  s , for which the background dominates the burst counts at threshold ( i.e. , @xmath17 ) .",
    "i calculate the number of source counts @xmath5 by convolving the burst spectrum with the effective area over the energy band @xmath3 .",
    "figure  2 shows the current understanding of the bat s detector efficiency ( d.  hullinger , 2005 , personal communication ) , here defined as the effective area on - axis divided by _",
    "half _ of the area of the detector plane ( the detector plane area is divided by two to account for the coded mask ) ; thus this efficiency is equivalent to the efficiency for a detector with half the area and no mask .",
    "ideally the closed cells of the mask ( consisting of lead tiles ) would be perfectly opaque , but at high energy ( above @xmath18100  kev ) the optical depth through the lead tiles decreases .",
    "imaging with a coded mask relies on the shadow cast by the closed mask cells .",
    "however , if flux leaks through the closed mask cells , then the contrast between the detector pixels that are illuminated by the source and those that are shadowed is reduced ; this leakage is equivalent to no flux leaking through the closed mask cells and the detection of less flux by the illuminated detector pixels .",
    "the solid curve on figure  2 is the net detector efficiency , the efficiency for the difference between the fluxes through the open and closed mask elements , which is relevant for imaging . because the imaging step is the most restrictive part of the bat s trigger , the net detector efficiency is used to calculate the source counts for the sensitivity .",
    "the dashed curve on figure  2 is the gross detector efficiency , the efficiency for the sum of the fluxes through the open and closed mask elements .",
    "the product of the gross detector efficiency , the incident flux , the total detector area , and the fraction of the coded mask that is open ( half for the bat ) results in the total count rate .",
    "the gross detector efficiency is relevant for the bat s rate trigger .",
    "thus the net detector efficiency is reduced at the energies where the mask s lead tiles are partially transparent while the gross detector efficiency is increased at the same energies because more source photons reach the detector plane .",
    "note that the rate trigger and imaging use different detector efficiencies and will have somewhat different energy dependencies .",
    "czt has high quantum efficiency below 100  kev .",
    "however the optical depth through the mask substrate that supports both the closed and open mask cells results in the roll - off in the detector efficiency at low energy ( @xmath1940  kev ) .",
    "this low energy roll - off reduces the aperture flux ( i.e. , the cosmic x - ray background ) , which dominates the total background at low energy , but also decreases the bat s sensitivity to x - ray flashes and x - ray rich bursts .",
    "the bat s total on - orbit background rate is approximately @xmath1810  khz , consistent with pre - launch estimates . at low energies",
    "the background is dominated by the aperture flux  the cosmic x - ray background through the mask  while at high energy instrumental background and aperture flux through the bat s side shields ( which become transparent at @xmath20  kev ) increase the background .",
    "the background varies over an orbit , and i use the lowest observed background rates in the energy bands used by the bat s burst trigger : @xmath182300  hz for @xmath211525  kev ; @xmath184700  hz for @xmath211550  kev ; @xmath184700  hz for @xmath2125100  kev ; and @xmath184700  hz for @xmath2150500  kev .",
    "the background is near this minimum about half the time ; the reduction in sensitivity resulting from higher backgrounds reduces the overall burst detection rate by about 5% . note that for @xmath22 counts in 1  s , @xmath23 , and thus @xmath24 at a threshold value of @xmath25 ; the assumption that the background dominates is valid .",
    "i parameterize the spectrum with the ` band ' function ( band et al .",
    "1993 ) which is a smoothly broken power law with low energy spectral index @xmath26 ( @xmath27 ) and high energy spectral index @xmath28 ( @xmath29 ) .",
    "the characteristic energy is the peak energy @xmath30 , the photon energy of the peak of the @xmath31 spectrum .",
    "the spectrum can be normalized by the flux integrated over a specified energy band , which need not be the same as @xmath3 .",
    "i use @xmath32 , the peak flux in the 11000  kev band .",
    "figure  3 compares the maximum sensitivity for batse ( left ) and the bat on - axis ( right ) for @xmath4=1.024  s. the sensitivity is the threshold peak photon flux @xmath32 at which the detector triggers . because the threshold is expressed in the same units  the flux in the 11000  kev band  regardless of @xmath3 , the sensitivity of different detectors and of different @xmath3 for the same detector ,",
    "can be compared ( band 2003 ) .",
    "these thresholds depend on the burst s spectral parameters that determine the shape of the spectrum ( not its normalization ) .",
    "the curves on figure  3 show the threshold flux as a function of @xmath30 , holding the low and high energy spectral indices @xmath26 and @xmath28 fixed .",
    "the bat runs its trigger on four different @xmath3 simultaneously ( @xmath331525  kev , 1550  kev , 25100  kev , and 50500  kev ) , and the detector sensitivity is the lowest threshold at any given @xmath30 , resulting in the scalloping of the bat sensitivity curves .    as can be seen , on - axis",
    "the bat is less sensitive than batse s maximum sensitivity for @xmath34  kev by a factor of @xmath181.5 , and is more sensitive at lower @xmath30 values , again by a factor of @xmath181.5 , for the same @xmath35  s. as will be discussed below , the bat s overall sensitivity depends on both its sensitivity at fixed @xmath4 and the sensitivity resulting from triggering on multiple values of @xmath4 .",
    "i now consider the bat s sensitivity to bursts with different durations .",
    "batse used a rate trigger with three values of @xmath40.064 , 0.256 and 1.024  s  while after a rate trigger the bat can form images on a variety of timescales ranging from @xmath36  s to @xmath37  s. in addition , the bat forms images every 64 and 320  s without a rate trigger .    the relationship between burst duration and the detector accumulation time @xmath4",
    "is illustrated by considering a constant flux burst of duration @xmath38 when the background dominates the source . if @xmath39 , that is , if the flux remains constant over @xmath4 , then the threshold flux is proportional to @xmath40 ( i.e. , fainter bursts will be detected as @xmath4 increases ) : the number of source counts increases as @xmath4 , but the square root of the background increases only as @xmath41 .",
    "however , when @xmath42the lightcurve is a short spike relative to the accumulation time  then the threshold flux is proportional to @xmath43 ( i.e. , bursts must be brighter to be detected for longer @xmath4 ) : the number of source counts remains constant but the square root of the background increases as @xmath43 .",
    "imaging is the final , determining step of the bat s trigger , and for short @xmath4 the background may not dominate the source counts @xmath5 in the denominator of eq .  2 ; the addition of @xmath5 to @xmath6 increases the denominator and therefore decreases @xmath16 relative to a simple rate trigger ( eq .  1 ) .",
    "assume that the lightcurve is @xmath44 where @xmath45 is the instantaneous peak flux accumulated over @xmath3 , and @xmath46 is the detector area . with a maximum value of one , the lightcurve function @xmath47 parameterizes the lightcurve in terms of duration @xmath48 .",
    "the number of burst counts accumulated in @xmath49 is therefore @xmath50 where i assume that @xmath47 peaks within @xmath4 and i ignore the issue of the registration of the burst relative to the time bin boundaries ( i.e. , i assume that @xmath4 begins at the beginning of the burst , and ignore the possibility that the fluent part of the burst lightcurve straddles two time bins ) .",
    "next , let @xmath51 be the background rate in @xmath3 for the entire detector ; thus the number of background counts is @xmath52 . for my calculations",
    "i use @xmath53  cts  s@xmath54 .    for a given @xmath48 and @xmath4",
    "i calculate the threshold value of @xmath55 for a rate trigger assuming a threshold value of @xmath8 in eq .  1 and for an image trigger @xmath56 assuming a threshold value of @xmath16 in eq .  2 .",
    "note that @xmath8 is applicable to batse s rate trigger , but not to the bat s .",
    "when there are multiple accumulation times @xmath57 , then the resulting threshold peak flux @xmath58 is the minimum @xmath58 for the different @xmath49 values at a given @xmath48 . since batse established a very large statistically homogeneous burst database for @xmath4=1.024  s , and many burst distributions are normalized for this value of @xmath4 , i normalize @xmath58 for different @xmath4 values and trigger types to the @xmath59 for a rate trigger with @xmath4=1.024  s.    figure  4a uses @xmath47=1 over the duration of the burst , while figure  4b uses @xmath60 $ ] where @xmath61 . on both figures",
    "the ratio @xmath62=1.024  s ) is plotted as a function of @xmath48 for rate or image triggers and different sets of @xmath63 .",
    "the dashed curve is for a rate trigger with batse s three values of @xmath4=0.064 , 0.256 and 1.024  s ; the plotted ratio is @xmath64=1.024  s ) .",
    "the decrease for durations @xmath48 less than @xmath181  s shows the increase in sensitivity to short duration bursts that resulted from batse adding @xmath4=0.064 and 0.256  s to @xmath4=1.024  s. the solid curve shows the ratio @xmath65=1.024  s ) for the bat image trigger with @xmath4 ranging from 0.004  s to 26  s. as can be seen , adding @xmath4 values both greater than and less than batse s set increases the sensitivity to both longer and shorter duration bursts .",
    "the increase in sensitivity for short duration bursts is not very great because @xmath66 ( see the denominator of eq .",
    "2 ) ; this is an unavoidable feature of the imaging required to localize bursts .    because burst lightcurves have very different shapes , calculating a general detector sensitivity as a function of @xmath48 is very difficult . for example",
    ", figures  4a and  b show that the increase in sensitivity for long duration bursts occurs at longer durations for the exponential lightcurves than for flat - top lightcurves . applying the bat trigger code to an ensemble of typical observed burst lightcurves ( e.g. , from batse )",
    "would provide a better estimate of the sensitivity as a function of duration ( see fenimore et al .",
    "2004 ) .    in summary ,",
    "the longer @xmath49 values increase significantly bat s sensitivity to long duration bursts .",
    "the bat s increase in sensitivity to short bursts relative to batse is not as great because the number of source counts becomes comparable to the number of background counts .",
    "the bat detects mostly long duration bursts , as shown by figure  1 ( although the few short bursts have been very revealing ) . on average long duration bursts are softer than short duration bursts ( kouveliotou et al .",
    "the bat s detector efficiency shifts its sensitivity to lower energies than batse s ( berger et al .",
    "[ 2005 ] noted this factor ) , and its use of longer @xmath4 values increases its sensitivity to long duration bursts .",
    "in addition , most bursts show significant hard - to - soft spectral evolution ( ford et al . 1995 ) , and therefore their low energy emission lasts longer ; this is an effect not considered by studying the spectral and temporal dependencies separately .",
    "consequently , a longer accumulation time increases the effectiveness of a lower energy trigger band for long duration bursts .",
    "while the bat s array of accumulation times increases its sensitivity to both very short and long duration bursts relative to batse s set of @xmath67 , 0.256 and 1.024  s , the increase in sensitivity is much greater for long bursts than for short bursts .",
    "whether batse s trigger truncated the duration distribution on the short side was debated ( e.g. , lee & petrosian 1996 ) ; unfortunately , the bat s relatively small increase in short duration sensitivity ( and its lower energy band ) make it difficult to determine whether a large population of short duration bursts exists .",
    "an analysis of short duration rate triggers that do not result in successful image triggers might address this issue .    combining the results of  2.2 and  2.3 , figures  5a , b and  c",
    "show the ratio of the bat to batse flux thresholds as a function of duration @xmath48 and peak energy @xmath30 for three different sets of spectral indices .",
    "these figures treat the energy and temporal factors independently .",
    "ratio values less than 1 indicate that the bat is more sensitive than batse . also shown",
    "are a sample of batse bursts for which values of @xmath48 and @xmath30 are available ( mallozzi et al . 1998 ) ; the bursts in this sample provided enough counts for spectral fits . as can be seen , the short , hard bursts are in a region of parameter space where the bat is less sensitive than batse while the bat is more sensitive to long , soft bursts .",
    "the gradient of the contours shows that the bat detects fewer short , hard burst because its energy band is lower than batse s was , and the bat detects more long , soft bursts both because of its lower energy band and its greater sensitivity to long bursts .",
    "this is consistent with the shift in the duration distributions in figure  1 .",
    "bat s greater sensitivity to long duration bursts is consistent with the average fluence of the _ swift _ bursts being a factor of @xmath68 fainter than the average fluence of the batse bursts ( t.  sakamoto , personal communication 2005 ) .",
    "when a burst occurs at high redshift , its observed spectrum is redshifted ( i.e. , becomes softer ) and its observed duration is dilated .",
    "thus the burst is shifted towards the parameter space region in which the bat s sensitivity increase is greatest .",
    "however , evolution of the average burst s intrinsic spectrum and duration obviously determines where the burst began , and therefore ends , in parameter space .",
    "_ bepposax _ and _ hete - ii _ also detect(ed ) and localize(d ) bursts by forming images in low energy bands with accumulation times longer than 1  s , and the bursts detected by both detectors are almost exclusively long duration bursts .",
    "_ bepposax _ formed images in the 1.828  kev band and _ hete - ii _",
    "forms images in the 225  kev band ( _ hete - ii _ also forms images in a softer band ) .",
    "thus the same factors that favor the detection of long bursts in the bat s burst sample are relevant to these two detectors .",
    "the burst detection rate depends on the spectral and temporal sensitivities discussed in  2.2 and  2.3 , respectively , and the fov .",
    "the bat s sensitivity decreases off - axis , first as a result of area foreshortening ( i.e. , the detector plane is not perpendicular to the direction to an off - axis source ) and then because the outer regions of the fov are only partially coded . in the partially coded region",
    "the source flux falls on only part of the detector plane , but the entire detector plane contributes background counts . to reduce the dilution of source counts by background from sections of the detector plane that are not illuminated by a source in the partially coded region of the sky",
    ", the bat detector plane is broken into quadrants ; each of the four quadrants , all four pairs of adjoining quadrants and the entire detector plane are treated as independent detectors simultaneously .",
    "thus the burst detection sensitivity varies across the fov , and fainter bursts will be detected near the center of the fov , while only bright bursts will be detected near the edges . using batse s burst rate as a function of peak flux ( band 2002 ) and the bat s sensitivity across its fov , compensating for the bat s different energy and temporal dependencies , and accounting for various operational factors ( e.g. , the deadtime resulting from slews and saa passages ) results in an estimated burst detection rate that is consistent with the observed detection rate of @xmath20  bursts per year .",
    "_ swift _ s burst sensitivity depends on the imaging performance of the bat , _ swift _ s coded mask gamma - ray detector . using a simplified model of the bat s trigger ,",
    "my analysis focused on the sensitivity to bursts temporal and spectral properties separately .",
    "because of the large burst database it accumulated , batse is the reference detector to which i compare the bat .    as expected from the detectors detecting material ( the bat s czt vs. batse s nai[_tl _ ] ) , the bat s energy band is shifted to lower energies than batse s was .",
    "thus , for same accumulation time ( e.g. , @xmath4=1.024  s ) the bat is less sensitive than batse for @xmath69100  kev but is more sensitive for lower @xmath30 . note that the relative sensitivity at fixed @xmath4 is only one component of the comparison between detectors .",
    "the bat forms images by accumulating counts on timescales much longer ( up to 26  s ) than batse s rate trigger ( up to 1.024  s ) , increasing the bat s sensitivity to long duration bursts . because the number of burst counts is comparable to the number of background counts for short bursts ,",
    "the bat s image trigger is not as sensitive to short bursts as a simple rate trigger would be ; however , a rate trigger would not localize the bursts .",
    "a study of statistically significant rate triggers of short bursts that did not result in statistically significant point sources might determine whether there is a large population of thus far undetected short bursts .",
    "the longer accumulation times increase the bat s sensitivity to long duration bursts , particularly for bursts with a high level of emission over an extended period ( as opposed to long duration bursts dominated by a short spike ) .",
    "the bat detects bursts in a lower energy band than batse did , and long duration bursts are softer , on average , than short duration bursts .",
    "consequently the bat detects long duration bursts preferentially .",
    "spectral redshifting and time dilation of a burst s duration shift high redshift bursts into the parameter region where bat is more sensitive .",
    "the same trigger characteristics explain why _ bepposax _ and _ hete - ii _ also detect(ed ) long duration bursts .",
    "i emphasize that my semi - analytic calculations use a simplified model of the complex bat trigger system and my goal is to determine how the bat s hardware and trigger shape the burst population the bat detects .",
    "my goal is _ not _ to develop an accurate description of the detection threshold , which is very difficult if not impossible given the complex trigger and the time - varying background .",
    "i thank s.  barthelmy , e.  fenimore , n.  gehrels , d.  hullinger , h.  krimm , d.  palmer , a.  parsons , t.  sakamoto , g.  skinner , and j.  tueller for their assistance and advice , and for the preliminary data about the bat they made available .",
    "fenimore , e. e. , palmer , d. , galassi , m. , tavenner , t. , barthelmy , s. , gehrels , n. , parsons , a. , & tueller , j. 2003 , `` the trigger algorithm for the burst alert telescope on swift '' in `` gamma - ray burst and afterglow astronomy 2001 '' aipc 662 , eds .",
    "g.  ricker and r.  vanderspek ( melville , ny : american institute of physics ) , 491                  mclean , k. , fenimore , e. e. , palmer , d. , barthelmy ,  s. , gehrels ,  n. , krimm ,  h. , markwardt ,  c. , & parsons  a. 2004 , `` setting the triggering threshold on swift '' in gamma - ray bursts : 30 years of discovery , aip 727 , eds .",
    "e. e. fenimore and m. galassi ( melville , ny : american institute of physics ) , 667      palmer , d. m. , et al .",
    "2004 `` the bat - swift science software '' in gamma - ray bursts : 30 years of discovery , aipc 727 , eds .",
    "e. e. fenimore and m. galassi ( melville , ny : american institute of physics ) , 663"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the dependence of _ swift _ s detection sensitivity on a burst s temporal and spectral properties shapes the detected burst population . using simplified models of the detector hardware and the burst trigger system </S>",
    "<S> i find that _ </S>",
    "<S> swift _ is more sensitive to long , soft bursts than _ cgro _ s batse , a reference detector because of the large burst database it accumulated . </S>",
    "<S> thus _ swift _ has increased sensitivity in the parameter space region into which time dilation and spectral redshifting shift high redshift bursts . </S>"
  ]
}