{
  "article_text": [
    "some type  ia supernovae ( sne  ia ) are known to be aspherical ; direct evidence for this comes from optical spectropolarimetric observations .",
    "because a spherically symmetric system has no preferred direction , the polarization integrated over the projected supernova surface cancels  detection of a non - zero intrinsic polarization demands some degree of asymmetry .",
    "the measured intrinsic polarization of sne  ia is relatively small , but certainly detected in a few cases . pre - maximum observations of the normal type  ia sn  2001el using the eso very large telescope found an intrinsic polarization level of @xmath1 , which decreased at later epochs @xcite .",
    "intrinsic polarization of @xmath2 was also measured for the underluminous and spectroscopically peculiar sn  1999by @xcite .",
    "the geometry of sne  ia must be closely tied to the supernova explosion physics and progenitor system , both of which are still under debate . but little is known about the shape of the ejecta . for both sn  1999by and sn  2001el we do know that the bulk of the ejecta obeyed a nearly axial symmetry .",
    "this is because in both cases , after subtraction of the interstellar polarization , the polarization angle was fairly constant over the entire spectral range ( with the exception of an unusual high - velocity calcium feature in sn  2001el ) .",
    "most theoretical attempts at modeling the spectropolarimetry have so far assumed the ejecta was ellipsoidal @xcite . a shape like this might arise , for example , in the explosion of a rapidly rotating progenitor star .",
    "another potential cause of asymmetry in sne  ia is the binary nature of the progenitor system . in the favored progenitor scenario ( the _ single - degenerate scenario _ ;",
    "see @xcite and references therein ) , sne  ia arise from a white dwarf accreting material from a non - degenerate companion star .",
    "the companion may be either a main sequence star , a red - giant , or a subgiant ; as it is close enough to be in roche - lobe overflow , it subtends a substantial solid angle from the perspective of the white dwarf . the supernova explosion occurs when the white dwarf has accreted enough matter that the densities and temperatures at the center are sufficient to ignite carbon , just below the chandrasekhar limit .",
    "the ejected supernova material moves at a few percent of the speed of light and soon after the explosion ( from minutes to hours ) engulfs the companion star . in the impact",
    "it would not be surprising if a substantial asymmetry was imprinted on the supernova ejecta .",
    "the ejecta - companion interaction has been studied with two - dimensional hydrodynamical models by @xcite , @xcite , and most recently and extensively by @xcite .",
    "these studies were primarily concerned with the fate of the companion star , in particular how much hydrogen gets stripped from its outer envelope . stripped hydrogen may appear as narrow balmer emission lines in the supernova spectrum , which if observed might provide direct evidence of a binary progenitor system . with the advance of spectropolarimetric observations , however , the nature of sn  ia asphericity becomes another relevant test of the single - degenerate progenitor scenario . in their hydrodynamical models , @xcite",
    "find that the impact with the companion star carves out a conical hole in the supernova ejecta .",
    "the opening angle of the hole is 30@xmath0 - 40@xmath0 , and because the ejecta is moving supersonically , the hole does not close with time .",
    "the final configuration is axially symmetric , as was seen in the polarization observations of sn  2001el .    in this paper",
    "we use multi - dimensional radiative transfer calculations to address the possibility of sne  ia having an ejecta hole asymmetry .",
    "we calculate the variation of the spectrum , luminosity , and polarization with viewing angle for the aspherical supernova near maximum light .",
    "in contrast to the ellipsoidal models , the angular variations in an ejecta - hole geometry can be rather extreme , especially when one looks near the hole itself .",
    "these variations would necessarily introduce some diversity into the observed properties of sne  ia .",
    "the question is : exactly what sort of diversity arises in the ejecta - hole geometry , and does this fit in with the diversity already known to exist in sne  ia ?",
    "while sne  ia are considered to be a rather homogeneous class of objects , they do show some variety in their spectral and photometric properties .",
    "the observed peak magnitudes of sne  ia vary by @xmath3 mag , and the brightness is found to correlate with the width of the light curve @xcite .",
    "the spectra of sne  ia can be classified as either normal or peculiar @xcite .",
    "the peculiar spectra have feature strengths at maximum light that differ from `` normal '' cases ( such as sn  1981b ) , and are usually subdivided into two classes : sn  1991bg - like supernovae have a broad absorption trough not seen in the normals @xcite ; sn  1991t - like supernovae have weak or absent features from singly ionized species but noticeable lines @xcite .",
    "not all supernovae fit cleanly into the classification scheme . in its pre - maximum spectra ,",
    "sn  1999aa resembled sn  1991 t , but by maximum light it had begun to look much more normal , with and lines that were stronger than sn  1991 t but weaker than normal @xcite . as such sn  1999aa is considered by some to be an intermediate link between the normal and the sn  1991t - like supernovae .",
    "other observations have uncovered singular objects like sn  2000cx @xcite and sn  2002cx @xcite , that while resembling sn  1991 t in some ways ( weak , strong lines ) showed other peculiarities that were unique .",
    "additional spectral diversities include the abnormally high photospheric velocities of sn  1984a @xcite and the detached , high velocity features seen in several supernovae @xcite .",
    "the diversity of sne  ia is thus multi - faceted , a point we return to in the conclusion .",
    "the ejecta model used in the calculations is based on the spherical w7 explosion model @xcite , which has often been used in spherical radiative transfer calculations to model the spectra of normal sne  ia @xcite .",
    "the composition structure of w7 consists of an inner @xmath4ni  zone ( @xmath5 km  s@xmath6 ) , a middle zone of intermediate mass elements ( 9000 km  s@xmath6@xmath7 15,000 km  s@xmath6 ) and an outer unburned region of carbon - oxygen rich material ( @xmath8 km  s@xmath6 ) . in our calculations we found it necessary to make one adjustment to the compositions ; to reproduce the depth and width of the h&k feature in a normal sn  ia , we needed to increase the calcium abundance by a factor of 10 in the outer c - o region .",
    "the difficulty w7 has in fitting the h&k feature has already been noted by @xcite in the context of detailed nlte models .",
    "the lack of burned material above 15,000 km  s@xmath6  may indicate a weakness of the parameterized deflagration explosion model used .    to introduce an ejecta hole into the spherical model",
    ", we describe the density structure by an analytic function that in the radial direction well reproduces w7 : @xmath9 where @xmath10 km  s@xmath6  and @xmath11 is set by the condition that total mass of the ejecta equals a chandrasekhar mass .",
    "@xmath12 is an angular density variation function which would equal one in a spherical model . for the ejecta - hole model",
    ", we use a constructed function which resembles the structure seen in the interaction models of @xcite .",
    "the conical hole has a half opening angle of @xmath13 and the density in the hole is a factor @xmath14 less then that outside .",
    "the material that is displaced from the hole gets piled up into a density peak just outside the hole edge , with angular size @xmath15 .",
    "the function invented to reproduce these features is : @xmath16 where @xmath17 where @xmath18 and @xmath19 .",
    "the constant @xmath20 is set by the condition that the mass within a shell is equal to that in the spherical model ( i.e the integral of @xmath12 over solid angle is equal to @xmath21 ) .",
    "the density structure is shown in figure  [ dens_plot ] .",
    "this analytic function does not capture all the complexity present in a hydrodynamical model ; for example , @xcite point out that the opening angle of the hole is slightly smaller at high velocities than low velocities ( @xmath22 as opposed to @xmath23 ) .",
    "of course , the benefit of using a simple analytic function is that it isolates the essential geometrical consequences of a hole asymmetry ; in addition it allows us to test in a parameterized way how varying the ejecta hole structure affects the observable signatures .",
    "once the general ideas are understood , one can perform more specific calculations using hydrodynamical models spanning a wide range of initial progenitor conditions .    in the ejecta / companion interaction , as much as 0.1 - 0.5 @xmath24 of hydrogen rich material can be stripped and ejected from the companion star @xcite . this material is not included in our calculations .",
    "the vast majority of the stripped material has low velocity ( @xmath25 km  s@xmath6 ) and sits at the center of the ejecta , where it will not affect the spectrum or polarization near maximum light .",
    "a small amount of material may be ejected at high velocities and could be related to the high - velocity spectral features seen , for example , in sn  2001el and sn  2000cx .",
    "both @xcite and @xcite have suggested an identification of high - velocity @xmath26 in sn  2000cx , which if correct would strongly suggest that the material was associated with the companion in some way . while not addressed in this paper , the observable consequences of the stripped material should be explored further with multi - dimensional transfer calculations that include a nlte treatment of hydrogen .",
    "our calculations are carried out with a monte - carlo ( mc ) radiative transfer code , described in detail in @xcite .",
    "the code applies principles described in , e.g. @xcite . in the mc approach ,",
    "photon packets are emitted from within the supernova envelope and tracked through randomized scatterings and absorptions until they escape the atmosphere .",
    "each packet is of a specific wavelength and contains a stokes vector which describes its polarization state .",
    "all packets escaping in a certain direction are collected to construct the spectrum and polarization of the supernova from that viewing angle .",
    "our calculations use 100 angular bins , equally spaced in @xmath27 , to collect escaping photon packets . while the code can handle arbitrary three - dimensional ( 3-d ) geometries , for the axially - symmetric models of this paper we use a two - dimensional ( 2-d ) cartesian grid of @xmath28 cells to represent the supernova atmosphere",
    ".    one important issue in multidimensional mc transfer is where to place the emission source of photon packets .",
    "while most mc calculations emit packets from a spherical inner boundary surface ( the inner ` light bulb' ) , in an ejecta - hole model such an approach would provide a poor representation of the geometry .",
    "therefore we have developed an integrated multi - dimensional gamma ray transfer mc to determine exactly where radioactive energy from decaying @xmath4ni  and @xmath4co  is deposited in the supernova envelope ( see   [ gamma_ray ] ) .",
    "the optical photon packets are then emitted from individual cells throughout the atmosphere , proportional to the local instantaneous energy deposition rate .",
    "there is no inner boundary surface , and photons are allowed to propagate throughout the entire supernova envelope , including the optically thick center .",
    "overall , this approach is likely a good approximation to the actual conditions in sne  ia , as the luminosity at maximum light is dominated by radioactive energy deposition . however a proper treatment would also take into account diffusive energy stored in the supernova envelope by solving the full time - dependent radiative - hydrodynamics problem .",
    "the opacities used in the calculation are electron scattering and bound - bound transitions ; we ignore bound - free and free - free opacities as these are much less important in sn  ia atmospheres @xcite .",
    "excitation and ionization are computed assuming lte , where the temperature structure of the atmosphere is determined self - consistently using an iterative approach which imposes radiative - equilibrium .",
    "line processes included are absorption and scattering , according to a two level atom with thermalization parameter @xmath29 @xcite . because the detailed nlte source function of the material is not calculated ,",
    "packets are initially emitted according to a blackbody distribution with characteristic temperature @xmath30 .",
    "we choose @xmath30 so as to reproduce the continuum in the red end of the observed spectrum ; the blue end of the spectrum shows very little dependence on @xmath30 , as packets with @xmath31 are absorbed and re - emitted in lines .",
    "the photon packets are initially emitted unpolarized but acquire polarization by electron scattering .",
    "line scattered light is assumed to be unpolarized due to complete redistribution , as in the models of @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "we have computed the gamma - ray deposition , optical spectrum , relative luminosity and polarization of the ejecta hole model near maximum light ( 20 days after the explosion ) as a function of the viewing angle @xmath32 . because the current monte carlo code is not time - dependent ,",
    "we leave for future work the effect on the asymmetry on the light curve . for the maximum light model ,",
    "the total luminosity used is @xmath33 ergs and the emission temperature @xmath34 k. we discuss the various results in turn .      in the w7 explosion models , @xmath35 of radioactive @xmath4ni  is synthesized and will power the supernova luminosity .",
    "the majority of the decay energy from @xmath4ni  and its daughter @xmath4co  is released as gamma rays , which deposit their energy in the supernova ejecta primarily through compton scattering .",
    "it takes only a few compton scatterings for a gamma ray to give up the majority of its energy to fast electrons , which are in turn assumed to be thermalized locally .",
    "we compute the gamma ray energy deposition with a mc transfer routine that includes compton and photo - electric opacities and also produces gamma ray spectra .    in a spherical sn  ia model",
    ", the gamma ray trapping is very effective at maximum light . in the inner @xmath4ni  zone ,",
    "the mean free path to compton scattering is only @xmath36300 km  s@xmath6  and so gamma rays deposit energy nearly coincident to where they are created ; only about 4% of the gamma ray energy escapes the atmosphere . inside an ejecta hole , on the other hand , the mean free path is 20 times greater due to the lower density .",
    "gamma rays generated in the hole can therefore escape the atmosphere , at least those that are emitted in the outward direction .",
    "this energy loss is not very significant , however , as the hole is largely evacuated and contains less then 1% of the total @xmath4ni  mass .",
    "the material that has been displaced from the hole ( containing @xmath3611% of the total @xmath4ni  mass ) is piled up around the hole edge , where the density is high , and the gamma ray trapping is even more efficient than in a spherical model .",
    "thus we find the perhaps unexpected result that the ejecta hole actually slightly enhances the gamma ray trapping at maximum light , from 96% to 97% .",
    "using arnett s law as a rough rule of thumb @xcite , the luminosity of a sn  ia at maximum light should be comparable to the instantaneous rate of energy deposition .",
    "one therefore expects that in the ejecta - hole model the total luminosity at peak will be close to ( perhaps slightly greater than ) a spherical model .",
    "in other words , although the aspherical supernova will appear significantly dimmer or brighter depending upon the viewing angle ( as we will see in   [ peak_mags ] ) , the specific luminosity integrated over _ all _ viewing angles will not be entirely different from the spherical case . however , time - dependent calculations are needed to properly address this question , and so we leave it for future work .",
    "line opacity in a spherical , expanding sn atmosphere gives rise to the well known p - cygni profile ",
    "i.e. a blueshifted absorption trough with a redshifted emission peak .",
    "an ejecta - hole asymmetry dramatically alters the line profile from some lines of sight , as shown in figure  [ line_los ] .",
    "the major effects are readily apparent : in the typical p - cygni formation , material in front of the photosphere obscures the light below and gives rise to the blueshifted absorption feature .",
    "when one looks down the ejecta hole ( @xmath37 ) , the density of this obscuring material is much lower and the line absorption features are thus much weaker .",
    "there is little change , however , in the redshifted emission component .",
    "@xcite have pointed out that asymmetries have the most dramatic effect on absorption features , as the absorption depth is related directly to how much of the photosphere is covered by line opacity .    as one looks away from the hole , the line absorption depth increases rapidly , until for @xmath38",
    "the depth is equal to that of the spherical model . for side - on views @xmath39 ) ,",
    "the hole is in the emission region  because some emitting material is then lacking one expects the p - cygni emission feature to be depressed near the line wavelength center .",
    "the missing material , however , amounts to only 11% of the total emitting area , so the effect is hardly noticeable . for @xmath38 , the line profile changes very little with viewing angle .",
    "the minima of the absorption features are also less blueshifted when viewed down the hole , by about 2000 - 3000 km  s@xmath6 .",
    "this is because the hole allows one to see relatively deeper into the ejecta . in a spherical model ,",
    "p - cygni features are formed primarily by material at or above the supernova photosphere , while layers below will not be visible until the expanding supernova thins out and the photosphere recedes . for views down the ejecta hole",
    ", however , the electron scattering photosphere has an odd shape , resembling the conical hole of figure  [ dens_plot ] . as radiation streams radially out the hole ,",
    "absorption features are caused by relatively deeper layers of ejecta .",
    "this deeper material will tend to be hotter , more ionized and perhaps of a different composition than the material in the outer layers .",
    "one therefore expects that the features of more highly ionized species will be relatively more prominent when the supernova is viewed down the hole .",
    "the exact line strengths depend , of course , upon the temperature and ionization structure in the 2-d atmosphere , which is calculated self - consistently in lte in our models .      in sum",
    ", the spectrum in the ejecta - hole model will look the same as in a spherical model for all lines of sight _ except _ when one looks almost directly down the hole ( @xmath40 ) . in the latter case",
    ", one sees a peculiar spectrum characterized by more highly ionized species , weaker absorption features , and lower absorption velocities .",
    "we show the variation of the maximum light spectrum with viewing angle in figure  [ spec_los ] .",
    "notice in particular the dramatic effect the hole has on the and features , the iron blend near 5000   , and the uv region of the spectrum ( @xmath41   ) .",
    "figure  [ max_compare ] compares the model spectra to two well known sne  ia .",
    "the view away from the hole ( @xmath42 ) resembles the normal type  ia sn  1981b .",
    "the model reproduces most of the major spectral features , although there are a few discrepancies .",
    "the most obvious is that the flux peak near @xmath43 is much to large in the model .",
    "because the opacity at this wavelength is largely due to lines , models which mix some @xmath4ni  out to higher velocities can suppress the peak ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the poor match is also likely in a part due to the approximate treatment of wavelength redistribution in our calculations ( a constant @xmath44 , two level atom ) .",
    "the spectrum down the hole ( @xmath45 ) is clearly very different than a normal sn  ia .",
    "we compare it to the peculiar sn  1991 t , which it resembles in the following ways : ( 1 ) the absorption near 6150    is weak and has an unusually low velocity ( @xmath46 km  s@xmath6 ) ; in addition , the absorption at 4000    is absent .",
    "( 2 ) the h&k feature is weak and shows a `` split '' into two lines ( due to h&k and @xmath47 ; @xcite ) ; in addition , the ir triplet absorption is absent .",
    "( 3 ) in the iron blend near 5000   , the broad absorption is weak while the sharper feature to the red is prominent . ( 4 ) the ultraviolet portion of the spectrum ( 2500  @xmath48   ) is much brighter down the hole , due to the decreased line blocking .    for",
    "now , the comparison of figure  [ max_compare ] is meant only to illustrate that the spectrum emanating from the hole would be categorized as having so - called sn  1991t - like peculiarities .",
    "what connection , if any , the hole asymmetry may have to sn  1991 t itself will be discussed further in the conclusion .",
    "note that there are also apparent differences between sn  1991 t and the model , among them : ( 1 ) the `` w - feature '' near 5500    is weak but visible in the model , whereas no clear feature is seen in sn  1991 t ; ( 2 ) the model has too much emission in the 6150 and ir triplet features .",
    "( 3 ) the velocities of the lines are too low in the model , by about 2000 km  s@xmath6 .",
    "the lines are forming just at the edge of the exposed iron / nickel core , so an explosion model that had a slightly larger @xmath4ni  zone than w7 might provide a better match sn  1991 t .",
    "as can be seen in figure  [ spec_los ] , the spectrum changes continuously from peculiar to normal as the viewing angle is increased from zero .",
    "some degree of peculiarity is seen for @xmath37 , but the further the viewing angle is from @xmath49 , the less intense the peculiarities . for a viewing angle of @xmath50 , for instance ,",
    "the depths of the and features are about half that of the normal case , and the iron blend near 5000    is dominated by rather than .",
    "one might rather compare the model from this viewing angle to sn  1999aa , which near maximum light was in many ways intermediate between sn  1991 t and a normal sn  ia .",
    "we have also experimented with varying the density structure of the ejecta hole . as can be expected , increasing the density in the hole or decreasing the hole opening angle",
    "tames the asymmetry and produces spectra with less intense peculiarities .",
    "if the hole opening angle is reduced below @xmath51 the spectral peculiarities are minor from all lines of sight . in the hydrodynamical models of @xcite ,",
    "the hole opening angle is @xmath23 in the low velocity layers , and @xmath52 in the outer high - velocity layers , depending upon the nature of the companion star .",
    "the hole used in figures  [ spec_los ] and [ max_compare ] ( @xmath53 in all layers ) thus represents the extreme end of what one might expect from their calculations .      in the ejecta - hole model ,",
    "the observed luminosity depends upon the viewing angle ( figure  [ mags ] ) .",
    "when viewed down the hole , the supernova is brighter by up to 0.25 mag in @xmath54 .",
    "this is because photons more readily escape out the hole due to the lower opacities . on the other hand ,",
    "the supernova is dimmer than average when viewed from the side ( @xmath55 ) because from this angle the supernova is lacking a `` wedge '' of scattering material ( see figure  [ block_plot]a ) .",
    "radiation that would normally have been scattered into the @xmath56 view now flows straight out the hole and goes into making the view down the hole brighter .",
    "it is widely believed that observed sn  1991t - like supernovae are in general overluminous , although the degree and regularity of this overluminosity can be questioned @xcite . while figure  [ mags ] suggests a similar relationship , keep in mind that the total luminosity is a fixed parameter in this calculation  the figure only shows how this fixed luminosity gets distributed among the various viewing angles . in general , one expects the total luminosity to depend predominately on the amount of @xmath4ni  synthesized in the explosion , which will vary from supernova to supernova .",
    "if a certain sn  ia has a very small @xmath4ni  mass , for example , then although the view down the hole is the brightest of all possible viewing angles , the supernova would still appear underluminous compared to a sn  ia with normal @xmath4ni  production .",
    "the total dispersion about the mean in the ejecta hole model is @xmath57 mag in @xmath58 and @xmath59 , and somewhat larger in @xmath54 ( @xmath60 mag ) as a result of the @xmath54-band s greater sensitivity to line opacity . the observed dispersion in sne  ia peak magnitudes is around 0.3 mag in the @xmath54-band , and the brightness is found to correlate with the width of the light curve @xcite .",
    "these variations are believed to be largely the result of varying amounts of @xmath4ni  synthesized in the explosion .",
    "after correction for the width - luminosity relation and dust extinction ( using the @xmath54-@xmath58 color ) , the observed dispersion is reduced to @xmath61 mag @xcite .",
    "some of this so - called intrinsic dispersion is likely due to an asymmetry of some sort ; figure  [ mags ] suggests that in the particular case of an ejecta - hole geometry , the asymmetry may in fact be the dominant effect .",
    "note , however , that in the model the @xmath54-@xmath58 color roughly correlates with peak magnitude  thus correcting for dust extinction with a @xmath54-@xmath58 color will tend to correct for the asymmetry also .",
    "the angular variation of the luminosity is also sensitive to the details of the hole structure  decreasing the hole size to @xmath62 , for example , decreases the @xmath54-band dispersion to @xmath360.1 mag .",
    "the polarization is the most direct indication of asymmetry in the ejecta .",
    "because a spherically symmetric atmosphere has no preferred direction , the polarization integrated over the projected supernova surface must cancel . in an axially - symmetric geometry",
    ", the net polarization can be non - zero and will align either parallel or perpendicular to the axis of symmetry .",
    "we use the convention that positive ( negative ) polarization designates a polarization oriented parallel ( perpendicular ) to the axis of symmetry .",
    "sn  2001el had a well - defined polarization angle over most of the spectral features , which indicates that the bulk of the ejecta obeyed a near axial symmetry ( in addition , sn  2001el showed an unusual high velocity ir triple feature with a distinct polarization angle , corresponding to a detached `` clump '' of material that deviated from the dominant axis of symmetry@xcite ) .",
    "light becomes polarized in supernova atmospheres due to electron scattering ; other sources of opacity , such as bound - bound line transitions , are usually considered to be depolarizing .",
    "we define the continuum polarization as the polarization computed using only electron scattering opacity  this is most closely realized in the red end of a supernova spectrum ( say near 7000   ) , where there is not much line opacity",
    ". however this may not be the maximum polarization level in the spectrum , as line opacity may partially obscure the underlying photosphere and lead to a less effective cancellation of the polarization in the line features ( see   [ polspec_section ] and @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite computes the continuum polarization in ellipsoidal and other axially symmetric geometries .",
    "figure  [ pol_cont ] shows the continuum polarization of the ejecta - hole model as a function of viewing angle . when viewed directly down the hole ( @xmath45 ) the projection of the supernova atmosphere is circularly symmetric and the polarization cancels .",
    "as the viewing angle is inclined , the polarization increases , reaching a maximum when the supernova is viewed nearly side - on ( @xmath55 ) .",
    "the origin of the non - zero polarization is clear from figure  [ block_plot]a . at inclinations near @xmath56",
    ", the hole removes a `` wedge '' of scatterers from the top of the atmosphere , which decreases the horizontally polarized flux coming from this region .",
    "the vertically polarized flux thus exceeds the horizontal ; the net polarization is non - zero and aligned with the symmetry axis of the system ( positive according to our convention ) .    to determine the level of intrinsic continuum polarization in observed supernova",
    ", one must wrestle with the issue of subtracting the interstellar polarization @xcite .",
    "once this is done , the observed levels are found to be rather small : the polarization of sn  2001el was @xmath360.3% ; the polarization of the subluminous sn  1999by @xmath2 . for several other sne  ia ,",
    "no polarization signal was detected , but upper limits of 0.3 - 0.5% can be derived @xcite . in the ejecta - hole model , the continuum polarization can be as large as 0.8% , while the polarization at the line features can be even larger ( see next section ) .",
    "the hole asymmetry therefore produces polarization levels in the right range , though perhaps generally too high compared to the current published observations .",
    "the polarization in the ejecta - hole model , however , is rather sensitive to the size and density of the hole . to demonstrate",
    "this we have over - plotted the continuum polarization of a model with a smaller opening angle ( @xmath63 ) .",
    "this tames the asymmetry and decrease the continuum polarization by more than a factor of two . if the hole size is decreased further to @xmath64 , the continuum polarization level is uninterestingly small ( @xmath65 ) from all inclinations .",
    "thus the exact polarization level will depend upon the hole structure , which in turn depends upon the details of the progenitor system and hydrodynamics .",
    "in general , the more extreme the asymmetry of the hole ( i.e. the larger and more evacuated it is ) the higher the average polarization level .",
    "a larger sample of sne  ia spectropolarimetry could therefore put constraints on the size of a putative hole .",
    "current observations may already constrain the hole to have @xmath66 .",
    "one correlation to keep in mind is that the continuum polarization is always relatively small ( @xmath65 ) for views near the hole where the spectrum looks peculiar . for views away from the hole",
    ", the continuum polarization may be either small or large .",
    "however the continuum polarization is not the whole story and as we see in the next section , the polarization over the line features can be substantial even for @xmath40 .",
    "the continuum polarization level actually provides very little information as to the nature of the ejecta asymmetry , as very different configurations can give the same numerical value .",
    "line features in the polarization spectrum , on the other hand , contain more potential information about the specific geometry .",
    "we find that the ejecta - hole model has spectropolarimetric signatures that distinguish it from , for example , an ellipsoidal geometry .",
    "the polarization spectrum in the ellipsoidal geometry has been studied in detail @xcite . in ellipsoidal models ,",
    "the polarization level generally increases from blue to red due to the greater amount of depolarizing line opacity in the blue .",
    "individual lines create `` inverted p - cygni '' profiles in the polarization spectrum , i.e. a blueshifted polarization peak with a redshifted depolarization trough .",
    "the blueshifted peak is a result of the line opacity preferentially blocking the lowly polarized central photospheric light , while the redshifted trough is the result of unpolarized line emission light diluting the continuum polarization .",
    "the polarized line profiles look fairly similar from all viewing angles .",
    "the line polarization profile in the ejecta - hole model shows an interesting variation with inclination ( figure  [ line_pol ] ) . for views far enough away from the hole ( @xmath67 )",
    ", the profile is an inverted p - cygni , just as in an ellipsoidal model , and for essentially the same reason . for views closer to the hole",
    ", however , the blueshifted line absorption gives rise to a large polarization peak ( recall the negative sign indicates that the polarization direction is perpendicular to the symmetry axis of the system ) . figure  [ block_plot]b helps explain the origin of the peak . from viewing angles near the hole axis ,",
    "the projected electron scattering medium is fairly symmetric and the continuum polarization integrated over the ejecta surface nearly cancels .",
    "the line opacity , however , only partially obscures the underlying light . because of the hole , horizontally polarized flux from the top of the atmosphere is relatively unobscured , whereas the vertically polarized light from the sides of the atmosphere is effectively screened by the line .",
    "the polarization over the line therefore does not cancel , but will be large and oriented perpendicular to the axis of symmetry ( negative according to our convention ) . note that if the hole opening angle is narrowed to @xmath68 , the line is even more effective in screening off all but the horizontally polarized light .",
    "the line polarization peak is therefore _",
    "larger_. thus while the continuum polarization decreases with decreasing hole size , the line polarization from certain viewing angles will be relatively large ( @xmath69 ) regardless of how big the hole is .",
    "figure  [ pol_spec ] shows the entire ejecta - hole polarization spectrum from two lines of sight .",
    "for a view near the hole ( @xmath70 ) the spectrum is `` line peak - dominated ''  the continuum polarization is rather low , but large polarization peaks are associated with the blueshifted line absorption features ( in particular the 6150 feature and the ir triplet ) .",
    "this spectrum is qualitatively different than what is expected in an ellipsoidal geometry . for views away from the hole ( @xmath71",
    ", on the other hand , the polarization spectrum would be very hard to distinguish from the ellipsoidal case .",
    "the level of polarization rises from blue to red and the line features due to 6150 feature and ir triplet have the `` inverted p - cygni '' profile .",
    "the shape of the polarization spectrum from these angles resembles sn  2001el , although the polarization level is too high unless @xmath72 , or the hole opening angle is reduced .    to discriminate between different geometries , a larger sample of polarization spectra",
    "is needed .",
    "if the asymmetry in sne  ia is an ejecta hole , we would expect to see something like a line peak dominated polarization spectrum for @xmath73 , or about 25% of the time .",
    "such a polarization spectrum has not been observed as yet , but the number of published spectropolarimetric observations is still relatively small .",
    "uncertainty in the interstellar polarization may make it difficult to identify the peaks , for if the zeropoint of the intrinsic supernova polarization is unknown , it will be unclear whether features in the polarization spectrum are peaks or troughs .",
    "therefore multi - epoch spectropolarimetric observations are necessary to help pin down the interstellar component .",
    "of course , observing a line peak dominated polarization spectrum may not uniquely implicate an ejecta hole , as large line peaks could potentially occur in other geometries so far unexplored .",
    "despite the seemingly extreme nature of an ejecta - hole asymmetry , we find that the geometry is actually consistent with what is currently known about sne  ia , at least for the observables we have calculated .",
    "the variation of the peak magnitude with viewing angle is @xmath74 mag in @xmath54 , comparable to the intrinsic dispersion of sne  ia , and the level of polarization in the range observed ( @xmath75 ) .",
    "the spectrum of the supernova looks peculiar when viewed near the hole , but this peculiarity may fit in with the spectral diversity already known to exist in sne  ia .",
    "in addition , the polarization spectrum from some lines of sight is a qualitative match to that of sn  2001el .",
    "an ejecta - hole asymmetry could therefore be one source of diversity in sne  ia , but of course not the only one .",
    "the primary source of diversity in sne  ia is thought to be due to variations in the amount of @xmath4ni  produced in the explosion . because sne  ia are powered by the radioactive decay of @xmath4ni  and its daughter @xmath4co",
    ", different @xmath4ni  production can explain the variety in sn  ia peak magnitudes .",
    "greater @xmath4ni  masses may lead to higher atmospheric temperatures and higher effective opacities , which may explain why brighter sne  ia have broader light curves @xcite .",
    "it has often been thought that the spectroscopic diversity of sne  ia fits into the same one - parameter @xmath4ni  sequence @xcite . in this picture ,",
    "sn  1991t - like supernovae occupy the overluminous end of the sequence , where the larger @xmath4ni  mass leads to higher envelope temperatures and a higher ionization fraction .",
    "this may explain the peculiar spectral appearance @xcite . as the models in this paper show",
    ", there could be a second , physically very different route to the same sort of spectral peculiarities ",
    "one could be peering down an ejecta hole . in the ejecta - hole model",
    ", the spectrum shows some level of peculiarity for @xmath76 or about 12% of the time , although the peculiarities will only be very intense for views more directly down the hole ( @xmath77 or @xmath78 of the time ) . the observed rate of sn  1991t - like supernovae is @xmath79% in the samples of both @xcite and @xcite ; the rate of sn  1991t / sn  1999aa - like supernovae is @xmath80 in the @xcite sample . therefore it is possible that a substantial percentage of these peculiar supernovae could be the result of an ejecta - hole asymmetry .    in this paper",
    "we have chosen to compare the spectra emanating from the hole with sn  1991 t only because it is the well - known prototype of a certain kind of spectral peculiarity .",
    "whether sn  1991 t itself was an example of merely looking down an ejecta hole is debatable .",
    "initial estimates suggested that sn  1991 t was as much as 0.7 - 0.8 magnitudes brighter in @xmath54 than normal , which is too much to be explained by the asymmetry alone @xcite .",
    "more recent cepheid measurements of the distance to the host galaxy , however , show that sn  1991 t was not really much brighter than a normal sn  ia .",
    "@xcite find a moderate overluminosity of 0.3 mag , although a value as high 0.6 mag can not be ruled out due to large uncertainty in the dust extinction . this lower value for the brightness of sn  1991 t calls into question whether the peculiar spectral appearance can still be explained alone by high envelope temperatures due to a larger @xmath4ni  mass .",
    "sn  1991 t also had a rather broad light curve ( @xmath81m@xmath82= 0.95 @xmath83 0.05 ; @xcite ) , which is often taken as an indication of a large @xmath4ni  mass .",
    "because we have not yet computed time - dependent models , we do not know exactly what effect an ejecta hole asymmetry will have on the light curve . because the hole acts as an energy leak",
    ", it probably lowers the net diffusion time , and we expect that the _ integrated _ light curve ( i.e that summed over all viewing angles ) will be narrower in a ejecta - hole model than a spherical model .",
    "but the real question relevant to sn  1991 t is not how the integrated light curve compares to a spherical model , but whether the light curve viewed down the hole is broader or narrower than that from other viewing angles . in other words",
    "we need to know how figure  [ mags ]  the distribution of the total luminosity among viewing angles  varies with time .",
    "this is more difficult to intuit , because as the ejecta thins out and the asymmetry and opacities evolve with time , it is hard to say off - hand whether it will become more or less easy for photons to preferentially escape out the hole .",
    "we leave the question for future work .    in any case , although the prototype sn  1991 t did have a broad light curve , it is not clear whether a general correlation between light curve width and sn  1991t - like spectral peculiarities even exists @xcite .",
    "several sne  ia have similar or broader light curves , and yet the spectrum is apparently normal  at least eight such supernovae with @xmath81m@xmath82@xmath84 are listed in @xcite , for example sn  1992bc ( @xmath81m@xmath82= 0.87 @xmath83 0.05 ) and sn  1994ae ( @xmath81m@xmath82= 0.86 @xmath83 0.05 ) .",
    "sn  2001ay also had a normal spectrum but an exceptionally broad light curve ( @xmath81m@xmath82= 0.6 - 0.7 ; @xcite ) . among the supernovae with sn  1991t - like spectral peculiarities , there also appears to be diversity .",
    "sn  1997br had a moderately broad light curve ( @xmath81m@xmath82@xmath85 ; @xcite ) , but the light curve of sn  2002cx was on the narrow side ( @xmath81m@xmath82@xmath86 ; @xcite ) . in another sn",
    "1991t - like supernova the @xmath54-band light curve was lopsided ",
    "sn  2000cx brightened much faster than sn  1991 t ( resembling the rise of the normal sn  1994d ) but the decline was slow ( @xmath81m@xmath82= 0.93 @xmath83 0.04 ; @xcite ) .",
    "the examples make it clear that the connection between light - curve width and sn  1991t - like spectral peculiarities remains vague , and that more than one parameter of diversity needs to be identified .",
    "the nebular spectra of sn  1991 t may also suggest a large @xmath4ni  production . in the late time",
    "spectra , the iron emission lines of sn  1991 t have larger velocity widths than in most sne  ia @xcite . assuming the late time ionization / excitation conditions are similar in all sne  ia , this implies that the nickel / iron core in sn  1991 t is larger than normal . confusing this conclusion , however , is the fact pointed out by @xcite that the velocities in the post maximum spectra are among the _ lowest _ of all sne  ia . if sn  1991 t really did have a large inner @xmath4ni  zone , one naively expects the zone of silicon and other intermediate mass elements to occur at especially high velocities ( as for instance in the delayed detonation models of e.g. @xcite ) . to account for the low velocities ,",
    "some have invoked a late - detonation model for sn  1991 t , which produces a layer of intermediate mass elements sandwiched between two nickel zones @xcite .",
    "of course a lower velocity is also naturally expected if one is looking down an ejecta hole .",
    "it is possible that sn  1991 t did have a relatively large @xmath4ni  mass , rather than ( or perhaps in addition to ) being viewed down the ejecta hole .",
    "however among other supernovae with sn  1991t - like peculiarities there is a good deal of diversity , and the large @xmath4ni  mass explanation will not apply in all cases .",
    "the most obvious case in point is sn  2002cx @xcite .",
    "the spectrum of sn  2002cx resembled sn  1991 t in that , , and lines were weak , while was prominent , but the supernova was _ underluminous _ by @xmath87 mag .",
    "the velocities of the absorption features were also unusually low ( @xmath88 km  s@xmath6 ) @xcite .",
    "the singularity of the supernova led @xcite to consider alternative progenitor systems , although they conclude that no existing theoretical model could explain all the peculiarities . on the other hand , there is also the possibility that we are seeing multiple channels of diversity operating at once ",
    "one scenario to entertain now is that we are looking down the ejecta hole of a `` weak '' supernova that produced a small mass of @xmath4ni .",
    "such underluminous objects ( e.g. sn  1991bg ) typically have relatively low absorption velocities @xcite which would be further reduced by looking down the hole . despite the low luminosity , the spectrum might still appear hot and iron dominated if one is peering into the deeper layers , and ( eventually ) into the iron core .",
    "of course , the chance of seeing two distinct sources of diversity operating at once would be , like sn  2002cx , a very rare occurrence .",
    "whatever the final explanation for sn  2002cx , its singularity highlights the fact that the diversity of sne  ia is more complicated than a one - parameter sequence based upon @xmath4ni .",
    "one can imagine many sources of variation contributing , including : different amounts and distributions of high - velocity material , different sizes and inclinations of an ejecta hole ( or other ) asymmetry , various explosion processes ( e.g. pure deflagration , deflagration - to - detonation , late - detonation ) , metallicity variations and even the possibility of completely different progenitor channels ( e.g. a double - degenerate scenario ) .",
    "with so much going on at once , interpreting the observations becomes a daunting task , but in some sense the identification of multiple channels of diversity is welcome , considering that observations continue to turn up unusual sne  ia .",
    "the results of this paper suggest a few observational signatures of the ejecta - hole geometry .",
    "first , the continuum polarization should be low for views directly down the hole , where the spectrum looks peculiar .",
    "however because of the partial obscuration effect , the polarization spectrum should show large line peaks for views just away the hole ( @xmath89 ) , where the spectrum looks marginally peculiar or normal . for views from the side ( @xmath90 ) ,",
    "a relatively high continuum polarization should be correlated with a slightly dimmer supernova with normal spectral features and inverted p - cygni line polarization features .",
    "another possible signature of the ejecta hole is `` lopsided '' p - cygni flux profiles  the view down the hole weakens only the absorption , not the emission feature , so one could look for a weak ( or absent ) absorption associated with noticeable emission . the easiest place to look would be in the 6150 and the ir triplet features of sn  1991t - like supernova .",
    "unfortunately the relative strength of absorption to emission depends also on the line source function , which is determined by the detailed excitation conditions in the atmosphere . in general , because we recognize that an ejecta - hole asymmetry is only one of several possible sources of diversity in sne  ia , it will be difficult to isolate the geometrical effects from the other variations that may be operating .",
    "the only hope is to collect a large sample of supernovae with well observed light curves , spectra and polarization , so that one might try to pull out the different trends .    in our calculations",
    "we have used a parameterized hole ( half opening angle @xmath23 ) in order to explore the essential observable consequences of the geometry .",
    "the next step is to address the same questions using specific hydrodynamical models representing a wide variety of progenitor configurations .",
    "the details of the progenitor system could potentially affect the size and shape of the hole .",
    "@xcite compute interactions using main sequence , subgiant and red giant companions and note that the variation in the hole asymmetry is not large .",
    "this is because in all cases the companion star is near enough to have undergone roche lobe overflow and always occupies a similar solid angle ( the red giant is farther away but physically larger than a main sequence companion which is smaller but much closer ) .",
    "however if the ratio of companion radius to separation distance is decreased for some reason , the size of the hole also decreases . a larger sample of spectropolarimetric observations will help determine if sne  ia really do have an ejecta - hole geometry , and could constrain the hole opening angle if one exists .",
    "while a hole smaller than @xmath91 has only minor effects on the spectrum , luminosity and continuum polarization , it will still create substantial line peaks in the polarization spectrum when seen from some viewing angles .",
    "if such signatures of the hole are not seen in future spectropolarimetric observations , this would have interesting consequences for the progenitors of sne  ia , or the hydrodynamics of the ejecta / companion interaction .    finally , we mention that an asymmetry like an ejecta hole could have a number of subtle consequences on the use of sne  ia as standard candles for cosmology .",
    "the asymmetry causes a @xmath92 dispersion in observed sne  ia peak magnitude .",
    "if the asymmetry is identical in all supernova , this dispersion behaves like a statistical error ( although a non - gaussian one ) and can be averaged out by observing enough objects .",
    "the averaging out is not achieved , however , if one does not sufficiently sample _ every _ possible viewing angle , either because not enough supernovae are observed , or because those viewed down the hole are withheld from the sample due to concern over their spectral peculiarities .",
    "in addition , if the nature , degree , or frequency of the asymmetry evolves with redshift ( say because of evolving progenitor populations ) the peak magnitude of sne  ia becomes a function of redshift .",
    "one might also be concerned that the significant angular variation of the colors and spectrum may complicate extinction and k - corrections .",
    "the errors incurred from all these and other related systematic effects would be relatively small , but may need to be considered in the next generation of precision supernova cosmology experiments .",
    ", a.  v. , richmond , m.  w. , branch , d. , gaskell , m. , herbst , w. , ford , c.  h. , treffers , r.  r. , matheson , t. , ho , l.  c. , dey , a. , sargent , w.  l.  w. , small , t.  a. , & van breugel , w.  j.  m. 1992 , , 104 , 1543    , a.  v. , richmond , m.  w. , matheson , t. , shields , j.  c. , burbidge , e.  m. , cohen , r.  d. , dickinson , m. , malkan , m.  a. , nelson , b. , pietz , j. , schlegel , d. , schmeer , p. , spinrad , h. , steidel , c.  c. , tran , h.  d. , & wren , w. 1992 , , 384 , l15                                        , w. , filippenko , a.  v. , chornock , r. , berger , e. , berlind , p. , calkins , m.  l. , challis , p. , fassnacht , c. , jha , s. , kirshner , r.  p. , matheson , t. , sargent , w.  l.  w. , simcoe , r.  a. , smith , g.  h. , & squires , g. 2003 , , 115 , 453                                , m.  m. , krisciunas , k. , suntzeff , n.  b. , roth , m. , germany , l. , candia , p. , gonzalez , s. , hamuy , m. , freedman , w.  l. , persson , s.  e. , nugent , p.  e. , aldering , g. , & conley , a. 2003 , in from twilight to highlight : the physics of supernovae .",
    "proceedings of the eso / mpa / mpe workshop held in garching , germany , 29 - 31 july 2002 , p. 193 . , 193+"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in the favored progenitor scenario , type ia supernovae ( sne  ia ) arise from a white dwarf accreting material from a non - degenerate companion star . soon after the white dwarf explodes , the ejected supernova material engulfs the companion star ; two - dimensional hydrodynamical simulations by @xcite show that , in the interaction , the companion star carves out a conical hole of opening angle 30@xmath0 - 40@xmath0 in the supernova ejecta . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we use multi - dimensional monte carlo radiative transfer calculations to explore the observable consequences of an ejecta - hole asymmetry . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate the variation of the spectrum , luminosity , and polarization with viewing angle for the aspherical supernova near maximum light . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the supernova looks normal from almost all viewing angles _ except _ when one looks almost directly down the hole . in the latter case </S>",
    "<S> , one sees into the deeper , hotter layers of ejecta . </S>",
    "<S> the supernova is relatively brighter and has a peculiar spectrum characterized by more highly ionized species , weaker absorption features , and lower absorption velocities . </S>",
    "<S> the spectrum viewed down the hole is comparable to the class of sn  1991t - like supernovae . </S>",
    "<S> we consider how the ejecta - hole asymmetry may explain the current spectropolarimetric observations of sne  ia , and suggest a few observational signatures of the geometry . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we discuss the variety currently seen in observed sne  ia and how an ejecta - hole asymmetry may fit in as one of several possible sources of diversity . </S>"
  ]
}