{
  "article_text": [
    "presently , supernova explosions can not be explained in 1d spherically @xcite or 2d rotationally @xcite symmetric radiation - hydrodynamics calculations . besides the need for further refinement and consolidation of the current simulations , successful explosion simulations may rely on rotation and magnetic fields @xcite or unknown microphysics , e.g. for the neutrino interactions . for the prediction of the nucleosynthesis yields in supernovae ,",
    "we face the problem how to simulate the behavior of ejected matter realistically , given the existing problems to obtain explosions in self - consistent models with accurate neutrino physics . artificially induced explosions for supernova nucleosynthesis predictions @xcite are a valid approach for the outer layers , but are inconsistent for the innermost layers , affecting the fe - group composition .",
    "the nucleosynthesis in these zones ( undergoing si - burning ) is dominated by the electron fraction @xmath0 .",
    "the constraints from observations require the resulting @xmath0 in the innermost zones to be @xmath1 @xcite .",
    "the simulations are performed in spherical symmetry with general relativistic boltzmann neutrino transport using the code agile - boltztran . for a detailed description of the code refer to @xcite .",
    "we use two different approaches to simulate explosions . in the first approach ,",
    "the neutral current scattering opacities of neutrinos on free nucleons are scaled with a factor ranging from 0.1 to 0.7 while using standard cross sections for electron / positron",
    "/ neutrino / anti - neutrino capture on free nucleons ( series a ) .",
    "this leads to a faster deleptonization of the protoneutron star such that the neutrino luminosities are boosted in the heating region , as it might happen with rigorous protoneutron star convection or dramatic changes in the input physics at high densities . in the second approach ,",
    "the charged current neutrino reactions ( and their inverse reactions ) are increased by equal factors in the heating region ( series b ) to crudly mimic a prolonged exposure to neutrino heating in the convective heating region which can not be appropriately treated in spherically symmetric simulations .",
    "this enhances the time scale for neutrino heating without changing the equilibrium @xmath0 .",
    "the models are based on a progenitor of @xmath2 @xcite . for each series",
    "the choice of parameters is such that they correspond to a barely exploding model , an extremely exploding model , and a model with average explosion properties .",
    "the explosion energies are of the order of @xmath3 .",
    "after @xmath4 the accretion front stalls in all models and the explosion is launched after a delay of additional @xmath4 .",
    "three different phases can be distinguished in the mass trajectory : during the first phase the mass element falls inwards in the gravitational potential .",
    "this phase lasts @xmath5 and ends with an almost instantaneous deceleration as it falls through the accretion shock .",
    "for approximately @xmath6 it drifts around in the heating region until , in a third phase , it is ejected to larger radii lifting the electron degeneracy .",
    "when the electron chemical potential falls below the mass difference between neutrons and protons , protons are favored over neutrons @xcite .",
    "figure [ fig - trajectory ] compares the evolution of the electron fraction to equilibrium values obtained under different assumptions .",
    "the simulations are stopped when convergence problems appear due to the mass separation between the remnant and the ejecta .",
    "for the nucleosynthesis results presented here , we consider only the first few zones outside of the mass cut .",
    "the position of the mass cut emerges consistently from the simulation as the region of bifurcation in which the density has dropped below @xmath7 .",
    "based on the hydrodynamics profiles , the detailed nucleosynthesis is calculated in a framework of consistently treating all weak interactions , namely neutrino / anti - neutrino absorption on free nucleons , the inverse reactions thereof [ electron / positron capture ] , and neutrino / anti - neutrino absorption on nuclei .    all of the models develop a proton - rich region around the mass cut . this can be seen in figure [ fig - trajectory](b ) which shows the electron fraction @xmath8 after bounce .",
    "the open circles denote the final electron fraction of the exemplary run a(40% ) at temperatures @xmath9 .",
    "figure [ fig - nucleo ] shows the mass fractions of the stable nuclei for model a(40% ) . in this model",
    ", the mass cut sits at @xmath10 . for the other models that mass cut is between @xmath11 and @xmath12 .",
    "the light elements are mainly produced in the outer zones . here , we are only concerned with the fe - group composition . for the intermediate mass elements",
    "the main improvement compared to earlier calculations is the higher production of single nuclei like @xmath13 and @xmath14 .",
    "neutrino induced reactions become important for the nucleosynthesis of nuclei in the mass range @xmath15 .",
    "these nuclei are mainly produced in the zones close to the mass cut where the electron fraction strongly depends on the neutrino captures .",
    "we have ensured explosions ( of otherwise non - explosive models ) by changing the neutrino luminosity in two different ways .",
    "detailed nucleosynthesis calculations based on a consistent treatment of all weak interactions show an electron fraction @xmath16 for the innermost ejected zones as it is consistent with observations .",
    "our calculations confirm the importance of consistent treatment of neutrino induced interactions for the nucleosynthesis of the innermost zones . in the fe - group improvement was achieved for the isotopes @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 .",
    "however , the nucleosynthesis calculations based on the innermost @xmath20 remain to be extended to the outer layers to obtain a complete prediciton .    9 m.  rampp and h .-",
    "janka apj 539 ( 2000 ) l33 a.  mezzacappa , m.  liebendrfer , o.e.b .",
    "messer , w.r .",
    "hix , f .- k .",
    "thielemann and s.w .",
    "bruenn , phys .",
    "86 ( 2001 ) 1935 m.  liebendrfer , a.  mezzacappa , f .- k .",
    "thielemann , o.e.b .",
    "messer , w.r .",
    "hix , s.w .",
    "bruenn , phys .",
    "d 63 ( 2001 ) 103004 a.  mezzacappa , a.c .  calder , s.w .",
    "bruenn , j.m .",
    "blondin , m.w .",
    "guidry , m.r .",
    "strayer and a.s .",
    "umar , apj 495 ( 1998 ) 911 r.  buras , m.  rampp , h .- th .",
    "janka and k.  kifonidis , phys .",
    "( 2003 ) 1101 c.  thompson apj 534 ( 2000 ) 915 t.a .",
    "thompson , e.  quataert and a.  burrows , astro - ph/0403224 f .- k .",
    "thielemann , m.  hashimoto and k.  nomoto , apj 349 ( 1990 ) 222 f .-",
    "thielemann , k.  nomoto and m.  hashimoto , apj 460 ( 1996 ) 408 s.e .",
    "woosley and t.a .",
    "weaver , apjs 101 ( 1995 ) 181 m.  liebendrfer , o.e.b .",
    "messer , a.  mezzacappa , s.w .",
    "bruenn , c.y .",
    "cardall and f .- k .",
    "thielemann , apjs 150 ( 2004 ) 263 k.  nomoto and m.  hashimoto , phys .",
    "163 ( 1988 ) 13 a. beloborodov , apj 588 ( 2003 ) 931"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we ensure successful explosions ( of otherwise non - explosive models ) by enhancing the neutrino luminosity via reducing the neutrino scattering cross sections or by increasing the heating efficiency via enhancing the neutrino absorption cross sections in the heating region . </S>",
    "<S> our investigations show that the resulting electron fraction @xmath0 in the innermost ejecta is close to 0.5 , in some areas even exceeding 0.5 . </S>",
    "<S> we present the effects of the resulting values for @xmath0 on the nucleosynthesis yields of the innermost zones of core collapse supernovae . </S>"
  ]
}