{
  "article_text": [
    "ly@xmath0 forest absorbers , seen shortward of ly@xmath0 emission in quasar spectra , are powerful tools for studying the formation and evolution of galaxies and large scale structure . with the ultraviolet capabilities of the hubble space telescope it has become possible to observe these absorbers at redshifts spanning the entire range from @xmath2 , including those at low enough redshifts ( bahcall et al .",
    "1996 ; weymann et al .  1998 ; jannuzi et al .",
    "1998 ) so that many possibly associated galaxies can be found close to the quasar lines of sight .",
    "using absorbers to study galaxy evolution will require knowing what fraction of absorbers arise in galaxies and what kinds of galaxies give rise to absorption .",
    "yet it has been difficult to establish the nature of these weak , low redshift absorbers using direct observations because the absorbers do not generally arise near the luminous parts of galaxies that are typically seen in surveys .",
    "the question thus remains as to whether weak ly@xmath0 absorbers are associated with particular galaxies or whether they arise in gas that traces the large scale galaxy distribution .",
    "the major emphasis here will be placed on finding the nature of absorbers between @xmath3 @xmath4 and @xmath5 @xmath4 , although the same methods will be useful in constraining the nature of weaker absorbers .",
    "the definition of absorbers being ` associated ' with galaxies is not clear .",
    "some absorbers could arise in gas which is gravitationally bound to galaxies , but here ` associated ' simply means that , on average , there is some falloff of neutral hydrogen column density with distance from the centers of galaxies .",
    "it has been shown ( linder 1998 ) that galaxies could have sufficient absorption cross sections to explain all of the ly@xmath0 absorbers , assuming that low surface brightness ( lsb ) galaxies ( see bothun , impey , & mcgaugh 1997 ) are included .",
    "other studies have suggested that absorbers arise largely in luminous , high surface brightness ( hsb ) galaxies ( chen et al .",
    "1998 ; lanzetta et al .  1995 ) . however , most recent studies ( bowen , blades , & pettini 1996 ; bowen , pettini , & boyle 1998 ; dav et al .  1999 ; le brun , bergeron , & boiss 1996 ; morris et al .",
    "1993 ; shull , stocke , & penton 1996 ; tripp , lu , & savage 1998 ; van gorkom et al .",
    "1996 ) have argued that absorbers trace the large scale distribution of galaxies , rather than being associated with the luminous hsb galaxies which are seen in the surveys .",
    "the most common test used in attempt to establish the nature of absorbers has been looking for an anticorrelation between the absorption equivalent width and the impact parameter between a galaxy and quasar line of sight .",
    "however , the presence ( or lack ) of such an anticorrelation has been used to support a variety of viewpoints .",
    "while absorbers are generally found to trace the large scale galaxy distribution , some weak absorbers have also been found in cosmic voids ( shull et al .",
    "it is interesting to note here that lsb galaxies may be more weakly clustered than hsb galaxies ( see below ) , so that they are more likely to be able to give rise to absorption in void regions .",
    "whether absorbers arise largely in lsb galaxies or in gas between the galaxies , it would be difficult to design a direct observational test to distinguish between these possibilities .",
    "an observer is only capable of finding galaxies close to , or within some angular separation or impact parameter of , a quasar line of sight which satisfy some selection criteria . given the possibility that lsb galaxies could make a substantial contribution to absorption , understanding and simulating observational selection effects will be crucial in testing any model for the nature of ly@xmath0 absorbers . for example , absorption arising in unseen lsb galaxies may be attributed to luminous hsb galaxies at larger impact parameters from the quasar line of sight , so that the absorption cross sections of the hsb galaxies may be overestimated .    since observational tests for the nature of weak ly@xmath0 absorbers are likely to involve measuring impact parameters between galaxies and quasar lines of sight , the results of such tests depend upon the clustering properties of galaxies and of gas around galaxies .",
    "there is some evidence that lsb galaxies are more weakly clustered than hsb galaxies .",
    "while they have not been found to fill the voids , they appear to have a lack of close companions ( bothun et al .",
    "1993 ) and a lower amplitude in the lsb - hsb correlation function compared to that for the hsb autocorrelation function ( mo , mcgaugh , & bothun 1994 ) .",
    "while most absorbers are found in the same regions where galaxies are located , evidence is also seen that some rich galaxy clusters do not give rise to absorption ( tripp et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "recently cosmological simulations have been used to investigate low redshift ly@xmath0 absorbers ( dav et al .",
    "while such simulations allow for a more sophisticated treatment of some physical properties of absorbers , the simulations used here , which are described further in linder ( 1998 ) , have the advantage of being more clearly connected to the observable properties of galaxies .",
    "the lack of lsb galaxies produced by cosmological simulations such as dav et al .",
    "make such simulations less conclusive in determining the relationship between galaxies and absorbers .",
    "furthermore , simulating observational selection effects will be necessary in testing the results of any simulations .",
    "section 2 describes the simulation methods used , and section 3 describes the effects of galaxy selection upon tests currently used to find the nature of ly@xmath0 absorbers . in section 4 , i propose some possibly more conclusive tests and discuss the use of these tests for distinguishing between various scenarios for low redshift ly@xmath0 absorbers , including galactic and nongalactic absorbers . in section 5 the proposed tests are applied to some currently available observations , and complications in using such tests are discussed .",
    "it is assumed that the value of @xmath6 km s@xmath7 mpc@xmath7 .",
    "simulated observations with realistic selection criteria are made of simulated galaxies , which give rise to absorption , in order to investigate effects of galaxy selection . in the standard scenario ,",
    "all absorbers with @xmath8 @xmath4 arise in extended galaxy disks , and most are associated with lsb galaxies .",
    "simulated observations are made of various other scenarios , described in section 4 , to investigate the possibility of observationally distinguishing between such scenarios . since",
    "an observer can not conclusively identify which galaxy ( if any ) gives rise to weak absorption , the closest galaxy to a quasar line of sight which satisfies some selection criteria is identified for each absorber . for absorbing galaxy fraction ( agf , or the fraction of galaxies that appear to give rise to absorption within some impact parameter ) plots ,",
    "an observer is likely to assume that multiple galaxies contribute to an absorption line which could contain multiple unresolved components .",
    "thus any galaxy is considered to give rise to absorption if an absorption line is found within some velocity difference ( 400 or 750 km / s , depending on the data set to be compared ) .",
    "the ` standard scenario ' refers here to one where absorbers arise largely around lsb galaxies , as was simulated in linder ( 1998 ) .",
    "the simulation used for the standard scenario is described as case 10 in linder ( 1998 ) , where weak absorbers arise in ionized gas that extends from galaxy disks , as modeled in charlton , salpeter , & hogan ( 1993 ) and charlton , salpeter & linder ( 1994 ) .",
    "each galaxy has an ionized outer disk in which the neutral column density declines as a power law with radius .",
    "the number of simulated galaxies and box size are chosen in a manner that facilitates using the clustering simulation described below and so that a realistic value is produced for low redshift absorber counts .",
    "the average number of absorbers per unit redshift along a line of sight at redshift zero was found by bahcall et al .",
    "( 1996 ) to be @xmath9 , complete to an equivalent width in ly@xmath0 of 0.24  .    instead of placing galaxies randomly within the box ,",
    "the galaxies are given clustered positions that are chosen using the method of soniera & peebles ( 1978 ) with between seven and nine clustering levels ( eight for the standard scenario ) . in this method ,",
    "richer clusters have more clustering levels , such that a cluster with @xmath10 levels contains @xmath11 galaxies .",
    "in order to make lsb galaxies more weakly clustered , the galaxies are moved outward from the centers of the second clustering level by a factor of @xmath12 mag arcsec@xmath13 , for a galaxy with central surface brightness @xmath14 .",
    "this factor is chosen so that lsb galaxies are located , on average , about twice as far from the the cluster centers as hsb galaxies , in order to reduce the amplitude of the lsb - hsb correlation function . for the standard scenario , 16384",
    "galaxies are placed in a cube with an edge of 28.6 @xmath15 mpc .",
    "the amplitude of the autocorrelation function for hsb galaxies is 5.6 @xmath15 mpc , which is 2.3 times larger than that for the lsb - hsb autocorrelation function , where lsb galaxies are defined to have central surface brightnesses @xmath16 @xmath17 mag arcsec@xmath18 .      to examine the sensitivity of the results to the assumptions in the standard scenario ,",
    "several models were created .",
    "different scenarios include a galactic halo absorber model and scenarios where absorption arises in gas that is clustered around luminous hsb galaxies .",
    "variations are also made in the clustering behavior of galaxies , the shape of the galaxy central surface brightness distribution , the ionizing background radiation , and the slope , @xmath19 , of the ` holmberg ' relation between galaxy absorption radius and luminosity , where @xmath20 and @xmath21 is the absorption radius at a neutral column density cutoff of @xmath5 @xmath4 for an @xmath22 galaxy .",
    "the effects of making the gas clumpy are also explored .    as an alternative galactic absorber model , the standard scenario",
    "is compared with galactic absorbers obeying equation ( 24 ) of chen et al .",
    "the same luminosity and surface brightness distributions and clustering behavior as for the standard scenario are used for the galaxies here .",
    "the major differences between this scenario and the standard scenario are that absorption arises in galaxy halos rather than extended disks and that the absorption cross sections of galaxies are unrelated to surface brightness .",
    "there is also a small difference in the slope of the holmberg relation : @xmath23 compared to @xmath24 in the standard scenario .",
    "the number density of galaxies is changed by a factor of @xmath25 in order to produce the observed absorber counts .",
    "the difference is largely due to the spherical rather than disk absorber geometry .",
    "note that in this scenario , about half of the absorbers still arise in lsb galaxies .",
    "numerous observational studies have reported that absorbers arise in gas that traces the large scale galaxy distribution .",
    "in other words , weak absorption is seen to arise within several hundred kpc of the luminous hsb galaxies that are detected in such surveys .",
    "thus two scenarios are simulated in which stronger ( @xmath26 @xmath4 ) absorbers are associated with galaxies , while weaker absorbers arise whenever a line of sight passes within 500 kpc ( or 750 kpc ) of a galaxy with @xmath27 ( @xmath28 ) and @xmath29 mag arcsec@xmath18 .",
    "the cluster sizes are chosen to produce observed absorber counts , and the neutral column densities for the nongalactic absorbers are chosen from a power law distribution : @xmath30 , where @xmath31 is between @xmath5 @xmath4 and @xmath32 @xmath4 .",
    "the absorbers are not clustered around lsb ( @xmath33 mag arcsec@xmath18 ) galaxies here because absorbers are generally reported to be clustered around easily visible galaxies , while lsb galaxies do not trace the large scale galaxy distribution as strongly .",
    "it is possible that absorption also arises in gas surrounding lsb and/or dwarf galaxies , but then the scenario would have more resemblance to a galactic absorber scenario , even if the gas is clumpy as discussed below .",
    "another possibility is that some absorbers arise in discrete , possibly large , clouds which are clustered in a similar manner as galaxies .",
    "for example , some high velocity clouds are thought to be located at large within the local group ( blitz et al .",
    "1999 ) , although little is known about the general properties of extragalactic high velocity clouds . at this time there is no evidence that such a scenario would be distinguishable from one in which extreme lsb galaxies give rise to substantial absorption .",
    "recently evidence has been reported that the galaxy central surface brightness distribution is lognormal at a given luminosity ( de jong & lacey 1999 ) . while it is unclear how these @xmath34-band observations relate to what would be seen in @xmath17 ( which is simulated here ) without extinction , a surface brightness distribution which is lognormal in @xmath17",
    "can be simulated .",
    "compared to the flat distribution ( mcgaugh 1996 ) used in the standard scenario , this surface brightness distribution would allow for fewer extremely large , malin - type lsb galaxies .",
    "however , the majority of absorbers arise in galaxies that are moderate in luminosity and surface brightness in linder ( 1998 ) and the standard scenario .",
    "thus most absorbers still arise in lsb galaxies when the flat surface brightness distribution ( at a given scale length ) is replaced by one which is lognormal at a given luminosity .",
    "such a distribution is simulated assuming @xmath35 with @xmath36 and @xmath37 @xmath17 mag arcsec@xmath18 , where a schechter luminosity function is obeyed as in the standard scenario .",
    "a simulation is also made with @xmath38 @xmath17 mag arcsec@xmath18 , as the value is quite uncertain . with this @xmath39 value",
    ", an extreme scenario is produced where the majority of galaxies are compact and high in surface brightness .",
    "furthermore , an excessive number of lyman limit systems are produced , as in some cases discussed in linder ( 1998 ) .",
    "some attempts are made to vary the clustering behavior of galaxies , although only some combination of discrete numbers of clustering levels can be used for the soniera & peebles ( 1978 ) method .",
    "in addition to the standard scenario with eight levels of clustering , two others are made with half of the galaxies at level 7 ( or 9 ) and the remaining galaxies at level 8 . in both cases changes in the correlation functions occur largely due to the small box size used in the simulations here .",
    "while soniera & peebles included some richer clusters in their simulated galaxy distribution , these make up a small fraction of the clusters , so that these rich clusters would occur very infrequently given the small box size and number density of galaxies typically simulated here .",
    "furthermore , some evidence is seen ( tripp et al .",
    "1998 ) that the richest clusters may be less likely to give rise to absorption , possibly due to increased amounts of ionizing radiation in such clusters .    the gas surrounding galaxies",
    "is made clumpy by allowing the neutral column density expected in the standard scenario to vary by up to two orders of magnitude .",
    "little change is seen , compared to the standard scenario , in the test results described below , as it is only required that the neutral column density falls off , on average , with distance from the centers of galaxies .",
    "it is also possible that low luminosity galaxies make a larger contribution to absorption than in the standard scenario .",
    "the slope of the holmberg relation can be varied in order to increase absorption cross sections for dwarfs relative to luminous galaxies .",
    "a simulation is made with absorption radius @xmath40 as reported by chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) . finally ,",
    "as an extreme case , a random weak absorber scenario is simulated by choosing random new positions for absorbers @xmath41 @xmath4 produced in the standard scenario while the stronger absorbers remain associated with galaxies .    in summary ,",
    "a list of the simulated scenarios is given here :    1 .",
    "the standard scenario is described in sec .",
    "[ standard ] . in this scenario , most absorbers arise in gas extending from disks of somewhat luminous lsb galaxies .",
    "the chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) scenario has observable properties of galaxies that are the same as in the standard scenario , but the absorption properties are described by equation ( 24 ) of chen et al .",
    "a nongalactic scenario is simulated where absorbers @xmath41 @xmath4 arise when a line of sight passes within 750 kpc of an hsb ( @xmath29 mag arcsec@xmath18 ) galaxy with @xmath42 .",
    "observable properties of galaxies remain the same , and stronger absorbers arise in galaxies , as in the standard scenario .",
    "4 .   a second nongalactic scenario is simulated which is identical to the one above ( 3 ) except that absorbers @xmath41 @xmath4 arise within 500 kpc of an hsb galaxy with @xmath43 .",
    "the clustering behavior of galaxies was varied , so that the observable and absorption properties of galaxies remained the same as the standard scenario , but half of the galaxies were moved from clustering level 8 to level 7 .",
    "the clustering behavior was varied as in ( 5 ) above , but half of the galaxies were moved to level 9 .",
    "a lognormal surface brightness distribution was simulated where @xmath44 mag arcsec@xmath18 .",
    "absorption and other observable galaxy properties remain as in the standard scenario .",
    "the holmberg relationship was changed to @xmath45 from @xmath46 for galaxy absorption cross sections .",
    "observable properties of galaxies remain the same as those in the standard scenario . 9 .",
    "clumpy gas is simulated by allowing column densities found in the standard scenario to vary randomly by up to two orders of magnitude .",
    "random weak absorbers are produced by assigning new , random positions to absorbers @xmath41 @xmath4 .",
    "stronger absorbers remain associated with absorbers as in the standard scenario .",
    "a wide range of limiting luminosities have been used in surveys for galaxies around quasar lines of sight .",
    "such limiting luminosities are likely to vary with distance to the galaxies and thus with the redshift range in which absorption lines can be detected .",
    "galaxies are typically identified if they have some minimum diameter within some limiting isophote ( mcgaugh , bothun , & schombert 1995 ; disney & phillips 1983 ) , so that selection biases are strongest against lsb galaxies and compact dwarf galaxies .",
    "lsb galaxies are often quite large in optical size , so that it is reasonable to expect that they would also have large absorption cross sections , as in linder ( 1998 ) .",
    "relatively few surveys have looked for lsb galaxies around quasar lines of sight ( van gorkom et al .",
    "1996 ; chen et al .",
    "the absorption cross sections of dwarf galaxies are likely to vary considerably .",
    "some evidence is seen that galaxy absorption cross sections increase with luminosity ( chen et al .",
    "1998 ) although some especially extended dwarfs may exist ( van gorkom et al .",
    "1996 ) . for the standard scenario",
    ", it is assumed that absorption cross sections increase with galaxy luminosity , where @xmath47 , which is similar to the relationship reported by chen et al . since",
    "lsb galaxies are assumed to have larger absorption cross sections at a given luminosity , they are able to give rise to absorption at larger impact parameters from quasar lines of sight , as seen in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] .",
    "-0.1 in    -0.1 in    suppose that the simulated sample of galaxies from fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] is ` observed ' with the following selection criteria : for each absorption line , the nearest galaxy to a line of sight is found within a velocity difference of 400 km s@xmath7 , where the galaxy has @xmath48 and @xmath49 mag arcsec@xmath18 .",
    "again @xmath50 is plotted versus the impact parameter for the observed absorbing galaxy in fig .",
    "it is likely that an observer could find a way of determining that the points in the upper right - hand corner for fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] are unphysical absorber - galaxy associations ( lanzetta , webb , & barcons 1998 ) . for the remaining points , a correlation between luminosity and impact parameter can still be seen .",
    "absorption arising in lsb galaxies is frequently ` observed ' as arising in hsb galaxies at typically larger impact parameters from the quasar line of sight .",
    "thus it is no longer possible to verify from the ` observed ' plot that lsb galaxies have larger absorption cross sections than hsb galaxies , as assumed in the simulation . with such reasonable selection criteria , it may be possible for an observer to detect a relationship between galaxy absorption cross section and luminosity ( although the slope may be difficult to measure ) , but it is not easily possible to detect a relationship between absorption cross section and surface brightness . for a sample of 200 galaxies , a difference in the distributions for lsb ( @xmath51 @xmath17 mag arcsec@xmath18 ) and hsb impact parameters , can be detected with a k - s test about 50 percent of the time .",
    "thus while chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) report no evidence for a relationship between galaxy surface brightness and absorption cross section , it would not be possible to detect such a relationship at this time .    note",
    "that in actual surveys , the selection criteria are not always well - defined , although it should be possible to simulate any selection criteria that are clearly defined . while surveys such as chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and bowen et al .",
    "( 1996 ) include some galaxies as faint as @xmath52 , they are not complete to this limit . observing more galaxies that are fainter or lower in surface brightness may make it easier to detect a difference in the lsb and hsb impact parameter distributions , but this may be difficult if there are not enough absorbers that are sufficiently low in redshift to observe .",
    "-0.1 in    a plot frequently made by observers ( for example , bowen et al .",
    "1996 ) is that illustrating the absorption covering factor , or the fraction of galaxies found to cause absorption as a function of impact parameter , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] . ` observed ' galaxies appear to cause absorption at large impact parameters compared to those seen in fig .",
    "again it can be seen that many absorbers arising in lsb galaxies are attributed to hsb galaxies at larger impact parameters from the quasar line of sight .",
    "it can also be seen that clustered absorbing galaxies are more frequently misidentified , as an observed must choose from more galaxies that are close to an absorption line .",
    "note that observers often assume that multiple galaxies can contribute to an absorption line , as is done in the following section .",
    "this causes the covering factor to be even larger .",
    "the test most commonly used to establish the nature of ly@xmath0 absorbers has been looking for an anticorrelation between equivalent width or neutral column density and impact parameter between the galaxies and quasar lines of sight . in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] it is shown that such an anticorrelation will arise even if absorbers @xmath41 @xmath4 are distributed randomly relative to galaxies and not associated with galaxies in any way .",
    "while it is well established that some stronger ly@xmath0 absorbers are correlated with galaxies , the nearest observable galaxy to a line of sight is likely to be located at an impact parameter of a few hundred kpc whether it gives rise to absorption or not .",
    "mostly unseen dwarf galaxies give rise to absorption at smaller impact parameters , whereas surveys typically look out to a several hundred kpc when looking for luminous hsb galaxies .",
    "therefore the presence of such an anticorrelation tells us little about the nature of weak ly@xmath0 absorbers .",
    "finding a relationship between absorption properties and observable galaxy properties would support the idea that absorbers are associated with galaxies .",
    "however , establishing such a relationship may be difficult using such direct tests , as was shown in the previous section . here ,",
    "other tests that may be more efficient are explored in order to rule out various scenarios , including several where absorbers are largely galactic as well as nongalactic .",
    "absorbers are likely to arise from some combination of scenarios described below , such as disks , halos , and gas between galaxies .",
    "thus the results of the tests described here are likely to vary with limiting equivalent width or neutral column density .",
    "for example , the weakest absorbers , seen down to @xmath53 @xmath4 are less likely to be associated with particular galaxies compared to stronger lines such as those seen by the hst key absorption line project ( bahcall et al .",
    "1996 ) which typically have @xmath8 @xmath4 .",
    "-0.1 in    -0.1 in    -0.7 in    while it is never possible to be certain that a particular galaxy ( if any ) gives rise to a particular absorption line , the fraction of absorbers for which a galaxy is observed and the fraction of observed galaxies for which absorption is seen to arise will vary for galactic versus nongalactic absorption scenarios .",
    "the plots here are made for impact parameters @xmath54 kpc because weak absorbers are generally seen with the nearest galaxy at a moderate to large impact parameter , while it would be more difficult to simulate ( or observe ) sufficient numbers of galaxies for these tests to be meaningful at smaller impact parameters .    the fraction of absorbers for which no galaxy is identified ( or unidentified absorber fraction , uaf ) within some impact parameter is plotted versus impact parameter in fig",
    ".  [ fig5 ] , using the same selection criteria as in the previous section . for nongalactic absorbers ,",
    "the curves fall off much more steeply compared to galactic absorbers .",
    "if most absorbers are not associated with particular galaxies , then it is unlikely that a galaxy will be seen very close to the quasar line of sight .",
    "since the nongalactic absorbers are assumed to be clustered around luminous hsb galaxies , it becomes quite likely that a galaxy will be detected within several hundred kpc of a line of sight .",
    "the flattening at large impact parameters is related to the clustering behavior of the gas around the galaxies .",
    "the absorbers simulated using ( scenario 2 ) the model of chen et al .  (",
    "1998 ) have a consistently lower uaf compared to the standard scenario .",
    "this difference occurs because a larger fraction of absorbers arise in galaxies that can be detected in scenario 2 , as it was assumed that absorption cross sections are unrelated to surface brightness . in any galactic absorber scenario",
    "there is some chance that an actual absorbing galaxy is not identified , but then some other galaxy may be found at a larger impact parameter . thus the slope for the uaf is determined largely by the clustering properties of galaxies for galactic absorber scenarios , whereas the slope of the uaf is determined more by the clustering behavior of gas around galaxies for the nongalactic absorber scenarios .",
    "therefore , varying the surface brightness distribution or the holmberg relation , or making the gas clumpy , has little effect upon the results of the uaf test , as is seen in fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] , except when substantial changes are made in the absorption cross sections of galaxies .",
    "for example , in the lognormal surface brightness distribution scenario where @xmath55 mag arcsec@xmath18 , the majority of galaxies are compact and high in surface brightness , so that the number density of galaxies must be increased by a factor of 3.5 in order to explain absorber counts .",
    "the scenario where absorbers are distributed randomly relative to galaxies would produce a uaf slope that would be indistinguishable from those in galactic absorber scenarios .",
    "clustering absorbers with a wider range of column densities ( by including absorbers @xmath56 @xmath4 ) out to larger distances around luminous hsb galaxies would produce a similar effect .",
    "these scenarios are unlikely , however . given that most absorbers have been seen to trace the large scale galaxy distribution , it is reasonable to expect , on average , some falloff in column density with distance from the center of a cluster .",
    "some evidence is seen that the weakest absorbers are more likely to arise in void regions ( dav et al .",
    "1999 ; shull et al .  1996",
    "; grogin & geller 1998 ) , and such a falloff would produce the equivalent width - impact parameter anticorrelation seen out to large impact parameters by tripp et al .",
    "thus the weakest absorbers are likely to arise at large impact parameters from luminous galaxies , and for nongalactic absorbers it is reasonable to expect a uaf slope which is steeper than that for galactic or random absorbers .",
    "it should be possible to distinguish between the galactic and nongalactic absorber scenarios by observing a sample of 100 galaxies with well - defined selection criteria , as shown in figs .",
    "[ fig7 ] . for each scenario ,",
    "the uaf slope is found for 1000 samples of 100 galaxies .",
    "little overlap in uaf slope is found for galactic versus nongalactic scenarios , when sufficiently faint galaxies are detected .",
    "even when more luminous , higher surface brightness galaxies are detected , very little overlap occurs except in the lognormal surface brightness distribution scenario ( 7 ) . the only other way to vary the uaf slope for galactic absorber scenarios would be to vary the clustering behavior of galaxies . for galactic absorber scenarios the uaf slope",
    "is determined largely by the slope of the autocorrelation function for galaxies that are observed . for the standard scenario the slope of the hsb autocorrelation",
    "is found to be 1.9 which is close to the value of 1.77 found for the cfa survey by davis & peebles ( 1983 ) .",
    "varying the number of clustering levels may cause some variation in the uaf normalization ( although little change is seen for the variations ( scenarios 5 and 6 ) shown in fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] . ) , but the slope of the autocorrelation function should remain the same for an adequately large region of space ( soniera & peebles 1978 ) .",
    "the uaf test may be less conclusive in distinguishing between different galactic absorber scenarios .",
    "the flattening at large impact parameters may make it easier to constrain nongalactic absorber scenarios , but uncertainties in the uaf normalization may occur in either case . obtaining",
    "a sample of @xmath1 galaxies may require looking out to a high enough redshift that substantial uncertainties will exist in the normalization of the galaxy luminosity function or in the evolution of the relationship between galaxy luminosity and absorption cross section .",
    "some uncertainty in the uaf normalization will also occur as a result of uncertainties or evolution in the clustering behavior .",
    "-0.1 in    plots showing the absorbing galaxy fraction ( agf ) within some impact parameter may allow for additional constraints in distinguishing between different absorber scenarios .",
    "again , note that even for galactic absorber scenarios , an observer is often seeing absorption that does not arise in the particular galaxy that is detected .",
    "yet differences should occur in agf plots depending upon whether the absorbing gas is associated with particular galaxies or with the large scale galaxy distribution .",
    "defining and simulating the selection criteria used will be necessary in comparing observations with agf plots as well as uaf plots .",
    "for example , the number of galaxies seen will vary widely with limiting luminosity , which will affect the fraction of galaxies seen that appear to give rise to absorption .",
    "agf curves for galactic and nongalactic absorber scenarios ( 1 through 4 ) are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig8 ] , where the galaxies are ` observed ' using the same selection criteria as above , but allowing multiple galaxies to contribute to an absorption line .",
    "if absorbers arise in gas that is clustered around luminous hsb galaxies , then a large fraction of the galaxies that we see will appear to give rise to absorption even out to large impact parameters .",
    "this is because we are likely to see the galaxies around which the gas is clustered .",
    "thus the agf curves will tend to fall off more quickly for galactic absorber scenarios , where dwarf and/or lsb galaxies give rise to some absorption .",
    "the agf tends to be smallest for the standard scenario , as the galactic absorbers arise in disks as compared to the spherical geometry used in the chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) scenario ( 2 ) .",
    "it may be possible to distinguish between galactic and nongalactic absorbers using a sample of 100 galaxies with well - defined selection criteria , as was shown in section 4 .",
    "a large enough data set to make a strong conclusion is not currently available , but the complications that may arise when the uaf and agf tests are implemented are discussed below .",
    "the largest set of absorber / galaxy observations currently available is from the study by chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) . in this study galaxies were found within @xmath57 kpc of quasar lines of sight , assuming that absorbers arise in particular galaxies with sizes on that order .",
    "these observations are less useful in testing for the existence of nongalactic absorbers which might be seen when galaxies are at larger impact parameters from a line of sight .",
    "the uaf and agf curves are generally quite flat at such impact parameters for any scenario , so it would be difficult to distinguish between slopes at these impact parameters .",
    "numerous galaxies , including some that are quite low in luminosity , have been detected near quasar lines of sight by bowen et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and bowen et al .",
    "these galaxies are located at a wider range of impact parameters from the lines of sight , and they are at very low redshifts where evolution in the galaxies and in the nature of absorbers would be negligible .",
    "unfortunately few absorbers in the column density range of interest here have been detected .",
    "other studies that attempt to identify very weak absorbers such as tripp et al .",
    "( 1998 ) also include few absorbers that are as strong as those simulated here .",
    "-0.1 in    -0.1 in    plots of the uaf and agf for absorbers @xmath58   are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig9 ] and [ fig10 ] for the observations from le brun et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and le brun & bergeron ( 1998 ) .",
    "these samples contain about 68 absorbers ( although some have rest equivalent widths below @xmath59  ) and about 28 galaxies with known redshifts that are in the range in which ly@xmath0 absorption could be detected .",
    "while some of the galaxies in these samples are as faint as @xmath60 , a limiting apparent magnitude is used for galaxies with a wide range of redshifts up to @xmath61 , and redshifts were not obtained for all of the galaxies . in the future , the simulated galaxy population can be moved to varying redshifts within the observed redshift space in order to simulate galaxies with a wide range of properties that are detected using a limiting apparent magnitude .",
    "cosmological surface brightness dimming and k - corrections will need to be included in the simulation , and it will be necessary to simulate absorbing galaxies in the wave band that is observed , thus using appropriate luminosity and surface brightness distributions .",
    "a large enough data set is not available to merit such a careful simulation at this time .    in fig .",
    "[ fig9 ] the observations are compared with simulated uaf curves for the standard scenario and the nongalactic absorber scenarios ( 3 and 4 ) , where all or half of the galaxies satisfying the selection criteria are observed for each scenario in order to show the effects of incompleteness .",
    "the actual level of incompleteness is unknown , although redshifts were not obtained for some galaxies close to lines of sight in le brun et al .",
    "incompleteness generally raises the uaf curves .",
    "it is also possible that a data set could be less complete at larger impact parameters , which would make the uaf curve less steep .",
    "the uaf curves shown so far have been simulated at @xmath62 , although some of the galaxies observed by le brun et al .",
    "( 1996 ) were at redshifts as large as @xmath61 .",
    "it is possible to adjust the simulation to conditions at @xmath63 by adjusting the number density of galaxies to account for the expected increase in absorber counts ( @xmath64 ) , assuming no evolution in the absorber populations , using equation ( 4.3 ) in weedman ( 1986 ) . supposing that evolution in @xmath64 arises largely from changes in the ionizing background radiation ( as seen by dav et al .",
    "1999 ) , the ionizing background radiation is increased by a factor of @xmath65 as in mcket , petitjean , & riediger ( 1997 ) . increasing the ionizing radiation reduces the absorption cross sections of galaxies , but the remaining absorbers are then located closer to galaxies , so that the uaf is decreased as seen in the figure .",
    "however , only more luminous galaxies would tend to be seen at higher redshifts , which would cause a somewhat opposite effect .",
    "given the large uncertainties in the currently available data , the observations from le brun et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and le brun & bergeron ( 1998 ) may be consistent with most of the scenarios discussed so far",
    ". however , it appears unlikely that the observations are consistent with the more extreme nongalactic absorber scenario ( 3 ) where absorbers are clustered around hsb galaxies with @xmath42 .",
    "thus it is likely that at least some absorbers arise in gas around or associated with galaxies that are lower in luminosity and/or surface brightness .",
    "agf plots are likely to be less sensitive to incompleteness in galaxy observations , but more sensitive to how uniformly gas is distributed around galaxies .",
    "the agf is plotted for the le brun et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and le brun & bergeron ( 1998 ) observations in fig .",
    "[ fig10 ] .",
    "only a couple of galaxies in these samples clearly do not have absorption lines at similar redshifts , which may be indicating that the weakest absorbers arise outside of particular galaxies , yet some stronger lines clearly arise close to galaxies as well .",
    "but again , many lines have rest equivalent widths @xmath66  , and the nature of the moderately weak lines of interest becomes less clear .    while the error bars are quite large for the data points shown in fig .",
    "[ fig10 ] , the observations seem not to resemble any of the scenarios simulated here , although there may be several explanations for this .",
    "gas may not be uniformly distributed around galaxies , and a population of nonabsorbing galaxies may exist ( in addition to the absorbing galaxy population ) .",
    "one possibility is that the gas within or between galaxies is arranged in extended sheetlike structures , as often seen in cosmological simulations .",
    "positioning galaxies with a reasonable correlation function may be more difficult in this case with the methods used here , although crude attempts have produced agf curves that would be indistinguishable from those given by the extended disk absorbers in the standard scenario .",
    "a population of nonabsorbing galaxies would lower the agf normalization if the galaxies were distributed randomly relative to absorbers .",
    "it is less clear how the agf would be changed if an observer was looking at nonabsorbing galaxies in clusters .",
    "if any absorption was seen , the observer would likely conclude that a large number of galaxies could be contributing to a small number of absorption lines , thus raising the agf .",
    "yet nonabsorbing galaxies are more likely to exist in clusters , where gas is more likely to be more highly ionized and stripped away from particular galaxies .",
    "one example of a plausible nonabsorbing galaxy population would be elliptical galaxies , which often do not give rise to absorption ( whereas spirals almost always do ) in the chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) study .",
    "another interesting possibility is that the absorption properties of galaxies seen at large impact parameters could be different from those seen at smaller impact parameters . given that galaxies are detected out to some angular separation from a quasar line of sight ( 3.5 for le",
    "brun et al .  1996 ) , the galaxies detected at larger impact parameters are likely to be at higher redshifts and also higher in luminosity and surface brightness .",
    "agf curves fall off more slowly for more luminous galaxies . furthermore , while little change is seen in the agf for higher redshifts ( adjusted for expansion and evolution in the ionizing radiation ) , an absorber at a given neutral column density may correspond to a smaller overdensity at a higher redshift ( dav et al .",
    "1999 ) even though the gas is more highly ionized .",
    "thus galaxies at larger impact parameters may be less likely to give rise to absorption at some limiting column density .",
    "it is also possible that we are seeing some other type of evolution in the absorber population , where we see less highly ionized absorbers at higher redshifts .",
    "limiting angular separations used in absorber - galaxy observations will need to be taken into account when simulating larger data sets in the future .",
    "galaxy selection not only complicates our efforts in finding the properties of the low redshift galaxy population , but it also affects our ability to establish the nature of low redshift quasar absorption lines .",
    "it is generally not possible to be certain that an absorption line arises in any particular galaxy , so that absorption arising in dwarf or lsb galaxies may be attributed to luminous hsb galaxies , typically at larger impact parameters from a quasar line of sight .",
    "thus several hundred possibly absorbing galaxies would need to be observed in order to test directly for the nature of moderately weak ly@xmath0 absorbers and the properties of galaxies that typically give rise to absorption .",
    "less direct tests may be more useful for determining the nature of absorbers with a somewhat smaller set of observations .",
    "observations may be compared with simulated plots of the unidentified absorber fraction ( uaf ) and the absorbing galaxy fraction ( agf ) versus impact parameter .",
    "the simulated plots must take into account various observational selection criteria .",
    "these tests would be easiest to use for a sample of absorbers and galaxies in a narrow range of redshift so that evolutionary effects would be negligible , although it is also possible to simulate observed redshift ranges . at very low redshifts galaxies that are low in luminosity and surface brightness",
    "would be easiest to detect , but a sufficient number of absorbers have not been found yet at such low redshifts .    currently some strong absorbers are known to arise close to galaxies , and arguments have been made that other strong absorbers arise in lsb galaxies ( jimenez , bowen , & matteucci 1999 ; phillipps , disney , & davies 1993 ) . yet the weakest detected absorbers tend to arise far from luminous hsb galaxies .",
    "the anticorrelation between equivalent width and impact parameter seen by chen et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and others gives some indication that the strongest ( @xmath67 @xmath4 ) absorbers are often associated with particular galaxies , while the continuation of the same anticorrelation seen by tripp et al .",
    "( 1998 ) suggests that the weakest absorbers arise in gas surrounding groups and clusters .",
    "the question thus remains , at what column density or equivalent width do absorbers typically change from galactic to nongalactic ?",
    "some evidence is seen , from using the uaf test , that moderately weak absorbers are not clustered around only the most luminous , high surface brightness galaxies .",
    "while not enough observations are available to make strong constraints on the nature of such absorbers at this time , the tests proposed here will be useful for answering this question in the future .",
    "the actual relationship between absorbers and galaxies may , of course , be more complicated than the scenarios that have been simulated here .",
    "absorbers may arise from a combination of galactic and nongalactic sources ( and from multiple components of galaxies ) at a given column density , and the gaseous extent of galaxies is likely to vary with field versus cluster environment .",
    "variations in the amount of ionizing radiation with environment may also be important , and some evidence is seen that stars within a galaxy contribute to the ionization of the outer parts of the galaxy ( bland - hawthorn , freeman , & quinn 1997 ) .",
    "thus lsb galaxies , dwarf galaxies , and any gas located outside of rich clusters may make a more important contribution to absorption as a result of being less highly ionized .",
    "the effects of a possibly lower dust content in lsb galaxies are unclear , however .",
    "variations in the ionizing background radiation will be considered more carefully in the future .",
    "the same kinds of tests proposed here may be useful in constraining the nature of weak metal lines such as mgii ( churchill & le brun 1988 ) .",
    "it is not known yet whether such metals are distributed far from the centers of luminous hsb galaxies , or more frequently in other types of galaxies .",
    "finding out how metals are distributed around different types of galaxies and how well gas from the outer parts of galaxies is mixed with gas from the inner regions will have strong implications for our future understanding of galaxy evolution .",
    "bahcall , j. n. , bergeron , j. , boksenberg , a. , hartig , g. f. , jannuzi , b. t. , kirhakos , s. , sargent , w. l. w. , savage , b. d. , schneider , d. p. , turnshek , d. a. , weymann , r. j. , & wolfe , a. m. 1996 , , 457 , 19 bland - hawthorn , j. , freeman , k. c. , & quinn , p. j. 1997 , , 490 , 143 blitz , l. , spergel , d. n. , teuben , p. j. , hartmann , d. , & burton , w. b. , 1999 , , 514 , 818 bothun , g. d. , impey , c. , & mcgaugh , s. 1997 , , 110 , 745 bothun , g. d. , schombert , j. m. , impey , c. d. , sprayberry , d. , & mcgaugh , s. s. 1993 , , 106 , 530 bowen , d. v. , blades , j. c. , & pettini , m. 1996 , , 464 , 141 bowen , d. v. , pettini , m. , & boyle , b. j. 1998 , , 297 , 239 charlton , j. c. , salpeter , e. e. , & linder , s. m. 1994 , , 430 , l29 charlton , j. c. , salpeter , e. e. , & hogan , c. j. 1993 , , 402 , 493 chen , h. -w . ,",
    "lanzetta , k. m. , webb , j. k. , barcons , x. 1998 , , 498 , 77 churchill , c. w. & le brun , v. 1998 , 499 , 677 dav , r. , hernquist , l. , katz , n. , & weinberg , d. h. 1999 , , 511 , 521 davis , m. & peebles , p. j. e. 1983 , , 267 , 465 de jong , r. s. & lacey , c. 1999 , in asp conf .",
    "170 , the low surface brightness universe , ed .",
    "j. davies & m. disney ( san francisco : asp ) , 52 disney , m. & phillips , s. 1983 , , 205 , 1253 grogin , n. a. & geller , m. j. 1998 , , 505 , 506 jannuzi , b. t. et al .",
    "1998 , , 118 , s1 jimenez , r. , bowen , d. v. , & matteucci , f. 1999 , , 514 , 83 lanzetta , k. m. , webb , j. k. , & barcons , x. 1998 , in asp conf .",
    "146 , the young universe : galaxy formation and evolution at intermediate and high redshift . ed",
    ". s. dodorico , a. fontana , & e. giallongo ( san francisco :  asp ) , 175 lanzetta , k. m. , bowen , d. v. , tytler , d. , & webb , j. k. 1995a , , 442 , 538 lanzetta , k. m. , wolfe , a. m. , & turnshek .",
    "d. a. 1995b , , 440 , 435 le brun , v. , bergeron , j. , & boiss , p. 1996",
    ", , 306 , l691 le brun , v. & bergeron , j. 1998 , , 332 , 814 linder , s. m. 1998 , , 495 , 637 mcgaugh , s. s. 1996 , , 280 , 337 mcgaugh , s. s. , bothun , g. d. , & schombert , j. m. 1995 , , 110 , 573 mo , h. j. , mcgaugh , s. s. , & bothun , g. d. , 1994 , , 267 , 129 morris , s. l. , weymann , r. j. , dressler , a. , mccarthy , p. j. , smith , b. a. , terrile , r. j. , giovanelli , r. , & irwin , m. 1993 , , 419 , 524 mcket , j. p. , petitjean , p. , & riediger ,",
    "r. 1997 , in euroconference series , structure and evolution of the intergalactic medium from qso absorption line systems , ed .",
    "p. petitjean & s. charlot ( paris :  editions frontires ) , 149 phillipps , s. , disney , m. j. , & davies , j. i. 1993 , , 260 , 491 shull , j. m. , stocke , j. t. , & penton s. 1996 , , 111 , 72 soniera , r. m. & peebles , p. j. e. 1978 , , 83 , 845 stocke , j. t. , shull , j. m. , penton , s. , donahue , m. , & carilli , c. 1995 , , 451 , 24 tripp , t. m. , lu , l. , & savage , b. d. 1998 , , 508 , 200 van gorkom , j. h. , carilli , c. l. , stocke , j. t. , perlman , e. s. , & shull , j. m. 1996 , , 112 , 1397 weedman , d. w. 1986 , quasar astronomy , ( cambridge :  cambridge university press ) , 84 weymann , r. j. et al .",
    "1998 , , 506 , 1"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the effects of galaxy selection on our ability to constrain the nature of weak ly@xmath0 absorbers at low redshift are explored . </S>",
    "<S> current observations indicate the existence of a substantial population of gas - rich , low surface brightness ( lsb ) galaxies , and these galaxies may have large cross sections for ly@xmath0 absorption . </S>",
    "<S> absorption arising in lsb galaxies is likely to be attributed to high surface brightness galaxies at larger impact parameters from quasar lines of sight , so that the observed absorption cross sections of galaxies may seem unreasonably large . </S>",
    "<S> thus it is not currently possible to rule out scenarios where lsb galaxies make substantial contributions to ly@xmath0 absorption using direct observations . </S>",
    "<S> less direct tests , where observational selection effects are taken into account using simulations , should make it possible to determine the nature of ly@xmath0 absorbers by observing a sample of @xmath1 galaxies around quasar lines of sight with well - defined selection criteria . </S>",
    "<S> such tests , which involve comparing simulated and observed plots of the unidentified absorber fractions and absorbing galaxy fractions versus impact parameter , can distinguish between scenarios where absorbers arise in particular galaxies and those where absorbers arise in gas that traces the large scale galaxy distribution . </S>",
    "<S> care must be taken to minimize observational selection effects even when using these tests . </S>",
    "<S> results from such tests are likely to be dependent upon the limiting absorption line equivalent width or neutral hydrogen column density . </S>",
    "<S> while not enough data are currently available to make a strong conclusion about the nature of moderately weak absorbers , some evidence is seen that such absorbers arise in gas that is around or between galaxies that are often not detected in surveys . </S>"
  ]
}