{
  "article_text": [
    "the vertical structure of the hi disks of spiral galaxies has been the subject of various investigations in recent years .",
    "warping and flaring seem to be common features of the outer hi layers and have been , since their discovery , at the center of the attention mainly because of the key information they may hold on the dark matter halos .",
    "van der kruit ( 1981 ) and more recently olling ( 1995 ) have pioneered the use of the flaring of the hi layers of edge - on galaxies to determine the mass of the stellar disks and the shape of the dark matter halos .",
    "also in the inner parts of the disks there is evidence of vertical extensions and motions of the hi .",
    "these , however , are probably related to the star formation activity in the disk and form part of the gas circulation between disk and halo .",
    "their study is important for understanding galaxy evolution .",
    "for instance , they may reveal systematic gas in- and out - flows from the disk .",
    "they may help understanding the connection between all the phases of the interstellar medium .",
    "also , such a study should provide new insights in the origin and nature of the hvcs in our galaxy .",
    "besides these processes internal to the disk there are other events of external origin , like the interactions with companions and the possible infall of primordial intergalactic gas , which may affect the density distribution and kinematics of the gas in the halo region and also play an important role in the formation and evolution of disks ( see for a recent review sancisi , 1999 ) .",
    "for the study of the disk - halo connection edge - on and face - on systems have been observed , the former to obtain the projected vertical distribution of the hi density , and the latter to reveal the vertical motions . in edge - on galaxies the separation of an hi thick disk or halo component from the warping and flaring of the outer disk",
    "is very difficult because of projection effects and requires a very careful analysis of the system kinematics .",
    "ngc  891 offers a good illustration of these problems and ambiguities .",
    "the hi pictures obtained by rupen ( 1991 ) and by swaters , sancisi & van der hulst ( 1997 ) show the presence of emission extending up to about 2 arcmin ( 5.6 kpc ) on both sides of the galaxy plane ( fig .",
    "this has been interpreted in the past ( sancisi & allen , 1979 ) as being part of a huge outer flare of the gas layer seen in projection .",
    "also the possibility of a line - of - sight warp has been discussed ( becquaert & combes , 1997 ) . but swaters _ et al . _",
    "( 1997 ) have concluded from their 3d analysis of the hi data cube that the extended emission comes from gas not in the outer flare but in the inner halo region of ngc  891 and have proposed that this gas rotates more slowly ( 25 to 100 km s@xmath1 ) than the gas in the plane .",
    "they have tentatively attributed this velocity difference to a gradient in the gravitational potential and have pointed out that this may serve to discriminate between disk and spheroidal mass models .",
    "the hi in the halo has a mass of about 6@xmath2 10@xmath3 m@xmath4 .",
    "this amounts to about 15% of the total hi mass of ngc  891 and only 0.3% of the total mass .",
    "there is little doubt that the origin of this halo gas is related to the star formation activity in the disk of ngc  891 and to the connected disk - halo circulation .",
    "this is supported by the presence of a thick disk component which is observed in the radio continuum ( dahlem , dettmar & hummel , 1994 ) and in h@xmath5 ( rand , kulkarni & hester , 1990 ) and is also indicated by the extended dust structures visible in the high - resolution optical wiyn images ( howk & savage , 1997 ) .",
    "the motion of the gas in the vertical direction from and toward the galaxy plane has been studied in a number of face - on galaxies .",
    "well - known examples are ngc  628 ( kamphuis & briggs , 1992 ) , ngc  1058 ( dickey _ et al . _ ,",
    "1990 ) and ngc  6946 ( kamphuis & sancisi , 1993 ) .",
    "these observations have led to accurate determinations of the gas velocity dispersion and occasionally they have revealed the presence of gas with velocities of up to 50 - 100 km s@xmath1 perpendicular to the galaxy plane . in some cases",
    "this high - velocity gas is seen in connection with hi holes in the disk ( kamphuis & sancisi , 1993 ; kamphuis , 1993 ) suggesting a link with star formation activity .",
    "such hi observations of face - on galaxies do not provide , however , any information on the z - distribution of the gas .    the limitations and difficulties in the study of the vertical hi density structure and kinematics that are met with galaxies viewed either edge - on or face - on",
    "can be partly overcome by taking objects of intermediate inclinations .",
    "this is illustrated very well by the case of ngc  2403 which has now become the prototype for such a study . as it will become clear below",
    ", this nearby spiral galaxy is a most suitable candidate because of its ideal inclination of about 60@xmath6 , its extended hi layer ( about twice the optical ) and its regular kinematics and symmetric , flat rotation curve . and , indeed",
    ", the hi data do show all the features seen in edge - on and face - on galaxies and a more complete interpretation is possible .",
    "the early hi observations with the westerbork synthesis radio telescope ( wsrt ) , although it was not recognized at the time , show puzzling systematic asymmetries in the hi velocity profiles along the major axis of ngc  2403 .",
    "the asymmetries are in the form of wings on the side of the lower velocities , towards systemic .",
    "this pattern ( we refer to it as the ` beard ' and show it in fig . 3 below ) is clearly visible in the position - velocity maps along the major axis of ngc  2403 ( wevers , van der kruit & allen , 1986 , p. 551",
    "6a ; begeman , 1987 , p. 46",
    "it is similar to that found in edge - on galaxies and also in objects observed at relatively low angular resolution .",
    "those observations of ngc  2403 have , however , a sufficiently high angular resolution and the galaxy is not too highly inclined ( i@xmath760@xmath6 ) .",
    "it is , therefore , quite surprising to see such systematic asymmetries in the line profiles .",
    "recently schaap , sancisi & swaters ( 2000 ) have re - analysed the 21-cm line observations with higher angular resolution and better sensitivity which had been obtained by sicking ( 1997 ) with the wsrt . in particular , they have investigated the shape of the hi velocity profiles and confirmed the presence of the asymmetric structure .",
    "they have also discussed its nature and origin .",
    "it is clear that it can not simply be explained by gas moving perpendicularly away from or toward the disk , because that would produce extensions symmetric with respect to the rotation velocity .",
    "they have investigated therefore the effects which are produced on the shape of the hi velocity profiles by the vertical structure of the hi layer . in order to do this",
    "they have constructed 3d models of the galaxy examining the possibilities of @xmath8 a thick hi disk , as opposed to the usually assumed thin layer , and @xmath9 a two - component structure , with a thin layer and a thicker but less dense one .",
    "they have concluded that , in order to reproduce the observations , the thick hi disk of the one - component model considered in @xmath8 would have to be unrealistically thick , at least about 5 kpc at full half - width .",
    "a better representation is obtained by assuming a thin layer with gas extensions from the plane which rotate more slowly ( about 25 - 50 km s@xmath1 ) than the gas in the plane . clearly , this is a result similar to that found by swaters _",
    "( 1997 ) in ngc  891 , with gas in the halo region rotating more slowly than in the plane .",
    "we have pursued the investigation of the structure and kinematics of the hi in the halo of ngc  2403 with new observations with the vla in c configuration and 48 hours integration .",
    "these data have significantly better sensitivity and higher resolution than those used by schaap _",
    "et al . _ ( 2000 ) and have led to a considerable improvement of the observational picture . not only is the existence of the ` beard ' confirmed , but new remarkable features have surfaced .",
    "the total hi map and velocity field are shown in fig .",
    "2 .    fig .",
    "3 shows the position velocity map along the major axis . patchy wings of hi emission are visible extending from the hi ridge , which in the figure is roughly marked by the rotation curve ( dots ) , towards the systemic velocity on both sides of the galaxy . due to the improved sensitivity ,",
    "the new data show that the beard is much more extended than in schaap _",
    "et al . _ ( 2000 ) . the unexpected , new features are the traces of emission , of very low signal / noise ratio but unmistakably real , which show up in the second and fourth quadrant at ` forbidden ' or ` counterrotating ' velocities .",
    "the overall picture that emerges from the new data is that of an extended zone of gas which seems to ` know ' about the general pattern of the disk rotation but has large deviations from it .",
    "we compare this picture with that expected for a thin , cold hi layer ( fig .",
    "3 , right ) which follows the flat rotation curve of ngc  2403 as indicated by the dots .",
    "all the extended gas seen at velocities significantly different from rotation , whether part of the extended beard or in the forbidden quadrants of fig .",
    "3 , we call from now on the ` anomalous ' gas .",
    "its total mass is about 3@xmath210@xmath3 m@xmath4 , 10% of the total hi mass of ngc  2403 , and @xmath70.3% of its total dynamical mass .",
    "these are similar to the values found for ngc  891 .",
    "the spatial structure of this anomalous gas is visible in a representative sample of channel maps displayed in fig .",
    "long filaments , up to 5 - 10 kpc , and spurs appear to dominate the hi distribution .",
    "the masses of these structures are between 10@xmath10 and 10@xmath11 m@xmath4 .",
    "are there any faint tails of emission on the high velocity sides in the position - velocity map of fig .",
    "3 ? on the approaching side it is difficult to be sure because of the confusion with the galactic hi emission . on the receding side , instead , around heliocentric velocities of 270 - 280 km s@xmath1 , there are hints of emission at about 25 - 30 km s@xmath1 with respect to the rotational velocity .",
    "these may represent vertical motions , which deprojected would be around 50 - 60 km s@xmath1 , and may be due to gas actually being ejected from the disk and moving into the halo .",
    "a 3-dimensional model analysis has been carried out and the possibilities of a single thick gas layer , of an outer flare and of a line - of - sight warp have been investigated and excluded .",
    "the effect of an extended , low density halo component has been finally studied .",
    "a two - component structure @xmath0a thin cold disk and a thicker layer with separate kinematics@xmath0 has been assumed .",
    "some of the results are reported in the poster paper of fraternali _ et al . _",
    "( this conference ) .",
    "the first step in the analysis has been a tentative separation of the anomalous gas component from the dense and regularly rotating gas layer .",
    "the result is a density map ( fig .",
    "2 , bottom right ) and a velocity field ( see poster ) for the anomalous gas .",
    "its kinematics is clearly dominated by differential rotation , but the mean rotation velocities are more than 50 km s@xmath1 lower than in the disk in the inner parts and about 20 km s@xmath1 in the outer parts .",
    "the kinematical minor and major axes appear to be somewhat rotated as compared to those of the thin disk and not orthogonal .",
    "this suggests a radial inward motion , probably increasing in the central region .",
    "detailed 3d modelling confirms this .    what is the nature and the origin of the anomalous gas ?",
    "no satisfactory explanation has been found yet for its peculiar morphology and kinematics . the overall pattern of motion ( fig .",
    "3 ) and the large - scale regularity indicate that this gas , despite its anomalous motion , is not ` weird ' . clearly , it represents a basic , integral part of the system .",
    "the ` beard ' and the apparently ` counterrotating ' components do not seem manifestations of two different types of phenomena . they rather seem to form together one coherent structure and require , therefore , one unique satisfactory explanation .",
    "possibilities are :    \\1 . a galactic fountain ( shapiro & field , 1976 ; bregman , 1980 ) powered by supernova explosions and stellar winds which move the ionized gas from the disk into the halo .",
    "the gas may reach large distances from the plane and then cool down and fall back onto the plane .",
    "the hypothesis of such a fountain is attractive because of the presence of active star formation and bright hii complexes in the disk of ngc  2403 .",
    "also the presence of a large number of holes in the hi layer ( see fig .",
    "2 , bottom left ) and presumably of supershells supports the picture of an effervescent disk and of a significant disk - halo - disk circulation .",
    "we are further pursuing the study of these phenomena with deep spectroscopy of the h@xmath5 emission from the bright inner parts of ngc  2403 .",
    "in many respects ngc  2403 and ngc  891 seem to be similar .",
    "the main difficulty with a standard fountain interpretation in the case of ngc  2403 lies in the presence of the apparently counterrotating , ` forbidden ' emission . in order to explain that , a new approach and different assumptions for the fountain dynamics , for instance no conservation of angular momentum , may be necessary .",
    "infall of _ primordial _ intergalactic gas .",
    "the hypothesis of cosmological gas infall has been proposed in the past and discussed ( cf .",
    "oort , 1970 ) in connection with the problem of the origin of the hvcs of the galaxy and with the need to re - supply the disks of spiral galaxies with fresh gas .",
    "such a possibility has to be considered here . in that framework",
    "it would be essential to understand the overall kinematical pattern of the anomalous hi and to understand its large - scale coherent structure which follows the rotation of the disk of ngc  2403 .",
    "also , it would be important to determine its metal abundance and to find out whether it is as low as found for the intergalactic gas or it is closer to solar .",
    "configurations involving a mis - alignment of the rotation axes of the halo and of the disk , as proposed in connection with the origin of warps ( debattista & sellwood , 1999 ) , have also been considered here for ngc  2403 .",
    "the non - orthogonality of major and minor axis shown by the velocity field of the anomalous component seems to argue against it and in favour of radial motions .",
    "the results of the present hi observations of ngc  2403 have interesting implications also regarding the high velocity clouds observed in the milky way ( wakker & van woerden , 1997 ) which are still a mystery and whose distances , nature and origin are still a matter of debate .",
    "is it possible that the anomalous hi complexes discovered around ngc  2403 are analogous to the hvcs seen in the galaxy ?",
    "with what we know of the hvcs it seems fair to suggest that we probably have detected in ngc  2403 a population of hi clouds of the same type as those intermediate and high velocity clouds which are thought to be closely associated with the galaxy and to be probably a galactic fountain type of phenomenon .",
    "clearly , they would be different from the magellanic stream .",
    "how common are the ` beards ' of galaxies ? as far as we know there are some cases , like those of m33 and ugc  7766 , which indicate the presence of similar structures .",
    "it is clear , however , that hi observations of higher sensitivity are needed .",
    "these would tell whether there is any correlation with luminosity or mass or high surface brightness or environment , and which of these may play the crucial role .",
    "becquaert , j.f . & combes , f. , 1997 , a&a , 325 , 41 .",
    "begeman , k. , 1987 , _ phd thesis _ , university of groningen .",
    "bregman , j.n .",
    ", 1980 , , 236 , 577 .",
    "dahlem , m. , dettmar , r .- j . &",
    "hummel , e. , 1994 , a&a , 290 , 384 .",
    "debattista , v.p . ,",
    "sellwood , j.a . , 1999 , , 513 , 107 .",
    "dickey , j.m .",
    ", murray hanson , m. , helou , g. , 1990 , , 352 , 522 .",
    "howk , j.c . & savage , b.d . , 1997 , aj , 114 , 2463 .",
    "kamphuis , j. , briggs , f. , 1992 , a&a , 253 , 335 .",
    "kamphuis , j. , sancisi , r. , 1993 , a&a , 273 , l31 .",
    "kamphuis , j.j . , 1993 , _ phd thesis _ ,",
    "university of groningen .",
    "kruit , p.c . ,",
    "van der , 1981 , a&a , 99 , 298 .",
    "olling , r.p .",
    ", 1995 , aj , 110 , 591 .",
    "oort , j.h . , 1970 ,",
    "a&a , 7 , 381 .",
    "rand , r.j . ,",
    "kulkarni , s.r . & hester , j.j .",
    ", 1990 , , 352 , l1 .",
    "rupen , m.p . , 1991 , aj , 102 , 48 .",
    "sancisi , r. , allen , r.j . , 1979 , a&a , 74 , 73 .",
    "sancisi , r. , _ astrophysics and space science _ , 1999 , 269 - 270 , 59 .",
    "schaap , w.e .",
    ", sancisi , r. , swaters , r.a . , 2000 ,",
    "a&a , 356 , l49 .",
    "shapiro , p.r . , & field g.b .",
    ", 1976 , , 205 , 762 .",
    "sicking , f.j . , 1997 , _ phd thesis _ , university of groningen .",
    "swaters , r.a . , sancisi , r. , van der hulst , j.m . , 1997 , , 491 , 140 .",
    "wakker b.p .",
    ", van woerden h. 1997 , ara&a , 35 , 217 .",
    "wevers , b.m.h.r . , van der kruit , p.c . ,",
    "allen , r.j . , 1986 , a&as , 66 , 505 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the results of observational studies on the vertical hi density distribution and kinematics of the disks of spiral galaxies are reported and discussed . </S>",
    "<S> attention is drawn to the presence of hi emission , unknown before and here referred to as the ` beard ' , which has anomalous structure and kinematics , different from the known cold hi disk . </S>",
    "<S> this component is extended and probably located in the halo region , it is rotating more slowly than the disk and shows radial inward motion . its nature and origin @xmath0galactic fountain or infall of primordial gas?@xmath0 are still a puzzle . </S>"
  ]
}