{
  "article_text": [
    "in early m dwarfs ( m1 - m5 ) , the trend of lengthening spindown timescale with later type , observed in g and k dwarfs , continues : early m s are faster rotators than coeval g and k stars , and there is some evidence for increasing from m1 to m5 ( @xcite ) .",
    "two mechanisms have been proposed to explain this trend : the deepening of the convective envelope with later type ( for stars with m@xmath10.3 , i.e. , earlier than @xmath0 m2.5 on the zams ; see @xcite , and the small - scale nature of the turbulent magnetic field ( for less massive , fully convective stars ; see @xcite ) .",
    "the rotation - activity relation in the m1-m5 dwarfs is also similar to that in g and k stars .",
    "a saturation - type relation is seen in coronal and chromospheric activity indicators ( @xcite ) . above a critical rotation velocity ( @xmath0 5for coronal x - ray and @xmath0 2for chromospheric emission ) ,",
    "activity in the early m s is saturated ( at @xmath0 10@xmath2 for @xmath3 and @xmath0 10@xmath4 - 10@xmath5 for @xmath6 ) .",
    "below this velocity , a range of activity levels , less than the saturation limit , are seen ( though the observational sensitivity in is too low to probe the exact trend of activity with rotation in this regime ) ( fig .",
    "1 ) . in stars earlier than @xmath0 m2.5 ,",
    "these data are consistent with the standard rotation - activity paradigm . in this picture , the magnetic fields that drive activity are generated by an @xmath7 dynamo , whose efficiency strongly increases with faster rotation ( @xcite ) .",
    "faster rotation thus leads to more activity ; saturation sets in when the fields are strong enough to cover the entire stellar surface .",
    "one might expect the rotation - activity relation to weaken at about m2.5 , since later spectral types are fully convective .",
    "as such , they may have only a turbulent dynamo , which is only marginally rotation - dependent ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , no break in the rotation - activity relation is observed at @xmath0 m2.5 ; indeed , it holds all the way down to @xmath0 m5 ( @xcite ) .",
    "perhaps the turbulent dynamo becomes dominant even _ before _ full convection sets in , and is efficient enough , even though only weakly rotation - dependent , to induce saturation at low in these stars .",
    "this would induce a smooth transition in the rotation - activity relation across the full - convection boundary .    in this paper",
    ", we study the and chromospheric emission in 56 mid - m to l dwarfs ( m5 - l6 ) , all of which are field objects .",
    "our aim is to examine whether the trends in the rotation and rotation - activity connection noted above continue as we move beyond early m , to still later spectral types .",
    "a preliminary version of this work was presented at cool stars xi by basri ( 2000 ) . in the present work",
    ", the previous sample has been extended to include more objects , and , flux , spectral type and are determined more accurately .",
    "in fig . 2 we show the derived for our sample .",
    "it is immediately obvious that rotational velocity continues to increase with later spectral type .",
    "most stars in the range m5-m8 in our sample are slow rotators ( @xmath8 15 ) , about half the stars from m8.5-l1 are fast rotators ( @xmath1 15 ) , and _ all _ the objects l2 and later are very rapid rotators ( @xmath1 20 ) .",
    "this last fact is remarkable : unlike in the earlier types , where some slow rotators are always present , we see no slow rotators at types l2 and later , even though is only a _ lower _",
    "limit on the rotational velocity ( so the real velocity is even higher ) .",
    "most of our m dwarfs show no signs of lithium , so they are presumably stellar , with ages @xmath1 1 gyr . in the @xcite sample ,",
    "all stars earlier than @xmath0 m5 , and with kinematic ages consistent with the young disk ( @xmath0 3 gyr ) , have @xmath8 10 . in their old disk ( @xmath0 10 gyr )",
    "sample , all stars earlier than m5 have @xmath8 5 .",
    "therefore , even if our stellar m dwarf sample ( i.e. , those with no lithium ) were composed only of young disk objects , it would still be true that the mid - m dwarfs rotate at least as fast as , and the late m dwarfs rotate much faster than , earlier m dwarfs of roughly the same age .",
    "this conclusion is only strengthened if our sample comprises old disk or halo objects . in other words ,",
    "the trend of increasing spindown timescale with later type continues unabated down to late m. in the l dwarfs , however , the question of age is more complicated .",
    "there is an observational bias towards finding young l types .",
    "objects later than about l2 are expected to be brown dwarfs . with time , these cool down , moving down the l spectral sequence and becoming fainter and harder to detect . below @xmath0 l2 , therefore , a magnitude limited survey selects for comparatively younger objects . for example , those l dwarfs in our sample shown to be substellar by the lithium test are all less than 1 gyr old , or well within the young disk population .",
    "those that do not show lithium are more massive and comparatively older , but could still be very young . hence it is not clear whether the high we observe in the l dwarfs is a true signature of increasing spindown timescale , or simply a result of their being young objects ( and thus not having had time to spindown ) .",
    "this question will have to be sorted out with a larger sample of l dwarfs , and better age determinations , both through the lithium test and kinematics .",
    "in fig . 3 we plot chromospheric activity , as measured through emission , against for our sample .",
    "activity levels are denoted in two ways : by the ratio of luminosity to bolometric luminosity ( @xmath9 ) , and by the surface flux ( @xmath10 ) ( there is no consensus at present on whether @xmath9 or @xmath10 is physically the more fundamental measure of activity ) .",
    "the top panels show only m5-m8.5 dwarfs , the bottom ones show our entire sample ( m5-l6 ) .",
    "two conclusions may immediately be drawn from the plots .",
    "first , m5-m8.5 dwarfs evince a rotation - activity relation very similar to that in earlier m s .",
    "a saturation - type relation is seen : above a critical velocity , activity is saturated ( at @xmath9 = 10@xmath4 - 10@xmath5 , precisely as observed in earlier m s ) , while below the critical velocity , a range of unsaturated activity levels exist . in other words",
    ", the rotation - activity connection observed in the early m dwarfs continues down to late m. the only significant change is in the magnitude of the critical velocity . in our sample",
    "it is @xmath0 12 , while for m1 - m5 dwarfs it is about 2 .",
    "moreover , we find no significant correlation between rotation and activity below 12 ( binning the m5-m8.5 dwarfs into smaller spectral groups ( see fig .",
    "3 ) does not change this ) .",
    "this is consistent with the operation of a turbulent dynamo that is only marginally dependent on rotation .",
    "the suggestion is that below @xmath0 12 , the dynamo is comparatively inefficient and effectively independent of rotation , leading to a spectrum of unsaturated activity levels .",
    "above 12 , however , the rotation rate is finally high enough to affect the dynamo efficiency , eventually leading to saturation . in that case",
    ", why saturation occurs at a much lower of 2 in m2.5-m5 dwarfs ( which are also fully convective , and so presumably support a turbulent dynamo as well ) is a question that needs to be resolved .",
    "second , the rotation - activity connection appears to break down around m9 . among the l types , the highest levels of @xmath9 we observe",
    "are at least an order of magnitude lower than saturated levels in stars of type m8.5 and earlier .",
    "most of the l dwarfs have only upper limits in emission ; true activity levels in these may be much lower .",
    "these results are surprising given that , on average , l dwarfs rotate much faster than the m s .",
    "our observations are not biased by any difficulty in detecting in the l s : at the low in these objects , chromospheric is even easier to detect against the fainter photosphere than in the hotter m types .",
    "if the absolute levels of emission were the same in the l s and m s , @xmath6 would actually be greater in the l dwarfs . instead , as fig .",
    "3 shows , the surface flux itself declines in the l s , and precipitiously enough for even @xmath9 to decrease .",
    "we note that m9-m9.5 dwarfs appear to bridge the gap in activity levels between the earlier m dwarfs and the l types .",
    "basri ( 2000 ) suggested that very rapid rotation may damp turbulence , leading to an inefficient turbulent dynamo and hence low levels of magnetically driven activity , in late m and l dwarfs .",
    "this now seems unlikely , given that the fastest rotator ( kelu-1 : l2 , 60 ) actually produces one of the highest emissions among these objects .",
    "a more probable solution ( @xcite , @xcite ) is that the falloff in activity with later type is actually a consequence of decreasing ( see fig .",
    "the resistivities in the cool , mostly neutral atmospheres of late m and l dwarfs are likely very high .",
    "consequently , electric currents may be rapidly damped , preventing the build - up of large magnetic stresses in the atmospheres of these objects . since",
    ", in the conventional picture , the eventual dissipation of such stresses energetically supports a corona and chromosphere and drives activity , emission would be severely depressed in late m and l dwarfs .",
    "this view is supported by recent calculations of resistivity in late m and l atmospheres by @xcite .",
    "finally , we note that high resistivities effectively decouple the magnetic field from the atmosphere , causing inefficient angular momentum loss through magnetically driven winds .",
    "this may contribute to the high observed in the l dwarfs .",
    "* rotation velocities continue to increase from mid - m to l. in the m dwarfs , this continues the trend of lengthening spindown timescale with later type , that is seen in earlier types . in the l dwarfs",
    ", this trend may be due to substellarity and thus comparative youth , or a true increase in spindown timescale , perhaps due to the high atmospheric resistivities . *",
    "a saturation - type rotation - activity connection is observed from m5-m8.5 , similar to that in the early m s .",
    "however , the critical velocity for saturation ( @xmath0 12 ) is much higher than in the early m s ( @xmath0 2 ) .",
    "no obvious correlation is seen between rotation and activity below 12 .",
    "this , together with the high critical velocity , may be evidence for a turbulent dynamo that is only weakly dependent on rotation . * a sharp drop in activity",
    "is seen at @xmath0 m9 , with later types showing little or no evidence of emission , in spite of being very rapid rotators .",
    "this may be due to the very high resistivities in the cool , predominantly neutral atmospheres of late m and l dwarfs : the resultant rapid decay of currents damps the build - up of large magnetic stresses , which could otherwise energetically support a chromosphere and corona and drive activity .",
    "basri , g . , 2000 ,",
    "_ eleventh cambridge workshop on cool stars , stellar systems and the sun _ ,",
    "garca - lopz , rebolo , zapatero - osorio charbonneau , p . ,",
    "schrijver , c.j . ,",
    "macgregor , k.b .",
    ", 1997 , _ cosmic winds and the heliosphere _ , eds .",
    "jokipii , j.r . ,",
    "sonett , c.p . , giampapa , m.s .",
    "( the university of arizona press ) delfosse , x . ,",
    "forveille , t . ,",
    "perrier , c . , mayor , m . , 1998 , , 331 , 581 durney , b.r . , de young , b.s . , roxburgh , i.w .",
    "1993 , solar physics , 145 , 207 meyer , f . , & meyer - hofmeister , e .",
    ", 1999 , , 341 , l23 mohanty , s . ,",
    "basri , g . , submitted"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyze rotation velocities and chromospheric ( ) activity , derived from multi - year , high - resolution spectra , in 56 mid - m to l dwarfs . </S>",
    "<S> rotation velocities are found to increase from mid - m to l. this is consistent with a lengthening of spin - down timescale with later type , though in the l types the trend may also be a function of stellar age . from m5 to m8.5 , a saturation - type rotation - activity relation is seen , similar to that in earlier types . </S>",
    "<S> however , the saturation velocity in our case is much higher , at @xmath0 12 . </S>",
    "<S> a sharp drop in activity is observed at @xmath0 m9 , with later types showing little or no emission , in spite of rapid rotation . </S>",
    "<S> this may be due to the very high resistivities in the predominantly neutral atmospheres of these cool objects . </S>"
  ]
}