{
  "article_text": [
    "here we accept the current inflationary paradigm and assume that the structure evolves from gaussian initial conditions in a universe dominated by non - baryonic dark matter ( dm ) . under these assumptions the current power spectrum of matter",
    "is determined by physical processes during the inflationary expansion , and the subsequent radiation- and matter - dominated eras .",
    "it is believed that the primordial power spectrum , formed during the inflation epoch , is a scale - free harrison - zeldovich power law .",
    "this scale - free power spectrum is transformed during the radiation - dominated expansion , the transformation depends on cosmological parameters and on the nature of the dm . within the presently acceptable range of cosmological parameters and possible dm candidates , the transfer function ( which describes the transformation of the power spectrum )",
    "is a smooth function of scale .",
    "for this reason the present power spectrum should be a smooth function of scale .    however , recent evidence ( broadhurst et al .",
    "( 1990 ) , landy et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , einasto et al .",
    "( 1997a ) , retzlaff et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , and tadros et al .",
    "( 1998 ) ) indicates that the power spectra of galaxies and clusters of galaxies have a spike or peak on scales around @xmath1  @xmath0  mpc  or wavenumber @xmath2  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4  ( we designate the hubble constant as @xmath5 km  s@xmath4  mpc@xmath4 ) .",
    "this scale corresponds to the step size of the supercluster - void network ( einasto et al .  1994b , 1997c , hereafter e97c ) .",
    "atrio - barandela et al .  ( 1997 ) , and eisenstein et al .  (",
    "1998 ) have shown that the peaked power spectrum of galaxies and clusters , and the respective angular power spectrum of temperature anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) radiation are barely compatible with the standard scale - free primordial power spectrum in a cold dark matter ( cdm ) dominated universe .",
    "an agreement is possible only for extreme values for cosmological parameters ( hubble constant and baryon fraction of the matter ) which are almost outside the limits of the range allowed by other data .    motivated by the difficulty to reconcile the observed power spectra with cdm - type models we try to calculate the primordial power spectrum of matter empirically .",
    "we shall use the latest determinations of the power spectra for various populations of galaxies and clusters of galaxies reduced in amplitude to the power spectrum of matter in the local universe ( einasto et al .  1999a , 1999b , hereafter papers i and ii , respectively ) .",
    "for comparison we use theoretical models with cold dark matter ( cdm ) , a mixture of cold and hot dark matter ( mdm ) in spatially flat universe , as well as open models ( ocdm ) .",
    "we calculate the transfer functions for a set of cosmological parameters chosen in the range of astrophysical interest , and find the primordial spectra from theoretical transfer functions and empirical power spectra .",
    "we calculate for our empirical power spectra the mass function of clusters of galaxies using the press & schechter ( 1974 ) algorithm , and compare them with the empirical cluster mass function .",
    "we shall use the mean galaxy power spectra determined in paper i , where we derived two mean power spectra based on different observed populations .",
    "clusters of galaxies and several galaxy surveys yield a mean power spectrum with a peak on a scale of 120  @xmath0  mpc .",
    "this spectrum , @xmath6 , characterizes the distribution of clusters and galaxies in a large volume that includes rich superclusters of galaxies . for comparison",
    "we use also the power spectrum found for medium - density regions of the universe , @xmath7 ( subscripts hd and md denote high- and medium - density regions ) .",
    "this spectrum is shallower around the maximum .",
    "the power spectra are determined in the range @xmath8  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 . on large and intermediate scales",
    "( @xmath9  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 ) they are found on the basis of 3-dimensional galaxy and cluster surveys .",
    "both mean power spectra coincide on small scales , where they are based on the reconstruction of the 3-d spectrum from the 2-d distribution of apm galaxies .",
    "spectra were reduced to real space and to the amplitude of the power spectrum of all galaxies , including dwarf galaxies .",
    "this procedure assumes that there exists such a mean power spectrum characteristic for all galaxies .",
    "possible errors of this assumption and intermediate steps of the data reduction shall be discussed below in section 3.1",
    ".    both mean power spectra were reduced in amplitude to the power spectra of matter using the bias factor calculated from the amount of matter in voids ; the present epoch was fixed using the rms density fluctuations in the 8  @xmath0  mpc  sphere , @xmath10 ( paper ii ) .",
    "the biasing correction is based on the assumption that the structure evolution in the universe on scales of interest is due to gravitational forces alone .",
    "possible errors related to biasing correction shall also be discussed below .    observed power spectra are shown in figure  1 .",
    "they differ only on scales around the maximum which is the most interesting part of the spectrum for the present analysis . on small scales , @xmath11  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 ,",
    "the power spectra are influenced by non - linear effects .",
    "[ figure1 ]      to compare observed power spectra with theory they are to be reduced to the linear case on small scales . to find the linear power spectrum , peacock ( 1997 ) used a method based on numerical simulations .",
    "we shall use a different method  the comparison with theoretical power spectra .",
    "theoretical spectra shall be discussed in more detail in the following sections .",
    "spectra were calculated for cdm and mdm models and for different values of the density parameter , @xmath12 ; spectra were cobe normalized .",
    "the comparison shows that theoretical spectra , calculated for high values of the density parameter , have amplitudes much higher on small scales than the amplitude of observed power spectra .",
    "the shape of theoretical power spectra based on the cdm model is also rather different from the shape of observed power spectra on scales between the maximum of the spectrum and the beginning of the non - linear part of the spectrum at @xmath13  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 .",
    "the best fit , both of the amplitude ( near the beginning of the non - linear scale ) and of the shape , is obtained with a tilted mdm model with a power index of @xmath14 on large scales , and a density parameter @xmath15 ( see figure  1 ) . for cdm models",
    "the best fit is obtained ( also of the amplitude and the shape ) for a model with density parameter @xmath16 ; but now the fit is good in a much narrower scale interval , see figure  2 below . for comparison",
    "we show in figure  1 an alternative linear extrapolation with a cdm model and a density parameter , @xmath15 . in the following discussion",
    "we shall use only the extrapolation with the mdm model .",
    "note that for our choice of @xmath3 and @xmath17 ( for the mdm model ) , these parameters corresponds to a neutrino rest mass ( or the sum of the masses of 2 or 3 stable neutrino species ) of @xmath18 ev .",
    "now we consider the extrapolation to large scales .",
    "the comparison of observed power spectra with theoretical ones shows that all cobe normalized models with low density parameter @xmath12 have amplitudes which are higher on large scales than those of the observed power spectrum ( see figure  2 below ) .",
    "for this reason we have used the standard cdm model with @xmath19 to extrapolate the observed spectra to large scales .",
    "this model has the lowest amplitude on large scales and yields the best and smoothest extrapolation of observed spectra on large scales . on these scales",
    "there are no essential differences between theoretical spectra of cdm and mdm models .",
    "we consider these extrapolations on small and large scales as estimates of the true linear power spectrum of matter . in the following",
    "we shall use the term `` empirical power spectrum '' to denote this linear power spectrum .",
    "we recall that it is reduced to real space , and its amplitude to the amplitude of the matter density fluctuations . as we have two observed mean power spectra of galaxies , characteristic for different populations , we also have two empirical power spectra .",
    "previous studies ( atrio  barandela et al .",
    "1997 , eisenstein et al .",
    "1998 ) have shown that it is difficult to make models agree with optical and cmb observations using conventional cosmological parameters and a scale - free primordial power spectrum . here",
    "we shall use a different approach .",
    "we accept cosmological parameters in the middle of the allowed region , and try to find possible restrictions to the primordial ( initial ) power spectrum .    to calculate the analytical power spectrum we use a hubble parameter @xmath20 .",
    "this value is a compromise between the value @xmath21 suggested by sandage & tammann ( 1997 ) and @xmath22 favored by freedman ( 1997 ) .",
    "we adopt a density of matter in baryons of @xmath23 ( in units of the critical density ) .",
    "this parameter is in agreement with recent nucleosynthesis results @xmath24 ( songaila , wampler & cowie 1997 , schramm & turner 1998 , olive 1997 , burles & tytler 1998 , steigman 1998 , turner 1998 , see also ostriker and steinhardt 1995 ) .",
    "we consider models with various density parameter @xmath25 , as the density is presently the parameter which is determined with less accuracy .",
    "local methods of the determination of the mass - to - light ratio in clusters and groups of galaxies yield @xmath16 ( bahcall 1997 ) .",
    "methods sensitive to the global value of the density parameter yield diverging values .",
    "dekel , burstein & white ( 1997 ) , using the potent method , obtain a value close to unity ; another treatment of the peculiar velocity field yields a lower value ( freudling et al .",
    "the distant supernova project suggests that the universe is speeding up , i.e. that the vacuum energy contributes about 60  % of the critical density , and that the matter density is about 40  % of it , close to results obtained with local methods ( perlmutter et al .",
    "1998 , riess et al .  1998 ) .",
    "indirect methods based on the cluster abundance evolution favor a value of @xmath26 ( white , efstathiou & frenk 1993 , bahcall , fan & cen 1997 , fan , bahcall & cen 1997 , bahcall & fan 1998 ) .",
    "further evidence for a low - density universe comes from the analysis of the lyman - alpha forest by weinberg et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , who found for a flat universe @xmath27 ( 1@xmath28 errors ) .",
    "a recent analysis of all available data by turner ( 1998 ) favors @xmath29 , @xmath30 and @xmath31 .    to fix the amplitude of the analytical power spectrum on large scales we use the four - year cobe normalization ( bunn & white 1997 )",
    "we can not use simultaneously the @xmath10 normalization on small scales as we do not know which model best fits both normalizations .",
    "it is just our goal to try to find a model which satisfies both normalizations .",
    "we use three sets of models : spatially flat models with cold and mixed dark matter , and open models with cold dark matter . in first two models we use the cosmological constant .",
    "its necessity is strongly favored by recent data on cluster abundance and supernova explosions at high redshifts ( bahcall et al .",
    "1997 , perlmutter et al .",
    "1998 , riess et al .  1998 ) .",
    "we vary the density parameter between @xmath32 and @xmath33 , and we choose the cold dark matter ( cdm ) content to obtain a spatially flat model , @xmath34 .",
    "models are calculated for a number of spectral indices on large scales , @xmath35 .",
    "we use a similar set of parameters for mixed dark matter ( mdm ) models with the only difference that a hot dark matter component with density parameter @xmath36 was added .",
    "the density parameter of the cold dark matter was decreased to get a spatially flat model .",
    "we use a small fraction of the hot dark matter for two reasons .",
    "first , most direct and indirect methods suggest that @xmath12 should be less than unity .",
    "@xmath17 should be chosen in agreement with the relation @xmath37 required to get the correct value of @xmath10 ( see , e.g. , pogosyan & starobinsky ( 1993 ) , and pogosyan & starobinsky ( 1995 ) for the case of a tilted initial spectrum with @xmath38 ) .",
    "second , in order to build up the fine filamentary structure of faint galaxies observed in supervoids ( lindner et al .",
    "1995 ) , the fraction of matter in the cold dark matter must be significantly larger than that of the hot component ( frisch et al .",
    "1995 ) .    in the open models ( ocdm ) we used values of @xmath39 for the matter density .",
    "the baryon density was fixed as in all other models , and the density of the cdm was chosen appropriately .",
    "theoretical power spectra for our models are plotted in the left panels of figure  2 together with the empirical linear power spectra of matter .",
    "models were calculated with the cmbfast package of seljak & zaldarriaga ( 1996 ) .",
    "we shall discuss the linear power spectra and the comparison of model spectra with observations in subsequent sections below .",
    "[ figure2 ]      the cmbfast package yields the transfer function for each of our models . we have used this function to calculate primordial power spectra , @xmath40 where @xmath41 is the transfer function . in the right - hand panels of figure  2 we plot the ratio of the primordial power spectrum to the scale - free primordial power spectrum , @xmath42 , where @xmath43 .",
    "we plot here only results found for the peaked empirical power spectrum @xmath6 . a comparison for the flatter power spectrum @xmath7 ( which represents medium rich regions ) is given in figure  3 . in both cases we have used the empirical power spectra extrapolated on small and large scales as described above .",
    "the discussion of primordial power spectra follows in section 3.3 .",
    "we compare now empirical power spectra with theoretical ones on large , intermediate and small scales .",
    "on large scales the amplitude of cobe normalized theoretical power spectra depends on the density parameter .",
    "low - density cdm and mdm models dominated by the cosmological constant have amplitudes higher than models of critical density .",
    "figure  2 demonstrates that on large scales empirical power spectra have amplitudes which are compatible with amplitudes of cobe normalized theoretical power spectra only for high - density cdm and mdm models with @xmath44 .",
    "for this reason a smooth extrapolation of empirical power spectra on large scales was possible only for high - density models .",
    "the highest amplitude on large scales ( for extrapolation of observed power spectra ) which is still in satisfactory agreement with the cobe normalization of theoretical spectra and with the upper limit of the error corridor of empirical spectra , is the cdm or mdm spectrum with @xmath45 ( the cdm and mdm model spectra are similar in this range of scales ) .",
    "[ figure3 ]    on intermediate and small scales , @xmath46  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 , the amplitude of theoretical power spectra of cdm and mdm models varies considerably with the density parameter .",
    "only theoretical power spectra with a low density parameter have amplitudes similar to the amplitude of the empirical power spectra . for cdm model the best agreement is achieved for a model with @xmath16 , and for an mdm model for @xmath30 ( see figure  2 ) . on these scales",
    "cdm and mdm models are in agreement with other evidence , which suggests that high - density models with @xmath47 are excluded by a large margin ( ostriker and steinhardt 1995 , bahcall , fan , cen 1997 , fan , bahcall , cen 1997 , borgani et al .  1997 ,",
    "bahcall & fan 1998 , turner 1998 , weinberg et al .  1998 ) .",
    "low - density theoretical power spectra have , however , maxima at @xmath48  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4  with an amplitude of the spectrum which is much higher than that of the observed peak at @xmath49  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 .",
    "available data do not support the presence of a rising spectrum on these scales : spectra found from cluster and galaxy data decrease in amplitude toward large scales .",
    "open models have a smaller increase of the amplitude on large scales for a wide range of the density parameter , and are thus in a better agreement with a reasonable extrapolation of the observed power spectrum on large scales .",
    "this agreement is lost around the maximum of the empirical power spectrum , and both versions of empirical power spectra deviate here from ocdm models by a large margin .",
    "this comparison shows that it is impossible to satisfy the shape of the empirical power spectrum with models with a fixed density parameter simultaneously on large and small scales .",
    "models which fit empirical spectra on large scales are incompatible with empirical spectra on small scales and vice versa .",
    "this is the main conclusion obtained from the comparison of cosmological models with the data .",
    "now we discuss primordial spectra derived from the empirical power spectrum , @xmath6 . on large scales",
    "there is little difference between cdm and mdm models .",
    "the main feature of primordial power spectra is the presence of a spike at the same scale as that of the maximum of the empirical power spectrum . on scales shorter than that of the spike",
    ", the primordial spectrum can be well approximated by a power law ( a straight line in a log  log plot ) .",
    "the slope of this line varies with the cosmological density parameter accepted for theoretical models . for models with high cosmological density , @xmath50 ,",
    "the slope is negative , @xmath51 ; for models with low density , @xmath52 , it is positive , @xmath38 .",
    "such tilted primordial power spectra ( i.e. spectra with @xmath53 ) have been used to increase the accuracy of the model .",
    "this approximation breaks down , if we consider the whole scale interval . on large scales the primordial power spectrum",
    "can also be approximated by tilted models .",
    "the power index of the approximation is , however , completely different from the index suitable on small scales , as seen in figure  2 .",
    "additionally , there is a considerable difference in the amplitude of the primordial power spectrum on small and large scales . for most values of the cosmological density parameter",
    "the amplitude on small scales is lower than on large scales ( compared to the scale - free primordial spectrum ) . for low values of @xmath12",
    "the effect has the opposite sign : the amplitude of the primordial spectrum on small scales is higher than on large scales .",
    "such an effect has been noticed already by lesgourgues et al .",
    "the amplitude of the break depends on the model used , and in mdm models it is larger than in cdm models .",
    "the primordial power spectrum for open model has similar features , only its amplitude on large scales rapidly increases if we consider more open models .",
    "this is due to the fact that the amplitude of theoretical power spectra of these models on scales @xmath54  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4  is much lower than the amplitude of the empirical power spectrum .",
    "primordial power spectra , which are found from the comparison of the flat empirical power spectrum , @xmath7 , with theoretical spectra , are plotted in figure  3 .",
    "on very large and small scales both empirical power spectra are identical , and consequently primordial power spectra are identical , too .",
    "differences exist in the medium scale range . here",
    "primordial power spectra have a smoother transition from long to small scales with no sharp spike at wavenumber @xmath55  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4",
    ". however , a change of the spectral index and amplitude around this wavenumber ( a `` break '' ) is very well seen .",
    "this property of the primordial power spectrum is similar for spectra derived on the basis of cdm , mdm and ocdm models .",
    "an independent analysis of the initial power spectrum was made by adams , ross & sarkar ( 1997 ) using the apm galaxy power spectrum ( which is identical to our @xmath7 ) .",
    "the presentation of the initial power spectrum ( their fig .",
    "1 ) is slightly different from ours , the main features of the spectrum are , however , well seen , with similar conclusions .",
    "previous studies have shown that it is practically impossible to bring the classical models into agreement with new data on the power spectrum by varying cosmological parameters .",
    "our analysis confirms these results .",
    "the reason for the discrepancy lies in the shape of the empirical power spectrum : it is much narrower than theoretical spectra .",
    "a change of the bias parameter or a normalization on large scales does not change these conclusions : they would only shift the features present in figures 2 and 3 up or down , without changing considerably the shape of the primordial spectrum .",
    "[ figure4 ]      the previous analysis has shown that on scales @xmath46",
    "@xmath3  mpc@xmath4the empirical power spectrum can be well approximated by a mdm model with density parameter @xmath30 . a slightly less accurate approximation in a narrower scale interval is provided by a cdm model with @xmath16 . an open model with density parameter @xmath30",
    "gives an approximation which fits the empirical power spectrum @xmath56 both on large and small scales ( but not on intermediate scales ) . a spike or break of the primordial spectrum at @xmath49  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4",
    "could be avoided using one of these models , if we allow for the higher amplitudes on large scales of the empirical power spectrum ( for cdm and mdm models ) , or a shallower turnover on medium scales ( for the ocdm model ) .",
    "examples of such spectra for mdm and ocdm models are shown in figure  4 .",
    "it is reasonable to investigate the possibilities of such models .",
    "there are two major reasons to reject these model power spectra .",
    "first , the directly observed power spectrum does not have a rising section above the maximum at @xmath57  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 , needed to fit low - density cdm or mdm models , or a very shallow maximum needed for the low - density ocdm model .",
    "second , as shown by numerical experiments discussed in paper i , models with rising or shallow power spectra in this scale interval have a distribution of superclusters which is very different from the distribution of real superclusters . in a model with a broad power spectrum , such as all scale - free cdm , mdm and ocdm models ,",
    "the distribution of rich superclusters is close to a random one .",
    "real rich superclusters form a quasi - regular lattice , which surrounds large voids of diameter @xmath58  @xmath0  mpc  ( e97c ) . a quantitative measure of the regularity is the cluster correlation function on large scales , which oscillates with a period that corresponds to the step size of the lattice ( einasto et al .  1997b , e97b )",
    ".    to test model power spectra for the regularity of superclusters we have calculated via fourier transformation correlation functions for models shown in figure  4 . to compare with the correlation function of clusters of galaxies in rich superclusters we multiplied correlation functions with factors which correspond to the mean difference in the amplitude of power spectra of matter and clusters in rich superclusters",
    ". correlation functions are plotted in the right panel of figure  4 .",
    "we see that the correlation function calculated from the power spectrum @xmath59 is oscillating with a low amplitude , both mdm and ocdm models do not show signs of oscillations .",
    "we note that the amplitude of oscillations of the observed cluster correlation function is exaggerated due to the elongated form of the observed cluster sample .",
    "however , as shown by simulations , it is impossible to generate regular oscillations of the cluster correlation function from a random distribution of superclusters .    to estimate the statistical significance of the difference between observed and model power spectra we can apply the procedure used by e97b",
    "the broad power spectrum of mdm and ocdm models can be approximated by a geometrical model with randomly distributed superclusters .",
    "e97b generated 1000 simulated catalogs of clusters , applied selection criteria similar to those used in real cluster samples , selected very rich superclusters , and calculated the respective correlation functions .",
    "very rich superclusters cause peaks and valleys in the correlation function ; the oscillatory behavior of the correlation function was characterized by the period and amplitude of oscillations , their rms scatter , and by a parameter which characterizes the regularity of oscillations .",
    "this test shows that some individual combinations of oscillation parameters are in agreement with respective parameters of the real cluster correlation function with a probability of about 1  % , but a simultaneous occurrence of all parameters has a much smaller probability ( of the order of @xmath60 ) .",
    "this test shows that there is a statistically highly significant difference between samples which generate broad and peaked power spectra .",
    "a similar conclusion has been obtained by luo & vishniac ( 1993 ) by the comparison of the 1-d power spectrum found for the broadhurst et al .",
    "( 1990 ) pencil beam survey with the theoretical spectrum calculated on the basis of the standard theory .",
    "significant differences between cluster power spectra and spectra based on various variants of cdm models have been noticed by retzlaff et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and tadros et al .",
    "( 1998 ) ; similar differences have been found also in case of the power spectrum based on the 2-d distribution of apm galaxies by peacock ( 1997 ) and gaztaaga & baugh ( 1998 ) .",
    "a consequence of the broken - scale - invariant ( bsi ) primordial power spectrum is that one can not draw conclusions based on the exact scale - free primordial spectrum , such as the use of the zero crossing of the correlation function , to determine the density parameter through the parameter @xmath61 .",
    "another conclusion is that one should not expect the slopes @xmath62 and @xmath63 of power spectra of primordial matter and gravitational waves to be independent on @xmath64 , especially , around the critical point @xmath49",
    "@xmath3  mpc@xmath4 . here",
    "@xmath62 and @xmath63 correspond to matter ( scalar perturbations ) and gravitational waves ( tensor perturbations ) , respectively . in the latter region ,",
    "differential relations between these quantities following the slow - roll approximation during inflation may become invalid .    also , we have to understand the reason why the primordial power spectrum deviates from the classical harrison - zeldovich spectrum . a very general way to obtain such a behavior requires some kind of phase transition which occured during inflation , about 60 e - folds before the end of the inflation era .",
    "there is one specific model of this type which has an exact solution .",
    "it was suggested by starobinsky ( 1992 ) , and leads to a definite bsi spectrum .",
    "it was recently confronted with observational data by lesgourgues et al .",
    "however , there exist a number of other possibilities ( see recent discussions by adams , ross & sarkar ( 1997 ) and starobinsky ( 1998 ) ) which should be explored , too .",
    "the main goal of this series of papers was to determine the mean empirical power spectrum of galaxies , to reduce it to the matter , and to compare with theoretical models to see whether it is possible to fit empirical spectrum with models .",
    "this procedure rests on several assumptions and conclusions based on these assumptions .",
    "the main assumptions are :    @xmath65 there exists a power spectrum which represents all galaxies in a fair sample of the universe ( including faint dwarf galaxies ) ;    @xmath66 the dynamical evolution of the universe on scales of interest is determined by gravity only ;    @xmath67 density perturbations grow from small random fluctuation generated in the early stage of the evolution ;    @xmath68 the dynamics of the universe is dominated by cold dark matter with some possible mixture of hot dark matter ;    @xmath69 galaxy samples of various environment , morphology and luminosity can be approximated by particles in numerical simulations chosen in certain threshold density intervals .",
    "the first assumption is based on observation of power spectra of galaxy samples with different absolute magnitude limits : spectra are identical in shape and amplitude if the sample contains sufficiently faint galaxies ( ge92 ) .",
    "the scatter of observed data points of power spectra of faint galaxy samples is about 10  % which can be attributed to the cosmic scatter .",
    "thus we can expect that the assumption itself does not introduce any systematic error to the analysis .",
    "the last assumption is based on our experience in comparing real and simulated galaxies , collected in last ten years ; its justification was analyzed in detail in paper ii of this series .",
    "the second , third and fourth assumptions form main paradigms of modern cosmology .",
    "the second and third assumptions are critical in the whole chain of reduction steps of observed power spectra . under these assumptions , due to gravitational instability , the structure evolution in high- and low - density regions is different : in low - density regions matter remains in the primordial form , whereas in high - density regions matter collapses and forms galaxies and systems of galaxies .",
    "a clump of matter collapses if its density is high enough , thus the gravitational character of the evolution leads to the conclusion that galaxy formation is a threshold phenomenon  there exists a critical threshold density , needed for a clump of matter to collapse . here",
    "actual _ density of the primordial matter is important .",
    "groups and clusters of galaxies have a characteristic scale of the order of 1  @xmath0  mpc , thus calculated densities must not be smoothed over scales exceeding this value .",
    "various galaxy populations can be simulated using different threshold densities ( 5th assumption ) .",
    "a threshold density , equal to the mean density of matter , divides the population of all galaxies from that of matter in voids , higher threshold densities correspond to luminous galaxies , and to galaxies in clusters .",
    "the division of matter into unclustered and clustered populations affects the respective power spectra in a simple way , so that power spectra of galaxies , systems of galaxies , and of matter are similar in shape .",
    "we can reduce spectra of different populations to the power spectrum of all galaxies by a shift in the amplitude only .",
    "simulation show that relative errors of this reduction procedure are of the order of 1  % for galaxies and about 5  % for clusters .",
    "the comparison of power spectra of simulated galaxy and cluster samples in real and redshift space has shown that the influence of peculiar velocities in groups and clusters is serious on small scales only . to avoid complications with the reduction of galaxy power spectra to real space",
    ", we have accepted on small scales ( @xmath70  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 ) the power spectrum of apm galaxies as the power spectrum of all galaxies in real space .",
    "this power spectrum is deduced from 2-d distribution of galaxies , and has no redshift distortions . here",
    "we assume that the apm sample is a fair sample of all galaxies in the universe on these scales .",
    "the main error of the amplitude of the power spectrum of all galaxies is related with this assumption .",
    "the amplitude may have a relative error of the order of 15  % , which is the largest possible error of the power spectrum of all galaxies .    on large scales the mean power spectrum",
    "is determined essentially by clusters of galaxies .",
    "numerical simulation confirm that on these scales the redshift correction ( due to the contraction of superclusters ) affects only the amplitude of power spectra ; possible systematic errors involved are negligible in comparison with sampling errors .",
    "the final step in deriving the empirical power spectrum of matter is the reduction of the mean power spectrum of all galaxies to that of matter ( the conventional biasing correction ) .",
    "here we use again our basic assumptions that the structure evolution is due to gravity alone , and that initial density fluctuation have a gaussian distribution .",
    "additionally we use our last assumption that galaxy populations can be approximated by samples of simulated particles chosen in various threshold density intervals .",
    "as discussed above , under these assumptions the matter power spectrum can be found by shifting the galaxy spectrum in amplitude .",
    "the shift is determined by the fraction of matter in the clustered population .",
    "there are two sources of error in this procedure : the uncertainty of the threshold density level , @xmath71 , which divides the low - density population of primordial particles in voids from the clustered population of particles associated with galaxies ; and errors due to uncertainty of cosmological parameters which define the speed of void evacuation and the fraction of matter in high - density regions ( see paper ii for details ) .",
    "the relative error of the threshold density level was estimated by einasto et al .",
    "( 1994a ) to be 10  % , which leads to a 3  % error of the fraction of matter in the clustered population and respective biasing parameter .",
    "the second error can be estimated from data given in paper ii ( see table  2 and figure  4 ) , it is 7  % .",
    "additional sources of error are the fuzziness of the threshold density , @xmath71 , and the assumption that the distribution of luminous galaxies in superclusters , clusters and groups is similar to the distribution of all matter .",
    "the analysis done in paper ii shows that these errors do not influence the shape of the power spectrum in the scale range of interest ( corresponding errors are of the order of 1  % ) ; the errors in the amplitude are also small , less than or equal to 5  % .",
    "the total rms relative error of the biasing factor is 10  % ( all errors are @xmath72 errors ) .    to summarize the overview of the data reduction procedure we can say that the gravitational character of the structure evolution implies that intermediate steps of data reduction introduce no noticeable error to the shape of the power spectrum , possible errors are in the amplitude of the power spectrum only .",
    "the total rms error of the amplitude is essentially determined by two errors : the error of using the amplitude of the apm galaxy power spectrum as the amplitude of the power spectrum of all galaxies in a fair sample of the universe ; and the error due to the uncertainty of model parameters used in the reduction of the galaxy power spectrum to matter .",
    "possible errors of the shape of the power spectrum are intrinsic , due to differences of power spectra of different populations . to quantify possible differences in the shape of the power spectrum of matter we have formed two mean power spectra , characteristic for samples which cover regions of the universe including high - density superclusters , and medium - density superclusters only .",
    "differences between power spectra of these samples may partly be due to unknown errors of data reduction used in various samples , or to the geometry of samples ( thin slices in case of the lcrs ) .",
    "empirical mean power spectra of matter are extrapolated on small scales ( to get linear power spectra ) and on large scales ( to have the spectrum defined on all scales for comparison with theory ) .",
    "power spectra found for high- and medium - density regions are identical on small scales ( @xmath73  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 ) , and on large scales ( @xmath74  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 ) . on medium scales they are different .",
    "the power spectrum found for regions which include high - density systems with rich superclusters has a peak at @xmath75  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 , and an almost constant power index @xmath76 for scales in the range @xmath77  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 .",
    "the power spectrum of medium - density regions has a shallower shape around the maximum , the amplitude near the maximum is lower by a factor of 2 .",
    "empirical power spectra can be well approximated by theoretical model spectra based on various dark matter models in a limited scale range .",
    "the best approximation for the empirical power spectrum for high - density regions on medium and small scales is provided by a spatially flat mdm model with cosmological density parameter @xmath15 , baryonic density @xmath78 , cold dark matter density @xmath79 , hot dark matter density @xmath80 , and cosmological constant term @xmath81 ; hubble parameter was fixed at @xmath82 .",
    "this approximation breaks down on large scales : the model power spectrum continues to rise on scales @xmath83  @xmath3  mpc@xmath4 , whereas the amplitude of the empirical power spectrum decreases .",
    "the impossibility to represent empirical power spectra with one theoretical model is one of the main results of this series of papers .",
    "if we make use of our fourth assumption that the dynamical evolution of the universe is dominated by some sort of dark matter , then we can use our empirical power spectra to calculate the primordial power spectrum .",
    "these calculations show that for both variants of the empirical power spectra the primordial power spectrum has a break , i.e. it can be approximated on large and small scales by two power laws with different power indices .",
    "this is due to the fact that it is impossible to approximate the empirical power spectrum with one single model .",
    "the strength of the break depends on the cosmological parameters used for theoretical models , and the shape of the break is different for empirical power spectra found for high- and medium - density regions .",
    "our conclusions are based on the tacit assumption that galaxy and cluster samples used represent the true matter distribution in the universe . to check this assumption",
    "new deeper redshift data are needed .",
    "the best dataset to make this crucial check is the redshift survey of giant elliptical galaxies planned in the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , see astro - ph/9810130 , astro - ph/9809085 , astro - ph/9809179 , astro - ph/9805314 ) .",
    "giant elliptical galaxies are concentrated to clusters and superclusters , and their distribution on large scales provides the best test for the shape of the power spectrum of matter on scales around the maximum .",
    "presently we can say that the possibility of a broken - scale - invariant primordial power spectrum deserves serious attention .",
    "we thank u. seljak and m. zaldarriaga for permission to use their cmbfast package , m. gramann for permission to use the program of the press - schechter algorithm , s. bonometto , e. gawiser , a. szalay , and d. tucker for discussion , and h. andernach for his help to improve the style of the text .",
    "we thank the referee , m. vogeley , for constructive criticism .",
    "this work was supported by estonian science foundation grant 2625 , and international science foundation grant llf100 .",
    "je and as were supported by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft in potsdam ; as was partially supported by the russian foundation for basic research under grant 96 - 02 - 17591 ; rc was supported by grants nag5 - 2759 , ast9318185 .",
    "99    adams , j.a . , ross , g.g . , & sarkar , s. 1997 , nucl .",
    "b503 , 405 [ hep - ph/9704286 ]    atrio - barandela , f. , einasto , j. , gottlber , s. , mller , v. , & starobinsky , a.  1997 , jetp , 66 , 397 [ astro - ph/9708128 ]    bahcall , n. 1997 , in _",
    "critical dialogues in cosmology _ , edt n. turok , world scientific , singapore , p. 221",
    "bahcall , n. & cen , r. 1993 , apj , 407 , l49    bahcall , n.a .",
    ", & fan , x. 1998 , apj , 504 , 1    bahcall , n.a . , fan , x. & cen , r. 1997 , apj , 485 , l53    borgani , s. , moscardini , l. , plionis , m. , gorski , k.m . ,",
    "holtzman , j. , klypin , a. , primack , j.r . ,",
    "smith , c.c . , & stompor , r. 1997 , new astron .",
    ", 1 , 321    broadhurst , t.j . ,",
    "ellis , r.s . ,",
    "koo , d.c . , &",
    "szalay , a.s . 1990 ,",
    "nature , 343 , 726    bunn , e.f .",
    ", & white , m.  1997 , apj , 480 , 6    burles , s. & tytler , d. 1998 , apj , ( submitted ) [ astro - ph/9712108 , 9712109 ]    cen , r. 1998 , apj ( submitted )    dekel , a. , burstein , d. & white , s.d.m .",
    "1997 , in _",
    "critical dialogues in cosmology _ , edt n. turok , world scientific , singapore , p. 175",
    "einasto , j. , einasto , m. , frisch , p. , gottlber , s. , mller , v. , saar , v. , starobinsky , a.a . ,",
    "tago , e. , & tucker , d. & andernach , h. 1997b , mnras , 289 , 801 ( e97b )    einasto , j. , einasto , m. , gottlber , s. , mller , v. , saar , v. , starobinsky , a.a . , tago , e. , tucker , d. , andernach , h. , & frisch , p. 1997a",
    ", nature , 385 , 139    einasto , j. , einasto , m. , tago , e. , mller , v. , knebe , a. , cen , r. , starobinsky , a.a . , & atrio - barandela , f. 1999b , apj ( in press ) ( paper ii )    einasto , j. , einasto , m. , tago , e. , starobinsky , a.a .",
    ", atrio - barandela , f. , mller , v. , knebe , a. , frisch , p. , cen , r. , andernach , h. , & tucker , d. 1999a , apj ( in press ) ( paper i )    einasto , j. , saar , e. , einasto , m. freudling , w. , & gramann , m. 1994a , apj , 429 , 465 ( e94 )    einasto , m. , einasto , j. , tago , e. , dalton , g. , & andernach , h. 1994b , mnras , 269 , 301    einasto , m. , tago , e. , jaaniste , j. , einasto , j. , & andernach , h. 1997c , a&as , 123 , 119 ( e97c )    eisenstein , d.j . , hu , w. , silk , j. , & szalay , a.s .",
    "1998 , apj , 494 , l1 [ astro - ph/9710303 ]    fan , x. , bahcall , n.a . & cen , r. 1997 , apj , 490 , l123    freedman , w.l .",
    "1997 , critical dialogues in cosmology , edt n. turok , world scientific , singapore , p. 92",
    "freudling , w. , zehavi , i. , da costa , l.n .",
    ", dekel , a. , eldar , a. , giovanelli , r. , haynes , m.p . ,",
    "salzer , j.j . , wegner , g. , & zaroubi , s. 1998 , apj ( submitted )    frisch , p. , einasto , j. , einasto , m. , freudling , w. , fricke , k.j .",
    ", gramann , m. , saar , v. , & toomet , o. 1995 , a&a , 296 , 611    gaztaaga , e. & baugh , c.m .",
    "1998 , mnras , 294 , 229 ( gb98 )    gramann , m. , cen , r. , & bahcall , n. 1993 , apj , 419 , 440    gramann , m. , & einasto , j. 1992 , mnras , 254 , 453 ( ge92 )    kaiser , n. 1984 , apj , 284 , l9    kaiser , n. 1987 , mnras , 227 , 1    landy , s.d . ,",
    "shectman , s.a . ,",
    "lin , h. , kirshner , r.p . ,",
    "oemler , a.a . , & tucker , d. 1996 , apj , 456 , l1    lesgourgues , j. , polarski , d. & starobinsky , a.a .",
    "1998 , mnras ( in press ) [ astro - ph/9711139 ]    lindner , u. , einasto , j. , einasto , m. , freudling , w. , fricke , k. , & tago , e. 1995 , a&a 301 , 329    luo , s. , vishniac , e.t .",
    "1993 , apj , 415 , 450    olive , k.a .",
    "1997 , [ astro - ph/9712160 ]    ostriker , j.p . , & steinhardt , p.j .",
    "1995 , nature , 377 , 600    peacock , j.a .",
    "1997 , mnras , 284 , 885    perlmutter , s. et al .",
    "1998 , nature , 391 , 51    pogosyan , d.yu . &",
    "starobinsky , a.a .",
    "1993 , mnras 265 , 507    pogosyan , d.yu . &",
    "starobinsky , a.a .",
    "1995 , apj 447 , 465    press , w.h . & schechter , p.l .",
    "1974 , apj , 187 , 425    retzlaff , j. , borgani , s. , gottlber , s. , klypin , a. , & mller , v. 1998 , newa ( submitted ) , [ astro - ph/9709044 ]    riess , a.g .",
    "1998 , aj ( in press ) [ astro - ph/9805201 ]    sandage , a. & tammann , g.a .",
    "1997 , critical dialogues in cosmology , ed .",
    "n. turok , world scientific , singapore , p. 130",
    "schramm , d.n .",
    "& turner , m.s .",
    "1998 , rev .",
    "70 , 303 [ astro - ph/9706069 ]    seljak , u. & zaldarriaga , m. 1996 , , 469 , 437    songaila , a. , wampler , e.j .",
    "& cowie , l.l .",
    "1997 , nature , 385 , 137    starobinsky , a.a .",
    "1992 , jetp lett .",
    "55 , 489    starobinsky , a.a .",
    "1998 , in _ large scale structure : tracks and traces _ , eds . v. mller et al .  , world scientific , singapore , p. 375",
    "[ astro - ph/9808152 ]    steigman , g. 1998 , [ astro - ph/9803055 ]    suhhonenko , i. , & gramann , m. 1998 .",
    "apj , ( in press )    tadros , h. , efstathiou , g. & dalton , g. 1998 , mnras , 296 , 995 [ astro - ph/9708259 ]    turner , m.s .",
    "1998 , proc .",
    "pacific ( in press ) [ astro - ph/9811364 ]    vogeley , m. 1998 , ringberg workshop on large - scale structure , ed .",
    "d. hamilton , kluwer , amsterdam , [ astro - ph/9805160 ]    weinberg , d.h . , croft , r.a.c . ,",
    "hernquist , l. , katz , n. , & pettini , m. 1998 , apj ( submitted ) [ astro - ph/9810011 ]    white , s.d.m . , efstathiou , g. & frenk , c.s .",
    "1993 , mnras , 262 , 1023",
    "[ figure5 ]    we use the empirical power spectra of mass to calculate the cluster mass function .",
    "the latter can be compared with the observed cluster mass function which allows us to check both sets of data for consistency .",
    "we calculated the cluster mass function using the algorithm , developed by suhhonenko & gramann ( 1998 ) on the basis of the press - schechter ( 1974 ) theory .",
    "this function provides an important constraint for the power spectrum ( white , efstathiou & frenk 1993 , cen 1998 ) .",
    "the cluster mass function was found for both empirical power spectra , @xmath6 , and @xmath7 , reduced to the linear regime .",
    "mass functions were derived for three values of the density parameter , @xmath84 .",
    "results are shown in figure  5 , together with the observed cluster mass function according to bahcall & cen ( 1993 ) .",
    "our calculations show that both variants of the empirical power spectra yield a cluster mass function which has a shape close to the shape of the observed cluster mass function .",
    "the differences between mass functions for spectra @xmath6 and @xmath7 are small , in other words , the mass function is not sensitive to such differences of power spectra .",
    "this is not surprising since clusters of galaxies are formed by density perturbations on 1  10 @xmath0  mpc  scales where both empirical power spectra are identical . on the other hand ,",
    "the amplitude of the mass function is very sensitive to the density parameter of the universe used for calculations .",
    "the amplitude is evidently too high if one assumes a high density parameter of the universe .",
    "the best agreement is obtained for the case of @xmath85 .",
    "a value of @xmath86 , as favored by cluster abundance evolution constraints ( bahcall & cen 1993 , bahcall , fan & cen 1997 ) , yields a lower amplitude of the calculated cluster mass function .",
    "the focus of this series of papers is on the empirical power spectrum and on its consequences for the primordial power spectrum .",
    "we do not consider the calculation of the cluster mass function for empirical power spectra as a density determination .",
    "the only conclusion we can draw from this comparison is that our power spectra yield cluster mass functions in good agreement with the observed cluster mass function . a relatively high value of the density parameter favored by this test can be explained if we assume that the biasing correction found from the fraction of matter in high - density regions is too large ( see paper ii )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we compare the observed power spectrum of matter found in papers i and ii with analytical power spectra . we extrapolate the observed power spectra on small scales to find the linear power spectrum of matter . </S>",
    "<S> we consider spatially flat cold and mixed dark matter models with cosmological constant as well as open models . </S>",
    "<S> we fix the hubble constant and the baryon density in the middle of the allowed range and vary the density parameter and the cosmological constant . </S>",
    "<S> we determine the primordial power spectrum of matter using the power spectrum of matter and the transfer functions of analytical models . </S>",
    "<S> we take two different spectra suggested by observations : one with a sharp maximum at 120@xmath0mpc and a second one with a broader maximum , as found for regions with rich and medium rich superclusters of galaxies , respectively . for both models , </S>",
    "<S> the primordial power spectra have a break in amplitude ; in the case of the spectrum with a sharp maximum the break is sharp . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that a scale - free primordial power spectrum is excluded _ if _ presently available data on the distribution of clusters and galaxies represent the true mass distribution of the universe . </S>"
  ]
}