{
  "article_text": [
    "our 2df fornax cluster spectroscopic survey ( fcss ; drinkwater et al.2000a ) was designed to make the most complete census possible of low - luminosity galaxies in the fornax cluster .",
    "having shown ( drinkwater & gregg 1998 ) that compact , high surface brightness dwarf cluster galaxies were missed in previous work , we took the unusual step of observing _ all _ objects in each 2df field , both resolved ( `` galaxies '' ) and unresolved ( `` stars '' ) . in this way we avoided any morphological bias as to what a cluster galaxy should look like .",
    "observing the `` stars '' in each field greatly increases the number of targets : over 50% of objects with @xmath0 are stars .",
    "however the flexibility of 2df means this only led to a small increase in total observing time as we scheduled the stars at times when we could not usefully observe galaxies , such as twilight or through cloud .",
    "the highlight of our results to date has been the discovery of a new population of fornax cluster dwarf galaxies so compact they were previously mistaken for galactic stars ( drinkwater et al .",
    "the locations of these objects in the cluster is shown in fig .  1 .",
    "the 2df discovery spectra of these compact objects show them to be old stellar systems  no balmer lines are detected  but we await higher resolution spectra for more detailed classifications .",
    "these `` ultra - compact dwarf '' ( ucd ) galaxies are unlike any known type of stellar system .",
    "they are smaller and more concentrated than any known dwarf galaxy , but are 2 - 3 magnitudes more luminous than the largest galactic globular clusters .",
    "their luminosities are compared with other stellar systems in fig .",
    "the only known objects they resemble both in luminosity and morphology are the nuclei of nucleated dwarf elliptical galaxies , but without any surrounding low surface brightness envelope .",
    "the radial distribution of the ucds given in fig .",
    "2(b ) shows that they are concentrated to the centre of the cluster , much more than the general population of cluster galaxies or even the nucleated dwarfs .",
    "the only distribution on the figure that resembles that of the ucds is that proposed for globular clusters formed in situ in the intra - cluster medium as suggested by west et al .",
    "( 1995 ) .",
    "we have obtained high - resolution images of the ucds with the stis instrument on the _ hubble space telescope _ ( hst ) to measure their sizes . from a preliminary analysis of our hst data",
    "we have calculated radial profiles of the ucds shown in fig .",
    "3 . four of the ucds and a de , n nucleus we observed for comparison all have very similar profiles : they are resolved by stis with fwhm=1116 pc and de vaucouleurs effective radii of @xmath1 pc .",
    "one of the ucds ( number 3 ; see fig .",
    "1 ) is larger than the rest ( fwhm=17 pc , @xmath2 pc ) .",
    "the ucds are all significantly larger than globular clusters , but they do have similar physical sizes and profiles to the dwarf elliptical nucleus we observed ( except for number 3 ) .",
    "we are considering three hypotheses to explain the nature and origin of the ucds .",
    "first they may simply be very massive star clusters , such as the intra - cluster globular clusters proposed by west et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , although their luminosities remain very high , well beyond those of galactic globular clusters .",
    "perhaps we are seeing the very high - luminosity tail of the globular cluster population associated with ngc  1399 .",
    "our second hypothesis is that these are the stripped nuclei of dwarf galaxies .",
    "previous studies of the very large globular cluster population associated with central cluster galaxies like ncg  1399 in the fornax cluster have invoked tidal stripping of dwarf galaxies to explain the globular cluster populations .",
    "this process was simulated in some detail by bassino et al .",
    "( 1994 ) who predicted the formation of even larger remnants that might resemble the ucds .",
    "we have performed numerical simulations of tidal stripping of nucleated dwarf galaxies in close orbits around the central galaxy of the cluster , ngc  1399 ( bekki , couch & drinkwater 2001 ) .",
    "the simulations show that this process is a feasible mechanism for the formation of ucds .",
    "the result of one simulation is shown in fig .",
    "the simulations show that dwarfs in close orbits around ngc  1399 can have their outer stellar envelopes removed in a few orbits ( a few gyr ) , leaving just the nuclei which we have shown are of similar size to the ucds .",
    "finally they may represent an entirely new type of compact galaxy . in this case",
    "they mmight be miniature compact ellipticals ( like m32 ) .",
    "the main test we plan of these different hypotheses is to measure the internal dynamics of the ucds using high - resolution vlt spectra to measure their velocity dispersions .",
    "we will combine these with our hst measurements of their sizes to make estimates of their virial masses and hence their mass - to - light ratios ( m / l ) .",
    "we would expect star clusters to have low m / l values , whereas compact galaxies would have higher m / l values , if we assume that they have some dark matter content ",
    "there is still no clear prediction on the existence of dark matter halos at these low mass limits .",
    "this project has only been possible thanks to the superb performance of the 2df facility , for which we wish to thank the many staff of the anglo - australian observatory involved in its support .",
    "we also acknowledge the assistance of our colleagues in the fcss team . their names can be found on our web site at http://astro.ph.unimelb.edu.au/data/ where we also provide public access to the data from our first field .",
    "bassino , l.p . , muzzio , j.c .",
    ", rabolli , m. 1994 , apj , 431 , 634 bekki k. , couch w.j .",
    ", drinkwater m.j . , 2001 , apj , 522 , l105 binggeli , b. , cameron , l.m . , 1991 , a&a , 252 , 27 bridges , t.j . , hanes , d.a . ,",
    "harris , w.e .",
    ", 1991 , aj , 101 , 469 drinkwater , m.j . ,",
    "gregg , m.d .",
    ", 1998 , mnras , 296 , l15 drinkwater m.j . , et al .",
    "2000a , a&a , 355 , 900 drinkwater m.j . ,",
    "jones , j.b . , gregg , m.d . ,",
    "phillipps , s. , 2000b , pasa , 17 , 227 ferguson h.c . , 1989 , aj , 98 , 367 harris , w.e . , 1996 ,",
    "aj , 112 , 1487 west , m.j . , cote , p. , jones , c. , forman , w. , marzke , r.o .",
    "1995 apj 453 l77"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used the 2df spectrograph on the anglo - australian telescope to obtain a complete spectroscopic sample of all objects in the magnitude range , @xmath0 , regardless of morphology , in an area centred on the fornax cluster of galaxies . among the unresolved targets are five objects which are members of the fornax cluster . </S>",
    "<S> they are extremely compact stellar systems with scale lengths less than 40 parsecs . </S>",
    "<S> these ultra - compact dwarfs are unlike any known type of stellar system , being more compact and significantly less luminous than other compact dwarf galaxies , yet much brighter than any globular cluster .    # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}