{
  "article_text": [
    "klahr & bodenheimer  ( 2002 ) show that a global baroclinic instability represents a source for turbulence leading to angular momentum transport in keplerian accretion disks with a radial gradient in entropy .",
    "their hydrodynamical simulations show that this baroclinic flow is unstable and produces pressure waves , rossby waves , and vortices in the @xmath0 plane of the disk .",
    "most interestingly , these hyper - dens anti - cyclonic vortices form out of little background noise and become long - lasting features , which have been suggested to lead to the formation of planets ( e.g.  adams & watkins 1995 ) .",
    "these pre - planetary matter concentrations have a surface density up to four times higher then the ambient medium .",
    "they furthermore concentrate dust in their centres , stressing their importance for the planetary formation process ( e.g.  barge & sommeria 1995 ) .",
    "using the code tramp ( klahr et al .  1999 ) , we perform 2d hydrodynamic simulations of the evolution of the inner region ( 110au ) of a circumstellar disk with an initial mass of @xmath1 .",
    "the comparison with previous models of circumstellar disks around t  tauri stars shows ( see , e.g. , wood et al .",
    "2002 , cotera et al .  2001 ) that this corresponds to a total disk mass on the order of @xmath2 . as described by klahr & bodenheimer  ( 2002 ) we treat the evolution of the vertically integrated density @xmath3 and internal energy @xmath4 . the initial model had a slope in surface density of @xmath5 and a temperature slope of @xmath6 which represents a constant pressure scale height of @xmath7 . the vertically integrated pressure is then given by the ideal gas equation .",
    "sources @xmath8 for internal energy are the usual @xmath9-work as well as the dissipation of possible shocks via a simple von neumann - richtmyer viscosity ( see stone & norman 1992 ) .",
    "a sink for the internal energy is a black body cooling function @xmath10 mimicking the effect of optically thick radiation in the disk and cooling with the effective ( surface ) temperature @xmath11 with the optical depth @xmath12 as a function of temperature and surface density .",
    "the simulation uses 128 cells in the azimuthal direction and 128 logarithmically distributed cells in the radial direction .",
    "the initial distribution was disturbed by a @xmath13 percent perturbation in density and left to evolve freely afterwards under the influence of the global radial entropy gradient .",
    "after @xmath14 yrs a huge anti - cyclonic hyper - dens vortex has formed ( see klahr & bodenheimer  2002 ) .",
    "afterwards the 3d data was re - established by assuming a local vertical pressure equilibrium .",
    "based on the density and temperature distributions we performed radiative transfer simulations using the three - dimensional continuum radiative transfer code mc3d ( wolf  2002 ; see also wolf et al .  1999 ,",
    "wolf & henning  2000 ) .",
    "the goal of these simulations was to obtain images at frequencies of 345ghz and 900ghz .",
    "while the first frequency was chosen in order to allow comparison with former investigations focused mainly on this frequency , the second frequency marks the planned upper limit of the frequency range to be covered by alma and is of special importance for the observation of small spatial structures .",
    "the resulting images provide the basis for simulations of the continuum observations with alma discussed in  [ simmial ] .",
    "since we consider continuum observations at submillimeter wavelengths , the circumstellar dust is the dominant source of emission .",
    "the dust grains are assumed spherical , consisting of a mixture of 62.5  % astronomical silicate and 37.5  % graphite ( optical data from weingartner & draine  2001 draine . ] ) .",
    "for the graphite we adopt the usual `` @xmath15 '' approximation ( draine & malhotra  1993 ) .",
    "the size distribution @xmath16 of the grains follows a power law , @xmath17 , with grain radii in the range @xmath18 .",
    "the gas - to - dust mass ratio amounts to 100:1 in our simulations .",
    "for simulation of the observations with alma we use the simulator software published by pety et al .",
    "since the goal of the observation is to find small - scale structures in circumstellar disks , we consider the alma configuration with the longest baselines ( max .  baseline : @xmath1913 km ) in which the 64 12m - antennas are distributed in rings . in accordance with the suggestions given by pety et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , the following main types of errors are introduced in order to make the simulations realistic : ( a ) frequency - dependent receiver- and system temperatures as given by guilloteau  ( 2002 ) , ( b ) random pointing error during the observation with a maximum value of of 0.6  in each direction , and ( c ) @xmath20 phase noise .",
    "further error sources , such as amplitude errors and `` anomalous '' refraction ( due to the variation of the refractive index of the wet air along the line of sight ) are considered as well .",
    "the observations are simulated for continuous observations centered on the meridian transit of the object .",
    "the object passes the meridian in zenith where an opacity of 0.15 is assumed .",
    "the bandwidth amounts to 8ghz .",
    "[ pic56 - 4 ] shows simulated images of the undisturbed disk in comparison to the disk with the evolved baroclinic instability at 345ghz and 900ghz for object distances of 50pc and 140pc .",
    "the hyper - dens vortex is clearly visible even at the lower frequency .",
    "however , in the case of an assumed distance of 140pc , the vortex causes a slight asymmetry in the reconstructed image only and could be hardly identified .",
    "since several well - studied nearby star - forming regions which can be observed from the prospective alma site are located at a distance between 140pc and 200pc , such as taurus , lupus , ophiuchus , corona australis , and chamaeleon , we concentrate on simulations at 900ghz in the following . furthermore , even more distant star - forming regions ( e.g. , in aquila , vulpecula , vela , perseus , puppis , and orion ) are considered by comparison of simulated 900ghz observations of the evolved disk seen under different inclinations in distances up to 300pc in fig .",
    "[ pic1-all3 ] . while the main characteristics of the vortex ( pre - planetary matter concentration ) , such as its spatial extent and brightness contrast to the surrounding medium clearly can be extracted from the images of objects at a distance of 140pc , even the spiral pattern in the circumstellar disk ( which is another , weaker feature of the disk in this evolutionary state ) could be resolved in the case of a very close young stellar object such as tw  hya . at a distance of 300pc",
    "the vortex is visible at low inclinations of the disk only , while it causes a slight asymmetry of the image at higher inclinations .",
    "finally , we consider possible observing strategies ( selected objects vs.  surveys ) which mainly results in the question of required total integration time per object . in fig .",
    "[ pic23-all3 ] images of the evolved disk seen face - on resulting from total integration times of 5min to 8h are shown .",
    "it turns out that exposure times of 5min are sufficient to detect the vortex and to derive its roughly parameters . in order to map the spiral density structures in the case of an object at a distance of 50pc",
    ", an integration time of 1 - 2h is required . a longer exposure time does not significantly increase the information content of the reconstructed image . for objects in nearby star - forming regions ( distance : 140pc ) ,",
    "a quick `` snapshot '' survey is sufficient since even much longer integration times will not allow derivation of further details of the turbulent structure of the disk .",
    "we found that alma will be able to map the anti - cyclonic hyper - dens vortices from the global baroclinic instability representing an early stage of planet formation . in nearby star - forming regions ,",
    "the main parameters of the predicted global baroclinic instability in proto - planetary disks can be derived within several minutes of integration time . for even closer objects ( within a distance of about 50pc ) a detailed structure of the spiral density pattern",
    "will be possible .",
    "we want to stress that the largest planned baselines and high frequencies are required for these observations .",
    "we wish to thank f. gueth for many helpful suggestions concerning the alma simulator and l.  hillenbrand for careful reading of the manuscript .",
    "s. wolf was supported through the hst grant go9160 , and through the nasa grant nag5 - 11645 .",
    "h.  klahr was supported by the nasa grant nag5 - 4610 , the nsf grant ast 9987417 , and by a special nasa astrophysics theory program which supports a joint center for star formation studies at nasa - ames research center , uc berkeley , and uc santa cruz .",
    "adams , f.c . , & watkins , r.   1995 , , 451 , 314 barge , p. , & sommeria , j.  1995 , , 295 , l1 cotera , a.s . ,",
    "whitney , b.a . ,",
    "young , e. , wolf , m.j , wood , k. , et al . , 2001 , , 556 , 958 draine , b.t . ,",
    "lee , h.m . , 1984 , , 285 , 89 draine , b.t . , malhotra , s. , 1993 , , 414 , 632 guilloteau , s. , 2002 , alma memo 393 klahr , h. , bodenheimer , p. , 2002",
    "klahr , h. , henning , th .",
    ", kley , w. , 1999 , , 514 , 325 pety , j. , gueth f. , guilloteau s. , 2001 , alma memo 398 stone , j.m . , & norman , m.l .",
    "1992 , , 80 , 753 weingartner , j.c . & draine , b.t . , 2001 , , 548 , 296 wolf , s. , 2002 , comp .",
    ", in press wolf , s. , henning , th . , 2000 , comp .",
    "132 , 166 wolf , s. , henning , th . ,",
    "stecklum , b. , 1999 , a&a , 349 , 839 wood , k. , wolff , m. j. , bjorkman , j.e . ,",
    "whitney , b. , 2002 , , 564 , 887"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the possibility of mapping large - scale anti - cyclonic vortices , resulting from a global baroclinic instability , as pre - cursors of planet formation in proto - planetary disks with the planned atacama large millimeter array ( alma ) . on the basis of three - dimensional radiative transfer simulations , images of a hydrodynamically calculated disk </S>",
    "<S> are derived which provide the basis for the simulation of alma . </S>",
    "<S> we find that alma will be able to trace the theoretically predicted large - scale anti - cyclonic vortex and will therefore allow testing of existing models of this very early stage of planet formation in circumstellar disks . </S>"
  ]
}