{
  "article_text": [
    "there are currently roughly three dozen gamma - ray burst events ( grbs ) for which we have independently measured redshifts .",
    "most of these redshift determinations come from either identification of absorption lines in the afterglow spectra , attributed to the gas in the host galaxy , or from observations of emission lines from the host galaxy .",
    "the combination of these techniques has resulted in a small but growing grb sample with redshifts ranging from 0.0085 to 4.5 and a distribution peaking around @xmath4 . from this small sample",
    ", it is already abundantly clear that the isotropic equivalent energy @xmath5 released in the prompt grb phase is not a standard candle .",
    "the total radiated energy taken at face value ( i.e. when not correcting for a beaming factor @xmath6 ) clearly spans several orders of magnitude , ranging from @xmath7 for the closest event , grb 980425 at @xmath8 @xcite , to @xmath9 for grb 990123 at @xmath10 ( kulkarni et al .",
    "recently @xcite and @xcite have reported on gamma - ray observations of a nearby underluminous grb occurring at redshift of @xmath11 .",
    "these new findings have added to the speculation that there is either a substantial under luminous population of grbs which can not be seen at large distances and/or that nearby events ( @xmath12 0.15 ) are underluminous compared to distant counterparts , pointing to the evolution of the average energy emitted by a grb with time .    a measure to the extend to which luminosity evolution exists in the grb population , along with their true luminosity function and density distribution , may yield important clues regarding the nature of gamma - ray bursts and how they re progenitors have evolved with time . although the physics of the underlying grb engine is hidden from direct observation and is yet uncertain , the total grb energy budget is most likely linked to the mass and/or rotational energy of the grb progenitor .",
    "understanding of how this energy budget has changed with time may offer constraints on progenitor properties and may ultimately point to the physics leading to their explosions .",
    "since grb progenitors are most likely linked to compact objects ( supermassive rotating star , black hole or neutron star mergers ) understanding how the grb luminosity function evolves with time may give insight to the host environment in the early universe , namely the star formation rate or initial stellar mass functions at high redshifts .",
    "any attempt at quantifying the evolution of intrinsic source properties of parent populations must account for malquist type biases .",
    "detection thresholds prevent events below a certain flux from being observed , resulting in the detection of only bright objects at large distances . combined with the fact that bright events are typically rare",
    ", it is very easy in astronomy to incorrectly conclude that the distant universe is filled with extremely bright rare objects .",
    "any attempt at measuring the correlation between luminosity and redshift without properly accounting for selection effects will grossly overestimate the correlation strength between the two variables .",
    "flux limited samples are a classic problem in astronomy , which manifested prominently in early quasar studies .",
    "fortunately , straight forward methods have been devised to account for such effects based on maximum likelihood techniques .",
    "these methods allow for the correct estimation of the correlation strength between a truncated data set as well as an estimate on the underlying parent population .",
    "the `` catch '' of such techniques is that the overall normalization of the resulting parent distributions can not be determined , although their functional forms are constructed in such a way to account for the data truncations",
    ".    these techniques also have to limitation of requiring a large sample sizes and more importantly , an extremely good understanding of the survey s detection thresholds ( i.e. the flux cutoff for magnitude limited samples ) .",
    "the use of the current sample of grbs with known redshift is limited by both of these restrictions .",
    "the current size of a little over two dozen bursts does not lend itself well to producing statistically robust results , especially in the high and low redshift regimes for which only a handful of events have been detected .",
    "furthermore , the sample is an accumulation of observations from several different spacecraft , all of varying detector thresholds .",
    "it would seem that these limitations could only be overcome by the accumulation of a larger data set with consistent detector thresholds which is expected to come from the swift spacecraft and the upcoming glast mission .",
    "fortunately , several authors have announced empirical cepheid like correlations linking intrinsic burst properties , such as luminosity @xcite and the total radiated energy @xcite to other grb observable .",
    "these correlations may allow for the determination of burst redshifts directly from the gamma - ray data , which has the advantage of being relatively insensitive to extinction and observable at far greater distances than afterglow line measurements .",
    "the first of these correlations was reported by @xcite . using 6 batse",
    "detected bursts with known redshift , they found an anti - correlation between the _ source _ frame lag between the 25 - 50 kev and 100 - 300 kev emission and the absolute luminosity of the grb .",
    "more recently , @xcite reported an empirical correlation between the collimation correction total energy @xmath13 radiated by the burst and the rest frame energy at which most of the prompt radiation is emitted @xmath14 . using these relationships , it is now possible to estimate `` pseudo '' redshifts for a much larger number of grbs detected by the batse instrument which perviously lacked any information as to their distance . more importantly",
    ", the batse detector threshold is relatively well understood for the entire sample , making the resulting pseudo redshift data excellent for statistical analysis .    in this paper",
    ", we examine the issue of luminosity and density evolution by using a sample of over 900 batse grbs for which the luminosity and redshift where recently estimated by @xcite through the use of the lag - luminosity correlation .",
    "we limit our analysis to the lag - luminosity correlation primarily due to the lack of jet opening angle @xmath15 information that is required for the use of the @xmath13-@xmath14 relation .",
    "this relationship requires knowledge of @xmath15 in order to determine the collimation factor , which is only known for bursts with measured jet break times and hence can not be used with the batse sample in consideration for this paper .",
    "we found that the more general , and much broader , correlation between intrinsic @xmath14 and @xmath5 reported by @xcite did not provide redshift constraints for a majority of the bursts in our sample .",
    "this is consistent with recent observations by @xcite and @xcite who also found large fractions of their batse samples to be inconsistent with the amati correlation .",
    "therefore we limit the current analysis to distances estimated through the use of the lag - luminosity relationship .    to our sample , we apply statistical techniques developed by @xcite and @xcite and first applied to grb analysis by @xcite to measure the underlying luminosity and density distribution in a way that properly accounts for the detection thresholds of the batse instrument .",
    "we find a strong ( 11.63 @xmath16 ) correlation between luminosity and redshift that can be parameterized as @xmath17 .",
    "the resulting cumulative luminosity function @xmath18 is well fit by double power law separated by a break energy of about @xmath19 ergs s@xmath20 , with the differential luminosity function @xmath21 exhibiting a power law shape of @xmath22 below this luminosity .",
    "we show that the grb comoving rate density increases roughly as @xmath23 to a redshift of @xmath24 followed by a flattening and eventual decline above @xmath25 .",
    "this rate density is in qualitatively agreement with recent photometric estimates of the cosmic star formation rate ( sfr ) , as would be expected from massive short lived progenitors .    in @xmath26",
    ", we describe the data set that we use in our study . in @xmath27",
    "we discuss the statistical methods applied to this data to estimate the grb luminosity function and comoving rate density as well as to test for any correlation between luminosity and redshift . in @xmath28",
    "we present the resulting demographic distribution functions of this analysis followed in @xmath29 by a discussion of the implications of the shape and evolution of the luminosity function and comoving rate density on various jet profile .",
    "we show that there is no evidence for beaming angle evolution in the current sample of grbs with known redshift , suggesting that the variation of the observed luminosity with redshift can not be due to an evolution of the collimation of gamma - ray emission .",
    "we conclude by examining how the similarity between the sfr and the grb comoving rate density tentatively favors short lived progenitor models .",
    "for this analysis we utilize data for 1438 batse detected grbs presented in @xcite , hereafter bnb04 .",
    "this sample includes peak photon flux @xmath30 in the 50 - 300 kev band on a 256 ms timescale , the burst duration @xmath31 , and measured lags and their uncertainties for each burst . from these lag measurements ,",
    "the authors infer each burst s luminosity and redshift by use of the lag - luminosity correlation , allowing also for an estimation of the intrinsic @xmath14 and @xmath5 for each burst . of these 1438 bursts ,",
    "1218 have positive lags making them suitable for this analysis .",
    "this data is shown in figure [ fig : data ] with an imposed flux cut set at 0.5 photon @xmath32 s@xmath20 , leaving a total of 985 bursts .",
    "the lags measurements used in this sample where made using a cross - correlation analysis similar to that previously employed by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the cross correlation method has been widely used in x - ray and gamma - ray astronomy , and is well suited for timing analysis between two signals . in this application ,",
    "the normalized discrete cross correlation function is given by @xmath33 where @xmath34 is commonly referred to as the lag between @xmath35 and @xmath36 and @xmath37 . by maximizing the ccf function ( i.e. by maximizing the area of the product of the two functions ) as a function of @xmath34 ,",
    "an estimate of the temporal offset of the two signals can be made . if @xmath36 leads @xmath35 by @xmath38 ( i.e. @xmath39 ) than the ccf curve peaks at @xmath40 .    in bnb04 , the authors utilize 64ms count data gathered by batse s large area detectors ( lads ) which provide discriminator rates with 64 ms resolution from 2.048 s before the burst to several minutes after the trigger @xcite .",
    "the discriminator rates are gathered in four broad energy channels covering approximately 25 - 50 , 50 - 100 , 100 - 300 , and 300 to about 1800 kev allowing for excellent count statistics since the photons are collected over a wide energy band .",
    "bnb04 measure the temporal offset or lag between channel 3 ( 100 - 300 kev ) and channel 1 ( 25 - 50 kev ) light curves to produce the ccf31 lags listen in their sample .",
    "the shifting of the grb spectra out of ( or into ) the observers frame , otherwise known as the k - correction , was accounted for in the analysis performed in bnb04 .",
    "they perform spectral fits for most of the bursts in their sample and for those which can not yeild a fit , a `` band '' spectral model with average parameters is assumed for the spectra .",
    "the effects of time dilation and k - correction are then used to obtain the source frame lag and also applied to the energy flux to obtain a bolometric luminosity .    as was the case in the original @xcite paper ,",
    "the ccf method used in bnb04 can result in lag measurements which are less than the 64ms time resolution of the batse instrument . in these cases ,",
    "the associated errors of these values tend to be quite large , reducing the significance of their associated luminosity and redshift values .",
    "these errors are taken into consideration in the maximum likelihood techniques performed in our analysis .",
    "therefore , bursts with extremely short lags ( and hence high luminosity s ) are weighted accordingly . a plot of the lag - luminosity plane for the events under consideration along with the errors in the lag measurements are shown in figure [ fig : laglumplane ] .",
    "using these lag measurements , bnb04 utilize the lag - luminosity correlation to estimate the luminosity of each event .",
    "this empirical correlations was reported by @xcite who used the ccf method to measure the lag between batse s channel 3 and channel 1 energy light curves for 6 grbs with independently measured redshift .",
    "they concluded that there was an anti - correlation between the _ source _ delay in the low and high energy emission and the absolute luminosity of the grb showing that high luminosity events exhibited very small intrinsic ( source frame ) lag , whereas fainter bursts exhibited the largest time delay .",
    "this empirical correlation can be expressed as @xmath41 where @xmath42 is the source frame lag related to the observed lag @xmath43 by a time dilation factor of @xmath44 .",
    "the fact that the lag - luminosity correlation relates two source frame quantities ( i.e. luminosity and intrinsic lag ) would make it seem that knowledge of the redshift is needed _",
    "a priori_. as it turns out this is not the case .",
    "a simple numerical iteration routine can be used to solve for the redshift of a grb which lacks any information as to its distance .",
    "this is done by first making an initial guess for @xmath45 ( say @xmath4 ) to obtain the lag in the comoving frame @xmath46 .",
    "this in turn gives us an initial value for the luminosity through the use of the lag - luminosity relation .",
    "this luminosity is then used in combination with the burst s energy flux to obtain a value for the luminosity distance @xmath47 through the standard relation @xmath48 where @xmath49 is the peak flux in the 256 ms timescale and @xmath6 is the beaming factor . this distance",
    "is then compared to the @xmath47 that can be calculated directly from the guessed redshift @xmath45 by assuming standard cosmological parameters ( @xmath50 km s@xmath20 , @xmath51 , @xmath52 ) and using the expression @xmath53 the value for @xmath45 is then varied until the luminosity distances obtained from the two separate methods converge to within some predetermined precision .",
    "we note that it has been suggested by @xcite and @xcite that the lag - luminosity relationship should be a broken power law in order to accommodate grb 980425 .",
    "this burst was associated with sn 1998bw and when using the distance to the supernova , the grb appears under luminous compared to the other bursts that fall on the lag - luminosity correlation . in their analysis , bnb04 note that this break has been suggested to fit a single point , which may or may not be associated with the sne event and hence decide to use a single power law of -1.15 .",
    "the physical origin of the lag - luminosity correlation is not immediately clear .",
    "fundamentally , this observed lag is due to the evolution of the grb spectra to lower energies , so a relationship between the rate of spectral decay and luminosity is expected @xcite .",
    "this implies that the mechanisms resulting in the `` cooling '' of the grb spectra is intimately related to the total energy budget of a grb or its collimation factor .",
    "other purposed theories attempt to explain the lag - luminosity correlation as being due to the effect of the viewing angle of the grb jet @xcite , and or kinematic effects @xcite . in any case",
    ", the use of this correlation is similar to methods used to calibrate type ia supernova luminosities based on the empirical correlation between their peak magnitude and rate of light curve decay ( phillips 1999 ) .",
    "the lack of a clear physical interpretation of these correlations does not immediately preclude their use in determining , or refining , luminosity estimates .",
    "the luminosity and redshift data calculated by bnb04 gives us an enormous sample from which to investigate the evolution of the grb luminosity function .",
    "as with any cosmological source , it is important and revealing to understand of how the average luminosity and density has evolved with cosmic time . attempting to do so by simply measuring the correlation coefficient between the flux truncated luminosity and redshift data in the bnb04 sample without properly accounting for the detector selection effects would grossly overestimate the correlation strength .",
    "this is true whenever an estimate of correlation is made between two variables that suffer from data truncations , with the resulting correlation coefficient representing the truncation itself and not the underlying relation .",
    "there have been several methods developed in astronomy to account for such selection effects , based largely on maximum likelyhood techniques ( see petrosian 1992 for a review ) . in our analysis",
    ", we use a nonparametric statistical technique originally proposed by @xcite for applications in flux limited quasar studies .",
    "this so called c - method has been used successfully to reconstruct underlying parent distributions for quasars and grbs samples by @xcite , and @xcite respectively . the parent luminosity and redshift distributions which the method estimates allows for the construction of a grb luminosity function , a measure of the number of bursts per unit luminosity , and an estimate on the comoving rate density , a measure of the number of bursts per unit comoving volume and time .",
    "the c - method has two important limitations , or stipulations , to its use .",
    "first , the truncation limit below which no observations can be made must be well known .",
    "this is not a problem in our case , since the detector threshold of the batse instrument is well understood and bnb04 quantify the truncation limit of their sample .",
    "secondly , the parent luminosity and redshift distributions can only be estimated in a bivariate manner if the two variables are uncorrelated .",
    "this is a limitation of all nonparametric techniques which rely on the assumption of stochastic independence .",
    "therefore , it is necessary to first determine the degree of correlation between the two variables , in our case luminosity and @xmath54 , and then produce an uncorrelated data set through the transformation @xmath55 , where @xmath56 parameterizes the luminosity evolution . using this uncorrelated data set , it is then possible to apply the c - method to estimate the underlying parent luminosity and redshift distributions . to estimate the degree of correlation we use a simple test of independence for truncated data put forth by @xcite which is based in part on lynden - bell s c - method .",
    "below we describe the details of both lynden - bell s c - method and the efron @xmath0 petrosian independence test and how they are applied in our analysis .      if the variables @xmath57 and @xmath58 in a data set are independent , then the rank @xmath59 of @xmath60 within that set should be distributed uniformly between 1 and @xmath61 with an expected mean @xmath62 and variance @xmath63 .",
    "it is common practice to normalize the rank @xmath59 such that for independent variables @xmath59 has a mean of 0 and a variance of 1 by defining the statistic @xmath64 .",
    "a specialized version of the kendell @xmath65 statistic can be constructed to produce a single parameter whose value directly rejects or accepts the hypothesis of independence .",
    "this quantity is commonly defined as @xmath66 based on this definition , a @xmath65 of 1 indicates a 1 @xmath16 correlation whereas a @xmath65 of 0 signifies a completely random data set .",
    "see @xcite for a more detailed ( and elucidating ) proof of the applicability of normalized rank statistics .",
    "the modified version of this rank statistic proposed by @xcite to test the independence of truncated data is based on a simple concept . instead of measuring the ranks @xmath59 for the entire set of observables , rather deal with data subsets which can be constructed to be independent of the truncation limit suffered by the entire sample .",
    "this is done by creating `` associated sets '' which include all objects that could have been observed given a certain limiting luminosity .",
    "we can define an associated set as @xmath67 in other words , for each burst @xmath68 there can be constructed a data subset that includes all events within the range @xmath69 and @xmath70 .",
    "the boundaries of an associated set for a given burst @xmath68 are shown as dotted lines in figure [ fig : associatedsets ] . in this scenario",
    ", we expect the rank @xmath59 of @xmath71 within the associated set @xmath72 to be uniformly distributed between 1 and @xmath73 , where @xmath73 is the number of points in the associated set @xmath74 . using these new ranks",
    ", we can again construct the mean and variance , except that now we replace @xmath61 with @xmath73 such that @xmath75 and @xmath76 .",
    "the specialized version of kendell s @xmath65 statistic is now given by @xmath77 where the mean and variance are calculated separately for each associated set and summed accordingly to produce a single value for @xmath65 .",
    "this parameter represents the degree of correlation for the entire sample with proper accounting for the data truncation . with this statistic in place ,",
    "it is a simple matter to find the parametrization that best describes the luminosity evolution .",
    "this is accomplished by first choosing a functional form for the luminosity evolution , which in our case we choose a simple power law dependence @xmath78 .",
    "we can then make the transformation @xmath79 and vary @xmath80 until @xmath81 .",
    "an example of how well these methods are able to estimate underlying correlations in truncated data is shown in figure [ fig : fakedata ] .",
    "here we have plotted a distribution of fake luminosity and redshift data with some known power law dependence @xmath82 which is subjected to a flux cut @xmath83 represented by the red dashed line .",
    "the crosses show the observable data whereas the dots represent the data that would otherwise be undetectable .",
    "the long dashed line is the best fit to the truncated data without any knowledge of the flux cut whereas the dash dot line is the reconstructed correlation when taking into account the flux threshold .",
    "this method fails when the undetected data points become significantly larger than the observable data set , with the exact boundary at which this occurs depending on the difference in the power law indices between the underlying correlation and the flux threshold .",
    "since these quantities can not be known a priori , it is explicitly assumed that a large data sample contains a sufficient amount of events above the flux threshold for the method to work .",
    "a histogram of the difference between the known correlation index and the reconstructed index @xmath84 for multiple such simulations is shown in figure [ fig : alphadist ] .",
    "the error , or difference between the known @xmath85 and the measured @xmath86 is peaked about zero with a fwhm which roughly matches that error estimates that correspond to the 1 @xmath16 range for this parameter given by the condition @xmath87 .      once a parametric form that removes the the correlation between @xmath88 and @xmath45 is known , it is possible to use nonparametric maximum likelyhood techniques to estimate the underlying parent luminosity and redshift distributions .",
    "this luminosity distribution @xmath89 represents the cumulative grb luminosity function with the redshift distribution @xmath90 representing the grb density evolution .",
    "@xcite has shown that many , if not most , of the familiar nonparametric methods used in astronomy to produce @xmath89 and @xmath90 reduce fundamentally to lynden - bell s c - method .",
    "consider the area , or number of events , in the box produced by the associated set shown in figure [ fig : associatedsets ] .",
    "if @xmath91 represents the number of points with @xmath92 , then let @xmath93 represent the number of points in the infinitesimal column between @xmath94 and @xmath95 .",
    "the general premise behind the c - method is that if the two variables @xmath96 are stochastically independent , then the ratio between @xmath91 and @xmath93 should equal the ratio between @xmath97 and the true cumulative distribution function @xmath98 @xmath99 which can then be integrated to find @xmath100 . in the case of discrete data points ,",
    "this integration becomes a summation , yielding the solution @xmath101 where @xmath73 , is the number of bursts in the box defined by @xmath102 and @xmath103 .",
    "the value @xmath73 is the same as lynden - bell s @xmath104 in that it does not count the @xmath105 object that is used to form the associated set .",
    "similarly , we can construct the underlying cumulative redshift distribution function @xmath90 by reversing the definition of the associated set such that @xmath106 represents the number of bursts in the box @xmath107 and @xmath108 .",
    "then @xmath109    as mentioned in @xmath110 1 , there are several important limitations to the c - method .",
    "first , the overall normalization of @xmath89 and @xmath90 is arbitrary , so information regarding the absolute numbers and densities can not be obtained . despite this",
    ", the shape of the bivariate distribution is constructed in such a way that it accounts for the data truncations . due to this limitation , all distributions presented in this paper will have arbitrary normalizations .",
    "secondly , it is clear from equation [ eq : lyndenbell1 ] and [ eq : lyndenbell2 ] that the cumulative distribution function is not defined when either @xmath73 or @xmath106 are zero .",
    "this limitation restricts the use of the c - method to samples with a data size sufficiently large to ensure that all associated sets greater than @xmath111 contain a nonzero number of points .",
    "we apply the test of independence outlines in the @xmath110 3.1 to the entire bnb04 grb sample to test for luminosity evolution . for this analysis",
    "we use the flux threshold suggested by bnb04 of @xmath112 = 0.5 photons @xmath32 s@xmath20 , decreasing the sample size to 985 bursts . applying this method",
    ", we find evidence for a strong 11.63 @xmath16 correlation between luminosity and redshift .",
    "this evolution is well parameterized by a power law of the form @xmath113 , with an optimal value for the power law index ( i.e when @xmath114=0 given the transformation @xmath115 ) of @xmath80=1.7 @xmath116 0.3 .",
    "the error estimates on @xmath80 correspond to the 1 @xmath16 range for this parameter given by the condition @xmath87 .",
    "a plot of @xmath114 vs. @xmath80 with the corresponding 1 @xmath16 levels are shown in figure [ fig : taualpha ] .",
    "these findings indicate that the average luminosity ( modulo a beaming factor @xmath6 ) of grbs in the universe has evolved with time . because of the lack of beaming information",
    ", it may also be possible that the luminosity is remaining constant while the beaming factor @xmath6 is actually evolving .",
    "as will be discussed in @xmath110 5 , there is no observational evidence to suggest that this is the case .",
    "it should also be noted that @xmath114 appears to be strongly affected by the choice of the flux threshold assumed for the sample .",
    "plotted in figure [ fig : alphacut ] is the optimal value for @xmath80 vs. @xmath112",
    ". not surprisingly , if we assume no flux threshold ( i.e. @xmath117 ) , @xmath65 approaches the overestimated value received from the standard kendell @xmath65 statistic .",
    "@xmath80 similarly approached the value obtained by simply performing a power - law fit to the truncated data .",
    "@xmath80 decreases steeply with increasing @xmath112 , never reaching a stable plateau as one would hope would happen as the @xmath112 approaches the @xmath118 threshold of the detector .",
    "this underscores the importance of having a good understanding the thresholds of the detector used to collect the sample .",
    "bnb04 make a strong case for a threshold of @xmath112=0.5 photons @xmath32 s@xmath20 based on where they see a strong drop off of detected events in the @xmath119 plane ( see their figures [ fig : alphacut ] @xmath0 [ fig : alphacut ] ) and we adopt this value for all analysis presented in this paper",
    ".      the deduced parametric form describing the luminosity evolution allows us to use the c - method on the uncorrelated parameters @xmath120 and @xmath121 to obtain the cumulative luminosity function @xmath122 . shown in figure [ fig : cumluminosity ]",
    "is the cumulative @xmath122 distribution plotted as @xmath123 as a function of @xmath120 for all 985 bursts .",
    "because the luminosity evolution has been explicitly removed , this distribution represents the luminosity function in the present epoch .",
    "fitting a double power law to the curve yields @xmath124 and @xmath125 for the low and high luminosity ranges respectively , separated by a break at a luminosity of roughly @xmath126 .",
    "these slopes are very similar to those reported by @xcite who found a grb cumulative luminosity function with power law slopes of @xmath127 and @xmath128 below and above a break at about @xmath129 .",
    "these values can also be compared to the luminosity functions found by @xcite who employ the c - method to account for selection effects in quasar samples .",
    "they find that the quasar luminosity function exhibits a double power law form with indices of @xmath130 and @xmath131 .",
    "next , we differentiate the cumulative luminosity function with a 3-point lagrangian interpolation to find the differential luminosity function @xmath132 , or what is commonly referred to as simply the luminosity function @xmath133 .",
    "this function represents the total number of bursts with luminosity between @xmath120 and @xmath134 .",
    "a plot of the @xmath133 vs. @xmath120 is shown in figure [ fig : lumfunction ] .",
    "the function falls roughly as @xmath135 below the break energy of @xmath126 with a sharp decline for higher @xmath120 .",
    "this power law index is identical to the slope found by @xcite who found @xmath1 and similar to the index found by @xcite who found @xmath136 from @xmath96 data estimated from a combined use of the lag - luminosity function and variability - luminosity function , although the latter did not account for any selection biases in their data set .",
    "this value is also similar to results of several studies that used the measured flux distribution with an assumed density distribution @xmath137 , such as @xcite who uses the star formation rate to infer a @xmath137 and finds @xmath138 .",
    "the shape of the grb luminosity function has important implications to jet model theories which predict specific power law indices for various jet structures .",
    "a comparison between theorized shapes and our deduced values will be discussed in more detail in @xmath110[sec : discussion_ch3 ] .      using the alternative definition of the associated set",
    ", we can construct the cumulative density distribution @xmath139 , or the total number of grbs per comoving volume , up to a given redshift .",
    "the cumulative distribution is shown in figure [ fig : cumdensityvolume ] plotted as @xmath140 as a function of @xmath45 .",
    "the distribution of grbs appears to increase smoothly with @xmath45 , without a pronounced break at any distance , but with a flattening at high redshift indicating a drop off of events between @xmath141 . to get a better look at this density evolution",
    ", we can plot the cumulative density distribution @xmath142 as a function of comoving volume @xmath143 as seen in figure [ fig : cumdendist ] if the density of grbs per comoving volume @xmath143 is constant , i.e. @xmath144 , then it should follow that @xmath145 .",
    "we can test for evolution by fitting @xmath142 vs @xmath143 to a simple power law @xmath146 and looking for deviations from the constant density case .",
    "an index of @xmath147 indicates the presence of density evolution , with @xmath148 and @xmath149 signifying an increasing and decreasing population respectively . using the definition of @xmath143 in a flat universe of @xmath150^{3}\\ ] ] we find that the cumulative density distribution increase with @xmath45 roughly as @xmath151 at low redshifts before falling off at higher redshifts . from these results",
    "we can deduce that the grb density has undergone complicated evolution , increasing as @xmath152 before peaking between @xmath153 and then decreasing . to obtain a more quantitative look at the shape of the comoving rate density @xmath137",
    ", we again use a 3-point lagrangian interpolation routine on @xmath142 to find the differential cumulative distribution @xmath154 .",
    "we can then convert this differential distribution into a comoving rate density through the relation : @xmath155 in figure [ fig : comovingratedensity ] we show the resulting comoving rate density plotted as a function of @xmath45 .",
    "it can be seen that the grbs density function increases out to a redshift between @xmath156 then flattens before beginning to show signs of a turn over at a redshift of @xmath157 .",
    "this is in contrast to previous estimates of the comoving rate density by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite all of who find a flattening of the grb population with no apparent turn over out to a redshift of @xmath158 .",
    "it is also in contrast to results reported by @xcite who also used the lag - luminosity correlation to estimate the grb formation rate .",
    "there the authors find the grb formation rate increases steadily out to a redshift of at least 4 , but it should be noted that this work did not take into account the detector selection effects discussed above so a direct comparison may not be appropriate . as opposed to these previous findings",
    ", the turn over observed in our data quantitatively matches the global behavior of the star formation rate of the universe which has been observed to peak between @xmath159 followed by a steady decline @xcite .",
    "a more detailed comparison between the grb comoving rate density and the supernova and star formations rates will be continued in @xmath29 .",
    "we find an 11.63 @xmath16 correlation between the luminosity and redshift data deduced from the lag - luminosity correlation , strongly suggesting an evolution of the average luminosities of grbs .",
    "we show that this correlation can be parameterized as a power law as @xmath160 .",
    "this value agrees extremely well with the results presented in @xcite who found a power law index of @xmath161 after performing a similar analysis on @xmath96 data estimated using the variability - luminosity correlation .",
    "these results imply that the average energy emitted per unit time per unit solid angle by grbs was much higher in the distant past compared to relatively recent events .",
    "this is consistent with previous studies showing strong source evolution and also recent observations of under luminous nearby grbs .",
    "due to our lack of knowledge regarding the beaming angle of the bursts in our sample , it is also possible that the increase in the apparent luminosity is due to an increasing collimation at higher redshifts . as we will discuss in more detail below",
    ", we find no evidence for beaming angle evolution in the current sample of grbs with known redshift and jet opening angle , suggesting that this increase in luminosity can not be due simply to an evolution of the collimation of the gamma - ray emission .",
    "such a steep luminosity evolution is not uncommon in other astrophysical objects that show evolution with redshift .",
    "@xcite perform a similar analysis using the statistical techniques described in this paper on a combination of several quasar samples and find that the quasar luminosity function evolves as @xmath162 up to a redshift of at least 2 .",
    "there is evidence that this evolution may then become constant up to a redshift of at least 3 @xcite .",
    "we find no such break in the luminosity evolution of grbs , which in our case can be adequately fit by a single power law between at least @xmath163 .",
    "the authors also find a density evolution of @xmath164 similar to the power law of @xmath151 that we find in grbs at low redshifts . a more detailed look at their comoving rate density estimate shows that the quasar density rises as @xmath165 before peaking at @xmath166 and then declining rapidly as roughly @xmath167 for @xmath168 .",
    "this is qualitatively similar to the trend we deduce from the grb sample , which rises as @xmath169 to a @xmath170 although the proceeding decline is much more shallow as @xmath171 and extends to at least a redshift of @xmath172 before dropping off sharply .",
    "there is also evidence for significant evolution in the luminosities of star forming galaxies , which is perhaps a more relevant comparison to grbs because of their suggested association with active star forming regions @xcite .",
    "hopkins ( 2004 ) used a compilation of recent star formation rate density measurements as a function of redshift to constrain the evolving luminosity function of star - forming galaxies .",
    "he finds that the preferred evolution in a standard cosmology is given by @xmath173 out to a redshift as high a @xmath174 . at the same time he finds evidence for a very shallow density evolution given by @xmath175 , markedly different from steep density evolution",
    "@xmath176 that we estimate for grbs at low redshift . this would indicate that grb luminosities have evolved at a slower rate , but that their density in the past rises much more steeply compared to the number of star forming galaxies .",
    "it could also mean that the number of grbs per star forming galaxy has evolved rapidly with cosmic time .",
    "perhaps more interesting is the comparison between the grb comoving rate and luminosity densities with the global star formation rate history of the universe .",
    "because grbs suffer little extinction and are potentially detectable out to redshifts of @xmath177 , they could offer a unique tracer to the sfr history .",
    "they would allow for a more complete sampling of dust enshrouded star forming regions that may be missed in traditional sfr estimates based on the uv `` drop - out '' technique that is currently employed to identify lyman break galaxies .",
    "the shape of the sfr at low redshifts @xmath178 is relatively well understood , showing an order of magnitude increase from @xmath179 @xcite .",
    "these early estimates suggest that the star formation activity peaks around @xmath4 followed by a rapid decline at higher redshifts .",
    "however , further observations of hundreds of lyman break galaxies at redshifts of @xmath180 and 4 have shown that the sfr may remain constant after reaching a maximum around @xmath159 @xcite .",
    "recent deep surveys with the subaru @xcite and hubble space telescopes @xcite out to @xmath181 and 6 show evidence for a mild evolution of the sfr at redshifts @xmath25 , with measurements based on photometric redshifts showing a constant sfr out to @xmath174 @xcite .",
    "these recent sfr estimates qualitatively match the deduced grb comoving rate density shown in figure [ fig : comovingratedensity ] . at low redshifts",
    "@xmath182 , the grb rate density increases as @xmath176 roughly matching the rise in the sfr over the same range , with a peak somewhere between @xmath183 .",
    "the following flattening and decline between @xmath184 in the grb @xmath137 matches the global properties of the sfr estimated from the recent deep surveys .",
    "of course the comparisons between the grb comoving rate density and the sfr are simply phenomenological , since we have as of yet no way of connecting the amount of star formation for a given amount of grbs .",
    "ultimately this conversion factor depends on knowledge of the grb progenitor and the initial stellar mass function ( imf ) and how it changes with redshift . in the case of the collapsar model @xcite , the rate of grbs produced for a given sfr would increase sharply with redshift , as is the case for all core collapse events , due primarily to the redshift dependence on the imf",
    "however , the connection between the grb @xmath137 and the sfr would be straightforward since the progenitors would consist of massive stars with short lifetimes making them direct indicators of the sfr at that redshift .",
    "if the mass range of the progenitors and the redshift dependence of the imf is know ( or assumed ) then it would be possible to calculate a constant that directly relates @xmath137 to the sfr .",
    "the case is more complicated for binary merger models since there would be a substantial delay between the formation of the progenitor star and the final merger event that produces the grb .",
    "the distribution in the delay times is not well known for sne events , much less grbs , but it is expected to be large enough to dissociate the grb @xmath137 and the active sfr at a given redshift .",
    "the peak we observed in our deduced values for @xmath137 matching the peak of the current sfr estimates hardly seems coincidental , tentatively favoring the core collapse models .",
    "it is interesting then to compare our demographic results to that of various types of supernovae .",
    "there is overwhelming observational evidence and theoretical discussion suggesting a grbs - sne connection , including observations of supernovae bumps in afterglow lightcurves @xcite and a deduced collimation corrected energy that is narrowly clustered around the typical sne energy of @xmath185 ergs @xcite .",
    "although the intrinsic luminosity of type ia sne are _ a priori _ _ assumed _ to be constant with redshift ( hence no luminosity evolution ) , we can still compare the formation rates of sne ia / b / c to grbs , although the b / c events are obviously of more relevance to grb models .",
    "unfortunately , very little sne data is available for the high @xmath45 universe with only 7 sne at @xmath186 of the 42 sne detected in the redshift range of @xmath187 by the advanced camera for surveys ( acs ) on the hubble space telescope @xcite .",
    "data on core collapse supernova accounts for only 17 events of this sample , going out to a maximum range of @xmath188 .",
    "@xcite use this data to estimate the core collapse sne ( cc sne ) rate between @xmath189 and find a steep ( about a factor of @xmath190 ) increase in the sne @xmath191 compared to the local rate presented by @xcite . shown in figure [ fig : comovingratedensity ] are their data points for cc sne plotted over the grb comoving density , both rates normalized to 1 at @xmath192 .",
    "the two data points , although limited , do agree with the rise of the grb @xmath137 . a direct sne - grb comparison at higher redshifts will have to wait until the launch of the snap spacecraft which is predicted to find thousands of supernovae , including a significant number at high redshift .",
    "the observed luminosity evolution that we observed in the @xmath96 data leads to the conclusion that the grb progenitor population has most likely evolved in such a way as to create more energetic or more narrowly beamed bursts in the distant past .",
    "speculations on the nature of this evolution are dependant on the progenitor model and how the properties of their population are affected by the conditions of the early universe . in the case of highly rotating massive stars ( i.e. the collapsar model ) , the overall progenitor mass and/or rotation rate could be the determining factor .",
    "there is ample evidence suggesting that the so called population iii stars were much more massive than their present day counterparts .",
    "this is suggested by recent work showing that the stellar initial mass function ( imf ) has evolved with time , having a much higher value in the distant past .",
    "this higher imf is due to various factors , although it primarily is due to the lower metallicity in the early universe .",
    "the amount of material lost to stellar ejecta has also been shown to be dependant on the stellar metallicity , causing these early stars to retain more of their mass until their eventual collapse .    although the relationship between progenitor mass and emitted energy and/or beaming angle is not straight forward , there are reasons to think that this increase in average mass could result in an increase in the total energy budget available to a burst .",
    "@xcite show that under the right conditions , the collapsar model could produce more energetic bursts with increasing stellar mass , up to some limit dictated by the energy needed by the grb jet to punch through the stellar envelope .",
    "proponents of black hole accretion disk models have also shown that the rate of accretion onto the central engine of the grb increases dramatically as a function of the progenitor mass , increasing the overall energy available to the burst .",
    "unfortunately , a simple increase in the overall energy budget can not by itself explain the deduced luminosity evolution . @xcite and @xcite have recently shown observational evidence suggesting that the collimation corrected grb energies @xmath13 are actually narrowly cluster around the @xmath185 ergs typical of sne explosions .",
    "they come to this conclusion by correcting the observed prompt isotropic equivalent energy release @xmath5 of several grbs with known redshift by a factor of @xmath193 , where @xmath15 is the canonical jet opening angle .",
    "these angles are derived from broadband breaks observed in the afterglow light curves attributed to the slowing of the grb jet to the point where the relativistic beaming angle of the radiation @xmath194 becomes greater then @xmath15 .",
    "@xcite , using a larger sample of bursts , show that the corrected energies cluster around @xmath195 ergs with a variance of 0.35 dex , or a factor of 2.2 .",
    "@xcite has reported a similar result when correcting for the isotropic luminosity @xmath196 , although not as narrow as the @xmath13 results .",
    "if the collimation corrected energy and luminosity are indeed invariant with redshift , it directly implies that the brightening of the apparent isotropic equivalent luminosity is actually due largely to an increase in the beaming factor as a function of redshift and not an increase in the overall energy of the burst .",
    "there are physical arguments that can be made in the case of the collapsar model that would suggest that more massive progenitor stars could indeed produce more collimated jet outflows .    plotted in figure [ fig : fluencevsredshift ]",
    "are the @xmath13 estimates from @xcite for a little over two dozen grbs .",
    "furthermore , plotted in figure [ fig : beamingangle ] is the canonical jet opening angle for the same two dozen grbs . by",
    "apply a standard kendall rank order @xmath65 statistic we can measure the degree of correlation in these two samples in a nonparametric way ( i.e. without assuming an underlying correlation type ) .",
    "we find a correlation strength of @xmath197 between @xmath13 and redshift and @xmath198 between @xmath15 and redshift , where a @xmath199 of 1 signifies a significant correlation .",
    "therefore , there is no deduced redshift dependency that would suggest any evolution of the jet opening angle or @xmath13 with redshift in the pre - swift data set .",
    "this lack of redshift dependency stands to be tested in the swift era as more grbs with measured jet break times are observed over a broader redshift range , but if it is confirmed then it would imply that the evolution of some jet property other than the collimation factor must be responsible for the brightening of grbs with redshift .",
    "speculations on the nature of this evolution are dependant on the jet model used to explain the emission .",
    "the simplest model assumes a uniform energy distribution per solid angle @xmath200 across the jet with a sharp drop beyond @xmath15 . in this scenario ,",
    "the observed distribution in grb energies is directly due to the diversity of jet opening angles , as is the observed values of the jet break time @xmath201 .",
    "the lack of any concrete evidence for an evolution of @xmath15 with redshift combined with the observation that the collimation corrected @xmath13 and @xmath202 are very narrowly clustered , create difficulty for the uniform jet model to explain any kind of evolution in luminosity .",
    "one of the observed conditions above would have to be broken in order to accommodate any such evolution with this model .    in a structured jet model ,",
    "the grb jets are identical having a quasi - universal shape with a fixed opening angle and a nonuniform energy distribution per solid angle .",
    "the diversity in the observed jet break time and isotropic energies would then be a result of varying viewing angles away from the jet axis @xmath203 .",
    "furthermore , an observer viewing the grb at a small @xmath203 would see an extremely powerful burst , with the observed luminosity declining as some function of increasing @xmath203 . a jet structure with a functional form of @xmath204",
    "is required to reproduce the observed @xmath205 , i.e the @xcite and @xcite results .",
    "if the requirement of a narrow @xmath13 and @xmath202 distribution is broken , then any power law structure @xmath206 could still produce the observed steepening in the afterglow light curve .",
    "in this case , the luminosity evolution would manifest itself not as an narrowing of @xmath15 but rather as an overall increase in the normalization of @xmath207 .",
    "another possibility would be an evolution of the morphology of @xmath208 as a function of redshift .",
    "if the power law index @xmath209 has evolved with time , or if @xmath207 has evolved from a non - power - law shape ( e.g. a gaussian profile ) , such that @xmath207 varies more slowly with viewing angle , then there would be a markedly different luminosity distribution at high redshift .",
    "a third , rather implausible , explanation is a preferentially small viewing angle @xmath203 at higher redshift , although there is no physical reason to think that this is at all possible .",
    "therefore , it would seem that evidence of luminosity evolution in the presence of the observation that @xmath13 and @xmath202 are narrowly distributed and the lack of any evidence of an evolution of @xmath15 with redshift , favors a quasi - universal jet model over a uniform jet model .",
    "this is primarily due to the inability of the uniform jet model to explain any kind of luminosity evolution with redshift without a parallel evolution in the jet opening angle , something that is not currently observed .",
    "because the energy distribution @xmath210 of the structured jet model is well defined , it can make specific predictions regarding the grb luminosity function @xmath211 . in the case of power - law",
    "structured jets @xmath212 , resulting in a predicted luminosity function with a slope of @xmath213 @xcite .",
    "the `` canonical '' @xmath214 model would yield a luminosity function @xmath215 @xcite , whereas the quasi - universal gaussian structured jet model predicts @xmath216 @xcite .",
    "although the uniform jet model also exhibits a well defined @xmath207 , it can not make any firm predictions about the shape of the grb luminosity function due to the random variation @xmath15 .",
    "the luminosity function deduced from our analysis is well fit by a single power low with an index of @xmath217 for luminosities below about 10@xmath218 , with a sharp decline for higher luminosities .",
    "this value is intermediate between the expected value for the @xmath214 power law and gaussian structure models .",
    "an index of @xmath1 actually predicts a power law model with @xmath219 which is much steeper than the @xmath214 shape needed to keep @xmath220 constant .",
    "it is also possible that a simple gaussian or power law profile for @xmath221 is simply an oversimplification .",
    "it has been pointed out that by @xcite that @xmath221 would have to fall off steeper than @xmath222 at large angles if the quasi - uniform jet model is to explain the relative numbers of x - ray flashes to grbs .",
    "this may explain why so many studies have found a sharp decline above some break energy possibly indicating a different value for @xmath223 at low and high luminosities , i.e large and small opening angles respectively . in any case",
    ", it would not be unfeasible to think that the jet morphology is more complicated than a simple power or gaussian profile , as is suggested by our results .",
    "in this work we perform demographic studies on a large sample of luminosity and redshift data found through the use of the lag - luminosity correlation . by applying maximum likelihood techniques ,",
    "we are able to obtain an estimate of the luminosity evolution , luminosity function , and density distributions in a way that accounts for detector selection effects .",
    "we find that there exists a strong ( 11.63 @xmath16 ) correlation between luminosity and redshift that can be parameterized as @xmath162 .",
    "the resulting cumulative @xmath122 and differential @xmath132 luminosity functions are well fit by double power laws separated by a break energy of about @xmath19 ergs s@xmath20 , with @xmath132 exhibiting a power law shape of @xmath22 below this luminosity .",
    "this value does not immediately discriminate against any proposed structured jet models , but it may indicate that a more complicated jet profile is need to explain the observed luminosity function of grbs .",
    "the grb comoving rate density is found to increase as @xmath23 to a redshift of @xmath224 followed by flattening and eventual decline above @xmath225 .",
    "although , the conversion between @xmath226 and an estimate of the sfr can not be quantitatively made due to the uncertainty regarding the grb progenitors and their initial stellar mass functions , it can be said that @xmath226 does qualitatively follow recent photometric estimates of the sfr , as would be expected from massive short lived progenitors .",
    "we stress that these conclusions are based on the validity of the lag - luminosity correlation , which still stands to be confirmed as new redshift data becomes available .",
    "a full confirmation , and most probably further calibration , of this distance indicator will have to wait for addition detections with the swift spacecraft , which should have the collecting area necessary to obtain high signal - to - noise energy dependant light curves from which to measure statistically significant lags . even with the slew of directly measured luminosity and redshift data expected to come from the swift mission",
    ", empirical distance indicators may still play an important roll in expanding the available grb data set through the use of archival batse and bepoosax data for statistical studies such as the analysis performed in this work .",
    "amati , l. , et al .",
    "2002 , a@xmath0a 390 , 81 band , d. , norris , j. , bonnell , j. 2004 apj , 613 , 484 band , d. , et al .",
    "1993 , aas , 182 , 7409b band , d. , @xmath0 preece , r. 2005 apj , 627 , 319 bloom , j. s. , 2003 , pasp , 115 , 271 bloom , j. s. , frail , d. , @xmath0 kulkarni , s. 2003b , apj , 594 , 678 bouwens et .",
    "2003 , apj , 595 , 589b boyle et .",
    "1993 , mnras , 260 , 49b cappellaro , e. , evans , r. , @xmath0 turatto , m. 1999 , a@xmath0a , 351 , 459 dahlen , t. , 2004 , apj , 613 , 189d djorgovski , s. , kulkarni , s. , bloom , j. , goodrich , r. , frail , d. , piro , l. , palazzi , e. , 1998 , apj , 508l , 17d efron , b. , petrosian , v. 1992 , apj , 399 , 345 fall , s. , charlot , s. , pei , y. 1996 , apj , 464l , 43f fishman , g. j. , et .",
    "1994 , apjs , 92 , 229 fontana et .",
    "2003 , apj , 587 , 544f frail , d. a. , et .",
    "al . 2001 , apj , 562 , l55 friedman , a. , bloom , j. 2005 , apj 627 , 1 ghirlanda , g. , ghisellini , g. and lazzati , d. 2004 , apj , 616 , 331 g guetta , d. , piran , t. , waxman , e. , 2005 apj , 619 , 412 g hjorth , j. et al .",
    "2003 , nature 423 , 847 ioka , k. , nakamura , t. , 2001 , apj , 554l , 163i iwata , i. 2003 , pasj , 55 , 415i kobayashi , s. , ryde , f. , macfadyen , a. 2002 , apj , 577 , 302 kocevski , d. , e. p. liang 2003 , apj 594 , 385k kulkarni , s. r. et al .",
    "1998 , nature 393 , 35 lamb , d.,graziani , c. 2003 , aas , 202 , 4501l lloyd - ronning , n. , fryer , c. , ramirez - ruiz , e. , 2002 , apj , 574 , 554l lloyd - ronning , n. , dai , x. , zhang , b. , 2004 , apj , 601 , 371 lynden - bell , d. , 1973 mon . not .",
    ", 155 , 95 macfadyen , a. i. @xmath0 woosley , s. e. 1999 , apj 524 , 262 madau et .",
    "1996 , mnras , 283 , 1388 m maloney , a. , petrosian , v. 1999 , apj , 518 , 32 murakami et al .",
    "2003 , pasj , 55 , l65 nakar , e. @xmath0 piran , t. 2005 , mnras , 360l , 73n norris , j. p. , marani , g. f. @xmath0 bonnell , j. t. 2000 , astrophys .",
    "j 534 , 248 norris , j. , 2002 , apj , 579 , 386n petrosian , v. 1992 in statistical challenges in modern astronomy , ed .",
    "e. d. feigelson @xmath0 g. j. babu ( new york : springer ) , 173 riess et .",
    "2004 , apj , 607 , 665r rossi , e. , lazzati , d. , @xmath0 rees , m. 2002 mnras , 332 , 945r salmonson , j. d. 2000 , apj , 544 , l115 salmonson , j. d. 2001 , aas , 198 , 3809s sazonov , s. , lutovinov , a. , sunyaev , r. 2004 , nature , 430 , 646s schaefer , b. , deng , m. , band , d. 2001 , apj , 563l , 123s schmidt , m. 2001 , apj , 552,36s soderberg , a. 2004 , nature , 430 , 648s stanek , k. z. et al .",
    "2003 , apj 591 , l17 steidel et .",
    "1999 , apj , 519 , 1s yonetoku , d. 2004 , apj , 609 , 935y woosley , s. e. 2000 , aipc , 526 , 555w zhang , b. @xmath0 meszaros , p. 2002 , apj 571 , 876",
    "* fig . 1 . * - the luminosity and redshift data used in our analysis as deduced from the lag - luminosity correlation .",
    "the dashed line represents an imposed 0.5 photons @xmath32 s@xmath227 cut to the original 1438 bursts analyzed by bnb04 , producing the sharp cutoff in the data .",
    "this leaves a total of 985 bursts with a median redshift of 1.64 .    *",
    "- a plot of the lag - luminosity plane for the events under consideration .",
    "the error in the lag and flux measurements are used to determine the uncertainty in the luminosity values which in effect is used as a weight in the maximum likelihood technique that estimates the correlation strength between @xmath88 and @xmath45 .    *",
    "3 . * - a representation of the associated sets used in the lynden - bell technique . for each data point with @xmath228 , the solid line represents the minimum luminosity or maximum redshift that the burst could have had and still have been observed . employing the lynden - bell technique with associated sets defined as",
    "@xmath73 ( @xmath229 , @xmath70 ) produces the cumulative distribution for the vertical axis , whereas the @xmath106 associated set produces the distribution for the data represented on the horizontal axis .",
    "* - generated luminosity and redshift data used to test the ability of the efron @xmath0 petrosian method to estimate the correlation strength and functional dependence for data of a given flux cut .    * fig . 5 . * - a histogram of the difference between the known correlation index and the reconstructed index @xmath84 for a large set of generated @xmath96 data with arbitrarily imposed flux thresholds .",
    "the error in the method is tightly centered around @xmath230 .    *",
    "* - the correlation statistic @xmath65 is plotted as a function of power law index @xmath231 parameterizing the luminosity evolution .",
    "the solid line represents the @xmath80 index that minimizes the correlation between @xmath120 and @xmath45 .",
    "the dotted lines show the 1 @xmath16 _ statistical _ error in the @xmath80 parameter .    *",
    "* - the correlation parameter @xmath80 is plotted as a function of the flux cut applied to the bnb04 sample .",
    "the optimal @xmath80 is highly dependent on the choice of the cut value , showing the importance of a good understanding of the detector flux threshold .    *",
    "fig . 8 . * - the luminosity and redshift data used in our analysis as deduced from the lag - luminosity correlation .",
    "the dashed line represents an imposed 0.5 photons @xmath32 s@xmath227 cut to the original 1438 bursts analyzed by bnb04 , producing the sharp cutoff in the data .",
    "this leaves a total of 985 bursts with a median redshift of 1.64 .    *",
    "fig . 9 . * - the present epoch grb luminosity function @xmath232 , representing the number of events between the luminosity @xmath120 and @xmath134 .",
    "the function falls as roughly @xmath233 for luminosities below the break energy of @xmath19 ergs s@xmath20 .    *",
    "* - the cumulative density distribution @xmath139 , representing the total number of events up to a given redshift .",
    "the flattening at high redshift indicates a drop off of events around @xmath234 .    *",
    "fig . 11 . *",
    "- the cumulative density function @xmath142 plotted as a function of comoving volume .",
    "the dashed line represents the increase in the number of sources if the grb density were constant throughout the history of the universe .",
    "the grb density has increased as @xmath235 before peaking between @xmath153 and then decreasing .    * fig . 12 .",
    "* - the comoving rate density @xmath137 as a function of redshift .",
    "the rate density of sources can be seen to follow the evolution deduced from figure [ fig : cumdensityvolume ] , increasing to a redshift of 1 - 2 then flattening before decreasing at higher redshifts .",
    "the circles represent high redshift cc rates from @xcite whereas the square point is the local rate found @xcite .",
    "the increase in the cc event rate with redshift qualitatively matches the overall increase in the grb comoving rate density .    *",
    "* - plot of the collimation corrected total emitted energy of 23 grbs with known redshift and beaming angles .",
    "no significant correlation can be seen with redshift .    *",
    "fig . 14 . * - the beaming angles @xmath15 of 23 grbs with known redshift .",
    "the lack of a significant correlation with redshift is quite evident .",
    "[ fig : data ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we estimate the luminosity evolution and formation rate for over 900 grbs by using redshift and luminosity data calculated by band , norris , @xmath0 bonnell ( 2004 ) via the lag - luminosity correlation . by applying maximum likelihood techniques , </S>",
    "<S> we are able to infer the true distribution of the parent grb population s luminosity function and density distributions in a way that accounts for detector selection effects . </S>",
    "<S> we find that after accounting for data truncation , there still exists a significant correlation between the average luminosity and redshift , indicating that distant grbs are on average more luminous than nearby counterparts . </S>",
    "<S> this is consistent with previous studies showing strong source evolution and also recent observations of under luminous nearby grbs . </S>",
    "<S> we find no evidence for beaming angle evolution in the current sample of grbs with known redshift , suggesting that this increase in luminosity can not be due to an evolution of the collimation of gamma - ray emission . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting luminosity function is well fit with a single power law of index @xmath1 , which is intermediate between the values predicted by the power - law and gaussian structured jet models . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that the grb comoving rate density rises steeply with a broad peak between @xmath2 followed by a steady decline above @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> this rate density qualitatively matches the current estimates of the cosmic star formation rate , favoring a short lived massive star progenitor model , or a binary model with a short delay between the formation of the compact object and the eventual merger . </S>"
  ]
}