{
  "article_text": [
    "broad emission lines ( bels ) are among the most prominent feature observed in active galactic nuclei ( agn ) .",
    "the standard picture is that the bel material is in the form of dense clouds with a volume filling factor of @xmath3 illuminated by the a central ionizing continuum source ( netzer 1990 : arav et al .",
    "two main cloud models appear in the literature : one is the two - phase model in which cool clouds ( @xmath4 k ) are embedded in a hot medium with @xmath5 k which confines the clouds ( krolik , mckee & tarter 1981 ) .",
    "another class of models create the bels out of stellar atmospheres or `` bloated '' stars ( scoville & norman 1988 ; kazanas 1989 ; alexander & netzer 1994 ) . in these models",
    "the individual sources are slow ( @xmath6 km s@xmath7 ) outflows emanating from super giant stars . for further description of the two - phase and bloated star models including some of their shortcomings ,",
    "see arav et al .",
    "( 1997 ) and references therein .",
    "alternatives to the cloud picture can be found in magnetic driven winds ( emmering , blandford , & shlosman 1992 ) , and in models of disk emission coupled with winds ( chiang & murray 1996 ) .    in a previous paper ( arav et al .",
    "1997 ) we described an investigation aimed at testing the cloud picture . here",
    "we give a brief description of the basic idea and our methodology .",
    "an ensemble of discrete emitting units is expected to give a smooth line profile only when the number of units approaches infinity .",
    "for any finite number of randomly distributed clouds there will be fluctuations associated with the discreteness of the profile building blocks . the same micro structure that is caused by the fluctuations in one line profile should appear in different observations of the same line , and in different lines which arise from the same ion .",
    "on the other hand , photon shot noise , which is the major cause for fluctuations ( in essence the s / n of the observation ) , is a random process , and therefore there is hope to obtain a clear distinction between the two sources of fluctuation .",
    "furthermore , since fluctuations due to clouds in two different profiles ought to correlate along the entire profile , we should be able to detect them even if they are locally smaller than the random photon shot noise .",
    "the most straightforward way to test for similar microstructure in different profiles is to use cross - correlation ( cc ) techniques ( for details see arav et al .",
    "such an approach was used by atwood , baldwin & carswell ( 1982 ) on a moderate resolution spectra of mrk 509 and the lack of a strong cc at zero velocity shift in their data was interpreted as a lower limit of @xmath8 for the number of emitting clouds ( @xmath9 ) . by using an improved cc analysis on high quality data from mrk 335 , and extensive monte carlo simulations",
    ", we were able to put a lower limit of @xmath10 in this object .",
    "this limit applies to identical clouds with realistic temperature ( t=2@xmath11 k ) and optical depth ( @xmath12 in the h@xmath13 line ) .",
    "since the lower limit on @xmath9 is at least 30 times larger than the maximum number of stars in the bloated star models , these models can be ruled out , unless the line width of the gas associated with an individual star exceeds the unrealistically large value of 100 km s@xmath7 .",
    "simple photoionization arguments yield estimates for the largest possible number of individual clouds without adhering to a specific cloud model .",
    "therefore , it is of great interest to try to constrain this model - independent estimate . in mrk 335",
    "the photoionization estimate for the upper limit of @xmath9 vary between @xmath14 with large uncertainties , and thus is compatible with our lower limit .",
    "a significant improvement in the limit on @xmath9 is needed in order to confront the photoionization estimate .    to achieve this goal we observed ngc 4151 and analyzed its bels . for our purposes",
    "this object has three advantages compared with mrk 335 : 1 ) reverberation studies ( maoz et al .",
    "1991 ; see also a more recent campaign : kaspi et al .",
    "1996 ; crenshaw et al . 1996",
    "; edelson et al . 1996 ) indicate a blr size of roughly 9 light days . substituting this number to our estimate of @xmath9 ( arav",
    "1997 ) we obtain an upper limit of @xmath15 clouds ( or @xmath16 using the estimate found in netzer 1990 ) in ngc 4151 , which is an order of magnitude _ smaller _ than the one in mrk 335 .",
    "these estimates are @xmath17 , where @xmath18 is the ionization parameter , and the above upper limits are for the commonly used value of @xmath19 .",
    "2 ) in spite of being less luminous , the closer distance of ngc 4151 makes it roughly two magnitudes brighter than mrk 335 .",
    "the resultant higher s / n increases the monte carlo derived lower limit for @xmath9 .",
    "3 ) the bels in ngc 4151 are three times wider than in mrk 335 . with all else",
    "equal , three times more clouds are needed to cover a three times wider line .",
    "advantages 2 and 3 , combined with improvements in our algorithms , increase the lower limit on @xmath9 to @xmath20 , an order of magnitude _ larger _ than the one for mrk 335 . since the photoionization estimate for the upper limit on @xmath9 is an order of magnitude lower ,",
    "the combined effect is a two orders of magnitude improvement in the constraint on this model independent estimate .",
    "a possible caveat comes from the fact that we used clouds with a number density of @xmath21 @xmath22 in our upper limit estimates on @xmath9 .",
    "this @xmath23 is assumed since the c  iii ]  @xmath241909 bel is strongly quenched at higher densities .",
    "however , models where a significant fraction of the balmer lines emission comes from a higher density gas were proposed in the literature ( ferland & rees 1988 )",
    ". the upper limit on @xmath9 for these models will be substantially higher . in order to test these models a similar experiment to the one we show here",
    "should be performed on the c  iii ]  @xmath241909 bel in ngc 4151 , for which the upper limit estimates on @xmath9 should hold for all models .",
    "this will require high resolution spectroscopy with the hst .    in this paper",
    "we describe the ngc 4151 observations (   2 ) , present the results of the cc analysis (   3 ) , describe our monte carlo simulations from which we obtain the lower limits on @xmath9 for different emission entities (   4 ) , and discuss the implications of these result (   4 ) .",
    "the hires spectra for the seyfert galaxy ngc 4151 were obtained with the keck i telescope on may 22 , 1996 .",
    "we acquired 4 exposures totaling 56 minutes .",
    "for the purpose of our analysis two exposures suffice but by acquiring four we reduce the systematic errors in the data .",
    "each exposure used a 0.86 arc - second slit ( 3 pixels ) for a resolution of approximately 6.3 km s@xmath7 .",
    "the actual resolution varies from about 6.0 to 6.5 km / s fwhm due to the change in dispersion across each 4200 km s@xmath7  wide echelle order .",
    "the wavelength coverage was 4400 to 6800   with some gaps beyond 5000  .",
    "the signal - to - noise per ( 3 pixel ) resolution element in the total exposure ranged from about 300 in the continuum up to @xmath25800 and @xmath25400 for the peak of the bel component of the h@xmath26 and h@xmath27 lines , respectively .",
    "the wavelength calibration error is about 0.1 pixel ( 0.2 km s@xmath7 ) root - mean - square and up to a maximum error of about 0.3 pixels ( 0.6 km s@xmath7 ) .",
    "this is the relative error across the spectrum .",
    "the absolute wavelength error is about 0.3 pixels ( 0.6 km s@xmath7 ) so altogether there can be up to @xmath251 km / s error in the absolute wavelength value at any given pixel .",
    "severe fluxing errors occur when trying to combine echelle orders into a single continuous spectrum .",
    "this problem was exasperated by the narrow - line region emission which has an angular extent larger than the 1 arc - second fwhm of the continuum spatial profile . as a result , the shape of structures larger than about 20 angstroms are strongly affected by the rescaling process necessary to average the exposures .",
    "relative flux level errors of 5 to 20 percent may occur across sections of spectrum larger than 20 angstroms .",
    "the data was reduced using our own reduction package ( barlow and sargent 1997 ) which automatically traces the orders and ignores anomalous radiation events in the sky region .",
    "since the narrow emission - line region is resolved , we could not use profile modeling to correct for cosmic rays in the object .",
    "the cosmic rays were corrected after extracting the spectra and are evident as `` spikes '' in the error spectrum .",
    "figure 1 shows the observed h@xmath13 and h@xmath28 line profiles .",
    "for the cc analysis we used the same algorithm used in arav ( 1997 ) .",
    "first we fit the same velocity segment of two line profiles with 8th order polynomials .",
    "figure 2 shows the two h@xmath13 data segments and fits that are used for calculating the cc function shown in figure 3 .",
    "each data segment is composed of two different exposures and the segments are labeled a ( fig . 2 top ) and b ( fig . 2 bottom ) in figures 4 and 5 .",
    "the reduced @xmath29 for the fits were 1.01 ( a ) and 0.98 ( b ) .",
    "this assures that systematic residuals are small ( otherwise @xmath29 would be significantly larger than 1 ) , and that the fit is not too good ( @xmath29 significantly less than 1 ) .",
    "since the given errors are purely due to photon counting statistics , the reduced @xmath30 result guarantees that on small scale the errors are governed by photon shot noise .",
    "a close look at the data in figure 2 , in which the scale is magnified by a factor of three compared to figure 1 , shows the similarities and differences between two separate observations of h@xmath13 ( each is made of two exposures ) .",
    "the profiles were first normalized to approximately the same flux level and than shifted by a small constant flux for ease of comparison . over most of the velocity interval",
    "the ratio of the profiles deviates by less that 1% .",
    "however , in the interval between @xmath31 km s@xmath7  the ratio changes by up to 5% due to the problems discussed in ",
    "these fluctuations occur on scales @xmath32 km s@xmath7 , and thus do not significantly affect the search for a cc detection on scales of a few tens of km s@xmath7",
    ".    following the definition in arav ( 1997 ) , we calculated the cc function of the residuals extracted from figure 2 .",
    "the result is shown in figure 3 .",
    "we used only the red wing of h@xmath13 since the blue wing contains numerous atmospheric absorption lines which give rise to a strong cc(@xmath33 ) value , which is of course unrelated to the signature we hope to find .",
    "we also did nt use the velocity interval @xmath34 km s@xmath7 , since it is dominated by the narrow h@xmath13 and n  ii emission lines .",
    "two more cc functions are shown in figure 4 : cc function for the red wing of h@xmath28 ( the blue wing gave a similar result ) , and cc function of the composite observation of h@xmath13 and h@xmath28 in a specific velocity interval .",
    "as in the case of mrk 335 , there is no significant cc at zero velocity shift . in order to try to detect a possible cc on larger scales appropriate to realistic clouds ( arav et al .",
    "1997 ) , we tried gaussian - smoothing the cc function with velocity widths of up to 50 km s@xmath7 .",
    "no significant cc was detected on these scale either ( as expected by eye inspection of figs .",
    "3 and 4 ) .",
    "the lack of a cc signature in the data has implications for our understanding of the character and disposition of the line - emitting gas .",
    "we consider this problem in some generality by assuming , in turn , that the gas is organized in fundamental units of increasing dimensionality and that these elements are distributed in velocity space in an essentially uncorrelated manner .",
    "this is effectively the zero dimensional case and is a feature of most published models ( e.g. , krolik , mckee & tarter 1981 ; netzer 1990 ) we suppose that the gas is localized , in the form of individual clouds characterized by a velocity width @xmath35 at least as large as the ion thermal speeds at a temperature @xmath12  k ( @xmath6  km s@xmath7 for hydrogen ) . in most models ,",
    "the clouds are presumed to be organized as part of a general , large scale flow , with small filling factor ; however on velocity scales intermediate between @xmath35 and the full velocity width of the line , it is reasonable to suppose that the one dimensional velocity distributions , comprising clouds drawn from the whole emitting volume will have essentially uncorrelated velocities , even if , locally , they do have some correlations .",
    "we used monte carlo simulations to check how many clouds are needed in order not to create a statistically significant cc(@xmath33 ) value .",
    "the minimal @xmath9 needed for that is our estimate for the lower limit on the number of clouds ngc 4151 .",
    "the simulations are very similar to those we used in the case of mrk 335 ( arav et al .",
    "1997 ) , and better understanding of systematic effects allows us to obtain lower limits up to twice as large as was previously possible for a given simulation . in order to obtain the best lower limit on @xmath9 we simulated the h@xmath13 profiles , since the h@xmath13 data has the highest s / n . to have the simulation mimic the real cc analysis , we simulated the line segments shown in figure 2 .",
    "these line segments cover only about one third of the total flux in the h@xmath13 bel .",
    "once the lower limit for @xmath9 in this segment is established , we multiply it by a factor of three to obtain the global @xmath9 needed to cover the whole line .",
    "it is this number that we present on the cc plots and use in our discussions .",
    "in addition to simulations based on identical clouds we tried cloud distributions .",
    "we tested distributions in which @xmath36 where @xmath37 is the luminosity of the cloud .",
    "an example in which @xmath38 ( equal total clouds flux in each luminosity decade ) is shown in figure 5 .",
    "the luminosity interval spreads over three decades and the cloud width was chosen to mimic realistic clouds , @xmath39 km s@xmath7 .",
    "the top panel shows the cc function in a similar presentation as in figures 3 and 4 . although cc(@xmath33 ) is not much larger than 1 @xmath40 , it is evident that a strong cc exists on a velocity scale larger than the size of a single resolution element ( 6.3 km s@xmath7 ) , since the cc values for the 10 resolution elements around @xmath41 are all larger than 1 @xmath40 . as expected , when we smooth the cc function on the velocity scale of the clouds width , a very significant cc(@xmath33 ) emerges ( bottom panel ) .",
    "the main reason that the cc(@xmath33 ) in this luminosity distribution can be detected even when @xmath42 clouds , is that the cc is dominated by the more luminous clouds , since cc @xmath43 and @xmath44 in this simulation .    in figure 6",
    "we show the cc function for the conservative case of identical clouds . this is the case we use as the firm lower limit for @xmath9 in ngc 4151 .      magnetic models ( e.g. , rees 1987 ; emmering , blandford & shlosmann 1992 , bottorff et al .",
    "1997 ) ) posit that the emitting gas is localized on individual one dimensional flux tubes , again with a small volume filling factor .",
    "the gas is confined laterally by magnetic stress , but is free to flow along the field lines , satisfying a one dimensional equation of continuity .",
    "the velocity width of the line profile from an individual stream is a significant fraction of @xmath45 , but the full line is formed by the superposition of many such profiles . for geometrically simple flows , like smoothly accelerating radial motion , the full line profiles will naturally be smooth as we observe . however , more realistic velocity fields , for example as is appropriate when the gas originates from a rotating accretion disk , give sharp edges to line profiles from individual streams , which may be observable .",
    "let us illustrate this possibility by supposing that the gas flows along a segment of a circle with uniform speed , and constant emissivity per unit length .",
    "the individual profile will have the form @xmath46 higher order singularities are possible , but this is the most important and prevalent case .",
    "not all streams contain an extremum in the radial velocity , but , for example , in the solutions computed by emmering et al ( 1992 ) , we estimate that about a half of the emission is from gas that will have enough circular motion to make this happen .",
    "in actuality this line profile must be convolved with a local velocity smoothing function that takes account of the thermal width and velocity gradients across a flux tube . assuming the individual flux tubes have a characteristic widths to those derived for the cloud model and that their length is comparable to the the size of the blr ,",
    "then their number must be smaller than @xmath47 . in order to interpret our results in this context , we again constructed monte carlo simulations .",
    "we used flux tubes in the form of quarter circles , where the velocity is constant along the tube ( i.e. , @xmath48constant ) , and where the total flux of a given tube is constant .",
    "line profiles were produced in a similar manner to the cloud simulations , with the addition that the positional angles of the flow tubes , with respect to the observer were chosen randomly .",
    "we also convolved the emission of a single flux tube with a thermal gaussian ( @xmath49 km s@xmath7 ) .",
    "an interesting result of the flux tube simulations is the ease of detection of such structures , even for large velocities . for @xmath50",
    "km s@xmath7   @xmath20 flux tubes gave a clear cc signature , and @xmath15 were clearly detected for @xmath51 km s@xmath7 .",
    "the ease of detection stems from the projected emission profile seen by the observer .",
    "flow tubes can give rise to cusps in the emission profiles , which are very narrow compared to the nominal velocity of the flow . as discussed above , the cc is proportional to the square of the flux at a given velocity position .",
    "thus , relatively few cuspy profiles can dominate the cc function .",
    "in addition , a face on view of the plane of the tube give rise to emission concentrated in a small @xmath45 , which leads to a similar effect .",
    "the next kinematic possibility to consider is a two dimensional surface , epitomized by a radiative shock forming in the outflow perhaps enveloping an obstacle or in response to variation in the initial flow velocity ( perry & dyson 1985 ) .",
    "again , we suppose that the emitting gas occupies a small fraction of the volume but that there are a large number of these curved surfaces .",
    "our elementary model will be a single spherically expanding surface with constant radial velocity @xmath52 and constant surface emissivity .",
    "the observed line profile is given by @xmath53 we added a pure thermal broadening and found that for shells expanding at 100 km s@xmath7  with a thermal broadening of @xmath54 km s@xmath7 , a cc(@xmath33 ) is clearly detected for @xmath55 shells . for similar shells expanding at 200 km s@xmath7  the limit is @xmath16 .",
    "the detectability also depends on the gradient of flux as a function of velocity .",
    "the smaller the gradient ( wider smoothing ) at the edges of the profile , the harder it is to detect the cc signature .    in figure 8",
    "we show the different emission profiles we used in the simulations .",
    "the three profiles at the center of the figure are due to randomly oriented flux tubes with a flow velocity of 1000 km s@xmath7 , and the same total flux .",
    "an edge on view of the tubes plane correspond to @xmath56 , and @xmath57 is the starting position of the tube , where @xmath58 is along the line of sight .",
    "a near face on view is seen in the @xmath59 , @xmath60 case , and a cuspy emission profiles is shown in the @xmath61 , @xmath62 case .",
    "a real discontinuity is seen in the cuspy case , which occurs because emission from two different locations along the tube contribute at the same velocity . since the tube is finite , at some point one contribution ends , leading to the discontinuity .",
    "in figure 8 we did not smooth the emission profile of the flux tube in order to visually enhance the kinematical effects . in the simulations we smoothed the emission profiles with @xmath49 km s@xmath7 . an expanding shell emission profile and",
    "the clouds gaussian profiles ( centers shifted to @xmath63 km s@xmath7  and @xmath64 km s@xmath7 , respectively , for presentation purposes ) are also shown in figure 8 .",
    "finally , for completeness , we consider flows that are stationary and continuous , filling space over a limited volume in the agn .",
    "a good example is the model of chiang & murray ( 1996 ) .",
    "the flow is , by definition , smooth with a velocity field which must reproduce the observed line profile .",
    "no constraint on this model is imposed by our observations .",
    "our observational result appears to be in conflict with the simple bel cloud model , and by extension also with flux tubes and expanding shell models .",
    "one possible explanation for the lack of persistent microstructure in the line profiles is that this structure exist but changes on timescales comparable with or shorter than the time it took to acquire the observations .",
    "this possibility is unlikely , since in that amount of time the velocity change for the clouds is too small .",
    "the acceleration of the clouds in ngc 4151 can be estimated as follows : from reverberation mapping , maoz et al .",
    "( 1991 ) estimated the size of the blr to be nine light days or @xmath65 cm . the velocity of the clouds is given by the width of the bels @xmath66 cm s@xmath7 .",
    "thus , @xmath67 cm s@xmath68 . in the few hours it took to obtain the observations the clouds should therefore accelerate by roughly 1 km s@xmath7 . since the cc analysis should be able to detect structure on a scale of @xmath69 km s@xmath7(see figs . 5 and 6 )",
    "the change in velocity of the clouds due to acceleration should be negligible .",
    "in addition we note that our underlying assumption in the simulations is that the clouds velocity distribution is poissonian .",
    "it is reasonable to expect that if the clouds motion is highly ordered on small velocity scale , the resulting cc signature will be easier to detect .",
    "it is difficult to imagine a noncontrived way in which an ordered flow gives a smaller cc signature than the poisson distribution we use .",
    "however , if such an ordered distribution exists the limits set by this analysis would be weakened accordingly .",
    "we already showed that the current bloated star models are ruled out by our lower limit on @xmath9 in mrk  335 ( arav et al .",
    "the ngc  4151 results strengthen this argument considerably since our lower limit for @xmath9 has risen by an order of magnitude and since the expected number of bloated stars is smaller in this less luminous object . unless the emission width from an individual star is significantly larger than 100 km s@xmath7 , the lack of stable micro structure in the line profiles strongly rules out all bloated star models . even without resorting to the cc analysis",
    "it is easy to demonstrate that for reasonable cloud s emission width , the bels in ngc 4151 can not be made from @xmath70 individual emitters , which is the maximum allowed number of bloated stars .",
    "figure 7 shows part of the h@xmath26 data from the combined exposures , and three simulations of the same segment .",
    "we have used the same noise but different cloud distributions in each simulation .",
    "the amount of structure in the simulations , as contrasted with the smoothness of the data , shows that either the observed h@xmath26 profile is made from many more than @xmath71 clouds , or that the emission width of an individual cloud is much larger than @xmath72  km s@xmath7 .",
    "the structure that is seen in the data is on scales of @xmath73  km s@xmath7  and is difficult to associate with individual units of sonically connected material , but can be associated with a smooth flow or disk models . to the eye",
    "it also seems that the data has structure on scales of @xmath69 km s@xmath7 but the cc analysis have shown that this structure does not repeat in two different observations .    from the monte carlo simulations ,",
    "it is clear that strong constraints can also be applied to emission models that does not arise from a point like structures ( i.e. , clouds ) .",
    "for example , although we only used one simple choice of a flow tube , some general conclusions can be deduced from the simulations of this case .",
    "it appears that the number of randomly oriented flow tubes must be very large in order to conceal a significant cc(@xmath33 ) .",
    "this result holds even for flux tubes that on the average span a significant fraction of the velocity width of the line . in order for a flow tube emission model not to produce a cc signature",
    "one or more of the followings must hold : a ) the number of flow tubes is very large .",
    "b ) emission cusps in projected velocity are somehow avoided .",
    "c ) the flow tubes are organized in a way which mimics a smooth ordered flow .",
    "d ) the velocity width perpendicular to the axis of the tube is substantial ( @xmath74 km s@xmath7 ) and thus dampens the effect of the narrow emission cusps .    as noted in   1 , photoionization arguments give the highest model - independent ( i.e. , irrespective of the clouds microphysics ) estimate for @xmath9 . in ngc  4151",
    "these arguments lead to an upper limit estimate of @xmath2 clouds ( extrapolated from arav et al 1997 ; but see caveats therein and in   1 ) .",
    "this upper limit is smaller by about an order of magnitude from the one in mrk  335 due to the lower luminosity of ngc  4151 , or more precisely , due its smaller blr size .",
    "in contrast , our lower limit for @xmath9 in this object has increased by an order of magnitude to @xmath75 . while the mrk 335 result does not put a strong constraint on the generic clouds picture , our current one does .",
    "the photoionization estimates can be pushed up , but for the price of becoming more contrived .",
    "the constraint our results put on any clouds picture is strong enough to suggest that the bels do not originate from discrete quasi - static structures , and thus strengthen the case for emission models that create the bels from a continuous flow or in the accretion disk .",
    "we thank s. vogt for leading the construction of the hires spectrograph and michael rauch for assisting with the observations .",
    "n. a. and r. d. b. acknowledge support from nsf grants 92 - 23370 and 95 - 29170 .",
    "a. l. acknowledges support from the e. and j. bishop research fund , and from the milton and lillian edwards academic lectureship fund .",
    "alexander , t. , & netzer , h. 1994 , mnras , 270 , 803 atwood , b. , & baldwin , j. a. , & carswell , r. f. 1982 , apj , 257 , 559 arav , n. , barlow , t. , laor , a. , & blandford , r. d. 1997 , mnras , 288 , 1015 barlow , t. , & sargent , w. l. w. , 1997 , aj , 113 , 136 bottorff , m. , korista , k. t. , shlosman , i. , & blandford , r. d. 1997 , apj , 479 , 200    chiang , j. , & murray , n. 1996 , apj , 466 , 704 crenshaw , d. m. , et al . , 1996 , apj , 470 , 322 edelson , r. a. , et al .",
    ", 1996 , apj , 470 , 364 emmering , r. t. , blandford , r. d. , & shlosman , i. 1992 , apj , 385 , 460 davidson , k. , & netzer , h. 1978 , rev .",
    "phys , 51 , 737 ferland , g. j. , & rees , m. j. 1988 , apj , 332 , 141 kaspi , s. , et al . , 1996 , apj , 470 , 336 kazanas , d. 1989 , apj , 347 , 74 krolik , j. h. , mckee , c. f. , & tarter , c. b. 1981 , apj , 249 , 422 maoz , d. , et al . , 1991 , apj , 367",
    ", 493 netzer , h. 1990 , in saas - fee advanced course 20 : active galactic nuclei , ed .",
    "r. d. blandford , h. netzer , & l. woltjer ( new york : springer ) , 57 perry , j. j. , & dyson j. e. 1985 mnras , 213 , 665 rees , m. j. 1987 , mnras , 228 , 47p scoville , n. , & norman , c. 1989 , apj , 332 , 162"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we search for a direct signature of discrete `` clouds '' in the broad line region ( blr ) of the seyfert galaxy ngc 4151 . for this purpose </S>",
    "<S> we apply cross correlation ( cc ) analysis to a high resolution keck spectrum of the galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> no such signature is found in the data . in order for cloud models to be compatible with this result </S>",
    "<S> , there must be at least @xmath0 emitting clouds in the blr , where the limit is based on simulation of a homogeneous cloud population . </S>",
    "<S> more realistic distributions increase the lower limit to above @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> these numbers are an order of magnitude improvement on our previous limit from mrk 335 , where the improvement comes from higher s / n , broader lines , and refined simulations . </S>",
    "<S> combined with the predicted upper limit for the number of emitting clouds in ngc 4151 ( @xmath2 ) , the derived lower limit puts a strong constraint on the cloud scenario in the blr of this object . </S>",
    "<S> similar constraints can be paled on models where the emission originates in streams and sheets . </S>",
    "<S> thus , this investigation suggests that the bels in ngc 4151 , and by extension in all agns , are not made of an ensemble of discrete independent emitters .    </S>",
    "<S> * key words : * quasars : emission lines galaxies : seyfert    = 9.0 in </S>"
  ]
}