{
  "article_text": [
    "two different models for the formation of gas giant planets in a disk of gas and dust are under discussion .",
    "both are subject to major difficulties",
    ". a gravitational instability in a disk ( boss 1997 ) would be a fast process but probably is not achievable , except in the outer regions of a disk ( beyond @xmath0 au ; see  2.1 ) , because of the requirement that the cooling rate by radiation be comparable to or shorter than the orbital time scale ( gammie 2001 ; rice et al .",
    "the core accretion model , on the other hand , explains a number of observed properties of the giant planets in the solar system , but for standard low - mass disk parameters it requires a time scale that is longer than the expected lifetime of the solar nebula . in order to explain the formation of jupiter within 3 million years or less ( hubickyj , bodenheimer , & lissauer 2005 )",
    ", one has to postulate an enhancement in the surface density of solid particles in the disk well above ( by a factor of @xmath1 ) that in the minimum mass solar nebula ( mmsn ; weidenschilling 1977 , hayashi 1981 ) .",
    "other detailed studies of the accretion of the core of jupiter ( weidenschilling 1998 ; inaba , wetherill , & ikoma 2003 ; thommes , duncan , & levison 2003 ) suggest that the disk has to have up to 10 times the mass of the mmsn .",
    "formation of the oort cloud and the outward migration of uranus and neptune imply the removal from that region of about 50 m@xmath2 of condensed material , which is comparable to the core masses of all four giant planets combined . thus a more realistic minimum mass would be about twice the classical value , which , however , is still insufficient according to the recent simulations",
    ". the discussion of an acceleration mechanism is the main point of this paper .",
    "we wish to show that even in a mmsn it could be possible to form jupiter in the required time , just to show how efficient the mechanism proposed in this paper can be .",
    "the vortices can either form primordially by perturbations induced by matter infalling onto the disk ( barranco & marcus 2000 ) , or result from a hydrodynamical instability , such as the rossby wave instability ( lovelace et al . 1999 ; li et al . 2001 ) or a global baroclinic instability ( klahr & bodenheimer 2003a , b ) .",
    "entropy gradients in rotating systems can produce rossby waves , which can eventually break into vortices , as is known to occur near planetary surfaces in the solar system , and in the atmospheres of giant planets .    until recently anti - cyclonic vortices were thought to be excluded by the action of magnetohydrodynamics ( mhd ) and that the magnetorotational instability ( mri ) would destroy any large scale vortices .",
    "recent simulations by fromang & nelson ( 2005 ) showed the opposite .",
    "they performed three - dimensional global mhd simulations of protoplanetary disks in a cylindrical potential , very similar to previous studies by armitage ( 1998 ) , hawley ( 2001 ) and steinacker & papaloizou ( 2002 ) .",
    "but fromang & nelson ( 2005 ) measured for the first time the vorticity distribution of the flow and found that large - scale and long - lived anti - cyclonic vortices formed .",
    "these extended vorticity minima are easy to miss as the short - lived and small - scale vorticity fluctuations are stronger in amplitude .",
    "they also found that up to 75@xmath3 of all meter sized objects ( referred to here as  boulders \" ) randomly placed into the disk radially outside of the vortex were captured in those vortices for a simulation which ran for a time of 200 orbits at the inner edge of the disk .",
    "less than half the boulders got lost and migrated off the grid , potentially into the star",
    ". we will again refer to this very important result for the discussion of the capture probability of boulders by vortices .",
    "two - dimensional anti - cyclonic vortices can survive in protoplanetary disks without strong turbulence , that is , with low viscosity , for many orbits ( godon & livio 1999a , b ) .",
    "the analytic solutions for large three - dimensional vortices ( goodman , narayan & goldreich 1987 ) have recently been numerically tested for stability by johansen , andersen & brandenburg ( 2004 ) .",
    "they find that the lifetime of the 3-d vortex is inversely proportional to an artificially imposed background viscosity .",
    "recently , barranco & marcus ( 2005 ) studied the stability of three - dimensional vortices in stratified disks using an anelastic approximation .",
    "they find that an analytic vortex solution to the anelastic equations is not hydrodynamically stable if placed in the midplane of a disk .",
    "but these small subsonic vortices are quite different from the large azimuthally extended vortices that show up in klahr & bodenheimer ( 2003a ) and in fromang & nelson ( 2005 ) .",
    "the vortex used by barranco & marcus ( 2005 ) was placed into the midplane , but it decayed and reappeared in the stratified atmosphere away from the midplane .",
    "this indicates that stratification is actually benefitial for the stability of the vortex .",
    "in fact a vortex seems to be stable if it is flat , e.g.  the vertical extent is smaller than the radial and horiziontal extent .",
    "stratification is such an agent to keep vortices flat .",
    "another possibility to allow for flat vortices is to use global models beyond the limits of a shearing sheet box .",
    "fromang & nelson ( 2005 ) showed that a three - dimensional vortex does survive in a global non - stratified disk .",
    "thus , it is possible that the instability in barranco & marcus ( 2005 ) results from the limitations of the anelastic and of the local approach , while global and fully compressible hydrodynamics and mhd indicate a certain stability for three - dimensional anticylonic vortices .      it has already been suggested that anti - cyclonic vortices can be beneficial for the planetary formation process ( adams & watkins 1995 , barge & sommeria 1995 ; tanga et al .",
    "1996 ; godon & livio 1999b ) .",
    "in general the vortices can be regarded as preferred formation sites of planets because they tend to collect solid particles from the surrounding disk . if one invokes a three - phase model for the planetary formation process ( klahr 2003 ; klahr & bodenheimer 2003b , c ) one can regard the formation of vortices as phase one .",
    "phase two is characterized by the accumulation of solids in the center of vortices and by the growth of a planetary core , and phase three by the accretion of gas onto the core . in this paper",
    "we investigate the latter two phases in the framework of the core accretion model ( pollack et al .",
    "this model allows us to quantify the reduction in formation time of jupiter by accelerated solid accretion into vortices , a radial expansion of the feeding zone , and a relatively efficient process of emptying the feeding zone .",
    "we do not claim that planetesimals can not form without a vortex , but vortices accelerate the planetesimal formation . for giant planets",
    "there is a time scale problem , to form the entire planet before the disappearance of the gas , which can be overcome by this mechanism . for terrestrial planets that particular time scale problem does not exist , and we do not deal in this paper with the numerous other problems of terrestrial planet formation .",
    "section 2 gives an overview of the current formation scenarios under discussion and shows how the new scenario fits into the old framework . in section 3",
    "we derive the accretion rate of solid material as an input parameter for the core accretion model .",
    "this model is then analyzed , in section 4 , through numerical simulations , as a possible way to form jupiter rapidly .",
    "section 5 summarizes and discusses our results and gives an outlook for future work .",
    "we introduce the new three - phase planet formation scenario because we think that the current models under discussion have substantial physical problems .",
    "the new model is not a revolutionary approach , but more a merging of the fundamental ideas from the existing models plus some vortex theory from geophysical fluid dynamics . before we explain the new model we briefly describe the existing models and elucidate in more detail what the difficulties are .",
    "further discussion of these models can be found in a review by bodenheimer & lin ( 2002 ) .",
    "boss ( 1997 ,  2001 ) proposed a model in which a cool protoplanetary disk , with roughly 10% of the mass of the star , fragments as a consequence of its self gravity and spontaneously forms multiple giant planets within a few orbital periods .",
    "mayer et al . (",
    "2002 ) showed , in a numerical simulation with simple assumptions regarding cooling , that fragments can form and survive if the toomre @xmath4 parameter is low enough , in their case about 1.4 .",
    "the fundamental problem with this model is that it needs an almost isothermal gas to allow for the collapse and to keep the toomre parameter low .",
    "gammie ( 2001 , see also rice et al .",
    "2003 ) shows that the cooling time @xmath5 has to be smaller than an orbital period @xmath6 .",
    "@xmath7 radiative diffusion within a dust - rich disk as well as in a self - gravitating blob is too inefficient to allow for such high cooling rates .",
    "also the recently invoked thermal convection can only slightly increase the efficiency of the cooling ( bell et al .",
    "1997 ) ; they show that the maximum fraction of the energy carried vertically outward through a disk by convection is about 20% .",
    "convection in itself does not result in energy loss from the disk ; it only transports the heat to the surface where it still has to be radiated away .",
    "even if strong convection would be able to transport energy in the interior of the disk ( boss 2004 ) the gas would still have to radiate at the surface as a black body , at a maximum rate proportional to @xmath8 , where @xmath9 is the central temperature in the disk .",
    "the cooling time would then be longer than an orbital period for radii out to 33 au : @xmath10 here we used typical surface densities @xmath11 and temperatures @xmath9 from the boss model ( boss 2001 ) ; @xmath12 is the specific heat and @xmath13 is the stefan - boltzmann constant .",
    "note that for even only slightly smaller temperatures the cooling time increases dramatically .",
    "we argue on the basis of this estimate that it is possible to form brown dwarf companions out of an extended circumstellar disk at large radii but not planets at the distances of jupiter or saturn .",
    "basically one can conclude that the conditions needed for planet formation by gravitational instability are unlikely to occur in disks .      in the other formation model ( e.g.  pollack et al .",
    "1996 ; wuchterl , guillot & lissauer 2000 ) , first a solid core of at least 5 - 10 @xmath14 is built up via successive collisions of planetesimals .",
    "starting from this mass the core can accrete gas from the disk .",
    "the gas accretion rate is determined by the cooling of the protoplanet .",
    "this means that as long as there are still planetesimals plunging into the planetary atmosphere and releasing their potential energy within , the planet contracts only slowly and can not accrete gas efficiently . only after the mass of the gaseous envelope approaches that of the solid core",
    "can the contraction of the envelope take place fast enough to provide a runaway gas accretion . even for massive disks with three times the solid surface density of the mmsn , it takes roughly 6 myr to form jupiter ( hubickyj et al . 2005 ) , if the grain opacity in the planetary envelope is based on an interstellar size distribution .",
    "however , their calculations also show that by artificially stopping the accretion of solids at an early time after the core is established , or by reducing the grain opacity in the envelope of the protoplanet below the interstellar value , it is possible to start the runaway phase earlier .",
    "the reduction in grain opacity is consistent with the detailed calculations of podolak ( 2003 ) .",
    "also a modest enhancement of solids in the nebula , above three times that in the mmsn , can reduce the growth time substantially .",
    "this model contains another so far unsolved problem .",
    "dust can efficiently coagulate to build boulders up to a size of tens of centimeters ( blum & wurm 2000 ) .",
    "sedimentation and radial drift due to gas drag and the sub - keplerian rotation of the disk provide high enough relative velocities for efficient capture of smaller particles . at the same time",
    "the impact velocities are low enough so that the surface of the boulder is not destroyed by sputtering and fragmentation ( e.g.  leinhardt , richardson , & quinn 2000 ) faster than it is supplied with mass .",
    "but by the time the boulder reaches meter size , it will drift with velocity up to 100 m s@xmath15 at 1 au ( weidenschilling & cuzzi 1993 ) , or 22 m s@xmath15 at 7.5 au ( which is the case we consider in  3.2 ) . at velocities above 10 m s@xmath15",
    "the boulder gets eroded by the many impacts of smaller grains due to the high relative velocity with respect to the smaller objects .",
    "if this would not be a problem on its own , there is another effect . at a velocity of 100 m",
    "s@xmath15 the boulder will drift into the sun faster than it can grow to a large enough size to be beyond the regime of high radial drift velocities .",
    "thus the mechanism for forming kilometer - sized planetesimals is still an open question .",
    "to be fair , in general there is no strong observational evidence that distinguishes between core accretion models and gravitational instability models , except that the correlation of the incidence of extrasolar planets with metallicity of the host star ( santos et al .",
    "2003 ; fischer & valenti 2005 ) does favor core accretion models somewhat .",
    "vortices combine the previous models in the following sense : anti - cyclonic vortices stabilize mass concentrations in the protoplanetary disk , for example the blobs in the boss model , against shear . in this case",
    "the stabilizing effect is not gravity but the action of coriolis forces .",
    "the resulting flow is in a so - called geostrophic balance , between pressure effects and coriolis effects .",
    "the vortices are stable flow features even without cooling , and they do not need self gravity to stay bound ( goodman et al . 1987 ) .",
    "this is the same effect that stabilizes hurricanes on earth or the giant red spot on jupiter .",
    "we suggest three reasons why vortices may be important for planet formation .",
    "in contrast to the sub - keplerian gaseous disk , ( 1 ) at least the centers of vortices orbit at the keplerian rate , ( 2 ) they have no vertical shear , and ( 3 ) they have no radial shear and thus will not generate ( mhd)-turbulence . the following subsections amplify these points briefly .",
    "first one has to define the center of the vortex , which we take to be given by the maximum in pressure , and which we refer to as the  eye \" . at a local pressure",
    "maximum the radial and azimuthal pressure gradients vanish .",
    "thus the only forces determining the motion of the gas at the eye of the vortex are gravity and centrifugal force .",
    "thus the eye must move on a keplerian orbit and is not bound to the sub - keplerian motion of the gas outside the vortex .    for the vortex to generate a local pressure maximum in the disk",
    ", it must exceed some minimum strength , or amplitude , in terms of vorticity . while all cyclones are low - pressure regions and all anticyclones high - pressure regions , just as in the earth s atmosphere , a weak vortex will not generate a local pressure maximum in the radially falling pressure profile in a disk .",
    "however the anticyclones reported in the numerical simulations of klahr & bodenheimer ( 2003a ) are between 30 % to 100 % higher in pressure than the ambient gas , and they have a chance to decouple from the gas with the eye on a keplerian orbit .",
    "what are the consequences of this ?",
    "once small solid particles have accumulated in the eye of the vortex and have grown to kilometer size , they will decouple from the gas and no longer actively be bound to the vortex eye by the vortical gas motion",
    ". however they also will be in keplerian motion , along with the eye .",
    "thus , as long as there are no additional effects scattering them out of the vortex eye , the planetesimals may well stay in co - orbit with the vortex for many , many orbits .",
    "simulations by klahr & bodenheimer ( 2003c ) and fromang & nelson ( 2005 ) have shown that meter - sized boulders stay captured once they are inside a vortex for hundreds of orbits even if the overall disk flow is strongly turbulent . yet",
    "it is still to be shown what happens to objects large enough to decouple from the gas flow .",
    "they might drift out of the vortex due to some residual non - keplerian drift of the vortex or even be scattered out of the vortex by the gravitational torques of the disk gas ( fromang & nelson 2005 ) .",
    "the fate of kilometer sized and larger objects definitively needs further investigation .",
    "the vertical shear in an accretion disk is purely an effect of the stronger sub - keplerian motion of the gas in the midplane than in the upper layers of the disk , because the pressure is the highest in the midplane and thus the radial pressure support the strongest .",
    "in contrast , all the way through the vertical extent of the vortex eye , the gas will move at the keplerian frequency .",
    "of course this vertical direction is not the vertical direction of a cylindrical coordinate system but is given by the local effective gravity in the system co - rotating with the vortex eye , which means that the rotational axis of the vortex bends slightly towards the rotational axis of the accretion disk with increasing height above the midplane . in a thin accretion disk this effect may well be unobservable .",
    "the effect of the non - existence of a vertical shear is very interesting .",
    "it means that solids can sediment to the midplane and concentrate to a density higher than the critical value where self - gravitational effects become important , without generating a shear layer instability ( cuzzi et al . 1993 ) .",
    "as is known for hurricanes on earth , the eye of a ( anti- ) cyclone is quiet .",
    "there is probably little or no turbulence acting in the center of a vortex , because shear is required for the generation of , for instance , the magnetorotational instability .",
    "this radial shear is not present in a giant vortex .",
    "the vortices are also likely to be in a thermodynamical equilibrium owing to their relatively small dimensions , so that a baroclinic instability is also unlikely .    as a result of this absence of turbulence",
    "there will be very small rms velocities between the boulders .",
    "also , collisions will be gentle , and the likelihood of scattering out of the vortex is small .",
    "it was already suggested that vortices could be the direct precursors of planetary formation .",
    "the planets could form either by concentration of dust in the centers of the vortices , as was suggested by barge & sommeria ( 1995 ) , or by sufficient gas accretion onto a vortex so that it undergoes gravitational collapse ( adams & watkins 1995 ) .",
    "the latter possibility seems unlikely in the light of our observation ( klahr & bodenheimer 2003a ) that the vortices are still far away from a critical jeans mass .",
    "basically we think that there are three possibilities concerning what happens to the solids once they are captured in the eye of the anti - cyclone .    1 .",
    "the naive picture assumes that all captured solids will contribute to one single growing core .",
    "this picture has the possibly significant problem that the core might actually leave the vortex once it grows to kilometer size and decouples from the gas .",
    "even though we stated that a strong geostrophic vortex will orbit at the keplerian rate , as will the kilometer - size planetesimal , there are two sources of danger .",
    "first , the vortex is a dynamical feature , and it could migrate in the radial direction by interaction with the ambient disk .",
    "second , even when the core forms from material with basically the same angular momentum as the vortex eye , a small variation in the specific kinetic energy in the azimuthal direction can lead to a slow azimuthal drift of the core out of the eye of the vortex .",
    "this problem might be overcome once one starts to investigate the feedback of the core on the gas , via gravity as well as via friction .",
    "these effects might stabilize once more the gas around the core .",
    "2 .   in a second model",
    "one can assume that the boulders ( meter size ) that accrete into the vortex interior do not accumulate in the center and form one giant core , but that they form a  core zone \" , enriched in solid mass but still containing some gas .",
    "this particle layer could then eventually undergo gravitational collapse ( goldreich & ward 1973 ) , which in this case will not be prevented by vertical shear . the precise conditions for this instability will have to be derived elsewhere ; in particular , the velocity dispersion of the accumulated particles has to be investigated in detail .",
    "a similar study for solids immersed in local mhd turbulence has been performed by johansen , klahr & henning ( 2006 ) , who discuss the possibility of gravoturbulent formation of planetesimals in small - scale short - lived vortices .",
    "this study should be expanded to a global simulation . +",
    "this picture has the benefit that all boulders might stay actually captured by the vortex until the core forms in one single collapse .",
    "thus even if the vortex is not 100 percent precisely keplerian , or if it radially migrates .",
    "the solids would follow the vortex and not get ejected .",
    "3 .   in any case we do not expect the physical capturing process to be perfect .",
    "thus probably a smaller or larger fraction of planetesimals that have decoupled from the gas may get ejected from the vortex .",
    "if this is a minor effect , then this is a wonderful way to produce planetesimals in vortices and then scatter them to other regions of the disk , where they could be used in the formation of other planets , that form independently of a vortex .",
    "+ if this scattering of the planetesimals out of the cyclone is more the rule than the exception , then it will become unlikely to form a planetary core mass inside the vortex .",
    "nevertheless the process would produce 100 m to 1 km planetesimals which are difficult to form by any other means because of the effects of gas drag .",
    "once scattered out of the vortex , the planetesimals will stay at about the same radius .",
    "these planetesimals , whose total mass would be 1020 m@xmath2 or more , would thus still be in a radially confined and strongly enriched feeding - zone and could accumulate to a core by collisions and gravitational focussing , as is assumed in the classical picture ( pollack et al .",
    "thus the formation of a core for a giant planet is more likely at the radial position of a vortex , as the formation time for the core becomes reasonably small .",
    "thus even if a planetary core does not form in a vortex , the presence of the vortex may be very beneficial for planet formation .",
    "the third idea will have to be elaborated elsewhere .",
    "for this paper we will follow pictures one and two or an arbitrary mixture of both . for our model",
    "it is not important how the core forms , as long as the mass of the solids inside the core zone starts to gravitationally act on the surrounding gas in the eye of the vortex .",
    "thus we simply assume that sooner or later the accreted solids will provide the potential well for the giant planet formation .",
    "we propose that the formation of planets is probably characterized by three phases , that depend directly on each other :    * phase 1 : formation of anti - cyclonic vortices as pre - protoplanetary condensations * phase 2 : accumulation of solids into the vortices to form protoplanetary cores * phase 3 : accretion of gas onto the protoplanetary cores    the following section will quantify phase 2 , while section 4 will make predictions on both phases 2 and 3 .",
    "the accretion rate of solid material @xmath16 onto the planetary core depends on the available mass @xmath17 in solid material in the feeding zone of the planetary embryo , the time scale for particle production @xmath18 , the time scale for radial drift @xmath19 , and the capture probability @xmath20 . @xmath21 whatever time scale is longer determines the accretion rate .",
    "the capture probability @xmath20 has shown to be between 50@xmath3 and 75@xmath3 ( fromang & nelson 2005 ; see also klahr & bodenheimer 2003c ) .",
    "the high capture rate can be explained in the following way .",
    "the vortex is not a completely isolated entity in the disk .",
    "even if it stretches only over 45 to 60 degrees in the azimuthal direction , the rotational profile is also changed in the rest of the disk .",
    "the remaining 300 degrees of the disk at the radial location of the anti - cyclone can be interpreted as a large and thus weak cyclone .",
    "this cyclone expels particles and therefore hinders their inward passage .",
    "it eventually transports them towards the anti - cyclone .",
    "it can be observed in the relevant simulations ( fromang & nelson 2005 ) that particles randomly distributed in the disk radially outside of the vortex first drift to the radial location of the vortex and then drift azimuthally towards the center of the vortex . in the following we simply use the symbol @xmath17 to represent @xmath22 .",
    "the consequence is that the minimum mass disk required to form jupiter will be increased by @xmath23 which is probably less than 2 .      in the standard core accretion model",
    "only mass in the vicinity of the core , in an annulus extending outward in both directions from the planet to about 4 hill sphere radii , can be swept up via gravitational attraction and accreted onto the core .",
    "the hill sphere radius is @xmath24 where @xmath25 is the distance to the central star and @xmath26 and @xmath27 are the masses of the planet and the central star , respectively .",
    "the value during planet formation is relatively small , leading to the need of a high surface density in solids and gas for the disk .",
    "it also grows only slowly with the mass of the planetary embryo , which makes the initial growth from less than an earth mass a long process .",
    "the formation process is also held up by the slow contraction rate of the gaseous envelope , once the core has swept up most of the available solid material .",
    "models without an anti - cyclonic vortex need a surface density in solid material about three times that of the mmsn to form jupiter at 5 au in less than @xmath28 years , which is the maximum accepted lifetime of the nebula itself .",
    "if there are anti - cyclonic vortices in the disk , then the accumulation of solids is no longer driven by gravity but by gas drag .",
    "thus , the reservoir of solids that can be accreted is not given by the hill radius , but simply by the radial separation of the vortices in the solar nebula .",
    "simulations ( klahr & bodenheimer 2003c , fromang & nelson 2005 ) have shown that mobile solids are accreted into their closest inner vortex in a short time at a 50 - 75 @xmath3 percent efficiency .",
    "for this paper we consider the inner ( jupiter ) vortex to be located at 5 au and the outer ( saturn ) vortex at 10 au .",
    "we adopt a reasonable solar nebula model ( bell et al .",
    "1997 ) with a total surface density of @xmath29 on the average from 5 au out to 10 au .",
    "these parameters correspond to a disk with an effective viscosity of @xmath30 and a mean accretion rate of the disk gas onto the star of @xmath31 m@xmath32 yr@xmath15 . with these parameters",
    "one is close to the mmsn and also in good agreement with the currently accepted accretion disk theory . for a conservative solid to gas fraction of @xmath33",
    "this corresponds to a surface density of @xmath34 in solid material .",
    "the total solid mass between 5 and 10 au is then : @xmath35 this is enough mass to form a core for jupiter , even if the growth and capture processes are not 100 percent efficient , and also to explain its mean metallicity .",
    "if the capture probability is as low as 50 @xmath3 ( fromang & nelson 2005 ) , then one can still compensate for this effect by a two times larger mass in the nebula , which is still less than the 10 times mmsn required by previous work ( weidenschilling 1998 ; inaba , wetherill , & ikoma 2003 ; thommes , duncan , & levison 2003 ) .",
    "the radial drift velocity @xmath36 of particles with friction time @xmath37 sets a lower limit to the aggregation time of a core in the anti - cyclonic vortex : @xmath38 the actual time a particle of radius @xmath39 needs inside the vortex to spiral to its center is only one orbital time ( @xmath40 ) ( chavanis 2000 ) and thus can be neglected , as we will see later .",
    "chavanis ( 2000 ) also calculated the escape probability due to stochastic motion for the boulders and found that 30 cm particles have no chance to escape from the vortex in the time needed for the planet formation process .",
    "the radial drift velocity for the relevant objects , up to meter size , is given by weidenschilling & cuzzi ( 1993 ) : @xmath41 where @xmath42 is the orbital frequency and @xmath43 is the deviation of the rotational velocity of the gas from the keplerian value , which is an effect of the radial pressure gradient in the gas .",
    "this deviation can be estimated to be @xmath44 the sound speed at @xmath45 in our model is @xmath46 , and the keplerian velocity is @xmath47 . thus the deviation from keplerian velocity is @xmath48 the dimensionless friction time ( @xmath49 ) for particles of radius @xmath50 and density @xmath51 in the epstein regime is determined by @xmath52 for gas of density @xmath53 and surface density @xmath11 .",
    "the maximum drift velocity will occur for @xmath54 particles with @xmath55 at the size of @xmath56 .",
    "we can then define : @xmath57 which holds for boulders of up to @xmath58 in radius .",
    "the drift time for @xmath59 au is a function of particle size : @xmath60 so even for bowling - ball - sized boulders ( @xmath61 ) the radial drift time is less than @xmath62 . in figure  1",
    "we compare the radial drift time as a function of particle size to the characteristic growth time .",
    "the weakest point of our estimate is the growth time @xmath18 for @xmath63 to @xmath64 sized boulders starting from micron sized dust , or , to be more precise , the production rate of those objects @xmath65 .",
    "smaller objects do not decouple sufficiently from the gas to reach a vortex in less than the lifetime of the protoplanetary disk .",
    "based on simulations of particle growth ( e.g.  weidenschilling & cuzzi 1993 ) and experiments by blum & wurm ( 2000 ) we assume the following scenario : particles grow first by brownian motion which takes only a couple of thousand years at @xmath66 au .",
    "this initial growth can occur while the vortex at 5 au is still forming , which also will take a few times @xmath67 years ( klahr & bodenheimer 2003a ) . afterwards particles sediment and grow owing to sedimentation , which is also a fast process .",
    "then they drift radially inward and sweep up smaller particles until the collision velocity exceeds the fragmentation velocity of about @xmath68 cm / s .",
    "this part of the growth takes the longest time , and thus we neglect the time used in the previous stages . during the radial drift , the mass gain per boulder",
    "@xmath69 is given by @xmath70 this means the accumulation of mass @xmath69 is proportional to the relative velocity @xmath36 between the boulder and smaller particles , the cross section of the boulder @xmath71 , the number density @xmath72 of the smaller particles in the path of the boulder and their mass per particle @xmath73 .",
    "this expression can be simplified and leads to an differential equation for the particles mass ( @xmath74 ) as a function of the reference particle size @xmath75 cm and of the ratio between the density of the boulder @xmath51 to the density of the small dust material @xmath76 in the gas : @xmath77 this equation indicates exponential growth with the typical time @xmath78 at 7.5 au of @xmath79 the entire growth time @xmath80 for particles from micron to 10 cm sized objects , e.g.  fifteen orders of magnitude in mass , should be about @xmath81 , as a rough estimate with the assumed physics .",
    "this gives only an upper limit to the growth time .",
    "any settling would decrease the growth time .    from figure  1",
    "we see that the drift time scale @xmath19 is shorter than the growth time scale @xmath78 for particles larger than @xmath82 cm .",
    "this means after they reach a size of @xmath82 cm they will drift into the next vortex before they can grow by an order of magnitude in size .",
    "thus , the boulders grow on the average in @xmath83 yrs to the critical size , and then they become accreted within @xmath84 into the center of the vortex to form the core .",
    "it is more complicated to estimate the production rate @xmath85 of @xmath82 cm solids . theoretically , all boulders could grow simultaneously and reach the critical size at the same time",
    ". then the production rate would be infinite and the drift time scale the only limiting factor .",
    "on the other hand there is a spread in the particle size distribution ( see weidenschilling & cuzzi 1993 ) .",
    "this translates into a spread in the time that particles need to grow to the critical size of maybe @xmath86 .",
    "thus , we can conservatively estimate an accretion rate of solids of @xmath87 . in case",
    "our estimate is still wrong by one order of magnitude we also consider a model of @xmath88 and compare the results .",
    "it is interesting to note that the drift time will be smaller than the growth time for particles of about @xmath89 ( see fig .  1 ) , which means that no significant number of larger particles can probably form outside the vortices and thus",
    ", the critical velocities for fragmentation of particles which occurs for @xmath90 sized boulders will not be reached .",
    "this fragmentation was so far considered to be the end of planetesimal growth ( e.g.  leinhardt , richardson , & quinn 2000 ) , and the formation of larger objects an unsolved problem .",
    "we conclude that vortices are not only helpful to form gas giants but also to build up planetesimals , which will be either scattered out of the vortex later on or set free after the vortex has dispersed .",
    "the assumed mechanism for planet formation is the core accretion  gas capture process .",
    "the vortex is assumed to have been formed at 5 au from the central object .",
    "particles in the 10 cm size range migrate inward in the disk as a result of gas drag and accumulate in the vortex where they quickly spiral toward its center .",
    "the vortex is assumed to last long enough so that all the solid particles originally between 5 and 10 au are captured by it .",
    "the procedure for numerically calculating the formation of a planet is described by pollack et al .",
    "there are three main elements of the calculation : 1 ) the determination of @xmath91 by accretion of planetesimals , 2 ) the calculation of the interaction of accreting planetesimals with the gaseous envelope through which they fall , to determine where they dissolve in the envelope or whether they reach the core , and 3 ) the calculation of the evolution of the envelope .",
    "steps 1 and 2 are simplified in the current calculations .    although pollack et al .",
    "( 1996 ) made a detailed calculation of the variable accretion rate of planetesimals onto a planetary core , in this case we simply assume that small particles are accreted at a constant rate by the vortex , and that they quickly fall to the center to join the planetary core .",
    "the accretion rate stays constant until all the available solid material has been accreted by the vortex , after which time @xmath91 is set to zero .",
    "this last assumption also differs from those of pollack et al .",
    "( 1996 ) in that they assume that solid accretion continues even during the gas accretion phase . in our picture there are no further solids available to accrete .",
    "the core is set to a constant density of 3.2 g @xmath92 .",
    ".[tab1 ] parameters chosen in the different models and resulting formation time for jupiter . [ cols=\"<,<,>,>,>,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     the planetesimal interaction with the gaseous envelope is not calculated .",
    "planetesimals are assumed to fall through the envelope and hit the core , or , if they become dissolved in the envelope , to settle to the core .",
    "these assumptions do not give results significantly different from those of pollack et al .",
    "thus the energy liberated at the boundary of the core by planetesimals falling onto it is approximately @xmath93    the calculation of the envelope is carried out through an implicit numerical solution of the spherically symmetric stellar structure equations as given by bodenheimer & pollack ( 1986 ) .",
    "the energy sources are planetesimal accretion and gravitational contraction of the gas .",
    "the outer edge of the planet at a radius @xmath94 is assumed to be the smaller of the hill sphere radius ( eq .",
    "4 ) or the bondi accretion radius @xmath95 where @xmath96 is the sound speed in the disk just outside the planet .",
    "the surface boundary conditions at @xmath94 are taken to be a constant density and temperature taken from a standard disk model ( bell et al .",
    "1997 ) . in the cases presented here",
    "the outer temperature @xmath97 k , and the outer density @xmath98 g @xmath92 .",
    "the mass accretion rate for the envelope @xmath99 is determined by the requirement that @xmath100 .",
    "these radii expand as the planet gains mass , and especially at later stages the planet tends to contract , so mass is added until the above requirement is satisfied .",
    "the equation of state of the envelope , which is assumed to have solar composition , is provided by the tables of saumon , chabrier , & van horn ( 1995 ) .",
    "the opacities are provided by grains at low temperatures , and by molecules and other sources at temperatures above about 1800 k , where the most refractory grains evaporate .",
    "the highest temperatures that are encountered are in the range 20,000 k. the rosseland mean opacities in the range 80020,000 k are provided by the table of alexander & ferguson ( 1994 ) , while those in the lower temperature range are obtained from pollack , mckay , & christofferson ( 1985 ) .",
    "these opacities in the grain regime are based on the assumption that they have an interstellar size distribution . in the absence of detailed calculations , we assume that the grains in the vortex in the gas outside the planetary core have those properties . however we do one calculation in which the opacity in the grain regime ( only ) is reduced by a factor of 100 .",
    "this assumption is justified by the work of podolak ( 2003 ) , who did a calculation of grain coagulation , settling , and evaporation in the envelope of a protoplanet , redid the opacity calculation on the basis of the modified size distribution that he found , and concluded that the opacities are roughly two or more orders of magnitude reduced from the interstellar values .",
    "the initial condition for the simulation of the evolution of the envelope is taken to be a core mass of 1 m@xmath2 .",
    "the hydrostatic solution for the value of the envelope mass at that point gives a value of @xmath101 m@xmath2 . during the course of the calculation",
    "the envelope mass remains small until the core mass has reached its limiting value , after which time the envelope mass grows at an accelerating rate .",
    "when the envelope mass equals the core mass , the rapid gas accretion phase begins , during which the total mass builds up to the final planet mass , as determined by disk clearing or gap formation , on a time scale of only @xmath67 yr . since the main point of the calculation is to determine the formation time of the planet , we stop the calculation when the envelope mass is slightly larger than the core mass",
    "we note that a standard core accretion process , without the presence of the vortex , in a disk at 5 au with a solid surface density of 2.5 g @xmath102 , would have a formation time much longer than the typical half - life of a disk , 3 myr ( haisch et al .",
    "2001 ) .",
    "the parameters of the three cases are listed in table i. case i is the standard case discussed above . in case ii the assumed accretion rate is decreased by a factor of 10 , and it is assumed that the final core mass is only 15 m@xmath2 . both of these changes tend to increase the formation time , so these parameters give a rather unfavorable case for planet formation .",
    "case iii is identical to case ii , except the grain opacities are reduced by a factor of 100 .",
    "this change tends to speed up planet formation during the phase of relatively slow gas accretion ( pollack et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "as discussed above the evolution separates fairly neatly into a core accretion phase and an envelope accretion phase .",
    "the masses of the core and envelope , as well as the luminosity radiated at the planet s surface , are plotted as a function of time for case i in figure [ fig1.ref ] . during the first 20000",
    "yr the value of @xmath16 is gradually increased from an initial value of @xmath103 m@xmath2 yr@xmath15 to its final constant value of @xmath104 m@xmath2 yr@xmath15 , which it reaches when the core mass is 2 m@xmath2 .",
    "the luminosity at this point is @xmath105 l@xmath32 .",
    "thereafter the core mass grows linearly with time , the envelope mass is negligibly small , and the luminosity grows as @xmath106 .",
    "starting at about @xmath107 yr , @xmath16 is smoothly reduced to zero .",
    "the envelope mass at this time is about 0.2 m@xmath2 .",
    "as the energy source arising from accretion of planetesimals is cut off , the luminosity rapidly falls , since the only remaining source is the gravitational contraction of the low - mass envelope .",
    "the luminosity levels off at just above @xmath108 l@xmath32 . as the envelope contracts",
    "rapidly to supply the radiated luminosity , its mass increases according to the requirement that the outer edge of the planet be at @xmath94 . as the envelope mass increases , the luminosity increases as well . at",
    "about @xmath109 yr the core mass and envelope mass are the same , the so - called crossover mass .",
    "thereafter the envelope mass increases extremely rapidly until gas accretion is terminated by gap opening or by the dissipation of the disk .",
    "this later stage is not followed because the total formation time will be only slightly longer than the time to crossover .",
    "essentially planet formation is complete at @xmath109 yr , a factor of 20 faster than the standard core accretion model would need with a considerably higher ( factor 4 ) solid surface density and with the same opacity .",
    "a plot of the same quantities is shown in figure [ fig2.ref ] for case ii .",
    "the core accretion rate is a factor 10 slower than in case i and the accretion time for the core is @xmath110 yr , less than a factor of 10 longer than in case i because the final core mass is only 14.7 m@xmath2 rather than 22 m@xmath2 . at a core mass of 2 m@xmath2 ,",
    "the luminosity is @xmath108 l@xmath32 , a factor of 10 lower than that in case i at the same core mass . again",
    "the luminosity drops by about an order of magnitude just after the core accretion is cut off , then begins to climb again as the envelope mass approaches that of the core .",
    "the luminosity during most of the envelope accretion phase is about a factor 5 less than that in case 1 , mainly as a result of the smaller core mass , as explained in pollack et al .",
    "thus the contraction rate , and the accretion rate of the gas , are slower by a similar factor .",
    "the gas accretion phase lasts @xmath111 yr , compared to @xmath112 yr in case i. the overall evolution time is @xmath113 yr , a factor of 4.3 longer than that in case i , but still shorter than typical disk lifetimes .",
    "the only difference between case ii and case iii ( figure [ fig3.ref ] ) is the reduction of the opacity in the envelope .",
    "the core accretion phase is unaffected , so the time scale and luminosity are the same as in case ii .",
    "the reduction in the envelope opacity results in an increase in the average envelope luminosity by about a factor of 3 in comparison with case ii .",
    "the envelope accretion phase lasts @xmath114 yr , and the total formation time is @xmath115 yr . note that if the same opacity reduction had been applied to case i , which has the standard core accretion rate , the overall evolution time would have been only @xmath116 yr , which is the most likely estimate of the planetary formation time in a vortex , since it incorporates the most reasonable values of parameters",
    "we present a new formation model for gas giants .",
    "the general idea is that a giant vortex can accelerate the core formation considerably , even in a low - mass disk .",
    "the envelope accretion phase is speeded up also , because once the core has accreted all available solid material , the only energy source available for the gaseous envelope is its own contraction .",
    "the main reason for the long formation times for jupiter in the earlier models of pollack et al .",
    "( 1996 ) was the additional contribution of planetesimal accretion to the energy supply of the envelope , during the first part of the gas accretion phase .",
    "we determine approximately , for the first time , the resulting time scales of such a scenario for the case of jupiter s formation in a mmsn , ( or twice mmsn , if the capture probability is as low as 50@xmath3 ) .",
    "if a vortex had been responsible for the formation of jupiter , the formation time would fall in the range @xmath116  @xmath113",
    "yr .    the major drawback of our model is that there are no direct observations of giant vortices in protoplanetary disks so far .",
    "but observations are planned to look for giant vortices with future instruments such as alma ( wolf & klahr 2002 ) .",
    "a vortex can be observed with alma because it is usually a region of higher gas surface density and thus also more dust is available to emit radiation .",
    "the boulders that become trapped in the vortices are not observable , but if they collide then some micron sized debris could enhance the dust to gas ratio and increase the opacity in the vortex region .",
    "but again , in wolf & klahr ( 2002 ) we show that the vortex can be observed even without accumulating more dust .",
    "this paper concentrates on the second and third of the phases outlined in  2.3 .",
    "it still needs to be proved that ( 1 ) conditions necessary for vortex formation actually commonly occur in disks , and ( 2 ) that a vortex actually survives long enough so that a planetary core of 1020 m@xmath2 can form in it .",
    "initial studies by li et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and klahr & bodenheimer ( 2003a , b ) and most recently for the case of mhd by fromang & nelson ( 2005 ) indicate that vortices can form , and work by adams & watkins ( 1995 ) and johansen et al .",
    "( 2004 ) shows that vortices can survive , at least up to several @xmath67 yr at 5 au ( godon & livio 1999a , b ) .",
    "a linear stability analysis shows that vorticity can be generated from entropy gradients in the disk ( klahr 2004 ; johnson & gammie 2005 ) , which is a necessary condition to form large scale vortices .",
    "johansen & klahr ( 2005 ) showed that in local mhd simulations one can find anti - cyclonic vortices to form and concentrate particles , but those small vortices which are part of the turbulent flow , do only survive a few orbits , before they decay .",
    "even more convincing are the global simulations by fromang & nelson ( 2005 ) which find the formation of long - lived anti - cyclonic vortices in mhd turbulence .",
    "thus , it seems that vortex formation is a generic feature to any kind of turbulence in accretion disks .      *",
    "no need for a solar nebula much more massive than minimum mass . * diminished loss of boulders as a result of drift into the central object . *",
    "no fragmentation of boulders as a result of high impact velocities .",
    "* gentle aggregation of a core in the quiet eye of the vortex , which need not be self - gravitating . *",
    "a formation time far less than the lifetime of the nebula .",
    "we conclude that this model is able to solve outstanding problems in the theory of planet formation , and that further work on the difficult problem of vortex generation , through mhd simulations including radiation transport , transport and feedback effects of the solid boulders , and self gravity in three space dimensions , is warranted .",
    "we want to thank our referee stuart weidenschilling for his constructive criticism , and doug lin and norm murray for fruitful discussions .",
    "this research has been supported in part by the nsf through grant ast-9987417 , by nasa through grants nag5 - 4610 , nag5 - 9661 , and nag5 - 13285 , and by a special nasa astrophysics theory program which supports a joint center for star formation studies at nasa - ames research center , uc berkeley , and uc santa cruz .",
    "the work was supported in part by the european community s human potential programme under contract hprn - ct-2002 - 00308 , planets .",
    "adams , f.c .",
    ", & watkins , r.   1995 , , 451 , 314 alexander , d.  r. ,  & ferguson , j.  w.  1994 , , 437 , 879 armitage , p.j . , 1998 , , 501 , l189 barge , p. , & sommeria , j.  1995 , a&a , 295 , l1 barranco , j.  a. ,  & marcus , p.  s. 2000 , center for turbulence research   proceedings of the 2000 summer program , p.  97",
    "barranco , j.  a. ,  & marcus , p.  s. 2005 , , 623 , 1157 bell , k.r . ,",
    "cassen , p. m. , klahr , h. h. , & henning , th .",
    "1997 , apj , 486 , 372 blum , j. ,  & wurm , g.   2000 , icarus , 143 , 138 bodenheimer , p. , & lin , d. n. c. 2002 , annu .",
    "earth planet .",
    "sci . , 30 , 113 bodenheimer , p. , & pollack , j. b. 1986 , icarus , 67 , 391 boss , a.p .   1997 , science , 276 , 1836 boss , a.p",
    ".   2001 , apj , 563 , 367 boss , a.p .",
    "2004 , apj , 610 , 456 chavanis , p.  h.  2000 , , 356 , 1089 cuzzi , j.  n. , dobrovolskis , a.  r. , & champney , j.  m.  1993 , icarus , 106 , 102 fischer , d. a. & valenti , j. a. 2005 , , 622 , 1102 fromang , s. , & nelson , r.  2005 , , in press gammie , c.f .",
    "2001 , , 553 , 174 godon , p. , & livio , m.  1999a , , 521 , 319 godon , p. , & livio , m.  1999b , , 523 , 350 goldreich , p.  & ward , w.  r.  1973 , , 183 , 1051 goodman , j. , narayan , r. , & goldreich , p.  1987 , mnras , 225 , 695 haisch , k.  e. , lada , e.  a. , & lada , c.  j.  2001 , , 553 , l153 hawley , j.f . , 2001 , , 554 , 534 hayashi , c.  1981 , iau symp .   93 : fundamental problems in the theory of stellar evolution , p. 113 hubickyj , o. , bodenheimer , p. , & lissauer , j. j. 2005 , icarus , in press inaba , s. , wetherill , g. w. & ikoma , m. 2003 , icarus , 166 , 46 johansen , a. , andersen , a.c . , & brandenburg , a. 2004 ,  , 417 , 361 johansen , a. , & klahr , h. 2005 ,  , 634 , xxx johansen , a. , klahr , h. , & henning , th .",
    "2006 ,  , 636 , xxx johnson , b.  m. , & gammie , c.  f.  2005 , , 626 , 978    klahr , h.  2003 , in scientific frontiers in research on extrasolar planets , asp conference series , eds .",
    "d. deming , & s.  seager ( astronomical society of the pacific ) vol .",
    "294 , 277 klahr , h. 2004 , apj , 606 , 1070 klahr , h. , & bodenheimer , p.  2003a , apj , 582 , 869 klahr , h. , & bodenheimer , p.  2003b , american astronomical society , dps meeting # 35 , # 25.01 klahr , h. , & bodenheimer , p.  2003c .",
    "esa sp-539 : earths : darwin / tpf and the search for extrasolar terrestrial planets , 481 leinhardt , z.  m. , richardson , d.  c. , & quinn , t.  2000 , icarus , 146 , 133 li , h. , colgate , s.a . ,",
    "wendroff , b . , & liska , r.  2001 , , 551 , 874 lovelace , r.v.e . , li , h. , colgate , s.a . ,",
    "& nelson , a.f .",
    "1999 , , 513 , 805 mayer , l. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , & stadel , j.  2002 , science , 298 , 1756 podolak , m.  2003 , icarus , 165 , 428 pollack , j.b . ,",
    "hubickyj , o. , bodenheimer , p. , lissauer , j.j . ,",
    "podolak , m. , & greenzweig , y.  1996 , icarus , 124 , 62 pollack , j.  b. , mckay , c.  p. , & christofferson , b.  m.  1985 , icarus , 64 , 471 rice , w.k.m . ,",
    "armitage , p.j .",
    ", bate , m.r . , & bonnell , i.a .",
    "2003 , mnras , 339 , 1025 santos , n. c. , israelian , g. , mayor , m. , rebolo , r. , & udry , s. 2003 , a&a , 398 , 363 saumon , d. , chabrier , g. , & van horn , h.  m.  1995 , , 99 , 713 steinacker , a.  & papaloizou , j. , 2002 , , 571 , 413 tanga , p. , babiano , a. , dubrulle , b. , & provenzale , a.  1996 , icarus , 121 , 158 thommes , e. w. , duncan , m. j. , & levison , h. f. 2003 , icarus , 161 , 431 weidenschilling , s. j. 1977 , astro .",
    ", 51 , 153 weidenschilling , s. j. 1998 , american astronomical society , dps meeting # 30 , abstract # 21.03 weidenschilling , s.  j. ,  & cuzzi , j.  n.  1993 , in protostars and planets iii , ed .",
    "e. h. levy & j. i. lunine ( tucson : univ .",
    "arizona press ) , 1031 wolf , s. , & klahr , h.  2002 , apjl , 578 , l79 wuchterl , g. , guillot , t. , & lissauer , j.  j.  2000 , in protostars and planets iv , ed .",
    "v. mannings , a. p. boss , & s. s. russell ( tucson : univ .",
    "arizona press ) , 1081"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the formation of a giant gas planet by the core  accretion gas  capture process , with numerical simulations , under the assumption that the planetary core forms in the center of an anti - cyclonic vortex . </S>",
    "<S> the presence of the vortex concentrates particles of centimeter to meter size from the surrounding disk , and speeds up the core formation process . assuming that a planet of jupiter mass is forming at 5 au from the star , the vortex enhancement results in considerably shorter formation times than are found in standard core  accretion gas  capture simulations . </S>",
    "<S> also , formation of a gas giant is possible in a disk with mass comparable to that of the minimum mass solar nebula . </S>"
  ]
}