{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf novae are cataclysmic variable stars that are observed to undergo bright outbursts lasting a few days .",
    "these outbursts are separated by weeks to months of dim quiescence . at the short orbital period end of the dwarf nova distribution ( @xmath0 h )",
    ", we find the su uma stars , which also show superoutbursts .",
    "these are longer outbursts lasting a couple of weeks or more , with the additional presence of superhumps , a periodic modulation in the @xmath1 band light curve that repeats on a time - scale very close to the orbital period .",
    "@xcite gives a comprehensive review of dwarf novae .",
    "the outbursts of dwarf novae have been explained in terms of an instability associated with the gas circulating in the accretion disc .",
    "@xcite realised that there is a rapid change in opacity when hydrogen becomes ionised near @xmath2 .",
    "if the temperature is not higher than this everywhere in the disc , a cyclic behaviour can be established between two thermally stable states : a hot , ionised outburst state and a cool , neutral quiescent state .",
    "it was realised almost immediately that such a thermal change needs to be accompanied by a change in the gas viscosity to give the change in angular momentum transport that is required to power the observed accretion rates in dwarf novae .",
    "the best candidate for this viscosity remains magnetohydrodynamic turbulence , as suggested by @xcite .",
    "historically , an alternative outburst theory was proposed involving an instability in the mass - transfer rate from a convectively unstable envelope of a heated donor star @xcite .",
    "it was the disc instability theory that prevailed due to better compatibility with observations , which in nearly all cases have showed no evidence for an enhanced mass transfer rate from the companion star .",
    "however , a re - evaluation of some of the observations @xcite and evidence from eclipses during the latest outburst of wz sagittae @xcite has led to renewed interest in the possibility of enhanced mass transfer .",
    "in a recent paper , @xcite reviewed the arguments for and against enhanced mass transfer .",
    "they suggested that the eclipses observed for wz sagittae could be eclipses of the superhump light source and not the hot spot .",
    "the case of wz sagittae is discussed in more detail in section 2 below , as well as the evidence from existing numerical work not discussed by osaki & meyer .",
    "@xcite originally proposed a model in which superoutbursts were caused by an enhanced mass - transfer rate from an irradiated secondary star .",
    "however , numerical experiments by @xcite showed that discs in a roche potential with @xmath3 could spread to a radius at which the material at the edge of the disc becomes 3:1 resonant with the tidal field of the secondary star . at this point",
    "the disc becomes unstable and the gaseous orbits become eccentric .",
    "since superoutbursts are only observed in systems with low mass ratios , it seems likely that such a tidal instability plays a role in their development .",
    "soon after whitehurst s experiments , osaki formulated the thermal - tidal instability ( tti ) model @xcite .",
    "the mass transfer rate from the donor remains constant in the tti model , but with every passing normal outburst the accretion disc expands until it reaches the 3:1 resonant radius .",
    "at this point , osaki suggested that the rate of angular momentum loss becomes more rapid , leading to the accretion of a large amount of mass , and a superoutburst .",
    "the tti picture was broadly supported by the first two - dimensional ( 2d ) hydrodynamic models of superoutbursts @xcite , which confirmed that while the outburst is initiated by disc instability in the same way as a normal outburst , the tidally - enhanced energy dissipation prolongs the outburst , explaining the difference in duration between normal and superoutbursts .",
    "a significant eccentricity was generated and superhumps did indeed develop on contact with the 3:1 radius .    in the next section",
    "i introduce the evidence for enhanced mass transfer in su uma stars from observations of hot spot brightness and balance this with a discussion of existing theoretical studies of mass transfer in these systems . in section 3",
    "i present the results of new , three - dimensional ( 3d ) simulations of tidally unstable accretion discs .",
    "these show that tidal heating produces a significant brightening near the stream - impact region , even with no increase in the mass transfer rate through the stream .",
    "this means that a simple energetic model for hot - spot luminosity is inadequate for a low-@xmath4 system in outburst , as the luminosity in this region is dominated by tidal effects .",
    "the results therefore lend weight to the arguments of @xcite that the brightening observed near the stream - impact region in some su uma stars is not due to the hot - spot , but is due to the tidal heating of the outer parts of the disc .",
    "until the 2001 superoutburst of wz sagittae , little evidence for enhanced mass transfer during dwarf nova outbursts had been found .",
    "a notable exception is that of vw hydri ; @xcite found that the amplitude of a hump in the light curve increased during normal outbursts occurring within 40 days of a subsequent superoutburst .",
    "this was interpreted as brightening of the hot spot in response to an increase in mass transfer rate from the donor star .",
    "@xcite used similar arguments for an increase in mass transfer rate by a factor of two in outbursts of u geminorum and z chamaeleontis , employing the relationship @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the mass transfer rate from the donor star , @xmath7 is the keplerian velocity of the gas circulating in the accretion disc and @xmath8 is the ballistic velocity of the in - falling gas stream .",
    "wz sagittae is the brightest known dwarf nova in the @xmath1-band , with @xmath9 at supermaximum .",
    "it is unusual in only showing superoutbursts , and in its extremely long recurrence time : the 2001 outburst occurred a mere 23 years after a 33 year cycle of previous events in 1913 , 1946 and 1978 .",
    "it has a high - inclination ( @xmath10 ) and an orbital period of 81.6 minutes @xcite .",
    "the secondary star is of unusually low mass , with @xmath11 and @xmath12 @xcite .",
    "the 2001 outburst was observed in great detail , revealing many layers of variability .",
    "superhumps appeared in the light curve 13 days after the onset of the outburst , reaching maximum amplitude 24 hours later .",
    "they persisted for 90 days , well into the decline to quiescence , but were preceded by a different modulation on the orbital period for the first 12 days .",
    "@xcite found that the depth of eclipses in the light curve increased rapidly 6 days after the appearance of superhumps , and then gradually decreased .",
    "this change was mirrored by the height of the orbital hump in the light curve .",
    "the inclination of wz sge is not high enough to make eclipses of the white dwarf itself observable , so the eclipses in the light curve are assumed to be associated with the hot - spot .",
    "patterson et al . concluded that the hot - spot brightened by a factor 60 , which is suggestive of a commensurate increase in the mass - transfer rate from the secondary star .",
    "i will not discuss the theoretical aspects relating to the response of an irradiated star in terms of mass transfer rate here ; most recently these arguments have been made by @xcite .",
    "instead , i will discuss briefly the application of analytic methods and hydrodynamic simulations to the problem of stream - disc interactions .",
    "@xcite investigated the response of an eccentric accretion disc to an increase in the mass transfer rate through a stream .",
    "he found that rather than pumping the eccentricity up further , the addition of low specific angular momentum material at a faster rate tended to circularise the gas orbits .",
    "later smoothed particle hydrodynamics simulations of dwarf novae with mass ratios near the border of tidal stability confirmed that superhumps appeared when the mass transfer rate was reduced from a rather high value , but disappeared when the rate was restored @xcite .",
    "these theoretical results can not explain the persistence of the superhumps in wz sge with an enhanced mass transfer rate .",
    "one could circumvent this problem if the superoutburst itself was initiated by a burst of mass transfer and the disc radius expanded from a value well inside the 3:1 radius to a radius beyond it .",
    "unfortunately , this argument fails for wz sge .",
    "the observed increase in the eclipse depth occurs six days after the appearance of superhumps , so the disc radius has already expanded far beyond the 3:1 radius by the time the hot - spot region is observed to brighten .",
    "recently , @xcite have used a 2d hydrodynamic scheme to model the evolution of spectral line profiles generated by an eccentric accretion disc in a binary with @xmath4 = 0.1 .",
    "they found significant changes in the profile over the precession cycle of the disc and were able to distinguish between the individual components from the stream - impact region and the spiral arms .",
    "both components contribute to the superhumps seen in the light curve .",
    "in this section i present the results from new , three - dimensional smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) simulations of the accretion disc and stream in wz sge .",
    "the simulations were performed on the uk astrophysical fluids facility ( ukaff ) supercomputer during time awarded in spring / summer 2004 .",
    "i use a parallelised version of a 3d sph code optimised for the simulation of accretion discs in compact binary stars .",
    "it is an evolution of the original code developed by @xcite . in the sph method ,",
    "the fluid equations are solved for each of a set of moving points which we call particles .",
    "local physical quantities are calculated by means of a weighted sum over all the nearby particles within a set distance .",
    "this distance , called the smoothing length , @xmath13 , is tuned to the local density , making the method extremely adaptable in resolving large density contrasts .",
    "a review of the sph method can be found in @xcite . in this work , @xmath13 is calculated for each particle such that a minimum of 50 neighbour particles is maintained regardless of the local density .",
    "here , a total particle number of order 400,000 allows a resolved lengthscale @xmath14 over most of the accretion disc .",
    "the simulation proceeds by the continuous injection of particles from the inner lagrangian ( @xmath15 ) point .",
    "the gas dynamics of the particles is calculated in the full 3d roche potential of a binary system , with particles being rejected from the simulation if they pass through an inner boundary of the disc at a radius @xmath16 where @xmath17 is the separation of the two stars , if they intersect the roche lobe of the secondary star or if they achieve the escape velocity at a radius larger than a. the viscosity used in the sph calculation is a refinement of that described by @xcite to mimic an @xmath18-viscosity : @xmath19 the lengthscale is chosen to be the scale height @xmath20 rather than the smoothing length , giving closer compatibility with the @xcite prescription .",
    "no viscous calculation is performed for the particles in the stream , which move on a purely ballistic orbit .",
    "the equation of state of all the particles is isothermal , so the rate of energy generation in the disc is purely from the viscous dissipation induced by the interaction of the particle orbits .",
    "therefore , the effects of radiative processes are neglected , making this a simple calculation of the total bolometric luminosity due to viscous dissipation at each point in the disc .",
    "i use parameters representative of wz sge : @xmath21 , @xmath22 , @xmath23 ( * ? ? ?",
    "* from a quiescent hot - spot brightness ) .",
    "the thermal parameters of the particles in the disc are chosen as a conservative estimate for a cv disc in outburst , that is at the lower end of their probable range : @xmath24 , @xmath25 , which assuming a mean molecular mass @xmath26 corresponds to a mid - plane temperature @xmath27 .",
    "the initial conditions for the 3d simulation are generated in the same way as in @xcite , where a 3d disc is replicated from a particle distribution derived from an initial 2d simulation .",
    "the conditions are then relaxed to a steady - state before the 3d simulation proper .",
    "the disc is built up using a constant mass transfer rate of @xmath28 .",
    "the 3d runs start at a point after the outer edge of the disc has crossed the 3:1 radius and superhumps have developed .",
    "three runs are then performed with initial conditions that are identical except for the rate of mass injection .",
    "run a continues with the same mass transfer rate .",
    "run b proceeds with a rate five times lower , run c with a rate five times higher .",
    "the number of particles at the start of each run was @xmath29 .",
    "fig.[fig1 ] shows the evolution of the viscous energy dissipation rate and the @xmath30 eccentric mode , calculated using the method described in section 3.3 of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter tmw ) .",
    "the superhumps are clearly visible in the run with the unchanged mass transfer rate ( a ) and in the run with the reduced rate ( b ) .",
    "however , they disappear when the rate is increased in run c , with the eccentricity falling throughout the simulation as the disc edge is driven away from the 3:1 radius .",
    "the difference in length of the simulations is due to the finite supercomputer time .",
    "fig.[fig2 ] shows a map of the energy dissipation rate in the disc and a corresponding doppler velocity map at time @xmath31 days for run a. the hot - spot region and tidally - induced spiral structure are clearly evident , as are velocity components consistent with gas on ballistic and keplerian trajectories .",
    "there is also a non - keplerian component in the velocity map , similar to that noticed by @xcite .",
    "the radial luminosity profile of the disc is presented in fig.[fig3 ] for the two sectors shown in the dissipation map .",
    "this has been calculated by dividing the disc up into annular bins of width @xmath32 and averaging the luminosity ( dissipation rate per unit area multiplied by the area of each bin ) in the azimuthal direction .",
    "also plotted is the expected total bolometric hot - spot luminosity calculated from equation [ lspot ] for three different mass transfer rates .",
    "even with this small emitting area per radial bin , the luminosity in the hot spot region is well above that expected for @xmath33 .",
    "if one assumes that the radial extent of the hot - spot covers the region of tidally - enhanced dissipation between @xmath34 and @xmath35 , the total hot - spot luminosity is nearly an order of magnitude higher still .",
    "a feature that becomes apparent from the 3d simulations is the magnitude of the eccentricity , which is far smaller than has been found in previous 2d work .",
    "the mode strength in fig.[fig1 ] is of the order a few times @xmath36 , in comparison with @xmath37 for 2d superoutburst simulations of z cha ( tmw ) . as a result , the pattern of dissipation shown in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] does not change appreciably over the course of the simulation , and the dissipation remains enhanced in the region of the hotspot throughout .",
    "however , the fig.[fig1 ] shows that the eccentricity of the 3d discs in runs a and b are increasing at the end of the simulations .",
    "it remains unclear whether this trend would continue if the simulations were allowed to run indefinitely , although the growth rate of the eccentric mode in 3d does not suggest that the eccentricity will reach the levels achieved in the 2d case over a sensible time - scale for a dwarf nova outburst .    despite the low eccentricity , a clear superhump signal is still seen and the tidal interaction still has a significant influence on the luminosity generated in the hot - spot region . of course , if the eccentricity were higher the interaction would be even stronger .",
    "we would also expect to see more modulation in the dissipation map over a precession cycle , as discussed by @xcite .    as a final check",
    ", a short simulation was performed for a disc not subject to the tidal instability , with an outer radius well inside the 3:1 resonance .",
    "the results are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig4 ] and [ fig5 ] . in this case , the structure of the hot spot is exactly as expected .",
    "there are clearly defined components of emission at the ballistic and keplerian velocities and very little else , only a very weak spiral structure .",
    "the integrated luminosity of the hot - spot is now consistent with equation [ lspot ] for the mass transfer rate that has been measured in quiescence , and that is used in the simulation : @xmath33 .",
    "i have shown that tidal heating accounts for a significant fraction of the energy dissipated near the stream - impact region in an eccentric accretion disc .",
    "the tidal heating component dominates that due to the impact of the ballistic stream , producing an apparent brightening near the hot - spot . no increase in the mass transfer rate from the secondary star",
    "is required to produce this brightening .",
    "therefore , even for a disc with low eccentricity the simple model for the luminosity of the hot - spot given in equation [ lspot ] is inadequate to estimate the mass transfer rate from the donor .",
    "of course , this equation is not incorrect : but for a small correction due to the slightly non- keplerian velocity of the orbiting gas in the disc , the luminosity of the impact alone will be given correctly .",
    "it is just that this luminosity is swamped by the tidal heating component .",
    "@xcite suggested that it is the eclipse of the superhump light source ( dominated by the tides ) and not the hot - spot that has been observed in wz sge .",
    "this work supports this view , with the caveat that it could well be that the eclipse is that of the hot - spot , the luminosity in this region is simply being dominated by the tides . for a disc with zero eccentricity , such as a quiescent disc with an outer radius much smaller than the 3:1 radius ,",
    "the expression in equation [ lspot ] remains a good diagnostic of the mass transfer rate .",
    "this brightening of the hot spot region will be observed in systems with mass ratio @xmath38 , where tidal instability becomes important .",
    "it may seem intuitive to take this assertion a step further ; that the lower the mass ratio , the stronger the tidal heating and the brighter the hot - spot .",
    "however , it should be stressed that to date no systematic studies of the variation in strength of the tidal heating component with mass ratio have been carried out .    in terms of the sequence of events during an outburst of wz sge , the picture that has emerged from this work would be as follows .",
    "i assume that the outburst is initiated in the normal way by the disc instability , with the disc spreading past the 3:1 radius some time later .",
    "the growth rate of the eccentricity must be very fast as the superhumps were observed to reach maximum amplitude within 24 hours of appearing in the light curve @xcite . the brightening effect due to the tides",
    "will be first observed up to one precession cycle later when the apastron of the disc passes @xmath15 .",
    "this is consistent with the delay of a few days that was observed between the appearance of the superhumps and the brightening event .",
    "as the disc empties and the outer radius finally shrinks inside the 3:1 radius , the effect will diminish over the course of the outburst until the brightness of the hot - spot becomes consistent with the value given by equation [ lspot ] for the mass transfer rate measured in quiescence .",
    "i have confirmed with a 3d model the analytic prediction of @xcite and the 2d prediction of @xcite that an increase in mass transfer rate from the donor drives the disc away from the 3:1 resonance and suppresses the appearance of superhumps .",
    "this is in contradiction to what has been observed in wz sge .",
    "there are interesting differences between the 3d results presented here and previous 2d work .",
    "in particular , while eccentricity and superhumps develop in the same way in 2d and 3d , it is much more difficult to generate high eccentricities in 3d for reasonable values of sound speed and viscosity parameter .",
    "indeed , the eccentricity of @xmath39 estimated for wz sge by @xcite is not found in these 3d simulations . however , the tidal heating effect is still significant even with a small eccentricity .",
    "if future observations can reveal with accuracy the exact shape of the disc and @xmath40 is found to be as high as 0.3 , we will need to consider how this can be achieved .",
    "a possible solution may lie in a magnetic field anchored on the rotating white dwarf , which could have a propelloring effect on the gas @xcite that keeps the outer edge of the disc past the 3:1 radius and allows a large eccentricity to develop .",
    "i will investigate this numerically in a forthcoming paper .    as an aside to these issues ,",
    "it is interesting to note that an eccentric disc has no well - defined single outer radius . indeed ,",
    "if we assume the disc is an ellipse with an eccentricity @xmath40 , the ratio of the semi - major to semi - minor axes is @xmath41 so , for @xmath42 , there is nearly a factor of 2 variation in apparent radius over a single precession cycle .",
    "this should always be borne in mind when inferring accretion disc radii from observations in tidally unstable systems , especially given that the precession period can be several days in comparison to the orbital or superhump periods , which are usually shorter than a couple of hours .    in conclusion",
    ", it is apparent from this work that the observations of hot spot brightnesses during dwarf nova outbursts can be attributed to the interaction of a constant-@xmath43 accretion stream with the edge of an eccentric accretion disc .",
    "future work on the theoretical side should take into account the effects of radiative transfer in the spot region .",
    "this will be a challenge , and has not been considered in this work , however it is expected to have an impact on the predicted brightnesses . in particular , the amount of stream overflow above and below the rim of the disc is sensitive to the radiative cooling rate in the hot - spot region @xcite .",
    "this will have observable consequences on the shape of the measured eclipses and the appearance of the orbital hump in the light curve . from an observational point of view , it is desirable to discover the exact dimensions and geometry of a precessing disc during outburst .",
    "this will be a robust test of the tti model for superoutbursts , which relies on the disc edge encountering the 3:1 resonance and the mass transfer rate remaining fixed .",
    "i acknowledge a pparc postdoctoral research fellowship at the university of st andrews .",
    "the simulations were performed on the uk astrophysical fluids facility ( ukaff ) .",
    "i thank keith horne , mario livio and danny steeghs for helpful discussions , and also theo truss , who kindly waited until the day after this paper was completed before he was born .",
    "99 armitage p. , livio m. , 1998 , apj , 493 , 898 balbus s.a .",
    ", hawley j.f . , 1991 , apj , 376 , 214 foulkes s.b . , haswell c.a",
    ", murray j.r . ,",
    "rolfe d.j . , 2004 , mnras , 349 , 1179 hoshi r. , 1979 , prog .",
    "phys . , 61 , 1307 krzeminski w. , 1962 , pasp , 74 , 66 kunze s. , speith r. , hessman f.v . , 2000 , mnras , 322 , 499 lasota j .-",
    "p . , kuulkers e. , charles p.a . , 1999 , mnras , 305 , 473 livio m. , pringle j.e . , 1994 , mnras , 259 , 23 lubow s.h . , 1994 , apj , 432 , 224 monaghan j.j . , 1992 , ara&a , 30 , 543 murray j.r . , 1996 , mnras , 279 , 402 murray j.r . , warner b. , wickramasinghe d.t . , 2000 , mnras , 315 , 707 murray j.r . , chakrabarty d. , wynn g.a . , kramer l. , 2002 , mnras , 335 , 247 osaki y. , 1985 , a&a , 144 , 369 osaki y. , 1989 , pasp , 41 , 1005 osaki y. , meyer f. , 2003 , a&a , 401 , 325 paczyski b. , ziolkowski j. , zytkow a. , 1969 , in mass loss from stars , ed . hack m. , reidel , dordrecht patterson j. et al . , 2002 ,",
    "pasp , 114 , 721 shakura n.i . ,",
    "sunyaev r.a . , 1973 ,",
    "a&a , 24 , 337 skidmore w. , wynn g.a . , leach r. , jameson r.f . , 2002 , mnras , 336 , 1223 smak j. , 1993 , acta astr . , 43 , 101 smak j. , 1995 , acta.astr .",
    ", 45 , 355 truss m.r .",
    ", murray j.r . ,",
    "wynn g.a . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 324 , l1 vogt n. , 1983 , a&a , 118 , 95 warner b. , 1995 , cataclysmic variable stars , cambridge university press whitehurst r. , 1988 , mnras , 232 , 35"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the 2001 outburst of wz sagittae has shown the most compelling evidence yet for an enhancement of the mass transfer rate from the donor star during a dwarf nova outburst in the form of hot - spot brightening . </S>",
    "<S> i show that even in this extreme case , the brightening can be attributed to tidal heating near the interaction point of an accretion stream with the expanding edge of an eccentric accretion disc , with no need at all for an increase in the mass transfer rate . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , i confirm previous suggestions that an increase in mass transfer rate through the stream damps any eccentricity in an accretion disc and suppresses the appearance of superhumps , in contradiction to observations . </S>",
    "<S> tidal heating is expected to be most significant in systems with small mass ratios . </S>",
    "<S> it follows that systems like wz sagittae - which has a tiny mass ratio - are those most likely to show a brightening in the hot - spot region .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion , accretion discs - binaries : close - novae , cataclysmic variables - stars , individual : wz sagittae . </S>"
  ]
}