{
  "article_text": [
    "an important avenue of substorm research has been the study of the state space of the coupled solar wind - magnetosphere - ionosphere system ( see e.g. the review of klimas et al . , ( 1996 ) ) . the auroral electrojet index ( ae ) has been used to estimate the energy released from the magnetosphere into the ionosphere .",
    "one approach has been the search for low dimensional chaos in ae , which motivated studies of its fractal dimension and hurst exponent(s ) .",
    "these studies indicate that ae has two self - affine regions with a break in the scaling exponent at about 2 hours ( takalo et al . , 1993 ) .",
    "recent work in this area has been concerned with identification of chaos in systems for which the driver must also be considered ; with provision of a robust suite of indicators of low dimensional chaos ; and with the relationship of these methods to the succesful nonlinear predictive filter techniques ( see the review of ( sharma , 1995 ) ) .    however , as noted by chang ( 1992,1999 ) , low dimensionality is a property of a system near criticality .",
    "critical behaviour ( such as scale invariant fluctuations on all length scales ) had previously been known in systems at phase transitions ( e.g. huang ( 1987 ) ) and hence for small regions of parameter space .",
    "the  sandpile \" cellular automaton constructed by bak et al .",
    "( 1987 ) ( btw ) exhibited this behaviour as a natural consequence of its time evolution , without parameters having to be adjusted  by hand \" , which was thus dubbed self - organised criticality ( soc ) .",
    "such a non - equilibrium system dissipates energy by means of many avalanches of all sizes , but returns to its out of equilibrium critical stationary state rather than relaxing to a non critical one .",
    "hence an alternative framework for explanation of the low dimensionality , the existence of localized current disruption and bursty bulk flows ( e.g. lui et al . , 1988 ;",
    "angelopoulos et al , 1996 ) and power law magnetic field spectra in the magnetotail ( hoshino et al . , 1994 ) , has been given by postulating the magnetotail to be an open , dissipative dynamical system at a ( forced or self organised ) critical state ( chang , 1992;1999 ; see also klimas et al .",
    "( 2000 ) ) . in particular",
    ", soc implies that the probability distributions of energy release events within the system are power laws .",
    "recent evidence for this has been found in auroral images ( lui et al . 2000 ) .",
    "also consolini ( 1997;1999 ) has revealed a power law in a measure of burst size in ae .",
    "however , recent analysis by freeman et al .",
    "( 2000a ) as we shall see , calls into question the usefulness of indices in this context .",
    "other indicators such as dst and particle injection events in the near earth magnetosphere indicate the outflow of energy from the system due to large scale ` systemwide ' reorganizations .",
    "these are typically not self similar , rather the intensity and time intervals between one substorm and the next have a probability distribution with a well defined mean ( e.g. borovsky et al . , 1993 ; smith et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "consistent with this and the soc conjecture a simple avalanche model ( chapman et al . , 1998,1999 ) has been shown to exhibit global events with a characteristic mean and internal events showing two scale free regions .",
    "we therefore have a mixture of requirements for any attempt to model the system , part observational and part theoretical .",
    "the concepts of self organisation and criticality will first be discussed in section 2 .",
    "we will then attempt to establish whether this idealized soc state is in fact needed to account for the observed burstiness , self similarity and low dimensionality associated with magnetospheric dynamics . in section 3",
    "we contrast sandpile models with other models which display intermittency such as coupled map lattices ( cml ) which may be understood in terms of dissipative chaos . finally in section 4 ,",
    "we discuss observables that may distinguish these approaches .",
    "one difficulty in applying soc is its broad definition in the literature .",
    "we identify three main classes relevant to magnetospheric physics .",
    "one is the original mechanism suggested by bak et al .",
    "( 1987 ) which we will call  soc \" .",
    "the second was introduced by chang ( 1992 ) and referred to as ( forced ) `` f / soc '' .",
    "the third is a phenomenological definition based on observation of some or all of a set of possible diagnostics of soc such as bursty time series , `` 1/f '' power spectra and avalanche distributions .",
    "we shall use the term `` soc - like '' for these .",
    "these distinctions are useful since they refer to different sets of phenomenology and underlying theoretical structure .",
    "noise with very long correlation times , the so - called  1/f \" or `` flicker '' noise is ubiquitous in nature .",
    "it is distinguished by a power - law , i.e. scale - free , power spectral density of the form @xmath0 , with @xmath1 typically between @xmath2 and @xmath3 .",
    "its spatial counterpart is fractal structure .",
    "the apparent ubiquity of these phenomena led btw to propose the soc mechanism as their common origin .",
    "btw showed that a discrete cellular automaton simulation (  sandpile model \" ) of a spatially extended , slowly driven , many degree of freedom system in more than one dimension could exhibit both a scale - free spatial response to perturbation and bursty time evolution .",
    "they demonstrated the scale - free property in the spatial response by exhibiting power - law `` avalanche '' distributions of size , duration and spatial extent of toppling events in the model .",
    "the mechanism that btw proposed to explain this behaviour was an underlying fixed point in the dynamics (  criticality \" ) , which was attractive (  self - organised \" ) .",
    "support for the presence of critical behaviour in the original btw model was given mainly by their demonstration of finite - size scaling in the avalanche distributions for different lengths of the model system , as this was a property unique to critical systems .",
    "demonstration ( particularly by renormalisation group ( rg ) methods ) that sandpile models can indeed exhibit attractive fixed points has thus been an important thread in soc research for the past decade ( see ( jensen , 1998 ) for a brief review ) .",
    "such fixed points have been observed in the conservative btw model and others , hence soc has been shown to exist as a mechanism .",
    "a parallel thread has been the experimental search for soc in real sandpiles , ricepiles , and other rather less controllable systems such as seismic faults , solar reconnection events and astrophysical accretion disks ( see the reviews of jensen , 1998 ; turcotte , 1999 and dendy and helander , 1997 ) .",
    "the only signature of criticality per se so far tested for in data is finite - size scaling , which requires the system size to be changed , so only the oslo ricepile ( frette et al . , 1996 ) among natural systems can be said to demonstrate soc behaviour in this sense .",
    "the relevance of criticality in particular for magnetospheric dynamics is that such a critical system effectively becomes low dimensional , as noted by chang ( 1992 ) .",
    "in addition it may have implications for the presence or absence of time correlation between successive energy release events , as conjectured by watkins et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , consolini ( 1999 ) and freeman et al . ,",
    "( 2000b ) following boffetta et al . , ( 1999 ) .      although btw hypothesised a mechanism ( soc ) to explain the avalanche phenomenology they observed , it remains possible that many natural or model systems may share all or part of the avalanche phenomenology without necessarily being self - organised .",
    "one difference from soc comes with some model systems including the `` forest fire '' models which are controlled by repulsive rather than attractive fixed points , and so have to be tuned to exhibit scaling , rather than being attracted there from arbitrary initial conditions in the control parameters .",
    "chang has called this  forced criticality \" , and it differs from soc as it is critical without self - organisation .",
    "it has relevance to the problem of magnetospheric dynamics , as argued by chang , ( 1992;1999 ) and also consolini and de michelis , ( 2000 ) since the magnetospheric system may be driven to a critical or near - critical state as a result of the continuous loading process that it undergoes . indeed , the simple model used by chapman et al ( 1998 ) has been shown to possess a repulsive fixed point by rg ( tam et al , 2000 ) .      the description `` soc - like '' may be usefully applied for systems which have not yet been analytically treated and for which the classic tests of criticality such as finite size scaling either can not be or have not yet been performed .",
    "a good example of the latter are the thresholded diffusion equations which have received extensive study ( see section 5.4 of ( jensen , 1998 ) ) as continuous space and time differential models for avalanche phenomenology .",
    "an important example is that of lu ( 1995 ) who demonstrated that the differenced diffusion equation for an arbitary one dimensional field @xmath4",
    "@xmath5 + s(x , t)\\ ] ] with a noise - like driver @xmath6 and a particular choice of nonlinear diffusion coefficient @xmath7 generated avalanching with power law statistics .",
    "one can then ( vassiliadis et al . , 1998 ) cast the mhd equation with variable @xmath8 @xmath9 in terms of diffusion dominated mhd , by replacing the advection term by a source term without explicit velocity dependence giving @xmath10 then using @xmath11 and solving for @xmath12 using a discrete space - time but continuous field scheme .",
    "this method then retains the phenomenology of resistive mhd provided that diffusion initiated mixing and merging dominates convection - it has yet to be demonstrated that this is an appropriate approximation for the magnetosphere .",
    "the above model has been further developed by klimas and co - workers ( see takalo et al .",
    ", 1999 ; klimas et al . , 2000 and references therein ) .",
    "however , equation ( 3 ) in one dimension corresponds essentially to burgers equation with a noise drive , depending upon the form of @xmath8 .",
    "care hence needs to be taken with solutions of this system to distinguish burgers turbulence - type solutions from those that could only be soc- like ( krommes , 2000 ) .",
    "solutions of the diffusion equation are naturally long - range in space and time without invoking criticality .",
    "however the avalanche distributions that are also observed may indeed indicate critical or near - critical behaviour and we may thus call them soc - like pending analytic study . such questions",
    "have recently become more relevant since several authors ( in particular boffetta et al . , ( 1999 ) )",
    "have noticed the similarity of avalanche distributions in soc systems to the distributions of amplitudes and lifetimes in shell models of turbulence ( see section 3.1 below ) .    finally , it should be noted that the low dimensionality of the dynamic magnetosphere supports phenomenology that may be  soc - like \" rather than soc .",
    "singular spectrum analysis of previously identified substorm events in auroral indices ( see for example sitnov et al . , 2000 ) reveals a state space that is low dimensional and may be described reasonably well by a cusp catastrophe , as first suggested by ( lewis , 1991 ) . in this context",
    "it is critical to understand to what extent measures of the system dynamics such as auroral indices also measure the solar wind drive directly and hence to quantify their appropriateness for such studies ; we shall see in section 4 this remains an open question .",
    "a generic approach is to obtain a reduced description of a given system that can be implemented on a lattice .",
    "briefly , lattice based numerical models may be classified ( bohr et al . , 1998)as i ) reduced forms of the governing pde as in the case of turbulent shell models that are obtained by approximate truncation of the navier stokes equations , ii ) coupled map lattices that spatially couple systems with prescribed nonlinear time evolution to give simple models of spatiotemporal chaos , and iii ) avalanche models that combine simple redistribution rules ( spatial coupling ) with thresholded time evolution .",
    "many variants of turbulence shell models exist and we refer the reader to ( bohr et al . , 1998 ) for a comprehensive discussion .",
    "briefly , these consist of difference equations in @xmath13 space that couple @xmath13 modes locally thus allowing energy to cascade in @xmath13 which can generate power law power spectra with kolmogorov scaling .",
    "it is relevant to note here that shell models such as that of gledzer , ohkitani and yamada ( the goy model , see bohr et al . , 1998 )",
    "generate intermittency and power law power spectra and yet must be distinguished from other numerical systems with bursty evolution .",
    "power - law distributions in lifetime and burst size have been observed in a shell model by boffetta et al . , ( 1999 ) .",
    "the observation by einaudi and velli , ( 1999 ) of an avalanche distribution arising from mhd plasma simulations of anisotropic turbulence suggests that the avalanche distribution may be largely insensitive to the underlying physics of the turbulent system .",
    "coupled map lattices ( cml ) , on the other hand , model spatiotemporal chaos in configuration space .",
    "although many variants have been explored ( see kaneko , 1993 for a review ) the essential philosophy is to decompose the processes underlying the phenomena of interest into independent components ( e.g. convection , diffusion ) each of which may be nonlinear , and then to reduce each of these to simple parallel dynamics on a lattice .",
    "a typical cml may then comprise a local nonlinear map ( logistic map , say ) evolving each variable in time at each lattice point on the grid , plus coupling between the points ( discretized , and therefore truncated , diffusion , say ) which is linear .",
    "spatiotemporal chaos in this sense then implies deterministic chaos that is high dimensional ; because the number of dimensions increases as we increase the number of coupled nonlinear nodes on the lattice .",
    "the deterministic nature of the local evolution means that lyapunov exponents are well defined for the coupled system in contrast to most  sandpile \" algorithms .",
    "in addition certain universality classes , including that of diffusive coupling , can be constructed to be tractable via rg .",
    "the generation of intermittency via this  classic \" cml should therefore be distinguished from other grid - based real variable sandpile models which are also sometimes dubbed `` cml '' but which , due either to the introduction of randomness , or thresholds for diffusion , or both , do not have well defined lyapunov exponents and can not be treated as high dimensional chaotic systems in this sense .",
    "this definition of the  classic \" cml can also be seen to be related to , but distinct from , low dimensional chaos which can also generate intermittency ; both show intermittency for particular values of control parameters in their underlying nonlinear maps .",
    "the low dimensional system may in principle be distinguished via phase space reconstruction , as has been attempted for the magnetosphere ( sharma , 1995 ) .",
    "several avalanche models have been studied in the magnetospheric context , and we briefly recap here .",
    "in addition to the lu - type models discussed in section 2.3 . consolini ( 1997 , 1999 ) , studied the 1d hwa - kardar `` running '' algorithm which gives a broken power law power spectrum similar to that of @xmath14 .",
    "a 2d modification of the btw model was used by uritsky and pudovkin , ( 1998 ) , in which the thresholding rule was `` driven '' using the @xmath14 index .",
    "chapman et al . , ( 1998,1999 ) have studied a 1d model with a continuous variable . in distinction to the cellular automata",
    "this may be called a `` discrete space time '' model .",
    "this model had nonlocal redistribution rules and thus manifested nontrivial distributions even in one dimension , ( see also uritsky and semenov , 1998 ) .",
    "more recently consolini and de michelis ( 2000 ) have studied a 2d modified forest fire model driven by a 1d coupled map lattice .",
    "one resolution of the observational evidence for low dimensionality in the dynamic magnetosphere , and bursty evolution that is also robust ( and hence less easy to explain in terms of deterministic chaos ) is to note that systems at criticality can also be low dimensional .",
    "this key point was raised by chang ( 1992 ) , and the implication is the following .",
    "avalanche ( sandpile ) models , forest fire models and so forth have robust emergent phenomenology that yields bursty time evolution with power law burst statistics as required but these systems are by construction high dimensional , in the same sense as cml .",
    "if in addition these systems exhibit fixed points , then close to the fixed points , that is , close to criticality , the behavior is low dimensional . for avalanche models to describe the low dimensional magnetosphere they must have fixed points .",
    "this places a rather strong restriction on the models which may , for example , exclude those proposed to more closely resemble diffusion dominated mhd .    in this context",
    "it is intriguing to note that , just as classical cml , avalanche models can be modified to exhibit low dimensional behaviour .",
    "we give an example here by modifying the sandpile model used by ( chapman et al .",
    "briefly , this model is similar to others in that sand is redistributed when a critical gradient is exceeded locally . unlike other models however , redistribution occurs across all sites within an ongoing avalanche by construction ; the sand is redistributed conservatively such that within the avalanche the gradients are all set to zero .",
    "we can consider a generalization of this model by introducing a  fluidisation parameter \" that is , by flattening back the sand behind the leading edge of an ongoing avalanche for a fixed distance @xmath15 .",
    "this has been extensively investigated by chapman ( 2000 ) and corresponds to moving the system away from the repulsive fixed point . here",
    "we present a summary of the results which are germane to the discussion .",
    "the behaviour of the system with @xmath15 essentially has two regimes , when @xmath15 is of order the system size , the behaviour is just that of the original @xmath16 ( system length ) sandpile model considered in chapman et al . (",
    "1998;1999 ) , that is , evolution is bursty and burst statistics are power law . however ,",
    "if we reduce @xmath15 to much less than a quarter of the system size , although energy can still only be released by avalanches , the evolution becomes quasiregular , with a distinct loading - unloading cycle and statistics that are power law only over a restricted range .",
    "the essential point here is that an originally high dimensional sandpile model can , for appropriate parameters , exhibit low dimensional dynamics .",
    "we show in figure 1 the time series @xmath17 for these two cases . for @xmath18 , @xmath19 ,",
    "the system evolution is  intermittent \" whereas for @xmath20 it is quasiregular , and for this latter case we show in figure 2 the limit cycle for the system obtained by embedding .",
    "the implication is that low dimensionality can either be a signature of a system close to criticality or of certain classes of avalanching systems that can be tuned to give either intermittent , or quasiregular , time evolution .",
    "for models and laboratory experiments the identification of soc or soc - like phenomenology is fairly straightforward .",
    "one would expect evidence in burst size and life time distributions of power laws ; evidence of fractal structures and long range correlations ; and finite size scaling as one varies the system size .",
    "unfortunately , dealing with observations rather than carefully constructed experiments presents some nontrivial problems and we highlight these next . of principal concern in the magnetosphere",
    "is the variability of the driver and the extent to which any given observable yields the output of the system , the system s internal dynamics , or a mix of these with the driver superimposed .",
    "the problem of deciding when an observation is characterising the driver , or the system s response to it , is problematic since the driver in this case , that is , the solar wind , is known to be turbulent and exhibit intermittency .",
    "one approach in terms of modelling ( consolini and de michelis , 2000 ) is to couple the avalanche model to an intermittent drive ; this may mimic the overall coupled driver - system behaviour but does not easily allow one to unravel the complex dynamics of the drive from that of the system .",
    "auroral indices have received considerable attention as a means for testing the predictions of models showing complexity .",
    "these indices have the advantage that they provide long time series ; essential to test the hypothesis of scale free ( power law ) behaviour .",
    "the broken power law form of the power spectrum of ae ( tsurutani et al , 1990 ) and later , its burst lifetime and size distribution ( consolini,1997;1999 ) have been taken to be strong indicators of complexity and soc in the magnetosphere s dynamic evolution .",
    "comparisons between the indices and the solar wind drive , with an emphasis on predicting magnetospheric activity have however implied that the dynamics is to some extent predictable ( sharma,1995 ) .",
    "care must be taken to clearly define what actually constitutes sucesful prediction of some observed activity ; this also relies on some clear definition of substorm onset and differentiation between substorms and other sporadic events ( bbfs , pseudobreakups ) . in terms of soc phenomenology the question is more clearly adressed if we compare burst distributions from the magnetosphere and the solar wind .",
    "consolini ( 1997,1999 ) and takalo et al .",
    "( 1999 ; see also references therein ) have defined a measure of energy bursts i.e. integrated dissipation rate with respect to an arbitrary constant threshold level and applied it to the auroral electrojet index @xmath14 .",
    "they found power laws in both size and burst duration , but consolini ( 1999 ) , has since shown the presence of a small  bump \" with characteristic values of burst magnitude @xmath21 and duration @xmath22 .",
    "freeman et al . , ( 2000a ) showed that the burst lifetime distributions @xmath23 for @xmath24 and @xmath25 between january 1978 and june 1988 share this form .",
    "in addition observations from the wind satellite s particle and magnetic field instruments between january 1995 and december 1998 were used to show that the power law component of @xmath23 but not the  bump \" is also present in two measures ( akasofu s @xmath26 and @xmath27 ) which estimate the energy delivered by the solar wind to the earth s magnetopause region .",
    "this close correspondence is illustrated in figure 3 from freeman et al .",
    "( 2000a ) comparing curves for @xmath24 and @xmath26 .",
    "freeman et al . , ( 2000a ) presented arguments that the  bump \" corresponds to the effect of the dp1 substorm `` unloading '' current system .",
    "evidence has since been given ( freeman et al .",
    ", 2000b ) suggesting that the scaling region common to @xmath28 and @xmath26 is in fact present in the energy flow within the solar wind itself , as measured by @xmath29 and @xmath23 for the poynting vector .",
    "in addition ( freeman et al . , 2000b ) a power law inter - burst interval distribution has been exhibited for the poynting vector which in turn has implications for the predictability of fluctuations in the dp2 ionospheric current system , if later work confirms that the bursts in @xmath28 are causally related to those in @xmath26 and @xmath27 .",
    "we note that consolini ( 1999 ) has shown ae to also have a power - law rather than exponential inter - burst interval distribution .",
    "another measure of magnetospheric output is auroral optical activity .",
    "polar uvi allows almost the entire auroral oval to be imaged .",
    "these images show substorms plus smaller events which may be related to bbfs and other bursty reconfigurations within the magnetotail .",
    "one can construct a burst distribution for these and such a study was performed by lui et al .",
    "the key results are shown in figure 4 . here ",
    "blobs \" of brightness in the auroral oval have been identified and , after suitable background subtraction , both the intensity summed over a blob , and its area , can be obtained . when the probability distributions of integrated intensity and size were plotted lui et al ( 2000 ) found a power law slope plus a  bump \" at large values corresponding to substorm breakups . looking at quiet times where no substorms occur they found the power law with unchanged index only .",
    "this appears to be strong evidence that the non - substorm ( the internal ) events are power law whereas the substorm ( systemwide ) events are not , consistent with simple avalanche models such as ( chapman et al . , 1998 ) .",
    "these two observational results may not be in conflict if we consider that both the drive and the internal magnetospheric dynamics are soc - like , because it has also been shown ( chapman et al . , 1999 )",
    "that avalanche models may tend to absorb information about detailed fluctuations in the drive .",
    "however , the striking coincidence between the burst distributions of the indices and of the solar wind found by freeman et al .",
    "( 2000a ) , for all except the largest events is suggestive that auroral indices are , for the small scale ( non - systemwide ) events , strongly influenced directly by the drive itself , and are therefore i ) easy to predict and ii ) not a good method for uniquely testing the soc hypothesis for magnetospheric dynamics .",
    "here we have elucidated the different classes of soc description , and related descriptions of turbulent and other high dimensional systems suc as cml . this has suggested that that most , if not all , of the current evidence for soc , f / soc or soc - like behaviour in the magnetosphere , both quantitative ( avalanche distributions , power law spectra , low dimensionality and self - affinity ) , and more qualitative ( burstiness and inherent multiscale nature ) could be obtained from either shell models for turbulence , _ bona fide _ coupled map lattices or avalanche models .",
    "a particular ambiguity is that the low dimensionality which chang ( 1992 ) pointed out was a feature of forced criticality , can also arise from low dimensional chaos , or from a ` tuned ' high dimensional chaotic system under certain conditions .",
    "these all however , embody different aspects of the underlying physics and therefore future work needs to be directed specifically at distinguishing them ; in particular multispacecraft missions such as cluster ii will allow unambiguous turbulence measures , as well as avalanche statistics to be determined in situ .",
    "a difficulty is that to test for power law dependence , long timeseries or large sets of observations are needed . in principle , geomagnetic indices are suitable in this respect , but recent work suggests that the power law part of the avalanche distributions shown by magnetospheric indices may in fact be a directly driven manifestation of solar wind control of the dp2 current .",
    "this also prompts a reexamination of other uses of indices to unravel the relationship between the solar wind driver and the response of the dynamic magnetosphere .",
    "_ note added in proof _ + it is important to distinguish the meaning of an  attractive fixed point \" in the _ time evolution _",
    "( phase space or parameter space ) of a system from that in the _ flow of the real space renormalisation group _ transformation applied to a critical or near critical system .",
    "insofar as it evolves to criticality from arbitrary initial conditions in parameter space , an fixed point in the former sense has been used to explain the  self - organization \" of soc systems ( e.g. jensen , 1998 ) . a fixed point under a real - space rg transformation , however , is generally found for critical systems and is a diagnostic for phase transitions ( e.g. page 79 and chapter 11 of sornette , 2000 ) .",
    "scc acknowledges a pparc lecturer fellowship .",
    "the authors acknowledge valuable discussions with tom chang , mervyn freeman and george rowlands .",
    "nww is grateful to mit for hospitality during the writing of this article .",
    "angelopoulos v. , coroniti , f. v. , kennel , c. f. , kivelson , m. g. , walker , r. j. , russell , c. t. , mcpherron , r. l. , sanchez , e. , meng , c. i. , baumjohann , w. , reeves , g. d. , belian , r. d. , sato , n. , friis - christensen , e. , sutcliffe , p. r. , yumoto , k. , and harris , t. : 1996 , _ j. geophys .",
    "res . _ * 101 * , 4967 .",
    "chang , t. s. : 1992 , ` low dimensional behaviour and symmetry breaking of stochastic systems near criticality - can these effects be observed in space and in the laboratory ? ' , _ ieee trans .",
    "plasma sci .",
    "_ , * 20 * , 691 .              consolini , g. : 1997 , ` sandpile cellular automata and magnetospheric dynamics ' , in s. aiello , n. iucci , g. sironi , a. treves and u. villante ( eds . ) , _ proc",
    "58 ,  cosmic physics in the year 2000 \" _ ,",
    "sif , bologna , italy .",
    "klimas , a. j. , valdivia , j. a. , vassiliadis , d. , baker , d. n. , hesse , m. , and takalo . , j. , : 2000 , ` the role of self - organized criticality in the substorm phenomenon and its relation to localized reconnection in the magnetospheric plasma sheet ' , _ j. geophys .",
    "_ , submitted .",
    "lui , a. t. y. , lopez , r. e. , krimigis , s. m. , mcentire , r. w. , zanetti , l. j. , potemra , t. a. : 1988 , ` a case study of magnetotail current sheet disruption and diversion ' , _ geophys .",
    "lett . _ * 15 * , 721 .",
    "sitnov , m. i. , sharma , a. s. , papadopoulos , k. , vassiliadis , d. , valdivia , j. a. , klimas , a. j. , and baker , d. n. : 2000 . `",
    "phase transition - like behavior of the magnetosphere during substorms ' , _ j. geophys .",
    "_ , * 105 * , 12955 .            tam , w. y. , chang , t. s. , chapman , s. c. , and watkins , n. w.:2000 , ` analytical determination of power law index for the chapman et al .",
    "sandpile ( fsoc ) analog for magnetospheric activity - renormalization group analysis ' , _ geophys .",
    "* 27 * , 1367 .",
    "tsurutani , b. , sugiura , m. , iyemori , t. , goldstein , b. e. , gonzalez , w. d. , akasofu , s .-",
    "i . , and smith , e. j. : 1990 , ` the nonlinear response of ae to the imf @xmath30 : a spectral break at 5 hours ' , _ geophys .",
    "* 17 * , 279 .",
    "uritsky , v. m. , and v. s. semenov , a sandpile model for global statistics of reconnection events in the magnetotail , proc .",
    "international workshop on `` the solar wind - magnetosphere system 3 '' , 23 - 25 september , 1998 , graz , austria .",
    "uritsky , v. m. , and pudovkin , m. : 1998 , ` low frequency 1/f - like fluctuations of the ae - index as a possible manifestation of self - organised criticality in the magnetosphere ' , _ ann .",
    "geophys _ ,",
    "* 16 * , 1580 .",
    "vassiliadis , d. , anastasiadis , a. , georgioulis , m. , vlahos , l. : 1998 , ` derivation of solar flare cellular automata models from a subset of the magnetohydrodynamic equations ' , _ astrophys .",
    "j. _ * 509 * , l53 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the characterization of global energy storage and release in the coupled solar wind - magnetosphere system remains one of the fundamental problems of space physics . </S>",
    "<S> recently , it has been realised that a new paradigm in physics , that of self organised criticality ( soc ) may encapsulate the mixing and merging of flux on many scales in the magnetotail prompting bursty energy release and reconfiguration . </S>",
    "<S> soc is consistent with qualitative measures such as power law power spectra and bursty bulk flows and with more quantitative tests such as power law burst distributions in auroral indices and auroral optical activity . here </S>",
    "<S> , we present a careful classification of the broad range of systems that fall under the general description of  soc \" . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that some , but not all , of these are consistent with our current understanding of the magnetosphere . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the observed low dimensionality of the dynamic magnetosphere in terms of both soc model properties , and observables . </S>",
    "<S> observations of burst statistics are highlighted ; we show that these are currently suggestive but not sufficient to confirm soc and in particular we find that auroral indices are not effective at distinguishing the internal dynamics of the magnetosphere from that of the intermittent solar wind driver . </S>",
    "<S> this may also elucidate the paradox of predictability and complexity of the coupled solar wind - magnetosphere system . </S>"
  ]
}