{
  "article_text": [
    "during the spectroscopic search for rotation in white dwarfs we noticed that all known zz ceti stars showed peculiar h@xmath0 line profiles ( koester et al .",
    "the lines could be fitted using a rotationally broadened profile , but the derived rotation rates were incompatible with other data , e.g. from asteroseismology . using the caii  k line for such a study , berger et al .",
    "( 2005 ) found rotation velocities varying from 11 - 28 km / s from seven high - resolution keck and vlt spectra of the variable g29 - 38  a clear indication that the broadening could not be due to rotation .",
    "while the spectra of almost all stars could be fitted with zero rotation , for g29 - 38 this was not true .",
    "the observed spectra ( fig .",
    "1 ) are much flatter than the non - rotating model .",
    "since the rotation can certainly not change by a factor of three within a few years , a different mechanism has to be found .",
    "another obvious possibility are surface motions due to the non - radial pulsations . indeed , velocity shifts with the same periods as the light variations have been observed in g29 - 38 ( van kerkwijk , clemens , & wu 2000 ; thompson et al . 2003 ) . in the latter study",
    ", however , these were dismissed as a reason for the peculiar line profiles , since already the time - resolved spectra seemed to show the same profile as the time integrated spectrum .",
    "this argument neglects the fact , that the velocity dispersion over the disk leads to a significant broadening already at a single phase , compared to a non - pulsating star .    in this study we will test this conclusion by  brute - force  numerical integration of time - dependent spectra over the visible disk of the variable , taking into account temperature variations , accurate limb - darkening , doppler shifts from the pulsation , and the geometry of the star in the observers frame .",
    "the radial displacement of a surface element is described by a spherical harmonic with mode indices @xmath1 and @xmath2 . the corresponding velocity vector is given by dziembowski ( 1977 ) .",
    "for white dwarfs the radial component is negligible and the motions are nearly horizontal in the stellar system . as our test case we have chosen a @xmath3 , @xmath4 mode with a period of 600 s , and a pole - on view of the observer .",
    "after transformation of the stellar surface velocity into the observers frame we obtain the visual light variation , the mean velocity over the visible disk ( which shifts the line ) , and the velocity dispersion ( which broadens the line at each phase ) .",
    "2 shows these results .",
    "figure  3 shows the broadening and shift of the ca line in three phases during the cycle .",
    "position , width and depth of the profile change significantly .",
    "this is the effect which would be observed with time - resolved spectroscopy .",
    "figure  4 shows the comparison of three observed spectra with a profile of a non - pulsating star and with the integrated profile ( over one period , the exposure time of keck spectra is 1800 s ) for a pulsating star . with the assumed values for the observable velocity amplitude ( @xmath5 km / s )",
    "the least extreme observation can be explained .",
    "the other spectra would need slightly larger velocities .",
    "the amplitudes we have used in this simulation for the velocity and light variations are about a factor of 2 higher than found for a single strong mode by thompson et al .",
    "( 2003 ) . however , due to several modes present they find velocity amplitudes easily exceeding 10 km / s in the direct measurement of the total pulsation .",
    "we are thus convinced that these motions are at the origin of the observed peculiar line profiles .",
    "the study of these profiles - unfortunately requiring very large telescopes - is thus another tool for the study of the variations .",
    "one recent example is our prediction , based on the line profile , of the variability of wd1150@xmath6153 , which has been confirmed photometrically in the meantime .",
    "berger , l. , koester , d. , napiwotzki , r. , reid , i. n. , & zuckerman , b. 2005 , a&a , 444 , 565 dziembowski , w. 1977 , act .",
    "astr . , 27 , 203 koester , d. , dreizler , s. , weidemann , v. , & allard , n. f. 1998 , a&a , 338 , 612 thompson , s. e. , clemens , j. c. , van kerkwijk , m. h. , & koester , d. 2003 , apj , 589 , 921 van kerkwijk , m. h. , clemens , j. c. , & wu , y. 2000 , mnras , 314 , 209"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we demonstrate that the peculiar line profiles observed in da white dwarfs in the temperature range of the zz ceti variables can be explained by the surface velocity fields associated with the pulsations . </S>"
  ]
}