{
  "article_text": [
    "our sun is surrounded by a disk of warm ( @xmath0150 k ) `` zodiacal '' dust that radiates most of its thermal energy at 1030 microns .",
    "this zodiacal dust is produced largely in the inner part of the solar system by collisions in the asteroid belt ( dermott et al .",
    "1992 ) and cometary outgassing ( liou and zook 1996 ) .",
    "zodiacal dust is interesting as a general feature of planetary systems , and as an indicator of the presence of larger bodies which supply it ; dust orbiting a few au from a star is quickly removed as it loses angular momentum to poynting - robertson drag ( robertson 1937 ) . understanding the extra - solar analogs of zodiacal dust",
    "may also be crucial in the search for extra - solar planets ( beichman et al .",
    "1996 ) since exo - zodiacal dust in a planetary system could easily outshine the planets and make them much harder to detect .",
    "the best current upper limits for the existence of exo - zodiacal dust disks come from iras measurements of 12 and 25 micron excesses above photospheric emission . seen from a nearby star , solar system zodiacal dust would create only a @xmath1 excess over the sun s photospheric emission at 20 microns .",
    "iras measurements , however , have typical measurement errors of 5 percent ( moshir et al .",
    "1992 ) and display systematic offsets of a similar magnitude when they are compared to other photometry ( cohen et al .",
    "if there were a solar - type zodiacal disk with 1000 times the density of the disk around the sun around tau ceti , the nearest g star , the excess infrared emisison would barely exceed the formal 68% confidence intervals of the iras photometry .",
    "moreover , all photometric detection schemes of this sort are limited by how accurately the star s mid - infrared photospheric emission is known . for",
    "farther , fainter stars than tau ceti , inferring the presence of dust from the iras data becomes still harder .",
    "the detection of faint exo - zodiacal - dust emission is more feasible if one can resolve the dust emitting region .",
    "the high resolution and dynamic range needed for these observations will generally require large interferometers like the keck interferometer , the large binocular telescope , and the very large telescope interferometer .",
    "but it is already possible to resolve the zodiacal dust mid - infrared emitting regions of the nearest stars . a 10-meter telescope operating at 12 microns has a diffraction - limited resolution of 0.25 arc seconds , corresponding , for example , to a transverse distance of 2 au at 8 parsecs .",
    "we have begun a search for zodiacal dust around the nearest stars using the mid - infrared imaging capabilities of the long wavelength spectrometer ( lws ) ( jones & peutter 1993 ) on the w. m. keck telescope .",
    "the large aperture of the telescope allows us to make spatially resolved images of the zodiacal dust 11.6 micron emitting region around the stars so that we can look for dust emission above the wings of the point - spread function ( psf ) rather than as a tiny photometric excess against the photosphere .",
    "we present here the results of two nights of observations , and compare them with a simple model of exo - zodiacal thermal emission to place upper limits on the amount of dust present in the systems we observed .",
    "we observed six nearby stars with lws on the w. m. keck telescope on august 3rd and 4th , 1996 using standard mid - infrared imaging techniques .",
    "the target stars were the nearest a ",
    "k main - sequence stars observable from mauna kea on those dates . with the object on - axis",
    ", we took a series of frames lasting 0.8 ms each , chopping the secondary mirror between the object and blank sky 8 arcseconds to the north at a frequency of 10 hz .",
    "then we nodded the primary mirror for the next series of frames so that the sky was on - axis and the object off - axis .",
    "we repeated this process for 3 nods over a period of 5 minutes , for an on - source integration time of 1.1 minutes , and a typical noise of 2 mjy in one 0.11 by 0.11 arcsecond pixel due to the thermal background .",
    "the seeing was poor both nights , up to 2 arc seconds in the visible . to measure the atmosphere - telescope transfer function",
    ", we made similar observations of seven distant , luminous calibrator stars near our targets on the sky , alternating between target and calibrator every 510 minutes .",
    "we increased our frame - rate for the second night of observations so that we could compensate for the seeing using speckle analysis .",
    "figure 1 shows a cut through a single 84 ms exposure of altair on august 4 , compared to an airy function representing the diffraction - limited psf of a filled 10-meter aperture at 11.6 microns .",
    "the cores of the images are diffraction - limited , but the wings are sensitive to the instantaneous seeing , making speckle analysis necessary .",
    "table 1 provides a summary of our observations .",
    "we flat - fielded the images by comparing the response of each pixel to the response of a reference pixel near the center of the detector .",
    "first we plotted the data number ( dn ) recorded by a given pixel against the dn in the reference pixel for all the frames in each run .",
    "since the response of each pixel is approximately linear over the dynamic range of our observations and most of the signal is sky background , which varies with time but is uniform across the chip , the plotted points for each pixel describe a straight line ; if all the pixels had the same response , the slope of each line would equal 1 .",
    "we divided each pixel s dn by the actual slope of its response curve relative to the reference pixel , effectively matching all pixels to the reference pixel .",
    "we then interpolated over bad pixels , frame by frame .    to compensate for the differences in the thermal background between the two nod positions",
    ", we averaged together all the on - axis sky frames to measure the on - axis thermal background and subtracted this average from all of the on - axis frames  both object and sky .",
    "we used the same procedure to correct the off - axis frames .",
    "next , we chose subframes of 32 by 32 pixels on each image , centered on the star ( or for sky frames , the location of the star in an adjacent object frame ) , and processed these according to classical speckle analysis ( labeyrie 1970 ) .",
    "we fourier transformed them , and summed the power spectra , yielding a sky power spectrum and an object power spectrum for each series .",
    "then we azimuthally averaged the power spectra in the u - v plane  that is , we averaged over all the frequency vectors of a given magnitude , @xmath2 .",
    "this azimuthal averaging corrects for the rotation of the focal plane of the alt - az - mounted keck telescope with respect to the sky .",
    "we then subtracted from every object power spectrum the corresponding sky power spectrum and divided each corrected target power spectrum by the corrected power spectrum of a calibrator star observed in the same manner as the target star immediately before or after the target star .",
    "figure 2 shows an azimuthally - averaged power spectrum of altair and the corresponding sky power spectrum , compared with a power spectrum of calibrator gamma aquila and its corresponding sky power .",
    "we then averaged all the calibrated power spectra for a given target . if the object and calibrator are both unresolved , the average calibrated power spectrum should be the power spectrum of the delta function : a constant .",
    "we found that the pixels along the u and v axes of the power spectra were often contaminated by noise artifacts from the detector amplifiers , so we masked them out .",
    "figures 3 and 4 show the calibrated azimuthally - averaged power spectra for our target stars . to compare different power spectra from the same target , we normalized each azimuthally - averaged power spectrum so that the geometric mean of the first 10 data points in each spectrum equals 1 . for altair and 61 cygni a and b we had more than three pairs of target and calibrator observations , i.e. calibrated power spectra ,",
    "so we show the average of all the spectra and error bars representing the 68% confidence interval for each datum , estimated from the variation among the individual power spectra .",
    "the error is primarily due to differences in the atmosphere - telescope transfer function between object and calibrator .",
    "none of the calibrated power spectra deviate from a straight line by more than a typical error ; all the targets are unresolved to the accuracy of a our measurements .",
    "to interpret our observations we compared them to models of the ir emission from the solar zodiacal cloud .",
    "we constructed a model for exo - zodiacal emission based on the smooth component of the kelsall et al .",
    "( 1998 ) model of the solar system zodiacal cloud as seen by cobe / dirbe , with emissivity @xmath3 and a temperature @xmath4 , where @xmath5 is the distance from the star in au , and @xmath6 is the luminosity of the star in terms of @xmath7 . for a dust cloud",
    "consisting entirely of a single kind of dust particle of a given size and albedo , the @xmath6 exponent in the expression for the temperature is simply @xmath8 times the @xmath5 exponent ( backman & paresce 1993 ) .",
    "the physics of the innermost part of the solar zodiacal dust is complicated ( see mann & macqueen 1993 ) , but our results are not sensitive to the details , because the hottest dust is too close to the star for us to resolve .",
    "we assume that the dust sublimates at a temperature of 1500 k , and allow this assumption to define the inner radius of the disk .",
    "we set the outer radius of the model to 3 au , the heliocentric distance of the inner edge of our own main asteroid belt .",
    "our conclusions are not sensitive to this assumption ; decreasing the outer radius to 2 au or increasing it to infinity makes a negligible difference in the visibility of the model , even for a stars .    the assumed surface density profile , however , does make a difference .",
    "a collisionless cloud of dust in approximately circular orbits spiraling into a star due to poynting - robertson drag that is steadily replenished at its outer edge attains an equilibrium surface density that is independent of radius ( wyatt and whipple 1950 , briggs 1962 ) .",
    "models that fit data from the helios space probes ( leinert et al 1981 ) , the fit by kelsall et al .",
    "( 1998 ) to the cobe / dirbe measurements and good s ( 1997 ) revised fit to the iras data all have surface densities that go roughly as @xmath9 .",
    "this distribution appears to continue all the way in to the solar corona ( macqueen & greely 1995 ) .",
    "we find that in general , if we assume an @xmath10 surface density profile , our upper limit for the 1 au density of a given disk scales roughly as @xmath11 ; disks with more dust towards the outer edge of the 11.6 micron emitting region are easier to resolve .",
    "likewise , the assumed temperature profile strongly affects our upper limits .",
    "unfortunately , we know little about the temperature profile of the solar zodiacal cloud .",
    "cobe / dirbe and iras only probed the dust thermal emission near 1 au , and helios measured the solar system cloud in scattered light , which does not indicate the dust temperature .",
    "we found that a dust cloud model with the iras temperature profile ( @xmath12 ) was much easier to resolve than the model based on dirbe measurements that we present here , especially for g and k stars .    to compare the models with the observations , we synthesized high resolution images of the model disks at an inclination of 30 degrees .",
    "we calculated the ir flux of the stars from the blackbody function , and obtained the parallaxes of the stars from the hipparcos catalog ( esa 1997 ) .",
    "we inferred stellar radii and effective temperatures for each star from the literature and checked them by comparing the blackbody fluxes to spectral energy distributions based on photometry from the simbad database ( egret et al .",
    "for altair and vega , we use the interferometrically measured angular diameters ( 1974 ) ( they are 2.98 + /-0.14 mas and 3.24 mas ) .",
    "stellar fluxes typically disagree with fitted blackbody curves by @xmath13 in the mid - infrared ( engelke 1990 ) , but our method does not require precise photometry , and the blackbody numbers suffice for determining conservative upper limits .",
    "we computed the power spectra of the images , and normalized them just like the observed power spectra . in figures 3 and 4 , the azimuthally - averaged power spectra for our target stars are compared to the extrapolated cobe / dirbe model at a range of model surface densities .",
    "disks with masses as high as @xmath14 times the mass of the solar disk will suffer collisional depletion in their inner regions , so they are unlikely to have the same structure as the solar disk . by neglecting this effect",
    "we are being conservative in our mass limits .",
    "the density of the densest model disk consistent with the data in each case is listed in table 1 .",
    "our best upper limit is for altair ( spectral type a7 , distance 5.1 pc ) ; with 11 pairs of object and calibrator observations we were able to rule out a solar - type disk a few times @xmath14 as dense as our zodiacal cloud .",
    "such a disk would have been marginally detectable by iras as a photometric excess .",
    "iras detected no infrared excess in vega s spectral energy distribution at 12 microns , with an uncertainty of 0.8 jy .",
    "this may be due to a central void in the disk interior to about 26 au ( backman & paresce 1993 ) .",
    "aumann et al ( 1984 ) suggested that vega ( a0 , 7.8 pc ) could have a hot grain component ( 500 k ) with up to @xmath15 of the grain area of the observed component and not violate this limit .",
    "the apparent upward trend in the visibility data may be a symptom of resolved flux in the calibrator stars .",
    "we have only 3 object / calibrator pairs for vega , not enough to test this hypothesis .",
    "our upper limit is a solar - type disk with approximately @xmath16 times the density of the solar disk .",
    "this disk would have a @xmath17500 k emitting area of @xmath18 , about @xmath15 of the grain area of the observed component .",
    "though 61 cygni is close to the galactic plane and surrounded by cool cirrus emission , backman , gillett and low ( 1986 ) identified an iras point source with this binary system and deduced a far - infrared excess not unlike vega s .",
    "the color temperature of the excess suggests the presence of dust at distances @xmath19 au from either star .",
    "however these stars are dim ( spectral types k5 and k7 ) and the region of the disk hot enough to emit strongly at 11.6 microns is close to the star and difficult to resolve ; we could not detect a solar - type dust disk around either of these objects at any density , assuming the cobe / dirbe model , or unless it had @xmath20 times the density of the solar disk , assuming the iras model .",
    "70 oph is a binary ( types k0 and k4 ) with a separation of 24 pixels ( 2.6 arcsec ) .",
    "we were able to assemble a power spectrum for b from 9 object / calibrator pairs , but the image of a fell on a part of the lws chip that suffered from many bad pixels and was unusable . the image of a may also have been distorted by off - axis effects .",
    "70 oph b , like 61 cygni a and b , is dim , making any dust around it cool and hard to detect at 11.6 microns .      iras could have barely detected a disk with @xmath22 times the emitting area of the solar disk around tau ceti ( g8 , 3.6 pc ) , the nearest g star .",
    "we have only three object / calibrator pairs for this object , not enough data to improve on this limit .",
    "we are grateful to dana backman , alycia weinberger , keith matthews and eric gaidos for helpful discussions , and to keith matthews and shri kulkarni for assistance with the observations .",
    "this research has made use of the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france .",
    "the observations reported here were obtained at the w. m. keck observatory , which is operated by the california association for research in astronomy , a scientific partnership among california institute of technology , the university of california , and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "it was made possible by the generous financial support of the w. m. keck foundation .",
    "aumann , h. h. 1984 , apj , 278 , l23 backman , d. e. , & paresce , f. 1993 , `` main sequence stars with circumstellar solid material : the vega phenomenon '' , _ protostars and planets iii _ ( eds levy e. h. & lunine , j. i. )        briggs , r. e. 1962 , aj , 67 , 710 cohen , m. , witteborn , f. c. , carbon , d. f. , davies , j. k. , wooden , d. h. , bergman , j. d. 1996 , aj , 112 , 2274 dermott , s.f . , gomes , r.s .",
    ", dorda , d.d . ,",
    "gustafson , b.  .",
    ", jayaraman , s. , xu , y.l . , & nicholson , p.d .",
    "1992 , in ferraz - mello s. ed . ,",
    "chaos , resonance and collective dynamical phenomena in the solar system .",
    "kluwer , dordrect , p.333 egret , d. , wenger , m. , dubois , p. ( 1991 ) , in _ databases & on  line data in astronomy _ , albrecht & egret ( eds . ) , kluwer acad .",
    "publ . , pp . 7988 .",
    "labeyrie , a. 1970 , a&a , 6 , 85 leinert , c. , richter , i. , pitz , e. , & planck , b. 1981 , a&a , 103 , 177 liou , j.c . , &",
    "zook , h.a .",
    "1996 , icarus , 123 , 491 macqueen , r. m. , & greeley , b. w. 1995 , apj , 440 , 361 mann , i. , & macqueen , r. m. 1993 , a&a , 275 , 293 moshir , m. , et al .",
    "1992 , explanatory supplement to the iras faint source survey , version 2 , jpl d-10015 8/92 ( pasadena : jpl )      ccccccc august 3 & vega & r lyr & 800 & 90 & 2 & @xmath23 & & @xmath24 lyr&800 & 90 & 1 & & 61 cyg a & @xmath25 cyg & 800 & 90 & 4 &  & 61 cyg b & @xmath25 cyg & 800 & 90 & 5 &  & @xmath21 cet & @xmath26 cet & 800 & 90 & 2 &  & & & 210 & 348 & 1 & august 4 & 70 oph b & @xmath27 oph & 84 & 864 & 5 &  & & 74 oph & 84 & 864 & 4 & & altair & @xmath28 aql & 84 & 864 & 6 & @xmath29 & & @xmath27 aql & 84 & 864 & 5 &"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have begun an observational program to search nearby stars for dust disks that are analogous to the disk of zodiacal dust that fills the interior of our solar system . </S>",
    "<S> we imaged six nearby main - sequence stars with the keck telescope at 11.6 microns , correcting for atmosphere - induced wavefront aberrations and deconvolving the point spread function via classical speckle analysis . </S>",
    "<S> we compare our data to a simple model of the zodiacal dust in our own system based on cobe / dirbe observations ( kelsall et al . </S>",
    "<S> 1998 ) and place upper limits on the density of exo - zodiacal dust in these systems . </S>"
  ]
}