{
  "article_text": [
    "binarity is a key observational parameter for many astrophysical questions .",
    "one particularly important issue is whether low mass stars and brown dwarfs significantly contribute to the dark matter in the galactic disk ; the present uncertainties on the local mass function for very low mass stars are large enough for this question to be still unsettled ( tinney 1993 ) , although evidence increasingly points towards a negative answer .",
    "the denis and 2mass near infrared surveys will soon provide photometric luminosity functions with very good statistical precision , down to the brown - dwarf domain ( delfosse et al .",
    "1997 , 1998a ; kirkpatrick et al .",
    "the corrections for unresolved binaries and the mass - luminosity relation will then be the main uncertainty sources for the local stellar mass function .",
    "below m@xmath50.3  , the mass - luminosity relation ( henry & mccarthy 1993 ) is only determined by few observational data points , most of which are of low accuracy .",
    "accurate orbital elements are thus clearly needed for more low mass binaries , to provide additional direct stellar mass determinations",
    ". a better knowledge of the multiplicity statistics of low mass stars is also needed to account for the effect of unresolved systems on the mass and luminosity functions : at present , different plausible assumptions on stellar multiplicity ( kroupa 1995 ; reid & gizis 1997 ) lead to very different luminosity functions at very low masses .",
    "the stellar multiplicity statistics also contains important information on both star formation processes and dynamical evolution of stellar systems , as reviewed for instance by duquennoy & mayor ( 1991 ) . while the binarity statistics are now quite well determined for g ( duquennoy & mayor 1991 ) and k dwarfs ( halbwachs , mayor and udry 1998 ) , this is not yet the case for the fainter m  dwarfs .",
    "the only well defined m - dwarf sample which has essentially complete multiplicity information is the ( small ) sample of m dwarfs within 5.2  pc ( henry & mccarthy , 1990 ; leinert et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "a number of programmes have searched for m - dwarf companions beyond this distance , using different techniques : radial - velocity monitoring ( bopp & meredith 1986 ; young et al .",
    "1987 ; upgren & caruso 1988 ; marcy & benitz 1989 ; tokovinin 1992 ; upgren & harlow 1996 ) , deep infrared imaging ( skrutskie et al . 1989 ; nakajima et al . 1994",
    "; simons et al . 1996 ) , astrometry and speckle or adaptive optics imaging ( henry & mccarthy 1992 ; mariotti et al . 1992 ) . taken together , these programmes are however not sensitive to all binary separations for any statistically well defined sample .",
    "reid & gizis ( 1997 ) for instance compiled multiplicity information for a northern 8-pc sample , but had to conclude that , in spite of henry & mccarthy s ( 1992 ) extensive speckle work , the information they could gather remained incomplete . the binary fraction derived from these data range from 26% ( leinert et al . , 1997 ) to 42% ( fisher and marcy , 1992 ) , through 33% ( reid and gizis , 1997 ) .",
    "this seems to points towards a smaller fraction of multiple stars than the 57% found by duquennoy & mayor ( 1991 ) amongst g dwarfs , a result which would be an important input to multiple star formation theories .",
    "all of these estimates however suffer from either small number statistics or large incompleteness corrections , which are quite uncertain , as they sensitively depend on the ( unknown ) underlying multiplicity distribution .    since september 1995",
    ", we have therefore been searching volume - limited samples of nearby m  dwarfs for companions , combining three observing techniques which together ensure a good sensitivity at all separations for stars and brown dwarfs , and some useful sensitivity for giant planets :    * highly accurate ( 10 - 70  @xmath6 ) radial velocities are measured with the elodie spectrograph at the observatoire de haute - provence ( baranne et al .",
    "1996 ) , which was also used in the discovery of the first extra - solar planet ( mayor and queloz 1995 ) ; they are combined with older coravel data to extend our time base at lower accuracy ; * high angular resolution near infrared images are obtained with the eso ( adonis ) and cfht ( pueo ) adaptive optics systems , to directly detect relatively massive companions at small separations ; * deep adaptive optics coronographic infrared images ( beuzit et al .",
    "1997 ) are obtained with adonis at eso , since april 1997 ; they are sensitive to lower mass companions at slightly larger separations , and will be discussed in a forthcoming paper .    in this first paper , we present the radial - velocity programme , discuss its observing and data processing techniques in some detail , and present its first results together with some complementary adaptive optics data obtained with pueo .",
    "the observed sample and its completeness are discussed in sect .",
    "2 together with the observing strategy , while sect .",
    "3 discusses the radial - velocity and adaptive optics observations .",
    "section 4 presents the results after 2.5  years , namely the discovery of 13 new m dwarfs and orbital elements for 7 of the new systems .",
    "section 5 discusses the implications of the new systems for the solar neighbourhood population .",
    "the observed radial - velocity sample is presented in detail by delfosse et al .",
    "( 1998b ) , who discuss the rotational properties of the same stars .",
    "briefly , it contains all m dwarfs listed in the third edition of the nearby star catalogue ( hereafter cns3 ; preliminary version , gliese & jahreiss , 1991 ) with a distance closer than 9  pc and a b1950.0 declination above @xmath7 .",
    "136 stars fulfill these criteria among which 7 have to be rejected because they are fainter than v=15 ( the approximate sensitivity limit of the instrument we use ) , and another 2 because they are close companions to much brighter g dwarfs from which they can not be separated by the spectrograph input fiber . at 9  pc",
    "the v=15 limit corresponds to an m6 dwarf , and at 5  pc to an m6.5 dwarf .",
    "we have decided to observe a volume - limited sample because we are interested in a fair sampling of the local dwarf population , and want to derive unbiased statistical information .",
    "the quality of the distances listed in the cns3 is however uneven , so this goal could only be partly reached .",
    "the new ( 4@xmath8 ) edition of the yale general catalogue of stellar trigonometric parallaxes ( van altena et al .",
    "1995 ) and the hipparcos catalogue ( esa , 1997 ) together show that 11 sample stars are actually outside the nominal 9-pc sphere , while two omitted stars are actually within it .",
    "the 11 rejected stars have a disproportionately large fraction of nearly equal - mass multiple systems .",
    "most of them were included in the initial sample on the basis of cns3 photometric parallaxes .",
    "their inclusion therefore largely reflects the 2@xmath9 volume bias incurred in using photometric parallaxes for unrecognized equal - mass binaries .      since no single observing technique is sensitive to companions over all separations , we have chosen to combine imaging and radial - velocity techniques , to maximize our sensitivity range .",
    "as discussed below , the standard errors of the radial - velocity measurements range between 10 and 70  @xmath2 , depending on apparent magnitude ( and hence largely on spectral type , for this volume - limited sample ) .",
    "a 400  @xmath2 velocity amplitude is thus always easily detectable , even for the faintest stars .",
    "a 50  @xmath2 velocity amplitude is easily detectable for all stars brighter than approximately v=10 .",
    "figure [ limit ] shows how these conservative minimum velocity amplitudes translate into minimum detectable companion masses as a function of orbital period , for two representative distances and primary masses . for a one year orbital period ,",
    "a 400  @xmath2 velocity amplitude corresponds to a 5  jupiter mass ( m@xmath10 ) body orbiting a 0.15   m4v - m5v primary , and 50  @xmath2 corresponds to a 1.5  m@xmath10 body orbiting a 0.4   m2v primary .",
    "even though this programme was not chiefly devised to search for planets , it therefore has good sensitivity to them , as illustrated by our recent detection of a @xmath52  m@xmath10 companion on a 2  month orbit around gl  876 ( delfosse et al .",
    "1998d ; also marcy et al .",
    "we will , a fortiori , be sensitive to all stellar and substellar companions with periods up to a few dozen years .",
    "the maximum period at which we can actually detect stellar companions will be set by the duration of the observing programme rather than by the velocity amplitude ( fig .",
    "[ limit ] ) , as it is difficult to detect variability on timescales longer than about twice the time - span of the data . at 9  pc",
    "a limit of p@xmath11  years translates into a minimum angular separation of @xmath120.4  for a 0.15   primary star and a companion of negligible mass ( fig .",
    "[ limit ] ; this separation scales as @xmath13 ) .",
    "the adaptive optics programme ( hereafter ao ) ( mariotti et al . 1992 , perrier et al . 1998 ) easily resolves equal - mass binaries down to separations as small as @xmath14 ( 0.7  au at 9  pc , corresponding to a @xmath51  year period for an m - dwarf pair ) .",
    "it has a dynamic range in the k band ( @xmath15 m ) of 6.5  mag at a 0.25 \" separation , 7.5  mag at 0.5  and 8.5  mag at 1  .",
    "since the k band absolute magnitudes of m0 and m8 dwarfs only differ by @xmath55  mag ( leggett 1992 ) , the ao observations can detect all main - sequence companions that the radial - velocity monitoring would miss ( fig .",
    "[ limit ] ) . for brown dwarfs on the other hand , we do have a small sensivity gap at intermediate separations : radial - velocity monitoring can for instance only detect a 0.05 gl  229b - like brown dwarf orbiting a 0.4 m2v primary out to 5.4  au ( 0.6  at 9  pc ) , while ao imaging can only detect it beyond 1  .",
    "this gap disappears for later m - dwarf primaries or more nearby systems ( fig .",
    "[ limit ] ) , and the pueo adaptive optics system for instance easily detects gl  229b itself , without a coronograph . beyond 2 ",
    "( 18  au at 9  pc ) , the coronographic mode of the eso adaptive optics system ( beuzit et al .",
    "1997 ) can handle an extremely large contrast between the primary and a faint secondary ( @xmath16 at 2  ) .",
    "we are thus again sensitive to all brown dwarf companions of m dwarfs , though not to planets .    within the [ 0.4au , 4au ] separation range ( at 9  pc ) ,",
    "the sensitivities of high precision radial velocities and adaptive optics overlap . in this range ,",
    "the combination of the two techniques offers potential access to very accurate masses , as exemplified by gl  570b ( m1.5v+m3v ) for which forveille et al .",
    "( 1998 ) obtain masses accurate to @xmath52% .",
    "this should dramatically improve the mass - luminosity relation for the bottom of the main sequence .",
    "most new radial - velocity observations were obtained at the observatoire de haute - provence with the elodie spectrograph ( baranne et al .",
    "1996 ) on the 1.93-m telescope , between september 1995 and may 1998 .",
    "this fixed configuration dual - fiber - fed echelle spectrograph covers in a single exposure the 390 - 680  nm spectral range , at an average resolving power of 42000 .",
    "an elaborate on - line processing is integrated with the spectrograph control software , and automatically produces optimally extracted and wavelength calibrated spectra , with algorithms described in baranne et al .",
    "all stars in this programme are now observed with a thorium lamp illuminating the monitoring fiber , as needed for the best ( @xmath17 ) radial velocity precision ( baranne et al .",
    "1996 ) . before mid-1997 the fainter ( v13  mag ) stars were instead observed with this fiber illuminated by the sky , allowing subtraction of the diffused solar light whose lines",
    "could otherwise bias the velocity profile .",
    "the use of the new m4v correlation template ( discussed below ) has sufficiently reduced the sensitivity of the velocity measurements to sky emission that the standard high precision setup can now be used for all stars in this programme .",
    "these early data for faint stars have increased random zero - point errors , up to @xmath18 .",
    "a few measurements were also obtained with the coralie spectrograph on the newly commissioned 1.2-m swiss telescope at la silla observatory ( chile ) .",
    "coralie is an improved copy of elodie and has very similar characteristics , with the exception of a substantially improved intrinsic stability and higher spectral resolution ( @xmath19 ) .",
    "the extracted spectra are analysed for velocity by digital cross - correlation with a one - bit ( 0/1 ) template .",
    "this processing is standard for elodie spectra ( queloz 1995a , 1995b ) , but the default k0iii mask provided in the elodie reduction software is a relatively poor match to the much redder spectra of the programme stars .",
    "we have constructed a better adapted correlation template , applying the method of baranne , mayor and poncet ( 1979 ) to a high signal - to - noise ( s / n=70 ) elodie spectrum of gl  699 ( barnard s stars , m4v ) .",
    "the analysis was restricted to the [ 443 nm ,  680 nm ] spectral range , since bluer orders contain very little flux , for both gl  699 and the programme stars . for each of the 48 elodie orders , 100 trial templates",
    "@xmath20 were generated by thresholding the rectified and normalized gl  699 spectrum at 100 levels .",
    "we selected for each order the thresholding level which maximizes the quality factor defined by baranne , mayor and poncet ( 1979 ) .",
    "the best order templates were then assembled into one global binary template , which has over 3100 `` transparent '' sections and a high overall transmission of 20.75% .      for elodie ,",
    "the radial - velocity precision can be written ( baranne et al . 1996 , their eq .",
    "( 9 ) ) as : @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the rotationally broadened 1/e half - width of the cross - correlation function ( ccf ) , @xmath23 its relative depth and @xmath24 the signal - to - noise ratio in the reference 48@xmath25 elodie order . the @xmath26 constant depends on both the correlation template used and the spectral type .",
    "its values for the k0 and m4 templates were determined through monte - carlo simulations for the [ m0v ,  m5.5v ] spectral - type range .",
    "high signal - to - noise ratio spectra of 6 slowly rotating stars spanning the desired range of spectral type ( selected from delfosse et al .",
    "1998b , table  [ caract ] ) were degraded by synthetic photon and readout noise .",
    "the dispersion of the velocities measured from these spectra was then determined for a number of degraded signal - to - noise ratio values .",
    "the validity of the parameterization was verified on those synthetic data , and @xmath26 was determined through a least square fit .",
    "it turned out to be constant over the m - dwarf spectral range .",
    "its respective values for the k0 ( baranne et al .",
    "1996 ) and m4 templates are 0.085 and 0.035  @xmath27 . the radial - velocity standard errors for the two templates are presented in fig .",
    "[ error ] .",
    "the m4 template improves the accuracy by a factor of 2 at spectral type m0v , and by a factor of 10 at spectral type m4v . at a given signal - to - noise ratio ,",
    "the accuracy variations as a function of spectral type mostly reflect changes in the relative depth of the ccf .",
    "the width of the ccf ( table [ caract ] ) is essentially constant for the k0 template but significantly varies with spectral type for the m4 template .",
    "this change is small and does nt appreciably affect the precision of the radial - velocity measurements , but calibration of the ccf width in term of rotational velocity is substantially more difficult for the m4 template .    0.1 cm    .width and depth of the ccf of 6 stars with spectral type in the [ m0v , m5.5v ] range , for the m4 and k0 templates .",
    "spectral types are from reid et al .",
    "( 1995 ) . [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tab_oa ]",
    "after 2.5 years , we have found 12 new companions to the 127 m dwarfs in our initial sample , and over the same period 6 additional companions were discovered by others ( we also independently found most of those ) .",
    "while showing that the multiplicity information was previously fairly incomplete , this should not be taken as the final number of companions for this sample .",
    "many stars still have few radial - velocity measurements ( the median is 5 but a number of stars only have 2 measurements ) , which span an interval of at most 2.5 years .",
    "our detectivity is thus very significantly biased towards nearly equal - mass binaries ( detectable as double - lined binaries in a single measurement ) or / and short periods .",
    "a significant number of lower mass companions in wider orbits certainly remains to be found in this sample .",
    "the discovery of this large number of new multiple systems has two opposite effects on estimates of the stellar density in the solar neighbourhood . on the one hand , the new components within 9 pc increase the previously underestimated local density , typically with lower mass stars as they are necessarily fainter than their primaries . on the other hand ,",
    "a number of previously unknown m - dwarf binaries are actually beyond the 9-pc distance limit of the sample , in which they were initially included on the basis of an underestimated photometric distance , reflecting the well known @xmath52@xmath9 volume bias in photometric parallaxes of unrecognized binaries .",
    "this second correction decreases the local density , more or less uniformly for all masses .",
    "these two effects have been abundantly discussed in the context of photometric luminosity functions , as a possible explanation of their differences from the solar neighborhood luminosity function ( e.g. kroupa 1995 , and reid & gizis 1997 , for two contrasted views ) .",
    "it is perhaps not always recognized that , beyond @xmath55  pc , the solar neighborhood luminosity function still has a significant photometric component , and that it is thus also affected at some level by the same two effects .",
    "taking together newly published trigonometric parallaxes ( esa , 1997 ; van altena at al .",
    "1995 ) and corrected photometric distances to the new binaries , 13-m - dwarf systems listed within 9  pc in the preliminary version of the cns3 are actually beyond this distance , while only one system ( gl  203 ) enters this volume .",
    "the better observed 5.2-pc sample , on the other hand , is essentially unaffected , with only the g041 - 014 system removed ( @xmath54.5  pc  @xmath288  pc ) from it .",
    "the previously mentioned ( e.g. henry et al . 1994 ) incompleteness of the nearby m - dwarf system sample beyond 5  pc is thus made more significant .",
    "systems with bright secondaries are rapidly recognized as double - lined binaries , and their inventory should thus be essentially complete .",
    "the remaining 7 photometric parallaxes in this revised 9-pc sample can therefore be considered as reliable",
    ". the 9-pc northern sample of systems should thus now only significantly change through inclusion of presently missing systems .",
    "the new multiple systems , on the other hand , add 6 stars to the 9-pc sample of stars . given the remaining selection biases in our binary search , we feel that derivations of the binarity statistics and stellar luminosity function within 9  pc would still be premature .",
    "our sensitivity to lower companion masses and longer periods is however quickly improving , so that this information will soon become available .",
    "it will then be possible to more reliably estimate the correction for unresolved binaries in photometric determinations of the luminosity function , and hopefully settle the long - standing controversy ( e.g. kroupa 1995 and reid & gizis 1997 ) on its true importance .",
    "we thank the technical staffs and telescope operators of ohp and cfht for their support during these long - term observations .",
    "we are also grateful to didier queloz and luc weber for having developed the powerful data reduction package of the elodie spectrograph , and for their support in porting it to a different flavour of unix .",
    "we are grateful to gilles chabrier , isabelle baraffe and france allard for useful discussions , and for communicating unpublished results .",
    "b. would also like to thank meghan gray who reduced part of the ao data while being a student at cfht in may - august 97 .",
    "x.d . acknowledges support by the french ministre des affaires trangres through a `` lavoisier '' grant for his 1  year stay at observatoire de genve .",
    "mariotti j.m . , perrier c. , duquennoy a. , rigaut f. , gehring g. , gallais p. , 1992",
    ", in `` high - resolution imaging by interferometry ii . '' , j.m .",
    "beckers , f. merkle ( eds ) , european southern observatory , garching bei mnchen , germany                                          udry s. , mayor m. , andersen j. , crifo f. , grenon m. , imbert m. , lindegren h. , maurice e. , nordstroem b. , pernier b. , prevot l. , traversa g. , turon c. , 1997 , in proceedings of the esa symposium ` hipparcos - venice ' 97 , esasp-402 , p.693    udry s. , mayor m. , queloz d. , 1998 , in proceedings of iau colloquium 170 , `` precise stellar radial velocities '' , victoria bc canada , eds j.b.hearnshaw and c.d.scarfe , asp conference series ( 1999 ) in press"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present preliminary results of a long - term radial - velocity search for companions to nearby m dwarfs , started in september 95 . the observed sample is volume - limited , and defined by the 127 northern ( @xmath0 ) m dwarfs listed in the gliese and jahreiss ( cns3 ) catalogue with d@xmath19pc and v@xmath115 . </S>",
    "<S> observations are obtained with the elodie spectrograph on the 1.93-m telescope of the observatoire de haute - provence . </S>",
    "<S> the typical accuracy ranges between 10  @xmath2 ( the instrumental stability limit ) for the brighter stars and 70  @xmath2 at our limiting magnitude . </S>",
    "<S> we complement the elodie velocities with older measurements extracted from the coravel database to extend our time base , albeit obviously with lower precision . </S>",
    "<S> simultaneously , we perform adaptive optics imaging at cfht and eso to look for close ( @xmath30.05 - 0.1  ) visual companions in a larger volume - limited sample . for stellar companions the two techniques together cover the full separation range , to beyond the limiting distance of the sample . </S>",
    "<S> we will therefore eventually obtain a statistically meaningful inventory of the stellar multiplicity of nearby m - dwarf systems . </S>",
    "<S> we also have useful sensitivity to giant planets , as illustrated by our recent detection of a planetary companion to gl  876 .    </S>",
    "<S> after 2.5 years , we have discovered 12 previously unknown components in this 127 stars sample , plus a companion to an additional star beyond its southern declination limit . </S>",
    "<S> 7 of these are actually beyond the 9  pc limit , as they belong to systems included in the sample on the basis of cns3 photometric parallaxes which were biased - down by the unrecognized companion . </S>",
    "<S> the remaining 5 companions are true additions to the 9  pc inventory . </S>",
    "<S> more are certainly forthcoming , given our present selection bias towards short periods and relatively massive companions .    </S>",
    "<S> we have derived orbital elements for 7 of the new systems , as well as for some known binaries with previously undetermined orbits . </S>",
    "<S> one system , g  203 - 47 , associates an m3.5v star with a white dwarf in a rather tight orbit ( @xmath4 ) and represents a post - common - envelope system . </S>",
    "<S> some of the new m - dwarf binaries will over the next few years provide very precise mass determinations , and will thus better constrain the still poorly determined lower main - sequence mass - luminosity relation . </S>",
    "<S> the first such results are now being obtained , with some preliminary accuracies that range between 2% at 0.4 - 0.6   and 10% at 0.1  . </S>",
    "<S> we have also discovered the third known detached m - dwarf eclipsing binary , and determined its masses with 0.4% accuracy . </S>"
  ]
}