{
  "article_text": [
    "the launch of the rossi x - ray timing explorer ( rxte ) in december 1995 marked a new beginning for the study of compact objects and their accretion disks . since then quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) in the kilo - hertz range ( khz qpos henceforth ) have been discovered in the persistent flux of a number of low mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) , including both the z and the atoll sources , as well as sources that have not been classified . for a comprehensive review of the literature on this subject , see van der klis ( 1997 ) .",
    "although questions about the detailed physical mechanism for the generation of these oscillations has not been settled , it is clear that the khz qpos are related to the dynamic time scale near the neutron star surface , and the ncos likely to be the neutron star spin .",
    "one of the puzzling characteristics of the khz qpos is their similarity across the large number of sources which cover two decades in luminosity and probably also two decades in magnetic field .",
    "this characteristic raises a serious question as to what are the roles that the overall accretion rate and the neutron star magnetic field play in determining the qpo frequencies and other characteristics .",
    "it places a severe constraint on any potential model for their generation mechanism .",
    "another puzzling characteristic of both the khz qpos and the ncos is that the inferred neutron star spin frequencies of these lmxbs are in a very narrow range in the vicinity of 300 hz ( @xcite ) .",
    "both of these puzzles are hard to understand in the context of the standard disk magneto - dynamic interactions ( @xcite ) without invoking some kind of correlation between the magnetic field and the mass accretion rate across these sources ( @xcite ) , unless we accept the possibility that either the inferred frequencies from the burst oscillations are not directly related to the neutron spins or the disk magneto - dynamic interactions picture we have at the present is significantly incomplete .",
    "in this paper we report rxte observations of aql x-1 during its february 1997 outburst .",
    "we present analysis results of the khz qpos in the persistent flux and the ncos during a type - i burst .",
    "we believe that the data strongly indicate that there exist new regimes characterized by different branches in the relationship between the khz qpo frequency and the total source luminosity .",
    "the data analyzed for this paper results from 12 separate rxte observations or pointings at aql x-1 covering the calendar period from 16 february through 10 march 1997 .",
    "each observation is typically two rxte orbits in duration and results in about 8,000 s of good data segmented into two to three pieces due to rxte passages through the south atlantic anomaly and earth occult of aql x-1 .",
    "the typical time gap between two consecutive observations is two days .",
    "the first observation took place approximately a week after aql x-1 passed the peak luminosity and the last when the source had essentially reached its quiescent state .",
    "two type - i x - ray bursts occurred during these observations , but only one of which has data with good time and energy spectral resolution .",
    "the other one occurred shortly after an earth occult before the instrument was completely ready for taking data .",
    "in addition to the standard 1 and 2 data sets , we have event mode data with 64 energy channels and 128@xmath2 ( @xmath2 = @xmath3 ) time resolution , and a burst catcher mode with 1 energy channel and 128@xmath2 time resolution . during the type - i burst the event mode data exceeds the bandwidth between the pca and the spacecraft , therefore has gaps .",
    "we have used the burst catcher data to perform the timing analysis reported below .",
    "the upper panel of figure  [ pca_lc_and_rms ] shows the light curve from the entire data set .",
    "each point represents data from one rxte orbit .",
    "the 12 intervals bracketed by the vertical lines represent the 12 pointings .",
    "we have fitted the energy spectrum with a model consisting of a blackbody component and a power - law component with an absorption column density fixed at @xmath4 @xmath5 ( @xcite ) .",
    "hereafter , flux values are calculated using the fitted model and parameters .",
    "we have constructed average fft power spectrum for data from every orbit of the 12 pointings using event mode data .",
    "only 2 pointings have shown clearly detectable khz qpo peaks in their power spectra , the 7th and the 8th which took place on 27 february and 1 march , respectively .",
    "the lower panel of figure  [ pca_lc_and_rms ] shows the corresponding upper limits for those days when khz qpos are not positively detected . the overall average fractional rms amplitude in the rxte / pca band is ( 6.8@xmath60.6)% .",
    "the width of the qpo peak varies with time , but does not correlate with any other variable .",
    "it has an overall average of 6.23 hz ( fwhm ) ( see figure  [ aqlx1_khz_lineup ] ) .",
    "figure  [ freq_vs_flux ] shows the correlation between the qpo centroid frequency and the measured flux in the 2 - 10 kev band .",
    "the correlation between the frequency and count rate is very similar except that there appears to be more scatter among the points .",
    "in particular we have also examined the correlation between the qpo frequency and the flux in the blackbody component and found that the correlation is much worse .",
    "this is in contrast to the case of 4u 0614 + 091 ( @xcite ) where the correlation between the two seem to be rather good over a long time scale .",
    "we note that on each day individually , the qpo frequency appears to be correlated with the flux , but there is a shift between the two days .",
    "the 7 points toward the lower left part of the graph which stand away from the rest of the points are there because there was a 10% drop in overall flux right after the type - i burst .",
    "this kind of correlation on short time scale , i.e. , from minutes to hours , and the apparent lack of it on longer time scale , i.e. , days , between the qpo frequency and the overall flux or count rate has been observed before in other sources , e.g. , in 4u 1608 - 52 ( @xcite ) and 4u 0614 + 091 ( @xcite ) .",
    "it showed up very dramatically in these observations of aql x-1 .",
    "the rms amplitude varies with energy .",
    "they are @xmath7% and @xmath8% in the 2 - 5 kev and 5 - 10 kev bands , respectively .",
    "since only one qpo peak is observed on each of the two days , it is possible that , even though they cover a similar range in frequency , they could be the manifestations of the two qpo peaks that have been commonly observed in other sources , e.g. , 4u 1728 - 34 . to investigate this possibility ,",
    "we have compared the dynamic fft power spectrum of 4u 1728 - 34 obtained over a two day period in february 1996 and that of aql x-1 on 27 february and 1 march 1997 .",
    "we have found that in the case of 4u 1728 - 34 , the qpo with the lower frequency is always much narrower in width than the qpo with the higher frequency .",
    "they can be distinguished on power spectral width alone . on the other hand ,",
    "the qpo peaks of aql x-1 during the two days look indistinguishable in width . in particular",
    ", their widths are very similar to the widths of the lower frequency qpo peak of 4u 1728 - 34 .",
    "therefore we conclude that most likely the aql x-1 qpos we have observed during the two days are the same qpo peak .    following mendez _",
    "et al._(1997 ) we have also searched for a second qpo peak by fitting the power spectrum from every 64 s of data and using the frequency from the fit to align all the power spectra . as shown in figure  [ aqlx1_khz_lineup ] we have found no indication of a second peak anywhere in the resulting power spectrum .",
    "in particular we have examined the part of the power spectrum where one would expect a second peak , namely 275 hz above or below the existing qpo peak and found no statistically significant enhancement at all .",
    "the 95% confidence level upper limit is 1% .",
    "an fft of the 14 s time series of the burst catcher data reveals that its intensity oscillates at frequencies near 549 hz , as shown by the dashed histograms in figure  [ burst_psd ] . to investigate the frequency and its amplitude variation with time , we have constructed power spectra for each of the 14 seconds of data , as shown in figure  [ burst_rms_vs_time ] .",
    "it can be seen that statistically speaking , the oscillations do not start until after the peak of the light curve which is shown in the lower panel .    to investigate whether the oscillation during the burst is coherent ,",
    "we have performed a search in @xmath9 space for optimal values of @xmath10 and @xmath1 to minimize the width of the fft peak .",
    "the detailed procedure is that , given a trial pair of ( @xmath11 ) , we first transform the original arrival time @xmath12 of each photon to @xmath13 and then construct the fft power spectrum using the new time series of @xmath14 . using the 8 s of data right after the peak of the light curve , we have found that when @xmath15 hz and @xmath1=0.14 hz s@xmath16 , we obtain the power spectrum with the minimal width , as shown by the solid histogram in figure  [ burst_psd ] .",
    "the amount of power in the peaks of the dashed and solid histograms is @xmath17 and @xmath18 , respectively . in other words , we have gathered all the powers from a much larger frequency region into a much smaller region by taking into account a @xmath1 .",
    "the width of the resultant peak is such that , though it is not consistent with perfect coherence , it is fairly close .",
    "therefore we conclude that this is strong evidence to support the interpretation that the observed oscillations are due to the spin of the neutron star photosphere .",
    "the large @xmath1 indicates that the photosphere is probably mostly decoupled from the rest of the star and therefore conserves its own angular momentum in the course of contraction ( @xcite ) .",
    "the inclusion of a @xmath19 does not decrease the width of the peak .",
    "since the energy spectrum of the source changed very little , if any , from 27 february to 1 march , it is quite reasonable to assume that the measured flux and the true mass accretion rate are positively correlated .",
    "figure  [ freq_vs_flux ] clearly indicates that it is not possible that , given a mass accretion rate , or for that matter , given an x - ray flux level , the qpo frequency is uniquely determined . on the contrary",
    ", figure  [ freq_vs_flux ] clearly indicates that at least two flux levels can give the same qpo frequency .",
    "we believe this is a clear manifestation in a single source of the puzzle we discussed in the introduction , i.e. , on the one hand , there appears to be a correlation between the qpo frequency and the source luminosity for individual sources ; on the other hand , despite the vast difference in mass accretion rates , the qpo frequencies are essentially the same among all those sources .",
    "it is therefore reasonable to conclude that , in lmxbs , regimes with essentially identical qpo frequency and energy spectrum can exist at very different fluxes or mass accretion rates .",
    "this conclusion is inevitable when one further examines figure  [ freq_vs_flux ] .",
    "for example , on 27 february 1997 , as the flux decreased , the qpo frequency also decreased .",
    "had the observation been carried out continuously from 27 feb through 1 march , we would have had to have observed one of the following three possibilities : ( 1 ) at some point the khz qpos cease being observable for some time and then becoming observable again at a higher frequency ; ( 2 ) at first the qpo frequency is positively correlated with the flux until the frequency reaches a smaller value than 750 hz , then they become anti - correlated for some time so that as the flux decreases , the qpo frequency increases until it reaches above 830 hz and the anti - correlation changes back to the positive correlation ; ( 3 ) as the flux decrease , there is a sudden and discontinuous jump in the qpo frequency from below 750 hz to above 830 hz . in all likelihood ,",
    "possibility ( 1 ) probably would have been observed .",
    "the reason is that , to our knowledge , the anti - correlation required by possibility ( 2 ) has never been observed in any source at any time .",
    "neither has the sudden and discontinuous change in qpo frequency of possibility ( 3 ) .",
    "the data we have presented have naturally led us to the conclusion that the total x - ray flux , therefore the total mass accretion rate , of a source can not uniquely determine the frequency of the khz qpos .",
    "moreover we infer from the data that there exist many similar regimes for the inner region of the accretion disk . in each of these regimes ,",
    "the khz qpo frequency is more or less tightly correlated with the mass accretion rate or the total x - ray flux .",
    "the qpo frequency ranges of these regimes are rather similar .",
    "they are all in the vicinity of 1,000 hz .",
    "the disk can transition from one regime to another with change in the overall mass accretion rate .",
    "this transition of a lmxb from one state to another with change in mass accretion rate is not new .",
    "for example , the z source gx 5 - 1 has been believed to move along its z track on the x - ray color - color diagram as the mass accretion changes ( @xcite ) .",
    "this motion along the z track , however , involves significant changes in the energy spectral shape .",
    "what is new with aql x-1 is that , even though the mass accretion rate and the energy spectral state can be different from time to time for a given source , the geometric location ( as inferred from the khz qpo frequency ) of the disk with respect to the neutron star does not seem to change by much .",
    "this is just another way of saying that the mass accretion rate does not directly determine the qpo frequency .",
    "it is the disk regime that determines the large scale of the khz qpo frequency and the mass accretion rate affects it in the smaller scale in between regime changes .",
    "we concluding by noting that a possible scenario explaining the observed two regimes on the qpo frequency vs. flux plane is that the disk structure changed during the decay of the outburst .",
    "the different regimes correspond to different vertical scale heights .",
    "therefore khz qpos can be used to probe the accretion disk structure evolution .",
    "berger , m. , van der klis , m. , van paradijs , j. , lewin , w. h. g. , lamb , f. , vaughan , b. , kuulkers , e. , augusteijn , t. , zhang , w. , marshall , f. e. , swank , j. h. , lapidus , i. , lochner , j. c. , strohmayer , t. e. 1996 , , 469 , l13"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the rossi x - ray timing explorer observed the soft x - ray transient aql x-1 during its outburst in february and march 1997 . </S>",
    "<S> we report the discovery of quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) in its persistent flux with frequencies in the range of 740 to 830 hz , q - value of over 100 , and a fractional rms amplitude of @xmath0% , and nearly coherent oscillations ( ncos ) during a type - i burst with a frequency of 549 hz . </S>",
    "<S> the frequency of the qpos in the persistent flux is correlated with the mass accretion rate on time scale of hours , but not on time scale of days . </S>",
    "<S> this is most likely the manifestation in a single source of the khz qpo puzzle observed among many sources , i.e. , on the one hand , individual sources show a correlation between the qpo frequency and the inferred mass accretion rate , on the other hand , the dozen or so sources with luminosities spanning two decades have essentially the same qpo frequencies . </S>",
    "<S> we propose that this multi - valued qpo frequency and mass accretion rate correlation indicates the existence of many similar regimes of the accretion disk . </S>",
    "<S> these regimes , with a very similar energy spectrum and qpo frequency , are distinguished from each other by the mass accretion rate or the total x - ray flux . </S>",
    "<S> the ncos during the burst can be made almost perfectly coherent by taking into account a large @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> this strongly suggests that this frequency is related to the neutron star spin frequency . </S>",
    "<S> the large @xmath1 is attributable to the expansion or contraction of the neutron star photosphere during the burst . </S>"
  ]
}