{
  "article_text": [
    "in currently favoured cosmological models , dark matter halos grow via the merging together of smaller systems , leading to an ever - growing hierarchy of halos .",
    "recent numerical simulations have demonstrated that the remnants of pre - existing dark matter halos which merged to become part of a larger system ( the `` host '' ) can survive for significant periods of time within the larger system @xcite .",
    "these subhalos orbit around in the potential of the host gradually losing mass via tidal forces and spiralling in to ever smaller radii due to dynamical friction .",
    "these substructures ( or at least some subset of them ) are presumably the abodes of satellite galaxies , such as those found in the local group , and of the majority of cluster galaxies .    this substructure has attracted a great deal of interest since its discovery .",
    "observational tests for its presence , though not yet conclusive , are in good agreement with the theoretical expectations @xcite .",
    "there has been much work conducted in which the distribution and properties of substructures , their effects on galaxy disks and so on were examined @xcite .",
    "while the orbital parameters of substructures have been measured in the past this measurement has often been at the end point of the substructure evolution ( i.e. at the present day ) when significant dynamical evolution in the orbital parameters is expected ( e.g. ) .",
    "exceptions to this are the works of , and . and both identified progenitors of halos in their n - body simulations and measured the orbital parameters of them , while searched for pairs of halos about to merge and measured the orbital parameters of these .",
    "these works have typically made use of rather small samples of orbits and ( perhaps consequently ) have been unable to fully characterise the two dimensional distribution of orbital parameters needed to construct realistic orbits .",
    "the distribution of initial orbital parameters of substructure halos at the time of merging into the host system is a particularly interesting property as it represents the initial conditions which determine the later evolution of the substructure within the host .",
    "the effectiveness of many processes invoked to explain the morphological transformation of galaxies in clusters ( e.g. ram pressure stripping , tidal mass loss , galaxy harassment , etc . )",
    "depend crucially on the nature of the galaxy orbit ( see , for example , ) .",
    "the distribution of orbits will also determine the rate of galaxy mergers and therefore the degree of heating and rate of morphological transformation experienced by galaxy disks .",
    "taking a more practical point of view , recent semi - analytic models of satellite halo orbits @xcite have been able to follow the orbital evolution of satellites quite accurately , but these models are only as good as their initial conditions which , until now , have been known only rather poorly .    in this work ,",
    "we quantify the distribution of orbital parameters for dark matter halos at the point of merging with their host ( i.e. we proceed in a similar way as did ) .",
    "we measure this distribution in a large number of n - body simulations to attain high statistical precision and to facilitate checks of our techniques and tests for variations of the distribution of orbital parameters with variables such as redshift , halo mass etc .",
    "while we will present distributions of orbital eccentricity and semi - major axis , our focus is on distributions of radial and tangential velocities , which we find are more practical when dealing with orbits in non - spherical systems in which dynamical friction is at work .",
    "we also examine the distribution of infalling substructures as a function of position on the virial sphere , and explore correlations between orbital properties and the spin of the host halo .",
    "our aim is to provide a precise and accurate measurement of the distribution of orbital properties of substructures at the time of merging , and to provide fits to this distribution so that it may be used in further studies .",
    "this distribution could , in principle , depend on many quantities , such as the masses of the merging halos , redshift , cosmological parameters etc .",
    "furthermore , the six parameters describing each orbit ( e.g. the position and velocity of the satellite at the time of merging , or any equivalent parameter set ) may well be correlated with each other , such that we should really examine a six - dimensional phase - space distribution function . with the currently available n - body simulations we will limit ourselves to exploring a two - dimensional function ,",
    "typically that of radial and tangential velocities ( effectively assuming that infalling satellites are uniformly distributed on a sphere around the halo centre and that their tangential velocities have no preferred direction ) , although we will explore correlations between these quantities and the host halo .",
    "we note also that the situation could in principle be more complicated still .",
    "we are aiming to quantify @xmath0 , where @xmath1 are the orbital parameters and @xmath2 is the distribution of these averaged over all merging events .",
    "however , after one merger with parameters @xmath3 the relevant distribution function for the next merger may be different , @xmath4 .",
    "an example might be infall of halos along a filament . knowing that one halo fell in from a particular direction , it becomes more likely that the next halo will fall in from a similar direction .",
    "we will explore one aspect of this possibility by measuring the distribution of angles between pairs of infalling satellites .",
    "the remainder of this paper is arranged as follows . in  [ sec : analysis ] we describe our analysis technique while in  [ sec : results ] we present our results .",
    "we give our conclusions in  [ sec : discuss ] .",
    "to measure satellite orbital parameters we make use of a large number of n - body simulations carried out by the virgo consortium and which are publicly available ( see for further details ) , together with one other simulation used for testing various aspects of our methodology .",
    "these span a range of cosmologies and redshifts .",
    "details of the simulations used are given in table  [ tb : sims ] .",
    "all of the outputs from these simulations are analysed , but in practise only those at redshifts @xmath5 provide statistically useful measurements of orbital parameter distributions .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "we have described methods for determining the orbital parameters of dark matter halos at the point of merging with a larger system .",
    "previous studies of the orbital properties of merging halos have typically considered the orbits after merging with the host halo , in which case the orbits will have changed due to dynamical friction . other studies @xcite used techniques which are restricted to simulations with closely spaced outputs if they are to be accurate .",
    "furthermore , we have analysed a substantially larger number of orbits than has been previously possible to obtain improved statistical precision .",
    "this allows us to characterise in detail the two - dimensional distribution of infall velocities .",
    "our analysis pays particular attention to carefully identifying halos and their centres .",
    "we find that is is important to accurately identify the centre of the halo in both position and velocity space , and adopt a similar minimum `` energy '' definition for both of these .",
    "we have demonstrated that our results are unbiased by effects of particle number or radial search limit . in this work ,",
    "we have focused on the two - dimensional distribution of radial and tangential velocities which we show has a relatively simple form . a fitting formula that describes this distribution is presented and should prove immensely valuable in future studies of satellite orbits .",
    "our methods could be improved upon in several ways .",
    "a set of simulations run with measurements of orbital parameters in mind would allow a better determination of the accuracy of our error estimates .",
    "more and larger simulations would also improve the statistical accuracy of our measurements and permit us to quantify the trends with , for example , mass that are apparent in the distributions .",
    "finally , a more detailed treatment of the evolution of the satellite orbits ( including the effects of an extended , non - spherical host halo and dynamical friction ) would remove sources of systematic error in our measurements .",
    "all of these factors will be the subject of a future paper .",
    "we have presented evidence for the presence of trends with mass ( and , perhaps , with redshift and cosmological parameters ) in this distribution , although we are currently unable to accurately characterize these trends .",
    "larger samples of n - body halo mergers will allow us to both characterise these mass trends and to select sub - samples with a narrow range in mass to permit trends with redshift and cosmological parameters to be examined .",
    "we have also explored the distribution of eccentricities and semi - major axes .",
    "we find that the eccentricity distribution is peaked around parabolic orbits ( @xmath6 ) .",
    "this is qualitatively in agreement with the work of v.1 .",
    "however , we find quantitative disagreements with their distribution of eccentricities . this disagreement has been traced to the fact that the hubble flow was included in our calculations , while it was not included in those of v.1 . once hubble flow",
    "is included , as in the final version of , the results of the two studies are in excellent agreement .",
    "our distributions of eccentricities and tangential velocities are also in good agreement with those from and respectively .    finally , we searched for correlations between the infall directions of pairs of satellites and between the infall positions and velocities of satellites and the angular momentum of their host halo .",
    "we find evidence that satellites infalling onto a given host tend to arrive from similar directions , compatible with the hypothesis that ( at least some ) infall occurs along filaments .",
    "we find marginal evidence that infall directions and direction of motion are aligned with the spin - axis of the host halo , although a more thorough study would be required to both confirm and interpret this possible correlation .",
    "the evolution of sub - structures in cold dark matter halos is currently a topic of great interest .",
    "the tools provided in this work should prove of great value in further such studies while the techniques described should permit more accurate estimates of orbital parameter distributions ( including dependences on halo mass , spin , redshift , cosmology etc . ) to be constructed .",
    "ajb acknowledges valuable discussions with carlos frenk , joel primack and t.  j.  cox and thanks sadegh khochfar for providing data for figure  [ fig : ecccomp ] in electronic form and for extensive discussions regarding eccentricity distributions .",
    "ajb also acknowledges support from a royal society university research fellowship .",
    "the simulations in this paper were carried out by the virgo supercomputing consortium using computers based at computing centre of the max - planck society in garching and at the edinburgh parallel computing centre .",
    "the data are publicly available at www.mpa-garching.mpg.de/numcos .    abadi  m.  g. , bower  r.  g. , navarro  j.  f. , 2000 , mnras , 314 , 759 benson  a.  j. , frenk  c.  s. , baugh  c.  m. , cole  s. , lacey  c.  g. , 2001 , mnras , 327 , 1041 benson  a.  j. , lacey  c.  g. , baugh  c.  m. , cole  s. , frenk  c.  s. , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 156 benson  a.  j. , lacey  c.  g. , frenk  c.  s. , baugh  c.  m. , cole  s. , 2004 , mnras , 351 , 1215 chiba  m. , 2002 , apj , 565 , 17 dalal  n. , kochanek  c.  s. , 2002 , apj , 572 , 25 davis  m. , efstathiou  g. , frenk  c.  s. , white  s.  d.  m. , 1985 , apj , 293 , 371 diemand  j. , moore  b. , stadel  j. , 2004 , mnras in press ( astro - ph/0402160 ) eke  v.  r. , cole  s. , frenk  c.  s. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 263 font  a.  s. , navarro  j.  f. , stadel  j. , quinn  t. , 2001 , apj , 563 , l1 gao  l. , white  s.  d.  m. , jenkins  a. , stoehr  f. , springel  v. , 2004 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph/0404589 ) ghigna  s. , moore  b. , governato  f. , lake  g. , quinn  t. , stadel  j. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 146 jenkins  a. , frenk  c.  s. , pearce  f.  r. , thomas  p.  a. , colberg  j.  m. , white  s.  d.  m. , couchman  h.  m.  p. , peacock  j.  a. , efstathiou  g. , nelson  a.  h. , 1998 , apj , 499 , 20 jenkins  a. , frenk  c.  s. , white  s.  d.  m. , colberg  j.  m. , cole  s. , evrard  a.  e. , couchman  h.  m.  p. , yoshida  n. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 372 kauffmann  g. , colberg  j.  m. , diaferio  a. , white  s.  d.  m. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , 188 khochfar  s. , burkert  a. , 2004 , mnras submitted ( astro - ph/0309611 ) klypin  a. , gottlber  s. , kravtsov  a.  v. , khokhlov  a.  m. , apj , 516 , 530 lacey  c.  g. , cole  s. , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 lacey  c.  g. , cole  s. , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 676 metcalf  r.  b. , madau  p. , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 563 , 9 moore  b. , lake  g. , katz  n. , 1998 , apj , 495 , 139 moore  b. , ghigna  s. , governato  f. , lake  g. , quinn  t. , stadel  j. , tozzi  p. , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 524 , 19 navarro  j.  f. , frenk  c.  s. , white  s.  d.  m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 peebles  p.  j.  e. , 1980 , the large scale structure of the universe , princeton univ . press ,",
    "princeton , nj taylor  j.  e. , babul  a. , 2001 , mnras , 348 , 811 tormen  g. , 1997 , mnras , 290 , 411 tormen  g. , diaferio  a. , syer  d. , 1998 , mnras , 299 , 728 van den bosch  f.  c. , lewis  g.  f. , lake  g. , stadel  j. , 1999 , apj , 515 , 50 vitvitska  m. , klypin  a.  a. , kravtsov  a.  v. , wechsler  r.  h. , primack  j.  r. , bullock  j.  s. , 2002 , apj , 581 , 799 zhang  b. , wyse  r.  f. , stiavelli  m. , silk  j. , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 647"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present distributions of the orbital parameters of dark matter substructures at the time of merging into their host halo . </S>",
    "<S> accurate knowledge of the orbits of dark matter substructures is a crucial input to studies which aim to assess the effects of the cluster environment on galaxies , the heating of galaxy disks and many other topics . </S>",
    "<S> orbits are measured for satellites in a large number of n - body simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we focus on the distribution of radial and tangential velocities , but consider also distributions of orbital eccentricity and semi - major axis . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the distribution of radial and tangential velocities has a simple form and provide a fitting formula for this distribution . </S>",
    "<S> we also search for possible correlations between the infall directions of pairs of satellites , finding evidence for positive correlation at small angular separations as expected if some infall occurs along filaments . </S>",
    "<S> we also find ( weak ) evidence for correlations between the direction of the infall and infall velocity and the spin of the host halo .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmology : theory - dark matter - galaxies : halos </S>"
  ]
}