{
  "article_text": [
    "long grbs with spectroscopically measured redshifts show a strong correlation between the total _",
    "isotropic _ energy emitted during the prompt phase ( @xmath0 ) and the peak energy of their spectrum ( @xmath1 ) computed in the source rest frame .",
    "this correlation , discovered by amati et al .",
    "( 2002 ) with 12 long  grbs detected by , was confirmed by adding 23 bursts detected by other satellites ( ghirlanda et al .",
    "2004 ) and extended to very low energies with few x - ray flashes ( lamb et al .",
    "figure  1 shows the correlation updated to sept .",
    "2006 with 49 long grbs . since its discovery only two bursts ( grb  980425 and grb  031203 ) appeared inconsistent with this correlation . since the launch of the satellite in nov .",
    "2004 only 13 out of @xmath245 bursts with measured redshifts ( within the sample of @xmath2170 events detected by  ) were added to the  correlation .",
    "this is mainly due to the narrow energy range ( 15150 kev ) of the bat instrument on  board .",
    "indeed , only in 5 cases ( shown in figure 1 ) the peak energy was measured from the bat spectrum .",
    "however , the energy derived under the isotropic assumption is huge and widely dispersed ( between few 10@xmath3 and 10@xmath4 erg ) .",
    "if , instead , grbs are collimated within a jet , the estimated energies and their dispersion are highly reduced , i.e. by a factor @xmath5 with @xmath6 deg ( frail et al .",
    "the observable consequence of the jetted nature of grbs is an ( achromatic ) break in their afterglow light curves . assuming a radiative efficiency of the prompt phase ( 20% ) and the density profile of the circum ",
    "burst medium , either homogeneous ( hm ) or wind  like ( wm , e.g. scaling as @xmath7 ) , it is possible to estimate the jet opening angle from the measure of the afterglow break time @xmath8 ( sari 1999 ) .    in both scenarios ( hm or wm ) the _ collimation ",
    "corrected _ energy @xmath9 is tightly correlated with the peak energy @xmath10 ( ghirlanda et al .",
    "2004 ; nava et al .",
    "2006 ) . while the correlation requires only the knowledge of the grb prompt emission spectrum and of its redshifts , the  correlation requires also the measure of the jet break time from the afterglow light curve .",
    "the  correlation ( in the wm case ) is represented in figure  1 with the most updated sample of 21 grbs with measured @xmath8 .",
    "the  correlation in the wm case is linear .",
    "this implies that : 1 ) it is invariant for transformation from the source rest frame to the comoving frame ( i.e. both @xmath1 and @xmath9 transform @xmath11 if looking a uniform jet within its opening angle ) ; 2 ) the total number of photons , in different grbs , is roughly constant @xmath12 .",
    "note that the scatter of the collimation corrected correlation is dominated by the statistical errors on the two variables , differently from the  correlation which has a larger dispersion .",
    "the small scatter is what makes the  correlation a distance indicator and allows to use grbs as standard candles ( ghirlanda et al .",
    "2004a ; firmani et al 2005 ; ghirlanda et al .",
    "2006 ; ghirlanda , ghisellini & firmani 2006a ) .",
    "while possible interpretations of the  and the correlations have been recently proposed , there are still several open issues about these correlations and their cosmological use .    *",
    "( 1 ) outliers : * grb  980425 and grb  031203 ( both associated with a nearby sn ) are respectively five and four orders of magnitude sub  luminous ( but with a similar @xmath1 ) with respect to the population of bursts obeying the  correlation .",
    "it has been proposed that they are normal grbs observed off - axis ( e.g. ramirez  ruiz 2005 ) . in this case , however , the true luminosities of these two events ( to be consistent with the correlation ) would make them the most luminous grbs ever observed at very low redshifts ( i.e. 0.0085 and 0.106 ) .",
    "this is hardly reconcilable with any conceivable luminosity function .",
    "instead , it might still be the case that they are representative of a different population of local sub  luminous grbs ( e.g. soderberg et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "an alternative explanation ( ghisellini et al . 2006 ) , which aims at testing if these two events can be consistent with the correlation , was motivated by the recent  grb  060218 ( campana et al .",
    "2006 ) also associated with a sn event at @xmath13 .",
    "its total isotropic energy ( @xmath14 erg ) is only slightly larger than that of the two outliers .",
    "nonetheless , its very long duration ( 3000 s ) coupled with a strong hard  to  soft spectral evolution ( figure 2 ) makes its time - averaged spectral peak energy @xmath15 kev , i.e. fully consistent with the  correlation .    using grb  060218 as a template we tried to model the spectral evolution of grb  031203 and 980425 with the available data .",
    "it turns out that in these two bursts a strong spectral evolution might have caused part of their energy to be emitted in the soft x ",
    "ray band where it went undetected . in the case of grb  031203 ( figure 3 ) , indeed , there is evidence that a late time soft x ",
    "ray fluence , comparable to that observed in the @xmath16ray band , might be responsible for the observed dust scattering halo evolution ( tiengo & mereghetti 2006 ) . as a result",
    "the total energy of these two events is only slightly larger than what measured from their @xmath16ray spectra while their peak energy is considerably ( a factor 1020 ) smaller .    *",
    "( 2 ) selection effects : * it has been argued that different samples of batse bursts , without a redshift measure , are inconsistent with the  correlation for any distance they might be located at ( nakar & piran 2005 , band & preece .",
    "2005 , kaneko et al .",
    "2006 ) .",
    "we note that : i ) the updates of the  correlation ( ghirlanda 2004 , lamb 2004 , amati 2006 and the present paper - figure  1 ) , i.e. from 12 to 49 events , show that all bursts with measured @xmath17 and spectral properties do follow this relation ( i.e. the outliers are still only 2 bursts ) ; ii ) a test ( ghirlanda et al . 2005 ) , performed with 442 grbs for which only a pseudo redshift estimate is available ( from the lag ",
    "luminosity correlation - norris , marani & bonnel 2000 ) , has confirmed that these bursts still define a correlation in the  plane .",
    "this correlation has a similar slope and a different normalization ( but only a slightly larger scatter ) with respect to the correlation defined with the grbs with spectroscopically measured redshifts . on the other hand ,",
    "nakar & piran 2005 , band & preece 2005 were unable to argue that more than a small fraction of that only a small fraction of grbs are inconsistent with the  correlation .",
    "therefore , if we assume that the   correlation is true we can derive from a given @xmath9 its isotropic    equivalent .",
    "if the grb angle distribution were uniform the probability to derive any value of @xmath18 would be equal .",
    "this would produce a random ( nearly ) uniform scatter of data points in the  plane . instead",
    ", if the angle distribution is peaked we should find a clustering of the data points around some correlation .",
    "the comparison of the angle distribution of the 442 grbs with pseudo redshifts is indeed peaked ( figure 4 ) .",
    "the different average angle of the two distributions might be due to the preference of detecting the most luminous grbs , i.e. those with ( on average ) a smaller jet opening angle .    *",
    "( 3 ) model dependence of the  correlation . *",
    "the  correlation is derived in the standard uniform jet scenario assuming a constant radiative efficiency and a circumburst medium density profile . although the present afterglow observations do not allow to distinguish between the homogeneous or the wind density circum ",
    "burst scenario , the properties of the  correlation ( small scatter and linear slope ) derived in the wm case are appealing ( nava et al .",
    "2006 ) also for the improvement of the cosmological constraints ( ghirlanda et al .",
    "however , the model dependence of this correlation still represents one of its main weak points .",
    "liang & zhang ( 2005 ) discovered a completely empirical correlation @xmath19 ( figure 4 - nava et al .",
    "2006 ) . through this correlation",
    "it is possible to derive cosmological constraints which are consistent with those obtained with the two ( hm and wm ) model dependent  correlations .",
    "it has been demonstrated ( nava et al .",
    "2006 ) that the  correlation is fully consistent with the two model dependent correlations and this strengthen the possibility to use grbs as standard candles .",
    "one of the main still open issues related to the  and correlations is the fact that they require the measure of the afterglow jet break time @xmath20 .",
    "while most of the jet breaks of the `` gold '' sample of 21 bursts used to define these correlations are derived from the optical afterglow light curves , there is growing evidence that several  bursts do not show a break in their x - ray and optical light curves when it should be expected according to these correlations .    although the lack of jet break times is still an open issue to be investigated , the use of grbs as standard candles has been definitely confirmed by the recent discovery of a new correlation which is not affected by this problems .",
    "firmani et al . (",
    "2006 ) found that there is a very tight correlation between the grb isotropic luminosities @xmath21 , the peak energy @xmath1 and a characteristic timescale of the prompt emission light curve @xmath22 ( figure 5 ) .",
    "the latter parameter was originally defined to compute the grb variability ( reichart et al . 2001 ) which is indeed correlated with the grb luminosity .",
    "this new  correlation , being model independent and assumptions ",
    "free , solves the previous problems .",
    "moreover , the cosmological constraints derived with this correlation , though still based on a small sample of grbs , are tighter than those obtained with the  correlations ( firmani et al .",
    ". the larger redshift extension of grbs with respect to snia and the fact that the correlation is based only on prompt emission properties ( i.e. related to the detection of the grb prompt emission in the @xmath16ray band ) makes grbs a new cosmological tool complementary to snia . by adding 19 grb to the sample of 115 snia ( astier et al .",
    "2005 ) the constraints on the @xmath23 ( as well as on the parameters describing the dark energy equation of state - firmani et al .",
    "2006a ) are considerably improved ( figure 5 ) and show that grbs and snia seem to prefer the @xmath24 model .    *",
    "( 4 ) thermal components in grb spectra and the interpretation of the , ,  correlations . * among the proposed interpretations of the above correlations ( levinson & eichler 2005 , toma et al .",
    "2005 ) rees & meszaros ( 2005 ) suggested that a thermal black body spectrum is the most natural way to link the peak spectral energy and the total luminosity of grbs as shown by the correlation ( see also thompson 2006 ; thompson , meszaros & rees 2006 ) .",
    "this `` thermal '' interpretation requires that the prompt emission spectrum of grbs is dominated by a thermal black body which determines the peak of the  spectrum .",
    "thermal emission is expected in the standard `` hot '' fireball model ( goodman 1986 ) : it is the initial black body which survived to the conversion ( during the opaque  acceleration phase ) into bulk kinetic energy .",
    "an alternative scenario ( rees & meszaros 2005 ) proposes that the thermal photons are created by dissipation below the grb photosphere .",
    "evidences of the presence of a thermal black body component were discovered in the batse spectra ( ghirlanda , celotti & ghisellini 2003 ; ryde 2004 ) although this component dominated the initial phase of @xmath25 sec of the prompt emission . during this phase",
    "it was shown that the luminosity and the temperature evolve similarly in different grbs while the late time spectrum is dominated by a non thermal component ( e.g. fitted with the empirical band et al ( 1993 ) model ) .",
    "attempts to deconvolve these spectra with a mixed model , i.e. a thermal black body and a non thermal powerlaw ( ryde et al . 2005 ) , showed that the presence of the black body component ( with a monotonically decreasing flux ) could be extended to the late prompt emission phase ( see also bosnjak et al .",
    "2005 ) .    in order to test the applicability of the thermal interpretation to the , ,  correlations ,",
    "we have been verifying if a thermal component can be fitted to the spectra of the bursts that are used to define these correlations ( ghirlanda et al .",
    "ryde et al .",
    "2005 showed that the mixed model fits to the time resolved spectra of grbs is almost equivalent to a fit with a non thermal model `` a la band '' .",
    "we therefore selected the 10 grbs on the correlation detected by batse : these data allow to analyze the spectral evolution with adequate spectral resolution .",
    "we succeeded in fitting a thermal black body component plus a powerlaw .",
    "in general ( as also found by ryde 2005 in few grbs ) the powerlaw component softens during the burst being ( on average ) @xmath26 at the very beginning .",
    "the black body also evolves in time and comprises at most @xmath250% of the total spectral flux .",
    "however , such a soft non - thermal powerlaw component should dominate the spectrum in the x  ray energy band .",
    "we found that in 5/10 grbs there are also x - ray data from the /wfc ( 2 - 28 kev ) and in all these cases the data of the wfc are inconsistent with the extrapolation in the 2 - 28 kev band of the powerlaw fitted to the batse @xmath16ray data .",
    "moreover the x  ray to @xmath16ray ( wfc+batse ) broad band spectrum is consistent with a single non",
    " thermal fit ( with the band model ) with a low energy spectral component much harder than the powerlaw of the mixed model .",
    "an example is shown in figure 6 .",
    "these results represent a challenge to the presence of a dominating black body component in these bursts .",
    "i am grateful to g. ghisellini , c. firmani , f. tavecchio , a. celotti , l. nava , m. nardini , z. bosnjak for years of fruitful collaboration .",
    "i am also grateful to m.l . &",
    "t. smith for the valuable logistic support during my stay in london ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> gamma rays : bursts , cosmology    the correlations involving the long  grb prompt emission energy represent a new key to understand the grb physics . </S>",
    "<S> these correlations have been proved to be the tool which makes long  grbs a new class of standard candles . </S>",
    "<S> gamma ray bursts , being very powerful cosmological sources detected in the hard x - ray band , represent a new tool to investigate the universe in a redshift range which is complementary to that covered by other cosmological probes ( snia and cmb ) . </S>",
    "<S> a review of the  ,  ,  ,  correlations is presented . </S>",
    "<S> open issues related to these correlations ( e.g. presence of outliers and selection effects ) and to their use for cosmographic purposes ( e.g. dependence on model assumptions ) are discussed . </S>",
    "<S> finally , the relevance of thermal components in grb spectra is discussed in the light of some of the models recently proposed for the interpretation of the spectral - energy correlations .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ] </S>"
  ]
}