{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf novae ( dn ) are a sub - group of cataclysmic variable stars .",
    "they consist of a white dwarf ( primary ) star accreting matter from a red dwarf ( hereafter ` mass  donor ' ) which is in contact with its roche lobe .",
    "the material streams from the mass  donor through the inner lagrangian point into the potential well of the primary , where it impacts onto the outer edge of an accretion  disc .",
    "observable features which distinguish dn from other cvs are the outbursts which occur on a regular basis ( with a baseline from days to months ) and cause the system to increase in brightness by @xmath8 magnitudes .    the mass transfer process in cvs is driven by orbital angular momentum loss .",
    "gravitational radiation is highly effective at short orbital periods , and theoretical calculations reproduce well the observed mass transfer rates in cvs . for longer period systems , with higher mass transfer rates , an alternative mechanism is needed .",
    "this is widely accepted to be _ magnetic braking _ , a spin - down effect on the mass  donor due to a stellar wind that effectively co - rotates with its magnetic field . due to",
    "effective tidal locking in cvs , the mass  donor will not slow down , and instead angular momentum is extracted from the binary orbit . however , magnetic braking still remains only a hypothesis , and the level of direct observational support is still low .    in the standard model for the formation and evolution of cvs magnetic braking is only active for donor stars with a radiative core .",
    "hence there is a marked difference between the evolutionary time scale of systems above the period  gap ( @xmath9h ) and those below the gap ( @xmath10h ) .",
    "kolb & stehle   used population synthesis methods to confirm this .",
    "they determined the age structure of a model population of galactic cvs , and by convolving this with the observed age - space velocity relation of wielen  et  al .",
    "( which is believed to result from the diffusion of stellar orbits due to gravitational interactions with massive objects ) obtained the theoretical distribution of systemic , hereafter @xmath11 , velocities .",
    "they showed that the age of a system in the present cv population is largely determined by the time - scales of the orbital angular - momentum loss mechanisms .",
    "in addition , the models showed that the brightness - dependent selection effects which have hitherto plagued comparisons between observations and theory preserve the age differences , thereby providing an opportunity to test directly the magnetic braking model .",
    "so , if the standard models are correct , then the cvs having periods longer than the upper limit of the period  gap ( @xmath12hours ) should be younger ( @xmath13gyr ) , and therefore have a smaller line - of - sight velocity dispersion according to the empirical age  velocity dispersion relation ( predicted value @xmath14 ) .",
    "conversely , those cvs with orbital periods shorter than the lower limit of the period  gap , should be older ( @xmath15 3 - 4gyr ) and show a larger velocity dispersion ( predicted as @xmath16 ) .    in a review by van paradijs , augusteijn & stehle  ,",
    "the observed @xmath11 velocities for a sample of cvs were collected from published radial - velocity studies and statistically analysed .",
    "they could detect no difference between the velocity dispersions for below - gap and above - gap objects  ( see section  [ sec - dis ] ) .",
    "all their data were taken from the literature , and they assumed that there was no significant difference between measurements taken from emission and absorption line measurements in their sample .",
    "the problems associated with using values taken from the literature are not negligible .",
    "the @xmath11 velocity is a measure of the centre - of - mass radial velocity of the binary star , and can be deduced directly from radial velocity curves . typically with the emission lines from cvs , a @xmath11-value which is only one tenth the size of the radial velocity variations in the system , and only one hundredth of the total spectral line width ,",
    "is being measured .",
    "the radial velocities obtained from emission lines are well known to be affected by the internal motions in the disc or stream",
    ". therefore , the measurements of @xmath11 obtained from emission lines may not accurately reflect the motion of the white dwarf at all",
    ". this will be especially true if the inner disc is distorted in some way , for example , in magnetic cvs where the field on the primary is so strong it disrupts the accretion disc and disrupts the accretion disc near to the surface of the white dwarf . measuring radial velocities from the absorption lines due to the mass  donor helps reduce potential sources of error .",
    "however , these absorption lines are not visible in all dwarf  novae .",
    "they are generally only present in those systems with orbital periods above the period  gap .",
    "many radial - velocity curves for different cv systems have been constructed . however , if the only requirement is a measurement of the radial velocity semi - amplitude , care will not have been taken to ensure that systematic errors do not dominate .",
    "it is vital that spectra are adequately sampled , and that a reasonable number of radial velocity standards have been observed . if a lower resolution is used to obtain data , then the probability of the spectral lines being affected by blending is significantly increased .    here",
    ", we present the initial results of a project to deduce reliable @xmath11 velocities for a large sample of longer - period ( @xmath17 hours ) non - magnetic cvs .",
    "the aim of this initial investigation was to test the methods and procedures described in  iii , to see whether they could produce sufficiently accurate absolute @xmath11 velocity values , capable of being used to construct an observed velocity - dispersion relation for galactic cvs , and thus for comparing directly with the theory .",
    "during five nights starting from 19th june 1997 , high time - resolution spectroscopy was carried out using the intermediate dispersion spectrograph ( ids ) , on the 2.5-m isaac newton telescope ( int ) on the island of la palma , on four longer period ( @xmath18 hours ) dn .",
    "the objects observed are listed with exposure times and orbital periods in table  [ tab : info ] .",
    "conditions were clear throughout the five nights of observing , and the seeing was approximately 1 arc sec .",
    "spectra of radial - velocity standard stars were also obtained to calibrate the velocities measured from the dn .",
    "they were also used to obtain a spectral type for the mass  donor in each dn , and so only those with good spectral types were chosen .",
    "these were selected from the lists of marcy , lindsay & wilson  , barnes , moffett & slovak  , beavers  et  al .  ,",
    "duquennoy , mayor & halbwachs   and eggen  .",
    "the spectra covered the wavelength range from @xmath19 , which includes absorption lines from the mass donor around @xmath20  and the h@xmath21 emission line at 6563 .",
    "all the spectra had a dispersion of 0.4  per pixel , resulting in a resolution with the 500-camera of 0.8(fwhm ) .",
    "each dn exposure was of the order of @xmath22 200  300 seconds , in order to keep sufficient phase resolution that no orbital smearing would be introduced .",
    "the dn observed all had orbital periods in the range @xmath23 , and were tracked for a minimum of 6 hours at one time .",
    "the 0.8 arc sec wide slit was rotated in order to capture the spectrum of both the dn and a second star on the slit , to correct for slit losses .",
    "the ccd frames were bias - subtracted and flat - fielded .",
    "variations in the illumination of the slit were corrected using exposures of the twilight sky .",
    "the object spectra were extracted using the optimal weighting technique of horne  .",
    "arc calibration spectra were taken approximately every half hour , and with each change of object .",
    "they were fitted with fourth - order polynomials , which had an rms scatter of 0.005 .",
    "the spectra were corrected onto a flux scale using a flux standard from oke & gunn  .",
    ".a summary of the observations taken in june 1997 on the 2.5-m int .",
    "all used the ids 500-mm camera with the tek ccd chip and r1200y grating giving a dispersion of 0.4  per pixel , and resulting in a resolution of 0.8  ( fwhm ) . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "@xmath24 north  et  al .",
    "( 2000 ) , @xmath25  ritter  &  kolb  ( 1998 )      one of the observed dn ( ss  cygni ) has had its parallax measured using the fine guidance sensor ( fgs ) on the hubble space telescope ( hst )  @xcite .",
    "the parallax measurement of @xmath26mas lead to a new distance for ss  cyg of @xmath27pc , almost twice the distance obtained previously .",
    "the tangential velocity calculated using this distance is @xmath28 .",
    "so , although our radial velocity agrees with theoretical expectations , the total space velocity of @xmath29  does not .",
    "it is possible that there is a problem with the ss  cyg parallax  for example schreiber & gensicke have shown that the small parallax , and consequent implied luminosity causes problems with the disc instability theory .",
    "it causes us problems here too , although even if the distance were only @xmath30 the space velocity would still be a relatively high @xmath31 . as ss",
    "cyg is only one system , little can be deduced ; it is clearly of interest for more parallaxes and proper motions to be measured .",
    "a useful method of imaging the accretion discs in cvs is doppler tomography  @xcite",
    ". this procedure maps emission from the cv in velocity space , using a coordinate system which co - rotates with the binary star .",
    "due to the synchronous rotation of the mass  donor with the binary motion , the shape of the roche lobe is conserved in velocity space , and can be plotted on the doppler map .",
    "the aim of the observations , to measure accurate absolute @xmath11 velocities , means that these data are ideal for applying doppler tomography methods , in this case to the h@xmath21 emission line .",
    "figure  [ fig : dopp ] is a compilation of the doppler maps of the h@xmath21 emission for the four systems .",
    "the uppermost panel shows the observed trailed spectra centred at @xmath32 , using a velocity scale on the @xmath33-axis with a range of @xmath34 .",
    "the middle panel in each column plots the doppler image .",
    "finally , the lower panel presents the computed trailed spectra , as reconstructed from the doppler images .",
    "the observed data are generally reproduced well , however several asymmetric features exist in the observed data which the software tried to fit and failed .    starting with the plots for ah  her ( column  four of fig .",
    "[ fig : dopp ] ) , it can be seen in the trailed spectra that there are two obvious ` s - wave ' components .",
    "one of these is from the mass  donor ( starting at @xmath35  at phase  @xmath36 ) .",
    "it manifests itself in the doppler map at velocities indicating an origin on the irradiated hemisphere ( that facing the white - dwarf and boundary  layer ) of the mass donor . the second ` s - wave ' feature is travelling in phase with the general trend of the h@xmath21 line , thus following the motion of the accretion disc and white dwarf .",
    "it appears in the doppler map as a smeared blob in the lower - central region .",
    "ss  cyg has a similar doppler map ( column  three of fig .  [",
    "fig : dopp ] ) .",
    "there is a prominent contribution from the hemisphere of the mass  donor facing the white dwarf .",
    "in addition , there is a smeared blob here too , appearing this time in the bottom - to - lower - right quadrant of the doppler map . the trailed spectra show a second ` s - wave ' component moving in phase with the emission line , which apparently shifts from negative to positive velocity around phase  0.4/0.5 .",
    "both of the doppler maps ( for ah  her and ss  cyg ) show emission at lower velocities than the predicted outer disc velocities for an accretion  disc with a radius @xmath37 ( plotted as dot - dashed circles on the doppler images ) , so - called `` sub - keplerian '' velocities .",
    "v426  oph has a very peculiar h@xmath21 map ( see column  two of fig .",
    "[ fig : dopp ] ) .",
    "the emission appearing near zero velocity does nt all fit into the roche lobe of the mass  donor .",
    "it appears to be consistent with the velocity of the inner lagrangian point , but ` spread out ' in a semi - circular fashion .",
    "the trail reconstructed from the doppler map appears to have more structure than can be clearly seen in the actual data , however the feature seen in the actual data at phase  0.4 is nt reproduced in the predicted data .",
    "there is also an approximately steady emission varying at low velocities near the line centre .",
    "this produces the semi - circular emission feature in the doppler image .",
    "the observed data also appear to show an eclipse at phase  0 .",
    "this has not been observed in v426  oph before .",
    "not easily seen on the doppler map is a region of emission at high velocities on the left - hand side .",
    "this may be an indication of stream overflow  @xcite .",
    "the emission line behaviour is reminiscent of the emission - line behaviour in the class of nova - like variables , sometimes called the sw  sex stars  @xcite .",
    "em  cyg ( in column  one ) again shows emission on the irradiated hemisphere of the mass  donor ( see north  et  al .   for further discussion ) , and has the most ring - like feature indicative of an accretion  disc .",
    "however , the peak velocities measured from this are again apparently sub - keplerian .",
    "kolb & stehle   explain that the velocity dispersion ( @xmath38 ) is defined as the rms of the peculiar stellar space velocity , @xmath39 in a local galactic coordinate system ( u , v , w ) , where u points towards the galactic centre , v is in the direction of the galactic rotation , and w is in the direction of the north galactic pole .",
    "wielen  et  al .",
    "( introduced by wielen  ) deduced that the total dispersion , @xmath40 is defined by @xmath41 and obeys this empirical age ",
    "velocity relation : @xmath42 according to more recent studies there is some uncertainty surrounding this relation . for a short discussion on this point see kolb  . in any case , this relation is also expected to hold for binary systems , unless an event occurs during the evolution in which a significant fraction of the total mass of the system is violently , asymmetrically ejected . in the case of cvs ,",
    "the progenitors do eject a significant fraction of their mass during the common - envelope period , but this occurs on a time scale much longer than the duration of the orbital period , and so can be considered to be symmetric about the rotation axis of the binary .",
    "this means that the space velocity of the system is not affected .",
    "kolb & stehle note that repeated nova eruptions might alter the space velocity of the system .",
    "this would in effect _ increase _ the velocity dispersion of cvs . in this case ,",
    "equation  [ eq : disp ] would underestimate the total dispersion .",
    "the characteristic velocity observed for the cv population is the velocity of the centre of mass of the binary system .",
    "assuming cvs are isotropically distributed about the galaxy , the observed @xmath11 velocity dispersion is related to @xmath40 by @xmath43 it is seen that the cvs above the period gap ( young ) show a significantly smaller dispersion in @xmath11 .",
    "what is notable about the @xmath44 distribution is that it is essentially _ independent _ of the selection effects which plague the original distribution , @xmath45 .",
    "the observations described here are a first step towards a statistically meaningful sample of @xmath11 velocity measurements , for objects both above and , eventually , below the period gap in the distribution of cvs .    from the study of van paradijs , augusteijn & stehle  ,",
    "the 47 systems with orbital periods above the period gap have an average @xmath11 velocity @xmath46 .",
    "they admit that part of the dispersion is due to measurement errors .",
    "for the 72 non - magnetic cvs , they determine an uncertainty in @xmath11 of @xmath47  calculated from the rms average of the standard deviations of the distributions of single @xmath11 measurements of the individual sources .",
    "this is too large to measure a theoretical dispersion of @xmath5  with any confidence . assuming that this measurement error and the intrinsic dispersion add in quadrature gives their result , @xmath48  for longer period dn ( almost twice the predicted value from kolb & stehle ,  1996 ) .",
    "figure  [ fig : gamhist ] compares the distribution of @xmath11 velocities as obtained a ) in this paper ( solid marking ) and b ) from the literature ( hatched lines ) for the four dn observed in this pilot study .",
    "we can see that the distribution is already appearing much tighter , and the variation in the values obtained from the literature is quite large .",
    "initial results from the first sample of systems indicate that the behaviour of the longer - period dn does follow closely that predicted from the theory ( as presented by kolb & stehle , 1996 ) .",
    "the initial velocity dispersion value for the sample appears to be @xmath49 .",
    "we calculated a 95 per cent confidence limit on this result , using the assumption that for a random sample ( @xmath50 ) from a population ( @xmath51 ) , the quantity @xmath52 can be described by a @xmath53 distribution , with @xmath54 degrees of freedom , where @xmath55 is the number of measurements in the sample .",
    "for the 95 per cent confidence interval @xmath56 needed to be solved .",
    "inverting the inequalities gives the 95 per cent confidence interval @xmath57 .",
    "this range includes kolb & stehle s theoretical expectation ( @xmath5 ) , but it also agrees with van  paradijs  et  al.s result .",
    "we now need to increase the sample size so as to conclusively reject or confirm the van paradijs result .",
    "as it stands , our result provides support for the theory of kolb & stehle  .",
    "four long period ( @xmath0 hours ) dwarf  novae have been observed over a complete orbital period , in order to determine accurate absolute systemic velocities ( to within @xmath58 ) . on this initial sample ,",
    "the aim was to test thoroughly the methods being used to obtain the velocities , to make sure that any possible sources of error were effectively minimised .",
    "sources of systematic error are fairly numerous using these methods , however they are very easy to identify and minimise , and in certain cases to eliminate altogether",
    ". a large sample of radial - velocity standard stars were observed , to ensure that so - called ` template mismatch ' did not introduce any significant error .",
    "this enabled us to compile a list of reliable standard stars to use for future observing runs for this project .",
    "in addition , because of the high accuracy requirement for measurement of the systemic velocities , accurate measurements of other binary parameters can be made .",
    "for example , high quality radial - velocity curves mean that good semi - amplitude measurements can be obtained .",
    "existing orbital periods can also be checked , and a value for the projected rotational velocity of the mass  donor can be determined , implying that a value for the mass ratio , @xmath7 , can be calculated .",
    "this value of @xmath7 is then independent of the semi - amplitude value determined from the emission lines ( measurements of which are uncertain and prone to error ) , and can then be used to determine the component masses .",
    "doppler maps have been constructed from the h@xmath21 line profiles obtained in this study . due to the coverage of a full orbital period ,",
    "an orbit - averaged doppler image has be created for each object .",
    "these have proved surprising .",
    "further evidence for the existence of `` sub - keplerian '' velocities is seen in the maps , as are peculiar features which may be be attributable to an outflow from the systems .",
    "these features may be peculiar to h@xmath21 emission ; further investigation is needed .",
    "our initial results suggest that the observations agree with the theory ( as set out by kolb & stehle , 1996 ) .",
    "the observed velocity dispersion for the sample is @xmath59 , which is smaller than the predicted value of @xmath60 . if , with further observations , this value does not alter significantly",
    ", then we can infer that the longer period systems are a young subgroup , with an average predicted age of @xmath61 .",
    "once systemic velocities for the longer - period systems have been adequately constrained then our understanding of their kinematics and evolution will be more complete , and we can begin the search for the predicted significant difference between the velocity dispersions of cvs below and above the period gap .",
    "the authors wish to thank the referee , hans ritter , for drawing our attention to the ss  cyg parallax .",
    "rcn acknowledges a studentship from the university of southampton and a pparc pdra during the course of this work .",
    "the data reduction and analysis were carried out on the southampton node of the uk starlink computer network .",
    "the int is operated on the island of la palma by the isaac newton group in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofisica de canarias .",
    "99 barnes t. c. , moffett t. j. , slovak m. h. , 1986 , pasp , 98 , 223 beavers w. i. , eitter j. j. , ketelsen d. a. , oesper d. a. , 1979 , pasp , 91 , 698 casares j. , charles p. a. , naylor t. , pavlenko e. p. , 1993",
    ", mnras , 265 , 834 duquennoy a. , mayor m. , halbwachs j .-",
    "l . , 1991 ,",
    "a&as , 88 , 281 echevarria j. , diego f. , tapia m. , costero r. , ruiz e. , salas l. , gutierrez l. , enriquez r. , 1989 , mnras , 240 , 975 eggen o. j. , 1996 , aj , 111 , 466 friend m. t. , martin j. s. , connon smith r. , jones d. h. p. , 1990 ,",
    "mnras , 246 , 654 harrison  t.  e. , mcnamara  b.  j. , szkody  p. , gilliland  r.  l. , 2000 , aj , 120 , 2649 hellier c. , 2000 , newar , 44 , 131 hessman f. v. , 1988 , a&as , 72 , 515 horne k. , 1986 , pasp , 98 , 609 horne k. , wade r. a. , szkody p. , 1986 , mnras , 219 , 791 king a. r. , 1988 , qjras , 29 , 1 kiplinger a. l. , 1979 , aj , 84 , 655 kolb u. , 2001 , in vanbeveren d. , ed . ,",
    "the influence of binaries on stellar population studies , kluwer , dordrecht , in press kolb u. , stehle r. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 1454 .",
    "marcy g. w. , lindsay v. , wilson k. , 1987 , pasp , 99 , 490 .",
    "marsh , t. r. , horne , k. , 1988 , mnras , 235 , 269 .",
    "north r. c. , marsh t. r. , moran c. k. j. , kolb u. , smith r. c. , stehle r. , 2000 , mnras , 313 , 383 oke j. b. , gunn j. e. , 1983 , apj , 266 , 713 patterson j. , 1984 , apjs , 54 , 443 ritter h. , kolb u. , 1998 , a&as , 129 , 83 schreiber m. r. , gnsicke b. t. , 2001 , a&a , in press stover r. j. , robinson e.  l. , nather r.  e. , montemayor t.  j. , 1980 , apj , 240 , 597 thorstensen j.  r. , davis m.  k. , ringwald f.  k. , 1991 , aj , 102 , 683 tonry j. , davis m. , 1979 , aj , 84 , 1511 van paradijs j. , augusteijn t. , stehle r. , 1996 , a&a , 312 , 93 wallace p. t. , clayton c. a. , 1999 , rv - radial components of observer s velocity , starlink user note 78 wielen r. , 1977 , a&a , 60 , 263 wielen r. , dettbarn c. , fuchs b. , jahreiss h. , radons g. , 1992 , in barbuy b. , renzini a. , eds .",
    ", the stellar populations of galaxies , iau symp . 149 , kluwer , dordrecht , p. 81"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> although a large number of orbital periods of cataclysmic variable stars ( cvs ) have been measured , comparison of period and luminosity distributions with evolutionary theory is affected by strong selection effects . </S>",
    "<S> a test has been discovered which is independent of these selection effects and is based upon the kinematics of cvs ( kolb & stehle , 1996 ) . </S>",
    "<S> if the standard models of evolution are correct then long - period ( @xmath0hrs ) cvs should be typically less than 1.5 gyr old , and their line - of - sight velocity dispersion ( @xmath1 ) should be small . </S>",
    "<S> we present results from a pilot study which indicate that this postulate is indeed true . </S>",
    "<S> four long - period dwarf novae ( em  cyg , v426  oph , ss  cyg and ah  her ) were observed over a complete orbit , in order that accurate radial velocities be obtained . </S>",
    "<S> we find values of -1.7 , 5.4 , 15.4 and 1.8  with uncertainties of order @xmath2 , referred to the dynamical local standard of rest ( lsr ) , leading to a dispersion of @xmath38 . </S>",
    "<S> calculation of a 95 per cent confidence interval gives the result @xmath4  compared to a prediction of @xmath5 . </S>",
    "<S> we also have an improved determination of mass  donor spectral type , @xmath6 and @xmath7 for the four systems .    </S>",
    "<S> binaries : spectroscopic  novae , cataclysmic variables  accretion , accretion discs  techniques : radial velocities </S>"
  ]
}