{
  "article_text": [
    "tremendous progress has been made in characterizing the angular power spectrum of the cmb temperature fluctuations over the last decade . as discussed extensively at the workshop ,",
    "the temperature anisotropy spectrum is now well - determined from the largest angular scales through the first two acoustic peaks and into the third at @xmath4 .",
    "data on smaller angular scales , in particular from the cbi and acbar experiments , have revealed the damping tail of the primordial spectrum @xcite .",
    "the high-@xmath5 data provide evidence for the onset of secondary anisotropy at @xmath6 that is also detected at @xmath7 with bima @xcite , and that presumably arises at least in part from the integrated sunyaev - zeldovich effect from galaxy clusters ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "future cosmological studies with the cmb will therefore focus on measurement of the temperature anisotropy at fine angular scales and on the polarization anisotropy at all scales .",
    "this paper concentrates on the latter .",
    "measurements of astronomical polarization are in general difficult and the low level of the cmb polarization signal makes it an especially challenging target . yet the fundamental nature of the science has fueled rapid progress in experimental efforts to reach unprecedented levels of sensitivity and control of systematics .",
    "the following is an abbreviated list of the scientific goals of cmb polarization studies , ranked in increasing order of required instrumental sensitivity :    1 .",
    "test the theoretical framework for the generation of cmb anisotropy : within the context of the standard model , in which peaks in the cmb angular power spectrum are interpreted as the signature of acoustic oscillations seeded by nearly scale - free , primordial adiabatic density fluctuations , current temperature measurements lead to highly - specific predictions for the shape of the polarization power spectrum .",
    "furthermore , it is a firm prediction that density fluctuations should create only , i.e. , curl - free , polarization patterns on the sky ( see ) .",
    "2 .   determine the reionization history of the universe : when the universe underwent reionization , electrons re - scattered the cmb , leading to polarization on the large angular scales corresponding to the horizon size at the epoch of reionization .",
    "3 .   improve the precision of cmb - derived cosmological parameters : polarization accounts for two thirds of the cmb observables permitting higher precision constraints , and also allows various parameter degeneracies to be broken .",
    "4 .   provide a probe of to @xmath8 . gravitational lensing of the cmb by intervening structure distorts the polarization pattern generated at the surface of last scattering , leading to an observable , i.e. , curl component .",
    "the , although weak , should be detectable and can be used to infer properties of the @xcite .",
    "test by searching for primordial gravitational waves : primordial gravity waves will lead to polarization in the cmb @xcite with both an pattern , as for the scalar density perturbations , and a pattern , due to the intrinsic polarization of the gravitational waves @xcite . in models ,",
    "the amplitude of the polarization from gravity waves is proportional to the fourth power of the energy scale .",
    "while the detection of polarization would provide a critical test of , the signal may be so weak as to be unobservable @xcite .",
    "the current state of cmb polarization studies is similar to the state of temperature measurements a decade ago , when cobe and firs had detected anisotropy @xcite , but much work remained to be done to characterize its power spectrum .",
    "currently , dasi has detected the polarization and correlation on degree scales @xcite , while has detected the correlation on large scales @xcite .",
    "the degree - scale polarization and the correlation are critical tests of the underlying theoretical framework for the generation of cmb fluctuations , while the correlation on very large scales , i.e. , the first several multipoles , provides direct evidence of significant reionization at higher redshifts than had previously been supposed .    in this contribution , we first briefly review the mechanism which causes observable polarization within the context of adiabatic density perturbations , lensing by and gravity waves .",
    "we next review the history of polarization measurements , the dasi and detections ( particular emphasis is given to the dasi experiment as the results are also discussed in contributions by @xcite and @xcite ) , several upcoming and future experiments , and conclude with a few remarks on the state of the field .",
    "polarization of the cmb arises from thomson scattering of the background radiation off electrons at the epoch of decoupling @xcite . as scattering",
    "can only produce a net polarization if an electron sees a local quadrupole moment , polarization is suppressed as long as the photon mean free path is short , and electrons see a field that is locally uniform . as recombination proceeds , however , the mean free path grows rapidly and electrons begin to see radiation doppler - shifted by velocity fields within the plasma .    to illustrate this effect , consider a single spatial mode of the density field , i.e. , a standing acoustic wave ; as the amplitude of the wave oscillates , the photon - baryon fluid will compress and expand . if the mode is growing , the fluid will move toward density crests . in this case , the radiation field seen by electrons near a crest is doppler - boosted perpendicular to the crest , with no boost seen parallel to the crest , leading to scattered light whose polarization is aligned with the crest . likewise in the troughs , the radiation is reduced in directions perpendicular to the trough , but uniform along it , and the resulting polarization will be perpendicular to the trough , i.e. , the sense of the polarization flips between crest and trough ( see ) .",
    "if the amplitude of the density mode is decreasing , the sense of the polarization is reversed , but in general , scattering leads to polarization aligned either perpendicular or parallel to the wave vector , a curl - free pattern we refer to as polarization ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . the first detection of in the cmb by the dasi experiment is discussed in .",
    "we have so far considered a time snapshot of a single density mode ; if we now consider the dynamic evolution of that mode , we see that because polarization arises from velocities , the amplitude of the polarization will fall to a minimum at the compression or expansion maxima of the density mode , when the velocity drops to zero .",
    "likewise the amplitude of the polarization will be highest at the density nulls , when the fluid velocity reaches a maximum . as a result ,",
    "the power spectra of the temperature and polarization fields exhibit peaks which are approximately a half - cycle out of phase ( see ) .",
    "the correlation spectrum quantifies the complex relation between these fields , with the sign of the correlation depending on whether the amplitude of the mode was increasing or decreasing at the time of decoupling .",
    "-0.0 in = 0.6    when the universe reionized , late - time thompson scattering of cmb photons reduced power in the anisotropy at small scales but regenerated a polarized signal on scales comparable to the horizon at the reionization epoch , leading to a significant low-@xmath5 bump in the and correlation spectra . such a signal has now been seen in the spectrum by the experiment ( see ) .",
    "any polarization field can be decomposed into curl - free ( ) components , and pure curl components , called by analogy with electric and magnetic fields .",
    "the @xmath9-type harmonic modes exhibit linear polarization at @xmath10 to the direction of modulation ( ) . such a pattern can not be produced by density modes , and the presence of in the cmb would be the distinctive signature of gravitational effects .",
    "a stochastic background of primordial gravity waves generated by would directly source in the cmb . because such waves decay after entering the horizon , the spectrum of the resulting signal is expected to peak at large angular scales , with an amplitude that is tied to the ( highly uncertain ) energy scale . within the next decade",
    "this signal may be detected yielding exciting direct evidence for , or may be shown to be unobservably small . on small angular scales , are confidently expected from gravitational lensing of the signal by ( see ) , at a level that should be detectable by the next generation of dedicated polarimeters ( see ) ;",
    "prior to the dasi polarization results discussed below ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , only upper limits had been placed on the level of cmb polarization , a measure both of the demanding instrumental sensitivity and attention to sources of systematic uncertainty necessitated by the weakness of the expected signal ( see * ? ? ? * for a review of cmb polarization measurements ) .",
    "we review these limits below , followed by a discussion of the recent detections of polarization by the dasi and experiments .",
    "-0.0 in = 0.6      the first constraint on the degree of polarization of the cmb was placed in 1965 by its co - discoverers penzias and wilson , who stated that the new radiation they had detected was isotropic and unpolarized within the limits of their observations @xcite . over the next 20 years",
    ", dedicated polarimeters were used to set much more stringent upper limits on angular scales of several degrees and larger ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* see also ) , with the best upper limits for the and polarizations being 10@xmath11k at 95% confidence for the multipole range @xmath12 , from the polar experiment @xcite .",
    "the polar experiment was reconfigured to the compass experiment at intermediate scales @xcite .",
    "an analysis of data from the saskatoon experiment @xcite set the first upper limit on somewhat smaller angular scales ( @xmath13k at 95% confidence for @xmath14 ) ; this result is also noteworthy for being the first that was below the level of the cmb temperature anisotropy .",
    "the best limit on similar angular scales was set by the pique experiment @xcite  a 95% confidence upper limit of @xmath15k to the signal , assuming no polarization .",
    "analysis of cbi data set upper limits similar to the pique result , but on somewhat smaller scales @xcite .",
    "an attempt was also made to search for the correlation using the pique polarization and saskatoon temperature data @xcite .",
    "polarization measurements have also been pursued on arcminute scales , resulting in several upper limits ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , at these angular scales , corresponding to multipoles @xmath16 , the level of the primary cmb anisotropy is strongly damped and secondary effects due to interactions with in the universe are expected to dominate @xcite .",
    "-0.0 in = 0.51    as can be seen in , high - resolution experiments have steadily converged on the sensitivity required to see the signature expected under the standard model . with the results from the dasi experiment , reported in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see also for details ) , the goal of direct detection of the has now been achieved , with the ancillary detection of the correlation .",
    "more recently , the experiment has reported the detection of the correlation on large - scales .",
    "these results are summarized in .",
    "-0.0 in = 0.4    the dasi experiment exploits the unique properties of interferometry directly to measure fourier components of the cmb anisotropy with tight control of systematics . as interferometers are correlating devices , they are largely insensitive to sources of incoherent noise , while providing an effective response on the sky that is a near - perfect fourier filter ( see ) .",
    "dasi s elements are mounted on a faceplate that can be rotated to sample different fourier modes , or to sample the same modes with independent antennas .",
    "dasi was used successfully to measure the temperature anisotropy spectrum during the austral 2000 winter ; the design and calibration of the instrument , the power spectrum , and the resulting cosmological constraints are reported in @xcite , @xcite and @xcite , respectively . for additional details",
    "see @xcite .",
    "the reconfiguration and operation of the instrument for polarization observations are described in detail in @xcite . during the 20002001 austral summer , broadband",
    "achromatic polarizers were installed in each of the 2636 ghz receivers , and a large reflecting screen was erected to reduce the sensitivity to contamination from the ground . by mechanically switching the polarizers for each receiver to pass left ( l ) or right ( r)-circularly polarized light , each baseline ( a single pair of antennas whose signals are correlated ) can sample the full complement of stokes parameters , where co - polar ( rr & ll ) states are sensitive to the total intensity , and cross - polar ( rl & lr ) states are sensitive to linear polarization ( see ) . as can be seen in",
    ", simple combinations of the cross - polar data produce nearly pure and responses on the sky .",
    "since the austral summer of 2001 , dasi has observed two regions of sky , with a field of view of approximately @xmath17 .",
    "a host of consistency tests on the data demonstrate that the combination of shielding , field - differencing and careful characterization of the instrumental polarization has reduced any common - mode residuals to well below the level required to detect cmb polarization , resulting in one of the deepest integrations ever achieved on the cmb .",
    "the effective noise on the dasi temperature map of the cmb in these fields is approximately @xmath18k , and has been demonstrated to integrate down with the square - root of time from timescales of seconds to years .",
    "the dasi data have yielded a direct detection of polarization ; parameterizing the power spectrum as a single shaped bandpower over the full @xmath5-range , we find that polarization is detected at @xmath19 significance , with likelihood ratio tests demonstrating that the data strongly prefer the concordance model shape to flat or power law alternatives .",
    "results with the various power spectra parameterized in five bands are shown in .",
    "the shape and amplitude of the spectrum are consistent with predictions from the current best - fit model to the temperature data .",
    "the strategy of very deep integration on a small region of sky yielded not only a statistical detection of polarization with dasi , but a data set containing many high signal - to - noise polarization modes .",
    "the temperature map , and the polarization map constructed from these high signal - to - noise modes , are shown in .",
    "-0.0 in = 0.5    both dasi and ( see workshop contributions by @xcite and @xcite ) have also detected the distinctive correlation of the cmb , which is a simple consequence of the fact that the fluid velocities which lead to polarization ( see ) are sourced by the same density fluctuations which lead to temperature anisotropy ( second panel of ) .",
    "the power of full - sky mapping experiments like is evident on the largest scales , where the dasi measurement of the correlation is limited by sample variance on the temperature signal .",
    "the first - year data from have resulted in confirmation of the predicted large - scale correlation , and extraordinary direct evidence of significant reionization at higher redshifts than had previously been supposed ( see ) .",
    "-0.0 in = 0.6",
    "in addition to dasi and , both of which are still collecting data , there are several ongoing cmb polarization experiments that have recently obtained data .",
    "like dasi and they can be classified as second - generation experiments and are likely to result in detections . as second generation experiments",
    "they have benefited from the lessons learned from the pioneering experiments discussed in  [ sec : limits ] .",
    "ongoing ground - based experiments include dasi (  [ sec : detections ] ) , the cosmic background imager ( cbi , @xcite ) and the cosmic anisotropy polarization mapper ( capmap , @xcite ) .",
    "the cbi is a companion instrument to dasi which uses low - noise 2636 ghz hemt amplifiers @xcite and operates from the atacama plateau in chile .",
    "the thirteen 0.9 meter on - axis cassegrain interferometer elements are mounted on a common alt - az platform which also can be rotated along the line of sight . in early 2003 , the receivers were fitted with the same selectable achromatic polarizers developed for dasi @xcite . like dasi ,",
    "each receiver is sensitive to only one circular polarization state and therefore the interferometer is a factor of four slower than optimum .",
    "the benefit of this scheme , however , is that the existing 10 ghz bandwidth , 13-element , correlator @xcite does not need to be expanded .",
    "the polarization sensitivity of the cbi expressed in units of temperature is similar to dasi s but at three times higher angular resolution , i.e. , for similar integration time , the cbi should achieve roughly the same polarization sensitivity as dasi in units of @xmath20 , but at three times higher @xmath5 . scaling from the dasi results shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : dasi - wmap ] , we see that the cbi @xmath5-range and sensitivity should be well matched for characterizing the spectrum .",
    "the capmap experiment , run by suzanne staggs and collaborators , uses the radiometers and techniques developed for the pique experiment (  [ sec : limits ] ; @xcite ) on the bell laboratory 7-meter off - axis telescope .",
    "they operated capmap in 2003 february through april with a limited set of four w - band ( 14 ghz bandwidth at 90 ghz ) polarization - sensitive correlation receivers ; they expect to use the full set of sixteen 90 ghz radiometers and four 40 ghz radiometers starting in november 2003 .",
    "the large telescope enables them to achieve @xmath21 resolution ",
    "well suited for measuring the polarization power spectrum from where it peaks near @xmath22 to higher @xmath5 .",
    "the weather in new jersey , however , limits observing to the winter months .",
    "they plan to observe a 1-degree patch at the north celestial pole using azimuth scans and expect to measure the spectrum in two winter seasons @xcite .",
    "while the sensitivity of the individual capmap channels at @xmath23 is roughly a factor of two to three times worse than that predicted for ground - based bolometer polarization receivers , capmap is using a technique for which it has been shown that systematics can be controlled and very long integrations times are feasible .",
    "the current generation of balloon - borne experiments include boomerang @xcite and maxipol @xcite .",
    "the archeops balloon - borne cmb experiment has also made high frequency measurements of galactic dust polarization over the angular scales relevant to cmb studies @xcite .",
    "boomerang made a successful antarctic long - duration balloon ( ldb ) flight in 2003 january and collected 11.7 days of data .",
    "maxipol had a successful 26 hour flight in 2003 may from fort sumner , new mexico .",
    "the focal plane of boomerang was reconfigured for its 2003 ldb flight with polarization - sensitive bolometer ( psb ) elements .",
    "psbs use a micro - mesh design like the spider - web bolometer design , except that the mesh is in a square grid .",
    "the grid is metalized in only one direction to absorb only one linear polarization state of the incident radiation .",
    "a pair of psbs is formed by using two orthogonal elements separated by @xmath24 .",
    "a pair of psbs can then used with a single feed with the advantage that the pair share all the same optics , sidelobes , etc .",
    "boomerang uses four horns to feed four psb pairs operating at 145 ghz .",
    "in addition , there are four horns which each feed a bolometers at 245 ghz and 345 ghz to measure foreground emission from galactic dust . for these channels ,",
    "the polarization has been selected by a wire grid located in front of the horn . at 145 ghz , the resolution is @xmath25 and the sensitivity of order 160 @xmath26 .",
    "they observed a shallow region of 1161 square degrees and a deep region of 123 square degrees .",
    "the maxima experiment @xcite was converted to the polarimeter maxipol by adding a rotating half - wave plate and fixed polarizing grids in front of the feed horns @xcite .",
    "the half - wave plate spinning at two hz causes the polarization sensitivity to be modulated at four hz . due to the rotating half - wave plate ,",
    "all stokes parameters are measured by each detector .",
    "while rotating half - wave plates have been used often in galactic submillimeter observations , e.g. , @xcite , this would be the first successful implementation of the technique for cmb measurements .",
    "the maxipol focal plane is cooled to 100  @xmath27 and by scaling the previous maxima sensitivities we can expect sensitivities of order 130 @xmath28 for each of the twelve 140 ghz channels .",
    "the beam size is @xmath29 and the scan length is 2 degrees .",
    "maxipol also has four 420 ghz channels to measure foreground polarization emission from galactic dust .",
    "the boomerang and maxipol experiments each have sufficient sensitivity to detect the polarization at intermediate angular scales ; assuming the systematics are understood and controlled , the boomerang sensitivity should allow the spectrum to be characterized beyond what has been reported by dasi .        two new ground - based bolometric array polarimeters are being developed : bicep ( background imaging of cosmic extragalactic polarization , @xcite ) and quest ( q and u extra - galactic survey telescope , @xcite ) .",
    "bicep is scheduled to deploy to the south pole for observations starting in austral winter 2005 .",
    "quest is expected to be mounted on the dasi telescope ( hereafter referred to as quad for quest and dasi ) and to also start observations in austral winter 2005 .",
    "the bicep and quad experiments are in many ways companion experiments .",
    "both exploit psb detectors being developed at jpl and share many team members .",
    "they are also complementary in @xmath5 space , with bicep targeting degree angular scales @xmath30 and quad targeting @xmath31",
    ". the sensitivity of each experiment should allow the spectrum to be well characterized .",
    "furthermore , quad should be able to detect the gravitational lensed spectrum . and",
    ", at degree angular scales , bicep should be able to reach the required sensitivity either to detect the primordial gravitational wave signal , or to further constrain the energy scale , with the caveats that systematics must be controlled to unprecedented levels ( @xmath32 ) and that foregrounds must also be understood at these levels . in any case",
    ", we are likely to learn much from these instruments about the experimental and foreground challenges that will need to be met by extremely deep future cmb polarization measurements",
    ".    bicep will consist of an array of 48 horns feeding psb detector pairs , half at 100 ghz and half at 150 ghz with 1.0@xmath33 and 0.7@xmath33 resolution , respectively .",
    "the 150 ghz detectors are expected to have an sensitivity of 280 @xmath26 .",
    "cooled lenses form the optical system , providing a 20 degree field of view .",
    "the plan is to observe the south celestial pole with the optical boresight offset 5@xmath33 to 25@xmath33 from the zenith and rotating the entire array about the line of sight roughly once per minute .",
    "a novel ferrite faraday modulator for each feed will be used to rotate the linear polarization .",
    "quad @xcite consists of a radiometer similar to bicep , but used at the cassegrain focus of a 2.6-meter on - axis precision telescope .",
    "the secondary will be held by a low - loss foam cone as was done successfully for compass @xcite and cbi @xcite .",
    "the entire telescope will be mounted on the existing dasi mount , replacing the faceplate on which the dasi receivers and horns currently reside , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : dasi - photo ] .",
    "the quest focal plane consists of 12 psb pairs at 100 ghz and 19 pairs at 150 ghz .",
    "the expected sensitivity is 300 @xmath26 at 150 ghz with a @xmath21 beam .",
    "the dasi mount is fully steerable and also can be rotated along the line of sight .",
    "the latter feature will be used along with a rotating half - wave plate to modulate the polarization response .",
    "the half - wave plate will be not be synchronously rotated as for maxipol , but rather set at a fixed angle for each scan .",
    "the array for microwave background anisotropy ( amiba ) is being built for measurements of the fine - scale cmb temperature and polarization anisotropy as well as for observations of the sunyaev - zeldovich effect .",
    "the project is led by the academia sinica institute of astronomy and astrophysics in taiwan and the array will be deployed to mauna kea , hawaii . like the cbi",
    ", amiba is an interferometric array mounted on a common platform .",
    "the specifications call for 19 elements operating at 90 ghz with full polarization capabilities and a 20 ghz correlation bandwidth .",
    "two sets of array dishes , 1.2 meter and 0.3 meter are planned .",
    "initial observations targeting the spectrum with a subset of the array are planned to start in 2004 .",
    "the planck surveyor @xcite ) is a dedicated cmb satellite scheduled to launch in 2007 to measure the entire sky in nine frequency bands using coherent , hemt - amplified radiometers at 30 , 40 and 70 ghz and bolometric detectors at 100 , 143 , 217 , 353 , 545 and 857 ghz .",
    "while initially designed primarily for cmb temperature measurements , it has considerable polarization sensitivity .",
    "the hemt amplifier correlation receivers are intrinsically polarized and there are 4 at 30 ghz , 6 at 44 ghz and 12 at 70 ghz @xcite .",
    "the resolution provided by the single 1.5 meter aplanatic primary ranges from @xmath34 to @xmath35 across these bands .",
    "there are four unpolarized detectors for each of the bolometer bands , providing excellent frequency coverage and resolution of @xmath36 at 100 ghz , @xmath37 at 143 ghz , and @xmath38 at all the higher frequency bands .",
    "the prime polarization sensitivity is provided by four psb pairs for each of the 100 , 143 , 217 and 353 channels . the polarization sensitivity for the resulting planck maps",
    "is expected to be of order 4 @xmath39 per pixel for the 100 and 143 ghz maps over the entire sky .",
    "comparing planck to the expected state of the art for ground and balloon - borne experiments 5 years from now , is similar to comparing to existing experiments .",
    "the ground - based and balloon - borne experiments are expected to make deeper polarization maps but over much smaller regions .",
    "planck s coverage of the entire sky is unique and valuable and its wide frequency range will be unsurpassed for understanding foregrounds .",
    "projections for planck s power spectrum results can be found in the excellent cmb review by @xcite .",
    "planck is the next generation satellite , both more ambitious and riskier than .",
    "was designed with emphasis on control of systematics and calibration even at the expense of sensitivity .",
    "there are no active coolers ( or heaters ) on and as a result the focal plane runs warmer than optimum . to achieve high sensitivity planck s bolometers require active cooling .",
    "used correlation radiometers with receivers fed by completely separate telescopes pointing 140 degrees apart on the sky , providing simultaneous differencing on these scales .",
    "planck has a single optical system and focal plane shared by coherent and bolometric radiometers .",
    "on large scales , it will be difficult to match the precision of . on small angular scales and for polarization measurements ,",
    "however , the planck sensitivity is necessary and will allow significant improvements to be made over . at these scales and sensitivities ,",
    "the wide frequency coverage of planck will also be invaluable for understanding foregrounds .",
    "the current and planned experiments will measure cmb polarization with unprecedented sensitivity .",
    "in addition , these experiments will teach us a great deal about the efficacy of new techniques and detectors , about the ability to control systematics and , of course , about astronomical foregrounds .",
    "we are on the cusp of major advances in detector technology both in large - format bolometer arrays and in coherent detector arrays . using integrated circuit technologies it will shortly be possible to build correlation receivers on a single chip @xcite",
    "; it is possible to conceive of a capmap - like experiment with hundreds of radiometers .",
    "the ease of duplicating receivers can also be applied for future interferometers .",
    "interferometers , however , will be limited by the size of broad bandwidth correlators ( the correlator scales as @xmath40 , where @xmath41 is the number of array elements ) .",
    "one can conceive of scaling the dasi and cbi design @xcite for @xmath42 receivers , but much larger correlators will require further advances in correlator technology .",
    "large format arrays for bolometers are now possible using both `` pop - up '' arrays developed at nasa / gsfc ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and monolithic arrays developed at caltech / jpl ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the current push in bolometer array technology is directed at micro - machined planar arrays with superconducting transition - edge sensors ( tes ) with multiplexed readouts .",
    "current arrays of order 1000 channels are being developed and much larger arrays will be possible with this technology .",
    "the next step being actively pursued is large format arrays of superconducting microstrip , antenna - coupled bolometer detectors ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the antenna - coupled technology offers great flexibility ; the elements can be configured for dual polarization and support several frequency channels .",
    "new telescopes are required to take advantage of the new bolometer arrays and at least three are in various stages of planning . the south pole telescope ( spt )",
    "is an 8-meter , precision , off - axis telescope funded by nsf - opp to be deployed to the south pole station in late 2006 and equipped with a 1000-element bolometric radiometer .",
    "a large focal plane polarimeter is planned for the spt , but is not currently funded .",
    "planning is underway for the atacama cosmology telescope ( act * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a 6 meter off - axis telescope planned for chile which could also be equipped with a polarimeter . finally , planning is also underway for polarbear , a 3 meter off - axis telescope dedicated to cmb polarization measurements with a large array ( 1000 to 3000 elements ) of polarization - sensitive antenna - coupled bolometers @xcite .",
    "the most ambitious plan on the horizon is for a dedicated cmb polarization satellite to conduct the definitive search , i.e. , foreground - limited , for the signature of gravitational waves in the cmb , i.e. , to measure the gravitational wave spectrum .",
    "it is the goal of the inflation probe of nasa s _ beyond einstein _ program .",
    "nasa plans to fund of order three studies toward the eventual launch of a $ 350 m to $ 500 m inflation probe .",
    "the detection of cmb polarization marks the beginning of a new era in cmb measurements and for cosmology . with the first detection of and the correlation , the standard model has a passed a critical test , and already the large - angle correlation is pointing the way to a revised understanding of the reionization history of the universe .",
    "polarization measurements are now at a turning point reached by temperature anisotropy measurements a decade ago , when they were first detected by cobe and firs @xcite ; as was the case with the temperature measurements , we can count on rapid progress in the characterization of the cmb polarization .",
    "the spectrum should be well measured by ground - based and balloon - borne experiments , and the _ planck surveyor _ satellite over the next several years .",
    "a few experiments now underway should already be capable of measuring the gravitationally lensed spectrum , and possibly even the gravitational wave spectrum .",
    "it is unreasonable , however , to expect that increased instrument sensitivity alone will allow the detection of these extremely weak signals . at the required sensitivity levels",
    ", systematics will be much harder to control and contamination from astronomical foregrounds will be much more severe .",
    "the need for several independent experiments using different techniques including ground , balloon and eventually satellite - based instruments is even more important than it was for the temperature cmb measurements",
    ". continued exploratory work with new techniques and with ever more sensitive detectors is necessary to ensure the eventual success of nasa s inflation probe .          , a. , ade , p. , amblard , a. , ansari , r. , aubourg , e. , bargot , s. , bartlett , j.  g. , bernard , j. , bhatia , r.  s. , blanchard , a. , bock , j.  j. , boscaleri , a. , bouchet , f.  r. , bourrachot , a. , camus , p. , couchot , f. , de bernardis , p. , delabrouille , j. , desert , f. , dore , o. , douspis , m. , dumoulin , l. , dupac , x. , filliatre , p. , fosalba , p. , ganga , k. , gannaway , f. , gautier , b. , giard , m. , giraud - heraud , y. , gispert , r. , guglielmi , l. , hamilton , j. , hanany , s. , henrot - versille , s. , kaplan , j. , lagache , g. , lamarre , j. , lange , a.  e. , macias - perez , j.  f. , madet , k. , maffei , b. , magneville , c. , marrone , d.  p. , masi , s. , mayet , f. , murphy , a. , naraghi , f. , nati , f. , patanchon , g. , perrin , g. , piat , m. , ponthieu , n. , prunet , s. , puget , j. , renault , c. , rosset , c. , santos , d. , starobinsky , a. , strukov , i. , sudiwala , r.  v. , teyssier , r. , tristram , m. , tucker , c. , vanel , j. , vibert , d. , wakui , e. , & yvon , d. 2003 , submitted to a&a , astro - ph/0306222        church , s. , ade , p. , bock , j. , bowden , m. , carlstrom , j. , ganga , k. , gear , w. , hinderks , j. , keating , b. , kovac , j. , lange , a. , leitch , e. , mallie , o. , melhuish , s. , murphy , a. , rusholme , b. , osullivan , c. , piccirillo , l. , pryke , c. , taylor , a. , & thompson , k. 2003 , in the proceedings of the workshop on  the cosmic microwave background and its polarization , \" new astronomy reviews , ed .",
    "s.  hanany & k.  a. olive ( elsevier ) , astro - ph/0308 * * * *          , c.  d. , allen , c.  a. , babu , r.  s. , freund , m.  m. , gardner , m. , groseth , j. , jhabvala , m.  d. , kovacs , a. , lis , d.  c. , moseley , s.  h. , phillips , t.  g. , silverberg , r.  f. , voellmer , g.  m. , & yoshida , h. 2003 , in millimeter and submillimeter detectors for astronomy .",
    "edited by phillips , thomas g. ; zmuidzinas , jonas .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4855 .",
    ", 7387    , p.  c. , dalloglio , g. , gundersen , j. , keating , b. , klawikowski , s. , knox , l. , levy , a. , odell , c. , peel , a. , piccirillo , l. , ruhl , j. , & timbie , p. 2003 , in the proceedings of the workshop on  the cosmic microwave background and its polarization , \" new astronomy reviews , ed .",
    "s.  hanany & k.  a. olive ( elsevier ) , astro - ph/0305608    , t. , lawrence , c.  r. , seiffert , m.  d. , wells , m.  m. , kangaslahti , p. , & dawson , d. 2003 , in the proceedings of the workshop on  the cosmic microwave background and its polarization , \" new astronomy reviews , ed . s.  hanany & k.  a. olive ( elsevier )      , j. , ade , p.  a.  r. , amarie , m. , bock , j.  j. , edgington , s.  f. , goldin , a. , golwala , s. , haig , d. , lange , a.  e. , laurent , g. , mauskopf , p.  d. , yun , m. , & nguyen , h. 2003 , in millimeter and submillimeter detectors for astronomy . edited by phillips , thomas g. ; zmuidzinas , jonas .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4855 , 3040    , a. , bock , j.  j. , hunt , c.  l. , lange , a.  e. , leduc , h.  g. , vayonakis , a. , & zmuidzinas , j. 2003 , in millimeter and submillimeter detectors for astronomy .",
    "edited by phillips , thomas g. ; zmuidzinas , jonas .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4855 . , 163171      , n.  w. , leitch , e.  m. , pryke , c. , kovac , j. , carlstrom , j.  e. , holzapfel , w.  l. , dragovan , m. , cartwright , j.  k. , mason , b.  s. , padin , s. , pearson , t.  j. , readhead , a.  c.  s. , & shepherd , m.  c. 2002 , , 568 , 38    , s. , ade , p. , balbi , a. , bock , j. , borrill , j. , boscaleri , a. , de bernardis , p. , ferreira , p.  g. , hristov , v.  v. , jaffe , a.  h. , lange , a.  e. , lee , a.  t. , mauskopf , p.  d. , netterfield , c.  b. , oh , s. , pascale , e. , rabii , b. , richards , p.  l. , smoot , g.  f. , stompor , r. , winant , c.  d. , & wu , j. h.  p. 2000 , , 545",
    ", l5 , astro - ph/0005123                , b.  r. , abroe , m.  e. , ade , p. , bock , j. , borrill , j. , collins , j.  s. , ferreira , p. , hanany , s. , jaffe , a.  h. , jones , t. , lee , a.  t. , levinson , l. , matsumura , t. , rabii , b. , renbarger , t. , richards , p.  l. , smoot , g.  f. , stompor , r. , tran , h.  t. , & winant , c.  d. 2003 , in the proceedings of the workshop on  the cosmic microwave background and its polarization , \" new astronomy reviews , ed . s.  hanany & k.  a. olive ( elsevier )      , b.  g. , ade , p.  a.  r. , bock , j.  j. , hivon , e. , holzapfel , w.  l. , lange , a.  e. , nguyen , h. , & yoon , k. 2003 , in polarimetry in astronomy . edited by silvano fineschi .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4843 .",
    ", 284295          , a. , spergel , d.  n. , barnes , c. , bennett , c.  l. , halpern , m. , hinshaw , g. , jarosik , n. , limon , m. , meyer , s.  s. , page , l. , tucker , g. , wollack , e. , & wright , e.  l. 2003 , apj submitted , astro - ph/0302213            , c.  l. , ade , p.  a.  r. , bock , j.  j. , cantalupo , c. , daub , m.  d. , goldstein , j. , holzapfel , w.  l. , lange , a.  e. , lueker , m. , newcomb , m. , peterson , j.  b. , ruhl , j. , runyan , m.  c. , & torbet , e. 2002 , apj submitted , astro - ph/0202289    , j.  m. , puget , j.  l. , bouchet , f. , ade , p.  a.  r. , benoit , a. , bernard , j.  p. , bock , j. , de bernardis , p. , charra , j. , couchot , f. , delabrouille , j. , efstathiou , g. , giard , m. , guyot , g. , lange , a. , maffei , b. , murphy , a. , pajot , f. , piat , m. , ristorcelli , i. , santos , d. , sudiwala , r. , sygnet , j.  f. , torre , j.  p. , yurchenko , v. , & yvon , d. 2003 , in the proceedings of the workshop on  the cosmic microwave background and its polarization , \" new astronomy reviews , ed .",
    "s.  hanany & k.  a. olive ( elsevier ) , astro - ph/0308075      leitch , e.  m. , pryke , c. , halverson , n.  w. , carlstrom , j.  e. , kovac , j. , holzapfel , w.  l. , dragovan , m. , cartwright , j.  k. , mason , b.  m. , padin , s. , pearson , t.  j. , readhead , a. c.  s. , & shepherd , m.  c. 2002 , , 568 , 28 , astro - ph/0104488              , a. , bersanelli , m. , butler , r.  c. , maino , d. , mandolesi , n. , morgante , g. , valenziano , l. , villa , f. , gaier , t. , seiffert , m. , levin , s. , lawrence , c. , meinhold , p. , lubin , p. , tuovinen , j. , varis , j. , karttaavi , t. , hughes , n. , jukkala , p. , sjman , p. , kangaslahti , p. , roddis , n. , kettle , d. , winder , f. , blackhurst , e. , davis , r. , wilkinson , a. , castelli , c. , aja , b. , artal , e. , de la fuente , l. , mediavilla , a. , pascual , j.  p. , gallegos , j. , martinez - gonzalez , e. , de paco , p. , & pradell , l. 2003 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , astro - ph/0307116    , t. , ade , p.  a.  r. , balbi , a. , bock , j.  j. , bond , j.  r. , borrill , j. , boscaleri , a. , cabella , p. , contaldi , c.  r. , crill , b.  p. , de bernardis , p. , de gasperis , g. , de oliveira - costa , a. , de troia , g. , stefano , g.  d. , ganga , k. , hivon , e. , hristov , v.  v. , iacoangeli , a. , jaffe , a.  h. , kisner , t.  s. , jones , w.  c. , lange , a.  e. , masi , s. , mauskopf , p.  d. , mactavish , c. , melchiorri , a. , nati , f. , natoli , p. , netterfield , c.  b. , pascale , e. , piacentini , f. , pogosyan , d. , polenta , g. , prunet , s. , ricciardi , s. , romeo , g. , ruhl , j.  e. , torbet , e. , tegmark , m. , & vittorio , n. 2003 , in the proceedings of the workshop on  the cosmic microwave background and its polarization , \" new astronomy reviews , ed . s.  hanany & k.  a. olive ( elsevier ) , astro - ph/0305593        , s. , shepherd , m.  c. , cartwright , j.  k. , keeney , r.  g. , mason , b.  s. , pearson , t.  j. , readhead , a.  c.  s. , schaal , w.  a. , sievers , j. , udomprasert , p.  s. , yamasaki , j.  k. , holzapfel , w.  l. , carlstrom , j.  e. , joy , m. , myers , s.  t. , & otarola , a. 2002 , , 114 , 83                , m.  c. , ade , p.  a.  r. , bock , j.  j. , bond , j.  r. , cantalupo , c. , contaldi , c.  r. , daub , m.  d. , goldstein , j.  h. , gomez , p.  l. , holzapfel , w.  l. , kuo , c.  l. , lange , a.  e. , lueker , m. , newcomb , m. , peterson , j.  b. , pogosyan , d. , romer , a.  k. , ruhl , j. , torbet , e. , & woolsey , d. 2003 , in the proceedings of the workshop on  the cosmic microwave background and its polarization , \" new astronomy reviews , ed . s.  hanany & k.  a. olive ( elsevier ) , astro - ph/0305553"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we review the current status and future plans for polarization measurements of the cosmic microwave background radiation , as well as the cosmology these measurements will address . after a long period of increasingly sensitive upper limits , the dasi experiment has detected the polarization and both the dasi and experiments have detected the correlation . </S>",
    "<S> these detections provide confirmation of the standard model of adiabatic primordial density fluctuations consistent with models . </S>",
    "<S> the correlation on large angular scales provides direct evidence of significant reionization at higher redshifts than had previously been supposed . </S>",
    "<S> these detections mark the beginning of a new era in cmb measurements and the rich cosmology that can be gleaned from them .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1@xmath0#1 # 1@xmath1#1 # 1@xmath2-mode#1 # 1@xmath3-mode#1 # 1large - scale structure#1 # 1wmap#1 # 1inflation#1 #1_#1 _    # 1    # 1figure  [ # 1 ] # 1  [ # 1 ]    # 1*#1 * </S>"
  ]
}