{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the strongest pieces of evidence for an evolving universe has long been the observed evolution in comoving space density of the quasar population ( schmidt 1968 ) . until recently it had been thought that the shape of the quasar optical luminosity function and its evolution over the redshift range @xmath3 was well understood , and attempts to explain the physical causes of quasar evolution have relied on attempting to predict the observed evolution of the luminosity function ( e.g. haehnelt & rees 1993 )",
    ". however recent studies ( goldschmidt et al . , 1992 , hewett et al . , 1993 , hawkins & vron 1993 & 1995 ) have cast doubt upon the completeness of the surveys used to define the luminosity function . in this paper",
    "we present an analysis of the quasar luminosity function and its evolution based on new observational data , and argue that knowledge of the luminosity function alone is insufficient to allow us to understand the physical causes of quasar evolution .",
    "the most widely - quoted study of the luminosity function to date has been that of boyle et al .",
    "( 1988 , hereafter bsp ) , who used the aat sample of faint uvx quasars together with brighter samples such as the palomar - green survey ( schmidt & green , 1983 ) to determine the luminosity function in four redshift slices from @xmath4 to @xmath5 .",
    "bsp fit a variety of models to this function and concluded that the best - fit model was pure luminosity evolution ( ple ) in which the shape of the luminosity function was parameterised by two power - laws with a transition between them at a characteristic luminosity .",
    "the characteristic luminosity increased with redshift ( we term this negative evolution , as the population appears to have become dimmer with increasing cosmic time ) : @xmath6}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] in which @xmath7 and @xmath8 are the indices of the power - laws and @xmath9 describes the evolution ; @xmath10 with the addition of two surveys extending to redshift @xmath11 ( boyle , jones & shanks 1991 , zitelli et al . 1992 ) the above model has been slightly modified such that there is a maximum redshift beyond which no evolution occurs .",
    "the most recent parameters of this model have been presented by boyle ( 1991 ) and are ; @xmath12 , @xmath13 , @xmath14 , @xmath15 , @xmath16 .",
    "bsp ruled out any need for additional density evolution for quasars with @xmath17 .",
    "ple can be interpreted as either representing the _ actual _ evolution of individual objects in which a single population of quasars formed at a single epoch and have been growing dimmer ever since , or as the _ statistical _ evolution of the properties of successive populations .",
    "bsp noted that the latter interpretation implies a conspiracy between birth and death rates .",
    "however the former interpretation , in which lifetimes are of the order of the hubble time , predicts massive remnant black holes in seyfert galaxies at low redshift ( cavaliere & padovani 1989 ) .",
    "the analysis of bsp relied on brighter quasar surveys , principally the palomar - green survey ( schmidt & green 1983 ) , in order to determine the most luminous part of the luminosity function .",
    "however , doubts have been raised about the completeness of this survey ( wampler & ponz 1985 ) and initial results from the edinburgh multicolour survey ( goldschmidt et al .",
    "1992 ) showed that the palomar - green survey under - estimated by a factor 3 the surface density of quasars with @xmath18 . in this paper",
    "we shall replace the palomar - green data with data from the edinburgh survey .",
    "hewett et al . ( 1993 ) presented the first estimates of the space density of quasars from the recently completed lbqs ( morris et al .",
    "1991 and references therein ) , and compared those estimates with those predicted by the ple model .",
    "they found that the ple model over - predicts the number of quasars at the faint end and under - predicts the number of quasars at the luminous end of the luminosity function in each redshift slice .",
    "they show that the slope of the luminosity function for luminous quasars appears to change shape with redshift , in contradiction to ple , and argue that modification of the model is needed : we shall see that our new results are in accord with that conclusion .",
    "hawkins & vron ( 1993 & 1995 ) have used variability - selected samples of quasars to calculate the luminosity function in the same flux range as the aat survey and conclude that the latter survey is incomplete , and that the characteristic luminosity , or `` break '' , detected by bsp is simply an artefact of this incompleteness . if the luminosity function is a single power - law with no break then there is no way of discriminating between luminosity and density evolution .",
    "this paper presents the results from the recently finished edinburgh multicolour survey .",
    "a brief summary of this survey is given in section 2 , and in section 3 we use this survey together with fainter uvx surveys to estimate the luminosity function in redshift slices . in section 4",
    "we test whether the data can be adequately described by either the bsp model or even by any evolving power - law model in which the power - law index remains constant : a class of models which includes those of bsp and hawkins & vron ( 1995 ) .",
    "section 5 presents the results of fitting empirical models to the data .",
    "a full description of the construction of the survey is given by mitchell ( 1989 ) , goldschmidt ( 1993 ) and miller et al .",
    "( 1997 ) , what follows is a brief summary .",
    "the survey is based on 130 u.k .",
    "schmidt telescope ( ukst ) plates taken in 13 contiguous fields in five wavebands ( the photographic bands @xmath19 , @xmath20 , @xmath21 , @xmath22 and @xmath23 ) at high galactic latitude covering 330 deg@xmath24 .",
    "the coordinates of the field centres range from @xmath25 to @xmath26 ( equinox 1950 ) in ra at dec .",
    "@xmath27 ( ukst fields 789 to 794 ) and from @xmath25 to @xmath28 at dec .",
    "@xmath29 ( ukst fields 861 to 867 ) . the plates in each band were taken close together in time so that incompleteness and contamination due to variability should be insignificant .",
    "the plates in each waveband were scanned and measured on the cosmos machine ( macgillivray & stobie 1984 ) and only those objects detected on both plates were included in the final dataset .",
    "the resulting dataset was calibrated with photoelectric and ccd sequences in every waveband in every ukst field ( mitchell 1989 & goldschmidt 1993 ) , obtained at the eso - danish 1.5 m. , university of hawaii @xmath30 , steward observatory @xmath31 & @xmath32 and jkt 1 m. telescopes .",
    "we then used this calibrated dataset to select uvx candidates .",
    "the prime selection criterion for the uvx quasar sample was @xmath33 colour , requiring quasar candidates to have @xmath34 on average , although the exact value varied slightly from field to field ( see miller et al .",
    "1997 ) .",
    "a morphological criterion was also imposed to exclude any candidates which appeared extended on the ukst @xmath19 plates ; the prime reason for this was to exclude blended objects with peculiar colours which would contaminate the candidate lists .",
    "spectroscopic confirmation of all the candidates has been carried out at the int 2.5 m. , the eso 1.5 m. and 2.2 m. telescopes and the ukst , the latter using the flair multifibre spectrograph .",
    "spectra have been obtained for a total of 206 quasars , of which 120 with @xmath35 and @xmath36 form the complete sample used in this paper . for the analysis presented here we transform from the photographic @xmath20 band to the standard johnson @xmath37 band using an average correction of 0.06 magnitudes .",
    "this was derived from the transformation of blair & gilmore ( 1982 ) , @xmath38 , and assuming the average @xmath39 for the quasars in the edinburgh survey .",
    "the resulting quasar sample should be complete in the redshift and magnitude ranges quoted above .",
    "the lower redshift limit arises because low redshift quasars may have host galaxies that are visible and hence appear extended , or they may have redder colours due to the underlying host galaxy .",
    "however this limit is poorly determined and is obviously a function of quasar luminosity .",
    "we use the 120 quasars in the complete sample from the edinburgh survey together with the aat sample ( boyle et al .",
    "1990 ) , the sa94 sample ( la franca et al . 1992 ) and the mbqs sample ( mitchell et al . 1984 ) to estimate the luminosity function .",
    "we transform the photographic magnitudes in the aat survey to the standard johnson system @xmath37 using the empirically determined relation in bsp , @xmath40 .",
    "this is not the same as the transformation used for the edinburgh survey because of the non - standard photographic magnitude system used for the aat survey .",
    "the luminosity function can be estimated using the sum of the inverse of the comoving volume of the universe searched to find each object in the survey ( schmidt 1968 ) , where the available volume is calculated from the minimum and maximum redshifts at which an object could have been detected by a given survey , given its luminosity and the flux limit of the survey ( note , however , that this method assumes that locally the comoving space density of quasars is uniform , and hence , if binned over large redshift ranges , strong evolution leads to a bias in the estimate of the luminosity function ) .",
    "we use the coherent method of avni & bahcall ( 1980 ) to maximise the information in the combined samples . in calculating the absolute magnitudes of the quasars we use k - corrections as defined by schmidt & green ( 1983 ) , i.e. assuming a featureless power - law slope with a spectral index @xmath41 .",
    "we compared this approximation to the k - corrections tabulated by cristiani & vio ( 1990 ) and found that there was no significant difference in the estimated luminosity function due to the difference in k - correction within the redshift range used in this paper .",
    "the above method has been used to construct the differential luminosity function for the surveys ( fig .",
    "the redshift slices have been chosen to be the same as those used in bsp .",
    "the first impression is that the luminosity function changes shape as a function of redshift , in direct contrast to the ple model , and that the luminosity function in the lowest redshift slice looks like a featureless power - law with no break at all for @xmath42 .",
    "we investigate the evolving shape of the luminosity function in the following sections .",
    "we assume the hubble constant h@xmath43kms@xmath44mpc@xmath44 , zero cosmological constant , and the deceleration parameter @xmath45 unless otherwise stated .",
    "in order to assess whether the observed luminosity function agrees with the ple model we carry out two tests .",
    "the first is a non - parametric test , comparing the observed cumulative distribution in luminosity with that predicted by ple using the one - dimensional one - sample kolmogorov - smirnov test ( e.g. conover 1980 ) to test the null hypothesis that both the observed and model distributions are drawn from the same parent population .",
    "we bin the data into redshift slices as above and calculate the observed cumulative distribution in absolute magnitude ( note that we can not simply compare observed and predicted cumulative luminosity functions as the ks test requires that each data point have equal weight , which is not true for the volume - weighted luminosity function ) .",
    "the theoretical cumulative distribution is calculated from the ple model of bsp for each object with absolute magnitude @xmath46 and redshift @xmath47 ; @xmath48 where the redshift limits @xmath49 are determined by both the limits of the redshift slices and the distance limits for detection given the apparent magnitude limits ( both bright and faint ) of the survey , and @xmath50 is the luminosity corresponding to the bright flux limit at @xmath47 .",
    "@xmath51 is determined from the model parameters , and @xmath52 is the effective area searched to find that object .",
    "we use three different subsets of the combined edinburgh and aat surveys ; + ( a ) the whole of both surveys .",
    "+ ( b ) the data from both surveys brighter than the absolute magnitude corresponding to the bsp break in each redshift slice .",
    "this absolute magnitude was calculated from equation ( 2 ) with @xmath47 taken to be the upper redshift limit of each redshift slice . under the null hypothesis that we are testing , using this method",
    "should mean that the data used has the same shape distribution , regardless of redshift , if ple is an adequate description of the data .",
    "+ ( c ) the whole of the edinburgh survey alone .",
    "figure 2 shows the observed and model distributions for case c , i.e. for the edinburgh survey alone .",
    "table 1 shows the probabilities that the null hypothesis is true in each redshift slice for each of the three cases outlined above . in cases",
    "b and c the probability that the model describes the data in the lowest redshift slice is unacceptable at a significance level of @xmath53 .",
    "we also find that if we carry out a two - dimensional ks test ( peacock 1983 ) just on the edinburgh sample over the entire range of redshifts , we obtain a probability of @xmath54 that the ple model describes the data adequately .",
    "this rejection of the ple model is not found when testing case a , a reflection of the fact that it is the high luminosity quasars which are responsible for the effect .",
    "this is not surprising : the ple model was developed to fit the fainter aat data , which we continue to use in this analysis , plus the brighter data of schmidt & green ( 1983 ) , which we have previously argued is significantly incomplete ( goldschmidt _ et al .",
    "_ , 1992 ) and which we have replaced by the edinburgh quasar survey",
    ". we should therefore expect to see the most significant differences between the model and the edinburgh data .",
    ".the ks probabilities of the three subsets of the data defined in the text being consistent with the ple model of bsp [ cols=\"^,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      we can extend our analysis to test whether the data can be fitted by _ any _ evolving power - law model in which the power - law index remains constant . both the ple model , at magnitudes more luminous than the bsp break , and the hawkins & vron model are examples of this class of model . in this section",
    "we fit a single power - law model to the data in each redshift slice , but only at luminosities higher than the bsp break luminosity .",
    "we then test the null hypothesis that these bright - end power - law indices in each redshift slice have the same value .",
    "the best - fit values for the indices are calculated using maximum likelihood assuming a single power - law fit to the data more luminous than the bsp break in each redshift slice , @xmath55 where @xmath56 is the estimate of the index of the power law .",
    "the faintest absolute magnitude in each redshift slice used to fit the model to the data is calculated by taking a comoving space density @xmath57 ( @xmath45 ) and finding the corresponding absolute magnitude in the bsp model at different redshifts . under the null hypothesis this should give a constant index for all redshifts .",
    "the answer should not be overly dependent on the value of @xmath58 chosen , although too low a value will result in too little relevant data being used to fit the model , thereby reducing the statistical significance . too high",
    "a value will result in some of the data from the flat part of the luminosity function being used , again underestimating the true significance .",
    "errors on @xmath56 are calculated by assuming a @xmath59 distribution for @xmath60 where @xmath61 is the likelihood function . for @xmath62",
    "the best - fit power - law index increases from @xmath63 in the lowest redshift slice to @xmath64 in the highest slice ( fig.3 ) .",
    "a single value for @xmath56 is ruled out at a significance level of @xmath65 .",
    "for @xmath66 the index increases from @xmath67 to @xmath68 and a single value for @xmath56 is unacceptable at a significance level of @xmath54 .",
    "the evidence presented in this section shows clearly that the high - luminosity part of the luminosity function does _ not _ evolve according to the expectations of pure luminosity evolution .",
    "the slope of the luminosity function at @xmath69 displays significant steepening with redshift .",
    "the analysis in the previous section showed that the power - law index changed with redshift for quasars more luminous than the break .",
    "we have also previously remarked that there appears to be no evidence for a break in the luminosity function at low redshift . in this section",
    "we fit a single power - law model to _ all _ the quasars brighter than @xmath70 in the lowest redshift bin with @xmath71 ; @xmath72 using maximum likelihood as above . the best fit to these parameters are @xmath73 and @xmath74 .    to test the goodness - of - fit of the single power - law we could use a binned chi - squared test .",
    "this is not the most efficient way of testing the model as chi - squared can not cope with incomplete bins .",
    "we prefer instead to use a kolmogorov - smirnov test to estimate goodness - of - fit , following previous work such as boyle et al .",
    "( 1988 & 1991 ) .",
    "this procedure suffers from the problem that the slope of the power - law is a free parameter in the model , and the value of the slope has been found by fitting to the data .",
    "thus the significance level at which the model can be rejected is actually an overestimate : strictly speaking , in this application the ks test can only rule out models , but the fact that there is a value for a single power - law model which does fit should indicate to us that there is no justification for the pursuit of a more complicated model at low redshifts .",
    "this is indeed the result we obtain .",
    "the ks test shows that this model is acceptable , with a significance level for rejection of @xmath75 .",
    "conversely , at redshifts @xmath76 it is clear that the luminosity function can not be parameterised as a single power - law .",
    "the data can be fitted by either a dual power - law model as described previously or a variety of other functional forms .",
    "for example , we can fit a schechter function with uniform luminosity evolution to the data at @xmath77 , where the model is parameterised as ; @xmath78\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath79 .",
    "the best - fit values of the parameters are @xmath80 , @xmath81 and @xmath82 .",
    "the fit is acceptable , with a significance level for rejection of @xmath83 .",
    "the single power - law model which fits the data at low redshifts ( as described above ) can be rejected at a significance level @xmath84 in the redshift range @xmath77 .",
    "from the above analysis we reach the following conclusions .    1 .   the shape of the quasar luminosity function changes shape with redshift , in a manner that can not be described as pure luminosity evolution .",
    "specifically , the slope of the luminosity function at high luminosities is significantly steeper at redshifts @xmath85 than it is at @xmath86 .",
    "2 .   at redshifts @xmath87 the luminosity function may be described by a single power - law , and there is no evidence for any feature in the luminosity function that may be used as a tracer of luminosity evolution .",
    "conversely , at @xmath88 the luminosity function can not be described by a single power - law , as previously found by bsp , and there is a break in the luminosity function at @xmath89 .",
    "the luminosity function at high redshift may be described by a number of functional forms such as the two - power law model of bsp or indeed by a schechter function .",
    "the consequence of these conclusions are that it can not be shown that the quasar population experiences luminosity evolution .",
    "it may be that quasars are long - lived and that they do indeed dim with cosmic epoch in a luminosity - dependent manner so as to produce the observed evolution .",
    "but it is equally possible that quasars are short - lived phenomena and that the observed evolution is a more complex mixture of luminosity - dependent density evolution .",
    "in fact , recent models ( goldschmidt 1993 , percival , miller & goldschmidt 1997 ) suggest that such evolution might be expected if quasars are short - lived symptoms of galaxy mergers in a cdm - type ( `` bottom - up '' ) universe . in this case , it is only possible to make progress in understanding quasar evolution by constructing a specific model such as the one just described and then comparing the predictions of the model with the observed luminosity function .",
    "it is not possible to deduce model - independent conclusions about whether or not quasars undergo luminosity evolution from consideration of the observed luminosity function alone .",
    "one piece of information which must be a powerful clue to the type of model that is required , however , is the observation that the amount of density evolution is greatest at intermediate luminosities ( @xmath90 ) , and appears to be less at higher quasar luminosities .",
    "extrapolation of this result would indicate that at @xmath91 the comoving space density of quasars may have remained roughly unchanged since @xmath92 ! the existing data are too noisy at high luminosities and low redshifts to demonstrate this unambiguously , and we must await larger - area surveys to provide better statistical evidence for the most luminous quasars .",
    "avni y. & bahcall j.n .",
    ", 1980 , apj , 235 , 694 .",
    "blair m. & gilmore g. , 1982 , pasp , 94 , 742 .",
    "boyle b.j . , shanks t. & peterson b.a",
    ". , 1988 , mnras , 235 , 935 .",
    "boyle b.j .",
    ", fong r. , shanks t. & peterson b.a .",
    ", 1990 , mnras , 243 , 1 .",
    "boyle b.j . ,",
    "jones l. & shanks t. , 1991 , mnras , 251 , 482 .",
    "boyle , b.j .",
    ", 1991 , in proc texas / eso / cern ed j. barrow et al .",
    "cavaliere a. & padovani p. , 1989 ,",
    "apj , 340 , l5 .",
    "conover , w.a .",
    ", 1980 , practical nonparametric statistics , wiley . cristiani s. & vio r. , 1990 , a&a , 227 , 385 .",
    "goldschmidt p. , miller l. , la franca f. & cristiani s. , 1992 , mnras , 256 , 65p .",
    "goldschmidt p. , 1993",
    "d. thesis , university of edinburgh .",
    "haehnelt m.g . &",
    "rees m.j . , 1993 , mnras , 263 , 168 .",
    "hawkins m.r.s . & vron p. , 1993 ,",
    "mnras , 260 , 202 .",
    "hawkins m.r.s . & vron p. , 1995 ,",
    "mnras , 275 , 1102 .",
    "hewett p.c .",
    ", foltz c.b . & chaffee f.h .",
    ", 1993 , aj , 406 , l43 .",
    "la franca f. , cristiani s. & barbieri c. , 1992 , aj , 102 , 1062 .",
    "macgillivray h.t . &",
    "stobie r.s . , 1984 , vistas astr . , 27 , 433 .",
    "miller , l. et al . , 1997 , _ in preparation_.",
    "mitchell k. , warnock a.iii & usher p.d .",
    ", 1984 , apj , 287 , l3 .",
    "mitchell p.s . , 1989 .",
    "thesis , edinburgh university .",
    "morris s.l . ,",
    "weymann r.j .",
    ", anderson s.f .",
    ", hewett p.c .",
    ", foltz c.b .",
    ", chaffee f.h .",
    ", francis p.j . &",
    "macalpine g.m . , 1991 , aj , 102 , 1627 .",
    "peacock j.a .",
    ", 1983 , mnras , 202 , 615 .",
    "percival , w.j . , miller , l. , & goldschmidt , p. , 1997 , _ in preparation_. schmidt m. , 1968 , apj , 151 , 393 .",
    "schmidt m. & green r.f .",
    ", 1983 , apj , 269 , 352 .",
    "wampler e.j . &",
    "ponz d. , 1985 , apj , 298 , 448 .",
    "zitelli v. , mignoli m. , zamorani g. , marano b. & boyle b.j .",
    ", 1992 , mnras , 256 , 349 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the recently - finished edinburgh uvx quasar survey at @xmath0 is used together with other complete samples to estimate the shape and evolution of the optical luminosity function in the redshift range @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> there is a significantly higher space density of quasars at high luminosity and low redshift than previously found in the pg sample of schmidt & green ( 1983 ) , with the result that the shape of the luminosity function at low redshifts ( @xmath2 ) is seen to be consistent with a single power - law . at higher redshifts </S>",
    "<S> the slope of the power - law at high luminosities appears to steepen significantly . </S>",
    "<S> there does not appear to be any consistent break feature which could be used as a tracer of luminosity evolution in the population .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmology , quasars ; evolution . </S>"
  ]
}