{
  "article_text": [
    "the development of sensitive , large format imaging arrays at near - infrared wavelengths has made it possible to obtain statistically significant and complete samplings of the near - infrared luminosity functions of very young embedded clusters . in principle",
    "such luminosity functions should provide fundamental constraints on the stellar initial mass function ( imf ) with a index @xmath1 in this definition .",
    "] of these clusters and its possible variation in space and time .",
    "there are several advantages and disadvantages in using young embedded clusters to study issues of the initial mass function ( for a summary see @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the biggest advantage of studying the luminosity functions of very young clusters is that the low mass stars in these clusters are brighter than at any other time in their evolution .",
    "consequently modern nir detectors even on modest telescopes can completely sample the entire imf of nearby ( d @xmath2 1 kpc ) embedded clusters down to and _ well below _ the hydrogen burning limit .",
    "however , the youth of the clusters also makes interpreting the luminosity functions of these clusters , in terms of an imf , difficult , since most members are still in the pre - main sequence phase of their evolution . for pre - main sequence stars",
    ", there is no unique mass to luminosity relation and consequently one must rely on using evolutionary models to understand the underlying imfs of embedded clusters .",
    "various groups have modeled the luminosity functions of young clusters using realistic stellar mass functions and appropriate mass - luminosity relationships ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "zinnecker , mccaughrean & wilking ( 1993 ) were the first to present model klfs of very young clusters .",
    "for their model clusters they adopted a `` coeval '' star formation history in which all the stars were formed at a single instant of time . moreover , they assumed blackbody radiation to derive bolometric corrections and assumed a single form for the imf . consequently , their models were not very realistic and they did not attempt to fit or directly compare their models to observed klfs .",
    "@xcite ( ll95 , hereafter ) improved on this work by developing evolutionary models for the klfs of young clusters ranging in age from 10@xmath3 to @xmath2 10@xmath4 yrs , using empirically determined bolometric corrections and allowing for non - coeval or continuous star formation in the clusters .",
    "moreover , they directly compared their models to observed klfs of young clusters . however , similar to the zinnecker et al .",
    "work , lada & lada assumed a single underlying imf ( i.e. , the @xcite field star imf ) and employed the published pre - main sequence evolutionary tracks of @xcite .",
    "in addition , their model klfs were constructed for stars having masses between 0.1 and 20 @xmath5 , since the existing pms tracks did not extend below 0.1 @xmath5 .",
    "thus their results are only valid as long as there are no , or at least very few , brown dwarfs in these clusters .",
    "their modeling efforts produced several interesting results .",
    "for example , lada & lada found that for a fixed imf the shape of a cluster klf depends primarily on the duration of star formation and age of the cluster and that in general the klfs broaden with age .",
    "it is somewhat difficult to evaluate the success of the early modeling work to constrain the imf of embedded clusters because : 1 ) these early models typically employed one set of pms tracks with stellar masses greater than 0.1 @xmath5 ; 2 ) the models only considered one fixed imf and , 3 ) the ages and age spreads of the clusters were not well constrained .",
    "fortunately , improvements in these areas have recently been made .",
    "for example , pms evolutionary tracks have been extended to objects with masses well below the hydrogen burning limit .",
    "in addition , improved age estimates for several clusters such as the trapezium @xcite and ic 348 @xcite have been made .",
    "given these advances , we have extended the earlier modeling work and have developed a new suite of klf evolutionary models .",
    "these new models are based on monte carlo techniques and are a considerable improvement over the earlier calculations . in particular , the new models incorporate improved bolometric corrections and new pms tracks , thereby including objects with masses below the hydrogen burning limit . in this paper , we describe our new models and present our results from this modeling effort .",
    "in addition , we investigate the utility of using near - infrared luminosity functions for interpreting and constraining the imf of young embedded stellar clusters . since the observed luminosity function of a young cluster depends not only on the underlying imf , but also the pre - main sequence mass - to - luminosity relation and the star forming history of the clusters , it is important to understand how changes in the pre - main sequence mass - to - luminosity relations , star forming history and the underlying imf affect the resulting klf .",
    "therefore , we have systematically varied each of these three basic underlying inputs and have evaluated the sensitivity of the klf to each input .",
    "finally , we illustrate the effectiveness of using the klf of a young cluster to constrain its imf by modeling the klf of the trapezium cluster for which detailed knowledge of its star formation history is known from optical spectroscopic studies @xcite .",
    "the observed luminosity function ( lf ) for a young cluster depends on the pre - main sequence mass to luminosity (",
    "m - l ) relation , the star forming history ( sfh ) of the cluster and the cluster s underlying initial mass function ( imf ) .",
    "we constructed model k - band lfs ( klfs ) for a suite of synthetic young clusters using varying pms m - l relations , sfhs and imfs .",
    "we first specified a functional form for the sfh and the imf for each synthetic cluster .",
    "the ages and masses of the individual cluster members were then sampled from these adopted functions using a monte carlo rejection method algorithm .",
    "we derived the monochromatic magnitudes for each model star from its age and mass by using theoretical pre - main sequence evolutionary models and empirical bolometric corrections taken from the literature .",
    "for each synthetic cluster , we binned the resulting magnitudes in half magnitude bins to compare to observed cluster luminosity functions .",
    "our standard cluster contained 1000 stars and for each sfh and imf we produced 100 independent luminosity functions .",
    "we computed the mean luminosity function from these 100 realizations , and report the one sigma standard deviation of the computed mean .",
    "for the models presented in this paper , we assumed a constant star formation rate over the sfh of the cluster .",
    "we parameterized the sfh using a `` mean age '' , @xmath6 , and an `` age spread '' , @xmath7 .",
    "for example , a coeval cluster will have no age spread and @xmath8 .",
    "a cluster with the largest possible age spread would have @xmath9 with star formation starting @xmath10 years ago and continuing to the present .",
    "figure [ age_agespread ] illustrates these definitions .",
    "our model sfh then approximates any sfh to first order by using the most common age of the members and a rough age spread .    in our standard model ,",
    "stars have masses from 80 to 0.02 m@xmath11 .",
    "for all the models considered here , the youngest ( @xmath12 years ) cluster members with masses greater than 5 @xmath5 will have already reached the zero age main sequence ( zams ) . for these massive stars",
    ", we converted their age and mass to bolometric luminosity and effective temperature using a theoretical zams derived from @xcite . between 1 and 5 m@xmath11 , we used pre - main sequence evolutionary models from either @xcite or @xcite . for stars below 1 m@xmath11 and brown dwarfs , we used pms evolutionary models from dantona & mazzitelli ( 1994,1998 ) .",
    "appendix [ pmsappendix ] describes how these three regimes were combined . using the bolometric luminosity and effective temperatures derived from these stellar models ,",
    "we converted to an absolute magnitude using the formula : @xmath13 our empirical bolometric corrections were tabulated as functions of effective temperature and were taken from the literature .",
    "in addition , we assumed @xmath14 .",
    "we list the sources of the bolometric corrections in appendix [ boloappendix ] .    for the purposes of this paper",
    ", we will only present an analysis of the k - band ( 2.2 @xmath15 m ) luminosity functions for our model stars , though any monochromatic luminosity functions could be calculated .",
    "note that our models did not include the effects of excess infrared flux due to unresolved binaries or circumstellar accretion disks around pms stars .",
    "however , by choosing relatively wide ( half magnitude ) bins for the luminosity function , we can minimize the variable effects of infrared excess flux .",
    "the model klfs for our young clusters did not include the effects of differential interstellar extinction common in young star forming regions .",
    "we did not include protostars in our luminosity function models since the contribution of proto - stellar objects to the luminosity function of most star forming regions should be small @xcite . finally , we defined our input mass function as a single star mass function .",
    "the evolution of pre - main sequence ( pms ) stars across the hr diagram and onto the main sequence is not observationally well constrained .",
    "details of pms evolution rely heavily upon theoretical pms models .",
    "these theoretical pms models vary in their predictions depending on the numerical methods and theoretical assumptions used in their creation .",
    "since these pms models are used to convert from a stellar age and mass to a monochromatic magnitude , the resulting luminosity functions will depend to some degree on the pms evolutionary models which are chosen . to evaluate how pms models with different input physics , chemical abundances or effective mass ranges affect the shape and form of a model luminosity function , we constructed and compared model luminosity functions calculated assuming different pms models .    for these experiments",
    ", we fixed the initial mass function to have a log - normal distribution : @xmath16 where c1 is a normalization constant , c2 equals @xmath17 , c3 equals @xmath18 or the mean log mass of the distribution , and @xmath19 is the variance of this mean . the mean and variance that we adopted correspond to the field star mass function given by @xcite ( ms79 , here after ) , having constants of @xmath20 and @xmath21 or a mean mass of 0.0955 m@xmath22 .",
    "we produced a suite of model clusters with a range of mean ages from 0.2 to 15 myrs and age spreads from coeval to twice the mean age of the model cluster .",
    "for the purposes of evaluating the effects of using different input pms models , we only directly compared klf models having identical star forming histories .",
    "@xcite ( hereafter dm94 ) calculated four different sets of evolutionary pms models varying two input physical parameters , the input opacity tables and the treatments of internal convection .",
    "table [ pmstable ] summarizes the four combinations of input physics and other parameters of the dm94 pms models .",
    "only one of these data sets contained stars with masses less than the hydrogen burning limit .",
    "consequently , we used a common range of stellar masses from 2.5 to 0.1 m@xmath11 to compute different model klfs using the four sets of dm94 pms models .",
    "figure [ dm94compare ] compares synthetic klfs computed from the dm94 pms models for coeval models with mean ages of 1 and 7 million years , respectively . in figure",
    "[ dm94compare ] , different symbols correspond to different input opacity tables in the pms models used .",
    "for the 1 million year coeval models , the two klfs corresponding to pms models with kurucz opacities are essentially indistinguishable , indicating that the klfs are insensitive to the convection model used .",
    "the two model klfs corresponding to pms models with alexander opacities exhibit a relatively narrow but significant feature or peak between m@xmath23 @xmath24 3 - 4 which is not apparent in the klfs with kurucz opacities .",
    "the position of this spike is different for the two convection models used with the alexander opacities .",
    "this feature is due to deuterium burning which causes a slowing of the stellar luminosity evolution @xcite and therefore results in a pile up of stars in the luminosity function .",
    "the deuterium burning spike is absent in the 7 myr coeval model in figure [ dm94compare ] , and in all coeval models with mean ages greater than 2 - 3 myrs for stars above the hydrogen burning limit .",
    "the onset of deuterium burning is a function of stellar mass .",
    "low mass stars contract more slowly than higher mass stars and begin burning deuterium after high mass stars . however by 3 myrs , even stars at the hydrogen burning limit would have burned all of their initial deuterium abundance .",
    "a second feature of interest in the klfs is the spike / dip at m@xmath23 = 2 in the 7 myr coeval model .",
    "it is present in all four 7 myr klfs and in all klfs with mean ages greater than 3 - 4 myr .",
    "this feature is the result of stars reaching a luminosity maximum on radiative tracks before beginning hydrogen burning and moving to lower luminosities on the main sequence @xcite .",
    "we refer to this feature as the luminosity maximum spike ( lms ) .",
    "the luminosity maximum spike has been studied by @xcite in intermediate age ( 50 - 100 myrs ) clusters and these authors have used it to study the age of the pleiades open cluster @xcite .",
    "model klfs appear degenerate in the absence of the deuterium burning spike .",
    "the existence of a deuterium spike removes the degeneracy and differentiates between the two different pms opacity models .",
    "moreover , the position of the deuterium burning spike can differentiate between the two convection treatments but only for alexander opacities .",
    "however , only the youngest clusters exhibit a deuterium burning spike . model klfs computed with different pms tracks and with mean ages greater then 2 - 3 myrs are essentially indistinguishable from each other and consequently insensitive to the input physics of the pms models .",
    "note that the deuterium burning spike is most prominent when deuterium burning occurs in those stars with masses at the peak of the chosen imf , which for models discussed here occurs at the hydrogen burning limit ( mean ages 1 - 2 myrs ) .",
    "introducing an age spread to the cluster star forming history diminishes the differences between the klfs for all four dm94 and at any cluster mean age . while we fully describe the effects of age and age spread on the model klfs in section [ expsfh ] , these result implies that except in the youngest clusters , the klf will be observationally insensitive to variations in the input physics of the pms models .",
    "to further study how different pms models affect the model klfs , we compared the pms models of dm94 with the more recent and improved calculations of @xcite ( dm98 ) .",
    "table [ pmstable ] lists the relevant characteristics of the dm98 models .",
    "we constructed model klfs computed with the standard mass range ( 0.02 to 80 m@xmath11 ) using the dm94 acm and dm98 d2.5 pms models .",
    "these two pms models have similar deuterium abundances but dm98 have advancements to the opacity table and treatment of convection as well as a new equation of state .",
    "figure [ dm94vdm98 ] compares model klfs using these two pms models with a coeval cluster sfh and mean ages of 0.8 and 5 million years . in general",
    "the overall shapes of the model klfs from the two different pms models are quite similar but some minor differences can be quantified",
    ". first , the dm98 model klfs are somewhat narrower and have peaks shifted to slightly brighter magnitudes than those klfs corresponding to the dm94 acm model .",
    "this was a consistent result for all cluster ages and star forming histories .",
    "second , the largest differences between the model klfs occur at the faint end .",
    "this is where dm98 describe the largest differences in their pms models with respect to the dm94 pms models .",
    "dm98 pms models have a very different resulting mass - effective temperature relation for low mass stars and brown dwarfs than dm94 .",
    "since the k band bolometric correction is fairly insensitive to effective temperature for stars cooler than 3500k ( see appendix [ boloappendix ] ) , these changes do not radically affect the model klf .",
    "further , dm98 pms models have larger luminosities for the low mass stars and young brown dwarfs compared to dm94 .",
    "likewise the dm98 model klfs are shifted to brighter magnitudes with respect to dm94 for the faint end of the klf . however , these differences in the klfs are relatively small and it would be difficult , observationally , to distinguish between them .",
    "the dm98 pms models were specifically created to study the effects of varying the initial deuterium abundance for pms evolutionary calculations .",
    "it is unclear how much deuterium pre - main sequence stars might contain as they evolve from the birthline toward the main sequence .",
    "and there is little observational evidence to constrain this parameter , so it should be considered as an ambiguity in modeling the klfs .",
    "we studied the effects of the deuterium abundance on the klfs by experimenting with the three pms models presented by dm98 .",
    "the opacities used by dm98 in their pms models are advancements to those in the dm94 pms models which produced a deuterium burning spike in the klfs of figure [ dm94compare ] .",
    "dm98 input physics and deuterium abundances are summarized in table [ pmstable ] .",
    "we produced model klfs using the three dm98 pms models , d1.5 , d2.5 , and d4.5 , so labeled by their respective deuterium abundance ratios , e.g. , model d1.5 equals a deuterium abundance of @xmath25 . respectively , these three pms models have deuterium abundances of one half , one and two times the interstellar deuterium abundance , which is @xmath26_0 \\:\\ : = \\:\\ : 2.0\\:\\times\\:10^{-5}$ ] .",
    "figure [ dm97compare ] compares model klfs derived from these pms models for mean ages of 2 and 7 myr and both coeval and @xmath27 age spreads . comparing the coeval models",
    "it is clear that increasing the [ d / h ] abundance shifts the deuterium burning spike to brighter magnitudes and increases its size .",
    "the deuterium burning peak disappeared from the d1.5 klf by 3 myr , the d2.5 klfs by 10 myr and from the d4.5 klfs not until beyond 10 myr . for model klfs shown in figure [ dm97compare ] with the maximum age spread , variations in the klfs due to changes in the initial deuterium abundance are too small to be observable .",
    "the main result here is that variations in the @xmath26 $ ] ratio only produce significant ( i.e. , observable ) differences in the model klfs of coeval ( no age spread ) clusters . for these clusters variations in deuterium abundance affects the location and size of the deuterium burning feature and this occurs only in younger ( @xmath28 3 myr ) clusters or for the highest deuterium abundances .",
    "once stars have undergone deuterium burning , their klfs are identical .",
    "again , the presence of an age spread dilutes the deuterium burning feature rendering the form of the cluster klf independent of the @xmath26 $ ] ratio .",
    "we investigated the effects of using different imf mass ranges by comparing model klfs with the standard mass range ( 0.02 to 80 m@xmath11 ) to model klfs with a truncated mass range ( 0.1 to 2.5 m@xmath11 ) , i.e. , one excluding brown dwarfs , intermediate or high mass stars .",
    "this experiment is useful for comparing our model lfs to prior lf modeling by other authors who typically did not include stars below the hydrogen burning limit or did not include high mass stars .",
    "figure [ mltrunc ] compares model klfs with truncated and standard mass ranges for two different star forming histories . for a coeval sfh ( upper panel , mean age 3.0 myr ) ,",
    "a truncation in the mass range produces a truncation in the model klfs at the highest and lowest magnitude bins .",
    "however , with an age spread ( lower panel , same mean age , @xmath27 ) , the truncated model klf is deficient in stars over a wider range of magnitudes , and the two klfs are similar only over a narrow range of magnitudes .",
    "the form of the cluster klf is clearly very sensitive to the adopted mass range of the underlying imf .",
    "as shown in the experiments of sections [ dm94test ] and [ dm97test ] , mean age and age spread have an important effect on the klf .",
    "to more fully explore this , we created model klfs with a range of mean ages and age spreads , using a single underlying mass function , and a fixed set of pms tracks .",
    "for these experiments , we used the same imf as in section [ expml ] ( see equation [ ms79eq ] ) .",
    "as in the previous section , we considered two mass ranges for the imf , one range with stars down to the 0.1 @xmath5 and one including brown dwarfs with masses down to 0.02 @xmath5 .",
    "we adopted a pms evolutionary model that is our standard combination of dm98 d2.5 pms models , @xcite intermediate - mass pms models , and @xcite zams models ( see appendix [ pmsappendix ] ) .",
    "we compared the effects of changing the mean age and age spread by studying how model klfs evolve with time .",
    "figure [ meanages ] compares model klfs with different mean ages and cluster age spreads .",
    "each panel simultaneously displays a one , three and ten million year mean age cluster klf for a specific @xmath29 . for a given age spread",
    ", the models clearly shift to fainter magnitudes with increasing mean age . for small age spreads",
    ", the deuterium burning feature also evolves to fainter magnitudes with time appearing at m@xmath23 = 3.5 at 1 myrs and m@xmath23 = 5.5 at 3 myrs , and m@xmath23 = 8 at 10 myrs . to quantify the klf evolution with time , we calculated the mean k magnitude of the model klf at each mean age from 0.5 to 10 myrs and for a range of age spreads . in figure [ meank ]",
    ", we plot the klf mean magnitude versus the cluster mean age .",
    "also we show this value for the two limiting values of @xmath29 .",
    "two sets of curves are plotted , the upper corresponding to an underlying cluster imf with brown dwarfs ( standard imf ) and the lower to an underlying imf having no stars with masses less than 0.1 m@xmath11 .",
    "the mean k magnitude of the model klfs evolves over 2 magnitudes in the first 10 myrs of the cluster lifetime , regardless of the age spread or the mass range over which the imf was considered .",
    "age spread has little effect except to slightly shift the klfs to brighter magnitudes .",
    "the evolution of the mean k magnitude proceeds most quickly in the first 3 million years where the models evolve by 1 full magnitude .",
    "the model klfs without brown dwarfs naturally have significantly brighter mean values but for these klfs the mean k magnitude evolves similarly to the standard models .",
    "this indicates that the klfs are more sensitive to changes in the underlying imf than to changes in the cluster star forming history .",
    "we also studied the width of the model klfs and found that klfs widen systematically with time as was shown by ll95 .",
    "variations in the mean cluster age produce more significant changes in the the model klfs than do changes in the cluster age spread .",
    "we show in figure [ deltat ] , model klfs for two mean ages and for both of these mean ages we show the four different age spreads from figure [ meanages ] .",
    "for a given mean age , it would be difficult to observationally distinguish clusters with differing age spreads .",
    "in detail , models with differing age spreads do exhibit differences in the prominence of the deuterium burning spike and the maximum luminosity dip / spike . at what point",
    "can one distinguish a coeval model klf from a model klf with an age spread ? to answer this question , we compared model klfs with increasing age spread to a coeval model of the same mean age . using the @xmath30 test , we distinguished the age spread at which the models klfs no longer appear to be coeval . the general trend from our test is that for an increasing mean age , we require a steadily increasing age spread to distinguish the models from a coeval klf . for mean ages up to 5 myrs , a cluster klf appears coeval until the duration of star formation equals the age of the cluster . between 5 and 10 myr mean",
    "ages , the deuterium burning feature is present among the brown dwarfs but is not very prominent in the model klfs .",
    "only a very small age spread is required to erase it from the model klfs and the models no longer appear `` coeval '' with only a small amount of age spread .",
    "once the deuterium burning feature is lost from the m - l relation , the models require very large and probably unrealistic age spreads for them to significantly differ from a coeval model of the same mean age .",
    "we varied the underlying initial mass function of a young cluster to test the influence of the input imf on the model klfs .",
    "in previous sections we used a single imf equivalent to the log - normal ( ms79 ) mass function and only changed the mass limits to this imf . to test the sensitivity of the klf to variations in the underlying imf",
    ", we adopted a simple two power - law imf characterized by the form : @xmath31 for each power - law segment .",
    "we used the symbol @xmath32 to represent the power - law index of the mass function .",
    "two power - law segments are joined at a mass , @xmath33 .",
    "the power - law index for masses greater than some @xmath33 , is @xmath34 . for masses below the @xmath33 value ,",
    "the imf index is @xmath35 .",
    "figure [ massfunc ] illustrates and compares a sample of the mass functions we used .",
    "the log - normal imf shown is that used in sections [ expml ] and [ expsfh ] and follows the ms79 parameterization .",
    "the example two power - law imfs shown in figure [ massfunc ] have @xmath36 , @xmath37 and @xmath35 varying from -1.35 to + 1.0 .    in these experiments , we varied @xmath34 values from -2.5 to -0.25 , @xmath33 from 0.06 to 1.5 @xmath5 and @xmath35 values from -1.35 to + 2.0 .",
    "figure [ 2powerklf ] displays some of the model klfs and the corresponding underlying imfs .",
    "the cluster star forming history used for these models has a mean age of 5 myrs and a @xmath29 = 1.0 , or an age spread of 5 myrs .",
    "we show model klfs normalized to the bright end of the klf where the underlying imf power - law indices have identical @xmath34 slopes equal to -1.35 .",
    "this example uses a @xmath38 and five @xmath35 values equal to -1.35 , -0.40 , 0.0 , + 0.40 and + 1.35 .",
    "the most steeply rising klf corresponds to a single salpeter ( 1955 ) power - law imf over the entire standard mass range .",
    "model klfs display variations due to changes in all three parameters of the two power - law imf . in figure",
    "[ 2powerklf ] , the effects of changing @xmath35 are large and the differences between klfs with a slightly rising and a slightly falling imf below the @xmath33 are significant .",
    "varying the @xmath33 produces shifts in the peak of the model klfs .",
    "another result of these tests is that over the range of k magnitudes governed by a single underlying imf power - law , the model klf tends to be characterized by a power - law like slope .",
    "this is true both for the bright and faint slopes of the model klfs away from the turnover caused by the m@xmath39 in the model imf .",
    "however , we do note that features ( e.g. , peaks or dips ) can arise in the lf of a cluster which do not correspond to features in the underlying mass function , but instead , result from changes in the slope of the mass - luminosity relation @xcite .",
    "such a feature is present at m@xmath40 = 5.5 in the model klfs of figure [ 2powerklf ] and this peak is the result of a change of slope in the mass - luminosity relation due to deuterium burning .",
    "this small peak is not related to a corresponding feature in the underlying mass function .",
    "moreover , it is quite small and is not likely to be observationally detectable ( see section [ expml ] ) .",
    "in addition , the steep downward trend often seen in the last bin of the model klfs is the result of truncating the mass range for the underlying imf at 0.02 m@xmath11 , which is the lower mass limit of the model mass - luminosity relation .    in summary",
    ", these calculations clearly show that the shape of the model klf is very sensitive to variations in the underlying cluster imf .",
    "indeed , modest variations in the cluster imf produce significantly greater responses in the model klfs than do variations in the sfh and pms model input physics .",
    "from these numerical experiments which evaluate the sensitivity of the k - band luminosity function to variations in three of its fundamental physical parameters : its underlying imf , its star forming history , and its mass - to - luminosity relation , we find that the klf of a young cluster is more sensitive to variations in its underlying imf than to either variations in the star forming history or the pms mass - to - luminosity relation .",
    "we also find that variations in the cluster mean age can produce a significant response in the klf of a young cluster . in particular , we find that the klf systematically evolves with time . both the mean magnitude and the width of the klf increase with increasing mean age , confirming the results of earlier modeling ( ll95 ) . at the same time",
    ", variations in the cluster age spread are found to have a small effect on the form of the klf and would likely be difficult to distinguish observationally .    except for the youngest and purely coeval clusters ,",
    "we find that the synthetic klfs appear relatively insensitive to the adopted pms evolutionary models ( at least for the range of pms models considered here ) . in the youngest coeval clusters ,",
    "the location and size of the deuterium burning spike in the klf was found to depend sensitively on the pms tracks adopted for the underlying stars .",
    "however , we find that even a small amount of age spread broadens the spike and would make it observationally difficult to detect .",
    "we conclude from these experiments that the klf of a young stellar population can be used to place interesting constraints on the form of the cluster s underlying imf , provided an independent estimate of the cluster mean age is available .",
    "the most direct method of determining the mean age of a young cluster is to obtain optical or infrared spectra and place the objects on the hr diagram . through comparison to theoretical pms tracks ,",
    "the ages of the stars are determined and a mean age for the cluster derived .    from spectroscopic observations",
    ", one can also simultaneously derive the individual masses of the stars and with complete spectra for all cluster members , an independent and more direct determination of the imf results .",
    "however because of spectroscopic sensitivity limits , the determination of masses is usually only possible for the bright stellar population . since the monochromatic k magnitude of the cluster members can be acquired for stars much fainter than the limit of spectroscopic methods , the analysis of the nir luminosity function is a particularly powerful tool for investigating the imf of faint stars in distant clusters or stars at and below the hydrogen burning limit in nearby clusters . determining the fraction of cluster members at and below the hydrogen burning limit is a holy grail of present stellar research .",
    "the application of the luminosity function method to a nearby populous cluster would provide a first glimpse into the brown dwarf population formed at the time of a typical open cluster s birth .",
    "the trapezium cluster is a excellent system for evaluating the klf modeling techniques developed in this paper .",
    "it is the most densely populated and best studied nearby ( d @xmath24 400 - 450pc ) cluster , and the central part of a much larger cluster known as the orion nebula cluster ( onc ) .",
    "the onc has recently been studied by @xcite , who used optical spectroscopy to obtain a mean age for the cluster of @xmath41 years and to construct an imf for stars with masses primarily in excess of the hydrogen burning limit ( hbl ) .",
    "in addition , infrared imaging surveys have been made of both the trapezium cluster @xcite and the onc @xcite enabling the construction of the cluster klf .",
    "for comparison with our models , we consider only the klf for the trapezium cluster , the 5 by 5 central core of the onc .",
    "we constructed a klf of the trapezium by combining the published klfs of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "our adopted klf for the trapezium is shown in the top panel of figure [ trapfit ] .",
    "the zinnecker et al .",
    "klf includes the bright stars but is not complete at and below the hbl .",
    "the mccaughrean et al .",
    "klf extends to very faint magnitudes , well below the hbl for a one million year old cluster , 400 pc distant , but because of source saturation , is incomplete for and does not include bright stars .",
    "neither of these referenced cluster klfs were corrected for contamination by foreground or background field stars .",
    "in addition , neither was corrected for the effects of nebular contamination which would confuse the completeness of the surveys .",
    "however , we compared this combined trapezium klf to the klf from the @xcite survey of the onc and found good agreement in the location of the turnover , bright and faint ends of the two klfs , although the ali & depoy survey was not as sensitive as that represented by the mccaughrean et al .",
    "we reiterate that the extent to which the combined klf represents the true trapezium klf is uncertain because we can not account for field star or nebular contamination .    here",
    "our goal is to find the simplest functional from of an underlying imf whose resulting model klf will best fit the observed klf .",
    "we constrained the star forming history of the trapezium cluster by using the mean age from @xcite i.e. , 0.8 million years .",
    "we allowed an age spread of 1.2 million years ( @xmath29 = 1.5 ) about this mean age , corresponding to constant star formation from 0.2 to 1.4 million years ago .",
    "we inspected the observed klf and determined that a single power law imf could not satisfy the observations since the klf has a peak and turnover well above the completeness limits of the two surveys .",
    "therefore we began with a simple 2 power law imfs .",
    "we next used a three power law imf with a flat ( zero slope ) imf in the middle . for symmetry ,",
    "the two outer power - law slopes were set to have equal but opposite sign slopes .",
    "we varied these outer slopes to have absolute values between 0.25 and 2.00 and adjusted the mass range over which the middle slope of the imf was flat .",
    "finally as a third set of experiments , we allowed the slope of the middle power law to vary , still holding the outer two slopes to have equal but opposite sign slopes .",
    "we produced a suite of model klfs for these different imfs and compared them to the combined trapezium klf using a chi - square fitting procedure .",
    "simply , we normalized model klfs to the observed klf such that the model and observed klfs contain the same number of stars between absolute k magnitudes of 0 and 6.5 .",
    "we then calculated the @xmath30 statistic and probability over this k magnitude range . to derive a best fit",
    ", we compared a suite of model klfs varying a single imf parameter , e.g , the middle slope or one of the @xmath33 values and then determining the @xmath30 minima for that variable .",
    "model klfs were created for a range of possible imf parameters and compared to the trapezium klf in this way .",
    "best fit model imfs for each of the tested functional forms of the imf are listed in table [ fittable ] .",
    "two power law fits in general were not good .",
    "symmetric flat topped imfs fit better and finally a slightly rising imf across the middle provided a best fit with @xmath42 .",
    "some variation in each of the parameters still allowed for a fit of @xmath42 and examples are listed in table [ fittable ] . the imfs f and g produced best fits to the data : for purposes of discussion , we adopt imf ( g ) as representative of the trapezium imf and repeat its parameters here : @xmath43 the model klf corresponding to imf ( g ) is shown in the top panel of figure [ trapfit ] compared to the combined trapezium klf and compared to a model klf calculated with the single power law slope @xcite field star imf over the entire standard mass range .    from our modeling of the observed klf for the trapezium cluster we find that the predicted imf has a rising slope for intermediate mass stars , flattens around a solar mass , reaches a peak near the hbl and turns over below the hydrogen burning limit .",
    "there are several comparisons between the observed and modeled trapezium klf and between the onc imf derived by hillenbrand and our derived imf ( g ) which should be made .",
    "first , there exists a significant `` tail '' to the observed trapezium luminosity function which is not accounted for in the model klfs .",
    "no attempt was made to account for these very faint stars as cluster members because if they were , they would require ages much older than the distribution suggested by the hr diagram .",
    "we instead suggest that these are in fact either extremely embedded cluster members or heavily extincted background field stars ( a@xmath44 @xmath45 20 - 30 ) .",
    "either of these possibilities suggests that our derived imf is in fact an upper limit to actual imf below the hydrogen burning limit .",
    "experiments studying the effects of extinction on the model klf by @xcite and @xcite found that while extinction tended to shift the lfs to fainter magnitudes , the slope of the klf was preserved .",
    "thus , the steeply falling slope at the low mass end of the derived trapezium imf is reflective of the actual underlying imf .",
    "however the true imf may turnover at a larger mass than that implied by our present models . in the lower panel of figure [ trapfit ] ,",
    "the mass function derived from the trapezium klf is compared to that of @xcite derived from spectroscopic observations .",
    "the two mass functions are generally very similar . in particular , these two mass functions agree very well at the high mass end ( @xmath46 ) . for masses in the range @xmath47 the imf derived from modeling the luminosity function contains more stars than that derived by hillenbrand .",
    "however it is not clear how significant this difference is given the possible systematic uncertainties involved in both methods for determining the imf and the fact that these two imfs sample different volumes of the orion nebula region .",
    "for masses below @xmath48 , the imf derived from the klf modeling also contains considerably more stars than the spectroscopic imf .",
    "however this difference is also not likely to be significant either since the spectroscopic imf of @xcite is not complete below 0.1 @xmath5 .",
    "lastly , we can investigate whether the field star imf ( fsimf ) could also produce a klf which reasonably matched the trapezium klf . to test this",
    ", we used the recent field star imf parameterization from @xcite .",
    "@xcite suggested a multiple power law imf with the form : @xmath49 comparing the imf in equation [ bestfit ] to the field star imf in equation [ scaloimf ] , one finds that these two imfs are quite similar , although for stars in the range of @xmath50 , the scalo imf is steeper than the imf in equation [ bestfit ] .",
    "in addition the scalo imf does not extend below the hydrogen burning limit . to facilitate comparison to the trapezium data",
    ", we added a fourth power - law to the scalo imf to account for the faintest stars .",
    "we varied @xmath33 , the mass at which the fourth power - law begins , between 0.06 and 0.1 m@xmath11 .",
    "in addition , we varied the slope of the fourth power - law ( between -1.0 and + 2.0 ) .",
    "the best fits are also listed in table [ fittable ] . using this modified field star imf",
    "did yield a @xmath42 with an imf that breaks near the hydrogen burning limit and falls with a similar steep slope as in the prior imf fits .    to the extent that our adopted klf represents the true klf of the cluster",
    ", our modeling suggests that the imf for brown dwarfs in the trapezium cluster falls relatively steeply with decreasing mass .",
    "however because contamination due to reddened background stars and incompleteness due to nebular confusion has not properly been taken into account in the construction of the trapezium klf , the form of the derived imf below the hydrogen burning limit should be regarded with appropriate caution . as",
    "shown in @xcite and @xcite , one can use control - field observations ( which are not available for this dataset ) to gauge the completeness and membership at the faint end of the lf .",
    "also , our present modeling has not included the effects of extinction and infrared excess .",
    "@xcite , using the ( i - k ) diagnostic , found an average k band excess of 0.35 among identified optically visible cluster members .",
    "this average excess is smaller then the bins we have used to construct the trapezium klf , and therefore should have only a minor effect .",
    "yet we can improve the derived imf for the trapezium cluster by constraining these effects using multi - wavelength observations and infrared color - color diagrams of the cluster and of near - by control fields . in a subsequent paper , we will use new jhk near - infrared observations and appropriate control fields to accurately determine the completeness of the trapezium klf and model the effects of extinction and infrared excess on the cluster klf and the derived imf .",
    "overall , we conclude from our modeling that the imf of the trapezium cluster is well represented by a three power - law mass function with a high mass slope between -1.00 and -1.7 , a break in slope between 1 and 0.6 m@xmath11 followed by a relatively flat or slightly rising slope to the hydrogen burning limit and then falling with a steep slope @xmath24 + 1 through the brown dwarf regime .",
    "we have performed a series of experiments aimed at studying how the pre - main - sequence mass - to - luminosity relation , star forming history and initial mass function each affect the form of the luminosity function for populations of young pre - main sequence stars . using models of the near - infrared luminosity function and varying these primary inputs",
    ", we have derived the following simple conclusions about model near - infrared luminosity functions :    * we find that the klf of a young cluster is considerably more sensitive to variations in its underlying imf than to either variations in the star forming history or the pms mass - to - luminosity relation .",
    "* pms luminosity functions evolve in a systematic manner with increasing mean age and age spread .",
    "they evolve to fainter magnitudes and widen systematically with age . *",
    "the klfs of young stellar populations are found to be generally insensitive to variations in the adopted pms mass - to - luminosity relations . in the youngest , coeval clusters ,",
    "the presence of deuterium burning can produce significant features in the klf which are sensitive to the adopted mass to luminosity relation .",
    "however even a small departure from a purely coeval star forming history will render these features difficult to detect observationally .    we model the observed luminosity function of the trapezium cluster and are able to derive an underlying imf for the cluster which spans a range of stellar mass from 5 @xmath5 to 0.02 @xmath5 , well into the brown dwarf regime .",
    "the imf we derive is the simplest multiple power - law function which can reproduce the observed luminosity function of the cluster given the mean age and star forming history derived from previous optical spectroscopic studies @xcite .",
    "the derived imf for the trapezium cluster consists of three power law segments , has a peak near the hydrogen burning limit and steadily decreases below the hydrogen burning limit and throughout the brown dwarf regime .",
    "we derive a brown dwarf mass spectrum of the form dn / dlogm @xmath51 ( 0.08@xmath520.02 ) .",
    "however , the form of the imf below the hydrogen burning limit must be regarded with caution since the faint end of the observed cluster klf has not been adjusted for the possible effects of background star and nebular contamination . above the hydrogen burning limit ,",
    "the trapezium imf is also consistent with that recently advocated for field stars by @xcite .",
    "we thank richard elston for conversations and suggestions on the use of monte carlo techniques .",
    "we also thank joo alves , alyssa goodman , pavel kroupa , john scalo and john stauffer for conversations and suggestions which improved upon this work .",
    "is supported by a smithsonian predoctoral fellowship .",
    "eal acknowledges support from a research coorporation innovation award , a nsf pecase grant , ast-9733367 , and a nasa adp grant nag5 - 6751 to the university of florida , gainesville .",
    "bolometric corrections were interpolated from a table of basic stellar properties to convert model stars luminosities and effective temperatures into monochromatic magnitudes .",
    "the following formulae were used to convert from these theoretical quantities to the monochromatic pass band magnitude .",
    "@xmath53 we have adopted the near - infrared colors of dwarf stars .",
    "while the temperature scales for young pre - main sequence stars fall somewhere between the temperature scales for main sequence dwarfs and giants @xcite , their near - infrared colors are more dwarf - like @xcite .",
    "we constructed our table of stellar properties beginning with those compiled in @xcite ( kh95 ) .",
    "we adjusted this tabulation to reflect the large temperature range of our model stars and to investigate some of the dependencies of our models on this tabulation .",
    "for spectral types o3 to b0.5 , corresponding to @xmath54 from 30,000 to 50,000 k , we used v band bolometric corrections and effective temperatures from @xcite .",
    "o star colors were assumed degenerate at all near - infrared bands and assigned the colors of @xcite .",
    "b star red and near - infrared colors were taken from a recent tabulation by @xcite .",
    "there is presently a significant study in the literature of the color-@xmath54-spectral type relation for cool stars with @xmath54 less than 3500k @xcite . because we related the stellar effective temperature directly to the stellar color and bolometric correction and do not assign spectral types to our model stars",
    ", we do not need to define any particular spectral sequence .",
    "for the color-@xmath54-@xmath55 relation of m dwarfs , we used the relations compiled by bessell et al .",
    "( 1991,1995,1998 ) .",
    "however , our model stars have effective temperatures much cooler than those defined by the observationally defined scales . to extend our color relations to even cooler effective temperatures , we used the broad band fluxes from model atmosphere and pms evolutionary calculations by @xcite .",
    "though typical model atmosphere calculations have been used to fit spectra and develop spectral sequences for sometime , the predicted broadband fluxes from these model atmospheres have been largely inaccurate @xcite .",
    "@xcite models are the most recent calculations of both synthetic spectra and broadband fluxes for cool stars and brown dwarfs and employ the most recent opacity tables . after examining their different calculations and predicted cool stars colors , we used their 10 gyr models to extend our color-@xmath54-@xmath55 tabulation at all red and near - infrared bands .",
    "we checked our tabulation against other recent compilations of stellar properties and cool stars observations in the literature .",
    "we compared our @xmath54-@xmath55 relation to those polynomial fits recently derived by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we found that our tabulation was in systematic disagreement with these fits .",
    "the cause was traced to the original @xcite @xmath54-@xmath55 tabulation used in the kh95 compilation .",
    "we refer to the discussion in @xcite ( their appendix d ) as to the source of this discrepancy and follow their prescription to add + 0.12 to the @xcite @xmath55 scale .",
    "combined with our choice of @xmath56 equal to 4.75 , this yielded a solar @xmath55 equal to -0.07 and an absolute @xmath57 magnitude of 4.81 .",
    "we then smoothed the @xmath54-@xmath55 relation to match those of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "a more important concern is the accuracy of our tabulation below 3500k .",
    "we tested our tabulation for cool stars by compiling , from the literature , observed colors , effective temperature determinations and bolometric luminosities for m dwarfs from the literature including published data by @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we used repeat observations and derivations of stellar properties ( e.g. @xmath54 ) of the same m dwarfs but by different authors as reflecting different spectral type to effective temperature scales and variability among late - type stars , as well as fundamental uncertainties in the computation of these values .",
    "the observed m dwarf colors , bolometric corrections , and effective temperatures were compared to our compiled table .",
    "first , our comparison indicated that the compiled bolometric corrections were consistent with the observed m dwarf values .",
    "second , and more importantly , our comparison showed that for the near - infrared bands , specifically the k band , the bolometric corrections are insensitive to effective temperature scales for low mass stars and brown dwarfs .",
    "a set of theoretical evolutionary sequences were used to convert the masses and ages of model stars to luminosities and effective temperatures which were then converted to monochromatic passband magnitudes using the color tabulation documented in appendix [ boloappendix ] .",
    "these sequences were a combination of three different regimes : a theoretical zero age main sequence , a set of intermediate mass pms tracks and a set of sub - solar and brown dwarf pms stellar models . when converting the model stars , the algorithm determined if , for certain stellar age , the star would be found on the zams or in a pms stage .",
    "if the star would be found on the zams , then it luminosity and effective temperature was derived from the zams .",
    "if the star would be in a pms stage , then the pms models were used .",
    "unfortunately , pms theoretical models are not typically calculated for the entire mass range from brown dwarfs to high mass b stars . because of this , we combined two different sets of pms tracks to provide a complete mass range .",
    "we took the opportunity to use different sets of pms tracks for high and low mass stars to account for an apparent mass - age correlation found by many authors who have used pms tracks to derive real ages and masses for stars using the hr diagram @xcite .",
    "these authors point out that when masses and ages are derived for a cluster of real stars using pms models , a correlation existed such that the more massive stars were systematically older than lower mass stars .",
    "these authors suggested that the cause of this correlation is due to the way canonical pms tracks are constructed .",
    "canonical pms tracks evolve the model stars from infinite spheroids .",
    "more recent studies suggest that stars evolve during a protostellar phase along a specific mass - radius relationship referred to as the proto - stellar birthline @xcite . using a proto - stellar birthline as the initial condition for pms tracks will most prominently affect the predicted luminosities and effective temperatures of the youngest and highest mass stars , where the stars proto - stellar ( birthline ) lifetimes are comparable with these stars pre - main sequence lifetimes .    rather than using canonical pms tracks for model stars with masses greater than solar , we used `` accretion scenario '' pms model calculations by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "accretion scenario pms models better represent the location of the young intermediate mass stars on the hr diagrams @xcite . yet",
    "the accretion scenario pms tracks can not be straightforwardly used with sub - solar mass canonical pms tracks .",
    "we adopted the accretion scenario tracks for models above 2 solar masses and canonical tracks below 1 solar mass . between these two limits",
    ", we compared the canonical and accretion scenario calculations .",
    "we performed an average of the accretion scenario and canonical mass tracks , weighting each average to result in a smooth conversion from the canonical ( sub - solar mass ) to accretion scenario ( high ) regimes .",
    "we examined the theoretical hr diagram resulting from our combination of zams , accretion scenario , averaged , and canonical pms tracks .",
    "this new set of tracks and resulting isochrones were found to be smooth between all regimes and was used as input for the luminosity function modeling .",
    "alexander , d. r. , augason , g. c. , & johnson , h. r. 1989 , , 345 , 1014 alexander , d. r. , & ferguson , 1994 , , 437 , 879 ali , b. , & depoy , d. l. , 1995 , , 109 , 709 baraffe , i. , chabrier , g. , allard , f. , & hauschildt , p. h. 1998 , , 337 , 403 belikov , a. n. & piskunov , a. e. 1997 , arep , v. 41 , no . 1 , 28 belikov , a. n. , hirte , s. , meusinger , h. , piskunov , a. e. , & schilbach , e. 1997 , , 332 , 575 bernasconi , p. a. 1996 , , 120 , 57 bernasconi , p. a. , & maeder , a. 1996 , , 307 , 829 berriman , g. b. , reid , i. n. , & leggett , s. k. 1992 , , 392 , l31 bessell , m. s. 1991 , , 101 , 662 bessell , m. s. 1995 , proceedings of the eso workshop : the bottom of the main sequence - and beyond , ed c. g. tinney , ( heidelberg : springer ) , 123 bessell , m. s. , castelli , f. , & plez , b. 1998 , , 333 , 231 canuto , v. m. , & mazzitelli , i. 1990 , , 370 , 295 canuto , v. m. , & mazzitelli , i. 19 92 , , 389 , 724 canuto , v. m. , goldman , i. , & mazzitelli , i. 1996 , , 473 , 550 comeron , f. , rieke , g. h. , & rieke , m. j. 1996 , , 473 , 294 dantona , f. & mazzitelli , i. 1983 , , 127 , 149 dantona , f. & mazzitelli , i. 1994 , , 41 , 467 dantona , f. & mazzitelli , i. 1998 , cool stars in clusters and associations , ed g. micela and r. pallavicini , ( mem . s.a.it . ) , 68 , 807 fletcher , a. b. , & stahler , s. w. 1994 , , 435 , 313 fletcher , a. b. , & stahler , s. w. 1994 , , 435 , 329 flower , p. 1996",
    ", , 469 , 355 graham , j. r. , matthews , k. , greenstein , j. l. , neugebauer , g. , tinney , c. g. , and persson , s. e. 1992 , , 104 , 2016 herbig , g. h. 1998 , , 497 , 736 hillenbrand , l. a. 1994 , ph.d thesis umass .",
    "amherst hillenbrand , l. a. 1997 , , 114 , 198 hillenbrand , l. a. , & hartmann , l. w. 1998 , , 492 , 540 hillenbrand , l. a. , strom , s. e. , calvet , n. , merrill , k. m. , gatley , i. , makidon , r. , meyer , m. r. , & skrutskie , m.f .",
    "1998b , , 116 , 1816 ibsen , i. 1965 , , 141 , 993 johnson , h. l. 1966 , , 4 , 193 jones , h. r. a. , longmore , a. j. , jameson , r. f. , & mountain , c. m. 1994 , , 267,413 kenyon , s. j. , & hartmann , l. w. 1995 , , 101 , 117 kirkpatrick , j. d. , kelly , d. m. , rieke , g. h. , allard f. , & wehrse , r. 1993 , , 402 , 643 kroupa , p. , tout , c. a. , & gilmore , g. 1993 , , 262 , 545 kurucz , r. l. 1991 , in stellar atmospheres : beyond the classical models , ed l. crivellari , i. hubeny , & d. g. hummer , ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 441s lada , c. j. , alves j. , and lada , e. a. 1996 , , 111 , 1964 lada , e. a. , lada , c. j. , & muench , a. a. 1998 , 38th herstmonceux conference : the stellar initial mass function , gerry gilmore and debbie howell , san francisco : a.s.p , 107 lada , e. a. , & lada , c. j. 1995 , , 109 , 1682 lada , e. a. 1999 , in the origin of stars and planetary systems , ed c. j. lada & n. d. kylafis , ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , p. 441",
    "leggett , s. k. 1992 , , 82 , 351 leggett , s. k. , allard , f. , berriman , g. b. , dahn , c. c. , & hauschildt , p. h. 1996 , , 104 , 117 luhman , k. l. 1999 , , 525 , 466 mazzitelli , i. 1972 , , 17 , 378 mccaughrean , m. , zinnecker , h. , rayner , j. , and stauffer , j. 1995 , proceedings of the eso workshop : the bottom of the main sequence - and beyond , c. g. tinney , springer : heidelberg , 207 meageth , s. t. 1996 , , 311 , 135 meyer , m. r. 1996 , ph.d thesis umass .",
    "amherst miller , g. e. , & scalo , j. m. 1979 , , 41 , 513 palla , f. , & stahler , s. w. 1993 , , 418 , 414 salpeter , e. e. 1955 , , 121 , 161 scalo , j. 1998 , 38th herstmonceux conference : the stellar initial mass function , ed gerry gilmore and debbie howell , ( san francisco : a.s.p ) , 201 schaller , g. , schaerer , d. , meynet , g. , & maeder , a 1992 , , 96 , 269 schmidt - kaler , t. 1982 , landolt - brnstein , group vi .",
    "2 , ed k .- h . hellwege , ( berlin : springer ) , 454 stahler , s. w. 1983 , , 274 , 822 strom , k. h. , strom , s. e. , & merrill , k. 1993 , , 412 , 233 tinney , c. g. , mould , j. r. , & reid , i. n. 1993 , , 105 , 1045 vacca , w. d. , garmany , c. d. , & schull , j. m. 1996 , , 460 , 914 winkler , h. 1997 , , 287 , 481 zinnecker , h. , mccaughrean , m. , & wilkings , b. a. 1993 , protostars and planets iii , ed h. levy and j. i. lunine , ( tucson : univer . of arizona ) , 429    ccccc acm & @xcite & fst & 2.0 & 0.018 @xmath58 2.5 + amt & @xcite & mlt & 2.0 & 0.1 @xmath58 2.5 + kcm & @xcite & fst & 2.0 & 0.1 @xmath58 2.5 + kmt & @xcite & mlt & 2.0 & 0.1 @xmath58 2.5 + d1.5 & @xcite & fst & 1.0 & 0.017 @xmath58 1.5 + d2.5 & @xcite & fst & 2.0 & 0.017 @xmath58 3.0 + d4.5 & @xcite & fst & 4.0 & 0.017",
    "@xmath58 3.0 +    ccccccc a & 0.38 & - & - & -0.50 & 0.10 & + 1.00 + b & 0.71 & -0.75 & 0.25 & 0.00 & 0.10 & + 0.75 + c & 0.86 & -1.00 & 0.40 & 0.00 & 0.08 & + 1.00 + d & 0.88 & -1.00 & 0.60 & -0.25 & 0.10 & + 1.00 + e & 0.93 & -0.75 & 0.25 & -0.25 & 0.10 & + 0.75 + f & 0.99 & -1.00 & 0.70 & -0.25 & 0.08 & + 1.00 + g & 0.99 & -1.35 & 0.80 & -0.25 & 0.08 & + 1.35 + h & 0.96 & -1.70 & 1.00 & -0.20 & 0.10 & + 0.75 + i & 0.99 & -1.70 & 1.00 & -0.20 & 0.08 & + 1.00 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of numerical experiments designed to evaluate the usefulness of near - infrared luminosity functions for constraining the initial mass function ( imf ) of young stellar populations . </S>",
    "<S> we test the sensitivity of the near - infrared k band luminosity function ( klf ) of a young stellar cluster to variations in the underlying imf , star forming history , and pre - main sequence mass - to - luminosity relations . using monte carlo techniques </S>",
    "<S> , we create a suite of model luminosity functions systematically varying each of these basic underlying relations . from this numerical modeling , we find that the luminosity function of a young stellar population is considerably more sensitive to variations in the underlying initial mass function than to either variations in the star forming history or assumed pre - main - sequence ( pms ) mass - to - luminosity relation . variations in a cluster s star forming history are also found to produce significant changes in the klf . in particular , we find that the klfs of young clusters evolve in a systematic manner with increasing mean age . </S>",
    "<S> our experiments indicate that variations in the pms mass - to - luminosity relation , resulting from differences in adopted pms tracks produce only small effects on the form of the model luminosity functions and that these effects are mostly likely not detectable observationally .    to illustrate the potential effectiveness of using the klf of a young cluster to constrain its imf , we model the observed k band luminosity function of the nearby trapezium cluster . with knowledge of the star forming history of this cluster obtained from optical spectroscopic studies , </S>",
    "<S> we derive the simplest underlying imf whose model luminosity function matches the observations . </S>",
    "<S> our derived mass function for the trapezium spans two orders of magnitude in stellar mass ( 5@xmath00.02 ) and has a peak near the hydrogen burning limit . below the hydrogen burning limit </S>",
    "<S> , the mass function steadily decreases with decreasing mass throughout the brown dwarf regime . </S>",
    "<S> comparison of our imf with that derived by optical and spectroscopic methods for the entire orion nebula cluster suggests that modeling the klf is indeed a useful tool for constraining the mass function in young stellar clusters particularly at and below the hydrogen burning limit . </S>"
  ]
}