{
  "article_text": [
    "a lot of theories and models have been suggested to explain the observational situations of black hole systems ( bhs ) ; for recent reviews of the astrophysics of black holes [ see e.g. , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ] .",
    "the bhs are generally observed in two spectral states : one with a high luminosity soft thermal bump and a low luminosity power law extending to several hundred of kev ( hereafter called the  soft state \" ) , and the other at high luminosity in high energies ( @xmath3 kev ) showing a typical thermal comptonization component ( called the  hard state \" all along the paper ) .",
    "it is now clear that the observed x - ray spectra resulting from the accretion of matter onto the central object is divided according to the connection between the two effects : ( i ) .",
    "the gravitational energy of matter is released in the disk due to the viscous dissipation between the adjacent layers ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 , hereafter ss73 ) .",
    "the energy release occurs in the optically thick medium and thus the disk emits a soft blackbody like radiation ( related to the effective disk area , ss73 ) of a fraction of kev and tens of ev for galactic and extragalatic sources respectively .",
    "another mechanism is related with the geometric compression of the matter accreting in advection dominated manner where the radial velocity is some fraction of the free fall velocity but the viscous heating can be essential in the flow too ( e.g. chakrabarti & titarchuk 1995 , hereafter ct95 ; narayan & yi 1994 ) .",
    "energy is mostly transferred by the protons due to their much higher mass . these protons afterward",
    "transfer their energy to the ambient electrons through coulomb collisions in a relatively dense cloud ( called the compton cloud ) close to the black hole .",
    "this cloud can be a result of the propagation ( accretion ) of the sub - keplerian component towards the black hole .",
    "in such a type of accretion , shocks or centrifugal barrier regions can be formed ( ct95 ) .    since the cross - sections for radiative processes are inversely proportional to the mass of the emitter , it is the electrons which then radiatively cool the plasma . in such an high temperature plasma ,",
    "the main electron cooling process is the comptonization on the ambient soft photons .",
    "the plasma temperature of the zone emitting the hard radiation is regulated by the supply of soft photons from the disk .",
    "it was demonstrated in ct95 that the hard - soft state transition in bhs is regulated by redistribution of mass accretion rates between the quasi - spherical ( sub - keplerian ) and the keplerian disk components .",
    "it was also shown there for the first time that the converging inflow spectral feature ( as an intrinsic signature of black hole ) can be seen in the soft state .",
    "namely , near the horizon , the strong gravitational field is expected to dominate the pressure forces and thus to drive the accreting material in almost a free fall i.e. a converging inflow ( titarchuk & zannias 1998 , hereafter tz98 ) . unlike , for other compact objects the pressure forces are becoming dominant as their surface is approached , and thus such a free falling state is absent .",
    "in contrast ct95 emphasized that in the soft state , the optically thick compton cloud surrounding a black hole is cooled down by the disk soft photons and the extended power law will be observed .",
    "the fact of the presence of the geometrically thin disk in bh system leads to the very important statement regarding the dominance of gravitational forces over radiative forces : _ because the gravitational force in the disk is a small @xmath4 fraction of the gravitational force acting in the radial direction ( where @xmath5 and @xmath6 are the disk height and radius respectively ) the local luminosity in the disk can not be higher than @xmath4 times the eddington limit_. at some certain point the disk is disrupted or terminated , for example due to general relativistic effects : the stable orbits do not exist below three schwarzschild radii . then the matter is forced to proceed towards the black hole in almost free - fall manner - the radiative forces being negligible with respect to the gravitational forces .",
    "the next question now is to know how the soft disk photons illuminating the bulk inflow can be upcomptonized to energies of the order of @xmath2 .",
    "titarchuk & zannias 1998 show that the production of hard photons as a function of the radius from the black hole peaks at around 2 schwarzschild radii ( @xmath7 ) and most of the hard continuum photons observed are produced within 3@xmath8 from the black hole .",
    "shrader & titarchuk 1998 ( hereafter sht98 ) demonstrate that the emergent spectra of the converging inflow atmosphere successfully explain the continuum x - ray spectra of black hole systems ( bhs ) in their soft state .    to check these statements and predictions",
    "we have simulated the emergent energy spectrum , treating as precisely as possible the comptonization process .",
    "to do this , we need to know first what is the movement of the high energy electrons : it is in fact , a composition of the free - fall motion onto the black hole and of the brownian ( thermal ) motion which can be characterized by a temperature . whereas the thermal comptonization has been already explored in several ways ( e.g. sunyaev & titarchuk 1980 ; pozdnyakov , sobol & sunyaev 1983 , hereafter pss ; nagirner & poutanen 1994 ; titarchuk 1994 , hereafter t94 ; titarchuk & lyubarskij 1995 ; hua & titarchuk 1995 ; giesler & kirk 1997 ) , the effects of the free - fall motion of the electrons on the resulting spectrum is not yet clearly understood",
    "also , the general relativistic effects close to the black hole were not yet plainly taken into account . in series of papers , titarchuk ,",
    "mastichiadis & kylafis ( 1996 ) , ( 1997 ) ( hereafter tmk96 and tmk97 ) present the exact numerical and approximate analytical solutions of the problem of spectral formation in a converging inflow , taking into account the inner boundary condition , the dynamical effects of the free fall , and the thermal motion of the electrons .",
    "the inner boundary has been taken at a _",
    "finite _ radius with the spherical surface being considered as a fully absorptive .",
    "tmk have used a variant of the fokker - plank formalism where the inner boundary mimics a black - hole horizon ; no relativistic effects ( special or general ) have been taken into account .",
    "thus their results are instructively useful but they are not directly comparable with the observations . _ but using these numerical and analytical techniques they demonstrated that the extended power laws are present in the resulting spectra in addition to the blackbody like emission at lower energies .",
    "_    our approach is to determine a realistic emergent comptonization spectrum using two different approaches : one , purely analytical , is described in detail in tz98 , and the other , numerical , is presented below .",
    "tz98 analyzed the exact general relativistic integro - differential equation of radiative transfer describing the interaction of low energy photons with a maxwellian distribution of the relativistic electrons in the gravitational field of a schwarzschild black hole .",
    "they proved that due to comptonization an initial arbitrary spectrum of low energy photons unavoidably results in spectra characterized by an extended power - law feature .",
    "they examined the spectral index @xmath9 by using both analytical and numerical methods in the lower temperature limit ( @xmath10 ) , where @xmath11 is the electron temperature and @xmath2 the electron rest mass energy , and with a varying mass accretion rate .",
    "they demonstrated the stability of the ( @xmath12 ) power - law , which is mainly due to the asymptotic independence of the spectral index on the mass accretion rate and its weak dependence on plasma temperatures in the lower temperature limit .",
    "in fact , all corrections to the index due the temperature effects are related with the corrections of the kernel of the relativistic kinetic equation ( tz98 ) which are of the order of the dimensionless temperature @xmath13 .    in this paper",
    ", we will describe the numerical approach briefly outlining the main features of the monte - carlo simulation code in  2 .",
    "we will present the results in the ",
    "flat \" case in  3 for which we assume the propagation of the photons in straight lines .",
    "then , we will show what we have obtained in the most realistic general relativistic case in  4 . in sections 3 - 4",
    ", we will compare also these results to the ones obtained by different ( analytical and numerical ) methods in the same physical framework ( tmk97 and tz98 ) .",
    "we will show that the observed spectral transitions in bhs is clearly to be related to the bulk flow temperature in  5 .",
    "we will demonstrate the relevance of the converging inflow model to the recent high energy observations in  6 .",
    "finally , we will summaries our work and draw conclusions in  7 .",
    "as explained above , this signature originates from upscattering of low energy photons by fast moving electrons with velocities , @xmath14 , approaching the speed of light , @xmath15 .",
    "a soft photon of energy @xmath16 , in the process of multiple scattering off the electrons , gets substantially blue - shifted . for a single scattering ,",
    "the photon scattered off an electron moving with velocity @xmath14 , changes its energy due to doppler effect as follows @xmath17 the photon is then significantly blue - shifted if , at least , it gets once scattered in the direction of the electron motion ( i.e. when @xmath18 ) .",
    "this is schematically illustrated in figure 1 for two scattering events . in the first event",
    "the soft photon is effectively upcomptonized and in the second one the photon is scattered in such a direction that it can be detected by an observer .",
    "* editor , please put figure 1 here . *    in the first scattering event we assume the direction of incident photon , @xmath19 , to be nearly normal to the electron velocity , and the direction of the scattered photon to be nearly aligned with the electron velocity . during its outward propagation through the converging - inflow medium , the angle between the photon and electron velocity increases . thus , in the second event the cosine angle , @xmath20 , tends to approach zero .",
    "the angle of outgoing photon , @xmath21 , has to be large enough , in order for the doppler boosted photon to reach an observer .",
    "the geometry mostly used in these simulations is shown in figure 2 : it consists of a thin disk surrounding a spherical cloud harbouring a black hole in its center .",
    "the disk is always supposed to be optically thick , whereas we are assuming a free fall for the background flow where the bulk velocity of the infalling plasma is given by @xmath22 .",
    "* editor , please put figure 2 here . *    in our simulations ( see also the kinetic formalism in tz98 ) we use the number density @xmath23 measured in the local rest frame of the flow that is @xmath24 . here",
    "@xmath25 , @xmath26 is the mass accretion rate , @xmath27 is the thomson cross section , @xmath28 is the eddington accretion rate and @xmath29 is the black hole mass .",
    "then the optical thickness of the cloud is computed through the mass accretion rate @xmath30 according to the following formulae : @xmath31 where @xmath32 and @xmath8 are the outer boundary and the schwarzschild radii , respectively . in most of all results given below , except otherwise presented in part 4",
    ", the cloud radius @xmath32 has been taken to be 3 @xmath8 .",
    "the different values of @xmath30 which has been used in those simulations are @xmath33 .",
    "we have varied the cloud electron temperature from 0 to 50 kev .",
    "in addition to the thermal motion of the electrons in the cloud , we have also taken into account their free - fall onto the central black hole . the seed x - ray photons were generated uniformly and isotropically at the surface of the inner edge of the accretion border of the disk .",
    "for our simulations we use as an example the disk thermal spectrum with a temperature of 0.5 kev .    in the simulations , we have followed the trajectory of each photons in the following way : first , we have made a random generation according to an exponential law : @xmath34 to get the value of the optical thickness @xmath35 that a photon will travel before interacting .",
    "then we have integrated the optical thickness @xmath36 along the photon path up to @xmath35 , taking into account the variation of the cloud density @xmath37 and of the cross section @xmath38 with the radius . the gravitational shift endured by the photon",
    "was also computed at each step of this integration .",
    "the photon paths are straight lines in what we called the  flat \" case , or curves in terms of the schwarzschild geometry in the general relativistic case .",
    "in fact , the variation of the photon energy , and of the photon position ( with respect to the local normal ) along the photon trajectory can be extracted from the full kinetic equation presented in tz98 ( eq .",
    ". the characteristics of the differential part of the equation provides these dependencies .",
    "if , at the end of the integration , the photon has not left the cloud , we simulate a compton scattering with an electron according to the method described in pss , taking into account the exact motion of the electron , that is a composition of its free - fall motion onto the black hole with its brownian thermal motion . to do this",
    ", we first compute the scattering electron momentum , and derive the scattered photon and electron characteristics from the compton scattering kinetics .",
    "we then check if this event is consistent with the compton scattering probabilities ; if yes the event is kept ; if not another scattering electron is generated , and the process goes on until the event is accepted .",
    "this process has been successfully checked by comparing its results with the analytical ones of hua & titarchuk 1995 in the case of relativistic thermal electrons .",
    "once the new energy and direction of the photon been determined by the compton kinematics , we track it in the same way as above until it makes another scattering , or it escapes from the cloud , or until it is  absorbed \" by the black hole at its horizon .",
    "the parameters of the simulations are the compton cloud electron temperature , @xmath11 , the cloud outer radius , @xmath32 and the mass accretion rate , @xmath30 .",
    "we have first investigated what could be the emergent spectrum in the  flat \" case , that is supposing that photons goes in straight lines .",
    "but the relativistic effects such as gravitational redshift , dependence of the klein - nishina cross section on energy , or  absorption \" of photons at the black hole horizon were correctly taken into account in these computations .",
    "even if this case is not physically consistent , as we can not separate in theory the gravitational redshift effects from the light bending , it is instructive as it will enable us to derive the consequences of space curvature around the black hole on the emerging spectrum , by comparing this case to the general relativistic one described below .    we have calculated the spectrum emerging from a plasma cloud of temperature 5 kev for @xmath30 equal to 2 with an outer radius , @xmath39 .",
    "they are typically the physical conditions of the soft state .",
    "as foreseen theoretically , ( tmk96 - 97 ) the spectrum observed at infinity consist of a soft component ( blackbody like ) coming from input photons that escaped after a few scattering without any significant energy change and the high energy part ( a power law ) extending to high energies of order 300 kev .",
    "the shape of spectrum is reminiscent of what is observed from bhs in their soft state ( sht98 ) and it is almost identical to the spectrum presented in tmk97 ( fig .",
    "however it is clear that even in the low temperature case , the spectrum we obtained is too hard to account for what is observed from soft state bhs .",
    "we have indeed fitted the monte - carlo spectra ( see below fig .",
    "5 ) with a test spectrum , composed of two components : a planckian spectrum with a fixed temperature of the soft photons and convolution of some fraction of this component with the converging inflow upscattering green s function .",
    "the fit parameters were then the color temperature of the soft component , the normalization of the upscattering component relative to the soft one , and the spectral index of the power law .",
    "an example of this fit to the spectrum shown in figure 5 ( which is a spectrum obtained in the general relativistic case , with @xmath40 20 kev and @xmath41 ) , is given in figure 3 .",
    "the fitting parameters are @xmath42 kev , the fraction of the illumination of the bulk inflow atmosphere by the disk photons , @xmath43 , and the spectral index @xmath44 .",
    "it is worth noting that the fitting temperature @xmath42 kev measured by an observer is less than the input temperature of the soft photons 0.5 kev because of the gravitational redshift .",
    "* editor , please put figure 3 here . *    _",
    "so , as it could be seen in table 1 , the spectral index we found by fitting the computed spectrum in the ",
    "flat \" case , are around or harder than 1 , which is harder than it has been observed in the soft state ( around 1.5 , see for instance ebisawa , titarchuk & chakrabarti , 1996 , hereafter etc ) .",
    "_ it is worth noting that the spectral indices presented in table 1 , are very close to tmk97 results ( see figs .",
    "6 there ) made with an assumption of a purely newtonian geometry .",
    "so , as expected , the modelling we made in the ",
    "flat \" case is not realistic .",
    "it has been shown moreover that it is possible to soften the emergent spectrum by taking into account general relativistic curvature effects ( tz98 ) .",
    "we have verified this result by computing the comptonized spectrum in a fully general relativistic case , taking into account the space curvature around the black hole horizon .",
    "@xmath45 * the spectral index determination is less accurate for these values of parameters because the hard component of the spectrum is less pronounced in the fit region ( 10 - 50 kev ) .",
    "for this case we have modified our simulation code in order to take into account the space curvature around the black hole horizon : instead of following the photon path along a straight line , we have computed at each step the exact curved trajectory of the photon .",
    "the other physical effects ( compton diffusion , redshift , electrons thermal and free fall motion , _ etc , ... _ ) , has been computed in the same way as described previously .",
    "this description is then now fully consistent with the general relativity theory .",
    "we can see in figure 4 an example of the resulting emerging spectrum for @xmath40 5 kev , and @xmath46 : as expected , this spectrum is softer than the one we obtained in the  flat \" case ( compare table 1 and 2 and also see tmk97 ) .",
    "* editor , please put fig . 4 here *    a summary of the results we calculated for different physical conditions",
    "is given in table 2 , where we have put the spectral index of the power law , while we fit our spectrum with a two - component test spectrum as described above .",
    "the relative error on the quoted value of the spectral index in table 2 is always around @xmath47 .",
    "we can notice from this table that , as discussed in tz98 , the spectral index we found in the low @xmath48 regime , are only slightly dependent of the mass accretion rate @xmath30 , provided that @xmath30 is larger than 1 .",
    "_ finally , we can see in table 2 that the index of the computed spectra in the soft state are now between 1.5 and 2.0 , which is closest to the observations . _    it is worth noting here that the observed power law index of narrow line seyfert 1 ( nls1 ) galaxy population - which may represent the extragalactic analogue of the bhs in the high - soft state - is around @xmath49 .",
    "this is close to what we have obtained in the low @xmath48 regime , as it is expected from comptonization on electrons whose motion is dominated by the bulk free - fall .",
    "@xmath50    as is seen from figs 4 - 5 , the power - law part of the spectrum occurs at energies @xmath16 , lower than that of the exponential cutoff , @xmath51 ( where @xmath51 is the average electron energy ) .",
    "* editor , please put fig . 5 here",
    "*    tz98 have exactly solved the radiative transfer equations in the doppler regime ( when the photon energy is less then the energy of the electrons ) in the same fully relativistic framework than the one we present here .",
    "namely , they demonstrated that the green s function is a broken power law and they calculated exactly the high energy power index in the low temperature limit , for @xmath52 .",
    "we have compared our results and results of tz98 obtained for zero temperature for 3 different geometry of the monte - carlo simulation .",
    "the geometry used are the followings :    \\1 ) a @xmath53 sphere with a monochromatic soft x - ray source ( @xmath54 kev ) placed at the edge of the accretion disk , as shown in figure 2 .",
    "\\2 ) the same as above but with a sphere radius of @xmath55 .",
    "\\3 ) a @xmath55 comptonization cloud , with the source of 0.5 kev x - ray photons placed inside in a ring at @xmath56 .",
    "firstly we found only small differences in the spectral indices for all three cases , i.e. differences which are all within the error range of the spectral index determination , being around 0.1 for @xmath57 greater than 2 - 3 .",
    "secondly , we found the mean spectral index value is exactly @xmath49 in agreement with tz98 .",
    "we also note from this comparison that , as it is theoretically expected , the power law part of spectra is almost independent of the soft photons distribution . in other words , it is independent of the illumination of the bulk motion site by the accretion disk flow .    in figure 5",
    "we give the result of our computations for @xmath40 20 kev , and @xmath41 which reproduces the main features of the spectra observed in the high state of bhs : a spectral index of @xmath58 and an high energy cutoff around 500 kev .",
    "the effect of the thermal motion for temperatures higher than 10 kev is there clearly seen .",
    "the spectrum is getting harder , i.e. the index decreases and the high energy cutoff increases .",
    "furthermore , the spectra obtained at high @xmath48 and @xmath30 greater than 2 have a spectral index around @xmath59 which is what is observed from bhs in the hard state , where the thermal comptonization is thought to dominate ( etc ) .",
    "this is also shown in figure 6 where we present the results of the computation for @xmath40 50 kev , and @xmath41 , compared to the analytical solution of hua & titarchuk 1995 ( eq .",
    "6 ) derived for the pure thermal comptonization case .",
    "the spectrum is practically identical to the standard thermal comptonization spectrum . in this case",
    "the effect of the bulk motion can be seen only at high energies where there is an excess in the converging inflow spectrum due to coupling of the thermal and bulk motion velocities .",
    "it is worth noting here that this excess is really detected in the observation of the hard state of cyg x-1 source ( e.g. ling et al .",
    "1997 , see also for details of the model , skibo & dermer 1995 ) .",
    "* editor , please put figure 6 here .",
    "*    so , the change of spectral shapes from the soft x  ray state to the hard x  ray state is clearly to be related to the temperature of the bulk flow . in other words",
    "the effect of the bulk comptonization compared to the thermal one is getting stronger when the plasma temperature drops below 10 kev . also , as it could be seen by comparing the results in the  flat \" and general relativistic case , the spectral index of the comptonized spectrum is very dependent of space curvature effects , and then its observation should be a very powerful tool to determine the nature of the central object .",
    "to complete the discussion of the monte carlo simulations and their application to the observed spectra of bhc systems we present some details of the thermal balance treatment of the bulk motion atmosphere ( cf . chakrabarti & titarchuk 1995 , titarchuk , lapidus & muslimov 1998 ) .",
    "the total count rate from the source increases with an increasing accretion rate .",
    "the x - ray spectrum becomes softer , due to the increase of the supply of soft photons from the disk illuminating the advection dominated region ( shocks , centrifugal barrier ) where the energy release is due to geometrical compression of the non - keplerian accreting matter .",
    "this region , the so called compton cloud , is the source of hard x - ray radiations which are produced as a result of the upscattering of the soft photons emitted from the disk . in the final stage of the accretion ( this is within a few schwarzschild radii ) the matter goes towards the black hole almost free falling as the radiation pressure can not stop matter falling in .",
    "the compton cloud ( cc ) region can be treated as a potential wall at which the accreting matter releases its gravitational energy .",
    "_ this occurs in an optically thin region where the column density is of order of a few grams _ , or where the thomson optical thickness @xmath60 a few .",
    "the amount of energy released per second is a fraction of the eddington luminosity since the cc region is located in the very vicinity of a central object ( @xmath61 3 - 6 @xmath62 ) .",
    "the heating of a gas due to the gravitational energy release should be balanced by the photon emission . for high gas temperatures , comptonization is the main cooling channel , and the heating of electrons is due to their coulomb collisions with protons . under such physical conditions",
    "the energy balance can be written as ( see e.g. zeldovich & shakura 1969 , hereafter zs69 , equation [ 1.3 ] ) @xmath63 here @xmath64 is the current thomson optical depth in the emission region ( e.g. in a slab ) , @xmath65 is the energy spectral index for a power - law component of the comptonization spectrum , @xmath66 is a distribution function for the radiative energy density , @xmath67 , @xmath68 is the plasma temperature in k , @xmath69 cm s@xmath70 k@xmath70 is a dimensional constant , and , finally , @xmath71 if @xmath72 , otherwise @xmath73 . the latter formula is obtained by using the relationship between the zero- and first - order moments ( with respect to energy ) of the comptonized radiation field ( sunyaev & titarchuk 1985 ,  7.3 , equation [ 30 ] ) .",
    "the distribution of the radiative energy density in the emission region @xmath74 can be obtained from the solution of the diffusion equation ( cf .",
    "zs69 , equation [ 1.4 ] ) , @xmath75 subject to the two appropriate boundary conditions .",
    "the first boundary condition must imply that there is no scattered radiation from the outer side of the emission region , i.e. @xmath76 in our case this condition holds at the inner surface of a slab facing a central object ( black hole ) . in the neutron star case",
    "one can expect some additional soft flux from a ns resulting in an additional illumination of the inner surface of a slab .",
    "it is easy to generalize the following analysis for this particular case and we offer the reader to make this exercise .",
    "the second boundary condition requires that at the outer surface of a slab the incoming flux should be equal to the external flux @xmath77 i.e. @xmath78    the solution of equations ( 4)-(6 ) provides us with the distribution function for the energy density @xmath79\\}.\\ ] ] thus , from equations ( 3 ) and ( 7 ) we get @xmath80 when @xmath81 the spectral index @xmath65 varies very little since @xmath65 is a function of @xmath82 ( see e.g. titarchuk & lyubarskij 1995 for the thermal comptonization case ) .",
    "thus , as long as the external flux ( due to the photons from the disk ) is much smaller than the internal energy release ( per @xmath83 per second ) in the cc region , the spectral index is insensitive to the accretion rate in the disk .",
    "the values of parameters consistent with equation ( 8) are : @xmath84 , @xmath85 k , and @xmath86 , which are characteristic of a hard state for the galactic bh and ns systems .    when the external flux @xmath77 becomes comparable to the internal energy release , f , the cooling becomes more efficient not only due to comptonization , but also due to the free - free cooling , and therefore the electron temperature unavoidably decreases , @xmath87 k ( see ct95 for the numerical calculations of spectral indices and temperature ) .",
    "this illumination effect can explain the hard - soft transition when the temperature of the compton cloud drops substantially with the increase of the soft photon flux from the disk . as it is seen from above ( eq .",
    "8) the temperature drops from 50 - 60 kev in the hard state ( i.e. when @xmath88 ) to 5 - 10 kev in soft state ( when @xmath77 and @xmath89 are comparable ) . for this particular range of temperatures",
    "the monte carlo simulations have been done in this paper .",
    "shrader and titarchuk , ( 1998 ) , have already shown that the spectral shape of compton scattered photons in converging flow is very close to the observed spectra . however , it is still necessary to show how many photons _ escape _ from the central region , when a given number of photons are injected in the monte - carlo simulations .",
    "for example in the case of @xmath90 kev , and @xmath41 ( see fig.5 ) , among @xmath91 generated photons there are 15,372 photons , or 15.4 % , escaping without interacting , 45,557 photons , or 45.6 % , going through the black hole horizon , 13,393 photons , or 13.4 % , scattered in the accretion disk ( but not in the converging compton cloud ) , the inner radius temperature of which @xmath92 kev , and 25,678 photons , or 25.7 % , scattered in the compton cloud ( some of these photons being also scattered in the disk ) .",
    "thus almost the same photon flux ( for our particular geometry , see fig . 2 ) 28.8 % , ( 15.4 % + 13.4 % ) goes directly to observer and 25.6 % after scattering in the converging compton cloud . but a smaller flux of the detected photons emerges after multiple scattering and they form the hard tail of the resulting spectrum ( fig . 5 ) .",
    "we remind the reader ( see for details st80 , t94 , and tmk97 ) that the photons undergoing multiple scatterings produce the specific space distribution ( in accordance to the first space eigenfunction , see tz98 , fig . 3 ) and that fraction of photons undergoing multiple scattering in the plasma cloud , @xmath93 is related to the expansion coefficient of the space source distribution over the first space eigenfunction . in the simplest case ,",
    "the uniform source distribution @xmath93 is approximately 0.8 .",
    "but in our case when the source photon distribution is produced by an external illumination of the converging inflow ( ci ) region by the soft disk photons and the optical depth of the converging region is of order of 1 ( @xmath94\\approx 1 $ ] ) , this fraction is slightly less . here for the optical depth estimate we use formula ( 2 ) with an assumption that @xmath95 and @xmath96 being as a photon bending radius ( tz98 ) .",
    "thus the fraction of photons undergoing multiple scattering and detected by the observer with respect those photons undergoing a few scattering and detected or comes directly to the observer from the disk is estimated as follows @xmath97    the exact number of these photons can be determined through the fitting of the simulated resulting spectrum to the test spectrum , composed of two components : a planckian spectrum with a fixed temperature of the soft photons and convolution of some fraction @xmath98 of this component , with the ci upscattering green s function .",
    "it is easy to prove ( using the property of the green s function to conserve the number of the scattering photons ) that @xmath98 is exactly the fraction of photons ( with respect to the thermal component ) multiply scattered in the converging inflow . as shown in  3 , @xmath99 ( for our case ) and the flux of the escaping hard photons is large enough to explain the observations .",
    "we remind the reader that the empirically determined fraction are 0.32 and 0.72 for gro j1655 - 40 and grs 1915 + 105 respectively ( sht98 ) and _ thus comptonization by the converging inflow is consistent with the observations_.    it is worth noting that the number of the photons forming the very hard tail ( for energies @xmath100 ) @xmath101 is much less than the number of photons in the thermal component @xmath102 , i.e. @xmath103    for example , this ratio is about @xmath104 for @xmath105 kev in the cases of gro j1655 - 40 and grs 1915 + 105 . in other words",
    "only 8% of the photons seen as coming from the disk are effectively scattered off electrons within a few schwarzschild radii ( @xmath106 ) and form the extended power law tail of the spectrum .",
    "inequality ( 11 ) can be readily proved using a formula for the hard tail energy flux @xmath107 ( eq .",
    "10 ) presented in the convolution form ( see sht98 , eq .",
    "2 ) .    in the end of this section",
    "we discuss a issue related with the illumination of the ci atmosphere by the disk photons . for the beginning",
    "we assume that the disk emitting isotropically is extended from the inner radius @xmath108 to the outer radius @xmath32 and the outer radius of the ci atmosphere is @xmath109 . and",
    "further more we assume that @xmath110 .    in fact , the disk flux intercepted by the the ci atmosphere with radius @xmath109 ( see fig .",
    "2 ) is calculated through the integral @xmath111 where @xmath112 . in the case when the disk illuminates the slab ( with the half - width @xmath113 and the half - height @xmath5 ) situated in the center  @xmath114 .",
    "the two internal integrals of eq .",
    "( 12 ) are calculated analytically .",
    "the first one is equal to 2 and the second one is   @xmath115 , where @xmath116 . even the triple integral of eq .",
    "( 12 ) can be estimated analytically with accuracy better than 10% for the spherical case with the aforementioned assumption that @xmath110 : @xmath117    in the case when the part of the disk is covered by the ci atmosphere the flux , @xmath118 is calculated by integration from @xmath109 to @xmath32 followed by adding @xmath119 , the disk flux emitted inside the atmosphere .",
    "the fraction of the disk photons illuminating the ci atmosphere is @xmath120 where @xmath121 is a probability of scattering of the disk photons in the ci atmosphere which is of order @xmath122 .",
    "the factor @xmath98 , used in the spectral fitting can be estimated from here @xmath123 where @xmath124 is the cosine of inclination angle of the disk and @xmath125 is a spherical albedo of the ci atmosphere .",
    "the quantity @xmath125 can be estimated as follows ( e.g. sobolev 1975 ) @xmath126 this formula is obtained in the eddington approximation with an assumption of isotropic scattering at any event and the pure absorptive inner boundary . despite of the eddington approximation the albedo formula ( 16 ) provides an accuracy of order 10% for any optical depth . for optical depth 1 , @xmath127 which is slightly higher than value obtained in our monte carlo simulations , @xmath128 ( see above ) because of the photon bending .",
    "now we present the numerical estimates of the factor @xmath98 for two different cases .",
    "the first one related with our monte carlo simulations when @xmath129 , @xmath130 , @xmath127 and we assume that @xmath131",
    ". then we get that @xmath132 which is very close to that we get from the spectral fitting of the monte carlo simulated spectrum .",
    "it is worth noting here that in the limit of the high optical depth ( or mass accretion rate ) @xmath133 because @xmath121 , @xmath134 , and @xmath125 converge to one .",
    "thus in this particular case the factor @xmath98 can be of order of one or more .",
    "for another case we assume that the soft radiation comes from the extended disk with the inner radius @xmath135 and @xmath136 which is the size of the disk emission region related with the color temperature of 0.85 kev ( for details of this model see borozdin et al .",
    "1998 ) and the inclination direction cosine @xmath137 .",
    "also we use the above values of @xmath138 , @xmath139 , @xmath140 . using eqs ( 12 ) ,",
    "( 14 - 15 ) we obtain that @xmath141 if we consider the illumination of the sphere situated in the center with @xmath142 .",
    "the factor @xmath98 is @xmath143 in the case of the illumination of the slab with the half - height , @xmath144 .    to conclude this section we emphasize once again that the comptonizing region must overlap with the inner region of the disk , in order to get the high fraction of the seed photons from the disk ( see sht98 ) .",
    "but from the other hand the high fraction , @xmath98 ( of order 10 % and higher ) can be also obtained if the innermost region of the disk is puffed up to heights of order of 3 @xmath8 and the disk is almost seen at edge on .",
    "more details of this discussion and comparison with the rxte observations would be presented in our incoming paper ( borozdin et al .",
    "we show that spectra in the soft and hard states are formed by upscattering of the disk soft photons by the matter ( electrons ) moving in the strong gravitational field .",
    "the presence of the event horizon as well as the behaviour of the null geodesics in its vicinity largely determine the dependence of the spectral index on the flow parameters .",
    "the efficiency of gravitational to radiative energy conversion is of order 5% or less in the disk around black hole ( e.g. ss73 ; narayan , barret & mcclintock 1997 ) .",
    "thus it is natural to expect that radiation pressure can not hold back the matter which is almost in free - fall .",
    "but the shape of the spectrum ( the spectral index and the position of the high energy cutoff ) depends on the temperature of the bulk motion atmosphere , which is determined by the efficiency of the cooling of the atmosphere by the flux coming from the disk ( see  5 here and ct95 ; titarchuk , lapidus & muslimov 1998 ) . in the hard state",
    "the most gravitational energy is released out of the disk ( see possible scenarios in ct95 ) and the bulk motion zone is getting very hot [ because there is no enough cooling agents ( soft disk photons ) to cool down the environment ] .",
    "the plasma temperature is of the order of 50 kev .    in this case , the contribution of the outer part of the bulk motion atmosphere in the resulting spectrum is significant because of the large volume of this region and of the high thermal velocities .",
    "in fact , the hard photons are produced mainly by effective scatterings of the disk soft photons on electrons at angles near @xmath145 ( hua & titarchuk 1995 , fig .",
    "in the outer layer the gravitational bending and redshift is less pronounced and thus the effect of general relativity on the spectral index is smaller for larger values of electron temperature as shown in table 2 .",
    "indeed , the spectrum is practically identical to the standard thermal comptonization spectrum ( see fig .",
    "when the mass accretion rate in the disk increases , the plasma temperature goes down to such a level ( of order 10 kev or less ) that only the free - falling electrons transfer their momentum to the soft - photons producing the power - law component extending to energies comparable to the kinetic energy of electrons in the converging inflow , i.e. of order @xmath2 . in this case , the spectrum observed at infinity consists of a soft component produced by those input photons that escape after a few scattering without any significant energy change and of an hard component ( described by a power law at the energies much higher than the characteristic energy of the disk soft photons ) produced by the photons that undergo significant upscattering .",
    "the luminosity of the power - law component is relatively small compared to that of the soft component .",
    "the power law is quite steep due to the strong photon bending and the gravitational redshift near the black hole ( within 1.5 - 2 schwarzschild radii ) .",
    "we demonstrate through our monte carlo simulations how many photons _ escape _ from the central region , when a given number of photons are injected in the monte - carlo simulations and that fraction is perfectly consistent with the recent high energy observations ( sht98 ) .",
    "we also show that our monte - carlo spectra are fitted quite well by the the analytical bulk motion comptonization model ( bmc ) which allows one to use this model for the fitting of the real observational data .",
    "the analytical model ( bmc ) contains only three parameters .",
    "two of them are the color temperature of the seed photons @xmath146 and the relative weight of the soft component in the entire spectrum , @xmath147 which are the main characteristics of the soft component .",
    "thus it is getting possible to determine the color temperature dependence on the energy flux in the soft energy band .",
    "the disk origin of the soft seed photons can be confirmed or refuted by this dependence ( see details in borozdin et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "we demonstrate using our monte - carlo simulation that the main features of the simulated spectra ( a spectral index of @xmath58 and an high energy cutoff around 500 kev ) are consistent with the observed x - ray spectra in the high state of bhs ( e.g. grove et al .",
    "the predicted high energy cutoff ( assuming a relativistic maxwellian electron distribution ) is in the energy range between 200 and 400 kev ( see figs 4 - 5 ) .",
    "it is slightly less than that observed in the superluminal source gro j1655 by osse ( grove et al .",
    "1998 , table 2 and fig .",
    "it is worth noting that the break energy is quite sensitive to the electron distribution . in future work",
    ", we will show that the observed spectrum ( including the position of the high energy break ) can indeed be accounted for by the converging model quantitatively using other electron distributions . in fact , we plan to investigate the possibility of non - thermal tails to the electron distribution in accreting systems and the expected radiation signatures in the hard x - ray band .",
    "_ thus our results of the monte carlo simulations strongly support the idea that the bulk motion comptonization might be responsible for the extended power - law spectra seen in the black - hole x - ray sources in their soft state . and the hard - soft states transition is regulated by the plasma temperature of the converging inflow into a black hole . _    borozdin k.i .",
    "1998 submitted to apj chakrabarti s.k . &",
    "titarchuk , l. g. 1995 , apj , 455 , 623 ( ct95 ) ebisawa k. , titarchuk l. , and chakrabarti s.k . , 1996 , pasj , 48 , 59 ( etc ) giesler , u. , & kirk , j. 1997 , a&a , 323 , 259 grove , j.e , , johnson , w.n . , kroeger , r.a .",
    ", mcnaron - brown , k. , & skibo , j.g . 1998 , apj , 500 , 899 hua x.m . & titarchuk l. , 1995 , apj , 449 , 188 liang , e. , & narayan , r. , 1997 , in _ proceedings of the fourth compton symposium _ ( eds dermer , c.d .",
    "strickman , m.s . , & kurfess , j.d . ) , aip cp-410 , 461 ling , j.c .",
    "_ et al _ 1997 , apj , 484 , 375 narayan , r. , & yi , i. 1994 , apj , 428 , l13 narayan , r. , & barret , d. , & mcclintock , j.e .",
    "1997 , apj , 478 , 448 nagirner , d.i . , &",
    "poutanen , yu.j . , 1994 ,",
    "space phys .",
    "9 , 1 448 podznyakov l.a .",
    ", sobol i.m . and sunyaev r.a . , 1983",
    ", space science review , 2 , 189 ( pss ) shakura , n.i . , & sunyaev , r.a .",
    ", 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 ( ss73 ) shrader , c. & titarchuk , l.g . 1998 , apjl , 499 , l31 ( sht98 ) skibo , j.g .",
    "& dermer , c.d .",
    "1995 , apj , 455 , l25 sobolev , v.v . 1975 ,",
    "light scattering in atmospheres ( oxford : pergamon press ) sunyaev r.a . & titarchuk l. , 1980 , a&a , 86 , 121 sunyaev r.a . & titarchuk l. , 1985 , a&a , 143 , 374 titarchuk l. & zannias t. , 1998 , apj , 493 , 863 ( tz98 ) titarchuk , l.g . , lapidus , i.i . & muslimov , a. , 1998 , apj , 499 , 315 titarchuk , l. g. , mastichiadis , a. , kylafis , n. d. 1997 , apj , 487 , 834 ( tmk97 ) titarchuk , l.g . , 1997 in _ proceedings of the fourth compton symposium _ ( eds dermer , c.d . , strickman , m.s . , &",
    "kurfess , j.d . ) , aip cp-410 , 477 titarchuk , l. g. , mastichiadis , a. , kylafis , n. d. 1996 , a&as , 120 , c171 ( tmk96 ) titarchuk , l.g . , 1996 in _ proceedings of second integral symposium _",
    "( eds winkler , c. , courvoisier , t.j .- l . , & durouchoux , ph . ) , esa sp-382 , 163 titarchuk l.g .",
    "& lyubarskij yu.e .",
    "1995 , apj , 450 , 876 titarchuk l.g .",
    "1994 , apj , 434 , 570 zeldovich , ya . b. & shakura , n.i .",
    "1969 , azh , 46 , 225 ( english transl . in soviet astron .",
    "13 , 175 ) ( zs69 ) zhang , s.n . ,",
    "mirabel , i.f . ,",
    "harmon , b.a .",
    ", kroeger , r.a . ,",
    "rodriguez , l.f .",
    ", hjellming , r.m . , &",
    "rupen , m.p . , 1997 in _ proceedings of the fourth compton symposium _ ( eds dermer , c.d .",
    "strickman , m.s . , & kurfess , j.d . ) , aip cp-410 , 141"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an accreting black hole is , by definition , characterized by the drain . </S>",
    "<S> namely , the matter falls into a black hole much the same way as water disappears down a drain - matter goes in and nothing comes out . </S>",
    "<S> as this can only happen in a black hole , it provides a way to see  a black hole \" , an unique observational signature of black holes . </S>",
    "<S> the accretion proceeds almost in a free - fall manner close to the black hole horizon , where the strong gravitational field dominates the pressure forces . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we calculate ( by using monte - carlo simulations ) the specific features of x - ray spectra formed as a result of upscattering of the soft ( disk ) photons in the converging inflow ( ci ) within about 3 schwarzschild radii of the black hole . </S>",
    "<S> the full relativistic treatment has been implemented to reproduce these spectra . </S>",
    "<S> we show that spectra in the soft state of black hole systems ( bhs ) can be described as the sum of a thermal ( disk ) component and the convolution of some fraction of this component with the ci upscattering spread ( green s ) function . </S>",
    "<S> the latter boosted photon component is seen as an extended power - law at energies much higher than the characteristic energy of the soft photons . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate the stability of the power spectral index ( @xmath0 ) over a wide range of the plasma temperature @xmath1 kev and mass accretion rates ( higher than 2 in eddington units ) . </S>",
    "<S> we also demonstrate that the sharp high energy cutoff occurs at energies of 200 - 400 kev which are related to the average energy of electrons @xmath2 impinging upon the event horizon . </S>",
    "<S> the spectrum is practically identical to the standard thermal comptonization spectrum ( hua & titarchuk 1995 ) when the ci plasma temperature is getting of order of 50 kev ( the typical ones for the hard state of bhs ) . in this case </S>",
    "<S> one can see the effect of the bulk motion only at high energies where there is an excess in the ci spectrum with respect to the pure thermal one . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore we demonstrate that the change of spectral shapes from the soft x  ray state to the hard </S>",
    "<S> x  ray state is clearly to be related with the temperature of the bulk flow . </S>",
    "<S> in other words the effect of the bulk comptonization compared to the thermal one is getting stronger when the plasma temperature drops below 10 kev . </S>",
    "<S> these monte - carlo simulated ci spectra are a inevitable stamp of the bhs where the strong gravitational field dominates the pressure forces .    </S>"
  ]
}