{
  "article_text": [
    "running penumbral waves ( rpws ) , which exist in sunspot chromospheres , were first observed by @xcite and more recently studied though various imaging observations .",
    "although this phenomenon has been investigated in detail , the origin of these moving disturbances and their relation to other phenomena occurring within sunspots remains unclear .",
    "in particular , a comparative study by between the possibility of rpws being a trans - sunspot wave in the chromosphere or a visual pattern of upward - propagating waves was unable to conclude one way or the other .",
    "the work presented here will attempt to finally address the true origin of these waves using full stokes time series observations of a sunspot obtained at high cadence .",
    "the benefit of observing the full stokes polarization profiles is the retrieval of the complete magnetic field vector , circumventing the need for any assumptions of the field topology in our conclusions of possible wave propagation .",
    "the data used here were obtained on 2001 may 9 with the tenerife infrared polarimeter @xcite attached to the german vtt . the full stokes ( @xmath0 , @xmath1 , @xmath2 , @xmath3 )",
    "vector was measured by a slit fixed across active region noaa 9448 .",
    "the slit sampled sunspot umbra , a light bridge , penumbra and neighboring quiet sun at a rate of one exposure every 2.1s over the period 09:1010:20  ut .",
    "the recorded data from inside the sunspot umbra were previously presented by @xcite , who found vertically propagating , slow - mode waves in a stratified isothermal atmosphere to reliably fit the observed temporal fourier behavior when radiative cooling was taken into account .",
    "the stokes profiles of the photospheric sii10827  and high - chromospheric hei10830  lines were individually inverted using the inversion code of .",
    "atmospheres containing a single magnetic component were used in both cases , while the sii inversion included an additional non - magnetic , stray - light component .",
    "the resulting line - of - sight ( los ) velocities from the inversion are displayed in fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : si - he - osc ] , where solid horizontal lines mark boundaries between different regions of the sunspot : quiet sun ( @xmath4 ) ; penumbra ( @xmath5 ) ; umbra ( @xmath6 ) ; a light bridge ( @xmath7 ) .",
    "it is evident that whereas the umbral oscillations in hei have a period of 3  min , in sii the umbra oscillates at around 5  min .",
    "note , the rpws also show a period close to 5  min .",
    "space - time plots of los velocity in the photospheric sii10827  line ( bottom ) and upper - chromospheric hei10830  multiplet ( top ) .",
    ", width=472 ]",
    "a ) space - time plot of penumbral los velocity in the hei multiplet .",
    "variation of temporal cross correlation between individual spatial hei velocity profiles and b ) an average , central penumbral hei profile , c ) an average , outer umbral hei profile , and d ) an average , outer umbral sii profile . ]    initially , raw hei velocities were studied to determine the apparent horizontal propagation speed of the rpw disturbances through the penumbra .",
    "simple spatial tracking of a number of the velocity maxima in fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : raw - he - ccor]a yielded values @xmath8@xmath9kms@xmath10 . time lags between all of the penumbral hei velocity signals and an averaged , mid - penumbral hei signal ( region of averaging marked by dotted lines in fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : si - he - osc ] ) were found by cross - correlating the velocity profiles in time and are presented in fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : raw - he - ccor]b .",
    "spatial tracking of the peak correlation yielded an apparent speed of @xmath8@xmath11kms@xmath10 .",
    "the same spatial correlation approach was also performed between all of the penumbral hei velocity signals and both an averaged , outer - umbral hei signal ( fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : raw - he - ccor]c ; region of averaging marked by dashed lines in fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : si - he - osc ] ) and an averaged , outer - umbral sii signal ( fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : raw - he - ccor]d ) , each yielding apparent speeds of @xmath8@xmath12kms@xmath10 .",
    "these values are in good agreement with the previous literature ( see , e.g. , the recent review of * ? ? ?",
    "note that values of correlation coefficient in the umbral hei case diminish rapidly through the penumbra since attempting to correlate a signal with a dominant 3-min period to one with a 5-min period .",
    "the correlation with the umbral sii displays the opposite behavior , being strong throughout the penumbra but petering out at the umbra / penumbra boundary for the same reason .",
    "the scenario proposed here for the generation of these running disturbances in the penumbral chromosphere is shown in fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : car - sch - inc ] as a cartoon schematic .",
    "although assuming vertical fields in the umbra of this sunspot was sufficient for the work of @xcite , pixels toward the outer edge of the umbra show somewhat inclined fields ( @xmath13 ; which may account for the spread of phase difference points with frequency in * ? ? ?",
    "these inclinations mean that some field lines originating from the photospheric umbra can pass through the chromospheric penumbra . from the values of inclination retrieved here ,",
    "most chromospheric penumbral pixels can be traced back to the outer umbra / inner penumbra , all of which show photospheric velocity signatures of similar phase .",
    "if waves which travel along the field are indeed excited at the photospheric level within the umbral region ( as shown by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , those waves propagating along more inclined paths will have larger distances to traverse before showing their presence at the hei sampling height in the upper chromosphere .",
    "the increased path lengths that are experienced with increasing distance through the chromospheric penumbra mean that initially similar velocity signals in the sii line have increasing temporal delay in the hei signal , resulting in an apparent horizontal motion outward from the umbra as proposed by .",
    "cartoon schematic of the proposed field geometry linking pixels in the umbra ( dark grid ) to those in the penumbra ( light grid ) at photospheric and chromospheric sampling heights through increasingly inclined field lines . ]",
    "photospheric and chromospheric spatial pixels were paired using the values of local solar inclination recorded in the sii and hei lines to determine the expected spatial offset between the two sampling heights in the atmosphere .",
    "the subsequent los velocity pairings between the photosphere and chromosphere were subjected to fourier phase difference analysis following .",
    "phase difference spectra from several neighboring spatial pixels were overplotted in each of the panels of fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : fft - ang - dep ] to heighten the clarity of any relation which may exist .",
    "these phase difference diagrams are comparable to fig .  6 of @xcite , although they differ slightly as the shade and size of data points here denote the fourier coherence and cross - spectral power , respectively",
    ".     phase differences between spatially offset pairings of photospheric and chromospheric los velocities .",
    "panels show phase difference relations moving from those chromospheric pixels closest to the umbra / penumbra boundary ( top ) toward those at the penumbra / quiet - sun boundary ( bottom ) .",
    ", width=472 ]    it is clear when moving from the chromospheric umbra / penumbra boundary ( top panel ) toward the penumbra / quiet sun boundary ( bottom panel ) that the phase difference relations show deviation from the classical acoustic cutoff ( @xmath14  mhz ) which can be explained by the reduced gravity experienced by waves propagating non - vertically .",
    "solid curves plotted in fig .  [ bloomfield - fig : fft - ang - dep ] show the expected phase difference relations achieved using the equations provided by @xcite for field - aligned waves in an isothermal atmosphere with radiative cooling , when the reduced gravity and increased path length from inclinated fields are taken into account , and the values of temperature , height separation , and cooling time scale which they determined for the umbra of this sunspot ( @xmath15k , @xmath16 km , and @xmath17s , respectively ) .",
    "although only arbitrarily chosen and not reached by any form of fitting , good comparison is found with the observations for field inclinations of @xmath18 , @xmath19 , 53@xmath20 , 63@xmath20 , and 65@xmath20 when moving from top to bottom panels of fig .",
    "[ bloomfield - fig : fft - ang - dep ] : these values are also in good agreement with the local solar inclinations determined by the stokes inversion .",
    "given that the work presented here is incomplete , the initial results are very promising .",
    "fourier analysis confirms that rpws are indeed the visual pattern of low-@xmath21 slow magneto - acoustic waves that are generated at very similar phase at the photosphere but propagate along field lines of increasing inclination , hence showing increased time delays at ( roughly ) the same chromospheric altitude .",
    "improvements that are still required include least - squares fitting of the phase difference relation to the data to retrieve the spatial variation of the physical parameters @xmath22 , @xmath23 , and @xmath24 .",
    "in addition , refinement of the sii inversion to include fine structure in the photospheric penumbra ( e.g. , a second magnetic component to account for known highly inclined filament or flux tube fields ) will provide better linkage between velocity signals in the inner - penumbral photosphere and those in the outer - penumbral chromosphere .",
    "observations of a small pore region will also be investigated for such running waves since the findings of this work indicate that the existence of a penumbra is not neccessary for their production : only sufficiently inclined fields in the umbra ( or pore ) are required to guide the waves outside this region .",
    "+ the authors wish to extend their thanks to rebecca centeno , manuel collados , and javier trujillo bueno for providing this excellent data set for our analysis .",
    "we are also grateful to the conference organisers for the opportunity to upgrade this presentation from a poster to a talk .",
    "v. , collados m. , snchez almeida j. , gonzlez v. , cruz - lopez a. , manescau a. , joven e. , paez e. , diaz j. , feeney o. , snchez v. , scharmer g. , soltau d. , 1999 , in t.  r. rimmele , k.  s. balasubramaniam , r.  r. radick ( eds . ) , asp conf .",
    "183 : high resolution solar physics : theory , observations , and techniques , p.  264"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> spectropolarimetric time series data of the primary spot of active region noaa 9448 were obtained in the sii10827  line and the hei10830  multiplet with the tenerife infrared polarimeter . throughout the time series the spectrograph slit was fixed over a region covering umbra , a light bridge , penumbra , and quiet sun . </S>",
    "<S> we present speeds of running penumbral waves in the chromosphere , their relation to both photospheric and chromospheric umbral oscillations , and their dependence on the magnetic field topology . </S>"
  ]
}