{
  "article_text": [
    "in the last few years , several wide field imagers ( wfis ) at the focus of large ground - based telescopes have become operative ( mpi - eso 2.2 m , aat 4 m , cfh 4 m ) , and their number is continuously increasing ( lbt 2@xmath18 m , vst 2.5 m , ukirt 3.8 m , vista 4 m , etc . ) , as well as their field of view . these wfis have allowed us to map completely a number of open and globular clusters in our galaxy , and to get accurate photometry for large numbers of stars , with the additional possibility of studying fast - evolving phases of stellar evolution . by definition ,",
    "the wfis allow large radial coverage in a cluster , so that we can study the radial distribution of stars in different sequences of the color  magnitude diagram ( cmd ) and of peculiar objects , which allows us to investigate the effect of the environment on the evolution of the cluster stars .",
    "the wide field coverage has made the study of tidal tails in open and globular clusters much more practicable .    among the most interesting opportunities offered by the wfis ( still largely unexplored )",
    "are in their astrometric performance .",
    "accurate astrometry over wide fields is important for a number of reasons .",
    "first of all , an accuracy of 0.2 arcsec or better is required to point the fibers of multi - fiber spectroscopic facilities ( e.g. , flames@xmath2giraffe / vlt at eso ) . however , the most promising applications lie in the proper - motion measurements of a large number of stars .",
    "wfis allow astrometric measurements with an accuracy of far better than @xmath3 arcsec . with a baseline of a few years , images collected with modern wfis can provide proper motions more accurate than those obtainable with old plates with a baseline of several decades .",
    "( note , though , that these plates will still remain valuable for long - term non - linear astrometry , such as the determination of the orbit of long - period visual binaries , and of course for long - term variation in the light curves ) .",
    "in the last year , we have started to apply to wide field ground - based images what we have learned from hubble space telescope ( @xmath4 ) ( anderson & king 2000 , 2003 , anderson 2004 ) . for accurate astrometry the ability to reproduce the the core of the point spread function ( psf ) is of crucial importance , much more so than for accurate psf - fitting photometry .",
    "in fact , the psf core ( where the derivatives of the stellar profile are highest ) contains almost all the astrometric information .",
    "the psf core needs to be carefully modeled , as does its dependence on the spatial position within the detector .",
    "moreover , the core of the psf needs to be represented with adequate sampling . in figure 2",
    "we show the precision achieved in measuring stellar positions in images collected at the wfi@2.2 m , under 12 seeing conditions .",
    "we verified that a seeing of 08 improves the precision by @xmath030% .    at the moment",
    "our main limitation comes from the geometric distortion of the focal plane , and we are working on an algorithm to correct for it . before we can correct for it , we must of course understand what the nature of the distortion is , in terms of ( 1 )",
    "what order of polynomial best characterizes it , ( 2 ) whether there is any fine - scale component added by the filters or other optical elements and ( 3 ) whether it changes over time .",
    "even if we can not perfectly characterize the distortion , it is still possible to minimize its effect on astrometry either by taking a set of exposures at a variety of pointing offsets or by doing transformations in a more local way ( bedin et al .",
    "figure 3 shows an example of the proper - motion potential of ground - based wide field imagers ; we present preliminary results on field - star removal in part of the low - galactic - latitude globular cluster m4 .",
    "observations collected at the wfi@2.2 m in two epochs separated by a time baseline of just 2.2 years already allow an excellent separation .",
    "the first - epoch data consist of 3@xmath175s + 2@xmath155s @xmath5-band images taken on december 6 , 1999 , and the second - epoch data consist of 3@xmath1180s images in the same band , and 3@xmath1120s @xmath6-band images , taken on february 19 , 2002 . in order to avoid first - order color terms ,",
    "we use only the @xmath5 images to derive the proper motions , and we use only the cluster ms stars as reference stars in the transformation , so that stars moving with the cluster will have zero displacement . the top left panel of figure 3 shows the vector point diagram of the displacements , in units of wfi pixels ( 238 mas / pixel ) . from high - accuracy astrometric measurements on @xmath4 data ,",
    "bedin et al .   (",
    "2003 ) have shown that the average proper - motion displacement between cluster stars and field objects is @xmath017 mas / yr . since our astrometric errors increase rapidly toward fainter magnitudes , we consider as cluster members all the stars with a proper motion which differs by less than 10 mas / yr from the average proper motion of the cluster ms stars .",
    "anderson , j. , & king , i.  r. 2000 , pasp , 112 , 1360 anderson , j. , & king , i.  r. 2003 , pasp , 115 , 113 anderson , j. acs isr 04 - 15 , 2004 bedin l.  r. , piotto , g. , king , i.  r. , & anderson , j. 2003 , aj , 126 , 247"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show the astrometric potential of the wide field imager at the focus of the mpi - eso 2.2 m telescope . currently , we are able to measure the position of a well - exposed star with a precision of @xmath04 mas / frame in each coordinate ( under 0.8 arcsec seeing conditions ) . </S>",
    "<S> we present some preliminary results here . </S>"
  ]
}