{
  "article_text": [
    "the recent announcement of the detection of a significant population of old white dwarfs with high proper motions ( oppenheimer et al 2001 ; hereafter ohdhs ) has sparked a lot of interest in the nature of this population .",
    "if this population is indeed representative of the galactic halo , as claimed by ohdhs , then it could represent a significant contribution to the claimed microlensing population ( alcock et al 2000 ) .",
    "however , the assignment of these white dwarfs to a particular dynamical family is still somewhat controversial .",
    "in particular , reid , sahu & hawley ( 2001 ; hereafter rsh ) , by comparing with a local sample of m  dwarfs , suggest that this population is actually representative of the thick disk and consistent with known galactic populations . in either case",
    ", the ohdhs sample represents a new and interesting probe of the old stellar populations in the solar neighbourhood .",
    "most of the recent controversy regarding the ohdhs claim centers on the dynamical interpretation of their results ; i.e. whether the detected white dwarfs represent the true halo or the thick disk and whether the density required is consistent with the expected stellar populations or requires an interpretation in terms of a ` dark matter ' contribution . in this article",
    "i wish to address another aspect of this population , namely the age distribution and what that can tell us about the origin of these white dwarfs .",
    "first of all , in  [ thickdisk ] i will review the arguments about the various dynamical populations suggested and the kinds of densities expected therefrom .",
    "therafter , i will discuss in  [ wdlf ] the age distribution of the ohdhs sample and will discuss the implications in  [ conc ] .",
    "the ohdhs ` halo ' sample of white dwarfs is culled from an area covering about 4000 square degrees towards the south galactic pole , or about @xmath0 of the sky .",
    "the magnitude limit of the search is @xmath1 , while the proper motion limit is @xmath2 .",
    "they apply a further velocity cut , selecting only those white dwarfs with velocity @xmath3 ( using photometric distance estimates ) in order to define their high - velocity ` halo ' population . using a v@xmath4 analysis",
    "they infer a mass density @xmath5 in this high velocity population .",
    "this density is considerably larger than the estimate of @xmath6 expected from the standard spheroid ( gould , flynn & bahcall 1998 ) and prompts interpretations in support of halo white dwarf populations from microlensing ( e.g. alcock et al 2000 ) .",
    "however , alternative explanations have already been suggested .",
    "rsh have shown that a similar velocity cut on their volume - complete sample of m  dwarfs from reid , hawley & gizis ( 1995 ) allows 20 out of 514 stars ( @xmath7 ) into the ` halo ' sample thus defined .",
    "as such , they interpret the ohdhs white dwarfs as simply a high - velocity tail of a disk population .",
    "this is also supported by the fact that the ohdhs ` halo ' sample does show a distinctly asymmetric velocity distribution , suggesting some fraction belongs to a rotating component .    to understand the various positions on this issue , we need to understand what is expected from each population . the thick disk is generally defined as a co - rotating ( with the sun ) population with vertical scale height @xmath8 , vertical velocity dispersion @xmath9 and a number density several percent of the local disk value ( sandage & fouts 1987 ; reid & majewski 1994 ; robin 1994 ) .",
    "we should note , at this point , that the m - dwarf sample of reid , hawley & gizis ( 1995 ) seems to contain a significantly larger fraction in the high velocity population ( @xmath10 ) .    to infer absolute numbers , we review the range of galactic mass models from dehnen & binney ( 1998 ) .",
    "they assume a 5% fraction of the total disk mass in the thick component and find a range of _ total _ thick disk mass ranging from @xmath11 to @xmath12 .",
    "however , applying the velocity cut at @xmath13 removes all but the highest velocity objects from the sample .",
    "ohdhs claim this as a @xmath14 cut . in reality , applying this cut to the proper motions drawn from a 3-d maxwellian only removes @xmath15 of the thick disk stars .",
    "furthermore , allowing for a @xmath16 lag in the thick disk rotation velocity ( chiba & beers 2000 ) , suggests as much as @xmath17 of the stars make it into the sample .",
    "thus , we may expect a range @xmath18@xmath19 .",
    "hence the white dwarf density inferred by ohdhs appears to be consistent with these numbers .",
    "however , one potentially disturbing feature of this agreement is that we have yet to account for the mass in stars below the turnoff i.e. those which have yet to form white dwarfs .    to determine whether this is indeed disturbing , we have to infer the fraction of the total population mass that we expect to reside in white dwarfs . assuming a salpeter function from 0.1  @xmath20 to @xmath21 and assuming all stars with @xmath22 form @xmath23 white dwarfs , the ratio of mass in white dwarfs to mass in stars with @xmath24 is @xmath25 so that @xmath26 of the total stellar mass is contained in white dwarfs .",
    "thus , the expected total mass density in local , thick disk white dwarfs above the velocity cut is @xmath27 , considerably less than the ohdhs determination ( and similar to the gould et al number for the spheroid ) .",
    "of course , the salpeter mass function diverges at the low mass end , so this number could be sensitive to the low mass cutoff .",
    "thus , let us repeat this calculation using the empirical disk mass function of gould , bahcall & flynn ( 1996 ) ( and which does nt diverge at the low mass end ) . instead of a salpeter slope",
    "x=1.35 , this mass function has x=1.21 ( note the different sign convention from gould et al ) between @xmath28 and @xmath29 for @xmath30 .",
    "gould et al argue that a correction for unresolved binaries will increase @xmath31 to @xmath32 , so we adopt @xmath33 at the low end . using this mass function ( extrapolated through the white dwarf region ) ,",
    "the ratio of mass in white dwarfs to sub - turn - off stars is 0.41 , i.e. a 29% share of the total mass budget .",
    "thus , a more conservative estimate is @xmath34 thick disk white dwarfs in the ohdhs sample , i.e. only a factor of two smaller than the ohdhs number .",
    "of course , there are several assumptions in such a naive model ( mass function extrapolations , simple maxwellian velocity distributions ) which can be changed to provide better agreement .",
    "we will consider these issues in  [ conc ] , but first we consider the other curious feature of the ohdhs sample , namely the age distribution .",
    "again , it is useful to understand what we expect from a simple model .",
    "the thick disk is kinematically and chemically distinct ( e.g. freeman 1993 ; majewski 1993 ) from the thin disk and is thought to be a population that formed primarily in a burst @xmath3512  gyr ago ( e.g. gilmore , wyse & jones 1995 ) .",
    "thus , we model this as a single burst of star formation 12  gyr old , whose white dwarf ages vary depending on the mass and consequent main sequence lifetime of the progenitor . to make a conservative model , we want to maximise the fraction of the white dwarf population that would be detectable by ohdhs .",
    "we assume a standard salpeter imf , a main sequence lifetime based on the models of hurley , pols & tout ( 2000 ) and we shall assume that all stars above the turnoff mass ( 0.82  @xmath20 in this model ) make @xmath36 white dwarfs ( more massive white dwarfs cool more rapidly at late times because of earlier core crystallisation ) , with hydrogen atmospheres ( because these are the slowest cooling ) and pure carbon cores ( because these have the largest plausible heat capacity and thus cool most slowly ) .",
    "thus , we are skewing the white dwarf luminosity function to the bright end .",
    "figure  [ ill ] shows the resulting white dwarf luminosity function , using the models of hansen ( 1999 ) . for comparison",
    "we include a luminosity function with all the same input parameters except that we assume a constant star formation rate over the last 12  gyr .",
    "the most striking difference is that the burst population has a much sharper rise at the faint end .",
    "thus , the vast majority ( @xmath37 ) of the white dwarfs lie within 0.5 magnitude of the faintest white dwarfs in the burst case .",
    "this difference in scalings also demonstrates that one can not simply try to scale the ratio of white dwarfs to m - dwarfs from the thin disk ( a @xmath35 constant star formation rate population ) to the thick disk ( if it is a burst population ) as done in rsh .",
    "the next question to ask is whether the ohdhs white dwarfs are indeed old enough to account for the thick disk population .",
    "again , we use our most conservative , 0.5  @xmath20 , carbon core , hydrogen envelope models .",
    "thus , we derive upper limits on the age .",
    "the absolute r - band magnitudes span the range @xmath38 . using our conservative model ,",
    "one finds an age of @xmath39  gyr for @xmath40 and @xmath41  gyr for @xmath42 .",
    "an age of 12  gyr corresponds to @xmath43 , i.e. the oldest white dwarfs in the sample are not older than @xmath44  gyr and most are considerably younger .",
    "furthermore , recall that these are the most conservative models , i.e. the ages are probably younger than this .",
    "obviously the expected age of 12  gyr is the combination of both main sequence and white dwarf lifetimes , but , as we have shown above , we expect the white dwarfs to pile up at the faint end in a population resulting from a burst .",
    "another way of putting this is to infer the main sequence mass of the progenitor by subtracting the inferred white dwarf age from the presumed 12  gyr age of the burst .",
    "the faintest white dwarf ( @xmath45 ) has a white dwarf age @xmath46  gyr ( recall we are using the slowest cooling models ) and thus comes from a star less massive than @xmath47 if originating from a 12  gyr burst .",
    "however , a more typical representative of the coolest ohdhs white dwarfs has @xmath48 , an age @xmath49  gyr and a progenitor mass @xmath50 .",
    "if we adopt the gould et al mass slope for the burst we find that ( extrapolating to progenitor masses of 8@xmath51 ) , we are missing the white dwarfs from between 50% and 80% ( depending on the completeness of the ohdhs sample ) of the total population . since the observed densities are already slightly discrepant with our expectations , such enhancements of the density by factors of 25 would lead to a significant discrepancy",
    ".    how much of this discrepancy could be due to inaccuracies in the cooling models ?",
    "intercomparisons of different theoretical groups show model ages which differ by @xmath35 10% , not enough to alleviate the above comparisons ( a good review of the current state of the field can be found in fontaine , brassard & bergeron ( 2001 ) ) .",
    "in particular , fontaine et al present a model ( pure carbon core , hydrogen atmosphere ) similar to that of our above conservative model ( although the mass is @xmath52 ) .",
    "we can compare the luminosity of such a 12  gyr white dwarf from the two codes ( and , of course , using a @xmath52 model from our tables ) and find @xmath53 ( fontaine ) and @xmath54 ( hansen ) .",
    "the above white dwarfs are considerably brighter and younger .",
    "the most empirical measure of the ages of the ohdhs white dwarfs is to compare them directly to the thin disk sample of liebert , dahn & monet ( 1988 ) ( although we will use the photometry of bergeron , ruiz & leggett ( 1998 ) ) .",
    "figure  [ ri ] shows that most of the ohdhs white dwarfs have similar ages to the thin disk white dwarfs , and a similar distribution . on the basis of this diagram alone",
    ", it would be difficult to distinguish this new population from the standard thin disk white dwarf population .",
    "given that the ohdhs white dwarfs appear brighter than expected for their proposed parent population , one might wonder if there is some gross error in the photometric distance indicator they used .",
    "the claimed 20% error is probably reasonable , given the small variation in radius between white dwarfs of different mass and composition .",
    "one potential note of caution though , is that mixed hydrogen and helium atmospheres can wreak havoc with the colours of cool white dwarfs ( e.g. the non - monotonic behaviour of the mixed model shown in ohdhs figure 4 ) .",
    "this could contribute some additional systematic uncertainties .",
    "however , a wholesale overestimate of the distances by this method is probably unlikely , given that many of the white dwarfs show @xmath55 emission and the edge of that subset lies at an inferred @xmath56 corresponding to temperatures @xmath57  k ( where we indeed expect the @xmath55 to become undetectable ) .",
    "finally , given these interesting results , one can ask what is required to see the kind of old white dwarfs we expect .",
    "searches in the r - band are optimal for the colours of old white dwarfs ( hansen 1998 , 1999 ; saumon & jacobsen 1999 ) , and even the slowest cooling models described above predict @xmath58 for a 12  gyr white dwarf . to distinguish thick disk / halo white dwarfs we also require @xmath59 .",
    "thus , we may set a target reduced proper motion @xmath60 .",
    "the ohdhs sample is not complete at this level and thus there may still be a lot of white dwarfs to be discovered .",
    "based on the considerations of the previous section , it is tempting to conclude that the white dwarfs identified by ohdhs have a provenance similar to those in the thin disk .",
    "certainly , on the basis of the colour - magnitude distribution alone , it is difficult to distinguish the two populations .",
    "however , this sample was drawn from a high velocity sample .",
    "while arguments rage about their membership in the halo or the thick disk , kinematic membership in the usual thin disk population seems unlikely .",
    "of course , underlying this is the assumption that even old thin disk populations are described by maxwellian velocity distributions with dispersions @xmath61 .",
    "perhaps this is simply indicating that there are other dynamical processes at work in the disk which can pump some stars up to velocities characteristic of the thick disk .",
    "the thick disk is generally regarded as kinematically and also largely chemically distinct from the old thin disk ( gilmore & reid 1983 ; sandage & fouts 1987 ; gilmore , wyse & kuijken 1989 ; freeman 1993 , reid & majewski 1993 ) . if the ohdhs white dwarfs are truly part of the thick disk they rather belie this distinction , suggesting that perhaps star formation in the thick disk is more complex than a simple burst at early times .",
    "one can make the ohdhs sample consistent with our preconceptions about the thick disk if one believes that it represents only the bright tail of a larger distribution .",
    "however , given the inferred densities as described in section  [ thickdisk ] , a further addition of significant mass would again imply a thick disk white dwarf contribution considerably larger than previously thought .",
    "as such , it would imply a top - heavy mass function i.e. one more weighted towards the production of white dwarfs than a standard salpeter mass function .",
    "our naive estimates of  [ wdlf ] suggest as much as 80 % of the white dwarfs could lie beyond the ohdhs limits .",
    "note , however , that the increased mass in white dwarfs would still not dominate the local disk mass , since the addition would only be of order the currently accepted ( total ) thick disk mass i.e. still an order of magnitude less than the thin disk contribution",
    ".    finally , much of the controversy regarding the interpretation of the ohdhs observations is motivated by whether this represents a detection of the population of stars responsible for the microlensing observed by alcock et al ( 2000 ) . for this purpose",
    "it is not sufficient to distinguish between true halo and thick disk populations , as there are models ( gyuk & gates 1999 ) which attempt to explain the microlensing results using rotating populations , reminiscent of a very thick disk .",
    "certainly , if one were to find significantly more white dwarfs ( be they halo or thick disk ) at even fainter magnitudes , the mass required would begin to point towards such a population .",
    "this work was supported by nasa through hubble fellowship grant hf-01120.01 - 99a from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc . under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "alcock , c. et al , 200 , apj , 542 , 281 bergeron , p. , ruiz , m .- t . , & leggett , s. k. , 1997 , apjs , 108 , 339 chiba , m. & beers , t. c. , 2000 , aj , 119 , 2843 dehnen , w. & binney , j. , 1998 , mnras , 294 , 429 fontaine , g. , brassard , p. & bergeron , p. , 2001 ,",
    "pasp , 113 , 409 freeman , k. c. , 1993 , in ` the stellar populations of galaxies ' , iau symp .",
    "b.barbuy & a.renzini , p65 gilmore , g. & reid , i. n. , 1983 , mnras , 202 , 1025 gilmore , g. , wyse , r. & jones , j. b. , 1991 , apj , 367 , l55 gilmore , g. , wyse , r. & kuijken , k. , 1989 , ara&a , 27 , 555 gould , a. , flynn , c. & bahcall , j. n. , 1998 , apj , 503 , 798 gyuk , g. & gates , e. , 1999 , mnras , 304 , 281 hansen , b. m. s. , 1998 , nature , 394 , 860 hansen , b. m. s. , 1999 , apj , 520 , 680 hurley , j. r. , pols , o. r. & tout , c. a. , 2000 , mnras , 315 , 543 liebert , j. , dahn , c. c. & monet , d. g. , 1988 , apj , 332 , 891 liu , w. c. & chaboyer , b. , 2000 , apj , 544 , 818 oppenheimer , b. , hambly , n. c. , digby , a. p. , hodgkin , s. t. & saumon , d. , 2001 , science , 292 , 698 reid , i. n. , hawley , s. l. & gizis , j. e. , 1995 , aj , 110 , 1838 reid , i. n. & majewski , s. , 1994 , apj , 409 , 635 reid , i. n. , sahu , k. & hawley , s. l. , 2001 , /astro - ph/0104110 richer , h. b. , hansen , b. m. s. , limongi , m. , chieffi , a. , straniero , o. , & fahlman , g. g. , 2000 , apj , 529 , 318 robin , a. c. , 1994 , in ` astronomy from wide field imaging ' , iau symp .",
    "et al . , p403 sandage , a. & fouts , g. , 1987 , aj , 93 , 74 saumon , d. & jacobsen , s. , 1999 , apj , 511 , l107"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the discovery of a population of high proper motion white dwarfs by oppenheimer et al ( 2001 ) has caused a lot of speculation as to the origin of these stars . </S>",
    "<S> i show that the age distribution of the white dwarfs offers a kind of sanity check in these discussions . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , this population appears to have a similar age distribution to those in the standard , thin disk white dwarf population . </S>",
    "<S> this is not what is expected for either the halo or thick disk , which are thought to be old populations . </S>",
    "<S> it may indicate a different dynamical origin entirely , or it may be just be the tail of a larger distribution , implying a significantly larger total density in even older white dwarfs .    epsf.tex </S>"
  ]
}