{
  "article_text": [
    "galactic and intergalactic magnetic fields play a major role in the physics of ultra high energy cosmic rays ( crs ) @xcite .",
    "the magnetic field of our galaxy can lead to sizeable deflections of cr trajectories @xcite . here",
    "we emphasize the action of the galactic magnetic field as a giant lens which can sizeably amplify the cr flux arriving from any given source in some energy range @xcite .",
    "we illustrate these effects within a bisymmetric spiral model for the regular component of the galactic magnetic field , with a value at the location of the solar system of 2 @xmath0 g ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "precise predictions depend upon the detailed structure of the galactic magnetic field , which is not so well known .",
    "the main features should however be rather generic to any realistic model . in the case here",
    "considered magnetic lensing is relevant in the energy range @xmath1 , where @xmath2 is the cr electric charge . at higher values of @xmath3 deflections and magnifications",
    "are not very large , while at smaller energies the drift and diffusive regimes dominate .",
    "a bundle of cr trajectories from an extragalactic source can be focused as it traverses the inhomogeneous galactic magnetic field .",
    "its amplification is given by the ratio of the flux of particles reaching the earth to that outside the region of influence of the galactic magnetic field .",
    "1 illustrates the effect in the case of crs that arrive from the direction to m87 in the virgo cluster , specified by galactic coordinates @xmath4 .",
    "the flux from the principal image ( the one visible at the highest energies ) is amplified a few times at energies @xmath5 ( 1  eev=@xmath6 ) . at an energy @xmath7",
    "the source position lies along a caustic of the magnetic lens mapping .",
    "a pair of new images of the same source becomes visible from earth at energies below the energy of the caustic .",
    "the energy dependence of the amplification of each secondary image near the caustic is fitted with very high accuracy as @xmath8 ( in the particular case displayed in fig . 1 , @xmath9 ) .",
    "this dependence can be intuitively understood as a consequence of the energy - dependence of the location of the caustics @xcite . the number of events expected within a given energy bin is obtained from the convolution of the original spectrum produced by the source and the magnification due to the intervening magnetic field . in view of the energy dependence of the magnification near the caustic it is clear that in spite of its divergent behaviour , a finite number of events results .",
    "taking as an illustration an injected differential spectrum that scales as @xmath10 , the integrated flux from two secondary images in the energy interval between @xmath11 and @xmath12 turns out to be @xmath13 times larger than the flux of the principal image of the source in the same energy range in the absence of magnification .",
    "this is also @xmath14 times the flux that would arrive from the principal image at all energies above @xmath12 if there were no magnetic lensing .",
    "detection of an uhecr source in a narrow energy range around a caustic may thus be more likely than its detection at any higher energy .",
    "the enhancement of the probability to detect events from a given source in a narrow energy range near the caustic implies a concentration of events around the location at which the new pair of images forms .",
    "magnetic lensing around caustics is thus a potential source of clustering in the angular distribution of cr arrival directions , and should be taken into account in statistical analysis of small scale clustering of observed events . in this respect",
    "it is remarkable that the observed events in doublets and triplets are in most cases very close in energy @xcite .",
    "this may be an indication that at least a fraction of the observed clustering of events may be due to magnetic lensing around caustics .",
    "caustics are not an uncommon feature , because they sweep a rather significant fraction of the sky as the ratio @xmath3 varies between around 50  eev and a few eev .",
    "to illustrate this point we display in fig .",
    "2 the contour plots of the magnification of the cr flux from point sources as a function of the cr arrival direction at earth , for @xmath15 and 10  eev .",
    "the critical curves in the amplification maps at the observer s plane correspond to the caustics in the source plane , and are within the black contours in fig .  2 .",
    "we stress the fact that fig .",
    "2 plots the expected magnification for crs arriving to earth from isolated point sources .",
    "if the flux incoming to the region of influence of the galactic magnetic field were isotropic , the observed flux would also be seen isotropic , as a consequence of liouville theorem .",
    "this fact was pointed out by lematre and vallarta in their study of the deflection of low energy ( few tenths of gev ) crs by the earth dipole magnetic field , in a paper which was quoted in a round table at this meeting as the first publication by a mexican author in the field of crs @xcite .",
    "other implications of lensing by the galactic magnetic field include effects upon the observed cr composition .",
    "nuclei with different charges are magnified by different amounts for a given energy , which may lead to a sizeable effect for sources whose magnification has a strong energy dependence ( in particular around caustics ) and which have a mixed composition .",
    "another peculiar feature of lensing in the vicinity of caustics is that the relative arrival time of events from a single image of a cr source does not necessarily increase with decreasing energy .",
    "it is often argued that the doublets in which the highest energy event arrived later than the other member in the pair can not arise from bursting sources .",
    "this is not necessarily true near a caustic .",
    "the angular distribution of the extreme high energy ( ehe ) events ( @xmath16  ev ) so far observed is consistent with isotropy .",
    "there are no known nearby sources close to their arrival directions considered to be a potential site for acceleration of cosmic rays to such enormous energies .",
    "it is possible that ehecrs are protons or nuclei emitted by a few nearby extragalactic sources , but then intervening magnetic fields should significantly bend their trajectories to explain why their arrival directions do not point to their place of origin .",
    "the regular component of the galactic magnetic field does not produce large deflections at these extremely high energies except over a heavy ( large @xmath2 ) component of the cr flux .",
    "it has recently been speculated @xcite that all the events so far detected at energies above @xmath17 ev may originate from m87 in the virgo cluster , if the galaxy has a rather strong and extended magnetic wind , if two out of the thirteen events considered are he nuclei ( the rest being protons ) , and if intergalactic magnetic fields provide the extra deflection ( of order @xmath18 ) needed to fine - tune the incoming particles in the appropriate direction ( close to the direction to the northern galactic pole @xcite ) as they enter the wind .",
    "here we discuss some generic predictions due to flux magnification by magnetic lensing in this wind model that may serve to test its validity as more data becomes available@xcite .",
    "the idealized magnetic wind model considered is an azimuthal field with strength given by @xmath19 as a function of the radial spherical coordinate @xmath20 and the angle to the north galactic pole @xmath21 .",
    "the distance from the earth to the galactic center is @xmath22kpc .",
    "@xmath23 is a normalization factor . lensing effects depend upon the magnetic field strength and the cr energy and charge only through the combination @xmath24",
    "the factor @xmath25 was introduced to smooth out the field at small radii .",
    "we took @xmath26  kpc .",
    "we adopted a 1.5  mpc cutoff for the extension of the field .",
    "the main lensing effects are produced at distances larger than 10  kpc and less than a few hundred kpc , so that taking @xmath27  kpc or a cutoff at 1  mpc leaves the results essentially unchanged .",
    "3 shows contour plots of equal magnification for given cr arrival directions .",
    "huge magnifications , in excess than a factor of 100 , are attained in large regions of the sky .",
    "most of the sky is swept from north to south by the critical lines ( which are also indicative of multiple image formation ) as @xmath28 varies between 150  eev and just below 100  eev .",
    "crs at different energies enter the galactic wind from different directions if they have suffered magnetic deflections in their way .",
    "it is nevertheless instructive to consider fixed incoming directions , to illustrate some of the generic features of lensing by the galactic wind .",
    "figure  4 displays , in its left panel , the energy - dependent magnification of the flux of crs that enter the galactic magnetic wind from the direction ( @xmath29 , for the principal ( p ) as well as for the secondary images ( a , b ) .",
    "the right panel of fig .",
    "4 shows the expected arrival directions of 50 equally probable events from a source that injects crs from the same fixed direction with a differential energy spectrum proportional to @xmath30    the principal image is magnified by a factor of order 10 at @xmath31  eev , is further amplified at intermediate energies , and then its magnification starts to rapidly decrease while @xmath28 is still above 100  eev .",
    "its apparent position moves south as the energy decreases .",
    "secondary images appear at the energy at which the caustic crosses the source position .",
    "one of the secondary images moves north and remains highly magnified , with an amplification factor above 100 , while the other moves south and is quickly demagnified .",
    "notice that there are no events at southern galactic latitudes below a certain energy threshold .",
    "the fact that magnification factors well above 100 are attained in a significant energy range , with @xmath28 below 150  eev , reduces the energy requirements upon the source , that would need to be a factor of more than 100 less powerful than if unlensed to provide the same observed flux in this energy range .",
    "a definite prediction of this model is a strong asymmetry between events arriving from the northern and southern galactic hemispheres .",
    "although with the present ehe data , which involves only the northern terrestrial hemisphere and hence mainly the northern galactic one , it is not yet possible to test this asymmetry , the future operation of the auger observatory , will allow to check the viability of this model .",
    "a latitude dependent upper cut - off value below @xmath32  ev for cr protons arriving to the south and lower fluxes in the south than in the north above @xmath17  ev are generic predictions of this scenario .",
    "a galactic wind with a local value smaller than the 7 @xmath0 g adopted in @xcite could in any case have interesting observational consequences if ehecrs have a significant component which is not light .",
    "the flux of heavy nuclei could thus be strongly amplified by the galactic wind field , while the proton flux at the same energy would remain essentially unlensed .",
    "a transition to a heavy composition could thus result at extremely high energies .",
    "work partially supported by anpcyt , conicet and fundacin antorchas , argentina .",
    "see for instance the article by a. olinto in these proceedings , and bhattacharjee , p. and sigl , g. _ phys .",
    "* 327 * ( 2000 ) 109 .",
    "stanev , t. _ astrophys .",
    "j. _ * 479 * ( 1997 ) 290 .",
    "medina tanco , g. , de gouveia dal pino , e. , and horvath , j .",
    ", _ astrophys .",
    "j. _ * 492 * ( 1998 ) 200 .",
    "harari , d. , mollerach , s. and roulet , e. , _ journal of high energy physics _ * 08 * , 022 ( 1999 ) .",
    "harari , d. , mollerach , s. and roulet , e. , _ journal of high energy physics _ * 02 * , 035 ( 2000 ) .",
    "uchihori , y. , nagano , m. , takeda , m. , teshima , m. , lloyd - evans , j. , watson , a. a. , `` cluster analysis of extremely high energy cosmic rays in the northern sky '' , preprint astro - ph/9908193 .",
    "lematre , g. and vallarta , m. s. , _ physical review _ * 43 * , 87 ( 1933 ) .",
    "ahn , e. j. , medina - tanco , g. , biermann , p.l . and stanev , t. , `` the origin of the highest energy cosmic rays :",
    "do all roads lead back to virgo ? '' , astro - ph/9911123 .",
    "biermann , p. l. , in these proceedings .",
    "billoir , p. and letessier - selvon , a. , `` note on the origin of the highest energy cosmic rays '' , astro - ph/0001427 .",
    "harari , d. , mollerach , s. and roulet , e. , `` magnetic lensing of extremely high energy cosmic rays in a galactic wind '' , preprint astro - ph/0005483 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss several effects due to lensing of ultra high energy cosmic rays by the regular component of the galactic magnetic field . </S>",
    "<S> large flux magnification around caustics can be a significant source of clustering in the arrival directions of uhecrs of comparable energy . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss lensing effects in a hypothetical galactic magnetic wind model recently proposed to explain the extremely high energy cosmic rays so far observed as originating from a single source ( m87 ) . </S>",
    "<S> this model implies large flux magnifications , which reduce the power requirements on the source , and a significant asymmetry in the expected flux between the north and south galactic hemispheres .    # </S>"
  ]
}