{
  "article_text": [
    "in a previous paper ( fuchs 2002 ) i have described how arguments of density wave theory of galactic spiral arms can be used to set constraints on the otherwise ambiguous decomposition of the rotation curves of low surface brightness galaxies ( lsbgs ) . for this purpose galaxies",
    "were selected which show clear spiral structure .",
    "these came mainly from the set of lsbgs for which high  resolution rotation curves have been published by mcgaugh et al .",
    "( 2001 ) . the same authors ( de blok et al .",
    "2001 ) have also constructed dynamical models of the galaxies .",
    "the observed rotation curves were modeled as @xmath0 where @xmath1 , @xmath2 , @xmath3 , and @xmath4 denote the contributions due to the bulge , the stellar disk , the interstellar gas , and the dark halo , respectively .",
    "de blok et al .",
    "( 2001 ) provide actually for each galaxy several models , one with zero bulge and disk mass , one model with a ` reasonable ' mass  to  light ratio , and a ` maximum  disk ' model with bulge and disk masses at the maximum allowed by the data .",
    "all fit the data equally well . applying the density wave theory argument i confirmed essentially the maximum  disk models .",
    "this result is puzzling because the mass  to  light ratios of these models are unaccountably high in view of stellar population synthesis modeling of lsbgs ( cf .",
    "bell & de jong 2001 ) . on the other hand",
    ", this might indicate that lsbgs are less dark matter dominated than currently thought .    at the time of writing of their paper",
    "there was no surface photometry available for some of the lsbgs in the set of mcgaugh et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , so that no dynamical models could be constructed .",
    "i have inspected the images of these galaxies and found four galaxies , eso1440 , eso206140 , eso301120 , and eso425180 , which can be used for the present purpose as well ( cf .  fig .  1 ) , and contrived to obtain surface photometry of the galaxies .",
    "in the meantime calibrated surface photometry has been published by beijersbergen et al .",
    "( 1999 ) for eso1440 , eso206149 , and eso425180 . for eso301120 c.  mllenhoff has kindly provided uncalibrated surface photometry by reducing the blue image of the galaxy retrieved from the digitized sky survey ( eso ) with his two  dimensional bulge and disk fitting code ( mllenhoff & heidt 2001 ) .",
    "the reliability of the bulge and disk parameters determined this way was carefully checked with lsbgs for which calibrated surface photometry is available .",
    "the rotation curves of the four eso galaxies could be then interpreted following the prescription described in fuchs ( 2002 ) .",
    "the principal idea is that in galactic disks spiral arms are preferentially amplified with azimuthal wave lengths of the order of the critical wave length ( cf .",
    "fuchs 2002 and references therein ) . from the observed number of spiral",
    "arms one can thus estimate the critical wave lengths and from these the surface densities of the disks .",
    "this constrains the decomposition of the rotation curves considerably .",
    "the resulting dynamical models of the lsbgs are summarized in table 1 .",
    "the second column gives the peaks of the observed rotation curves , while the third column gives the peaks of the combined contributions due to the stellar disks and the interstellar gas .",
    "mass estimates of the combined star and gas disks of the lsbgs are given in the fourth column .",
    "the masses of the gas disks are given separately in the fifth column .",
    "the gas masses of the eso galaxies have not been measured , but have been estimated using a relation based on the i  band luminosities of lsbgs derived by schombert et al .",
    "similar to the other galaxies the inferred mass  to  light ratios of the four eso galaxies turn out to be also much higher than expected from population synthesis models , although they range at the low end of the spectrum of mass  to  light ratios found for the sample of lsbgs studied here .",
    "a possible exception is eso302120 , which appears also to be extremely gas rich , @xmath5 .",
    "as can be seen from table 1 all dynamical models are maximum disk models .",
    "quillen & pickering ( 1997 ) have derived mass  to  light ratios for the disks of f5686 and ugc6614 by analyzing spiral arm induced perturbations of the velocity fields of the interstellar gas in the galaxies . following this different approach they find also high mass  to  light ratios of the disks which agree well with the estimates given in table 1 .",
    "thus the augmented set of galaxies seems to confirm the evidence for massive disks in lsbgs .",
    "this does not imply , however , that the disks of lsbgs are more massive than the disks of comparable intrinsically bright galaxies .",
    "de blok & mcgaugh ( 1996 ) have pointed out that the bright galaxy ngc2403 is very similar to the lsbg ugc128 .",
    "both have about the same physical size , their rotation curves have the same amplitudes , and both show well developed two  armed spiral structure .",
    "thus the maximum disk of ngc2403 has the same mass as the maximum disk of ugc128 . only their mass  to ",
    "light ratios are different .",
    "but the nature of the dim components in the disks of lsbgs remains still totally unclear .",
    "the relation of schombert et al .  ( 2001 ) implies that the gas mass of a lsbg is approximately proportional to the luminosity of the lsbg .",
    "thus @xmath6 , which might indicate that lsbgs with high mass  to  light ratios have consumed by star formation more of their interstellar gas .",
    "fuchs , b. . in h.",
    "v.  klapdor  kleingrothaus and r.  viollier , editors , _ proceedings of the fourth international workshop on dark matter in astro and particle physics _ , capetown , south africa , february 2002 .",
    "springer , berlin , astro - ph/0204387 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an update of the set of low surface brightness galaxies is presented which can be used to set constraints on the otherwise ambiguous decompositions of their rotation curves into contributions due to the various components of the galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the selected galaxies show all clear spiral structure and arguments of density wave theory of galactic spiral arms are used to estimate the masses of the galactic disks . </S>",
    "<S> again these estimates seem to indicate that the disks of low surface brightness galaxies might be much more massive than currently thought . </S>",
    "<S> this puzzling result contradicts stellar population synthesis models . </S>",
    "<S> this would mean also that low surface brightness galaxies are not dominated by dark matter in their inner parts . </S>"
  ]
}