{
  "article_text": [
    "massive stars play a crucial role in the evolution of galaxies .",
    "they are the cauldrons where heavy elements are produced .",
    "they provide turbulent energy to the interstellar medium , are involved in the production and destruction of molecular clouds and may regulate the rate of star formation . despite their importance ,",
    "the processes leading to massive star formation are poorly understood ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "apart from theoretical complexities inherent in such a multiple - process problem @xcite , the chief obstacle to our understanding is observational  massive star formation occurs in fewer regions ( as they form quickly ) that are , on average , further away ( than regions of low - mass star formation ) and are highly obscured at optical wavelengths ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "interstellar masers of three molecules , @xmath1 , oh and methanol , are both powerful and widely associated with active high - mass star formation regions ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "thus , they have long been recognized as a potentially powerful tool to study the physical conditions and kinematics of massive star formation sites .",
    "however , the complex distribution of @xmath1  and oh masers has limited their role in the elucidation of massive star formation .",
    "further , both @xmath1  and oh masers are also found towards other objects such as evolved low - mass stars @xcite and the centres of galaxies @xcite .",
    "the two strongest class ii methanol masers ( i.e. those closely associated with oh masers and strong far - infrared emission ) were discovered at 12.178593  ghz by @xcite and at 6.668518  ghz by @xcite .",
    "these methanol masers are closely associated with high - mass star forming regions @xcite .",
    "sensitive searches for 6.7-ghz methanol masers towards low - mass star forming regions @xcite , and nearby active galaxies @xcite have failed to detect any .",
    "while untargeted searches covering large areas of the galactic plane have detected many new 6.7-ghz methanol masers not associated with known massive star forming regions , to date none have been confirmed as being associated with any other type of astrophysical object @xcite .",
    "thus class ii methanol masers prove more efficacious for finding and studying high - mass star forming regions than either @xmath1 or oh masers .",
    "the brightness of methanol masers allows high resolution interferometric observations to be made , which provide accurate measurements of position , velocity and dimensions of the individual maser components .",
    "previous interferometric observations have generally used connected element interferometers @xcite that offer resolutions of the order of arcseconds ( which can be improved upon by super resolving the velocity features , see @xcite , hereafter p98 ) , though some vlbi ( very long baseline interferometry ) experiments @xcite with milliarcsecond resolution have been performed .",
    "vlbi resolution images are vital to uncovering the structure of these masing regions and their paucity comes from the absence of telescopes ( let alone arrays of telescopes ) able to observe at these frequencies until relatively recently .",
    "this situation has now changed with both the australian long baseline array ( lba , @xcite ) and the european vlbi network ( evn ) covering the 6.7-ghz transition , while the lba and the very long baseline array ( vlba ) covers the 12.2-ghz transition .",
    "many of the observed masing sites have individual masers located along lines or arcs , often with a near - monotonic velocity gradient along the line .",
    "it has been suggested @xcite that these linear structures trace masers embedded in an edge - on disk surrounding a young star .",
    "values of disk radii and enclosed masses derived from modelling these sources assuming keplerian rotation , agree with theoretical models of accretion disks around massive stars @xcite .",
    "@xcite found 36 of 97 maser sites to be linearly extended and , while the circumstellar disk hypothesis is consistent with their data , they considered it unlikely as the derived values of the enclosed mass are too high in some cases .",
    "they suggested the linear geometry of 6.7-ghz methanol masers resulted from shocks arising behind a smooth shock front .",
    "as shocks would not produce the velocity gradient they saw in many of their maser sites , @xcite had rejected shocks as a possible explanation . pointing out that most maser sites in their larger sample do not show a systematic velocity gradient , @xcite argue that a velocity gradient is not typical in maser sites .",
    "the vlbi observations of @xcite find the linear extent of maser regions to be about 10 times smaller than that seen at lower resolutions .",
    "this yields sub - solar masses for the `` massive '' star .",
    "both edge - on shock and edge - on disk models produce linear features across the sky but shock fronts are not normally so well ordered . at milliarcsecond ( mas ) resolutions we probe resolutions of the order of tens of au , the perfect scale to investigate these differences .    the case for disks , or the other models , will only become clearer after a significant increase in the sample size of methanol masers imaged at very high resolution .",
    "we present the first vlbi images of five sources which have not previously been imaged at mas resolution .",
    "this allows us to directly compare conclusions based on the atca ( australia telescope compact array ) data to those reached with more than two orders of magnitude better resolution .    in section ",
    "[ s : obsdata ] we describe our observations and the data reduction path .",
    "our results are presented in ",
    "[ s : results ] and their implications for the current models are discussed in  [ s : discuss ] .  [ s : conclude ] sets out our conclusions .    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,<,>,>,>,>,>,>,^ \" , ]     despite the wide variety of geometries seen in methanol spot distribution in masing regions , the observed size and velocity ranges are relatively narrow suggesting a common mechanism , or at least that there are few astrophysical environments that give rise to class  ii methanol masers .",
    "vlbi resolution imaging , plausibility arguments relating to the number of sources and other inconsistencies suggest that the disk model is an unlikely scenario to explain the majority of linear methanol maser sources .",
    "there exists little support in the literature for the outflow hypothesis and there is growing evidence from observations of h@xmath2 that some methanol masers are associated with shocked gas @xcite .",
    "also de buizer et  al .",
    "find that the distribution of h@xmath3 emission is predominantly parallel with the linear maser structures , which is consistent with our hypothesis , but not with a disk model .",
    "the shock hypothesis is consistent with a wide range of geometries that arise from differing local conditions , including linear and curved geometries in a fraction of sources .",
    "we have observed five sites of methanol maser emission , and imaged eleven clusters with milliarcsecond resolution .",
    "these high resolution images argue strongly that the linear structures commonly observed are more likely linear shock fronts than keplerian disks and some of the predictions of the former model are fulfilled .",
    "we are , however , not able to provide conclusive evidence of this , and vlbi observations of a large sample is required .",
    "we have proposed a further series of experiments in which we will collect full polarisation data which should determine the relationships between the maser spots .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system abstract service and the simbad database , operated at cds .",
    "the lba is operated as a national facility , and managed by csiro and the university of tasmania .",
    "rd and se were funded by arc postdoctoral awards .",
    "we wish to thank dr p. edwards for his assistance .",
    "r.  p. , byleveld s.  e. , diamond p.  j. , ellingsen s.  p. , ferris r.  h. , gough r.  g. , kesteven m.  j. , mcculloch p.  m. , phillips c.  j. , reynolds j.  e. , tzioumis a.  k. , takahashi y. , troup e.  r. , wellington k.  j. , 1998 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 508 , 275                    m.  c. , 1997 , in astronomical data analysis software and systems vi , a.s.p .",
    "conference series , vol .",
    "125 , 1997 , gareth hunt and h. e. payne , eds . ,",
    "vol .  6 , difmap : an interactive program for synthesis imaging ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used the australian long baseline array ( lba ) to produce milliarcsecond images of five sites of methanol ( @xmath0 ) maser emission at 6.7  ghz . </S>",
    "<S> these are all sites that have linear morphologies at arcsecond resolutions , which have been hypothesised to be due to the masers forming in edge - on circumstellar disks . </S>",
    "<S> we find that a simple disk model can not explain the observations . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss various alternatives , and suggest a new model which explains how linear velocity gradients can be produced in methanol masers that arise in planar shocks propagating nearly perpendicular to the line of sight .    molecules  masers  radio lines : @xmath0   g327.12 + 0.5 , g327.40 + 0.4 , g328.24 - 0.5 , g328.81 + 0.6 , g329.03 - 0.2 </S>"
  ]
}