{
  "article_text": [
    "structures found lying in the velocity regime harboring the high  velocity clouds manifest themselves in different forms ; considered collectively , these clouds either do not represent a single astronomical phenomenon , or ( more likely ) do not represent the phenomenon at a single stage in its evolution , with all members seen under the same physical circumstances .",
    "the variety of positional and kinematic properties may correspond to differing evolutionary histories .",
    "the magellanic stream , for example , is identified as associated with the large magellanic cloud because of positional and kinematic coincidences of part of the stream with the lmc .",
    "it is composed of material either tidally stripped from the milky way or from the lmc itself , or gravitationally captured from elsewhere , but in any case constrained to follow the orbit of the lmc , and thus presumably lies at the lmc distance of some 50 kpc .",
    "there are several other major streams of hvcs , notably complexes m , c , and a , which can also be traced over many tens of degrees and which , like the magellanic stream , individually show substantial spatial and kinematic coherence .",
    "the distance of only one complex has been bracketed with any certainty : absorption  line measurements ( van woerden et al . 1999 , wakker 2001 ) toward complex a place it within the range @xmath6 kpc",
    ". the histories of the magellanic stream and of complex a ( and probably of the other large complexes as well ) have been multifaceted , with exposure to strong radiation fields and tidal distortions by the milky way .",
    "braun & burton ( 1999 ; bb99 ) identified chvcs as a subset of the anomalous  velocity gas which might be characteristic of a single class of objects , whose members plausibly originated under common circumstances and share a common subsequent evolutionary history .",
    "the discussion of the chvcs hypothesized that the large hvc complexes ( other than the magellanic stream ) were once similar objects , but which now are relatively nearby .",
    "we describe in  2 the search algorithm that has been applied to the all  sky coverage afforded by recent surveys of the northern and southern skys . in ",
    "3 we show the principal observable quantities of the all  sky ensemble , and briefly remark on conclusions which follow directly from these observables . in  4",
    ", we show that a model in which the chvcs are the counterparts of dark  matter halos evolving in the local group potential provides a good match to the observables , but only if the simulation is sampled as if it were being observed with the sensitivities of the available observations and if explicit account is taken of obscuration by in the galaxy . in  5 , we show wsrt and arecibo high  resolution imaging of a selection of individual chvcs , stressing the importance of the synthesis observations to study of the cold cores and of the single  dish observations to study of the diffuse halos .",
    "the high  resolution imaging supports several indications of substantial distances .",
    "obtaining an adequate observational foundation for the anomalous  velocity clouds has been a persistent and continuing challenge .",
    "the bb99 sample was obtained by visual inspection of the leiden / dwingeloo survey ( lds , hartmann & burton 1997 ) .",
    "the lds was observed with the 25m dwingeloo telescope , whose fwhm beam subtends @xmath7 , covering the sky north of @xmath8 on a @xmath9 grid .",
    "the effective velocity coverage of the lds spans @xmath10  @xmath11 , resolved into spectral channels of 1.03  width .",
    "the nominal brightness ",
    "temperature sensitivity is 0.07 k.    the parkes all  sky survey ( hipass , barnes et  al .",
    "2001 ) advanced the observational foundations of hvc work .",
    "the hipass material was nyquist sampled at the angular resolution of  @xmath12 afforded by the parkes 64m telescope , covering the sky south of @xmath4 and reaching a @xmath13  rms brightness ",
    "temperature sensitivity of approximately 50  mk .",
    "the spectra cover the range @xmath14  @xmath15 , with channels separated by 26 .",
    "the sensitivity , angular resolution , and extent of velocity coverage of the hipass material are superior to those of the lds , but the velocity resolution and ability to recovery the most extended spatial structures of the lds is superior to that of the hipass .",
    "we comment below on the inhomogeneities introduced in our all  sky chvc catalog by the differing observational parameters of the two surveys .",
    "an automated algorithm for extracting anomalous ",
    "velocity clouds from survey material has been developed by deheij et al .",
    "( 2002a ) , and applied by them to the lds and by putman et al . (",
    "2002 ) to the hipass .",
    "the algorithm sought objects isolated in position and in velocity , down to  values below about @xmath16@xmath2 .",
    "initial application of the algorithm resulted in a list of all objects satisfying the search criteria , and thus included not only compact high  velocity clouds , but also structures that are part of hvc complexes , some intermediate  velocity features , and even the gaseous disk of our galaxy , as well as features which were subsequently eliminated as due to excessive noise , radio interference , the non  square response of the receiver bandpass , or other imperfections in the data .    to avoid possible contamination from emission associated with our galaxy and the intermediate ",
    "velocity complexes , all clouds which did not satisfy a deviation  velocity constraint were removed from the preliminary catalog .",
    "wakker ( 1990 ) defined  as the excess velocity of a feature compared to velocities allowed by a simple model of our galaxy . in order to constrain possible milky way contamination more accurately than would be possible with a constant value of , we modified the definition , allowing the limiting velocity to vary with direction , in order to account for the warp of the milky way disk , for its flare to increasing thickness with increasing galactocentric distance , and for its lopsidedness in plan view .",
    "the gas  layer model was derived from the voskes & burton ( 1999 ) analysis of combined southern and northern survey data .",
    "deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) describe how discrimination against chvcs in the",
    "  zone of avoidance \" ( which , unlike the optical counterpart , is velocity  dependent as well as position ",
    "dependent ) influences the subsequent analysis : the swath of this zone of avoidance is distorted after coordinate transformation from the @xmath17 to the  or  frames , corresponding to the galactic standard of rest or the local group standard of rest , respectively , which are shown by the kinematics to be more relevant to the chvc ensemble .",
    "the degree of isolation of the clouds extracted using the algorithm was determined from velocity  integrated images covering an area measuring @xmath18 by @xmath18 centered on the position of the cloud in question and spanning a matched velocity interval .",
    "an ellipse was fit to the contour with a value of half the maximum brightness of the cloud to allow tabulation of a characteristic size and orientation .",
    "the degree of isolation was assessed on the basis of the lowest significant contour level of   commensurate with the data sensitivity , corresponding to about @xmath16@xmath2 over the typical 25  fwhm linewidth in both the lds and hipass surveys .",
    "we demanded that this contour be closed , with its greatest radial extent less than the @xmath18 by @xmath18 image size , and that there not be confusion from any nearby extended emission near our cut - off column density .",
    "both the degree of isolation and the total angular size ( measured at our cut - off level ) will therefore be dependent on data sensitivity . while unfortunate , this is an inevitable limitation of real data .",
    "a distinction was made between the cleanest isolated objects , chvcs , and the somewhat ambiguous candidates , chvc : s and chvc?s , which had some degree of confusing emission in their @xmath18 by @xmath18 environment .",
    "while isolated objects as large as about 8@xmath19 could have been found by our algorithm , the distribution is strongly peaked with a median angular size of only @xmath20 and a maximum fwhm of 2.@xmath192 .",
    "this small median angular size motivates the use of the term `` compact '' in the object designation .",
    "it is not ruled out that some of the features which we tabulated as isolated in @xmath21 space would be shown under scrutiny of more sensitive data to be embedded in a weaker envelope , or even to be part of a large , but relatively weak , complex or stream . and",
    "it is indeed expected that deeper observations will result in detection of additional chvcs : the modelling discussed by deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) , and briefly summarized below , leads to specific predictions in this regard .",
    "independent confirmation was required for all of the chvcs in the lds portion of the all  sky catalog .",
    "the lds is not free of a pernicious type of radio interference , which occasionally produced a broad , weak spectral feature , of the same general form as the signature of a high  velocity cloud , or of a nearby dwarf galaxy .",
    "this rfi was sometimes of short temporal duration , not long enough that a persistent telltale spoor in a single frequency band would reveal the signal as spurious .",
    "confirmation is all the more important because the isolated objects being sought appear commonly at only a few lds lattice points , or even at only one .",
    "confirmation was not required in the hipass case , because that survey accumulated independent data in the multi ",
    "beam feeds .",
    "all of the lds chvcs were confirmed either from published data or from new observations made with the wsrt , operating in a total  power observing mode whereby auto ",
    "correlation spectra were obtained from all 14 individual 25meter antennas , rather than the more usual cross - correlation spectra .",
    "the all  sky catalog of chvcs includes 67 found in the lds at @xmath22 by deheij et al .",
    "( 2002a ) and 179 found in the hipass material at @xmath23 by putman et al .",
    "the data on chvcs found by both surveys in the overlap zone @xmath24 are recorded in the all - sky catalog using the hipass parameters .",
    "the detection statistics in the overlap zone supports discussion of the relative completeness of the two surveys .",
    "figure 1 shows the distribution on the sky of the chvcs entered in the combined lds and hipass catalog .",
    "the chvcs show no obvious tendency to cluster in streams or complexes . in particular",
    ", there is no preference in the sky distribution for accumulation near the galactic equator , or towards the inner galaxy , or in association with any of the known hvc complexes or with the magellanic stream .",
    "unlike the situation pertaining for the principal hvc complexes , which show a substantially higher total flux in the northern galactic hemisphere than in the southern , the chvcs in the all  sky catalog are more numerous in the southern hemisphere than in the northern .",
    "the over  density in the southern hemisphere is due principally to the higher sensitivity of the hipass material compared to the lds ; but , as we mention briefly below and discuss in more detail in deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) , a slight enhancement remains after taking the observational parameters into account .",
    "the locations of local group galaxies as tabulated by mateo ( 1998 ) are plotted in fig . 1 as filled circles . although the statistics are weak , to first order the sky deployment of chvcs resembles that of the galaxies .",
    "the longitude distribution of the chvc motions , measured with respect to the gsr frame , is shown in the upper panel of fig .",
    "2 ; the latitude distribution of  is shown in the middle panel .",
    "also plotted is the velocity / longitude distribution of the galaxies in the local group .",
    "the chvcs are confined within a definite kinematic envelope , narrower in extent than the spectral coverage of the surveys ; we stress below that this confinement is not a selection effect .",
    "the chvc velocities can be considered in different reference frames .",
    "the mean velocity for the all  sky ensemble of chvcs measured in the lsr frame is @xmath25 ; although not clearly centrally peaked , the dispersion of the  kinematics is formally 238 . in the gsr frame ,",
    "the mean velocity decreases to @xmath26 , with a dispersion of 128 ; in the local group standard of rest frame , the mean velocity is @xmath27 , with a dispersion of 112 .",
    "the mean velocities of the 27 dwarf galaxies in the local group with known radial velocities tabulated by mateo ( 1998 ) are @xmath28 , @xmath29 , and @xmath30 , in the lsr , gsr , and lgsr reference frames , respectively , with the corresponding values of the dispersion being 196 , 104 , and 78 .",
    "the net infall of the chvc ensemble seems firmly established .",
    "although the dispersion of chvc velocities is formally somewhat less in the lgsr frame than in the gsr one , it will require more sensitive data before the significance of this difference can be judged .    taken at face value , these kinematics are suggestive of a population which is bound to the local group , but which has not yet experienced significant interaction or merger with the larger members , which would virialize their motions . a mean radial infall velocity",
    "which is comparable to the velocity dispersion of the local group member galaxies , is plausible given that the same gravitational potential is responsible for both .",
    "perhaps of relevance is the observation by ct et al .",
    "( 1997 ) that the faint dwarf galaxies in the two groups of galaxies nearest to the local group show a wider range of velocity distribution than the brighter members .",
    "an evolutionary history which is a function of mass may be a natural part of the galaxy formation process .",
    "in addition to the spatial and kinematic distributions , the measured chvc sizes , line widths , and column depths are also important observables against which interpretations must be judged .",
    "the distributions of chvc sizes and column depths are shown in the lower panels of fig .",
    "although the only limit on angular size we have imposed is the @xmath31 dimension of our initial  image of each candidate , the size distribution is nevertheless strongly peaked with a median at @xmath20 fwhm , and furthermore does not extend beyond @xmath32 .",
    "sharply bounded anomalous ",
    "velocity objects apparently are , indeed , compact .",
    "the distribution of velocity fwhm is strongly peaked at about 25 , although the distribution does extend out to 100  .",
    "most chvcs are spatially unresolved in the lds beam , and many are unresolved in the hipass beam ; although only some 20 chvcs have been imaged at higher angular resolution , the indications are that the broadest widths are contributed by differing systemic velocities of several individual cores , each with a relatively narrow width , constituting a single chvc .",
    "our chvc tabulation is probably not incomplete as a consequence of the velocity range limits of the observations .",
    "although the lds was searched only over the range @xmath33 , there are indications that we did not miss many ( if any ) clouds because of this limited interval .",
    "the feature with the most extreme negative velocity yet found is chvc@xmath34 , discovered by hulsbosch ( 1978 ) ; the wakker & van woerden ( 1991 ) tabulation , which relied on survey data covering the range @xmath35 , found no high  velocity cloud at a more negative velocity .",
    "the hipass search by putman et al .",
    "( 2002 ) sought anomalous ",
    "velocity emission over the range @xmath36 .",
    "ten of the chvcs cataloged by putman et al .",
    "have @xmath37 , but the most extreme negative velocity is only @xmath38 , for chvc@xmath39 .    in terms of the local group deployment",
    "variously discussed by blitz et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , bb99 , putman & moore ( 2002 ) , and deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) , the most extreme negative velocities would be found in the general region of the barycenter of the local group , whereas the most extreme positive lsr velocities , which would also be more modest in amplitude than the extreme negative velocities , would be expected in the general region of the local group anti ",
    "barycenter . only 7 of the hipass chvcs have @xmath17 greater than @xmath40 , and only one has a velocity greater than @xmath41 , namely chvc@xmath42 .",
    "all of the 7 chvcs with substantial positive velocities lie deep in the third longitude quadrant , or in the early fourth , and thus in the general vicinity of the anti  barycenter .    in view of these detection statistics",
    ", it seems unlikely that the velocity  range limits of either the lds or of the hipass have caused a significant number of chvcs to be missed .",
    "thus , the true velocity extent , as well as the non  zero mean in the lsr frame , of the anomalous  velocity ensemble appear well represented by the extrema of @xmath43  and @xmath44 .",
    "it is appropriate to comment on certain selection effects which might cause systematic distortions to the true distribution of chvcs .",
    "a demarkation at @xmath45 separates the chvc catalog entries based on the lds from those based on hipass .",
    "the weaker sensitivity of the lds is likely to have discriminated against some chvcs , in particular those at positive velocities : the color  coding of chvc velocities shown in fig .",
    "1 indicates that more positive ",
    "velocity objects are expected in galactic quadrant ii than in the other quadrants .",
    "quadrant ii is almost exclusively lds s territory , not hipass s , and is therefore prejudiced by the weaker sensitivity of the lds .",
    "there is also a mild asymmetric discrimination against detecting chvcs due to their submersion in the  zone of avoidance \" , i.e. near @xmath46km / s , with the velocity discrimination slightly skewed to positive @xmath47values in the gsr frame , as discussed by deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) .",
    "if the hipass and lds chvc ( or hvc ) catalogs are compared or if they are used together , for example to investigate the all  sky properties of the chvc ensemble , then due attention should be given to the higher expected detection rate in the southern material , because of its greater sensitivity and denser angular sampling .",
    "to correct for the higher detection rate in the south , deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) considered the likelihood that a given cloud which is observed in the hipass data also will be observed in the lds .",
    "this issue could be directly confronted , since the two surveys overlap in the declination range @xmath48 .",
    "comparison of the results derived by applying the search algorithm to both surveys allows assessment of the robustness of the selection criteria and of the completeness of the lds catalog .",
    "the hipass rms noise figure is 10  mk , for a channel 26  wide and a fwhp beam of @xmath49 ; the corresponding lds rms value is 70  mk , for a channel width of 1.03  and a fwhp beam of @xmath50 . after smoothing both surveys to the same spectral resolution of 26 , the 3@xmath51 limiting column density ( for emission filling each beam ) is 0.47 and 0.64@xmath010@xmath1 @xmath2 in the hipass and lds , respectively .",
    "thus , while the sensitivity to well  resolved sources is comparable , the point ",
    "source sensitivity of hipass is greater by about a factor of 3 . on the other hand , the band ",
    "pass calibration of the hipass data relies on reference spectra , deemed empty of emission , that are offset by only a few degrees on the sky .",
    "even with the minmed5 method of baseline determination employed by putman et al . , there is significant filtering of extended emission , which complicates the assessment of object isolation down to a low column density limit .",
    "the velocity resolution of the leiden / dwingeloo survey is 1.03 , and this resolution should suffice , as all known chvcs have broader velocity widths .",
    "although the fwhm of most of the chvcs tabulated here is greater than 20 km / s , a few are considerable narrower , and it is not unexpected that some would be missing from the hipass compilation because they are diluted by the relatively coarse hipass channel spacing .",
    "the differences in point ",
    "source sensitivity on the one hand and sensitivity to very extended structures on the other , results in a larger number of faint  source detections in hipass , but also in a different designation for some of the brighter clouds which the surveys have in common .",
    "comparison of the results derived by applying the search algorithm to both surveys allows assessment of the robustness of the selection criteria and of the completeness of the lds catalog .",
    "the comparison discussed by deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) shows the influence of survey sensitivity on the number of objects found . above a peak temperature of  0.45  k ,",
    "the lds results are as complete as those based on hipass ; between @xmath52 k and 0.45 k , the lds results recovered 83% of the clouds found in the hipass data .",
    "the completeness of the lds catalog drops rapidly at lower values of the peak temperature : hipass clouds less bright than 0.20 k are almost completely absent from the lds catalog .",
    "the incompleteness at low peak temperatures will be more important for very compact chvcs .",
    "the temperatures and therefore sensitivities were measured at the grid points of the survey ; point sources that are not located at a grid point will have been observed with a reduced sensitivity , which depends on the telescope beam and the distance to the nearest grid point .",
    "the lds sampled the sky on a @xmath9 lattice ; the sensitivity away from the grid points falls off as a gaussian with a fwhp of  36@xmath53 .",
    "the small sizes of the chvcs and the less  than  nyquist sampling interval of the lds can conspire to result in an observation with a lower signal  to  noise ratio in the lds than in the hipass .      some general conclusions may be drawn from an initial inspection of the all  sky chvc catalog .",
    "we noted above the roughly even distribution over the sky , the constrained kinematics within a definite envelope , the net infall towards the galaxy , and the substantially smaller velocity dispersion in the gsr and lgsr frames than in the lsr one .    the characteristic  shown in fig .",
    "2 is also of interest .",
    "the significance of features which are isolated in column density down to a level as low as @xmath5410@xmath1 @xmath2 , is that this is about an order of magnitude lower than the critical column density identified at the edges of nearby galaxies ( maloney 1993 , corbelli & salpeter 1993 ) , @xmath552@xmath010@xmath56 @xmath2 , where the ionized fraction is thought to increase dramatically due to the extragalactic radiation field .",
    "these isolated objects will need to provide their own shielding to ionizing radiation . in this case ,",
    "their small median angular size , of about @xmath57 fwhm , is consistent with substantial distances , since the partially ionized skin in a power  law ionizing photon field has a typical exponential scale ",
    "length of 1  kpc ( corbelli & salpeter 1993 ) .",
    "the entries in the chvc catalog show spectral fwhm values ranging from 5.9 km / s , characteristic of a very narrow , cold feature in the conventional gaseous disk , to 95.4 km / s , characteristic of some external galaxies .",
    "interferometric observations of some of the broad objects have shown that the large width is contributed by individual cores within a common envelope .",
    "but the distinction between the properties of chvcs and dwarf galaxies with very weak star formation , or proto  galaxies with no star formation , remains to be made .",
    "the broadest object found in the bb99 search for chvcs was revealed as a low  surface  brightness spiral galaxy ( burton et al . 1998 ) .",
    "warned by the presence this interloper , we searched the digital sky survey in the direction of each of the chvcs listed in the lds portion of the catalog , but found no optical counterparts to the objects listed ; a recent deeper search by simon & blitz ( 2002 ) also found no optical counterparts .",
    "the narrowest widths , even without higher  resolution imaging , serve to meaningfully constrain the kinetic temperature of the gas , as well as the line  of  sight component of any rotation or shear in a single object , and the range of kinematics if the object should be an unresolved collection of subunits moving at different velocities .",
    "chvcs near the galactic equator display the horizontal component of their space motion .",
    "the middle panel of fig .",
    "2 shows that the radial motions at low @xmath58 are as large as those at high latitudes , and furthermore that the chvc distribution does not avoid the galactic equator .",
    "large horizontal motions are difficult to account for in terms of a galactic fountain ( shapiro & field 1976 , bregman 1980 ) .",
    "burton ( 1997 ) has noted that anomalous ",
    "velocity clouds do not contaminate the terminal ",
    "velocity locus in ways which would be expected if they pervaded the galactic disk , and that this observation constrains the clouds either to be an uncommon component of the milky way disk , confined to the immediate vicinity of the sun , or else to be typically at large distances beyond the milky way disk .",
    "we note also that the lines of sight in the directions of each of the low@xmath58 chvcs traverse some tens of kpc of the disk before exiting the milky way : unless one is prepared to accept these chvcs as boring through the conventional disk at hypersonic speeds ( for which there is no evidence ) , and atypical in view of the cleanliness of the terminal ",
    "velocity locus , then their distances are constrained to be large .    similarly , chvcs located near the galactic poles offer unambiguous information on the vertical , @xmath59 , component of their space motion .",
    "the vertical motions are substantial , with recession velocities approximately equal in number and amplitude to approach velocities ; the vertical motions are , furthermore , of approximately the same amplitude as the horizontal ones .",
    "this situation also is incompatible with the precepts of the fountain model , which predicts negative @xmath59velocities , for material returning in a fountain flow .",
    "furthermore , the values of the @xmath59velocities are predicted not to exceed the velocity of free fall , of some 200 .",
    "in fact , vertical motions of twice the free fall value are observed .",
    "we note that some of the chvc objects are even moving with velocities in excess of a plausible value of the milky way escape velocity ( cf .",
    "oort 1926 ) .",
    "the aspects of the spatial and kinematic topology of the class mentioned above are difficult to account for if the chvcs are viewed as a milky way population , in particular if they are viewed as consequences of a galactic fountain ( see also blitz 2001 ) .",
    "these same aspects would seem to discourage revival of several of the earlier milky way mechanisms ( reviewed , for example , by oort 1966 ) suggested for the general hvc phenomenon , including ejection from the galactic nucleus , association with a galactic spiral arm at high latitude , and ejection following a nearby supernova explosion .",
    "the spatial and kinematic distributions of the all  sky chvc ensemble are consistent with a dynamically cold population spread throughout the local group , but with a net negative velocity with respect to the mean of the local group galaxies .",
    "bb99 suggested that the chvcs represent the dark matter halos predicted by klypin et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and moore et al .",
    "( 1999 ) in the context of the hierarchical structure paradigm of galactic evolution .",
    "these halos would contain no stars , or only a few ; most of their visible matter would be in the form of atomic hydrogen .",
    "although many of the halos would already have been accreted by the galaxy or m31 , some would still populate the local group , either located in the far field or concentrated around the two dominate local group galaxies .",
    "those passing close to either the milky way or m31 would be ram  pressure stripped of their gas and tidally disrupted by the gravitational field . near the milky way",
    ", the tidally distorted features would correspond to the hvc complexes observed .",
    "recently several simulations have been performed to test the hypothesis that the chvcs are the remaining building blocks of the local group .",
    "putman & moore ( 2002 ) compared the results of the full n  body simulation described by moore et al .",
    "( 2001 ) with various spatial and kinematic properties of the chvc distribution , as well as with properties of the more general hvc phenomenon , without regard to object size and degree of isolation .",
    "putman & moore were led to reject the local group deployment of chvcs , for reasons which we debate below .",
    "blitz et al . ( 1999 ) had earlier performed a restricted two ",
    "body analysis of the motion of clouds in the local group . in their attempt to model the hvc distributions , blitz et al . modeled the dynamics of dark matter halos in the local group and found support for the local group hypothesis when compared qualitatively with the deployment of a sample of anomalous ",
    "velocity containing most hvcs , but excluding the large complexes and the magellanic stream , for which plausible or measured distance constraints are available .",
    "deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) followed the modeling approach of blitz et al . , but judge the results of their simulations against the properties of the all  sky chvc sample , viewing the simulated data _ as if it were observed _ with the lds and hipass surveys .",
    "a simulation was run for each set of model parameters .",
    "we chose a position for each object , in agreement with the spatial density distribution of the ensemble , but otherwise randomly .",
    "the velocity was given by the velocity field illustrated in fig .",
    "3 . the mass of a test cloud was randomly set in agreement with a power  law mass distribution between a specified upper mass limit and a lower mass limit . the physical size and line width of each object",
    "follow from the choice of the power ",
    "law index , @xmath60 .",
    "once all these parameters were set , we determined the observed peak column density and angular size .",
    "objects in the northern hemisphere were convolved with a beam appropriate to the lds , while those at @xmath61 were convolved with the hipass beam .",
    "simulated objects were considered detected if the peak brightness temperature exceeded the detection threshold of the relevant survey , i.e. the lds for objects at @xmath62 , and hipass otherwise .",
    "furthermore , in order for a test object to be retained as detected its deviation velocity was required to exceed @xmath63 in the lsr frame .",
    "in addition , each simulated cloud was judged whether or not it was stable against both tidal disruption and ram  pressure stripping by the milky way and m31 ; if not , it was removed from further consideration .",
    "a cloud was regarded stable against ram ",
    "pressure stripping if the gas pressure at its center exceeded the ram pressure , @xmath64 , for a cloud moving with velocity  @xmath65 through a gaseous halo with density @xmath66 .",
    "a cloud was considered tidally disrupted if the gravitational tidal field of either the galaxy or m  31 exceeded the self  gravity of the cloud at its location .",
    "we continued simulating additional objects following this prescription until the number of detected model clouds was equal to the number of chvcs in our observed all  sky sample .",
    "the best  fitting populations found by deheij et al . have a maximum hi mass of @xmath67 , a slope of the hi mass distribution in the range @xmath68 to  @xmath69 , and a gaussian dispersion for their spatial distributions of between 150 and 200  kpc centered on both the milky way and m31 .",
    "given its greater mean distance , only a small fraction of the m31 sub  population is predicted to have been detected in present surveys .",
    "an appreciation of the physical appearance of these local group models is provided by the righthand panel of fig .",
    "3 , showing a perpendicular projection of the model population .",
    "the @xmath70 plane in the figure is the extended galactic plane , with the galaxy centered at @xmath71 with the positive @xmath59 axis corresponding to positive @xmath72 .",
    "the intrinsic distribution of objects is an elongated cloud encompassing both the galaxy and m31 , dominated in number by the m31 concentration .",
    "the objects that have at some point in their history approached so closely to either of these galaxies that their would not survive the ram  pressure or tidal stripping are indicated by the filled black circles .",
    "cloud disruption was substantially more important in the m31 concentration than in the galaxy concentration .",
    "the objects that are too faint to have been detected by the lds or hipass observations , depending on declination , are indicated by grey circles . _",
    "the bulk of the m31 sub  concentration is not detected in our chvc simulation for two reasons _ :  ( 1 ) these objects have a larger average distance than the objects in the galactic sub  concentration , and ( 2 ) the m31 sub  concentration is located primarily in the northern celestial hemisphere , where the lower lds sensitivity compromises detection .",
    "the objections posed by putman & moore ( 2002 ) to the local group deployment models , based on the failure to observe a clustering of chvcs near m31 or the local group barycenter , seem accounted for by the crucial role of survey sensitivity in determining what is seen of such local group cloud populations .",
    "the red symbols in figures 4 and 5 indicate objects detectable with the relevant lds or hipass sensitivities , while the black symbols indicate those that remain undetected .",
    "the lds , in particular , is not sufficiently sensitive to have detected the majority of chvcs at distances of more than a few hundred kpc .",
    "the various processes which influence the perceived distributions are further quantified by deheij et al .",
    "( 2002b ) .",
    "about three quarters of the simulated populations were classified as disrupted due to ram  pressure or tidal stripping , while 80% of the remaining objects were deemed too faint to detect with the lds ( in the north ) or hipass ( in the south ) .",
    "obscuration by galactic eliminated about half of the otherwise detectable objects .",
    "the total mass involved in the model populations shown here is @xmath73m@xmath74 .",
    "about 75% of this mass had already been consumed by m31 and the galaxy via cloud disruption , leaving only 25% still in circulation , although distributed over some 1200 low ",
    "mass objects .    if the deheij et al .",
    "models describe the actual distribution of chvcs , then the prediction follows that future deeper surveys will detect large numbers of objects at high negative lsr velocities in the general vicinity ( about @xmath75 ) of m31 . to make this prediction more specific",
    ", we have imagined the sensitivity afforded by the current hipass survey in the south extended to the entire northern hemisphere .",
    "a high concentration of about 250 faint newly detected chvcs is predicted in the local group barycenter direction once hipass sensitivity is available , for example from the current jodrell bank hijass effort .",
    "one of the most suggestive attributes of the chvc population in favor of a local group deployment is the modest concentration of objects which are currently detected in the general direction of m31 , i.e. near the direction of barycenter of the local group .",
    "these objects have extreme negative velocities in the gsr reference frame . while this is a natural consequence of the local group models it does not follow from models simulating a distribution throughout an extended galactic halo , nor is it a consequence of obscuration by galactic hi .",
    "the choice of a limiting mass of @xmath76=3@xmath77m@xmath74 over a linewidth of 35  was made in the simulation portrayed here in order to represent what might be possible for a deep survey of an external galaxy group . in this example , some 188 objects occur which exceed this mass limit distributed over a region of some 1.5@xmath01.0 mpc extent . for a limiting mass of @xmath78=7@xmath77m@xmath74 over 35  ,",
    "the number drops to 50 .",
    "it is clear that a very good mass sensitivity will be essential to detecting such potential chvc populations in external galaxy groups .",
    "current searches for such populations , reviewed by braun & burton ( 2001 ) , have generally not reached a sensitivity as good as even @xmath76=@xmath67 over 35  , so it is no surprise that such distant chvcs have not yet been detected .",
    "the all  sky chvc catalog is based on survey data of modest angular resolutions : most chvcs are largely unresolved by the 36  resolution of the dwingeloo telescope , undersampling on a @xmath9 lattice , although some details in individual chvcs are revealed by the 14  resolution of the nyquist  sampled hipass material .",
    "wakker & schwarz ( 1991 ) had used the wsrt to image two chvcs ; subsequently braun & burton ( 2000 ) imaged six additional chvc fields , and deheij et al .",
    "( 2002c ) six more .",
    "the angular and kinematic resolution afforded by the wsrt suit it well in important regards to detailed studies of the chvc class of objects .",
    "diffuse structures extending over more than about 10  are , however , not adequately imaged by the interferometer unless precautions are taken to eliminate the short  spacing bowl surrounding regions of bright extended emission .",
    "burton et al . ( 2001 ) observed several of the wsrt chvc fields with the arecibo telescope , and showed that a combination of high  resolution filled  aperature and synthesis data is crucial to determining the intrinsic properties of the chvcs .",
    "this is especially important for chvc targets which are of a size comparable to the field of view of most synthesis intruments .",
    "the chvcs imaged with the wsrt at resolutions of order @xmath79 show a characterisitic morphology whereby one or more low - dispersion ( fwhm line widths in the range 2 to 10 ) cores are distributed over an extent of some tens of arcmin : the larger fwhm presented by the single  dish spectra reflects the differing systemic velocities of the cores , but is dominated by the intrinsically large velocity dispersion of the diffuse gas comprising the halo .",
    "figure 6 shows combined wsrt and arecibo data for two chvcs .",
    "the left  hand panel shows that chvc@xmath80 comprises some half  dozen cores , embedded in a common halo .",
    "the unresolved fwhm of 20  shown by the single  dish spectrum represents the diffuse halo gas as well as modest differences in the systemic velocities of the narrow  dispersion cores .",
    "the right  hand panel shows a similar situation for chvc@xmath81 : several cores , resolved in the wsrt data , are embedded in a common diffuse envelope seen in the arecibo observations , with a fwhm of 26 , well represented by a single gaussian .",
    "the combined wsrt / arecibo data thus indicate a morphology of one or more cores in the cool neutral medium phase , surrounded by a diffuse halo of warm neutral medium .",
    "( indications of such a core / halo morphology were found earlier in some extended hvcs , e.g. by giovanelli et al .",
    "( 1981 ) in detailed  mapping using the green bank 300-foot telescope . )",
    "the fwhm line width of the chvc halo gas is typically 25 , consistent with the expected wnm thermal line width of @xmath82k gas .",
    "the fwhm of the cores is consistent with cnm temperatures of order 100  500k .",
    "some of the cores exhibit a kinematic gradient , consistent with rotation .",
    "the halos evidently do not share the kinematic gradients of the cores , however , implying that an external origin of the core gradient , such as tidal shear , for example , is unlikely .",
    "the arecibo data have also shown that the halo edge profiles are exponential , and can be followed to the limiting  sensitivity of about @xmath83@xmath2 .",
    "this exponential form implies that measurements of apparent angular sizes and total flux densities of chvc halos will depend on the resolution as well as on the sensitivity of the data ; larger surface covering factors will be returned by deeper observations ( see lockman et al .",
    "the exponential edges also suggest that the outer envelopes of chvcs are not tidally truncated , consistent with the objects residing at substantial distances from the milky way .",
    "the sources studied by burton et al .",
    "( 2001 ) indicate a characteristic central halo column density of @xmath84@xmath2 , and a characteristic exponential scalelength of @xmath85arcsec . for plausible values of the thermal pressure at the core / halo interface , these edge profiles support distance estimates which range between 150 and 850 kpc .",
    "similar distances are indicated by simply equating the observed neutral scalelengths with those predicted to occur at the edges of low mass galactic disks of about 1  kpc ( corbelli and salpeter 1993 ) over a wide range of phsyical conditions .      under higher angular resolution than afforded by the lds or hipass , the characteristic linewidth of individual chvc components narrows as objects are resolved into several principal units , moving relative to each other .",
    "if the objects with multiple cores are to be stable , distances of order several hundred kpc are required .",
    "some of the compact cores imaged owe their large total width seen in single  dish data to velocity gradients .",
    "several of the chvc cores resolved with the wsrt exhibit kinematic gradients consistent with rotation .",
    "figure 7 shows that the resolved wsrt image of chvc@xmath86 has two principal components , each of which is elongated and shows , furthermore , a systematic velocity gradient along the major axes .",
    "the velocity gradients exhibited by the two principal components of chvc@xmath86 can be modelled in terms of circular rotation in a flattened disk system .",
    "figure 7 shows the results of fitting a standard tilted  ring model to one of the cores .",
    "the fit shows velocity rising slowly but continuously with radius to an amplitude of some 20 , and then flattening to a constant value beyond about 500 or 600 arcsec .",
    "estimates of the contained dynamical mass follow from the rotation curve if the distance is assumed , and the total gas mass follows from the integrated flux . at an assumed distance of 0.7 mpc , the two principal clumps of chvc@xmath86 have @xmath87 and @xmath88 m@xmath74 , and gas masses ( including and helium of 40% by mass ) of @xmath89 and @xmath90 m@xmath74 , respectively for the upper and lower concentrations shown in fig",
    "the dark  to  visible mass ratios for these concentrations are 36 and 29 , respectively .",
    "the shape of the modelled rotation curves for both of the chvc@xmath86 components resembles that of the standard cold  dark  matter halo as presented by navarro et al .",
    "( 1997 ) . at the assumed distance of 0.7 mpc , the navarro et al .",
    "halos fit to the two components have masses of @xmath91 m@xmath74 ( within 9.3 kpc ) and @xmath92 m@xmath74 ( within 12.6 kpc ) , respectively .",
    "chvc@xmath93 is representative of the compact objects in several regards . the wsrt image of chvc@xmath93 observed by braun & burton ( 2000 ) and shown in fig .",
    "8 reveals several cool , quiescent cores embedded in a diffuse , warmer halo .",
    "the spectrum plotted in the lower left of the figure was observed towards the brightest of these cores : it has a line width unresolved by the 2  resolution of the wsrt imaging .",
    "the velocity channels adjacent to the line peak have intensities below 20% of the maximum value .",
    "such a width is one of the narrowest measured in emission  line widths are almost always dominated by line blending and mass motions  and constrains both the kinetic temperature and the amount of turbulence within the core .",
    "an upper limit to the thermal  broadening fwhm of 2  corresponds to an upper limit to the kinetic temperature of 85 k. as it happens , the physical situation is yet more tightly constrained , because the brightness temperature in this core was observed to be 75 k ; thus a lower limit to the opacity follows from @xmath94 , yielding @xmath95 .",
    "any broadening which might be due to macroscopic turbulence is less than 1 .",
    "( such quiescence would be most unusual in a milky way environment . )",
    "a fortunate , albeit fortuitous , property of this chvc is that it lies near the direction of the seyfert galaxy mrk205 .",
    "( in general , the small angular size of chvcs , and the amount of substructure being revealed at high resolution , will render it difficult to find suitable background sources to support metallicity measurements . )",
    "bowen & blades ( 1993 ) measured mgii absorption towards mrk205 , finding a metallicity substantially subsolar .",
    "wolfire et al .",
    "( 1995 ) show that a cool phase is stable under extragalactic conditions if a sufficient column of shielding gas is present and if the thermal pressure is high .",
    "calculations of equilibrium conditions which would pertain in the local group environment characterized by a metallicity of 10% of the solar value and a dust  to  gas ratio of 10% of that in the solar neighborhood , were communicated to us by wolfire , sternberg , hollenbach , and mckee .",
    "the tightly  constrained temperature found for chvc@xmath93 then allows an estimate of the distance to this object .",
    "figure 8 shows two bracketing values of the shielding column density , namely @xmath96  @xmath2 and @xmath97  @xmath2 .",
    "the equilibrium volume densities corresponding to the observed value of @xmath98  k lie in the range 0.65 to 3.5  @xmath99 . provided with this range of volume densities , and",
    "having measured both the column depth of the cool core and its angular size , the distance to chvc@xmath93 follows directly from @xmath100 , yielding a value in the range 210 to 1100 kpc .",
    "the concept of a distinct class of compact , isolated high  velocity clouds has been objectively developed by application of a search algorithm to the lds and hipass datasets , resulting in an all  sky catalog of chvcs , high ",
    "contrast features which are at best only marginally resolved with half  degree angular resolution and which are sharply bounded , such that emission at column densities above a few times 10@xmath1 @xmath2 is unconfused by extended emission in the source environment .",
    "we identify five principal observables from the all  sky catalog : the spatial and kinematic deployments , and the number distributions of angular sizes , , and linewidth .",
    "we show that agreement of models with the data must be judged by extracting these same obervables from the simulations in a manner consistent with the sensitivities of the observations , and explicitly taking into account the limitations imposed by obscuration due to foreground in the milky way .",
    "general considerations of these observables show compatibility with characteristic distance scales of hundreds of kpc .",
    "since the inception of high  velocity cloud research , the possibility of an extragalactic deployment of these clouds has been critically considered as a possibility ; among others , the discussions by oort ( 1966 , 1970 , 1981 ) , verschuur ( 1969 , 1975 ) , giovanelli ( 1981 ) , bajaja , morras , & pppel ( 1987 ) , wakker & van woerden ( 1997 ) , blitz et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , and bb99 are particularly relevant here . our simulations of a local group population of chvcs have accounted explicitly for the obscuration resulting from the foreground galactic and the observational attributes of the existing survey material .",
    "we have shown that models in which the chvcs are the counterparts of dark ",
    "matter halos evolving in the local group can provide a good match to the observables , if the simulations are `` observed '' in accordance with the lds and hipass parameters .",
    "high  resolution imaging confirms the nested core / halo geometry expected if the cnm is to be stable in the presence of an ionizing radiation field of the sort expected in the local group environment .",
    "the cores contribute typically about 40% of the flux , while covering about 15% of the surface of the chvc .",
    "the imaging also allows supports two independent distance estimates .",
    "a distance for chvc@xmath93 follows from assuming rough spherical symmetry and equating the well  constrained volume and column densities of the compact cores .",
    "another distance constraint ( coupled with a dark  to  visible mass ratio ) follows from consideration of the stability of chvcs having multiple cores in a common envelope but having large relative velocities .",
    "the available evidence suggests that chvcs have characteristic sizes of about 2 kpc , masses in the range @xmath101 to @xmath102 m@xmath74 , and are typically seen at distances of hundreds of kpc .",
    "if at such distances , the failure to detect stars would imply that chvcs are very primitive proto ",
    "galactic objects dominated by dark  matter halos , plausibly the the missing local group satellite systems predicted by klypin et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and moore et al .",
    "( 1999 ) .",
    "bajaja e. , morras r. , pppel w.g.l . ,",
    "1987 , pub .",
    ", 69 , 237 barnes d.g . ,",
    "staveley  smith l. , de blok w.j.g .",
    ", oosterloo t. , stewart i.m . ,",
    "wright a.e . , banks g.d . , bjathal r. , et al . , 2001 , mnras , 322 , 486 blitz l. , 2001 , in asp conf",
    "240 , gas and galaxy evolution , j.e .",
    "hibbard , m. rupen , & j.h . van gorkom ( eds . ) , p. 469",
    "blitz l. , spergel d.n .",
    ", teuben p.j . , hartmann d. , burton w.b . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 514 , 818 braun r. , burton w.b . , 1999 , a&a , 341 , 437 ( bb99 ) braun r. , burton w.b . , 2000 ,",
    "a&a , 354 , 853 bregman j.n . , 1980 , apj , 236 , 577 burton w.b . , 1997 , in the physics of the galactic halo , eds .",
    "lesch h. , dettmann r .-",
    "j . , mebold u. , & schlickeiser r. ( berlin : akademie verlag ) , 15 burton w.b . , braun r. , chengalur j.n . , 2001 , a&a , 369 , 616 ( erratum a&a , 375 , 227 ) burton w.b . , braun r. , walterbos r.a.m . , hoopes c.g . , 1999 ,",
    "aj , 117 , 194 corbelli e. , salpeter e.e . , 1993 , apj , 419 , 104 deheij v. , braun r. , burton w.b . , 2002a ,",
    "a&a , submitted ( astro - ph/0201249 ) deheij v. , braun r. , burton w.b .",
    ", 2002b , a&a , submitted deheij v. , braun r. , burton w.b .",
    ", 2002c , a&a , in press eichler d. , 1976 , apj , 208 , 694 einasto j. , haud u. , jeveer m. , kaasik a. , 1976 , mnras , 177 , 357 giovanelli r. , verschuur g.l . , cram t.r . , 1973 , a&as , 12 , 209 giovanelli r. , 1981 , aj , 86 , 1468 hartmann d. , burton w.b . , 1997 , atlas of galactic neutral hydrogen , cambridge university press hulsbosch a.n.m . , 1978 ,",
    "a&a , 66 , l5 hulsbosch a.n.m . ,",
    "wakker b.p . , 1988 ,",
    "a&as , 75 , 191 klypin , a. , kravtsov , a.v . , valenzuela , o. , & prada , f. 1999 , apj , 522 , 82 lockman f.j .",
    ", murphy e.m . ,",
    "petty  powell s. , urick v.j .",
    ", 2002 , apjs , in press ( astro - ph/0201039 ) maloney p. , 1993",
    ", apj , 414 , 41 mateo m. , 1998 , ara&a , 36 , 435 moore , b. , ghigna , s. , governato , g. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , stadel , j. , & tozzi , p. 1999",
    ", apj , 524 , l19 moore , b. , calcaneo ",
    "roldan , c. , stadel , j. , et al .",
    "2001 , phys .",
    "d. , in press ; astro  ph/0106271 navarro j.f .",
    ", frenk c.s . ,",
    "white s.d.m . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 490,493 oort j.h . , 1926 ,",
    "thesis , university of groningen oort j.h .",
    ", 1966 , bull .",
    "astr . inst .",
    "netherlands , 18 , 421 oort j.h . , 1970 ,",
    "a&a , 7 , 381 oort j.h . , 1981 , a&a , 94 , 359 putman , m.e . , & moore , b. 2002 , in extragalactic gas at low redshift , asp conf .",
    "series , eds .",
    "j. mulchaey & j. stocke , in press ; astro - ph/0110417 putman m. , deheij v. , staveley  smith l. , braun , r. , freeman k.c . ,",
    "gibson b.k .",
    ", burton w.b . ,",
    "barnes d.g . , et al . , 2002 ,",
    "aj , 123 , 873 shapiro p.r . ,",
    "field g.b . , 1976 , apj , 205 , 762 simon jd . ,",
    "blitz l. , 2002 , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/0204042 ) van woerden h. , schwarz u.j .",
    ", peletier r.f .",
    ", wakker b.p .",
    ", kalberla p.m.w . , 1999 ,",
    "nature , 400 , 138 verschuur g.l . , 1969 , apj , 156 , 771 verschuur g.l . , 1975 , ara&a , 13 , 257 voskes t. , burton w.b . , 1999 , in : asp conf .",
    "168 , new perspectives on the interstellar medium , a.r .",
    "taylor , t.l .",
    "landecker , & g. joncas ( eds . ) , p. 375",
    "wakker b.p . , 1990 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , university of groningen wakker b.p .",
    ", 2001 , apjs , 136 , 463 wakker b.p . , schwarz u. , 1991 , a&a , 250 , 484 wakker b.p . , van woerden h. , 1991 , a&a , 250 , 509 wakker b.p . , van woerden h. , 1997 , ara&a , 35 , 217 wolfire m.g .",
    ", hollenbach d. , mckee c.f . , bakes e.l.o .",
    ", 1995 , apj , 443 , 152"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we consider here the class of compact , isolated , high  </S>",
    "<S> velocity clouds , chvcs , which are sharply bounded in angular extent with no kinematic or spatial connection to other features down to a limiting column density of 1.5@xmath010@xmath1 @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> we describe the automated search algorithm developed by deheij et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2002a ) and applied by them to the leiden / dwingeloo survey north of @xmath3 and by putman et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2002 ) to the parkes hipass data south of @xmath4 , resulting in an all  sky catalog numbering 246 chvcs . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that these objects are more likely to represent a single phenomenon in a similar evolutionary state than would a sample which included any of the major hvc complexes . </S>",
    "<S> five principal observables are defined for the chvc population : ( 1 ) the spatial deployment of the objects on the sky , ( 2 ) the kinematic distribution , ( 3 ) the number distribution of observed column densities , ( 4 ) the number distribution of angular sizes , and ( 5 ) the number distribution of line widths . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the spatial and kinematic deployments of the ensemble of chvcs contain various clues regarding their characteristic distance . </S>",
    "<S> these clues are not compatible with a location of the ensemble within the galaxy proper . </S>",
    "<S> the deployments resemble in several regards those of the local group galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> we describe a model testing the hypothesis that the chvcs are a local group population . </S>",
    "<S> the agreement of the model with the data is judged by extracting the observables from simulations , in a manner consistent with the sensitivities of the observations and explicitly taking account of galactic obscuration . </S>",
    "<S> we show that models in which the chvcs are the counterparts of dark  </S>",
    "<S> matter halos evolving in the local group potential provide a good match to the observables , if account is taken of tidal and ram  pressure disruption , the consequences of obscuration due to galactic and of differing sensitivities and selection effects pertaining to the surveys .    </S>",
    "<S> a representative sample of chvcs has been studied with high angular resolution ( sub - arcminute ) using the wsrt and with high  sensitivity ( @xmath5@xmath2 ) using the arecibo telescope . </S>",
    "<S> the picture that emerges is a nested morphology of cnm cores shielded by wnm cocoons , and plausibly surrounded by a warm ionized medium halo . </S>",
    "<S> these observations lead to indirect contraints on the distances , ranging from 150 to 850 kpc . </S>"
  ]
}