{
  "article_text": [
    "the chandra observatory is providing the astronomical community with the deepest x ",
    "ray look at the sky ( mushotzky et al .",
    "2000 ; hornschemeier et al . 2000 ; giacconi et al .",
    "two 1 ms observations have been recently carried out : one in the northern hemisphere on the hubble deep field north ( hdfn ) and the other in the southern hemisphere on a field , named chandra deep field south ( cdfs ) , selected for its low column density ( the southern twin of the lockman hole ) and for the lack of bright x  ray and optical sources .",
    "the data are available from the chandra public archive + ( http://asc.harvard.edu/udocs/ao2-cdf-download.html ) a further 1 ms data set on the hdfn will be available in the next future .    the main goal of these observations is to look at the x  ray sky at the deepest level and to gain insight in the population of emitting sources comprising the cosmic x ",
    "ray background ( xrb ) .",
    "the details of the data reduction and analysis procedures that have been applied to manage the cdfs data - set are discussed in section 2 . in order to fully exploit the potential of these data , refined detection algorithm have to be used .",
    "we developed a wavelet - based source detection algorithm ( lazzati et al .",
    "1999 ; for its main characteristics see also section 3 ) , that we applied to the full sample of rosat hri fields ( campana et al .",
    "1999 ; panzera et al .",
    "2002 , in preparation ) .",
    "we modified this detection algorithm , called brera multi - scale wavelet ( bmw ) , to account for the specific characteristics of the chandra acis imaging and spectroscopic instruments . the algorithm (",
    "bmw - chandra ) has been extensively tested in the extreme conditions provided by the cdfs ( section 4 ) .",
    "our final goal is to obtain a source detection and a source log n ",
    "log s at the faintest limits in order to resolve as much as possible of the xrb in point sources . in order to compare our results with previous investigations ,",
    "we carry out the analysis in the soft ( 0.52 kev ) band and in the hard ( 210 kev ) band .",
    "we are able to safely reconstruct the log n ",
    "log s source flux distribution down to @xmath0 and @xmath6 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 in the soft and hard bands , respectively ( section 5 ) .",
    "a first account of these results have been given in campana et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , here we extend these results discussing in more details the resolved background and source characteristics .",
    "conclusions are reported in section 6 .",
    "all exposures were taken with the chandra x  ray observatory ( weisskopf et al . 2000 ) advanced ccd imaging spectrometer ( acis - i ) detector ( bautz et al .",
    "acis - i consists of four ccds arranged in a @xmath7 array assembled in an inverse shallow pyramid configuration to better follow the curved focal surface of the mirrors .",
    "the full acis - i has a field of view of @xmath8 .",
    "the on - axis image quality is @xmath9 fwhm increasing to @xmath10 fwhm at @xmath11 off - axis .",
    "the cdfs has been obtained performing eleven exposures of the same area of the sky with slight position and orientation offsets .",
    "a total exposure time of 966 ks is obtained by summing them together . in tab .",
    "[ tab : subexp ] we report the main properties of each exposure",
    ".    first we have to match the position of the different exposures to add them into a single image .",
    "to this aim we performed a preliminary source detection on the 11 sub - frames at full resolution .",
    "we used the grid of the positions of the brightest sources to calculate the ten roto  translation matrices with respect to the first image .",
    "in all ten matrices we find that the rotation terms are negligible .",
    "the translation factors of each frame with their uncertainties are reported in tab .",
    "[ tab : subexp ] .",
    "the reported uncertainties are the standard deviations of the position distributions of the grid sources after the translations .    starting with the level 2 event files ,",
    "the data were filtered to include only the standard event grades ( corresponding to the asca grades 0 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6 ) . in order to compare our results with previous studies and existing estimates of the cosmic x ",
    "ray background , we selected a 0.52 kev soft energy band and a 27 kev hard energy band to carry out the scientific analysis .",
    "the limit at 7 kev has been selected because at higher energies the effective area decreases and the background increases , resulting in a lower signal to noise of celestial sources .",
    "the fluxes are then extrapolated to the 210 kev energy band .",
    "chandra observations are affected by the ` space weather ' , resulting in periods with high background . in order to eliminate these periods we calculated the total counts light curve for each exposure using a time resolution such that in each bin we had @xmath12 events ( i.e. @xmath13  s in the soft band and @xmath14 s in the hard band ) .",
    "we excluded all time intervals above @xmath15 of the mean . from a total of 966 ks",
    ", we excluded 24 ks in the soft band ( 28 ks in the hard band ) , giving a final effective exposure time of 942 ks ( 939 ks in the hard ) . the lost fractions amount to @xmath16 of the total time , but allowed us to reduce considerably the background in each band .",
    "in particular , we registered a very strong flare in the observation id1431 which contained about @xmath17 of the total events both in the soft and hard band in about @xmath18 of the exposure time .",
    "ccds are usually affected by defects such as bad columns , bad and hot / flickering pixels and cosmic ray events .",
    "the great majority of these defects are already eliminated by the standard chandra processing pipeline .",
    "random flickering pixels ( probably excited by energetic cosmic rays ) however do occur and have to be removed manually .",
    "these are active pixels for only 26 frames and might be easily detected as x  ray sources .",
    "following tozzi et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , we defined a pixel as `` flickering '' when it registers two events within the time of two consecutive frames and in each observation we eliminated all the events registered from that pixel ( this can be done safely thanks to the lack of bright sources ) . in this way we excluded about 600 events in the soft band whereas in the hard band we did not find any flickering pixels .",
    "we also eliminated the data from chip 3 of the id581 observation , because it suffered from good time intervals inconsistences with other chips , resulting in an anomalous high background level .",
    "the count - rate to flux conversion factors in the 0.52 kev and in the 210 kev bands were taken from tozzi et al .",
    "these were computed using the response matrices at the aim point and amount to @xmath19 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 per count s@xmath2 ( 0.52 kev ) , and",
    "@xmath20 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 ( 210 kev ) per count s@xmath2 in the hard band , assuming a galactic absorbing column of @xmath21 @xmath3 and a photon index @xmath22 , i.e. the spectrum of the xrb .",
    "flux uncertainties are derived considering power law indices in the range @xmath23 .",
    "fluxes are corrected for vignetting by using the exposure map ( see below ) .",
    "the analysis has been carried out on images rebinned by a factor of 2 ( i.e. 1 pixel corresponds to 0.98 arcsec ) , allowing us to deal directly with the entire image .",
    "we found that working on sub - images at the natural scale improves slightly the positional accuracy at the price of a four times longer computational time and with the problem of matching the four sub - images .    in the analysis of the cdfs",
    "we have restricted our analysis to the central 8 arcmin radius circle , assuming as the center the aim point of id581 observation .",
    "this is a good compromise between the simplicity of the geometry and the efficiency of the data analysis ( see below ) .",
    "the minimum value of the exposure map in this region is about @xmath24 of the maximum value .",
    "this occurs at the border of the circle where the exposure map has a very steep decrease .",
    "more than @xmath17 of the exposure map within the 8 arcmin central circle have values larger than @xmath25 of the maximum value , corresponding to an effective exposure time greater then 753  ks .",
    "the average background levels in this region are 0.18 and 0.29 counts per binned pixel in the soft and hard band , respectively .",
    "these correspond to 0.07 and 0.11 counts s@xmath2 per chip and are in very good agreement with the expected value reported in the chandra observatory guide .",
    "the wavelet transform ( wt ) is a mathematical tool able of decomposing an image in a set of sub - images , each of them carrying the information of the original image at a given scale .",
    "these features make the wt well suited for the analysis of x  ray images , where the scale of sources is not constant over the field of view . in addition , the background is automatically subtracted since it is not characterized by any scale .",
    "the use of wt as x  ray detection algorithms was pioneered by rosati et al .",
    "( 1995 ; 1998 ) for the detection of extended sources in rosat pspc fields and subsequently adopted by many groups ( grebenev et al . 1995 ;",
    "damiani et al . 1997a ; pislar et al . 1997 ; vikhlinin et al . 1998 ; lazzati et al .",
    "1998 ; freeman et al .",
    "2001 ) .",
    "the bmw detection algorithm is a wt - based algorithm for the automatic detection and characterization of sources in x",
    " ray images .",
    "it is fully described in lazzati et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and has been developed to analyze rosat hri images producing the bmw - hri catalog ( campana et al .",
    "1999 ; panzera et al .",
    "we have recently updated this algorithm to support the analysis of chandra acis imaging and spectroscopic images . here",
    "we summarize the basic steps of the algorithm .",
    "first , the wt of the input image is performed .",
    "the bmw wt computation is based on the discrete multi - resolution theory and on the ``  trous '' algorithm ( bijaoui et al .",
    "this is different with respect to algorithms based on a continuous wt , which can sample more scales at the cost of longer computing time ( rosati et al .",
    "1995 ; grebenev et al . 1995 ; damiani et al .",
    "we used a mexican hat mother , which can be analytically approximated by the difference of two gaussians ( slezak et al .",
    "we performed the chandra acis - i data analysis with a rebin factor of 2 and we used the scales @xmath26 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 and 32 pixels , where @xmath27 is the scale of the transform ( see lazzati et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "candidate sources are identified as local maxima above the threshold in the wavelet space at each scale .",
    "a catalog for each scale is obtained .",
    "different scale catalogs are then cross  correlated and merged in a single catalog . for each scale the threshold in the wavelet space is calculated by means of monte carlo simulations : for a grid of values of poissonian backgrounds in the range between @xmath28 counts per pixel we estimated the number of expected spurious detections as a function of the threshold value .",
    "the background value is measured as an average on the whole image by means of a @xmath29-clipping algorithm .",
    "the number of spurious sources per field can be fixed arbitrarily by the user ( typical values are in the range @xmath30 ) . at the end of this detection step",
    "we have a first estimate of the source position , an estimate of the counts from the local maximum value of the wt and a guess of the size from the scale where the wt is maximized .",
    "the final catalog is obtained through the characterization of the sources , which is performed by means of a @xmath31 minimization with respect to a gaussian model source in the wavelet space .",
    "the wt of a detected source is used at three different scales , with the central being the scale at which the source has been found ( corrections are introduced when the best scale is the first or the last ) . in order to fit the model on a set of independent data , the wt coefficients are decimated according to the scheme described in lazzati et al .",
    "neighbor sources can be fitted simultaneously in the deblending process , allowing the characterization of faint objects located near bright sources .",
    "the wt detection is carried out on top of a map representing at best the image background ( named total background map , see lazzati et al .",
    "the acis - i background consists of two different components , the cosmic x  ray background and cosmic ray - induced events ( also called particle background ) . the first is made by focalized x  ray photons from not resolved sources and therefore suffers from mirror vignetting .",
    "its spectrum can be modelled as a power law with photon index @xmath22 . following the ciao 2.1 science threads ( http://asc.harvard.edu/ciao/threads ) we built the exposure maps for each of the eleven observations ( both in the soft and in the hard band ) assuming a photon index @xmath22 as input spectrum .",
    "the second contribution has a spatial pattern which is basically due to the electronics of the system and depends on its temperature .",
    "based on the chandra acis background web page + ( http://asc.harvard.edu/cal/links/acis/acis/cal_prods/bkgrnd/current/index.html ) we found that for the acis - i chips in the energy range and in the spatial region of interest for the only particle background we can assume a spatial flat pattern with an inaccuracy of less than @xmath18 .",
    "we assumed that the particle background in the soft band is @xmath32 of the total and the @xmath33 in the hard band with a flat energy spectrum ( baganoff 1999 ) .",
    "summing the two components of the background we obtain a total background map and taking a poissonian realization of it we can accurately account for the data in both bands as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : figmap ] .",
    "this procedure is slightly different from the one adopted in campana et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , where a map based only on the cosmic x  ray background was considered .",
    "we tested the detection algorithm , trying to reproduce the real data in terms of background level and source flux distribution , matching the characteristics of the cdfs fields .",
    "the analysis is carried out in two energy bands : the soft ( 0.52 kev ) and the hard ( 27 kev ) band . from the detection algorithm point of view",
    "the two bands differ for two main reasons : the shape of the exposure maps and the different background level .",
    "this forced us to carry out two different sets of simulations .",
    "x  ray sources were generated at random positions in a @xmath34 square region around the center of the image ( larger than the real field of view ) and with fluxes distributed in the range @xmath35 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 for the soft band and @xmath36 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 in the hard band .",
    "the number counts have been generated according to the log n ",
    "log s integral distributions reported in tozzi et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , i.e. power laws with slope of @xmath37 in the soft band and @xmath38 in the hard band .",
    "the cdfs is made of eleven observations .",
    "for this reason we added a further element to our simulations : for each source we calculated its position in each observation and derived the corresponding off - axis angle ( each source has different positions in the detector in each different observation , depending on the coordinate of the pointing , which are slightly different , and on the roll angle ) .",
    "then we calculated the expected number of photons for each observation .",
    "these depend on the conversion factor and on the local value of the exposure map .",
    "finally , for each single observation we multiplied the expected number of photons with the corresponding point spread function image ( from the chandra caldb ) and we summed the eleven images to the background image .",
    "this procedure is aimed at reproducing at best the image characteristics .",
    "we used these routines instead of the marx simulator essentially because of computational reasons : we found that dealing with the input / output of data was easier for us using our idl routines .",
    "we repeated the procedure for 100 times , for a total sample of about 150,000 input sources ( here and in the following we refer to simulations in the soft band , unless otherwise stated ; in the hard band results are similar ) .",
    "we recovered 25,000 of them within the central 8 arcmin radius , from which we were able to verify the performance of the procedure .      in the bmw detection algorithm",
    "the expected number of spurious sources is one of the fundamental input parameters .",
    "in our analysis we fixed the number of spurious sources to a total of 4.3 in the 8 arcmin radius circle ( which corresponds to 6 expected spurious in a @xmath39 pixels image ) .",
    "in 100 simulated frames we found a total of 425 spurious sources ( 431 expected , see left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : spuepos ] ) .",
    "this shows that the contamination of our sample is well understood and under control .",
    "this corresponds to sources detected at a significance level larger than @xmath40 .",
    "source positions are recovered accurately . in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : spuepos ] we plot the differences between the input and output position of simulated sources .",
    "the difference distributions on both axes are well approximated by gaussian functions centered on zero and with a r.m.s .",
    "of @xmath41 ( i.e. @xmath42 half a pixel at rebin 2 , at which the analysis has been carried out ) .",
    "the distribution of the detected sources is usually depleted at the faint end . in order to compute the log",
    "log s it must be corrected for ( i ) detection probability lower than one close to the sensitivity limit ( completeness function ; cf ) and ( ii ) the different areas effectively surveyed at different fluxes ( sky coverage ; sc ) .",
    "the cf is due to the fact that sources are preferentially detected if they sit on a positive background fluctuation , while they are missed in the opposite case .",
    "the proper sc takes into account that the sensitivity limit can change in the same observation if the background or spatial resolution are not uniform or in different observations when different exposure times are considered . in single observations",
    "the sc depends on the off  axis angle , since the detector sensitivity decreases ( lower effective exposure time ) and the spatial resolution worsen . in the cdfs",
    "the geometry is complicated by the sum of observations with slightly different aim points and different roll angles .",
    "we have verified that this fact does not affect significantly the symmetry of the sc .",
    "more importantly , the sc has strong variations in those locations of the sky that were not imaged in all the eleven observations . in order to avoid large sc fluctuations",
    ", we restricted our analysis to the inner @xmath43 of the field , where the background and exposure are roughly constant ( see above ) .    using wt based detection algorithms the sc",
    "can be computed either analytically or by means of simulations .",
    "the first approach is recommended when the intrinsic size of sources is poorly known ( like in surveys of cluster of galaxies , see rosati et al .",
    "1995 ) . in the cdfs",
    "the presence of extended sources is a minor effect for the computation of the log n ",
    "log s. for this reason we computed the sc by comparing the input and output number counts of simulated fields .",
    "we divided the selected field of view into four circular regions ( @xmath44 , @xmath45 , @xmath46 and @xmath47 ) and derived the sc and cf from simulations as a single correction ( which we hereafter will call sky coverage ) . in the upper panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : skycov ] the derived cf as a function of flux and off - axis angle is shown for the soft and hard band ; in the lower panels the total sky - coverages are shown in unit of square degrees .      in fig .",
    "[ fig : fluxcor ] we show the comparison between the input and output counts of simulated sources ( output fluxes are corrected for the flux lost during the wt characterization , i.e. the so - called point spread function ( psf ) correction , evaluated on bright isolated sources for every arcmin of the field of view , and vignetting , evaluated directly from the exposure map ) . for high signal to noise sources",
    "the counts are measured correctly , while at lower signal to noise ratio the count distribution of the detected sources suffers from the well known eddington bias ( e.g. hasinger et al . 1993 ) . in our case",
    "the bias starts affecting the data below @xmath48 input counts in the soft band ( corresponding to @xmath49 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 ) .",
    "this bias is due to the superposition of faint sources ( below the detection threshold ) on positive background fluctuations , making them detectable . given the background level we expect to detect sources with less than 10 counts only in correspondence of background peaks ( or when two faint sources are merged together into a brighter one ) .",
    "it follows that the counts of the very faint sources are necessarily overestimated ( otherwise they could not be detected ) .",
    "we corrected for this bias following the approach of vikhlinin et al .",
    "we fitted the output source counts as a function of the input counts with polynomial functions for a grid of circular coronae , since the bias is a function of the source width ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : fluxcor ] ) . by inverting the fitting functions , we get an unbiased estimate of the source counts in the faint tail of the simulated sample . input counts versus",
    "corrected output counts are shown in the right panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : fluxcor ] .    to assess the goodness of our correction procedure we perform a maximum likelihood fit to the differential ( unbinned ) flux distributions of the 100 simulated fields individually and we compare the results of the fits with the expected values from the input distributions . in fig .",
    "[ fig:100f_s ] we compare the results before and after the bias correction . as explained below , in the final test section , for the corrected fluxes we set the flux limit at 5 and 7 counts in the innermost region in the soft and hard band , respectively , whereas for the uncorrected fluxes we are forced to use limiting flux of 10 and 12 counts , respectively . from the results of the maximum likelihood",
    "fit it is evident that after the flux correction results are in very good agreement with the input value , whereas the distribution of the uncorrected fluxes suffers for a bias .",
    "this effect is more evident in the hard band where the background level is higher .",
    "a possible alternative to the correction of the measured fluxes is the use of a completeness function allowing for a probability higher than unity for those fluxes where faint sources are wrongly detected .",
    "such a probability function can be obtained by comparing the number of input and output sources in simulations as a function of their output fluxes instead of the ( usually considered ) input ones . in any case , this probability function will depend on the input log n  log s and it will be necessary to perform simulations with a number count distribution as close as possible to the unknown distribution of the sky sources ( an iterative approach would be required ) . on top of that ,",
    "the sensitivity limit of a survey adopting this procedure to correct for the eddington bias will be a factor of @xmath50 brighter than the correction of fluxes discussed above . thus we followed the first procedure .      in order to investigate any systematic error in our analysis we verified how the entire procedure works on different and independent simulated samples . thus , we have generated different samples of sources with different slopes and normalizations of the integral flux distribution , comparing the input sample with the output of the detection procedure , after the correction for the flux bias and the sky coverage .",
    "again , to assess the goodness of our analysis and to derive the flux limit , we perform a maximum likelihood fit to the differential ( unbinned ) flux distributions .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : inout ] we compare the input integral flux distribution ( dashed line ) with the output one before ( dotted line ) and after ( solid line ) the correction for the eddington bias . as stated above , without the flux correction for this bias , a reliable flux limit is about a factor 2 larger .",
    "this happens because all the detected sources with input fluxes in the range 510 counts range are detected typically with 1015 counts . as a consequence the slope of the faint tail of the distribution of uncorrected fluxes",
    "is overestimated .",
    "this effect depends on the background level and on the slope of the distribution .",
    "it is more important in the hard band where the background is higher , and where the source distribution has a larger slope . as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig : inout ] in all cases we are able to recover the input distributions with high accuracy and with different input slopes down to 5 and 7 counts in the soft and hard band , respectively ( corresponding to fluxes of @xmath51 and @xmath6 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 ) .",
    "these numbers refer to the innermost regions and rising to 5 , 6 and 8 counts in the other regions ( 7 , 7 and 10 in the hard band ) .",
    "within the @xmath43 radius region in which our analysis has been carried out we detected 244 and 177 sources in the soft and hard band , respectively ( fig .",
    "[ fig : images ] ) .",
    "these sources are detected independently in the two images for a total number of 278 sources .",
    "this is at variance with e.g. rosati et al .",
    "( 2001 ) who made a detection over the entire 0.57 kev energy band and then pick up sources with signal to noise ratio larger than 2.1 in the 0.52 kev and 27 kev energy bands .",
    "given a typical source spectrum and taking into account the different background levels in the two bands this latter approach is in general more efficient in the source detection , because it uses all the signal available , but it is not well suitable for our purposes .",
    "infact , our final aim is drawing the flux distributions in the two bands down to the faintest limits , where the detection is highly incomplete and to do this we based on the results of the monte carlo simulations : if we perform the detection and the photometry in the two bands indipendently we can simulate all the procedures directly , whereas if we perform the detection in the full band we have to assume an input spectrum for the sources to simulate the photometry in the two bands making the evaluation of the sky coverage at the faint end tricky .    to further characterize the detected sources we computed the hardness ratio @xmath52 where @xmath53 and @xmath54 are the net counts in the hard and the soft band corrected for psf and vignetting losses , respectively .",
    "there are 34 sources ( @xmath55 of the total number of detected sources ) that are revealed only in the hard band ( @xmath56 ) , and 101 sources ( @xmath57 ) that are revealed only in the soft band ( @xmath58 ) . as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : hr ] , there is a progressive hardening of the detected sources when plotted as a function of the soft flux indicating that the deeper we go in the soft band , the larger the number of sources responsible for the xrb at higher energies .",
    "this is particularly evident at 0.52 kev fluxes larger than @xmath59 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 for which no source with @xmath60 are observed ( e.g. tozzi et al .",
    "2001 ; brandt et al .",
    "2001b ) , whereas the large number of sources at low fluxes undetected in the hard band ( @xmath58 ) may weaken the trend .",
    "sources with no soft x  ray counterparts are likely candidate for type ii quasar ( norman et al . 2001 ; stern et al . 2001 ) .",
    "the small number of hard sources not detected in the soft band indicate that even in highly obscured agn a sizeable soft emission can still be produced due to , e.g. , scattering , partial covering of the central radiation or from starburst emission around the agn ( e.g. turner et al .",
    "this confirms that also at these extreme flux levels the ratio between soft and hard x  ray emission is @xmath61 .",
    "in addition , as shown in barger et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , the effects of obscuration get significantly reduced at @xmath62 , since we observe in the soft band the harder 1.56 kev rest frame interval .    in order to characterize the flux distribution of sources detected in the soft band we performed a maximum likelihood fit with a power  law distribution .",
    "we obtain as a best fit @xmath63 the error at @xmath64 confidence level for the normalization is @xmath65 ( @xmath66 means that fluxes are measured in units of @xmath67 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 ) , while for the slope is @xmath68 ( see also fig . [",
    "fig : lnlss ] ) .",
    "this value is slightly different from the one reported in campana et al .",
    "( 2001 ) by less than @xmath69 .",
    "this is mainly due to the improvements in the total background map calculations .",
    "maximum likelihood analysis provide an accurate description of the errors only in the case of good fits . to assure this we adaptively binned the source distribution in order to contain 10 sources per bin .",
    "the fit of the binned data with the same power law gives a good fit by means of a @xmath31 test ( null hypothesis probability @xmath70 ) .    in order to test the influence of the eddington bias correction in the fit of the slope and normalization of the log",
    "n  log s ,",
    "we fit with the same maximum likelihood routine the uncorrected number counts .",
    "as explained above , a further implication of the eddington bias correction is that the detection can be performed at fainter fluxes .",
    "our soft band limiting fluxes are , in fact , @xmath71 and @xmath72 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 before and after the correction , respectively .",
    "we find that the normalization does not change significantly ( @xmath73 ) while the slope is only marginally consistent with what measured after the bias correction ( @xmath74 ; see also fig .",
    "[ fig : lnlss ] ) .",
    "our bias corrected normalization and slope , are in good agreement with earlier results obtained with rosat ( hasinger et al .",
    "1998 ) , chandra ( tozzi et al .",
    "2001 ) and xmm - newton ( hasinger et al . 2001 ; baldi et al . 2001 ) up to their faintest flux levels ( @xmath75 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 ) .",
    "the total extragalactic background in the soft band is usually evaluated in the 12 kev band to limit contribution from our galaxy .",
    "the absolute value of the xrb is still a matter of debate .",
    "the 12 kev xrb estimates are clustered around two different values : hasinger et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and gendreau et al .",
    "( 1995 ) obtained a value of @xmath76 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 .",
    "this is in contrast with the estimate derived by chen et al .",
    "( 1997 ; see also hasinger 1996 ) based on a joint rosat / asca fit yielding a flux of @xmath78 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 ( i.e. @xmath79 higher ) .",
    "an intermediate value has recently been obtained by kuntz , snowden & mushotzky ( 2001 ) using rosat pspc observations with @xmath80 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 and garmire et al .",
    "( 2002 , in preparation ) using chandra @xmath81 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 .",
    "based on our log n ",
    "log s distribution we can resolve in point sources a flux of @xmath82 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 for sources fainter than @xmath83 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 . summing to this the contribution from the lockman hole ( hasinger et al .",
    "1998 ) we obtain a resolved flux of @xmath84 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 . as pointed out by rosati et al .",
    "( 2001 ) we have also to include the contribution from cluster of galaxies recognized to be at a level of @xmath85 in the 12 kev energy band ( rosati et al . 1998 ) . in conclusion , in the case of the lower background estimate we are able to fully resolve it as arising from point sources , taking the higher value we can resolve @xmath86 .",
    "the slope of the faint end counts converges slower than logarithmically and therefore the faint sources have a very small contribution to the xrb . extending to lower fluxes the source distribution",
    "we can add just a @xmath87 more .",
    "this may leave space for a @xmath88 truly diffuse emission produced by the warm / hot diffuse intergalactic medium which is estimated to contribute at a @xmath89 level ( phillips et al .",
    "2001 ) .",
    "a final caveat concerns the total flux of the point sources which suffers from several uncertainties : source flux conversion , variation of the power law index from source to source , cosmic variance ( the cdfs is depleted of bright sources ) , log n  log s power law index and normalization uncertainties .",
    "we estimate an error at a level of @xmath90 .    in the case of the hard band ,",
    "a fit with a single power - law source distribution does not provide a good description of the data ( binning the data as before , we obtain a probability of the null hypothesis @xmath91 ) .",
    "moreover due to the lack of bright sources in the cdfs , our data can not be matched directly with earlier result .",
    "so we normalized the distribution of our 177 sources , see fig .",
    "[ fig : lnlss ] ) to the asca data ( della ceca et al . 2000 ) .",
    "the limiting flux is @xmath6 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 and raises to @xmath92 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 if the eddington bias correction is not applied .",
    "thus , we turn to a smoothly joined power ",
    "law model : @xmath93 \\ { \\rm cgs},\\ ] ]    fixing the bright flux slope and the normalization to the asca value , i.e. @xmath94 ( della ceca et al . 2000 ) .",
    "the faint end slope and the break flux @xmath95 are fitted to the data .",
    "the maximum likelihood fit yields @xmath96 and @xmath97 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 ( all at @xmath64 confidence level for a single parameter ; see fig . [ fig : lnlss ] ) . without correcting for the eddington bias ,",
    "the break flux slightly changes @xmath98 and the fitted slope is @xmath99 .",
    "the slope value is slightly flatter ( within @xmath69 ) than what found in campana et al .",
    "( 2001 ) .    the problem of estimating the background level in the hard 210 kev band is even more serious than in the soft band .",
    "also in this case different estimates exist but the range of variation is as high as @xmath32 .",
    "the limiting values are on the lower side the ones from uhuru and heao-1 @xmath100 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 ( marshall et al .",
    "1980 ; see also ueda et al .",
    "1999 based on asca ) and on the higher side the ( more recent ) ones from bepposax and asca @xmath101 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 ( chiappetti et al . 1998 ; vecchi et al . 1999 ; ishisaki et al .",
    "2000 ; perri & giommi 2000 ) , in agreement with the old wisconsin measurements ( mccammon et al . 1983 ) .    with our number counts distribution ,",
    "we are able to account for @xmath102 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 deg@xmath77 .",
    "this value is higher than the uhuru and heao-1 estimate by @xmath103 likely ruling out it . with respect to the higher 210 kev background",
    "estimate our source distribution can account for @xmath104 of the background resolved in point sources . also in this case the faint end tail converges slower than logarithmically and we can comprise up to @xmath86 of the hard background ( see also campana et al .",
    "a new population of sources , possibly contributing also at higher energies , is therefore needed if one wants to fully resolve the background into point sources .    in this case , the error on the background flux resolved into sources is dominated by the uncertainty in the flux conversion factor , resulting in a @xmath18 error .",
    "based on the experience developed in the rosat hri data analysis ( lazzati et al .",
    "1999 ; campana et al .",
    "1999 ) we build up a procedure for the automatic detection and characterization of sources in chandra acis fields . the main difference between our wavelet algorithm ( bmw - chandra ) and the standard ciao wavdetect ( freeman et al . 2001 )",
    "is the use of the multi - resolution technique . as explained , this makes the bmw - chandra algorithm less flexible but faster and therefore more suitable for the analysis of large data sets and for monte carlo tests .",
    "the chandra deep fields are , of course , the most intriguing fields to probe the algorithm . here",
    "we have described the procedures we used to simulate and analyze in details the cdfs .",
    "the simulations we performed allow us to safely conclude that our detection procedures are robust in terms of number of spurious sources , positional accuracy , flux estimate down to the quoted limits . in this respect",
    "the eddington bias correction is especially important , allowing us to approach the theoretical detection limit of 3 photons ( damiani et al .",
    "1997b ) .",
    "scientific results have been previously discussed in campana et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , here we improve and complement them .",
    "we independently detect 244 and 177 sources in the soft and hard band , respectively for a total number of 278 sources .",
    "source distributions can be safely recovered down to fluxes @xmath0 and @xmath6 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 in the soft and hard energy band , respectively .",
    "these are a factor of @xmath4 deeper than current estimates .",
    "note that being still in the photon detection limit , an improvement by a factor of @xmath50 in the log n",
    " log s reconstruction corresponds to an effective doubling of the observing time .",
    "there is general consensus that the main constituents of the soft 12 kev xrb can be ascribed to broad line agn ( i.e. seyfert 1 galaxies ; hasinger et al .",
    "1998 ; schmidt et al . 1998 ) . at faint fluxes ( @xmath105 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 )",
    "nearby ( @xmath106 ) optically - normal ( possibly low luminosity agn ) galaxies are also being detected as soft sources ( fiore et al .",
    "2000 ; barger et al . 2001 ; tozzi et al .",
    "2001 ; brandt et al . 2001a",
    "; schreier et al . 2001 ; koekemoer et al . 2001 ) .",
    "our analysis of the cdfs extends the source flux distribution down the faintest level of @xmath107 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 .",
    "we found that even at these low fluxes the log n ",
    "log s distribution can still be represented by the extrapolation from higher fluxes without upward trends . including the contribution from cluster of galaxies ( rosati et al .",
    "1998 ) , we are able to resolve in point sources @xmath108 of the soft xrb , the exact value depending on the sky level itself .",
    "our results are also in agreement with the recent fluctuation analysis on the hdfn down to @xmath109 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 ( miyaji & griffiths 2002 ) .    in the hard band",
    "the xrb is made by the superposition of absorbed and unabsorbed sources ( setti & woltjer 1989 ) .",
    "the steeper power law index observed in bright agn implies that a population of faint hard sources is present , likely affected by a considerable absorption .",
    "studies with chandra and xmm - newton are now discovering these sources identifiable with type ii agn unrelated to the morphological type ( schreier et al .",
    "2001 ; koekemoer et al .",
    "we note that only a small fraction of hard source are not detected in the soft band , likely indicating that at least @xmath110 of the flux is in any case emitted in the soft band .",
    "our analysis lead to the extension of the log n ",
    "log s source flux distribution down to @xmath6 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 . at this level",
    "we can rule out the uhuru / heao-1 estimate and account for @xmath86 of the bepposax / asca estimate .",
    "the fluctuation analysis by miyaji & griffiths ( 2002 ) does not add much stopping at @xmath111 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 but with a large error .",
    "the analyzed field of view is small and cosmic variance likely plays a role . we plan to carry out the same analysis of the chandra hdfn in order to confirm the present results and to perform a joint analysis with other shallower and more extended surveys in order to cover with good statistics the bright flux ends ( moretti et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "chandra with its superb angular resolution opens the possibility to extend at even lower fluxes the source distribution .",
    "in fact , at the present level sources are still photon limited .",
    "this will allow to deepen our knowledge of the distant universe , allowing to probe the accretion power over the history of the x  ray universe , and its implications for structure formation and the epoch of reionization .",
    "we thank the continuous support of the chandra help desk and the ciao team for the organization of chandra / ciao workshop .",
    "we also thank m. markevitch and the anonymous referee for their suggestions . this work was supported through cnaa , co - fin , asi grants and funds for young researchers of the universit degli studi di milano .",
    "chiappetti , l. , cusumano , g. , del sordo , s. , maccarone , m.c . ,",
    "mineo , t. , & molendi , s. 1998 , in _ the active x - ray sky : results from bepposax and rxte . _",
    "l. scarsi , h. bradt , p. giommi , & f. fiore .",
    "( elsevier , amsterdam ) , 610"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> chandra deep fields represent the deepest look at the x  ray sky . </S>",
    "<S> we analyzed the chandra deep field south ( cdfs ) with the aid of a dedicated wavelet - based algorithm . </S>",
    "<S> here we present a detailed description of the procedures used to analyze this field , tested and verified by means of extensive simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we show that we can safely reconstruct the log n  </S>",
    "<S> log s source distribution of the cdfs down to limiting fluxes of @xmath0 and @xmath1 erg s@xmath2 @xmath3 in the soft ( 0.52 kev ) and hard ( 210 kev ) bands , respectively , fainter by a factor @xmath4 than current estimates . at these levels </S>",
    "<S> we can account for @xmath5 of the 12 kev and 210 kev x  ray background . </S>"
  ]
}