{
  "article_text": [
    "since its discovery in 2003 @xcite , the double pulsar psrj0737 - 3039 has proven to be an extraordinary system for the study of both fundamental physics and general relativity @xcite .",
    "the system is highly relativistic with an orbital period of 2.4hrs and an eccentricity of 0.0878 , making it the tightest known double neutron star ( dns ) binary known to date .",
    "the system also harbors the fastest known dns pulsar ( 22.7ms ) , has the largest apsidal - motion rate of all presently known dnss ( @xmath6 ) , and shows eclipses of the fast pulsar by the magnetosphere of the slow one ( orbital inclination @xmath7 ) @xcite .",
    "its short merger time of @xmath8myr has furthermore led to a significant upward revision for the merger rate of coalescing dnss @xcite .",
    "a central topic in understanding the physics of the double pulsar is the study of its origin and evolution . according to our current knowledge ( for more details",
    "see @xcite ) , dnss form from primordial binaries in which , possibly after some initial mass - transfer phase , both component stars have masses in excess of @xmath9 .",
    "after the primary explodes in a supernova ( sn ) explosion to form the first neutron star ( ns ) , the binary enters a high - mass x - ray binary phase in which the ns accretes matter from the wind of its companion .",
    "the phase ends when the companion star evolves of the main sequence and engulfs the ns in its expanding envelope .",
    "the ns then spirals in towards the core of the companion until enough orbital energy is transferred to the envelope to expel it from the system .",
    "when the envelope is ejected , the binary consists of the ns and the stripped - down helium core of its former giant companion , orbiting each other in a tight orbit .",
    "if the ns is able to accrete during its rapid inspiral , a first `` recycling '' may take place during which it is spun up to millisecond periods .",
    "the helium star then evolves further until it , in turn , explodes and forms a ns .",
    "depending on the mass of the helium star and the size of the orbit at the time of the explosion , the sn may be preceded by a second recycling phase when the helium star fills its roche lobe and transfers mass to the ns @xcite .    shortly after the discovery of psrj0737 - 3039 , @xcite and @xcite ( hereafter paper  i ) independently derived that , right before the second sn explosion , the binary was so tight that the helium star must have been overflowing its critical roche lobe .",
    "this conclusion , for the first time , strongly confirmed the above formation channel for dns binaries . the observed 22.7ms pulsar ( hereafter psrj0737 - 3039a or pulsar  a ) then corresponds to the first - born ns , and its 2.8s pulsar companion ( hereafter psrj0737 - 3039b or pulsar  b ) to the second - born ns .    in a follow - up study to paper  i ,",
    "@xcite ( hereafter paper  ii ) extended the stellar and binary evolution constraints on the formation of pulsar  b to include constraints based on the system s position and motion in the galaxy .",
    "while the addition of proper motion measurements to the list of observational constraints , at first sight , added a significant piece of information on the formation and evolution of the double pulsar system , the unknown direction of the proper motion and the unknown radial velocity significantly hindered the derivation of more stricter progenitor constraints than obtained in paper  i.    since paper  ii , the available observational constraints have undergone significant revisions .",
    "most notably , proper motion estimates , which form a vital part in constraining the kick imparted to pulsar  b at birth , have decreased from @xmath10 down to @xmath11 or less @xcite .",
    "in addition , rough limits on the spin - orbit misalignment of pulsar  a have recently been derived by @xcite , which again add to the constrains on pulsar  b s natal kick velocity . from a theoretical point of view , it has furthermore been argued that pulsar  b may have had an unusually low - mass progenitor ( @xmath12 ) which formed a ns through a new type of gravitational collapse accompanied by an unusually low kick velocity ( @xmath13 ) @xcite .",
    "our aim in this paper is to investigate the system s recent evolutionary history and examine the necessity of this new type of gravitational collapse to explain the formation of pulsar  b. we incorporate the most up - to - date observational information on psrj0737 - 3039 , including the @xmath14 upper limit on the proper motion derived by @xcite .",
    "a significant new element compared to papers  i and  ii , which focused on the extent of the available parameter space , is the examination of the full multi - dimensional probability distribution functions ( pdf ) for the magnitude and direction of pulsar  b s natal kick velocity , the mass of pulsar  b s pre - sn helium star progenitor , and the orbital separation right before the formation of pulsar  b. other significant improvements are the incorporation of theoretical distribution functions for the unknown radial velocity by means of binary population synthesis calculations for coalescing dnss , the investigation of projection and marginalization effects of the multi - dimensional pdf , and the examination of the role of the prior assumptions .",
    "the plan of the paper is as follows . in ",
    "ii , we briefly summarize the observationally inferred properties of the double pulsar relevant to this investigation .",
    "in  iii , we present the basic assumptions and outline the method used to derive the formation history of pulsar  b. details of the various steps adopted in the investigation and their overall role in the analysis are presented in  iv and  v. in ",
    "vi , we present the most likely progenitor and formation parameters for psrj0737 - 3039b and systematically explore the sensitivity of the parameters to the adopted assumptions .",
    "the final two sections ,  vii and  viii , are devoted to a comparison with previous investigations and summarizing remarks .",
    "the main properties of the double pulsar system and its component stars relevant to this investigation are summarized in table  [ prop ] . the principal differences with the observational constraints used in paper  ii are the considerably lower estimate for the systemic velocity perpendicular to the line - of - sight , and the availability of limits on the spin - orbit misalignment angle of pulsar  a.    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the most likely kick velocity and progenitor parameters can also depend strongly on the assumptions underlying the reconstruction of the binary s evolutionary history ( i.e. , the magnitude of the transverse systemic velocity component , the minimum helium star mass required for the formation of a ns , the age of the system , and the probability distribution of the unknown radial velocity ) . in order to investigate this",
    ", we systematically calculated the 5-d pdfs for @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 for different sets of prior assumptions .",
    "the resulting most likely kick velocity and progenitor parameters are summarized in table  [ pdfmax ] .",
    "the dependence of the most likely @xmath15 , @xmath16 , and @xmath18 on the adopted prior assumptions is also presented graphically in figs .",
    "[ modelsvk][modelsm0 ] . for brevity",
    ", we denote the uniform radial velocity distribution in the table and figures as a gaussian distribution with an infinite radial velocity dispersion .",
    "the most likely kick velocity imparted to pulsar  b at birth is smaller than 50kms@xmath20 only when the transverse velocity component has a magnitude of 10kms@xmath20 , the minimum helium star mass required for ns formation is allowed to be as low as @xmath21 , and the age of the system is assumed to be between 30 and 70myr . _ all other models _",
    "yield most likely kick velocities of 50180kms@xmath20 .",
    "when a minimum pre - sn helium star mass of @xmath0 is imposed , the kicks are always strongly favored to be directed opposite to the helium star s pre - sn orbital motion ( most likely @xmath22 ) .",
    "when the constraint on the minimum pre - sn helium star mass is relaxed , the most likely kick direction can shift significantly and can even become perpendicular to the helium star s pre - sn orbital velocity .",
    "allowing pre - sn helium star masses down to @xmath21 furthermore always leads to most likely progenitor masses of @xmath23 , _ except _",
    "when @xmath24 , the age of the system is between 0 and 100myr , and the radial velocities are distributed uniformly or according to a gaussian with a velocity dispersion of 200kms@xmath20 .    in summary ,",
    "while small kick velocities of just a few tens of kms@xmath20 could be favored for some models , the majority of the models yields most likely values of 50180kms@xmath20 .",
    "progenitor masses below @xmath0 are furthermore not required to explain the system properties , although they are generally favored when helium stars below @xmath0 are still assumed to be viable ns progenitors .",
    "we note though that the results presented in table  [ pdfmax ] and the associated figures are based on the assumption that all kick velocity magnitudes @xmath15 are equally probable .",
    "this assumption is inconsistent for models using the gaussian radial velocity distributions based on population synthesis calculations of coalescing dnss .",
    "in particular , these calculations all adopt a maxwellian rather than a uniform kick velocity distribution . in all cases ,",
    "weighing the kick velocities according to the maxwellian underlying the derivation of the radial velocity distributions would , however , shift the most likely kick velocities to higher @xmath15 values than listed in table  [ pdfmax ] .",
    "this reinforces our conclusion that the presently known observational constraints not necessarily disfavor kick velocity magnitudes of 100kms@xmath20 or more .",
    "the use of the full 5-d pdf for @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 in the derivation of the most likely pulsar  b kick velocity and progenitor parameters has the advantage of being free of projection effects , but is much more cumbersome and computationally expensive for the calculation of confidence limits .",
    "since our main aim in this paper is to present a differential analysis showing the effects of different model assumptions , we adopt a simpler approach and determine the confidence limits from marginalized 1-d pdfs .",
    "we recognize , however , that in doing so , projection effects may play a significant role and any information on possible correlations between the different parameters will be lost .    for illustration ,",
    "some representative 1-d pdfs used for the calculation of the confidence limits in the case of a present - day transverse velocity component of 10kms@xmath20 are shown in fig .",
    "[ 1dpdf ] .",
    "panels  ( a)(c ) show the kick velocity distributions resulting from different present - day radial velocity distributions for ages ranges of 0 - 100myr and 49 - 51myr , and minimum pre - sn helium star masses of @xmath21 and @xmath25 . for a given age range and minimum pre - sn helium star mass , the pdfs show a peak which is most pronounced when a gaussian radial velocity distribution with a velocity dispersion of 60kms@xmath20 is considered , and which widens with increasing radial velocity dispersions .",
    "when the age is assumed to be 0 - 100myr and the minimum pre - sn helium star mass @xmath21 , there is a clear tendency for the 1-d pdfs to favor kick velocities of 50kms@xmath20 or less ( although this becomes significantly less pronounced with increasing radial velocity dispersions ) .",
    "this trend shifts towards favoring kick velocities of 50100kms@xmath20 when the age range is narrowed to 49 - 51myr .",
    "moreover , when the age range is kept fixed at 0 - 100myr , but the minimum pre - sn helium star mass is increased to @xmath0 , the favored range of kick velocities shifts to 100150kms@xmath20 . in the latter case ,",
    "the kick velocity is furthermore always required to be larger than @xmath26 ( see also papers  i and  ii ) .    in panels",
    "( d)(e ) , we show the distribution of @xmath16 for different present - day radial velocity distributions , dns ages of 0 - 100myr , and minimum pre - sn helium star masses of @xmath21 and @xmath0 . for a minimum helium star mass of @xmath21 and gaussian radial velocity distributions with velocity dispersions of more than 130kms@xmath20 , the pdfs favor kick directions opposite to the pre - sn orbital motion . in the case of the gaussian radial velocity distribution with a velocity dispersion of 60kms@xmath20",
    ", the pdf behaves qualitatively entirely different and shows a slight preference for kicks perpendicular to the pre - sn orbital velocity .",
    "a non - negligible low - probability tail furthermore extends well into the region of kick directions in the sense of the pre - sn orbital motion .",
    "when the minimum mass for pulsar  b s pre - sn helium star progenitor is raised to @xmath0 , the kicks are always directed opposite to the orbital motion ( a lower limit on @xmath27 of @xmath28 was already derived in papers  i and  ii ) .",
    "the pdf furthermore becomes fairly insensitive to the adopted radial velocity distribution .",
    "panel  ( f ) , finally , shows the distribution of possible pre - sn progenitor masses for different present - day radial velocity distributions , dns ages of 0 - 100myr , and a minimum pre - sn helium star mass of @xmath21 .",
    "the distributions all favor progenitor masses of @xmath29@xmath30 , with the preference for this mass range being strongest for present - day radial velocity distributions with small radial velocity dispersions .",
    "distribution functions for a minimum pre - sn helium star mass of @xmath0 look practically the same as the ones displayed panel  ( f ) if they were cut off at @xmath0 .    adopting a present - day transverse velocity of 30kms@xmath20 instead of 10kms@xmath20 yields very similar conclusions .",
    "overall the effects of varying model assumptions tend to be somewhat less pronounced though .",
    "the 68% and 90% confidence limits on @xmath15 and @xmath18 obtained from the 1-d pdfs are listed in table  [ pdfmax ] next to the most likely kick velocity and progenitor parameters . , @xmath17 , and @xmath19 were also calculated but these did not contribute any significant new information . ] in the majority of the cases , the confidence limits contain the most likely @xmath15 and @xmath18 obtained from the full 5-d pdf for @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 . whenever this is not the case , projections effects cause significant shifts between the values favored by the 1-d and 5-d pdfs .",
    "the confidence limits on @xmath15 readily show that the possibility of small kick velocities is entirely due to the assumption that helium stars less massive than @xmath0 can be viable ns progenitors . under this assumption ,",
    "the upper limits on @xmath15 at the 68% confidence level vary from 65kms@xmath20 to 275kms@xmath20 .",
    "thus , even though small kick velocities become possible , larger kick velocities in excess of 100kms@xmath20 are all but statistically disfavored .",
    "this is even more true when the upper limits at the 90% confidence level are considered . for a minimum pre - sn helium star mass of @xmath0 , the confidence limits for @xmath15 shift to significantly higher values which are conform with the kick velocity magnitudes derived from observations of single radio pulsar @xcite .",
    "these `` conventional '' kicks are also consistent with the tilt between pulsar  b s rotation axis and the normal to the orbital plane inferred by @xcite .",
    "when the minimum pre - sn helium star mass is assumed to be @xmath21 , the 68% and 90% confidence limits on @xmath18 typically go all the way down to this limit , but often also extend upwards to masses larger than @xmath0 ( especially at the 90% confidence level ) .",
    "these numbers confirm our previous conclusion that the presently known observational constraints not necessarily disfavor progenitors more massive than @xmath0 and kick velocities in excess of 100kms@xmath20 .      just like the kick velocity and progenitor parameters ,",
    "the most likely birth site of psrj0737 - 3039b depends strongly on the adopted transverse systemic velocity component , age range , minimum helium star mass , and present - day radial velocity distribution . in ",
    "[ motion ] , we have shown that the distribution of kinematic ages in the range from 0 to 100myr peaks strongly at ages of 1 - 2myr ( see fig .  [ tauk ] ) .",
    "this implies that the system can travel only a short distance ( less than 2kpc if the systemic velocity is less than 1000kms@xmath20 ) before reaching its current position . adopting an age range of 0100myr therefore yields pdfs for the birth sites that are strongly peaked near the system s current position at @xmath31kpc and @xmath32kpc , regardless of any of the other model assumptions",
    "the situation changes drastically for the age ranges of 3070myr and 4951myr , which exclude very young ages and therefore impose a minimum distance traveled by the system since the time it was born .    for illustration , the distribution of the possible birth sites in the galactic plane is shown in fig .",
    "[ birth ] in the case of a present - day transverse velocity component of @xmath14 , a minimum pre - sn helium star mass of @xmath21 , an age range of 3070myr , and a gaussian radial velocity distribution with a velocity dispersion of 130kms@xmath20 .",
    "the most likely birth sites are all located within a radius of 2kpc from @xmath33kpc .",
    "none of the birth sites are furthermore close to the system s present - day position indicated by the solid circle at @xmath34kpc . if the minimum helium star mass required for ns formation is assumed to be @xmath0 instead of @xmath21 , the most likely birth sites shown in fig .",
    "[ birth ] become entirely inaccessible .",
    "instead , the binary then most likely originates from a circle with a radius of 1kpc centered on @xmath35kpc , with a clear non - negligible lower probability tail extending more or less linearly towards @xmath36kpc .",
    "in paper  ii , we derived constraints on the formation and progenitor of psrj0737 - 3039b , using the then available observational constraints on the binary s properties and motion in the galaxy .",
    "the main differences with the observational and theoretical information adopted in this investigation are the lower transverse systemic velocity , the constraint on pulsar  a s spin - orbit misalignment angle , the possibility of a significantly lower minimum mass for pulsar  b s pre - sn helium star progenitor , and the use of dns population synthesis calculations to obtain theoretical present - day radial - velocity distributions . moreover , in paper  ii we mainly focused on the ranges of possible progenitor parameters , and restricted the statistical analysis to the derivation of 1-d pdfs for pulsar  b s natal kick velocity and pulsar  a s spin - orbit misalignment . among the observational and theoretical improvements , the availability of the constraint on pulsar  a s spin - orbit misalignment has the least effect on the derivation of the possible pulsar  b progenitor and kick velocity properties .",
    "the main reason for this is that the excluded range of tilt angles from @xmath37 to @xmath38 was already statistically disfavored by the kick velocity and progenitor constraints derived in paper  ii ( see fig .  12 in that paper ) .",
    "while the majority of the results presented in paper  ii were obtained assuming a minimum pre - sn helium star mass of @xmath0 , we also discussed some preliminary test calculations allowing pre - sn helium star masses below @xmath0 .",
    "because of the strong influence on the parameter space of the then available proper motion measurement of @xmath10 , we did not find any important changes in the kick velocity and progenitor constraints related to the decrease of the minimum admissible helium star mass . with the new proper motion upper limit of @xmath14 , the adopted minimum helium star mass has a much stronger effect on the available parameter space . in particular , when both the new proper motion constraint and the lower minimum helium star mass are imposed , there is no longer a lower limit on the magnitude of the kick velocity imparted to pulsar  b at birth .",
    "consequently a symmetric sn explosion becomes a viable formation mechanism for pulsar  b. moreover , allowing pre - sn helium star masses smaller than @xmath0 also removes the lower limit of @xmath28 on the angle between the kick velocity direction and the direction of the helium star s pre - sn orbital velocity , so that the kicks no longer have to be directed opposite to the orbital motion .",
    "more recently , @xcite ( hereafter ps ) used a monte - carlo method to argue that the probability of finding the system close to the galactic plane is highest if pulsar  b received only a marginal kick at birth of less than 30kms@xmath20 , and if its pre - sn progenitor had a very low mass of only about @xmath39 . in their analysis , they considered the post - sn velocity of the binary randomly projected on the axis vertical to the galactic plane ( the @xmath40-axis introduced in  [ motion ] ) and followed this one component of the galactic motion forward in time for 50myr ( their assumed age for psrj0737 - 3039 ) .",
    "however , restricting the galactic motion to the z - component can potentially bias the pdfs , since the horizontal velocity component remains entirely unconstrained ( effectively , they accept all post - sn peculiar velocities as equally probable regardless of their horizontal component ) . in particular",
    ", if this horizontal component is large , it reduces the probability that the system would be found at its current @xmath41 and @xmath42 position in a similar way as a large vertical component reduces the probability that the system is found at its current @xmath40 position .",
    "the analysis of ps furthermore implicitly assumes that the vertical motion is decoupled from the horizontal one .",
    "although this is true locally , it is not true globally , since the vertical acceleration does not depend just on the vertical distance from the plane but also on the horizontal distance from the galactic center .",
    "therefore , if the binary has traveled through a wide range of galactocentric radii , as indicated by the large range of possible birth sites displayed in fig .  [ birth ] , its vertical motion is different from the one modeled by ps .",
    "we investigate this more thoroughly by following the steps outlined by ps .",
    "firstly , we determine the post - sn orbital semi - major axis @xmath43 and eccentricity @xmath44 by integrating the equations governing the orbital evolution due to gravitational wave emission backwards in time , for an assumed age of 50myr .",
    "we find @xmath45 and @xmath46 .",
    "secondly , we randomly generate a pulsar  b kick velocity magnitude @xmath15 , and kick direction angles @xmath27 and @xmath17 , assuming a uniform distribution for the magnitude and an isotropic distribution for the direction of the kick .",
    "equations  ( [ eq1 ] ) and ( [ eq2 ] ) and the associated constraints are then solved for @xmath18 and @xmath19 , using the values of @xmath43 and @xmath44 derived by reversing the orbital evolution for 50myr .",
    "obtained by reversing the past orbital evolution for a range of ages between 0myr and 210myr ( the characteristic age of _ pulsar  a _ ) .",
    "although , this is inconsistent with the age of 50myr adopted for the galactic motion calculations , we do not expect the use of the range of eccentricities to have a strong impact on the derivation of the @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 constraints .",
    "it is furthermore unclear if ps solve eqs .",
    "( [ eq1 ] ) and ( [ eq2 ] ) by randomly generating eccentricities from a uniform distribution between 0.088 and 0.14 , or by some other unspecified procedure . for these reasons",
    ", we modify this step in ps s analysis and consistently use the post - sn orbital parameters associated with a fixed age of 50myr . ] if a solution for @xmath18 and @xmath19 exists , the magnitude of the post - sn peculiar velocity imparted to the binary s center of mass is calculated by means of eq .",
    "( [ vpec ] ) .",
    "thirdly , we approximate the motion of the system in the galaxy by a local vertical oscillation with an amplitude drawn from a gaussian distribution with a dispersion of 50pc . at the time of the sn explosion ,",
    "the system is assumed to be at a uniformly distributed random phase of the oscillation .",
    "the vertical motion of the system in the galaxy is then followed forward in time for 50myr using the galactic potential of @xcite . for this purpose ,",
    "the randomly generated starting point has to be supplemented with the @xmath40-component of the calculated post - sn peculiar velocity . since the kick direction angles @xmath27 and @xmath17 are defined with respect to the pre - sn orbital plane , which has an unknown direction in space , the @xmath40-component of the post - sn peculiar velocity is determined by assigning an isotropically distributed random direction to the calculated post - sn peculiar velocity .",
    "this new direction is generated with respect to the galactic frame of reference @xmath47 introduced in ",
    "[ motion ] , and therefore straightforwardly leads to the determination of the @xmath40-component of the post - sn peculiar velocity .",
    "if the generated system satisfies all sn orbital dynamics constraints and if , after following the motion in the galaxy for 50myr , the system ends up within 50pc of the galactic mid - plane , it is considered a possible progenitor of psrj0737 - 3039 .",
    "the procedure is then repeated until @xmath48 such systems are found .",
    "the outcome of the simulation is a 2-d pdf of @xmath18 and @xmath15 shown in panel  ( a ) of fig .",
    "the pdf is normalized so that its integral over the entire admissible parameter space is equal to one .",
    "this is different from ps who normalize their pdf to the peak probability density .",
    "the overall features of this pdf are to be compared to the upper right panel of fig .  1 in @xcite ; it is evident that the two pdfs are in rather good agreement .",
    "differences in the details can be partly attributed to the pdf normalization adopted by ps ( since it requires that the _ exact _ pdf peak is `` captured '' by the monte carlo process ) , which depends on the accuracy of the monte - carlo simulation and the size of the bins used to construct the pdf .    in order to assess the effect of approximating the space motion of psrj0737 - 3039 as a vertical oscillation centered on the system s current position , we repeated the above calculation for a system completely identical to the double pulsar , but located at a different position in the galactic plane .",
    "in particular , we positioned the system closer to the galactic center at @xmath49kpc and @xmath50kpc ( this corresponds to the most likely birth site found in  [ results ] for a present - day transverse velocity of 30kms@xmath20 , an age of 3070myr , a gaussian radial velocity distribution with a velocity dispersion of 130kms@xmath20 , and a minimum pre - sn helium star mass of @xmath0 ) .",
    "somewhat surprisingly , we found the effect on the pdfs to be rather minimal .",
    "as a second test , we therefore considered a second system identical to the double pulsar , but located at a height of @xmath51pc above the galactic plane ( corresponding to the distance of psrb1534 + 12 to the galactic plane ) .",
    "again , we found minimal changes in the pdf .",
    "we conclude that the position of the system in the galaxy therefore seems to be relatively unimportant in the derivation of the @xmath52-pdf .",
    "this conclusion is further strengthened by the results in panel  ( b ) of fig .",
    "[ ps ] : it shows the 2-d pdf obtained _ without any _ constraint on @xmath53 .",
    "it is evident that the pdf does not depend in any significant way on the position of psrj0737 - 3039 close to the galactic plane , in contrast to what is claimed by ps ( the main difference between panels  ( a ) and  ( b ) is that the `` peak '' contour is somewhat more spread out ) .",
    "indeed when tracking the progenitor systems as they are affected by the different constraints in the simulations , we find that the @xmath54pc constraint eliminates only 13% of the systems that satisfy all other imposed constraints .",
    "it turns out that the orbital dynamics of asymmetric sn explosions and associated constraints are much more important than the position of the system in the galaxy in determining the @xmath55-pdf .    for comparison",
    ", we also constructed 2-d kick velocity and progenitor mass distributions by marginalizing the 5-d pdfs derived in  [ results ] , for model assumptions similar to those adopted by @xcite .",
    "specifically , we considered a present - day transverse velocity of 30kms@xmath20 , a minimum helium star mass of @xmath21 , kinematic ages of 4951myr , and a gaussian radial velocity distribution with a dispersion of 130kms@xmath20 .",
    "we also removed the limits on pulsar  a s spin - orbit misalignment from the list of imposed constraints as it was not incorporated in the analysis of ps .",
    "the resulting pdf is shown in panel  ( c ) of fig .",
    "we note that , although the analysis by ps does not incorporate the radial velocity , it is an indispensable part of our method which can not be omitted from the analysis .",
    "a comparison between our results and those derived by ps with exactly the same assumptions is therefore not possible . despite this ,",
    "the differences between the pdfs displayed in panels  ( a ) and  ( c ) are quite minimal .",
    "the same holds true if the gaussian radial velocity distribution with a dispersion of 130kms@xmath20 is replaced by any of the other radial - velocity distributions considered . in view of the non - negligible differences between the two approaches ,",
    "this agreement is all but trivial and thus strengthens our confidence in the validity of the derived results .",
    "the effect of the minimum helium star mass on the pdf is illustrated in panel  ( d ) , where the minimum pre - sn helium star mass was assumed to be @xmath0 .",
    "the main difference with the pdf shown in panel  ( c ) is the minimum kick velocity of @xmath56kms@xmath20 .",
    "the most likely kick velocity is of the order of 60100kms@xmath20 and the most likely progenitor mass is @xmath57 .",
    "thus , we conclude that ( i ) if one allows _ a priori _ for low - mass progenitors of pulsar b , and ( ii ) if the marginalized 2-d pdf is considered and not the underlying 5-d pdf , then the preference for low progenitor masses and low kicks is rather generic and it is not related to the system s position close to the plane or the small upper limit on the proper motion in any crucial way ( c.f .",
    "this applies to both the analysis presented in this paper and the analysis by ps .",
    "examining the role of the prior assumptions and considering the full 5-d pdf of @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 are therefore essential in establishing an unbiased view of the possible formation mechanism and progenitor of psrj0737 - 3939b .",
    "finally , we note that , contrary to what is claimed by ps , small tilt angles between pulsar a s spin angular momentum and the post - sn orbital angular momentum do not necessarily imply that a small sn kick was imparted to pulsar  b at birth .",
    "this can , e.g. , be seen from figs .",
    "11 and 12 in paper  ii .",
    "in addition , eq .  ( [ tilt ] ) shows that the tilt depends on the direction as well as on the magnitude of the natal kick velocity , and that in the particular case where the kicks are confined to the pre - sn orbital plane , the tilt angle is equal to zero regardless of the magnitude of the kick velocity .",
    "in this study , we have considered the kinematic and evolutionary history of the double pulsar psrj0737 - 3039 , taking into account the most up - to - date observational constraints .",
    "unlike our earlier work on this topic , we focus here on the derivation of the full multi - dimensional probability distribution functions for the magnitude and direction of the kick velocity imparted to pulsar  b at birth , the mass of pulsar  b s pre - sn helium star progenitor , and the pre - sn orbital separation .",
    "the consideration of the multi - dimensional pdf has the distinct advantage that it is free of projection effects and that it accounts for all possible correlations between the derived parameters ; these correlations and projection effects turn out to be very important when addressing the question of what are the most likely properties of the double pulsar s progenitor .",
    "we also examine the dependence of the pdfs on the prior assumptions for the magnitude of the transverse systemic velocity component , the minimum pre - sn helium star mass required to form a ns , the age of the system , and the present - day radial velocity .",
    "since the latter can not be determined from observation , we construct and explore theoretical radial - velocity distributions by means of population synthesis calculations for coalescing dnss .",
    "one of the main results of our analysis is that marginalizing the full five - dimensional progenitor pdf to 1-d or 2-d distributions for the pulsar  b kick velocity and progenitor mass has a major effect on the determination of their most likely values .",
    "when the full multi - dimensional pdf is examined , it is clear that although some sets of prior assumptions indeed favor low kick velocities and low progenitor masses , as claimed by @xcite , the majority of the models favor kick velocities of 50180kms@xmath20 and progenitor masses of 1.452.75@xmath58 .    in particular ,",
    "if the transverse systemic velocity is assumed to be 30km / s and helium stars less massive than 2.1@xmath58 are assumed to be viable ns progenitors , the most likely pulsar b progenitor mass is 1.45@xmath58 regardless of any of the other prior assumptions .",
    "if , on the other hand , the transverse systemic velocity is assumed to be 10km / s while keeping the assumption that helium stars less massive than 2.1@xmath58 are viable ns progenitors , the most likely progenitor mass can vary from 1.35@xmath58 to 2.65@xmath58 , depending on the assumed systemic age and radial velocity distribution . hence , whether progenitor masses greater than 2.1@xmath58 are statistically likely or unlikely depends strongly on the adopted prior assumptions ( cf .",
    "most likely progenitors with @xmath59 can furthermore also be associated with kick velocities of up to 100kms@xmath20 ( see , e.g. , the case of @xmath60 and @xmath61 in figs .",
    "[ modelsvk ] and  [ modelsm0 ] ) , while kick velocities of less than @xmath62 are only possible for progenitor masses below @xmath0 .",
    "we also find that the proximity of psrj0737 - 3039 to the galactic plane and the small proper motion do not pose stringent constraints on the kick velocity and progenitor mass of pulsar  b. instead , the constraints are predominantly determined by the orbital dynamics of asymmetric sn explosions .",
    "this is in contrast to the work of @xcite who emphasize that the proximity of the double pulsar to the galactic plane implies that pulsar  b most likely received only a small kick at birth and that its progenitor most likely had mass of @xmath12 .",
    "hence , based on the currently available observational constraints , a wide range of progenitor and kick velocity properties are favored for psrj0737 - 3039b . in particular",
    ", the constraints are compatible with a conventional hydrodynamical or neutrino - driven sn explosion from a helium star more massive than @xmath0 , as well as an electron - capture sn from a helium star less massive than @xmath63 @xcite .",
    "@xcite have speculated that the electron - capture sn mechanism may be typical for close binaries and that it may be accompanied by much smaller kicks than hydrodynamical or neutrino - driven sn explosions .",
    "consequently , if pulsar  b is formed through an electron capture sn and if electron capture sne are accompanied by small kicks , the mass of pulsar  b s pre - sn helium star progenitor must be smaller than @xmath0 ( otherwise the kick is always larger than @xmath26 ) .",
    "since it is unlikely that future observations will lead to new constraints on the smallest possible pulsar  b progenitor mass , further insight to the formation mechanism of pulsar  b should be sought in core - collapse simulations of low - mass ( @xmath64 ) helium stars and population synthesis studies of psrj0737 - 3039-type binaries and their progenitors .",
    "we are grateful to laura blecha for sharing the code used to calculate the galactic motion of psrj0737 - 3039 backwards in time , and to richard o shaughnessy for useful discussions on multi - dimensional statistics .",
    "this work is partially supported by a nsf gravitational physics grant phy-0353111 , a david and lucile packard foundation fellowship in science and engineering grant , and nasa atp grant nag5 - 13236 to vk ; and a northwestern university summer research grant to jk .",
    "kb acknowledges the support of kbn grant 1p03d02228 .",
    "@xcite recently posted a comment on the astro - ph preprint server `` refuting '' the work presented in this paper .",
    "their argumentation , however , rests on severe misstatements of our analysis and neglects some of the major conclusions drawn in the previous sections .",
    "while we have already addressed their criticism at appropriate places throughout this paper , we here wish to summarize our counterarguments to eliminate any further misunderstandings :    \\(1 ) our results are not `` in spite of the observations '' as claimed by @xcite .",
    "they are based on all currently available observational constraints , most of which are in fact initial conditions in our calculation .",
    "\\(2 ) while we do conclude that most of our models yield kick velocities of 50180kms@xmath20 , we do not claim that the models favoring lower kick velocities are less likely .",
    "we conclude even less that the most likely pulsar b progenitor mass is large .",
    "it can , e.g. , be seen from table  [ pdfmax ] that if the transverse systemic velocity is assumed to be 30km / s and the minimum pulsar b progenitor mass is assumed to be 1.25@xmath58 , the most likely progenitor mass is 1.45@xmath58 regardless of any of the other prior assumptions .",
    "if , on the other hand , the transverse systemic velocity is assumed to be 10km / s while the minimum progenitor mass is kept at 1.25@xmath58 , the most likely progenitor mass can vary from 1.35@xmath58 to 2.65@xmath58 , depending on the assumed age range and radial velocity distribution .",
    "our main conclusion is thus that the prior assumptions play an important role in determining the most likely kick velocity and progenitor properties .",
    "\\(3 ) we do not assume that the system is moving with a very large velocity almost exactly towards .",
    "instead , we adopt theoretical radial - velocity distributions based on realistic binary evolution models for coalescing dnss that reside close to the galactic plane and have small transverse systemic velocity components , consistent with the current observational constraints on the kinematics of the double pulsar . because of the latter constraints , the distributions implictly incorporate the geometrical probability argument put forward in eq .",
    "( 2 ) of @xcite .",
    "we furthermore also consider four different distribution functions ( one flat distribution and three gaussians of varying width ) in order to assess the robustness of our results ( see , e.g. , table  [ pdfmax ] ) .",
    "\\(4 ) the differences between our conclusions and those of @xcite rest on the consideration of the full 5-d pdf instead of a marginalized 2-d one , not on the modeling of the motion of the system in galaxy .",
    "the reason for this is that the orbital parameters and the dynamics of asymmetric sn explosions turn out to be much more constraining than the system s position and motion in the galaxy ( contrary to what is claimed by @xcite ) .",
    "@xcite also completely miss that when we adopt similar assumptions as they do , and marginalize our 5-d pdfs for @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 to 2-d pdfs for @xmath18 and @xmath15 , we find results that are in excellent agreement with theirs , irrespective of the treatment of the unknown radial velocity .",
    "\\(5 ) the population synthesis calculations used to construct the theoretical radial - velocity distributions incorporate the possibility that mass transfer takes place right before the formation of pulsar  b. the models therefore allow the pre - sn masses of helium stars in dns progenitors to be as low as the @xmath39 pulsar  b progenitor mass favored by @xcite",
    ". the derived radial - velocity distributions are thus by no means biased towards high progenitor masses as claimed by @xcite .",
    "we want to conclude this discussion by stressing that the goal of our paper is not to refute the progenitor and kick constraints derived by @xcite . we do however want to make it clear that there are many additional factors that were not considered by these authors , and that these may affect the determination of the most likely progenitor and kick velocity properties .",
    "burgay , m. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 426 , 531 lyne , a.  g. , et al .",
    "2004 , science , 303 , 1153 podsiadlowski , p. , dewi , j.  d.  m. , lesaffre , p. , miller , j.  c. , newton , w.  g. , & stone , j.  r.  2005 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 361 , 1243 kramer , m. , et al .",
    "2005 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0503386 kalogera , v. , et al .",
    "2004 , letters , 601 , l179 kalogera , v. , et al .",
    "2004 , letters , 614 , l137 bhattacharya , d. , & van den heuvel , e.  p.  j.  1991 , physics reports , 203 , 1 brown , g.  e.  1995 , , 440 , 270 belczynski , k. , kalogera , v. , & bulik , t.  2002 , , 572 , 407 tauris , t.  m. , & van den heuvel , e.  2006 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0303456 belczyski , k. , & kalogera , v.  2001 , letters , 550 , l183 belczynski , k. , bulik , t. , & kalogera , v.  2002 , letters , 571 , l147 dewi , j.  d.  m. , & van den heuvel , e.  p.  j.  2004 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 349 , 169 willems , b. , & kalogera , v.  2004 , letters , 603 , l101 ( paper  i ) willems , b. , kalogera , v. , & henninger , m.  2004 , , 616 , 414 ( paper  ii ) ransom , s.  m. , kaspi , v.  m. , ramachandran , r. , demorest , p. , backer , d.  c. , pfahl , e.  d. , ghigo , f.  d. , & kaplan , d.  l.  2004 , letters , 609 , l71 coles , w.  a. , mclaughlin , m.  a. , rickett , b.  j. , lyne , a.  g. , & bhat , n.  d.  r. 2005 , , 623 , 392 manchester , r.  n. , et al .",
    "2005 , letters , 621 , l49 piran , t. , & shaviv , n.  j.  2005 , physical review letters , 94 , 051102 piran , t. , & shaviv , n.  j.  2005 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0510584 piran , t. , & shaviv , n.  j.  2006 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0603649 kalogera , v.  2000 , , 541 , 319 kramer , m. , lyne , a.  g. , hobbs , g. , l \" ohmer , o. , carr , p. , jordan , c. , & wolszczan , a.  2003 , letters , 593 , l31 lyutikov , m.  2004 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 353 , 1095 lorimer , d.  r. , et al .",
    "2004 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0404274 pfahl , e. , rappaport , s. , podsiadlowski , p. , & spruit , h.  2002 , , 574 , 364 chen , b. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 553 , 184 carlberg , r.  g. , & innanen , k.  a.  1987 , astronomical journal , 94 , 666 kuijken , k. , & gilmore , g.  1989 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 239 , 571 cordes , j.  m. , romani , r.  w. , & lundgren , s.  c.  1993 , , 362 , 133 chatterjee , s. , et al .",
    "2005 , letters , 630 , l61 belczynski , k. , kalogera , v. , rasio , f.  a. , taam , r.  e. , zezas , a. , bulik , t. , maccarone , t.  j. , & ivanova , n.  2005 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0511811 kalogera , v. , narayan , r. , spergel , d.  n. , & taylor , j.  h.  2001 , , 556 , 340 junker , w. , & schfer , g.  1992 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 254 , 146 hills , j.  g.  1983 , , 267 , 322 brandt , n. , & podsiadlowski , p.  1995",
    ", monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 274 , 461 kalogera , v.  1996 , , 471 , 352 fryer , c. , & kalogera , v.  1997 , , 489 , 244 kalogera , v. , & lorimer , d.  r.  2000 , , 530 , 890 willems , b. , henninger , m. , levin , t. , ivanova , n. , kalogera , v. , mcghee , k. , timmes , f.  x. , & fryer , c.  l.  2005 , , 625 , 324 habets , g.  m.  h.  j.  1986 , astronomy & astrophysics , 167 , 61 ivanova , n. , belczynski , k. , kalogera , v. , rasio , f.  a. , & taam , r.  e.  2003 , , 592 , 475 dewi , j.  d.  m. , pols , o.  r. , savonije , g.  j. , & van den heuvel , e.  p.  j.  2002 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 331 , 1027 dewi , j.  d.  m. , & pols , o.  r.  2003 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 344 , 629 paczynski , b.  1990 , , 348 , 485 hobbs , g. , lorimer , d.  r. , lyne , a.  g. , & kramer , m.  2005 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 360 , 974 zou , w.  z. , hobbs , g. , wang , n. , manchester , r.  n. , wu , x.  j. , & wang , h.  x.  2005 , monthly notices of the royal astronomical society , 362 , 1189 faucher - giguere , c.  -a .",
    ", & kaspi , v.  m.  2005 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0512585 lyutikov , m. , & thompson , c.  2005 , , 634 , 1223 nomoto , k.  1984 , , 277 , 791 nomoto , k.  1987 , , 322 , 206"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the formation of the double pulsar psrj0737 - 3039 and examine its most likely progenitors , taking into account the most recent and all currently available observational constraints . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the most likely kick velocity and progenitor parameters depend strongly on the consideration of the full five - dimensional probability distribution function for the magnitude and direction of the kick velocity imparted to pulsar  b at birth , the mass of pulsar  b s pre - supernova helium star progenitor , and the pre - supernova orbital separation rather than marginalized one- or two - dimensional distributions for the kick velocity and progenitor mass . </S>",
    "<S> the priors that enter the analysis are the age of the system , the minimum helium star mass required to form a neutron star , the transverse systemic velocity , and the treatment of the unknown radial velocity . since the latter can not be measured observationally , we adopt a statistical approach and use theoretical radial - velocity distributions obtained from population synthesis calculations for coalescing double neutron stars . </S>",
    "<S> we find that when the minimum pre - supernova helium star mass required for neutron star formation is assumed to be @xmath0 , the most likely kick velocity ranges from @xmath1 to @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> when , on the other hand , masses lower than @xmath0 are allowed as neutron star progenitors , the most likely kick velocity can reach very low values ( as low as a few @xmath3 ) , although the majority of the models still yield most likely kick velocities of @xmath4 to @xmath5 . hence , we agree with @xcite that the observed system properties , including the low transverse systemic velocity , _ can _ indeed be compatible with low progenitor masses and low kick velocities . </S>",
    "<S> equally important though , we show that this is not the only likely formation path of pulsar  b , due to the role of different prior assumptions that are necessary in the analysis . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , in contrast to earlier claims in the literature , we show that the proximity of the double pulsar to the galactic plane and the small proper motion do not pose stringent constraints on the kick velocity and progenitor mass of pulsar  b at all . instead , the constraints imposed by the current orbital semi - major axis and eccentricity and the orbital dynamics of asymmetric supernova explosions turn out to be much more restrictive . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that without further knowledge of the priors , the currently available observational constraints can not be used to unambiguously favor a specific core - collapse and neutron star formation mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> both electron capture and neutrino - driven supernovae therefore remain viable formation mechanisms for pulsar  b. </S>"
  ]
}