{
  "article_text": [
    "studying the mass distribution of massive clusters at high redshifts is important as their existence puts strong constraints on possible cosmological models ( e.g. eke et al .",
    "1996 ; bahcall & fan 1998 ; donahue et al . 1998 ) .",
    "furthermore , these systems may be young and thus much can be learned about the formation of massive clusters of galaxies .",
    "massive structures in the universe induce a systematic distortion of the images of faint background sources , providing a powerful diagnostic to study their mass distributions ( e.g. mellier 1999 ) .",
    "the weak lensing signal allows us to map the projected mass surface density of the lens ( e.g. kaiser & squires 1993 ) , and determine its mass .",
    "although the weak lensing mass estimate does not require assumptions about the dynamical state or geometry , it does require a good estimate for the redshift distribution of the faint sources .",
    "since tyson , wenk , & valdes ( 1990 ) succesfully measured the systematic distortion of faint galaxies by a foreground cluster , many massive clusters of galaxies have been studied ( e.g. bonnet , mellier , & fort 1994 ; fahlman et al .",
    "1994 ; squires et al .",
    "these studies concentrated on massive clusters with redshifts @xmath8 .",
    "smail et al .",
    "( 1994 ) tried to measure the weak lensing signal for the optically selected , high redshift cluster cl  1603 + 43 @xmath9 .",
    "its observed velocity dispersion is @xmath10 km / s ( postman , lubin , & oke 1998 ) .",
    "smail et al .",
    "( 1994 ) used source galaxies down to a limiting magnitude of @xmath11 , but failed to detect a signal .",
    "their results are consistent with a lower mass for the cluster .",
    "this is supported by the cluster s x - ray luminosity of @xmath12 ergs / s ( castander et al . 1994 ) , which is an order of magnitude lower than the x - ray luminosity of the brightest , high redshift , x - ray selected clusters    the x - ray emission of clusters of galaxies provides an efficient means to select massive clusters of galaxies . since the work of smail et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , several high redshift , x - ray luminous clusters have been discovered from einstein ( gioia & luppino 1994 ) and rosat observations ( henry et al .",
    "1997 ; ebeling et al . 1999 ; rosati et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "luppino & kaiser ( 1997 ; lk97 hereafter ) successfully detected the weak lensing signal from the x - ray selected , high redshift cluster ms  1054 - 03 using deep ground based imaging .",
    "clowe et al . (",
    "1998 ) reported on the detection of weak lensing signals for the x - ray selected , high redshift clusters ms  1137 + 66 and rxj1717 + 67 , from deep keck imaging .",
    "however , these studies suffered from the lack of knowledge of the redshift distribution of the faint sources .    lensing studies of high redshift clusters are difficult because the lensing signal is low and most of the signal comes from small , faint galaxies .",
    "this is the regime where hst observations have great advantage over ground based imaging , because the background galaxies are much better resolved . as a result ,",
    "higher number densities of sources can be reached , the images are not crowded , and more importantly the correction for the circularization by the psf is much smaller . especially for high redshift clusters , where the redshift of the lens approaches that of the sources , the lensing signal depends strongly on the redshift distribution of the sources .    in this paper",
    "we present our weak lensing analysis of the cluster ms  1054 - 03 using a mosaic of deep wfpc2 images .",
    "it is the second cluster we studied using a mosaic of deep hst observations . in hoekstra",
    "( 1998 , hfks98 hereafter ) we presented the analysis of cl  1358 + 62 , a rich cluster of galaxies at a redshift of @xmath13 .",
    "ms  1054 - 03 @xmath14 is the most distant cluster in the einstein extended medium sensitivity survey ( gioia et al .",
    "1990 ; gioia & luppino 1994 ) .",
    "it is extremely rich and has a restframe x - ray luminosity , @xmath15=0.3 and @xmath16 .",
    "this gives a scale of @xmath17 kpc at the distance of ms  1054 . ]",
    "@xmath18 ergs / s ( donahue et al . 1998 ) , which makes it one of the brightest x - ray clusters known . from their asca observations",
    "donahue et al ( 1998 ) find a high x - ray temperature of @xmath19 kev .",
    "our space based observations allow us to study the cluster mass distribution in much more detail than lk97 .",
    "photometric redshift distributions inferred from the hubble deep field north ( fernndez - soto , lanzetta , & yahil 1999 ) and south ( chen et al .",
    "1998 ) give a good approximation of the redshift distribution of the sources used in this weak lensing analysis .",
    "as a result it is possible to obtain well calibrated mass estimates for high redshift clusters of galaxies from multi - colour imaging , even if the availability of spectroscopic redshift data for the sources is limited .    the observations and data reduction are outlined in section  2 . in section  3",
    "we briefly discuss the method we use to analyse the galaxies . section  4 deals with the light distribution of the cluster . in section  5",
    "we present the measurements of the lensing induced distortions of the faint galaxies and the reconstruction of the projected mass surface density .",
    "section  6 deals with the redshift distribution of the faint galaxies .",
    "our mass determination is presented in section  7 . in this section",
    "we also discuss several effects that complicate accurate mass determinations .",
    "the results for the mass - to - light ratio are given in section  8 . in section  9",
    "we examine in more detail the substructure of the cluster .",
    "the lensing signal due to the cluster galaxies themselves is studied in section  10 .",
    "in this analysis we use wfpc2 images taken with the hubble space telescope ( go proposal 7372 , pi franx ) . figure  [ layout ] shows the layout of the mosaic constructed from the 6 pointings of the telescope .",
    "the integration time per pointing was 6400s in both the @xmath20 and @xmath21 filter .",
    "for the weak lensing analysis we omitted the data of the planetary camera because of the brighter isophotal limit . the total area covered by the observations is approximately 26 arcmin@xmath22 .    for each pointing the exposures of a given passband",
    "were split into two sets .",
    "the images in each set were offset from each other by integer pixels ( @xmath23 pixels ) .",
    "both sets were reduced and combined separately , resulting in two images ( for details see van dokkum et al .",
    "1999 ; van dokkum 1999 ) .",
    "these two images were designed to be offset by 5.5 pixels , to allow the construction of an interlaced image ( e.g. fruchter & hook 1998 ; van dokkum 1999 ) , which has a sampling that is a factor @xmath24 better than the original wfpc2 images .    except for the images in the first pointing in f814w , all offsets were within 0.1 pixel of the requested value .",
    "we found that we had to omit the shape measurements in the @xmath21 band for pointing  1 , because of the deviating offset for this exposure .",
    "however , we could use the @xmath20 image , and as the noise in the shear estimate is dominated by the intrinsic ellipticities of the galaxies , the loss in signal - to - noise is minimal .",
    "our analysis technique is based on that developed by kaiser , squires , & broadhurst ( 1995 ; ksb95 hereafter ) and lk97 , with a number of modifications which are described in hfks98 .",
    "the first step in the analysis is the detection of the galaxy images , for which we used the hierarchical peak finding algorithm from ksb95 .",
    "we selected objects with a significance @xmath25 larger than @xmath26 over the local sky .",
    "the detected objects were analysed , yielding estimates for the sizes , magnitudes and shapes of the objects .",
    "the detection and analysis were done per wfpc2 chip and filter . as a new feature",
    ", our software computes an estimate for the error on the polarization from the data .",
    "this error estimate is discussed in appendix  a.    the resulting catalogs were inspected visually in order to remove spurious detections , like diffraction spikes , hii regions in resolved galaxies , etc .",
    "4402 objects were detected in the @xmath20 images , whereas the @xmath21 images yielded 4290 stars and galaxies .",
    "the combined catalog consisted of 5848 stars and galaxies , of which 2844 were detected in both filters .    for all detected objects we estimated the apparent magnitude using an aperture with a diameter of @xmath27 pixels ( where @xmath28 is the gaussian scalelength of the object as given by the peak finding algorithm ) .",
    "we converted the measured counts to @xmath20 and @xmath21 magnitudes , zero - pointed to vega , using the zeropoints given in the hst data handbook ( stsci , baltimore ) .",
    "we added 0.05 magnitude to the zero - points to account for the charge transfer efficiency ( cte ) effect .",
    "figure  [ objects ] shows the apparent magnitude versus the half light radius of the object .",
    "moderately bright stars are easily identified as they are located in the vertical locus .",
    "bright stars saturate and hence their measured sizes increase . using figure",
    "[ objects ] we selected a sample of moderately bright stars , which were used to examine the psf .    to obtain a catalog of galaxies we removed the stars from the catalog . at faint levels",
    "the discrimination between stars and galaxies is not possible , but by extrapolating the number counts of moderately bright stars to faint magnitudes , we find that the stars contribute less than 2% to the total counts .    we attempted to determine colours for all detected objects ( including galaxies detected in only one filter ) , using the same aperture in both filters .",
    "the software failed to determine colours for some of the galaxies .",
    "most of these were extremely faint , and detected only in the @xmath21 band .",
    "for the weak lensing analysis we only used galaxies for which colours were determined . due to this selection",
    "we lost 30% of the galaxies fainter than @xmath29 ( 533 galaxies ) .",
    "the shape parameters of the galaxies were corrected for the psf ( cf .",
    "section  3.1 ) and the camera distortion we used the estimated errors on the shape measurements ( cf .",
    "appendix  a ) to combine the results from the @xmath20 and @xmath21 images in an optimal way , resulting in a final catalog of 4971 galaxies .",
    "the better sampling of the interlaced images improved the object detection and analysis significantly .",
    "hfks98 showed that due to the poor sampling of wfpc2 images only the shapes of galaxies with sizes @xmath30 could be measured reliably .",
    "the images used here allow us to use all detected galaxies .",
    "hfks98 found a number density of 79 galaxies arcmin@xmath31 from 3600s exposures in both @xmath20 and @xmath21 .",
    "the observations presented here yield a number density of 191 galaxies arcmin@xmath31 .",
    "this higher number density is due to both the longer integration time , and the improved sampling of the interlaced images .",
    "an analysis of the effect of small pointing errors in the interlaced images shows that these are not important for our analysis ( cf .",
    "appendix  b ) .",
    "figure  [ counts ] shows the observed number counts of galaxies in our observations versus apparent magnitude . for comparison",
    "we also show the counts from the hdf - north ( williams et al .",
    "this indicates that our catalog of galaxies is complete down to @xmath32 and @xmath33 .",
    "several observational effects systematically distort the images of the galaxies . to obtain an accurate and unbiased estimate of the weak lensing signal these effects have to be corrected for .",
    "to do so , we follow the scheme outlined in ksb95 , lk97 , and hfks98 .    hfks98 showed that the psf of wfpc2 is highly anisotropic at the edges of the chips .",
    "we selected a sample of moderately bright stars from the observations of ms  1054 .",
    "figure  [ psf814 ] shows the observed polarization of these stars in the f814w band .",
    "the anisotropy pattern is similar to the pattern presented in hfks98 .    because the psf changes slightly with time , we fitted the shape parameters of our new observations to a scaled model of the psf polarization measured from the globular cluster  m4 and added a first order polynomial : @xmath34 this procedure gave excellent fits to the observed psf anisotropy in our observations of ms  1054 .",
    "the psf also circularizes the images of the small , faint galaxies , thus lowering the amplitude of the lensing signal .",
    "compared to ground based observations , the small faint galaxies are much better resolved in hst observations , resulting in much smaller corrections for the circularization by the psf .",
    "this allows us to measure a well calibrated lensing signal .    to obtain estimates for the real shapes of the faint galaxies",
    ", we determined the pre - seeing shear polarizability @xmath35 ( lk97 ; hfks98 ) .",
    "the measurements of @xmath35 for individual galaxies are rather noisy , and therefore we binned the data as a function of size of the object .",
    "the results are presented in figure  [ corfac ] , which shows the required correction factor to obtain the true ellipticity of a galaxy from the observed polarization .",
    "the upper panel shows the cumulative number of objects as a function of object size .",
    "the objects for which the peak finder assigned a size smaller than the psf were analysed with a weight function matched to the psf .",
    "these objects end up in the bin corresponding to the smallest objects .",
    "the correction for objects with sizes comparable to the size of the psf is large .",
    "the psf in ground based images is much larger , and therefore large correction factors are required for objects that are still well resolved in hst images . from a @xmath36 deep ground",
    "based image we found that @xmath37 for galaxies of @xmath38 , whereas galaxies of similar brightness in our hst images have @xmath39 .    as a test of our procedure",
    "we compared the distortion measured from the @xmath20 images and the @xmath21 images ( which included the correction for the circularization ) using only objects for which shape parameters could be measured in both images .",
    "we compared the average tangential distortions and found that the results for the two filters agree well to one another ( we found @xmath40 from the @xmath20 data and @xmath41 for the @xmath21 images ) .",
    "recently it has been found that the charge transfer efficiency problem for wfpc2 has worsened .",
    "this can systematically change the shapes of the faint galaxies , as charge is smeared along the ccd columns .",
    "this could result in a detectable change in the shapes of the galaxy images .",
    "we compared the shapes of the objects in the regions where the pointings overlap ( cf .",
    "figure  [ layout ] ) .",
    "unfortunately the number of objects was low , and the contribution of shot noise to the shape estimates substantial . we did not detect a systematic change in the shapes , but we can not put strong constraints on the size of the effect .",
    "we also simulated the effect , assuming that the change in shape increased linearly with row number for each chip , with no change at low row numbers and a shear of 10% at high row numbers .",
    "we found that this resulted in a neglegible change in our mass estimate .",
    "figure  [ colmag ] shows a plot of the colour of the galaxies versus their @xmath21 magnitude .",
    "the cluster is visible as the concentration of galaxies with @xmath42 .",
    "the galaxies on this colour - magnitude relation are generally early type galaxies , which are among the reddest objects in the cluster .",
    "we selected 324 galaxies brighter than @xmath43 , lying close to the colour - magnitude relation , to study the cluster light distribution .",
    "this catalog was compared to the spectroscopic catalog ( van dokkum 1999 ) .",
    "the contamination by field galaxies is small , and we removed galaxies with redshifts incompatible to that of the cluster .",
    "many of these belong to a small group at @xmath44 ( van dokkum 1999 ) .",
    "we have use sextractor ( bertin & arnouts 1996 ) to determine total magnitudes for these galaxies .",
    "figure  [ lumdis ] shows grey scale plots of the luminosity and number density weighted light distributions .",
    "the images have been smoothed with a gaussian with a fwhm of 20 arcseconds . the galaxy number density and",
    "the luminosity weighted distributions look quite similar .",
    "the cluster light distribution is elongated east - west , and three clumps can be identified .",
    "figure  [ lumdis ] also shows gray scale images of the smoothed number density when we split the sample of all detected galaxies into a bright ( @xmath45 ) and a faint sample ( @xmath46 ) .",
    "the cluster is clearly visible in the bright sample , but does not show up in the number counts of the faint galaxies ( which have been corrected for the area covered by large bright galaxies ) . figure  [ lumdis]d shows several significant peaks , indicative of some clustering at high redshift .",
    "we estimate the luminosity in the redshifted @xmath47 band following van dokkum ( 1999 ) .",
    "the direct transformation from the hst filters to the passband corrected @xmath47 band is given by    @xmath48    where @xmath49 denotes the passband corrected @xmath47 band magnitude .",
    "the luminosity is given by    @xmath50    where @xmath51 is the solar absolute @xmath47 magnitude , @xmath52 is the distance modulus , and @xmath53 is the extinction correction in the @xmath21 filter towards ms  1054 - 03 .",
    "the redshift of @xmath54 for ms  1054 gives a distance modulus of @xmath55 .",
    "taking galactic extinctions from burstein & heiles ( 1982 ) we use a value of 0.03 for @xmath53 .    at faint magnitudes ,",
    "the colour - magnitude relation is less clearly defined . to estimate the total light of the cluster ,",
    "an estimate of the amount of light contributed by galaxies fainter than @xmath43 is required .",
    "to do so , we fitted a luminosity function to the sample of bright , colour selected cluster galaxies .",
    "we found that a schechter function with @xmath56 and @xmath57 @xmath58 could fit the observed counts of the sample of bright , colour selected cluster galaxies .",
    "for nearby clusters one typically finds @xmath59 ( eg .",
    "binggeli , sandage , & tammann 1988 ) , indicating that the galaxies in ms  1054 - 03 are approximately twice as bright as nearby cluster galaxies .",
    "this is in good agreement with the results of van dokkum et al .",
    "( 1998 ) who studied the fundamental plane in ms  1054 - 03 .",
    "the luminosity function indicates that we miss approximately 5% of the light when not including the faint galaxies .",
    "ms  1054 - 03 is a high redshift cluster and one might expect a relatively high fraction of blue cluster galaxies , which are too blue to be included in our colour selected sample of cluster galaxies .",
    "comparison of our sample to a sample of bright , spectroscopically confirmed members ( van dokkum 1999 ) indicates that we miss 16% of the total light in the @xmath47 band .    the cumulative light profile as a function of radius from the centre for the sample of bright galaxies is presented in figure  [ lumprof ] . the profile is multiplied by a factor @xmath60 to account for the light from the faint cluster galaxies and the bluest galaxies .",
    "the solid line corresponds to the observed profile , whereas the dashed line shows a isothermal profile for comparison .",
    "we estimate the total luminosity within an aperture of 1  @xmath2  mpc to be @xmath61 .",
    "due to the intrinsic ellipticities of the galaxies , their individual shape estimates are very noisy measurements of the lensing induced distortion .",
    "we therefore need to average the measurements of a large number of galaxies to obtain a useful estimate for the distortion @xmath62 .    to estimate the average distortion , we weight each object with the inverse square of the uncertainty in the distortion , which includes the contribution of the intrinsic ellipticies of the galaxies and the shot noise in the shape measurement ( cf .",
    "appendix  a ) :    @xmath63    selecting galaxies with @xmath64 and @xmath65 ( the source sample from table  [ table1 ] ) , and smoothing using a gaussian with a fwhm of 20 arcsec , we obtain the distortion field presented in figure  [ shearfield ] .",
    "the sticks indicate the direction of the distortion , and the length is proportional to the amplitude of the distortion .",
    "it shows that on average the faint galaxies tend to align tangentially to the ( elongated ) cluster mass distribution , as expected from gravitational lensing .",
    "the average tangential distortion @xmath66 in radial bins is a useful measure of the lensing signal .",
    "it is defined as @xmath67 , where @xmath68 is the azimuthal angle with respect to the assumed centre of the mass distribution .",
    "we assume that the position of the brightest cluster galaxy defines the centre of the cluster . at large radii from the cluster centre , where we do not have data on complete circles",
    ", we account for possbile azimuthal variation of @xmath66 by fitting    @xmath69    to the observed distortions .",
    "this procedure gives the correct value for an ellipsoidal mass distribution .",
    "although the cluster appears elongated , no large azimuthal variations in the tangential distortion were found .    the average tangential distortion as a function of radius is presented in figure  [ gtall]a . in the absence of lensing",
    ", the points should scatter around zero .",
    "the figure shows a systematic tangential alignment of the sources .",
    "the dependence of the signal on radius is quite complicated , indicative of a complex mass distribution .",
    "the results of the two - dimensional mass reconstruction  ( cf .",
    "section  5.1 ) show that the sharp decrease in the tangential distortion around 40  is due to substructure in the cluster mass distribution .    as a test , figure  [ gtall]b shows the results when the phase of the distortion is increased by @xmath70 ( i.e. rotating the sources by @xmath71 ) . in this case",
    "the signal should vanish if it is due gravitational lensing , as is observed .",
    "we divide our sample of galaxies in several subsamples , based on their apparent magnitude and colours .",
    "table  [ table1 ] lists some details of the subsamples .",
    "it shows that even our bright sample in fact consists of rather faint galaxies .    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "combining measurement of the mass with the estimate of the total light in the passband corrected @xmath47 band within an aperture of 1  @xmath2 mpc radius ( cf .",
    "section  4 ) yields @xmath72 .",
    "this result has to be corrected for luminosity evolution in order to compare it to values found for lower redshift clusters .",
    "studies of the fundamental plane of clusters of galaxies at various redshifts have quantified the luminosity evolution ( e.g. van dokkum & franx 1996 ; kelson et al .",
    "1997 ; van dokkum et al .",
    "1998 ) . the fundamental plane of ms  1054 was studied by van dokkum et al .",
    "they found that the mass - to - light ratio of early type galaxies in ms  1054 - 03 is @xmath73 lower than the present day value . under the assumption that the total luminosity of the cluster has changed by the same amount ,",
    "the corrected mass - to - light ratio of ms  1054 is @xmath74 .",
    "the resulting mass - to - light ratio depends on the cosmological parameters . in table",
    "[ tableml ] the observed mass - to - light ratios in the passband corrected @xmath47 band are listed ( column  ( 4 ) ) .",
    "column  ( 5 ) lists the mass - to - light ratio corrected for luminosity evolution as determined from the evolution of the fundamental plane for ms  1054 - 03 for the various cosmologies considered here ( van dokkum et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "hfks98 measured a mass - to - light ratio of @xmath75 for cl  1358 + 62 , which changes to @xmath76 after correction for luminosity evolution .",
    "carlberg , yee , & ellingson ( 1997 ) studied a sample of 16 rich clusters of galaxies , and they find a value of @xmath77 for the average mass - to - light ratio .",
    "using @xmath78 as found for nearby early type galaxies ( jrgensen , franx , & kjaergaard 1995 ) this transforms to @xmath79 in the @xmath47 band .",
    "this comparison indicates that the mass - to - light ratio of ms  1054 is similar to what is found from other studies , suggesting that the range in cluster mass - to - light ratios is rather small .",
    "lk97 argued that ms  1054 - 03 might be a relatively dark cluster , but our analysis does not confirm their results .",
    "we also studied the radial dependence of the mass - to - light ratio using equation  [ eqzetac ] and an estimate for the average surface density in the control annulus .",
    "this allows us to estimate the average mass - to - light ratio @xmath80 as a function of radius . to avoid confusion with the clumps in the mass distribution",
    ", we present the results for radii larger than 50 arcseconds in figure  [ moverlbar ] ( solid points ) .",
    "the open circles indicate the mass - to - light ratios measured for the three clumps in the mass distribution , using the results listed in table  [ tableclump ] .",
    "the results indicate that the light is more concentrated towards the centre of the cluster than the mass .",
    "the data enable us to study the observed substructure in the cluster mass distribution in detail . figure  [ masscen]a shows the mass reconstruction of the central 3.3 by 2.7 arcminute of the hst mosaic .",
    "the origin coincides with the assumed cluster centre .",
    "figure  [ masscen]b is the overlay of the reconstruction and the @xmath21 image . to allow a direct comparison of the mass reconstruction with the light distribution , we also present the overlay of the smoothed light distribution in figure  [ masscen]c .",
    "this shows that the projected mass distribution compares well with the light distribution .",
    "next we estimate the masses of the three clumps from the observed distortions ( see table  [ tableclump ] ) .",
    "we use two measures :    * a simultaneous fit of three isothermal spheres to the full distortion field ; * the @xmath81-statistic ( equation  [ eqzetac ] ) .",
    "a simultaneous fit of three sis models to the observed distortion shows that the masses of the three clumps are similar , with corresponding velocity dispersions of @xmath82 km / s .",
    "comparison with the estimate of the total cluster mass indicates that most of the mass is in the three clumps .",
    "for the @xmath81 statistic we need to estimate the average dimensionless surface density in a control annulus around each clump ( we use @xmath83 and @xmath84 as at these radii the effect of the substructure is expected to be small ) .",
    "to do so , we assume that the surface density profile at large radii is isothermal with a velocity dispersion of @xmath85 km / s as found above .",
    "the results are listed in table  [ tableclump ] .",
    "the results from the @xmath81-statistic correspond to the total projected mass in the aperture , which also includes mass from the other clumps .",
    "therefore we consider the results of the fitting procedure ( column  ( 1 ) ) as the best estimates for the mass .    however , to estimate the average mass - to - light ratio of the clumps within a radius of 250  @xmath2 kpc we do use the @xmath81 statistic , as both mass and light are measured in the same aperture .",
    "the mass - to - light ratios are around @xmath86 , somewhat lower than the average mass - to - light ratio within an 1  @xmath2  mpc radius aperture around the cluster centre .",
    "new x - ray telescopes like chandra or xmm will have the sensitivity to study the x - ray properties of high redshift clusters in detail .",
    "ms  1054 - 03 will be an interesting target as we know how the mass is distributed .",
    "thus high resolution measurements of the x - ray emission and temperature gradients can provide important information about the thermodynamics of cluster formation .",
    "the redshift catalog of van dokkum ( 1999 ) enables us to study the velocity structure of the cluster .",
    "the galaxies more that 100  west of the centre show a velocity difference of about 800 km / s with respect to the average velocity . however , their contribution to the total velocity dispersion is small .",
    "the three clumps are located closer to the centre , and can not be separated in velocity .",
    "therefore the radial motion of the clumps appears to be small compared to the velocity dispersion of the cluster .",
    "both outer clumps in the mass distribution are in projection 500@xmath2 kpc away from the central clump .",
    "if we assume that all motion is perpendicular to the line of sight , and using a relatively slow approach ( 500 km / s ) we estimate the timescale for relaxation to be on the order of 1 gyr . therefore the cluster should be relaxed at a redshift of @xmath87 .",
    "if the physical separations of the clumps are larger , the relaxation time increases correspondingly .",
    "to study the mass distribution of ms  1054 - 03 , we concentrated on the lensing signal on relatively large scales .",
    "however , the cluster galaxies themselves introduce a small signal as well . measuring",
    "this galaxy - galaxy lensing signal can be used to study the halo properties of field galaxies ( e.g. brainerd , blandford , & smail 1996 ; schneider & rix 1997 , hudson et al .",
    "1998 ) .    a robust method to examine the cluster galaxies is to measure the average tangential distortion around an ensemble of cluster members .",
    "the results are not very sensitive to the precise cluster mass distribution , provided one confines the analysis to small radii . due to the clustering of the lenses ,",
    "the signal at large radii is dominated by the smooth cluster signal . when measuring the signal out to large radii , a careful removal of the cluster signal is required .",
    "we subtracted the contribution of the smooth cluster mass distribution from the observed distortion using the two - dimensional mass reconstruction , and computed the shear @xmath88 taking the @xmath89 correction into account .",
    "we used a sample of galaxies brighter than @xmath90 @xmath91 , with colours close to the cluster colour - magnitude relation to study the masses of the cluster galaxies . to minimize the effect of the large scale cluster mass distribution",
    ", we excluded galaxies near the centres of the three clumps , resulting in a sample of 241 galaxies . in total",
    ", 4300 cluster galaxy - background galaxy pairs were used to measure the distortion .",
    "massive galaxies produce a larger distortion than less massive galaxies and therefore we normalized the amplitudes of the signals from the various galaxies correspondingly .",
    "to do so , we assumed that the shear @xmath92 , i.e. we assumed a faber - jackson scaling relation .",
    "the results are presented in figure  [ galgal ] .",
    "a fit of a singular isothermal model to the data , yielded a detection of the lensing signal at the 99.8% confidence limit .",
    "we found for the einstein radius of an @xmath5 galaxy ( @xmath93 for ms  1054 - 03 ) a value of @xmath94 arcseconds , which corresponds to a velocity dispersion of @xmath95 km / s .",
    "the mass - to - light ratio within a radius of @xmath96 kpc is @xmath97 . correcting this result for luminosity evolution yields @xmath98 .",
    "if we neglect the effect of the smooth cluster contribution , we find a slightly higher mass for the galaxies : @xmath99 km / s .",
    "this indicates that the mass estimate determined using the direct averaging method is indeed robust .",
    "natarayan & kneib ( 1998 ) studied the halo properties of the cluster galaxies in ac  114 .",
    "they used a maximum - likelihood analysis to constrain the mass and the extent of the galaxy halos .",
    "constraining the extent of the halos of the cluster galaxies in ms  1054 is a delicate task which has not been attempted here .",
    "it requires a careful analysis of the smooth cluster mass distribution in a maximum likelihood analysis .",
    "we have measured the weak gravitational lensing of faint , distant galaxies by ms  1054 - 03 , a rich cluster of galaxies at @xmath0 . the data consist of a two - colour mosaic of 6 interlaced images taken with the wfpc2 camera on the hubble space telescope .",
    "the expected lensing signal is low for high redshift clusters , and most of the signal comes from small , faint galaxies .",
    "compared to ground based observations , these galaxies are much better resolved in hst observations .",
    "high number densities of sources are reached , and the correction for the circularization by the psf is much smaller .",
    "this enables us to measure an accurate and well calibrated estimate of the lensing induced distortion of the faint background galaxies .",
    "several effects complicate an accurate analysis when the distortions or the surface density are non - neglegible ( e.g. in the cluster cores ) .",
    "we do not measure the shear , but the distortion @xmath62 . neglecting the effect of a non - zero surface density results in an overestimate of the lensing signal .",
    "furthermore , the method used ( ksb95 ; lk97 ) underestimates the distortion when it is larger than @xmath100 .",
    "although we correct for these effects , it is best to restrict the analysis to the weak lensing regime , where the convergence @xmath101 is low , and the distortions are small .",
    "converting the lensing signal into a mass estimate requires knowledge of the redshift distribution of the faint sources .",
    "we have explored the use of photometric redshift distributions inferred from the northern ( fernndez - soto et al .",
    "1999 ) and southern ( chen et al . 1998 ) hubble deep fields .",
    "comparison of the results for the two fields suggest field to field variations which lead to a 10% systematic uncertainty in the mass estimate for ms  1054 - 03 .",
    "our results for the mass and mass - to - light ratio of ms  1054 - 03 agree well with other estimators , suggesting that these photometric redshift distributions are a fair approximation of the true distribution .",
    "this gives us confidence that we are able to measure a well calibrated weak lensing mass for this high redshift cluster .",
    "using the @xmath81 statistic ( clowe et al .",
    "1998 ) , we find a mass @xmath102 within an aperture of 1  @xmath2 mpc radius . under the assumption of an isothermal mass distribution , this corresponds to a velocity dispersion of @xmath3 km / s .",
    "a fit of an isothermal sphere model to the observed tangential distortion at large radii , yields a velocity dispersion of @xmath103 km / s . however , this result depends on the assumed radial surface density profile .",
    "the uncertainties in the mass estimates only reflect the contribution from the intrinsic ellipticities of the sources .",
    "the weak lensing mass estimate is in good agreement with the x - ray estimate from donahue et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and the observed velocity dispersion ( tran et al . 1999 ; van dokkum 1999 ) .",
    "the observed average mass - to - light ratio in the passband corrected @xmath47 band is @xmath104 ( measured within a 1  @xmath2  mpc radius aperture ) .",
    "we use the results from van dokkum et al .",
    "( 1998 ) to correct our estimate for luminosity evolution .",
    "the resulting mass - to - light ratio of @xmath105 can be compared to results obtained for nearby clusters , and is in excellent agreement with the findings of carlberg et al .",
    "( 1997 ) .",
    "our high resolution mass reconstruction shows three distinct peaks in the mass distribution , which are in good agreement with the irregular light distribution .",
    "the results of lk97 lacked the resolution to detect this substructure . in projection",
    "the clumps are approximately 500 @xmath2 kpc apart , and we estimate the timescale for virialization to be at on the order of @xmath106 1 gyr .",
    "thus the cluster should be virialized at a redshift @xmath107 .",
    "we found that the clumps are of roughly equal mass , with corresponding velocity dispersions of @xmath108 km / s .    to study the masses of the cluster members , we have measured the average tangential shear around a sample of 241 bright cluster galaxies .",
    "assuming the faber - jackson scaling relation we find a velocity dispersion of @xmath7 km / s for an @xmath5 galaxy ( @xmath109 for ms  1054 - 03 ) .",
    "the mass - to - light ratio within a radius of @xmath96 kpc is @xmath97 . correcting this result for luminosity evolution yields @xmath98 .",
    "the number of known massive high redshift clusters of galaxies is increasing rapidly .",
    "the results presented here demonstrate that these systems can be studied with sufficient signal - to - noise to be of interest for studies of cluster formation",
    ". the improved sampling and throughput of the advanced camera for surveys , that will be installed on the hst in the near future , will be very useful for weak lensing analyses of high redshift clusters of galaxies , especially when the results are combined with forthcoming x - ray observations .",
    "the combination of detailed weak lensing analyses and x - ray observations by chandra and xmm will provide important information on the thermodynamics of cluster formation .",
    "the authors thank pieter van dokkum for making the data available in reduced form , which has been invaluable for this analysis .",
    "bahcall , n.a .",
    ", & fan , x. 1998 , apj , 504 , 1 bertin , e. , & arnouts , s. 1996 , a&as , 117 , 393 binggeli , b. , sandage , a. , & tammann , g.a .",
    "1988 , ara&a , 26 , 509 brainerd , t.g . ,",
    "blandford , r.d .",
    ", & smail , i. 1996 , apj , 466 , 623 broadhurst , t. j. , taylor , & a. n. , peacock , j.a .",
    "1995 , apj , 438 , 49 burstein , d. , & heiles , c. 1982 , aj , 87 , 1165 castander , f. , ellis , r. , frenk , c. , dressler , a. , & gunn , j. 1994 , apj , 424 , l79 carlberg , r.g . ,",
    "yee , h.c .",
    ", & ellingson 1997 , apj , 478 , 462 chen , h .- w .",
    ", fernndez - soto , a. , lanzetta , k.m . , pascarelle , s.m . ,",
    "puetter , r.c . ,",
    "yahata , n. , & yahil , a. , preprint , astro - ph/9812339 _ http://www.ess.sunysb.edu/astro/hdfs/home.html _ clowe , d. , luppino , g.a . ,",
    "kaiser , n. , henry , j.p . , &",
    "gioia , i.m .",
    "1998 , apj , 497 , l61 donahue , m. , voit , g.m . ,",
    "gioia , i. , luppino , g.a . ,",
    "hughes , j.p . , &",
    "stocke , j.t .",
    "1998 , apj , 502 , 550 ebeling , h. , jones , l.r . , perlman , r. , scharf , c. , horner , d. , wegner , g. , malkan , m. , & mullis , c.r . 1999 , submitted to apj eke , v.r .",
    ", cole , s. , & frenk , c.s .",
    "1996 , mnras , 282 , 263 gunn , j. , hoessel , j. , & oke , j.b .",
    "1986 , apj , 306 , 30 fahlman , g. , kaiser , n. , squires , g. , & woods , d. 1994 , apj , 431 , l71 fernndez - soto , a. , lanzetta , k.m . , &",
    "yahil , a. 1999 , apj , 513 , 34 fruchter , a.s . , & hook , r.n .",
    "1998 , preprint , astro - ph/9808087 gioia , i.m . ,",
    "maccacaro , t. , schild , r.e . , wolter , a. , stocke , j.t .",
    ", morris , s.l . , henry , j.p .",
    "1990 , apjs , 72 , 567 gioia , i.m . , & luppino , g.a .",
    "1994 , apjs , 94 , 583 gioia , i.m . ,",
    "henry , j.p . ,",
    "mullis , c.r . ,",
    "ebeling , h. , & wolter , a. 1998 , aj , accepted gorenstein , m.v .",
    ", shapiro , i.i .",
    ", & falco , e.e 1988 , apj , 327 , 693 holtzman , j.a . ,",
    "hester , j.j .",
    ", casertano , s. , trauger , j.t . , watson ,",
    "a.m. , et al .",
    "1995 , pasp , 107,156 henry , j.p .",
    ", gioia , i.m .",
    ", mullis , c.r . , clowe , d.i . ,",
    "luppino , g.a . ,",
    "boehringer , h. , briel , u.g . , voges , w. , & huchra , j.p .",
    "1997 , aj , 114,1293 hoekstra , h. , franx , m. , kuijken , k. , & squires , g. 1998 , apj , 504 , 636 ( hfks98 ) jrgensen , i. , franx , m. , & kjaergaard , p. 1995 , mnras , 273 , 1097 .",
    "kaiser , n. , & squires , g. 1993 , apj , 404 , 441 kaiser , n. , squires , g. , & broadhurst , t. 1995 , apj , 449 , 460 kelson , d.d . , van dokkum , p.g .",
    ", franx , m. , illingworth , g.d .",
    ", & fabricant , d. 1997 , apj , 478 , l13 kuijken , k. 1999 , a&a , in press ( astro - ph/9904418 ) luppino , g.a . , kaiser , n. 1997 , apj , 475 , 20 ( lk97 ) mellier , y. 1999 , preprint , astro - ph/9812172 neumann , d. , arnoud , m. , joy , m. , & patel , s.k . 1999 ,",
    "in preparation postman , m. , lubin , l.m .",
    ", & oke , j.b . 1998 , aj , 116 , 560 rhodes , j. , refregier , a. , & groth , e. 1999 , preprint , astro - ph/9905090 rosati , p. , della ceca , r. , norman , c. , & giacconi , r. 1998 , apj , 492 , l21 schneider , p. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "1997 , apj , 474 , l25 seitz , c. , & schneider , p. 1997 , a&a , 318 , 687 smail , i. , ellis , r. , fitchett , m. , & edge , a. 1994 , mnras , 270 , 245 squires , g. & kaiser , n. 1996 , apj , 473 , 65 tyson , j.a . ,",
    "wenk , r.a . , &",
    "valdes , f. 1990 , apj , 349 , l1 tran , k .- v .",
    "h. , kelson , d.d . , van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. , illingworth , g.d . , & magee , d. 1999 , preprint , astro - ph/9902349 van dokkum , p.g . 1999 , phd thesis , groningen university van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "& franx , m. 1996 , mnras , 281 , 985 van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. , kelson , d.d . , & illingworth , g. 1998 apj , apj , 504 , l17 van dokkum , p.g . ,",
    "franx , m. , fabricant , d. , kelson , d.d . , & illingworth , g. d 1998 , apj , preprint , astro - ph/9906152 williams , r.e . ,",
    "1996 , aj , 112 , 1335 willick , j.a .",
    "1999 , preprint , astro - ph/9904367",
    "the weak lensing signal is obtained by averaging the shape measurements of a number of faint galaxies .",
    "the noise in the shape estimate differs from object to object , and therefore it is important to weight the measurements properly .    for bright galaxies the error on the shear measurement",
    "is dominated by the intrinsic ellipticity distribution of the galaxies . at fainter magnitudes , shot - noise increases the uncertainty in the measurements .",
    "as these galaxies require large seeing corrections , the measurement error on the distortion can be quite high .",
    "this is illustrated in figure  [ scatter ] .",
    "figure  [ scatter]a shows the observed scatter in the polarization as a function of apparent magnitude in the @xmath21 band .",
    "as fainter objects suffer more from the circularization by the psf one would expect the scatter to decrease towards fainter magnitudes .",
    "however , the increasing contribution by shot noise ( indicated by the solid line ) cancels out the effect of the circularization .",
    "figure  [ scatter]b shows the observed scatter in the ellipticities ( shear ) of the objects .",
    "the scatter at faint magnitudes increases rapidly due to the combination of shot noise and large psf corrections .",
    "the solid line indicates the expected scatter due to the combination of shot noise and psf correction .",
    "we estimate the weighted mean of the distortion using :    @xmath110    where the weight @xmath111 is the inverse of the variance of the distortion : @xmath112 where @xmath113 is the scatter due to the intrinsic ellipticity of the galaxies , @xmath114 is the pre - seeing shear polarizability and @xmath115 is the error estimate for the polarization , which is derived below .",
    "this procedure , however , gives only the optimal estimate for the average ellipticity , but does not account for the fact that the nearby bright galaxies are lensed less efficiently than faint high redshift galaxies . to get the best lensing estimate it is therefore also necessary to weight with @xmath116 as well",
    "this is demonstrated in figure  [ weight]a , where we show the weight function as a function of apparent magnitude ( solid line ) .",
    "the dashed line shows the weight function hen we include the strength of the lensing signal .",
    "this effectively decreases the weight of bright ( nearby ) galaxies and increases the relative weight of the faint ( distant ) galaxies .",
    "it is also interesting to see which magnitude range contributes most to the measurement of the distortion . in figure",
    "[ weight]b we plot the weight function for each magnitude bin times the number of galaxies in that bin .",
    "this gives the total contribution of each bin to the measurement of the distortion .",
    "although the bright galaxies have the highest weight function ( cf .",
    "figure  [ weight]a ) , they are not so numerous to contribute significantly to the lensing signal . at the faint end",
    "both incompleteness and increasing noise causes the contribution to decrease rapidly .",
    "figure  [ weight]b also shows that including the strength of the lensing signal @xmath117 changes the profile only slightly .",
    "it shows that galaxies with @xmath21 magnitudes between 24 and 26.5 contribute most to the lensing signal .",
    "here we derive an expression to estimate the error on the polarization measurement , using the observations .",
    "the observed quadrupole moments are given by : @xmath118    which are combined to form the two - component polarization .",
    "@xmath119    due to noise , the true image @xmath120 is changed to the observed image @xmath121 :    @xmath122    where we take @xmath123 . the first term in equation a5",
    "gives the true image , the second term is the noise in the background , and the third contribution comes from the shot noise due to the image .",
    "we therefore observe quadrupole moments given by :    @xmath124    as @xmath125 , this shows that @xmath126 .",
    "thus noise does not introduce a bias in the average measurement of the quadrupole moments .",
    "however , it does introduce a neglegible bias in the polarization .",
    "we now can estimate the variance in the observed    quadrupole moments using equation  a6 and noting that @xmath127 , @xmath128 , and @xmath129 , where @xmath130 is the dirac delta function .",
    "this yields :    @xmath131    we now want to estimate the errors on the measurements of the polarizations @xmath132 and @xmath133 and express them in terms of the errors on the quadrupole moments .",
    "this finally gives :    @xmath134\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    and    @xmath135.\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    from simulations and real images we find that the errors on both @xmath132 and @xmath133 are similar .",
    "this estimate for the error on the polarization can be calculated from the observations and allows us to properly weight the signals of the galaxies using equation  a2 .",
    "the images of small , faint galaxies in wfpc2 observations are poorly sampled .",
    "hfks98 showed that as a result the smallest objects can not be corrected reliably for the psf effects .",
    "however , several techniques can be used to improve the sampling of wfpc2 observations by dithering the exposures ( fruchter & hook 1998 ) .",
    "when the shifts are half pixel in both @xmath136 and @xmath137 ( modulo integer pixel shifts ) one can construct an interlaced image ( fruchter & hook 1998 ) which has a @xmath24 better sampling .",
    "interlaced images were constructed from the observations of ms  1054 - 03 .",
    "doing so , we assumed that the offsets were exactly half pixel . due to pointing errors and the camera distortion the real offsets are slightly different .    in this section",
    "we examine the effect of imperfect offsets on the shape measurements .",
    "to do so , we examine the change in the shape of a model psf .",
    "although interlacing is not a convolution , it affects large objects ( as these are well sampled even before interlacing ) less than small objects . by examining the effects on the psf , we study a worst case scenario",
    ". the effects should be less for most of the galaxies used in the weak lensing analysis .",
    "we use a ten times oversampled model psf calculated using tiny tim . this psf is shifted and rebinned to wfpc2 sampling and convolved with the pixel scattering function , in order to realistically mimic the wfpc2 psf .",
    "we start with a reference image in which the star is centered exactly on a pixel .",
    "this image is shifted @xmath138 and an interlaced image is created assuming the shift was exactly ( 0.5 , 0.5 ) pixels .",
    "the resulting image is analysed and the measured ellipticities are compared to the correct value .",
    "the change in ellipticity as a function of the applied offset is presented in figure  [ interlace ] ( left panel ) .",
    "when the reference star is placed at the intersection of four pixels the results are different , as is indicated in figure  [ interlace ] ( right panel ) .",
    "these two extreme cases should cover the full range of possible configurations .    in figure  [ interlace ]",
    "we also plot the observed offsets for our data .",
    "the open circles represent the offsets of the @xmath21 images , and the solid triangles show the offsets for the @xmath20 images .",
    "only one @xmath21 pointing has such a deviating offset that the shape measurements can not be used for our weak lensing analysis . in all other images",
    "the offsets are such that no significant bias is introduced by the interlacing .",
    "even if the offset is perfect in the centre of the image , telescope distortions will result in imperfect offsets at the edges .",
    "we simulated the amplitude of the effect using the coefficients for the telescope distortions from holtzman et al .",
    "( 1995 ) .",
    "figure  [ interlace2 ] shows the introduced ellipticity for our worst offset ( 5.71 , 5.89 ) .",
    "the bias in the observed ellipticities is clear in this case .",
    "these data ( the @xmath21 image of the first pointing ) were not used in the weak lensing analysis .",
    "the second worse offset ( 5.53 , 5.60 ) is also shown in this figure .",
    "the ellipticity introduced in this case is small . only at the edges of the chips the camera distortion introduces a small effect .",
    "as the effect is even smaller for galaxies , we feel certain that we can use the interlaced images for our weak lensing analysis ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have measured the weak gravitational lensing of faint , distant background galaxies by ms  1054 - 03 , a rich and x - ray luminous cluster of galaxies at a redshift of @xmath0 , using a two - colour mosaic of deep wfpc2 images . </S>",
    "<S> the small corrections for the size of the psf and the high number density of background galaxies obtained in these observations result in an accurate and well calibrated measurement of the lensing induced distortion .    </S>",
    "<S> the strength of the lensing signal depends on the redshift distribution of the background galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we used photometric redshift distributions from the northern and southern hubble deep fields to relate the lensing signal to the mass . </S>",
    "<S> the predicted variations of the signal as a function of apparent source magnitude and colour agrees well with the observed lensing signal . </S>",
    "<S> the uncertainty in the redshift distribution results in a 10% systematic uncertainty in the mass measurement .    </S>",
    "<S> we determine a mass of @xmath1 within an aperture of radius 1  @xmath2  mpc . under the assumption of an isothermal mass distribution , </S>",
    "<S> the corresponding velocity dispersion is @xmath3 . for the mass - to - light ratio </S>",
    "<S> we find @xmath4 after correcting for pass - band and luminosity evolution . </S>",
    "<S> the errors in the mass and mass - to - light ratio include the contribution from the random intrinsic ellipticities of the source galaxies , but not the ( systematic ) error due to the uncertainty in the redshift distribution . however , the estimates for the mass and mass - to - light ratio of ms  1054 - 03 agree well with other estimators , suggesting that the mass calibration works well .    </S>",
    "<S> the reconstruction of the projected mass surface density shows a complex mass distribution , consistent with the light distribution . </S>",
    "<S> the results indicate that ms  1054 - 03 is a young system . </S>",
    "<S> the timescale for relaxation is estimated to be at least 1  gyr .    </S>",
    "<S> we have also studied the masses of the cluster galaxies , by averaging the tangential shear around the cluster galaxies . using the faber - jackson scaling relation </S>",
    "<S> , we find the velocity dispersion of an @xmath5 galaxy ( @xmath6 for ms  </S>",
    "<S> 1054 - 03 ) is @xmath7 km / s . </S>"
  ]
}