{
  "article_text": [
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     a standard tool for testing and measuring correlations between two time series is the cross correlation function ( ccf ) , which gives the degree of correlation between the two series as one series is shifted backwards and forwards in time relative to the other .",
    "unfortunately , when the data are not exactly evenly sampled one can not apply the standard , ` textbook ' formulae for estimating the ccf ( box & jenkins 1976 ; priestley 1981 ; brockwell & davis 1996 ) .",
    "there are two reasons why the present data are not evenly sampled : the om images are rather evenly spaced in time but there are a few gaps , and observations spanning more than one  revolution will be split by the orbital gap",
    ". suggested solutions to the problem of uneven sampling include interpolating the data onto an even grid , or calculating the correlation using pairs of data points that have a lag falling within a finite range ( i.e. @xmath1 falls in the interval @xmath2 ) .",
    "specific algorithms that have been used in agn monitoring include the interpolated cross correlation function ( iccf ; gaskell & peterson 1987 ) , the discrete correlation function ( dcf ; edelson & krolik 1988 ) and the z - transformed discrete correlation function ( zdcf ; alexander 1997 ) .",
    "all three of these were used in the present analysis and the results were found to be consistent .",
    "a second problem that plagues ccf estimation from agn data is that the data are often non - stationary , meaning that the mean and/or variance of a short light curve will change over time , due to variations on time - scales longer than the length of the observation .",
    "following the advice of welsh ( 1999 ) two precautions were used to mitigate the side - effects of non - stationarity .",
    "firstly a linear function was fitted to the data ( using ordinary least - squares ) and removed to suppress any long time - scale variation , and secondly the mean and variance were calculated ` locally ' , using only the data contributing to a particular lag . following another suggestion in welsh ( 1999 ) the correlation coefficient was computed using both the raw data and the ranked data ( each data point being correlated was replaced with its rank )",
    ". in principal using the ranked data should improve sensitivity to non - linear correlations and make the statistic more robust to outliers , compared to using the raw data . in practice the two",
    "were found to be in close agreement .",
    "confidence limits on the ccf were computed using _",
    "bartlett s formula _ ( bartlett 1955 ) as an approximate but simple test of the significance of any correlations .",
    "in particular , standard deviation of the distribution of ccf points around an expected value of zero was computed using equation 11.1.9 of box & jenkins ( 1976 ) .",
    "this assumes that in reality the two series are not correlated , and can be used to test against this hypothesis . under the assumption of no cross - correlation ( i.e. the null hypothesis that the expectation value of the ccf is zero ) bartlett s formula",
    "may be written as :    @xmath3    where the two @xmath4 functions are the empirical auto - correlation functions and the summation is carried out over _ all _ measured lags . here",
    "@xmath5 is the number of pairs of data points contribution at the lag @xmath6 .",
    "the 95 per cent confidence region was calculated as @xmath7 .",
    "the confidence region for the correlation coefficient at a given lag scales with @xmath8 .",
    "the bounds are smallest at small time delays , where the two time series overlap the most , and increase towards the edges of the ccf .",
    "the ccfs were examined over a range of lags spanning , in either direction , half the observation duration . at longer lags the number of pairs that contribute to the ccf calculation rapidly decreases , leading to highly uncertain ccf estimates .",
    "it should be noted however that bartlett s formula is strictly only valid when the number of data points @xmath9 is large and the data are stationary . as the x - ray",
    "/ optical data do not satisfy either condition well , the confidence limits should be considered as rough estimates of the size of the true confidence region .",
    "bartlett s formula is discussed in most standard references for time series analysis including : jenkins & watts ( 1968 ; sect 8.2.1 ) , box & jenkins ( 1976 ; sect 11.1.3 ) , priestley ( 1981 ; sect 9.5 ) , bendat & piersol ( 1986 ; sect 8.4 ) , kendall & ord ( 1990 ; sect 11.3 ) , or brockwell & davis ( 1996 ; sect 7.3.4 ) .",
    "previous papers discussing inter - band correlations in agn variability have made use of monte carlo simulations to test the significance of any possible correlations . in principle",
    "the monte carlo approach should be robust but in practice it does rely on the power spectra of the two light curves being well understood in order to produce realistic simulations . technically the ccf is not a ` pivotal ' statistic , meaning it is sensitive to ` uninteresting ' parameters such as the power spectral shape , and so simulations must be made as carefully as possible .",
    "for the present analysis it was not possible to obtain reliable power spectra from the limited om data , and so bartlett s formula ( which uses the empirical auto - correlation function ) was used as a guide of significance .",
    "it is also worth noting the results of monte carlo tests are sensitive to which of the pair of light curves are randomised  whether the x - ray , or optical , or both dataset are randomised can substantially affect the apparent significance , and as yet there is no accepted preference .",
    "this choice is not required for bartlett s formula to be used .",
    "figure  [ fig : ccfs ] shows the ccf plots for the objects studied which displayed optical and x - ray variability .",
    "a positive lag in the plots implies the x - ray variations lead those in the optical and vice versa for a negative lag .",
    "the 95 and 99 per cent confidence limits are indicated by dotted and dot - dashed lines respectively . in the case of ngc 4051 ( rev .",
    "263 ) and ngc 3783 the @xmath10 per cent confidence region is sufficiently broad that these data do not impose useful constraints on the possibility of a correlation . the error bounds , as computed using the bartlett formula , were large in these cases because the empirical acfs for both optical and x - ray time series were very broad . particularly in the case of ngc 3783",
    "the x - ray power spectrum over the time - scales studied here is rather steep , leading to smooth light curves and a broad acf , and hence a large error in the bartlett formula .",
    "this accounts for the fact that realisations of processes with steeper power spectra ( or equivalently , broader acfs ) are more ` weakly non - stationary ' .",
    "however , in the cases of ngc 4051 ( rev .",
    "541 ) , ngc 7469 and mcg@xmath116 - 30 - 15 the ccf is sufficently well constrained to exclude a strong correlation , i.e. @xmath10 per cent confidence limit of @xmath12 , over a plausible range of @xmath13 .    some previous studies ( e.g. nandra et al .",
    "2000 ) have detected a correlation between the optical light curve and x - ray photon index but no correlation between optical and x - ray light curves . in light of this",
    "we also cross correlated the optical light curves of the objects studied here with the @xmath14   hardness ratio ( which should track the photon index ) but found the cross correlation functions to be very similar to the ones between x - ray and optical flux .",
    "using data from the om and x - ray telescopes aboard we have examined a sample of eight objects to look for evidence of reprocessing between wavebands . optical variability on short time - scales",
    "was detected at @xmath15 per cent confidence in four out of eight objects and rms variability amplitudes in all cases show that the x - ray variability is stronger , in both fractional terms and absolute luminosity units , than the optical variability . in three out of the four objects showing detectable optical variability ,",
    "the cross correlation function is sufficiently well constrained to exclude a strong x - ray / optical correlation and hence reprocessing on time - scales of @xmath16 day is not a dominant mechanism .",
    "the observation of ngc 4051 in revolution 0263 was also investigated by mason et al .",
    "( 2002 ) for inter - band correlations .",
    "they supplemented the data with x - ray observations from and their ccf analysis covers positive lags up to two days . over the region that their ccf plot overlaps with ours ( @xmath17 days ) the results are consistent .",
    "we observe a peak in the ccf around @xmath18 days with a value of @xmath19 similar to their peak of @xmath20 .",
    "using simulations of uncorrelated red - noise light curves they place a confidence of @xmath21 per cent in the correlation .",
    "our peak lies between @xmath22 and @xmath10 per cent confidence levels , certainly not significant at @xmath15 per cent .",
    "however , as mentioned in section  [ sect : results ] , the confidence regions in this case are not well enough constrained to comment on the correlation .    the om observation of mcg@xmath116 - 30 - 15 was previously analysed by arvalo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , who reported a positive correlation with dcf@xmath23 at @xmath24 ks ( around @xmath25 days ) with the uv leading the x - ray data .",
    "using monte carlo simulations they estimated a confidence limit of @xmath26 per cent ( i.e. a @xmath27-value of @xmath28 ) .",
    "by contrast our analysis found a much lower ccf peak ( @xmath29 ) which was not considered a significant detection of correlation .",
    "there are several differences between the analysis of arvalo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) and that of the present paper . in terms of the light curve extraction , arvalo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) performed photometry on attitude corrected images by fitting an empirical psf model to the source image , while simultaneously modelling the host galaxy emission .",
    "the present analysis used aperture photometry on ( detector space ) images based on the sas processing pipeline tasks , including corrections for coincidence loss , deadtime and the counts / frame dependence of the psf model , none of which were included by arvalo et al .",
    "these differences in extraction technique explain the apparent difference between the two reductions of the same data .",
    "arvalo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) also used coarser binning of the light curves , but applying the same binning to our light curves did not substantially decrease the discrepancy .",
    "as shown in section  [ sect : mc ] the aperture photometry method employed in this paper is robust to host galaxy presence and to pointing changes but , unlike the analysis of arvalo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , our method includes all the known time - dependent flux corrections that should be applied to om data .",
    "therefore , in principle at least , this reduction should be the more reliable .    in practice",
    "most of the difference between the correlation strengths is due to the more conservative approach employed in the present analysis for calculating the ccf .",
    "arvalo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) presented the dcf after normalising by the noise - subtracted variances ( i.e. the variances used in the denominator of the correlation coefficient formula had the mean square error subtracted ) .",
    "the present analysis used iccf , dcf and zdcf methods without the noise - subtraction term , employing linear and rank - order correlation coefficients , the latter should be more robust to outliers . including the noise - subtraction term increased the ccf value by @xmath30 at the claimed lag , but this only affects the absolute value of the ccf and not its significance ( since the effect should be calibrated out during the significance test ) .",
    "a second difference is that , in the present analysis the time series were ` detrended ' before calculating the ccf by subtracting off a linear function . as recommended by welsh ( 1999 ) this helps remove any bias caused by very long time - scale variations manifested as quasi - linear trends over the data that can lead to spuriously high correlation coefficients .",
    "applying the detrending reduced the ccf by @xmath30 at the claimed lag .",
    "if the correlation at @xmath31-d was robust it should not be affected by removal of longer time - scale ( @xmath32-d ) variations .",
    "several other sources discussed here have also been studied previously : ark 564 , ngc 4051 and ngc 7469 .",
    "ark 564 was observed by papadakis et al .",
    "( 2000 ) over a period of @xmath33 days at the skinakas observatory in optical and simultaneously in x - rays with .",
    "papadakis et al .",
    "( 2000 ) probed slightly longer time - scales than we do but , in line with the trend reported here , they find no significant correlations between the two bands .",
    "shemmer et al .",
    "( 2001 ) examined ark 564 over a longer period ( @xmath34 days ) in uv with and x - ray with and .",
    "they found evidence of uv emission following x - ray by @xmath35 days .",
    "shemmer et al .",
    "( 2003 ) studied ngc 4051 and found evidence for a correlation between x - ray and optical bands with a lag of less than one day .",
    "their campaign covered a period of three months with approximately daily observations and so probed a longer time - scale than we examine here .",
    "ngc 4051 was also investigated by peterson et al .",
    "( 2000 ) . on short time - scales they found no evidence for correlations .",
    "having smoothed the data in @xmath36 day bins however a correlation consistent with zero lag is detected .    a @xmath36 day observation of ngc 7469 by nandra et al .",
    "( 1998 ) found that at least two variability mechanisms are required to describe their result .",
    "cross correlation of uv and x - ray light curves gave evidence for a lag of around four days .",
    "this lag explained the differing times of maxima in the two light curves but failed to describe how the minima in the light curves occurred simulataneously .",
    "as none of the studies described above probe the same short time - scales examined here it is difficult to make a comparison between them and the results described in this paper .",
    "an overall picture seems to be emerging of no correlation between x - ray and optical emission over sub - day periods but significant correlations only appearing on much longer time - scales .      in line with other work",
    "we find that x - ray rms variability exceeds that in the optical in all cases .",
    "however , in the objects with well constrained ccf ( mcg@xmath116 - 30 - 15 , ngc 4051 ( rev .",
    "0541 ) and ngc 7469 ) , the absence of a strong correlation implies the majority of the variance in the optical band on short time - scales is uncorrelated with the short time - scale x - ray variations .",
    "papadakis et al .",
    "( 2000 ) suggest that this behaviour could be explained if only a small section of the accretion disc is visible to the x - rays or if the x - ray emission is anisotropic .",
    "two of the observations showing optical variability , ngc 3783 and ngc 4051 ( rev .",
    "0263 ) have poorly constrained ccf confidence regions and so a firm conclusion on these objects can not be drawn .    in terms of the overall picture emerging from variability studies",
    "this solidifies earlier findings ( edelson et al .",
    "2000 ; uttley et al .",
    "2003 ) that , on short time - scales , x - ray and optical variations in seyfert 1 galaxies are uncorrelated",
    ". many papers ( see section  [ sect : past ] ) find some evidence for correlations on longer time - scales .",
    "it seems that rapid x - ray and optical variations in seyfert 1 galaxies occur through separate mechanisms but long - term variations are somehow connected .",
    "intensive observations with are not suitable for probing longer time - scale variations . however , one promising alternative is the . carries co - aligned x - ray ( xrt ; burrows et al .",
    "2005 ) and uv / optical ( uvot ; roming et al .",
    "2005 ) telescopes covering essentially the same bandpass as , but is in a low - earth orbit making it better suited to regular ` snapshot ' monitoring of sources over weeks - months .",
    "the combination of and is therefore capable of probing x - ray / optical correlations with unprecedented detail on all time - scales from hours to weeks .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for useful comments and suggestions .",
    "rjs and sv acknowledge pparc for financial support . this paper is based on observations obtained with , an esa science mission with instruments and contributions directly funded by esa member states and the usa ( nasa ) .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "alexander t. , 1997 , in maoz d. , sternberg a. , leibowitz e. m. , eds , assl vol .",
    "218 , astronomical time series , p163 arvalo p. , papadakis i. , kuhlbrodt b. , brinkmann w. , 2005 , a&a , 430 , 435 bartlett m. s. , 1955 , an introduction to stochastic processes ( cup : cambridge ) bendat j. s. , piersol a. g. , 1986 , random data : analysis and measurement procedures , ( wiley : new york ) botte v. , ciroi s. , di mille f. , rafanelli p. , romano a. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 789 box g. e. p. , jenkins g. m. , 1976 , time series analysis : forecasting and control , 2nd ed .",
    "( holden - day : san francisco ) brockwell p. j. , davis r. a. , 1996 , introduction to time series and forecasting ( springer : new york ) burrows d. n. , et al .",
    ", 2005 , space science review , 120 , 165 edelson r. a. , krolik j. h. , 1988 , apj , 333 , 646 edelson r. a. , et al . , 2000 ,",
    "apj , 534 , 180 gaskell m. c. , peterson b. m. , 1987 , apjs , 65 , 1 jenkins g. m. , watts d. g. , 1968 , spectral analysis and its applications ( holden - day : san francisco ) kendall m. , ord j. k. , 1990 , time series , 3rd ed .",
    "( edward arnold : london ) mason k. o. , et al .",
    ", 2001 , a&a , 365 , l36 mason k. o. , et al . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 580 , l117",
    "m@xmath37hardy i. m. , gunn k. f. , uttley p. , goad m. r. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 1469 nandra k. , clavel j. , edelson r. a. , george i. m. , malkan m. a. , mushotzky r. f. , peterson b. m. , turner t. j. , 1998 , apj , 505 , 594 nandra k. , le t. , george i. m. , edelson r. a. , mushotzky r. f. , peterson b. m. , turner t. j. , 2000 , apj , 544 , 734 papadakis i. e. , brinkmann w. , negoro h. , detsis e. , papamastorakis i. , gliozzi m. , 2000 , preprint ( astro - ph/0012317 ) peterson b. m. , 1997 , an introduction to active galactic nuclei .",
    "cambridge university press ( cambridge ) peterson b. m. , et al . , 2000 , apj , 542 , 161 peterson b. m. , et al . , 2004 , apj , 613 , 682 priestley m. b. , 1981 , spectral analysis and time series , academic press ( london ) roming p. , et al . , 2005 , space science review , 120 , 95 shemmer o. , et al . , 2001 , apj , 561 , 162 shemmer o. , uttley p. , netzer h. , mchardy i. m. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 1341 uttley p. , edelson r. a. , mchardy i. m. , peterson b. m. , markowitz a. , 2003 , apj , 584 , l53 uttley p. , 2005",
    ", in gaskell c. m. , mchardy i. m. , peterson b. m. , sergeev s. g. , eds , asp conf .",
    ", agn variability from x - ray to radio , in press ( astro - ph/0501157 ) welsh w. f. , 1999 , pasp , 111 , 1347 zhou x .-",
    "l . , wang j .- m . , 2005 , apj , 618 , l83"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have examined simultaneous x - ray and optical light curves of a sample of eight nearby seyfert 1 galaxies observed using the epic x - ray cameras and optical monitor on board . </S>",
    "<S> the observations span @xmath0 day and revealed optical variability in four of the eight objects studied . in all cases , </S>",
    "<S> the x - ray variability amplitude exceeded that of the optical both in fractional and absolute luminosity terms . </S>",
    "<S> no clearly significant correlations were detected between wavebands using cross correlation analysis . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that , in three of the four objects in which optical variability was detected , reprocessing mechanisms between wavebands do not dominate either the optical or x - ray variability on the time - scales probed .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  galaxies : seyfert : general  x - ray : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}