{
  "article_text": [
    "superclusters of galaxies represent the largest relatively isolated density enhancements in the universe with a characteristic size up to @xmath2   ( oort 1983 , einasto 1994 , hereafter eetda ) .",
    "superclusters evolve from density perturbations near the maximum of the power spectrum ( frisch 1995 ) .",
    "thus the study of superclusters , their shapes , dimensions , spatial distribution and orientations gives us information about the formation and evolution of the universe on the largest scales .    in the present series of papers we investigate the properties and the distribution of superclusters traced by rich clusters of galaxies . in the first paper of the series ( einasto 1997b , paper i ) we constructed a new catalogue of superclusters up to a redshift of @xmath3 ; this catalogue contains 220 superclusters with at least two member clusters . in paper",
    "i we also investigated the large - scale distribution of superclusters , and showed that superclusters and voids form a rather regular network with a characteristic scale of about @xmath4 . in the following papers we determined the correlation function of clusters of galaxies ( einasto 1997c , d , papers ii and iii ) , and the power spectrum of clusters of galaxies ( einasto 1997a )",
    ".    in the present paper we concentrate on the properties of superclusters themselves",
    ": their form , dimension and orientation .",
    "so far the shapes and orientations of superclusters have been studied only in a few papers .",
    "west ( 1989 ) analysed 11 superclusters with at least 5 members , plionis ( 1992 ) investigated the shapes of a small number of superclusters , and zucca ( 1993 , zzsv ) studied line - of - sight orientations of superclusters , as well as velocity dispersions of clusters in superclusters , but not the supercluster shapes .",
    "superclusters can be approximated by triaxial ellipsoids , and we shall determine both the length and the orientation of major and minor semi - axes of these ellipsoids . in papers ii and iii of this series we describe how the correlation length of our cluster samples depend on the richness of superclusters they belong to . in this paper",
    "we analyse the sizes of superclusters of different richness .",
    "we also study the large - scale orientations of superclusters .",
    "we shall check for the presence of a preferred orientation of superclusters with respect to the line of sight .",
    "such an orientation could indicate the presence of contaminations in the catalogue of clusters , or the influence of cluster peculiar velocities and cluster movements from void interiors toward void walls .",
    "we also look for other effects like e.g. possible correlations in the supercluster orientation connected with well  known features of the large  scale structure , such as the shapley supercluster , the bootes void , or the dominant supercluster plane described in paper i.    so far several different kinds of preferred orientations of galaxies and systems of galaxies have been found  the alignment of major axes of brightest galaxies in clusters and superclusters with the major axis of galaxy systems and the alignment of major axes of clusters in superclusters to be parallel with the main ridge of superclusters ( jeveer and einasto 1978 , einasto 1980 , gregory 1981 , binggeli 1982 , djorgovski 1983 , flin and godlowski 1986 , west 1989 ) .",
    "we check for the presence of pairwise correlation for superclusters in order to see whether such alignments extend over larger scales than detected earlier .",
    "the paper is organised as follows . in section 2",
    "we describe the catalogue of superclusters used in this study . in section 3",
    "we describe the method to find the shapes of superclusters , in section 4 we study the properties of the superclusters ( shape and size ) , and in section 5 we discuss the orientation of superclusters .",
    "the paper concludes with a summary of principal results .",
    "we denote with @xmath5 the hubble constant in units of 100 km s@xmath6 mpc@xmath6 .",
    "we shall use the catalogue of superclusters determined in paper i which is based on the compilation of all available redshift determinations of rich clusters of galaxies , catalogued by abell ( 1958 ) , and abell , corwin and olowin ( 1989 ) .",
    "the cluster dataset has been described by andernach , tago and stengler - larrea ( 1995 ) and andernach and tago ( 1998 ) . to construct the supercluster catalogue we used 1304 clusters of all richness",
    "classes up to a redshift of @xmath7 . of these clusters",
    "about 2/3 have measured redshifts , while for the rest photometric distances have been estimated on the basis of the 10th brightest member of the cluster .",
    "the catalogue of superclusters in paper i contains all systems with at least 2 member clusters , in total 220 superclusters . for details of the whole catalogue we refer to paper i. for the present study we use only superclusters with at least 5 members , and with a minimum of three members having spectroscopically measured redshifts , in total 42 superclusters . in table a1 we give basic data for the superclusters analysed below : the identification number and multiplicity ( as given in paper i ) , and data on the shape and orientation .",
    "in paper i we showed that rich superclusters are located in chains and walls , the most prominent of these being the dominant supercluster plane .",
    "this plane is almost parallel to the supergalactic yz plane and lies in a narrow supergalactic x interval , @xmath8  . in section 5",
    "we study the orientations of superclusters with respect to this plane .",
    "here we describe the method we applied to determine the shape and the size of rich superclusters , and its stability .",
    "superclusters are not regular systems with well - defined boundaries but aggregates of quite sparsely distributed clusters with some central concentration",
    ". therefore we have to find a mathematical method to determine a geometrical figure or body that approximates the distribution of clusters in superclusters .",
    "one of such bodies , a rectangular brick , aligned in the direction of supergalactic coordinates , was used in   to estimate the size of superclusters .",
    "however , this approach does not give us any information about the orientation of superclusters .",
    "for our purpose the 3-dimensional ellipsoid is more suitable .",
    "there are several methods to determine such ellipsoids , two of them have been used earlier to study the symmetry of clustering .",
    "jaaniste ( 1982 ) used the ellipsoid of concentration to study the distribution of the companions of our galaxy ; west ( 1989 ) used the inertia ellipsoid to study the morphology of superclusters .    in the present study we use the classical ellipsoid of concentration",
    "( see e.g. korn and korn 1961 ) , centred on the geometrical centre of the supercluster : @xmath9 where @xmath10 is the covariance matrix for the non - weighted distribution ; @xmath11 are the cartesian coordinates of the geometrical centre of the supercluster , and @xmath12 is the multiplicity of the supercluster .",
    "the formula determines a 3-dimensional ellipsoidal surface with the distance from the centre of the ellipsoid equal to the rms deviation of supercluster members in the corresponding direction .",
    "more correctly a mathematician defines the ellipsoid of concentration so that `` a uniform distribution function within it has the same covariance matrix as the given distribution '' .",
    "one of these ellipsoids , calculated for the shapley supercluster , is shown as an example in figure  1 .",
    "the ellipsoid , given by the standard formula of a quadric surface , allows us to find the principal axes of the superclusters , their spatial orientation , the spatial extent and volume for all superclusters with @xmath13 .",
    "for smaller groups the method can not be applied due to the small number of independent coordinates .    in table",
    "a1 we present the main parameters of the ellipsoid of concentration of each supercluster studied : the reference number , @xmath14 , from table a1 of paper i ; the number of member clusters , @xmath12 ; the length of the three principal semi - axes : @xmath15 , @xmath16 and @xmath17 ; the ellipticity , @xmath18 , defined as the ratio of the volume of the ellipsoid to the volume of the sphere with radius equal to the major semi - axis , @xmath19 to @xmath20 ) ; the angles of the ellipsoids minor and major axes ( @xmath21 , and @xmath22 ) with respect to the supergalactic @xmath23-axis , and to the line of sight ( @xmath24,@xmath25 ) .",
    "= 8.cm",
    "it is clear that parameters of the ellipsoid depend on the number and location of clusters in the supercluster . to study this dependence",
    "we exclude members of a supercluster one by one and recalculate the parameters of the ellipsoid once again at each step . in this manner",
    "we reduce the multiplicity down to a minimum @xmath12 of four . for smaller @xmath12",
    "the ellipsoid can not be determined .",
    "we studied four real and two artifical superclusters of 12 to 150 members in this way ( scl 160 , 114 , 9 and 124 from the catalogue , as well as two random distributions of given symmetry with @xmath26 and 150 ) ; several different realizations were done for each random exclusion .",
    "the results are presented for an example of the shapley supercluster in figure 2 .",
    "the left panels of figure  2 show the variation of the parameters of the ellipsoid of concentration during the process of _ randomly _ excluding supercluster members .",
    "we see that the ellipsoid parameters are surprisingly stable : a reduction of the number of members down to @xmath27% changes the main parameters by no more than @xmath28% and the ellipsoid axes do not drift by more than @xmath29 .    in the right panels of fig .  2 the member clusters are excluded in the order of their distance from the supercluster centre , starting with the outermost one . in this case",
    "we see a rapid contraction of the ellipsoid accompanied by strong variations of its shape .",
    "however , the directions of principal axes is quite stable until the number of members is reduced down to about 8 . the covariance matrix , and consequently",
    ", parameters of the ellipsoid of consentration , depend strongly on the most distant member clusters .",
    "a similar exercise of removing the innermost members shows that in this case the main parameters of the ellipsoid remain nearly unchanged .",
    "these calculations show that the main parameters of the ellipsoid of concentration depend primarily on the location of the distant members of superclusters .",
    "the method discussed above can be used for superclusters with @xmath30 members . for superclusters with @xmath31 members",
    "we must take into account the fact that random deviations of supercluster parameters due to poor determination of membership may be quite large .",
    "we analysed also the possible influence of observational errors on the parameters of the ellipsoid of concentration .",
    "redshift errors are typically less than @xmath32 km / s , and have little influence on the ellipsoid",
    ". errors due to the velocity dispersion of galaxies in clusters are larger , the median value is about @xmath33  km / s ( mazure 1996 , and andernach & tago 1998 ) .",
    "these errors may be important only for clusters whose mean velocity is based on one or a few galaxy redshifts . in those cases where the redshift is determined from the brightest members of clusters that lie in the dynamical centre of a cluster , these errors are much smaller .",
    "a possible source of errors are the peculiar velocities of clusters ( watkins 1997 ) and bulk motion of clusters with respect to the hubble flow .",
    "if the bulk motion exists , then we can assume that clusters in the same supercluster have similar velocities , and that this error does not influence our results .",
    "to analyse the influence of peculiar velocities we shifted supercluster members randomly in velocity space up to @xmath34  km / s , and recalculated the supercluster parameters from the revised membership of individual clusters .",
    "we found that these factors are noticeable only when they cause a removal of distant members from superclusters ; in this case the changes are similar to those described above .",
    "we compared our method with those used by west ( 1989 ) and zzsv to derive the shapes of superclusters .",
    "these methods are also based on the covariance matrix , and describe the geometrical properties of superclusters in the same way .",
    "the main difference is the normalisation used by west : to avoid the possible bias by the outer members he divided local coordinates of clusters by the distance from the centre of the supercluster . in this way he projected all members of the supercluster to the sphere of unit radius surrounding the geometrical centre of the supercluster .",
    "we were afraid that using this method all information about the spatial dimensions of the supercluster would be lost .",
    "nevertheless , our calculation of supercluster shape parameters according to west s ( 1989 ) method showed that the orientation of superclusters ( i.e. the direction of the major axes ) were in most cases * exactly the same * as those according to our method ; we found only three superclusters ( of 42 ) where two of the main axes changed their order .",
    "differences in shape between the two methods are somewhat greater but not crucial : the ellipticities @xmath35 differ by only a factor of 1.5 on average ( superclusters are more elliptical according to our method ) .",
    "we conclude that the advantage of our method compared to west s method is the estimation of spatial dimensions of superclusters .",
    "in this section we analyse geometrical properties of superclusters  their size and shape . for this purpose",
    "we use the length of the semi - major axis , @xmath17 , the intermediate semi - axis , @xmath16 , the semi - minor axis , @xmath15 , and the ratios of axes , @xmath36 and @xmath37 and the ellipticity , @xmath18 .",
    "= 6.cm    mean sizes of semiaxes for superclusters with multiplicity @xmath38 and @xmath39 are given in table  1 . in figure",
    "3 we show the semi - minor axis of the superclusters as a function of their richness .    the median length of the semi - minor axes @xmath15 is 10 , close to the value found by .",
    "the semi - minor axis of the `` thinnest '' superclusters ( i.e. those with smallest value of @xmath15 or with the highest ellipticity ) is only 0.4 , of the order of the radius of a normal abell cluster .",
    "this supercluster , scl 126 , consists of a single elongated cluster filament ; we shall discuss this supercluster in more detail in section 5 .",
    "the median value of the intermediate semiaxis @xmath16 is 20 .",
    ".median semiaxes ( a and c ) of superclusters and the correlation lengths ( @xmath40 ) for clusters in superclusters ( from paper ii ) [ cols= \" > , < , < , < , < , < ,",
    "< , < \" , ]     table 1 shows that the supercluster sizes depend strongly on their richness .",
    "a similar tendency was found for the correlation length , @xmath40 ( papers ii and iii ; the correlation length from paper ii is also given in the table ) . in superclusters of small and medium richness",
    "the correlation length is approximately equal to the geometric mean of the median values of the major and minor semiaxes while in very rich superclusters it is near to the median value of the semi - major axis .",
    "thus we see that the correlation length characterises the size of superclusters in a slightly different manner than the size of semiaxes .",
    "the location of superclusters in the @xmath37 vs @xmath36 plane is shown in figure  4 .",
    "we see that there are no superclusters with spherical shape .",
    "one of the roundest superclusters have axial ratios a : b : c = 1:0.5:0.5 ( the supercluster in microscopium with ten members , scl 174 ) ; the maximum density of points in figure  4 corresponds to regions of axes ratios between 1:0.5:0.2 and 1:0.6:0.4 .",
    "the median ellipticity is 0.125 ; 40% of superclusters have @xmath41 , 75% less than 0.2 , and there are no superclusters with @xmath42 .    based on data for 11",
    "superclusters west ( 1989 ) found that superclusters are flattened with typical axial ratios of 1:0.3:0.3 to 1:1:0.3 which agrees with our results rather well .",
    "thus our results show that the superclusters are quite flattened objects : the shape of superclusters can be described as `` prolate '' or `` rods '' , and `` oblate '' or `` cakes '' .",
    "elongated `` oblate '' superclusters are more common than flattened `` prolate '' ones .",
    "the strong elongation of superclusters allows us to find the spatial orientation of superclusters , and to study the correlation of the orientation with respect to some preferred direction , like the location of the observer , adjacent rich superclusters or voids , etc .",
    "as pointed out above , we have no spherical superclusters in our sample .",
    "consequently , the orientation of superclusters can be determined by the directions of the major and minor axes .",
    "we shall calculate the distribution of the angles of supercluster axes with respect to directions mentioned above , and compare this with a uniform ( or random ) distribution .",
    "first we shall test for the presence of a possible observational bias that could reflect artefacts in the cluster catalogue , for instance the presence of projection effects in the cluster catalogue , or the influence of cluster peculiar velocities in superclusters .",
    "distances of clusters are determined from their redshifts .",
    "thus , if clusters in superclusters have a large dispersion of velocities with respect to the supercluster centres , then , using our method , superclusters will be elongated along the line of sight . such a `` finger of god '' effect is observed in clusters of galaxies .",
    "clusters are virialised objects and have large internal velocity dispersion of galaxies . due to the large sizes of superclusters",
    "we do not expect the latter effect to be strong .    in figure  5",
    "we present the line - of - sight orientation of all superclusters with @xmath43 .",
    "we see that both major and minor axes have a nearly isotropic distribution .",
    "the only deviation from the uniform distribution is a small excess at small values of cosines ( histogram above the diagonal ) corresponding to the major axis lying nearly perpendicular to the line of sight ( @xmath44 , i.e. @xmath45 ) .",
    "surprisingly , among these `` nearly perpendicular '' superclusters there are three of the four most flattened systems ( scl 18 , 126 and 202 )  a fact , suggesting a possible influence of large  scale motions on the morphology of superclusters in redshift space .",
    "we discuss this phenomenon in section 6 . in any case",
    "no preferred line - of - sight orientations are present in our sample .",
    "the same was found also by west ( 1989 ) and by zucca ( 1993 ) .",
    "= 10.cm",
    "it is well known from observations and numerical simulations that the matter flows away from voids towards centres of large mass concentrations ( kaiser 1987 , gramann 1993 ) .",
    "superclusters are the largest known mass concentrations in the universe , thus one may assume that they are oriented with respect to adjacent voids ( centres of divergence ) , or nearby superclusters ( centres of convergence ) . for this purpose",
    "we checked the orientation of superclusters relative to the three richest superclusters in our catalogue with @xmath46 .",
    "these very rich superclusters are the shapley supercluster , the sculptor supercluster , and the horologium supercluster . to investigate the orientation of superclusters relative to voids we used the catalogue of voids by eetda .    the results of this analysis showed no significant deviation from isotropy",
    "the only deviation from the isotropic distribution is a weak tendency of perpendicularity of major axes to the direction toward the centre of the bootes void .",
    "the absence of preferable orientations with respect to voids is somewhat surprising .",
    "superclusters surround voids , thus at least superclusters at the edge of voids should be perpendicular to the direction of the void centres . however , a supercluster oriented perpendicular with respect to one void may be parallel to another one causing together the absence of preferred orientations",
    ". our negative result may also be due to the small number of superclusters : there are 42 superclusters and 26 voids in our catalogue .",
    "global orientations have been searched for in two ways : studying the distribution of direction cosines in cartesian space , and searching the possible centre of convergence of the supercluster axes .",
    "we select the supergalactic @xmath47axis as the main direction because it is perpendicular to the dominant supercluster plane ( dsp , see paper i ) .",
    "however , we found no preferential orientation , except for a very weak tendency of minor axes to be parallel to the @xmath47axis ( perpendicular to the dsp ) .",
    "we tried to find a possible `` centre of convergence '' , independent of the visible structures in our sample .",
    "such a centre could indicate the presence of a very large mass concentration outside our sample boundaries .",
    "we searched for such a centre in the following way : first we calculated the direction cosines of principal axes for all supercluster ellipsoids ; then we derived the meeting - points ( points at which the distance between the two lines is the shortest ) of major axes for all possible pairs of superclusters .",
    "thus we obtained 861 meeting - points for 42 superclusters and tried to find the common meeting - point as a concentration of them using cluster analysis .",
    "we found this point to lie close to the coordinate center , i.e. at the location of the observer ; so the distribution of line - of - sight angles from this `` new '' viewpoint is almost the same as in figure  5 .",
    "we conclude that no such point of convergence exists ; the directions of axes of the superclusters are distributed isotropically , and the clustering of meeting  points only reflects the central symmetry of our sample .",
    "as we showed in paper i , superclusters form a rather regular network with characteristic distance of about @xmath4  .",
    "this distance corresponds to the distance between superclusters at opposite void walls ; about 75% of very rich superclusters have a neighbouring supercluster at this distance ( typically , the second nearest neighbour ) .",
    "as we mentioned in the introduction , several different kinds of preferred orientations of galaxies and systems of galaxies have been found , among them the alignment of major axes of clusters in superclusters with the main ridge of superclusters .",
    "therefore we checked whether such alignments extend over scales that characterize the supercluster - void network .",
    "to this aim we computed the orientations of superclusters with respect to their nearest three neighbours .",
    "= 18.cm    to test the method of finding supercluster orientations , as well as for comparison with orientations of real superclusters , we additionally generated a set of superclusters located on a regular 3-dimensional lattice oriented in the direction of the coordinate axes .",
    "in these sets the number of superclusters was equal to the number of observed superclusters , 42 .",
    "the multiplicity matched the observed one , and the shapes of superclusters were elongated .",
    "the major axes of superclusters were aligned along the rods of the lattice ( in the direction of three coordinate axes ) ; the exact location of superclusters along the rods was random ( we only avoided overlapping of superclusters located in the same direction on the same rod ) .",
    "therefore , for about 2/3 of superclusters the nearest neighbours are perpendicular to each other , and for the rest of them the nearest neighbours are parallel",
    ". then we calculated orientations between real supercluster pairs , as well as between model superclusters ( figure  6 ) .    as is seen in figure  6 , the relative orientations between model superclusters elongated along rods of a regular lattice show strong perpendicular and parallel orientations .",
    "thus our method is able to detect preferable orientations . as shows the kolmogorov - smirnov test",
    ", the possibility that model superclusters could have random orientations can be rejected at 99% confidence level .",
    "figure  6 shows also that the orientations between real supercluster pairs in the supercluster - void network are nearly random .",
    "the same is confirmed by the kolmogorov - smirnov test .",
    "summarising , we do not find any correlation or regularity in the spatial orientation of superclusters .",
    "the orientation of superclusters seems to be isotropic on all scales up to the sample volume .",
    "the fact that we have found no sign of peculiar motions of clusters within rich superclusters is not surprising since expected velocities must be of the order of the observationally known bulk motions of galaxies , 600  km / s ( branchini and plionis 1996 ) . an object having a peculiar velocity of 600  km / s , will travel about 6  in a hubble time relative to the general hubble flow .",
    "dimensions of superclusters exceed these distances many times .",
    "numerical experiments also indicate that superclusters have the form and shape which is close to the form and shape during their formation ( frisch 1995 ) .",
    "the isotropy of supercluster orientation with respect to the line of sight confirms that superclusters are still in the stage of formation .",
    "the lack of a line - of - sight elongation excludes the idea of gravitationally bound relaxed superclusters , where internal motions would lead to radially elongated `` fingers of god '' .",
    "the lack of spherical superclusters is in harmony with the view that superclusters are not dynamically bound systems but parts of the supercluster - void network which as a whole is expanding with the hubble flow .",
    "numerical experiments show that in high - density regions clusters and groups of galaxies are concentrated to long chains .",
    "this phenomenon was detected empirically many years ago ( jeveer and einasto 1978 , jeveer 1978 ) .",
    "a weak tendency of major axes to be perpendicular to the line of sight is in agreement with theoretical predictions .",
    "supercluster members are moving towards the centre of the supercluster , and line - of - sight dimensions of superclusters are decreased in redshift space ( kaiser 1987 , gramann 1993 ) .    in this connection",
    "we note that three very flat superclusters , mentioned in section 3 , are very elongated systems of 5 or 6 members .",
    "these are scl 18 , a relatively nearby supercluster in phoenix ( @xmath48   ) , and superclusters 126 and 202 , both at a distance of about 240   .",
    "the list of members of these superclusters is given in paper i. the dimensions of these superclusters in the plane of the sky exceed their line - of - sight dimension between 10 times ( for scl  18 ) and 30 times ( for scl  126 ) .",
    "we note that all distances of their member clusters are determined spectroscopically with great accuracy .",
    "we suppose that the perpendicularity of these superclusters to the line of sight is enhanced and we see the effect of the matter inflow towards the centers of the superclusters .",
    "the possibility of such an effect has been discussed , for example , in praton ( 1997 ) , where they show that the redshift effects may selectively enhance the appearance of the superclusters lying perpendicular to the line of sight .",
    "this shape reflects also the formation history of superclusters in the sense that clusters may be located along filaments and sheets ( colberg 1997 ) .",
    "a detailed dynamical study of these regions appears worth - while : as the nearest of them is at a distance of 82  , the concentration of non - cluster galaxies to this plane should be visible .",
    "we have studied geometrical properties of superclusters approximating their shape with an ellipsoid of concentration .",
    "our main results can be summarised as follows .",
    "\\ii ) we found no significant orientation of superclusters , neither towards the observer , nor the large voids , nor towards any other large - scale feature .",
    "superclusters are oriented isotropically in space .",
    "there are no strong contaminations in the cluster catalogue that could cause preferable orientations of superclusters along the line of sight .",
    "we thank the referee , dr .",
    "g. zamorani , for many useful comments which helped improve the paper .",
    "this work was supported by the estonian science foundation ( grant 182 ) , by the international science foundation ( grant llf100 ) , and by the max - planck - gesellschaft .",
    "jj would like to thank the division of astronomy and physics of estonian academy of sciences for financial support ;",
    "je was supported in potsdam by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ; ha benefitted from financial support by conacyt ( mexico ; ctedra patrimonial , ref 950093 ) .",
    "abell , g. , 1958 , 3 , 211 abell , g. , corwin , h. , olowin , r. , 1989 , 70 , 1 ( aco ) andernach , h. , tago , e. , stengler - larrea , e. , 1995 , astroph .",
    "lett & comm .",
    "31 , 27 andernach , h. , tago , e. , 1998 , proc .",
    "`` large scale structure : tracks and traces '' , eds .",
    "v.  mller , s.gottlber , j.p.mcket , & j.wambsganss , world scientific , singapore , in press ; astro - ph/9710265 binggeli , b. , 1982 , aa 107 , 338 branchini , e. , plionis , m. , 1996 , 461 , l17 .",
    "colberg , j.m . ,",
    "white , s.d.m .",
    ", jenkins , a. , pearce , f.r . , 1997 , , in press ;",
    "astro - ph/9711040 djorgovski , s , 1983 , 274 , l7 .",
    "einasto , j. , einasto , m. , frisch , p. , gottlber , s. , mller , v. , saar , v. , starobinsky , a.a . ,",
    "tago , e. , tucker , d. , andernach , h. , 1997c , 289 , 801 , ( paper ii )                  gramann , m. , cen , r. , & bahcall , n. , 1993 , 419 , 440 gregory , s.a . , thompson , l.a . , & tifft , w. , 1981 , 243 , 411 jaaniste , j. , 1982 , tartu astrophys .",
    "publ . , 49 , 170 jeveer , m. , einasto , j. , 1978 , in the large scale structure of the universe , iau symp .",
    "longair , j. einasto , reidel , 409      kaiser , n. , 1987 , mnras 227 , 1 lauer , t.r . , &",
    "postman , m. , 1994 , 425 , 418 . , korn ,  g.  a. & korn ,  t.  m. , 1961 .",
    "_ mathematical handbook for scientists and engineers _ , mcgraw  hill book co.,inc .",
    "mazure , a. , katgert , p. , den hartog , r. , biviano , a. , dubath , p. , escalera , e. , focardi , p. , gerbal , d. , giuricin , g. , jones , b. , le fevre , o. , moles , m. , perea , j. , rhee , g. , 1996 , a&a , 310 , 31 oort , j. , 1983 , ara&a , 21 , 373 plionis , m. , valdarnini , r. , jing , yi - p . , 1992 , 398 , 12 praton , e.a . ,",
    "melott , a.l . ,",
    "mckee , m.q .",
    ", 1997 , 479 , l15 watkins , r. , 1997 .",
    ", in press;astro - ph/9710170 west , m. , 1989 , , 347 , 610 zucca , e. , zamorani , g. , scaramella , r. , vettolani , g. , 1993 , 407 , 470 ( zzsv )      columns are as follows : 1 ) reference number from table a1 in paper i @xmath14 ; 2 ) number of clusters @xmath12 ; 3 - 5 ) length of the three principal semiaxes of ellipsoid of concentration , @xmath15 , @xmath16 and @xmath17 ; 6 ) the ratio of the volume of the ellipsoid to the volume of a sphere of the same diameter @xmath50 ; 7 , 8) angles of axes with the supergalactic @xmath23-axis @xmath21 , @xmath22 ; 9 , 10 ) angles of the minor and the major axis with the line - of - sight direction @xmath24 , @xmath25 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a study of the shape , size , and spatial orientation of superclusters of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> approximating superclusters by triaxial ellipsoids we show that superclusters are flattened , triaxial objects . </S>",
    "<S> we find that there are no spherical superclusters . </S>",
    "<S> the sizes of superclusters grow with their richness : the median semi - major axis of rich and poor superclusters ( having @xmath08 and @xmath1 member clusters ) is 42 and 31  , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> similarly , the median semi - minor axis is 12 and 5  for rich and poor superclusters . </S>",
    "<S> the spatial orientation of superclusters , as determined from the axes of ellipsoids , is nearly random . </S>",
    "<S> we do not detect any preferable orientation of superclusters , neither with respect to the line of sight , nor relative to some other outstanding feature in the large scale structure , nor with respect to the directions of principal axes of adjacent superclusters .    </S>",
    "<S> = 4000 a&a </S>"
  ]
}