{
  "article_text": [
    "cluster and groups of galaxies provide invaluable information on the formation and evolution of structure in the universe . these systems ,",
    "also denominated haloes , represent the largest gravitationally bound systems in the universe .",
    "it has been shown that these systems are mildly aspherical with orientations related to the surrounding structures such as filaments and large scale walls ( see kasun & evrard , 2005 , and references therein ) .",
    "results from numerical simulations by van haarlem & van de weygaert ( 1993 , see also splinter et al . , 1997 )",
    "have shown that the origin for such alignments comes from re - arrangements of the halo axes in the direction of the accretion anisotropy ( e.g. last major merger event ) .",
    "therefore , in a statistical sense , the shapes of haloes could encode information about the large - scale structure in the universe . on the other hand , current halo models ( cooray & sheth , 2002 , van den bosch et al .",
    "2004 ) , which successfully describe several galaxy statistics , assume that the distribution of mass in haloes is spherical .",
    "however , a more accurate version of the model would need to take into account the actual complicated internal structure ( jing & suto , 2002 ) , and aspherical shapes of haloes .",
    "halo properties have been studied extensively using numerical simulations .",
    "for instance , high resolution , but relatively small volume simulations have been used to provide detailed information on the halo density profile and halo shape , whereas larger volume , but low resolution simulations ( e.g. the hubble volume simulations , evrard et al .",
    "2002 ) have provided information on the abundance and spatial distribution of haloes ( colberg et al . , 1999 , ,",
    "colberg et al .",
    "2000 , jenkins et al . , 2001 ,",
    "padilla & baugh , 2002 ) .",
    "several authors ( warren et al . , 1992 ,",
    "thomas et al . ,",
    "1998 , hopkins , bahcall & bode , 2005 , kasun & evrard , 2005 , and references there in ) have analysed the distribution of halo shapes using the best fitting ellipsoid to the spatial distribution of halo members .",
    "they calculate the minor to major semi - axis ratio of each halo , and use it as an indicator of the best - fitting ellipsoid shape . in order to obtain reliable distributions of semi - axis ratios ,",
    "it is necessary to reach an equilibrium between spatial resolution ( to improve the estimate of semi - axis ratios ) and comoving volume ( for good statistics ) .",
    "kasun & evrard ( 2005 ) combine large volume and high resolution simulations , to find a systematic trend with halo shape : a larger ratio of minor to major semi - axes is obtained when larger halo masses are considered .",
    "these authors also find good alignments between velocity and spatial principal semi - axes .",
    "furthermore they find that cluster shapes are independent of environment and reflect the filamentary structure of the universe through a non - random alignment at very large scales of up to 200 @xmath1 mpc .    on the observational side , plionis , basilakos , & tovmassian ( 2004 )",
    "find a trend of shape with cluster size that is opposite to that seen in simulations ( kasun & evrard , 2005 ) . from 1168 groups in the uzc - ssrs2 galaxy group catalogue , plionis et al .",
    "concluded that poor groups are more elongated than rich ones , with @xmath2 of poor groups having a projected semi - axis ratio lower than @xmath3 .",
    "+ in this work , we explore shapes of dark matter haloes with masses ranging from groups to clusters of galaxies using a high resolution cosmological simulation with a modest volume ( @xmath4h@xmath5mpc@xmath6 ) .",
    "we analyse the dependence of triaxiality , asphericity and projected shape on group mass , and number of members . by studying observational samples of groups from the 2pigg",
    "( eke et al .",
    "2004 , constructed from the 2-degree field galaxy redshift survey , colless et al . 2001 ) and the sdss - dr3gc group catalogue ( merchn & zandivarez , 2004 , constructed using the data release 3 of the sloan digital sky survey , sdss - dr3 , abazajian et al . , 2004 ) , we will demonstrate that the apparent inconsistency between the observational and simulated groups is mainly due to an artifact produced by low number statistics . to study this apparent discrepancy",
    "we combine three - dimensional and two - dimensional analyses performed over a numerical simulation box and a mock catalogue , respectively . in both cases",
    "the cosmology corresponds to a standard @xmath0cdm model .",
    "in addition , when constructing the mock catalogue , we make use of the galform ( cole et al .",
    "2000 ) semi - analytic galaxies populating the simulation box . in particular , the mock catalogue provides us with an excellent test sample to explore the outcomes of group and cluster shape measurements within the current cosmological context .",
    "this paper is organised as follows . in section 2",
    "we provide a study of 3-dimensional shapes of haloes in the numerical simulation , including analyses of systematic biases coming from low number statistics .",
    "section 3 contains a study of projected group shapes from observational datasets , and provides a theoretical framework to interpret our results by means of a mock group catalogue and the projection onto two dimensions of the 3-dimensional haloes in the simulation .",
    "finally , we summarise the main conclusions from this work in section 4 .",
    "in this section we analyse the predicted shape of gravitationally bound systems with masses ranging from groups to clusters of galaxies ( @xmath7h@xmath8 to @xmath9h@xmath8 ) .",
    "these systems were taken from a cosmological numerical simulation kindly provided by the durham group , performed using the first version of the gadget code developed by springel et al .",
    "the computational volume corresponds to a periodic box of side @xmath10h@xmath11mpc containing @xmath12 particles with masses @xmath13h@xmath8 .",
    "the simulation adopts a cold dark matter ( cdm ) model with density parameters @xmath14 , @xmath15 , and a present @xmath16 mass fluctuations of @xmath17 .",
    "the identification of clumps of particles is carried out by means of a standard friends - of - friends algorithm , with a percolation length of @xmath18 , were @xmath19 is the mean number density .",
    "we only consider haloes with at least @xmath20 particles .",
    "= 8.truecm    for each dark - matter halo , we calculate the inertia tensor using positions of halo members .",
    "this can be written as a symmetric matrix , @xmath21 where @xmath22 is the @xmath23 component of the displacement vector of a particle @xmath24 relative to centre of mass , and @xmath25 is the number of particles in the halo .",
    "the matrix eigenvalues correspond to the square of the semi - axis ( @xmath26 , @xmath27 , @xmath28 were @xmath29 ) of the characteristic ellipsoid that best describes the spatial distribution of the halo members .",
    "our group shape analysis is based on the semi - axis ratios @xmath30 and @xmath31 .",
    "these variables are independent and provide a complete set of parameters to analyse the ellipsoid shape .",
    "several authors use the quotient of minor to major eigenvalues ( @xmath32 ) , since this ratio provides more appreciable changes with the ellipsoid asphericity .",
    "however , such a parameter does not discern between oblate and prolate ellipsoids .",
    "figure 1   shows the contour map of the scatter plot of @xmath30 vs @xmath31 ratios for groups with masses @xmath33 ( solid lines containing @xmath20 , @xmath34 , @xmath35 , @xmath36 , and @xmath37 of the @xmath30 vs. @xmath32 pairs ) . here",
    "a fixed @xmath38 with an arbitrary value of @xmath31 , corresponds to perfect oblate ellipsoids . on the other hand ,",
    "systems with fixed @xmath39 are perfect prolate ellipsoids .",
    "a system with @xmath40 is associated to a general triaxial ellipsoid with prolate tendency , while the opposite case , @xmath41 , corresponds to a predominantly oblate ellipsoid .",
    "as can be seen , haloes are generally triaxial ; their shapes are almost uniformly distributed between the two extremes ( inner contours ) with a slight preference ( outer contours ) to prolate configurations ( i.e. @xmath42 ) .",
    "the most frequent values of semi - axis ratios are @xmath43 and @xmath44 .",
    "this is in qualitative agreement with frenk et al .",
    "( 1998 ) but with much higher statistical significance .      when using galaxy catalogues and low resolution simulations , only a few group members are available to estimate the inertia tensor .",
    "we therefore study possible low number effects in the estimate of semi - axis ratios .",
    "there are two main effects expected to take part in biasing the distribution of shapes . on the one hand , semi - axes of similar amplitude will be affected by shot noise due to the use of a small number of discrete particles when calculating the inertia tensor .",
    "this will induce a rearrangement of the semi - axes resulting in smaller @xmath31 and @xmath30 semi - axis ratios . on the other hand , the inertia tensor is a second order measure , which implies that a further , more complicated bias is to be expected .",
    "we test these hypotheses by computing halo semi - axis ratios using only a subsample of randomly selected halo members .",
    "figure 1 ( dashed lines ) shows iso - density contours of @xmath30 vs. @xmath31 ratios determined using 10 randomly selected particles .",
    "when comparing with the results obtained using all the halo particles it can be noticed that the shape parameters from all members have been shift towards lower @xmath31 and @xmath30 values , in agreement with our first hypothesis .",
    "in addition , it can be seen that the degradated distribution is shifted toward more oblate values with a peak density at lower @xmath30 and @xmath31 ratios .",
    "we identify this systematic effect with our second source of biases .",
    "the reason for this phenomenon could reside in the fact that shot noise can only reduce the signal ( ie . by definition : @xmath45 and @xmath46 ) , which makes the smaller semi - axis more prone to be affected by noise .",
    "therefore , prolate shapes ( two small semi - axis ) are more distorted by noise than oblate shapes ( only one small semi - axis ) .",
    "+ to probe quantitatively these concepts , we perform a monte - carlo simulation and homogeneously cover the parameter space ( b / a , c / b ) with ellipsoids populated with @xmath47 points , and calculate average semi - axis ratio estimates , determined using sets of different numbers of randomly selected ellipsoid points .",
    "figure 2 shows the path ( solid lines ) described by the ellipsoid shapes as the number of members used to calculate the inertia tensor ( hereafter @xmath48 ) is reduced from @xmath49 to @xmath50 .",
    "the open squares show the underlying values for each monte - carlo ellipsoid .",
    "the filled circles show the results when only five randomly extracted points are used to calculate @xmath30 and @xmath31 . as we have mentioned previously , the effect of the low number statistics is to produce a systematic displacement to lower values of @xmath30 and @xmath31 , with a stronger effect on spherical shapes with a tendency to populate the oblate region .",
    "= 8.truecm      = 8.truecm    the analysis in the previous section showed that haloes are preferentially prolate .",
    "previous works ( kasun & evrard , 2005 , jing & suto , 2002 ) are consistent with a weak dependence of the mean @xmath32 parameter on mass , which is commonly used to indicate the asphericity of a dark - matter halo . in order to provide a suitable characterization of the shape dependence on mass and number of particles , we introduce a new parameter that allows us to differentiate between prolate and oblate ellipsoids , which we find more suitable to perform the task than the @xmath32 ratio .",
    "a simple way to define this parameter , is to calculate the quotient between the parameters @xmath31 and @xmath30 ; prolate systems satisfy @xmath51 , whereas oblate systems , @xmath52 .",
    "consequently we define the triaxiality parameter as : @xmath53 using the logarithm avoids the natural skewness of the @xmath54 distribution , arising from the asymmetry between the oblate ( @xmath55 ) and prolate ( @xmath56 ) parameter ranges",
    ". therefore an oblate ( prolate ) ellipsoid satisfies @xmath57 ( @xmath58 ) .",
    "regardless of the number of particles used to calculate the inertia tensor , we find a dependence of the distribution of cluster shapes on mass consistent with previous determinations .",
    "figure 3shows the triaxiality parameter as a function of number of particles @xmath48 for different mass ranges . in spite of the tendency of increasing values of @xmath59 with @xmath48 ( which reflects the number effect described in the previous section ) curves corresponding to different mass ranges",
    "are well separated indicating the triaxiality dependence on cluster mass regardless of @xmath48 .",
    "= 16.truecm [ fig : massco ]    in figure 4  we show the dependence of the mean values of the triaxiality parameter @xmath59 ( left panel ) and @xmath32 ratio ( right panel ) on mass .",
    "error bars correspond to the standard @xmath16 error in @xmath59 and @xmath32 .",
    "consistent with the results for @xmath32 obtained by kasun & evrard ( 2005 ) and jing & suto ( 2002 ) , we find a decreasing log - linear relation between the @xmath32 ratio and halo mass ( i.e. the asphericity increases ) .",
    "we also find that @xmath59 increases with mass , indicating that the increment in asphericity comes from an increased prolaticity in the halo population .",
    "the fitting formulae shown by the solid lines correspond to , @xmath60 @xmath61 the trend in @xmath32 is significantly more ellipsoidal than the results from kasun & evrard ( 2005 ) , but as was pointed out by these authors in relation to the work by thomas et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , the reason for such discrepancies lies in the definition of halo shape .",
    "the boundary constraint of the spherical over - density method used by these authors to identify haloes , tends toward rounder measures of the inertia moments , whereas our haloes tend to be more elongated due to the directional nature of the percolation process and the pruning in local density .",
    "as will be shown later in this work , the trend in projected semi - axis ratios with mass is that of more elongated shapes for more massive haloes .",
    "the results obtained in this section indicate that even though there is a clear tendency in triaxiality and asphericity with halo mass , statistical biases coming from the number of halo members used to calculate the halo shape , must be carefully considered .",
    "our analyses suggest that in order to obtain a reliable dependence of halo shape properties with mass one should consider using a fixed number of halo members regardless of halo mass .",
    "this can certainly result in a systematic off - set in the shape - mass relation , but will allow the detection of any underlying trend with mass .",
    "due to redshift distortions , the analysis of observational data from redshift surveys is limited to the measurement of group shapes as seen projected on the plane of the sky .",
    "therefore , when studying observational samples of groups , we estimate projected shapes following a similar procedure to the one described for the 3-dimensional case . using the projected cartesian",
    "coordinates on the plane of the sky , we calculate the 2-dimensional inertia tensor , whose eigenvalues provide the semi - axes @xmath26 and @xmath27 ( major and minor semi - axes , respectively ) . in this work",
    "we analyse the projected shapes of groups in the 2pigg ( 2dfgrs percolation inferred galaxy groups ) , constructed from the full 2-degree field galaxy redshift survey ( 2dfgrs ) by eke et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , and in the group catalogue compiled by merchn & zandivarez ( 2005 ) from the data release 3 of the sloan digital survey ( sdss - dr3gc ) .",
    "the 2pigg catalogue contains @xmath62 groups with at least @xmath63 members , and the sdss - dr3gc group catalogues , @xmath64 groups . in order to compare observational and numerical simulation results we construct a mock 2dfgrs catalogue by placing an observer at random within the simulation box , and reproducing as many of the 2dfgrs observational biases as possible",
    "this is done by placing the same angular completeness mask and selection function as in the real 2dfgrs survey , and by measuring the distances to galaxies using redshifts instead of coordinate distances ( for more details on 2dfgrs mock construction see eke et al . , 2004 ) .",
    "the galaxies in the mock catalogues correspond to galform semi - analytic galaxies populating the numerical simulation already described in earlier sections . after generating the mock galaxy catalogue ,",
    "we apply the group finding algorithm originally used to identify the group catalogues in the real data , namely the eke et al .",
    "( 2004 ) friends - of - friends ( fof ) algorithm to the 2dfgrs mock catalogue ( software kindly provided by vincent eke ) .",
    "the study of halo shapes in the numerical simulation shows that results can change dramatically when different numbers of halo members are used to infer the halo shape . in this section",
    "we will assess the importance of this effect when calculating the 2-dimensional inertia tensor of groups identified from a galaxy redshift survey .    in order to do this",
    ", we proceed to calculate the shapes of groups in the real and mock 2pigg catalogues and compute the distribution of shapes for different numbers of group members , @xmath65 .",
    "we show the results from this calculation in figure 5 .",
    "as can be seen , there is a striking resemblance between the results from mock and real data .",
    "for instance , in both cases the distribution obtained from groups with @xmath66 corresponds to more elongated projected shapes than that corresponding to @xmath67 .",
    "the agreement for different values of @xmath65 between data and mock groups is excellent , specially for the low @xmath65 samples .",
    "this indicates that the cole et al .",
    "( 2000 ) model is adequate for this comparison .",
    "it is also interesting to observe the apparent increase of the typical semi - axis ratio with the number of group members .",
    "as we will later demonstrate , this observed trend is mainly due to low number statistics .",
    "the same figure also shows the results for groups in the sdss - dr3gc , which are in excellent agreement with mock and real 2pigg group shapes . this is a good indication of the robustness of our results , since the group identification algorithms used in the 2pigg and sdss - dr3gc group catalogues are slightly different",
    ", the catalogues cover different areas on the sky , have slightly different depths , and suffer from very different observational biases due to the instrument setups used in the construction of the surveys ( see colless et al .",
    ", 2001 , for the 2dfgrs and abazajian et al .",
    ", 2004 , for the sdss - dr3 ) .",
    "= 8.truecm [ fig : ba.2df2sloan ]    the increase in the average values of @xmath30 with the number of group members seen in figure 5 , is in agreement with the study of plionis et al .",
    "( 2004 ) of the uzc - ssrs2 groups ( see above ) .",
    "there have been suggestions for explaining the variation in typical group shapes with @xmath65 , such as mechanisms for the accretion of matter which would depend on the halo mass , or dynamical friction ( plionis et al . ,",
    "however , studies of haloes in numerical simulations seem to point in the opposite direction ( section 2 , this work , kasun & evrard , 2004 , hopkins et al . , 2005 ) , which poses a controversy between theory and observations .",
    "a solution to this discrepancy was proposed by kasun & evrard ( 2004 ) , whereby the optical selection of galaxies would be responsible for important biases that would reverse the dependence of halo shape on mass .",
    "we now search for the reason behind the increase in the typical projected semi - axis ratio with the number of group members , @xmath65 .",
    "our results from the study of halo shapes in the numerical simulation have shown that the use of a low number of halo members tends to lower the halo triaxiality parameter in a systematic way ( see section 2 ) .",
    "we apply the same procedure to the observational data , and compare the distribution of semi - axis ratios for groups with @xmath68 to the distribution measured from groups with @xmath67 members but only considering @xmath69 randomly selected galaxies from each group ( for example , out of a group with @xmath70 members , one can select @xmath71 subgroups of @xmath69 members each ; we present our results from calculating the shapes of only @xmath72 subgroups per individual group with @xmath73 , this number of subgroups ensures statistical independence to some degree ) .",
    "figure 6  shows the distribution of group semi - axis ratios with low values of @xmath68 ( long - dashed histogram ) and compares it to the distribution of groups with @xmath73 resulting from using all the group members ( solid histogram ; again , groups with larger number of members are consistent with rounder projected shapes ) and when selecting only @xmath69 members for measuring their shapes ( dot - dashed histogram ) .",
    "it is clear from this figure that the distribution of group shapes with @xmath68 is indistinguishable from that of richer groups where only @xmath69 members are considered when measuring their shapes ( apparently more elongated than when using all the group members ) .",
    "the latter distribution is very smooth due to the large number of subgroups considered .",
    "therefore , we can conclude that the trend of shape with the number of group members is mainly due to a systematic effect , and that it may very well be possible that intrinsic group shapes do not vary significantly with the number of group members .",
    "= 8.truecm [ fig : comp6y20 ]    based on these results , we provide a measurement of an unbiased distribution of group shapes from groups with any number of members ( bearing in mind that any dependence of the group shape on mass will be averaged out in this analysis ) . in order to do this ,",
    "we generate samples of subgroups with numbers of members ranging from @xmath63 to @xmath74 , extracted from a sample of groups with @xmath73 ( @xmath72 subgroups from each group ) , and calculate the distribution of shapes for the subgroups of different numbers of members .",
    "we fit a @xmath63th order polynomial to the result using @xmath48 extracted members , @xmath75 we then define correction factors which can be applied to the distributions of semi - axis ratios of groups with @xmath65 members , and make these measurements equivalent to what would result from using @xmath76 members instead of @xmath65 , @xmath77 where @xmath78 is the fit to the measured distribution of groups with @xmath79 members .",
    "note that the correction factors are obtained from the same sample of groups to which these will be applied .",
    "we show in figure 7  the resulting corrected distributions of semi - axis ratios for @xmath65 ranging from @xmath63 to @xmath80 .",
    "as can be seen , the corrected distributions for different @xmath65 show some uncorrelated scatter around a single distribution that can be fitted by a fourth order polynomial . for the 2pigg catalogue ,",
    "the best fitting coefficients are @xmath81 , @xmath82 , @xmath83 , @xmath84 , and @xmath85 . as can be seen in this figure , the best fit polynomials corresponding to the results from the 2pigg , mock 2pigg and sdss - dr3gc groups are extremely similar .",
    "= 8.truecm      in order to avoid systematic trends in the shapes of haloes , we devise a simple statistical method that will unveil any shape dependence on mass in the observational data .    as a first step to provide a connection between the results from the 3-dimensional shapes of haloes in the full simulation box we simply project onto two dimensions a sample of haloes taken from the simulation . this sample",
    "is characterised by the same mass distribution present in the 2pigg catalogue , ensuring the study of similar samples of groups from the simulation and the data .",
    "the masses of 2pigg groups are calculated using group luminosities and a @xmath86 relation from eke et al .",
    "( 2004 ) . to achieve a realistic shape comparison ,",
    "the number effect is also taken into account by forcing the same distribution of number of members present in the 2pigg catalogue ( we do this by randomly selecting members from each group in the simulation ) .",
    "the distributions of projected semi - axis ratios @xmath30 of this particular halo sample ( solid line ) and the mock 2pigg catalogue ( doted line ) are shown in figure 8 .  as can be seen ,",
    "both distributions are in reasonably good agreement .",
    "however , mock groups show a weak tendency to be more elongated than those obtained by direct projection of the simulations . even though this effect is small",
    ", we find that it persists even when sampling different ranges of mass and number of members .",
    "therefore , it is possible that the offset shown by both distributions is due to differences between the identification algorithms used on simulations and redshift - space samples .",
    "for instance , the latter algorithms use a complicated linking volume , characterised by an assumed angular to radial aspect ratio , and a scaling with redshift ( see eke et al . , 2004 , for more details ) . this comparison could be adopted in future works as a further test for assessing the quality of identification algorithms applied to redshift data .",
    "as previously mentioned , a good way to avoid the number effect on our statistics is to use a fixed number of group members to calculate the group shapes .",
    "we therefore compute the average @xmath30 ratios of projected dark - matter haloes as a function of halo mass , using only @xmath20 halo members out of the total available particles in each halo .",
    "the resulting semi - axis ratios can be seen in figure 9 ,  where more massive haloes are consistent with slightly more elongated shapes than less massive haloes ( open circles ) . by comparing this trend with halo mass with what is obtained using all the halo particles for haloes with more than @xmath87 members ,",
    "we find only a constant systematic shift between the two .",
    "this indicates that the procedure of selecting only @xmath20 halo members preserves the trend of projected shape with mass .",
    "we now proceed to calculate the average @xmath30 ratios of groups in the mock 2pigg catalogue , for all groups with at least @xmath20 galaxy members , but using only @xmath20 randomly selected members to calculate the group shape .",
    "we plot this result as a function of group mass , calculated using the @xmath86 ratio characterising the mock catalogue ( open squares ) .",
    "as can be seen , the trend with mass is recovered in the mock catalogue . finally , we repeat this procedure using the real 2pigg catalogue , and show the results in filled triangles ( groups with at least @xmath20 galaxy members , using only @xmath20 members to measure @xmath30 ) .",
    "it is clear from the figure , that we have been able to reconcile the results from numerical simulations with those from observational data , as the 2pigg groups show slightly more elongated shapes for massive systems ( @xmath88 for @xmath89h@xmath90 and @xmath91 for @xmath92h@xmath90 , implying a @xmath93 detection of a trend ) .",
    "= 8.truecm [ fig : proymock ]    = 8.truecm [ fig : massdep ]      we now search for possible differences in the typical shapes of groups when considering different properties of their galaxy members .",
    "we divide our samples of groups according to the average member galaxy colour and galaxy spectral type , since these can be considered indicators of different stellar formation rate histories and merger or interaction activity within the groups . in all comparisons , we ensure the same number of members is considered when measuring group shapes .",
    "= 8.truecm [ fig : color ]    in general , we find that it is quite difficult to assess whether a correlation between shape and colour is detected in either the sdss - dr3gc or 2pigg catalogues . in particular , we present the results for the 2pigg groups in the top panel of figure 10 , where we show the median @xmath30 as a function of @xmath94 colour , for two different ranges of number of group members @xmath65 ( note the low number statistics effect inducing overall lower median @xmath30 values for the lower @xmath65 case ) .",
    "we repeat this analysis using the spectral type index @xmath95 ( an indicator of the star formation activity in galaxies ) in 2dfgrs galaxies , determining the fraction of member galaxies that satisfy @xmath96 in each group .",
    "as can be seen in the bottom panel of figure 10 , we again find no clear dependence of the average semi - axis ratios with the fraction of passively star forming galaxies within the group . in the case of sdss - dr3gg groups",
    ", we perform this analysis using the e - class spectral index , also finding no clear trends .",
    "we repeated the analysis using only member galaxies with @xmath96 ( non - star forming galaxies ) on the one hand , and only member galaxies with @xmath97 ( star forming galaxies ) on the other .",
    "note that several groups are represented in both samples , since it is fairly common that there will be both , star forming and non - star forming galaxies in a group .",
    "once more , we were unable to detect any systematic differences in the shapes of groups when considering only either star forming or non - star forming galaxies . repeating this analysis using the spectral type index in the sdss - dr3gc catalogue produces the same results , namely , that there is no clear correlation between spectral type and group shape .",
    "these results are somewhat surprising and indicate the need for larger samples of groups , which may provide better means to detect small differences between group shapes computed considering star forming and non - star forming galaxies separately .",
    "this could be expected , for instance , if galaxy morphological segregations in groups were to depend only on the distance to the group centre .",
    "we have performed several analyses of shapes of gravitationally bound systems in numerical simulations , mock group catalogues , and observational group catalogues derived from the 2dfgrs and the sdss - dr3 galaxy surveys .",
    "our main results on the three - dimensional shapes of dark matter haloes in the numerical simulations can be summarised as follows :    * halos are well described by triaxial ellipsoids that tend to be more prolate as the halo mass increases .",
    "this can also be detected by means of other statistical parameters ; both the asphericity @xmath32 , and the projected semi - axis ratios @xmath30 show a clear decrement with halo mass .",
    "* we demonstrated that low number statistics tend to bias the measured shapes toward oblate shapes . performing a monte - carlo analysis",
    ", we show that the smaller semi - axes are more affected by noise , and consequently , prolate shapes , characterised by two small semi - axes , are more distorted .",
    "regarding the analysis of mock and real catalogues , our results can be summarised as follows :    * the analysis in redshift - space does not change significantly the distribution of projected shapes of haloes for a given distribution of group mass and number of members , although there is a weak tendency for systems in the mock catalogue to be more elongated than those obtained by direct projection of the simulations .",
    "this is probably due to differences in the identification algorithms used in simulations and redshift - space samples . *",
    "the properties of the distribution of shapes in the mock catalogue closely resemble those in the observations , indicating the accuracy of the galform model in combination with the numerical simulation to reproduce the observational data .",
    "in particular , the tendency of groups with low number of members to show elongated shapes is entirely consistent in both real and mock catalogues .",
    "* we demonstrate that the observed trend where richer groups are rounder is an artifact of low number statistics .",
    "we provide a fit to a corrected distribution of group shapes , calibrated to match what would be obtained for a fixed @xmath98 members .",
    "* we also analysed subsamples of 2pigg and sdss - dr3gc groups selected by member galaxy colour and spectral type .",
    "we were unable to detect a significant dependence of group shapes on fractions of red galaxies , or fractions of passively star forming galaxies .",
    "finally , by considering a fixed number of members per group , we were able to detect a statistically reliable trend of 2pigg group shapes with mass ( group masses are obtained via a mass - to - light ratio calibrated by eke et al . , 2004 ) . in order to do this , we select 2pigg groups with at least @xmath20 member galaxies , and use only @xmath20 randomly selected members to measure the group projected semi - axis ratios .",
    "our findings indicate that more massive groups tend to show more elongated shapes , in excellent agreement with results from numerical simulations .",
    "this work was partially supported by the concejo nacional de investigaciones cientficas y tecnolgicas ( conicet ) , the asociacin argentina de astronoma , the eso - chile joint committee , and the european union s alfa - ii programme , through lenac , the latin american european network for astrophysics and cosmology .",
    "ndp was supported by a proyecto postdoctoral fondecyt no .",
    "we acknowledge helpful discussions with carlton baugh .",
    "we thank vincent eke for providing the group identification software used for constructing the 2pigg group sample . the numerical simulation used in this work",
    "was kindly provided by the cosmology group at the institute for computational cosmology ( durham ) .",
    "abazajian k. , et al .",
    "( the sdss team ) , 2005 , aj , 129 , 1755 .",
    "colberg j.m . ,",
    "white s.d.m .",
    ", jenkins a. , pearce f.r . ,",
    "n. yoshida , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 593 colberg j.m . ,",
    "white s.d.m . ,",
    "macfarland t.j .",
    ", jenkins a. , pearce f.r . , frenk c. s. , thomas p. a. , couchman h. m. p. , 2000 , mnras , 313 , 229 .",
    "cole s. , lacey c.g . ,",
    "baugh c.m . ,",
    "frenk c.s . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 319 , 168 .",
    "colless m. , et al .",
    "( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 1029 .",
    "cooray a. , & sheth r. , 2002 , phys .",
    ", 372 , 1 .",
    "( the 2dfgrs team ) , 2004 , mnras , 348 , 866 evrard a.e . ,",
    "macfarland t.j . ,",
    "couchman h.m.p .",
    ", colberg j.m . , yoshida n. , white s.d.m . , jenkins a. , frenk c.s . , pearce f.r . ,",
    "peacock j. a. , thomas p. a. , 2002 , apj , 573 , 7 frenk c.s . ,",
    "white s.d.m .",
    ", davis m. , efstathiou g. , 1988 , apj , 327 , 507 hopkins p.f . , bahcall n.a .",
    ", bode p. , 2005 , apj , 618 , 1 .",
    "jenkins a. , frenk c.s . ,",
    "white s.d.m .",
    ", colberg j.m . , cole s. , evrard a.e .",
    ", couchman h.m.p . , yoshida n. , 2001 mnras , 321 , 372 jing y.p . , suto y. , 2002 , apj , 574 , 538 kasun s.f . , evrard a.e . , 2005 , apj in press ,",
    "astro - ph/0408056 mechn m. , zandivarez a. , 2005 , submitted to apj , astro - ph/0412257 padilla n. , & baugh c.m .",
    ", 2002 mnras , 329 , 431 .",
    "plionis m. , basilakos s. , tovmassian h.m .",
    ", 2004 , mnras , 352 , 1323 splinter r.j .",
    ", melott a.l . , linn a.m. , buck c. , & tinker j. , 1997 , apj , 479 , 632 .",
    "springel v. , yoshida n. , white s.d.m .",
    ", 2001 , newa , 6 , 79 thomas p.a . , colberg j.m .",
    ", couchman h.m.p . ,",
    "efstathiou g.p .",
    ", frenk c.s .",
    ", jenkins a.r . ,",
    "nelson a.h . ,",
    "hutchings r.m . , peacock j.a . ,",
    "pearce f.r .",
    ", white s.d.m . , 1998 , mnras , 296 , 1061 van den bosch f.c . , norberg p. , mo h.j .",
    ", yang x. , 2004 , mnras , 352 , 1302 . van haarlem m. , & van de weygaert r. , 1993 , apj , 418 , 544 . warren m.s . ,",
    "quinn p.j . , salmon j.k . ,",
    "zurek w.h . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 399,405"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the properties of the 3-dimensional and projected shapes of haloes using high resolution numerical simulations and observational data where the latter comes from the 2pigg ( eke et al . </S>",
    "<S> 2004 ) and sdss - dr3gc group catalogues ( merchn & zandivarez 2005 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate the dependence of halo shape on characteristics such as mass and number of members . in the 3-dimensional case </S>",
    "<S> , we find a significant correlation between the mass and halo shape ; massive systems are more prolate than small haloes . </S>",
    "<S> we detect a source of strong systematics in estimates of the triaxiality of a halo , which is found to be a strong function of the number of members ; @xmath0cdm haloes usually characterised by triaxial shapes , slightly bent toward prolate forms , appear more oblate when taking only a small subset of the halo particles . </S>",
    "<S> + the ellipticities of observed 2pigg and sdss - dr3gc groups are found to be strongly dependent on the number of group members , so that poor groups appear more elongated than rich ones . however , this is again an artifact caused by poor statistics and not an intrinsic property of the galaxy groups , nor an effect from observational biases . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret these results with the aid of a galform mock 2pigg catalogue . </S>",
    "<S> when comparing the group ellipticities in mock and real catalogues , we find an excellent agreement between the trends of shapes with number of group members . </S>",
    "<S> when carefully taking into account the effects of low number statistics , we find that more massive groups are consistent with more elongated shapes . finally , our studies find no significant correlations between the shape of observed 2pigg or sdss - dr3gc groups with the properties of galaxy members such as colour or spectral type index .    </S>",
    "<S> large - scale structure of universe , methods : n - body simulations , galaxies : kinematics and dynamics cosmology : theory </S>"
  ]
}