{
  "article_text": [
    "as the presence of binary ( or multiple ) companions in a close orbit can affect the evolution of a star , it is only natural to assume that it can also have an effect on the occurrence of different kinds of stellar activity . in some cases",
    ", the physical mechanisms connecting the presence of a companion with activity are more or less transparent .",
    "for example , the tidal force exerted by a companion can excite different kinds of stellar oscillations , as discussed by @xcite .",
    "such induced oscillations are believed to occur in a few binaries containing ob stars ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "similarly , the tidal force exerted by a companion on the disk of a be star can result in photometric variability .",
    "for example , regularly spaced , small brightenings of the b6ive star hr 2968 have been interpreted as due to the presence of a companion @xcite .",
    "however , dedicated searches for periodic photometric variability locked with the orbital period in be / x - ray binaries have rarely resulted in detections ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , even though the presence of a neutron star in a relatively close orbit suggests that the tidal effect on the decretion disk would be rather strong in these systems ( but see * ? ? ?",
    "* for examples of positive detections in smc be / x - ray binaries ) . in some",
    "be stars , ( quasi-)periodic variations in the shape of emission lines ( v / r variability ) occur with the orbital period of a companion ( see , e.g. , stefl et al .",
    "these proceedings ) .",
    "the presence of a companion is one obvious way of providing a clock when a clear periodicity exists .",
    "there are , however , deeper ways in which membership in a stellar system may be connected to activity . considering the focus of this meeting on the use of active stars as laboratories to study the effects of fast rotation , i will centre on be stars and explore claims that binarity provides the mechanism to spin up be stars to high rotational speeds . afterwards",
    ", i will move to a higher level of multiplicity and discuss the likelihood that membership in an open cluster affects the chances of becoming a be star .",
    "finally , i will address the role that variations in metallicity may have in the occurrence of the be phenomenon .",
    "a relatively important fraction of moderately massive stars display , at least at times , emission lines and a characteristic infrared excess which can be explained in terms of a quasi - keplerian disk of material surrounding an otherwise normal star .",
    "these are the be stars ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for an up - to - date review ) .",
    "be stars constitute the largest group of active ob stars . as a class",
    ", they are characterised by rapid rotation and therefore represent an excellent laboratory to study the effect of rapid rotation on the evolution of ob stars .",
    "though emission lines are the most noticeable characteristic of be stars , we have to stress that not all emission - line stars with b spectral type are be stars .",
    "for example , many interacting binaries display emission lines which are due to flows of material between the two stars or _ accretion",
    "_ disks around one of the components .",
    "likewise , herbig be stars display emission lines from a disk believed to be the remnant of the accretion disk through which the star formed . here",
    "we will restrict ourselves to `` classical '' be stars , those objects in which emission is believed to arise from a disk of material expelled from the star .",
    "classical be stars do occasionally lose their disks and are then able to re - form them .",
    "we will take this capability to build the disk from the inside as the defining characteristic of a be star .",
    "i will not discuss sgb[e ] stars , as the role of rotation or binarity in their activity is unclear , and a major monograph on these objects has just been published @xcite .    the actual incidence of the be phenomenon is a matter of discussion ( see section  [ sec : rule ] ) .",
    "the usual practise is defining the be / b fraction as the number of be stars in a population divided by the total number of b - type stars ( be + non - be ) .",
    "however , considering the large difference in intrinsic brightness between early and late b - type stars , it may happen that a magnitude - limited study of the be star population in some environment ( for instance , an open cluster , or the smc ) does not reach the faintest b - type stars . because of this , it is also customary to talk about the be / b fraction down to a given spectral type .",
    "this should be remembered when discussing the be star fraction in open clusters , as there is increasing evidence that be stars are much more numerous among stars evolved away from the zero age main sequence ( zams ) than among stars still close to the zams ( see section  [ sec : evol ] ) .",
    "for example , when considering a massive well - populated cluster like ngc  663 ( cf .",
    "* ) , the be / b fraction is very high if we just count stars earlier than b5 , but  given the shape of the imf  may be rather lower if all the late b - type stars are included .",
    "the existence of a connection between fast rotation and the be phenomenon has been widely accepted for a long time ( cf .",
    "be stars are observed to rotate at very high speeds and even these high measured rotational velocities represent an underestimation of the actual rotational speed @xmath0 because of the effects of gravity darkening @xcite .",
    "fast rotation reduces the effective gravity on the outer atmospheric layers , perhaps allowing material to be lifted out of the star by effects that would otherwise be only minor disturbances .",
    "such lifting would be extremely easy if the outer layers of the star were rotating at the critical speed @xmath1 , at which their velocity would be comparable to the keplerian velocity . if be stars rotate at @xmath1 or _ very _ close to it , then mass ejection can be explained by any mechanism that can supply a small amount of energy or angular momentum to the material .",
    "this idea has recently been explored by a number of authors . among them , @xcite , observing that ( as discussed in section  [ sec : evol ] ) be stars in open clusters are almost always restricted to the upper region of their hr diagram , i.e. , to relatively evolved stars , and assuming that the development of the be phenomenon is intimately linked to fast rotation , interpret this fact as evidence for an evolutionary effect .",
    "they note that the evolutionary models of @xcite for stars in the range @xmath2 predict that the ratio @xmath3 will increase as the stars evolve . as a consequence , even though a few very fast rotators may become be stars while still close to the zams , most relatively fast - rotating stars will only develop be characteristics during their latest stages in the ms , as they approach @xmath4 .",
    "if we could assume that all be stars rotate at @xmath4 , it would be very easy to explain the be phenomenon .",
    "however , observational evidence against this hypothesis remains strong . after correcting for the effects of gravity darkening , @xcite",
    "conclude that , on average , be stars rotate at @xmath5 .",
    "however , this average hides large variations . from a statistical analysis of the equatorial rotation rates of classical",
    "be stars , @xcite concludes that early be stars rotate at significantly subcritical speeds .",
    "it can be argued that @xmath1 is perhaps not the physical magnitude relevant to this problem , but still it seems clear that early b - type stars in general and early be stars in particular seem to rotate at significantly lower @xmath6 rates than their late - type counterparts . as a matter of fact ,",
    "the rotational velocity distributions for early and late b - type stars have markedly different shapes @xcite , with a much higher fraction of slow rotators among early b - type stars .",
    "@xcite have proposed that all be stars are members of binary systems and that their disks are built from material lost to the gravitational pull of the companion .",
    "such model is not accepted as a general explanation , but the existence of be / x - ray binaries ( x - ray sources composed of a be star orbited by a neutron star ) demonstrates that binarity may indeed play a role ( if rather different ) in the origin of the be phenomenon : some be stars have at a previous stage received mass ( and angular momentum ) from a binary companion .    according to the standard model , most ( if not all ) be / x - ray binaries have formed via the same standard evolutionary channel . the progenitor is an intermediate - mass close binary with moderate mass ratio @xmath7 .",
    "the original primary starts transferring mass to its companion when it swells after the end of the hydrogen core burning phase ( case b ) .",
    "mass transfer results in a helium star and a rejuvenated main sequence ( ms ) star .",
    "if the helium star is massive enough , it will undergo a supernova explosion and become a neutron star .",
    "if the binary is not disrupted , it may emerge as a be / x - ray binary .",
    "this model has been developed in a number of references , among which , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "all these models assume that the original primary must have a mass @xmath8 ( because otherwise it would not produce a neutron star ) and that the original secondary receives an important amount of mass and angular momentum from its companion .",
    "there is an implicit , but fundamental , assumption hidden in this argument : the be nature of the original secondary is due to accretion of high - angular - momentum material from the primary . however , there has been no attempt at explaining how this is achieved .",
    "of course , if near - critical rotation is a _ sufficient _ condition for having a be star , then there is no need to provide a mechanism , because it has been amply demonstrated that accretion of even a small amount of material ( on the order of 0.1@xmath9 ) is enough to spin up the star to critical rotational velocity ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "be stars in be / x - ray binaries do not seem different from isolated be stars in any fundamental way .",
    "ample evidence has conclusively shown that their disks may disappear and then reform from the inside ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "as they have likely accreted a large amount of matter , their internal structure may have been slightly affected ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but their observed characteristics differ from those of isolated be stars only in ways that can be perfectly explained by the effect of the orbiting neutron star on the circumstellar disk . as detailed by @xcite , the presence of a neutron star companion results in the truncation of the decretion disk and the accumulation of material inside the truncation radius .",
    "this leads to higher densities than in the disks of isolated be stars , a fact that seems to be confirmed by observations @xcite .",
    "okazaki & hayasaki ( these proceedings ) provide a review of our understanding of the complex interaction between the be envelope and the neutron star .",
    "while be / x - ray binaries are relatively easy to find , because of their hard x - ray emission , they are not the only examples of be stars formed through mass transfer . as discussed below , other be stars are believed to correspond to different stages in this evolutionary path . moreover ,",
    "if the predictions of population synthesis models are correct , many be stars formed by mass transfer in a binary may not be detectable as binaries , either because they have eventually lost the remnant of the original primary , as may happen in a supernova explosion , or because the mass ratio is large and the effect of the low - mass companion on the spectrum of the be star will be small and very difficult to observe .",
    "be / x - ray binaries are very obvious representatives of the fact that be stars can be produced via binary evolution .",
    "the theoretical evolutionary path developed to explain their formation is reinforced by observations showing interacting binaries that can be identified with different stages along this path .",
    "just to quote a few examples from the literature , * v380 cyg * is a binary with a b1.5ii - iii ( 14@xmath9 , 17@xmath10 ) primary close to filling its roche lobe and a b2v ( 8@xmath9,4@xmath10 ) secondary @xcite .",
    "this is an example of pre - contact system that has not started mass transfer yet .",
    "* ry per * is a binary undergoing mass transfer from an f7:ii - iii ( 1.6@xmath9 , 8@xmath10 ) donor star onto a very fast rotating b4:v companion ( 6@xmath9 , 8@xmath10 ) , which is already rather more massive than the donor @xcite . *",
    "hd 45166 * is composed by a b7v star and a very unusual secondary of about the same mass , which @xcite classify as quasi - wr .",
    "this could be an example of an exposed he core .",
    "finally , the b0.5ve star * @xmath11 persei * is one of the best known examples of a post - mass transfer system , as it is orbited by a low - mass sdo subdwarf , believed to be the remnant of the original primary @xcite .",
    "a few other be stars are suspected of hosting subdwarf companions .",
    "thus all the phases in the path to a be / x - ray binary are well documented .",
    "however , it is important to remember that , while in be / x - ray binaries the originally more massive star loses a high fraction of its initial mass and is finally reduced to a compact object , other evolutionary paths may involve mass transfer and result in different outcomes . the mass donor does not need to pass a substantial fraction of its mass to the mass gainer in order to spin it to high @xmath0 . a system like ai  cru , which contains a b2ive ( 10@xmath9 , 5@xmath10 ) primary and a b4:v secondary ( 6@xmath9 , 4@xmath10 )",
    "is believed to have experienced a previous phase of mass transfer in which only a fraction of the envelope of the originally more massive star was transfered @xcite .",
    "summarising , observations clearly indicate that the binary channel contributes to the formation of be stars and we have reasons to believe that the intrinsic properties of these be stars are indistinguishable from those of any other be stars . a direct application of occam",
    "s razor would suggest that , once we have found a channel to produce be stars , we can safely assume that it is the only channel needed .",
    "again , this assumption fundamentally depends on the issue of critical rotation .",
    "if having a star rotating at @xmath1 is a _ sufficient _ condition for having a be star , it does not really matter how this critical rotation is achieved .",
    "if it is not , then we have not really provided a mechanism for making be stars , but simply assumed that they form after mass transfer .",
    "additional indirect evidence supporting an important contribution of the binary channel to the formation of be stars has been presented by @xcite .",
    "however , this is not a generally accepted idea , because of two reasons . on the one hand",
    ", there is little observational evidence to support the idea that all ( or even most ) be stars have binary companions . on the other hand ,",
    "modern population synthesis models predict that the fraction of stars that have been through a mass transfer phase is small ( or very small ) compared to the number of be stars ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . according to these models , @xmath12 of b - type stars should experience mass transfer in a binary and so an even smaller fraction are expected to be be stars formed through mass exchange .",
    "this is very far from the @xmath13 ( depending on spectral type ) of be stars amongst b - type stars in the bright star catalog ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    against this , @xcite , based on a comprehensive photometric study of",
    "be stars in a large sample of open clusters , argue that the true be / b fraction in the galaxy is @xmath14 and speculate that the high fraction among bright b - type stars may be due to a selection effect related to the age of gould s belt .",
    "moreover , they claim that the position of be stars in the hr diagrams of open clusters indicates that a substantial fraction of them are created through binary evolution . the discrepancy between the be fraction in galactic open clusters found by @xcite and",
    "the statistics of bright field be stars may perhaps simply stem from the fact that @xcite only consider be stars _ at a given time _",
    ", while @xcite use the historical record .",
    "however , @xcite find a be / b fraction @xmath15 for early b types in the lmc field , forcing us to conclude that the true be / b fraction is not well known at this point and the ability of population synthesis models to reproduce it is still an open subject .",
    "in addition , all population synthesis models predict that a significant fraction of the be stars created through the binary channel must contain a white dwarf ( wd ) as the remnant of the originally more massive star ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) . in spite of dedicated searches , so far no convincing candidate has been found for a be + wd binary @xcite .",
    "a certain number of be stars are known to have low mass companions whose nature is uncertain due to the lack of spectral signatures .",
    "some of them might be wds , but until definite examples of be + wd binaries are identified , population synthesis models remain suspect .",
    "a number of works have provided evidence in the sense that ob stars in clusters rotate on average faster than those in the field .",
    "different explanations for this effect have been presented , some of them invoking physical causes , with others trying to understand it as a selection effect .",
    "@xcite argue that ob stars brake during their evolution , resulting in lower @xmath0 for evolved stars .",
    "if the field population is on average older than the clusters surveyed , it may contain more slow rotators .",
    "conversely , @xcite argues that stars in clusters rotate faster because the bright members generally observed are stars close to the turnoff undergoing spin - up at the end of their ms lifetime .",
    "other interpretations do not resort to evolutionary hypotheses , but attribute this effect to the initial conditions .",
    "@xcite speculated that perhaps the bulk of the field population originated in low density regions in the outskirts of ob associations , where the formation of slow rotators may be favoured .    a similar line of argument is followed by @xcite .",
    "recent work has convincingly shown that very high accretion rates are necessary for the formation of massive stars @xcite .",
    "these high accretion rates are easier to attain near the cores of massive clusters , induced by high gas pressure @xcite . as a consequence ,",
    "stars formed in massive clusters are more likely to be born with high @xmath0 . in order to test this hypothesis , @xcite",
    "have measured the rotational velocities for a large sample of stars in the massive twin clusters h & @xmath16 persei and compared them to the rotational velocities of a sample of field stars selected on the basis that they occupy the same positions in the @xmath17/@xmath18 diagram ( and consequently are in the same evolutionary stage ) as the cluster stars .    the results of @xcite have challenged many long - held assumptions .",
    "they find that the distribution of rotational velocities for mid and late b - types among members of h & @xmath16 persei is _ very _ different from the distribution among field stars of the same age , mainly because of an almost complete absence of slow rotators among cluster members .",
    "the difference between the @xmath0 distribution of cluster and field stars decreases for earlier spectral types to the point that it is not statistically significant for stars earlier than b2 .    according to @xcite ,",
    "these results imply that fast rotation in clusters is primordial and not due to an evolutionary effect , with mid- and late - b stars in clusters being born rotating faster than field stars of the same mass .",
    "the observations are interpreted within the context of the magneto - centrifugal model for pre - ms stars @xcite .",
    "the rotational velocity of the protostar will be fixed by the interaction between its accretion disk and its magnetic field . for a given magnetic field",
    ", higher accretion rates will result in higher rotational velocities , favouring fast rotators in massive clusters .",
    "moreover , mid - b stars have a large radius at the birth line because of the onset of deuterium shell burning and spin up considerably during their descent to the zams .    the implications for early b stars are not so clear .",
    "@xcite take their observational result at face value and conclude that early b stars in clusters do not rotate faster than field stars of the same mass .",
    "however , it must be noted that all the stars in h & @xmath16 persei with spectral types earlier than b2 are rather evolved and that a significant fraction of them appear to be blue stragglers @xcite . as models for angular momentum transport in fast rotators in the corresponding mass range",
    "are still being developed ( cf .",
    "the non - trivial differences between models in @xcite and @xcite ) , this remains , in my view , an open issue .",
    "the results of @xcite are conclusive with respect to the @xmath0 distribution in h & @xmath16 persei , but seem difficult to reconcile with the well established fact that be stars in open clusters are much more frequent among stars evolved away from the zams than among stars still close to the zams .",
    "this effect was first remarked by @xcite , who , based on data collected from the literature for a small sample of clusters , concluded that be stars were most frequent in clusters with the ms turnoff ( msto ) in the b1b2 range ( and , correspondingly , ages in the 1224 myr range ) .",
    "@xcite carried out a survey of very populous lmc and smc clusters in search of be stars with narrow - band h@xmath19 filters .",
    "they found large numbers of be stars , with the highest proportion of be stars occurring at the earliest spectral types .",
    "they also noted a tendency for a higher be star fraction near the msto in most clusters ( see also * ? ? ? * ) , though they did not find a clear correlation between cluster age and be fraction .",
    "later , @xcite also found that most of the be stars in h & @xmath16 persei were located close to msto .",
    "the concentration of be stars close to the msto is confirmed in the much larger sample of @xcite .",
    "based on this observational result , @xcite developed the evolutionary model for the be phenomenon presented in section  [ sec : crit ] , assuming a direct connection between critical rotation and the onset of the be phenomenon .",
    "as discussed at length in @xcite , observational evidence shows that stars with at least @xmath20 can develop the be phenomenon , but this does not invalidate the basic premise of @xcite , as the newer models by @xcite show that @xmath3 also increases during the lifetimes of stars with masses in the @xmath21 range .      unlike previous studies , @xcite have observed and analysed a large and statistically significant sample of open clusters using a homogeneous method .",
    "it is therefore very significant that their conclusions are rather different from those of other works .",
    "they find a much lower be / b fraction than generally assumed and do not find strong dependences of the be fraction on several parameters which were generally thought to be relevant .",
    "all these works are based on photometric searches for emission - line stars .",
    "photometric techniques are very efficient at detecting strong balmer - line emitters , but do not discriminate weak emitters very well ( a detailed discussion is presented in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . because of this , they are prone to suffering from several important selection effects .",
    "first , it is unlikely that observations may be equally sensitive for early and late b - type stars ( late b - type stars in a given cluster may not be surveyed at all if there is a magnitude limit ) .",
    "moreover , early be stars tend to be strong emitters , while late be stars tend to be weak emitters .",
    "both effects conspire to make detection of early be stars rather easier than the detection of late be stars .",
    "perhaps even more importantly , most of the evidence for the be phenomenon as an evolutionary effect is provided by observations of a few `` be - rich '' clusters .",
    "be stars have been searched for in the most populous lmc and smc clusters @xcite and in the traditionally - called `` be - rich '' clusters in the galaxy , namely , ngc 663 @xcite , h & @xmath16 persei @xcite , ngc 3766 @xcite and ngc  7419 @xcite .",
    "this pre - selection of _ interesting _ targets again introduces a discernible bias in the results expectable .",
    "most of these clusters were surveyed for be stars precisely because they were known to be rich in be stars .",
    "they are not necessarily representative of the general population , and indeed the results of @xcite suggest that they are not . moreover , all the `` be - rich '' cluster in the galaxy and most of populous clusters observed in the magellanic clouds have ages such that the msto is located close to spectral type b2 , perhaps explaining the conclusions of @xcite .",
    "clear demonstration of the danger of preconceived ideas comes from the double cluster h & @xmath16 persei , generally listed as having a population extremely rich in be stars ( see * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "a complete spectroscopic survey of h & @xmath16 persei finds that the fraction of be stars in these clusters is @xmath22% among early b - type stars and negligible for stars later than b4 @xcite .",
    "this is not a very high fraction .",
    "it is indeed lower than many estimates of the be fraction for the field population .",
    "the double cluster is very massive @xcite and so the high number of be stars is simply a consequence of the high number of ( b - type ) stars , not of a high be / b fraction .",
    "other open clusters really have a high be fraction among stars around the msto .",
    "classical examples are ngc  663 ( @xmath23myr ) , showing @xmath24 for stars earlier than b5 at a given time , ngc  3766 ( @xmath23myr ) , where a very high fraction of early b - type stars have been seen at some point in a be phase , and ngc  7419 , ( @xmath25myr ) , with @xmath26 among early b - type stars at a given time ( negueruela et al . , these proceedings ) . however , as discussed above , these clusters may not be representative of the average young open cluster in the solar neighbourhood . for a start , these three clusters are relatively massive .",
    "this may not only have an implication on the initial stellar rotational velocities ( see section  [ sec : clus ] ) , but also means that the number of b stars is high enough to make the be / b fraction statistically significant .    in order to see the significance of a high number of members ,",
    "let us consider one of the best ( if not the best ) studied open clusters in the sky , the pleiades .",
    "this cluster has an estimated age of 130  myr , with the stars around the turnoff having spectral type b6iv .",
    "out of 15 b - type stars in this cluster , 4 are be stars @xcite . at @xmath27myr ,",
    "the three b9.5v stars in the cluster can not be considered to be very evolved and we can calculate the be / b fraction for stars close to the msto using only spectral type b9 and earlier .",
    "this results in 4 be stars out of 12 b stars or 33% , a percentage as high as in the `` be - rich '' clusters . however , the number of stars is too low to accept this result as statistically meaningful .",
    "the same happens in many other clusters in the 100200  myr range , which have few b stars left , meaning that we are likely to accept as statistically significant only calculations for massive clusters , which may not be representative of the general population .    in summary",
    ", though it seems clear that there is an evolutionary effect such that the be fraction appears much higher among the ( moderately ) evolved stars in a population than among the unevolved members , the nature and reasons for this effect can not be ascertained . @xcite",
    "have argued that it is due to the evolution of rotational velocity as the stars age , but @xcite find that the location of be stars in the hr diagrams of open clusters does not favour this interpretation and @xcite have shown that the @xmath0 distribution among stars in h & @xmath16 persei is exactly the opposite from what this hypothesis would require .",
    "some other mechanism must be required to complement ( or completely replace ) @xmath0 evolution .",
    "@xcite suggest that this may be mass transfer in a close binary , but again this model is not without complications .",
    "finally , in spite of the evidence accumulated for the existence of this evolutionary effect , there appears to be a non - negligible fraction of be star very close to the zams ( cf .",
    "wisniewski et al . , these proceedings , and",
    "see also @xcite ) .",
    "wisniewski et al .",
    "find substantial numbers of be stars in clusters younger than 10  myr old , while some good examples of be stars with early spectral types in open clusters in the 3@xmath28myr range exist .",
    "such objects are very likely incompatible with mass transfer in a binary system . @xcite",
    "try to reconstruct the evolutionary status of a sample of be stars and come to the conclusion that early b - type stars ( with @xmath29 ) may display the phenomenon at any stage during their ms life , but less massive stars only become be stars after a significant fraction ( @xmath30 ) of their lifetime . once again",
    ", if the be phenomenon may simply be equated with having @xmath4 , many different channels may contribute to the population .",
    "if this is not the relevant condition , the evolutionary effect in be stars is still very far from being understood .      from a study of data in the literature",
    ", @xcite found that the fraction of be stars increases with decreasing metallicity ( @xmath31 ) .",
    "however , their work used the populous smc clusters as representative of the low-@xmath31 environment , thus introducing a likely bias . from a more homogeneous study ,",
    "wisniewski et al .",
    "( these proceedings ) find a dependence of the be fraction with @xmath31 , though not as strong as suggested by @xcite .",
    "@xcite find suggestive , but not compelling , evidence for a higher be fraction among clusters outside the solar circle than among clusters inside it , again suggesting some sort of weak dependence of the be fraction on @xmath31 .",
    "the reasons for this dependence are not obvious . among massive stars ,",
    "lower @xmath31 will result in weaker stellar winds .",
    "according to evolutionary models ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the stellar wind is very efficient at removing angular momentum from a star of solar metallicity , but not so much at smc metallicities . as a result",
    ", solar metallicity stars will spin down during their lifetime much more significantly than lower @xmath31 stars .",
    "this will translate into a higher fraction of fast rotators .",
    "indeed @xcite finds that stars in a sample of lmc early - b objects rotate faster ( at almost 2-@xmath32 significance ) than stars in a sample of early - b objects in galactic open clusters .",
    "however , as the higher be fraction at lower @xmath31 is not confined to the earliest spectral types , but seems to extend to lower mass b stars , with luminosities incapable of sustaining a radiative wind , the absence of wind braking can not be the main cause of the increased be fraction at low @xmath31 .",
    "perhaps the initial conditions for star formation result in higher average @xmath0 at lower @xmath31 , though the reasons for this remain unexplored . in any case , the dependence of the be fraction on @xmath31 is not yet ascertained .",
    "@xcite find a comparable be fraction among the lmc field population and in the solar neighbourhood .",
    "an even more striking cautionary example is provided by two relatively massive clusters in the cas ob8 association .",
    "this group consists of at least five open clusters known to have similar ages and distance estimates , situated in a relatively small area of the sky . as such",
    ", they are expected to have been formed in a single episode of star formation , probably because of the fragmentation of a giant molecular cloud .    the most massive cluster in cas  ob8 is ngc  663 @xcite .",
    "a spectroscopic survey of 150 likely members was conducted by @xcite in october 2002 . at that time , about one third of all stars earlier than b5v were in the be phase , with little variation between evolved ( giants and subgiants ) and ms stars . the second most massive cluster in cas  ob8 is ngc  654 .",
    "@xcite carried out a spectroscopic survey observing more than 40 b - type members down to spectral type b4v . near the cluster core , where all the objects down to a given magnitude were observed , they found 2",
    "be stars out of 34 early - type b stars .",
    "the fact that two clusters likely to have formed at the same time from the same material have extremely different be / b fractions suggests that chemical composition is not the main factor affecting the eventual appearance of a large population of be stars .",
    "though the study of large populations of early type stars in open clusters seems to be the only way to gain an understanding of the causes and incidence of the be phenomenon , data so far has provided a very blurred and , in many aspects , contradictory picture    we know for certain that some fraction of be stars must have undergone mass transfer in a binary system and we have reasons to suspect that their be nature may be in some way due to this process .",
    "however , different authors have provided completely divergent estimates of the contribution of this binary channel to the formation of be stars . in my opinion ,",
    "the lack of evidence for any companion in many be stars , together with the statistics of the be fraction and star counts in clusters , make it unlikely that most be stars form through this channel .",
    "on the other hand , i believe that present evidence suggests that a non - negligible fraction of be stars form in this way .",
    "several works have shown that b - type stars in ( at least massive ) open clusters rotate faster than those in the field .",
    "this fast rotation is likely to be primordial and related to the initial conditions of star formation , as seems to be confirmed by the results of @xcite .",
    "it is , however , interesting to note that in the case of h & @xmath16 persei , this higher average @xmath0 has not _ yet _ resulted in a high be fraction .",
    "there is abundant evidence demonstrating that be stars in open clusters are more numerous around the msto , suggesting some sort of evolutionary effect , but claims of a preferred age with a higher fraction of be stars are likely based on biased samples .",
    "there is also some evidence favouring an inverse dependence of the be fraction on metallicity .",
    "however , at this point we do not really understand which mechanism(s ) may cause this dependence .",
    "the fact that the fraction of be stars varies enormously from cluster to cluster , even at a given @xmath31 , strongly suggests that the conditions leading to the development of the be phenomenon must be primordial and have to be found at the cluster level .",
    "this research is partially supported by the spanish ministerio de educacin y ciencia under grant aya2002 - 00814 and the generalitat valenciana under grant gv04b/729 .",
    "the author is a researcher of the programme _ ramn y cajal _ , funded by the mec and the university of alicante .",
    "i thank j.  s.  clark and j.  m.  torrejn for comments on this paper , which i would like to dedicate to the memory of john  m.  porter .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa s ads abstract service , the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg ( france ) and the webda open cluster database .",
    "abt , h.a . , & levato , h. 1978 , pasp 90 , 201 abt , h.a . ,",
    "levato , h. , & grosso , m. 2002 , apj 573 , 379 behrend , r. , & maeder , a. 2001 , a&a 373 , 190 bell , s.a . ,",
    "kilkenny , d. , & malcolm , g.j .",
    "1987 , mnras 226 , 879 bragg , a.e . ,",
    "& kenyon , s.j .",
    "2002 , aj 124 , 3289 braun , h. , & langer , n. 1995 , a&a 297 , 483 carrier , f. , burki , g. , & richard , c. 1999 , a&a 341 , 469 clark , j.s , et al . 1999 , mnras 302 , 167 coe , m.j . , & edge , w.r.t .",
    "2004 , mnras 350 , 756 cranmer , s.r .",
    "2005 , apj 634 , 585 fabregat , j. , & torrejn , j.m .",
    "2000 , a&a 357 , 451 frmat , y. , zorec , j. , hubert , a .- m . , & floquet , m. 2005 , a&a 440 , 305 gies , d.r 2001 , in the influence of binaries on stellar population studies , dordrecht : kluwer academic publishers . astrophysics and space science library 264 , p. 95",
    "gies , d.r .",
    ", & huang , w. 2004 , in maeder , a. , & eenens , p. ( eds . ) stellar rotation , proceedings of iau symposium no . 215 .",
    "san francisco : asp conf .",
    "series , p.57 gies , d.r .",
    ", et al . 1998 , apj 493 , 440 guthrie , b.n.g .",
    "1984 , mnras 210 , 159 habets , g.m.h.j .",
    "1987 , a&a , 184 , 209 harmanec , p. , bisikalo , d. v. , boyarchuk , a. a. , kuznetsov , o. a. 2002 , a&a 396 , 937 hill , g. , & batten , a.h . 1984 ,",
    "apj 141 , 39 johnson , r.a . , et al . 2002 , mnras 324 , 367 kraus , m. , & miroshnichenko , a.s .",
    "2006 , proccedings of `` stars with the b[e ] phenomenon '' , asp conference series , in press keller , s.c . ,",
    "bessell , m.s .",
    ", & da costa , g.s .",
    "1999 , a&as 134 , 489 keller , s.c . , wood , p.r .",
    ", & bessell , m.s . 2000 , aj 119 , 1748 keller , s.c . ,",
    "grebel , e.k . ,",
    "miller , g.j .",
    ", & yoss , k.m . 2001 , aj 122 , 248 keller , s.c .",
    "2004 , pasa 21 , 310 maeder , a. , grebel , e.k . ,",
    "& mermilliod , j .- c . 1999 ,",
    "a&a 346,459 marco , a. , negueruela , i. , & motch , c. 2006 , these proceedings ( astro - ph/0512488 ) martayan , c. , et al .",
    "2006 , a&a 445 , 931 mckee , c.f . , & tan , j.c .",
    "2003 , apj 585 , 850 mcswain , m.v . , & gies , d.r .",
    "2005a , apj 622 , 1052 mcswain , m.v . , & gies , d.r .",
    "2005b , apjs 161 , 118 meynet , g. , maeder , a. 2000 , a&a 361 , 101 meynet , g. , maeder , a. 2003 , a&a 404 , 975 motch , c. et al .",
    "2006 , these proceedings ( astro - ph/0512556 ) negueruela , i. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 369 , 117 negueruela , i. , steele , i.a . , & bernabeu , g. 2004 , an 325 , 749 negueruela , i. , motch , c. , herent , o. , & marco , a. 2005 , benews 37 , 22 olsen , e.c . , & plavec , m.j .",
    "1997 , aj 113 , 425 okazaki , a.t . , & negueruela , i. 2001 , a&a , 377 , 161 packet , w. 1981 , a&a 102 , 17 pigulski , a. , & kopacki , g. 2000 , a&as 146 , 465 pigulski , a. , kopacki , g. , & koaczkowski , z. 2001 , a&a 376 , 144 pols , o.r . ,",
    "cot , j. , waters , l.b.f.m . , & heise , j. 1991 , a&a , 241 , 419 portegies zwart , s.f .",
    "1995 , a&a , 296 , 691 porter , j.m . ,",
    "& rivinius , th .",
    "2003 , pasp 115 , 1153 quaintrell , h. , et al .",
    "2003 , a&a 401 , 313 raguzova , n.v .",
    "2001 , a&a 367 , 848 reig , p. , fabregat , j. , & coe , m.j .",
    "1997 , a&a , 322 , 193 roche , p. , et al .",
    "1993 , a&a 270 , 122 shi , h.m . , &",
    "hu , j.y . 1999 ,",
    "a&as 136 , 313 shu , f.h . , najita , j. , ruden , s.p . , & lizano , s. 1994 , apj , 429 , 797 slesnick , c.l . ,",
    "hillenbrand , l.a . , & massey , p. 2002",
    ", apj 576,880 steiner , j.e .",
    ", & oliveira , a. 2005 , a&a 444 , 895 strom , s.e . , wolff , s.c . , & dror , d.h.a .",
    "2005 , aj 129 , 809 struve , o. , 1931 , apj 73 , 94 telting , j.h .",
    "1998 , a&a 296 , 785 townsend , r.h.d . ,",
    "owocki , s.p . , & howarth , i.d .",
    "2004 , mnras , 350 , 189 van bever , j. , & vanbeveren , d. 1997 , a&a , 322 , 116 willems , b. 2006 , these proceedings ( astro - ph/0511324 ) yorke , h.w . , &",
    "sonnhalter , c. 2002 , apj 569 , 846 zamanov , r.k . ,",
    "2001 , a&a 367 , 884 zorec , j. , & briot , d. 1997 , a&a 318 , 443 zorec , j. , frmat , y. , & cidale , l. 2005 , a&a 441 , 235"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> there are obvious and direct ways in which the presence of binary companions may affect activity in ob stars through tidal interactions . in this review , however , i consider a more fundamental role for multiplicity and explore claims that the be phenomenon may be intimately linked to binarity . </S>",
    "<S> i describe the binary channel for the formation of be stars and the ongoing discussion about the relative contribution of this channel to the population of be stars . </S>",
    "<S> i also present evidence suggesting that some environments are more favourable for the appearance of be stars and explore whether this may be connected to initial conditions , such as the chemical composition or the distribution of rotational velocities on the zams . </S>"
  ]
}