{
  "article_text": [
    "our knowledge about the structure of elliptical galaxies has progressed considerably in the last decade .",
    "no longer are we satisfied with fitting a de vaucouleurs ( 1948,1953 ) @xmath0 intensity distribution to the light profiles of elliptical galaxies .",
    "modern imaging techniques are providing ever - more precise measurements , revealing a range of light profile shapes which have been shown to be better described by the sersic ( 1968 ) @xmath5 model ( capaccioli 1989 ; caon , capaccioli & donofrio 1993 ; graham et al .",
    "1996 , and references within ) . through varying the parameter @xmath17 in the sersic model",
    ", one can reproduce an exponential light distribution ( @xmath17=1 ) , the classic de vaucouleurs profile ( @xmath17=4 ) , approximate a power - law for large values of @xmath17 ( approximately @xmath1815 ) , or any of the intermediate forms which galaxies exhibit ( michard 1985 ; schombert 1986 ; binggeli & cameron 1991 ; caon et al .",
    "1993 ; graham & colless 1997a , hereafter paper i , to mention a few ) .",
    "consequently , for those galaxies which are not well described by an @xmath0 profile , the effective radius and mean surface brightness within this radius will be different when obtained using the de vaucouleurs model and the sersic model .",
    "more importantly , these differences have been shown to have a systematic trend : galaxies with @xmath17@xmath194 have their effective half - light radii over - estimated by the @xmath0 model , and galaxies better described with values of @xmath17@xmath184 have their effective half - light radii under - estimated by the @xmath0 model .",
    "similarly , the mean surface brightness is under- and over - estimated by the @xmath0 model when @xmath17@xmath194 and @xmath17@xmath184 respectively ( graham & colless 1997b )",
    ".    observed variations in the galaxy structure , as described by the @xmath5 model , imply a variety of dynamical structures ( ciotti 1991 ; paper i ) are required to maintain these predominantly pressure - supported stellar systems .",
    "this conjecture is borne out in the observations of elliptical galaxy dynamics ( davies et al .",
    "1983 ; illingworth 1983 ; capaccioli & longo 1994 ) and has implications for the construction of the fundamental plane ( fp ) .",
    "in particular , the use of a galaxy s central velocity dispersion ( cvd , @xmath3 ) to represent the overall kinetic energy of a galaxy has been shown to be inappropriate , ( jrgensen , franx & kjrgaard 1993 ; bender , saglia & gerhard 1994 ) .",
    "the velocity dispersion derived from the kinetic energy of random motion over the entire galaxy surface has been shown to be proportional to @xmath20 rather than @xmath21 ( busarello et al .",
    "a procedure is described in paper i , based upon the theoretical study of ciotti ( 1991 ) , which enables the velocity dispersion to be measured in a consistent fashion between galaxies . rather than simply using cvd measurements , that sample different fractions of different galaxies velocity dispersion profiles ( in terms of the half - light radii ) , through application of the jeans equation , paper i presented a method to compute the asymptotic value of the velocity dispersion within a projected aperture of infinite radius .",
    "this measure , denoted by @xmath22 , has the added significance of being equal to one - third of the virial velocity for spherical systems ( ciotti 1994 ) .",
    "in paper i the light profile data ( aperture magnitudes from bower , lucey & ellis 1992 ) from a sample of 26 e / s0 virgo galaxies was analysed .",
    "departures from the @xmath0 model were found to be well - described by the sersic model , and the implied non - homology in the velocity dispersion profile was explored . using the sersic model parameters , rather than @xmath0 model parameters , and using the computed , infinite aperture velocity dispersion rather than the cvd , the fp was observed to change from @xmath1@xmath23@xmath24 to @xmath25@xmath23@xmath26 .",
    "broken structural and dynamical homology appeared to be responsible for some of the _ tilt _ of the fp , i.e.  its departure from the plane predicted by the virial theorem , @xmath27@xmath23@xmath28 .",
    "ultimately , this broken dynamical and structural homology needs to be dealt with if one is to understand the nature of elliptical galaxies and use them for measuring distances ( dressler et al .",
    "1987 ) . given the substantial improvements in describing elliptical galaxies , it is apt that the fp , and its application to distance estimates , is revisited . using a new data base ( taken from caon et al .",
    "1994 ) obtained by different observers with a different instrument and using a different reduction procedure , the influence of broken structural and broken dynamical homology upon the fp is again investigated .",
    "the data used in this paper is the surface brightness profiles along the major axis of each galaxy , as opposed to the integrated aperture magnitudes used in paper i. the influence of s0 galaxies upon the slope of the fp is also investigated , with comparison of the fps constructed with , and without , their inclusion .",
    "this paper presents the fp for the galaxy clusters fornax and virgo , two key clusters in the extra - galactic distance scale ( jacoby et al .",
    "1992 ; mcmillan , ciardullo & jacoby 1993 ; bureau , mould & staveley - smith 1996 ) .",
    "these clusters are sufficiently distant to possess significant motion due to the hubble expansion and yet they are close enough that their distances may be obtained with a plethora of independent observational techniques . the following section presents the galaxy sample and the observational / model data which is used in this study .",
    "the fundamental plane is computed , and its method of construction , including a new error analysis routine , is described in section 3 . using two different methods of analysis , a distance modulus between virgo and fornax",
    "is calculated in section 4 .",
    "this result is compared with other estimates of the virgo - fornax distance modulus in section 5 , along with a discussion of the other results .",
    "section 6 provides a summary and concluding remarks .",
    "the galaxy sample from caon et al .",
    "( 1994 ) has been used for this investigation .",
    "this data set has been used in a benchmark study ( caon et al .",
    "1993 ) which gave insight into the nature of elliptical galaxy light profiles by quantifying their deviations from the @xmath0 model . knowing that this galaxy sample does not posses structural homology amongst its members makes it an ideal sample to explore the necessarily implied broken dynamical homology and the combined influence of these effects upon the fp . from the sub - sample of galaxies for which major - axis profiles have been modeled ( see caon et al .",
    "1993 for a discussion of some of the problems in doing this ) , those which have no published velocity dispersion data have been excluded here .",
    "this reduced the sample of virgo galaxies from 33 ( caon et al .",
    "1993 ) to 25 , and the sample of fornax galaxies from 16 ( donofrio , capaccioli & caon 1994 ) to 10 .",
    "the 10 fornax galaxies were further reduced to a sample of 9 after the exclusion of ngc 1399 , which , with its shallow light profile ( @xmath17@xmath1815 ) , could not have its velocity dispersion profile accurately modeled due to the large uncertainties associated with the effective radius @xmath29 .",
    "the remaining galaxies are listed in table 1 .",
    "the b band surface brightness profiles from caon et al .",
    "( 1994 ) have been used in this study .",
    "they were constructed by these authors using the ` global mapping ' procedure of capaccioli & caon ( 1989 ) which couples ccd data for the bright inner galaxy profile with photographic data for the outer profile .",
    "this technique allows very deep photometry of galaxies , and alleviates the problem of uncertain sky subtraction errors that is associated with the use of small area ccd s .",
    "the method gives internal errors of less than 0.1 mag at @xmath30=26 mag .    in this study",
    "the major - axis surface brightness profiles have been truncated at the same inner and outer limits that were applied by caon et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and donofrio et al .",
    "( 1994 ) for the virgo and fornax galaxies respectively . in general",
    ", this meant fitting the entire light profile after the exclusion of the inner portion affected by seeing , and the outer portion where sky subtraction uncertainties became large ( @xmath180.25 mag ) .",
    "this left a typical range in surface brightness from @xmath30=20 to 27 mag .",
    "the sersic ( 1968 ) @xmath5 light profile model was fitted to the remaining profile , with the intensity @xmath31 given as a function of radius @xmath27 such that @xmath32\\right].\\ ] ] @xmath33 is the intensity at the radius @xmath34 , and @xmath35 ( @xmath361.9992n-0.3271 , capaccioli 1989 ) is defined such that @xmath34 is the radius that effectively encloses half of the total light of the profile model ( caon et al .",
    "1993 ; graham & colless 1996 ) .",
    "the ` shape parameter ' @xmath17 describes the curvature of each light profile .",
    "application of a non - linear least - squares fit of the @xmath5 model to the galaxy surface brightness data , with equal weight for each data point , produced similar values for the shape parameters to those derived by caon et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and donofrio et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , confirming that the models are being fitted consistently between authors .",
    "table 1 lists the parameters from the best fitting @xmath5 model and also those from the best fitting @xmath0 model , which was fitted in an identical fashion .",
    "@xmath37 is the mean surface brightness within the effective radius @xmath29 , computed using the technique described in appendix a of paper i. the subscripts @xmath17 and 4 on the model parameters are used to denote the model from which the particular parameters have come ; @xmath17 signifying @xmath5 model parameters , and 4 signifying @xmath0 model parameters .",
    "ciotti ( 1991 ) , and also paper i , explored the relationship between the projected and spatial ( deprojected ) quantities . by definition",
    ", the surface brightness terms had a one - to - one mapping , while there was an approximately constant offset ( @xmath12@xmath160.13 , ciotti 1991 ) between the effective radii .",
    "therefore either of these quantities could be used for the construction of the fp .",
    "the deprojected velocity dispersion at the effective radius was found not to have such a simple relation with its projected counterpart , the central velocity dispersion measurement .",
    "this deprojected velocity dispersion is preferred over the cvd measurement because it not only allows for the range of velocity dispersion profiles present , but also samples different galaxies in a consistent fashion ( cvd measurements sample typically anywhere between 0.01 - 0.2 @xmath29 ) .",
    "however , due to the physical significance of the projected velocity dispersion within an aperture of infinite radius , this term , which also samples different galaxies in a consistent fashion , is preferred in the analysis which follows .",
    "following caon et al .",
    "( 1993 ) ( their fig .",
    "3 ) , the light profile shape parameter is plotted against galaxy scale - size in figure  [ fig1 ] . although our methods of parameterisation differ ( caon et al .",
    "1993 have used model - independent estimates for the half - light radius ) , the same trend of increasing values of @xmath17 with @xmath29 is evident here .",
    "the present study also includes fornax galaxies as well as those from virgo .",
    "also shown in the figure are the 99% confidence intervals for the model parameters .",
    "these were computed by evaluating the chi - square values for a fine grid of points around the optimum solution .",
    "the contours drawn correspond to @xmath38=9.21 ( i.e.  4@xmath39 ) , scaled after normalisation of the reduced @xmath40 of the optimum solution .    in exploring the sensitivity of the @xmath5 model parameters to the radial range of the surface brightness profile ,",
    "the sersic model was fitted to that data within the inner 40@xmath41 .",
    "this outer truncation is the same as the outermost data points used in paper i , enabling a further comparison of the present data with that used in paper i. the inner truncation used by caon et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and donofrio et al .",
    "( 1994 ) was again employed , except for ngc 4473 and ngc 4636 for which only the inner 3@xmath41 was excluded . in figure",
    "[ fig2 ] , the resulting model parameters are shown plotted against those obtained using the entire surface brightness profile ( table 1 ) .",
    "it is noted that the light profiles from the smaller radial extension ( @xmath1940@xmath41 ) may not be representative of the galaxy as a whole , and therefore may not represent the _ over - all _ global galaxy shape .",
    "this is more likely to be true for the larger galaxies , especially those having @xmath29@xmath1840@xmath41 .",
    "it is also true that the sersic index @xmath17 is less sensitive at larger values ( graham et al .",
    "thus , figure  [ fig2 ] offers an alternative estimate for the uncertainty of the @xmath5 model parameters .",
    "some of the more discrepant points have been labeled in the plot .",
    "it is noted that they are predominantly the s0 galaxies .",
    "if one is to think of these galaxies as possessing an @xmath0 ( @xmath17=4 ) central bulge and an exponential ( @xmath17=1 ) outer disk , or some approximately equivalent sersic form , then this could account for the larger index obtained using the smaller radial range for the s0 galaxies ngc 1380 , 4339 , and 4550 .",
    "in fact , such measurements offer themselves as possible diagnostics for distinguishing s0 galaxies from ellipticals .    for the fornax galaxies , the tabulated extinctions range from @xmath42=-0.05 to -0.09",
    ". some of the virgo galaxies also have negative extinctions , with a mean virgo cluster value of @xmath42=0.04@xmath150.07 ( standard deviation ) for the sample .",
    "the negative values are due to the variable ratio of h@xmath43 gas - to - dust in the galaxy ( burstein & heiles 1978 ) , and have no physical meaning .",
    "such values arise in the method used by burstein & heiles for regions where there is zero or negligible reddening , and they should be set equal to 0.00 .",
    "corrections for galactic extinction ( burstein & heiles 1984 ; burstein et al .",
    "1987 ) were not applied by caon et al .",
    "( 1994 ) . this practice has been maintained here .    at a redshift of around 0.003",
    ", the k - correction and redshift dimming will be equally small for both clusters , at 0.015 mag and 0.013 respectively .",
    "consequently these terms have not been incorporated into the analysis .",
    "cvds are typically used as a measure of the kinetic energy within elliptical and s0 galaxies .",
    "there are many problems associated with doing this .",
    "firstly , rotational energies , which are likely to be significant for s0 galaxies , are ignored .",
    "secondly , fixed aperture sizes ( on the sky ) in which the cvd is measured correspond to different physical sizes for galaxies in clusters at different distances .",
    "this effect alone may likely introduce systematic errors into cluster distance determinations which have incorporated fixed aperture sizes to measure the cvd .",
    "thirdly , given that galaxies have a range of sizes and structural profiles , they will also have a range of dynamical profiles which support the various structures that are observed .",
    "therefore , even within clusters , fixed aperture sizes will sample different fractions of individual galaxies , as measured in terms of their effective radii .    in an attempt to find a better measure of the kinetic energy within each galaxy , a method of computing the velocity dispersion in a consistent manner for all galaxies",
    "was presented in paper i. deprojecting the galaxy light profile , the spatial luminosity density ( ciotti 1991 ) was computed . assuming a constant @xmath44 ratio within each galaxy , such knowledge of the internal density profile coupled with the application of the jeans hydrodynamical equation enables one to compute the internal velocity dispersion profile .",
    "this can then be projected outward to give the projected radial velocity dispersion profile , which in turn can be integrated over increasing aperture sizes to give the projected aperture velocity dispersion profile .",
    "this is then calibrated using the measured cvd .",
    "the computed spatial ( deprojected ) velocity dispersion at the spatial half - light radius was used in paper i to represent the kinetic energy of the galaxies .",
    "unlike use of cvd , this approach consistently samples the velocity dispersion profile in the same way for all galaxies .",
    "as an alternative , the computed velocity dispersion within an aperture of infinite radius was also used .",
    "this quantity has been shown by ciotti ( 1994 ) to be equal to one - third of the virial velocity dispersion , independent of any orbital anisotropies that may be present .",
    "this measure for the kinetic energy is adopted here , not only for the consistent fashion in which galaxies are sampled but also due to the significance of the infinite aperture velocity dispersion @xmath22 .",
    "these values are listed in table 1 , where the subscripts 4 and @xmath17 refer to use of the @xmath0 and @xmath5 models respectively .",
    "also listed are the cvd measurements , @xmath3 , from mcelroy ( 1995 ) .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,>,>,>,^,>,>,^ , > \" , ]     the two techniques described in feigelson & babu ( 1992 ) for estimating the offset of parallel data sets have both been implemented here .",
    "these methods are subject to the condition that the virgo and fornax elliptical galaxy population define fps which are parallel to each other . given the uncertainties on the derived fp slopes ( table  [ tab7 ] ) , the fornax cluster data does indeed define a plane which is consistent with being parallel to the virgo cluster data .",
    "this is true when @xmath0 model parameters and cvd s are used , and also when @xmath5 model parameters and infinite aperture velocity dispersions are used to construct the fp .    in the following method of analysis ,",
    "a linear regression is performed on one of the cluster data sets , and the resulting regression line from this _ calibration _ is then applied to the second ( parallel ) cluster .",
    "one technique for measuring the intercept offset between parallel data sets was pioneered by working & hotelling ( 1929 ) and further developed by feigelson & babu ( 1992 ) to permit the @xmath45-values ( i.e.  distance - independent values ) to be random variables rather than fixed quantities . with this method ,",
    "the calibrated regression line for virgo was applied individually to the data points in fornax and a weighted mean offset attained ; the method is discussed in section 3.2 of feigelson & babu ( 1992 ) and their appendix a2 .",
    "this procedure encompasses the fact that the confidence intervals about the @xmath46-value one is trying to predict , given its @xmath45-value , will be larger for those data points at the ends of the distribution .",
    "this is because the uncertainty in the slope of the calibration line / plane gives greater freedom of movement to the calibration line at the ends of the distribution than in the center .",
    "this method of analysis gave an intercept offset , along the @xmath12 axis between the fp s defined by the virgo and fornax data sets , of @xmath47=-0.092@xmath150.045 dex and -0.064@xmath150.043 dex for the ( @xmath0,@xmath3 ) parameters and the ( @xmath5,@xmath48 ) parameters , respectively .",
    "in a similar fashion , the fornax cluster has been used as the calibration sample , where the fitted regression line for fornax is applied to the virgo cluster .",
    "this was done with the working - hotelling confidence bands . using the ` standard ' fp parameters ( @xmath49,@xmath1,@xmath2 ) , an intercept offset of",
    "+ 0.091@xmath150.031 dex was computed . using",
    "the ` improved ' fp parameters ( @xmath6,@xmath25,@xmath50 ) , an intercept offset of + 0.051@xmath150.025 dex was computed .",
    "these intercept offsets translate into a distance modulus of + 0.45@xmath150.16 mag ( using @xmath0 model parameters and @xmath3 ) and + 0.25@xmath150.12 mag ( using @xmath5 model parameters and @xmath48 ) . the former estimate placing fornax some ( 23@xmath158)% further away than the virgo cluster , compared to the latter estimate of ( 12@xmath156)% .",
    "these solutions are fully consistent with those obtained using the virgo cluster as the calibration sample ( see table  [ tab8 ] ) .",
    "an alternative approach for computing the offset of parallel data sets was achieved following the methods in section 3.1 of feigelson & babu ( 1992 ) and their appendix a1 .",
    "the fp data set from the virgo cluster of galaxies was used to calibrate the _ regression line _ which was then applied to the fp data set of the fornax cluster as a whole ( and _ vice - versa _ ) .",
    "this was done in order to derive the intercept offset , along the @xmath12 axis , between the fp s defined by the virgo and fornax clusters .",
    "the solutions obtained were similar , within 0.001 dex , to those calculated using the working - hotelling confidence bands , although the associated uncertainties were generally equal or larger .",
    "this served as a useful consistency check on the determination of the cluster - cluster distance modulus . with the working - hotelling confidence bands ,",
    "the uncertainty on the intercept offset , and hence the distance estimate , is reduced by the square - root of the sample size one is applying the calibrated solution to .",
    "consequently , applying the fornax _ regression _ line to virgo , with a sample size of 18 , results in a more accurate solution than achieved by applying the virgo _ regression _ line to fornax , with a sample size of only 7 . however , this effect does have to compete with the fact that the uncertainty on the regression line is larger for a smaller calibration sample . as the generalised working - hotelling confidence bands propagate the errors in the calibrated line , this effect can not be avoided , and the size of these errors influence the associated errors for the intercept offset .",
    "the lack of symmetry for the error estimates when using virgo or fornax as the calibrator is due to following : the error estimates on the slope of the regression line , which were propagated in the above analysis , were derived from the analytical expression for these terms .",
    "however , the errors on the slope and intercept will be under - estimated by the analytical expressions when the number of data points is small .",
    "this is seen in the fp solutions shown in table  [ tab7 ] , where the jackknife and bootstrapping methods of analysis provide a better estimate of the true size of these errors .",
    "consequently , the error estimates on the previously given distance moduli should be multiplied by approximately the ratio of the bootstrapping error ( or jackknife error if this is larger ) to the asymptotic error ( feigelson & babu 1992 ) .",
    "in addition , it should be noted that the fp slope uncertainties in table  [ tab7 ] were estimated when the mixing value , @xmath51 , was held fixed and assumed to have zero error . it should be remembered that it is the offset between two parallel planes , not two parallel lines , that is being measured . in order to fully estimate the uncertainties on the derived distance modulus , one must allow for errors in the optimal fp slopes for all axes . in so doing , one should return to the bootstrapping errors obtained with the 3-dimensional data set ( table  [ tab6 ] ) .",
    "working in 3-dimensions , the errors associated with the fp exponent @xmath52 , are obtained by also letting the exponent @xmath53 ( and hence @xmath51 ) vary , as permitted by the bootstrapping analysis of the data .",
    "therefore , the error obtained in the 3-dimensional analysis represents the true error estimate of the exponent @xmath52 . allowing for this ,",
    "the errors to the solution for the virgo - fornax distance modulus are again multiplied by the ratio of the 3-d bootstrapping errors to the 2-d asymptotic errors .",
    "this procedure does not effect the optimal solution , only the associated uncertainties .",
    "the resulting solutions place fornax ( 23@xmath1544)% ( @xmath0,@xmath3 ) , and ( 12@xmath1536)% ( @xmath5,@xmath6 ) further away than virgo .",
    "in the interest of statistical completeness , galaxies with a cvd of less than 100 km s@xmath54 were not explicitly removed from the analysis . due to the greater scatter in the fp below this value",
    ", past studies have enforced this arbitrary cut - off in their galaxy sample .",
    "however , it seems plausible to attribute the higher level of scatter to an inadequate treatment of the kinetic energy for these galaxies . as this is an issue which is addressed in this study , it made sense to leave these galaxies in the analysis .",
    "contributions from rotational energy to the total kinetic energy of a galaxy can in principle influence the slope of the fp .",
    "djorgovski & santiago ( 1993 ) noted that gains from including a rotational energy measurement would be offset by the introduction of additional measurement errors .",
    "indeed , a marginal effect has been reported many times ( simien & prugniel 1992 ; busarello , longo & feoli 1992 ; prugniel & simien 1994 ) . an asymmetric trend between the galaxy fp residuals and their maximum rotational velocity has also been found by donofrio et al .",
    "more quantitative estimates from prugniel & simien ( 1996a , b ) , using a sample of 400 galaxies , claim that rotation can account for 25@xmath1515% of the departure of the fp from the virial expectation . while this figure may be true for fp s constructed using early - type galaxies ( e and s0 ) , which includes almost all fp s constructed to date , this figure can be reduced by the exclusion of s0 galaxies , known to have rotating disks .",
    "this was hinted at in the study by busarello et al .",
    "( 1997 ) , who used only _ bona fide _ ellipticals to obtain a contribution of 15@xmath55% to the tilt to the fp due to galaxy rotational energies .    in this paper ,",
    "the fp was constructed using a culled set of galaxies , removing the s0s and keeping the es .",
    "contributions from possible rotational support to the kinetic energy term are expected to be minimal in this study of the fp .",
    "four of the nine s0 galaxies which were excluded did actually have cvd s less than 100 km s@xmath54 , leaving only one galaxy in the remaining sample of 25 ellipticals with a cvd less than 100 km s@xmath54 .",
    "it may indeed be that the increased scatter observed for the fp at the low velocity dispersion end is due to the presence of s0 galaxies that harbour rotating disks with significant rotational energies that are simply not measured through cvd measurements .",
    "for the virgo cluster , exclusion of these objects resulted in a reduction of some 15 - 35% in the scatter about the fp , as evidenced by the rms residuals listed in table  [ tab2 ] and table  [ tab3 ] .",
    "for the virgo cluster , exclusion of the s0 s caused the final fp solution ( incorporating the observed range of galaxy profiles and implied dynamics ) to change from @xmath7 to @xmath10 .",
    "this suggests that the inclusion of the s0 population not only increases the scatter about the fp ( see tables  [ tab2 ] and  [ tab3 ] ) but is also partly responsible for the departure of the fp from the relation @xmath8 , predicted by the virial theorem .",
    "this is again easily understood as due to the neglect of rotational energies in the construction of the observed fp .",
    "it is therefore suggested that in addition to treating broken structural and dynamical homology , the construction of the fp always adopt the procedure of only using _ bona fide _ elliptical galaxies , unless one allows for rotational energies .",
    "it is found that by addressing the range of structural and dynamical profiles evident amongst the elliptical galaxy population , the departure of the fp from the plane predicted by the virial theorem is reduced , confirming the results in paper i. in addition , the scatter of the data points about the fp is reduced by some 20% for the sample of fornax ellipticals and by the same amount for the sample of virgo e and s0 galaxies .",
    "for the sample of virgo ellipticals , the mean rms scatter about the fp is reduced by 40% after treating the range of galaxy structures and dynamics .",
    "this is evident in tables 2 , 3 and 4 , which give the best fitting fp relation when one does and does not treat broken structural homology , and when one does and does not consistently measure the kinetic energy of the galaxies ( i.e.  uses @xmath22 or cvd s , respectively ) .",
    "the first row of these 3 tables gives the fp which was constructed assuming that all galaxies are described by an @xmath0 profile and uses cvd s to represent the kinetic energy of each galaxy ; this procedure gives the greatest departures of the fp from the virial plane .",
    "the final row in each table gives the fp that was constructed allowing for a range of structural profiles amongst the galaxies , as described by the @xmath5 model , and measures the kinetic energy of each galaxy in a consistent manner by using the computed velocity dispersion within an aperture of infinite radius ; this procedure gives the closest agreement between the fp and the virial plane .",
    "in fact , the formal solution for the fp of the fornax cluster ( @xmath11 ) is found to be in very close agreement with the prediction of the virial theorem , but does have large uncertainties associated with it because of the small number ( 7 ) of fornax elliptical galaxies in the sample .",
    "overall , it is concluded that addressing the range of structural profiles amongst the elliptical galaxies and better treating the galaxy dynamics reduces both the departure of the fp from the virial plane and the scatter about the fp .",
    "in paper i the sersic light profile model was fitted to a sample of 26 e / s0 virgo galaxies using the aperture magnitude profile data from bower et al .",
    "( 1992 ) . of these ,",
    "18 galaxies are in common with the sample of 25 used here .",
    "comparison between the galaxy model parameters obtained in each study is not straight - forward , however .",
    "the galaxy profile data used here is in the form of surface brightness measurements along the major - axis , where as paper i uses circular aperture magnitudes .",
    "consequently , the models fitted in paper i are more heavily weighted by the inner profile , and by necessity incorporate the central parts of the galaxy light . by contrast",
    ", the treatment of the surface brightness profiles here gives all data points along the profile equal weight , and does not fit the central portion of the profile .",
    "in addition , the use of aperture magnitude data samples light from all position angles , and in so doing represents a mean light distribution for the galaxy as a whole .",
    "the presence of ellipticity gradients will result in the major- and minor - axis light profiles being described by different shape parameters so that @xmath56@xmath57@xmath58 .",
    "this is clearly evident in the range of shape parameters , @xmath17 , for the major- and minor - axis , shown in the study of the virgo ellipticals by caon et al .",
    "consequently , the mean light distribution obtained through the use of circular aperture magnitudes should not be expected to be identical to the light distribution along the major - axis . finally , the data of bower et al .",
    "( 1992 ) was taken in the v - band , and that of caon et al .",
    "( 1993 ) in the b - band .",
    "possible colour gradients , although expected to be small , may also contribute to differing results . despite the above factors ,",
    "there is still fair agreement between the sersic model parameters obtained using the different data sets .",
    "galaxy scale - size and light profile shape for those galaxies in common between this paper and paper i are displayed in figure  [ fig3 ] .",
    "for comparison between the data sets , the sersic model was fitted to the same radial extent ( @xmath1940@xmath41 ) for each data set .",
    "this outer radius cut - off comes from the aperture magnitude profile limit of bower et al .",
    "( 1992 ) , and has been applied , for this comparison , to the major - axis profiles of caon et al .",
    "the correlation seen between the shape parameters has a linear correlation coefficient of 0.55 , which increases to 0.82 upon removal of the 3 more discrepant points that are labeled in figure  [ fig3 ] .",
    "the correlation coefficient between the effective half - light radii is stronger at 0.93 , suggesting that the range of galaxy sizes , and structures , can be _ largely _ reproduced from both types of observational data .",
    "the galaxies which appear to have the more discrepant shape parameters are the flattened s0 galaxy ngc 4550 , ngc 4486 , and ngc 4564 which has a value of @xmath17=4.64 ( paper i ) lying between @xmath56=1.51 and @xmath58=5.08 ( caon et al .",
    "1993 ) and is therefore not a discrepant point after all .",
    "despite the above differences , it is interesting to compare the resulting fp s obtained using the independent data sets .",
    "firstly , assuming structural homology and using @xmath0 model parameters and cvd measurements for the virgo cluster of galaxies , the fp was found in paper i to be described by @xmath59 .",
    "this is to be compared with @xmath4 found in this study .",
    "the exponents on the velocity dispersion term are consistent within the 1@xmath39 joint errors , and the exponents on the surface brightness term are consistent within the 2@xmath39 joint errors .",
    "allowing for broken structural homology and consistently measuring the velocity dispersion within an aperture of infinite radius , it was found in paper i that the fp for virgo is described by @xmath60 .",
    "this should be compared with @xmath61 .",
    "the relative consistency between the exponents is the same as before .",
    "it is noted that the uncertainties on the fp exponents are based upon the statistics of the linear regression to the data points ; they do not incorporate possible measurement errors in the data points themselves .",
    "it is also noted that the sample of virgo galaxies used in paper i contains 7 galaxies that this study does not include , and this study also contains 7 galaxies not present in the sample of paper i. using only those 18 galaxies in common , the resulting fp s were found to be in acceptable agreement with each other , with the fp described by the data in paper i given by the relation @xmath62 , and that obtained using this studies data given by the relation @xmath63 .",
    "the main point is that both studies show that by treating the range of luminosity and dynamical structures inherent amongst the early type galaxies the departure of the fp from the virial plane is reduced .",
    "donofrio et al .  (",
    "1996 ) also constructed a fp for the virgo and fornax clusters using the data of caon et al .",
    "the approach taken in this study differs in several ways to that of donofrio et al .",
    "this work has used model - determined effective radii and the model - determined mean surface brightness within these radii , where as donofrio et al .",
    "( 1996 ) used model - independent values for these quantities ( caon et al .",
    "the model - determined quantities are those derived from the @xmath5 model fitted to the undisturbed portion the galaxy light profile .",
    "this portion is free from any peculiarities of the inner light profiles ( noted by caon et al .",
    "1993 ) , is not heavily distorted by the presence of a disk or dust lanes , and is uncontaminated from possible tidal interactions which may have perturbed the original galaxy profile , particularly in the outer parts .",
    "the parameters used by donofrio et al .",
    "( 1996 ) are better estimates of the half - light radii , in the true sense of the term , in that they are the radii which enclose half of the total light from the galaxy , although the total light was derived by extrapolating the observational data to @xmath30=32 with @xmath0 profiles ( caon et al .",
    "1994 ) , the preferred dynamical term used here differs from that used by donofrio et al .",
    "( 1996 ) . while they used cvd values",
    ", this paper has also used , and in fact prefers , the infinite aperture velocity dispersion derived from the application of the jeans equation ( ciotti 1991 ; paper 1 ) .",
    "donofrio et al .",
    "( 1996 ) gave their virgo fp solution as @xmath64@xmath23@xmath65 .",
    "this is in good agreement with the fp solution derived here , which addressed the range of structural profiles but used cvd measurements . for the sample of virgo e and s0 galaxies",
    "the relation @xmath25@xmath23@xmath66 was obtained here .",
    "donofrio et al .",
    "( 1996 ) computed a virgo - fornax distance modulus of 0.50 mag ( using the fp ) and 0.45@xmath150.15 mag ( using the @xmath67-@xmath39 relation ) .",
    "this result is in close agreement with the distance modulus derived in this study based upon galaxy parameters from the @xmath0 profile and using cvd s , where a value of 0.45@xmath150.16 mag ( asymptotic error ) was computed . using @xmath5 model parameters and infinite aperture velocity dispersion measurements",
    ", however , this study found the virgo - fornax distance modulus to be 0.25@xmath150.12 mag ( asymptotic error ) .",
    "given that donofrio et al .",
    "( 1996 ) allowed for different galaxy structures through using model - independent estimates of the half - light radius and associated mean surface brightness , but used cvd s , the final estimate of 0.25 mag appears to be different because of the treatment of the dynamical term rather than the treatment of the structural quantities . indeed , donofrio et al .",
    "( 1997 ) introduced their own aperture correction to the velocity dispersion term , finding a reduced virgo - fornax distance modulus of 0.30@xmath150.05 mag ( formal error ) .",
    "comparison with other methods of distance determination yields good agreement with the distance modulus of + 0.25@xmath150.12 mag obtained in section  [ sectd ] .",
    "the investigation by mcmillan et al .",
    "( 1993 ) , using the planetary nebula luminosity function , found a virgo - fornax distance modulus of + 0.24@xmath150.10 mag .",
    "another accurate estimate has been derived using the method of surface brightness fluctuations , where a value of 0.20@xmath150.08 mag has been obtained ( tonry et al .",
    "1997 ) . using a sample of e and s0 galaxies , dressler et al .",
    "( 1987 ) applied the @xmath67-@xmath39 relation to compute a value of + 0.14@xmath150.18 mag .",
    "an alternate approach using type ia supernovae ( hamuy et al .",
    "1991 ) found a yet lower value of 0.09@xmath150.14 mag , although still consistent within the errors of the value derived here .",
    "however the result presented here is in poorer agreement with studies using the globular cluster luminosity function ( -0.5@xmath150.2 mag , bridges , hanes & harris 1991 ) and with studies which have used the tully fisher ( tf ) relation for spiral galaxies .",
    "the h - band tf relation used by aaronson et al .  ( 1989 ) placed the fornax cluster closer than virgo , giving a distance modulus of -0.25@xmath150.23 mag for fornax relative to virgo .",
    "more recently , bureau et al .  ( 1996 ) used an i - band tf relation . demanding equal slopes for the tf relation in each cluster , and allowing for errors on both axes",
    ", they obtained a value of -0.04@xmath150.15 mag .",
    "this result is not as inconsistent with the analysis in this paper as one might first think .",
    "it should be noted that the bootstrapping error analysis , performed in section  [ sectd ] , revealed that the estimate of the error based upon analytical asymptotic expressions was too small due to the small sample size ( see table  [ tab7 ] ) .",
    "correction for this increased the error estimate from 0.12 mag to 0.27 mag .",
    "the treatment in bureau et al.(1996 ) , and indeed most papers of this kind , has similarly under - estimated the true size of their errors for the same reason  the analytical expression for the size of the errors under - estimates the true size of the errors when the sample size is small ( approximately @xmath1950 ) .",
    "in addition , it is known that spiral galaxies are less centrally concentrated within a cluster than the elliptical galaxies , so they may not provide as accurate a measurement of the cluster distance as the ellipticals can",
    ". this could be particularly relevant for virgo , a cluster known to have a considerable line - of - sight depth ( tonry , ajhar & luppino 1990 ; jacoby et al .",
    "1992 ) .",
    "the virgo - fornax distance modulus obtained in this paper is also only marginally consistent with the study by bothun , caldwell & schombert ( 1989 ) who used the surface brightness profiles of dwarf ellipticals to compute a distance modulus of -0.16@xmath150.16 mag . by the nature of their study , they also sampled a different galaxy population than used here , which again may partly explain the disagreement in distance modulus .",
    "it is also observed that they made no mention of having used any numerical resampling technique to estimate the size of their errors . to extrapolate , this opens up the possibility that many past inconsistencies between cluster distance estimations may be simply due to an inadequate , and under - estimation , of the associated errors .",
    "there are other effects which have been proposed to influence the tilt of the fp .",
    "one of these is orbital anisotropy in the galaxies internal velocity fields .",
    "this has been explored in detail in the studies by ciotti , lanzoni & renzini ( 1996 ) and ciotti & lanzoni ( 1997 ) . using the jeans equation",
    ", they performed theoretical modeling of the dynamics of a range of @xmath5 surface brightness profiles ( @xmath17=1 - 10 ) , and for the hernquist ( 1990 ) and jaffe ( 1983 ) density models .",
    "they explored possible variations in the orbital anisotropy with radius . rejecting those models which are likely to be unstable",
    ", they found that variations to the tilt of the fp due to orbital anisotropy are confined within the known thickness of the fp and can thus have no significant influence on the fp tilt .",
    "the influence of differing stellar populations , as given by line strength indices such as mg@xmath68 or broad band colours such as b - v , was initially determined to have little or no effect on the slope of the fp ( djorgovski & davis 1987 ; lynden - bell et al .",
    "1988 ; jrgensen et al .",
    "however , more recent estimates of the influence from differing stellar metallicities and ages are suggesting a greater effect on the slope of the fp ( gregg 1992 ; guzman & lucey 1993 ) .",
    "prugniel & simien ( 1996a , b ) combined four broad band colours and the mg@xmath68 index in the extraction and computation of a mean measure of the influence of differing stellar populations .",
    "they found that stellar populations may account for half of the observed tilt to the fp .",
    "if confirmed , this would easily explain any remaining tilt to the fp , and may place one in the unexpected position of having the fp tilt the other way .",
    "for a sample of virgo and fornax early - type galaxies , the surface brightness profiles from caon et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , which are known to represent a range of luminosity structures , have been used to explore the tilt and thickness of the fp .",
    "this study also explores the range of luminosity structures present amongst the early - type galaxies using the sersic @xmath5 model rather than forcing structural homology through use of the @xmath0 model ( see also caon et al .",
    "the @xmath5 light profile model has been used to parameterise the size ( as given by the effective radius @xmath25 ) and mean surface brightness ( @xmath50 ) for each galaxy . solving the jeans equation ,",
    "the associated range of dynamical structures has been computed and the projected velocity dispersion within an aperture of infinite radius ( = 1/3 of the virial velocity dispersion ; ciotti 1994 ) has been derived .",
    "this approach measures the velocity dispersion of each galaxy in a consistent fashion .",
    "cvd measurements sample different fractions of different galaxy s dynamical profiles , where as the infinite aperture velocity dispersion consistently measures galaxies in the same way , and therefore provides a better estimate of a galaxy s kinetic energy .",
    "the trend of increasing shape parameter @xmath17 with increasing values of the model - independent half - light radius ( caon et al .",
    "1993 ) , is also shown to be present when using the @xmath5 model - determined effective radius @xmath25 .",
    "a @xmath40 error analysis of the fitted model parameters shows that this is not due to coupling between the model parameters implying it is a real physical relation .",
    "a principal component analysis reveals that greater than 97% of the variance in the fp data set ( @xmath39,@xmath27,@xmath13 ) resides within 2 dimensions , confirming the appropriateness of fitting a plane to this data .",
    "it is concluded that broken structural and dynamical homology are responsible , at least in part , for the departure of the fp from the relation @xmath27@xmath23@xmath28 predicted by the virial theorem .",
    "having used an independent set of data obtained by different observers with a different instrument and reduction procedures , this confirms the results of paper i. this conclusion is supported by the additional analysis of the fornax cluster .    for comparison of the the fp with the virial theorem ,",
    "the fp was constructed using the bisector method of linear regression in 3 dimensions . due to the small galaxy sample size",
    ", a bootstrapping procedure was employed to estimate the uncertainty on the fp slope . using a sample of 25 virgo e ( 18 ) and s0 ( 7 ) galaxies ,",
    "the fp constructed using @xmath0 model parameters and cvd measurements was found to be given by the relation @xmath4 . allowing for broken structural and broken dynamical homology , this plane was observed to change to @xmath7 .",
    "the perpendicular rms scatter about these fp s is 0.099 to 0.077 dex respectively .",
    "given that the s0 galaxies likely possess significant rotational energy that is not dealt with through use of velocity dispersion measurements , they were removed from the sample of virgo galaxies and the above analysis was re - performed .",
    "the resulting fp was found to change from @xmath9 to @xmath10 . the perpendicular rms scatter to the plane",
    "was found to decrease by 40% from 0.084 to 0.050 with the fuller treatment of galaxy structure and dynamics .",
    "the fp for a sample of 7 elliptical galaxies in the fornax cluster , was also computed under the same conditions as above .",
    "the fornax fp was found to change from @xmath69 to @xmath11 , with perpendicular rms scatter of 0.064 and 0.050 respectively .",
    "the formal solution of the latter fp is in close agreement with the plane predicted by the virial theorem , and it will be of interest to see how / if this solution changes for a larger sample of galaxies .    constructing",
    "the virgo fp by minimising the residuals of the @xmath12 variable and applying this to the fornax data , through use of the improved working - hotelling confidence bands approach developed by feigelson & babu ( 1992 ) , enabled an estimation of the relative distance between the two clusters . forcing structural homology ( i.e.  fitting @xmath0 profiles ) and using cvd s , a virgo - fornax distance modulus of 0.46@xmath150.16 mag ( analytical error ) was obtained . allowing for the range of galaxy structures observed in the data , and using the infinite aperture velocity dispersion ,",
    "the virgo - fornax distance modulus was computed to be 0.25@xmath150.12 mag ( analytical error ) .",
    "a fuller estimate of the associated uncertainties to these distance moduli was achieved through a numerical resampling of the 3-dimensional fp data set .",
    "this analysis made the fornax cluster ( 23@xmath1544)% and ( 12@xmath1536)% more distant than the virgo cluster , for the respective models above .",
    "i thank mauro donofrio for making his galaxy profile data available to me in electronic form .",
    "i also thank eric feigelson and ron kollgaard for providing me with their computer codes to compute the intercept offset between parallel data sets , and for their quick help with my queries .",
    "i am also grateful for the use of eric feigelson s computer code slopes .",
    "i thank matthew colless for his proof reading of this manuscript and his useful suggestions .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "12345 aaronson m. et al . , 1989 , apj , 338 , 654 bender r. , saglia r.p . , gerhard o.e . , 1994 , mnras , 269 , 785 bevington p.r . ,",
    "1969 , data reduction and error analysis for the physical sciences .",
    "new york , mcgraw - hill binggeli b. , cameron l.m .",
    ", 1991 , a&a , 252 , 27 bothun g.d . , caldwell n. , schombert j.m . , 1989 ,",
    "aj , 98 , 1542 bower r.g . , lucey j.r . ,",
    "ellis r.s . , 1992 , mnras , 254 , 589 bridges t.j . , hanes d.a . ,",
    "harris , w.e .",
    ", 1991 , aj , 101 , 469 bureau m. , mould j.r . , staveley - smith , l. , 1996 , apj , 463 , 60 burstein d. , heiles c. , 1978 , apj , 225 , 40 burstein d. , heiles c. , 1984 , apjs , 54 , 33 burstein d. , davies r.l . , dressler a. , faber s.m . ,",
    "stone r.p.s . , lynden - bell d. , terlevich r.j . , wegner g. , 1987 , apjs , 64 , 601 busarello g. , longo g. , feoli a. , 1992 , a&a , 262 , 52 busarello g. , capaccioli m. , capozziello s. , longo g. , puddu e. , 1997 , a&a , 320 , 415 caon n. , capaccioli m. , donofrio m. , 1993 , mnras , 265 , 1013 caon n. , capaccioli m. , donofrio m. , 1994 , a&as , 106 , 199 capaccioli m. , 1989 , in corwin h g. , bottinelli l. , eds , the world of galaxies .",
    "springer - verlag , berlin , p.208 capaccioli m. , caon n. , 1989 , in grosbl p.j . , murtagh f. , warmels r.h .",
    "eso / st - ecf workshop on : data analysis .",
    "eso , garching , p.  107",
    "capaccioli m. , longo g. , 1994 , a&a review , 5 , 293 ciotti l. , 1991 , a&a , 249 , 99 ciotti l. , 1994 , cel . mech . & dynam . astr . , 60 , 401 ciotti l. , lanzoni b. , 1997 , a&a , 321 , 724 ciotti l. , lanzoni b. , renzini a. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 1 davies r.l . , efstathiou g. , fall s.m . , illingworth g. , schecter p.l . , 1983 , apj , 266 , 41 de vaucouleurs g. , 1948 , ann dap . , 11 , 247 de vaucouleurs g. , 1953 , mnras , 113 , 134 de vaucouleurs g. , de vaucouleurs a. , corwin h.g.jr . , buta r.j . , paturel g. , fouque p. 1991 , in third reference catalogue of bright galaxies .",
    "springer - verlag djorgovski s. , davis m. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 59 djorgovski s. , santiago b.x . , 1993 , in danziger j. et al./ , eds , proc . of the eso / eipc workshop on structure , dynamics , and chemical evolution of early - type galaxies .",
    "eso publication 45 , p.59 donofrio m. , capaccioli m. , caon n. , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 523 donofrio m. , capaccioli m. , zaggia , s.r . , caon n. , 1997 , mnras , in press donofrio m. , longo g. , capaccioli m. , 1996 , in buzzoni a. , renzini a. , serrano g. , eds , asp conf .",
    "86 , fresh views of elliptical galaxies .",
    ", san francisco , p. 143",
    "dressler a. , lynden - bell d. , burstein d. , davies r.l . ,",
    "faber s.m . ,",
    "terlevich r.j . , wegner g. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 42 feigelson e.d .",
    ", babu g.j . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 397 , 55 graham a. , colless m.m . ,",
    "1997a , mnras , 287 , 221 , paper i graham a. , colless m.m .",
    ", 1997b , in arnaboldi m. , da costa , g.s .",
    ", saha p. , eds , asp conf .",
    "116 , the second stromlo symposium  the nature of elliptical galaxies .",
    ", san francisco , p. 175",
    "graham a. , lauer t.r .",
    ", colless m. , postman m. , 1996 , apj , 465 , 534 gregg m.d . , 1992 , apj , 384 , 43 guzman r. , lucey j.r . , 1993 , mnras , 263 l47 hamuy m. , phillips m.m .",
    ", maza j. , wischnjewsky m. , uomoto a. , landolt a.u . , khatwani r. , 1991 , aj , 102 , 208 hernquist l. , 1990 , apj , 356 , 359 illingworth g. , 1983 , in athanassoula e. , ed .",
    "100 , internal kinematics and dynamics of galaxies .",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p. 257 isobe t. , feigelson e.d .",
    ", akritas m.g . ,",
    "babu g.j . , 1990 ,",
    "apj , 364 , 104 jacoby g.h .",
    "et al . , 1992 , in ?",
    "eds , asp conf .",
    "ser . vol .",
    "pac . , san francisco , p. 599",
    "jaffe w. , 1983 , mnras , 202 , 995 jrgensen i. , franx m. , kjrgaard p. , 1993",
    ", apj , 411 , 34 lynden - bell d. , burstein d. , davies r.l . ,",
    "dressler a. , faber s.m .",
    ", terlevich r. , wegner g. , 1988a , in pritchet c.j .",
    ", vanderbergh s. , eds , asp conf .",
    "4 , the extragalactic distance scale , asp , san francisco , p.307 mcelroy d.b . , 1995 ,",
    "apjs , 100 , 105 mcmillan r. , ciardullo r. , jacoby g.h . , 1993 , apj , 416 , 62 michard r. , 1985 , a&as , 59 , 205 murtagh f. , heck a. , 1987 , multivariate data analysis .",
    "reidel , dordrecht prugniel ph . , simien f. , 1994 , a&a , 281 , l1 prugniel ph . , simien f. , 1996a , a&a , 309 , 749 prugniel ph . , simien f. , 1996b , in buzzoni a. , renzini a. , serrano g. , eds , asp conf .",
    "86 , fresh views of elliptical galaxies .",
    "soc . pac .",
    ", san francisco , p. 143",
    "schombert j.m . , 1986 , apjs , 60 , 603 sersic j .- l . , 1968 , atlas de galaxias australes , observatorio astronomico , cordoba simien f. , prugniel ph . , 1992 , in longo g. , capaccioli m. , busarello g. , eds , morphological and physical classification of galaxies .",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p. 431",
    "tonry j.l . ,",
    "ajhar e.a .",
    ", luppino g.a . , 1990 ,",
    "aj , 100 , 1416 tonry j.l . , blakeslee j.p . , ajhar e.a .",
    ", dressler a. , 1997 , apj , 475 , 399 working h. , hotelling h. , 1929 , j. am .",
    "suppl . , 24 73"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the influence of broken structural homology , and the implied broken dynamical homology , is examined for the fundamental plane ( fp ) . requiring a symmetrical treatment of the fp variables , a bisector method of linear regression </S>",
    "<S> was applied , in 3-dimensions , to derive the best fp . </S>",
    "<S> a bootstrapping procedure has been used to estimate the uncertainties associated with the slope of the fp . for 25 e and s0 virgo galaxies , </S>",
    "<S> the ` standard ' fp , constructed using @xmath0 model parameters for the effective radii ( @xmath1 ) and the mean surface brightness within this radius ( @xmath2 ) and using central velocity dispersion ( cvd ) measurements ( @xmath3 ) , gave a relation described by @xmath4 . using sersic @xmath5 light profile model parameters and </S>",
    "<S> the projected , infinite aperture , velocity dispersion ( @xmath6 ) , derived from application of the jeans equation to the observed intensity profiles , gave an ` improved ' fp described by the relation @xmath7 . </S>",
    "<S> this result , based on independent data , supports the previous finding by graham & colless ( 1997a ) that assumptions of structural and dynamical homology are partly responsible for the departure of the observed fp from the plane expected by the virial theorem , which predicts @xmath8 . upon removal of the known s0 galaxies from the sample of virgo galaxies , the above planes </S>",
    "<S> were observed to change to @xmath9 and @xmath10 . </S>",
    "<S> the perpendicular rms residuals about these planes are 0.084 and 0.050 dex , respectively .    </S>",
    "<S> the fornax cluster was similarly treated , although removal of the s0 galaxies left a sample of only 7 ellipticals which had published cvd measurements . treating the range of structural and dynamical profiles present in this sample </S>",
    "<S> produced a fp given by the relation @xmath11 , in tantalizing agreement with the plane expected from the virial theorem , but with discouragingly large errors due to the small sample size . similarly to virgo , the perpendicular rms residuals about this plane is 0.050 dex .    </S>",
    "<S> the fp was also constructed with the purpose of using it as a distance indicator , achieved by minimising the distance - dependent quantity @xmath12 against the distance - independent quantities @xmath13 and @xmath14 . </S>",
    "<S> a virgo - fornax distance modulus was computed using working - hotelling confidence bands ( feigelson & babu 1992 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the ` standard ' fp parameters gave a value of 0.45@xmath150.16 mag , where - as the ` improved ' fp parameters gave a value of 0.25@xmath150.12 mag . </S>",
    "<S> however , a full treatment of the uncertainties on the fp slopes , derived through a bootstrapping procedure of the 3-dimensional fp data set , revealed that the analytical expressions for the uncertainties on the estimated distance moduli , given above , should be increased by a factor of @xmath165 .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : fundamental parameters  galaxies : structure  galaxies : kinematics and dynamics . </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : elliptical and lenticular , cd  distance scale </S>"
  ]
}