{
  "article_text": [
    "a number of recent surveys have invigorated the study of high mass star formation by providing data on coherent samples of candidate high mass young stellar objects ( hmysos ) ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) . until these surveys became available the relative scarcity of hmysos , the large distances to the closest examples ( a few kpc ) and the high extinction to these objects had limited their study to a few , well - known examples .",
    "thus , there are many questions still remaining as to the nature of high - mass star formation , and the similarities and differences in high and low mass stellar evolution .",
    "outflows are associated with the formation of stars of all masses and are the subject of a number of the hmyso surveys ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "while the role of outflows in the formation of low - mass stars is comparatively well studied ( see for example the review by @xcite ) , far less is known about the properties and role of outflows associated with the formation of high - mass stars ( m greater than @xmath1  8  m@xmath2 ) .",
    "a radio survey of molecular line emission from high - mass star forming regions showed that high - velocity molecular gas ( co ) is associated with around 90% of these regions ( @xcite ) .",
    "two sources ( g25.65 + 1.05 and g240.31 + 0.07 ) were mapped at higher spatial resolution and found to have bipolar outflows . in a follow - up survey , @xcite mapped a further ten of the best candidates for having bipolar molecular outflows and confirmed the presence of such an outflow in 5 of those sources .",
    "@xcite observed 69 candidate high mass protostars in the co j=2 - 1 transition and argue that as many as 90% of the sources may have outflows .",
    "@xcite , mapping at a higher spatial resolution , found evidence of bipolar outflows in 21 of their 26 sources suggesting that bipolar outflows may be associated with most young high mass stars .",
    "the first report of molecular hydrogen line emission associated with high mass star formation was from @xcite , following up a search for the near - infrared counterparts of ultra - compact h  ii regions by @xcite .",
    "@xcite found evidence for outflows in iras  15278 - 5620 and iras  16076 - 5134 .",
    "these surveys confirm the importance of outflows for hmyso evolution .",
    "further work is required to determine whether the physics of the hmyso outflows is the same as for low mass ysos .",
    "the observed outflows appear to have much lower collimation factor  between 1 and 1.8   than those seen from low - mass stars which often have a collimation factor of around 10 ( see , for example , the interferometric observations of @xcite ) .",
    "this would be hard to explain if the outflows are formed by the same jet entrainment model as that believed to describe the outflows from low - mass stars .",
    "however , @xcite argued that the observed degree of collimation could be significantly reduced by the low spatial resolution of the maps , which could be consistent with well collimated high - mass flows .",
    "interferometric observations have shown collimation factors as high as 10 @xcite in flows from high - mass stars and have revealed that some of these apparently uncollimated flows can be resolved into several well collimated flows from separate young stars .",
    "detection of multiple flows in a region in which high - mass stars are forming would not be surprising .",
    "high - mass stars are known to form in dense clusters @xcite , so high spatial resolution observations are essential for identifying the source of an individual outflow .",
    "the presence of a collimated outflow would imply the presence of a stable accretion disk and hence strengthen the view that high mass stars are formed by steady accretion , in a similar way to low mass stars , rather than by merging of intermediate - mass protostars in the centre of dense clusters .",
    "we have embarked upon a near - infrared survey of hmysos , which will be presented in full in varricatt et al .",
    "( 2005 , in preparation ) .",
    "the survey is designed to reveal outflows by mapping at sub - arcsecond spatial resolution in the v=1 - 0 s(1 ) line of molecular hydrogen .",
    "nir observations of @xmath3 have frequently been used to study outflows from low mass ysos . in this paper",
    "we present near - ir imaging , integral - field and long - slit spectroscopic observations of new outflows in the region of the ultra - compact h  ii region g25.65@xmath41.05 .",
    "g25.65@xmath41.05 ( also iras 18316@xmath50602 or rafgl7009s ) is an irregular , compact radio source , first identified at 3.6 cm by @xcite .",
    "it is located at a distance of 3.2kpc @xcite .",
    "the radio peak is coincident with an unresolved infrared source , identified as a young b1v star with a large k - band excess @xcite and is also closely associated with methanol @xcite and ammonia maser emission ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "submillimetre continuum observations at 350@xmath6 m @xcite , 450@xmath6 m and 850@xmath6 m @xcite are all peaked at the position of the radio and maser sources .",
    "observation of the cs ( 2 - 1 ) line by @xcite shows an excellent match of the observed radial velocity from the masers ( 40.8 - 42.4  kms@xmath7 , @xcite ) and the line emission ( 41.4  kms@xmath7 ) indicating a strong link between the dense gas , the maser sources and the massive star .",
    "@xcite propose that one explanation for the observed @xmath8-band excess from the central source may be the presence of a disk .",
    "iso spectroscopy of this source shows a rich spectrum of ice features including absorption features attributed to h@xmath9o , ch@xmath10oh , co@xmath9,@xmath11co@xmath9,co , ocs , hcooh , hcoo@xmath12 , ch@xmath10hco , ch@xmath13 , nh@xmath10 and silicate ( see @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "laboratory spectra fitted to the iso observations suggests that the ice features arise in dense material with temperatures in the range 10k-100k .",
    "+   +    imaging observations were made on 29 june 2002 using the facility infrared imager , ufti @xcite , at the uk infrared telescope ( ukirt ) .",
    "ufti is a 1 to 2.5  camera using a @xmath14 hgcdte array with a plate scale of 0.091 arcsec / pixel .",
    "a single 9-point jitter in a @xmath15 pattern with offsets of 10  arcsec was observed with 60  sec exposures using the @xmath16 broad - band filter , giving 9  min on source .",
    "the same 9-point jitter pattern was repeated three times using exposures of 100  s with the 2.122  @xmath17 @xmath18 narrow - band filter giving a total of 45  min on source .",
    "the individual frames from each filter were flat - fielded and mosaiced together automatically by the orac - dr pipeline .",
    "sources emitting in the @xmath18 line will be detected in both the broad - band and narrow - band images but will appear brighter relative to the continuum sources in the narrow - band images .",
    "the two mosaics are shown in figure  1 . the narrow - band image with 0.6  arcsec seeing",
    "was smoothed to match the 0.7  arcsec seeing of the broad - band image .",
    "the broad - band image was scaled in intensity using the flux from the field stars and subtracted from the narrow - band image to leave the @xmath18 emission as shown in figure  2 .",
    "the h  ii region itself and some stars around it appear negative in this subtracted image due to differential extinction to the core compared with the field stars used for flux scaling .",
    "the increased reddenening makes it relatively brighter in the broad - band image",
    ". a number of point sources are visible in addition to the extended emission .",
    "these are ghost images of bright stars produced by the narrow - band filter and residuals left where stars have been imperfectly subtracted .",
    "the complete mosaic covers a @xmath19  arcmin field centred on the h  ii region .",
    "no @xmath18 emission was detected outside the region shown here .",
    "the brightest @xmath18 emission was detected to the south - east of the h  ii region , taking the form of a region of faint , diffuse emission containing a number of bright , compact sources ( a  d ) . to the north - west of the h  ii region",
    "there is a straight , narrow line of faint emission with a bright source ( e ) at one end .",
    "there is also faint , diffuse emission to the south and north - east of the h  ii region .",
    "+      long slit spectra of sources c and d were obtained on 30 june 2002 at ukirt using cooled grating spectrometer 4 @xcite .",
    "the 40  l / mm grating was used , giving a wavelength coverage of 1.9 to 2.5  and the sources were observed with a single slit position . a one pixel ( 0.6  arcsec ) wide slit",
    "was used and the detector was stepped over 2 pixels in half - pixel increments to give a fully sampled spectrum with a spectral resolution of 600 .",
    "observations were made through thick , patchy cirrus causing large variations in the detected flux .",
    "individual exposures were weighted by the square of the signal to noise ratio of the @xmath20 line before they were added together to maximise the signal to noise ratio of the combined data .",
    "the spectrum was ratioed by a standard star with its blackbody shape corrected , to remove atmospheric telluric features .",
    "the final spectra of the two sources are shown in figure  3 .",
    "sources a and b were observed on 24 october 2002 as part of the uist commissioning observations .",
    "uist is a new facility class near - ir ( 15  ) imager and spectrometer at ukirt which uses a @xmath14 insb array @xcite .",
    "it includes a deployable cryogenic image - slicing ifu with 14 slices , each 0.24  arcsec wide .",
    "the pixel scale along the slices is 0.12  arcsec / pixel resulting in a field of view of 3.36  arcsec @xmath21 5.52  arcsec , which can be rotated to any angle on the sky .",
    "the hk grism was used , giving a spectral coverage of 1.42.5  with a spectral resolution of 8001000 .",
    "the target was acquired using uist in _",
    "k_-band imaging mode .",
    "the ifu field of view was rotated to a position angle of @xmath22 , making the long axis of the field run e - w .",
    "two adjustments to the pointing were made during the observations ( 1  arcsec e , then 1  arcsec s ) .",
    "a total of three positions were observed for 8mins each giving a maximum integration of 24mins on - source for the overlap region .",
    "sky frames were obtained by offsetting to a separate sky position .",
    "the standard star bs7260 was observed to provide correction for telluric atmospheric features and flux calibration .",
    "the observations at each of the three positions described above were formed into an @xmath23 data - cube using the orac - dr pipeline employed for all on - line data reduction at ukirt .",
    "each frame was divided by a flat - field frame .",
    "sky - subtracted frames were wavelength calibrated using a spectrum of an argon arc lamp and the resulting frames formed into a datacube .",
    "all of the spectra in the datacube were divided by the standard - star spectrum , corrected for the black - body shape of the stellar continuum , to remove variations in atmospheric transmission .",
    "an approximate flux calibration was obtained using the magnitude of the star ( k=4.48 ) .",
    "the ifu data reduction pipeline is described in more detail in @xcite .",
    "the known 1  arcsec telescope offsets were used to register the three data - cubes in the two spatial dimensions .",
    "these were mosaiced into a single data - cube using makemos , which is included in the starlink ccdpack package .",
    "an image extracted from this datacube at the wavelength of the @xmath20 @xmath18 line ( 2.122  ) is shown in figure  4 .",
    "a spectrum of the sum of the brightest part of source a is shown in figure  5 .",
    "all detected emission lines are from @xmath18 .",
    "line , extracted from the ifu datacube .",
    "the offsets are arbitary and from the edge of the ifu field , which was centred on @xmath24 .",
    "at a distance of 3kpc , 1arcsec corresponds to 0.015pc.,width=226 ]        a spectrum was formed by summing over all spatial pixels of the data - cube .",
    "a gaussian profile was fitted to the bright @xmath17 line in this spectrum and was found to be centred at @xmath25  with fwhm @xmath26  .",
    "the other lines are all much weaker , so to obtain the best possible measurement of the flux in each line a gaussian profile was scaled to fit the line keeping the fwhm of the line fixed at 0.00228  and the offset of the line from the @xmath17 line fixed by the known wavelength of the line . in total ,",
    "12 lines from the v=1 and v=2 transitions were detected .",
    "the measured fluxes are reported in table  1 .    [ cols=\"<,>,>,^,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     the ratio of line fluxes measured in the cgs4 spectra of sources c and d relative to the 1 - 0 s(1 ) line flux .",
    "the spectra were observed in cloudy conditions , so the absolute fluxes are unknown .",
    "[ cgs4tab ]      the properties of four classes of shocks were summarised by @xcite :    1 .   _ fast j shock _",
    "( 100300  @xmath27 ) : hydrogen molecules are dissociated and reform producing a spectrum similar to that of uv fluorescence . the flux of brackett-@xmath28 and @xmath29-band fe  ii lines are comparable to the @xmath17 flux .",
    "slow j shock _ : strong @xmath18 lines are produced and molecules are not dissociated .",
    "however , in normal ionization fractions , magnetic field strengths and gas densities , such shocks are expected to evolve into c - type shocks .",
    "fast c shock _ : shock velocities of @xmath30 heat the gas to @xmath31  k or more ( dependent on the velocity ) producing strong @xmath18 lines . 4 .",
    "_ slow c shock _ : peak temperature 300  k or less , resulting in very weak @xmath18 emission .",
    "the absence of brackett-@xmath28 emission from atomic hydrogen or fe  ii lines and the excitation temperatures measured in all the sources abcd leads us to suggest that the fast c shock model may be most appropriate .",
    "a maximum post - shock excitation temperature of @xmath32  k would be produced by a shock velocity of @xmath33 in the models of @xcite .",
    "this would be consistent with the @xmath34 along the line of sight measured by @xcite when the uncertainty on the angle of incidence is taken into account .",
    "the temperatures measured in source a ( offsets along the slice of between 4.5 and 6.5  arcsec ) decrease with distance from the shock front .",
    "the c - shock models of @xcite predict a steady decrease in temperature over around 0.03  pc ( 2  arcsec at a distance of 3  kpc ) behind the shock front , beyond which point the flux falls rapidly .",
    "this is consistent with what we see , though the proximity of source b and the uncertain geometry of the outflow inhibits more detailed comparison with the models .",
    "a more detailed analysis , including lines from higher vibrational levels examined as function of distance across the shock - front or high spectral resolution to explore the lines shapes would be required to allow us to draw stronger conclusions .",
    "integral field spectroscopy is a technique that would lend itself readily to these observations .",
    "mapping at high spatial resolution in the near - ir emission from @xmath18 we have directly observed outflow activity from one or more sources associated with g25.65 + 1.05 . long slit and integral field spectroscopy of the brightest sources show that they are excited by a shock . the measured excitation temperatures and absence of dissociation lead us to suggest that a c - shock with a shock velocity of @xmath35 may be responsible .",
    "integral field spectra of a region containing two compact sources of @xmath18 emission showed a variation in excitation temperature with a maximum of 2800  k close to the shock front .",
    "the excitation temperature in the brighter of the two sources falls steadily over around 0.03  pc at which point the intensity decreases significantly , in agreement with the c - shock models of @xcite .",
    "both the location of the brightest @xmath18 emission and the derived shock speed are consistent with the excited @xmath18 tracing the same outflow as the co emission detected by @xcite .",
    "we conclude that the most likely interpretation of these data is that the @xmath18 emission traces the full width of the outflow . in this case",
    ", the collimation factor of the outflow is @xmath36 , higher than the 1 to 1.8 often though to be typical of outflows from high mass stars .",
    "the combination of near - infrared imaging and spectroscopy is a powerful method of revealing outflows in regions of high mass star formation .",
    "however , in the case of g25.65 + 1.05 , the near - infrared data alone can not determine unambiguously whether there are multiple or single outflows and driving sources .",
    "supporting information may be sought in a number of ways .",
    "higher resolution spectroscopy can help associated the emission with different outflows ( see e.g. @xcite on iras18151 - 1208 ) .",
    "high resolution imaging at wavelengths from 3 - 20microns and longer , such as is now possible from large ground based telescopes , may reveal additional deeply embedded sources .",
    "the combinination of high spatial resolution interferometric radio mapping with infrared imaging has been used successfully by e.g. @xcite , @xcite and @xcite to examine the detailed structure and morphology of crowded regions containing multiple sources and outflows .",
    "g323.74 - 0.26 is revealed by the observations of @xcite to contain both fluorescent @xmath0 emission from the hii region associated with this source and shocked @xmath0 emission from an outflow .",
    "combining interferometric observations with infrared images of iras 19410 + 2336 @xcite found that what had appeared in single dish maps to be two outflows was the combination of at least seven and possibly as many as nine separate outflows .",
    "it seems likely that similar results might be found in this region .",
    "the united kingdom infrared telescope is operated by the joint astronomy centre on behalf of the u.k . particle physics and astronomy research council .",
    "the authors would like to thank the staff of ukirt for their support in carrying out the observations presented here .",
    "we are grateful to the referee , michael burton , for his detailed comments on the paper which have allowed us to improve it from the first submission .",
    "c.  m. , robertson d.  j. , lee t.  j. , wade r. , 1990 , in instrumentation in astronomy vii ; proceedings of the meeting , tucson , az , feb .",
    "13 - 17 , 1990 ( a91 - 29601 11 - 35 ) .",
    "bellingham , wa , society of photo - optical instrumentation engineers , 1990 , p. 25",
    "- 33 . previously announced in star as n90 - 19165 .",
    "an advanced cooled grating spectrometer for ukirt .",
    "pp 2533      s.  k. , ellis m.  a. , gostick d.  c. , hastings p.  r. , strachan m. , wells m. , 2000 , in proc .",
    "4008 , p. 1067",
    "- 1075 , optical and ir telescope instrumentation and detectors , masanori iye ; alan f. moorwood ; eds .",
    "integration and testing of the ukirt imaging spectrometer ( uist ) .",
    "pp 10671075        p.  f. , lucas p.  w. , mackay c.  d. , ettedgui - atad e. , hastings p.  r. , bridger a. , rees n.  p. , leggett s.  k. , davis c. , holmes a.  r. , handford t. , 2003 , in instrument design and performance for optical / infrared ground - based telescopes . edited by iye , masanori ; moorwood , alan f. m. proceedings of the spie , volume 4841 , pp .",
    "901 - 912 ( 2003 ) .",
    "ufti : the 0.8 - 2.5 @xmath6 m fast track imager for the uk infrared telescope .",
    "pp 901912              todd s.  p. , wells m. , ramsay howat s.  k. , hastings p.  r. , 2002 , in e. atad - ettedgui dodorico s. , eds , specialized optical developments in astronomy no .",
    "4842 in proc .",
    "spie , a cryogenic image slicing ifu for ukirt  manufacture , alignment , laboratory testing and data reduction ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> near - infrared imaging of the emission from molecular hydrogen is a powerful method for discovering outflows in star - forming regions . </S>",
    "<S> we present new near - infrared images , long slit and integral field spectroscopy of the ultra - compact h  ii region g25.65 + 1.05 . </S>",
    "<S> these new observations reveal shocked @xmath0 emission associated with a bipolar outflow from a young high mass star at the centre of the source . </S>",
    "<S> the physical parameters of the outflow are discussed and compared with outflows from lower mass stars .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    objects : g25.65 + 1.05 ; star - formation : young stellar objects ; star - formation : high mass stars </S>"
  ]
}