{
  "article_text": [
    "after years of slow progress and ambiguous , but tantalizing , observations of objects in the field and in young clusters , the study of brown dwarfs via reflex stellar motion , filter photometry , and spectroscopy has finally come into its own .",
    "the direct detection of gl229b ( oppenheimer   1995 ; nakajima  1995 ; matthews  1996 ; geballe  1996 ; marley  1996 ; allard  1996 ; tsuji  1996 ) was a watershed because gl229b displays methane spectral features and low surface fluxes that are unique to objects with effective temperatures ( in this case , t@xmath9@xmath2950 k ) below those at the solar  metallicity main sequence edge ( @xmath21750 k , burrows  1993 ) .",
    "in addition , the almost complete absence of spectral signatures of metal oxides and hydrides ( such as tio , vo , feh , and cah ) is in keeping with theoretical predictions that these species are depleted in the atmospheres of all but the youngest ( hence , hottest ) substellar objects and are sequestered in condensed form below the photosphere ( lunine  1989 ; marley  1996 ) .",
    "this remarkable convergence between theory and observation should not obscure the fact that the study of the atmospheres , spectra , colors , and evolution of substellar objects is still in its infancy . though predictions of luminosity , t@xmath9 , and radius evolution versus mass and composition have been available for almost a decade ( nelson  1985 ; dantona & mazzitelli 1985 ; burrows , hubbard , & lunine 1989 ; dorman  1989 ; stevenson 1991 ; stringfellow 1991 ; burrows  1993 ) and predictions for the colors and spectra of hot ( @xmath12 2000 k ) , young brown dwarfs have been available for a few years ( allard & hauschildt 1995 ) , to date there has been no _ complete _ theory of the evolution of the colors , spectra , and structure of brown dwarfs with temperatures below @xmath21300 k. this is true despite the fact that , for most of the mass  age space occupied by brown dwarfs in the galaxy , t@xmath9 is indeed below 1300 k. to remedy this situation , we here present the first non  gray theory of the evolution , spectra , and colors of brown dwarfs down to t@xmath9s of 100 k.    this sweep of t@xmath9s and the effective physical equivalence between equal  mass extrasolar giant planets ( egps ) and brown dwarfs allows our theory to apply , without modification , to egps as well .",
    "it is sensible to distinguish egps and brown dwarfs on the basis of their origins : brown dwarfs form like stars , but are too light to burn hydrogen stably on the main sequence , and egps form out of protoplanetary disks by accretion .",
    "the different birth paths no doubt lead to different metallicities , rotation rates , and orbital characteristics , and in the giant planet case to the presence of an `` ice / rock '' core ( podolak , hubbard , & pollard 1993 ) .",
    "however , in the main it is not the origin , but the mass , composition , age , and proximity of a hydrogen  dominated object to a star that determines its spectral signatures and evolution .",
    "an object s pedigree is not an obvious observable .",
    "we have already published a general theory of extrasolar giant planets with masses from 0.3 to 15 , where denotes a jupiter mass ( @xmath20.001 ) ( burrows  1995 ; saumon  1996 ; guillot  1996 ) . when we published these egp models , no such objects had been identified .",
    "now , doppler spectroscopy alone has revealed about 20 objects in the giant planet / brown dwarf regime , including companions to @xmath13 boo , 51 peg , @xmath14 and , 55 cnc , @xmath15 crb , 70 vir , 16 cyg , and 47 uma ( butler  1997 ; cochran  1997 ; marcy & butler 1996 ; butler & marcy 1996 ; mayor & queloz 1995 ; latham  1989 ) .",
    "however , our old theory assumed that egps emit like blackbodies . while this assumption is not bad for some wavelength stretches in the mid  infrared , it can be spectacularly off in bands of interest for direct detection .",
    "the gl229b campaign taught us that .",
    "the non  gray theory we develop in this paper encompasses masses from 0.3 to 70 @xmath16 @xmath17 1300 k for @xmath184 gyr . ] and is in aid of the multitude of direct searches for substellar objects , be they `` planets '' or brown dwarfs , upon which the world s astronomical community has now collectively embarked ( tops and exnps reports ; leger  1993 ) . in order to maintain a reasonable focus , we limit ourselves to solar  metallicity ( anders & grevesse 1989 ) objects in isolation and ignore the effects of stellar insolation ( guillot  1996 )",
    ". a subsequent paper will address the consequences of proximity to a central star and of varying metallicity .    in  2",
    ", we describe our calculational techniques and the opacity and thermodynamic data that we used .",
    "section 3 covers the physics of the atmospheres of brown dwarfs and egps and includes a discussion of temperature / pressure / composition profiles and the location of convective and radiative zones . in  4 , we describe the evolution of objects with masses from 0.3 to 200 , from saturns to m dwarfs , and provide a global view of the giant planet / brown dwarf / m dwarf model continuum .",
    "section 5 contains a comprehensive discussion of the near and mid  infrared spectra of egps and brown dwarfs as a function of mass and age , as well as t@xmath9 and gravity .",
    "our major results are to be found in this section . section 6",
    "presents the ir colors and magnitudes from the @xmath3 through the @xmath7 bands and demonstrates just how unlike blackbodies these objects can be .",
    "search and discovery techniques using doppler spectroscopy , astrometry , transits , and microlensing are rapidly maturing , but it is only via direct photometric and spectroscopic characterization that substellar objects will really be understood . in  7 , we summarize the salient features of the non  gray theory and list some of the ground and space  based telescopes and searches for which it should prove useful .",
    "the ingredients for a theory of egps and brown dwarfs include ( 1 ) equations of state for metallic hydrogen / helium mixtures and molecular atmospheres , ( 2 ) chemical equilibrium codes and thermodynamic data to determine the molecular fractions , ( 3 ) scattering and absorption opacities for the dominant chemical species , ( 4 ) an atmosphere code to calculate temperature / pressure profiles and to identify the radiative and convective zones , ( 5 ) an algorithm for converting a grid of atmospheres into boundary conditions for evolutionary calculations , ( 6 ) a henyey code , and ( 7 ) a radiative transfer code to provide emergent spectra . in principle , the calculation of the atmosphere , involving as it does radiative transfer , and the calculation of the emergent spectrum are done together .",
    "however , as long as the thermal profiles obtained with the atmosphere code are accurate , one can employ these profiles , but with another more accurate and higher  resolution transfer scheme , to calculate emergent spectra .",
    "though we use the k  coefficient method to calculate the atmosphere profiles , we are free to employ other radiative transfer schemes to obtain spectra .    in the evolutionary calculations , we use the saumon & chabrier ( 1991 , 1992 ) equation of state in the metallic and high  density molecular regimes .",
    "for solar metallicity , near and above brown dwarf / egp photospheres , throughout most of their lives the dominant equilibrium form of carbon is ch@xmath8 , not co ( fegley & lodders 1996 ) , that of oxygen is h@xmath0o , and that of nitrogen is either n@xmath0 or nh@xmath10 , depending upon t@xmath9 .",
    "hydrogen is predominantly in the form of h@xmath0 .",
    "silicates and metals are found at high optical depths and temperatures .",
    "clouds of nh@xmath10 and h@xmath0o can form for t@xmath9s below @xmath2200 k and @xmath2400 k , respectively .",
    "while for this new model suite we have precipitated species according to their condensation curves , we have not consistently incorporated the effects of the associated clouds . if a species has condensed , it is left at its saturated vapor pressure .",
    "though the proper inclusion of the radiative transfer effects of clouds is deferred to a later work , in  2.6 &  3 we discuss the basic physics of such clouds for t@xmath9s between 100 k and 1300 k ( see also lunine  1989 ) and speculate on their role in spectrum formation .",
    "water is an important source of opacity in egps and brown dwarfs , particularly when the many lines that originate from highly excited energy levels are considered .",
    "a series of databases have recently become available that are based on theoretical calculations that employ a variety of quantum mechanical methods ( polyansky , jensen , & tennyson 1994 ; wattson & rothman 1992 ; partridge & schwenke 1997 ) . in particular , partridge & schwenke",
    "have calculated the potential energy surface and dipole moment function using an ab initio method .",
    "this energy surface was empirically adjusted to improve the fit between predictions and the hitran 92 database ( rothman  1992 ) for j @xmath19 5 .",
    "the overall accuracy in wavenumber and intensity is good and the data have already been used to identify previously unidentified sunspot lines as water lines ( carbon & goorvitch 1994 ) .",
    "the 10 , 25 , 50 , 75 , and 90 percentiles of the errors in the line positions as compared to hitran are : -0.11 , -0.04 , -0.01 , 0.02 , and 0.07 @xmath20 . this database allows the inclusion of many predicted lines that are unobserved in the lab and only become important at higher temperatures , since they arise from highly excited levels .",
    "this can be particularly important in opacity windows , _",
    "i.e. , _ regions where the water opacity reaches a local minimum , but where many weak , high  excitation lines may occur . depending upon the temperature of the layer , and the assumed abundance of water , well over @xmath21 lines could be required for a calculation at the highest temperatures , while far fewer lines are needed at lower temperatures .",
    "we use this new partridge & schwenke h@xmath0o database .",
    "( note that the model published by marley  ( 1996 ) used an earlier version of the schwenke data with fewer lines . )    for other than h@xmath0o , we used databases that go beyond what is available in the hitran database ( rothman  1997 ) .",
    "the limitations of hitran are a consequence of the cutoff in line strength that is imposed at a temperature of 296 k. weaker lines are excluded by this cutoff , though they may become much stronger as the temperature climbs to well above 300 k. in addition , in hitran lines whose analysis is lower in quality may have been excluded . since in our application",
    "we are interested in the total opacity only over fairly broad regions in wavenumber , we can accept lines whose positions and strengths may not be known with the highest precision .",
    "this makes available databases with far more lines than hitran .",
    "the geisa database ( husson  1997 ) can also be a source of additional lines , as its line strength cutoff is lower than that of hitran .",
    "additional lines have been obtained from theoretical calculations ( tyuterev  1994 ; goorvitch 1994 ; tipping 1990 ; wattson & rothman 1992 ) and from other researchers prior to publication ( l. r. brown , private communication ) .",
    "this has resulted in databases for ch@xmath8 and ch@xmath10d of @xmath22 lines , for co of @xmath23 lines , for nh@xmath10 of @xmath24 lines , for ph@xmath10 of @xmath25 lines , and for h@xmath0s of @xmath26 lines .",
    "modeled continuum opacity sources include @xmath27 and @xmath28 opacity and collision  induced absorption ( cia ) of h@xmath0 and helium ( borysow & frommhold 1990 ; zheng & borysow 1995 ) .",
    "the latter is a direct function of pressure and a major process in egp / brown dwarf atmospheres .",
    "we employed the formulation of rages  ( 1991 ) for rayleigh scattering , important at shorter wavelengths .      for our calculations ,",
    "when the data are available , the line widths for the various molecules are assumed to be due to h@xmath0 or h@xmath0 + he broadening",
    ". currently , such data are available for h@xmath0o ( brown & plymate 1996 ; gamache , lynch , & brown 1996 ) , co ( bulanin  1984 ; lemoal & severin 1986 ) , ch@xmath8 ( margolis 1993,1996 ; l. r. brown , private communication ) , ph@xmath10 ( levy , lacome , & tarrago 1994 ) , and nh@xmath10 ( brown & peterson 1994 ) .",
    "these data were derived from laboratory measurements , and the width for each line was derived from a fit to the available data as a function of the value of j and the other relevant rotational quantum numbers . because these measurements typically cover only one or more vibrational bands , it is necessary to assume that any vibrational dependence of the widths is very small , since the same fit is used for all bands . for other species",
    "it is necessary to use the available n@xmath0 widths , under the assumption that the broadening due to h@xmath0 is larger than that due to n@xmath0 , because of the difference in quadrupole moments .",
    "this is still quite uncertain and may vary from species to species .",
    "we construct model atmospheres employing an approach similar to that used to derive temperature profiles for the outer planets ( marley  1997 ) and titan ( mckay  1989 ) .",
    "the model consists of a series of up to 60 homogeneous plane",
    " parallel layers .",
    "the bottom of the lowermost layer is placed at a depth of up to 300 bars , the top of the uppermost at @xmath29 .",
    "levels , which separate layers , are spaced approximately evenly in @xmath30 .",
    "the current model considers 101 spectral intervals from @xmath31 to @xmath32 .",
    "a trial temperature profile is adjusted until the entire atmosphere is in radiative equilibrium .",
    "the model is judged to be in radiative equilibrium when the temperature profile results in zero net flux across each level in the radiative region of the atmosphere .",
    "layers in which the radiative lapse rate exceeds the adiabatic lapse rate are then deemed convective .",
    "the lapse rate is adjusted only one layer at a time and a new radiative  convective equilibrium profile is computed after the lapse rate in each layer is adjusted .",
    "this approach allows for the presence of multiple convection zones and works very well for the solar jovian planets ( marley  1997 ) .",
    "the scaling arguments of ingersoll & pollard ( 1982 ) suggest that the fractional difference between the actual temperature profile and an adiabat is less than @xmath33 for jovian atmospheres .",
    "fluxes are computed using the two  stream source function technique ( toon  1989 ) .",
    "the intensity is integrated over five angular gauss points in each hemisphere .",
    "this technique is rapid and is well suited for application to inhomogeneous , multiple  scattering atmospheres .",
    "toon  discuss the accuracy of this approach for a variety of scattering and non  scattering cases . for the case of no scattering",
    ", they found layer emissivities to agree with an exact calculation to better than 1% over a three decade range of layer optical depths .",
    "the k  coefficient method ( goody  1989 ; lacis & oinas 1991 ) is widely used in planetary atmosphere modeling .",
    "this is not the odf technique ( saxner & gustafsson 1984 ) and gives excellent agreement with full line  by  line computations of atmospheric transmission .",
    "typical errors are between 1 and 10% ( grossman & grant 1992,1994a,1994b ) .",
    "after we perform the line  by  line calculations for each individual molecule , the resulting opacity files are put on a common frequency scale .",
    "then , they are combined into one file for the total opacity using the appropriate mixing ratios for each molecule .",
    "the abundance of the various constituents is determined by a chemical equilibrium calculation and condensation (  2.5 &  2.6 ) . at temperatures below the condensation point of a given constituent ,",
    "the abundance is set equal to the saturation vapor pressure . in the k  coefficient method ,",
    "this summed file is then broken up into a large number ( @xmath2100 ) of frequency blocks covering the entire spectrum .",
    "the creation of the block structure allows one to avoid solving the transfer equation at a very large number of individual frequency points ( goody  1989 ) .",
    "one constructs a distribution function of all the opacities within each frequency block .",
    "this technique takes all the opacities ( at each wavenumber ) from the line  by  line calculation , sorts them according to value ( independent of wavenumber ) , and places them in logarithmically  spaced bins . note that this destroys the relationship between a particular value of the opacity and the wavenumber where it occurred .",
    "this distribution ( number of points that fall in each bin versus opacity ) is then normalized and converted into a cumulative distribution .",
    "the distribution is now the cumulative number of points at each bin versus the opacity of that bin .",
    "after the proper normalization , this now gives the cumulative probability versus opacity , _",
    "i.e. _ the probability that an opacity is less than or equal to a given value .",
    "this distribution is then inverted using interpolation to give the final cumulative probability distribution .",
    "the abscissa is now the probability normalized to run from 0 to 1.0 and the ordinate is opacity and runs from the minimum to the maximum value of the opacity within the window .    because the final distribution is now uniform in probability space , it is possible to integrate this distribution to find the total opacity in each window .",
    "we perform this integration by extracting values at appropriate gauss points .",
    "these values , sometimes called correlated k s , can be used with the appropriate gauss weights to represent the total opacity in a given window .",
    "all molecular absorption is treated within each spectral interval by a weighted sum of exponentials .",
    "the transmission , @xmath34 , as a function of absorber column mass , @xmath35 , within a layer for a given spectral interval is expressed as @xmath36 where the @xmath37 are weights and the @xmath38 are equivalent monochromatic absorption coefficients .    within each spectral interval the equation of radiative transfer",
    "is solved eight times as a monochromatic equation of transfer , once for each term in the expansion in eq .",
    "( 1 ) , with the rayleigh optical properties identical for each of the computations .",
    "the fluxes thus obtained are then summed , with the terms weighted by the @xmath37 , to obtain the total flux in the spectral interval .",
    "the accuracy of the approach is controlled by the width of the model spectral intervals and the number of gauss points used . to improve the sensitivity to small fractions of very strong lines in a given spectral interval , we employ a double gaussian quadrature .",
    "the first four gauss points provide for the integral over the weakest 88% of the lines .",
    "the remaining four points take the integration over the remaining probability interval .",
    "accuracy can be compromised if the spectral shape of the molecular opacity within a given interval changes with depth in the model , usually because of conversion of one species to another .",
    "thus , we have carefully chosen the individual spectral intervals to minimize such effects .",
    "experimentation with the current spectral intervals reveals that computed temperature profiles are not sensitive to a further increase in their number .    during model runs , the k  coefficients at an arbitrary temperature  pressure point are computed by interpolation within the k  coefficient grid .",
    "opacities are interpolated in @xmath30 - @xmath39 space to follow the variation of constituents along the vapor pressure curve .      for this paper ,",
    "the chemical equilibrium calculations were performed with the atlas code and data from kurucz ( 1970 ) .",
    "the kurucz reaction constants are inaccurate at low temperatures , but , fortunately , the nh@xmath10 @xmath40 n@xmath0 and ch@xmath8 @xmath40 co conversions that occur in egps and brown dwarfs do so in regions of @xmath41 space for which the kurucz reaction constants are accurate .",
    "condensation of ch@xmath8 , nh@xmath10 , h@xmath0o , fe , and mgsio@xmath10 was included using data from various sources , including eisenberg & kauzmann ( 1969 ) , the handbook of chemistry and physics ( 1993 ) , and lange s handbook of chemistry ( 1979 ) . following fegley & lodders ( 1994 , 1996 )",
    ", we assumed that al , ca , ti and v were removed either by condensation or were dissolved in silicate grains at about the mgsio@xmath10 condensation temperature .",
    "these atoms are important because they lead to molecules that are strong light absorbers , such as tio and vo .",
    "however , they have not been detected in the giant planets of our solar system and should nt be present in relatively cool objects such as the brown dwarf gl229b ( marley  1996 ) .",
    "our results are in excellent agreement with those of fegley & lodders ( 1994 , 1996 ) .",
    "the principal effect of cloud formation is the removal of molecular species from the gas phase into the solid or liquid phase .",
    "for a single component system that does not interact chemically with other species ( _ i.e. _ , water ) cloud formation occurs at a pressure level ( `` cloud base '' ) where the partial pressure of the gaseous species just exceeds its saturation vapor pressure .",
    "the saturation vapor pressure is given approximately by the clausius ",
    "clapeyron relationship , @xmath42 , where b and a are weak functions of temperature .",
    "a is the latent heat of condensation ( per mole ) divided by the universal gas constant . at lower pressures ( higher altitudes ) in the atmosphere ,",
    "the abundance of the gas phase species drops off in this inverse  exponential fashion . since a / t @xmath43 1",
    ", the falloff is steep and the gaseous species does not contribute to the emergent spectral distribution at pressures much above the cloud base .",
    "there are several complications to the above simple picture .",
    "the first is supersaturation . because the radius of curvature of cloud particles or droplets adds an additional surface energy to the condensed phase , the cloud base is usually elevated above the pressure level at which the ratio of partial pressure to saturation vapor pressure is unity ( this is the supersaturation ratio ) . in the case of terrestrial clouds ,",
    "the threshold ratio may be 1.2 ; in certain cold environments lacking particulates to serve as nucleation sites , the value may be as high as 2 ( such as in neptune ; moses , allen , & yung 1992 ) .",
    "because of the high temperatures at the unity optical depth level in objects such as gl229b , we ignore supersaturation ; variations of a few tens of percent in the supersaturation are not discernable in its spectra .",
    "the second complication is that for most condensable species the temperature variation of a can not be ignored in two cases : near the liquid  vapor critical point , and over large ranges of temperature .",
    "because our models span a large temperature range , this is a concern for the major cloud  forming species , in particular water . for water",
    ", we use multi  term polynomial and exponential fits for the liquid and solid phases from eisenberg & kauzmann ( 1969 ) .",
    "these are suitable for temperatures from well below the ice point to the critical temperature .",
    "the third complication is that many cloud ",
    "forming elements are not incorporated in the same molecular species in the gaseous and condensed phases , but instead a chemical reaction occurs associated with the condensation process . to correctly characterize cloud formation",
    "requires that we incorporate it into the chemical equilibrium computations described above ; cloud formation occurs for particular elements when the phase with the minimum gibbs free energy is the condensed phase .",
    "the only species we consider here for which this is an issue is the magnesium silicate , mgsio@xmath10 .",
    "convenient expressions for the resulting condensation are given in barshay & lewis ( 1976 ) .",
    "we are currently preparing a more comprehensive set of condensation curves for minor species using a gibbs energy minimization routine , the results of which will be presented in a subsequent paper .      as in our previous papers , we parametrize the specific entropy of the fully convective deep interior of an egp by t@xmath44 , which is the temperature that the interior isentrope would have if extrapolated to a pressure of 10 bars , and which may or may not equal the actual atmospheric temperature at 10 bars .",
    "we construct a @xmath45 surface by making a splined fit to the grid of non  gray model atmospheres augmented with additional @xmath45 points from gray model atmospheres , as presented in saumon  ( 1996 ) .",
    "the resulting surface is shown in figure 1 .",
    "the points used to define this surface are shown as dots .",
    "open dots represent the previous ( gray  atmosphere ) relations from saumon , and the solid dots are the new ( non  gray  atmosphere ) calculations . to illustrate the domain actually traversed by egp models , three evolutionary trajectories of egps with masses of 1 ( left ) , 10 ( middle ) , and 42 ( 0.04 ; right ) are shown .",
    "the earliest portions of the evolution tracks are shown as dotted lines starting at an age of @xmath46 gyr and ending at an age of @xmath47 gyr .",
    "subsequent evolution is shown as a solid line , which ends at a maximum age of 10 gyr for the 1 and 10 models , and at 20 gyr for the 42 model .",
    "evolution of objects with ages greater than 0.1 gyr is well constrained by our non  gray grid .",
    "figure 2 shows profiles of atmospheric pressure as a function of temperature calculated in our grid of non  gray models . in this figure ,",
    "the surface gravity @xmath48 is held constant at 2200 cm s@xmath49 ( close to the value for jupiter ) , and t@xmath9 takes the values 128 k ( lowest curve ) , and 200 k to 1000 k ( highest curve ) in steps of 100 k. this sequence does not precisely represent an evolutionary sequence for a jupiter  mass object because @xmath48 actually decreases with increasing t@xmath9 in such an object . the heavy dot represents the photosphere , which is not a well  defined region in a non  gray model atmosphere , but which we approximate as the region in the atmosphere where the local temperature t = t@xmath9 .",
    "convection zones , where the local value of @xmath50 is essentially equal to the adiabatic value , are shown as dashed lines ; as usual , radiative zones appear where the local value of @xmath50 is subadiabatic .",
    "various chemical boundaries , discussed below , are shown as lighter lines , solid for a change in equilibrium for chemical species , and dashed for formation of condensed phases of a single species . the observed @xmath51 relation for jupiter ( lindal 1992 ; seiff  1996 )",
    "is shown as a dot  dashed line .",
    "note in figure 2 that a detached radiative zone appears in the hotter models at temperatures around 1500 to 2000 k. the physical origin of this zone is the near  coincidence of a minimum in the cia opacity as a function of wavelength with the maximum of the local planck function , as originally discovered by guillot  ( 1994 ) .",
    "guillot  have determined that a detached radiative zone is likely also to be present in jupiter at temperatures between 1200 and 2900 k. not only is the detached radiative zone of interest in its own right , but it is important for the evolution of egps because it causes the specific entropy in the uppermost convection zone to be higher than the specific entropy in the deepest convection zone .",
    "thus , an egp in which this zone appears will evolve slightly more rapidly than it would in the absence of the zone .",
    "that is , for a given value of t@xmath9 , the central temperature will be lower than would be calculated without allowing for the detached radiative zone .",
    "the models shown in figure 2 do not extend to sufficient depth at t@xmath52 k and 200 k to include the detached radiative zone .",
    "thus , the relation between t@xmath9 and t@xmath44 for these models is slightly incorrect . however , as discussed by guillot  ( 1994 ) and ingersoll & pollard ( 1982 ) , the difference between the radiative gradient and the adiabatic gradient in the radiative zone is small , so that the cumulative error in calculating t@xmath44 is at the level of or smaller than other effects which we neglect in this paper , such as insolation from a moderately distant ( @xmath53 a.u . )",
    "companion star .",
    "figures 36 portray the calculated atmospheric profiles for surface gravities of @xmath54 , @xmath55 , @xmath56 , and @xmath57 cm s@xmath49 . as the gravity increases , the photospheric pressure increases , but the t@xmath9 dependence of the photospheric pressure is weak . for all gravities , an extended or second radiative zone is a generic feature of the atmospheres .",
    "this will have consequences for the mixing of non ",
    "equilibrium species into the observable layers .",
    "figures 26 depict temperature / pressure profiles , on which are superimposed the equilibrium condensation lines for various species . for jovian  type",
    "effective temperatures condensation of ammonia and water occur near the photosphere . even for objects as warm as t@xmath9=500 k ,",
    "water condensation occurs , but it does so at altitudes well above the photosphere in the atmosphere , and at pressures so low that ( a ) the actual cloud particle density is rather small and ( b ) the cloud particles are expected to fall out of the atmosphere rapidly .",
    "we therefore expect such a tenuous water cloud to play a much more minor role in the radiative balance and spectral appearance than in the cooler objects for which the water cloud is potentially quite massive ( as in simplistic jupiter models ) .",
    "interestingly , among cloud  forming species which are abundant by virtue of cosmic composition , a relatively large gap occurs between water and less volatile species .",
    "sulfur  bearing condensates of iron sulfides ( not shown in the figures ) might be present in the effective temperature range around 500 k. beyond that , magnesium silicate and iron clouds are expected to form around the photosphere for objects with effective temperature exceeding 1000 k. all of the relationships between effective temperature and cloud formation are modestly sensitive to the effective gravity .    also shown in figures 26 are lines defining equal gas  phase abundances of methane and carbon monoxide and of ammonia and nitrogen .",
    "le chatelier s principle demands that the hydrate species dominate at the lower temperatures .",
    "hence , below @xmath21200 k and @xmath2600 k , methane and ammonia , respectively , are the dominant carbon and nitrogen species",
    ". between @xmath2600 k and @xmath21200 k , n@xmath0 and ch@xmath8 can coexist .",
    "this illustrates that gl229b is a threshold object which may contain some amounts of co in addition to ch@xmath8 .",
    "it is also possible that the atmosphere of gl229b contains detectable amounts of ammonia , because , even though it is a minor species , it is spectroscopically active .",
    "cloud formation depletes a gas  phase absorber from certain regions of the atmosphere ; if this occurs around the photosphere the resulting radiative balance and emergent flux distribution are modified .",
    "because of condensation , we expect that the gaseous water bands will disappear for objects with effective temperature below about 400 k. we expect the disappearance of silicate or iron features below about 1000 k ( depending modestly on surface gravity ) .    beyond predicting where the water and ammonia bands should disappear due to condensation , the spectral and radiative effects of clouds are difficult to quantify",
    ". simple models in which clouds are uniformly distributed over the surface of the egp , and are characterized by a single particle size , fail to take account of atmospheric dynamics which can lead to dramatic changes in the effects of clouds .",
    "in particular , convective processes lead to growth in the mean particle size , as well as a potentially heterogenous distribution of clouds across the disk of the object . in the case of water and magnesium silicates ,",
    "the latent heat of condensation increases the mean upwelling velocity and can exaggerate these effects , as quantified by lunine  ( 1989 ) . the simple model of the transport processes in magnesium silicate clouds presented in lunine  suggests particle sizes in the range of 100 microns are possible by coalescence , much larger than the micron  sized particles one would assume from simple condensation .",
    "the radiative properties of a cloud clearly depend upon the actual particle size , as well as the large  scale cloud morphology ( broken or continuous ) .",
    "the importance of these processes is seen in jupiter .",
    "earth  based and voyager spectra , along with theoretical modeling , show that the spectroscopic effects of water clouds differ from those predicted by the simplest condensation models ( carlson  1987 ) .",
    "galileo probe results ( niemann  1996 ) demonstrate directly that global dynamical processes combined with condensation lead to a strongly heterogeneous distribution of water clouds across jupiter s disk .",
    "thus , in the archtypical example of a giant planet , the simple assumptions about cloud formation and their impact on radiative processes fail .",
    "likewise , on neptune the methane clouds are distributed in a manifestly heterogeneous fashion .",
    "for these reasons we have chosen not to model explicitely the spectral and radiative effects of condensed species .",
    "to do so with the available information remains an unconstrained exercise , but higher resolution spectra on objects such as gl229b could provide constraints for such cloud modeling .",
    "in burrows ( 1995 ) and saumon ( 1996 ) , we published cooling curves for egps and small brown dwarfs that were based upon our then  current atmosphere models .",
    "for this paper , we have updated the h@xmath0 cia , h@xmath0o , and ch@xmath8 opacities and the t@xmath44t@xmath9 grid .",
    "consequently , the evolutionary tracks have changed , but generally by no more than 10% in luminosity at any given time , for any given mass . in this section",
    ", we present these latest cooling tracks and do so in the larger context of the m dwarf / brown dwarf / egp continuum . the figures in this section cover three orders of magnitude in mass and encapsulate the characteristics of the entire family of substellar objects and the transition to stars .",
    "figure 7 portrays the luminosity versus time for objects from saturn s mass ( 0.3 ) to 0.2 .",
    "the early plateaux between 10@xmath58 years and 10@xmath59 years are due to deuterium burning , where the initial deuterium mass fraction was taken to be 2@xmath6010@xmath61 .",
    "deuterium burning occurs earlier , is quicker , and is at higher luminosity for the more massive models , but can take as long as 10@xmath62 years for a 15 object .",
    "the mass below which less than 50% of the `` primordial '' deuterium is burnt is @xmath213 ( burrows  1995 ) . on this and",
    "subsequent figures in this section , we have arbitrarily classed as `` planets '' those objects that do not burn deuterium and as `` brown dwarfs '' those that do burn deuterium , but not light hydrogen . while this distinction is physically motivated , we do not advocate abandoning the definition based on origin . nevertheless , the separation into m dwarfs , `` brown dwarfs '' , and giant `` planets '' is useful for parsing by eye the information in the figures .    in figure 7 ,",
    "the bumps between 10@xmath63 and 10@xmath64 and between 10@xmath62 and 10@xmath65 years , seen on the cooling curves of objects from 0.03 to 0.08 , are due to silicate and iron grain formation .",
    "these effects , first pointed out by lunine  ( 1989 ) , occur for t@xmath9s between 2500 k and 1300 k. the presence of grains affects the precise mass and luminosity at the edge of the main sequence . since grain and cloud models are problematic , there still remains much to learn concerning their role and how to model them (  3.3 and allard  1997 ) .",
    "figure 8 depicts the central temperature ( t@xmath66 ) versus central density ( @xmath67 ) for a variety of masses between 0.3and 0.237 .",
    "superposed are isochrones from 10@xmath68 to 10@xmath69 years .",
    "for the m dwarfs , the central temperature generally rises until the object has stabilized as a star .",
    "however , near the bottom edge of the main sequence the central temperature actually decreases slightly just before stabilizing .",
    "the central density always increases with time .",
    "the highest densities are achieved by the massive brown dwarfs and hover near 1000 gm cm@xmath64 for solar metallicity .",
    "they are higher for lower metallicities , reaching a peak of @xmath22000 gm cm@xmath64 at zero metallicity ( burrows  1993 ) .",
    "the era during which t@xmath66 increases is rather brief for the `` planets '' and they spend most of their time cooling throughout .",
    "the `` brown dwarfs '' nicely straddle these two regimes .",
    "the figure8 trajectories for a given mass are universal curves , independent of the metallicity and atmosphere model .",
    "they depend solely upon the equation of state and the fact that the structures are fully convective in the interior .",
    "however , the positions of the isochrones do depend upon the model specifics and vary with metallicity and boundary conditions .",
    "note that the isochrones shear perceptibly near the `` brown dwarf''``planet '' interface .",
    "not unexpectedly , this is a consequence of the onset of deuterium burning .    for a given `` brown dwarf '' or egp mass ( in ) , figure 9 connects the observables t@xmath9 ( in k ) and gravity ( _ g _ , in @xmath71 ) .",
    "the dashed curves are the isochrones .",
    "as is clear from the figure , gravity maps fairly directly onto mass and for no mass does g change by more than a factor of two after 10@xmath62 years .",
    "modeling the spectrum of a substellar object will yield estimates of t@xmath9 and g. with these estimates , figure 9 can be used to infer the mass and the age simultaneously .",
    "in fact , for a given composition and model , only two quantities are needed to derive _ all _ others .",
    "bolometric luminosity and age can be used to yield mass and radius .",
    "effective temperature and mass can provide age and luminosity .",
    "our fit to the ukirt spectrum of gl229b ( marley  1996 ; geballe  1996 ; matthews  1996 ; see also oppenheimer  1995 ) gave t@xmath9@xmath29001000 k and g@xmath210@xmath72 cm s@xmath49 .",
    "reading off of figure 9 , one obtains a mass between 20 and 60 , with a best value near 35 , and an age between 10@xmath73 and 10@xmath69 years .",
    "the wide range in inferred gl229b parameters is a direct consequence of the weakness of our current constraints on g.    figure 10 depicts the evolution of radius with t@xmath9 , which at later times is an erzatz age .",
    "jupiter s current radius is near @xmath74 centimeters . in some sense , a radius ",
    "t@xmath9 plot is a compact h ",
    "r diagram , since , while luminosities for the family range nine orders of magnitude during a hubble time , radii vary far less .",
    "note that initially it takes longer for more massive objects to shrink , but that isochrones are not very much different from constant  radius lines at later times .",
    "note also that the lowest mass objects ( _ e.g. _ , saturn ) tend to have larger radii at earlier times and smaller radii at later times .",
    "in addition , at a given t@xmath9 , the higher the mass the smaller the radius , while at a given age ( after 10@xmath59 years ) radii generally decrease with mass . not obvious from the plot",
    "is the fact that the maximum cold radius occurs for a mass near 4@xmath16 .",
    "figure 11 is a theorist s h  r diagram for the `` brown dwarfs '' and giant `` planets . ''",
    "the inset is a continuation of the figure down to low luminosities and t@xmath9s .",
    "the current jupiter and saturn are superposed for comparison ( pearl & conrath 1991 ) .",
    "importantly , constant mass trajectories never cross and it is only for objects below 25@xmath16 that temperatures below 400 k are reached within 10@xmath75 years . figures 7 through 11 collectively summarize the model space within which substellar objects reside .",
    "tables 1a-1d contain the results of evolutionary calculations for objects with masses of 1 , 5 , 10 , and 0.04 ( @xmath242 ) .",
    "the numbers in them represent the latest atmospheric and opacity calculations at solar metallicity .",
    "there are a few major aspects of egp / brown dwarf atmospheres that bear listing and that uniquely characterize them .",
    "below t@xmath9s of 1300 k , the dominant equilibrium carbon molecule is ch@xmath8 , not co , and below 600 k the dominant nitrogen molecule is nh@xmath10 , not n@xmath0 .",
    "as discussed in  2 , the major opacity sources are h@xmath0 , h@xmath0o , ch@xmath8 , and nh@xmath10 .",
    "for t@xmath9s below @xmath2400 k , water clouds form at or above the photosphere and for t@xmath9s below 200 k , ammonia clouds form ( _ viz . , _",
    "jupiter ) . collision  induced absorption of h@xmath0 partially suppresses emissions longward of @xmath210 .",
    "the holes in the opacity spectrum of h@xmath0o that define the classic telluric ir bands also regulate much of the emission from egp / brown dwarfs in the near infrared .",
    "importantly , the windows in h@xmath0o and the suppression by h@xmath0 conspire to force flux to the blue for a given t@xmath9 .",
    "the upshot is an exotic spectrum enhanced relative to the blackbody value in the @xmath3 and @xmath4 bands ( @xmath21.2  and @xmath21.6 , respectively ) by as much as _ two _ to _ ten _ orders of magnitude , depending upon t@xmath9 .",
    "in addition , as t@xmath9 decreases below @xmath21000 k , the flux in the @xmath6 band ( @xmath25 ) is progressively enhanced relative to the blackbody value .",
    "while at 1000 k there is no enhancement , at 200 k it is near 10@xmath76 .",
    "hence , the @xmath3 , @xmath4 , and @xmath6 bands are the premier bands in which to search for cold substellar objects .",
    "the @xmath1 band ( @xmath21.05 ) is also super ",
    "blackbody over this t@xmath9 range .",
    "however , there is a nh@xmath10 feature in the @xmath1 band that is not in our database .",
    "this will likely reduce the flux in this band for the cooler models .",
    "eventhough @xmath5 band ( @xmath22.2 ) fluxes are generally higher than blackbody values , h@xmath0 and ch@xmath8 absorption features in the @xmath5 band decrease its importance _ relative _ to @xmath3 and @xmath4 .",
    "as a consequence of the increase of atmospheric pressure with decreasing t@xmath9 , the anomalously blue @xmath77 and @xmath78 colors get _ bluer _ , not redder .    for this paper , we calculated low  resolution spectra from 0.9  to 2500 , though we focus our discussions on the 1  to 10  region .",
    "a grid of spectra in t@xmath9gravity space was calculated . as stated in  2.7 , for the evolutionary calculations described in  4 ,",
    "a t@xmath9t@xmath44 grid was also constructed .",
    "the evolutionary calculations were used to map mass and age onto t@xmath9 and gravity , which were then used to interpolate in the grid of spectra to find the spectra and colors at any mass and age .",
    "this procedure proved to be quite robust for t@xmath9s between 1250 k and 100 k. the spectra we present are for objects in isolation and ignore the transport effect of clouds . as stated in  3.3 , omitting the direct effects of clouds has consequences , for below 400 k the formation of h@xmath0o clouds partially depletes the spectrum of the h@xmath0o vapor features that define it at higher tempertures .",
    "note that the presence or absence of clouds strongly affects the reflection albedos of egps and brown dwarfs .",
    "in particular , when there are clouds at or above the photosphere , the albedo in the optical is high .",
    "conversely , when clouds are absent , the albedo in the mostly absorbing atmosphere is low .",
    "figure 12 depicts the object s surface flux versus wavelength for representative t@xmath9s from 130 k to 1000 k at a gravity of @xmath79 cm s@xmath49 .",
    "the corresponding masses range from @xmath213 to @xmath216 and the corresponding ages range from 0.25 gyrs to 7 gyrs .",
    "superposed on figure 12 are the positions of various prominent molecular bands and the @xmath3 , @xmath4 , @xmath5 , and @xmath6 bands .",
    "as is clear from the figure , h@xmath0o defines much of the spectrum , but ch@xmath8 and h@xmath0 modify it in useful ways .",
    "ch@xmath8 absorption features near 1.65 , 2.2 , and 3.3 are particularly relevant , the latter two decreasing the @xmath5 and @xmath80 ( @xmath23.5 ) band fluxes , respectively . nh@xmath10 near 6  becomes important below 250 k and the ch@xmath8 feature around 7.8  deepens with decreasing t@xmath9 .",
    "however , it should be noted that in jupiter the 7.8  absorption feature is inverted into a stratospheric emission feature . since a stratosphere requires uv flux from the primary or another energy deposition mechanism , our models do not address this possibility .",
    "in addition , we find that h@xmath0o and nh@xmath10 features near 6  make the band from 5.5 to 7 less useful for searching for brown dwarfs and egps .",
    "figure 13 depicts spectra between 1  and 40  at a detector 10 parsecs away from objects with age 1 gyr and masses from 1 through 40 .",
    "figure 14 portrays the spectra for the same parameters , but from 1   to 10 .",
    "superposed on the former are the corresponding blackbody curves and superposed on both are putative sensitivities for the three nicmos cameras ( thompson 1992 ) , iso ( benvenuti  1994 ) , sirtf ( erickson & werner 1992 ) , and gemini / sofia ( mountain  1992 ; erickson 1992 ) .",
    "figure 13 demonstrates how unlike a blackbody an egp spectrum is .",
    "note on figure 13 the h@xmath0induced suppression at long wavelengths and the enhancement at shorter wavelengths .",
    "for example , the enhancement at 5  for a 1 gyr old , 1 @xmath16 extrasolar planet is by four orders of magnitude .",
    "implicit in figure 13 is the enhancement around the n band ( @xmath210 ) for t@xmath9 below 200 k.    comparison with the sensitivities reveals that the range for detection by sirtf at 5   of a 1 gyr old , 1 object in isolation is near 100 parsecs .",
    "the range for nicmos in @xmath4 for a 1 gyr old , 5 object is approximately 300 parsecs , while for a coeval 40 object it is near 1000 parsecs .",
    "these are dramatic numbers that serve to illustrate both the promise of the new detectors and the enhancements we theoretically predict .",
    "figures 1519 portray the evolution from 0.1 gyr to 5 gyr of the spectra from 1  to 10   of objects with masses of 1 , 5 , 10 , 15 , 20 .",
    "the higher curves are for the younger ages .",
    "these cooling curves summarize egp / brown dwarf spectra and their evolution , but are merely representative of the suite of models now available . note that the scales change from figures 1516 to figures 1719 and that , for comparison , blackbody curves are superposed on figure 15 ( the `` jupiter '' model ) .",
    "figures 17 and 19 include identifications of some of the molecular features .",
    "figure 19 suggests that sirtf will be able to see at 5  a 5 gyr old , 20 object in isolation out to @xmath2400 parsecs and that nicmos will be able to see at @xmath3 or @xmath4 a 0.1 gyr old object with the same mass out to @xmath22000 parsecs . as shown in figure 15 , the @xmath3 and @xmath4 flux enhancements over blackbody values for the 1 @xmath16 model after 0.1 gyr are at least ten orders of magnitude .",
    "however , it must be remembered that these models do not include a reflected light component from a primary .",
    "for many combinations of primary and orbital separation , this reflected component can dominate in the near ir .",
    "from the spectra described in the previous section , we have calculated infrared colors and produced color  color and color  magnitude diagrams .",
    "figures 20 through 24 are representative color  magnitude diagrams for objects with masses from 3 to 40 , for ages of 0.5 , 1.0 , and 5.0 gyr . figures 25 and 26",
    "are color  color diagrams for the same models . for comparison , included in these figures",
    "are the corresponding blackbody curves , hot , young brown dwarf or extremely late m dwarf candidates such as lhs2924 , gd 165b , calar 3 , and teide 1 ( kirkpatrick , henry , & simons 1994,1995 ; zapatero - osorio , rebolo , & martin 1997 ) , and a sample of m dwarfs from leggett ( 1992 ) .",
    "these figures collectively illustrate the unique color realms occupied by extrasolar giant planets and brown dwarfs",
    ".    figures 20 and 21 portray the fact that the @xmath5 and @xmath3 versus @xmath77 infrared h ",
    "r diagrams loop back to the blue below the edge of the main sequence and are not continuations of the m dwarf sequence into the red .",
    "the difference between the blackbody curves and the model curves is between 3 and 10 magnitudes for @xmath3 versus @xmath77 , more for @xmath5 versus @xmath77 .",
    "gl229b fits nicely on these theoretical isochrones .",
    "the suppression of @xmath5 by h@xmath0 and ch@xmath8 features is largely responsible for this anomalous blueward trend with decreasing mass and t@xmath9 .",
    "as figures 22 and 23 demonstrate , the fit to gl229b in @xmath4 is not as good .",
    "this is also true of the fit to @xmath80 .",
    "since both @xmath4 and @xmath80 have significant ch@xmath8 features in them , we surmise that incompleteness or errors in the ch@xmath8 opacity database is the culprit . as figures 22 and 23 also show",
    ", @xmath81 actually reddens with decreasing t@xmath9 , but only marginally and is still 1.5 to 4 magnitudes bluer than the corresponding blackbody .",
    "that the @xmath81 and @xmath78 colors of egps and brown dwarfs are many magnitudes blueward of blackbodies is a firm conclusion of this work .    superposed on the color  color diagrams ( figures 25 and 26 ) are model colors for stars at the edge of the main sequence for metallicities from solar to 10@xmath64 times solar . for the non  solar calculations ,",
    "the atmospheres of allard & hauschildt ( 1995 ) were used to generate the corresponding t@xmath9t@xmath44 relations employed by our evolutionary code ( saumon , in preparation ) .",
    "a glance at these numbers and those in the zero  metallicity paper of saumon  ( 1994 ) reveals that we expect the lower metallicity models to populate the bluer regions below the depicted model lines .",
    "however , we have yet to calculate precise numbers for non  solar metallicities with the new algorithms and opacities of this paper .    tables 2 and 3 depict the infrared magnitudes and colors for various gravities and t@xmath9s . also included are @xmath7 band magnitudes and @xmath82 colors .",
    "we employed the transmission curves of bessell & brett ( 1988 ) and bessell ( 1990 ) to define the photometric bandpasses and the model of vega by dreiling & bell ( 1980 ) for the calibration of the magnitude scale .",
    "as table 2 and figures 2024 suggest , the brightnesses in the near ir are quite respectable .",
    "table 3 shows that colors generally get bluer with increasing gravity ( except for @xmath83 , which shows the opposite trend ) . for @xmath81",
    ", the effect may be only @xmath20.2 magnitudes per decade in gravity and for the problematic @xmath78 color it is perhaps @xmath20.4 magnitudes per decade",
    ". however , for @xmath83 it is @xmath20.8 magnitudes per decade , though one must recall that @xmath80 is not well modeled .",
    "nevertheless , in principle these colors can collectively be used as crude gravity diagnostics .",
    "during the past two years , scientists and the public at large have been galvanized by the discovery of planets and brown dwarfs around nearby stars and by evidence for ancient life on mars ( mckay  1996 ) .",
    "these extraordinary findings have dramatically heightened interest in the age ",
    "old questions of where we came from and whether we are unique in the cosmos .",
    "nasa has outlined a program to detect planetary systems around nearby stars that may become a future focus of nasa and its central , unifying scientific theme in the next century .",
    "this vision is laid out in the _ exploration of neighboring planetary systems ( exnps ) roadmap _ ( see also the `` tops '' report , 1992 ) and has been expanded to include the origins of life , planets , galaxies , and the universe .",
    "the next generation planet and brown dwarf searches and studies will be conducted by nicmos , sirtf , gemini / sofia , iso , ngst , lbt ( angel 1994 ) , the mmt conversion , the vlt , keck i & ii , corot ( transits ) , denis , 2mass , ukirt , and irtf , among other platforms . for close companions , advances in adaptive optics , interferometry , and coronagraphs will be necessary to disentangle the light of companion and primary .",
    "the models we have generated of the colors and spectra of egps and brown dwarfs are in aid of this quest for origins and of the discovery and characterization of substellar objects around nearby stars and in the field .",
    "we have created a general non  gray theory of objects from 0.3 to 70 below @xmath21300 k using the best input physics and some of the best numerical tools available , but much remains to be done .",
    "in particular , the opacity of ch@xmath8 and a proper treatment of silicate / iron , h@xmath0o , and nh@xmath10 clouds are future challenges that must be met before the theory can be considered mature . furthermore , the effects of stellar insolation , addressed only approximately in saumon  ( 1996 ) and guillot  ( 1996 ) , must be incorporated consistently . since the near ir signature of proximate substellar companions will be significantly altered by a refected component , a theory of albedos in the optical and in the near ir must be developed . for specificity",
    ", we focussed in this paper upon objects in isolation and did not include the complicating parameters of central star and semi  major axis .",
    "however , it will be useful to predict the signatures of specific systems with known orbital characteristics , primaries , and ages , such as @xmath13 boo , 51 peg , @xmath14 and , 55 cnc , @xmath15 crb , 70 vir , 16 cyg , and 47 uma .",
    "1 .   h@xmath0o , h@xmath0 , and ch@xmath8 dominate the spectrum below t@xmath9@xmath21200 k. for such t@xmath9s , most or all true metals are sequestered below the photosphere .",
    "though egp colors and low  resolution spectra depend upon gravity , this dependence is weak .",
    "however , high  resolution spectra may provide useful gravity diagnostics .",
    "3 .   the primary bands in which to search are @xmath1 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 , @xmath5 , @xmath6 and @xmath7 .",
    "@xmath5 is not as good as @xmath3 or @xmath4 .",
    "4 .   enhancements and suppressions of the emergent flux relative to blackbody values can be by many orders of magnitude .",
    "objects that were considered from their low t@xmath9s ( @xmath84600 k ) to be undetectable in the near ir may not be .",
    "the infrared colors of egps and brown dwarfs are much bluer than the colors previously derived using either the blackbody assumption or primitive non  gray models . 7 .   in some ir colors ( _ e.g. , _",
    "@xmath77 ) , an object gets bluer , not redder , with age and for a given age , lower  mass substellar objects are bluer than higher  mass substellar objects .",
    "for a given composition , only two observables are necessary to constrain a substellar object s parameters .",
    "for instance , given only t@xmath9 and gravity , one can derive mass , age , and radius .",
    "the existence of an interior radiative zone seems to be a generic feature of substellar objects with t@xmath9s from @xmath2200 k to 1000 k , and might also obtain for t@xmath9s below @xmath2200 k. the appearance and extent of such a radiative zone is a function of gravity .",
    "clouds of h@xmath0o and nh@xmath10 are formed for t@xmath9s below @xmath2400 k and @xmath2200 k , respectively .",
    "their formation will affect the colors and spectra of egps and brown dwarfs in ways not yet fully characterized .",
    "we thank r. angel , w. benz , s. kulkarni , j. liebert , b. oppenheimer , g. rieke , g. schneider , s. stolovy , and n. woolf for a variety of useful contributions .",
    "this work was supported under nsf grants ast-9318970 and ast-9624878 and under nasa grants nag5 - 2817 , nagw-2250 , and nag2 - 6007 .",
    "allard , f. , & hauschildt , p.h .",
    "1995 , , 445 , 433 allard , f. , hauschildt , p.h . ,",
    "baraffe , i. , & chabrier , g. 1996 , , 465 , l123 allard , f. , hauschildt , p. h. , alexander , d. r. & starrfield , s. 1997 , , 35 , 137 anders , e. & grevesse , n. 1989 , geochim .",
    "acta , 53 , 197 angel , j.r.p .",
    "1994 , nature , 368 , 203 barshay , s.s . &",
    "lewis , j.s .",
    "1976 , , 14 , 81 benvenuti , p.  1994 , in _",
    "esa s report to the 30th cospar meeting , esa sp-1169 , paris _ , p. 75",
    "( iso ) borysow , a. & frommhold , l. 1990 , , 348 , l41 brown , l.r . & peterson , d.b .",
    "1994 , j. mol .",
    "spect . , 168 , 593 brown , l.r . & plymate , c. 1996 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 56 , 263 bulanin , m.o .",
    ", dokuchaev , a.b . , tonkov , m.v . , & filippov , n.n .",
    "1984 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 6 , 521 burrows , a. , hubbard , w.b . , & lunine , j.i .",
    "1989 , , 345 , 939 burrows , a. , hubbard , w.b . ,",
    "saumon , d. , & lunine , j.i .",
    "1993 , , 406 , 158 burrows , a. , saumon , d. , guillot , t. , hubbard , w.b . , & lunine , j.i .",
    "1995 , nature , 375 , 299 bessell , m.s .",
    "1990 , , 102 , 1181 bessell , m.s . , & brett , j.m .",
    "1988 , , 100 , 1134 butler , r. p. & marcy , g. w. 1996 , , 464 , l153 butler , r. p. , marcy , g. w. , williams , e. , hauser , h. , & shirts , p. 1997",
    ", , 474 , l115 carbon , d.f . &",
    "goorvitch , d. 1996 , bull .",
    "society , 189 , 81.03 carlson , b.e . ,",
    "prather , m.j . , & rossow , w.b .",
    "1987 , , 322 , 559 cochran , w.d . , hatzes , a.p . ,",
    "butler , r.p .",
    ", & marcy , g. 1997 , science , in press dantona , f. & mazzitelli , i. 1985 , , 296 , 502 dorman , b. , nelson , l.a . , & chou , w.y . 1989 , , 342 , 1003 dreiling , l.a . & bell , r.a . 1980 , , 241 , 736 eisenberg , d. & kauzmann , w. 1969 , the structure and properties of water ( new york : oxford university press ) erickson , e. f.  1992 , space science reviews , 61 , 61 ( sofia ) erickson , e. f. & werner , m. w.  1992 , space science reviews , 61 , 95 ( sirtf ) exnps : a road map for the exploration of neighboring planetary systems , jpl publication 9622 , august 1996 fegley , b. & lodders , k. 1994 , icarus , 110 , 117 fegley , b. & lodders , k. 1996 , , 472 , l37 gamache , r.r . , lynch , r. , & brown , l.r . 1996 , j. quant . spect . rad .",
    "transfer , 56 , 471 geballe , t. r. , kulkarni , s. r. , woodward , c. e. , & sloan , g. c. 1996 , , 467 , l101 goody , r. , west , r. , chen , l. , & crisp , d. 1989 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 42 , 539 goorvitch , d. 1994 , , 95 , 535 grossman , a.s .",
    "& grant , k. 1992 , llnl rept .",
    "ucrl - id-111805 grossman , a.s .",
    "& grant , k. 1994a , llnl rept .",
    "ucrl - id-116533 grossman , a.s .",
    "& grant , k. 1994b eighth conference on atmospheric radiation , 97 , american meterological society .",
    "guillot , t. , burrows , a. , hubbard , w.b . ,",
    "lunine , j.i . , & saumon , d. 1996 , , 459 , l35 guillot , t. , gautier , d. , chabrier , g. , & mosser , b. 1994 , icarus , 112 , 337 handbook of chemistry and physics , 74th edition , 1993 , ed .",
    "lide , crc press inc .",
    "husson , n. , bonnet , b. , scott , n.a . , & chedin , a. 1994 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 48 , 509 ingersoll , a.p .",
    "& pollard , d. 1982 , icarus 52 , 62 iso observer s manual version 2.0 , 31 march 1994 , prepared by the iso science operations team , p6 kirkpatrick , j.d . ,",
    "henry , t.j . , & simons , d.a .",
    "1994 , , 108 , 1437 kirkpatrick , j.d . , henry , t.j . , & simons , d.a .",
    "1995 , , 109 , 797 kurucz , r.l . , 1970 , smithsonian obs .",
    ", 309 , 1 - 291 lacis , a.a .",
    "& oinas , v. 1991 , j. geophys . res . , 96 , 9027 lange s handbook of chemistry , 1979 , ed . j.a .",
    "dean , mcgraw - hill book company , new - york latham , d.  w. , mazeh , t. , stefanik , r.p .",
    ", mayor , m. , & burki g. 1989 , nature , 339 , 38 leger , a. ,  1993 , darwin mission concept , proposal to esa leggett , s.k .",
    "1992 , , 82 , 351 lemoal , m.f . & severin , f. 1986 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 35 , 145 levy , a. , lacome , n. , & tarrago , g. 1994 , j. mol .",
    "spect . , 166 , 20 lindal , g. 1992 , , 103 , 967 lunine , j.i . , hubbard , w.b . , burrows , a. , wang , y.p . , & garlow , k. 1989 , , 338 , 314 marcy , g. w. & butler , r. p. 1996",
    ", , 464 , l147 margolis , j. 1993 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 50 , 431 margolis , j. 1996 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 55 , 823 marley , m. , saumon , d. , guillot , t. , freedman , r.s .",
    ", hubbard , w.b . , burrows , a. , & lunine , j.i .",
    "1996 , science , 272 , 1919 matthews , k. , nakajima , t. , kulkarni , s.r . , & oppenheimer , b.r .",
    "1996 , , 112 , 1678 mayor , m. & queloz , d. 1995 , nature , 378 , 355 mckay , d. s. ,  1996 , science , 273 , 924 mckay , c.p , pollack , j.b .",
    ", & courtin , r. 1989 , icarus , 80 , 23 moses , j.i . , allen , m. , & yung , y.l .",
    "1992 , icarus , 99 , 318 mountain , m. , r. kurz , r. , & oschmann , j.  1994 , in _ the gemini 8-m telescope projects , s.p.i.e .",
    "proceedings on advanced technology optical telescopes v _",
    ", 2199 , p. 41",
    "( gemini ) nakajima , t. , oppenheimer , b.r . ,",
    "kulkarni , s.r .",
    ", golimowski , d.a . , matthews , k. , & durrance , s.t .",
    "1995 , nature , 378 , 463 nelson , l.a . ,",
    "rappaport , s.a .",
    ", & joss , p.c .",
    "1985 , nature 316 , 42 niemann , h. , atreya , s.k . ,",
    "cargnan , g.r . ,",
    "donahue , t.m . ,",
    "haberman , j.a .",
    ", harpold , d.n . ,",
    "hartle , r.e . ,",
    "hunten , d.m . ,",
    "kasprzak , w.t . ,",
    "mahaffy , p.r . ,",
    "owen , t.c . ,",
    "spencer , n.w . ,",
    "way , s.h . 1996 , science , 272 , 837 oppenheimer , b.r . , kulkarni , s.r . ,",
    "matthews , k. , & nakajima , t. 1995 , science , 270 , 1478 partridge , h. & schwenke , d.w .",
    "1997 , j. chem .",
    ", 106 , 4618 pearl , j. c. & conrath , r. a.  1991 , j. geophys . res .",
    "suppl . , 96 , 18921 podolak , m. , hubbard , w.b . & pollack , j.b .",
    "1993 , in protostars and planets iii , eds .",
    "e.h . levy and j.i .",
    "lunine ( tucson , univ . of arizona press ) , 1109 .",
    "polyansky , o.l . ,",
    "jensen , p. , & tennyson , j. 1994 , j. phys .",
    ", 101 , 7651 rages , k. , pollack , j.b . , tomasko , m.g . , & doose , l.r .",
    "1991 , icarus , 89 , 359 riviere , ph . ,",
    "soufiani , a. , & taine , j. 1992 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 48 , 187 riviere , ph .",
    ", soufiani , a. , & taine , j. 1994 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 53 , 335 rothman , l.s . ,",
    "gamache , r.r . ,",
    "tipping , r.h . ,",
    "rinsland , c.p . ,",
    "smith , m.a.h . , benner , d.c .",
    ", malathy devi , v. , flaud , j .-",
    ", camy - peyret , c. , perrin , a. , goldman , a. , massie , s.t . , brown , l.r . , & toth , r.a .",
    "1992 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 48 , 469 .",
    "rothman , l.s .",
    ", wattson , r.b . ,",
    "gamache , r.r . ,",
    "goorvitch , d. , hawkins , r.l . ,",
    "selby , j.e.a .",
    ", cambry - peyret , c. , flaud , j .-",
    "m . , schroeder , j. , & mccann , a. 1997 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , submitted saumon , d. , bergeron , p. , lunine , j.i . , hubbard , w.b .",
    "& burrows , a. 1994 , , 424 , 333 saumon , d. , hubbard , w.b . , burrows , a. , guillot , t. , lunine , j.i . , & chabrier , g. 1996 , , 460 , 993 saumon , d. & chabrier , g. 1991 , phys .",
    "a , 44 , 5122 saumon , d. & chabrier , g. 1992 , phys .",
    "a , 46 , 2084 saxner , m. & gustafsson , b. 1984 ,  , 140 , 334 seiff , a. ,  1996 , science , 272 , 844 stevenson , d.  j. 1991 , , 29 , 163 stringfellow , g.  s. 1991 , , 375 , l21 thompson , r.  1992 , space science reviews , 61 , 69 ( nicmos ) tipping , r. 1990 , report on calculation of spectroscopic parameters for diatomic molecules of atmospheric interest , univ . of alabama report , dept . of physics and astronomy toon , o.b . ,",
    "mckay , c.p . ,",
    "ackerman , t.p .",
    ", & santhanam , k. 1989 , j. geophys .",
    "res . , 94 , 16287 tops : toward other planetary systems , nasa solar system exploration division , washington , d.c . , 1992 tsuji , t. , ohnaka , w. , aoki , w. , & nakajima , t. 1996 ,  , 308 , l29 tyuterev , vl.g . , babikov , yu.l . ,",
    "tashkun , s.a . ,",
    "perevalov , v.i . ,",
    "nikitin , a. , champion , j .-",
    ", wegner , ch . ,",
    "pierre , c. , pierre , g. , hilico , j .- c . , & loete , m. 1994 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 52 , 459 wattson , r.b . , and rothman l.s .",
    "1992 , j. quant .",
    "transfer , 48 , 763 zapatero - osorio , m.r .",
    ", rebolo , r. , & martin , e.l .",
    "1997 ,  , 317 , 164 zheng , c. & borysow , a. 1995 , icarus , 113 , 84"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of a new series of non  gray calculations of the atmospheres , spectra , colors , and evolution of extrasolar giant planets ( egps ) and brown dwarfs for effective temperatures below 1300 k. this theory encompasses most of the mass / age parameter space occupied by substellar objects and is the first spectral study down to 100 k. these calculations are in aid of the multitude of searches being conducted or planned around the world for giant planets and brown dwarfs and reveal the exotic nature of the class . </S>",
    "<S> generically , absorption by h@xmath0 at longer wavelengths and h@xmath0o opacity windows at shorter wavelengths conspire to redistribute flux blueward . below 1200 </S>",
    "<S> k , methane is the dominant carbon bearing molecule and is a universal diagnostic feature of egp and brown dwarf spectra . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the primary bands in which to search are @xmath1 ( @xmath21.05 ) , @xmath3 ( @xmath21.2 ) , @xmath4 ( @xmath21.6 ) , @xmath5 ( @xmath22.2 ) , @xmath6 ( @xmath25 ) , and @xmath7 ( @xmath210 ) , that enhancements of the emergent flux over blackbody values , in particular in the near infrared , can be by _ many _ orders of magnitude , and that the infrared colors of egps and brown dwarfs are much bluer than previously believed . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , relative to @xmath3 and @xmath4 , the @xmath5 band flux is reduced by ch@xmath8 and h@xmath0 absorption . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , we derive that for t@xmath9s below 1200 k most or all true metals are sequestered below the photosphere , that an interior radiative zone is a generic feature of substellar objects , and that clouds of h@xmath0o and nh@xmath10 are formed for t@xmath9s below @xmath2400 k and @xmath2200 k , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> this study is done for solar  </S>",
    "<S> metallicity objects in isolation and does not include the effects of stellar insolation . nevertheless , it is a comprehensive attempt to bridge the gap between the planetary and stellar realms and to develop a non  gray theory of objects from 0.3 ( `` saturn '' ) to 70 ( @xmath20.07 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the detection ranges for brown dwarf / egp discovery of both ground and space  based telescopes are larger than previously estimated .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1 # 1@xmath11 </S>"
  ]
}