{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the most peculiar globular clusters is @xmath0  centauri with its extreme characteristics .",
    "it is not only the largest , most massive , and most oblate galactic globular cluster but it is also one of the least bounded clusters with @xmath1 gyr half - mass relaxation time ( meylan et  al .",
    "accordingly , the dynamical evolution of the cluster is extremely slow .",
    "the large metallicity spread observed ( greater than 1.5  dex ) is also unique in globular clusters . regarding some of its characteristics",
    "@xmath0  cen resembles the dwarf spheroidal galaxies rather than the globular clusters .",
    "the large number of the variables also gives useful information on the stellar populations of the system .",
    "the anomalous properties and the relatively short distance of the cluster stimulated many extensive photometric and spectroscopic studies . in spite of these efforts ,",
    "the chemical and dynamical history of the system are not yet understood clearly .",
    "there is evidence indicating that both primordial and evolutionary effects are responsible for the origin of the metallicity spread and for the other observed peculiarities of the chemical compositions ( see e.g. norris & da costa 1995 , suntzeff & kraft 1996 ) .",
    "different models involving two periods of star formation , self - enrichment and also the possibility of two merging components were suggested to explain the systematics found in the chemical compositions and in the radial distribution of the different groups of stars ; some chemical composition indicators ( ca  lines , cn  bands ) clearly show evidence of radial gradient .",
    "norris et  al .",
    "( 1997 ) found that the larger metallicity giants form a radially more concentrated group than the metal - poor ones , and do not follow the same systemic rotation as the metal - poor component exhibits .",
    "they concluded that this situation favors the merging scenario .",
    "the large number of the accurate metallicity measurements makes it possible to map the unbiased spatial metallicity distribution in @xmath0  centauri .",
    "the aim of all such previous investigations were to find differences between the radial distributions of the different metallicity stars , thus the true metallicity map of the cluster has not yet been actually constructed . in this letter",
    "it is shown that there is not only a radial gradient in the metallicity distribution ( see norris et  al .",
    "1997 ) , but the most and the least metal - poor bright giants tend to be located at the opposite sides of the cluster . it is also indicated that the bulk of the rr  lyrae stars belongs to a very homogeneous population .",
    "all the published metallicity values of @xmath0  centauri stars have been collected .",
    "the two extended metallicity surveys ( norris , freeman & mighell 1996 , nfm , and suntzeff & kraft 1996 , sk ) included most of those stars which were analyzed in the other works , thus to minimize the effect of discrepancies between the metallicity scales , for those stars belonging to the nfm and/or sk samples only these observations are considered .",
    "the [ ca / h ] values of nfm are transformed to [ fe / h ] using the high dispersion results of 40 red giants by norris and da costa ( 1995 , nd ) .",
    "for these stars the [ fe / h ] values given in nd , whereas for the others the averages of the nfm and sk observations are used .",
    "additional data include the 3 chemically peculiar ( ba , s ) stars analyzed by vanture , wallerstein & brown ( 1994 ) , the three variables and roa24 from gonzalez & wallerstein ( 1994 ) , and the rr lyrae stars with known metallicity . for 48 singly",
    "periodic rrab stars the [ fe / h ] values are determined from the light curve parameters using the ogle observations ( kaluzny et  al .",
    "this method give @xmath2  dex accurate [ fe / h ] values ( jurcsik & kovcs 1996 ) on a metallicity scale ( jurcsik 1995 ) calibrated to high dispersion spectroscopic results consistent with the nd metallicity scale .",
    "besides these data , @xmath3 observations of 35 additional ( mostly rrc ) variables transformed to the above metallicity scale from the studies of butler , dickens & epps ( 1978 , bde ) , and gratton , tornambe & ortolani ( 1986 , gto ) are also used .",
    "the above compilation comprises metallicities of altogether 792 stars .",
    "the majority of the data comes from sk and nfm .",
    "both of these samples aimed to give the best possible representation of the unbiased distribution of the stellar metallicities , therefore only the brightness was used as a selection criterion for the bright giants .",
    "concerning our present result , the most important is , however , that there was no selection effect indicated in any of the data used which would provide a selection bias toward the position of the different metallicity stars within the cluster , besides limitations in their radial distances from the cluster center .",
    "thus , it can be assumed that the above compilation reflects the true spatial distribution of the different metallicity bright giants and there is no clear indication of coordinate related sampling in the case of the variables and subgiants , too .",
    "using the metallicity values of the 792 stars referred in sec .  2 the apparent location of the different metallicity stars within the cluster can be plotted .",
    "we use the roa catalogue positions ( woolley 1966 ) and for additional stars the coordinates given by nfm and kaluzny et  al .",
    "( 1997 ) all of them transformed into galactic coordinate system ( j2000 ) . applying different metallicity criteria and",
    "magnitude limits it is found that the most and the least metal - poor giants seem to be located at different parts of the cluster .",
    "the effect is the most pronounced for the brightest giants ( 359 stars with @xmath4  mag ) if stars with [ fe / h ] @xmath5 and [ fe / h ] @xmath6 are selected . in this case",
    "the most metal - poor and the most metal - rich stars are located as shown in fig .  1",
    ". the non - uniform distribution of the metallicity extremes is rather striking in this figure , the most metal - poor sample belongs mostly to the ` upper right ' part of the cluster whereas the metal - rich one to the opposite side .",
    "there is no metallicity extreme star below or above a given latitude limit in this bright sample .",
    "the separation between the centers of these groups is 6.2.    though the separation of the extreme metallicity stars is clearly evident in fig .",
    "1 , it is also necessary to check whether such metallicity distribution could also occur just by chance or it is an artifact of the small sample sizes . in order to decide the real significance of the phenomenon the following test is performed .",
    "the coordinates and metallicities of stars brighter than a magnitude limit are randomly coupled in sufficiently large number ( 5000 ) of simulations . in each simulation",
    "the same metal - poor and metal - rich samples are selected as in fig .  1 and the distances ( @xmath7 ) between their mean coordinates ( centers ) are determined . in fig .",
    "2 the histogram of the distribution of the @xmath7 values obtained from this test is shown , when 464 stars brighter than 13  mag are used . in this case 55 and 37",
    "stars belong to the metal - poor and metal - rich groups , respectively .",
    "the arrow indicates the observed value of @xmath7 .",
    "we can draw the conclusion from this test that such separation between the different metallicity samples as observed has very low probability .",
    "the measured distance between the samples was reached only in less than 0.1% of the realizations . performing this test by using other magnitude and metallicity criteria ,",
    "it is found that even if no magnitude selection is applied the observed separation is reached only in about 5% of the simulations .",
    "when using the bright ( @xmath8  mag ) sample the probability is , however , reduced practically to zero . while the observed value in this case is 6.2 , none of the 5000 simulations resulted in @xmath7 value larger than 6.0. concerning the metallicity ranges chosen , if the two different metallicity groups comprise about @xmath9% of the bright giant sample then the observed separation is still statistically significant with 7% probability .    the significance of the difference between the distributions of the extreme metallicity groups can also be determined by using two - sample kolmogorov - smirnov test . assuming as null hypothesis that their latitude distributions are the same",
    ", the k - s test for the bright samples ( @xmath8 and 13.00  mag ) gives 0.0005 and 0.0020 probability to reach the observed distribution if the null hypothesis is true .",
    "when the whole sample is regarded with no magnitude limit then the null hypothesis is firmly rejected with p - value  @xmath10 .",
    "the maximum values of the differences between the cumulative distribution functions are 0.5 , 0.4 and 0.3 in the above cases , respectively .",
    "it is also worth noting that the direction of the separation has two special properties .",
    "firstly , the metal richer population is located towards the galactic disc , pointing to the galactic center .",
    "secondly , the photometric minor axis of @xmath0  cen , which is shown by dashed line in fig .  1 , is very close to the direction of galactic longitude , indicating that the rotational axis of the cluster is nearly perpendicular to the separation .",
    "such coincidences further reduce the probability of the chance occurrence of the phenomenon .    to see the separation of the metallicity extremes of the different groups of the stars , in fig .",
    "3 the relative galactic latitudes @xmath11 measured from the position of the cluster center ( @xmath12 ) are plotted against the brightness . as in fig .  1 , filled and open circles indicate the most and least metal - poor stars , respectively .",
    "this figure also shows that in the bright sample there is no metal rich star above @xmath13 , while just the opposite is true for the most metal - poor stars .",
    "there is no @xmath14  mag most metal - poor giant below @xmath15 , and the three stars brighter than 13  mag which lie at law latitudes have just the limit value of the metallicity ( @xmath16  dex ) as far as the selection criterion is concerned .",
    "the faint sample which comprises most of the variables and the subgiants , does not show a similar segregation of the most and least metal - poor stars as observed for the bright sample .",
    "the extremes are equally distributed at both sides of the cluster .",
    "this sample , however , also shows a special feature in the metallicity distribution . there is no most metal deficient subgiant close to the @xmath17 plane , at the position most of them",
    "are found in the bright sample .",
    "although , the sample of subgiants may suffer from some selection bias ( e.g. all the subgiants measured are outside a central radius of 8 , only stars with small proper motion values were observed , etc ) , we do not see any specific reason for such artifact .",
    "the [ fe / h ] values of the faint sample are , however , less certain than those of the brighter stars , thus it is also possible that the @xmath18  dex metallicity range of the most metal - poor stars does not allow correct selection of the objects belonging to this sample .",
    "therefore , the reality of this anomaly can not be taken for sure at present .",
    "consequently , avoiding misleading interpretations we only call for studies searching very metal - poor subdwarfs close to the ` equatorial ' region of the cluster .",
    "it also has to be mentioned , however , that k - s test of the faint sample accepts the null hypothesis at only 5% significance level .",
    "the metallicities of the rr lyrae stars are calculated from their light curve parameters ( empirical values ) , and also come from spectroscopic observations . comparing the empirical and spectroscopic data ,",
    "however , significant discrepancies can be found .",
    "there are 23 rrab stars in the bde sample which also have empirical [ fe / h ] values .",
    "the mean difference between the two types of their metallicities is only @xmath19  dex ( @xmath20_{emp}-[fe / h]_{sp}}$ ] ) , but with unexpectedly large , 0.52  dex standard deviation . comparing the empirical data with gto s observations ( 10 stars in common ) the mean difference is @xmath21  dex with a bit smaller 0.38  dex rms scatter .",
    "therefore , when only spectroscopic results are available but from both sources , gto s data are used . since the empirical values are assumed to be @xmath22  dex correct ( see jurcsik & kovcs 1996 , layden 1997 , kaluzny et  al .",
    "1998 ) , it is suspected that the spectroscopic data are not accurate enough .",
    "the discrepancies between bde s and gto s results also indicate uncertainties of the @xmath3 observations . at present , however , we can not really decide whether the spectroscopic data are so much uncertain or the empirical formula calculating the metallicity is not valid for the @xmath0  centauri variables .",
    "however , before speculating on any such interpretation , it would be very important to obtain high accuracy spectroscopic observations of the variables in order to confirm the discrepancy .",
    "unfortunately , this uncertainty questions the reality of the metallicity map of the variables .",
    "thus we only mention that when using exclusively the empirical data there are 1 and 7 stars belonging to the most and least metal - poor groups , respectively .",
    "the most metal - poor one ( v99 ) lies very close to the center and all the least metal - poor ones are between @xmath23 and @xmath24 galactic latitudes .",
    "this distribution does not contradict the separation found in the case of giants , but does not significantly confirm it either .",
    "if the spectroscopic metallicities are also involved , no clear evidence of any separation can be found , as it can be seen in fig .  3 where most of the stars in the @xmath25 magnitude range are rr  lyraes .",
    "but as the discrepancy between the spectroscopic and empirical metallicity values are surprisingly large we do not put too much confidence in this result .    the application of the physical parameter  light curve relations ( kovcs & jurcsik 1996 , 1997 ; jurcsik 1998 ) , besides [ fe / h ] , yields luminosity , temperature , and mass values of the variables , too .",
    "thus we can construct the hr diagram of these stars as shown in fig .",
    "the metallicity extremes are denoted by open circles with size proportional to their [ fe / h ] .",
    "the average [ fe / h ] of the remaining 40 variables is @xmath26  dex with 0.08  dex standard deviation .",
    "these stars ( shown as filled circles ) seem to be located along a similar track as evolutionary model calculations predict . for comparison a segment of the oxygen enhanced evolutionary track ( @xmath20}=-1.48 $ ] ; @xmath27 ) of dorman ( 1992 ) is also indicated .",
    "the empirical @xmath28 and @xmath29 values are shifted by 0.10 and 0.015 , respectively , in order to reach agreement with evolutionary results ( see also jurcsik & kovcs 1998 ) .",
    "this transformation yields @xmath30 mean mass of the 40 similar metallicity variables with @xmath31 rms scatter .",
    "thus it is concluded that most of the rrab stars belong to a very homogeneous population with mass dispersion in accordance with evolutionary model predictions .",
    "it can be also seen in fig .",
    "4 that these stars are already in the evolved ( redward ) phase of their horizontal branch evolution .",
    "the 7 least metal - poor stars comprise a more heterogeneous group , with @xmath32  dex and @xmath33 mean metallicity and mass , respectively .",
    "the unusual properties possessed by @xmath0  centauri already cast some doubt about its status as an ordinary globular cluster .",
    "detecting such an anisotropy in the spatial distribution of the different metallicity stars as shown in this letter can also hardly be explained in the context of globular cluster evolution without any external influence .",
    "if the metallicity spread had been caused by long lasting continuous or discrete phases of star - birth periods during the early phase of the cluster s evolution , then , in spite of the long relaxation time of the cluster , no initial spatial metallicity anisotropy could have been preserved so clearly .",
    "it seems that there is no mechanism which would date back the origin of both the chemical inhomogeneity and its special spatial distribution to the early history of the cluster .",
    "some more recent effect is needed in order to explain the phenomenon .",
    "an explanation may arise from assuming that @xmath0  centauri is a not - too - old merger of two different characteristics stellar clusters .",
    "its galactic location in the vicinity of the boundary between the halo and the disk may have given chance for close approach of different population objects in the relatively recent past .",
    "however , the different kinematic properties of different population objects make their merging , even in case of very close approach , unlikely . moreover , in the scope of this picture it also can not be explained why the distribution of the metallicity frequency is not clearly bimodal ( see e.g. sk ) as it would have been expected if two monometallic clusters merge .",
    "the fact , that not only the more metal - rich stars are located in one side of the cluster but also the most metal - poor ones in the other , whereas stars not belonging to the metallicity extremes are uniformly distributed is also difficult to understand in this case .",
    "however , we recall that the merging hypothesis was also suggested to explain chemical and kinematical distributions and connections by norris et  al .",
    "( 1996 , 1997 ) .",
    "alternatively , we should also speculate on that one side of the cluster has been polluted by a larger - mass chemically - evolved composition cloud , however , no model calculation of such situation can be found in the literature .",
    "thus it is not evident whether large enough amount of accretion onto the stellar surfaces should then really occur .",
    "( in a recent paper cox ( 1998 ) also suggests surface accretion as a possible explanation of special period changes observed in cluster variables . )",
    "this hypothesis would answer why there are no very metal - poor stars in the more metal - rich side of the cluster .",
    "none of the above explanations can , however , answer why the segregation of the metallicity extremes is evident only in the case of the bright giants and can not be detected in the subgiant sample .",
    "both the nd and sk metallicity values of the giants are affected by evolutionary effects since the metallicity calibrations used are not valid for the @xmath3420% evolved , agb objects . for these stars",
    "the given metallicities underestimate the true values .",
    "therefore , it is possible that the spatial separation in the metallicity distribution also reflects differences in the evolutionary states of the stars .",
    "but this evolutionary effect does not affect the metal rich sample significantly , thus it can not account for their segregation .",
    "whatever the truth is , @xmath0  centauri remains undoubtedly the most fascinating globular cluster in our galaxy which is a great challenge for both observations and theoretical works in an attempt to reach perfect understanding .",
    "the supports of otka grants t19640 , t24022 , and akp 96/24122,1 are acknowledged .",
    "i wish to thank gza kovcs for providing me the fourier decompositions of the ogle observations , and bla szeidl and lajos balzs for helpful and interesting discussions .",
    "i m also grateful to lszl szabados for reading and correcting the manuscript .",
    "butler , d. , dickens , r. j. , & epps , e. 1978 , , 225 , 148 ( bde ) cox , a. n. 1998 , , 496 , 246 dorman , b. 1992 , , 81 , 221 gratton , r. g. , tornambe , a. , & ortolani , s. 1986 , , 169 , 111 ( gto ) gonzalez , g. , & wallerstein , g. 1994 , , 108 , 1325 jurcsik , j. 1995 , acta astron .",
    "45 , 653 jurcsik , j. 1998 , , 333 , 571 jurcsik , j. , & kovcs , g. 1996 , , 312 , 111 jurcsik , j. , & kovcs , g. 1998 , proc . of the xxiii general assembly , jd 8 _ stellar evolution in real time _",
    ", ed . : e.f .",
    "guinan , new astronomy , in press kaluzny , j. , kubiak , m. , szymaski , a. , udalski , w. , krzemiski , w. , & mateo , m. 1997 , , 125 , 343 kaluzny , j. , hilditch , r. w. , clement , c. , & rucinski , s. m. 1998 , , 296 , 347 kovcs , g. , & jurcsik , j. 1996 , , 466 , l17 kovcs , g. , & jurcsik , j. 1997 , , 322 , 218 layden , a. 1997 , , 109 , 524 meylan , g. , mayor , m. , duquennoy , a. , & dubath , p. 1995",
    ", , 303 , 761 norris , j. e. , & da costa , g. s. 1995 , , 447 , 680 ( nd ) norris , j. e. , freeman , k. c. , & mighell , k. j. 1996 , , 462 , 241 ( nfm ) norris , j. e. , freeman , k. c. , mayor , m. , & seitzer , p. 1997",
    ", , 487 , l187 suntzeff , n. b. , & kraft , r. p. 1996",
    ", , 111 , 1913 ( sk ) vanture , a. d. , wallerstein , g. , & brown , j. a. 1994 , , 106 , 835 woolley , r.v.d.r . 1966 ,"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the compilation of the metallicity values of @xmath0  centauri stars led to detection of spatial asymmetry in the metallicity distribution of the bright giants . </S>",
    "<S> it was found that the most and least metal - poor objects are separated along galactic latitude . </S>",
    "<S> statistical tests show that the chance occurrence of the phenomenon is very low . </S>",
    "<S> the subgiant and the rr  lyrae samples do not show , however , similar segregation of the different metallicity objects . </S>",
    "<S> the physical parameters of the variables calculated by using empirical formulae indicate that the bulk of the rrab stars comprises a very homogeneous group regarding both their metallicity and mass values . </S>",
    "<S> these stars are most probably already in the evolved stage of their horizontal branch evolution . </S>"
  ]
}