{
  "article_text": [
    "during the past decade , the study of rotation in solar - type stars has been one of the more active areas in the field of stellar evolution .",
    "although our ultimate objective is to understand the consequences of rotation , the first step requires that the models reproduce the observed rotation periods / velocities of stars as a function of age .",
    "it has been recognized for a while that the rotational properties of massive stars are quite different from those of solar - type stars ( slettebak 1956 ; kraft 1967 ) .",
    "the angular momentum evolution of stars more massive than about 1.25 @xmath1 , approximately the point at which the surface convection zone which characterizes lower mass stars vanishes , is complicated .",
    "endal and sofia ( 1976 , 1978 , 1979 ) developed a method based on work by kippenhahn and thomas ( 1970 ) , to model rotating stars in one dimension , using a series of nested , deformed shells and initially applied it to massive stars .",
    "the most recent work on massive star rotation that the authors are aware of is that by heger , langer & woosley ( 2000 ) , again guided by the endal and sofia method .",
    "suffice to say that , because of their multi - layered evolution , including convecting and semi - convecting shells , and their high rotation rates , modelling massive rotating stars is a formidable undertaking .",
    "modeling solar - type stars , which we define for the purposes of this paper as those between about 0.6 and 1.2 @xmath1 , has been comparatively easier because of the simpler structure of these stars . by including some scheme for angular momentum loss through a magnetized wind ,",
    "a number of groups have modeled rotating stars ( eg .",
    "macgregor & brenner 1991 ; charbonneau & macgregor 1992 ; cameron , campbell & quaintrell 1995 ; bouvier , forestini & allain 1997 ) .",
    "these models emphasize either the interior or the wind .",
    "they treat the internal structure in slightly different ways , making solid - body or two - zone models and treat the wind in various ways , some through a parameterization , and some by solving the wind equations .",
    "the yale group ( eg . pinsonneault et al .",
    "1989 , pinsonneault , kawaler & demarque 1990 ; chaboyer , demarque & pinsonneault 1995 ; barnes & sofia 1996 ; sills , pinsonneault & terndrup 2000 ) has continued solar - type star work with the endal and sofia scheme , using a large number of nested shells , with radial angular momentum transfer and consequently radial differential rotation but no latitudinal dependence of rotation , and using a kawaler - type parameterization for the rate of angular momentum loss through the wind ( kawaler 1988 ) .",
    "observations of rotation rates of these stars , available since the 1970s , have provided a solid observational underpinning to these studies .",
    "this is the type of star that we will consider in this paper .",
    "nowadays , it is possible to study the rotation of even 0.1 and 0.2 @xmath1 stars in the hyades and pleiades open clusters ( eg . terndrup et al . 2000 ) and models have also been made for the very lowest mass stars , below about 0.5 @xmath1 ( sills , pinsonneault & terndrup 2000 , hereafter spt00 ) , which are fully convective , and evolve somewhat differently from the solar - type stars .",
    "the hope is that the very simple internal structure of these stars will allow a relatively isolated study of the properties of the processes of angular momentum loss through their winds .",
    "among solar - type stars , a significant problem centers on the necessity of accounting simultaneously for the presence of slow and rapid rotators in young star clusters given the small observed range in rotation rates among their pre - main sequence precursors .",
    "this has proven to be a difficult proposition .",
    "the angular momentum evolution of low mass stars is a function of the initial conditions , angular momentum loss , internal angular momentum transport and now , disk - interaction ; disentangling these effects has not been easy . for an extensive discussion of the observations and theoretical studies see krishnamurthi et al .",
    "( 1997 ) , hereafter kpbs97 , and for the extension to very low mass stars see spt00 . in a previous paper ( barnes & sofia 1996 , hereafter paper i ) , we have presented a scenario whereby one could account for the presence of the ultra - fast rotators ( ufrs ) observed in young star clusters .",
    "this involved both starting the evolution at the stellar birthline , and changing the prescription for the rate of angular momentum loss . unlike the kawaler ( 1988 ) formulation of angular momentum loss , we found it necessary to assume that regardless of the initial stellar rotation rate , the rate of angular momentum loss must saturate at high rotation speeds ( e.g. macgregor & brenner 1991 ) . in paper",
    "i , we also found that this saturation threshold must be mass dependent to explain the data ; kpbs97 reached a similar conclusion in an extensive study that used a single 10d starting period .",
    "stauffer & hartmann ( 1987 ) first noted that the angular momenta of even the slowest pre - main - sequence stars were much higher than those observed for slow rotators in young clusters .",
    "since the angular momentum loss rate is expected , on theoretical grounds , to be smaller for slower rotators , this posed a serious problem .",
    "of the possible solutions suggested , perhaps the most promising concerns the effect that locking the young star to a surrounding disk would have on the subsequent rotational evolution of the star .",
    "the idea of disk - locking is suggested by various observations of t tauri star rotation .",
    "edwards et al .",
    "( 1993 ) noted that the classical t tauri stars ( ctts ) all have periods greater than 4 d with a most probable period of about 8.5 d , while the naked t tauri stars ( ntts ) have a range of periods from 2@xmath216 d , and include a significant number with periods shorter than 4 d. because the ctt stars show evidence that they are surrounded by disks ( cf . attridge & herbst 1992 ; bouvier et al .",
    "1993 ) and the ntt stars do not , a disk - locking scenario appears attractive .",
    "this paradigm suggests that stars start out as ctts with periods of 4@xmath216d , perhaps locked to their disks , and that these disks are eventually lost by accretion or otherwise , whereupon they become ntt stars . at the current time",
    ", it is not clear that this is true for all stars , and stassun et al .",
    "( 1999 ) have questioned its validity for stars less massive than 0.5 @xmath1 . however , herbst et al .",
    "( 2000 ) point out that the t tauri period distributions are mass - dependent and reiterate that the one for @xmath3 continues to display the previously noted bimodality . although the reality may eventually turn out to be considerably more complex , a simple consideration of the effects of and limits on disk - locking of young solar - type stars seems necessary .",
    "some theoretical work has been done along these lines .",
    "konigl ( 1991 ) , cameron & campbell ( 1993 ) and armitage & clarke ( 1996 ) have demonstrated that star - disk interaction via a ( usually dipole ) magnetic field is capable of regulating the rotation rate of the central star and indeed , of locking the star entirely , for field strengths in the several hundred g to 1 kg range and plausible accretion rates and disk masses .",
    "bouvier ( 1994 ) and bouvier & forestini ( 1994 ) considered the effect of disk - locking on solid - body models , and concluded that disk lifetimes of at least 10@xmath220 myr would be necessary to make the slow rotators .",
    "more recently , bouvier , forestini & allain ( 1997 ) lowered the median disk lifetime to 3 myr but still required 10@xmath220 myr of disk - locking to explain the rotation rates of the slowest stars .",
    "this is somewhat large , in view of observational studies ( strom et al .",
    "1989 , 1990 ) which suggest shorter disk lifetimes .",
    "rotational velocity distributions have been calculated by cameron , campbell & quaintrell ( 1995 ) and keppens , macgregor & charbonneau ( 1995 ) , that seem to reproduce many features of the observed distributions .",
    "however , the mass range of the models ( only 1 @xmath1 models in the former and 0.8 @xmath1 and 1 @xmath1 models in the latter ) is limited .",
    "also , comparisons with observations are made via distributions at fixed ( open cluster ) ages , without supplying tracks of the time evolution of rotation of the stellar models .",
    "kpbs97 explored models with different assumptions about internal angular momentum transport : solid body ( sb ) models and differentially rotating ( dr ) ones with internal angular momentum transport by means of hydrodynamic mechanisms .",
    "they also considered different levels for the saturation of angular momentum loss at high rotation rates , and a range of disk lifetimes to produce the distribution of initial conditions .",
    "modest disk lifetimes , of order 3 myr , were needed to produce the slow rotators for the dr models , while in agreement with previous work , longer disk lifetimes ( of order 20 myr ) were needed for the sb models . however , for the sb models , the slow rotators were found to exhibit little change in rotation during the early ms , while the dr models were found to spin down significantly even at early ages .",
    "the time dependence of the slow rotator phenomenon is therefore a good diagnostic of core / envelope coupling , and kpbs97 found that the data were more consistent with the dr models than the sb models .",
    "because the pre - main sequence data indicate that there is an intrinsic range in the initial rotation rates in addition to any possible disk locking ( kpbs97 used a single 10d starting period for all models ) , this could well influence the results .",
    "in addition , kpbs97 did not explicitly address the question of whether the data could be reproduced without disks .",
    "more recently , spt00 have extended this formalism to very low mass stars , in view of the fact that rotation rates are becoming available now for even the lowest mass stars in the pleiades and hyades ( eg . terndrup et al .",
    "the same general formalism seems to hold for these very low mass , fully convective stars , in the sense that both magnetic saturation and disk locking seem to be necessary to account respectively for the fast and slow rotators down to the very lowest stellar masses .",
    "the prescription for angular momentum loss can be simplified somewhat in this mass range , but some structural aspects which can be ignored in more massive stars must be considered . as in kpbs97 , spt00 chose to use a single starting period of 10d rather than a starting period range , in order to keep the parameter space tractable .    the main motivation of this work is to examine the behavior of models which include both a range in initial rotation , and a range of disk locking timescales .",
    "the emphasis is on examining the conditions under which the slowly rotating t tauri stars can be made to evolve into the slow rotators observed in young star clusters , while simultaneously , the fast t tauri stars evolve into the ufrs .",
    "we first show that models without disks can not reproduce the open cluster data , and then examine which combinations of disk lifetime and initial rotation rate can reproduce the rotation periods seen in open clusters .",
    "our goal is not to elucidate the nature of the star - disk interaction , but to understand the extent of disk - locking that would be necessary to account for the observed rotation periods of young cluster stars .",
    "we examine the effects of both components of the initial conditions .",
    "we do not evolve entire distributions in time because , in the opinion of the authors , the observations are still inadequately free of biases to test this level of detail .",
    "we wish to provide rotational evolution calculations for individual stars in the 0.6@xmath21.2 @xmath1 range ( representing solar - type stars ) that extend and merge seamlessly with the models of paper i that may be compared directly to observations , especially those that are expected to become available soon ( cf .",
    "barnes 2000 ; mathieu 2000 ) .    on the observational side ,",
    "some confusion has been created by lumping together the observations of very low mass stars with those of the solar - type ones .",
    "also , the t tauri periods are mostly for stars less massive than solar - type .",
    "because of the paucity of observations of very low - mass stars , this difference could not hitherto be addressed effectively . with the increase of the observational base ,",
    "this distinction is not only possible but also necessary from now on .",
    "although it is difficult to determine the masses of t tauri stars , both herbst et al .",
    "( 2000 ) and stassun et al .",
    "( 1999 ) have supplied estimated stellar masses with their t tauri periods .",
    "this added information should improve the situation considerably .",
    "although complete consistency between the initial conditions , masses , models and observations has not yet been attained , we hope for such consistency soon .",
    "in paper i ( barnes & sofia , 1996 ) we have demonstrated that the ufrs ( ultra - fast rotators ) in young star clusters can not be produced if the angular momentum loss scheme that produces a skumanich - type slowdown on the main sequence were also valid on the pre - main sequence .",
    "we demonstrated that they could be produced and indeed , fit the overall rotation period observations better , if one assumed that the magnetic field ( and hence angular momentum loss ) saturated beyond a threshold angular velocity .",
    "this has also been noted by macgregor & brenner ( 1991 ) , cameron & li ( 1994 ) and keppens et al .",
    "we now wish to consider whether the slower rotators in these clusters can be explained within the same general framework .",
    "the following section ( 3 ) of this paper explains the framework that motivates this and our previous work .",
    "section 4 discusses the observational constraints on the models .",
    "section 5 describes the stellar models and the evolution code .",
    "section 6 presents the results , followed by the concluding discussion in section 7 .",
    "the framework we proposed in paper i involved :    1 .   beginning the evolution of solar - type stars at the deuterium main sequence as suggested by palla & stahler ( 1991 ) .",
    "this is both observationally justified since the birthline delineates the upper envelope of the t tauri observations in the h - r diagram , and is theoretically appealing since it offers a uniform initial condition for stars of different masses .",
    "this is important because rotational evolution is rapid on the hayashi track .",
    "starting off the models with the observed rotation periods of t tauri stars removes a number of uncertainties that would otherwise contaminate the results and complicate their interpretation .",
    "2 .   incorporating some form of saturation of the stellar magnetic field or equivalently , of angular momentum loss beyond a threshold rotation velocity which varies with stellar mass .",
    "there is some justification for this in the observed saturation of chromospheric emission ( eg .",
    "stauffer 1994 ) which is thought to scale with stellar magnetic fields .",
    "the point of saturation is approximately known to be of order @xmath4 , but has not been precisely constrained as a function of stellar mass .",
    "angular momentum loss via a stellar wind is unable to account for the presence of the ufrs in young star clusters regardless of the starting period unless it incorporates saturation beyond a threshold angular velocity ( macgregor & brenner 1991 ; barnes & sofia 1996 ) .",
    "furthermore , models that do not incorporate saturation can not account for the observed dispersion in stellar rotation periods as a function of time , whereas those that include saturation can .",
    "+ paper i also suggested that the scenario above would not be sufficient to account for the very slowest rotators observed in young star clusters and that some additional ingredient , perhaps disk - locking , might have to be invoked to explain them .",
    "again , there is observational justification for this in the t tauri data , as stated earlier .",
    "this has led to a picture in which young stars are born with disks to which they seem to be locked in some way ( since otherwise they should spin up as they contract down the hayashi track ) . at some subsequent stage in the evolution ( which may vary from star to star ) ,",
    "the disk is lost and the star is now free to evolve onward as an ntt star .",
    "this suggests the following addition to the framework : 3 .   including some form of disk - regulated angular momentum loss for some period on the pre - main - sequence to account for the presence of the slow rotators .",
    "this scenario is compelling in its simplicity .",
    "we now wish to test whether the disk - locking scenario is indeed capable of explaining the slowest rotators and if so , what sorts of disk lifetimes would be necessary .",
    "but before that , we make a digression to discuss some observational constraints .",
    "large samples of spectroscopic @xmath5 data have been collected for solar - type stars in young open clusters for over a decade now , often in conjuction with measurements of lithium abundance in stars ( eg .",
    "soderblom et al . 1999 and references therein ; stauffer et al .",
    "1997a and 1997b and references therein ; queloz et al .",
    "these helped define and clarify various issues related to the rotation of sun - like stars , but they were particularly useful with respect to the ufrs because a star with a very large @xmath5 value can only have a large angular velocity , regardless of the angle of inclination , @xmath6 . for slow rotators ,",
    "@xmath5 data are less useful . for several years",
    ", only ( fairly high ) upper limits on @xmath5 were available for many of the slow rotators , and even if a small @xmath5 value is measured , one can not tell whether it arizes from a small @xmath7 or a small @xmath8 .",
    "moreover , uncertainties in stellar radii come into play when one wishes to know the intrinsic angular rotation rate .",
    "thus , for all rotators , and especially for the slow ones , rotation periods , when available , are preferred .      at present , there exists a modest but rapidly expanding database of rotation periods of stars in young open clusters .",
    "observations exist for t tauri - type stars ( attridge & herbst 1992 ; edwards et al .",
    "1993 ; bouvier et al . 1993",
    "; bouvier et al . 1995 ; choi & herbst 1996 ; stassun et al .",
    "1999 ; herbst et al .",
    "2000 ) , ic 2391 ( patten & simon 1996 ) , ic 2602 ( barnes et al .",
    "1999 ) , ic 4665 ( allain et al . 1996a ) , alpha per ( stauffer et al . 1985 ; prosser et al",
    ". 1993a , 1993b , 1995 ; odell & cameron 1993 ; allain et al .",
    "1996b ; prosser & grankin 1997 ) , the pleiades ( van leeuwen & alphenaar 1982 ; van leeuwen , alphenaar & meys 1987 ; prosser et al .",
    "1993a , 1993b , 1995 ; krishnamurthi et al .",
    "1998 ) and the hyades ( radick et al . 1987 ; prosser et al . 1995 ) .",
    "although the data set is incomplete in various respects ( see barnes 2000 for a recent review ) , several conclusions relevant to this work may already be drawn from it :    1 .",
    "t tauri stars in our mass range have periods ranging from @xmath9 1 to 17 d. the ntt and ctt stars are believed to show a preference for the shorter and longer period ends of the distribution , respectively .",
    "2 .   the hyades show a well - defined sequence of lengthening period with increasing color until @xmath10 @xmath11 1.2",
    ". however , in the region beyond , there are some rapid rotators but as yet no evidence of the slow rotators that might be expected just by extending the solar - type observations to lower stellar masses data from terndrup et al .",
    "( 2000 ) seem to confirm this paucity of slow rotators among m - type stars in the hyades . ] .",
    "the young clusters ic 2391 , ic 2602 , alpha per and the pleides have a number of ufrs ( periods of 0.2@xmath21 d ) .",
    "but they also contain a number of slow rotators , including several in the 7@xmath210 d range .",
    "this is remarkably long for clusters this young and creates a rotational dispersion that is very difficult to explain simply .",
    "it is this last group of observations of slowly rotating stars that concern us here .",
    "these slow rotators will be displayed henceforth in the plots of the stellar models ( figs.1@xmath25 ) by the upper boxes whose x - width represents the age range of 30@xmath2120 myr120 myr boxes are drawn wide enough to accommodate the range of these measurements , probably exaggerating the actual age spread .",
    "moving them a little will not affect the gist of our conclusions . ] .",
    "the ufrs , which were the subject of paper i , are represented by the lower boxes in the same figures .",
    "it is probably worthwhile to ask whether this paradigm needs to be reconsidered in view of work by stassun et al .",
    "they have questioned the disk - locking paradigm because they observe no correlation between infrared excess and rotation period .",
    "however , we must remember that this dataset is almost entirely composed of stars below the mass range considered in this paper . of the 254 rotation periods reported in that paper ,",
    "most have masses in the range of 0.15 to 0.4 @xmath1 . of those with both masses and periods",
    "tabulated , only 9 stars have masses in excess of 0.5 @xmath1 .",
    "the period range of these 8 stars is 1.03d to 8.26d ( which is the range shown in figs . 1 - 5 using gray shading ) .",
    "herbst et al . ( 2000 ) derive similarly short periods but are also sensitive to , and indeed derive , much longer periods .",
    "let us consider the two ends of this distribution .    1 .   the short period end",
    ": if we take the observations at face value and 1d is indeed the shortest period for stars in this mass range at 1myr ages , this approximately works out to a 4d initial period for the masses under consideration at the birthline , exactly the value we have chosen in this and the previous paper to use as the starting point for the fast rotators .",
    "the long period end : the longest period in this mass range derived by stassun et al .",
    "( 1999 ) is 8.26d , but this is due to the fact that they are not sensitive to longer periods .",
    "indeed herbst et al .",
    "( 2000 ) find longer periods ( displayed as a cap on the stassun et al .",
    "( 1999 ) observations in figs 1 - 5 ) .",
    "therefore , our choice of a 16d period to represent the slowest rotators is both reasonable and in agreement with the herbst et al .",
    "( 2000 ) data .",
    "it is remarkable that the range of the actual observations of stassun et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and herbst et al .",
    "( 2000 ) actually match the initial conditions we had chosen in 1996 ( see figures ) before masses were available for these stars .",
    "we conclude that our choices are still the appropriate ones to use for the stars in our mass range .",
    "all the stellar models used in this work begin at the deuterium main sequence , at which point they are assigned zero age . these models were originally generated from polytropic ones higher up on the hayashi track , which were allowed to evolve downward in the h - r diagram ( during which time their internal structure stabilized ) , until they satisfied the mass - radius relationship of palla & stahler ( 1991 ) .",
    "this step is important because , otherwise , the change in the moment of inertia of the star as the internal structure stabilizes will influence the rotational evolution .    as in previous work ,",
    "the code was calibrated ( helium abundance and mixing length adjusted ) such that a 1 @xmath1 model would reproduce the solar radius and luminosity at the solar age .",
    "we have chosen this age to be 4.54 gyr , adding 40 myr to the canonical value to account for pre - main - sequence evolution .",
    "a choice of z=0.01895 then leads to an h mass fraction of 0.708 and a mixing length parameter of 1.758 .",
    "these are identical to the parameters used in paper i.    we have evolved all the stellar models using the yale rotating stellar evolution code ( yrec ) .",
    "this code models the rotating stars using a series of nested , deformed shells .",
    "it accounts for transport and redistribution of chemical species , and of angular momentum within a star as a result of various rotationally induced instabilities ( cf .",
    "pinsonneault et al .",
    "1989 , 1990 ) .",
    "convection zones are assumed to be fully mixed and to rotate as solid bodies , so that instabilities are effective only in radiative regions of the star .",
    "angular momentum loss via a magnetic stellar wind is modeled by draining it from the outer convection zone via the parameterization : @xmath12 where @xmath13 , @xmath14 and @xmath15 represent the surface rotation rate , radius and the mass of the star respectively , and the wind index , @xmath16 , is set to 1.5 .",
    "this includes magnetic saturation beyond a threshold rotation rate @xmath17 ( constant for a star of particular mass ) .",
    "the rationale for this expression is explained extensively in paper i , but essentially , it is necessary to explain the presence of the ultra - fast rotators in young star clusters .",
    "the actual values of the thresholds used are given later in this section .",
    "in addition , the present version allows us to lock the rotation rate of a young star on the hayashi track for a specified time .",
    "this is done to mimic the effect of disk - locking on the pre - main - sequence .",
    "solid body rotation is enforced during the time that disk - locking is in effect .",
    "this is not an unreasonable condition because yrec enforces solid - body rotation in the surface convection zone and because stars are almost entirely convective on the hayashi track anyway .",
    "although this prescription does not model the interaction between the star and the disk , its simplicity is attractive .",
    "we do not ( yet ) wish to complicate the interpretation of the rotation period data with arguments about the exact shape and magnitude of the required magnetic fields , or the nature of the star - disk interaction .",
    "these issues have been addressed , for instance , by konigl ( 1991 ) and cameron et al .",
    "we merely wish to lock the rotation of the star for a while , and examine whether the same models that generated the fast rotators can also make the slow rotators with this one additional modification .",
    "this is one of the first steps and doubtless , improvements can and will be made .",
    "apart from the enforcement of disk - locking , the version of the code used in this paper is identical to the one used in paper i. in addition to the solar radius and luminosity calibration at 4.54 gyr as mentioned above , the constant @xmath18 in equation ( 1 ) above was chosen such that the 1 @xmath1 model with 10 day starting period and no disk - locking reproduces the solar rotation rate at the same age .",
    "the saturation thresholds , @xmath19 have been set to 2 , 5 , 8 and 12 @xmath20 for the 0.6 , 0.8 , 1.0 and 1.2 @xmath1 models respectively .",
    "these are the same values as were used in paper i except that here we have also included a 1.2 @xmath1 model . for the solid - body models ,",
    "it is necessary to modify the saturation thresholds .",
    "if the thresholds are kept identical to the differentially rotating ones , these models become unreasonably fast on the pre - main sequence and the inferred disk lifetimes would be even longer than the ones we quote here .",
    "we have chosen instead to adjust the saturation thresholds for these models so that the fastest ones account for the ultra - fast rotators , in symmetry with the differentially rotating models .",
    "this threshold is then used for all the solid - body models ( of the same mass ) .",
    "the saturation thresholds used for the solid - body models in this work are 5 , 12.5 , 20 and 30 @xmath20 respectively for the 0.6 , 0.8 , 1.0 and 1.2 @xmath1 models .",
    "we remind readers that the difference between the differentially rotating and solid - body models is that the former include redistribution of internal angular momentum via hydrodynamical instabilities in radiative zones .",
    "dynamical instabilities are treated by instantaneous readjustment while secular instabilities are treated through diffusion equations .",
    "further details about the code may be obtained in pinsonneault et al .",
    "( 1989 ) , pinsonneault , kawaler & demarque ( 1990 ) , chaboyer ( 1993 ) , chaboyer , demarque & pinsonneault ( 1995 ) , krishnamurthi et al .",
    "( 1997 ) and pinsonneault & sofia ( 2000 ) . in summary ,",
    "these models ( 1 ) begin at the birthline and include pre - main - sequence evolution , ( 2 ) use a parameterization of angular momentum loss that includes saturation and ( 3 ) hold the rotation rate of the star constant for a specified period on the pre - main - sequence , mimicking the effect of disk - locking .",
    "as stated earlier , we have generated a grid of stellar models of masses 0.6 @xmath1 , 0.8 @xmath1 , 1.0 @xmath1 and 1.2 @xmath1 .",
    "the first set has been evolved without any disk - locking and the others have been locked for 0.3 , 1 , 3 and 10 myr in turn .",
    "all the models begin their ( pre - main sequence ) evolution at the stellar birthline of palla & stahler ( 1991 ) with initial rotation periods of 4 , 8.5 and 16 days .",
    "the models have then all been evolved to solar age ( 4.54 gyr ) under the various conditions detailed hereunder .",
    "all of these models incorporate a saturation of angular momentum loss with the thresholds as indicated in the previous section .",
    "we have also evolved an equivalent set of solid - body models of which only an illustrative selection are displayed here .",
    "however , all models are available in electronic form from the first author .      the rotational evolution of ( differentially rotating ) models without disk - locking is displayed in fig.1 .",
    "except for the 1.2 @xmath1 models which were not displayed there , these are the same models that we presented in barnes & sofia ( 1996 ) . the lower and upper boxes at 30@xmath2120 myr represent observations of ufrs and slow rotators respectively in young open clusters ( ic 2391 , ic 2602 , alpha per and the pleiades ) .",
    "given the current state of the observations , no attempt has been made to display the mass dependence , if any , of rotation in these observations .",
    "we also show , using gray bars at 1 myr , the recent rotation period measurements in orion in this mass range from stassun et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , capped by the longer periods from herbst et al .",
    "( 2000 ) .",
    "the figure shows that the range of periods we have used at the stellar birthline is generally adequate to understand the origin of the ufrs in young open clusters in the context of models incorporating magnetic saturation ( as shown in barnes & sofia 1996 ) .",
    "furthermore , these are also consistent with the fast rotators among the t tauri stars in this mass range .",
    "the way in which the faster rotators at earlier ages evolve into the ufrs among young open clusters ( and , as shown later , the faster rotators among older clusters ) is highly satisfactory , especially because the relevant period data are probably not biased against fast rotators .",
    "the principal point we wish to make with this figure is that the stars rotating slowest at the birthline , with a starting period of 16 days , are unable to account for the slow rotators observed in the young open clusters .",
    "neither are they capable of explaining the longer orion rotation periods80d periods on the birthline ! ] .",
    "this effect is primarily a consequence of the structural evolution of single stars on the pre - main sequence .",
    "the upshot of this is that the models are incapable of reproducing simultaneously the ufrs and the slow rotators .",
    "however , the t tauri observations , as indicated earlier , suggest that many of the orion stars display circumstellar disk signatures and evidence that disk - interaction acts to brake the central star .",
    "thus , the following section considers the rotational consequences on these stars of varying amounts of disk - locking .",
    "there is another significant way in which these models are inadequate .",
    "the rotational dispersion of the models beyond 1 gyr is non - existent .",
    "observations of nearby solar - type stars contradict this , as stars of similar mass are found to have a range of rotation rates ( eg . baliunas , sokoloff & soon 1996 ) .",
    "this has its origin in the @xmath13 dependence of the angular momentum loss rate and suggests that the dispersion observed may not entirely come from phenomena intrinsic to the star .",
    "fig.2 displays the rotational evolution of models that are disk - locked for 0.3 myr ( dashed lines ) and 1 myr ( solid lines ) . by ` disk - locked ,",
    "' we mean that the rotation periods of the models are held constant for the indicated times .",
    "the disk itself is not explicitly modeled in any way . beyond the indicated time , the models are allowed to evolve freely as detailed in section 5 .",
    "as expected , these models all rotate slower than the models without disks because , unlike the previous models , these have not been allowed to spin up during contraction on the pre - main sequence .    the t tauri data of stassun et al .",
    "( 1999 ) can be accounted for using only 0.3 myr of disk - locking , while the longer periods of herbst et al .",
    "( 2000 ) suggest that at least some of the slow rotators require the enforcement of 1 myr of disk - locking , i.e. locking from the birthline to orion age . as regards the slow rotators in young clusters , many of them ( but perhaps not the slowest ones ) can be accounted for using 1 myr of disk - locking .",
    "this suggests even longer disk - locking times for some of these stars . in passing ,",
    "we note that the models are able to retain some rotational dispersion beyond a gyr .",
    "continuing in the same vein , fig.3 displays the results of evolving models with disk - locking enforced for longer periods : 3 myr ( dashed lines ) and 10 myr ( solid lines ) .",
    "as is obvious from the figure , these models have no trouble accounting for all the slow rotators .",
    "in fact , if one takes into account the mass - dependence of rotation ( not displayed in these figures ) , 3 myr of locking may be sufficient .",
    "finally , fig.4 displays the entire range of rotation periods that can presently be produced by these ( differentially rotating ) models . the lower and upper solid curves represent respectively the rotational evolution of disk - free stars with 4 d initial periods and of stars disk - locked for 10 myr with 16 d initial periods .",
    "the dashed curve is for models with 3 myr of disk locking .",
    "they account reasonably well for both the ufrs and the slow rotators in young star clusters , with equivalent models for the intermediate cases .    in this figure",
    "we have also displayed the available rotation periods in the 250 myr - old ngc 3532 ( barnes 1998 ) and the 600 myr - old hyades clusters ( radick et al .",
    "these show the limitations of these models in accounting for the fast rotators in older clusters , especially for the more massive stars .",
    "biases against slow rotators in the observations do not presently allow us to use them effectively to constrain disk - lifetimes , but it seems unlikely that disk - lifetimes greater than 3 myr would be necessary in any event .",
    "these models also show that disk - interaction is an effective means of retaining rotational dispersion among stars of similar mass beyond say , a gyr , as observed among old solar - type stars .",
    "although we do not wish to test this aspect of the models yet , given the limitations of both the models and the observations , it is quite possible that the dispersion observed among old stars owes its origin to disk - interaction in the first few myr of its existence . in summary , these models , although not completely consistent with all the observations , reproduce the major features reasonably , and the periods of young cluster stars in some detail .      we have also evolved an equivalent grid of solid - body models .",
    "some of these are displayed in fig.5 for illustrative purposes .",
    "as mentioned earlier , we have adjusted the saturation thresholds for the individual masses to ensure that , as in the case of the differentially rotating models , the ones with initial periods of 4 d reproduce the ultra - fast rotator observations .",
    "thus , by design , the faster rotating models are almost equivalent to the corresponding differentially rotating models .    the difference between the two sets of models ( figs.4 and 5 ) is striking for the disk - locked models .",
    "whereas @xmath213@xmath210 myr of disk - locking sufficed to explain all of the slow rotators in the young clusters in the differentially rotating case , in the solid - body case disk - lifetimes of @xmath2110@xmath220 myr are necessary , suggesting disk - lifetimes 2@xmath23 times longer than those for the corresponding differentially rotating models . in fig.5 , we have plotted the rotational evolution of disk - free solid - body models with 4 d initial periods ( lower solid line ) and of two sb models with initial periods of 16 d disk - locked for 10 and 20 myr ( dashed and solid lines respectively ) .",
    "this is the solid - body equivalent of fig.4 .",
    "apart from requiring longer disk - lifetimes , these models are generally equivalent to the dr ones , and neither are very satisfactory in reproducing the observations in older clusters .",
    "there is another difference between the solid - body and the differentially rotating models .",
    "we draw attention to this difference in fig.6 which displays the behavior of the two kinds of models past 100 myr .",
    "the solid curves represent the later evolution of solid - body models with 16 d initial periods that have been disk - locked for 20 myr .",
    "if one agrees that this is a reasonable upper limit for disk - locking , then the region above the solid line is inaccessible to such models and the discovery of slow rotators in this region among older star clusters will be a problem for them .",
    "the differentially rotating models , on the other hand , do populate this zone , as the dashed lines ( representing differentially rotating models with an initial periods of 16 d and disk - locking enforced for 3 and 10 myr ) show .",
    "we have also plotted the measured rotation periods in the hyades ( from radick et al .",
    "1987 and prosser et al . 1995 ) and ngc 3532 ( from barnes 1998 ) .",
    "the hyades observations are consistent with both sets of models but the observations of ngc 3532 seem to be a bit troublesome for the solid - body models to accommodate .",
    "they also raise some questions about the lack of slow rotators in the hyades , an observational issue beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "a note about the internal rotation rate of the sun is perhaps in order .",
    "the inconsistency of the yale rotational models with the internal rotational profile of the sun remains .",
    "the solar models rotate 5@xmath220 times faster near the center at solar age than they do on the surface .",
    "this is at odds with the rotation profile of the sun as determined by helioseismology ( eg .",
    "antia et al .",
    "1998 ) . to a certain extent , this is a problem .",
    "however , we are dealing here with very young stars and it is likely that additional physics will have to be invoked to flatten the profile ( see macgregor ( 2000 ) for a recent review of possible solutions to this problem ) .",
    "it is also true that just because the sun is presently spinning close to solid - body does not necessarily imply that it was _ always _ spinning as a solid - body .",
    "in fact , it seems that stars must rotate differentially early - on in their evolution to match the early rotational data and to be consistent with the disk - lifetime calculations .",
    "the twin constraints of early differential rotation and later solid - body - type rotation suggest the existence of an angular momentum transport mechanism that operates on timescales of hundreds of myr ( also see spt00 ) .",
    "this mechanism would bring the models into better agreement both with the hyades data and also might explain the flat solar rotation profile .",
    "additional observations in older clusters would help clarify the situation considerably .",
    "we have demonstrated the relative impossibility of generating the slow rotators in young open clusters through a mechanism instrinsic to the star within the framework that explains the origin of the ultra - fast rotators .",
    "the slow rotators can not be generated from the slow - spinning t tauri stars unless one takes recourse to some extrinsic mechanism .",
    "assuming that star - disk interaction is responsible for the slow rotators , we find that disk - lifetimes @xmath21 3 myr ( for differentially rotating models ) are required .",
    "thus , we need to do two separate things to explain the large observed dispersion in rotation rates of stars in young open clusters : both decrease the angular momentum loss rate for fast rotators to make them even faster , and couple the central star quite strongly for a few myr to circumstellar material in order to produce the slow rotators .",
    "this effectively splits young solar - type stars into two groups , depriving us of a single , simple , uniformly applicable way of treating young solar - type stars .",
    "if we allow this , then why not also allow young stars to have different magnetic field configurations ?",
    "although this is possible in principle , there is no corroborating data in support of this idea .",
    "thus , generating the rotational dispersion using disks is presently preferable to resorting to differing magnetic field configurations .",
    "we find that for the differentially rotating models disk - locking for @xmath21 3 myr can account for almost all the presently available observations , with perhaps only a star or two requiring a longer locking period , but still less than 10 myr .",
    "solid body models require longer disk - locking times , 10@xmath220 myr .",
    "these latter timescales seem to be rather long .",
    "even a 3 myr timescale is somewhat long , given that the t tauri data suggest 1 myr disk - lifetimes .",
    "however , it is notoriously difficult to place t tauri stars in an h - r diagram in order to date them and the difference between 1 and 3 myr might not be significant .",
    "although solid - body models seem to require unreasonably long disk - lifetimes , it might not be appropriate to reject them entirely because helioseismic inversions suggest a solar interior rotation rate closer to solid body than to the fast interiors of the differentially rotating models ( see previous section ) . a way to reconcile these problems",
    "might be just to postulate a radial angular momentum transfer rate of say , a few hundred myr , between the sb and dr cases .",
    "indeed , detailed observations in a sequence of open clusters might help to find this timescale empirically .",
    "lastly , we note that although the young open cluster rotation rates look like they could be generated from the t tauri rates , there might be difficulties in explaining the rates in older clusters like the hyades and even in the younger cluster ngc 3532 . in particular , our models are probably not treating the mass - dependence of the rotation rate correctly since , for example , the @xmath22 models are rotating slower than the observations in the hyades . the observations themselves",
    "are not consistent .",
    "there are slower rotators in the younger ngc 3532 cluster than there are in the hyades , raising the issue of whether the hyades data are biased and how much so .",
    "perhaps a more complete period census of the hyades is needed and maybe one of praesepe as well .",
    "these issues , both observational and theoretical , will we hope , be addressed and understood in the near future .    _ acknowledgements . _ sb would like to acknowledge the b.f .",
    "foundation for funding his tenure at lowell observatory through the lowell fellowship , the mckinney foundation and the nsf for support under ast-9731302 at the univ . of wisconsin .",
    "many of these results were obtained as part of sb s phd dissertation work at yale university , which supported him for several years through a student fellowship .",
    "allain , s. , bouvier , j. , prosser , c. , marschall , l.a . and laaksonen , b.d .",
    ", 1996a , a&a , 305 , 498 allain , s. , fernandez , m. , martin , e.l . and bouvier , j. , 1996b , a&a , 314 , 173 antia , h.m . ,",
    "basu , s. & chitre , s.m . , 1998 , mnras , 298 , 543 .",
    "armitage , p.j . and",
    "clarke , c.j .",
    ", 1996 , mnras , 280 , 458 attridge , j.m . and herbst , w. , 1992 , apjl , 398 , l61 baliunas , s. , sokoloff , d. & soon , w. , 1996 , apjl , 457 , 99 barnes , s.a . ,",
    "2000 , in stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos , pallavicini , micela & sciortino , eds . , asp conference series 198 , 319 barnes , s.a . , 1998 , phd thesis , yale university barnes , s.a . & sofia , s. , 1996 , apj , 462 , 746 barnes , s.a . , sofia , s. , prosser , c.f .",
    "& stauffer , j.r . , 1999 , apj , 516 , 263 bouvier , j. , 1994 , in 8th cambridge workshop on cool stars , stellar systems , and the sun , ed .",
    "caillault ( asp conference series , vol .",
    "64 ) , p. 151 ) bouvier , j. , and forestini , m. , 1994 , in circumstellar dust discs and planet formation , iap , paris , eds .",
    "r. ferlet and a. vidal- madjar , p 347 bouvier , j. , cabrit , s. , fernandez , m. , martin , e.l . and",
    "matthews , j. m. , 1993 , a&a , 272 , 176 bouvier , j. , covino , e. , kovo , o. , martin , e.l . ,",
    "matthews , j. m. , terranegra , l. and beck , s.c .",
    ", 1995 , a&a , 299 , 89 bouvier , j. , forestini , m. , & allain , s. , 1997 , a&a , 326 , 1023 cameron , a.c . , and campbell , c.g . , 1993 ,",
    "a&a , 274 , 309 cameron , a.c . ,",
    "campbell , c.g . and",
    "quaintrell , h. , 1995 , a&a , 298 , 133 cameron , a.c . , and li , j. , 1994 , mnras , 269 , 1099 chaboyer , b. , 1993 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , yale university chaboyer , b. , demarque , p. and pinsonneault , m. , 1995 , apj , 441 , 865 charbonneau , p. , & macgregor , k.b .",
    ", 1992 , apj , 387 , 639 choi , p.i . and herbst , w. , 1996 , aj , 111 , 283 edwards , s. strom . s.e . ,",
    "herbst , w. , attridge , j. , michael merill , k. , probst , r. and gatley , i. , 1993 , aj , 106 , 372 endal , a.s . and",
    "sofia , s. , 1976 , apj , 210 , 184 endal , a.s . and",
    "sofia , s. , 1978 , apj , 220 , 279 endal , a.s . and",
    "sofia , s. , 1979 , apj , 232 , 531 heger , a. , langer , n. & woosley , s. e. , 2000 , apj , 528 , 368 herbst , w. , rhode , k.l . ,",
    "hillenbrand , l.a . &",
    "curran , g. , 2000 aj , 119 , 261 kawaler , s.d . , 1988 , apj , 333 , 236 keppens , r. , macgregor , k.b . and charbonneau , p. , 1995",
    ", a&a , 294 , 469 kippenhahn , r. and thomas , h.c . ,",
    "1970 in stellar rotation , ed .",
    "a. slettebak ( gordon and breach ) , 20 konigl , a. , 1991 , apj , 370 , l39 kraft , r. , 1967 , in spectroscopic astrophysics , ed .",
    "g. herbig ( berkeley : univ .",
    "calif . ) , 385 krishnamurthi , a. , pinsonneault , m.h . ,",
    "barnes , s. and sofia , s. , 1997 , apj , 480 , 303 krishnamurthi , a. , et al . , 1998 , apj , 493 , 914 macgregor , k.b , 2000 , in stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos , pallavicini , micela & sciortino , eds . , asp conference series 198 , 329 macgregor , k.b . and brenner , m. , 1991 , apj , 376 , 204 mathieu , r.d . , 2000 , in stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos , pallavicini , micela & sciortino , eds . , asp conference series 198 , 517 mermilliod , j .- c . , 1981 , a&a , 97 , 235 odell , m.a . , and cameron , a.c . , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 521 palla , f. and stahler , s. 1991 , apj , 375 , 288 patten , b.m . and simon , t. , 1996 , apjs , 106 , 489 pinsonneault , m.h . , kawaler , s.d . , sofia , s. and demarque , p. , 1989 ,",
    "apj , 338 , 424 pinsonneault , m.h . ,",
    "kawaler , s.d . and demarque , p. , 1990",
    ", apjs , 74 , 501 pinsonneault , m.h . and sofia , s. , 2000 , in prep prosser , c.f . & grankin , k.n . , 1997 ,",
    "cfa preprint 4539 prosser , c.f . ,",
    "schild , r.e . , stauffer , j.r . and jones , b.f .",
    ", 1993a , pasp , 105 , 269 prosser , c. f. , shetrone , m. d. , marilli , e. , catalano , s. , williams , s.d . , backman , d. , laaksonen , b.d . , adige , v. , marschall , l.a . and",
    "stauffer , j r. , 1993b , pasp , 105 , 1407 prosser , c.f .",
    ", shetrone , m.d . ,",
    "dasgupta , a. , backman , d.e .",
    ", laaksonen , b.d . ,",
    "baker , s.w . ,",
    "marschall , l.a . ,",
    "whitney , b.a . ,",
    "kuijken , k. and stauffer , j.r . , 1995 , pasp , 107 , 211 queloz , d. , allain , s. , mermilliod , j .- c . ,",
    "bouvier , j. , mayor , m. 1998 , a&a , 335 , 183 radick , r.r . , thompson , d.t . , lockwood , g.w .",
    ", duncan , d.k , and baggett , w.e . , 1987 , apj , 321 , 459 sills , a. , pinsonneault , m.h . ,",
    "terndrup , d.m . , 2000 , apj , 534 , 335 .",
    "slettebak , a. , 1956 , apj , 124 , 173 soderblom , d.r . , king , j.r . ,",
    "siess , l. , jones , b.f . , fischer , d. , 1999 , aj , 118 , 1301 stassun , k.g . , mathieu , r.d . ,",
    "mazeh , t. & vrba , f.j . , 1999 ,",
    "aj , 117 , 2941 stauffer , j.r . , 1994 , in 8th cambridge workshop on cool stars , stellar systems , and the sun , ed .",
    "caillault ( asp conference series , vol .",
    "64 ) , p.163 stauffer , j.r . and hartmann , l.w . , 1987 , apj , 318 , 337 stauffer , j.r . ,",
    "hartmann , l.w .",
    ", burnham , j.n . and jones , b.f .",
    ", 1985 , apj , 289 , 247 stauffer , j.r .",
    ", 2000 , in stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos , pallavicini , micela & sciortino , eds . , asp conference series 198 , 255 stauffer , j.r .",
    "et al . , 1997a , apj , 475 , 604 stauffer , j.r .",
    "et al . , 1997b , apj , 479 , 776 strom , k.m . , strom , s.e . , edwards , s. , cabrit , s. and skrutskie , m.f . , 1989 , aj , 97 , 1451 strom , s.e . , edwards , s. , skrutskie , m.f .",
    ", 1990 , in 6th cambridge workshop on cool stars , stellar systems , and the sun , ed .",
    "g. wallerstein ( asp conference series , vol .",
    "9 ) , p. 275 ) terndrup , d.m , et al .",
    "2000 , aj , 119 , 1303 van leeuwen , f. and alphenaar , p. , 1982",
    ", eso messenger , no .",
    "28 , 15 van leeuwen , f. , alphenaar , p. , and meys , j.j.m .",
    ", 1987 , a&as , 67 , 483"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the simultaneous presence of both the so - called ` ultra - fast rotators ' and slowly rotating stars among the solar - type stars ( @xmath0 ) in the same young star clusters has been a puzzle in the field of stellar rotation . </S>",
    "<S> no model to date has been able to explain both by a single mechanism intrinsic to the star and questions about the appropriate initial conditions for models often complicate the problem .    in this paper , using the same starting conditions for the models that we used in examining the origin of the ultra - fast rotators in young star clusters , we show that the slowest rotators demand an extrinsic mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> assuming that this mechanism is a disk - star interaction , we determine that a disk - locking timescale of a few myr must operate for this type of star . </S>",
    "<S> if , instead of allowing ( radial ) differential rotation , we enforce solid - body rotation , the models require timescales about two to three times as long . </S>"
  ]
}