{
  "article_text": [
    "among galaxies that pertain to our local universe the gas - rich ones and in particular the ones with violent episodes of massive star formation attract our attention . along the hubble sequence the fractional gas content ( @xmath1 the gas to total mass ratio ) increases as one moves from early types to late types and reaches values as large as 0.1 to 0.5 for irr galaxies .",
    "more extreme cases are found amongst lsbs ( low surface brightness galaxies ) and the dwarfs star - forming galaxies in which the total amount of gas ( mainly atomic gas as the molecular gas content in these low mass objects is still unknown ) could be the dominant component .",
    "our recent view of the distant universe opens the possibility that small gaseous systems gradually merge into large ones .",
    "galaxy formation appears more gradual that had been anticipated and one would expect to see some left over debris in our local universe after a priviledged epoch of star formation at around z of 1 - 2 .",
    "dwarf star - forming galaxies naturally comes into discussion for at least two reasons - both linked to the distant universe .",
    "first they appear so chemically unevolved that they represent the best site to look at for the determination of the primordial helium abundance .",
    "indeed , their measured helium abundances are accurately determined and are close to the primordial helium value since the he products from stellar burning is presumably minimal .",
    "second they offer ideal local counterparts of what should be distant protogalaxies at the onset of their first massive star formation episodes .",
    "i will focus on this later point in the rest of this review .",
    "dwarf star - forming galaxies are sometimes called blue compact dwarf ( bcd ) or hii galaxies because their ongoing star - formation rate large with respect to their integrated past star formation rate so that their overall spectroscopic appearance is that of a giant hii region .",
    "although hii galaxies also comprise a wider class of objects in term of mass and luminosity i shall refer to this terminology in the following discussion .",
    "local hii galaxies have absolute luminosities dominated by the young stellar population and range from m@xmath2=-13 to -17 ( if only restricted to dwarfs ) . they are bluer than ordinary irregular galaxies ( with typically u - b=-0.6 and b - v=0.0 ) and are rich in ionized gas .",
    "the equivalent width of the  line ranges from 30 to 200   implying a burst star formation no older than a few myrs .",
    "the role of massive stars is to energize the ism and enrich it with heavy metals and some helium .",
    "these galaxies are chemically unevolved and their metal distribution peaks at 1/10th the solar value , with the most deficient galaxy izw18 at only 1/50th .",
    "their neutral gas content is relatively high , amounting a few 10@xmath3  in general , @xmath1 a large fraction of the luminous mass .",
    "on the other hand there are some indications that the dynamical mass is much larger , @xcite .",
    "uv to ir studies clearly indicate that massive star formation is a discontinuous process concentrated to short bursts intervened by longer passive periods .",
    "their uv spectra show small amount of dust that makes them ideal targets to study locally .",
    "the major motivation in follow - up studies of unevolved and nearly dust - free hii galaxies is their possible ressemblance with distant protogalaxies in their early phase of star - formation . assuming that protogalaxies would undergo a rapid collapse on a short dynamical timescale , @xcite ,",
    "the expectation is that an l@xmath4 galaxy could be detected from its redshifted  emission line . indeed in a dust free case and a normal imf such a galaxy could pop up with a star formation rate of nearly 1000 /yr producing a  luminosity of 10@xmath5 erg / sec ( this amounts few percent of the total luminosity ) . at a redshift of 3",
    "this translates to 10@xmath6 erg/@xmath7/sec , in principle easily detectable even from deep spectrocopic searches or narrow band imaging using panoramic ccds .",
    "the failure to detect such a strong  is an additional piece of evidence that the overall process of galaxy formation is more complex : galaxies form from smaller building blocks and/or luminous protogalaxies have to be found at much larger redshift and/or are enshrouded in large dusty cocoons .",
    "while galaxies at their very early stage could be nearly dust - free hence easily detectable from their  emission @xcite ; early ultraviolet observations of nearby hii galaxies , have revealed a much weaker  emission than predicted by starburst models and simple models of galaxy formation . in some other galaxies  was non - existent or even appeared as a broad absorption profile ( @xcite ) . for young star - forming galaxies without so much dust as to suppress  ,",
    "large equivalent widths are expected in the range of 100 - 200 ( 1+z )    , @xcite .",
    "however it was early realized that pure extinction by dust would be unable to explain the low observed /   ( although calzetti and kinney @xcite tentatively proposed that proper extinction laws would correctly match the predicted recombination value ) .",
    "valls - gabaud @xcite on the other hand suggested that ageing starbursts could reduce  equivalent widths because they are affected by strong underlying stellar atmospheric absorptions .",
    "early iue data have provided evidence for an anticorrelation between the /  ratio and the hii galaxy metallicity .",
    "these results were attributed to the effect of resonant scattering of  photons and their subsequently increased absorption by dust ( @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "finally @xcite advocated that the structure of the interstellar medium ( porosity and multi - phase structure ) is most probably an important factor for the visibility of the  line .",
    "new observations performed with the hst indicate that the velocity structure in the interstellar medium plays a key role in the transfer and escape of ly@xmath8photons .",
    "kunth et al .",
    "@xcite and lequeux et al .",
    "@xcite have used the goddard high resolution spectrograph ( ghrs ) onboard the hubble space telescope ( hst ) to observe ly@xmath8  and the interstellar lines oi 1302.2    and siii 1304.4    .",
    "the oi 1302    and siii 1304     allow to measure with reasonable accuracy the mean velocity at which the absorbing material lies with respect to the star - forming region of a given galaxy .",
    "surprisingly , ly@xmath8  was observed only in absorption in izw  18 , the most metal  poor starburst galaxy known , @xcite .",
    "meanwhile to add to the confusion , a ly@xmath8  emission line showing a clear p ",
    "cygni component , has been detected in the star - forming galaxy haro  2 , dustier than izw  18 and with @xmath9 , @xcite .",
    "the detection of such a profile in the ly@xmath8emission line led us to postulate that the line was visible because the absorbing neutral gas was velocity  shifted with respect to the ionized gas .",
    "this was confirmed by the analysis of the uv oi and siii absorption lines ( blue  shifted by 200  km s@xmath10   with respect to the optical emission lines ) and that of the profile of the h@xmath8 line @xcite .",
    "observations were subsequently made on additional galaxies by kunth et al .",
    "@xcite while thuan and isotov @xcite have obtained ghrs spectra of two more starburst galaxies , namely tol65 and t1214 - 277 .",
    "tol65 reveals a broad damped  absorption while t1214 - 277 shows a pure  emission profile with an equivalent width of 70    and with no blue absorption .",
    "the individual spectra of galaxies observed in @xcite are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : total ] .",
    "three types of observed lines have been identified so far : pure   emission ; broad damped  absorption centered at the wavelength corresponding to the redshift of the hii emitting gas and emission with blue shifted absorption features , leading in some cases to p ",
    "cygni profiles .",
    "emission with deep blueward absorption troughs evidence a wide velocity field .",
    "the equivalent widths of the  emission range between 10 and 37    hence much below the value predicted by charlot and fall , @xcite for a dust  free starburst model . in all cases , interstellar absorption lines ( oi , siii )",
    "are significantly blueshifted with respect to the hii gas ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : oila ] ) . on the other hand ,",
    "if the hi is static with respect to hii , the destroyed   photons are those emitted by the hii region and the interstellar lines are not displaced ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : oiab ] ) .    in galaxies with low dust content - izw  18 has a dust - to - gas ratio at least 50 times smaller than the galactic value , @xcite - , it remains possible to weaken observationally  by simple multiple resonant scattering from a static neutral gas and produce an absorption feature .",
    "the hi cloud surrounding these galaxies might be leaking   photons through its external surface .",
    "the   line would then become very hard to detect because of its low surface brightness . on the other hand ,",
    "the situation in haro  2 is quite different .",
    "the  p  cygni profile suggests a rather modest amount of neutral gas of the order of n  ( hi ) = 7.7x@xmath11 atoms @xmath12 .",
    "the crucial point here is that the neutral gas responsible for the absorption is not at the velocity at which the  photons were emitted but is being pushed out by an expanding envelope around the hii region , at velocities close to 200 kms@xmath10 .",
    "this interpretation is strengthened by the presence of the blueshifted absorptions of oi , siii and siiii precisely due to outflowing gas in front of the ionizing hot stars , ( see also legrand et al . , @xcite ) .",
    "data on other hii galaxies with detected  emission confirm that haro 2 is not an isolated case .",
    "most spectra show  emission with a broad absorption on their blue side except for eso 350-ig038 in which the emission is seen atop of a broad structure requiring several filaments . when metallic lines are detected , they are always blueshifted with respect to the ionized gas , further supporting the interpretation . in the case of eso 350-ig038",
    "the velocity structure seems to be more complicated and several components at different velocities are identified on the metallic lines .",
    "note that there might be a secondary peak emission in the blue side of the main line in the spectrum of eso-400-g043 .",
    "the main conclusion drawn from this set of data is that complex velocity structures are determining the ly@xmath8  emission line detectability , showing the strong energetic impact of the star - forming regions onto their surrounding ism .",
    "we want to stress that this effect seems to be almost independent of the dust and metal abundance of the gas .",
    "thuan and isotov @xcite have detected strong ly@xmath8  emission in t1214 - 277 , with no clear evidence of blueshifted ly@xmath8  absorption .",
    "they argue that a significant fraction of the area covered by the slit along the line of sight is essentially free from neutral gas , suggesting a patchy or filamentary structure of the neutral clouds",
    ". such a geometry would be unlikely in galaxies surrounded by enormous hi clouds , as in izw  18 and similar objects .",
    "to account naturally for the variety of  line detections in star - forming galaxies tenorio - tagle et al .",
    "@xcite , have proposed a scenario based on the hydrodynamics of superbubbles powered by massive starbursts .",
    "this scenario is visually depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : superbubble ] . the overpowering mechanical luminosity ( @xmath13 @xmath14 10@xmath15erg s@xmath10 ) from massive starbursts ( @xmath16 = 10@xmath17 - 10@xmath18 ) is known to lead to a rapidly evolving superbubble able to blowout the gaseous central disk configuration into their extended hi haloes .",
    "as shown by @xcite the superbubble will blowout and thus massive starbursts will lead to superbubble blowout phenomena even in massive galaxies such as the milky way .",
    "one can then predict the venting of the hot superbubble interior gas through the rayleigh - taylor fragmented shell , into the extended hi halo where it would push once again the outer shock , quite early in the evolution of the starburst ( @xmath19 2myr ) , allowing to build a new shell of swept up halo matter ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : superbubble]b ) .",
    "the blowout or the fragmentation of the shell allows the expansion of the hot interior gas into the extended low density hi halo , and the leakage of the @xmath20 photons emitted by the starburst .",
    "these photons establish an ionized conical hii region with its apex at the starburst .",
    "the density of the halo steadily decreases with radius , and one can show that the conical sector of the hii region will extend all the way to the galaxy outer edge , i.e.  several .",
    "furthermore , the low halo density implies a long recombination time ( t@xmath21 = 1/(@xmath22 ) @xmath14 10@xmath3 yr ) , with the implication that the ionized conical sector of the galaxy halo becomes , and remains , transparent to the ionizing flux produced during the ensuing lifetime of the ionizing massive stars ( @xmath23 10 myr )",
    ". then clearly , the  photons produced at the central hii region will also be able to travel freely in such directions .",
    "the escape of @xmath20 photons from the galaxy would be particularly important during the early stages after blowout and until the new shell of swept up halo matter condenses enough material as to allow its recombination .",
    "if the shock progresses with speeds of a few hundred ( @xmath23 400 ) km s@xmath10 , ( i.e. with a mach number @xmath24 @xmath23 40 ) it will promote the rapid cooling of the shocked gas that will cool down to the hii region temperature making the shock isothermal , and thus causing compression factors of several hundreds .",
    "compression leads to recombination in time - scales ( @xmath25 of less than 10@xmath17yr , and this immediately and steadily will reduce the number of stellar @xmath20 photons leaking out of the galaxy .",
    "at the same time recombination in the fast expanding shell will lead to a correspondingly blueshifted  emission , as depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : superbubble]c .",
    "once the shell presents a large column density ( @xmath26 10@xmath27 atoms @xmath12 ) , as it grows to dimensions of a few kpc , it will trap the ionization front .",
    "note that from then onwards , recombinations in the shell will inhibit the further escape of ionizing photons from the galaxy ( compare fig .",
    "[ fig : superbubble]b , c , and d ) .",
    "+ the trapping of the ionization front , makes the shell acquire a multiple structure with a photoionized inner edge , a steadily growing central zone of hi , and an outer ionized sector where the recently shocked ionized halo gas is steadily incorporated .",
    "the growth of the central layer eventually will cause sufficient scattering and absorption of the  photons emitted by the central hii region , leading to a blueshifted   absorption . as long as recombinations continue to occur at the leading edge of the shell ,",
    "a blueshifted  in emission will appear superposed to the blueshifted absorption feature ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : superbubble]d ) .",
    "recombination at the leading edge will become steadily less frequent , depleting the blueshifted  in emission .",
    "this is due when the shell and its leading shock move into the outer less dense regions of the halo , and the shell recombination time , despite the compression at the shock , becomes larger than the dynamical time . at this stage",
    ", an observer looking along the conical sector of the hii region will detect a p - cygni - like  line profile as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : superbubble]e .",
    "+ geometrical dilution of the @xmath20 flux will begin to make an impact as the superbubble grows large .",
    "this and the drop in the @xmath20 photon production rate , caused by the death of the most massive stars after @xmath28 = @xmath29 , will enhance the column density of neutral material in the central zone of the recombined shell to eventually cause the full saturated absorption of the  line ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : superbubble]f ) .",
    "full saturated absorption has usually been accounted for by the large column density of the extended hi envelope of these galaxies and thus , as in all models , many different orientations will match the observations .",
    "the main implication of the evolution depicted in fig .",
    "[ fig : superbubble ] is that it is the feedback from the massive stars that leads to the large variety of  emission profiles .",
    "p - cygni  profiles are predicted when observing along the angle subtended by the conical hii region but only once the ionization front is trapped by the sector of the superbubble shell evolving into the extended halo .",
    "this will produce the fast moving layer of hi at the superbubble shell , here thought to be responsible for the partial absorption observed in sources such as haro 2 , eso 400-g043 ( which probably exhibits a secondary blueshifted  emission ) and eso 350-ig038 @xcite .",
    "damped  absorption is seen in several galaxies .",
    "we note that these objects are all gas  rich dwarf galaxies whereas in most cases but haro 2 , the hii galaxies that exhibit  in emission or with a p - cygni profile , are on the higher luminosity side of the distribution ( @xmath24 @xmath23 @xmath30 ) .    pure  emission is observed in c0840 + 1201 and t1247 - 232 ( @xcite ; iue ) or t1214 - 277 ( @xcite ; hst ) .",
    "such a line implies no absorption and thus no hi gas between the starburst hii region and the observer , as when observing the central hii region after the superbubble blowout , within the conical hii region carved in the extended hi halo .",
    "it is not a straigthforward issue to estimate what is the fraction of lyman continuum radiation that leaks out from galaxies .",
    "this scenario however predicts a short but significant evolutionary phase ( between blowout and the trapping of the ionization front by the fast expanding shell ) during which a large amount of @xmath20 radiation could leak out of a galaxy into the intergalactic medium .",
    "detailed numerical calculations of the scenario proposed here are currently underway .",
    "these results and further implications of the model will be reported in a forthcoming communication .",
    "the effect of neutral gas flows helps to understand why luminous high - redshift objects have only been found up to now with linewidths larger than 1000 km s@xmath10 .",
    "redshift galaxies with very strong ( ews @xmath31 500   ) extended ly@xmath8  emission are characterized by strong velocity shears and turbulence ( v @xmath31 1000 km s@xmath10 ) ; this suggests an agn activity , in the sense that other ism energising mechanism than photoionization by young stars may be operating . on the other hand steidel et al .",
    "@xcite have recently discovered a substantial population of star  forming galaxies at 3.0@xmath32z@xmath323.5 that were selected but from the presence of a very blue far - uv continuum and a break below 912    in the rest frame .",
    "these lyman  break galaxies ( lbg ) are much more luminous but similar to our local starbursts in the sense that 50% show no ly@xmath8  emission whereas the rest does , but with weak ews no larger than 20    at rest . the ly@xmath8  profiles of this population looks also very similar to those of our local starburst galaxies ( @xcite ; see also @xcite for the z=5.34 galaxy ) .",
    "+ new  emitters are now found at high - redshift from surveys using large telescopes with narrow - band filters ( @xcite ) .",
    "limits down to a few 10@xmath33 erg/@xmath7/sec are now reachable and give access , in principle , to galaxies with fainter continuum magnitudes than the lbg .",
    "it is not clear whether these lyman  alpha  galaxies ( lag ) represent the earliest stages of the galaxy formation process as suggested by hu et al .",
    "are these galaxies less dusty than the lbgs ?",
    "is there an intrinsically fainter population of dust - free star  forming galaxies , possibly connected to the bright - end of the star - forming dwarfs population ( -18 to -20 ? )",
    "we see today ?",
    "what are their masses and spatial distribution ( see also @xcite for a recent hst study ) ?",
    "near - ir spectroscopic studies with large ground based telescopes will in the future help to settle some of these questions @xcite .",
    "+ the possible increase of the star formation rates as one moves at higher redshift ( between 3 and 6 ) reported by hu et al .",
    "@xcite must be taken with caution since from the preceeding discussion , it is clear that a significant , yet unknown fraction of the youngest galaxies may not be  emitters . indeed ,",
    "since is primarely a diagnostic of the ism , it is only when we fully understand how the ism and  are related can we hope to firmly relate  to the sfr .",
    "+    calzetti d. & kinney a.l .",
    "1992 ,  399 , l39 carignan c. & beaulieu s. 1993  347 , 760 charlot s. & fall s.m . 1993 ,  415 , 580 chen w.l . &",
    "neufeld n.a .",
    "1994 ,  432 , 567 deharveng j.m .",
    ", joubert m. , kunth d. 1986 , in the first iap workshop :  star - forming dwarf galaxies and related objects \" , edited by .",
    "d. kunth , t.x .",
    "thuan and j. tran thanh van , editions frontieres , p.431 dey a. , spinrad h. , stern d. , graham j. , chaffee f.h .",
    "1998 , 498,l93 eggen o.j . ,",
    "bell d. & sandage a. 1962 ,  136,748 franx m. , illingworth g.d .",
    ", kelson d.d . ,",
    "van dokkum p.g . , kim - vy t. 1997 ,  486 , l75 giavalisco m. , koratkar a. & calzetti d. , 1996 ,  466 , 831 hartmann l.w .",
    ", huchra j.p . , geller m.j . , 1984 ,  287 , 487 hartmann l.w . , huchra j.p . , geller m.j . , obrien p. & wilson r. , 1988 ,  326,101 hu e.m . , cowie l.l . & mcmahon r. g. 1998 ,  in press , astro - ph/9803011 koo , b - c . & mckee , c. f. : 1992 ,  388 , 93 kunth d. , lequeux j. , sargent w.l.w .",
    ", viallefond f. 1994 ,    282 , 709 kunth d. , lequeux j. , mas - hesse j.m .",
    ", terlevich e. & terlevich r. 1997 , rev .",
    "astrofis . 6 , 61 kunth d. , mas - hesse j.m .",
    ", terlevich e. , terlevich r. , lequeux j. & fall m. 1998 ,   334,11 legrand f. , kunth d. , mas  hesse j.m .",
    ", lequeux j. 1997 326,929 lequeux j. , kunth d. , mas ",
    "hesse j.m . & sargent w.l.w .",
    "1995 ,   301 , 18 meier d.l .",
    "& terlevich r. 1981 ,  246 , l10 partridge r. & peebles p.j.e .",
    "1967 , , 868 pascarelle s.m . , windhorst r.a .",
    ", keel w.c.,1998 , astro - ph 9809181 pettini m. , steidel c.c , adelberger k.l .",
    "1997 , to appear in ` origins ' , ed .",
    "shull , c.e .",
    "woodward , and h. thronson , ( asp conference series ) pettini m. , et al .",
    ", 1998 , astro - ph 9806219 steidel c.c . , giavalisco m. , pettini m. , dickinson m. & adelberger k. 1996 ,  462 , 17 tenorio - tagle g. , kunth d. , terlevich e. , terlevich r. , & silich s.a .",
    "1998 , in preparation terlevich e. , diaz a.i.,terlevich r. & garcia - vargas m.l .",
    "1993 ,  260,3 thuan t.x . &",
    "izotov y.i .",
    "1997 ,  489 , 623 valls - gabaud d. 1993 ,  419,7"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i discuss the properties of gas - rich forming galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> i particularly emphasize the latest results on  emission that are relevant to the search of distant young galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the interdependance of the  escape with the properties of the ism in starburst galaxies is outlined . a new model from g. tenorio - tagle and </S>",
    "<S> his collaborators explain  profiles in starburst galaxies from the hydrodynamics of superbubbles powered by massive stars . </S>",
    "<S> i stress again that since is primarely a diagnostic of the ism , it is mandatory to understand how the ism and  are related to firmly relate  to the cosmic star  formation rate .    </S>",
    "<S> a@xmath0&@xmath0a     + </S>"
  ]
}