{
  "article_text": [
    "the visual search for absorption lines in the gamma ray burst spectra accumulated by the burst and transient source experiment ( batse ) on the _ compton gamma ray observatory ( cgro ) _ has resulted in a number of line candidates , but no definitive detections ( palmer et al .",
    "1994 , hereafter paper  i ) . here",
    "we present the results of a systematic evaluation of the line candidates identified thus far , and discuss the two most significant candidates .",
    "the existence of lines in the batse spectra is one of the major unresolved observational issues confronting batse since the absorption lines reported by the konus ( mazets et al .",
    "1981 ) , _ heao  1 _ ( hueter 1987 ) and _ ginga _ ( murakami et al . 1988 ) detectors were attributed to cyclotron absorption in @xmath210@xmath3 gauss magnetic fields ( @xcite ) , which suggests that bursts originate on neutron stars , the only known anchors for teragauss fields .    this paper is part of a series describing and analyzing our search for lines in the batse data .",
    "paper  i reported the absence of line detections by the visual search of the batse spectra .",
    "band et al .",
    "( 1994 , hereafter paper  ii ) developed the methodology for comparing the absence of a batse detection with the detections reported by previous missions ; a preliminary calculation shows that the apparent discrepancy between batse and _ ginga _ is not yet compelling .",
    "band et al .",
    "( 1995 , hereafter paper  iii ) demonstrated that batse would have detected the lines that _ ginga _ observed ; the simulations in paper  iii also provide the probabilities for detecting lines in the batse spectra which are necessary for a comprehensive comparison between batse and previous detectors .",
    "the visual search provides neither the statistics necessary for this comprehensive search , nor measures of its completeness , as is evident from the candidate evaluation presented here .",
    "therefore , we have begun a more sophisticated computerized search ( schaefer et al .",
    "1994 ) .",
    "the evaluation of line candidates involves many instrumental and data analysis details which are summarized in  2 .",
    "we first present the results of the candidate evaluation (  3 ) , and then discuss two particular candidates in greater detail (  3.1 - 2 ) .",
    "we search for line features in the spectra accumulated by batse s spectroscopy detectors ( sds ) ; the sds have been described in detail elsewhere ( fishman et al .",
    "1989 ; band et al .",
    "1992 ) . in brief ,",
    "the sds are simple 5 `` diameter by 3 '' thick cylindrical nai(tl ) scintillation detectors with an energy resolution of 19% at 60  kev .",
    "an sd is found in each of batse s eight modules located at the corners of the _ cgro _ spacecraft .",
    "each module also contains a large area detector ( lad ) for detecting transient events , determining their positions , and recording their time histories . for 4 - 10 minutes after a burst trigger",
    ", batse accumulates 192 sd spectra with 256 channels spanning two energy decades with a low energy cutoff between 15 and 30  kev ( the sherb data type ) .",
    "these spectra are gathered from four detectors , with a greater number from the most brightly illuminated detectors .",
    "the accumulation times are based on the count rate .",
    "background spectra are accumulated every @xmath4 minutes when batse is not in burst mode ( the sher data type ) .",
    "unfortunately , a few channels just above each spectrum s low energy cutoff are distorted by the sled ( * s*d * l*ow * e*nergy * d*istortion ) , an electronic artifact discovered after launch ( band et al .",
    "for a typical sd in its highest gain setting the upper end of the sled is between 15 and 20  kev .",
    "although the sled can be partially mitigated by the calibration software , the channels affected by the sled will probably never be trusted for more than determining the continuum below a line candidate . however , for the purpose of establishing consistency among all detectors we do search for features in the sled - affected channels when lines have been found at the same energy in other detectors .    for an observed spectral feature to be considered intrinsic to the incident spectrum (",
    "i.e. , a `` real '' feature of astrophysical interest ) , the probability that it is a statistical fluctuation must be small , and the spectra accumulated by all detectors must be consistent .",
    "thus the first detection criterion is that the feature is significant in at least one detector , while the second criterion is consistency among all detectors which could have observed the feature .",
    "note that we do not require multiple independent detections ( although it is very rare that a feature would be observable by only one detector ) , nor must a feature be significant in all detectors where it is observed .",
    "as we showed in paper  iii , fluctuations can vary the apparent significance of an absorption line .",
    "in addition , the probability that a line will be significant enough to be considered a detection varies with the burst angle ( the angle between the burst and the detector normal ) .",
    "thus we can not expect significant detections in all detectors .",
    "we use the @xmath0-test to calculate the probability that an observed feature is a fluctuation . as applied here , the @xmath0-test compares a spectral fit with a continuum - only model to the fit with a continuum+line model .",
    "assume the continuum - only fit gives @xmath5 with @xmath6 degrees - of - freedom , while the continuum+line fit results in @xmath7 with @xmath8 .",
    "we define the @xmath0 statistic as ( martin 1971 ) @xmath9 this @xmath0 statistic is characterized by a normalized distribution which is a function of @xmath10 and @xmath8 ; the integral over this distribution from @xmath0 to infinity is the @xmath0-test probability @xmath11 , which we define as the significance of the feature , with a small probability indicating a more significant feature .",
    "we choose a maximum probability @xmath11 as the threshold for a candidate to be considered a detection .",
    "note that @xmath11 is only the _ a priori _ probability of a fluctuation with the observed parameters ; it does not consider all the possible `` trials '' , the range of parameters ( e.g. , time intervals , line centroids , widths , etc . ) in which line - like fluctuations could have occurred .",
    "if there are a large number of trials then it is likely that in some trial there will be a rare fluctuation .",
    "the probability that a fluctuation will produce a spurious line feature with a given significance somewhere in our dataset is the product of @xmath11 and the number of trials ; therefore we require a very small @xmath11 to conclude the line is real .",
    "the calculation of the number of trials in our data is a difficult issue in standard `` frequentist '' statistics which we will address later in this series of papers .",
    "we estimate there are of order @xmath12 trials in our spectra , and therefore use a detection threshold of @xmath13 . while this threshold may not appear stringent enough since the probability of a false positive is then @xmath14",
    ", we also require consistency among detectors ( paper  i ) .",
    "the expected distribution of fluctuations will be analyzed in greater detail later in this series of papers .",
    "only @xmath15 of the bursts detected by batse have a sufficiently high count rate to warrant detailed spectral analysis , which roughly corresponds to a lad peak count rate over 10,000 counts - s@xmath16 in the 50 - 300  kev band ( i.e. , lad discriminators 2 and 3 ) .",
    "thus of the over 1000 bursts detected , only @xmath2250 have been searched , and of these bursts only @xmath250 were intense enough for lines comparable to those observed by  to be detectable .",
    "although the spacecraft telemetry provides sherb spectra for the four most brightly illuminated detectors , not all the data are appropriate for line searches .",
    "first , the detectors must be run at high gain to extend the accumulated spectra low enough to cover the energy range where previous missions reported spectral features . for most of the mission , two of the eight sds have been operated at low gain ( to satisfy other mission objectives ) , and the gain of one of the nominally high gain detectors can not be pushed high enough to cover energies below @xmath17  kev .",
    "second , the burst angle may be greater than @xmath18 , the angle at which the spacecraft and the rest of the batse module affects the incident flux and our detector response model becomes unreliable .",
    "the sherb data are from the sds in the modules of the four most brightly - illuminated lads ; these lads normally have burst angles less than @xmath19",
    ". however , the detector normals of the sds and lads are offset by @xmath20 , and therefore a module whose lad has a burst angle less than @xmath19 may have an sd with an angle greater than @xmath19 .",
    "earth - scatter of grb photons off the atmosphere only complicates matters by occasionally increasing the count rate in detectors with large burst angles .",
    "thus usable spectra may be available from only two or three sds .",
    "the visual search inspects background - subtracted spectra on different time scales . by adding together the basic sherb spectra",
    ", we construct spectra for the entire burst and for the major temporal substructures ( e.g. , each major emission spike ) .",
    "in addition , spectra are produced on the shortest time scale over which all the detectors are accumulated , that of the third and fourth rank detectors ( i.e. , the sds in the third and fourth most brightly illuminated modules ) .",
    "thus spectra are available from all relevant detectors over the same time ranges , allowing comparisons on the same time scale .",
    "the resulting background - subtracted spectra are inspected visually for both emission and absorption lines over the entire energy range .",
    "features which appear to be very significant are studied further by inspecting spectra averaged over different time ranges .",
    "thus a feature might be identified in a spectrum averaged over the third rank accumulation time ( e.g. , from 3.328 to 6.592  s after the trigger ) but might be most significant in a spectrum averaged over an overlapping time range ( e.g. , from 4.160 to 7.360  s ) .",
    "this search is sensitive to features which are significant on the searched time scales , or which are apparent to the eye in the searched time intervals but become more significant by varying the time range ; thus this search is not sensitive to short lived features which are washed out in spectra accumulated over longer periods , nor to features which persist a long time but are not evident in the searched spectra over shorter time periods .",
    "our simulations indicate that the eye is sensitive to features with an @xmath0-test significance of @xmath21 or smaller ( i.e. , @xmath22 ) .",
    "since in this study we find that we identified many candidates with significances of order 0.1 , we should have detected features which persisted over many of the searched spectra .",
    "we evaluate the line candidates identified by the visual search .",
    "because the gain differs between detectors and varies with time , each burst s spectra must be calibrated for each detector ( band et al .",
    "our response matrices include earth - scatter .",
    "background spectra are created channel - by - channel by fitting 2nd , 3rd , or 4th order polynomials to spectra before and after the burst .",
    "as always , background creation is something of an art ; we evaluate the calculated background by the quality of the fits to each channel .",
    "these fits provide the background as a function of time ; for background subtraction these functions are integrated over the time interval of interest .",
    "we fit the spectra with the standard marquardt - levenberg algorithm minimizing @xmath23 ( bevington 1969 , pp .",
    "232 - 241 ; press et al .",
    "1992 , pp .  678 - 683 ) . in brief",
    ", the parameters of a model photon spectrum are varied to minimize the difference  quantified by @xmath23between the calculated count spectrum ( the model photon spectrum folded through the detector response ) and the observed spectrum .",
    "we define @xmath23 with model variances , requiring additional terms in the gradients used by the marquardt - levenberg algorithm ( see the appendix of ford et al .",
    "1995 ) .",
    "the continuum is usually fit with the four parameter `` grb '' ( for lack of a better name ) model ( band et al .",
    "1993 ) , @xmath24\\quad , \\quad     & e\\le ( \\alpha-\\beta)e_0 \\\\ = & a^\\prime ( e/100)^\\beta \\qquad , \\quad & e > ( \\alpha-\\beta)e_0 \\quad , \\nonumber\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath25 is chosen so that @xmath26 is continuous at @xmath27 .",
    "in a few cases where we find @xmath28 to be very large or @xmath29 is nearly equal to @xmath30 , we simplify the continuum model , either by using a simple power law or by dropping the high energy power law in eq .  2 ( the comp model ) ; the decision to simplify the continuum can be justified in terms of the effect on the reduced @xmath23 .",
    "an apparent absorption line is usually modeled as a multiplicative line , @xmath31 and an emission line as an additive line , @xmath32 where @xmath33 is the gaussian line profile ( with three parameters : amplitude , line centroid and line width ) . for absorption lines",
    "whose intrinsic width appears to be much narrower than the instrumental resolution we also use a simple two parameter `` black '' line model with no flux over an energy range centered on the line centroid ; for very narrow lines the instrument is unable to resolve the line profile .",
    "we always fit the spectra over the greatest energy range possible . the low energy cutoff is chosen to avoid the sled while the highest available energy channel is included . in paper",
    "iii we found that extending the fitted energy range to energies much greater than the features of interest increased the significance of the features , in part because the continuum is better determined . on the other hand ,",
    "we were concerned that the choice of the low energy cutoff @xmath34 could make a large difference in the calculated significances .",
    "the exact value of @xmath34 which should be used is not automatic because the upper end of the sled artifact is not clear - cut , and analysts may choose different values ( in particular there is a tendency to choose round numbers , e.g. , 20  kev when the sled ends at 17  kev ) . to test the effect of varying @xmath34 , we calculated the significance of the 54  kev candidate absorption line in gb  920307 using different values of @xmath34 , as is shown by figure  1 .",
    "as can be seen , there is not a meaningful change in significance for @xmath34 between 15 and 30  kev , and the significance decreases ( @xmath11 increases ) only as @xmath34 approaches the candidate line energy .",
    "thus small changes in @xmath34 should not make a large difference . of course",
    ", the significance will be sensitive to the choice of @xmath34 if the line energy is near the low energy cutoff .",
    "table  1 describes the candidates and the fits to them , while figure  2 presents the distribution of their significances .",
    "few candidates are more significant than @xmath35 , and none exceeds our detection threshold of @xmath36 , although two nearly satisfy the significance criterion ; these two are discussed in greater detail below .",
    "the significance distribution of the line candidates in figure  2 is shaped by a number of components .",
    "first are the inevitable line - like statistical fluctuations , with many low significance fluctuations and few at the high end ( i.e. , small values of @xmath11 ) .",
    "the normalization of this distribution is proportional to the number of trials in the burst dataset , a poorly determined quantity .",
    "second is the distribution produced by real spectral lines ( if lines exist ) .",
    "these lines are characterized by a ( currently unknown ) distribution of parameters .",
    "paper  iii showed that as a result of the fluctuations in any given observation , the same line may be observed by identical detectors with very different significances .",
    "thus the observed significance distribution is the convolution of the line parameter distribution and the distribution of significances for a given set of line parameters .",
    "note that it is entirely possible that many of our low significance ( large @xmath11 value ) candidates which do not satisfy our detection criteria may be real lines .",
    "finally , incompleteness truncates the low significance end of the observed significance distribution ; most candidates with @xmath37 will not be identified by the search .    we suspect that most or all of our line candidates are fluctuations .",
    "our intention was to identify those features which appeared to have @xmath38 ; the large number of candidates with @xmath39 leads us to suspect the accuracy of the qualitative ( i.e. , `` eyeball '' ) assessment of the significance of a line .",
    "we would expect equal numbers of emission line - like and absorption line - like fluctuations .",
    "however , absorption features were more readily recorded because of the previous reports of absorption lines in the 15 - 100  kev range ( as discussed in paper  ii ) , although emission features up to 511  kev were also flagged ( emission lines have also been reported by previous missions ) .",
    "in addition , absorption lines may be more apparent to the eye than emission lines of comparable strength because of the curvature of the burst count spectra .",
    "thus we find that the number of absorption line candidates ( 67 ) exceeds that of emission line candidates ( 13 ) .",
    "the visual search does not provide the statistics of the lines which could have been detected in the searched spectra .",
    "these statistics are necessary to compare different missions ( e.g. , batse with ) and to place constraints on the frequency with which different types of lines occur ( paper  ii ) .",
    "in addition , the search does not produce measures of its completeness ( e.g. , the fraction of features with @xmath40 which were identified by the search ) .",
    "since the visual search relies on human judgement which can be affected by fatigue and distractions , there is always the fear that an interesting candidate may have been missed . while we are confident that we would have detected features with @xmath41 in the inspected spectra , we are relying on identifying less significant features in order to detect lines which persist over many of the searched spectra .",
    "thus we can not conclude definitively that detectable lines do not exist in the batse spectra .",
    "for these reasons we have begun a computerized search ( schaefer et al .",
    "1994 ) which is unaffected by human subjectivity and which will provide relevant statistics .",
    "in addition , this computerized search will consider almost all possible spectra which can be formed from consecutive sherb spectra .",
    "the most significant candidate absorption line is found in gb  920315 with @xmath42 , just above our detection threshold .",
    "the candidate is a feature at 80  kev in a spectrum accumulated between 1.152 and 1.728  s from sd1 ( i.e. , the sd in module 1 ) , which is the 2nd rank detector with a burst angle of 58.3@xmath43 .",
    "the 1st rank detector , sd3 , was in a low gain setting ( and therefore did not cover 80  kev ) , and the 3rd and 4th rank detectors , sd6 and sd7 , had burst angles of 121.7@xmath43 and 105.4@xmath43 , respectively .",
    "therefore , sd1 was the only sd capable of seeing a feature below @xmath44  kev , making consistency between detectors automatic ; had the feature in sd1 met our significance criterion , it would have technically been a detection .",
    "features are not evident at 80  kev in lad spectra ( with poorer spectral resolution but better statistics than sd spectra ) , although the sensitivity of the lads to lines of this type has not yet been determined .",
    "as can be seen from the count spectrum in figure  3 , the candidate at 80  kev draws much of its significance from one particularly low channel ; however , this low channel is surrounded by a number of channels which dip below the general trend .    as we argued above",
    ", there is a probability of order @xmath45% of a fluctuation with a significance of @xmath46 somewhere within our data set , and therefore this feature can be attributed to a statistical fluctuation .",
    "indeed , we would not have been comfortable declaring this candidate a detection had its significance been a factor of 1.6 smaller because of the absence of confirmation by other detectors and the importance of one low point .",
    "our first definitive detection must be more convincing .",
    "the candidate in gb  930506 has attracted a great deal of attention ( ford et al .",
    "1994 ; preece et al . 1994 ; freeman & lamb 1994 ; paper  i ) .",
    "an absorption feature was found at 55 kev in sd2 ; figure  4 presents the count spectrum .",
    "the feature has been evaluated with fits by various continuum and line models over different energy ranges ; in many cases the resulting @xmath11 satisfied our detection criterion .",
    "however , the feature in sd2 is absent in the spectra from other batse detectors .",
    "two other sds and two lads , all with smaller burst angles than sd2 , also viewed the burst ( see table  2 ) . unfortunately , the sd with the smallest burst angle ( sd3 ) was at a low gain setting , and therefore did not cover the energy of the line candidate .",
    "in sd7 the upper edge of the sled fell at the energy of the line in sd2 . using the methodology of band et al .",
    "( 1992 ) , ford et al .",
    "( 1994 ) developed an _ ad hoc _",
    "correction for the sled in sd7 . with this correction ,",
    "no line is evident at 55  kev in sd7 ; fitting the sd7 spectrum with a continuum+line model found a weak line at 55.9  kev with @xmath47 .",
    "the probability that the line observed in sd2 ( i.e , with the parameters fit to the sd2 spectrum ) would be as nearly unobservable as the line fit to sd7 is less than one percent ; specifically , none of 200 simulated sd7 spectra using the parameters of the sd2 fit resulted in @xmath11 as large as 0.73 .",
    "similarly , a joint fit to sd2 and sd7 does not find a significant line feature ( briggs 1995 ) .",
    "no lines are evident in the two lads with small burst angles ( preece et al .",
    "1994 ) .",
    "we reanalyzed the feature in sd2 with the procedures used to evaluate the other line candidates ; the results are presented by table  3 .",
    "we tried three different continuum models  a power law , comp and grb  and two different line models  multiplicative and `` black . ''",
    "the background varied significantly over the @xmath48  s before and after the burst , and there were a number of reasonable choices of background spectra from which we could interpolate the background at the time of the candidate .",
    "consequently we calculated the line significances for the six continuum+line models ( three continuum and two line models ) for two different interpolated backgrounds ; as can be seen from table  3 , the resulting line significances are qualitatively similar using the two background spectra . from the reduced @xmath49 for the different fits , also presented in table  3 , it is clear that the power law fits are poor , while the comp and grb fits are acceptable ( @xmath50 ) .",
    "while the power law fits are highly significant , @xmath51 , the comp and grb fits do not meet our significance criterion for a detection .",
    "it is our experience that when a continuum model does not fit a spectrum well , the line model assists in fitting the observed continuum ; hence a poor continuum model results in a significant line fit .",
    "thus we conclude that the high significance of the power law fits is not an accurate representation of the line significance .",
    "the fitted line is narrower than the instrumental resolution ( a resolution of @xmath52  kev as opposed to a line width of @xmath53  kev ) , and therefore using the `` black '' line model , with one fewer parameter than the multiplicative line model , is more significant by a factor of @xmath54 .",
    "nonetheless , the line does not satisfy our significance criterion for any of the acceptable line fits .    in their extensive analysis of this candidate ,",
    "freeman & lamb ( 1994 ) performed fits to sd2 and joint fits to sd2+sd7 , sd2+sd3 , and sd2+sd3+sd7 using both the comp and grb continua .",
    "the significances of the joint fits to sd2+sd3 are @xmath55 and @xmath56 for the comp and grb continua , respectively .",
    "we do not believe this affects our conclusion that the feature is not significant .",
    "first , the relevant significance is the largest @xmath0-test probability that results from a reasonable continuum model ; to show the feature is significant we must prove that it can not be produced by a reasonable continuum shape . thus we should use the significance from the joint fit with the grb continuum which just barely satisfies our first criterion .",
    "second , adding a second detector doubles the number of degrees - of - freedom .",
    "as discussed in paper  iii , extending the energy range of a fit can improve the @xmath0-test probability both by better determining the continuum , thereby increasing @xmath57 between the continuum and continuum+line fits , and by increasing the degrees - of - freedom .",
    "the first effect is a true reflection of the line significance , while the second effect is an artifact of the @xmath0-test .",
    "we found in paper  iii that a factor of two increase in the number of degrees - of - freedom decreased the @xmath0-test probability by an order of magnitude ; therefore we conclude that most of the improvement of the significance of the sd2+sd3 joint fit over the sd2 fit results from this degrees - of - freedom effect .",
    "we therefore conclude that the line candidate in gb  930506 meets neither of our detection criteria .",
    "the @xmath0-test probability for the line feature in sd2 is small but not so small as to lead us to reject the possibility that the feature is a rare statistical fluctuation .",
    "we have evaluated the line candidates identified by the still - ongoing visual search of burst spectra observed by the batse sds . we find that none of the candidates satisfy our detection criteria ; indeed most of the candidates are not very significant",
    ".    taken at face value , this evaluation of line candidates from the visual search leaves us with no batse line detections , while konus , _",
    "heao  1 _ and all reported detections .",
    "however , our approximate assessment of the consistency between batse and  ( paper  ii ) , accurate to a factor of @xmath22 , indicates that the apparent discrepancy between these two missions is not yet compelling ; a more definitive calculation is in progress . thus based on the batse observations there is no reason yet to question the detections reported by previous missions .",
    "clearly , we will be forced to conclude that batse is discrepant with previous missions if no lines are detected after many additional intense batse bursts are observed .",
    "the visual search has not provided us with measures of its sensitivity ; we do not know what part of the space of line parameters has been probed . in addition , the visual search is affected by the subjectivity of the human eye , and there is always the fear that the search may have missed a significant line .",
    "consequently we have begun a new computerized search which should overcome these limitations .",
    "also , this search will consider progressively longer accumulations , thereby increasing the range of lines which can be found .",
    "both the ongoing visual search and this computerized search will undoubtedly generate new candidates , and perhaps ultimately a few detections .",
    "we thank p.  freeman and d.  lamb for insightful discussions regarding gb  930506 .",
    "the work of the ucsd group is supported by nasa contract nas8 - 36081 .",
    "band , d. , et al .",
    "1992 , exp .",
    "astr . , 2 , 307 band , d. , et al .",
    "1993 , , 413 , 281 band , d. , et al .",
    "1994 , , 434 , 560 ( paper  ii ) band , d. , et al .",
    "1995 , , 447 , 289 ( paper  iii ) bevington , p. r. 1969 , data reduction and error analysis for the physical sciences ( mcgraw hill : new york ) briggs , m. s. 1995 , in the annals of the new york academy of sciences ( 17th texas symposium on relativistic astrophysics ) , in press fishman , g. , et al .",
    "1989 , in proc .",
    "_ gamma ray observatory _ science workshop , ed .",
    "w.  n.  johnson ( washington : nasa ) , 2 - 39 ford , l. , et al .",
    "1994 , in aip conf .",
    "307 , gamma - ray bursts , 2d workshop , ed .",
    "g.  j.  fishman , j.  j.  brainerd , & k.  hurley ( new york : aip ) , 261 ford , l. , et al .",
    "1995 , , 439 , 307 freeman , p. e. , & lamb , d. q. 1994 , analysis of the line candidate in gb  930506 : preliminary results , university of chicago internal report hueter , g. j. 1987 , phd thesis , uc san diego martin , b. r. 1971 , statistics for physicists ( london : academic press ) mazets , e. p. , et al .",
    "1981 , nature , 290 , 378 meegan , c. a. , fishman , g. j. , wilson , r. b. , paciesas ,  w.  s. , pendleton ,  g.  n. , horack ,  j.  m. , brock ,  m.  n. , & kouveliotou ,  c. 1992 , nature , 355 , 143 murakami , t. , et al 1988 , nature , 335 , 234 palmer , d. , et al .",
    "1994 , , 433 , l77 ( paper  i ) preece , r. , et al .",
    "1994 , in aip conf .",
    "307 , gamma ray bursts , 2d workshop , ed .",
    "g.  j.  fishman , j.  j.  brainerd and k.  hurley ( new york : aip ) , 266 press , w. h. , teukolsky , s.  a. , vetterling ,  w.  t. , & flannery ,  b.  p. 1992 , numerical recipes in fortran ( 2d ed .",
    "; cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) schaefer , b. e. , et al .",
    "1994 , in aip conf .",
    "307 , gamma ray bursts , 2d workshop , ed .",
    "g.  j.  fishman , j.  j.  brainerd and k.  hurley ( new york : aip ) , 271 wang , j. c. l. , et al .",
    "1989 , , 63 , 1550"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we evaluate the significance of the line candidates identified by a visual search of burst spectra from batse s spectroscopy detectors . </S>",
    "<S> none of the candidates satisfy our detection criteria : an @xmath0-test probability less than @xmath1 for a feature in one detector and consistency among the detectors which viewed the burst . </S>",
    "<S> most of the candidates are not very significant , and are likely to be fluctuations . because of the expectation of finding absorption lines , the search was biased towards absorption features . </S>",
    "<S> we do not have a quantitative measure of the completeness of the search which would enable a comparison with previous missions . </S>",
    "<S> therefore a more objective computerized search has begun .    </S>",
    "<S> _ received 1995 july 11 ; accepted 1995 august 22 _    to appear in the february 20 , 1996 , issue of    _ the astrophysical journal _ </S>"
  ]
}