{
  "article_text": [
    "the small scale environment of a galaxy can have a profound impact on that galaxy s evolution .",
    "obviously mergers and tidal interactions can alter a galaxy s morphology by changing the distribution of its stars and gas .",
    "interactions are also linked to nuclear star burst events , enhanced levels of massive star formation in galactic disks , and the formation of bars ( bushouse 1987 ; kennicutt 1987 ; noguchi 1987 ) .",
    "all of these processes are clearly most efficient in an environment of high galaxy density , where the likelihood for galaxies to interact is greatest .",
    "even the type of galaxies available as interaction partners can be important , as shown by the examples of elliptical galaxies believed to have accreted gas from neighboring late type systems ( ngc  1052 ; van gorkom 1986 ) .",
    "taylor , brinks & skillman ( 1993 ; hereafter tbs ) used the idea that such interactions might trigger star formation to launch a program of searching for previously unknown companions .",
    "they selected a sample of nine dwarf galaxies currently experiencing a burst of star formation (  galaxies ) , but without obvious interaction partners .",
    "if the bursts of star formation were related to interactions , then the companions must be optically faint to have avoided earlier detection .",
    "dwarf galaxies were chosen because they are too small to sustain spiral density waves , which can trigger star formation episodes in spiral galaxies .",
    "tbs observed these  galaxies with the nrao very large array ( vla ) in the 21 cm transition of , looking for optically faint but  rich companions .",
    "they found four of the nine had previously unknown companions .",
    "following the success of the pilot study of tbs , taylor ( 1996a , 1995 ; hereafter tbgs ) conducted a similar survey around a larger ( n = 21 ) , volume limited sample of  galaxies , to put the result on a more solid statistical footing .",
    "they detected companions around 12/21 ( = 0.57 )  galaxies .",
    "taylor ( 1996b , in press ; hereafter ttbs ) then surveyed a complementary sample ( n = 17 ) of low surface brightness ( _ i.e. _ non  starbursting ) dwarf galaxies to serve as a control on the  galaxy sample .",
    "ttbs found that only 4/17 ( = 0.24 ) of the lsb dwarfs had -rich companions .",
    "thus the  galaxies are more than twice as likely to have  rich companions as the lsb dwarfs .",
    "the goal of this paper is to compare the data from these two  surveys , to determine whether or not the presence of a nearby -rich companion can trigger bursts of star formation in low mass galaxies .",
    "in section  2 i review the properties of the  galaxy and lsb dwarf samples . in section  3 ,",
    "in which i compare the completeness of the companion searches for the two surveys and discuss their observational biases .",
    "i will show that the difference in the observed numbers of companions is not caused by such effects . in section  4",
    "i compare the large scale ( 0.5  2.5 mpc ) environments of the two samples , showing that on average , on the _ large scales _ , the number of neighbors around the  and lsb galaxies is the same .",
    "section  5 is a discussion of the relationship between interactions and star formation in dwarf galaxies .",
    "section  6 presents the conclusions .    throughout this paper",
    "i adopt the following definitions : a companion to one of the  galaxies or lsb dwarfs means one of the objects detected in the vla  surveys described above , while a neighbor is a cataloged optical galaxy in the vicinity of one of the  galaxies or lsb dwarfs .",
    "note that there is a degree of overlap between these two classifications , as some of the companions are cataloged galaxies ( um477a = ngc4116 ) .",
    "the search for companions to  galaxies is described in detail by tbgs .",
    "the sample of  galaxies was selected from the galaxies studied by salzer ( 1989a , b ) . because they originally come from an objective prism survey",
    ", these galaxies tend to have emission lines that are strong relative to their stellar continuum .",
    "thus galaxies with inherently strong emission lines _ or _ a faint continuum are selected .",
    "the latter case can result in the inclusion of extremely low mass systems , while the former can include agns . in order to restrict the sample to relatively nearby dwarf galaxies , tbgs applied a velocity limit of @xmath3 2500 and an absolute magnitude limit of @xmath4 . despite these selection criteria , two non - dwarfs  low luminosity spirals ,",
    "were included in the sample .",
    "i will discuss the effects of these two galaxies on the results of this paper in section  5.2 .",
    "the  masses of the  galaxies range from a few @xmath5 m@xmath6 to a few @xmath7 m@xmath6 .",
    "tbgs found that 12/21 of those  galaxies had nearby companions rich in , for a measured companion frequency of 0.57 , with a strong lower limit of 0.37 . because of the observational limitations ( discussed in tbgs ) it was not possible to derive a useful upper limit .",
    "ttbs provide a detailed account of the search for companions to lsb dwarfs .",
    "the lsb dwarf galaxies were extracted from the list of low surface brightness galaxies studied by bothun ( 1993 ) . to be included in the list used by bothun , a galaxy had to have a low central surface brightness and exceed a minimum radius .",
    "the lists of lsb galaxies are not statistically complete samples ( schombert & bothun 1988 ) and thus it is unknown how representative these galaxies are of whole lsb galaxy population . to obtain a sample useful for comparison with the  galaxies , ttbs selected lsb dwarfs with a similar velocity limit ( 3000 ) and to resemble the  galaxies in morphology ,  mass and  linewidth .",
    "for example , the range in  mass of the lsb dwarf galaxies is few @xmath5 m@xmath6 to a few @xmath7 m@xmath6 , very similar to that of the  galaxies .",
    "ttbs performed a kolmogorov ",
    "smirnov ( k  s ) test on the distribution of  masses for the two samples and found the result consistent with the two samples coming from the same parent population . in the search for companions , ttbs found that only 4/17 ( = 0.24 ) had -rich companions . here",
    "again an upper limit was problematic .",
    "it is important to distinguish between lsb and dwarf galaxies .",
    "the description `` low surface brightness '' generally refers to the central surface brightness of a galaxy being below some limit usually set at about 23 magnitudes arcsec@xmath8 .",
    "dwarf galaxies often meet this criterion , although there are large numbers of lsb spiral galaxies ( schombert 1992 ) .",
    "as described above , ttbs used selection criteria to obtain a sample of galaxies that are _ both _ lsb _ and _ dwarf , and the similarities in  properties between their lsb dwarf sample and the  galaxy sample shows they were successful .",
    "the samples of  galaxies and lsb dwarfs were selected to be as similar as possible , within the constraints of the source catalogs from which they were drawn .",
    "in addition , identical observational parameters were used in conducting each survey .",
    "these similarities reduce the prospect of one sample being biased toward having more companions relative to the other . as an example of",
    "the similarity between the two samples , figure  1 shows histograms comparing their velocity distributions .",
    "clearly the two are very similar , and the k  s test shows that the probability that the two distributions come from the same parent population is 0.98 . in the next section",
    "i will examine the sources of a possible relative bias between the two samples and show that such a bias does not exist .",
    "the necessity of a finite number of channels and the desire for reasonable velocity resolution restrict the region of velocity space around each target galaxy that can be included in the  surveys .",
    "this could lead to a bias in the observed distribution of radial velocity differences by excluding companions with high velocities relative to their parent galaxies .",
    "i will examine this distribution for the companions of both the   galaxies and the lsb dwarf galaxies to investigate the possibility of this bias .",
    "the upper panel of figure  2 shows a histogram of the absolute value of radial velocity separations for the  galaxy companions ( solid line ) .",
    "the velocity coverage of the vla observations is @xmath9 250 .",
    "not a single  galaxy / companion system has a separation greater than 110 , despite the fact that the observable range is more than twice that .",
    "the dot - dash line shows the distribution for a random sample of velocity separations compiled by shuffling the radial velocities of all the  galaxies and companions and forming random pairs ( turner 1976_b _ ) .",
    "this represents what would be seen if there were no true physical pairs and only random alignments in velocity space .",
    "the distribution of velocities towards low values is also consistent with a sample of true physical pairs , as false detections of companions resulting from noise spikes would be distributed randomly within the velocity coverage of the observations , not clustered toward low velocities .",
    "the observed distribution falls off dramatically and approaches the limit of the random distribution by 110 . studies of velocity distributions of paired galaxies been done by several authors for samples of binary galaxies drawn from catalogs which consist largely of `` normal '' galaxies ( _ i.e. _ m@xmath10 @xmath1119 ) .",
    "turner ( 1976_a _ ) found a cutoff for physically associated pairs at @xmath12 450 , whereas peterson ( 1979 ) adopted a value of 750 , and van moorsel ( 1987 ) used 500 .",
    "the difference between the 110   cutoff of the tbgs sample and the much large cutoff for the binary spiral samples reflects the differing mean mass of the  galaxy sample compared to the `` normal '' galaxy samples .",
    "the escape velocity scales as the one - half power of the parent galaxy mass .",
    "the ratio of mean mass between the tbgs sample and that of peterson is 40.8 . scaling 110  up by ( 40.8)@xmath13 gives 700 , very close to the cutoff velocity separation found by peterson .",
    "galaxies with more mass are able to retain companions with higher relative velocities .    because the distribution of velocity separations falls off well before the end of the range of velocity coverage of the vla , and because these counts seem to merge smoothly into the expected distribution of random background separations , i conclude that the sample of companions to   galaxies is likely complete in velocity space .",
    "although the lsb dwarf galaxies have far fewer companions than the galaxies , the distribution of radial velocity separations shown in the lower panel of figure  2 ( solid line ) does resemble the distribution of the  galaxy companions in general shape .",
    "that is , the distribution peaks at low velocities and decreases at higher velocities .",
    "unfortunately the small number of companions found around the lsb dwarfs makes it difficult to argue that distribution is truly similar to the distribution of galaxy companions . like the  galaxy companions ,",
    "the largest velocity separation of the lsb dwarf companions is much lower than the maximum observable separation of 250 , but again , this could just be a result of the small number of detections .",
    "if the lsb dwarfs exist in an environment similar to the environments of the  galaxies , the distributions of companions at large velocity differences will be similar as well",
    ". however , ttbs found that most of the companions to the lsb dwarfs were more massive galaxies , unlike the case for the  galaxies , where the companions were of equal or less mass .",
    "therefore , because the lsb dwarfs are bound to more massive galaxies , their velocity separations could be larger than was true for the  galaxies while still allowing the systems to be bound .",
    "there is no evidence in the radial velocity distribution of companions to lsb dwarfs that there exist companions at large velocity separations .",
    "i conclude that i have not missed a large number of companions within one primary beam of the target galaxies due to the finite velocity coverage of the ttbs vla observations .",
    "the problem of assessing the completeness of the companion sample in spatial separation is entirely different from the problem of velocity separation .",
    "this is because the amount of velocity space observed by the vla does not depend upon redshift , whereas for a constant angular size of the vla primary beam , a larger physical area is imaged as the distance increases .",
    "it is immediately apparent that companions at relatively large projected separations may fall outside the primary beam for galaxies at smaller distances .",
    "the ratio of the largest and smallest distances in the  galaxy sample is 2.6 , corresponding to a ratio of imaged areas of 6.8 .",
    "the distribution of projected separations for the companion population of  galaxies is shown in the upper panel of figure  3 .",
    "the vertical line in the figure indicates the radius of the fwhm of the vla primary beam for um533 , the closest  galaxy .",
    "at least one of the distant   galaxies has a companion beyond this radius , suggesting that some of the nearer galaxies could as well .",
    "such companions would have been undetected by tbgs .    an additional effect adding to the incompleteness of the survey is the decrease in sensitivity of the vla primary beam with distance from the pointing center . for observations in the 21cm line",
    ", the sensitivity falls to half maximum at a radius of 15 .",
    "the farther from the target galaxy a companion lies , the more  it must have to be detectable .",
    "figure  4 shows the distribution of angular separation for the companion population .",
    "the dashed vertical line shows the radius of the fwhm of the vla primary beam .",
    "the mean  mass of the four systems beyond the line is 18.5 @xmath9 4.4 @xmath14 10@xmath15 m@xmath6 , while for the entire population it is 6.5 @xmath9 2.7 @xmath14 10@xmath15 m@xmath6 , illustrating the effect of the decreasing sensitivity . for the companion with the widest angular separation in figure  4",
    "the decrease in sensitivity is approximately 0.17 .",
    "a typical sensitivity for the distances of the  galaxies is @xmath16 3  @xmath14  10@xmath17 m@xmath6 ( discussed in greater detail in the following section ) . for the widest separation ,",
    "this limit becomes @xmath16 2  @xmath14  10@xmath15 m@xmath6 .",
    "five companions have low enough  masses to become undetectable at this separation , and even six of the  galaxies would have been missed if they had been towards the edge of the primary beam .",
    "clearly this effect could result in companions being missed in the survey .",
    "although it is likely that companions have been missed at large radii for the reasons discussed above , it is also possible that the true distribution of separations will tend towards companions with low separations , if the companions experience dynamical friction from dark matter halos in the  galaxies ( lin & tremaine 1983 ) . for typical projected separations ( @xmath18 60 kpc ) and radial velocities ( @xmath19 40 ) ,",
    "the crossing time is of order 6  @xmath14  10@xmath20 yr .",
    "if the dark matter halos reach the distance of the companions and the companions are on circular orbits , then the timescale for dynamical friction can be written as : @xmath21    where    @xmath22    ( binney & tremaine 1987 ) .    for @xmath23 = 10@xmath20 m@xmath6 and @xmath24 = 10@xmath15 m@xmath6 this timescale is approximately 1.2  @xmath14  10@xmath25 yr . thus the companions would have had plenty of time to experience dynamical friction , but not enough to have been swallowed by the  galaxies yet .",
    "this time scale is , of course , lower limit because i have used observed orbital parameters like projected separations and radial velocities for the true separations and relative velocities .",
    "the conclusion to be drawn regarding the completeness of the companion sample in physical separation is a fairly weak one . because of the range in distance of the  galaxies , and the fall off of sensitivity at the edges of the vla primary beam , it is very likely that some companions have been missed .",
    "unfortunately , because the distribution of the companions is unknown , the degree of incompleteness can not be estimated .",
    "the ratio of the largest and smallest distances in the lsb dwarf galaxy sample is 2.5 , corresponding to a ratio of areas imaged of 6.3 , nearly identical to the values for the  galaxies .",
    "this is because the lsb dwarfs were chosen to span approximately the same range in redshift as the  galaxies ( recall figure  1 ) .",
    "the distribution of projected separations for the companion population of lsb dwarfs is shown in the lower panel of figure  3 .",
    "the vertical line indicates the radius of the fwhm of the vla primary beam at the distance of the closest galaxy in the lsb sample .",
    "the companions of the lsb dwarfs are , on average , further away from the lsbs than the companions of   galaxies are from the  galaxies .",
    "this may , however , be a function of the small number of detected companions .",
    "it is also possible that because the companions to lsbs are mostly more massive galaxies the lsb / companion systems can remain bound to larger distances for roughly equivalent velocity separations .    even less can be said about the completeness in spatial separation of the lsb dwarf sample than could be about that of the  galaxies .",
    "if it is true that the companions of lsb dwarfs tend to larger physical separations , then the lsb dwarf sample is likely _ more _ incomplete in the companion count than is the the  galaxy sample . in this case",
    ", the variation of sensitivity of the vla primary beam with radius will affect the lsb dwarf sample more than it does the  galaxy sample .",
    "however , if the distribution seen in figure  3 is just the result of a small sample size , then the level of incompleteness is likely the same as for the  galaxies , in which case the primary beam effect will be the same on both samples .",
    "thus _ either  _ :    1 .",
    "the companions to lsb dwarfs are distributed at larger linear separations than are the companions of  galaxies , in which case the incompleteness in the companion counts is greater than for the  galaxies ; _ or _ 2 .",
    "the two distributions are roughly similar , in which case the incompleteness of the two samples is roughly the same .",
    "based on the current data there is no way of determining which of these possibilities is correct .",
    "another way in which companions might be missed by tbgs or ttbs is if they do not have enough  to be detected .",
    "this is especially acute for dwarf ellipticals , as des have very little or no , but it will also affect the detection of low mass dwarf irregulars ( see the discussion below ) .      regarding dwarf elliptical as companions ,",
    "i simply note that only one candidate was seen in any of the optical data ( see um465 in tbgs ) , although the area of the ccd on the sky was much smaller than the area of the  data .",
    "i will discuss a search for optical companions performed using the center for astrophysics ( cfa ) redshift survey in section  4 .",
    "the upper panel of figure 5 shows  masses for the sample of _ both _",
    "galaxies and companions , plotted as a function of redshift ( distance ) .",
    "the solid line shows the sensitivity of the tbgs observations with distance for an unresolved point source with a typical single channel noise of 1.3 mjy beam@xmath26 .",
    "the lower envelope of  mass of the combined sample is roughly constant with distance , at a few times 10@xmath17 m@xmath6 , even at small distances where the detection threshold is significantly lower .",
    "the only point below this constant level corresponds to the  galaxy um  538 , at a distance of 14.3 mpc .",
    "it is the only galaxy _ or _ companion that could possibly have been lost if it were at a higher redshift within the limits of the survey .",
    "i take this as an indication that there are not large numbers of companions of  mass @xmath16 10@xmath17 m@xmath6 missing from the sample at the larger distances .",
    "this is a result of the relatively narrow range in velocity covered by the  galaxies ( from 700  to 2500 ) . on the other hand",
    ", there are a number of dwarf irregular galaxies in and around the local group with  masses in the range @xmath16 10@xmath27 to 10@xmath17 m@xmath6 ( leo  a , sag dig , gr  8 ; lo , sargent & young 1993 ) .",
    "such objects are not limited to the local group ( ct 1995 ) , so there could be a significant population of companions at low  mass ( of order 10@xmath27 m@xmath6 or less ) which would remain undetected unless closer  galaxies were surveyed , or else a factor of 100 more integration time is spent on the current sample .",
    "ttbs obtained optical images of each of the lsb dwarfs using the stsci digitized sky survey .",
    "none of the systems had a potential dwarf elliptical companion visible in the images , though the images were restricted to a small region around each galaxy ( @xmath16 7.5@xmath28 ) .",
    "a plot of  mass versus distance for the lsb dwarfs and their companions is shown in the lower panel of figure  5 .",
    "the detection limit is nearly identical to the limit for the  galaxy observations , being slightly lower because most of the lsb dwarf observations took place after sunset , whereas nearly all of the  galaxy took place during the day and close to the solar maximum .",
    "thus the lsb dwarf observations are less affected by solar interference , although they are not unaffected ( ttbs ) .    as was true for the  galaxies and their companions , the detections of lsb dwarfs and their companions do not approach the detection limit , suggesting that there are not large numbers of objects hiding below the detection threshold .      in the above subsections",
    "it was shown that the  galaxy companion sample is likely complete in the distribution of radial velocity separations .",
    "although there are not enough detections of companions around lsb dwarfs to show this is also true for that sample , the similarity of both the target galaxies properties and the observing conditions makes it highly likely .",
    "it was also shown that the  galaxy companion sample is likely incomplete in projected linear separation , in the sense of missing companions around the most nearby  galaxies at separations greater than @xmath16 100 mpc . because the lsb dwarfs have approximately the same distribution in redshift , this is likely true for them as well .",
    "finally it was argued that the two samples are not likely to be missing large numbers of companions at the sensitivity level of the observations ( @xmath16 10@xmath17 m@xmath6 ) , although the data do not constrain the number of less massive companions . in any event ,",
    "the sensitivity of the two surveys to  mass is nearly identical , so the effects of this sensitivity limit will be the same on each sample .    the most important fact to keep in mind for this work",
    "is the great similarity between the two surveys being studied , in terms of the redshift distributions , galaxy masses and observing setups .",
    "because of this , whatever biases imposed due to limitations in the samples ( the projected linear separation ) will affect both the  galaxy and lsb dwarf samples equally .",
    "therefore the difference between the companion rates of the two types of galaxy noted in section  1 and by ttbs is real , and not caused by a relative bias between the samples .",
    "the previous section showed that the difference in the number of companions around lsb dwarf and  galaxies is not due to selection effects effects inherent in galaxy samples , nor is it due to limitations imposed by the observing conditions or setup .",
    "the observed difference in the number of companions therefore reflects a true difference in the small scale environment of the two populations .",
    "however , it is likely that the small scale environment is influenced by the larger scale environment ( cluster versus field , or supercluster versus void ) .",
    "if , to give an extreme example , all the  galaxies were found to be in the center of the virgo cluster , while all the lsb dwarfs were on the edge of a void , then the observation that  galaxies have more companions would be a reflection of the generally denser environment of the particular sample of  galaxies and not necessarily indicating an important difference in their evolution . on the other hand ,",
    "if the two types of galaxy were found to have the same large scale environment , then the difference in the companion rates would be significant .    to investigate the large scale environments of the two samples in",
    "i will compare them to two galaxy catalogs : the cfa redshift survey catalog ( huchra 1983 ) and the nearby galaxies catalog ( tully 1988 ) .",
    "the area of overlap of the cfa redshift survey with the tbgs and ttbs is in two regions , @xmath29 , @xmath30 and @xmath31 , @xmath32 . in these areas",
    "the catalog is complete to @xmath33 ( huchra 1983 ) . for the most and least distant galaxies in the two samples ,",
    "this corresponds to @xmath34 and @xmath35 respectively . only for",
    "the closest galaxies will any of the neighbors be dwarfs . a comparison with",
    "primarily massive galaxies will still be useful , because dwarf galaxies are known to trace the same structures as bright galaxies ( thuan 1991 )    these areas contain 11/21 of the  galaxies , and 15/17 of the lsb dwarfs .",
    "i obtained the catalog from the astrophysics data service ( ads ) catalog query service available on the world wide web .",
    "i searched through the catalog looking for neighbors around each galaxy with velocities within 500  of the target galaxy .",
    "the choice of 500 as the velocity limit was not based on any physical reasons , but rather to allow for easy comparisons with similar studies by bothun ( 1993 ) and campos  aguilar & moles ( 1991 ) which adopted that limit .",
    "note that 500  is consistent with the typical velocity limits for samples of binary spirals discussed in section  2.1 .",
    "the counts were binned in 0.5 mpc bins running from 0 to 2.5 mpc .",
    "figure  6 shows the mean neighbor counts plotted versus distance for the   galaxy ( triangles ) and lsb dwarf galaxy ( circles ) , with associated error bars .",
    "the open symbols show the counts in each bin , while the filled points show the cumulative values . in all bins",
    "the counts per bin are the same within the errors , although in the last two bins ( 2 and 2.5 mpc ) the lsb dwarf neighbor counts begin to diverge from the  galaxy neighbor counts .",
    "it is possible that if the samples were larger ( and thus the errors smaller ) that there might be a significant difference .",
    "the counts at smaller radii , however , are nearly identical , suggesting that the members of the two samples are in environments of similar galaxy density . from neighbor counts using the cfa",
    "redshift survey catalog , i conclude that , on average , the  galaxies and lsb dwarfs are found in environments of similar galaxy density on scales larger than the vla primary beam ( _ i.e. , _",
    "@xmath16 250 kpc ) .",
    "how does this result compare with other studies of galaxy environments ?",
    "bothun ( 1993 ) have done a very similar analysis on much larger samples ( n between 135 and 870 ) for galaxies in the redshift range 2000  12000 .",
    "most of the galaxies from that work are not dwarfs like the galaxies of this study , but rather are more massive spirals and ellipticals , with large  line widths . for the portion of the bothun ( 1993 ) sample cataloged by schombert ( 1992 ) , the mean  line width measured at half",
    "the maximum intensity is 147 @xmath9 8 , while for the lsb dwarf sample of ttbs the line width measured at zero intensity is only 107 @xmath9 8 .",
    "if the lsb dwarfs had been measured on the half ",
    "maximum too the line widths would be even smaller , emphasizing even more the difference between the bothun and the ttbs lsb samples .",
    "bothun ( 1993 ) searched for neighbors within a projected radius of 2.4 mpc and @xmath9 500  of each of their sample galaxies .",
    "they binned their neighbor counts in 0.5 mpc bins , finding that at every bin the cumulative number of neighbors for hsb galaxies was larger than for lsb galaxies .",
    "the difference was most pronounced for the 0  0.5 mpc bin .",
    "this is consistent with my vla result that in the range of distances 0  0.25 mpc  galaxies have more  companions than do lsb dwarfs . in my neighbor",
    "counts using the cfa redshift survey , however , i find that the  galaxies and the lsb dwarfs have the same number of neighbors at _ all _ separations within the errors , although the counts do seem to be diverging from each other at larger radii . thus based only on the neighbor counts from optical catalogs , my results would not agree with the bothun result , but this may simply be because i have far fewer galaxies in my samples than they had , resulting in larger error bars .",
    "the bothun samples have from 7 to 50 times as many galaxy as the samples of this paper . when including the vla discovered companions , i find the   galaxies have an excess of companions in the 0  0.25 mpc range , but most of these companions are not bright enough to be in the catalogs searched by bothun ( 1993 ) .",
    "thus within the errors of the neighbor counts , there is no significant difference in the environments of the two samples on the scales of 0.5 to 2.5 mpc .",
    "overall , i find that lsb dwarfs have fewer companions at short radii than do  galaxies , but at larger radii the two sample have similar numbers of ( optical ) neighbors .",
    "this is the same result arrived at by bothun for their samples of lsb and hsb galaxies .",
    "other studies have investigated the environments of  galaxies , but unlike my study and that of bothun ( 1993 ) , they did not compare hsb and lsb systems .",
    "work by campos ",
    "aguilar & moles ( 1991 ) , campos  aguilar ( 1993 ) and telles & terlevich ( 1995 ) has found that  galaxies tend to be isolated from luminous , massive galaxies .",
    "these authors used various optical galaxy catalogs to search for bright neighbors .",
    "typically from one - third to three - fourths of the  galaxies were found to be isolated , with isolation criteria of 1 mpc and @xmath9 500 . by restricting themselves to magnitude",
    "limited optical catalogs , however , these authors could not have found the faint dwarfs that form the majority of the optical counterparts to the tbgs  detections .    for a quantitative comparison , 19 out of 21  galaxies from the tbgs sample",
    "are also included in the campos ",
    "aguilar & moles ( 1991 ) sample .",
    "if we consider these 19  galaxies then using just the campos ",
    "aguilar & moles ( 1991 ) detections of neighbors , the fraction of isolated galaxies is 0.11 .",
    "the fraction of isolated  galaxies for their entire sample is much higher , 0.33 .",
    "with such a high fraction of isolated  galaxies in their sample they argue that galaxy interactions are not responsible for the bursts in _ all _  galaxies .",
    "this difference between the 0.11 and 0.33 fractions occurs because the tbgs sample has been restricted to less than 2,500 .",
    "all these galaxies lie within the local supercluster , whereas the much larger sample of campos  aguilar & moles ( 1991 ) contains galaxies of velocity up to @xmath16 15,000 and in a variety of large scale environments .",
    "campos  aguilar ( 1993 ) do find that the mean redshift of  galaxies without neighbors is higher than that of those with companions .",
    "they suggest this is because the cfa redshift survey , which they use to search for companions , is magnitude limited , making faint neighbors at higher redshifts more difficult to detect .",
    "it is likely , therefore , that a vla  survey of the entire campos ",
    "aguilar & moles ( 1991 ) sample would yield a higher fraction of galaxies with interaction partners than is currently known .",
    "as mentioned previously , the cfa survey does not have complete coverage over the area of all the galaxies in the  galaxy and lsb dwarf samples .",
    "because of this i could only compare the parts of those samples that did overlap with the cfa coverage .",
    "the sample in the nearby galaxies catalog ( hereafter nbg ; tully 1988 ) , however , has nearly uniform coverage across the entire sky ( except what is obscured by the galactic plane ) .",
    "this catalog has roughly the same number of galaxies as the portion of the cfa survey used above , but distributed across the entire sky .",
    "therefore the limiting magnitude is not as deep . rather than compute projected separations with the somewhat sparsely distributed galaxies in the nbg",
    ", i will compare the positions and velocities of the sample galaxies with the positions and velocities of the groups defined in the catalog . for this purpose",
    "i defined a sample from the catalog that contained all galaxies within three degrees and 500  of a galaxy in either the  galaxy or lsb dwarf samples .",
    "an  galaxy or lsb dwarf was considered to be a group member if it met both the following criteria :    1 .",
    "its projected separation from the group center had to be less than twice the mean of the separations of each pair formed by pairing each group member with every other group member , and ; 2 .",
    "its velocity had to be within two sigma of the group mean velocity , where one sigma was the velocity dispersion of the group .",
    "this is a conservative definition , but one which is unlikely falsely call one of the sample galaxies a group member . to test how well this",
    "definition works , i applied it to the nbg sample defined above , to see whether or not known group members would be wrongly excluded . out of 32 groups with 131 members , only two galaxies ( 1.5% )",
    "would have been excluded by my criteria .",
    "thus it is unlikely that i have incorrectly labeled an  or an lsb galaxy as not being a member of any group .",
    "however , if incorrect assignments occur , they should happen with equal frequency to both samples , _ assuming _ the groups near the different samples are similar to each other . to check the validity of this assumption",
    ", i calculated the separation of each pair in every group in the nbg sample .",
    "the mean of this pairwise separation within groups near  galaxies is 0.48@xmath90.10 mpc , and 0.50@xmath90.05 mpc for groups near lsb dwarfs .",
    "there is no evidence groups near  galaxies are different than groups near lsb dwarfs .",
    "using the above conservative definition of group membership , i searched through the groups in the nbg sample , checking for any to which an galaxy or lsb dwarf might belong .",
    "i find that 5 out of 21 (= 0.24 )   galaxies belonged to groups , while 7 of 17 (= 0.41 ) of the lsb dwarfs did .",
    "following tbs and tbgs i can use the binomial distribution to calculate upper and lower limits on these fractions . using this method to determine , for example , the lower limit for the number of  galaxies in groups , will yield the lowest fraction of  galaxies in groups which is consistent with observing 5 out of 21 at least five percent of the time if the experiment were repeated many times . with these calculations ,",
    "the fraction of  galaxies in groups is 0.24@xmath36 and the fraction of lsb dwarfs in groups is 0.41@xmath37 .",
    "these fractions are within the uncertainties of each other , indicating that there is no significant difference between the group environments of the lsb dwarfs and the  galaxies .",
    "nineteen of the twenty  one  galaxies from tbgs lie in an area of the sky on the periphery of the virgo cluster .",
    "all of these nineteen are within 30@xmath38  of the cluster center .",
    "thus there is the possibility that some of the  galaxy  companion pairs are not physically associated , but caused by a chance occurrence between a cluster member and a nonmember at similar velocities .    to assess this possibility",
    "i will use the data of the virgo cluster study by binggeli , tammann & sandage ( 1987 ; hereafter bts ) . according to bts",
    ", the virgo cluster contains several distinct substructures .",
    "cluster a , centered on m87 , and cluster b , centered on m49 are the two largest units , together containing most of the galaxies .",
    "the surface density of number counts for late  type galaxies can be described with an exponential profile : @xmath39 , where @xmath40 arcsec@xmath8 and @xmath41 = 3.3 degrees .",
    "taking @xmath42 to be the angular distance of each  galaxy from the center of cluster a ( 12@xmath43 25@xmath44 , 13@xmath38 0@xmath28 ) , this expression yields the number of virgo galaxies expected within a vla primary beam which is pointed at each  galaxy .",
    "i then determine the fraction of virgo galaxies which have velocities within @xmath9 250  of each  galaxy to estimate the probability that if a galaxy did fall within the vla primary beam , it would also be in the correct velocity range so that tbgs would detect it .",
    "thus i obtain for each observation of an  galaxy the number of members of cluster a expected to be detected . summing this over all the  galaxies , only 0.16 galaxies",
    "are expected to contaminate the experiment .",
    "thus it is likely that no members of cluster a are contaminating the experiment .",
    "bts did not derive a radial profile from the number counts of cluster b , presumably because it is not symmetric .",
    "however , it lies closer ( 12@xmath43 25@xmath44.8 , 8@xmath38 51@xmath28 ) to the tbgs  galaxies than does cluster a , so some measure of the possible contamination is desirable . bts found that cluster b has one  fifth the population of cluster a. to get a rough idea of the possible contamination caused by cluster b , i will assume an exponential distribution as per cluster a , with the same scale length , but total number of galaxies scaled down by a factor of five . repeating the calculation done for cluster a",
    ", shows that the number of contaminating galaxies is 0.09 , less than one , and less than what is expected from cluster a. i therefore conclude that interlopers from the virgo cluster are not likely affecting the counts of companions .",
    "only eight of sixteen lsb dwarf galaxies from ttbs are within 30@xmath38  of the cluster center , but some of these lsb dwarfs are closer to the center than any of the  galaxies . repeating the calculations above for the lsb dwarfs , i find the number of contaminating galaxies to be expected is 0.41 .",
    "this is somewhat larger than for the  galaxies , but still so small as to make it unlikely .",
    "however , if one of the  companions found by ttbs is in fact a chance alignment and not a physical pair , then removing it from the sample would make the companion rate even lower than 0.24 and increase difference between  galaxies and lsb dwarfs .",
    "by comparing the data from tbgs and ttbs i have shown that  galaxies have more rich companions than do lsb dwarfs .",
    "the fraction of  galaxies found to have such companions is 0.57 , with a lower limit of 0.37 ( tbgs ) .",
    "the fraction of lsb dwarfs that have companions is 0.24 , with a lower limit of 0.08 ( ttbs ) . in the previous sections i showed",
    "that this difference is real , not caused by observational biases , selection effects , or differences in the large scale environments of the two samples .    because  galaxies are currently experiencing bursts of massive star formation while lsb dwarfs have relatively low star formation rates , i interprete the difference in companion rates between the two types as evidence that interactions with such companions can trigger bursts of star formation .",
    "this interpretation suggests that  galaxies may be lsb dwarfs in which interactions have lead to a burst of star formation .",
    "the similarities in the global properties of  galaxies and lsb dwarfs ( _ e.g. _  mass ,  line width ) are consistent with this , although larger and more complete samples ( especially for the lsb dwarfs ) should be studied to confirm this idea .",
    "taylor ( 1994 ) suggested a possible physical mechanism by which companions could trigger bursts of star formation in  galaxies .",
    "it was proposed that the interaction drove gas to the center of the galaxy , where it accumulated until some physical condition ( such as rising above a threshold surface density ) was met , and a burst of star formation began .",
    "radial inflows of gas have been seen to occur in numerical models of interacting galaxies ( noguchi 1987 , 1988 ; hernquist 1989 ; mihos & hernquist 1994 ) .",
    "many , but not all , of the  galaxies have their star formation bursts occuring at the center of the galaxy ( salzer ( 1989b ) , therefore some alternate mechanism is needed to explain the off  center systems .    under the taylor ( 1994 ) scenario , lsb dwarfs should have  distributions where the surface central density of  is lower than in  galaxies .",
    "it is known that the total surface density of lsb galaxies in general is less than for hsb systems ( _ e.g. _ mcgaugh 1996 ) . to explore",
    "any relationship between the   galaxies and the lsb dwarfs will require high resolution observations to compare their  distributions , kinematics and rotation curves . some of the necessary data have already been obtained .",
    "lsb galaxies are usually dominated by their dark matter components ( zwaan 1995 ) , a situation which would tend to make them stable against global perturbations which could trigger star formation bursts .",
    "this stability could play a role in determining which lsb dwarfs become  galaxies and which do not , although some  galaxies are also known to be dark matter dominated ( _ e.g. _ ngc  2915 ; meurer 1996 ) , so clearly dark matter can not always provide enough stability to prevent a star formation burst . there is a lack in the literature of computer simulations of dwarf galaxy encounters that might shed some light on the role of dark matter and what sorts of dwarf  dwarf encounters are necessary dynamically to lead to the kind of interaction described by taylor ( 1994 ) .",
    "the result of this paper suggests that interactions play an important part in triggering bursts of star formation in  galaxies .",
    "however , interactions can not be the only mechanism at work because in the sample of tbgs 9/21  galaxies had no detected companions . in section 3.2.1",
    "i showed that there were likely companions missing from the tbgs survey at large radii from the  galaxies , but i could not determine the extent of this incompleteness .",
    "it is possible that some  galaxies have no companions , in which case some other mechanism would be responsible for the bursts of star formation .",
    "it is also apparent that the mere presence of a companion to interact with is not sufficient to trigger a burst of star formation because 4/17 lsb dwarfs have companions but no bursts .",
    "this could be explained if lsb dwarfs were _ more _ dark matter dominated than  galaxies , but questions of how much dark matter is needed to stabilize against interactions of any given strength are best sorted out by numerical simulations which explore the parameter spaces relevant to encounters among dwarf galaxies .",
    "there are two items which could cloud the relatively straightforward interpretation discussed above .",
    "the first concerns two of the galaxies in the  galaxy sample .",
    "as discussed by tbgs , two of the  galaxies are in fact small spirals ( um477 and um499 ) and not dwarf galaxies .",
    "they were retained in the analysis because they have bursts of star formation in their nuclei ( salzer 1989_b _ ) , and the goal of the study is to investigate a possible connection between bursts and galaxy interactions .",
    "dwarf galaxies are excellent for such a study because they are less complex systems than spirals and do not have spiral density waves which can also serve as a star formation trigger .",
    "thus by including two spirals in the sample , i am possibly adding two galaxies to the sample which may not belong there .",
    "i feel justified in including the two spirals because their bursts are at the galaxy centers , where the rotation curve shows solid body rotation .",
    "thus the centers of these galaxies have physical conditions similar to the other  galaxies ( taylor ( 1993 ) , tbgs ) .",
    "however , i note that if the two spiral galaxies are excluded from the sample , the companion rate becomes 10/19 = 0.53 , with a lower limit of 0.32 .",
    "this is compared to 12/21 = 0.57 , with a lower limit of 0.37 .",
    "thus the companion rate decreases , but the lower limit is still above the companion rate measured for the lsb dwarfs ( 0.24 ) .",
    "the second item concerns the sample of lsb dwarfs . because of",
    "the difficulties inherent in identifying lsb galaxies ( disney & phillipps 1983 ) no complete samples exist .",
    "this is true of the source lists from which ttbs drew their sample of lsb dwarfs ( _ e.g. , _ schombert 1992 ) .",
    "thus it is difficult to quantitatively characterize the lsb dwarf sample .",
    "one example of how this can lead to trouble is the case of lsb dwarf l1 - 137 and its hi ",
    "rich companion , l1 - 137a .",
    "inspection of digitized poss images found that the companion has a faint , low surface brightness optical counterpart , one which was not included in the original source list of lsb dwarfs .",
    "if this galaxy had been included in the original sample of lsb dwarfs , then both l1 - 137 and l1 - 137a would be considered as companions to lsb dwarfs ( in a binary pair ) and the companion rate would be 5/18 = 0.28 , instead of 4/17 = 0.24 . because the lsb sample is incomplete i can not estimate how many more binary lsb dwarf systems there are where not even one member made the ttbs sample .",
    "the l1 - 137 system is the only such case found by ttbs , and would make a small change in the companion rate , but it does amply illustrate the need for both larger samples and more complete samples ( or at least samples with better quantified incompleteness ) .",
    "the best solution to this problem would be a highly sensitive  mapping survey over a relatively large ( @xmath16 300 degrees@xmath45 ) .",
    "such a survey would have similar sensitivities to both lsb dwarfs and galaxies , which could be distinguished from each other in follow ",
    "up optical work .",
    "i have used  surveys of  galaxies ( taylor 1995 ; taylor 1996 ) and lsb dwarf galaxies ( taylor 1996b ) to study the relationship between galaxy environment and bursts of star formation in dwarf galaxies .",
    "the primary result of this work is :    1 .",
    "galaxies have a rate of companion occurrence more than twice as high as do lsb dwarfs ( 0.57 compared to 0.24 )",
    ". the lower limit on the companion frequency for  galaxies is 0.37 , still higher than the observed rate for lsb dwarfs . because of the incompleteness in projected separation from the parent galaxy that affects the companion samples , upper limits are impossible to determine .",
    "however , i have shown that this incompleteness will affect both samples in the same way , and will not cause a relative bias between them .",
    "thus i conclude that this difference in the companion frequency is genuine .",
    "+ this is supported by the following results : 2 .",
    "the distribution of companions to  galaxies detected by taylor ( 1995 ; 1996a ) is likely complete in velocity separation from the  galaxy .",
    "it is unlikely that any physically associated companions were missed because they were outside the velocity coverage of the observations .",
    "the distribution of companions to lsb dwarfs detected by taylor ( 1996b ) is not well determined due to the small number of objects detected . however , because the lsb dwarfs have dynamical masses similar to the  galaxies , and were observed in exactly the same fashion as the  galaxies , their distribution is likely complete as well .",
    "the distribution of companions to  galaxies is likely _ not _ complete in projected linear separation .",
    "this is because the fixed angular size of the vla primary beam images larger areas as the distance of the target galaxy increases .",
    "taylor ( 1995 ; 1996a ) detected companions around the most distant  galaxies that were so far from their parent galaxies that they would not have been seen around the closest  galaxies . without knowing in an unbiased fashion how the companions are distributed with respect to their parent galaxies , the incompleteness due to this effect can not be estimated .",
    "similarly the distribution of companions to lsb dwarfs is likely not complete in projected linear separation .",
    "the lower limit  sensitivity of the two surveys is approximately a few @xmath46 m@xmath6 over most of the distance range of the two samples .",
    "the samples of companions are not likely missing objects down to this level of sensitivity , though there could be objects less massive than this that remain undetected .",
    "the large scale environments ( out to separations of 2.5 mpc ) of the  galaxies and the lsb dwarfs are very similar , based on searches for nearby neighbors and groups in published galaxy catalogs . within the errors ,",
    "the distribution of neighbor separations for  galaxies and lsb dwarfs is the same . also , there is no significant difference in the fraction of  galaxies and lsb dwarfs which belong to galaxy groups .",
    "the high rate of companion occurrence for  galaxies relative to lsb dwarfs supports the hypothesis that interactions can trigger the bursts of star formation seen in  galaxies .",
    "this implies that galaxies may be lsb dwarfs in which a burst of star formation has occured , but more evidence is needed to confirm this idea .",
    "the data in the two surveys do not suggest by what mechanism star formation bursts can be triggered , although taylor ( 1994 ) do offer one possibility .",
    "i thank evan skillman and elias brinks , my thesis advisors , for their many contributions , both direct and indirect , that led to this paper .",
    "i am also grateful to john salzer for helpful conversations and to christine wilson and ralph pudritz for comments on an early version of the manuscript .",
    "i thank greg bothun and the anonymous referee for useful comments which improved the paper . this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system catalog service .",
    "binney , j. & tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics ( princeton : princeton university press ) .",
    "binnggeli , b. , tammann , g.a . & sandage , a. 1987 , , 94 , 251 bothun , g.d . , schombert , j.m . ,",
    "impey , c.d . , sprayberry , d. & mcgaugh , s.s .",
    "1993 , , 106 , 530 brinks , e. & taylor , c.l .",
    "1994 , in the eso / ohp workshop on dwarf galaxies , edited by g. meylan & p. prugniel , ( eso , garching bei mnchen ) , p. 263",
    "bushouse , h.a . , 1987 , , 320 , 49 campos ",
    "aguilar , a. & moles , m. 1991 , , 241 , 358 campos ",
    "aguilar , a. , moles , m. & masegosa , j. 1993 , , carignan , c. & beaulieu , s. 1989 , , 347 , 760 ct , s. 1995 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , australia national university disney , m. & phillipps , s. 1983 , , 205 , 1253 van gorkom , j.h . , knapp , g.r . ,",
    "raimond , e. , faber , s.m .",
    ", & gallagher , j.s .",
    "1986 , , 91 , 791 hernquist , l. 1989 , , 340 , 687 huchra , j. davis , m. , latham , d. & tonry , j. 1983 , , 52 , 89 kennicutt , r.c . , keel , w.c .",
    ", van der hulst , j.m . , hummel , e. , & roettiger , k.a .",
    "1987 , , 93 , 1011 larson , r.b . , & tinsley , b.m . 1978 , , 300 , 496 lonsdale , c.j . ,",
    "persson , s.e .",
    ", & matthews , k. 1984 , , 287 , 95 lo , k.y . ,",
    "sargent , w.l.w . , &",
    "young , k. 1993 , , 106 , 507 mcgaugh , s.s .",
    "1996 , , 280 , 337 meurer , g.r .",
    ", carignan , c. , beaulieu , s.f .",
    ", & freeman , k.c .",
    "1996 , , 111 1551 mihos , j.c . & hernquist , l. 1994 , , 425 , l13 mo , h.j . , mcgaugh , s.s .",
    "& bothun , g.d .",
    "1994 , , 267 , 129 noguchi , m. 1987 , , 228 , 635 noguchi , m. 1988 , , 203 , 259 van moorsel , g.a .",
    ", 176 , 13 peterson , s.d .",
    "1979 , , 232 , 20 sage , l.j . ,",
    "salzer , j.j . ,",
    "loose , h - h .",
    ", & henkel , c. 1992 , , 265 , 19 salzer , j.j .",
    "1989 , , 347 , 152 salzer , j.j . ,",
    "macalpine , g.m . & boroson , t.a .",
    "1989_a _ , , 70 , 447 salzer , j.j . ,",
    "macalpine , g.m . & boroson , t.a .",
    "1989_b _ , , 70 , 479 schombert , j.m . , & bothun , g.d .",
    "1988 , , 95 , 1389 schombert , j.m . ,",
    "bothun , g.d . ,",
    "schneider , s.e .",
    "& mcgaugh , s.s .",
    "1992 , , 103 , 1107 taylor , c.l . ,",
    "brinks , e. , grashuis , r.m . & skillman , e.d .",
    "1995 , , 99 , 427 ( tbgs ) taylor , c.l .",
    ", brinks , e. , grashuis , r.m . & skillman , e.d .",
    "1996a , , 102 , 189 ( erratum for tbgs ) taylor , c.l . , brinks , e. & skillman , e.d .",
    "1993 , , 105 , 128 taylor , c.l . ,",
    "brinks , e. , pogge , r.w . &",
    "skillman , e.d .",
    "1994 , , 107 , 971 taylor , c.l . ,",
    "thomas , d.l . ,",
    "brinks , e. , & skillman , e.d .",
    "1996b , , in press ( ttbs ) telles , e. , & terlevich , r. 1995 , , 275 , 1 thuan , t.x . ,",
    "alimi , j - m , gott , j.r . , & schneider , s.e .",
    "1991 , , 370 , 25 tully , r.b .",
    "1988 , nearby galaxies catalog , ( cambridge ; cambridge university press ) .",
    "turner , e.l .",
    "1976_a _ , , 208 , 20 turner , e.l .",
    "1976_b _ , , 208 , 304"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i study the vla  survey of  galaxies by taylor ( 1995 , apjs , 99 , 427 ; 1996 , apjs , 102 , 189 ) and the vla  survey of low surface brightness ( lsb ) dwarf galaxies by taylor ( 1996 , in press ) to investigate the role of galaxy interactions in triggering the bursts of massive star formation seen in  galaxies . comparing the two surveys , </S>",
    "<S> i find that galaxies have companions more than twice as often as lsb dwarfs ( @xmath0 for  galaxies , compared to @xmath1 for lsb dwarfs ) . </S>",
    "<S> i examine the completeness of the companion samples detected by the two surveys . for the companions to  galaxies , </S>",
    "<S> the sample is likely complete in the distribution of velocity separations from their parent galaxies , but is probably missing some companions at large projected linear separations because of the finite size of the vla primary beam . </S>",
    "<S> for the companions of lsb dwarfs , the small number of detections means their distributions in velocity and linear separation are poorly determined , but the lsb dwarfs were observed with the same observational setup as the  galaxies so they will have the same levels of completeness . because the two samples were observed in exactly the same fashion , there will be no relative bias in the number of companions introduced in this way . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , the redshift distributions of the two samples are very similar , so there will not be a distance related relative bias .    thus i conclude that the difference in the number of  rich companions is genuine , and signifies a difference in the local , small scale environments between the two types of galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> i search through published galaxy catalogs to determine number of neighbors each galaxy has outside the area of the vla observations . at these large separations , </S>",
    "<S> the number of neighbors is the same , within the errors , for the two types of galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> the high rate of companion occurrence at low separations for  galaxies relative to lsb dwarfs supports the hypothesis that the bursts of star formation are triggered by galaxy interactions .    </S>",
    "<S> = cmr10 scaled2 2@xmath2 = cmr10 = cmti9 = cmbx9 = cmbx10 psfig.tex    _ note : this paper has been accepted for publication in the astrophysical journal . _ </S>"
  ]
}