{
  "article_text": [
    "ngc 6251 ( 1637 + 826 , j1632 + 8232 , z=0.024 ) is an elliptical galaxy containing an apparently edge - on dust lane ( @xcite ; @xcite ) and a central stellar cusp and blue continuum light source ( @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "spectroscopic observations with hst indicate the presence of a central black hole with a mass of @xmath0 @xcite .",
    "although ngc 6251 is located near the edge of the cluster zw 1609.0 + 8212 , recent observations by @xcite show that this cluster contains at least three sub - clusters of galaxies that may not be physically related .",
    "ngc 6251 is associated with one of these sub - clusters .",
    "the distance to ngc 6251 is @xmath1 mpc , where @xmath2 .",
    "the linear scale corresponding to 1 milliarcsec ( mas ) is @xmath3 pc .",
    "the line - of - sight velocity dispersion of the sub - cluster is less than 300 km s@xmath4 , implying that it is a poor cluster with an x - ray atmosphere temperature of 0.7 kev @xcite .",
    "combined with plausible densities ( consistent with the extended x - ray luminosity measured by @xcite ) , this gas temperature is far too low to confine any part of the spectacularly linear ( e.g. , see figure 1 in @xcite ) kpc - scale radio jet .",
    "the large - scale radio morphology of this source ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) suggests that its radio axis is close to the plane of the sky .",
    "its high declination of + 83@xmath5 allows very good ( u , v ) coverage by northern hemisphere vlbi arrays .",
    "consequently , this is a good candidate for having a nearly edge - on inner accretion disk which could be detected via free - free absorption of radiation from a parsec - scale counterjet .    an early series of three global vlbi observations of ngc 6251 at 1.6 ghz was carried out during a five year period .",
    "the first 18-cm vlbi experiment in 1983 @xcite showed a one - sided jet aligned with the vla jet and containing a knot of emission approximately 25 mas from the core ( we assume the core corresponds to the strong , unresolved peak at the eastern end of the jet ) .",
    "no counterjet was detected at a limit of 80:1 measured @xmath6 mas from the core .",
    "second and third epoch experiments were performed in 1985 and 1988 ( @xcite ; @xcite ) to look for motion of the 25-mas feature .",
    "no significant change in the separation between the core and the 25-mas knot was found ( @xmath7 ) , although changes in jet morphology closer to the core were observed . the combination of low proper motion and large jet / counterjet brightness ratio implies , using the usual beaming model , that the 25-mas feature in the jet does not move with the bulk flow velocity or that the radio axis is much closer to our line of sight than expected from the large - scale radio structure and the nearly edge - on optical dust disk .",
    "an alternative explanation for the lack of a detectable counterjet near the core is free - free absorption by ionized gas in front of the counterjet ( plausibly in the form of a parsec - scale accretion disk or torus oriented perpendicular to the radio jets ) .",
    "evidence for absorption of radiation from the base of a counterjet has been seen in several other radio sources , including 3c84 ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , centaurus a ( @xcite ; @xcite ) , and ngc 4261 ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "if a similar situation exists in ngc 6251 , the counterjet should become visible farther from the core at 1.6 ghz , and closer to the core at higher frequencies .",
    "the observations reported here were designed to detect the counterjet at 1.6 ghz , where its intrinsic brightness is likely to be larger , and at higher frequencies where it should be visible closer to the core .",
    "our ultimate goal is to understand the extent and structure of inner accretion disks on parsec and sub - parsec scales .",
    "high resolution , high dynamic range , multi - frequency images of absorption by ionized gas are one of the best tools available for the study of these disks .",
    "ngc 6251 is one of the relatively few galaxies whose radio axis orientation and other properties make it a good candidate for such studies .",
    "we observed ngc 6251 with the vlba and one vla antenna for 12 hours on each of two days ( 29 and 30 may 2000 ) .",
    "the first day was devoted to 1.6 ghz to obtain the highest possible dynamic range , while on the second day we switched between 5.0 , 8.4 , and 15.3 ghz with a cycle time of 44 minutes .",
    "this was done to provide nearly identical snapshot ( u , v ) coverage at all three frequencies . in all cases a bandwidth of 64 mhz was recorded , with lcp polarization at 1.6 , 5.0 , and 15.3 ghz and rcp at 8.4 ghz .",
    "the data were correlated at nrao in socorro , producing 16 spectral channels for each of the 8 contiguous if bands with an integration time of 2 seconds .",
    "the j2000 radio position of ngc 6251 , as determined by usno astrometric vlbi observations , is ra = 16:32:31.97001@xmath8 , dec = + 82:32:16.39991@xmath9 ( m.  eubanks , private communication ) .",
    "the los alamos vlba antenna was not available during either day of our observations because of the cerro grande wildfire near los alamos .",
    "this caused a loss of short and intermediate baselines that reduced our sensitivity to very extended radio structure .",
    "the remaining 9 vlba antennas and one vla antenna produced useful data at all frequencies .",
    "amplitude calibration , initial editing , and fringe - fitting were performed using standard tasks within aips .",
    "after the residual delays and rates were removed , the data were transferred to the caltech program difmap @xcite for interactive editing , self - calibration , and imaging .",
    "the data were averaged in time , and all 8 ifs were combined in difmap during imaging .",
    "phase - only antenna corrections were applied during multiple iterations of self - calibration and deconvolution until the source model contained nearly all of the flux detected on our shortest baselines .",
    "then amplitude self - calibration was allowed , on gradually decreasing time scales . during deconvolution",
    ", clean boxes were allowed only where emission was clearly visible until the final iteration .",
    "for the final deconvolution , no restriction was placed on the model component locations .    a comparison of our data with only a priori amplitude calibration applied and the fully amplitude self - calibrated data used to produce our final images showed no detectable shift in the amplitude scale caused by self - calibration at 1.6 , 5.0 , or 8.4 ghz . at 15.3 ghz we find a small ( less than 10% ) decrease in amplitudes .",
    "this is too small to affect spectral index determinations significantly .",
    "our most complete ( u , v ) coverage was obtained at 1.6 ghz , and is shown in figure  [ fig1 ] .    for comparison , the least complete ( u , v ) coverage was obtained at 15.3 ghz .",
    "this is shown in figure  [ fig2 ] .",
    "the coverage is still very good at this frequency thanks to the high declination of the source .",
    "figures  [ fig3 ] and [ fig4 ] show low resolution and detailed images of ngc 6251 at 1.6 ghz .",
    "the low resolution image was made using natural data weighting and a gaussian taper falling to half weight at a radial distance of 20 m@xmath10 .",
    "all other images were made using uniform weighting and no taper .",
    "the low resolution image ( figure  [ fig3 ] ) shows hints of jet emission more than 150 mas from the peak .",
    "we searched for additional emission along both the jet and counterjet directions out to nearly 0.3 arcsec .",
    "figure  [ fig4 ] shows that the jet feature approximately 100 mas from the peak is resolved transverse to the jet direction .",
    "the morphology of this feature suggests a transverse shock , although its faintness precludes detailed study .",
    "figure  [ fig4 ] also shows a small change in position angle along the first 30 - 40 mas of the jet .",
    "this change in position angle , and the brightness peak about 25 mas along the jet , are also seen in the 1.6 ghz vlbi image of @xcite .",
    "25-mas peak \" has nearly the same peak brightness relative to the core in figure  [ fig4 ] and in @xcite .",
    "this indicates that there have been no significant changes in this region of the inner jet since at least 1983 .",
    "finally , figure  [ fig4 ] shows what apprears to be a short counterjet extending to about 10 mas from the peak .",
    "this feature was not seen in previous vlbi images at 1.6 ghz because it is very faint and extends on only 2 - 3 beamwidths from the brightest peak .",
    "the counterjet is not clearly seen above the @xmath11 contour level in figure  [ fig4 ] .",
    "this is below the lowest contour in the 1.6 ghz image of @xcite .",
    "the significance of the short counterjet will be discussed in the next section .",
    "figure  [ fig5 ] shows our 5.0 ghz image of ngc 6251 . at the higher resolution of this image",
    "25-mas peak \" is largely resolved .",
    "the first 15 mas of the jet appears to be very straight in this image .",
    "although there is a very faint peak about 7 mas from the brightest peak in the direction of a counterjet , and possibly a very short extension of the core at low contour levels in the counterjet direction , neither can be considered strong evidence for a counterjet in figure  [ fig5 ] .",
    "we have made lower resolution ( tapered ) images from our 5.0 ghz data but do not detect any more extended flux in the counterjet direction .",
    "figure  [ fig6 ] shows our 8.4 ghz image .",
    "the  25-mas peak \" is still visible , but even more resolved .",
    "the smooth jet breaks up into separate peaks around 12 mas at this resolution .",
    "there is no evidence for a counterjet .",
    "figure  [ fig7 ] shows our 15.3 ghz image .",
    "this is our highest resolution image , and shows the inner 5 mas of the jet plus a complex peak about 7 mas from the core and hints of jet emission out to 15 mas .",
    "there is no convincing evidence for a counterjet at this frequency .",
    "our angular resolution at 15.3 ghz is just under 0.5 mas , which corresponds to a linear resolution of @xmath12 cm ( about 0.2 pc ) for @xmath13 .",
    "this is much greater than the gravitational radius of a @xmath14 black hole , or the radius at which stars are tidally disrupted ( which is less than the gravitational radius for a black hole of this mass ) .",
    "however , our linear resolution at 15.3 ghz is significantly smaller than the radius within which the stellar dynamics are dominated by the black hole . assuming that the black hole accounts for most of the mass distribution within 0.2 pc , the period of a circular orbit with this radius is about 400 years .    to help compare features in the jet at different frequencies ,",
    "figure  [ fig8 ] shows a mosaic of model components at 5.0 , 8.4 , and 15.3 ghz , all rotated clockwise by 27 degrees and convolved with the same restoring beam .",
    "the models have been shifted horizontally to align the first peak along the jet , under the assumption that jet features will be less affected by optical depth effect than the core region . with this alignment , the apparent position of the core changes with frequency in the way expected for either synchrotron self - absorption or free - free absorption . in either case",
    "we can see emission from closer to the true base of the jet at higher frequencies .",
    "the observing parameters ( frequency , resolution , contour levels , etc . ) for each of our images are summarized in table  [ tab1 ] .",
    "we also made images at adjacent pairs of frequencies convolved with the same restoring beam to look at spectral index variations within the source .",
    "for each pair of frequencies , the common restoring beam was a circular gaussian whose width was equal to or only slightly less than the true resolution at the lower frequency . comparing the matched - resolution images at 1.6 and 5.0 ghz ( 4 mas restoring beam ) showed that the brightness peak has an inverted spectrum while the jet along position angle @xmath15 has a steep spectrum , especially around 10 and 25 mas from the peak .",
    "the spectral index @xmath16 ( defined as s@xmath17 ) varies from about + 0.5 at the peak to -0.6 near 10 and 25 mas down the jet . comparing matched resolution images at 5.0 and 8.4 ghz ( 1.3 mas beam ) gave a nearly flat spectum for the brightness peak , a steep spectrum for the jet around 5 - 7 mas from the peak , and complex variations in spectral index farther along the jet .",
    "finally , our matched resolution images at 8.4 and 15.3 ghz ( 0.8 mas beam ) again showed a flat spectrum for the peak and a very steep spectrum for the jet about 2 - 3 mas from the peak .",
    "farther out ( to about 10 mas ) the jet spectrum is less steep , with @xmath18 .",
    "the flat or inverted spectrum of the core could be caused by either free - free absorption or synchrotron self - absorption .",
    "@xcite see a very short ( @xmath19 mas ) counterjet in their vlbi images of ngc 6251 at 5 and 15 ghz .",
    "our 5.0 ghz image also shows a possible short extension in the counterjet direction from the brightest peak , but we do not consider this a reliable feature because of its faintness and the fact that its extent is no greater than one beamwidth . note that our angular resolution at 5 ghz is not as good as that of @xcite , who had data from the halca spacecraft of the vsop mission in addition to their ground - based vlbi array .",
    "the counterjet in @xcite s 5 ghz image appears at an unexpected position angle ( not parallel to the main jet ) and only at the higher resolution provided by the halca data .",
    "we do not see any flux along the position angle of the @xcite counterjet in our lower resolution but higher dynamic range image at 5.0 ghz .",
    "we see no evidence for a counterjet in our 15.3 ghz image . at this frequency",
    "our angular resolution is similar to that obtained by @xcite , who see a short extension from the peak in the counterjet direction .",
    "our image at 15.3 ghz also appears to show a very short and faint extension in the counterjet direction , but we do not consider this feature to be reliable because of its faint and barely resolved nature .    the most surprising result from our observations is the lack of a clearly detected parsec - scale counterjet at 5.0 , 8.4 , and 15.3 ghz . a large optical depth due to free - free absorption at 15.3 ghz would imply a high electron density or a long line - of - sight path length through the ionized material ( @xmath20 , where @xmath21 is electron density per @xmath22 and @xmath23 is the path length in cm )",
    ". neither situation would be consistent with the apparent short counterjet seen at 1.6 ghz .",
    "thus , we conclude that free - free absorption is not the primary reason for the lack of a detectable counterjet at high frequencies .",
    "the other obvious possibility is that the counterjet is hidden by the effects of doppler boosting .",
    "this , in turn , implies that the radio axis is close enough to our line of sight that jet / counterjet brightness ratios ( r ) greater than 100 are possible . for a continuous jet",
    ", the angle between the jet axis and our line of sight must be @xmath24 for r @xmath25 .",
    "ngc 6251 has the third largest linear size ( nearly 2 mpc for @xmath13 ) out of the 84 large angular size radio galaxies studied by @xcite .",
    "it is the largest fr i galaxy @xcite in this sample .",
    "this suggests that it is unlikely to be seen highly foreshortened .",
    "@xcite detected a radio counterjet extending @xmath26 arcsec from the core in low resolution vla images .",
    "the jet / counterjet brightness ratio at @xmath27 arcsec from the core is r @xmath28 , but at @xmath29 arcsec r @xmath30 . at 8.4 ghz",
    "we measure r @xmath31 at @xmath32 mas .",
    "thus , the brightness ratio varies signficantly ( and not monotonically ) with distance from the core . the doppler boosting explanation then requires large - scale variations in bulk velocity or radio axis orientation ( unless the jet is clumpy and intrinsically asymmetric ) .",
    "another difficulty with doppler boosting is that @xcite estimate an equipartition doppler factor @xcite of 1.4 for the core of ngc 6251 , and an inverse compton doppler factor of only 1.0 .",
    "if either of these estimates applies to the bulk motion of material in the vlbi jet , it is not possible to obtain brightness ratios as large as 128 for any orientation .",
    "this difficulty can be removed if the core doppler factors are treated as lower limits ( see @xcite ) .",
    "thus , the simplest versions of free - free absorption and doppler boosting are insufficient to explain our multi - frequency images of ngc 6251 .",
    "we now consider more complex versions of these two basic mechanisms .",
    "free - free absorption could be responsible for the lack of detectable counterjet emission if the extension we see at 1.6 ghz is not actually from a counterjet but is actually highly absorbed core emission . in this case , we would identify the brightest peak in our 1.6 ghz image as the region where the jet appears from behind a geometrically thick disk or torus of ionized gas , which hides the counterjet and partially hides the core . at higher frequencies the free - free absorption is insufficient to hide the core emission , but can still hide the counterjet due to the longer line - of - sight path length .",
    "two ways to test this possibility would be 1 ) vlbi imaging at 2.3 ghz , which would fill in the largest fractional gap in our current frequency coverage , and 2 ) phase - referenced vlbi observations to allow unambiguous registration of images at 1.6 ghz and higher frequencies .",
    "the accretion disk expected to surround the central black hole in a radio galaxy like ngc 6251 , with an intermediate radio luminosity and no very strong broad emission lines , should be geometrically thick according to the model of @xcite .",
    "a thick disk would be necessary to hide the core at low frequencies , given the likely orientation of the radio axis at an intermediate angle to our line of sight .",
    "this model also predicts that very active phases , characterized by a large increase in jet power , may occur for short periods every few thousand years .",
    "interestingly , such behaviour could explain the quasi - periodic chains of bright knots seen along the kpc - scale radio jet in ngc 6251 @xcite .",
    "the major problem with this model is the high density of ionized gas required to hide the counterjet at high frequencies .",
    "the hi absorption detected in front of the radio nucleus by the vla , visual extinction by the dust disk imaged with hst , and the x - ray absorption of the core determined from asca and rosat spectra all imply column densities of @xmath33 @xcite .",
    "that is , the hst disk alone can provide all of the absorption needed to explain the radio , optical , and x - ray measurements .",
    "a large additional absorbing column density on parsec scales would be difficult to reconcile with the observed degree of core x - ray absorption unless most of the x - ray emission comes from a region much larger than a parsec .",
    "our remaining alternative is a more complicated version of the doppler boosting model discussed earlier . to account for the variations in jet / counterjet brightness ratio as a function of distance from the core ,",
    "the jet direction and/or velocity must change significantly .",
    "both are possible ; is there evidence for either ?",
    "the dust disk and the inner ionized gas disk studied by @xcite are not coplanar , and neither is perpendicular to the radio jet axis .",
    "the dust disk is more nearly orthogonal to the radio axis in position angle , but the disk models developed by @xcite imply that the normal to the dust disk is much farther from our line of sight ( @xmath34 ) than is the normal to the inner gas disk ( @xmath35 ) .",
    "therefore , if the radio axis is closer than @xmath36 to our line of sight it will be more nearly perpendicular to the plane of the inner gas disk than to the plane of the dust disk",
    ". figures [ fig9 ] and [ fig10 ] show the orientations of the radio jet , gas disk , and dust disk as a function of distance from the core .",
    "the non - coplanar nature of the nuclear disks on different scales suggests that the angular momentum of accreting gas changes over long time scales , and consequently the direction of the central black hole s angular momentum vector ( and radio jet ) may change with time .",
    "evidence for this on time scales of @xmath37 years or longer is seen in the large - scale s - shape symmetry of the radio source @xcite .",
    "however , the inner two arcminutes of the jet are extremely straight , so any short - term variations in jet direction must be mainly in a plane perpendicular to the plane of the sky .",
    "this is possible , but seems contrived .",
    "variations in jet velocity are perhaps more plausible .",
    "unfortunately it is difficult to get more than a lower limit for the bulk velocity from multi - epoch vlbi observations .",
    "@xcite use numerical simulations to show that regions of enhanced radio emission in a relativistic jet may have differing apparent motions , as is frequently seen in vlbi observations , even when the bulk velocity along the jet is nearly constant .",
    "in particular , they show that bright regions near the base of a jet may move along the jet more slowly than regions farther down the jet , with regions close to the core remaining nearly stationary .",
    "such behavior is seen is some vlbi monitoring observations of superluminal sources ( e.g. , @xcite ) , although the opposite behavior is also seen in other sources .",
    "what is clear is that existing observations have difficulty in determining unambiguous jet flow velocities , or changes in velocities .",
    "consequently we can not rule out this explanation for the variations in jet / counterjet brightness in ngc 6251 .",
    "the observed vlbi properties of ngc 6251 can be compared with those of other intermediate or low luminosity radio galaxies for which high quality vlbi images exist . in particular , we consider 3c84 , ngc 4261 , m87 , and centaurus a , all of which are fr - i radio sources that have been observed with vlbi at multiple frequencies and epochs .",
    "there is strong evidence for free - free absorption of radio emission from parsec - scale counterjets in 3c84 @xcite , ngc 4261 @xcite , and centaurus a @xcite .",
    "however , the situation in m87 is less clear because a parsec - scale counterjet has not been detected in this source at any frequency @xcite .",
    "it is plausible that the radio axis in m87 is aligned closer to our line of sight than is the case for ngc 4261 or centaurus a , and as a result we might expect the jet / counterjet ratio to be larger for m87 than for the other sources .",
    "however , 3c84 also has clearly detected counterjet emission and is believed to be aligned close to our line of sight . in this case the counterjet emission is detectable only because of the unusually large dynamic range achieved in vlbi images of 3c84 .",
    "thus , we can speculate that sources whose radio axes are oriented far from our line of sight are able to show evidence of free - free absorption near their cores , but sources aligned closer to our line of sight are likely to have undetectable counterjets due to relativistic beaming .",
    "consequently the effect of free - free absorption can not be seen in the more aligned sources .",
    "ngc 4261 and centaurus a clearly fall into the first category , while m87 and ngc 6251 appear to fall into the second ( more aligned ) category .",
    "free - free absorption does not appear to be responsible for the lack of a detectable parsec - scale counterjet at high frequencies in this source , unless high electron densities or path lengths are invoked and the short counterjet we see at 1.6 ghz is actually the ( highly absorbed ) core .",
    "the most likely alternative is a large jet / counterjet brightness ratio caused by relativistic beaming , which in turn requires the inner radio axis to be closer to our line of sight than the orientation of the hst dust disk would suggest . in this case",
    "the smaller jet / counterjet brightness ratio seen farther from the core would be evidence for a gradual increase in the jet angle to our line of sight or a decrease in the bulk velocities in the jets .",
    "the very long baseline array and the very large array are facilities of the national radio astronomy observatory , which is operated by associated universities under a cooperative agreement with the national science foundation .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system abstract service .",
    "aew  acknowledges support from the nasa long term space astrophysics program .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for several helpful suggestions .",
    "this research was carried out at the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "jones , d.  l. , unwin , s.  c. , readhead , a.  c.  s. , sargent , w.  l.  w. , seielstad , g.  a. , simon , r.  s. , walker , r.  c. , benson , j.  m. , perley , r.  a. , bridle , a.  h. , pauliny - toth , i.  i.  k. , romney , j. , witzel , a. , wilkinson , p.  n. , bth , l.  b. , booth , r.  s. , fort , d.  n. , galt , j.  a. , mutel , r.  l. , and linfield , r.  p. 1986",
    ", , 305 , 684      jones , d.  l. , tingay , s.  j. , murphy , d.  w. , meier , d.  l. , jauncey , d.  l. , reynolds , j.  e. , tzioumis , a.  k. , preston , r.  a. , mcculloch , p.  m. , costa , m.  e. , kemball , a.  j. , nicolson , g.  d. , quick , j.  f.  h. , king , e.  a. , lovell , j.  e.  j. , clay , r.  w. , ferris , r.  h. , gough , r.  g. , sinclair , m.  w. , ellingsen , s.  p. , edwards , p.  g. , jones , p.  a. , van ommen , t.  d. , harbison , p. , and migenes , v. 1996 , , 466 , l63                                               & & & & & + & & & & & + 3 & 1.6 & @xmath38 & -23 & 294 & -0.05 , 0.05 , 0.1 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.8 , 1.6 , 3.2 , 6.4 , 12.8 , 25.6 , 51.2 , 99.0 + 4 & 1.6 & @xmath39 & -26 & 227 & -0.1 , -0.06 , 0.06 , 0.1 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.8 , 1.6 , 3.2 , 6.4 , 12.8 , 25.6 , 51.2 , 99.0 + 5 & 5.0 & @xmath40 & -7 & 246 & -0.1 , 0.1 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.8 , 1.6 , 3.2 , 6.4 , 12.8 , 25.6 , 51.2 , 99.0 + 6 & 8.4 & @xmath41 & 27 & 277 & -0.2 , -0.1 , 0.1 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.8 , 1.6 , 3.2 , 6.4 , 12.8 , 25.6 , 51.2 , 99.0 + 7 & 15.3 & @xmath42 & 9 & 271 & -0.2 , 0.2 , 0.4 , 0.8 , 1.6 , 3.2 , 6.4 , 12.8 , 25.6 , 51.2 , 99.0 + 8 & 5,8,15 & @xmath43 & 0 & 326 & 0.25 , 0.5 , 1.0 , 2.0 , 4.0 , 8.0 , 16.0 , 32.0 , 64.0 , 99.0 + [ tab1 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used the vlba to produce a high dynamic range image of the nucleus of ngc 6251 at 1.6 ghz and snapshot images at 5.0 , 8.4 , and 15.3 ghz to search for emission from a parsec - scale counterjet . </S>",
    "<S> previous vlbi images at 1.6 ghz have set a lower limit for the jet / counterjet brightness ratio near the core at about 80:1 , which is larger than expected given the evidence that the radio axis is fairly close to the plane of the sky . </S>",
    "<S> a possible explanation is that the inner few pc of the counterjet is hidden by free - free absorption by ionized gas associated with an accretion disk or torus . </S>",
    "<S> this would be consistent with the nearly edge - on appearance of the arcsecond - scale dust disk seen in the center of ngc 6251 by hst . </S>",
    "<S> we detect counterjet emission close to the core at 1.6 ghz , but not at the higher frequencies . </S>",
    "<S> given that the optical depth of free - free absorption falls off more rapidly with increasing frequency than the optically thin synchrotron emission from a typical radio jet , this result implies that the absence of a detectable parsec - scale counterjet at high frequencies is not due to free - free absorption unless the density of ionized gas is extremely high and we have misidentified the core at 1.6 ghz . </S>",
    "<S> the most likely alternative is a large jet / counterjet brightness ratio caused by relativistic beaming , which in turn requires the inner radio axis to be closer to our line of sight than the orientation of the hst dust disk would suggest . </S>"
  ]
}