{
  "article_text": [
    "exchange interactions in the core of globular clusters result in the formation of binary systems containing neutron stars . in these systems ,",
    "the neutron star is eventually spun up through mass accretion from the evolving companion @xcite , resulting in the formation of millisecond pulsars .",
    "these objects are valuable for studies of the dynamics of clusters , the evolution of binaries , and the interstellar medium @xcite . but",
    "searches for millisecond pulsars are difficult because they are usually rather weak and their signals are distorted by propagation through the interstellar medium , and because the apparent spin period may be affected by doppler - shift changes due to binary motion .",
    "after several discoveries , made mainly in the early 1990s , no additional pulsars were found in globular clusters , leaving the question open why some clusters ( e.g. 47 tucanae or m15 ) had large numbers of detectable pulsars , whereas other apparently similar clusters have few or none .",
    "when , a few years ago , a new multibeam 20-cm receiver was installed at parkes , we decided to initiate a new search of globular clusters for millisecond pulsars .",
    "this receiver has a system temperature of @xmath0  k and bandwidth of @xmath1 300 mhz , resulting in an unprecented sensitivity . in order to further improve our search capability ,",
    "we have constructed at jodrell bank and bologna a new high resolution filterbank system , made of @xmath2 mhz adjacent pass - band filters .",
    "this makes possible to remove the effects of dispersion in the interstellar medium more efficiently than previous searches , and allows the detection of millisecond pulsars with dispersion measures ( dms ) of more than 200 @xmath3pc .",
    "the combination of this new equipment with the relatively high frequency of the multibeam receiver and its sensitivity level gives a unique opportunity to probe distant clusters .",
    "also , because globular clusters are known to contain short - binary period millisecond pulsars , and because this class of objects is a very interesting one , we have implemented a new multi - dimensional code to search over a range of accelerations resulting from binary motion , in addition to the standard search over a range of dms .",
    "so far , we have discovered 10 millisecond pulsars in four clusters , none of which had previously known pulsars associated with them .",
    "five of these pulsars are members of short - period binary systems , and four of them have relatively high dm values .",
    "we have selected about 60 clusters , on the basis of their central density and distance .",
    "observations consist usually of a 2.3h integration on each target .",
    "the resulting nominal ( @xmath4 ) sensitivity to a typical 3 ms pulsar with dm @xmath1 200 @xmath3 pc is about 0.14 mjy , several times better than previous searches . sampling the 512 channels every 125 @xmath5s ,",
    "each observation produces a huge array , 32 gsamples , or 4 gbytes ( packing the data at 1-bit / sample ) , and requires significant cpu resources for offline processing . in bologna , we have implemented the new code on a local cluster of alpha-500mhz cpus and on the cray - t3e 256-processor system at the cineca supercomputing center .    in the off - line processing ,",
    "each data stream is split into non - overlapping segments of 2100 , 4200 or 8400 sec and these are separately processed .",
    "when the dm is not known precisely from the existence in a given cluster of a previously known pulsar , data are first de - dispersed over a wide range of dispersion measures centered on the value expected for each cluster on the basis of a model of the galactic electron layer @xcite , and then transformed using a fast fourier transform ( fft ) .",
    "the analyis method exploits the fact that even relatively highly accelerated binaries might have significant spectral power in the fft .",
    "time - domain data are fast - folded at periods corresponding to a significant number of spectral features above a threshold to form a series of ` sub - integration arrays ' and these arrays are searched for the parabolic signatures of an accelerated periodicity .",
    "parameters for final pulse profiles having significant signal - to - noise ratio are output for visual examination .",
    "when a pulsar is detected and confirmed in a cluster , we usually reprocess the data .",
    "the raw data are de - dispersed at the single dm value of the newly discovered pulsar ; then the resulting time series is interpolated to compensate for an acceleration and transformed using a fft , with many trials to cover a large acceleration range .",
    "since this analysis involves many ffts , it is relatively slow , and has benn rarely used when a dm value ( or a narrow dm range ) was not available .",
    "ngc 6752 is believed to have a collapsed core and was already known to possess a large proportion of binary systems and dim x - ray sources . in this cluster , we have first discovered a 3.26 ms pulsars in a 21  h orbital period binary system , psr j1910@xmath659a @xcite(see fig 1 ) .",
    "this pulsar has a relatively low dm , 34 @xmath3pc and scintillates markedly , similar to the pulsars in 47 tucanae , so it is seen rarely .",
    "as has been already experienced on 47 tucanae @xcite , amplification due to scintillation might occasionally help in the detection of additional rather weak millisecond pulsars in the same cluster .",
    "and in fact , devoting a large amount of observing time to this cluster , we have already found four additional previously unseen millisecond pulsars ( table 1 ) .",
    "[ h ]      ngc 6397 is a prime candidate for globular cluster searches .",
    "it is close and has a very dense and probably collapsed core and it contains at least four x - ray sources , but there was no known pulsar associated with ngc 6397 prior to this search . in this cluster",
    "we have found psr j1740@xmath653 , a millisecond pulsar with a spin period of 3.65ms and an orbital period of 1.35 days @xcite .",
    "this pulsar is eclipsed for more than 40 % of the orbital phase .",
    "similar eclipses are observed in other binary pulsars @xcite . but these systems are close binary systems ( with orbital periods of a few hours ) and have relatively light companions ( minimum mass @xmath7 0.1 m@xmath8 ) . in contrast , j1740 - 53 is in a rather wide binary system , with an orbital period of 1.35 days , and has a heavier companion ( @xmath9 0.18 m@xmath8 ) .",
    "it seems unlikely that a wind of sufficient density could be driven off a degenerate companion , and hence produce the observed eclipses .",
    "therefore , follow - up observations of this pulsar will be useful to probe the eclipse mechanism in millisecond pulsars .",
    "we have discovered three millisecond binary pulsars in ngc 6266 , another relatively dense cluster .",
    "the first one , psr j1701@xmath630a @xcite , has a spin period of 5.24 ms , an orbital period , 3.8 days , and the mass function indicates a minimum companion mass of 0.19 m@xmath8 .",
    "this system is similar to several low - mass binary pulsars , associated with globular clusters or in the galactic field .",
    "but the two other systems found , psr j1701@xmath630b and psr j1701@xmath630c , belong to the class of short - binaries .",
    "they have spin periods of 3.6 ms and 3.8 ms and orbital periods of 3.8h and 5.2h ( fig .",
    "[ h ]      this cluster is also one of the closest , and most concentrated globular clusters known .",
    "the pulsar discovered , psr j1807@xmath624 @xcite , has a spin period of 3.06 ms and it is binary , with an extremely short orbital period , 1.7 hours , the second shortest known .",
    "even more interestingly , the projected semi - major axis of the orbit is only 12 light - ms .",
    "the corresponding minimum companion mass is only 0.0089 m@xmath8 or about 10 jupiter masses .",
    "in table 1 we report the preliminary parameters of the new millisecond pulsars discovered so far in four globular clusters .",
    "it is too early to draw new conclusions on the pulsar content of globular cluster , as there are many clusters in our sample that need to be searched .",
    "the present experiment raises an interesting issue from the observational point of view : besides sensitivity and powerful search algorithms , a key strategy in a search for millisecond pulsars in globular clusters is to devote a large amount of observing time to each target .",
    "in fact , quite often these objects have properties such that they can be seen very rarely only : scintillation in low dm clusters , abnormally long eclipses , and unfavourable orbital phases in the case of ultra - short binaries might easily prevent the detection during a single observation . but the hidden systems are very often the very interesting ones .",
    "smarr , l.  l. & blandford , r. 1976 , apj , 207 , 574 .",
    "bhattacharya , d. & van den heuvel , e. p.  j. 1991 , phys .",
    "kulkarni , s.  r. & anderson , s.  b. 1996 , in dynamical evolution of star clusters - confrontation of theory and observations , ed .",
    "p. hut & j. makino , ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , p.  181 .",
    "phinney , e.  s. 1992 , phil .",
    "a , 341 , 39 .",
    "hut , p. et al 1992 , pasp , 104 , 981 .",
    "bhattacharya , d. & verbunt , f. 1991 , a&a , 242 , 128 .",
    "freire , p.  c. , camilo , f. , lorimer , d.  r. , lyne , a.  g. , manchester , r.  n. , & damico , n. 2001 mnras . in press .",
    "taylor , j.  h. & cordes , j.  m. 1993 , apj , 411 , 674 .",
    "damico , n. , lyne a.g . ,",
    "manchester r.n .",
    ", possenti a. , & camilo , f. 2001 , apjl 548 , l171 .",
    ", f. , lorimer , d.  r. , freire , p. , lyne , a.  g. , & manchester , r.  n. 2000 , apj , 535 , 975 .",
    "fruchter , a.  s. et al .",
    "1990 , apj , 351 , 642 .",
    "stappers , b.  w. et al 1996 , apj , 465 , l119 .",
    "ransom , s.m . ,",
    "greenhill , l.j . ,",
    "herrnstein , j.r . ,",
    "manchester , r.n . , camilo , f. , eikenberry , s.s .",
    "& lyne , a.g .",
    "2001 , apjl 546 , l25 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a new search of globular clusters for millisecond pulsars is in progress at parkes . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we describe the motivation , the new hardware and software systems adopted , the survey plan and the preliminary results . </S>",
    "<S> so far , we have discovered ten new millisecond pulsars in four clusters for which no associated pulsars were previously known . </S>"
  ]
}