{
  "article_text": [
    "strong radio galaxies embedded in galaxy clusters have been used successfully to probe the intracluster medium ( icm ) . taylor ( 1994 ) defined a sample of 14 clusters found in the flux - limited , all - sky x - ray sample devised by edge ( 1992 ) , and determined that clusters with nonzero estimated mass flow rates and embedded radio galaxies with @xmath3 mjy commonly display significant rotation measures ( rm ) , often in excess of 800 , with the magnitude of the rm proportional to the estimated cooling flow rate .",
    "the observed rms are thought to be caused by faraday rotation through a magnetized cluster gas , and detailed studies of these high rm sources suggest that minimum cluster magnetic fields of 5  @xmath4 g are common in cooling core clusters @xcite .",
    "a2597 is one of the last in the sample of 14 clusters to be analyzed .",
    "edge ( 1992 ) classified a2597 as a cooling core cluster , and numerous other observations have confirmed nonzero cooling flow rates .",
    "most notably , the analysis of xmm - newton and chandra x - ray data by morris & fabian ( 2004 ) inferred a mass cooling rate of @xmath5 yr@xmath6 across the central regions of the cluster . as a cooling core cluster ,",
    "a2597 is expected to have high - density ambient gas that disturbs the radio jets of embedded sources @xcite .",
    "chandra observations by mcnamara ( 2001 ) confirm the complex x - ray gas environment , and the detection of extended broad - line  absorption toward the embedded radio source pks2322@xmath0123 by odea  ( 1994 ) can be attributed to a population of clouds condensing out of the hot gas , though the mass rate is only a small fraction of the inferred cooling flow rates .",
    "very long baseline array ( vlba ) observations of pks2322@xmath0123 made by taylor ( 1999 ) show a symmetric parsec - scale jet structure .",
    "these observations along with previous radio images by sarazin ( 1995 ) that reveal a kiloparsec - scale , asymmetric , steep - spectrum jet morphology support the idea that the radio galaxy is confined and distorted in the high pressure cluster environment .    here",
    "we discuss our multi - frequency polarimetric vla observations of the embedded radio source pks2322@xmath0123 ( z=0.083 ) .",
    "we use the polarized flux associated with synchrotron radiation from the radio jets to calculate rms , and then estimate cluster magnetic fields assuming two different field topologies . in   [ radioobs ]",
    "we describe our radio observations , in   [ xrayobs ] we calculate an electron density profile based on x - ray observations , in   [ results ] we present our results , and in   [ discussion ] we make magnetic field estimates , suggest a source orientation , and compare our observations with the literature . throughout this paper",
    "we assume @xmath7 km s@xmath6 mpc@xmath6 , @xmath8 , and @xmath9 so that 1=1.542 kpc at z=0.083 .",
    ".observational parameters for pks2322@xmath0123 [ cols= \" < , > , > , > , > , > , > , > , > \" , ]     @xmath10radial velocity is determined from  absorption observed toward the nucleus of pks2322@xmath0123 @xcite .",
    "mcnamara ( 2001 ) report x - ray observations of the galaxy cluster a2597 made in july 2000 using the advanced ccd imaging spectrometer detector on chandra . here ,",
    "we present a re - analysis of those data using updated software and calibration products .    the standard level-1 event list produced by the chandra pipeline processing was reprocessed using the @xmath11 ( version 3.0.2 ) software package , including the latest gain maps and calibration products .",
    "bad pixels were removed and standard grade selections applied .",
    "time - dependent gain corrections were applied using a. vikhlinin s _ apply_gain _ routine .",
    "the data were cleaned from periods of anomalously high background using the same author s _",
    "lc_clean _ script and the recommended energy ranges and bin sizes for the back - illuminated ( s3 ) detector .",
    "the net exposure time was 6.9ks .",
    "the data have been analysed using the methods described by allen ( 2004 ) . in brief , concentric annular spectra ,",
    "centred on the radio source , were extracted from the cleaned events list .",
    "background spectra were extracted from blank - field background data sets .",
    "separate photon - weighted response matrices and effective area files were constructed for each region using the calibration files appropriate for the time of observation .",
    "the data were analysed using an enhanced version of the cambridge image deprojection code and xspec ( version 11.3 : arnaud 1996 ) .",
    "we have used the mekal plasma emission code ( kaastra & mewe 1993 ; incorporating the fe - l calculations of liedhal , osterheld & goldstein 1995 ) and the photoelectric absorption models of balucinska - church & mccammon ( 1992 ) .",
    "the acisabs model was used to account for time - dependent contamination along the instrument light path .",
    "only data in the @xmath12 kev energy range were used for the analysis .",
    "the spectra for all annuli were modelled simultaneously in order to determine the deprojected x - ray gas temperature profile under the assumption of spherical symmetry .",
    "these data were then combined with the observed surface brightness profile to constrain the gas density profile .",
    "we have fitted the electron density ( @xmath13 ) profile for the central 300 kpc of the cluster using a modified king model @xcite ,    @xmath14    from this analysis we measure a central density , @xmath15 @xmath16 , a core radius , @xmath17 kpc , and a slope parameter , @xmath18 .",
    "the model fit , which gives an acceptable reduced @xmath19 value of 0.96 , is shown as a dotted line in figure  [ betadensity ] .",
    "the modified king model does not parameterize the gas density at large radii for the a2597 cluster . in this paper",
    "we only use the results of this model in the central 200 kpc where this parametrization adequately describes the gas density .",
    "figure  [ ctot ] shows total intensity contour images of pks2322@xmath0123 at 4985 , 8377 , and 14985 mhz . in all three frequency bands",
    "the source has an asymmetric structure about the core ; there is one area of diffuse emission located northeast of the core and another area located directly south of the core .",
    "we call these areas northern and southern lobes .",
    "both the northern and southern lobes extend out from the core to a distance of approximately 3.5 , or 5.4 kpc , giving the source a total size of 7 , or 10.8 kpc .",
    "there is a component 0.5  southwest of the core that we refer to as the inner jet .",
    "the inner jet is most pronounced in the highest resolution 8 ghz image . the 15 ghz image , because taken in the vla s b configuration , does not resolve the inner jet as well despite the fact that it is our highest frequency .",
    "figures  [ xuoveru ] and  [ cuoveru ] show matched resolution spectral index maps of pks2322@xmath0123 in which @xmath20 and @xmath21 are measured , respectively .",
    "both maps are overlayed with total intensity contours from the 14985 mhz image , and the color bar ranges from @xmath22 to + 1 .",
    "the northern and southern lobes have very steep spectra with typical values of @xmath1 , which is slightly steeper than the spectral index of @xmath01.5 previously observed by sarazin ( 1995 ) .",
    "the core and inner jet both have flatter spectra with typical values in the core ranging from @xmath23 to @xmath00.2 depending on the frequencies .",
    "it is interesting to note in figure  [ xuoveru ] that the spectrum flattens in the southern region of the southern lobe .",
    "the flattening is visible , but less pronounced in figure  [ cuoveru ] .",
    "no significant flattening of the spectrum occurs in the northern lobe .",
    "the cross and triangle symbols plotted over the spectral index maps mark the total intensity centroid positions of the core and inner jet .",
    "the square and diamond symbols mark four positions chosen for comparison in the northern and southern lobes .",
    "these symbols are used in figure  [ spectralindex ] to show the difference in flux densities at our three observing bands ; in each of the four plots the spectral index is given by the slope of the segmented line .",
    "there appears to be no roll - off in the spectral index at low or high frequencies .",
    "note that our 5 ghz , 8 ghz , and 15 ghz observations were taken in 1991 , 1994 , and 1996 , respectively , so that the apparent dip in the spectral index plot of the compact core component may be due to source variability on a time scale of 3 years .",
    "figure  [ rmoverlay ] shows the rotation measure distribution created from 7815 , 8165 , 8515 , and 8885 mhz .",
    "the color bar ranges from rm values of 800  to 6800 .",
    "pixels with an error in the @xmath24 map of greater than 20for any of the four frequencies have been flagged , and pixels corresponding to source locations with less than 200 @xmath25jy beam@xmath6 of total intensity flux at 8165 mhz are not shown .",
    "the overlayed contour lines show total intensity at 8885 mhz .",
    "note that the polarized flux only appears in a small region of the southern lobe .",
    "figure  [ rmfit ] shows rm fits for two pixels located in the cluster of pixels in the southern lobe . the fits result in rotation measures of @xmath26  and @xmath27 , which are typical values for this source .",
    "using the 62 pixels clustered together in the southern lobe , and excluding four pixels due to bad rm fits , we produce a histogram of the rotation measure in figure  [ rmhistogram ] .",
    "the histogram shows a mean rm value of 3620  and dispersion of 1080 . because we have only 62 unflagged pixels in our rm map spanning about two beam widths , we consider there to be only one coherent area of the source with an rm value , namely the mean value .",
    "although an rm dispersion of @xmath281000  is not atypical , due to the small number of clustered pixels in our histogram we do not consider this dispersion to be representative of the physical spread in rms across the source . instead , this dispersion most likely results from our low signal and is due to errors in the rm determination which are estimated to be @xmath28700 .",
    "at its high galactic latitude ( @xmath29 ) , a2597 is far from the plane of our galaxy , and at its location we expect galactic rms of less than 30  @xcite",
    ". therefore our observed rms located at a projected distance of 2  from the cluster center are most likely the result of faraday rotation from a magnetized cluster gas , or faraday rotation from a magnetic field within the cd galaxy which is located at the center of the cluster .",
    "it is also possible that the rms are the result of interaction between the radio galaxy and the surrounding icm @xcite , however with polarized flux over a region of only 5 kpc , it is difficult to determine which of these scenarios produces the dominant field",
    ". based on similar findings of high rms in cooling core clusters with embedded sources of very different morphologies @xcite , we favor a cluster magnetic field interpretation .",
    "assuming that the rotation measure is the result of a magnetized cluster gas , rotation measures can be related to the line - of - sight magnetic field , @xmath30 , by    @xmath31    where @xmath30 is measured in @xmath25 g , @xmath13 in @xmath16 , d@xmath32 in kpc , and the upper limit of integration , @xmath33 , is the distance from the emitting source to the end of the path through the faraday screen along the line of sight .",
    "we can estimate the minimum magnetic field needed to produce our observed rms by making the simplest assumptions of a constant electron density , @xmath34 , and a uniform magnetic field out to a distance of the core radius , @xmath35 . using the values calculated in ",
    "[ xrayobs ] , and setting the rotation measure equal to our mean observed rm of 3620 , we find @xmath36 g . this is a lower limit on the magnetic field strength because any field reversal along the line of sight would require a larger magnetic field to produce the same observed rm .",
    "note that for @xmath37 the density falls off as @xmath38 and , assuming flux conservation , the magnetic field scales with @xmath39 .",
    "this results in the rotation measure scaling with @xmath40 so that the contribution to the rm is dominated by the cluster center .",
    "a more realistic estimate of the magnetic field assumes random field reversals on the order of a coherence length .",
    "although in figure  [ rmoverlay ] the rm values are purely positive so that field reversals are not apparent , from the patchiness of the rm distributions observed in other sources , magnetic fields ordered on scales of @xmath285 kpc are common @xcite . due to the small region of polarized intensity in pks2322@xmath0123",
    "it is difficult to determine a suitable cell size by estimating the coherence length in the rm map .",
    "therefore we use a cell size of 5 kpc , a typical value for both cooling core and noncooling core clusters @xcite . using the relation derived by felten ( 1996 )",
    ", we can estimate the magnetic field assuming our calculated density distribution that follows a @xmath41profile , and a magnetic field topology with cells of constant size and magnetic field strength , but random orientation .",
    "@xmath42    in this equation , @xmath32 is the cell size in kpc , @xmath43 is the distance ( in kpc ) of the radio source from the cluster center , @xmath44 is the gamma function , @xmath45 is given in @xmath25 g and is related to the component along the line of sight by @xmath46 , and k is a factor that depends on the location of the radio source along the line of sight through the cluster : k=624 rad @xmath25g@xmath6 if the source is beyond the cluster and k=441 rad @xmath25g@xmath6 if the source is halfway through the cluster .",
    "the parameters @xmath35 , @xmath34 , and @xmath47 are as described in  [ xrayobs ] . using values given in ",
    "[ xrayobs ] and in table  [ sourceproperties ] , and a cell size of 5 kpc , we estimate the cluster magnetic field to be 2.9 @xmath25 g .",
    "this estimate which makes use of a tangled magnetic field model gives a line - of - sight magnetic field of @xmath48 g , in agreement with the previous field estimate which assumed a uniform field topology .",
    "the fact that these two magnetic field topologies yield similar line - of - sight magnetic field strengths does not suggest any preferred field topology .",
    "rather , it is more likely that @xmath49 used in equation 3 above is not a robust measurement of the true rm dispersion since the region covered is only a few beamwidths and the snr is low .",
    "the dispersion is probably more indicative of the quality of the rm fit .",
    "therefore , we conclude only that the cluster magnetic field has a minimum strength of 2.1 @xmath25 g .",
    "we note that this magnetic field strength is somewhat lower than the 5 to 10 @xmath25 g typically found in cooling - core clusters @xcite which leads us to believe that a more complicated field topology is present , or that the rm dispersion has been underestimated .",
    "the radio source pks2322@xmath0123 is located at the center of the galaxy cluster a2597 , and is coincident with a cd galaxy .",
    "its small physical size , steep - spectrum lobes , and disturbed jet morphology all suggest the radio emission is confined by the ambient gas .",
    "this is similar to what is seen in the cluster center radio sources pks  1246 - 410 in the centaurus cluster ( taylor , fabian , & allen 2002 ) , and pks  0745 - 191 in the cluster of the same name @xcite .",
    "the steep spectral indices of both the northern and southern lobes can be explained by a trapping of electrons such that low energy particles dominate the emission @xcite . in the past",
    "many people have classified a2597 as a cooling - core cluster .",
    "our analysis confirms the presence of a high central gas density in the cluster ( figure  [ betadensity ] ) and a short central cooling time ; @xmath50 yr within @xmath51 kpc of the central radio source .",
    "the flattening of the spectral index in the southern part of the southern lobe may be caused by interactions between the radio jet and the surrounding icm .",
    "as the jet moves south hitting the x - ray gas , some of the jet s kinetic energy may reaccelerate the relativistic particles at the boundary layer , causing the spectrum to flatten .",
    "a similar situation may be responsible for the flatter spectrum of the northern radio lobe along its edge .",
    "to investigate this idea further we have constructed a 1 arcsec@xmath52 pixel image from the x - ray data ( reprocessed using relaxed screening criteria that exclude only the largest background flares , resulting in a net exposure time of 28ks ) .",
    "we first lightly smoothed this image , convolving it with a 1.2 arcsecond fwhm gaussian kernel .",
    "this lightly smoothed image was then subtracted from a more heavily smoothed image , constructed by convolving the raw image with a 12 fwhm arcsecond gaussian kernel .",
    "the resulting unsharp - masked image is shown in figure  [ unsharp ] . the x - ray and radio peaks",
    "are nicely aligned without any correction to the x - ray position beyond the standard calibration .",
    "enhanced x - ray emission is seen both along the northern edge of the northern lobe , and at the tip of the southern lobe  both regions where the spectral index is seen to flatten .",
    "in addition to this evidence of interaction between the radio jet and the icm at the edges of the lobes , koekemoer et al .",
    "( 1999 ) find h@xmath53 emission - line filaments that trace the northern and southern lobes on the northwest and southeast edges , respectively .",
    "these edge - brightened arcs further suggest physical interactions at the boundary layer .",
    "one explanation for the lack of detectable polarization in the northern lobe is that we have a greater faraday depth towards this lobe , resulting in beamwidth depolarization .",
    "we calculate that at 8 ghz a faraday rotation gradient of @xmath28350  kpc@xmath6 is sufficient to rotate @xmath24 by 1 radian over our 2 kpc beam , thus causing depolarization over the beam width .",
    "this would require rms on the order of 700 , 5 times lower than the observed rms in the southern lobe .",
    "thus faraday depolarization can easily explain the lack of observed polarized flux in the northern lobe , and the low amounts of polarized flux in the southern lobe as well .",
    "two low density cavities were detected some 10s of arcseconds northeast and southwest of the radio core by mcnamara ( 2001 ) .",
    "these two cavities can be clearly seen in figure  [ cavities ] . according to mcnamara ( 2001 )",
    "the low density cavities are at a projected distance of roughly 30 kpc from the center of the cluster .",
    "the x - ray cavities detected by mcnamara ( 2001 ) suggest some interesting jet movement .",
    "mcnamara ( 2001 ) gives evidence supporting the idea that the cavities are associated with a radio outburst that occurred 50  100 myr ago .",
    "the recent discovery of 330 mhz radio emission in the western cavity by clarke et al .",
    "( in prep ) confirms the relic radio outburst theory .",
    "we suggest that the same radio jet that made the southern lobe in our current observations was oriented southwest of the core in that previous radio episode and was deflected to the south at a later time .",
    "it is possible that as the relic radio bubble rose outward , the x - ray gas filling in the volume at low radii provided the additional pressure that caused the jet s deflection .",
    "vlba observations of pks2322@xmath0123 show that on milliarcsecond scales the radio source is symmetric and has a northeast , southwest orientation @xcite , providing further evidence that the southern jet begins in a southwesterly direction and is deflected to the south .",
    "our observations of a bright inner jet southwest of the core ( most easily seen in figure  [ ctot]b ) are consistent with the vlba observations and the theory of a deflected jet .",
    "the inner jet s relatively high flux density may be caused by interactions at the boundary layer at the deflection point .",
    "if the southern lobe of the radio source is propagating toward us , then we note that the observed angle through which the southern jet is deflected may be larger than the actual deflection angle due to projection effects . finally , based on the detection of  absorption toward the core and northeastern inner jet by taylor ( 1999 ) ,",
    "we suggest a source morphology in which the southern , deflected jet is on the approaching side .",
    "the fact that  was not detected toward the southwestern jet can be explained if the  is in a torus around the core , and the southwestern jet is on the approaching side .",
    "if our deflected jet scenario is correct , then we may expect to see a pressure imbalance between the thermal x - ray gas and non - thermal gas in the radio lobes .",
    "we might expect the x - ray gas to have equal or greater pressure than the non - thermal gas ; this would be consistent with our analysis of a small , confined radio jet .",
    "but in fact , using a minimum energy condition described by miley ( 1980 ) , we calculate the minimum pressure of the radio source to be @xmath54 erg @xmath16 in both the northern and southern lobes , and @xmath55 erg @xmath16 in the inner jet .",
    "the lobe values are in rough agreement with our calculated x - ray gas pressure of @xmath56 erg @xmath16 in the northern and southern lobes . however , the minimum pressure in the inner radio jet is approximately an order of magnitude larger than the x - ray gas pressure at that radius ( @xmath57 erg @xmath16 at @xmath58 kpc )",
    ". if our assumption of the minimum energy condition is incorrect , and equipartition can not be assumed , then the radio lobes would have a higher pressure than that which we calculated .",
    "dunn and fabian ( 2004 ) find that though the assumption of equipartition is sometimes correct , often it fails for reasons not well understood .",
    "an alternative theory to that of the deflected southern jet is a precessing radio jet as described by gower ( 1982 )",
    ". if precession rather than deflection is the cause of the misalignment between the x - ray cavity and southern radio lobe , then the inner jet we observe with the vla and the symmetry observed with the vlba are evidence that the jet has now returned to the orientation it was in 50  100 myr ago .",
    "we detect polarized emission from the southern lobe of the radio source pks2322@xmath0123 , which is embedded in the cooling - core cluster a2597 .",
    "we calculate this region of polarized flux to have a faraday rotation measure of 3620 , which is consistent with the high rms observed in other embedded radio sources @xcite . assuming both uniform and tangled magnetic field topologies",
    ", we use our calculated rms to estimate a minimum cluster magnetic field of @xmath59 g , which is low compared to the 5  @xmath60 g typically found in galaxy clusters using similar methods @xcite .",
    "because polarized flux was only detected over a very small ( @xmath61 kpc ) region , we believe that our low cluster magnetic field estimate is due to an underestimate in the rm dispersion .",
    "future , more sensitive observations made with the expanded vla should reveal more polarized flux , allowing us to better estimate the rm dispersion .",
    "we show two spectral index maps in which we measure steep spectrum lobes with @xmath1 and a flatter spectrum core with @xmath53 ranging from @xmath01.2 to @xmath00.2 depending on the frequencies .",
    "we suggest that the flattening could be due to a boundary layer interaction with the ism of the host galaxy .",
    "comparison with the chandra x - ray observations on the arcsecond scale show some weak evidence for density enhancements at the positions where the radio spectral index flattens .",
    "future low frequency radio observations are needed to test this interaction hypothesis .",
    "low frequency observations will also be interesting to determine the spectral curvature ; we see no roll - off in the spectral index at 5 , 8 , and 15 ghz .",
    "based on our comparison of our radio observations with previous x - ray @xcite and vlba observations @xcite , we advocate a source orientation and morphology in which the southern jet has been deflected south from its original southwestern orientation , and is on the approaching side .",
    "future proper motion studies on milli - arcsecond scales could help determine whether this proposed source orientation is correct . if the western vlbi jet is propagating toward us relativistically , then we would expect to see faster motions on that side due to relativistic effects .",
    "we thank tracy clarke and an anonymous referee for constructive comments .",
    "swa thanks the royal society for support . support for this work was provided by the national aeronautics and space administration through chandra award number go4 - 5134x issued by the chandra x - ray observatory center , which is operated by the smithsonian astrophysical observatory for and on behalf of the national aeronautics space administration under contract nas8 - 03060 .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , caltech , under contract with nasa .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under a cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "99 allen s.w . ,",
    "schmidt r.w . , ebeling h. , fabian a.c . ,",
    "van speybroeck l. , 2004 , mnras , 353 , 8457 arnaud , k.a . , 1996 , in astronomical data analysis software and systems v , eds .",
    "jacoby g. and barnes j. , asp conf .",
    "series volume 101 , p17 balucinska - church m. , mccammon d. , 1992 , apj , 400 , 699 bicknell , g.  v. , cameron , r.  a. , & gingold , r.  a. 1990 , apj , 357 , 373 carilli , c.  l. , taylor , g.  b. 2002 , annu .",
    "astrophys . , 40,319 cavaliere , a. , fusco - femiano , r. 1976 , a&a , 49 , 137 clarke , t.e . ,",
    "sarazin , c.l . ,",
    "blanton , e.l .",
    ", neumann , d.m . , kassim , n.e . 2005 , submitted to apj dunn , r.j.h .",
    "& fabian , a.c . , 2004 , mnras , 355 , 862 edge , a.  c. , stewart , g.  c. , & fabian , a.  c. 1992 , mnras , 258 , 177 felten , j.  b. 1996 , in `` clusters , lensing and the future of the universe '' eds .",
    "trimble , v. , & reissenegger , a. , asp conf .",
    "series , vol .",
    "88 , p. 271",
    "gower , a.  c. , gregory , p.  c. , hutchings , j.  b. , & unruh , w.  g. 1982 , apj , 262 , 478 kaastra j.s . , mewe r. , 1993 , legacy , 3 , heasarc , nasa koekemoer , a.m. , 1999 , apj , 525 , 621 liedhal d.a . , osterheld a.l . , goldstein w.h . , 1995 , apj , 438 , l115 loken , c. , burns , j.  o. , norman , m.  l. , & clarke , d.  a. 1993 , apj , 417 , 515 morris r.g . , fabian a.c . ,",
    "2004 , mnras , submitted mcnamara , b.  r. , 2001 , apj , 562 , l149 miley , g. 1980 , ann .",
    ", 18 , 165 myers , s.t . , & spangler , s.r .",
    "1985 , apj , 291 , 52 odea , c.  p. , baum , s.  a. , & gallimore , j.  f. 1994 , apj , 436 , 669 sarazin , c.  l. , burns , j.  o. , roettiger , k. , & mcnamara , b.  r. 1995 , apj , 447 , 559 simard - normandin , m. & kronberg , p.  p. 1980 ,",
    "apj , 242 , 74 taylor , g.  b. , barton , e.  j. , & ge , j .- p .",
    "1994 , aj , 107 , 1942 taylor , g.  b. , odea , c.  p. , peck , a.  b. , & koekemoer , a.  m. 1999 , apj , 512 , l27 taylor , g.  b. , fabian , a.  c. , & allen , s.  w. 2002 , mnras , 334 , 769"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present 5 , 8 , and 15 ghz total intensity and polarimetric observations of the radio source pks2322@xmath0123 taken with the very large array ( vla ) . </S>",
    "<S> this small ( 11 kpc ) source is located at the center of the cooling - core cluster abell 2597 . </S>",
    "<S> the inner x - ray structure , the radio morphology , and the steep spectral index ( @xmath1 ) in the lobes , all suggest that the radio emission is confined by the ambient x - ray gas . </S>",
    "<S> we detect a small region of polarized flux in the southern lobe and are able to calculate a faraday rotation measure ( rm ) of 3620  over this region . based on these observations and chandra x - ray data </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that the southern lobe has been deflected from its original southwestern orientation to the south and into our line - of - sight . using the observed rms and our calculated electron density profiles , and assuming both a uniform and tangled magnetic field topology </S>",
    "<S> , we estimate a lower limit of the line - of - sight cluster magnetic field , @xmath2 g .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : clusters : individual ( a2597 )  intergalactic medium  magnetic fields  polarization  radio continuum : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}