{
  "article_text": [
    "measuring the energy spectrum of ultra high energy cosmic rays ( uhecr ) is the goal of several past , present , and future experiments using the air fluorescence technique .",
    "it is of special interest to measure the spectrum in the range of @xmath2  ev and establish whether it is suppressed as predicted by the gzk mechanism @xcite .",
    "the published results of the two , at that time largest , experiments collecting uhecr data disagree @xcite .",
    "one of those detectors , the high resolution fly s eye ( hires ) utilizes air fluorescence to detect cosmic rays and to determine their energy .",
    "the other experiment , the akeno giant air shower array ( agasa ) , a ground array of scintillation counters in japan , used the particle sampling technique .",
    "the energy dependent hires flux measurement is systematically smaller than that of agasa and is consistent with a gzk suppression .",
    "one systematic uncertainty in the case of the fluorescence technique is the uncertainty of the measured fluorescence yield of charged particles in air itself . a more precise study of the yield would be valuable in seeking the cause for the apparent discrepancies between the techniques .",
    "there are a number of previous fluorescence yield experiments . in his thesis from 1967 bunner summarized the existing data and quoted uncertainties of around 30% on the reported fluorescence efficiencies @xcite .",
    "bunner s work served as the standard reference for fluorescence technique based cosmic ray experiments into the nineties . in a more recent experiment @xcite , kakimoto _ et al . _",
    "measured the total fluorescence yield between 300 and 400 nm with an uncertainty of @xmath310% and the yield at three pronounced lines - 337  nm , 357  nm , and 391  nm .",
    "the newest measurements using a @xmath4 source published by nagano _",
    "et al . _",
    "@xcite , determined the total fluorescence yield between 300  nm and 406  nm with a systematic uncertainty of 13.2% as the sum of the yields of 15 wave bands which were measured separately using narrow band filters .",
    "an improvement in the present level of accuracy and confidence is necessary , from measurements not subject to the same set of systematic uncertainties , especially since other systematics , like the atmospheric uncertainty , which depends on variable pressure profile , transparency , scattering , etc . ,",
    "are expected to be reduced significantly in the near future .",
    "new experiments using the fluorescence technique are beginning to take data , are in construction , or are being planned .",
    "these include the hybrid detectors of the pierre auger observatory  @xcite , and of the telescope array ( ta )  @xcite , or the space - based fluorescence detectors euso  @xcite and owl  @xcite .",
    "these experiments are designed to increase the detection aperture and statistics in the ultra high energy region .",
    "the hybrid detectors should also help to resolve the disagreements between the particle sampling technique and the fluorescence technique .",
    "independent measurements of the fluorescence yield of charged particles in air as presented in this paper , and refinements proposed to follow this work , will complete the picture .",
    "the test experiment presented in this paper , t-461 , was conducted at the stanford linear accelerator center ( slac ) to study the feasibility of a larger fluorescence experiment , flash .",
    "both experiments have since been installed in slac s final focus test beam ( fftb ) tunnel .",
    "flash aims to measure the net fluorescence yield as well as the yields of the individual spectral lines with a systematic uncertainty of less than 10%",
    ". measurements with mono - energetic electrons , and separately with electron - positron showers downstream of thick materials , are used to measure the fluorescence yield down to an electron energy of 100 kev@xcite .",
    "t-461 used only the mono - energetic beam approach and was designed to measure the total fluorescence yield between 300 and 400 nm using a uv bandpass filter as installed in the hires experiment . in the following section , the experimental setup of t-461 will be described in detail . in section [ sect - selection ] , the selection of good quality data is described .",
    "this is followed by a brief description of the calibration of the experimental setup in section [ sect - un - cal ] . the fluorescence yield measured in air and nitrogen",
    "is presented in section [ sect - results ] along with a list of the systematic errors which were studied . in the last section ,",
    "the t-461 results are compared with previous measurements and improvements are discussed for the full scale fluorescence experiment flash .",
    "the experiment t-461 was carried out in the final focus fest beam at slac .",
    "it was installed in an air gap of the beam pipe , approximately 35 cm long , downstream of the dump magnets .",
    "the beam is focused effectively at infinity in this region , so that the bremsstrahlung from the beam windows and thin experimental equipment in this region continues along the electron beam to the dump .",
    "in addition , since the thickness of the material in the beam was held below 1% of a radiation length , multiple scattering of beam particles into downstream collimators is negligible",
    ".    a beam spot size of about 2@xmath51  mm was generated in this region , with intensities between @xmath6 and 2 @xmath7 e@xmath8/pulse . between @xmath9 and @xmath6 electrons per pulse",
    ", the intensity is below the sensitivity of the beam position monitors and feedback becomes inoperative .",
    "nonetheless , intensities as low as @xmath9 were delivered for 24 hours during t-461 .",
    "however , the beam current measuring toroidal ferrite - core current transformer registered intensity variations of @xmath10 30% during this period . the toroid was calibrated using charge - injection on a one - turn winding .",
    "the accuracy was determined to be 10% for beam charges below 10@xmath11 e@xmath8 by cross comparison with a high - accuracy toroid during a subsequent flash run .",
    "the thin target installed in fftb during t-461 was a 1.6 liter air - filled cylinder , coaxial with the beam .",
    "the vessel had thin beam windows and radial ports to allow light to reach shielded photomultiplier tubes ( pmts ) as shown in figure  [ fig - illustration ] .",
    "the inside of the vessel was black - anodized and baffled to suppress all but direct light from the beam .",
    "the fluorescence light was detected in two independent radial tubes . in each",
    ", the optical aperture was defined by a slit near the beam axis , measured to be 1 cm parallel , and 1.7 cm perpendicular to it . in each tube , light passed through a series of circular apertures forming a baffle . at the far end of the 42.9  cm long",
    "baffle , the pmts were protected from scattered background radiation by using dielectric mirrors to reflect the fluorescence light through 90@xmath12 into the detector . there , the pmts were encased in a lead vault . as can be seen in figure  [ fig - illustration ] , a uv band pass filter from the high resolution fly s eye ( hires ) experiment was installed between the dielectric mirror and pmt .",
    "the pmts , philips ( now photonis ) xp3062/fl , are also the type used in the hires experiment .",
    "the optical unit including the mirror , uv filter , and pmt was calibrated at the university of utah after t-461 data taking was completed .    to monitor the stability of the pmt response in - situ ,",
    "ultraviolet leds were installed on arms opposite the detector arms .",
    "the leds were fired between beam pulses emitting light across the fluorescence cylinder . to measure beam induced backgrounds in the pmts , optically hooded  `` blind ''  pmts were mounted beside the `` live '' tubes .",
    "signals of the blind tubes were collected continuously along with the signals of the live tubes and normalized to the live signals by collecting data while the fluorescence chamber was filled with a non - fluorescing gas .",
    "the gas system allowed the flow of a premixed gas with a pressure in the vessel between 3 and 760 torr .",
    "the pressure was set manually , but monitored by computer during data taking .",
    "data for dry air and pure nitrogen were collected with flowing gas .",
    "data for various air - nitrogen mixtures were collected without flowing the gas through the chamber .    during t-461 ,",
    "a camac based daq system was used to collect the data .",
    "pulse amplitudes from the pmts and the beam toroid signal were recorded using lrs 2249w adcs from lecroy .",
    "pmt high voltage , pressure and temperature were digitized with the smart analog module , a 32-channel module used to digitize analog signals .",
    "altogether about 1 million events were recorded with a mean high voltage of 1186 v supplied to the pmts .",
    "the voltage was constrained to better than half a volt over the entire run period .    throughout the data taking , a special trigger , about once every 52 beam pulses ,",
    "was used to measure adc pedestals .",
    "the pedestal values were found to be stable around 45 and 47 counts for the north and south signal pmts , respectively . from each beam event",
    "the nearest pedestal measurement was subtracted .",
    "the pmt response was tracked throughout the data taking with ultraviolet leds .",
    "as for the pedestal events , led events were also taken once every 52 beam events .",
    "the response of the south pmt to the led was very stable ( around 2% ) during the experiment as seen in figure  [ fig - led_cut]a .",
    "similar to the pedestal subtraction scheme , each beam induced event was assigned the closest led reading .        in order to remove poor quality data and data with unstable detector response",
    ", the led data of the south pmt were fitted to a gaussian , see figure  [ fig - led_cut]b .",
    "beam data during time periods where led events were outside of @xmath13 of the fitted mean were removed from the data set .",
    "the @xmath13 band is represented by two dashed lines in figure  [ fig - led_cut]a .",
    "less than 1.5% of the data were excluded by this requirement ( see table  [ table - cuts ] ) .",
    ".efficiency of the main preselection requirements imposed on the t-461 data .",
    "see section  [ sect - selection ] for details . [ cols= \" < , > \" , ]",
    "the strong saturation of the fluorescence yield in the pressure range up to atmospheric ( fig .",
    "[ fig - yield fit ] ) is caused by collisional de - excitation of the nitrogen molecules .",
    "this statistical process enforces exponential decay times on the excited states .",
    "the basic formalism is the same as in the previous section and in terms of decay lifetimes , @xmath14 , may be given as @xmath15 . here",
    "@xmath16 is the same as in eq .",
    "[ eq - fy - pdep ] and @xmath17 is the decay time in the absence of collisions , for example at very low pressure .",
    "most of the wavelengths in this study are transitions in the second positive bands , and may be expected to have similar decay properties .",
    "the 1n transition at 391 nm may be different , but accounts for a small fraction of the light at our pressures .",
    "in this experiment , decay effects are averaged over the detected wavelengths .",
    "an overall dependence of the decay time on pressure was indeed observed . as a way of studying it ,",
    "photomultiplier pulse profiles were recorded at various gas pressures , using a digital oscilloscope . typically 16 pulses were averaged .",
    "the dependence of decay time on pressure was very obvious , as is illustrated by the pulses shown in fig .",
    "[ fig - pulse-1 ] for air at 5 and 748 torr .",
    "in order to process the data , the small effect of beam induced background in the pmt was removed . as described in section  [ sect - selection ] , this was accomplished by using pulse shapes recorded while the test vessel was filled with ethylene , corresponding to that part of the signal not from the gas fluorescence . suitably normalized to the correct beam intensity , this was subtracted , sample by sample , from the fluorescence pulse profiles .",
    "the effect was noticeable only below 30 torr , and especially in air which gives smaller signals .",
    "the next step was to record the pmt intrinsic pulse shape , which was measured using an sr@xmath18 source to make picosecond long pulses of cherenkov light in the tube face .",
    "for computational purposes , this shape was parametrized by a well fitting asymmetric probability distribution , pearson iv @xcite .",
    "( other functions would have fitted almost as well . ) the intrinsic shape was then folded with hypothetical light pulses which turned on instantly ( corresponding to the slac picosecond electron pulse length ) but decayed exponentially .",
    "the folding was repeated for a range of decay times of the light , and , for each case , the width of the folded pulse at half maximum ( fwhm ) was taken to characterize the pulse shape .    using this calibration , the measured fwhm values of the actual data pulse profiles",
    "were transformed to the light decay times .",
    "values for air and nitrogen are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig - pulse-2 ] .",
    "the nitrogen data below 30 torr were excluded because of uncertainty about the effect of a small air leak in the system .",
    "uncertainties at each point were estimated for the fwhm measurements and the background subtraction , and scaled , after fitting , so that @xmath19 was equal to the number of degrees of freedom .",
    "fitting to the functional form above allows us to obtain the values for decay times at `` zero pressure '' ( i.e. in the absence of collisional de - excitation ) of @xmath20  ns for air and @xmath21  ns for nitrogen . at atmospheric pressure ,",
    "the values found are @xmath22  ns for air , and @xmath23  ns for nitrogen .",
    "the values for p are @xmath24  torr for air and @xmath25 for nitrogen .",
    "the nitrogen value is significantly lower than that obtained from the yield curve .",
    "this may be related to our assumption that all the emission lines can be treated by a single average parameter .",
    "differences between them would distort the decay time and yield fits differently , especially given the extrapolation below 30 torr .",
    "in future work we intend to measure the lines separately .        in the case of nitrogen ,",
    "numerous measurements of the `` zero pressure '' decay lifetimes have been reported for various wavelength bands , mostly after excitation by proton beams .",
    "results , summarized by dotchin et al .",
    "@xcite , show values in the range 34 to 48 ns .",
    "a measurement at @xmath26 torr observed 58 ns  @xcite .",
    "recently , however , nagano and collaborators  @xcite , using electrons to excite the nitrogen , report lower values .",
    "they give values in six wavelength bands , approximately covering the spectral range of our data .",
    "to allow a comparison between the two experiments , we have weighted the decay time for each of nagano s wavebands by its relative intensity and taken a weighted average .",
    "their average value for nitrogen is then @xmath27 ns . a similar average of their results for air is @xmath28 ns . our life time measurements agree well with nagano and collaborators , but not with the earlier proton beam experiments .",
    "figure  [ fig - dedx ] shows the total fluorescence yield between 300 and 400 nm per electron in air at 760  torr and 29@xmath12c calculated in this paper as well as the yields reported by kakimoto  @xcite and nagano  @xcite .",
    "the yields are plotted versus the energy of the electrons injected in a thin air target and together with two de / dx curves .",
    "the line shows the energy loss of electrons in air as calculated based on reference  @xcite , while the dashed line represents the energy deposit of an electron in a 1  cm thick slab of air as calculated by geant  3  @xcite .",
    "the conversion from de / dx to fluorescence yield was found by performing a @xmath29 fit of the energy deposit to the various measurements . as can be seen",
    ", there is good agreement over four decades in electron energy .",
    "the overall uncertainty of the t-461 result of 16.6% is dominated by systematic effects .",
    "those will be reduced in future fluorescence measurements at slac by improvements in the calibration of the light detectors and beam toroid . among other things",
    ", it is planned to derive an end - to - end calibration of the thin target chamber from first principles using rayleigh scattering of a nitrogen laser beam of known energy sent through the chamber .",
    "the experimental program will also be supplemented with a spectrally resolved measurement of the fluorescence light yield between 290 and 440 nm and an energy dependent yield measurement in which the electron beam is injected in an air - like target material of variable thicknesses to produce confined electromagnetic showers at various shower depths .",
    "we are indebted to the slac accelerator operations staff for their expertise in meeting the unusual beam requirements , and to personnel of the experimental facilities department for very professional assistance in preparation and installation of the equipment .",
    "we also gratefully acknowledge the many contributions from the technical staffs of our home institutions .",
    "this work was supported in part by the u.s .",
    "department of energy under contract number de - ac02 - 76sf00515 as well as by the national science foundation under awards nsf phy-0245428 , nsf phy-0305516 , nsf phy-0307098 , and nsf phy-0400053 .",
    "s.  argiro , eur .",
    "j.  c * 33 * ( 2004 ) s947 ; + j.  abraham _ et al .",
    "_ , nucl .",
    "instrum .",
    "a * 523 * ( 2004 ) 50 ; + a.  etchegoyen , astrophys .",
    "space sci .",
    "* 290 * ( 2004 ) 379 ; + m.  kleifges , nucl .",
    "instrum .",
    "meth .  * a 518 * ( 2004 ) 180 ; + d.  v.  camin , nucl .",
    "instrum .",
    "meth .  * a 518 * ( 2004 ) 172 .",
    "m.  fukushima , _",
    "institute for cosmic ray research mid - term ( 2004 - 2009 ) maintenance plan proposal book `` cosmic ray telescope project '' _ , tokyo university ( 2002 ) ; + f.  kakimoto _ et al .",
    "_ , _ prepared for 28th international cosmic ray conferences ( icrc 2003 ) , tsukuba , japan , 31 jul - 7 aug 2003_.      l.  scarsi , _",
    "prepared for 26th international cosmic ray conference ( icrc 1999 ) , salt lake city , utah , 17 - 25 aug 1999 _ , proceedings vol .",
    "* 2 * , 384 ; + j.  linsley , _",
    "prepared for 26th international cosmic ray conference ( icrc 1999 ) , salt lake city , utah , 17 - 25 aug 1999 _ , proceedings vol .",
    "* 2 * , 423 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in a test experiment at the final focus test beam of the stanford linear accelerator center , the fluorescence yield of 28.5 gev electrons in air and nitrogen was measured . </S>",
    "<S> the measured photon yields between 300 and 400 nm at 1  atm and 29@xmath0c are @xmath1 photons per electron per meter . assuming that the fluorescence yield is proportional to the energy deposition of a charged particle traveling through air , good agreement with measurements at lower particle energies is observed .    </S>",
    "<S> nitrogen fluorescence , air fluorescence , extensive air shower , ultrahigh - energy cosmic rays    95.55.vj , 96.40.pq , 96.40.de , 32.50.+d </S>"
  ]
}