{
  "article_text": [
    "cp emitting compact radio sources like quasars , blazars , radio galaxies , and micro - quasars will be summarised in the following under the general term quasar , assuming that a similar mechanism produces cp in most of them .",
    "the level of cp is @xmath5 and below , usually ( but not in the case of sgra@xmath2 ) much lower than the level of lp .",
    "cp is highly time variable on the one hand , but on the other hand it often exhibits a very persistent rotational sense ( per source and at nearly all frequencies where detected ) , which is constant on timescales of decades and grs  1915 + 105 .",
    "sgra@xmath2 exhibited a stable cp sign on a timescale ( 20 years ) which is 5 orders of magnitude longer than the dynamical timescale of the accretion flow close to the black hole ( @xmath6 h ) .",
    "grs  1915 + 105 was observed to exhibit a lp - rotator event , but no change in the sign of cp @xcite .",
    "however , counter - examples seem to exist , e.g. a cp sign reversal seems to be observed during the onset of a radiation outburst of gro j1655 - 40 in 1994 . ]",
    "@xcite , although exceptions exist .",
    "these timescales are far in excess of the dynamical timescale of the central quasar engine from which the emission originates .",
    "synchrotron radiation from relativistic electrons produces lp , but only a very small and usually negligible amount of cp .",
    "a number of mechanisms have been proposed to explain the observed cp , among which fc of lp to cp seems to be the most likely process .",
    "fc of synchrotron emission is a two - step process , since the emitted polarisation state has to be rotated before it can be faraday converted into cp .",
    "this can happen by fr , as discussed by e.g. ref . and",
    "@xcite , or it can be done by a systematic geometrical rotation of the magnetic field along the los @xcite .    the motivation for the standpoint adopted here , the assumption that the rotation of lp is a geometric effect rather than fr , is the observational fact that cp changes are very rare , much more rare than lp rotator events , and that a predominant cp sign seems to be persistent in many sources .",
    "as explained in the following , this observational fact requires in the fr based models a constant magnetic polarity in the emission region over timescales far in excess of the dynamical timescale of the central engine , since the sign of cp depends on the magnetic field polarity in such models . in the geometrical model discussed here ,",
    "the cp sign is fully determined by the stable rotational sense of the central engine .",
    "before going into the mathematical formalism , we demonstrate how the predominant sign of cp and its relation to the rotational sense of the quasar engine can be understood qualitatively in the proposed scenario .",
    "1 illustrates the geometry .",
    "twisted magnetic fields are expected to be a natural ingredient of any quasar central engine due to the rotational nature of the accretion flow .",
    "a helically twisted magnetic field is expected to be present in jet outflows , especially if jets are magneto - hydrodynamically launched @xcite , but also otherwise , due to decreasing rotation speed of the sideways expanding outflow .",
    "further , if the radio emission of a quasar would be produced in an adaf flows ( although this is not the most natural scenario ) twisted magnetic fields with the same helicity as in the jet case can be expected .",
    "a converging flow onto a black hole spins up due to angular momentum conservation and should stretch magnetic fields so that they get the same handedness as in the jet case @xcite .",
    "linearly polarised synchrotron light has to traverse foreground magnetic fields , which are inclined with respect to the emitting magnetic fields due to the magnetic helicity .",
    "the angle between the linearly polarised radio emission and the local magnetic field therefore deviates from 90@xmath7 .",
    "since this does not correspond to a fundamental electromagnetic mode in the plasma , the wave has to be described as a superposition of the fundamental modes .",
    "the two fundamental modes of electromagnetic waves travelling ( nearly ) perpendicular to a magnetic field in a plasma are the linear polarisation states with electric fields oscillating in a plane which is parallel or perpendicular to the local magnetic field direction .",
    "these two modes have different phase velocities since the plasma electrons can respond more freely to an electric field oscillating parallel to the background magnetic field than to an electric field which tries to push the electrons in a direction perpendicular to the magnetic field . due to the stronger reaction of electrons on parallel lp , their radiative back - reaction onto the propagating wave is stronger compared to the perpendicular lp case .",
    "thereby the parallel lp components is delayed with respect to the perpendicular one . the resulting wave is elliptically polarised , therefore having a cp component .    if the modification of the wave is a small effect , the handedness of the cp is uniquely determined . as can be read off from the figure , but also comes out of a more rigorous calculation , the rotation of the electrical field of the observed wave is retrograde with respect to the rotational sense of the accretion disc ( rotation is measured in all cases in the plane of the sky ) .",
    "numerical experiments indicate that even in the case of strong modification the sign of cp often follows this rule @xcite .",
    "the evolution of the stokes polarisation parameters @xmath8 along a given los ( here defining the @xmath9-axis ) is governed by @xmath10 , where @xmath11 is the emissivity and @xmath12 the absorption coefficient of radiation with stokes parameter @xmath13 . the emission and absorption coefficients for stokes-@xmath14 , counter - clockwise or positively rotating for @xmath3 . ] are much smaller than the ones for stokes-@xmath15 . ) or parallel ( @xmath16 ) electric oscillation with respect to the sky - projected magnetic field . ]",
    "a special coordinate frame is adopted here , in which the sky - projected magnetic field is parallel to the @xmath17-axis ( @xmath18 ) , which leads to vanishing synchrotron emission and absorption coefficients for stokes-@xmath19 .",
    "inclined to the sky - projected magnetic fields . ]",
    "note , that in inhomogeneous magnetic fields the local coordinate frame rotates along the los in order to keep the @xmath17-axis aligned with the sky projected field .",
    "the effect of this rotation on the stokes parameter is included in @xmath20 which describes the rate of lp rotation along the los due to the rotation of the coordinate frame .",
    "@xmath21 is the position angle of the sky - projected magnetic field in a fixed ( non - varying ) coordinate frame .",
    "is a random variable with zero mean .",
    "however , if there is a systematic twist in the magnetic fields along the los @xmath22 has a preferred sign .",
    "the sign of @xmath22 does not depend on the polarity of the field , only on the handedness of the twist along the los . ]",
    "the fr coefficient reads @xmath23 where @xmath24 gives the effective faraday - active leptonic charge density . for a non - relativistic plasma @xmath24",
    "is identical to the leptonic charge density @xmath25 , and for a relativistic plasma @xmath26 with a constant of proportionality smaller than one .",
    "is the @xmath0 number density respectively . in the relativistic case an identical spectral distribution of the two species",
    "is assumed , otherwise they enter @xmath27 with different proportionality factors . ]",
    "the sign of fr depends on the sign of @xmath28 and on the direction of the magnetic field component along the los ( @xmath29 ) .",
    "the fc coefficient @xmath30 is sensitive to the total number of leptonic charge carriers @xmath31 ( with a proportionality constant of one in the non - relativistic and smaller than one in the relativistic case ) and the square of the perpendicular field strength @xmath32 .",
    "since both numbers are always positive , @xmath33 is always negative ( or zero ) .",
    "since both faraday coefficients strongly increase with wavelength their importance is largest at lowest frequencies , possibly explaining why cp is often detected close to the synchrotron - self - absorption frequency . in an @xmath1 plasma with diagonal magnetic fields ( latexmath:[$|b_y| \\sim    the fc coefficient , except for extremely high field strength or extremely low frequencies .",
    "both are not expected in our case .    since there is no direct conversion of @xmath15 synchrotron emission to @xmath14 ( the corresponding matrix element in eq .",
    "[ eq : master ] is zero ) cp has to be produced via a two - step conversion in this setting : after rotation ( due to twist or fr ) of @xmath15 into @xmath19 it is further converted by fc to @xmath14 .    in a relatively homogeneous source",
    "the sign of @xmath14 depends only on the sign of @xmath35 and therefore on the polarity of the magnetic field with respect to the los in the case that fr dominates , or on the magnetic helicity , if fr is sufficiently suppressed .",
    "the total rotational depth ( @xmath36 ) should be sufficiently high on the one hand , but on the other hand it should be not too large within the converting region , otherwise the continued rotation changes the sign of @xmath19 , which leads to the production of @xmath14 with the opposite sign and therefore cancelling of cp . to have this condition met for fr in the right frequency range requires some level of fine - tuning . in the case that @xmath35 is dominated by the helical contribution , typical expected geometries give @xmath37 , which is ideal for cp production : an effective cp production can be achieved if both @xmath38 and @xmath39 are simultaneously of the order one , since @xmath40 for @xmath41 and @xmath42 within an optically thin region is a coarse approximation , leading to @xmath43 . ] , and much less than this if @xmath44 and/or @xmath45 due to over - rotation and/or over - conversion .    * fr based cp generation : * ref .",
    "and @xcite demonstrated that a significant cp production can be achieved even in the case of a very large microscopic fr coefficient if the magnetic field is mostly stochastic .",
    "the contributions of @xmath46 with differing signs due to magnetic field reversals can cancel each other , leaving only a small total faraday depth @xmath47 due to an assumed weak mean field .",
    "the strength and sign of this mean field determines the strength and sign of the resulting cp respectively .",
    "although some fine - tuning is also necessary in this scenario in order to simultaneously have the right order of fr and fc , the larger number of free parameters ( field strength and coherence length , ratio of mean to stochastic field components , @xmath27 , @xmath48 ) provides a sufficiently large parameter space to make this scenario a plausible explanation for the observed cp for a wide range of objects .",
    "@xcite showed that this approach can produce cp in the case of an @xmath1 and also in the case of a ( charge - asymmetric ) @xmath0 plasma .",
    "however , in order to explain the long - term stability of the observed sign of @xmath14 it has to be assumed in their model that the weak magnetic mean flux has to retain its polarity .",
    "this might surprise , since the dynamical time scales in several of the observed systems are orders of magnitudes smaller than the time - scale over which stability of the sign of @xmath14 could be established .",
    "furthermore , the large fluctuations in @xmath14 indicate strong temporal variations in the strength of the mean field",
    ". since the latter should be dynamically unimportant , its stable polarity may be best explained if it results from an environmental large scale field , which gets dragged into the central engine .",
    "* magnetic helicity based cp generation * requires fr rotation to be sufficiently suppressed",
    ". this could be due to a vanishing leptonic charge density ( @xmath28 ) as expected for a @xmath0 plasma , or due to the presence of aligned , separate or nested flux tubes ( with a global large scale twist ) with independently oriented ( but aligned ) internal magnetic fields . as ref .",
    "and @xcite showed for the stochastic field case , this can strongly reduce the faraday depth also in the case of a large microscopic @xmath46 . in their cases , some fine - tuning was required since fr should be somehow suppressed , but not completely , leaving to sufficient fr from @xmath15 to @xmath19 .",
    "this fine - tuning is not required here , since the geometrical rotation provides @xmath15 to @xmath19 rotation even in the case of fully suppressed fr .",
    "@xmath33 is not affected by los reversals of the magnetic field direction , since it only depends on the invariant @xmath32 .",
    "a typical geometry is sketched in fig . 1 for an approaching jet , which is rotating positively ( in sky - projection )",
    ". the rotation sense of the sky - projected magnetic fields seen by a photon flying from its emission point ( where the synchrotron process provided it with @xmath49 ) to the observer is therefore also positive , leading to @xmath50 in this geometry .",
    "thus , in our limit @xmath51 we obtain @xmath52 since @xmath53 always . in this picture",
    "a positively rotating approaching jet emits negatively ( clockwise ) rotating circularly polarised light .",
    "since the counter jets should exhibit an oppositely twisted magnetic field , it should produce cp of the opposite sign .",
    "however , the approaching jet dominates the total emission due to relativistic beaming so that its cp emission dominates the cp of both jets .",
    "we can conclude that the rotation of the received photons of a synchrotron emitting jet source are expected to be retrograde to  and therefore reveal  the sense of rotation of the central engine , which is the rotation of the accretion disk and/or the black hole .",
    "a helical magnetic field can produce circularly polarised synchrotron emission due to fc .",
    "if fr is sufficiently suppressed the sense of cp rotation is expected to be opposite to the one of the central engine .",
    "the required fr suppression can be due to a charge symmetric @xmath0 plasma , in which fr is absent , or due to small - scale magnetic field polarity changes which produce cancelling fr contributions , but do not affect fc if the different flux tubes show alignment .",
    "the proposed model as the following properties :    1 .",
    "the sign of the cp does not depend on the presence of a mean field , but on geometrical properties of the flow pattern in the central engine of a quasar , which are fixed by the system s angular momentum .",
    "this may explain naturally the observed sign persistence of the cp over periods which exceed the dynamical timescales of the system by orders of magnitude .",
    "the requirement that the rotation of the angle between lp and projected magnetic field is of the order one ( not much higher , since over - rotation reduces cp , not much lower in order to have fc operating ) within the optically thin part of the emission region , is naturally fulfilled by the geometrical properties of jet and adaf flows .",
    "cp is still converted lp in this scenario , so that the variability of cp should exceed the one of lp as observed .",
    "4 .   the mechanism can work in jets and in adafs .",
    "it is able to produce cp in an @xmath0 and in an e / p plasma .",
    "the relatively large robustness of the mechanism to variations in the underlying source properties may explain why cp appears in a large variety of very different systems , such as micro - quasars , low luminosity agns , and powerful quasars .",
    "there are conditions , under which the here proposed relation between the ( predominant ) rotational sense of cp and the rotation of the central engine is not valid anymore .",
    "if the emission region contains an e / p plasma , the occurrence of a mean magnetic field  either as a statistical fluctuation , or due to some physical reason  can increase the average faraday depth and lead to a cp reversal . external cp generation from lp due to environmental scintillation",
    "also can mask the intrinsic cp signature of a quasar . also within the scenario in which cp is due to bending in magnetic fields , cp sign reversals are possible , whenever the magnetic twist within the emission region is not linked to the central engine rotation .",
    "this may happen temporarily in violent shocks in a jet outflow , and would suggest that cp sign reversals of this origin are likely accompanying emission outbursts of the source .",
    "this may explain the observed cp sign reversal in gro j1655 - 40 during an outburst in 1994 , as reported by .",
    "] however , the rarity of cp sign reversals indicate that such conditions should be exceptional , if cp is due to the here proposed mechanism .      1 .",
    "the sign of cp from a quasar measures the rotation direction of the quasar s engine .",
    "the electric vector of radio emission should rotate retrograde in the sky - plane with respect to the engine rotation .",
    "positive @xmath14 polarisations implies therefore positive @xmath54 counter - clockwise rotation ( on the sky ) of the engine .",
    "2 .   thus , we expect sgra@xmath2 , which exhibited @xmath3 during the last 20 years , to rotate clockwise .",
    "this is retrograde with respect to the galactic rotation and the rotation of the molecular gas cloud in the galactic centre .",
    "however , it has the same rotation sense as the population of young hot hei stars in its direct vicinity @xcite , which were proposed to feed sgra@xmath2 via their stellar winds @xcite .",
    "conservation of angular momentum in this wind should lead to a retrograde ( clockwise ) rotating accretion disk .",
    "we expect the microquasars grs  1915 + 105 and ss  433 ( both exhibit @xmath3 ) also to rotate clockwise , and we could give corresponding expectations for the other sources with detected cp .",
    "4 .   the predominant sign of cp should be temporally constant . if the model is correct , quasar - like cp sources should only exhibit cp flips under exceptional circumstances .",
    "cp from the counter jet should have opposite handedness than cp from the approaching jet .",
    "this prediction may allow a discrimination of the presented model from fr based scenarios , since in the latter the same predominant cp sign is expected from both jets for a dipole - like mean field component .",
    "if the scenario of cp production proposed here could be demonstrated to be operatively in quasars , it would give us a tool to measure the sense of rotation of the most powerful and enigmatic engines of the universe  the violent matter flows in the direct vicinity of black holes  by simply looking at the spin of the received photons .",
    "i acknowledge useful discussions with f.  meyer , s.  heinz , h.  spruit , r.p .",
    "fender , t.  beckert , h.  falcke , and c.  pfrommer .",
    "i am grateful for having the opportunity to contribute to these proceedings without having participated in the workshop .",
    "\\(5 ) fender , r.  p. , d. rayner , d.  g. mccormick , t.  w.  b. muxlow , g.  g. pooley , r.  j. sault , and r.  e. spencer : 2002 , ` variable circular polarization associated with relativistic ejections from grs 1915 + 105 ' ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> many compact radio sources like quasars , blazars , radio galaxies , and micro - quasars emit circular polarisation ( cp ) with surprising temporal persistent handedness . </S>",
    "<S> we propose that the cp is caused by faraday conversion ( fc ) of linear polarisation ( lp ) synchrotron light which propagates along a line - of - sight ( los ) through helical magnetic fields . </S>",
    "<S> jet outflows from radio galaxies should have the required magnetic helicity in the emission region due to the magnetic torque of the accretion disc . </S>",
    "<S> also advection dominated accretion flow ( adaf ) should contain magnetic fields with the same helicity . </S>",
    "<S> however , a jet region seems to be the more plausible origin of cp . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed scenario requires faraday rotation ( fr ) to be insignificant in the emission region . </S>",
    "<S> the proposed mechanism works in electron - positron ( @xmath0 ) as well as electron - proton ( @xmath1 ) plasma . in the latter case , </S>",
    "<S> the emission region should consist of individual flux tubes with independent polarities in order to suppress too strong fr  as it was already proposed for fr based cp generation models . </S>",
    "<S> the predominant cp is expected to mostly counter - rotate ( rotation is measured here in sky - projection ) with respect to the central engine in all cases ( jet or adaf , @xmath0 or @xmath1 plasma ) and therefore allows to measure the sense of rotation of quasar engines . </S>",
    "<S> the engine of sgra@xmath2 is expected  in this scenario  to rotate clockwise and therefore counter - galactic , as do the young hot stars in its vicinity , which are thought to feed sgra@xmath2 by their winds . </S>",
    "<S> generally , sources with stokes-@xmath3 ( @xmath4 ) are expected to rotate clockwise ( counter - clockwise ) . </S>"
  ]
}