{
  "article_text": [
    "several models have been proposed to characterize the projected galaxy density in clusters of galaxies .",
    "most of these models assume spherical symmetry and that the matter distribution is traced by galaxies .",
    "the first assumption can be true for a sub - sample of clusters , while the second is more difficult to quantify and is close related with different processes like galaxy formation , galaxy evolution , dynamical friction , etc .",
    "assuming that the galaxy velocity dispersion is well represented by an isothermal sphere , king ( 1962 ) proposed a model to describe the galaxy projected density profile .",
    "more recently , navarro , frenk and white ( 1995 , hereafter nfw95 ) analysing high - resolution n - body simulations propose an universal profile for dark matter halos .",
    "these authors found that their model can appropriately describe the mass density profiles for a large range of masses .",
    "the observational evidence coming from the giant arcs in clusters can be used to introduce constrains to the mass distribution in the core of clusters ( navarro , frenk and white 1997 ) .",
    "strong lensing effects require a very small core radii , that in principle can be consistent with the nfw mass profile .",
    "nevertheless , very high resolution cosmological simulations produce density profiles with inner slopes @xmath2 that are steeper than the obtained from nfw ( slope of @xmath3 near the center ) ( moore et al . 1998 ) .",
    "it is not clear whether the galaxy density profile will follow the mass , in particular in the very core of clusters where the scales of galaxies impose the resolution limit .",
    "the controversy among different models to describe both , the mass and galaxy profile is still open and more observational evidences are needed .",
    "adami et al . ( 1998 ) studied the galaxy density profiles for an important sample of rich clusters of galaxies .",
    "one of the main clue of this work was to investigate whether the galaxy distributions have cores ( like king profile ) or cups ( nfw profile ) . based on redshift information taken from enacs ( eso nearby abell cluster survey , katgert et al . 1998 ) and projected galaxy distribution coming from cosmos ( macgillivray & yentis , 1994 ) adami et al .",
    "1998 conclude that in general the king profile provides a better representation of the data than the nfw profile .",
    "bartelman ( 1996 ) derived the analytic expression for the surface mass density of the nfw profile while lokas & mamon ( 2001 ) provide the tools for modeling the nfw profile and give predictions for different observational quantities .",
    "independently of any analytical model the 3d profile can be derived applying a deprojection method similar to those implemented for the x - ray analysis of the hot intra - cluster gas ( allen & fabian 1997 ) .",
    "most of the previous analysis on galaxy density profiles consider galaxies regardless their properties .",
    "the effect of morphological segregation ( ms ) , ( dressler 1980 , whitmore & gilmore 1991 , dominguez , muriel & lambas 2001 ) implies that different galaxy populations will have different galaxy density profiles .",
    "ms works were carried out analysing the bidimensional ( 2-d ) galaxy fractions of different morphological types . in order to recover the 3d ms , the spatial ( 3-d ) galaxy density profiles for each morphological type should be previously known .",
    "salvador - sole and sanrom ( 1989 ) have analysed the observed correlation between morphological fractions and the projected density of galaxies .",
    "they found that this correlation is a consequence of an intrinsic 3d effect that is dependent on cluster concentration .",
    "using the merchn & zandivarez ( 2002 ) group catalog constructed from the early data release of the 2df galaxy redshift survey , dominguez et al .",
    "( 2002 ) derive the relative fraction of galaxies with different spectral types as a function of local galaxy density and group - centric distance .",
    "these authors found that for high mass groups ( @xmath4 ) a strong dependence of the relative fraction of spectral types on both , galaxy density and group - centric radius is observed .",
    "the aim of this paper is to determine the projected and the 3-d galaxy group density profiles for different spectral types .",
    "we also derive the intrinsic 3-d ms that results from the observed 2-d ms .",
    "the observational results are compared with those obtained from different analytical models .",
    "this paper is outlined as follows : the deprojection method to apply on projected density profiles is described in section 2 .",
    "the galaxy and group data in the 2df galaxy redshift survey and the sloan digital sky survey is quoted in section 3 .",
    "the mock catalog tests made for the projected density profile estimator and the subsequent application to observational data are carried out in section 4 .",
    "the derivation of the 3-d density profiles and the estimation of 3-d galaxy fractions are described in section 5 .",
    "finally , in section 6 we summarize our conclusions .",
    "we use collisionless cosmological numerical simulations of flat , low density , cold dark matter universes performed using the hydra n - body code developed by couchman et al .",
    "simulations are constructed with @xmath5 particles in a cubic comoving volume of @xmath6 per side starting at @xmath7 .",
    "the adopted cosmological model corresponds to an universe with a present day matter density @xmath8 , vacuum energy density @xmath9 , initial spectral slope @xmath10 , @xmath11 , hubble constant @xmath12 with @xmath13 and an amplitude of mass fluctuations of @xmath14 .",
    "groups used in this section were , initially , identified using a standard friend of friend finder algorithm with density contrast of @xmath15 corresponding to a linking length of @xmath16,where @xmath17 is the mean density number of particles ; after that we select high mass groups , spanning a mass range from @xmath18 to @xmath19 .",
    "the final sample consists of @xmath20 groups .    in an attempt to increase the statistical significance ,",
    "we combine all groups to produce a composite set of dark matter ( dm ) particles , properly scaled to take into account the different group sizes and masses .",
    "the composite sample was made assuming that all groups obey the same type of density profile but with different scales .",
    "hence , it is necessary to introduce two parameters : one of them to normalize the group - centric distances and the other to normalize the masses . for convenience ,",
    "we adopt the radius at which the mean interior density is 200 times the mean density of the universe ( @xmath21 ) as the normalization scale and the mass contained in @xmath21 ( @xmath22 ) as the mass normalization .",
    "we measure the projected density profile for the composite sample as a function of the normalized radii @xmath1 .",
    "the binning scheme used through all this work is the equal number binning . the measured density profile will be compared with the analytical function obtained by nfw97 .",
    "the 3-d nfw97 density profile is described by the following equation :    @xmath23    where @xmath24 is the critical density for closure , @xmath25 is the concentration of the halo , and @xmath26 is the characteristic density ( see eq . 2 of nfw97 ) . through all this work we use a projection of the equation [ nfw ] obtained by numerical integration along the line of sight .",
    "upper panel of figure [ fig1 ] shows the projected density profile normalized to the number of groups involved in each bin ( long dashed line ) measured for the composite sample .",
    "the dot - dashed lines are the projected nfw profiles corresponding to different values of the @xmath25 parameter ( @xmath27 and @xmath28 ) .",
    "these @xmath25 values are associated with a wide range of masses ( @xmath29 ) . in the lower panel",
    "it can be seen , in long dashed line , the comparison between the measured profile and the analytical nfw profiles , plotted as the ratio @xmath30 . left to the vertical line in figure [ fig1 ]",
    "the densities are underestimated due to the uncertainty in the location of the group geometric center .",
    "an improvement of the group geometric center estimation can be obtained increasing @xmath31 in the group identification , which produces groups with geometric centers closer to the overdensity peaks .",
    "the measured projected density profile for groups identified with @xmath32 is plotted in the upper panel of figure [ fig1 ] ( short - dashed line ) .",
    "this profile has a very good agreement with the nfw predictions .",
    "we also show in dots the density profiles for each group .",
    "this procedure for improving the group geometric center is not feasible in observational surveys , since the number of groups identified is strongly decreased for high overdensities and this affects the reliability of the results .",
    "hence , it is important to find another method to correct the group center positions and keeping constant the number of groups .",
    "the procedure adopted for the estimation of the new group centers takes into account the projected local number densities at the position of each particle ( galaxy , when dealing with observational data ) .",
    "a first estimation of the center is obtained by the following equation : @xmath33 where @xmath34 is the number of particle members of each group , @xmath35 is the projected local density in the position of the @xmath36 particle and @xmath37 is the mean projected local density .",
    "the projected local density for the @xmath36 particle is computed using the projected circular area which contains the @xmath17 nearest particles .",
    "we use the values of @xmath38 in the simulation and @xmath39 in the catalogs ( domnguez et al . 2002 ) .",
    "this procedure improves the center location , but in some cases it is not enough to match the identified group centers with the corresponding overdensity peaks .",
    "consequently , we adopt an iterative procedure as follow :    1 .",
    "using the geometric center position ( @xmath40 ) we determine the distance @xmath41 to the farthest particle / galaxy .",
    "2 .   after the computation of @xmath42",
    "we reject all the particles / galaxies with distances to @xmath42 greater than @xmath41",
    ". then we estimate @xmath43 for the remaining particles / galaxies .",
    "we calculate @xmath44 for the new group using the equation [ rcentro ] and applying the same procedures as described in item 2 .",
    "the iteration must go on until @xmath45 .",
    "finally , after @xmath46 iterations , the group center obtained is @xmath47 . besides the improvement in the determination of the center position , the proposed method also correct the group merging problem produced by the process of identification , in other words ,",
    "groups with two or more overdensity peaks are cleaned , preserving the highest peak .",
    "we use this method to determine the centers for the groups identified with @xmath48 . the density profile obtained for the corrected sample",
    "is shown in solid line in the upper panel of figure [ fig1 ] .",
    "it can be seen that our center estimator allows us to reproduce the density profile obtained using @xmath32 , with the advantage of keeping constant the number of groups identified with @xmath48 .",
    "the agreement with the nfw predictions can also be observed in the lower panel of this figure ( solid line curves ) .      from the projected density profile we calculate the 3-dimensional profile applying a deprojection method similar to that developed by allen & fabian ( 1997 ) .",
    "the deprojection analysis assumes spherical symmetry .",
    "the method is a matter of dividing the spatial distribution into a series of @xmath17 concentric spherical shells .",
    "the projected number of galaxies @xmath49 in the @xmath50 cylindrical bin can be considered as the contribution of different spherical shells , which can be calculated as the 3-d numerical density of each shell , @xmath51 , multiplied by the corresponding volume @xmath52 : @xmath53 where @xmath52 is the volume corresponding to the intersection of a spherical shell with inner radius @xmath54 and outer radius @xmath55 and a cylindrical shell with radii @xmath56 ( inner ) , @xmath57 ( outer ) .",
    "since the projected density in the last cylindrical shell is only dependent on the 3-d density of the outer spherical shell , equation [ denreal ] can be used to obtain the 3-d density profile @xmath58 from outer to inner shells : @xmath59 in order to test the method reliability we apply it to the composite sample made with dm groups identified in n - body simulations .",
    "the derived 3-d density profile is shown in figure [ fig2 ] ( solid line ) and it is compared with the 3-d profile directly measured in simulations . from this comparison",
    "we can observe a perfect recover of the 3-d density profile .",
    "at present , the largest samples of galaxies with spectroscopic redshift determinations are the 2dfgrs ( 2 degree field galaxy redshift survey ) and the sdss ( sloan digital sky survey ) . in this work",
    "we use both catalogs in order to obtain the largest samples of groups and increase the reliability of our results .",
    "the 2df survey covers 1500 @xmath60 with a median depth of @xmath61 .",
    "the complete 2dfgrs consists of @xmath62 galaxies in two declination strips and 2-degree random fields scattered around the southern galactic pole ( sgp ) strip .",
    "the galaxies were taken from an improved version of the apm galaxy survey ( maddox et al .",
    ", 1990a , b ; maddox , efstathiou & sutherland , 1996 ) .",
    "the sky coverage of the 2dfgrs is not uniform ( a detailed completeness description is given by colless et al .",
    ", 2001 ; see also http://www.mso.anu.edu .",
    "au/2dfgrs/ ) . galaxies in this survey also have a spectral classification given by the parameter @xmath63 based on a principal component analysis as described by madgwick et al .",
    "( 2002 ) .",
    "recently , the sloan digital sky survey has validated and made publicly available the first data release ( abazajian et al .",
    "2003 ) which is a photometric and spectroscopic survey constructed with a dedicated @xmath64 telescope at apache point observatory in new mexico .",
    "the first data release consist of @xmath65 of five - band ( @xmath66 ) imaging data and 186240 spectra of galaxies , quasars and stars . in this work",
    "we mainly use the spectroscopic sample .",
    "the sdss team has found that the survey redshift accuracy is better than @xmath67 .",
    "our sample comprises 100118 galaxies with radial velocities spanning the range @xmath68 and an upper apparent magnitude limit of 17.77 in the r - band . in order to work with different kinds of galaxy population ,",
    "we compute a galaxy spectral type based on a principal component analysis ( pca ) , using a cross - correlation with eigentemplates constructed from sdss spectroscopic data .",
    "these spectral types are computed with the first two eigencoefficients as recommended by de sdss team .",
    "the group samples obtained from the 2dfgrs and sdss were constructed using an algorithm similar to that developed by huchra & geller ( 1982 ) .",
    "particularly , we have introduced some modifications in the group finder in order to take into account the sky coverage of the 2dfgrs .",
    "the adopted procedure is the same as described by merchn & zandivarez ( 2002 ) who consider the redshift completeness , magnitude limit and @xmath69 masks of the 2dfgrs .",
    "the identifications were carried out using a density contrast of @xmath70 and a line of sight linking length of @xmath71 .",
    "as was detailed in section 2 , the group center location has an important influence on the density profiles estimations .",
    "it is known that working on observational redshift surveys means that group identification must be performed in redshift space .",
    "this sort of procedure could induce missidentifications of groups respecting to those that would be identified in real space .",
    "for instance , the group finder algorithm in redshift space can not completely eliminate the interloper effect on the identification .",
    "this effect is likely to produce an artificial increment in the projected size of groups or the detection of fictitious systems with multiple overdensities . in order to understand the relation between groups identified in real and redshift space we perform a comparative study using mock catalogs",
    "( see section 4 for a detailed description of mock catalogs construction ) .",
    "the groups identification in real space was performed using a similar algorithm as the adopted for redshift space , but using the same linking length in both , transverse and radial directions .",
    "right upper panel in figure [ fig3 ] shows a comparison among the groups identified in both , real space ( open circles ) and redshift space ( crosses ) using @xmath72 , for a given patch in the sky .",
    "points represent the galaxies / particles in this region identified as group members in redshift space .",
    "as can be seen , several groups in real space were joined in a single group in redshift space .",
    "our purpose is to reproduce the groups identified in real space with @xmath73 . in order to do this ,",
    "we have carried out a second identification on the previous group sample identified in redshift space , varying the density contrast , @xmath74 , until we observe a similar identification as the obtained in real space .",
    "lower panel in figure [ fig3 ] shows the same comparison as the one plotted in the right upper panel , but here crosses are the groups obtained after a second identification in redshift space with a density contrast of @xmath75 .",
    "even though the second identification does not perfectly reproduce the one obtained in real space , our study indicates that the @xmath76 adopted for the second identification is the best choice to produce a sample of groups quite similar to the observed in real space .",
    "consequently , we have performed a second identification , using the best density contrast value previously obtained , over the group samples of the 2dfgrs and sdss described before . finally , the group centers were computed using the iterative method detailed in section 2 .",
    "the group samples used through this work include systems with masses greater than @xmath77 and having more than 10 galaxy members .",
    "the adopted mass threshold , only selects the more massive groups that are the most interesting when spectral type properties are studied ( domnguez et al . , 2002 ) .",
    "the final samples comprise @xmath78 groups for the 2df and @xmath79 for the sdss .",
    "the group physical properties were computed using the same formulas adopted by merchn & zandivarez ( 2002 ) .",
    "the median group properties and the widths of the distributions ( semi - interquartile range ) are quoted in table [ proptab ] . analysing the information shown in this table",
    "it can be seen that the average properties are very similar for both catalogs .",
    "this is an expected result taking into account the similarities of both catalogs .",
    "in order to measure projected galaxy density profiles we use a similar procedure to that employed in the simulations taking into account the surveys limitations . we construct the composite samples for both group catalogs adopting @xmath21 as the normalization scale and @xmath22 as masses normalization .",
    "the computation of @xmath21 was made following carlberg et al.(1997 ) : @xmath80 while @xmath22 was obtained using ( see appendix of nfw97 ) : @xmath81 where @xmath82 .",
    "these scaling relations are in very good agreement with the properties directly measured from the individual dm groups .    working with",
    "observational samples require to have particular considerations when constructing density profiles , specially when seeking for the largest statistical sample .",
    "as was noticed by whitmore , gilmore & jones ( 1993 , hereafter wgj93 ) , a magnitude cutoff decreases the number of galaxies while affects the mix of spectral types since the luminosity functions are different for each type .",
    "distant systems will only include the brightest galaxies , which tend to be the earlier , resulting in an incomplete source of information .",
    "a magnitude cutoff correction is made following wgj93 where a weight is given to each galaxy .",
    "this weight is a function of the redshift , the spectral type and the catalog apparent magnitude limit , and it is given by the following equation : @xmath83^{-1 } \\label{w(z)}\\ ] ] where @xmath84 is the luminosity function per spectral type of galaxies in groups , @xmath85 the absolute magnitude , @xmath86 is the luminosity distance , @xmath87 the catalog apparent magnitude limit and @xmath88 is chosen as a typical redshift for groups in the sample .",
    "since the sky coverage of the 2df group sample is not uniform , we need to make extra - corrections before measuring the projected density profiles . with the aim of determining and testing the corresponding corrections to the observed sample , we use four types of mock catalogs .",
    "each of these mocks corresponds to different sky coverage as in merchn @xmath89 zandivarez ( 2002 ) .",
    "so , we study the influence on the density profiles of each distinctive feature present in the catalog . to increase the statistical strength",
    "we construct a set of ten mock catalogs for each type from ten cosmological simulations with different initial conditions ( section 2 ) . given the periodicity of the simulation box we locate the observer at an arbitrary position and repeat the box until the survey extent is completed .",
    "these catalogs are constructed using a bias scheme @xmath90 between dm particles and galaxies which is quite accurate to reproduce the clustering of the data mainly on large scales . adopting the galaxy luminosity function given by norberg et al .",
    "( 2002 ) we assign absolute magnitudes to particles obtaining mock catalogs with the same selection function than the observed for the 2dfgrs .",
    "the first set of mock catalogs ( mock - m ) introduces a fixed faint survey magnitude limit , @xmath91 .",
    "we identify groups in this mock in the same way as in the 2df sample ( groups with masses greater than @xmath92 , and having more than @xmath93 members ) . after constructing the composite sample (",
    "as explained in section 2 ) we measure the projected density profile counting galaxies weighted by the equation [ w(z ) ] .",
    "the projected density profiles measured for each mock catalog were averaged and the corresponding mean profile is shown in the left upper panel in figure [ fig4 ] ( points ) .",
    "this profile is compared with the projected density profile computed from the dm groups identified in the n - body simulations ( solid line ) .",
    "the second set of mock catalogs ( mock - m - c ) has also a fixed faint survey magnitude limit but adding the effect of redshift completeness as in the real survey .",
    "the procedure to make the composite sample of groups is the same in all cases . at this time",
    ", we put another weight to the galaxies in order to measure the projected density profile .",
    "this weight is the result of multiplying @xmath94 by the redshift completeness @xmath95 available from the 2df mask . in figure",
    "[ fig4 ] , right upper panel shows the averaged profile corresponding to this set of mock catalogs ( mock - m - c ) .",
    "the third set of mock catalogs ( mock-@xmath96 ) has a faint survey magnitude limit depending on the angular position of a particle consistent with the apparent magnitude limit derived from the 2df mask . to measure the projected density profile",
    "we introduce a weight @xmath97 that take into account the variable magnitude limit in the calculation of @xmath98 .",
    "the averaged density profile is shown in figure [ fig4 ] ( left lower panel ) .",
    "finally we use a last set of mock catalogs ( mock - c-@xmath96 ) which has both effects , the variable magnitude limit and the redshift completeness masks . in this case , the weight assigned to each galaxy consists in the multiplication by both weights , @xmath97 and @xmath95 .",
    "the mean profile is shown in the right lower panel in figure [ fig4 ] .",
    "error bars in figure [ fig4 ] are computed measuring the 1-@xmath99 dispersion over each set of ten mock catalogs used to obtain the average density profiles .",
    "the inset panels show the ratio between the averaged projected density profiles for each set of mock catalogs and the projected density profile measured for the dm groups identified in the n - body simulation . from these panels",
    "we observe that we are able to recover the profiles obtained for the simulation making the appropriated corrections on each mock catalog .      in the observational process of the sdss sample ,",
    "there is a restriction in the targeted objects since the fiber centers can not be placed closer than @xmath100 on a given plate .",
    "this limitation produces the missing - pair problem , so that , one of the pair components can not be observed . the loss of galaxies was quantified by strauss et al .",
    "( 2002 ) , showing that about the @xmath101 of the galaxies are not observed owing to the missing - pair problem .",
    "this percentage represents roughly the @xmath102 of the total number of galaxy pairs , while the remaining @xmath103 was measured due to the overlapping of plates in some regions . in order to analyze the possible effect of this loss of galaxies on the resulting projected density profile we work with mock catalogs .",
    "we construct two sdss mock catalogs from n - body simulations ( section 2.1 ) following a similar prescription as the adopted for the 2df mocks , but using the luminosity function computed by blanton et al .",
    "( 2003 ) . in one of these catalogs ( mock - sp )",
    "we reproduce the missing - pair problem of the sdss sample .",
    "this was achieved selecting the @xmath104 of the galaxy pairs and subsequently we remove one component of each pair in this subsample .",
    "we measure the projected density profiles for both mock catalogs following the procedure used for the mock - m of the previous section .",
    "figure [ figpares ] shows the comparison among these density profiles .",
    "circles are the projected density profile measured in the sdss mock catalog with the full sample of pairs , while the squares correspond to the profile obtained from the mock catalog affected by the missing - pair problem .",
    "this figure shows that this problem produces a significant variation on the projected density profile mainly in the inner regions of groups , biasing the sample towards profiles with a core .",
    "we develop a method to correct this effect adding random galaxies to the sample of group galaxies .",
    "the outline of the method is as follows :    1 .",
    "we seek for the @xmath103 of existing pairs in the galaxy catalog for which both members were observed : @xmath105 ( number of galaxies in pairs with distances less than @xmath106 ) .",
    "2 .   we identify which of the @xmath105 galaxies belong to groups : @xmath107 3 .",
    "we calculate the percentage of galaxies in pairs that are group members : @xmath108 . here",
    "we have assumed that the probability of measuring both members of a galaxy pair does not depend on whether it is in a group or not .",
    "4 .   using that @xmath105 is the @xmath103 of the full sample of pairs , we estimate the number of galaxies in pairs that belongs to the remaining @xmath104 : @xmath109 5 .",
    "we calculate how many of the @xmath110 galaxies would be found in groups : @xmath111 6 .",
    "finally , the number of galaxies to introduce in the sample is @xmath112 since we already have one of the pair component in the sample . 7 .",
    "using the galaxies in pairs that belongs to groups ( @xmath107 ) , we measure its redshifts and @xmath1 distributions relative to the center of the group to which each of the galaxies belong .",
    "8 .   for the computation of the projected density profiles , we randomly add @xmath113 galaxies reproducing the previous distributions .",
    "we apply this procedure to the mock - sp , and measure the corresponding density profile , which is also shown in figure [ figpares ] ( triangles ) .",
    "it can be observed that our method is capable to correct the missing - pair effect on density profiles .",
    "we will use this method in the sdss group sample in the following sections in order to obtain a fair estimate of the projected density profiles .    for correcting the missing - pair problem in the 2df sample",
    "we apply the 8-step procedure described above where the values used for the sdss must be changed : in items 1 and 4 @xmath114 ; item 4 @xmath115 and in item 1 @xmath116 .",
    "the rest of this subsection describes how we find the percentage of lost galaxies in pairs ( @xmath117 ) and the maximum distance to define the missing - pair problem ( @xmath118 ) for the 2df sample .",
    "we first measure two distance distributions : the first is the distribution of distances from each galaxy to its closest neighbor ( @xmath119 ) among galaxies that belong to the input catalog of the 2dfgrs ( colless et al . , 2003 ) ; the second distribution was built from a subsample of the previous one .",
    "this subsample ( 2dfi-2df ) comprises all the galaxy pairs in the input catalog that were not completely surveyed by the 2dfgrs .",
    "their cumulative distributions are shown in the upper panel of figure [ figpares2 ] .",
    "the solid line corresponds to the input catalog while the dotted line is the histogram for the subsample 2dfi-2df .",
    "the ratio among these cumulative distributions is the fraction of lost galaxies in the 2df until a given angular distance .",
    "this loss is due to two issues in the observational process : the sky coverage of the sample and the missing - pair problem .",
    "there is a scale beyond which the ratio of missed pairs has to be constant as function of @xmath119 , as there is for both input catalog and redshift catalog a maximal @xmath119 value . indeed , by definition @xmath119 is the minimal distance to a neighbor , which has to reach a maximal value in a finite sample .",
    "therefore beyond @xmath120 the ratio is constant .",
    "that constant value correspond to the incompleteness due to the sky coverage and it has to be subtracted from the ratio in order to obtain an estimate of the close pair incompleteness .",
    "the resulting fraction as a function of @xmath119 is shown in the lower panel of figure [ figpares2 ] . from this plot",
    "we should be able to determine the fraction of lost galaxies but , firstly , it is necessary to know the angular distance @xmath121 so it is representative of the largest number of the galaxies that were missed due to the missing - pair problem . in order to determine @xmath121 we calculate the number of galaxies that must be added until a given angular distance @xmath119 .",
    "these numbers are calculated for each @xmath119 following the steps 1 to 6 , previously described for the correction of the missing - pair problem .",
    "the fraction of lost galaxies involved in this procedure are obtained from the lower panel of figure [ figpares2 ] .",
    "then , the resulting numbers of galaxies that must be added until a given angular distance @xmath119 are shown in the inset panel of the lower panel of figure [ figpares2 ] . from this distribution we determine @xmath122 that corresponds to the @xmath119 where the distribution is maximum .",
    "this is the optimal way to determine the @xmath121 since this value allows us to compute the appropriate correction to the projected density profiles .",
    "this was tested constructing a mock catalog with a similar sky coverage to that observed in the 2dfgrs and an enhanced pair incompleteness .",
    "the later characteristic is necessary to obtain a large enough effect so it can be measured in the projected density profile . as in the case of the sdss , we observe that the missing - pair underestimates the amplitude of the density profile in the inner region . after performing a similar analysis to",
    "that shown in figure [ figpares2 ] but using the mock catalog , we observe that introducing the maximum number of galaxies ( ie . , the peak of the distribution in the lower inset panel ) allow us to recover the true density profile .",
    "this result confirms that the procedure adopted to obtain the value of @xmath121 is the optimal . to conclude",
    ", we observe that using @xmath122 means that the 2dfgrs losses approximately @xmath117 of the galaxies ( it implies that 2df has lost @xmath123 pair - members from the sample of galaxies in groups used in this work ) .",
    "the missing - pair correction is an important issue to be considered when working on the sdss ( it looses the @xmath104 of the galaxy pairs ) .",
    "the density profiles with and without this correction are different mainly in the inner regions .",
    "on the other hand , the correction applied to the 2dfgrs ( @xmath117 of the galaxy pairs ) will not introduce a significant change in the resulting density profile ( see fig .",
    "[ fig6 ] and references in the next section ) .",
    "once we have corrected the samples by the missing - pair problem , we construct the composite samples and split galaxies in 3 spectral types . for the 2df sample we use the classification made by madgwick et al.(2002 ) to spectral types .",
    "this classification is determined by the shape of the @xmath63-distribution :    * type 1 : @xmath124 , * type 2 : @xmath125 , * type 3 + 4 : @xmath126 .",
    "the first type is dominated by elliptical and early - type spiral galaxies , getting later toward type 3 + 4 .    in an attempt to obtain a similar spectral type classification for the sdss group sample , we seek for a correlation between the spectral parameters @xmath63 of the 2df and @xmath127 of the sdss comparing @xmath128 galaxies that both have in common .",
    "we find a roughly linear behavior among both parameters ( figure [ recta ] ) .",
    "the fit obtained for this relation is : @xmath129    using this relation we divide the sdss sample into 3 spectral types according to the classification made for the 2df .",
    "hence the resulting classification for the sdss sample is :    * type 1 : @xmath130 , * type 2 : @xmath131 , * type 3 + 4 : @xmath132 .",
    "we measure the projected density profiles for the composite samples ( the whole sample and the samples selected per spectral type ) .",
    "the procedures to introduce weights in the estimation are the same as the used in mock - c-@xmath96 for the 2df and using the equation [ w(z ) ] for the sdss . for the 2df sample",
    "we adopt the luminosity functions per spectral type of galaxies in groups given by martnez et al .",
    "( 2002 ) and @xmath133 corrections given by norberg et al .",
    "for the sdss we use the luminosity functions per spectral type of galaxies in groups estimated following the same procedure as described by martnez et al .",
    "the @xmath133 corrections as a function of redshift were estimated following a method similar to that described by norberg et al .",
    "( 2002 ) , using the code of stellar population synthesis developed by bruzual & charlot ( 1993 ) .",
    "figures [ fig6 ] and [ fig7 ] show projected density profiles for the 2df and the sdss composite samples , respectively .",
    "the left upper panels show the profiles for the whole sample ( points ) .",
    "the open circles are the projected density profile measured without correcting by the missing - pair problem . as we mentioned in the previous section ,",
    "the effect is not significant for this sample .",
    "error bars in these panels were calculated computing the mean dispersion obtained using sets of 10 mock catalogs .",
    "the remaining three panels correspond to projected density profiles per spectral types ( points ) where error bars are computed performing a bootstrap resampling of the data .    in the left upper panels of both figures we confront the",
    "measured projected density profiles for the complete samples against two analytical nfw projected density profiles ( dot - dashed lines ) .",
    "any profile corresponding to groups with masses between @xmath134 and @xmath135 should lie in the region determined by these two nfw profiles . from the comparison",
    ", we can notice that the dark matter nfw profile does not show the same behavior as the obtained from galaxy samples in the inner regions of the galaxy groups .",
    "we also compare our results with the analytical prediction for galaxy density profiles given by king ( 1962 ) .",
    "we fit the data points using a generalized king profile given by the formula : @xmath136 where @xmath25 is the concentration parameter defined as @xmath137 , @xmath138 is the slope in the outer region and @xmath139 is the radius where the profile reaches its maximum value .",
    "these parameters are determined using the levenberg - marquardt method ( press et al . , 1986 ) .",
    "this method takes into account data errors and applies a minimum non - linear least squares procedure .",
    "the number of parameters to fit is chosen to be as low as possible .",
    "notice that the king ( 1962 ) projected profile is obtained by setting @xmath140 and @xmath141 . using a mean value of @xmath21 , and a range for @xmath142 from @xmath143 to @xmath144 @xmath145",
    "then the allowed values of @xmath25 parameter are in the range @xmath146 .",
    "the best - fitting parameters obtained for the full sample and for each spectral type are listed in table [ 2dtab ] .",
    "these fits are shown with solid lines in figures [ fig6 ] and [ fig7 ] .",
    "the dotted lines show the king - fit obtained for the whole sample . + in order to quantify the goodness of the fits we compute the probability @xmath147 which is a function of the @xmath148 and the degree of freedom of the distribution @xmath149 ( press et al . , 1986 ) .",
    "the chi - square probability @xmath150 is an incomplete gamma function and gives the probability that the chi - square should exceed a particular value @xmath148 by chance . for a fit with @xmath46 free parameters ( @xmath151 )",
    "the @xmath148 is calculated using @xmath152 while the number of degrees of freedom of the distribution is computed as @xmath153 .",
    "using the @xmath150 value , the goodness of a fit is quantified in the following way : a value of @xmath154 says that the fit is a very good reproduction of the data distribution ; if the value is in the range @xmath155 then the fit is acceptable and finally , if @xmath156 the model poorly fit the data .",
    "it should be remarked that this kind of test is also valid even when the models are not strictly linear in the @xmath157 coefficients . in the last column of table [ 2dtab ] we quoted the @xmath147 values of all fits in both samples . from these values",
    "we conclude that almost all the fits obtained are a very good approximation to the measured projected density profiles and only one of them is in the range of acceptable . as an important result we can observe , in left upper panel of figures [ fig6 ] and [ fig7 ] , that the king profile is a good descriptor of the observational data in the whole range of @xmath1 and the @xmath25 values are within the allowed range .",
    "this result is consistent with the obtained by adami et al .",
    "( 1998 ) who found that the king profile provides a better fit to the galaxy density profile than the nfw profile .",
    "this result can be more clearly observed in the inset box in the upper left panel of these figures . in these panels",
    "we show the ratio between the observational projected density profile and the king profile ( solid line ) . in dotted lines",
    "are also shown the ratio between the observational density profile and the nfw predictions .",
    "these figures show that nfw predictions differ from unity in the inner regions whereas king fits are roughly constant in the whole range .    based on the projected density profiles for each spectral type",
    ", we calculate the relative fraction of galaxies with different spectral types as a function of the projected group - centric distance .",
    "this fraction is computed as the ratio between the projected density profile for a particular spectral type and the total projected density profile . in order to measure these ratios ,",
    "we have rebinned the data , using a linear interpolation .",
    "figure [ fig8 ] shows the galaxy fractions for the 2df composite sample ( upper panel ) and for the sdss composite sample ( lower panel ) . using error propagation method ,",
    "the error in the relative fraction of the type @xmath158 for each bin is defined by the following equation : @xmath159 where @xmath160 represents the projected density profile , and @xmath161 represents the error in these profiles .",
    "thick lines in these figures correspond to galaxy fractions calculated using the fits ( table [ 2dtab ] ) obtained for the projected density profiles per spectral type .",
    "the results are similar to that found by other authors when considering spectral types ( domnguez et al .",
    "2002 ) or morphological classifications ( whitmore & gilmore 1991 , wgj93 ) .",
    "we observe in both , the 2df and the sdss group sample , that for small @xmath1 radii the fraction of early type galaxies ( type 1 ) rises rapidly whilst the fraction of late type galaxies tends to be more important in the outerskirt of the galaxy systems . by comparing these panels",
    "we observe that the behavior of each type for both samples is quite similar and the main difference is only in the amplitudes .",
    "this difference is expectable because the samples are selected in different band magnitudes : @xmath162band for the sdss and @xmath163band for the 2dfgrs .",
    "therefore the percentage of low star forming galaxies ( type 1 ) is going to be higher in the sdss than in the 2df whilst the opposite is found for the star forming galaxies ( type 3 + 4 ) .",
    "one of the aims of this work is to derive information about the 3-d galaxy distributions from observational data .",
    "to achieve this aim we use the deprojection method described in section 2 to obtain the 3-d galaxy density profiles from the projected ones .",
    "the deprojection method produces very good estimates when we are dealing with projected profiles without bin to bin fluctuations , as it was the case in section 2 for n - body simulations .",
    "nevertheless , if the profiles show bin to bin fluctuations , this method tends to enhance the noise in the resulting profiles , from outer to inner radii of galaxy systems .",
    "for instance , figure [ fig5 ] shows the averaged deprojected density profiles corresponding to the deprojection of the 2-d profiles of ten mock catalogs of each kind ( the averages of these 2-d profiles are shown in figure [ fig4 ] ) .",
    "it can be seen that 3-d profiles present an important dispersion .",
    "therefore , it must be expected that the intrinsic noise observed for the projected density profiles in the 2df and sdss catalogs will be amplified by the deprojection method .",
    "we carry out the deprojection of all the observed 2-d profiles measured in the previous section , obtaining noisy 3-d profiles . in order to estimate errors to these profiles ,",
    "we perform bootstrap resampling of the 2-d data and then we deproject each bootstrap density profile . by calculating the 1-@xmath99 dispersion of the 3-d bootstrap profiles , the errors for the 3-d profile of the data",
    "are obtained . from the deprojected profiles we calculate the 3-d galaxy fraction per spectral type .",
    "these fractions can be seen in figure [ fig12 ] for the 2df ( upper panel ) and sdss ( lower panel ) samples , where the error bars are calculated by error propagation as in the 2-d case ( equation [ error ] ) .",
    "we decide to join the types 2 and ( 3 + 4 ) because the resulting noise of the deprojection does not allow to observe differences among them .",
    "it should be noticed that the importance of this result resides in the fact that these 3-d fractions are obtained by directly inverting the 2-d profiles , it means , without assuming a particular shape for the density profile .",
    "finally , we also show in figure [ fig12 ] the 3-d fractions per spectral type calculated analytically ( thick lines ) .",
    "the analytical profiles that are needed for the computation of these fractions come from integrating the analytical fits of the 2-d density profiles assuming spherical symmetry .",
    "the result of the integration shows that the 3-d profiles keep the same functional form that the adopted for the 2-d case ( generalized king ) , with values of @xmath164 and @xmath165 . in this figure",
    "it can be observed that the analytical curves present the same behavior that those obtained from the direct deprojection , indicating that the generalized king density profiles are also a good fit for the observational result in the 3-d case .",
    "using the two largest galaxy redshift surveys presently available , the final release of the 2dfgrs and the first release of the sdss , we carry out an analysis of the galaxy populations and their distribution in massive groups of galaxies .",
    "group identification on these surveys is made using an algorithm similar to that developed by huchra & geller ( 1982 ) .",
    "particularly , for the 2dfgrs sample , we introduce modifications , in order to take into account the non - uniform sky coverage of this survey ( merchn & zandivarez , 2002 ) . from a careful study of groups identified in mock catalogs we realized that this method could produce false identifications in redshift space , producing an artificial enhancement of the group sizes or merging small systems in larges artificial groups . to solve these problems we identify groups upon the previous group sample , varying the density contrast until the redshift space identification is capable to reproduce the identification obtained in real space using @xmath166 . the new density contrast found in mock catalogs",
    "is used to perform a second identification in the 2df and sdss group samples .",
    "the group centers are estimated using an iterative method , which is capable to locate the group centers upon the overdensity peaks .",
    "we also correct the group samples for the missing - pair problem .",
    "once we have reliable group samples , we proceed with the analysis of the galaxy distribution in galaxy groups .",
    "this analysis comprise the study of density profiles for high mass groups .",
    "these profiles are derived using composite samples which are a combination of all groups in each catalogs .",
    "the normalization scale used to conform the composite sample is @xmath21 , the radius at which the interior density is 200 times the mean density of the universe , and the mass normalization is @xmath22 .",
    "the results found in this work do not depend on the normalization scale .",
    "since the group samples used in this work are magnitude limited , our estimator of the projected galaxy density profiles is developed introducing weights in the galaxy counts which take into account a fixed or variable apparent magnitude limit and variations in the redshift completeness .",
    "the way of introducing these corrections was tested in mock catalogs , obtaining a good agreement with the density profiles derived from dm groups identified in the n - body simulations .",
    "the galaxy projected density profiles obtained for the 2df and sdss show a similar behavior . from the comparison of our results with the analytical projected nfw",
    ", we observe that the last fails to describe the behavior of the observational results in the inner region of groups .",
    "this seems to indicate that the dark matter profile ( nfw ) is not appropriated to describe the density profile traced by the luminous matter in the very core of galaxy groups .",
    "we observe that the king profile is a better fit for the observational data in the whole range of group - centric distances where the profiles can be measured , in agreement with the results of adami et al .",
    "this result is also found when the normalization scale is modified , for instance , using any intrinsic projected group size as a normalization scale .",
    "we tested this point using the virial radii and the rms projected physical separation of galaxies from the group center .",
    "the use of these new normalization scales ( @xmath167 ) produces the same @xmath168 parameters that we obtain using @xmath21 as a normalization scale .",
    "the @xmath169 parameters are just a re - scaling of the previous and they are given by : @xmath170 .",
    "we obtain that the resulting density profiles are reliable for @xmath171 , it was calculated taking into account the minimum distance between pairs of galaxies or the mean galaxy size , both at the mean distance of the galaxy systems .",
    "this constrain does not change our results since the fits are made from @xmath172 to higher values .",
    "then , we can claim that the presence of a core in the projected density profiles is an intrinsic property of these galaxy systems and not a result of a biased measurement .",
    "we also measure the projected density profiles per spectral type in both samples . in order to obtain analytical functions to describe the observational results , we adopt a generalized king profile to fit them .",
    "these results could be used as a tool to constrain semi - analytical models . the general galaxy density profile and the dependence of the density profiles on the spectral types",
    "must be correctly reproduced by the models .    based on the available spectral type information",
    ", we compute the galaxy fractions per spectral type as a function of the normalized group - centric distance @xmath1 .",
    "our results are in good agreement with the previously obtained by other authors ( whitmore & gilmore , 1991 , wgj93 , domnguez et al . ,",
    "2002 ) : the fraction of early type galaxies decreases when @xmath1 increases whereas the opposite behavior is observed for the fraction of later types .    using the obtained 2-d density profiles",
    ", we calculate the 3-d galaxy density profiles from their projected counterpart using a deprojection method similar to the one developed by allen & fabian ( 1997 ) .",
    "the 3-d galaxy fractions are computed from the deprojected density profiles per spectral type . by comparing the 2-d and 3-d galaxy fractions",
    "it can be seen that the ms effect is more pronounced when 3-d fractions are analysed .",
    "finally , the analytical 3-d fractions are calculated from the fits obtained for the 2-d density profiles .",
    "it is found a good agreement with the 3-d fractions directly calculated without assuming an analytical 2-d density profile .",
    "special thanks to the anonymous referee , for helping us to improve the original version of this work .",
    "we thanks to julin martnez for help us in the calculation of the @xmath133 correction for the sdss and cinthia ragone for reading the manuscript .",
    "we also thank to peder norberg and shaun cole for kindly providing the software describing the mask of the 2dfgrs and to the 2dfgrs and sdss team for having made available the actual data sets of the sample .",
    "this work has been partially supported by consejo de investigaciones cientficas y tcnicas de la repblica argentina ( conicet ) , the agencia nacional de promocin cientfica , the secretara de ciencia y tcnica de la universidad nacional de crdoba ( secyt ) , the agencia crdoba ciencia and fundacin antorchas , argentina .",
    "abazajian , et al , 2003 , , 126 , 2081 adami , c. , mazure , a. , katgert , p. , biviano , a. 1998 , a&a , 336 , 63 allen , s. w. , fabian , a. c. 1997 , , 286 , 583 bartelmann , m. 1996 , a&a , 313 , 697 blanton , m. r. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 592 , 819 bruzual , a. g. , charlot , s. 1993 , , 405 , 538 carlberg , r. g. , et al .",
    "1997 , , 478 , 462 couchman , h. m. p. , thomas , p. a. , pearce , f. r. 1995 , , 452 , 797 dressler , a. 1980 , , 236 , 351 domnguez , m. , muriel , h. , lambas , d. g. 2001 , , 121 , 1266 domnguez , m. , zandivarez , a. , martnez , h. j. , merchn , m. e. , muriel , h. , lambas , d. g. 2002 , , 335 , 825 huchra , j. p. , geller , m. j. 1982 , , 257 , 423 katgert , p. , mazure , a. , den hartog , r. , adami , c. , biviano , a. , perea , j. 1998 , a&as , 129 , 399 king , i. 1962 , , 67 , 471 lokas , e. , mamon , g. 2001 , , 321 , 155 macgillivray , h. t. , yentis , d. j. 1994 , iaus , 161 , 632 maddox , s. j. , efstathiou , g. , sutherland , w. j. , loveday , j. 1990a , , 242 , 43p maddox , s. j. , efstathiou , g. , sutherland , w. j. , loveday , j. 1990b , , 243 , 692 maddox , s. j. , efstathiou , g. , sutherland , w. j. 1996 , , 283 , 1227 madgwick , d. s. , et al ( 2dfgrs team ) , 2002 , , 333 , 133 martnez , h. j. , zandivarez , a. , merchn , m. e. , domnguez , m. 2002 , , 337 , 1441 merchn , m. e. , zandivarez , a. 2002 , , 335 , 216 miller , g. e. , scalo , j. m. 1979 , , 263 , 259 moore , b. , governato , f. , quinn , t. , stadel , j. , lake , g. 1998 , , 499l , 5 navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , white , s. d. m. 1995 , , 275 , 720 navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , white , s. d. m. 1997 , , 490 , 493 norberg , p. , et al ( 2dfgrs team ) , 2002 , , 336 , 907 press , w. h. , flannery , b. p. , teukolsky , s. s. and vettrling , w. t. , numerical recipes , cambridge university press , 1986 salvador - sol , e. , sanrom , m. 1989 , , 337 , 636 strauss , m. a. , et al , 2002 , , 124 , 1810 whitmore , b. , gilmore , d. 1991 , , 367 , 64 whitmore , b. , gilmore , d. jones c. , 1993 , , 407 , 489      clccccccc catalog & sample & ngal & @xmath25 & @xmath138 & @xmath139 & @xmath149&@xmath148 & @xmath147 + & total & 2277 & @xmath182 & @xmath183 & @xmath184 & 17 & 13.73 & 0.68 + 2df & type 1 & 1710 & @xmath185 & @xmath186 & @xmath184 & 16 & 9.55 & 0.89 + ( 132 ) & type 2 & 339 & @xmath187 & @xmath188 & @xmath184 & 6 & 7.13 & 0.31 + & type 3 + 4 & 228 & @xmath189 & @xmath188 & @xmath184 & 7 & 4.46 & 0.72 + & total & 2031 & @xmath190 & @xmath183 & @xmath184 & 10 & 10.50 & 0.40 + sdss & type 1 & 1543 & @xmath191 & @xmath192 & @xmath184 & 9 & 10.54 & 0.31 + ( 86 ) & type 2 & 364 & @xmath193 & @xmath194 & @xmath184 & 7 & 8.54 & 0.29 + & type 3 + 4 & 124 & @xmath195 & @xmath196 & @xmath197&2&6.02 & 0.05 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have analysed the distribution of galaxies in groups identified in the largest redshift surveys at the present : the final release of the 2df galaxy redshift survey and the first release of the sloan digital sky survey . </S>",
    "<S> our work comprises the study of the galaxy density profiles and the fraction of galaxies per spectral type as a function of the group - centric distance . </S>",
    "<S> we have calculated the projected galaxy density profiles of galaxy groups using composite samples in order to increase the statistical significance of the results . </S>",
    "<S> special cares have been taken in order to avoid possible biases in the group identification and the construction of the projected galaxy density profile estimator . </S>",
    "<S> the results show that the projected galaxy density profiles obtained for both redshift surveys are in agreement with a projected navarro , frenk & white predictions in the range @xmath0 , whereas a good fit for the measured profiles in the whole range of @xmath1 is given by a projected king profile . </S>",
    "<S> we have adopted a generalized king profile to fit the measured projected density profiles per spectral type . in order to infer the 3-d galaxy density profiles , we deproject the 2-d density profiles using a deprojection method similar to the developed by allen & fabian . from 2-d and 3-d galaxy density profiles </S>",
    "<S> we have estimated the corresponding galaxy fractions per spectral type . </S>",
    "<S> the 2-d fraction of galaxies computed using the projected profiles show a similar segregation of galaxy spectral types as the obtained by domnguez et al . for groups in the early data release of the 2df galaxy redshift survey . </S>",
    "<S> as expected , the trends obtained for the 3-d galaxy fractions show steeper slopes than the observed in the 2-d fractions . </S>"
  ]
}