{
  "article_text": [
    "4u  153852 is a wind - fed x - ray binary system formed by a massive ( @xmath7 ) b0 star and a neutron star spinning with a period of about 529  s ( davison 1977 ; becker _ et al .",
    "the x - ray luminosity has been estimated @xmath8  ergs / s for a distance of @xmath3  kpc ( becker _ et al .",
    "the orbit , in an almost edge - on plane , is characterized by a period of 3.75  days , a low eccentricity of @xmath6 , and a well defined x - ray eclipse lasting @xmath9  days ( davison 1977 ; becker _",
    "et al . _ 1977 ) .",
    "pulse period measurements show that the neutron star was in a spin - down state before 1988 , with a @xmath10  s@xmath11 , and in a spin - up state with the same @xmath12 after 1988 ( rubin _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 ) .",
    "before the first ginga observation ( clark _ et al .",
    "_ 1990 ) the x - ray spectrum of 4u  153852 has been well modeled by a power - law modified by a high - energy exponential cutoff and an iron emission line at 6.7  kev ( equivalent width @xmath13  ev ) .",
    "a phase - dependent absorption feature around 20  kev was observed in the x - ray spectrum by _ ginga _ ( clark _ et al . _ 1990 ) , and was explained as cyclotron resonance absorption . a cutoff in the spectrum starting at @xmath14",
    "kev was interpreted as the second harmonic but the _ ginga _ energy range precluded any definitive conclusion .",
    "a fit of the energy - dependent pulse profiles in the range 1038  kev to theoretical models of the pulsar emission has been performed by bulik _",
    "( 1992 , 1995 ) .",
    "the results are in agreement with pencil emission from a strongly magnetized optically thick ( @xmath15 ) short ( @xmath16 ) slab of plasma , heated by coulomb collision stopping mechanism in the accreting matter , in line with theoretical calculations of meszaros & nagel ( 1985a , b ) and brainerd & meszaros ( 1991 ) for the non - relativistic and the relativistic case , respectively .",
    "more recently makishima _",
    "( 1999 ) , in a paper discussing _",
    "observations of a number of x - ray pulsators , briefly reported the results of an analysis of a 3  60 kev _",
    "spectrum acquired during an observation on 1991 july 27 .",
    "they fitted the continuum with the so - called npex model ( mihara 1995 ) that is the sum of two power ",
    "laws , of negative and positive index respectively , both multiplied by an exponential cutoff of thermal origin . a cyclotron feature at @xmath17 kev was fitted by a pseudo  lorentzian shape ( i.e.  a lorentzian multipled by the energy squared , mihara 1995 ) . with this model",
    "they obtained a value of the @xmath18d.o.f .",
    "of @xmath19 .    in this paper we present for the first time a broad band ( 0.12100 kev ) spectrum of 4u  153852 .",
    "we clearly show that this spectrum can be well fitted only if a thermal cutoff and a cyclotron absorption feature at @xmath4 kev are included in the model .",
    "we also do not find strong evidence of a second harmonic at @xmath20 kev , although a weak feature could be present at a slightly higher energy .",
    "bepposax observed 4u  153852 with its narrow field instruments ( nfi , boella _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 ) in 1998 from july 29 to august 1 .",
    "the nfis are four co - aligned instruments with a broad band coverage from 0.1  kev up to 200  kev , with good spectral resolution in the whole range . the low energy concentrator spectrometer ( lecs , energy range 0.110  kev ) and the medium energy concentrator spectrometer ( mecs , 111  kev ) have imaging capabilities with a field of view ( fov ) of @xmath21 and @xmath22 radii , respectively .",
    "we selected the data for scientific analysis in circular regions of the fov , centered on the source , of @xmath23 and @xmath24 radii for lecs and mecs , respectively .",
    "the background subtraction is usually obtained using blank - sky observations , in which the background spectra are extracted from regions of the fov similar to those used for the source .",
    "because of the possibility of a contribution from the galactic ridge at the coordinates of 4u  153852 , we used a particular attention to the background estimation .",
    "this is particularly important for the spectral analysis during the eclipse , when the source flux is at a very low level .",
    "local background has been therefore measured in a region of the image @xmath25 and @xmath21 far from the source for lecs and mecs , respectively , and compared with the background of the archive blank fields .",
    "lecs and mecs local background spectrum is compatible with the blank - field spectrum , and therefore blank - sky background , which has a better statistics , has been used . the high pressure gas scintillator proportional counter ( hpgspc , 760  kev ) and the phoswich detector system ( pds , 13300  kev )",
    "have not imaging capabilities , and their fovs , of @xmath26 fwhm , are delimited by collimators . the background subtraction for these instruments",
    "is obtained using off - source data accumulated during the rocking of the collimators .",
    "the energy ranges used in the spectral analysis for the nfis are : 0.124  kev for the lecs , 1.810.5  kev for the mecs , 830  kev for the hpgspc , and 15100  kev for the pds . to take into account intercalibration systematics , different normalizations of the nfis are considered in the spectral analysis by including normalizing factors , fixed to 1 for the mecs , and kept free for the other instruments .",
    "a systematic error of 1% was added to all the spectra , although , for this relatively weak flux , it is negligible when compared to the statistical error .",
    "figure 1 shows the 4u  153852 light curve , binned at 5700 s , in four different energy bands : 0.12.5  kev ( lecs data ) , 35  kev ( mecs data ) , 510  kev ( mecs data ) , 15200  kev ( pds data ) .",
    "this light curve shows the source in its eclipse state during the first @xmath27 ks and out of eclipse in the last @xmath28 ks . a dip , probably due to low energy absorption , is also present in the 0.12.5 kev light curve . adopting a distance of 6.4 kpc ( becker _ et al .",
    "_ , 1977 ) and the spectral model described in the next section ( see tab .  1 ) , we derived the source luminosity out of eclipse , that is @xmath29 ergs / s in the energy range 210  kev and @xmath30 ergs / s in the whole range 0.1100  kev .",
    "we performed a temporal analysis on the out - of - eclipse data to search for the pulse period of the source using mecs data , which have the best statistics .",
    "the arrival times of all the events were reported to the solar system barycentre .",
    "we corrected the arrival times for the orbital motion of the source adopting the orbital parameters reported by rubin _",
    "( 1997 ) , @xmath31 days and @xmath32 lt - s , and neglecting the eccentricity because of its low value . from the mecs data we estimated that the center - of - eclipse time is @xmath33 mjd . with these values we corrected the event times according to the formula :",
    "@xmath34.\\ ] ] then we performed a folding search for the best pulse period on these corrected arrival times .",
    "the best period obtained was @xmath35 s , demonstrating that the source is still in a spin - up state .",
    "we checked the orbital correction _ a posteriori _ dividing the whole data set into consecutive intervals , which we folded using the spin period derived above .",
    "no phase shifts were observed between these intervals .",
    "figure 2 shows the pulse profiles during out - of - eclipse intervals in different energy bands , namely 0.1 - 1.8  kev ( lecs , upper panel ) , 1.8 - 10.5  kev ( mecs , middle panel ) , 15 - 100  kev ( pds , lower panel ) .",
    "a double peaked pulse profile is present in the 1.8 - 10  kev band .",
    "the secondary peak is asymmetric in this energy range , and the primary peak is broad and shows some structures at its maximum .",
    "the secondary peak is absent in the soft range 0.1 - 1.8  kev , while the primary peak still shows notch - like structures at its maximum . in the pds range ( 15 - 100  kev ) the emission is still pulsed , with the secondary peak less pronounced and more symmetric and the primary peak narrower and smooth .",
    "we have also produced pds folded light curves in the following energy ranges : 1520 kev ( below the cyclotron line energy , see clark et al .",
    "1990 and below in this paper ) , 2030 kev ( around the cyclotron line energy ) , and 30100 kev ( above the cyclotron line energy ) . in agreement with ginga results ( clark et al .",
    "1990 ) we find that the secondary peak disappears at the cyclotron energy . because of the low statistics , there is no evidence that the secondary peak re - appears at energies higher than 30 kev . in figure 3",
    "we plotted the mecs folded light curves in the energy ranges 1.8 - 5  kev and 5 - 10.5  kev and their hardness ratio .",
    "several structures are visible in this ratio , demonstrating the high spectral variability of the emission with the pulse phase .",
    "we performed spectral analysis on the post - egress energy spectrum of 4u  153852 in the energy range 0.12 - 100  kev .",
    "the high energy part of the spectrum ( above @xmath36  kev ) is not well fitted by a power law modified by two absorption features as proposed by clark _",
    "( 1990 ) in the analysis of _ ginga _ data .",
    "the broader band of the bepposax instruments unambiguously demonstrates that an absorption feature and an exponential cutoff are needed to adequately model the spectrum .",
    "we fit the spectrum with an absorbed power - law continuum modified by a high energy cutoff and by an absorption cyclotron line of gaussian shape plus a gaussian emission line at @xmath3  kev due to fluorescence of iron in low ionization stages .",
    "the model used to fit the cyclotron line is a multiplicative gaussian of the form : @xmath37 $ ] .",
    "this model gave a good fit with a @xmath38 .",
    "the best fit parameters are shown in table 1 ; the observed spectrum and the residuals ( in units of @xmath39 ) are shown in figure 4 ( upper and middle panel , respectively ) .",
    "with respect to this model residuals are still visible in the soft energy range , below @xmath40 kev , and in the pds range , between 40 and 60  kev .",
    "since the latter is the range of energy in which we expect to find harmonics of the cyclotron line we first added a cyclotron line fixing the energy at twice the fundamental : this did not improve the fit .",
    "therefore we let the cyclotron line energy vary . in this way",
    "we obtain a reduction of the @xmath41 to @xmath42 .",
    "an f - test gives a probability of chance improvement of 1% .",
    "the energy of the second absorption line is @xmath43  kev , its depth is @xmath44 , and its width is @xmath45  kev .",
    "the residuals with respect to this model , containing two cyclotron lines , are shown in figure 4 ( lower panel ) .",
    "as it is visible in this figure , some residuals remain in the soft energy range , below 1 kev .",
    "the addition of a soft blackbody to the model reported in table 1 improves the fit , giving @xmath46 , corresponding to a probability of chance improvement of @xmath47 .",
    "the blackbody has a temperature of @xmath48 kev and a luminosity of @xmath49 ergs / s ( although this last parameter is not well constrained by the data , and ranges between @xmath50 ergs / s and @xmath51 ergs / s ) .",
    "moreover , the spectral model for the soft excess is not univocally determined : a bremsstrahlung component with a temperature of @xmath52 kev gives an equally good fit .",
    "we also tried the so - called npex model to fit the continuum .",
    "this model has been successfully used to fit the continuum of a number of hmxbs ( mihara 1995 ; makishima et al .",
    "1999 ) and consists of a negative plus a positive power law with a common exponential cutoff .",
    "it approximates the the spectrum produced by unsaturated thermal comptonization in a plasma of temperature t. using npex together with the absorption cyclotron feature , modelled by a pseudo  lorentzian shape , and the iron emission line we obtain a negative photon index of @xmath53 and a temperature of @xmath54 kev , with the positive photon index fixed to 2 . in this case",
    "we obtained a @xmath55 , that is not better than the previous model ( cf .  tab .  1 ) .",
    "the residuals in the soft band ( below 1 kev ) and in the hard range ( around 50 kev ) are still visible .",
    "the hardness ratio shown in figure  3 indicates the presence of significant variations of the spectrum with the pulse phase . to investigate these variations",
    "we have divided the pulse profile in 4 phase intervals : 00.5 , corresponding to the secondary peak ; 0.50.65 , corresponding to the rising phase of the primary peak ; 0.650.75 , corresponding to the maximum of the primary peak ; 0.751 , corresponding to the descent phase of the primary peak ( see fig .  2 ) .",
    "we produced energy spectra corresponding to each of these phase intervals , which were fitted by the same model used to fit the pulse - phase averaged spectrum , i.e.  a power law with high energy cutoff , the iron emission line , and the absorption cyclotron line .",
    "the results are reported in table  1 .",
    "the energy of the cyclotron line varies between 20.8  kev at the primary - peak maximum and 22.8  kev in the rising phase of the primary peak , although these variations are not highly significant when compared to the associated error bars .",
    "more significant variations are observed in the depth and width of the cyclotron line .",
    "in particular the depth is larger when the flux is lower , while the width of the line reaches its maximum and minimum values in the rising and descent phase of the primary peak , respectively .",
    "other significant variations with the pulse phase are in the shape of the continuum . in particular the power law is flatter in correspondence of the primary and secondary peaks , while it is steeper at the other phase intervals .",
    "the energy of the cutoff seems also to be lower in correspondence of the primary and secondary peaks , while no clear variation is present in the _",
    "e_-folding energy .",
    "finally the iron emission line is compatible with being unchanged along the pulse profile , although it seems to be weaker in the rising phase and at the maximum of the primary peak .",
    "no statistically significant residuals are observed in the energy range between 40 and 50 kev , and therefore no second cyclotron harmonic is required to fit these spectra , although this could be due to the lower statistics of the phase resolved spectra with respect to the averaged spectrum .",
    "residuals below 1 kev are visible in the spectra at phases 00.5 and 0.751 . in these cases",
    "the addition of a soft blackbody gives a probability of chance improvement of the fit of 0.02% and 0.08% , respectively .",
    "the temperatures of this component were @xmath56 and @xmath57 kev , respectively .    to better investigate the variation of the power - law photon index with the pulse phase",
    ", we divided the pulse profile in 10 intervals and produced energy spectra from lecs and mecs data ( for which the statistics is the highest ) for each for these intervals .",
    "these spectra were fitted by a power law and a gaussian emission line , with photoelectric absorption .",
    "the measured photon index is reported versus the corresponding phase interval in figure 5 ( lower panel ) together with the corresponding flux in the 210  kev energy band ( upper panel ) . as it can be seen from this figure",
    ", there is a clear anti - correlation between the photon index and the flux , with the spectrum being flatter in correspondence of higher flux levels .",
    "the eclipse of the x - ray source is clearly visible at the beginning of the bepposax observation ( see fig .  1 ) . to study the spectral evolution during the eclipse , we considered the mecs spectra corresponding to the following three intervals .",
    "the first interval ( the ingress ) corresponds to the first 20 ks of the light curve , during which the soft ( 0.12.5 kev ) emission was already at its minimum , while some hard emission is clearly visible in the mecs and pds light curves .",
    "the second interval ( the deep eclipse ) corresponds to the 50 ks in which the flux of the source was at its minimum in all the energy bands .",
    "the third interval ( the egress ) corresponds to the successive 20 ks in which the source gradually came back to its normal flux level .",
    "the spectra were rebinned in order to have at least 30 counts in each energy bin .",
    "these spectra can not be fitted by a simple power law with photoelectric absorption : the main features in the residuals are a soft excess below @xmath58 kev and a prominent excess between 6 and 7 kev .",
    "we therefore fitted these spectra with the same model used for the averaged spectrum out of eclipse ( see tab .  1 , i.e.  a power law , a gaussian emission line and the galactic photoelectric absorption ) multiplied by a partial covering component .",
    "in this model , the galactic hydrogen column @xmath59 , the power - law photon index and the emission line parameters were fixed to the values found for the averaged out - of - eclipse spectrum , while the partial covering parameters , i.e.  the equivalent hydrogen column @xmath60 and the covering fraction @xmath61 , as well as the power - law normalization were considered free parameters in the fit .",
    "this model could well fit the ingress and egress spectra , but gave a poor fit to the deep - eclipse spectrum , for which we obtained a @xmath62 .",
    "the main feature in the residuals was a soft excess below @xmath58  kev .",
    "we obtained a significant improvement of the fit allowing the power - law photon index to vary .",
    "the best fit value of this parameter was @xmath63 , and the corresponding @xmath64 was @xmath65 .",
    "the results of these fits are reported in table  2 and the unfolded spectra are shown in figure  6 .",
    "we also tried to fit these spectra with a more complex model for the continuum , i.e.  the model that has been suggested to explain the emission during the eclipse in cen  x3 ( e.g.  nagase et al .",
    "1992 ; ebisawa et al .",
    "this model consists of three components : the direct component from the neutron star , the electron - scattered component from the circumstellar matter and the dust - scattered component from the interstellar dust .",
    "the first two have the same spectral shape , that we modelled with power laws with photon indices fixed to 1 , but different normalizations and absorption columns . the third one is softer by approximately @xmath66 and was modelled by a power law with photon index fixed to 3 . with this model we can obtain a good description of the deep - eclipse spectrum if we also add a gaussian emission line at 6.66 kev ( with @xmath67 and equivalent width @xmath68 kev ) , giving a @xmath69 . for the other two spectra ( eclipse ingress and egress ) we do not obtain a stable fit with this model and the spectral parameters",
    "are not constrained .",
    "this is due to the fact that one of these components is indeed not required by the data and could be eliminated without affecting the results .",
    "therefore we prefer the previous spectral deconvolution using the partial covering , which has less free parameters and gives stable fits to all the spectra .",
    "this model can well describe both the evolution of the soft part of the spectra and the prominent feature at 67 kev , without the addition of extra emission components .",
    "we performed temporal and broad band ( 0.1 - 100  kev ) spectral analysis on the out - of - eclipse and eclipse data of 4u  153852 observed by bepposax nfis .",
    "we obtained a new measurement of the spin period @xmath70 s , which indicates that the neutron star is still spinning - up .",
    "the pulse profile is double peaked in the mecs energy range ( 1.8 - 10.5  kev ) , with a main pulse and a secondary one .",
    "the secondary peak is much fainter in the high energy range ( 15 - 100  kev ) and absent in the soft energy range ( 0.1 - 1.8  kev ) .",
    "the broad band energy spectrum is well fitted by a power - law with high energy cutoff continuum ( the typical continuum of the x - ray pulsators ) , with low energy absorption by cold matter , an emission line due to fluorescence from iron in low ionization stages , and an absorption feature around 20  kev , interpreted as due to cyclotron scattering ( in agreement with _ e.g. _",
    "the cyclotron line parameters are similar to those measured by ginga ( clark _ et al .",
    "_ 1990 ; makishima et al .",
    "1999 ) , with small differences due to the different models ( gaussian vs. pseudo  lorentzian ) used to fit the cyclotron line .",
    "a turnover of the spectrum above the cyclotron line energy was previously interpreted as due to the presence of the second cyclotron harmonic or a high energy thermal cutoff ( clark _ et al .",
    "makishima et al . ( 1999 ) , using the npex model , interpreted this turnover in the spectrum as due to a thermal cutoff , although they fitted the spectrum in a relatively narrow energy range ( 260 kev ) and obtained a @xmath71 .",
    "the broad band capabilities of the bepposax nfis ( 0.1100 kev ) have unambiguously demonstrated that the claimed second harmonic present at the edge of the energy range of the _ ginga _ lac actually is an exponential cutoff , that we also interpret as thermal with associated temperature given by the e - folding energy of @xmath36  kev .",
    "if this interpretation is correct we expect a gaussian thermal broadening of the cyclotron absorption feature according to the formula : @xmath72 ( rybicki & lightman 1979 ) , where @xmath73 is the rest energy of the electron . for @xmath74  kev , and @xmath75  kev , we found @xmath76  kev , in agreement with the measured broadening of @xmath77  kev .",
    "the thermal nature of the broadening of the cyclotron absorption feature seems to be the more natural interpretation for the width of these lines , although different interpretations have also been proposed .",
    "it seems possible that variations of the field strength along the accretion column could originate the variations of the broadening observed in the pulse phase resolved spectroscopy performed on some sources .",
    "indeed , bulik _ et al . _",
    "( 1995 ) claim that multiple field values are needed to explain the pulse phase resolved spectra of _ ginga _ data of 4u  153852 .",
    "although this is still a viable possibility , we want to stress that , thanks to the broad band capabilities of the bepposax satellite , in an increasing number of x - ray pulsators the shape of the high energy continuum ( underlying the absorption cyclotron lines ) has been determined quite accurately",
    ". in particular the presence of a power law with an exponential cutoff seems a common feature among these sources .",
    "if a multiplicative gaussian absorption feature is used to fit the cyclotron lines a good fit has been obtained in several cases .",
    "we note that a multiplicative gaussian shape ( that is also used in this paper ) can better describe the effects of thermal broadening of the cyclotron feature ( as discussed in burderi et al .",
    "2000 ) . as it can be seen in dal fiume et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , there is a general agreement between the measured width of cyclotron lines in several sources and the predicted value of the width in the hypothesis of thermal broadening .",
    "another absorption feature might be present in the spectrum of 4u  153852 around 50  kev ( at 99% confidence level ) .",
    "the presence of variations of the pulse profile at energies below and above 50 kev could provide a confirmation of the presence of a cyclotron feature at this energy .",
    "unfortunately , although the primary peak is still observed in the folded light curve at energies above 50 kev , the reduced statistics prevent us to see significant variations of the pulse profile at high energy .",
    "if confirmed , this absorption feature might be interpreted as the second harmonic of the 20  kev cyclotron line . however , the energy of this second feature ( @xmath43  kev ) does not seem compatible with being double than that of the fundamental ( @xmath78  kev ) .",
    "this discrepancy could be explained by considering that the optical depths of the fundamental and second harmonic are different , implying that the two lines could form at different heights , where the dipolar magnetic field of the neutron star has different intensities . in particular the fundamental , with a larger cross section , should form in the upper atmosphere where the magnetic field is weaker .",
    "we calculate that a difference in the heights of @xmath79 neutron star radii is sufficient to explain the difference in the cyclotron energies .",
    "another possibility is that we see two different lines coming from the two magnetic poles .",
    "a displacement of the magnetic dipole momentum by about 0.15 neutron star radii from the center ( as already detected in other x - ray pulsators , _ e.g. _ cen x-3 , burderi _ et .",
    "_ , 2000 ) is sufficient to explain the difference of energy of the two lines produced at the two magnetic poles . in this case",
    "we expect a phase dependence of the strength of these two lines . in principle phase",
    "resolved spectral analysis could address this question although the low statistics at the energies of the second line prevents any conclusion with the present data set .",
    "further observations are needed to confirm the presence of the second harmonic and to address this interesting question .",
    "we also performed a pulse - phase resolved spectral analysis on these data , dividing the pulse profile into four intervals , corresponding to the secondary peak and the rising , maximum and descent phases of the primary peak .",
    "the cyclotron line energy seems to vary with the pulse phase , reaching its maximum and minimum values in the rising phase and at the maximum of the primary peak , respectively , although the large error bars prevent any firm conclusion based on these data .",
    "the line depth is higher at the secondary - peak phase , while the width reaches its maximum and minimum values at the rising and descent phases of the primary peak , respectively .",
    "these variations are in general agreement with what is observed , with higher statistical significance , in the _ ginga _ data of 4u  153852 ( clark et al .",
    "1990 ; bulik et al . 1992 ) .",
    "significant variations with the pulse phase are also observed in the continuum model .",
    "in particular the power law is flatter at the phases of the two peaks , and the corresponding values of the cutoff energy tend to be lower than in the other phase intervals .",
    "this behavior of the photon index is better seen in figure 5 , where we show the results of the fit of ten phase intervals in the lecs and mecs ranges .",
    "these results are similar with previous results from exosat ( robba et al .",
    "1992 ) and ginga ( clark et al . 1990 ) , and hence they probably reflect true variations of the compton @xmath80 parameter and the temperature of the observed region in the accretion column with the pulse phase",
    ".    a soft blackbody component might also be present in the pulse - phase averaged spectrum as well as in the spectra corresponding to phase intervals 00.5 and 0.751 .",
    "the temperature of this component in the pulse - phase averaged spectrum is @xmath6 kev , corresponding to an unabsorbed luminosity of @xmath49 ergs / s .",
    "the temperature seems to vary between @xmath81 kev at phases 00.5 and @xmath82 kev at phases 0.751 .",
    "the radius of the spherical emission region of this component is between 400 and @xmath83 km , well compatible with the magnetospheric radius of this source .",
    "in fact , considering a magnetic field of @xmath84 gauss ( where @xmath85 is the gravitational redshift ) and a bolometric luminosity of @xmath86 ergs / s , we find @xmath87 km , where @xmath88 is a correction factor which , in the case of disk accretion , is between 0.3 and 0.5 ( see e.g.  burderi et al . 1998 ; ghosh & lamb 1991 ) .",
    "therefore this soft component can be emitted by the inner accretion disk at the magnetospheric radius or by matter at the magnetosphere ( as in the case of cen x3 , burderi et al .",
    "2000 ) .    finally , we analysed eclipse spectra during the ingress , the deep eclipse and the egress .",
    "the best fit to these spectra was obtained adopting the same model used for the out - of - eclipse spectrum multiplied by a partial covering . in this model the spectral evolution during the eclipse is explained by a progressive covering of the primary spectrum ( or the part of it that is scattered into the line of sight ) , with both @xmath60 and @xmath61 increasing towards the deep eclipse .",
    "this model can fit both a soft excess and a prominent feature between 6 and 7 kev without the addition of extra emission components . in the deep eclipse we also find a softening of the power - law component .",
    "this could be caused by the increased contribution of the dust - scattered component , which has a softer spectrum ( by @xmath89 ) relative to the incident spectrum ( e.g.  day & tennant 1991 ) .",
    "becker , r.h . ,",
    "swank , j.h . ,",
    "boldt , e.a . ,",
    "holt , s.s . ,",
    "pravdo , s.h . , saba , j.r . , and serlemitsos , p.j .",
    "1977 , apj , 216 , l11 boella , g. , butler , r. c. , perola , g. c. , piro , l. , scarsi , l. , blecker , j. , 1997 , a&as , 122 , 299 brainerd , j. j. , meszaros , p. , 1991 ,",
    "apj , 369 , 179 bulik , t. , meszaros , p. , woo , j. w. , nagase , f. , makishima , k. , 1992 , apj , 395 , 564 bulik , t. , _ et al .",
    "_ , 1995 , apj , 444 , 405 burderi , l. , di salvo , t. , robba , n. r. , del sordo , s. , santangelo , a. , segreto , a. , 1998 , apj , 498 , 831 burderi , l. , di salvo , t. , robba , n. r. , la barbera , a. , guainazzi , m. , 2000 , apj , 530 , 429 clark , g. w. , woo , j. w. , nagase , f. , makishima , k. , sakao , t. , 1990 , apj , 353 , 274 dal fiume , d. , et al . , 1999 , advances in space research , proceedings of 32nd scientific assembly of cospar : `` broad - band x - ray spectroscopy of cosmic sources '' davison , p.j.n .",
    "1977 , mnras , 179 , 35p day , c. s. r. , tennant , a. f. , 1991 , mnras , 251 , 76 ebisawa , k. , et al . , 1996 , pasj , 48 , 425 ghosh , p. , & lamb , f. k. 1991 , in neutron stars : theory and observation , ed . j. ventura & d. pines ( nato asi ser . ;",
    "dordrecht : kluwer ) , 363 makishima , k. , mihara , t. , nagase , f. , tanaka , y. 1999 , apj , 525 , 978 meszaros , p. , nagel , w. , 1985a , apj , 298 , 147 meszaros , p. , nagel , w. , 1985b , apj , 299 , 138 mihara t. , 1995 , ph .",
    "d. thesis , tokyo university nagase , f. , corbet , r. h. d. , day , c. s. r. , inoue , h. , takeshima , t. , yoshida , k. , mihara , t. 1992 , apj , 396 , 147 robba , n. r. , cusumano , g. , orlandini , m. , dal fiume , d. , frontera , f. 1992 , apj , 401 , 685 rubin , b.c . , finger , m.h . ,",
    "scott , d.m . , wilson , r.b .",
    ", 1997 , apj , 488 , 413 rybicki , g. r. , & lightman , a. p. , 1979",
    ", radiative processes in astrophysics , john wiley & sons , inc .",
    ".results of the fit of the spectra during the eclipse in the energy range 1.8 - 10  kev .",
    "uncertainties are at the 90% confidence level for a single parameter .",
    "the units of the spectral parameters are as defined in table  1 . [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the results of temporal and spectral analysis performed on the x - ray pulsar 4u  153852 observed by bepposax . we obtained a new estimate of the spin period of the neutron star @xmath0  s ( corrected for the orbital motion of the x - ray source ) : </S>",
    "<S> the source is still in the spin - up state , as since 1988 . </S>",
    "<S> the pulse profile is double peaked , although significant variations of the relative intensity of the peaks with energy are present . </S>",
    "<S> the broad band ( 0.12100  kev ) out - of - eclipse spectrum is well described by an absorbed power law modified by a high energy cutoff at @xmath1  kev ( _ e_-folding energy @xmath2  kev ) plus an iron emission line at @xmath3  kev . </S>",
    "<S> a cyclotron line at @xmath4  kev is present . </S>",
    "<S> the width of the line is consistent with thermal doppler broadening at the temperature of the exponential cutoff . </S>",
    "<S> we searched for the presence of the second harmonic , previously reported for this source . </S>",
    "<S> we found no evidence of lines at @xmath5  kev , although an absorption feature at 51  kev seems to be present ( at 99% confidence level ) . </S>",
    "<S> a soft excess , modelled by a blackbody with a temperature of @xmath6  kev could be present , probably emitted by the matter at the magnetosphere . </S>",
    "<S> we also performed a spectral analysis during the x - ray eclipse . </S>",
    "<S> the spectral evolution during the eclipse can be well described by a progressive covering of the primary comptonization spectrum that is scattered into the line of sight . during the deep eclipse this spectrum also softens , suggesting that the dust - scattered component becomes important . </S>",
    "<S> an alternative , more complex model , with an emission iron line and scattered components ( as the one that has been used to fit the eclipse of centaurus x-3 ) , also gives a good fit of the deep - eclipse data . </S>"
  ]
}