{
  "article_text": [
    "the identification breakdown of soft x ",
    "ray surveys has clearly established that agn are by far the dominant population of the x  ray sky ( see @xcite for the most recent update ) implying that about 6070 % of the soft xrb has been already resolved into agn at a limiting 0.52 kev flux of @xmath2 10@xmath3 .",
    "thanks to the imaging capabilities of asca and bepposax detectors the number of hard x  ray selected optically identified objects is increasing and several dozens of identifications are now available confirming that most of these sources are indeed agn ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "their contribution to the 210 kev xrb is of the order of 2025 % at a flux limit of @xmath2 5 @xmath4 10@xmath5 .",
    "the present findings provide support to the xrb synthesis models which , in the framework of the unified scheme , assume that a mixture of unabsorbed and absorbed agn can account for almost the entire xrb spectral intensity in the 2100 kev energy range ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) even though the so far proposed models differ in several of the assumptions concerning the agn luminosity function and the x  ray spectral properties , they all agree in predicting that the fraction of obscured agn is rapidly increasing towards high energy and faint fluxes .",
    "it turns out that these sources can be efficiently discovered with sensitive hard x  ray surveys .    in order to quantitatively test agn synthesis models for the xrb we have carried out an x  ray survey in the hardest band accessible with the present imaging detectors : the 510 kev bepposax high energy llarge area survey ( hellas )",
    "about 80 square degrees of sky have been surveyed in the 510 kev band using several bepposax mecs ( @xcite ) high galactic latitude ( @xmath6 deg ) fields .",
    "all mecs pointings cover different sky positions .",
    "the fields were selected among public data ( as march 1999 ) and our proprietary data excluding those fields centered on extended sources and bright galactic objects .",
    "a robust detection algorithm has been used on the coadded mecs1 mecs2 and mecs3 ( or mecs2 plus mecs3 after the failure of mecs1 in may 1997 ) images and the quality of the detection has been checked interactively for all the 147 sources of the final sample .",
    "background subtracted count rates were converted to 510 kev fluxes assuming a power law spectrum with energy index @xmath7 = 0.6 a detailed description of the survey and the detection procedure is presented in @xcite .",
    "the 510 kev logn  logs of the hellas sources is reported in figure 1 .",
    "the source surface density at the survey limit ( 4.8 @xmath8 ) is 17@xmath96 sources per square degree .",
    "the error bars on the binned integral counts account for both the statistic and systematic uncertainties , the latter due to the lack of information on the intrinsic spectrum of the faint sources .",
    "the systematic error has been estimated assuming a range of spectral shapes ( 0.2 @xmath10 @xmath7 @xmath10 1.0 ) to convert count rates into fluxes .",
    "the hellas counts are in very good agreement with the recent asca results ( @xcite , @xcite ) obtained in the 210 kev band ( figure 1 ) . given that both the hellas and the asca counts have been computed assuming the same prescription for the spectral slope the comparison is straightforward .",
    "the dashed line in figure 1 corresponds to the best  fit to the asca counts computed by @xcite and converted in the 510 kev band with @xmath7 = 0.6 .",
    "the cumulative flux of the hellas sources accounts for a significant fraction ( 2030 % ) of the 510 kev xrb .",
    "the main uncertainty on the resolved fraction is due to the still poorly understood normalization of the extragalactic xrb spectrum as measured by the different satellites ( see @xcite and @xcite for more details ) .",
    "the hellas sources are too faint to perform a spectral fit . in order to study their spectral properties",
    "we have computed for each source , whenever possible , two x  ray colours defined as hr1 = ( m@xmath11l)/(m+l ) and hr2 = ( h@xmath11m)/(h+m ) where h , m and l are the number of counts in the h=4.510 kev m=2.54.5 kev and l=1.32.5 kev energy ranges .",
    "a wide range of spectral properties is evident from the analysis of the color  color diagram reported in figure 2 .",
    "for example extremely hard sources , with nearly all the photons detected only above 4.5 kev , populate the upper right part of the diagram .    the x  ray colours depend from the intrinsic spectrum and from the source redshift .",
    "the colours expected for a range of spectral shapes at different redshifts has been computed following the same procedure adopted by @xcite for their asca survey .",
    "the big star at hr1 = 0.25 and hr2 = 0 represents an unabsorbed power law spectrum with @xmath7 = 0.4 .",
    "the rightmost solid curve connecting the open squares indicates the colours for an agn  like power law ( @xmath7 = 0.8 ) absorbed by an increasing value of the column density : log @xmath12 = 0 , 22 , 22.7 , 23 , 23.7 , 24 at z=0 .",
    "the dashed curve is the same but at z=0.4 .",
    "the innermost solid curves have been computed at z=0 assuming the same model but allowing a fraction of 10% and 1% respectively to be unabsorbed .",
    "these models should be considered as indicative and indeed they do not cover the entire diagram . as first noted by @xcite , more complicate spectral shapes , such as those characterizing the sources in the upper left portion of the plot , might be present .",
    "asca follow ",
    "up pointed observations of two relatively bright hellas sources @xcite allowed to collect enough counts to perform a more detailed spectral analysis . in both of the cases the data are consistent with a hard absorbed power law spectrum making us confident on the robustness of the hardness ratio results",
    "the cross  correlation of the hellas sample with various source catalogs provided 25 coincidences ( 19 agn : 7 radio  loud , 12 radio quiet and 6 clusters of galaxies ) .",
    "in addition , optical spectroscopic follow ",
    "up observations have been performed and 22 new identifications ( 18 agn ) are available ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "a detailed discussion of the optical identifications is beyond the purposes of this paper and will be presented by @xcite .",
    "the average x  ray spectrum as inferred form the softness ratio value s@xmath11h / s+h ( where s is the number of counts in the 1.34.5 kev energy range ) is plotted in figure 3 versus the source redshift and optical classification .",
    "the most important results are the following :    @xmath13 the fraction of type 2 objects ( including in this class seyfert types 1.81.92.0 and quasars with a red optical continuum ) is of the order of 4045 % .",
    "this percentage is higher than in other optically identified samples of x  ray selected sources from rosat and asca surveys .",
    "@xmath13 the degree of obscuration as inferred from the hardness ratio analysis described in the previous section seems to be uncorrelated with the optical reddening indicators , such as the optical line widths and line ratios .",
    "+    @xmath13 the softness ratio of a few high luminosity broad lined quasars with blue optical colours implies x  ray absorption by a substantial column density ( log @xmath14 23 ) .",
    "@xmath13 optical and near  infrared photometry of ten hellas sources carried out at the italian national telescope galileo ( tng ) indicates that the optical colors of type 1.82.0 and red agn are dominated by the host galaxy , though the obscured agn contributes to some of the infrared emission ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "the observed 510 kev logn",
    " logs is compared with the agn number counts predictions @xcite in the same energy range ( figure 4 ) . given that in the hellas band a column as high as log @xmath12 = 23 is needed to significantly reduce the photon flux , the contribution of sources with a different degree of obscuration is reported splitted into 3 classes : relatively unobscured log @xmath15 23 , obscured compton thin 23 @xmath10 log@xmath15 24 and almost compton thick log @xmath14 24 . according to the model predictions relatively unobscured sources outnumber absorbed objects .",
    "the expected fraction of compton thin sources ranges from 25 to 35 % while the number of compton thick sources is always negligible .",
    "given that about one third of the agn reported in figure 3 have a softness ratio value consistent with a column density 23 @xmath10 log@xmath15 24 and none is compton thick the agreement with the model predictions is remarkable .",
    "these findings are at variance with the relatively high space density of compton thick agn in the local universe @xcite , @xcite .",
    "we note , however , that the fraction of compton thick objects has been estimated only for optically selected , nearby seyferts and thus might not be representative of the more distant x  ray selected population .",
    "the hard x  ray sky , as surveyed by bepposax , is dominated by agn with a wide range of x  ray and optical properties . at first glance",
    "the present data are in line with what expected from the standard synthesis models for the xrb @xcite .",
    "in addition , new trends characterizing the agn population are emerging .",
    "the large dispersion in the hardness / softness ratios suggests that the spectral properties of the hellas sources can not be explained only with a distribution of absorbing column densities as assumed in the xrb models . in agreement with asca findings @xcite , the presence of additional soft x ",
    "ray emission above the hard absorbed component is required .",
    "the  soft excess \" is likely to be due either to a fraction of the nuclear component scattered in the line of sight or to an incomplete covering of the central radiation or to thermal emission originating in a starburst region and/or due to x  ray binaries and supernova remnants .",
    "the  soft excess \" intensity , which ranges from a few percent to 1020 % of the total x  ray flux , is not relevant as far as the fit to the hard xrb is concerned , however it should be consistently taken into account when model predictions are compared to hard and soft x  ray counts . indeed , if soft excesses are common among obscured agn , as the hellas results indicate , these sources might well be detectable in the soft x ",
    "ray band even in the presence of substantial obscuration simply because the flux limit of the rosat soft x ",
    "ray surveys is about a factor 3040 deeper than the limit actually reached in the hard x  ray band .",
    "another interesting and unexpected result concerns the optical and near  infrared properties of the hard x  ray selected sources .",
    "even though detailed studies have been carried out only for a small hellas subsample the results do clearly indicate that :    @xmath13 the broad band optical ( u , b , v , r , i ) and near  infrared ( j , k ) colors of hellas agn , spectroscopically classified as type 1.82.0 seyferts or red quasars , are undistinguishable from those of normal passive galaxies .",
    "@xmath13 there is an increasing evidence that the x  ray absorption properties and the optical appearance of agn change with redshift and/or luminosity , suggesting that high luminosity , highly obscured quasars are present among optically broad lined blue objects .    if confirmed by future observations",
    ", these findings would imply that the x  ray obscured agn responsible for a large fraction of the hard xrb energy density could be  hidden \" among objects which would be optically classified either as normal galaxies or as  normal \" blue quasars .",
    "it is also worth noting that the redshift of obscured agn could be in principle obtained by deep photometric observations of their host galaxies .",
    "a step forward in the study of the sources of the hard xrb will be achieved by the foreseen xmm and chandra surveys .",
    "in particular the x  ray data will allow to obtain an unbiased estimate of the absorption distribution ( a key parameter of the xrb models ) , while optical and near  infrared follow  up",
    "observations are likely to provide new insights on the nature of the absorbing gas ( such as the dust  to  gas ratio ) and on the morphology of the host galaxies of obscured agn .    as a final remark we note that",
    ", while type 2 quasars are probably numerous , it is likely that they have been elusive so far because have been searched for in the optical rather than in x  rays . in most luminous and/or distant",
    "absorbed quasars the narrow lines region may be also obscured or lacking altogether ( ngc  6240 is a classical example @xcite ) , and therefore they are missed in optical spectroscopic surveys .",
    "deep chandra and xmm surveys will hopefully settle this long  standing issue , and then provide a key test for xrb synthesis models .",
    "99 akiyama m. , et al . , 2000 , in press boella g. , et al .",
    ", 1997 , a&as 122 , 299 cagnoni i. , della ceca r. , maccacaro t. , 1998 , 493 , 54 comastri a. , et al . , 1995 , 296 , 1 comastri a. , 2000 , astr .",
    "lett & comm . , submitted della ceca r. , et al . , 1999 , 524 , 674 della ceca r. , et al .",
    ", 2000 , astro - ph/9912016 fiore f. , et al .",
    ", 1999 , 306 , l55 fiore f. , vignali c. , comastri a. , et al . , 2000 , submitted gilli r. , risaliti g. , salvati m. , 1999 , 347 , 424 la franca f. , et al . , 2000 , in preparation lehmann i. , et al . , 1999 , in press ( astro - ph/9911484 ) maiolino r. , et al . ,",
    "1998 , 338 , 781 maiolino r. , et al .",
    ", 2000 , submitted pompilio f. , la franca f. , matt g. , 2000 , 353 , 440 risaliti g. , maiolino r. , salvati m. , 1999 , 522 , 157 setti g. , woltjer l. , 1989 , 224 l21 ueda y. , et al . , 1999 , 524 , l11 vecchi a. , molendi s. , guainazzi m. , et al . , 1999 , 349 ,",
    "l73 vignali c. , comastri a. , fiore f. , 2000 , these proceedings vignali c. , et al . , 2000 , mnras in press vignati p. , et al . , 1999 , 349 , l57"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the integrated emission of highly obscured agn is expected to provide a major contribution to the x  ray energy density in the universe : the x  ray background ( xrb ) . </S>",
    "<S> the study of these objects is possible only at energies where the effects of absorption are less severe . for this reason we have carried out the bepposax high energy llarge area survey in the hardest band ( 510 kev ) accessible so far with imaging x  ray instruments . the source surface density at the survey limiting flux accounts for a significant fraction ( 2030 % ) of the hard xrb . </S>",
    "<S> the x  ray data complemented by multiwavelength follow  up </S>",
    "<S> observations suggest that a large fraction of the hard sources are agn and that x  ray absorption with column densities in the range 10@xmath0 @xmath1 is common among them . </S>",
    "<S> the great diversity in their optical  near  ir properties suggests that the optical appearance of obscured sources is a function of the x  ray luminosity . </S>",
    "<S> we briefly discuss the implications of these findings for the xrb models . </S>"
  ]
}