{
  "article_text": [
    "traditionally , studies of spiral galaxies have concentrated on understanding the dynamics of axisymmetric disks with simple spiral structure .",
    "the high contrast , well  delineated spiral structure in ideal `` grand design '' spiral galaxies is fairly well understood as arising from tidal effects . however , as baldwin _",
    "et al . _ ( 1980 ) ( hereafter bls ) first pointed out , ideal ( that is , symmetric ) galaxies outside of the grand design class are more uncommon than generally believed .",
    "it is now becoming established that perfect symmetry is not nearly as all  pervasive in either visible galaxies or in disks as previously assumed .",
    "asymmetries are generally interpreted ( see , for example , junqueira & combes 1996 ) as the excitation and superposition of @xmath1 spiral modes over the dominant @xmath2 mode , or as local phase  shifting ( with radius ) of the @xmath2 mode initiated by gravitational perturbations due to companion galaxies , even when interacting galaxies are not in evidence .",
    "this idea can be extended to include those interactions which result in minor mergers , or gas accretion from the surrounding intergalactic medium , allowing limits to be placed on the total galaxy accretion rate ( zaritsky & rix 1997 , hereafter zr ) .",
    "alternatively , asymmetry in the gas velocity field has been interpreted as an indicator of more subtle dynamics occurring within the galaxy itself .",
    "it is beginning to be understood that stationary solutions of the hydrodynamics of baryonic and dark matter components may be non  axisymmetric .",
    "( 1997 ) , for instance , interpret optical asymmetry as an indicator of asymmetry in the overall galactic potential , and therefore an indicator of the ( triaxial ) spatial distribution of the dark matter in a galaxy .",
    "jog ( 1997 ) has studied the orbits of stars and gas in a lopsided potential , and reports that lopsided potentials arising from disks alone are not self  consistent ; rather , a stationary lopsided disk must be responding to asymmetries in the halo .",
    "finally , some numerical studies such as that done by syer & tremaine ( 1996 ) indicate that fluid disks may have non  axisymmetric equilibrium states , even when embedded in an axisymmetric halo .",
    "in certain galaxies , ngc  5474 for example ( see van der hulst & huchtmeier 1979 and rownd _ et al .",
    "_ 1994 ) , the center of the optical light is separated from the center of the dynamical distribution , possibly indicating that galaxies do not rest in stationary states of the potential at all , but rather that the optical galaxy may be in a libration about the minimum of the the or dark matter potential .",
    "the preliminary numerical work reported by levine and sparke ( 1998 ) is suggestive that optical disks offset from dynamical centers can result in intriguing forms of non  axisymmetry .",
    "several methods have been developed to quantify the frequency of asymmetry in galaxy images .",
    "rix & zaritsky ( 1995 , hereafter rz ) and zr analyzed the surface brightness distributions in @xmath3-band images of spiral galaxies .",
    "fourier signal strengths @xmath4 for the @xmath5 spiral modes were calculated , with large signal strengths ( compared to the average surface brightness @xmath6 ) indicating asymmetry .",
    "rz concentrated on the @xmath1 `` lopsided '' fourier mode as the primary indicator of asymmetry .",
    "both rz and zr conclude that as many as @xmath7 of galaxies show significant deviations from axisymmetry by this measure .",
    "conselice ( 1997 , hereafter c97 ) has proposed that asymmetries be measured by a method in which galaxy images are rotated @xmath8 and subtracted from the original image .",
    "any residuals are interpreted as asymmetries .",
    "c97 does not provide error estimates of the derived asymmetry parameter , but comments that in the _",
    "r_-band , at least 54% of 43 sample galaxies have asymmetry parameters @xmath9 , where @xmath10 and @xmath11 are representative of maximal symmetry and asymmetry , respectively .",
    "the observation is also made that galaxies tend to be more asymmetric in the _ j_-band than in the _ r_-band .",
    "methods for measuring other than global asymmetries have also been proposed .",
    "for example , elmegreen and elmegreen ( 1995 ) study the symmetry of the two dominant inner spiral arms in a sample of 173 bright galaxies . in that study ,",
    "the relative lengths and positions of the spiral arms were measured and compared .",
    "they find that in most galaxies , the inner spiral arm lengths are equal to within 20% , and are within 20@xmath12 of being 180@xmath12 apart .",
    "such a method could be extended into the outer regions of a grand design spiral , in lieu of more global methods which can confuse strong spiral structure with asymmetry .    in their study , bls compared the surface density profiles on both sides of the galaxy for a sample of galaxies mapped in with sufficient resolution to measure the degree of asymmetry in disks . using a much larger dataset of global profiles obtained from the literature , richter & sancisi ( 1994 ) classified asymmetry qualitatively .",
    "based essentially on differences in the fluxes from the two horns , or total differences in flux between approaching and receding sides , they assigned galaxies to one of three categories of apparent asymmetry : `` strong , '' `` weak , '' or no asymmetry . using the qualitative assignment ,",
    "richter & sancisi concluded that only 47% @xmath13 5% of the global profiles show no asymmetry .",
    "furthermore , they argued that an observed correspondence between obviously asymmetric maps ( such as that for m101 ) and lopsided line profiles justifies the proposition that an observed asymmetry in the global profile can be taken as evidence for a non  circular density distribution .",
    "it should be noted , however , that this is a converse argument complicated by the fact that profiles contain both velocity field and distribution information , which are often difficult to disentangle .",
    "richter & sancisi did attempt to correct for the presence of companions or the presence of unusual kinematics by eliminating peculiar  looking profiles _ a priori .",
    "_ however , because the emission profiles used for this study were taken from observations made with a smorgasboard of telescopes , the effects of pointing error ( which could manifest itself as an asymmetry in the profile ) could not be determined .",
    "( 1998a ) have conducted a similar study of line profiles in which spectra for a sample of 104 disk galaxies were taken using the 43-meter telescope at green bank and examined for asymmetry in a quantitative way . using two methods for the determination of asymmetry , and after determining that pointing errors produced negligible deviations , the conclusion supported the previous results that asymmetry is found in @xmath14  50% of global profiles .",
    "however , those authors caution that asymmetry in line profiles obtained with single  dish telescopes can arise for a variety of reasons unrelated to disk asymmetry , such as contamination from companions within the main beam or sidelobes .    in this paper",
    ", we present a new photometric method for quantifying deviations from axisymmetry in optical images of disk galaxies .",
    "essentially , we attempt to determine the likelihood that the light distribution in a galaxy is inherently symmetric by comparing the relative fluxes received in different directions from the optical center . in  2 , we present the observational sample of 32 face  on and nearly face  on galaxies and describe the basic image acquisition and reduction procedures . in  3 ,",
    "the photometric method for the determination of departures from axisymmetry is introduced and then applied to the target sample . finally in  4 , the method is discussed in comparison with other quantitative determinations of asymmetry in spiral disks .",
    "for the purpose of developing a method of measuring departures from axisymmetry , deep _",
    "r_-band images were constructed for a set of 32 nearby face  on disk galaxies covering a range of spiral hubble classes . in this section ,",
    "we discuss the observational and image reduction procedures for the target sample of galaxies .",
    "the method of sectors described in the following sections was used to determine differences from symmetry for a sample of 32 face  on disk galaxies listed in table [ sample ] and displayed in figure 1 .",
    "observations were conducted with a harris _ r_-band filter under nonphotometric conditions . each galaxy except ngc  3393 , ngc  3450 , and was observed with the kpno 0.9 meter telescope configured to @xmath15 and equipped with the t2ka direct imaging camera .",
    "the camera setup yielded a gain of 3.6 electrons per adu and a @xmath16 per pixel scale .",
    "only the inner @xmath17 pixels were illuminated , resulting in a field of view of @xmath18 .",
    "read noise in the camera was 4 electrons per pixel .",
    "observations took place during several observing periods during november and december 1996 and february and march 1997 .",
    "the three galaxies ngc  3393 , ngc  3450 , and were observed in april 1997 at the ctio 0.9 meter telescope with the t1k2 imaging camera .",
    "the gain in this camera is 3.35 electrons per adu and the plate scale is @xmath19 per pixel at cassegrain focus . read noise is 4.6 electrons per pixel .    at both telescopes ,",
    "individual exposures of 600 seconds each were taken ; the total integration time per object was varied depending on the atmospheric transparency .",
    "image reduction was accomplished in the _ iraf _ image processing environment .",
    "these exposures were then debiased , sky  subtracted , and flatfielded using twilight flats .",
    "the exposures were scaled by measuring the integrated fluxes from 510 stars in the field . because the transparency was variable ,",
    "the frames were scaled to the single frame showing the greatest number of counts regardless of airmass .",
    "the frames were then combined using weights inversely proportional to the scale factor used , to produce images with total exposure times of between 3000 and 4800 seconds . because the images are not photometric ( and in some cases , far from photometric ) , the relation between exposure times and total integration time is not clear .",
    "this variability does not affect the measurements conducted here , however , because the interesting quantities involve only magnitude differences of regions within individual images .",
    "estimated errors which involve the integration time , however , may be affected .",
    "after combination , foreground stars were removed from the frame and replaced with a second  order polynomial interpolation of the surrounding background .",
    "a record of the number of pixels so replaced was kept , to be used as part of the final error estimate .",
    "elliptical isophotes were then fit to the galaxy using a slightly modified version of the stsdas isophote package ( haynes _ et al . _",
    "the model galaxy thus obtained was used to determine each galaxy s center of light , inclination , and disk scale length @xmath20 .",
    "scale length was determined by finding the best fit line in a surface brightness profile for the outer regions of a galaxy .",
    "inclination was estimated under the assumption that galaxies seen face  on should appear circular .",
    "this assumption , although widely used to determine inclinations , is suspect in a project wherein inherent circular symmetry is not assumed .",
    "it is , however , justified statistically by studies such as that by binney and de vaucouleurs ( 1981 ) and in rz , in which the observed distribution of galaxy ellipticities on the sky was used to estimate the distribution of the intrinsic axial ratios of disk and galaxies .",
    "we thus take the intrinsic ellipticities of disk galaxies as finite , but well within the errors of our ellipticity measurements .",
    "these values and the formal numerical errors are included in table [ sample ] . following this basic data reduction ,",
    "images were analyzed for asymmetry using the method of sectors described in the next section .",
    "the images shown in figure [ allgals ] are individually scaled and trimmed for illustrative purposes , and most stars therein are masked to convey the visual appearance of each object .",
    "the observational sample selected for this study was chosen based on applicability for imaging for the purpose of employing the method of sectors discussed in  [ pizzasection ] .",
    "the primary criterion was face  on aspect , to eliminate confusion due to , for instance , the presence of dust lanes and extinction in the disk ; the main source was the _",
    "third reference catalogue of bright galaxies _ ( de vaucouleurs _",
    "et al . _ 1976 ; rc3 ) .",
    "the galaxies in the observed sample were selected based on apparent disk size @xmath21 , apparent ellipticity @xmath22 , and narrow ( @xmath23  km  s@xmath24 ) line width .",
    "the latter restriction is a further diagnostic for low inclination in rotation  dominated disks . since turbulence contributes to broadening at a level of @xmath25 ( broeils 1992 ; giovanelli _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 ) @xmath26  km  s@xmath24 and deviations from coplanar rotation may be quite common ( lewis 1987 ) , line widths arising from spirals that are observed to be as narrow as 100  km  s@xmath24 clearly suggest that the disk is seen face  on .",
    "figure [ hiwidths ] demonstrates how rarely line widths are observed to be so narrow .",
    "the top panels shows the distribution of observed line widths w@xmath27 for a sample of 3123 galaxies in the local supercluster for which line widths are available either in the rc3 or , preferentially , in our own private database . reported velocity widths",
    "have been converted to a systematic definition and corrected for instrumental broadening , signal  to  noise and redshift stretch , following giovanelli _",
    "( 1998 ) and haynes _ et al . _",
    "( 1998c ) .",
    "the lower three panels show the distributions for spiral subtypes as indicated .",
    "most of the narrow w@xmath27 profiles seen in the total sample arise from the low mass dwarf irregular galaxies , whereas only a small percent of spirals , those with inclinations @xmath28 , have narrow widths .",
    "we have thus used such widths as an important indicator of low inclination .",
    "because of the desire to understand the nature of departures from symmetry in isolated disks , galaxies with no known nearby companions were preferentially included in the sample .",
    "in contrast , ngc  5474 , which lies within the gravitational potential of m101 and is well  known for its high degree of asymmetry was included for comparative purposes .",
    "likewise , ngc  1637 was added to the sample because of its well  known optical and infrared asymmetry despite its symmetric line profile ( see haynes _ et al .",
    "_ 1998a and block _ et al .",
    "_ 1994 ) .    because the observations were conducted during non  photometric conditions when the main program could not be carried out , final target selection was not controlled but rather dependent on the ill  fortune of the primary program .",
    "table [ sample ] lists relevant information about the program objects .",
    "entries in the table are as follows :    col . 1 : entry number in the uppsala general catalog ( nilson 1973 )",
    ", where applicable , or else in our private database , referred to as the arecibo general catalog ( agc ) .",
    "col 2 : ngc or ic designation , or other name , typically from the catalog of galaxies and clusters of galaxies ( zwicky _ et al .",
    "_ 1960 ) , the eso  uppsala catalog ( lauberts 1982 ) or the morphological catalog of galaxies ( vorontsov  velyaminov & arhipova 1968 ) .    cols . 3 and 4 : right ascension and declination in the 1950.0 epoch , typically from the agc . in general , the listed positions have 15 \" accuracy .",
    "col . 5 : the morphological type code from the rc3 .    col . 6 : the major and minor diameters , @xmath29 and @xmath30 , in arcmin , from the rc3 .    col . 7 : the line width , w@xmath27 , corrected for instrumental broadening , smoothing , and signal  to  noise , in km  s@xmath24 .",
    "values are taken from the literature as recorded in the agc and have been converted with appropriate corrections to the system adopted by haynes _",
    "( 1998c ) and giovanelli _ et al . _",
    "( 1998 ) .",
    "8 : the inclination and its associated error , in degrees , derived from the ellipse fitting procedure described in  [ reduction ] , under the assumption of an infinitely thin disk .",
    "the errors presented are formal numerical errors derived from constraints on geometrical quantities associated with the isophotes , including position angle and ellipticity . because the galaxies are so nearly face  on , uncertainties in position angle are typically large .",
    "we therefore believe that the presented errors are overestimates .    col . 9 : the heliocentric systemic velocity , @xmath31 , in km  s@xmath24 , from the agc .    col . 10 : the total exposure time of the combined _ r_-band image .",
    "note that the images were all obtained under non ",
    "photometric conditions of differing transparency . as discussed in ",
    "[ reduction ] , some compensation for the variation in conditions was made by varying the total exposure times and by weighting each exposure in forming the combination by the inverse of its scale factor .",
    "while the sample size is too small to treat its completeness , it was compared to the larger sample of all spiral galaxies of distance @xmath32  km  s  @xmath24 in the rc3 with observed values of @xmath29 and @xmath33 , with the subsample thereof including only those `` face  on '' galaxies with @xmath34 , and with the subsample comprised of those face  on galaxies within 2000  km  s@xmath24 .",
    "the distributions of several parameters were examined for each sample and mean values obtained . for a thorough investigation into the completeness of the catalogue , and distributions of parameters in the local supercluster , see roberts & haynes ( 1994 ) .",
    "the parameters examined were : the apparent optical diameter @xmath29 , the apparent axial ratio @xmath33 , corrected bolometric magnitude @xmath35 , and  colors , mean surface brightness @xmath36 , heliocentric velocity , and type index .",
    "the analysis indicates that the sample galaxies , with @xmath37 , are larger on the sky than on average for the supercluster @xmath38 .",
    "the mean and colors and surface brightness of the sample are those of the local supercluster to within errors .",
    "the sample spans the spiral sequence with a mean type of sc . while the sample is in no way complete",
    ", it is nonetheless representative of face  on galaxies within the local supercluster .",
    "we wish to construct a quantitative method for determining when a galaxy disk differs significantly from axisymmetry .",
    "we have decided on a method which is geometrically based , provides a global measure of asymmetry , and is applicable to a wide variety of data sets .",
    "the chosen method quantifies departures from disk axisymmetry by dividing the galaxy into a number of equal  area trapezoidal `` wedges '' in which photometry is to be performed ( see figure [ pizzapie ] ) .",
    "the wedges are derived from a series of triangles , with the apex of each located at the center of light of the galaxy .",
    "the lateral boundaries of each wedge are radials emanating from this center .",
    "each triangle is then truncated at a predetermined radius near the bulge , and extended outwards to the edge of the visible galaxy , thus creating a trapezoidal section . for most galaxies in the sample , inner and outer boundaries of @xmath20 and @xmath39",
    "were chosen to ensure that the analysis would not be affected by the bulge component , especially including asymmetries introduced by bars , while including as much of the disk luminosity as possible .",
    "when the galaxy under consideration is slightly inclined , the sector pattern can be projected to the appropriate angle of inclination , generally @xmath40 or @xmath41 .",
    "photometry is conducted in each of the sectors , and the magnitude of each sector is compared to that of the others . the magnitude difference between sectors @xmath42 and @xmath43 is @xmath44 , and the largest magnitude difference between sectors is @xmath45 , where @xmath46 represents the number of sectors used .",
    "@xmath45 is the quantitative measure of asymmetry , and where this quantity is significantly different from zero , this is taken as a detection of such .    to ensure that the method was sensitive to asymmetries in the visible flux ,",
    "the method was tested by considering the very asymmetric galaxy ngc  5474 ( figure [ n5474 ] ) .",
    "this galaxy contains a nucleus which is so offset from the disk structure as to be disconnected from it .",
    "it does , however , have a roughly north  south line of approximate reflection symmetry . using 6 sectors in a configuration aligned with the line of symmetry , we performed photometry in the sectors and determined the greatest difference between segments was @xmath47 magnitudes .",
    "because the sectors were aligned with the line of symmetry , we expected complimentary sectors to have similar total magnitudes . in this test",
    ", complimentary sectors across the line of symmetry differed only by an average of @xmath48 magnitudes .",
    "similar results were obtained when the sector boundaries were allowed to vary away from perfect alignment with the symmetry axis by @xmath49 , and for sets of 8 and 10 sectors , with average complimentary sector differences being @xmath50 and @xmath51 , respectively .",
    "the maximum magnitude differences in these cases were @xmath52 and @xmath53 , consistent with @xmath54 to within the values of @xmath55 .",
    "errors in the measured flux of a region were estimated as the sum of two distinct factors .",
    "the first of these is the formal measurement error in the flux @xmath56 including both the expected read noise and gaussian sky noise .",
    "the second factor represents uncertainties in the masking of foreground stars .",
    "these two errors were added in quadrature for each galaxy to obtain an error estimate in the flux , and then transformed via the usual relations to a final error estimate in the magnitudes .",
    "the most ideal measure of the errors associated with this method would be to perform photometry on the sky in each frame , using the same sector pattern as used on the galaxy .",
    "the image frames , however , were generally not large enough to permit this . in order to understand the magnitude of the errors involved ,",
    "therefore , the method of sectors was applied to a symmetric calibrator galaxy . for this calibration",
    ", it was important to choose a symmetric , flocculent disk galaxy so that neither spiral structure nor the presence of strong regions would contribute disproportionate amounts of luminosity to any one wedge .",
    "for these reasons , the galaxy was selected .",
    "although classified as sd in the rc3 , this galaxy exhibits rather tightly wound , very symmetric flocculent spiral structure and exhibits few regions .    observed values of the maximum flux difference @xmath57 for were interpreted as @xmath58 errors away from perfect symmetry in the fluxes .",
    "furthermore , formal errors @xmath56 were calculated for each flux determination .",
    "if @xmath59 is the density of masked pixels in the image , and @xmath60 is the area of a sector , then the errors associated with masking should be proportional to @xmath61 .",
    "we therefore introduce the proportionality constant @xmath62 , such that when added in quadrature , the total error estimate becomes    @xmath63    if the @xmath57 values obtained for this galaxy are truly representative of symmetry , then we expect them to be of order @xmath64 .",
    "setting @xmath65 _ a priori , _ it is possible to obtain a value of @xmath62 for each segment size used .",
    "we find @xmath62 to be roughly constant over segment size , thus the proposition of using @xmath57 for the estimates of the errors is justified .",
    "a value of @xmath66  adu - pixel was taken for use with the remainder of the sample , as this is the average of the three values , none of which vary from the mean value by more than 5% .",
    "table [ results ] contains the measured values of @xmath67 for the 32 galaxies in the sample with @xmath58 errors .",
    "each galaxy was studied using three segment patterns consisting of 6 , 8 , and 10 sectors . using a larger number of segments",
    "effectively compares smaller portions of the galaxy than when fewer segments are used , but in this regime , the estimated errors tend to increase . for the galaxies more than @xmath0 away from symmetric , we have included the type of asymmetry seen based on the location of the minimum and maximum flux segments in the 8-segment runs .",
    "when the extreme segments are adjacent to one another , we desginate the galaxy `` bisymmetric . ''",
    "when the extreme segments form a 135or 180angle , we call the galaxy `` lopsided . ''",
    "otherwise , the extreme segments form a 90angle and the galaxy is `` boxy . ''    of a total of 32 galaxies , 10 ( 31% ) are asymmetric at the @xmath0 level , while 19 ( 59% ) are asymmetric at the @xmath68 level , where `` asymmetric '' is taken to mean @xmath69 at the stated confidence level in at least one trial . because the values of @xmath70 are positive definite , however , it is important to note that any given measurement is more likely to be an overestimate than an underestimate of the `` true '' asymmetry .",
    "we therefore prefer to use the @xmath0 values to report that approximately 30% of nearby field galaxies are optically asymmetric .",
    "this result agrees with the estimate found by rz and zr .",
    "standard error estimates as described above could not be applied to ngc  5474 , because the galaxy is so asymmetric that all attempts at isophotal ellipse fitting failed . due to the similarities between",
    "the error estimates obtained with and the @xmath55 values obtained for ngc  5474 , we adopted @xmath71 as the error estimates for that galaxy .",
    "if anything , these are probably overestimates .",
    "as illustrated in table [ results ] , the degree of asymmetry returned by the method of sectors agrees roughly with a qualitative eyeball judgment of asymmetry for each galaxy .",
    "the only truly deviant result was obtained from ngc  1073 , which while qualitatively only slightly asymmetric , returns a very significant ( @xmath72 ) deviation from symmetry .",
    "we believe that this result is due the fact that although the galaxy appears relatively symmetric in the disk , the nucleus is offset from the center of the bar by about 10@xmath73 to the northeast . it should be noted also that this galaxy exhibits a separate region of greatly enhanced surface brightness along the bar .",
    "although this region did not formally affect the measurements , it emphasizes the fact that the bar region of ngc  1073 is peculiar .",
    "such an offset of the nuclear region manifests itself as a strong lopsided asymmetry .    in order to determine whether asymmetric galaxies share any other common characteristics ,",
    "the subsample of the nine galaxies found to differ from symmetry by at least @xmath0 ( except for ngc  1073 and the peculiar galaxy ngc  5474 ) was compared to the overall sample of 32 galaxies .",
    "if we consider sab galaxies to have .5 of a bar , then the average `` barredness '' of the asymmetric galaxies is about 0.44 , compared to 0.53 , the average `` barredness '' of the overall sample .",
    "we therefore find that lack of symmetry is about evenly distributed between barred and unbarred galaxies .",
    "the average morphological type of the asymmetric sample is sbc .",
    "we also report on the dispositions of the five galaxies which were studied both by zr and the current work .",
    "these galaxies are : ngc  600 , ngc  991 , ngc  1302 , ngc  7742 , and ( also known as eso  446  g  031 ) .",
    "of these five galaxies , rz and zr find that all but ngc  991 and have values of @xmath74 , which they interpret as indicative of overall symmetry .",
    "is reported to have a value @xmath75 .",
    "as stated in zr , @xmath76 measurements are biased upwards , especially for small @xmath76 , so this measurement is not inconsistent with symmetry .",
    "these findings agree with the current work , in which only ngc  991 is found to be different from symmetric by more than @xmath0 .",
    "we also examine the galaxies in both our sample and the sample of c97 .",
    "these galaxies are : ngc  3596 , ngc  3631 , ngc  4136 , and ngc  5701 , which in the latter study are given _",
    "r_-band asymmetry parameters of 0.10 , 0.12 , 0.14 , and 0.054 respectively .",
    "although c97 does not provide a `` cut  off '' value for the asymmetry parameter @xmath77 , we can see in that study that values range from @xmath78 for the most symmetric galaxies to about @xmath79 for the most asymmetric .",
    "our data are roughly consistent with that of c97 , in that we find that the former three galaxies are asymmetric and the latter is symmetric .",
    "it is interesting to note also that global asymmetry may not necessarily be correlated with asymmetry in the inner regions , as measured by elmegreen and elmegreen ( 1995 ) .",
    "even the strongly asymmetric galaxy ngc  1637 is reported to have an inner arm length difference of only 23% , and an arm position difference of only 20@xmath12 , a result only slightly above the median in both cases .",
    "the method of sectors has advantages over other methods in that it is neither dependent on assumed dominant even spiral modes , nor is it particularly sensitive to small deviations in inclination , which may manifest themselves in the magnitude of the @xmath2 mode .",
    "this is not only because the sectors can be modified to account for slight inclinations , but also because even if the sectors are not modified , a slight deviation @xmath80 in inclination will be detected as a slight decrease in the magnitude of sectors along the minor axis only of order @xmath81 .",
    "this error is negligible if @xmath82 for most galaxies , requiring @xmath83 .",
    "this method also , because of its purely geometric nature , is well suited to find asymmetries other than the @xmath1 `` lopsided '' type .",
    "galaxies shaped like dumbbells , or with `` boxy '' or `` triangular '' shapes , which although asymmetric may be cut into equally luminous halves , would also be detected with this method .",
    "the method of sectors is suited both to the study of flocculent galaxies , and of galaxies with strong spiral arms , so long as those arms extend around the entire galaxy .",
    "this is because the integration over large sections tends to `` wash out '' effects of the spiral arms which might be seen as asymmetries in the fourier method of rz , for instance .",
    "we believe that this is a desirable effect , since we would not wish to detect symmetric spiral structure as an asymmetry .",
    "the method of sectors is also applicable to cases where the radially - dependant fourier method is inapplicable or fails .",
    "the philosophy of the methods of rz and c97 seems to be that the only truly symmetric galaxy is one where the surface brightness is a function of @xmath84 alone .",
    "we believe that this definition ignores the central characteristic of disk galaxies , i.e. that they possess spiral arms , and even @xmath1 spirals are not in general considered by observers to be qualitatively asymmetric .",
    "thus these two methods would misclassify obviously symmetric , but predominantly one  armed spiral galaxies such as ngc  2326 ( figure [ n2326 ] ) as lopsided .",
    "we therefore prefer to define symmetry based on equality of total integrated flux in various directions outward from the bulge .",
    "the method of sectors is designed to distinguish exactly such symmetry .    moreover , while the fourier method is relatively easily applied to optical data from large nearby galaxies , it becomes progressively buried in noise as the data become more scarce .",
    "such a method is not likely to be applicable to , for example : distant galaxies in the optical , hi synthesis data , or output of numerical modeling .",
    "the sector method does not suffer nearly as much from undersampling and allows direct comparison of optical photometry to other less prolific data sets .",
    "often , numerical work is presented `` as is , '' with few quantitative measures available to compare numerical results to actual data . in this regard , because of its use of flux integration over large regions , the method of sectors is easily adaptable to measurements of computer  generated data , allowing direct , quantitative comparison to natural phenomena . in the future",
    ", this method will be applied to aperture synthesis line mapping data and the results of numerical simulations of a subsample of the galaxies observed here .    this research has been partially supported by nsf grant to mph , and to rvel , and has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the authors would also like to thank daniel dale for acquiring the images obtained at ctio .",
    "baldwin , j.e .",
    ", lynden - bell , d. , & sancisi , r. 1980 , , 193 , 313 .",
    "( bls ) binney , j. , & de vaucouleurs , g. 1981 , , 194 , 679 .",
    "block , d.l . ,",
    "bertin , g. , stockton , a. , grosbol , p. , moorwood , a.f.m . , & peletier , r.f .",
    "1994 , , 288 , 365 .",
    "broeils , a. 1992 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , univ . of groningen .",
    "conselice , c.j .",
    "1997 , , 109 , 1251 .",
    "( c97 ) de vaucouleurs , g. , de vaucouleurs , a. , corwin , h.g . ,",
    "buta , r.j . , & paturel , g. , 1991 .",
    "_ third reference catalogue of bright galaxies _ ( rc3 ) , university of texas press , austin .",
    "elmegreen , d.m . , & elmegreen , b.g .",
    "1995 , , 445 , 591 .",
    "giovanelli , r. , dale , d.a . , haynes , m.p . , & hardy , e. 1998 , in preparation .",
    "haynes , m.p . , hogg , d.e . ,",
    "maddalena , r.j . ,",
    "roberts , m.s . ,",
    "& van zee , l. 1998a , , 115 , 62 .",
    "haynes , m.p . , giovanelli , r. , salzer , j.j . ,",
    "wegner , g. , freudling , w.f .",
    ", da costa , l.n . ,",
    "herter , t. & vogt , n.p .",
    "1998b , in preparation .",
    "haynes , m.p . , giovanelli , r. , chamaraux , p. da costa , l.n . , freudling , w.f . ,",
    "salzer , j.j . &",
    "wegner , g. 1998c , in preparation .",
    "jog , c.j .",
    "1997 , , 488 , 642 .",
    "junqueira , s. , & combes , f. 1996 , , 312 , 703 .",
    "lauberts , a. 1982 .",
    "_ the eso / uppsala survey of the eso ( b ) atlas .",
    "_ european southern observatory , munchen .",
    "levine , s.e .",
    ", & sparke , l.s .",
    "1998 , , 496 , l13 .",
    "lewis , b.m .",
    "1987 , , 63 , 515 nilson , p. 1973 .",
    "_ uppsala general catalogue of galaxies .",
    "_ uppsala astron .",
    "obs . , uppsala .",
    "rix , h .- w . , & zaritsky , d. 1995 , , 447 , 82 ( rz ) .",
    "richter , o .- g . , & sancisi , r. 1994 , , 290 , l9 .",
    "roberts , m.s . , & haynes , m.p .",
    "1994 , , 32 , 115 .",
    "rownd , b.k . ,",
    "dickey , j.m .",
    ", & helou , g. 1994 , , 108 , 1638 .",
    "schoenmakers , r.h.m .",
    ", franx , m. , & de zeeuw , p.t .",
    "1997 , , 292 , 349 .",
    "syer , d. , & tremaine , s. 1996 , , 281 , 925 .",
    "van der hulst , j.m . &",
    "huchtmeier , w.k .",
    "1979 , , 78 , 82 .",
    "vorontsov - velyaminov , b.a . ,",
    "archipova , v.p . , &",
    "krasnogorskaja , a.a .",
    "_ morphological catalogue of galaxies . _",
    "moscow state univ . ,",
    "zaritsky , d. , & rix , h .- w .",
    "1997 , , 477 , 118 ( zr ) .",
    "zwicky , f. , herzog , e. , kowal , c.t . ,",
    "wild , p. , & karpowicz , m. 1960 .",
    "_ catalogue of galaxies and clusters of galaxies . _ calif .",
    "inst . tech . , pasadena .",
    "( six volumes )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a photometric method for quantifying deviations from axisymmetry in optical images of disk galaxies is applied to a sample of 32 face  on and nearly face  on spirals . </S>",
    "<S> the method involves comparing the relative fluxes contained within trapezoidal sectors arranged symmetrically about the galaxy center of light , excluding the bulge and/or barred regions . </S>",
    "<S> such a method has several advantages over others , especially when quantifying asymmetry in flocculent galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> specifically , the averaging of large regions improves the signal  to  noise in the measurements ; the method is not strongly affected by the presence of spiral arms ; and it identifies the kinds of asymmetry that are likely to be dynamically important . </S>",
    "<S> application of this `` method of sectors '' to _ </S>",
    "<S> r_-band images of 32 disk galaxies indicates that about 30% of spirals show deviations from axisymmetry at the @xmath0 level . </S>"
  ]
}