{
  "article_text": [
    "over the past several years , numerous circumstellar disks have been observed surrounding pre - main sequence ( pms ) stars , including herbig ae ( hae ) stars .",
    "hae stars , the evolutionary precursors to intermediate - mass main - sequence stars like vega , show infrared ( ir ) emission in excess of what is expected from their photosphere .",
    "this emission was thought to originate from optically thick , geometrically thin circumstellar disks @xcite , a model later modified to include disk flaring in order to explain features in the observed spectral energy distributions of the disks @xcite .",
    "alternative models also include dusty envelopes of material or a combination of a disk and an envelope @xcite . given the variety of models used to explain the ir excess around pms stars , observations of their circumstellar environments are necessary to determine which of these models is most representative of their true environment .",
    "the hae star ab aurigae ( a0 ; @xmath3 pc @xcite ) has been the subject of many studies based upon observations at several different wavelengths .",
    "the star has an estimated age of 2 - 5 myr @xcite .",
    "near - ir ( nir ) emission from the ab aur circumstellar region has been observed , probing thermal emission in the inner au of the disk using long - baseline interferometry @xcite .",
    "both studies suggest the presence of a slightly inclined distribution of dust with an empty or optically thin inner region ( i.e. , a ring - like structure ) .",
    "another recent study in the nir has detected scattered light from the disk at greater separations ( out to 580 au ) and finds the disk to have a small inclination @xcite .",
    "observations in the mid - ir ( mir ) suggest evidence for resolved circumstellar material at 12 and 18@xmath0 m at several tens of au from the star @xcite . longer wavelength observations of ab aur in the millimeter were shown to have spatially resolved molecular line emission at a few hundred au @xcite .",
    "reflection nebulosity has also been detected in the optical by @xcite which finds material out to 1300 au and a disk inclination of less than @xmath4 .",
    "v892 tau is a hae star located in the taurus - auriga star forming region , at a distance of about 140 pc @xcite .",
    "nir speckle interferometry of the star revealed an elongated structure with a pa of @xmath5 .",
    "the source of emission is speculated to be either a highly inclined disk or a bipolar outflow @xcite .    in this letter , we present results of nulling interferometric observations in the mir of these two hae stars , ab aur and v892 tau , in which we have clearly resolved emission from both sources . from these observations ,",
    "we infer and discuss the physical properties of the circumstellar material in the ab aur system .",
    "observations were made in 2002 november and 2004 february at the 6.5 m mmt telescope on mt .",
    "hopkins , arizona . the bracewell infrared nulling cryostat ( blinc ; @xcite ) provided supression of starlight , and the mid - infrared array camera ( mirac ; @xcite ) provided the final stop for the two beams of the interferometer .",
    "the 2002 run consisted of preliminary observations of both science targets at 10.3@xmath0 m ( 10% bandpass ) .",
    "four sets of 500 frames ( each frame with 0.5 s integration ) were taken for each target , resulting in 2000 frames for each source .",
    "images of a point - soure calibrator , @xmath6 ari , were taken before and after the science observations .",
    "frames were sky subtracted using off - source fields taken in between each set of frames .",
    "photometry was extracted from each of the science frames , and each set of frames was examined for the best instrumental null ( instrumental null = nulled flux/ unnulled flux ) .",
    "source nulls were derived for each set of frames ( source null = instr .",
    "null - calibrator null ; see @xcite for a full description of nulling calibration and diagnostics , as well as a typical image from the blinc - mirac camera ) .",
    "followup observations were made in 2004 at the mmt , also at 10.3 @xmath0 m , utilizing blinc - mirac with the telescope s adaptive optics ( ao ) secondary mirror . since the deformable mirror is the telescope s secondary mirror , there is no need for an intermediate set of reimaging and correcting optics between the secondary mirror and science camera .",
    "this has the benefit of optimizing throughput and decreasing background emissivity in the mir by avoiding the use of extra warm optics .",
    "the adaptive secondary also provides two major benefits particular to our nulling observations : 1 ) the wavefront is stabilized , allowing us to precisely tune the interferometer for the best possible suppression of starlight ; 2 ) fewer data frames need to be taken since the wavefront stabilization allows us to precisely tune the destructive interference . these observations included 15 sets of 10 frames ( 150 frames total ) for ab aur in destructive interference , and 3 sets of 10 frames for v892 tau in destructive interference . frames of the objects in constructive interference , as well as off - source sky frames were taken in between each set of nulled images .    in order to probe the spatial distribution and orientation of the circumstellar emission ,",
    "the followup observations of ab aur were taken at several different rotations of the interferometer baseline relative to the sky ( see @xcite for a full description of this technique ) .",
    "this was also attempted v892 tau , however , poor observing conditions on the night this object was observed allowed only limited followup .",
    "the preliminary observations in 2002 show evidence for resolved emission in both sources .",
    "source nulls derived from these non - ao observations show the resolved flux surrounding each object to be at a level of 10 to 20% of its full 10.3 @xmath0 m flux ( 3 - 6 jy for both sources ) .",
    "followup observations in 2004 are described below .      due to the limited observations of v892 tau in 2004",
    ", we make no conclusions about the spatial distribution of emission around this object .",
    "however , from our observations we are able to confirm the presence of extended emission in the mir first uncovered by our preliminary observations .",
    "the extended emission is verified to be at a level of @xmath7 ( about 3 jy ; @xmath8 error ) of the full 10.3 @xmath0 m flux of the star .",
    "the resolved emission is detected at a position angle of 164@xmath1 , and assuming a gaussian flux distribution is responsible or the emission , has a diameter of about 20 au . follow up observations are needed to probe the geometry of the resolved emission",
    ".      observations of ab aur in 2004 were taken at five different rotations of the interferometer baseline spanning @xmath9 in increments of @xmath10 .",
    "this rotation allows us to probe a range of position angles around the star for resolved emission .",
    "the source null for each rotation and corresponding position angle is listed in table [ tab - abaur_source ] for each of three different calibrations of the data ( see next paragraph ) .",
    "plots of the data are shown in figure [ fig - abaur_source ] .",
    "if the emitting dust is in an inclined disk , one would expect the dependence of the source null vs. position angle to be sinusoidal . from a fit to the data , of the form @xmath11 , with the period fixed at 180@xmath1 @xcite , we derive physical properties for an inclined disk around ab aur .",
    "for the fit , the values of @xmath12 , @xmath13 , and @xmath14 are physically related to the size , inclination , and pa of the major - axis , respectively .",
    "observations of the calibrator star , @xmath15 gem , were taken before and after the observations of ab aur .",
    "the calibrator shows a significant change in the level of null we were able to achieve during the observations , due probably to changes in observing conditions and the effectiveness of ao wavefront correction . as a result",
    ", we calibrate our data ( calculate the source nulls ) for ab aur in three different ways to determine how this affects the results .",
    "the different calibrations are as follows : 1 ) we use the first calibrator measurement to calculate all the source nulls ; 2 ) we use a linear fit ( in time ) between the two calibrator measurements to calculate the source nulls ; 3 ) we use the last calibration to calculate all the source nulls .    all three methods of calibration yield a result in which the dust distribution is significantly more resolved in one pa ( @xmath16 ) than another offset by @xmath5 ( @xmath17 ) .",
    "this result is suggestive of a flattened or elongated structure as the source of mir excess emission . assuming two simple brightness distributions ( a gaussian disk and a ring ) , physical parameters are derived from the fits to the source null vs. position angle ( table [ tab - sinefit ] ) . for each model",
    "we have derived the size and inclination of the material needed to reproduce the null vs. position angle profile we have observed .",
    "this is repeated for each of the three calibrations , allowing us to assess the error introduced by the calibration issues described above .",
    "all three calibrations yield similar results and indicate that the 10.3 @xmath0 m emission originates from a separation 12 to 17 au from the star .",
    "the presumed disk has a significant inclination , 45 to 65 degrees from face - on and the position angle ( pa ) of the major axis of the disk is @xmath2 .",
    "if the actual distribution of warm dust is a combination of a flattened structure and a uniform symmetric component ( such as a disk plus envelope ) , then the disk component would need to be more inclined to account for the amplitude in null variation .",
    "previous studies have also observed ab aur at mir wavelengths .",
    "@xcite used the keck i telescope to observe the star at 11.7 and 18.7 @xmath0 m .",
    "they find that it is marginally resolved at the longer wavelength . at 18.7 @xmath0 m",
    ", they find an angular diameter of about 1@xmath18 at the half - maximum flux level .",
    "this suggests that the 18 @xmath0 m emission is originating from a separation of about 70 au , several times greater than the 10 @xmath0 m emission .",
    "a study by @xcite finds evidence for resolved emission at 11.7 and 17.9 @xmath0 m and derives diameters of 40 and 80 au for the emission , respectively .",
    "taking into account the derived size scales from this and both previous mir studies ( separations of 12 - 17 au , 20 au , and 40 - 70 au for the 10.3 , 11.7 , and 18 @xmath0 m emission , respectively ) , we note that the wavelength vs. separation profile agrees with the radial temperature profile expected for a flared disk , t @xmath19 r@xmath20 @xcite , assuming that the emission is primarily thermal in nature .",
    "we also note that the nir study of @xcite finds that the thermal 2@xmath0 m disk size is about 0.7 au , which is also roughly consistent with a continuous flared disk .",
    "studies at other wavelengths include nir studies ( e.g. @xcite ) , and millimeter observations @xcite , @xcite found that ab aur is `` marginally resolved '' in molecular line emission at 3 mm .",
    "they find a major axis pa of @xmath21 with an inclination of @xmath22 from face - on .",
    "the significant inclination of the disk agrees with the derived inclination of this study .",
    "however more recent studies in the millimeter ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) cite a much smaller inclination ( @xmath23 ) .",
    "a recent nir study by @xcite using ao coronagraphic observations finds a scattered light disk in h - band with a pa of @xmath24 and a significantly smaller inclination of @xmath10 from face - on .",
    "@xcite used the palomar testbed interferometer to obtain k - band observations of inner ( @xmath25 au ) disk surrounding ab aur and find the inclination to be small , within @xmath10 of face - on , in agreement with @xcite .",
    "the observations of this study suggest a greater inclination for the mir emission .",
    "one also notes that the major axis pa derived for the mir emission in this study differs significantly ( 50 - 70 ) from previous studies both in the nir and millimeter .",
    "this points to a difference in geometry for the dust between the inner ( a few au ) and outer ( hundreds of au ) system .",
    "the biggest difference between this study and those at other wavelengths is in the inclination of the disk .",
    "previous studies at several different wavelengths all agree on a significantly smaller inclination than found by this study .",
    "this , in combination with the discrepancies in the pa of the disk suggest that the structure may be more complex than a disk alone , where emission at different wavelengths are dominated by material with a different distribution .",
    "comparing ab aur to a sample of 14 herbig ae stars observed in the mir by @xcite may be helpful in placing ab aur into context and gaining insight into their circumstellar environments .",
    "the @xcite study finds a correlation between the size of resolved emission and the sed classifications of @xcite .",
    "they find that the meeus et al .",
    "type i sources , characterized by a rising mir sed , tend to have spatially larger circumstellar emission regions .",
    "by contrast , type ii sources have flat or declining mir seds have smaller resolved sizes .",
    "the resolved size of the ab aur emission found in this study would classify ab aur as a type i source , consistent with the initial classification by @xcite by sed alone .",
    "while it appears that the each type shows similar physical characteristics , there also seems to be evidence that a simple , all encompassing physical model may not be an ideal explanation for each herbig type .",
    "for example , it is interesting to note some differences , from nulling observations and other previous studies , between ab aur and another resolved type i herbig ae star , hd 100546 .",
    "the primary difference highlighted by nulling observations is that ab aur s radial wavelength ( temperature ) profile seems to be consistent with a continuous disk , whereas hd 100546 s relative 10 @xmath0",
    "m vs. 20 @xmath0 m emission region sizes suggest an inner clearing @xcite .",
    "other studies have found difference in the age ( 10 myr for hd 100546 vs. 2 - 5 myr for ab aur ; @xcite ) and evolutionary states @xcite of the two stars .",
    "it seems , therefore , that although the two stars show similarities in the size of their resolved emission at 10 @xmath0 m , the emission arises from physically different distributions of circumstellar dust .",
    "the observations of ab aur and v892 tau presented here are part of a survey of 14 nearby hae stars for resolved circumstellar material in the mir",
    ". nulling interferometric observations with the blinc - mirac instrument from the mmt and magellan i ( baade ) 6.5-m telescopes are now complete .",
    "results and an analysis of the full sample will be presented in an upcoming paper .",
    "also currently underway is a survey of nearby intermediate - mass main - sequence stars for second - generation exozodiacal dust , again utilizing nulling interferometry with ao .",
    "completed observations include those of vega , presented in @xcite .",
    "w.l . was supported under a michelson graduate fellowship .",
    "the authors thank the staff at the mmt for excellent support .",
    "we thank b. duffy for technical support with the blinc - mirac instrument .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for helpful comments .",
    "blinc was developed under a grant from nasa / jpl , and mirac is supported by the nsf and sao . the mmt ao system was developed with support from afosr .",
    "bouwman , j. , de koter , a. , dominik , c. , & waters , l.  b.  f.  m.  2003 , , 401 , 577 chen , c.  h.  & jura , m.2003 , , 591 , 267 chiang , e.  i.  & goldreich , p.  1997",
    ", , 490 , 368 hartmann , l. , kenyon , s.  j. , & calvet , n.  1993 , , 407 , 219 eisner , j.  a. , lane , b.  f. , akeson , r.  l. , hillenbrand , l.  a. , & sargent , a.  i.  2003 , , 588 , 360 elias , j.  h.  1978 , , 224 , 857 fukagawa , m. , et al.2004 , , 605 , l53 grady , c.  a. , woodgate , b. , bruhweiler , f.  c. , boggess , a. , plait , p. , lindler , d.  j. , clampin , m. , & kalas , p.  1999",
    ", , 523 , l151 haas , m. , leinert , c. , & richichi , a.  1997 , , 326 , 1076 hillenbrand , l.  a. , strom , s.  e. , vrba , f.  j. , & keene , j.  1992 , , 397 , 613 hinz , p.  m.  2001 , ph.d .  thesis , university of arizona hoffmann , w.  f. , hora , j.  l. , fazio , g.  g. , deutsch , l.  k. , & dayal , a.  1998 , , 3354 , 647 kenyon , s.  j.  & hartmann , l.  1987 , , 323 , 714 lada , c.  j.  & adams , f.  c.  1992 , , 393 , 278 leinert , c. , et al.2004 , , 423 , 537 liu , w.  m. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 610 , l125 liu , w.  m. , hinz , p.  m. , meyer , m.  r. , mamajek , e.  e. , hoffmann , w.  f. , & hora , j.  l.  2003 , , 598 , l111 mannings , v.  & sargent , a.  i.  1997 , , 490 , 792 marsh , k.  a. , van cleve , j.  e. , mahoney , m.  j. , hayward , t.  l. , & houck , j.  r.  1995 , , 451 , 777 meeus , g. , waters , l.  b.  f.  m. , bouwman , j. , van den ancker , m.  e. , waelkens , c. , & malfait , k.  2001 , , 365 , 476 millan - gabet , r. , schloerb , f.  p. , & traub , w.  a.  2001 , , 546 , 358 miroshnichenko , a. , ivezi ' c ,  . , vinkovi ' c , d. , & elitzur , m.  1999 , , 520 , l115 natta , a. , prusti , t. , neri , r. , wooden , d. , grinin , v.  p. , & mannings , v.  2001 , , 371 , 186 van den ancker , m.  e. , de winter , d. , & tjin a djie , h.  r.  e.  1998 , , 330 , 145"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of adaptive optics nulling interferometric observations of two herbig ae stars , ab aur and v892 tau . our observations at 10.3 @xmath0 m show resolved circumstellar emission from both sources . </S>",
    "<S> further analysis of the ab aur emission suggests that there is an inclined disk surrounding the star . </S>",
    "<S> the diameter of the disk is derived to be 24 to 30 au with an inclination of 45@xmath1 to 65@xmath1 from face - on , and a major - axis pa of @xmath2 ( e of n ) . </S>",
    "<S> differences in the physical characteristics between the mid - ir emission and emission at other wavelengths ( near - ir and millimeter ) , found in previous studies , suggest a complex structure for ab aur s circumstellar environment , which may not be explained by a disk alone . </S>",
    "<S> the similarity in the observed size of ab aur s resolved emission and that of another herbig ae star , hd 100546 , is likely coincidental , as their respective evolutionary states and spectral energy distributions suggest significantly different circumstellar environments . </S>"
  ]
}