{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years , our knowledge of the high redshift universe has increased dramatically allowing us to start constructing a picture of how the different morphological types evolve ( e.g. steidel and hamilton 1992 ; madau 1995 ; lilly et al .",
    "1995 ; cowie et al . 1996 ; ellis et al . 1996 ;",
    "steidel et al . 1998 ) .",
    "in particular , the comoving star formation history first depicted by madau et al .",
    "( 1996 ) has resulted in a very useful way of quantifying galaxy evolution , under certain hypothesis .",
    "since star formation directly translates into metal enrichment of the interstellar medium ( ism ) , observations of these two processes help astronomers to constrain models of the formation of the structure .",
    "in particular , lyman alpha forests , damped lyman alpha systems and lyman alpha break galaxies have all contributed to estimate the cosmic metal ejection and star formation rates ( e.g. , lu et al . 1996 ; pettini et al .",
    "1997 ) . however , we are still far from drawing a consistent picture since several points remain to be clarified . in this respect ,",
    "the integration of the dust corrected cosmic star formation history of the universe up to @xmath0 can account for the entire stellar mass content in spirals and spheroids at present times . however , when we look at the metal content at @xmath1 , only @xmath2 of what is expected is actually measured ( renzini 1998 ) . regarding the chemical properties of galaxies ,",
    "most of the available observations are restricted to the galaxy , and in particular , to the solar neighbourhood ( e.g. , edvardsson et al .",
    "1993 ; gratton et al . 1996",
    "; rocha - pinto et al .",
    "extragalactic observations of hii regions provide information on the chemical content in other galaxies ( e.g. , pagel 1992 ; garnett et al .",
    "1995 ; kennicutt and garnett 1996 ; kobulnicky and skillman 1996 ) .",
    "chemical evolution models are a useful tool to attempt to study the physical processes that might determine the chemical characteristics of the different galaxies .",
    "detailed modelling can be found in studies of the galaxy ( e.g. , ferrini et al .",
    "1992 ; tossi 1996 ; chiappini , matteucci and gratton 1997 and references therein ) .",
    "these analytical models carefully treat stellar evolution .",
    "however , they can not account for dynamical evolution , and certainly , not for hierarchical clustering . from a numerical point of view",
    ", metallicity enrichment mechanisms have been implemented in hydrodynamical simulations in different ways .",
    "the first attempts were done by larson ( 1975 , 1976 ) .",
    "other implementations came after using diverse techniques such as chemodynamical models ( e.g. , burkert et al . 1992 ; samland et al .",
    "1997 ) which describe in more detail the interstellar medium evolution . on the other hand",
    ", this approach uses a very simple prescription for galaxy formation where the dark matter halo is either not considered at all or assumed to be static . however , there are strong evidences from observations of normal spirals that the dark matter is dynamically important within the luminous radius ( e.g. , bottema 1992 ; courteau , de jong & broeils 1996 ; rhee 1996 ) , and that the response of the dark matter to the presence of baryons affect their evolution ( blumenthal et al .",
    "1996 ; tissera & domnguez - tenreiro 1998 ) and , as a consequence , the star formation process ( mihos & hernquist 1996 ; barnes & hernquist 1996 ; tissera 2000 ; navarro & steinmetz 2000 ) . a first approach to include chemical evolution in smooth particle hydrodynamical ( sph ) code is described by steinmetz and mller ( 1994 , 1995 ) followed by raiteri , villata and navarro ( 1996 ) .",
    "these works run prepared - cosmological initial conditions where the formation and evolution of only one object was studied .",
    "these models have shed light on some physical mechanisms that may control metallicity in galaxies , and have also shown that hierarchical clustering scenarios may form galactic objects that resemble milky way - type galaxies from a chemical point of view .",
    "however , the sph models with chemical implementations hitherto published are restricted to the galaxy",
    ". it would be very important for the study of the formation and evolution of galaxies to be able to analyse a variety of galactic objects with different evolutionary histories .",
    "hydrodynamical cosmological simulations are more suited to tackle this problem since the non - linear evolution of the matter is naturally accounted for , and , physical processes can be more consistently implemented .",
    "these models can provide coherent well - described environments for all objects and a complete record of their formation and evolution .",
    "the drawback is the treatment of numerical resolution effects .    in this paper",
    ", we concentrate on the description of the chemical model that has been implemented in a cosmological hydrodynamical ap3 m .",
    "first results on galaxy formation , global chemical properties and comparison with observations are reported .",
    "the detailed analysis of the chemical properties of the ism and stellar population in galaxy - like objects such as abundance gradients , age - metallicity relations , etc . , are given by tissera et al .",
    "( 2000 , hereafter paper ii ) .",
    "this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section 2 describes the star formation process and the metal enrichment implementation . in section 3",
    "we assess the performance of the chemical model . in section 4",
    "we present the first results on galaxy formation and chemical evolution .",
    "section 5 summarizes the results .",
    "we use a cosmological numerical code based on the sph technique described by tissera et al .",
    "the sph algorithm has been coupled to the ap3 m gravitational code ( thomas and couchman 1992 ) , in order to follow the gravitational and hydrodynamical evolution of particles within a cosmological context . for the sake of simplicity , and as first step in the development of this chemical cosmological code",
    ", simulations have been run considering that the gas cools down by using the approximation given by dalgarno and mccray ( 1972 ) .",
    "in general , the modelling of star formation ( sf ) in sph simulations is based on the schmidt law and a series of hypothesis to select suitable sf regions .",
    "however , how it is actually implemented within each particular code depends on the different authors ( e.g. , katz 1992 ; navarro and white 1994 ; tissera et al .",
    "1997 ) . in this paper",
    ", we describe a modified version of the sf implemented by tissera et al .",
    "( 1997 ) in order to be able to track the transformation of gas into stars in more detail , within a given gas particle .",
    "we include the sf algorithm as follows .",
    "gas particles are eligible to form stars if they are cold ( @xmath3 ) and satisfy a density criterium : @xmath4 .",
    "this density criterium arises by requiring the cooling time of a gas particle to be smaller than its dynamical time .",
    "the critical temperature @xmath5 is taken as the minimum provided value by the cooling functions ( @xmath6k ) .",
    "finally , gas particles have to be part of a collapsing region .",
    "this requirement is imposed by selecting particles in a convergent flow ( @xmath7 ) .",
    "when a gas particle satisfies all these conditions , star formation occurs according to the schmidt law , @xmath8 where @xmath9 is the star formation efficiency and @xmath10 is a characteristic time - scale assumed to be proportional to the dynamical time of the particle ( @xmath11 ) .",
    "then , each stellar mass formed in a particle at a certain sf episode is given by @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the time step of integration ( @xmath14 yr ) and @xmath15 a new sf efficiency .",
    "note that , according to equation ( 1 ) , in order to go from density to mass , the volume of the new - born stars has to be assumed .",
    "taking into account that the process we are modelling happens _ within a gas particle _ and , that according to observations , sf occurs normally in clusters , not in isolation , we assume that the volume occupied by the fraction of new - born stars is constant for all them .",
    "thus , it can be absorbed in the new constant , @xmath15 .    according to this sf scheme ,",
    "in a given baryonic particle there could be several sf episodes that had occurred at different times .",
    "the gaseous mass of the baryonic particle is reduced by @xmath16 until its gas reservoir is depleted . a minimum gas mass equal to 5 @xmath17 of the initial gas mass component is left over in each particle .",
    "when a particle reaches this minimum mass , it is transformed completely into a star particle and hereafter behaves as collisionless matter .",
    "each @xmath16 formed can be followed up in time .",
    "the number of stars of a given mass within @xmath16 is estimated by assuming an initial mass function ( imf ) .",
    "hence , a baryonic particle may be formed by a gaseous and stellar components in different proportions according to its history of evolution ( hereafter , hybrid particle ) .",
    "the stellar component can be made up of different stellar populations with different ages and chemical properties , which have been formed at different sf episodes .",
    "the chemical properties of each stellar population ( @xmath16 ) reflect the chemical state of the ism at the time of its formation .",
    "the decoupling between gas and stars depends on the actual rate at which stars are formed in each baryonic particle , that , on its turn , depends on each evolutionary path .",
    "hybrid particles may introduce some numerical artifacts since the stellar populations follow the gas evolution when they should probably not . however , this is not a trivial problem that can be easily resolved .",
    "an improvement of the decoupling process is under work and will be presented in a separate paper .",
    "metals are produced and ejected to the interstellar medium at the end of the life of stars .",
    "most of chemical elements are ejected by type ii supernovae ( sneii ) except for the iron that is mainly produced by type i supernovae ( snei ) .",
    "particles are assumed to be initially formed by hydrogen and helium in primordial abundances ( @xmath18 , @xmath19 ) .",
    "the first generations of stars with primordial abundances immediately enrich the ism from where the new generations are born .",
    "it has to be stressed that we are not including the effects of ( thermal or kinetic ) energy injection into the ism due to sn explosions . for the sake of simplicity we have splitted the treatment of the feedback problem into two stages .",
    "firstly , we include chemical enrichment ( this paper ) , and in a second step , we will intend to develop an energy feedback model .",
    "there have been several attempts to implement energy feedback in sph codes by either injecting thermal ( e.g. , katz 1992 ) or kinetic ( e.g. , navarro & white 1994 ; metzler & evrard 1994 ; navarro & steinmetz 2000 ; springel 2000 ) energies to the gas component due to sn explosions . however , these methods are still controversial leaving this problem as an open question for galaxy formation .",
    "let us now describe the nucleosynthesis prescriptions adopted in this model :    _ type ii sne _",
    ": we assume that stars more massive than @xmath20 end their lives as type ii sne . in order to estimate their number ,",
    "we adopt a salpeter imf with a lower and upper mass cut - off of @xmath21 and @xmath22 , respectively .",
    "the imf adopted gives the total number of sneii formed in a certain range of stellar masses in a given @xmath16 at a certain time .",
    "supernovae are thought to eject their whole metal production within a few @xmath23 yr .",
    "in particular , we assume that their life - time is equal to the integration time - step of the simulations .    for comparison ,",
    "we resort to both portinari , chiosi and bressan ( 1998 , p98 ) and woosley and weaver ( 1995 , ww95 ) metal ejecta models and follow the evolution of different elements according to the information provided by the authors .",
    "p98 give metal yields for stars up to @xmath24 , while ww95 assume that stars larger than @xmath25 end up their lives as black holes .",
    "we consider the following elements according to each author : @xmath26 , for both p98 and ww95 , and also , @xmath27 , for ww95 .",
    "_ type i sne _ : following matteucci and francois ( 1989 ) , we assume that supernovae ia originate from carbon deflagration in c - o white dwarfs in binary systems .",
    "it is assumed that the masses of these binary systems are likely to be in the range @xmath28 .",
    "the adopted nucleosynthesis prescriptions are taken from thielemann , nomoto and hashimoto ( 1993 ) .",
    "type ib sne are assumed to be half the total number of type i sne and to produce only iron ( @xmath29 per explosion ) .",
    "the main interest in including sni events in the models is that they contribute with a substantial amount of iron .",
    "this element is fundamental to attempt to reproduce several observational results ( see also chiappini et al .",
    ". the relative rate of sni to snii explosions has been observationally estimated in the solar neighbourhood and from extragalactic sources ( van der bergh 1991 ) .",
    "these estimations suggest a range of possible values for the total sni rate respect to that of snii of @xmath30 .",
    "binary systems evolve for a certain period of time ( @xmath31 ) during which mass is transfered from the secondary to the primary star until the chandrasekhar mass is exceeded and a explosion is triggered .",
    "it is generally assumed that a fair fraction of snei will explode after a period of @xmath32 yr ( greggio 1996 ) .",
    "it is straightforward to estimate when snei will explode and eject metals to the neighbouring region , since the formation time of each @xmath16 , in a given baryonic particle , is known .",
    "the effects of varying both the snrii / snri relative rate ( hereafter , @xmath33 ) and @xmath31 are analysed and results are confronted with observations in the following sections .    to sum up ,",
    "the free parameters of our chemical model are : star formation efficiency ( @xmath15 ) , the initial mass function ( imf ) , its upper and lower mass cut - offs , the relative rate of different types of supernovae ( @xmath33 ) , the life - time of binary systems that end as snei ( @xmath31 ) and the yields .",
    "regarding the imf , we are going to adopt a constant and unique one throughout this paper .      how the chemical elements are distributed and mixed in the interstellar medium",
    "is a complex problem which is far from being solved from a theoretical point of view ( e.g. , tenorio - tagle et al .",
    "furthermore , numerical simulations do not reach enough resolution to properly treat this small - scale mixing process together with the process of galaxy assembly .",
    "hence , the ejection and mixing of elements have to be modelled in heuristic way .",
    "we use the sph technique to distribute the metals within the neighbouring sphere of the @xmath34 particle where a @xmath16 is formed . according to this technique",
    ", the value of a certain parameter at the location of @xmath34 particle can be estimated by using the information storaged in its neighbourhood , which is determined by its @xmath35 neighbouring particles within its smoothing length ( @xmath36 ) .    using this concept",
    ", we can define the total mass ( @xmath37 ) of a given @xmath38 chemical element ejected by a @xmath34 particle due to snei or sneii , as @xmath39 where @xmath40 is the number of @xmath35 neighbours of the @xmath34 particle ( @xmath41 ) , @xmath42 and @xmath43 the gas mass and density of the @xmath35 particle , respectively , @xmath44 and @xmath45 , the symmetrized kernel and smoothing length , respectively . in this scheme ,",
    "each @xmath35 neighbouring particle gets a contribution of each metal defined by @xmath46    the @xmath34 particle where the stellar mass has just formed is also included in this process .",
    "the masses of h and he are proportionally decreased according to the metal mass received by each particle , so that its total mass is always conserved .    the distribution of metals by using the sph technique allows to spread out metals and enrich gas particles that may have not experienced sf but are close enough to other sf regions , working as an effective mixing mechanism .",
    "note that gas particles can be enriched by more than one neighbour at each time - step .",
    "it has to be mentioned that numerical resolution would affect the mixing of metals since it also affects the determination of the neighbours . in section 3",
    ", we will discuss this point in more detail .",
    "in the present implementation , metal mixing occurs only tided to the sf process , in the sense that , only new - born elements are distributed .",
    "one of the advantage of this implementation is that particles move according to the equations of gravitation and hydrodynamics , leaving behind the closed - box hypothesis , among others .",
    "particles with different astrophysical and chemical properties are mixed , particularly during violent events such as interaction and mergers , so that reproducing observations becomes a more challenging task .",
    "we carry out a series of simple tests to assess the effects of both , numerical resolution and the variation of the different parameters ( @xmath15 , @xmath33 , @xmath31 ) on the chemical properties of baryons .",
    "we also intend to evaluate the dependence of the results on the two adopted nucleosynthesis models , p98 and ww95 . for this purpose",
    ", we follow the evolution of a homogeneous gaseous sphere .",
    "the sphere is represented by @xmath47 gas particles initially distributed following a density profile @xmath48 , in a radius of 625 kpc , without a dark matter halo .",
    "this simple experiment gives a clear idea of how each parameter affects the chemical properties of baryons and have the advantage of a low computational cost .",
    "numerical problems may affect both , the process of star formation and specially the distribution of metals .",
    "with respect to the former , if dark matter haloes in galactic objects are numerically well resolved , the star formation process may not be strongly affected by the numerical resolution ( see discussion in domnguez - tenreiro , tissera and siz 1998 ) .",
    "this is due to the fact that dark matter determines the potential well on to which the gas settles on .",
    "if dark matter haloes are well resolved , baryons are forced to distribute adequately . in this way",
    ", the gas density profiles are well reproduced and the sf can be correctly followed ( tissera 2000 ) .",
    "nevertheless , the gas component has to be resolved , at least , by few hundred particles ( navarro and white 1994 ) . in our simulations ,",
    "baryonic and dark matter components are represented by particles of equal mass .",
    "therefore , dark matter haloes are resolved by a much larger number of particles than the baryonic component .",
    "hence , the potential wells of the larger galactic haloes are very well defined ( see tissera and domnguez - tenreiro 1998 ) .",
    "consequently , we restrict our global analysis to galactic objects resolved with more than 250 baryonic particles .    on the other hand , the radius of the neighbouring sphere in which the metals produced by the stellar component are distributed is affected by the numerical resolution of the experiment .",
    "consequently , this problem may have a non - negligible effect on the metal distribution and the chemical properties of gas and stars , and requires a more detailed analysis .",
    "for this purpose , we have studied the evolution of two gaseous spheres without dark matter haloes .",
    "each of them represents a system with total gaseous mass of @xmath49 and initial radius of 615 kpc .",
    "one of the experiments ( e1 ) resolves the sphere with @xmath47 particles ( @xmath50 ) , while the second experiment ( e1h ) has higher numerical resolution : @xmath51 gas particles ( @xmath52 ) .",
    "since these spheres have no dark matter haloes , taking into account the former discussion , it is reasonable to expect that their star formation histories will be different .",
    "in fact , the sphere in e1h starts forming stars before its counterpart in e1 .",
    "however , the effects that this earlier sf has on their metallicity is not dramatic , as it can be observed from fig.1 , where we have plotted the mean values of [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] for both experiments .",
    "the greatest differences are obtained for the low metallicity stars ( [ fe / h ] @xmath53 ) due to the fact that star formation begins before in e1h and has a greater intensity than sf in e1 . as stars with higher metallicities are formed , this difference diminishes .",
    "note that error bars in e1h comprise the distribution of e1 for [ fe / h ] @xmath54 ( except for the first point ) .",
    "the main difference observed between these two experiments is that low numerical resolution produces a reduction in the dispersion of the distribution as can be seen from the error bars in fig.1 .",
    "this fact can be understood by considering that , in the experiment with lower resolution , the neighbouring sphere ( @xmath55 ) comprises a larger volume , thus producing a more effective mixing of the metals in the gas .",
    "conversely , when numerical resolution is increased , the new elements produced by a certain particle are distributed in a smaller volume .",
    "this leads to a less efficient mix at the scale of the system , producing an increase in the metallicity dispersion .",
    "we can not theoretically assess at what extent this dispersion has any physical meaning since the mixing mechanisms in galaxies are not yet well understood .",
    "it might be possible that sn explosions spread metals in larger volumes than that provided by the sph technique .",
    "this fact would produce a more uniform - metal distributions in the interstellar medium , as it actually occurs in the low numerical resolution run .",
    "taking into account these experiments , we conclude that the main effect of using the sph technique to distribute metals is that the better resolved objects ( i.e. , those with higher number of baryonic particles that , in our simulations , implies larger masses ) would have a larger dispersion in their chemical properties than the smaller ones .",
    "mean values of the quantities will be considered as adequate estimations .",
    "we are now going to analyse the effects that the different chemical model parameters have on the properties of the stellar populations of the spheres .",
    "as can be seen from table 1 , experiments e1 , e2 and e3 differ among each other in the life - time of binary systems that end up as snei .",
    "the values considered are @xmath56 , @xmath57 and @xmath58 yr , respectively . the sf efficiency and @xmath33 used",
    "are the same in these three experiments .",
    "the ratio [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] clearly illustrates the effects of varying the parameters .",
    "fig.2 shows [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] for these three experiments at different stages of evolution . as can be seen from this figure , as soon as the first stars are formed , the differences among them are very important .",
    "the smaller @xmath31 used in e1 allows a rapid production of fe and , consequently , the number of low metallicity stars ( [ fe / h ] @xmath53 ) is considerably lower than in e2 and e3 , for all times .",
    "the larger @xmath31 value adopted in e3 produces a dex difference in the ratio [ o / fe ] compared to the values in e1 and e2 for @xmath59yr . as time goes on",
    ", all experiments reach solar values , although , the variation of @xmath31 among them leads to appreciably different evolutionary paths . for e1 and e2 , the [ o / fe ]",
    "is above observed values for the solar neighbourhood , and the steepness of the relation is much abrupt for [ fe / h]@xmath60 .",
    "( @xmath61 yr ) gives a more consistent relation for stars with [ o / fe ] @xmath62 . in this case , the final shape and range of abundances values are set as soon as the first stars formed which implies that even at early stages of evolution , this combination of sn parameters can produce stellar populations with metal contents up to solar . in fig.3 , we show the same relations for experiments e4 , e5 and e6 . in e4",
    "we have changed the relative ratio @xmath33 from 2 ( in e1 ) to 4 .",
    "since snrii is the fraction of stars with masses greater than @xmath20 in a certain time - step , given by the imf adopted , an increase in the ratio @xmath33 implies a decrease of snri .",
    "the effect of the variation of this parameter gives the expected differences in the abundance tracks .",
    "note that there is no change in the slope of the [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] relation , but the abundances in e4 do not get to solar values because there are not enough snei to produce the necessary amount of fe .",
    "in experiment e5 we use a higher sf efficiency than that in e1 . in this case , stars are formed faster and the gas is enriched very efficiently so that the new - born stars immediately evolve to higher metallicity regions . as a consequence , the low - metallicity tail in the [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] relation vanishes .",
    "note that the higher the @xmath15 value used , the larger the stellar masses ( @xmath16 ) formed , so that the number of sf events in a given baryonic particle diminishes .",
    "this is the reason why the number of points in e5 is smaller when compared to the distribution in e1 .",
    "the important aspect to remark is that , in e5 , the range of metallicity covered by the stellar populations is considerably smaller .",
    "this implies that a very efficient sf process can enrich the medium to solar values very quickly so that most of stars would tend to be located in the high metallicity region .",
    "the comparison between experiments e1 and e6 clearly illustrates how the simulation results depend on the two yield models , p98 and ww95 .",
    "the features of the [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] relation in e6 can be appreciated in the bottom raw of fig.3 .",
    "the main characteristic observed for this experiment , where p98 yields were used , is the lack of the low - metallicity tail ( [ fe / h ] @xmath53 ) , which can be appreciated in e1 . on the other hand , the low - metallicity stars in e6 ( [ fe / h ] @xmath63 ) , have almost constant values of [ o / fe ] , in contrast with the results of e1 , where a gradient is observed .",
    "this difference arises because p98 yields produce more iron with respect to the other elements than ww95 , up to an order of magnitude more , in some cases .",
    "so , stars are rapidly brought to lower abundances ratios with respect to iron . despite this fact , these relations are quite similar , with exception that ww95 seems to reach slightly higher metallicities values for the same model parameters at @xmath0 .",
    "this fact implies that p98 yields for enriched stars produce , in general , more elements than those of ww95 .",
    "the comparison of other chemical elements shows that the major difference is in the [ c / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] relation . in fig.4",
    ", we show this relation for experiments e1 and e6 as a function of time .",
    "as clearly seen in the case of e6 , there is an excess of carbon in relation to iron for [ fe / h ] @xmath64 that produces a positive gradient .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      observations of galactic and extragalactic hii regions and ob associations provide information about the chemical properties of the forming stellar population and the ism .",
    "these observations give relations for some primary elements such as s , ne , and c , and for the so - called secondary ones , like nitrogen , as a function of the ratio o / h . in this section ,",
    "we resort to these observational results to assess the global chemical properties of the stellar populations and ism of the simulated gals .    concerning primary elements , galactic and extragalactic hii regions",
    "show that the ratios ( s / o ) and ( ne / o ) do not depend on ( o / h ) . however , the dispersion in these ratios is quite large ( pagel 1997 ) .",
    "the simple model actually predicts a similar behavior since in this scheme , the ratios between primary elements are constant .",
    "however , this model fails to reproduce the observed correlation between ( c / o ) vs. ( o / h ) .",
    "a similar problem is detected for the observed ( n / o ) vs. ( o / h ) that exhibits a steeper correlation than that predicted by this model .",
    "note that most observations are obtained from hii regions which are assumed good tracers of the metallicity of the galactic ism .",
    "we analyse the isms in our gals , which are determined by the gas particle properties within @xmath65 .",
    "the global metallicity , @xmath66 , for each @xmath38 chemical element in the ism of a gal is defined as follows , @xmath67 where @xmath68 is the total number of @xmath35 gas particles within @xmath65 , @xmath69 is the mass of the @xmath70 element in the @xmath71 particle and @xmath72 is the total gas mass within @xmath65 .",
    "an equivalent relation can be defined for the stellar population , @xmath73 .    in fig.9",
    ", we plot log(s / o ) for the ism in the gals in simulations s2 , s3 , s4 and s5 . as it can be seen from this figure ,",
    "the mean values obtained in the simulations are in very good agreement with observations ( taken from pagel 1997 ) .",
    "the average log(s / o ) for gals shows a large dispersion that compares well with the observed values .",
    "the larger s / o ratios are obtained for the simulation with the highest sf efficiency ( simulation s3 ) . however , by changing sn parameters in order to diminish the effects of sni explosions , and mantaining the same sf parameter in the simulation ( simulation s4 ) , we obtain substantially smaller abundance ratios and dispersions .    in fig.10 , we plot log(c / o ) versus log(o / h ) for gals in simulations s2 , s3 , s4 and s5 ( ww95 ) and simulation s1 ( p98 ) . we include observations of hii regions ( pagel 1997 ) .",
    "a remarkable fact that can be seen from this figure is the large difference between the results of ww95 and p98 models .",
    "gals in s1 , which are exactly equivalent to those in s2 , except for the nucleosynthesis model adopted , have ratios almost half an order of magnitude larger than their ww95 counterparts , and are out of the observational range .",
    "conversely , gals in any of the ww95 runs have isms with abundances similar to observed ones .",
    "however , they do not show the gradient reported from observations of galactic and extragalactic hii regions ( e.g. , garnett et al .",
    "1995 ; kennicutt and garnett 1996 ; kobulnicky and skillman 1996 ) , although the simulated abundances extend only in the range @xmath74log(o / h ) @xmath75 .",
    "the simulated mean values are lower than the observed ones but it has to be recalled that we are not including pne yields that are thought to be important contributors of c ( and n ) .",
    "observations of ( n / o ) in hii regions show that this ratio increases with ( o / h ) ( e.g. , pagel 1992 ) .",
    "a gradient in the secondary element is actually predicted by the simple model , although the steepness of the predicted relation is much larger than that actually observed in hii regions .",
    "there are several hypothesis that may explain the origin of these differences ( pagel 1997 ) .",
    "we estimate this relation for gals in ww95 runs .",
    "as shown in fig.11 , the simulated isms have abundances that are in good agreement with observations .",
    "however , we only find gals with @xmath76 log(o / h ) @xmath77 , while the observed gradient in hii regions is @xmath76 log(o / h ) @xmath78 . we do not find gals with average ism metallicity corresponding to solar abundances , neither extremely low metallicity izw18 type objects .",
    "it should be considered , however , that only massive gals are analysed in the simulations .",
    "another important observational correlation is that between @xmath76 log(o / h ) and the gas fraction estimated for irregular and blue compact galaxies ( e.g. , axon et al .",
    "1998 ) . this relation can be used to assess the metal content of the isms in relation to the left - over gas mass of the corresponding gals . in fig.12 , we plot @xmath76 log(o / h ) versus log @xmath79 for the ism in the simulated gals ( @xmath80 and @xmath72 are the total baryonic and gaseous mass within @xmath65 , respectively ) .",
    "observations taken from pagel ( 1997 ) have been included for comparison .",
    "the estimated abundance ratios in the models are consistent with observations .",
    "it is notable that the observed relation is well reproduced in the sense that objects with a lower gas fraction tend to have larger metallicities without the need to introduce other physical mechanisms such as sn energy injection effects to the ism .",
    "the simple model predicts a decrease of the metallicity with the gas richness of the system but it fails to correctly reproduce the observational relation .",
    "we have implemented a chemical model in a sph cosmological code .",
    "first results are reported together with the assessment of the effects of model parameters and numerical resolution .",
    "it is found that the major problem introduced by a low numerical resolution is the artificial smoothing of the chemical properties of the objects .",
    "however if a minimum number of baryonic particles is imposed , then average values can be considered reliable .",
    "the mean metallicity is found nearly independent of the total stellar mass of the system indicating that the effects of mergers , interactions and gas infall on the mass distribution and metal mixing are very significant .",
    "we find correlations between the stellar mass @xmath81 and the virial and optical circular velocities ( @xmath82 , @xmath83 ) .",
    "however , the correlation with @xmath83 is significantly tighter , consistent with the tully - fisher relation",
    ". nevertheless , the global metallicity of gals , @xmath84 shows no dependence on @xmath83 , in spite of the fact that these gals satisfy the tully - fisher relation and shows a strong correlation between the global metallicity of their stars and gas components with the left - over gas fraction of the systems .",
    "we only find a significant correlation between the global gals metallicity of both stars and gas with the left - over gas fraction of the systems .",
    "an analysis of the gals assuming they have behaved according to the one - zone simple model show important differences with the results of the numerical simulations .",
    "the slope of @xmath85 versus @xmath86 and the systematic increase of stellar metallicity as a function of the stellar mass formed in the simple model contrasts with the behaviour of the numerical simulations .",
    "we find that the simple model overestimates the metallicity of the galactic gaseous components if it is constrained to match the stellar chemical content .",
    "according to the simple model , the global metallicity of a system continuously increases with the stellar mass in disagreement with the results found for the simulated gals that show higher metallicities for intermediate mass objects .",
    "we find that the star formation efficiency , sn model parameters and the nucleosynthesis yields significantly affect the chemical properties of the gals . in those models where the sf process is gradual the mean stellar and gaseous metallicities are similar .",
    "the observed abundance ratios for primary and secondary elements in galactic and extragalactic hii regions are naturally obtained .",
    "however , the ranges of the simulated global metallicities are smaller than the observed ones .",
    "also , the relation between the ( o / h ) and gas fraction obtained in the numerical simulations is consistent with the observational results .",
    "the suitable agreement between the models and the observations for these relations suggests that hierarchical clustering scenarios are able to reproduce the chemical properties of galaxies .",
    "this is a very encouraging fact taken into account that galactic objects formed by the accretion and mergers of substructures .",
    "violent events are common and ubiquitous , and can affect the dynamical evolution of the matter , regulating the sf and chemical evolution in galactic objects .    we intend to improve this chemical model in the future by allowing the gaseous component to cool according to its metallicity , and a further study of the mixing process of chemical element in the ism .",
    "it is also under study a more efficient decoupling mechanism between stars and gas that could shorten the period of hybrid state of a baryonic particle .",
    "finally , energy feedback remains an open question that we hope to address in a future work .",
    "we thank s. woosley for kindly providing the yield tables and l. portinari for clarifying some aspects of their nucleosynthesis model .",
    "we acknowledge the careful reading and useful suggestions of the anonymous referee .",
    "we also thank m. abadi for useful discussions .",
    "p.tissera is grateful to c. chiappini for introductory discussion in chemical evolution during the 1999 aspen summer workshop .",
    "the authors thank the hospitality of the observatorio astronmico centroamericano de suyapa while finishing the writing of this paper .",
    "p.tissera is grateful to the observatorio astronmico de crdoba and the research group iate for allowing the use of their computational facilities .",
    "m. mosconi thanks iafe for their hospitality during the preparation of this work .",
    "this work has been partially supported by conicet , conicor , secyt and fundacion antorchas .",
    "axon d. j. , staveley - smith l. , fosbury r. a. e. , danziger j. , boksenberg a. , davies r. d. , 1988 , mnras , 231 , 1077 barnes j. , hernquist l. , 1996 , apj , 471 , 115    bottema a. h. , 1992 , a & a , 328 , 517    burkert a. , truran j. w. , hensler g. , 1992 , apj , 391 , 651 blumenthal g. r. , faber s. m. , flores r. a. , primack j. p. , 1986 apj , 301 , 27    chiappini c. , matteucci f. , gratton r. , 1997 , apj , 477 , 765    cora s. a. , tissera p. b. , lambas d. g. , mosconi m. b. , 2000 , proceeding of galaxy disks and disk galaxies rome , 12 - 16 june , 2000 .",
    "cowie l. l. , songaila a. , hu e. m. , cohen j. g. , 1996 , apj , 112 , 839    courteau s. , de jong r. s. , broeils , a. h. , 1996 , apj , 457 , l73    dalgarno a. , mccray r.a . , 1972 , ar&aa , 10 , 375    dekel a. , silk j. , 1986 , apj , 303 , 39    domnguez - tenreiro , r. , tissera p. , siz a. , 1998 , apj , 508 , l123    edvardsson b. , andersen j. , gustafsson b. , lambert d. l. , nissen p. e. tomkin , j. , 1993 , a&as , 274 , 101    ellis r. s. , colless m. , broadhurst t. , heyl j. , glazebrook k. , 1996 , mn , 280 , 235    ferrini f. , matteucci f. , pardi c. , peuco u. , 1992 , apj , 387 , 138    garnett d. r. , sillman e. d. , dufour r. j. , peimbert m. , torres - peimbert s. , shields g. a. , terlevich r. j. , terlevich e. , 1995 , apj , 443 , 64    gratton r. , cannetta e. , matteucci f. , sneden c. , 1996 , morrison h. , sanajedini a. , eds . , formation of the galactic halo , inside out , vol.92 , p.307    greggio l. , 1996 , kunth d. , guiderdoni b. , heydari - malayeri m. , and thuan t. , eds . , the 11th iap astrophysics meeting : the interplay between massive star formation , the ism and galaxy evolution , p.89    katz n. 1992 , apj , 391 , 502    kennicutt r. , jr .",
    ", garnett d. r. , 1996 , apj , 456 , 504    kobulnicky h. a. , skillman e. d. , 1996 , apj , 471 , 211 kunth d. , ostlin g. , 1999 . to appear in ara&a    larson r. , 1975 , mnras , 173 , 671    larson r. , 1976 , mnras , 176 , 31    lilly s. j. , tiesse l. , hammer f. , crampton d. , le fevre o. , 1995 , apj , 441,18    lu l. , sargent l. w. , barlow t. , churchill c. , vogt s. , 1996 , apjs , 107 , 475    madau m. p. , 1995 ,",
    "apj , 441 , 18    madau p. , ferguson h. , dickinson m. , giavalisco m. , steidel c. , fruchter a. , 1996 , mras , 283 , 1388    matteucci f. , francois p. , 1989 ,",
    "mnras , 239 , 885    metzler c. a. , evrard a. e. , 1994 , apj , 437 , 564    mihos j. c. , hernquist l. , 1996 , apj , 464 , 641    navarro j.f . , white s.d.m .",
    "1994 , mnras , 267 , 401 navarro j. f. , steinmetz m. , 2000 , astro - ph/0003384 pagel b. e. j. , 1992 . , alloin d. , stansiska g. , eds . , the feedback of chemical evolution on the stellar content of galaxies , p.87    pagel b. e. j. , 1997 , nucleosynthesis and chemical evolution of galaxies , cambridge university press , united kingdom    pettini m. , smith l. , king d. , hunstead r. , 1997 , apj , 998 , 665    portinari l. , chiosi c. , bressan a. , 1998 , a&as , 334 , 505 ( p98 )    raiteri c. m. , villata m. , navarro j. f. , 1996 , a&as , 315 , 105    renzini a. , 1998 , dodorico , fontana a. , giallongo e. , eds . , asp conference series , the young universe : galaxy formation and evolution at intermediate and high redshift , vol.146 , p.298    rhee m. h. , 1996 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , university of groningen    rocha - pinto h. j. , maciel w. j. , flynn c. , 2000 , a & a , submitted ( astro - ph/0001383 )    samland , m. , hensler , g. , theis , ch . , 1997 , apj , 476 , 544    schmidt m. , 1963 , apj , 137 , 758    springel , v. , 2000 , mnras , 312 , 859    steidel c. c. , hamilton d. , 1992 , aj , 104 , 941    steidel c. c. , adelberger k. l. , giavalisco m. , dickinson m. , pettini m. , 1998 , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/9811399 )    steinmetz , m. , & mller , e.  1994 , a&a , 281 , l97 steinmetz , m. , & mller , e.  1995 , mnras , 276 , 549 tenorio - tagle g. , sergey a. s. , kunth d. , terlevich e. , roberto terlevich r. , 1999 , mnras , in press    thielemann f. k. , nomoto k. , hashimoto m. , 1993 , prantzos n. , vangoni - flam e. , cass n. , eds . , origin and evolution of the elements , p.299    thomas p. a. couchman h. m. p. , 1992 ,",
    "mnras , 257 , 11    tinsley b. m. , 1980 , fundamental of cosmic physics , vol.5 , p.287    tissera p. b. , 2000 , apj , 534 , 636 tissera p. b. , domnguez - tenreiro r. , 1998 , mnras , 297 , 177    tissera p.b .",
    ", lambas d.g . ,",
    "abadi m.g .",
    ", 1997 , mnras , 286 , 384    tissera p. b. , mosconi m. b. , cora s. a. , lambas d. g. , 2000 , in preparation tosi m. , 1996 , from stars to galaxies : the impact of stellar physics on galaxy evolution , asp , conf.ser . , vol.198 , p.229 van den bergh s. , 1991 , woosley s. e. , ed . , the tenth santa cruz workshop in astronomy and astrophysics : supernovae , p.711    van den bergh s. , 1962 , a&as , 67 , 486    white s.d.m .",
    ", frenk c.s .",
    "1991 , apj , 379 , 25 white s. d. m. , 1981 , mnras , 191 , 1    woosley s. e. , weaver t. a. , 1995 , apjs , 101 , 181",
    "figure 1 : comparison of the [ o / fe ] versus [ fe / h ] relation obtained from the low ( solid line ) and high resolution tests ( dashed lines ) .",
    "figure 2 : [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] for experiments e1 , e2 and e3 where the life - time of binary systems has been varied : @xmath56 yr , @xmath87 yr and @xmath88 yr , respectively .",
    "time @xmath89 is given in units of @xmath90 yr .",
    "figure 3 : [ o / fe ] vs. [ fe / h ] for experiments e4 , e5 and e6 where the relative ratio of snii / sni ( @xmath33 ) , the star formation efficiency ( @xmath15 ) and the nucleosynthesis yields have been changed with respect to e1 .",
    "time @xmath89 is given in units of @xmath90 yr .",
    "figure 5 : global metallicities of the stellar population and gas component in gals as a function of their gas fraction , @xmath91 , ( a , c ) , and their total stellar mass , @xmath81 , ( b , d ) in simulations s2 ( open pentagons ) , s6 ( filled squares ) and s7 ( open squares ) .",
    "lines represent the relations given by the simple model for @xmath92 ( dotted - dashed lines ) , @xmath93 ( solid lines ) and @xmath94 ( dashed lines ) .",
    "@xmath81 is given in units of @xmath95 .",
    "figure 6 : the total stellar mass of gals ( @xmath81 ) as a function of a ) the virial velocity ( @xmath82 ) and b ) the optical velocity ( @xmath83 ) for the same gals shown in fig.5 .",
    "velocities are given in km@xmath96 and @xmath81 is given in units of @xmath95 .",
    "figure 7 : global metallicities of the stellar populations in gals ( @xmath85 ) in simulation s1 ( p98 ) as a function of a ) the gas fraction ( @xmath91 ) , and b ) the total stellar mass ( @xmath81 ) of gals .",
    "@xmath81 is given in units of @xmath97 .",
    "lines represent the relations given by the simple model as in fig.5 .",
    "figure 8 : global metallicities of the stellar populations ( @xmath85 ) as a function of a ) the gas fraction ( @xmath91 ) , and b ) the total stellar mass ( @xmath81 ) of gals in simulations s3 ( filled pentagons ) , s4 ( open triangles ) and s5 ( open stars ) .",
    "@xmath81 is given in units of @xmath97 .",
    "figure 10 : ( c / o ) versus ( o / h ) for the ism of gals in simulations s2 , s3 , s4 and s5 ( see fig.5 and 8 for feature code ) .",
    "gals in s1 ( filled triangles ) have been included .",
    "observations of hii regions have been included ( small filled circles ) .",
    "figure 12 : logarithm of the oxygen abundances versus the logarithm of their gas fraction for the same gals shown in fig.9 .",
    "observations of hii regions in blue compact and irregular galaxies from pagel ( 1997 ) have been included ( small filled circles ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we develop a model to implement metal enrichment in a cosmological context based on the hydrodynamical ap3msph code described by tissera , lambas and abadi ( 1997 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the star formation model is based on the schmidt law and has been modified in order to describe the transformation of gas into stars in more detail . </S>",
    "<S> the enrichment of the interstellar medium due to supernovae i and ii explosions is taken into account by assuming a salpeter initial mass function and different nucleosynthesis models . </S>",
    "<S> the different chemical elements are mixed within the gaseous medium according to the smooth particle hydrodynamics technique . </S>",
    "<S> gas particles can be enriched by different neighbouring particles at the same time . </S>",
    "<S> we present tests of the code that assess the effects of resolution and model parameters on the results . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the main effect of low numerical resolution is to produce a more effective mixing of elements , resulting in abundance relations with less dispersion . </S>",
    "<S> we have performed cosmological simulations in a standard cold dark matter scenario and we present results of the analysis of the star formation and chemical properties of the interstellar medium and stellar population of the simulated galactic objects . </S>",
    "<S> we show that these systems reproduce abundance ratios for primary and secondary elements of the interstellar medium , and the correlation between the ( o / h ) abundance and the gas fraction of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we find that star formation efficiency , the relative rate of supernovae ii to supernovae i and life - time of binary systems as well as the stellar nucleosynthesis model adopted affect the chemical properties of baryons . </S>",
    "<S> we have compared the results of the simulations with an implementation of the one - zone simple model , finding significant differences in the global metallicities of the stars and gas as well as their correlations with dynamical parameters of the systems . </S>",
    "<S> the numerical simulations performed provide a detailed description of the chemical properties of galactic objects formed in hierarchical clustering scenarios and proved to be useful tools to deepen our understanding of galaxy formation and evolution .    </S>",
    "<S> = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupeurmn @mathgroup@bold@groupeurbn @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupmsamn @mathgroup@bold@groupmsamn = `` 019 = ' ' 016 = `` 040 = ' ' 336 = \" 33e = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 = = = = = = = =    [ firstpage ]    cosmology : theory - galaxies : formation - galaxies : evolution - galaxies : abundances . </S>"
  ]
}