{
  "article_text": [
    "studies of the clustering of cosmological dark matter have progressed enormously in the past twenty years .",
    "the dynamical evolution of the dark matter is driven by gravity and fully specified initial conditions are provided in current cosmological models . this problem can therefore be attacked quite cleanly using n - body simulations ( see jenkins et al .",
    "1998 , gross et al . 1998 and references therein . )",
    "studies of the clustering properties of galaxies , on the other hand , are much more complicated because galaxy formation includes messy astrophysical processes such as gas cooling , star formation and feedback from supernovae .",
    "these processes couple with the gravitational evolution of the dark matter to produce the clustering pattern of galaxies .",
    "because of this complexity , progress in understanding galaxy clustering has been slow . yet",
    ", theoretical modelling of galaxy clustering is essential if we are to make the most of the new generation of galaxy redshift surveys , the two - degree field ( 2df , colless 1996 ) and sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , gunn & weinberg 1995 ) , and of the new data on galaxy clustering at high redshift that has been accumulating recently ( e.g. adelberger et al .",
    "1998 , governato et al .",
    "1998 , baugh et al . 1999 ) .",
    "two kinds of simulation techniques are being used to approach galaxy clustering from a theoretical standpoint .",
    "the first of these attempts to follow galaxy formation by simulating directly dark matter and gas physics in cosmological volumes ( eg .",
    "katz et al .",
    "1992 , evrard et al 1994 , weinberg et al .",
    "1998 , blanton et al 1999 , pearce et al .",
    "1999 ) . because the resolution of such simulations is limited ,",
    "phenomenological models are required to decide when and where stars and galaxies form and to include the associated feedback effects .",
    "the advantage of this approach is that the dynamics of cooling gas are calculated correctly without the need for simplifying assumptions .",
    "the disadvantage is that even with the best codes and fastest computers available , the attainable resolution is still some orders of magnitude below what is required to resolve the formation and internal structure of individual galaxies in cosmological volumes .",
    "for example , the gas resolution element in the large eulerian simulations of blanton et al .",
    "( 1999 ) is around half a megaparsec .",
    "lagrangian hydrodynamic methods offer better resolution , but even in this case , this is poorer than the galactic scales on which much of the relevant astrophysical processes occur .",
    "a different and complementary approach to studying galaxy clustering is to use semi - analytic models of galaxy formation . in this case , resolution is generally not a major issue .",
    "the disadvantage of this technique , compared to hydrodynamic simulations , is that , in calculating the dynamics of cooling gas , a number of simplifying assumptions , such as spherical symmetry or a particular flow structure , need to be made ( some of these assumptions are tested against smoothed particle hydrodynamics simulations by benson et al .",
    "1999 ) . as in the direct simulation approach , a model for star formation and feedback is required .",
    "in addition to adequate resolution , semi - analytic modelling offers a number of advantages for studying galaxy clustering .",
    "firstly , it is a much more flexible approach than full hydrodynamic simulation and so the effects of varying assumptions or parameter choices can be readily investigated . secondly , with detailed semi - analytic modelling it is possible to calculate a wide range of galaxy properties such as luminosities in any particular waveband , sizes , bulge - to - disk ratios , masses , circular velocities , etc .",
    "this makes it possible to construct mock catalogues of galaxies that mimic the selection criteria of real surveys and to investigate clustering properties as a function of magnitude , colour , morphological type or any other property determined by the model .",
    "semi - analytic modelling has been used in two different modalities to study galaxy clustering . in the first , an analytic model for the clustering of dark matter halos developed by mo & white ( 1996 )",
    "is assumed and the semi - analytic machinery is used to populate halos , generated using monte - carlo techniques , with galaxies .",
    "this technique has been extensively applied by baugh et al .",
    "( 1998 , 1999 ) . in the second , more direct , approach ,",
    "the semi - analytic modelling is applied to dark matter halos grown in a cosmological n - body simulation .",
    "the advantages of this latter strategy are that it allows a proper treatment of the small scale regime where the mo & white model breaks down and it bypasses any inaccuracies in the analytic ( press - schechter ) model used to compute the mass function of dark halos in the pure semi - analytic approach .",
    "this technique has been implemented in two ways . in the simplest case ( kauffmann ,",
    "nusser and steinmetz , 1997 , roukema et al .",
    "1997 , governato et al .",
    "1998 ) , a statistical merger tree for each halo identified in the n - body simulation is generated in a monte - carlo manner . in the second implementation ( kauffmann et al .",
    "1999a , 199b , diaferio et al .",
    "1999 ) , the halo merger trees are extracted directly from the n - body simulation .    in this paper , we adopt the first approach to the combined use of semi - analytic and n - body techniques ( i.e. with monte - carlo merger trees ) to study galaxy clustering .",
    "we focus on the specific question of how the process of galaxy formation couples with the large scale dynamics of the dark matter to establish the clustering properties of the galaxy population .",
    "we investigate in detail processes that bias galaxies to form preferentially in certain regions of space .",
    "previous cosmological dark matter simulations have established that the dark matter in popular cdm models tends to be more strongly clustered on small scales than the observed galaxy population ( jenkins et al .",
    "1998 , gross et al . 1998 ) .",
    "we investigate whether the required antibias arises naturally in these cosmologies .",
    "more generally , we compare the predictions of these models with observations over a range of scales . the techniques that we use",
    "are described in ",
    "[ sec : desc ] .",
    "the clustering properties of galaxies in our model are presented in  [ sec:2pt ] .",
    "the various processes that play a role in determining how the galaxy distribution is biased relative to the mass are discussed in  [ sec : nature ] . in  [ sec : norms ] , we show that our results are robust to changes in model parameters and finally in  [ sec : discuss ] we discuss our main conclusions .",
    "the two techniques that we employ in this paper , n - body simulations and semi - analytic modelling , are both well established and powerful theoretical tools .",
    "we do not intend to describe them in detail here , but instead refer the reader to the appropriate sources .",
    "we use the semi - analytic galaxy formation model of cole et al .",
    "( 1999 ) to populate dark matter halos with galaxies .",
    "the merger history of dark matter halos is followed using a monte - carlo approach based on the extended press - schechter formalism ( press & schechter 1974 ; bond et al .",
    "1991 ; bower 1991 ; lacey & cole 1993 ) . within each halo ,",
    "galaxy formation is followed using a set of simple , physically - motivated rules that model the processes of gas cooling , star formation , feedback from supernovae and stellar evolution .",
    "the result is a fully specified model of galaxy formation with a relatively small number of free parameters which can be fixed by constraining the model to match the observed properties of the local galaxy population ( e.g. the luminosity function or the tully - fisher relation ) . once constrained in this way",
    ", the model makes predictions for a whole range of galaxy properties ( e.g. colours , sizes , bulge - to - disk ratios , rotation speeds etc . ) at both the present day and at high redshift . in this work",
    "we extend this list of predictions to include the spatial clustering of galaxies , in particular the two - point correlation function .",
    "whilst our models are similar in principle to those of kauffmann et al .",
    "( 1999a ) they use different rules for star formation and feedback and also include the effects of chemical enrichment due to star formation .",
    "we also choose to constrain the model parameters in a rather different way , as discussed below .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^ \" , ]      we have shown that matching the local galaxy luminosity function  our preferred method for constraining the parameters of our semi - analytic model",
    " leads to model predictions for galaxy clustering that are robust to reasonable changes in these parameters .",
    "kauffmann et al .",
    "( 1999a ) adopted a different philosophy : they chose to constrain their models by matching the i - band tully - fisher relation , rather than the luminosity function .",
    "we explore the effect of this choice by constraining our own models in a similar way .",
    "specifically , we require the median magnitude of central spiral galaxies with halo circular velocities in the range 215.0 to 225.0 km s@xmath3 to be @xmath4 ( where @xmath5 is the dust - extincted i - band magnitude of each galaxy corrected to the face - on value ) .",
    "this can be achieved by a suitable choice of the luminosity normalisation parameter , @xmath6 , and leads to a model tully - fisher relation that agrees well with data from mathewson , ford & buchhorn ( 1992 ) .",
    "since our original @xmath7cdm models ( that is , the reference model and its variants ) already agreed quite well with the tully - fisher relation , ( see fig .  [ fig : reftf ] ) , this different choice of constraint has only a minor effect on the correlation function .",
    "the only noticeable change is an increase in the scatter of the asymptotic bias in the variant models . in the @xmath8cdm models ,",
    "on the other hand , the new constraint has an important effect because the original models that agreed well with the luminosity function , missed the tully - fisher relation by about 1 magnitude .",
    "forcing a fit to the tully - fisher relation destroys the good agreement of the reference model with the luminosity function , as may be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : nofeedb ] .",
    "this figure also shows a @xmath8cdm model in which we have attempted to obtain a better luminosity function by dramatically reducing the amount of supernovae feedback into the interstellar gas .",
    "[ fig : nofeedb ] shows that our two @xmath8cdm models that match the tully - fisher relation have different correlation functions . in other words",
    ", this exercise demonstrates that when models are constrained in this way , the resulting correlation functions are rather sensitive to the choice of model parameters .",
    "this explains why kauffmann et al .",
    "( 1999a ) concluded that their clustering predictions depended strongly on the way they parametrised star formation , feedback and the fate of reheated gas in their model .",
    "by contrast , we have found that our predictions for the correlation function are robust to changes in model parameters , _ so long as the models match the bright end of the galaxy luminosity function_.",
    "in this study , we have considered some of the physical and statistical processes that determine the distribution of galaxies and its relation to the distribution of mass in cold dark matter universes .",
    "the approach that we have adopted exploits two of the most successful techniques currently used in theoretical cosmological studies : n - body simulations to follow the clustering evolution of dark matter and semi - analytic modelling to follow the physics of galaxy formation .",
    "our main conclusion is that the efficiency of galaxy formation depends in a non - trivial fashion on the mass of the host dark matter halo and , as a result , galaxies , in general , have a markedly different distribution from the mass .",
    "this result had been anticipated in early cosmological studies ( eg .",
    "frenk , white & davis 1983 , davis et al .",
    "1985 , bardeen et al . 1986 ) , but it is only with the development of techniques such as semi - analytic modelling that realistic calculations have become possible .",
    "the statistics of the spatial distribution of galaxies reflect the interplay between processes that determine the location where dark matter halos form and the manner in which halos are  lit up \" by galaxy formation .",
    "if the resulting mass - to - light ratio of halos were independent of halo mass , then the distribution of galaxies would be related in a simple manner to the distribution of dark matter in halos . in current theories of galaxy formation",
    ", however , the mass - to - light ratio has a complicated dependence on halo mass . on small mass scales ,",
    "galaxy formation is inhibited by the reheating of cooled gas through feedback processes , whereas in large mass halos it is inhibited by the long cooling times of hot gas . as a result",
    ", the mass - to - light ratio has a deep minimum at the halo mass , @xmath9 , associated with @xmath1 galaxies , where galaxy formation is most efficient . although our calculations assume a specific model of galaxy formation , the dependence of mass - to - light ratio on halo mass displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : mllf ] is likely to be generic to this type of cosmological model .",
    "the consequence of such a complex behaviour is a scale dependent bias in the distribution of galaxies relative to the distribution of mass .    on scales larger than the typical size of the halos that harbour bright galaxies ,",
    "the bias in the galaxy distribution is related in a simple way to the bias in the distribution of massive halos . in our @xmath10 @xmath8cdm model",
    ", galaxies end up positively biased on large scales , but in our flat , @xmath11 @xmath7cdm model , they end up essentially unbiased . on small scales ,",
    "the situation is more complicated and the correlation function depends on effects such as the spatial exclusion of dark matter halos , dynamical friction , and the number of galaxies per halo . in particular ,",
    "our simulations show how the statistics of the halo occupation probability influence the amplitude of the galaxy correlation function on sub - megaparsec scales . in our models ,",
    "the occupation of halos by galaxies is not a poisson process .",
    "since the amount of gas available for star formation is limited , the mean number of pairs per halo is less than that of a poisson distribution with the same mean .",
    "this property plays an important role in determining the amplitude of small scale correlations .",
    "remarkably , the correlation function of galaxies in our @xmath7cdm model closely approximates a power - law over nearly four orders of magnitude in amplitude .",
    "this is in spite of the fact that the correlation function of the underlying mass distribution is not a power - law , but has two inflection points in the relevant range of scales . somehow , the various effects just discussed conspire to compensate for these features in the mass distribution .",
    "in particular , on scales smaller than @xmath12 mpc , the galaxy distribution in the @xmath7cdm model is _ antibiased _ relative to the mass distribution .",
    "the apparently scale - free nature of the galaxy correlation function in this model seems to be largely a coincidence ( although whether this is also true of the real universe remains to be seen ) . our @xmath8cdm model which has similar physics although a different initial mass fluctuation spectrum , does not end up with a power - law galaxy correlation function .",
    "coln et al .",
    "( 1999 ) have carried out a very high resolution n - body simulations ( of a @xmath7cdm cosmological model similar to ours ) which resolves some substructure within dark matter halos .",
    "the correlation function of these sub - halos is remarkably similar to the correlation function of the galaxies in our @xmath7cdm reference model . in a sense ,",
    "the merger trees of our semi - analytic models keep track of sub - halos within dark matter halos since they follow the galaxies that form within them .",
    "( unlike the simulations , however , the semi - analytic model does not follow the spatial distribution of sub - halos . )",
    "coln et al .",
    "select sub - halos by circular velocity , whereas we select galaxies by luminosity . since",
    ", in our models , the luminosity of a galaxy is correlated with the circular velocity of the halo in which it formed , there is some correspondence between the type of objects studied by coln et al . and us .",
    "however , the connection could be complicated by effects such as tidal disruption or stripping of halos within halos but which are not included in our model .",
    "nevertheless , the abundance of sub - halos considered by coln et al is similar to the abundance of galaxies in our @xmath7cdm model and this might account for the similarity between the two correlation functions .    another noteworthy outcome of our simulations is the close match of the galaxy correlation function in our @xmath7cdm model to the observed galaxy correlation function , itself also a power - law over a large range of scales ( groth & peebles 1977 ; baugh 1996 ) .",
    "this match is particularly interesting because the parameters that specify our semi - analytic galaxy formation model were fixed beforehand by considerations that are completely separate from galaxy clustering ( see cole et al .",
    "1999 ) . our procedure for fixing these parameters places special emphasis on obtaining a good match to the observed galaxy luminosity function ( c.f . fig .",
    "[ fig : reflf ] ) , but makes no reference whatsoever to the spatial distribution of the galaxies .    to summarize , the combination of high resolution n - body simulations with semi - analytic modelling of galaxy formation provides a useful means for understanding how the process of galaxy formation interacts with the process of cosmological gravitational evolution to determine the clustering pattern of galaxies . in general",
    ", we expect galaxies to be clustered somewhat differently from the dark matter , and the relation between the two can be quite complex . a flat cdm model with @xmath2 gives an acceptable match to the observed galaxy correlation function over about four orders of magnitude in amplitude ( as does an open model with the same value of @xmath13 . )",
    "the @xmath7cdm model is also in reasonable agreement with a number of other known properties of the galaxy distribution .",
    "ajb , smc and csf acknowledge receipt of a pparc studentship , advanced fellowship and senior fellowship respectively .",
    "csf also acknowledges a leverhume fellowship .",
    "cgl was supported by the danish national research foundation through its establishment of the theoretical astrophysics center .",
    "this work was supported in part by a pparc rolling grant , by a computer equipment grant from durham university and by the european community s tmr network for galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "we acknowledge the virgo consortium and the gif collaboration for making available the gif simulations for this study , and the anonymous referee for insightful and helpful comments .",
    "adelberger  k.  l. , steidel  c.  c. , giavalisco  m. , pettini  m. , kellogg  m. , 1998 , apj , 505 , 18 bagla j.  s. , 1998 , mnras , 299 , 417 bardeen j.m . , bond j.r . , kaiser n. , szalay a.s . , 1986 ,",
    "apj , 304 , 15 baugh c. m. , 1996 , mnras , 280 , 267 baugh  c.  m. , cole  s , frenk  c.  s. , lacey  c.  g. , 1998 , apj , 498 , 504 baugh c.  m. , benson a.  j. , cole s. , frenk c.  s. , lacey c.  g. , 1999 , mnras , 305 , l21 blanton m. , cen r. , ostriker j. p. , strauss m. a. , tegmark  m. , 1999 , astro - ph/9903165 bond j. r. , kaiser n. , cole s. , efstathiou g. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 440 bower r.g . , 1991 , mnras , 248 , 332 cole s. , lacey c.  g. , baugh c.  m. , frenk c.  s. , 1999 , mnras submitted coln  p. , klypin  a. , kravtsov  a. , khokhlov  a. , 1999 , apj , 523 , 32 colless m. , 1996 , in proceedings of the heron island conference , http://msowww.anu.edu.au/  heron / colless / colless.html davis  m. , huchra  j. , latham  d.  w. , tonry  j. , 1982 , apj , 253 , 423 davis m. , peebles p. j. e. , 1983 , apj , 267 , 465 davis m. , efstathiou g. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1985 , apj , 292 , 371 diaferio  a. , kauffmann  g. , colberg  j.  m. , white  s.  d.  m. , 1999 , mnras , 307 , 537 efstathiou g. , frenk c.s .",
    ", white s.d.m . , davis m. , 1988 , mnras , 235 , 715 efstathiou g. , bond j. r. , white s.d.m . , 1992 , mnras , 258 , 1 evrard  a.  e. , summers  f.  j. , davis  m. , 1994 , apj , 422 , 11 ferrara  a. , bianchi  s. , cimatti  a. , giovanardi  c. , 1999 , apjs , 123 , 437 frenk  c.  s. , white  s.  d.  m. , davis  m. , 1983 , apj , 271 , 417 gardner j. p. , sharples r. m. , frenk c. s. , carrasco b. e. , 1997 , apj , 480 , l99 glazebrook k. , ellis  r. , colless  m. , broadhurst  t. , allington - smith  j. , tanvir  n. , 1995 , mnras , 273 , 157 governato f. , baugh  c.  m. , frenk  c.  s. , cole  s. , lacey  c.  g. , quinn  t. , stadel  j. , 1998 , nat , 392,359 gross  m.  a.  k. , somerville  r.  s. , primack  j.  r. , holtzman  j. , klypin  a. , 1998 , mnras , 301 , 81 gunn j. e. , weinberg d. h. , 1995 , wide - field spectroscopy and the distant universe , proceedings of the 35th herstmonceux workshop , cambridge university press , cambridge groth  e.  j. , peebles  p.  j.  e. , 1977 , apj , 217 , 38 ella  m. , scaramella  r. , stirpe  g.  m. , vettolani  g. , 1999 , astro - ph/9901378 hamilton a. j. s. , kumar p. , lu e. , matthews a. , 1991 , apj , 374 , l1 huchra  j.  p. , davis  m. , latham  d.  w. , tonry  j. , 1983 , apjs , 53 , 89 jenkins a. , frenk  c.  s. , pearce  f.  r. , thomas  p.  a. , colberg  j.  m. , white  s.  d.  m. , couchman  h.  m.  p. , peacock  j.  p. , efstathiou  g. , nelson  a.  h. , ( the virgo consortium ) , 1998 , apj , 499 , 20 jing y. p. , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 503 , l9 katz  n. , hernquist  l. , weinberg  d.  h. , 1992 , apj , 399 , 109 kauffmann g. , nusser a. , steinmetz m. , 1997 , mnras , 286 , 795 kauffmann g. , colberg j.  m. , diaferio a. , white s.  d.  m. , 1999a , mnras , 303 , 188 kauffmann g. , colberg j.  m. , diaferio a. , white s.  d.  m. , 1999b , mnras , 307 , 529 kennicutt , r. 1983 , apj , 272 , 54 lacey , c.g . , cole , s. , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 lacey c.  g. , cole s. , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 676 lemson g. , kauffmann g. , 1999 , mnras , 302 , 111 loveday  j. , peterson  b.  a. , efstathiou  g. , maddox  s.  j. , 1992 , apj , 390 , 338 mathewson d. s. , ford v. l. , buchhorn m. , 1992 , apjs , 81 , 413 mo h.  j. , white s.  d.  m. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 347 mobasher b. , sharples r. m. , ellis r. s. , 1993 , mnras , 263 , 560 moore b. , frenk c.s .",
    ", white s.d.m . , 1993 , mnras , 261 , 827 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1996 , apj , 462 , 563 peacock j. a. , dodds s. j. , 1996 , mnras , 280 , l19 pearce  f.  r. , jenkins  a. , frenk  c.  s. , colberg  j.  m. , white  s.  d.  m. , thomas  p.  a. , couchman  h.  m.  p. , peacock  j.  a. , efstathiou  g. ( the virgo consortium ) , apj , 512 , l99 press w. h. , schechter p. , 1974",
    ", apj , 187 , 425 ratcliffe a. , shanks t. , parker q. a. , fong r. , 1998 , mnras , 296 , 173 roukema  b.  f. , peterson  b.  a. , quinn  p.  j. , rocca - volmerange  b. , 1997 , mnras , 292 , 835 salpeter , e.e .",
    ", 1955 , apj , 121 , 61 somerville r.s .",
    ", lemson g. , kolatt t.s .",
    ", dekel a. , 1998 , astro - ph/9807277 ( submitted to mnras ) tegmark m. , peebles p.  j.  e. , 1998 , apj , 500 , 79 owen  j.  m. , weinberg  d.  h. , evrard  a.  e. , hernquist  l. , katz  n. , 1998 , apj , 503 , 160 white s.  d.  m. , frenk c.  s. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 52 zucca e. , zamorani  g. , vettolani  g. , cappi  a. , merighi  r. , mignoli  m. , stirpe  g.  m. , macgillivray  h. , collins  c. , balkowski  c. , cayatte  v. , maurogordato  s. , proust  d. , chincarini  g. , guzzo  l. , maccagni  d. , scaramella  r. , blanchard  a. , ramella  m. , 1997 , a&a , 326 , 477"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used a combination of high resolution cosmological n - body simulations and semi - analytic modelling of galaxy formation to investigate the processes that determine the spatial distribution of galaxies in cold dark matter ( cdm ) models and its relation to the spatial distribution of dark matter . </S>",
    "<S> the galaxy distribution depends sensitively on the efficiency with which galaxies form in halos of different mass . in small mass halos , </S>",
    "<S> galaxy formation is inhibited by the reheating of cooled gas by feedback processes , whereas in large mass halos , it is inhibited by the long cooling time of the gas . as a result </S>",
    "<S> , the mass - to - light ratio of halos has a deep minimum at the halo mass , @xmath0 , associated with @xmath1 galaxies , where galaxy formation is most efficient . </S>",
    "<S> this dependence of galaxy formation efficiency on halo mass leads to a scale - dependent bias in the distribution of galaxies relative to the distribution of mass . on large scales , </S>",
    "<S> the bias in the galaxy distribution is related in a simple way to the bias in the distribution of massive halos . on small scales , </S>",
    "<S> the correlation function is determined by the interplay between various effects including the spatial exclusion of dark matter halos , the distribution function of the number of galaxies occupying a single dark matter halo and , to a lesser extent , dynamical friction . </S>",
    "<S> remarkably , these processes conspire to produce a correlation function in a flat , @xmath2 , cdm model that is close to a power - law over nearly four orders of magnitude in amplitude . </S>",
    "<S> this model agrees well with the correlation function of galaxies measured in the apm survey . on small scales , the model galaxies are less strongly clustered than the dark matter , whereas on large scales they trace the occupied halos . </S>",
    "<S> our clustering predictions are robust to changes in the parameters of the galaxy formation model , provided only those models that match the bright end of the galaxy luminosity function are considered .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : formation , galaxies : statistics , large - scale structure of the universe </S>"
  ]
}