{
  "article_text": [
    "it is well known ( see e.g. matt 2002 for a review , and references therein ) that most agn are ` obscured ' in x  rays .",
    "their observed spectrum depends on the ( hydrogen equivalent ) column density , @xmath0 , of the absorber . if the column density exceeds the value , @xmath1=1.5@xmath210@xmath3 @xmath4 , for which the compton scattering optical depth becomes equal to 1 , the sources are called ` compton  thick ' . if the column density is smaller than @xmath1 but still in excess of the galactic one , the source is called ` compton  thin ' . assuming the simple geometry depicted in fig .",
    "[ torus ] ( in which the absorbing matter is assumed to form a geometrically thick torus , according to the popular unification models , see antonucci 1993 ) , the expected spectrum is shown in fig .  [ cthall ] .",
    "in the compton  thin case , the nuclear spectrum ( assumed for simplicity to be a power law with photon spectral index 2 ) can be directly observed above a few kev , and a fluorescent iron line ( with ew@xmath510 ev for n@xmath6=10@xmath7 @xmath4 and @xmath5100 ev for n@xmath6=10@xmath8 @xmath4 , see fig .",
    "[ reflew ] ) , is produced . in the moderately compton  thick case ( n@xmath6=@xmath910@xmath10 @xmath4 ) the spectrum below 10 kev is dominated by the reflection continuum ( plus a prominent iron line with ew@xmath51 kev : ghisellini et al .",
    "1994 ; krolik et al . 1994",
    "; matt et al . 1996 ) produced by the visible part of the inner wall of the torus itself ( see fig .",
    "[ torus ] ) , while the nuclear radiation can be directly visible in transmission at higher energies .",
    "this is , for instance , the case of two out of the three closest agn , the circinus galaxy ( matt et al .",
    "1999 ) and ngc  4945 ( iwasawa et al .",
    "1993 ; guainazzi et al .",
    "2000 ) . for column densities exceeding n@xmath6=10@xmath11 @xmath4 ,",
    "no nuclear radiation is transmitted , and only the reflection component is visible ( see for instance ngc  1068 , matt et al .",
    "it is worth noting that reflection from highly ionized matter can also be present ( cf .",
    "matt et al . 2000 ) , and that the ionization state of the  cold \" reflector may include also mildly ionized components ( bianchi et al .",
    "however , for simplicity we will discuss cold reflectors only .",
    "also the spectrum reflected by the torus depends on its column density .",
    "the iron line ew ( calculated with respect to both the reflection continuum and the total one ) , is shown in fig .",
    "[ reflew ] for a torus seen face  on as a function of the @xmath0 in the equatorial plane . in fig .",
    "[ refl ] the reflection spectrum is shown .",
    "for compton  thick material , the spectrum is well  known ( e.g. george & fabian 1991 ; matt et al .",
    "1991 ) while for compton ",
    "thin matter it is very different in shape and , overall , less prominent .",
    "( both figures are based on monte carlo simulations ; see ghisellini et al .",
    "1994 for details on the simulation code . )    a reflection  dominated spectrum is usually assumed as evidence of compton  thick absorption , expecially when using instruments working up to @xmath510 kev , and therefore unable to detect the primary emission through moderately thick absorbers .",
    "however , such a spectrum may occur not only when the nucleus is absorbed , but also when its emission decreases down to invisibility ( in this case we will speak of a ` switched  off ' source ) , provided of course that the reflecting material is distant enough from the nucleus to act as an ` echo ' for a while .",
    "the classical example of a switched  off source is ngc  4051 , observed by bepposax during a prolonged low state ( uttley et al . 1999 ) and found to be reflection  dominated ( guainazzi et al . 1998 ) , i.e. with a very prominent iron line and the hard ( and curved ) continuum spectrum typical of a compton  thick reflection component .",
    "ngc  4051 is a well  known seyfert 1 galaxy but , based on the bepposax spectrum alone , it would have been classified as a compton ",
    "thick absorbed source .",
    "the explanation in terms of a decrease of the nuclear flux instead of a temporary compton ",
    "thick absorption is further confirmed by recent chandra observations ( fruscione et al .",
    "2002 ) , which showed a residual short  term and low amplitude variability during another low state of the source ; clearly , in this case the nuclear flux was much fainter then usual , but not completely disappeared as during the bepposax observation .",
    "we note , incidentally , that a temporary switching  off of the nucleus may explain at least some of the type 1 sources with a large hardness ratio discovered in x  ray surveys , see e.g. fiore et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and della ceca et al .",
    "( 2001 ) .",
    "recently , the same kind of variability was discovered in a few seyfert 2 galaxies , which changed from reflection  dominated ( and therefore candidate compton ",
    "thick absorbed sources ) to compton  thin , or viceversa .",
    "the clearest cases so far are ugc  4203 ( guainazzi et al .",
    "2002 ) , ngc  6300 ( guainazzi 2002 ) , ngc  1365 ( risaliti et al .",
    "2000 ) and ngc  2992 ( gilli et al .",
    "2000 ) . for at least some of these sources , a change in the column density of the absorber , rather than a switching  off of the source , can not be completely ruled out , and indeed risaliti et al . (",
    "2002 ) claimed that variations in the absorbing column density are common in seyfert 2 galaxies .",
    "however , the changing absorbers in the risaliti et al .",
    "( 2002 ) sample are all compton  thin , and in most cases the variations are too small to rule out the possibility that they are an artifact due to comparing spectra obtained with different instruments . moreover , this solution is clearly untenable for ngc  2992 ( gilli et al .",
    "2000 ; see sec .",
    "2.4 ) , which has been well monitored over the years , showing a gradual change of the nuclear flux and a costant absorber .",
    "we find difficult to imagine a situation in which a compton  thick absorber on the pc  scale ( as suggested by the lack of variability of the reflection components ) and with a large covering factor ( to allow for the rather large reflection components ) can vary so dramatically on time  scales of years . therefore , in the following we will assume that the observed variations are due to the switching  off of the nucleus .",
    "after reviewing the current observation status of this field ( sect .",
    "2 ) , we will discuss some possible implications ( sect .",
    "ugc  4203 ( a.k.a .",
    "mkn  1210 ) has been recently observed by xmm  newton ( guainazzi et al . 2002 ) , unveiling a x  ray bright nucleus , absorbed by @xmath12  @xmath4 .",
    "however , in an asca observation performed about five and half years earlier ( awaki et al . 2000 ) , the prominent iron line ( @xmath13  kev ) and the factor of 5 lower 210  kev flux indicated a reflection  dominated spectrum ( fig .",
    "[ polittico ] ) , with the nuclear emission too faint to be visible .",
    "the limited bandpass of asca , along with the low flux of the source , does not permit to distinguish bewteen different column densities of the reflecting matter , provided that it exceeds about @xmath14  @xmath4 ( see fig .",
    "[ refl ] ) .",
    "it is therefore possible that in this case the absorbing and reflecting materials are one and the same .",
    "ngc  6300 , discovered serendipitously by _ ginga _ ( awaki et al . 1991 ) , was observed in a compton ",
    "thick reflection - dominated state by rxte on february 1997 ( leighly et al .",
    "two and half years later a remarkably strong seyfert nucleus ( 210  kev flux @xmath15  erg  @xmath4  s@xmath16 ) seen through a column density with @xmath12  @xmath4 ( fig .  [ polittico ] ) , was discovered in a bepposax observation .",
    "newton observation performed early in 2001 caught the source still in the high flux , compton  thin state ( maddox et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "as the rxte bandpass extends up to 20 kev , for this source it is possible to distinguish between compton  thin and compton ",
    "thick reflection ( fig .  [ refl ] ) .",
    "the detection in the pca highest energy band is too strong to be explained as pure reflection by matter with @xmath17  @xmath4 . in this case , therefore , the ( thick ) reflector must be different from the ( thin ) absorber .      a bepposax observation on august 1997 detected in this source a bright seyfert nucleus , seen through a compton  thin ( @xmath18  @xmath4 ; risaliti et al . 2000 )",
    "absorber . on the contrary , an asca observation , performed three years earlier , detected a very flat x - ray continuum ( @xmath19 ) and a 2.1  kev k@xmath20 iron line , both indicating a reflection  dominated state ( fig .  [ polittico ] ) .",
    "due to the limited bandwidth of asca , and similarly to ugc  4203 , the possibility that the reflector is simply the inner wall of the absorber can not be ruled out .      the brightest and best studied source in our little sample is ngc  2992 , a seyfert 1.9 galaxy with an x  ray absorbing column density n@xmath21 @xmath4 .",
    "the x  ray flux of ngc  2992 steadily declined since 1978 , when it was observed by heao1 ( mushotzky 1982 ) at a ( unabsorbed ) flux level of about 8@xmath210@xmath22 erg @xmath4 s@xmath16 , until 1994 , when it was observed by asca ( weaver et al .",
    "1996 ) at a flux level more than one order of magnitude fainter .",
    "then the source underwent a rapid recovery : in 1997 it was observed by bepposax at a flux level somewhat higher than in 1994 , while in 1998 it fully recovered its 1978 brightness ( gilli et al .",
    "2000 ; see fig .",
    "[ polittico ] ) .    in this case",
    "the comparison between the compton - thin and the asca almost reflection - dominated states clearly rules out the possibility that the reflector is the inner wall of the absorber .",
    "the 4 - 10 to 2 - 4 kev flux ratio during the asca observation is @xmath23 ( corresponding to @xmath24 ) , which is largely inconsistent with the theoretical value expected from a reflection dominated spectrum by a column density @xmath25  @xmath4 ( 0.53 ) .",
    "it is worth noting that in both bepposax observations the power law spectral index was typical for agn ( @xmath26 ) , again indicating that the flux recovery is likely to be associated with the re - emergence of the agn nuclear emission . in summary , for this source there is no doubt that the absorbing and reflecting regions do not have the same column density and likely belong to different gaseous structures .",
    "we have presented evidence of the switching  off of the nucleus in a few seyfert 2 galaxies based on their changed looks ( from compton  thin to reflection  dominated or viceversa ) when observed a few years apart .",
    "the evidence can not be considered conclusive yet , and further investigations , both on the same objects and in search of new objects with a similar behaviour , are needed . in the meantime , let us briefly discuss a few interesting consequences of the proposed scenario .",
    "this is a question that involves , of course , both seyfert 1s and seyfert 2s .",
    "it is basically impossible to estimate the fraction of these transitions in obscured agn , due to the lack of a complete and unbiased sample of homogeneously defined seyfert 2 galaxies with sufficient x - ray temporal and spectroscopic coverage . a xmm ",
    "newton program is ongoing to address this question on the complete sample of compton  thick agn defined in risaliti et al .",
    "( 1999 ) .      the existence of a population of seyfert 1 galaxies with significant x  ray absorption ( maiolino et al .",
    "2001 ; fiore et al . 2001 ; della ceca et al .",
    "2001 ) has been recently recognized . for most of these sources",
    "evidence for absorption comes from the flatness of the x  ray spectrum as derived from a hardness ratio analysis , rather than from a direct measurement of the column density , because they are often too faint to allow for a proper spectral analysis . as the x  ray and optical observations are usually not simultaneous",
    ", it is possible that this mismatch is , as least for a fraction of these sources , due to a temporary switching  off of the nuclear radiation .",
    "other explanations are still possible ( e.g. ionization of the x - ray absorbing medium , low gas - to - dust ratio in the agn nuclear environment , dust sublimation ) . however",
    ", if the explanation is indeed in terms of variability , with the sources caught in different states by the x - ray and optical observations , one would expect to find also sources which were switched  off when observed in the optical and switched  on when observed in x ",
    "rays , namely x  ray unobscured agn with a type 2 optical spectrum .",
    "objects of this kind have indeed been recently discovered in sparse samples of nearby seyfert galaxies , as reported by pappa et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and panessa et al .",
    "( 2002 ) .",
    "another possible implication concerns the modeling of the x  ray background ( xrb ) .",
    "popular synthesis models of the xrb ( e.g comastri et al .",
    "1995 ) require a significant fraction of moderately compton  thick sources , in which the nuclear radiation can be directly observed at energies of tens of kev . if many of the reflection  dominated sources will be proven to be simply switched ",
    "off agn , there may be in principle the need for a revision of the xrb synthesis models .",
    "as , however , the covering factor of the reflecting matter is by all evidence pretty large ( e.g. matt et al . 2000 ) , it is unlikely that the possible lack of intermediate compton ",
    "thick sources will result to be a serious problem .",
    "a question that instead directly follows from the observations of seyfert 2s which change look , is that of the presence of more than one cold circumnuclear regions .    for at least two out of four sources in our sample , at least two ( one thin the other thick )",
    "circumnuclear regions are definitely required .",
    "( if they actually correspond to two physically and geometrically distinct regions or simply to inhomogeneities in one and the same absorber , it is difficult to say with certainty . however , there is evidence that the compton ",
    "thin absorbers are usually located at much larger distances than the compton ",
    "thick ones , see below ) . for the other two ,",
    "this is possible as well , but the limited bandwidth of the observations when the sources were reflection  dominated does not permit to rule out compton  thin reflection .",
    "it is worth noting that in another compton ",
    "thin agn , ngc  5506 , the presence of a compton  thick reflector can be derived from direct spectral analysis ( matt et al . 2001 ) . moreover ,",
    "other compton - thick agn in which the soft x - ray spectrum is further absorbed by compton - thin matter with @xmath27  @xmath4 , are known .",
    "the compton  thin absorber may be associated with the host galaxy disk ( e.g. tololo  0109 - 389 ; matt et al .",
    "2003 ) or with dusty regions of enhanced stellar formation ( e.g. the ir ultraluminous galaxy ngc6240 ; iwasawa & comastri 1998 ; vignati et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "several authors have already suggested the presence of more than one cold circumnuclear region in agn .",
    "maiolino & rieke ( 1995 ) , matt ( 2000 ) and weaver ( 2001 ) all proposed the presence of both a compton  thick and a compton  thin absorber . while all these authors agree that the compton ",
    "thick absorber should be compact ( i.e. the ` real ' torus ) on the base of several direct and indirect evidence in nearby sources ( i.e. direct imaging in the circinus galaxy , sambruna et al . 2001 ; photoionization models of the reflection spectrum in circinus and ngc  1068 , bianchi et al . 2001 , and dynamical mass considerations in the same two sources , risaliti et al . 1999 ) , there are several possibilities for the compton ",
    "thin absorber : the galactic disc ( maiolino & rieke 1995 ) ; dust lanes ( malkan et al . 1998 ; matt 2000 ) ; starburst clouds ( weaver 2002 ) .",
    "it is well possible that different compton ",
    "thin absorbers are present in different sources , or even that more than one are simultaneously present in the same source .",
    "gm and rm acknowledges asi and miur ( under grant cofin-00 - 02 - 36 ) for financial support ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the properties of a small sample of seyfert 2 galaxies whose x  ray spectrum changed appearance on time scales of years , becoming reflection  dominated from compton  thin , or viceversa . a reflection  dominated spectrum is usually taken as evidence of compton  thick absorption , but we instead argue that such a spectrum is due to a temporary switching  off of the nuclear radiation . </S>",
    "<S> the observations discussed here may help explaining mismatches between optical and x  ray classifications , and provide new strong and direct evidence of the presence of more than one cold circumnuclear region in seyfert 2 galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active  x - rays : galaxies </S>"
  ]
}