{
  "article_text": [
    "observations in the largely unexplored spectral domain between 100@xmath2 and 1300@xmath2 are expected to provide a new important channel for the investigation of the high - redshift universe and the exploration of the _",
    "dark ages _ after decoupling , for obvious reasons related to the effect of redshift  bringing optical - uv photons to longer wavelengths  and of dust  degrading the emitted light to even lower energies .    the detection of high - z galaxies at these wavelengths is emphasized by the relative faintness of the local source populations , and by the strong and positive k - correction for distant objects implied by the steeply rising spectra .",
    "indeed , very high - z sources , most of which associated to active objects , have been recently detected at the millimeter ( both in the continuum and line emission ; see e.g. andreani et al .",
    "1993 ; isaak et al .",
    "1994 ; chini & krgel 1994 ; dunlop et al . 1994 ; barvainis et al .",
    ", 1994 ; yamada et al . , 1995 ) .",
    "this allows estimates of the barionic content in the ism at such high redshifts .",
    "a further reason for our interest in this waveband domain is that an astrophysical background of extragalactic origin may be observable here , given the minimal influence of the foreground emissions ( due to interplanetary dust and dust in the galaxy ) .",
    "the detection of an extragalactic sub-_mm _ background would allow to directly probe such early epochs , if single sources were too faint for detection because of the high redshift or low intrinsic luminosity .",
    "the existence of a cosmological background distinct from the cosmic background radiation ( cbr ) has been widely discussed in the past ( partridge & peebles 1967 ; tinsley 1973 ; stecker , puget & fazio 1977 ; rowan - robinson , negroponte & silk 1979 ; negroponte 1986 ; bond , carr & hogan 1986 , 1991 ) .",
    "it has been expected to arise either from the integrated emission of unresolved proto - structures  such as primeval galaxies , population iii stars , or other sources of pregalactic origin and thermal emission produced by associated coeval dust .",
    "many observational efforts have been devoted to detect it , ( e.g. matsumoto et al . 1988 ) , and sometimes controversial results were reported , mainly because of the uncertain subtraction of the local foregrounds implied by the very limited sky coverage .    for background signals with spectra different from that of the galaxy , strong limits on the associated energy density in the wavelength range @xmath3",
    "have been set by the cobe - firas data .",
    "the observational constraints on deviations from a pure blackbody spectrum of the cbr ( 0.03% in brightness ) imply limits to the integrated energy density of @xmath4 ( i.e. @xmath5 ; wright et al . 1994 ; fixen et al . , 1996 ; burigana et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "the interest in long - wavelength background searches was recently renewed by the claim by puget et al .",
    "( 1996 ) of a tentative detection in the all - sky cobe - firas data of an isotropic signal which can be ascribed to an extragalactic source .",
    "an isotropic cold component , with a spectrum similar to that of the galaxy  and not inconsistent with the puget s et al . background  appears to have been detected by the cobe team itself ( fixen et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "the intensity of this background comes impressively close to the level predicted for evolving extragalactic sources ( franceschini et al .",
    "1994 ) .",
    "it will be of great significance not only to confirm or disprove this result with further space observations ( e.g. by the iso and irts missions ) , but also to eventually characterize the source populations originating it via dedicated deep surveys in the sub - millimeter atmospheric channels accessible from ground .",
    "last , but not least , mappings of the cosmic background radiation down to a few arcminute scale , that will be performed over a wide wavelength interval around the millimeter to investigate the cosmic structure at the decoupling , will have to account for spurious signals due to the integrated emissions of @xmath1 and sub-@xmath1 sources .",
    "the case for a variety of dedicated balloon and planned space missions ( e.g. the esa s cobras - samba and nasa s map ) heavily relies on the estimated levels of foreground anisotropies .    most of the estimates published so far are based on the assumption that the long - wavelength spectrum of the galaxy , as detailed by the cobe mission , is a representative one for normal galaxies ( blain and longair , 1996 ; gawiser and smoot , 1996 ) . as discussed by franceschini & andreani ( 1995 ) , the galaxy spectrum seems to include relatively large amounts of cold dust , as typical of inactive disk galaxies with low star - formation activity .",
    "then it may not accurately discribe the other component of the iras galaxy population , i.e. actively star - forming objects with warmer spectra on average and stepeer sub - mm slopes .    as a contribution to the understanding of the extragalactic sky at millimetric wavelengths , and in the perspective of optimizing and interpreting future mm and sub - mm observations",
    ", this paper reports on a detailed statistical discussion of the @xmath1 emissivity properties of galaxies .",
    "this analysis is based on observations of the 1.25 @xmath1 continuum emission from a complete sample of iras galaxies obtained with the sest telescope .",
    "the combination of iras and _ mm _ photometric data already allowed us to study galaxy spectra in this energy domain and to quantify the presence of dust in galaxy discs ( franceschini & andreani 1995 ; andreani & franceschini 1996 ) . now",
    "the use of a complete flux - limited sample allows us straightforward determinations of ir - mm bivariate luminosity distributions , of @xmath1 luminosity functions and volume emissivities .",
    "our choice of a far - ir selected reference sample , rather than of an optical one , allows us an unbiased sampling of the whole phenomenology of dust effects in galaxies .    in section 2",
    "we summarize information on the dataset , mention our @xmath1 observations and discuss some flux correlations . in section 3 we derive the fir-_mm _ bivariate luminosity distribution , and the 60 and 1250 @xmath2 luminosity functions .",
    "the far - ir / mm volume emissivity of galaxies , their contribution to the cosmic infrared background ( cirb ) , and implications for future sub - mm surveys are discussed in  4 .",
    "a hubble parameter of @xmath6 is used througout the paper .",
    "the galaxy sample used in this work was selected from the iras point source catalogue and is complete and flux limited to s@xmath7 jy within an area of 0.133 steradiants .",
    "complete information exists also for distances ( mostly from distance indicators ) , optical magnitudes and sizes .",
    "it includes 30 galaxies with morphological types from s0/a to scd , and distances ranging mostly from 18 to 250 mpc .",
    "exceptional objects are ngc 253 ( at a distance of 3.6 mpc ) and a type-2 seyfert galaxy found at 471 mpc .",
    "further details on the sample objects can be found in andreani & franceschini ( 1996 ) , af96 hereafter .",
    "the selection area avoids peculiar galaxy concentrations or voids , and provides a representative section of the local universe .",
    "this , and the sample completeness , are checked through the volume test : the global average is @xmath8 .",
    "average volume ratios within 60 @xmath2 luminosity bins are reported in table 1 : no significant departures from the expected value of 0.5 are found .",
    "the sample has been observed at 1.25_mm _ , during various campaigns , with the eso - sest telescope at la silla , equipped with a sensitive @xmath9he - bolometer .",
    "the sest was chosen as providing a good compromise between detector sensitivity and spatial coverage , allowing to minimize the corrections for beam - aperture .",
    "twenty - one objects have been detected at better than 3@xmath10 , while for the nine undetected significant upper limits to the @xmath1 flux are set .    as discussed in previous reports ,",
    "the basic uncertainty in our @xmath1 photometry is due to the corrections for beam - aperture implied by the finite size of the sources compared to the diffraction - limited beam size .",
    "this implies a differential effect , in the sense that the nearest larger galaxies , which are also the less luminous on average , are subject to the largest flux correction .",
    "then , in the comparison with the total fluxes provided by iras , the whole fir - mm relationship ( slope and normalization ) may be affected .",
    "lacking imaging information on the millimeter surface brightness distributions , franceschini & andreani ( 1995 , hereafter fa95 ) and af96 have tried to infer statistical aperture corrections from analyses of the average mm to fir flux ratios versus distance and galaxy size .",
    "this , however , has not solved the problem of defining reliable aperture corrections : two different solutions are still viable , one implying a somewhat more compact distribution of cold dust in spiral galaxies with respect to that of optical starlight emission , that we have interpreted as due to a radial gradient of metallicity in galactic disks . the other assuming a roughly equal distribution of dust and stars , which implies a mm to fir flux ratio decreasing with galaxy luminosity .",
    "the corresponding beam - aperture correction for our sest flux data would be small ( 30% on average ) in the former case , while being typically a factor 2 in the latter .",
    "very limited progress in the field of @xmath1 photometry , based on direct imaging at long wavelengths and indirect inferences of dust extent in galaxies from optical / near - ir data , has been achieved in the meantime .",
    "no conclusive results are either expected , intill large multi - channel bolometer assemblies will be used in mapping representative samples of galaxies , which requires full operation by e.g. the scuba bolometer array on jcmt and by the mpi arrays on iram and sest .",
    "our subsequent analysis of @xmath1 properties of galaxies will account for such uncertain aperture correction by considering both above mentioned possibilities : that the millimetric scale - length is one third of the optical ( @xmath11 ) or just equal to ( @xmath12 ) .",
    "this should confidently bracket the likely real situations .",
    "for conciseness , _ we will refer in the following to the former as hypothesis ( a ) , and to the latter as hypothesis ( b ) .",
    "_    detailed descriptions of the observations and data processing , together with the the iras and _ mm _ photometry , are reported by fa95 , andreani , casoli & gerin ( 1995 ) , and af96 .",
    "we conclude by stressing that the sample has nice properties of completeness and is then suited for various kinds of statistical tests .",
    "the far - ir and mm emission in normal galaxies are due to re - processing by dust in the ism of the starlight background .",
    "we then expect the corresponding flux densities to be correlated .",
    "since the 60 and 100 @xmath2 channels are interpreted as coming from two partly distinct components , i.e. warm dust in star forming regions and cold widespread dust illuminated by the general galactic background , we expect that the long wavelength mm emission to be better correlated with the 100 @xmath2 one . on the contrary",
    ", the correlation with the optical emission is expected to be poor .",
    "all this is fairly well supported by our data .",
    "correlation plots of @xmath1 fluxes and luminsities with fir and optical emissions are shown in figures 1 and 2 .",
    "we find the mm emission for our sample galaxies to be correlated with the 60 and 100 @xmath2 ones .",
    "the corresponding flux correlations are significant at 3.5@xmath10 and 4.6@xmath10 if we adopt hypothesis ( a ) above ( i.e. stronger concentration of dust ) . under hypothesis ( b ) ( equally distributed dust and light ) , the flux correlations are more significant ( 4.2@xmath10 and 6@xmath10 , respectively ) , because brighter and larger galaxies have a greater correction for aperture ( fig.1a ) .",
    "we see in fig . 1b that the regression of the mm to optical flux is significantly flatter , with the 1.3 mm flux barely dependent on the optical magnitude , as expected .    for obvious reasons ,",
    "luminosity plots show stronger correlation . as an example",
    ", we report in figure 2 plots of the 100 @xmath2 ( @xmath13 ) versus 1.3 @xmath1 ( @xmath14 ) luminosity for three different assumptions about the dust extent ( hypotheses [ a ] and [ b ] , and no aperture correction ) .",
    "high correlation significances ( @xmath15 ) are found in all cases . as noted above",
    ", the slope of the mm - fir correlation depends on the adopted aperture correction .",
    "a precisely linear scaling is found from hypothesis _ ( a ) _ , with a best - fit regression : @xmath16 or @xmath17 according to the hypothesis _ ( b ) _ , the regression becomes non - linear , favouring higher far - ir emission over the mm one at the higher luminosities : @xmath18)= -1.75 + 0.85\\ \\log ( \\nu_{60}l_{60 \\mu m}\\ [ l_{\\odot } ] ) .",
    "\\eqno(2)\\ ] ] such non - linear behaviour may be interpreted as due to the brighter radiation field rising the dust temperature and shifting the peak emission to shorter wavelengths .",
    "these correlation studies account also for the fraction of sources with only an upper limit on the @xmath1 flux .",
    "a _ survival analysis _ technique has been used to test logarithmic plots in the presence of upper limits .",
    "the best - fitting and the correlation coefficients , with their uncertainties , are computed using a method developed by schmitt ( 1985 ) , accounting for arbitrarily censored data . a bootstrap technique ( with typically 1000 replications )",
    "is used to estimate the uncertainties .",
    "details on the application of the method can be found in franceschini et al .",
    "( 1988 ) .    a tight correlation of the millimetric emission with the far - infrared one , which is expected on the basis of the physical interpretation for the emission source ,",
    "is then confirmed by our observations .",
    "this justifies the effort , that will be pursued in the next section , to study the millimetric emission properties of galaxies starting from a far - infrared selected sample .",
    "a precise knowledge of the local luminosity function ( lf ) of galaxies is essential to derive all basic statistics of a source population .",
    "in particular , matched to number count estimates and to measurements of the diffuse background at the same wavelength , it is needed to understand the evolution properties of the population .    to estimate the millimetric lf of galaxies we have made use of the 60 @xmath2-selected sample described sect 2 .",
    "this selection wavelength was chosen to minimize the contamination from galactic cirrus ( relevant at 100 @xmath2 ) , and from stars at shorter wavelengths .",
    "for the same reasons , most of the previous analyses of lf s for iras galaxies have referred to the 60 @xmath2 selection ( e.g. lawrence et al .",
    "1986 ; saunders et al .",
    "1990 ) .      as a step towards a @xmath1 lf",
    ", we need to estimate the conditional probability distribution to observe luminosities @xmath19 in a given interval from galaxies with any given far - ir luminosity @xmath20 .",
    "we have divided the plane @xmath21 into a 6x6 matrix , each element of which corresponding to a half - magnitude interval in both luminosity scales .",
    "we have then estimated the bivariate probability distribution into the 6x6 matrix bins in the following way . for each @xmath20 bin ,",
    "we have computed the probability distribution to observe a value of @xmath22 , differentiated into 6 bins of @xmath23 .",
    "such differential distributions have been computed through the kaplan - meier estimator ( e.g. schmitt , 1985 ) , to account for the upper limits on @xmath19 .",
    "the results of this calculation appear in table 1 , together with information on the number of sources per bin , the @xmath24 test , and the fir and mm lf .",
    "the @xmath1 data in table 1 have been corrected for aperture according to model _ ( a ) _ in sect",
    "a strong correlation of the two luminosities is clearly apparent , as in the plots of fig .",
    "2 . as a check of the border effects implied by a 2d binning of a small sample",
    ", we have repeated the operation with a 5x5 matrix , and found no systematic deviation in the final @xmath1 lf .",
    "we have derived the @xmath27 lf for our galaxy sample using the generalized schmidt s estimator @xmath28 , and adding the contributions of sources to the volume density in each @xmath29-bin .",
    "the results are also reported in table 1 .    knowing the conditional probability distribution of @xmath14 at given @xmath20 and the 60 @xmath2 lf , the millimetric lf is simply found by adding together volume densities contributed by objects in all @xmath29-bins , at constant @xmath22 (",
    "see again , for further details on this procedure , franceschini et al .",
    "1988 ) .",
    "figure 3a compares our derived 60 @xmath2 lf ( open squares ) with that previously determined by saunders et al .",
    "( 1990 ) ( filled squares ) .",
    "we see quite a good match between the two , which confirms the statistical quality of our , yet small , far - infrared sample .",
    "figure 3b summarizes our results on the millimetric lf of galaxies .",
    "outcomes of various statistical procedures are compared here to infer a safer and most unbiased lf , and to have an idea of the uncertainties in it .",
    "open squares in fig .",
    "3b mark the two values of the lf obtained from our 60 @xmath2 lf combined with our bivariate luminosity distribution : the lower value comes from the assumption of type-_(a ) _ aperture correction ( @xmath30 ) , the upper one from type-_(b ) _ correction ( @xmath12 ) .",
    "we see that the difference is quite important only in the bin at @xmath31 , partly due to a bad effect of the binning .    filled squares in fig .",
    "3b are estimated as the open squares , but starting from the 60 @xmath2 lf of saunders et al .",
    "( 1990 ) instead of the one inferred from our galaxy sample .",
    "the two estimates are quite in agreement , except for the highest luminosity datapoint , due to our lack of far - ir sources there . because of the small number of sources and poor statistics of our sample , we judge this filled - square estimate to be a more precise evaluation of the millimetric lf of galaxies .    the continuous line in fig .",
    "3b is the predicted lf , obtained from a best - fit to the saunders s et al .",
    "60 @xmath2 lf ( continuous line in fig .",
    "3a ) and transformed to 1250 @xmath2 with the average luminosity ratio of eq .",
    "( 1 ) , i.e. the best - fit value under hypothesis ( a ) .",
    "the dotted line is obtained from the saunder s et al .",
    "lf transformed according to the non - linear regression of eq .",
    "we see that , in spite of the limited statistics of our sample and some systematic uncertainties , the overall shape of the millimetric lf is relatively well defined .",
    "we report in table 2 our best - guess lf with its global confidence interval .    as a final warning , our procedure to estimate a lf from the bivariate luminosity distribution yields , in principle , only a lower limit to it , because of the possible unaccounted contributions of faint far - ir sources with relatively strong @xmath1 flux .",
    "this might be a problem , in particular , at the faint end of the lf , but could only be tested through direct inspection of selected areas with @xmath1 imagers .",
    "this will not be an easy job even with large - format bolometer arrays , as we discuss below .",
    "the knowledge of the lf allows a precise estimate of the long - wavelength volume emissivity of galaxies . we discuss in this   three related applications , concerning the contribution to the extragalactic far - ir/@xmath1 background intensity , the small - scale sky signals induced by a random space distribution of galaxies , and predictions for source selections in the sub - millimeter .",
    "this may prove useful for currently planned and future experiments in this field .",
    "the @xmath1 and far - ir lf , together with the average far - ir to @xmath1 broad - band spectrum of galaxies as discussed in fa95 and af96 , allow a largely model - independent estimate of the minimal contribution of galaxies to the ir - mm extragalactic background ( bkg ) .",
    "this corresponds to a sort of _ known baseline _ for the cirb , any positive evolution effects ( i.e. any increase of the population emissivity with redshift ) adding some amount of flux to such a baseline .    on quite general grounds we may write the contribution of the galaxy population to the background intensity at a given ir wavelength as : @xmath32    where @xmath33 and where the redshift - dependent comoving volume emissivity is given by @xmath34 @xmath35 which involves the local lf , @xmath36 , the evolutionary correction @xmath37 and the k - correction @xmath38/l(\\nu)$ ] . for well - behaved lf s",
    ", i.e. lf s quickly converging at high l and flat at low l as in our case , the integral in eq.(4 ) depends quite moderately on @xmath39 and @xmath40 .    for a population of non - evolving objects [ @xmath41 , the cirb",
    "is mostly contributed by local ( @xmath42 ) objects and the volume emissivity simplifies to the local value @xmath43 @xmath44 where the z - dependent factor is the k - correction for moderate redshift sources , which is non negligible for such steeply rising @xmath1 spectra ( @xmath45 , af96 ) .    since the population emissivity is expected to be larger in the past when the rate of star - formation is usually observed to be stronger , a lower limit to the contribution of the population to the cirb is found by putting in eq .",
    "( 3 ) @xmath46 , @xmath47 , and @xmath48 .",
    "note that this limit only depends on a reliable definition of the lf , that we have conservatively taken from the continuous line of fig .",
    "3b ( case _ [ b ] _ , small aperture corrections ) .",
    "the minimal galaxy bkg is shown in figure 4 as the lower shaded region : given the above assumptions , the real extragalactic bkg is quite likely in excess of this .",
    "note that , because of the strong k - correction effect for even such low - z objects , this spectrum is broader than the average long-@xmath49 spectrum of local galaxies as defined by af96 ( and proportional to the volume emissivity @xmath50 $ ] ) .",
    "the data points in fig .",
    "4 have been measured by the dirbe and firas experiments on cobe ( hauser 1994 ; fixen et al .",
    "the upper shaded region is a recent estimate of the extragalactic bkg in the sub - mm cosmological window . from a careful subtraction of the galactic `` cirrus '' emission exploiting a new hi survey , puget et al .",
    "( 1996 ) have been able to recover this isotropic flux , which was shown to be not of galactic nor of solar origin . a residual isotropic flux , consistent with the puget s et al .",
    "determination , has been recently determined by fixsen et al .",
    "( 1996 ) after subtraction from the observed firas maps of the cbr planck blackbody spectrum , the dipole and the galactic contribution .",
    "the authors attribute this residual to a galactic cold ( t@xmath51 k ) halo or to an extragalactic component .",
    "altogether , in spite of the uncertain interpretation , an isotropic cold residual component of likely extragalactic origin has been detected by independent groups .",
    "an important effect can be noticed by comparing the observed background to our expected level from non - evolving galaxies : there is a wide margin between the observed flux and our minimal bkg .",
    "this result is quite robust .",
    "the predicted no - evolution spectrum would only marginally increase ( by less than a factor 2 ) if we would adopt the dotted line lf in fig .",
    "3b , corresponding to the larger case _",
    "( b ) _ flux corrections .",
    "this result may be interpreted in terms of either a strong evolution with cosmic time of the same locally observed source populations , or of a bright new one emerging at high redshifts . in either case , _",
    "an enhanced past activity of galaxies at such wavelengths seems required to fill in the observed gap between the contribution of local galaxies and the cobe residual background .",
    "_    the predicted spectrum by a model of galaxy luminosity evolution is shown in figure 4 .",
    "the model involves two independent contributions , from an early dust - enshrouded phase during the formation of early - type galaxies ( as discussed by franceschini et al .",
    "1994 ) and from enhanced star - formation activity at moderate redshifts in later - type systems ( see danese et al . 1987",
    "; rowan - robinson et al . 1993 ) due to interactions .",
    "this model provides an accurate description of the sub - mm extragalactic background .    in principle , a comparison between the local emissivity @xmath52 and the cirb spectrum allows inferences about the average redshift of the emitting sources and their evolutionary pattern . in practice ,",
    "uncertainties may be introduced by the evolution with cosmic time of the dust temperature distribution . a detailed comparison of the observed background and model expectations will be discussed separately ( burigana et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "a way to test the origin of the inferred extragalactic background at sub - mm wavelengths is to look for the anisotropy structure in its surface brightness distribution .",
    "if the bulk of the emission comes from relatively bright sources ( e.g. high - redshift galaxies in a transient luminous phase ) some signals are expected at small angular scales .",
    "we discuss in this section prospects for ground - based observations by current instrumentation .",
    "anisotropy signals induced by a random sky distribution of sources of known lf are easily computed from published formalism ( condon , 1984 ; franceschini et al .",
    "1989 ; see de zotti et al .",
    "1996 for a complete treatment ) .",
    "we quantify the contribution of galaxies to the cirb s small - scale anisotropies through the probability distribution function @xmath53 of the integrated sky signals @xmath54 ( e.g. in jy / pixel ) obtained from a sampling of the sky with an angular resolution element ( pixel ) of area @xmath55 ( e.g. in square arcsec ) .",
    "the basic procedure to compute @xmath53 is to perform a first integral of the lf on redshift to get the differential source counts , followed by a second integration over the beam area @xmath55 to get the cumulative signals of all sources in a beam , for a given beam profile .",
    "observations at such long wavelengths will be in most cases diffraction - limited , and a gaussian function is assumed to fit the inner airy distribution .",
    "the gaussian width is parametrized by its full - width at half - maximum @xmath56 .",
    "we report in figure 5 a few simulated @xmath53 distributions of sky signals for representative survey experiments .",
    "adopted here for an illustration purpose is the luminosity evolution model discussed in the previous  , which has indicated by puget et al .",
    "( 1996 ) as one best fitting the cobe isotropic sub - mm flux .",
    "obvious reference wavelengths for observations from ground are @xmath57 and @xmath58 ( see franceschini et al .",
    "1991 and blain and longair 1996 , for discussions on the relative merits of various combinations of sky area vs. wavelength and sensitivity ) .",
    "the adopted resolution elements at @xmath59 and 800 @xmath2 correspond to the limit of diffraction for a 15 m telescope ( e.g. jcmt ) , while for @xmath60 they correspond to a 30 m dish ( e.g. iram ) . in any case , the approximate scaling of the total deflection @xmath54 in the pixel ( x - axis of figure 5 ) , for different pixel areas @xmath55 and survey wavelengths @xmath49 , is simply given by : @xmath61 with obvious meaning of the symbols .",
    "the scaling with wavelength comes from our ( af96 ) fit to the average far - ir / mm galaxy spectrum .    the expected sky signals from extragalactic sources , as discribed by the @xmath53 ( dashed lines ) ,",
    "are compared in fig . 5 with gaussian distributions reproducing the instrumental noise , for the various experiments ( heavy line ) .",
    "the gaussian widths correspond to long integrations , of typically several hours per pixel .",
    "the convolution of the instrumental and confusion noise distributions ( dotted line ) simulates the total expected signals for realistic surveys and allows a precise evaluation of the source detection limit @xmath62 .",
    "for the latter we have assumed the flux corresponding to 4 times the standard deviation @xmath10 of the convolved distribution .",
    "the procedure to compute it is an iterative one ( see franceschini et al .",
    "1988 ) : an high value for @xmath62 is first assumed , and @xmath10 determined by putting @xmath63 for @xmath64 ; @xmath62 is then lowered , until it equals the @xmath65 value .",
    "down - pointing arrows mark in fig.5 detection limits estimated with this procedure .",
    "figure 5 emphasizes the difficulty of dedicated deep extragalactic surveys in the sub - millimeter , even with the currently most sensitive equipements .",
    "the typical extragalactic signals expected from evolving sources are largely dominated by the instrumental noise at 1300 @xmath2 and by the atmospheric noise at 450 @xmath2 , even for very long integrations .",
    "the errorbars overimposed on the histograms of the convolved distribution correspond to the poisson expectation for a total of 1000 independent sky pixels .",
    "this figure is kept constant for all simulated experiments . fig .",
    "5a simulates a 1300 @xmath2 survey with a 19 channel bolometer system on iram , using 50 integrations of 10 hours each ( perhaps corresponding to a rms noise of 0.3 mjy ) , for a total integration time as large as 500 h. above the @xmath65 detection limit ( @xmath66 mjy ) , of order of only 3 evolving galaxies would be expected , while the simulated deflection distribution does not deviates significantly from the gaussian noise distribution .",
    "5b refers to a 850 @xmath2 survey with the 37 channel scuba array on jcmt , performing 27 integrations of 4 hours each ( rms noise of 0.3 mjy for very good weather conditions ; total integration time of 110 hours ) . above @xmath67 mjy ,",
    "some 15 galaxies could be detected , if cosmic evolution is as strong as assumed here .",
    "not reported in fig . 5 ,",
    "a 450 @xmath2 survey with the 91 channel scuba array would be , for any reasonable integration time , limited by athmospheric noise ( the expected extragalactic 1@xmath10 width of @xmath53 is 0.4 mjy , compared to several mjy of instrumental noise reached with many hours of integration ) . for a total integration time of 100 hours and 4",
    "hour exposure per pixel , some 4 galaxies would be found , and no significant signal in the deflection distribution above the ( largely atmospheric ) noise .    only at 850 @xmath2 ( fig .",
    "5b ) the extragalactic signal and detector noise may be comparable , as shown by the long tail at large @xmath54 values . detailed best - fitting to the observational distibution will allow to extend the estimate of the sub - mm source counts significantly below the detection limit and down to @xmath68 mjy .",
    "even in such case , however , no evolution for galaxies would imply that the scuba survey would again be detector noise limited ( see fig .",
    "5c ) and that as few as 3 galaxies be detected at @xmath69 mjy in 100 hours of observation .",
    "exploitation of a bright complete sample of iras galaxies has allowed us to derive a relatively well defined millimetric luminosity function of galaxies , in spite of a residual uncertainty on the beam - aperture corrections , which has been modeled .",
    "the knowledge of the volume emissivity of local galaxies allowed us to compute a model - independent estimate of the galaxy background under the assumption of no evolution .",
    "this minimal background was found to keep much below the recently measured intensity of the extragalactic flux by puget et al .",
    "( 1996 ) ( perhaps confirmed by fixsen et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "we then inferred that a marked evolution with cosmic time of galaxy long - wavelength emissivity is required to explain the observed background level .",
    "alternative possibilities would be an entirely new source population turning on at faint fluxes , or a diffuse emission process , perhaps operating at high redshifts .",
    "we have addressed the question of how ( and if ) these proposed solutions may be tested by sub - mm observations from ground , before the advent of dedicated space - born instrumentation .",
    "interesting perspectives are provided by deep surveys of small selected areas with multi - channel arrays , to derive samples of mm sources and to analyse the small - scale anisotropy signals .",
    "our analysis , based on the observed millimetric properties of ir selected galaxies , has shown the difficulty of sub - mm extragalactic observations from ground . the most promising chance is soon provided by the very sensitive jcmt - scuba bolometer array at 850 @xmath2 , which could detect ( or put upper limits on ) evolving galaxies . at other wavelengths , and for less competitive observational setups ,",
    "the chances to perform successful surveys are much lower .",
    "perhaps only dedicated space missions ( e.g. first ) , or the exploitation of millimetric terrestrial sites even more extreme than those currently in use ( e.g. the antarctic domes ) could eventually allow them .",
    "99 andreani p. , la franca f , cristiani s. , 1994 , mnras 261 , l35 andreani p. , casoli f. and gerin m. , 1995 , a&a 300 , 43 andreani p. & franceschini a. 1996 , mnras in press .",
    "barvainis r. , tacconi l. , antonucci r. , alloin d. , coleman p. , 1994",
    "nat 371 , 586 blain a.w .",
    "& longair m.s .",
    "1993 , mnras 264 , 509 bond j.r .",
    ", carr b.j . & hogan c.j . , 1986 ,",
    "apj 306 , 428 bond j.r .",
    ", carr b.j . & hogan c.j . , 1991 , apj 367 , 420 burigana , c. , franceschini , a. , mazzei , p. , danese , l. , de zotti , g. , 1996 , in preparation chini r. , and krgel e.,1994 , a&a 288 , l33 condon j.j . , 1974 , apj 188 , 279 dunlop j.s . , hughes d.h .",
    ", 1994 nat 370 , 347 danese l. , de zotti g. , franceschini a. , toffolatti l. , 1987 , apj 318 , l15 de zotti , g. , franceschini , a. , toffolatti , l. , mazzei , p. , danese , l. : 1996 , _ astro .",
    "lett . and communications _ , in press .",
    "fixen et al . , 1996 ,",
    "cobe - preprint 96 - 11 franceschini a. & andreani p. 1995 , apj 440 , l5 franceschini a. , danese l. , de zotti g. , toffolatti l. , 1988 , mnras 233 , 157 franceschini a. , toffolatti l. , danese l. , de zotti g. , 1989 , apj 334 , 35 franceschini a. , toffolatti l. , mazzei p. , danese l. , de zotti g. , 1991 a&as 89 , 285 - 310 franceschini a. , mazzei p. , de zotti g. , danese l. , 1994 , apj 427 , 140 franceschini a. , granato g. , mazzei p. , danese l. , de zotti g. , 1995 , in _ unveiling the cosmic infrared background _ , college park , maryland , aip conference proceedings , e. dwek ed . ,",
    "gawiser e. & smoot g.f . ,",
    "1996 preprint hauser m. 1994 in _ examining the big bang and diffuse background radiations _ , iau symp .",
    "168 , the hague , the netherlands isaak k.g . ,",
    "mcmahon r.g . ,",
    "ellis r.e . , withington s. , 1994 , mnras 269 , l28 lawrence a. , walker d. , rowan - robinson m. , leech k.j . ,",
    "penston m.v . , 1986 ,",
    "mnras 219 , 687 matsumoto t. , hayakawa s. , matsuo h. , murakami h. , sato s. lange a.e .",
    ", richards p.l .",
    "1988 , apj 329 , 567 negroponte j. , 1986 , mnras 222 , 19 partridge r.b . &",
    "peebles p.j . , 1967 ,",
    "apj 148 , 377 puget j.l . , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "a&a 308 , l5 rowan - robinson m. , benn , c. , lawrence , a. , mcmahon , r. , broadhurst , t. , 1993 , mnras 263 , 123 saunders w. , rowan - robinson m. , lawrence a. , efstathiou g. , kaiser n. , ellis r.s . & frenk c.s . , 1990 ,",
    "mnras 242 , 318 schmitt j. , 1985 , apj 293 , 178 stecker f.w .",
    ", puget j.l . & fazio g.g . , 1977 , apj 214 , l51 tinsley b. , 1973 , a&a 24 , 89 yamada t. , aoki k. , tomita a. , takata t. , ohta k. , yoshida m. , 1995 , apj 438 , l5 wright e. l. et al .",
    "1994 , apj 420 , 450"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we exploit observations at 1.25 _ mm _ with the eso - sest telescope of a southern galaxy sample , selected from the iras psc and complete to @xmath0 , to derive the fir and _ mm _ luminosity functions and the conditional probability distributions of fir and @xmath1 luminosity of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the reliability of these estimates is ensured by the good observed correlation of the far - infrared and @xmath1 emissions . </S>",
    "<S> this detailed knowledge of the millimetric properties of galaxies is used to simulate the extragalactic sub-_mm _ sky ( background intensity , small - scale anisotropy signals , and discrete source statistics )  that will be investigated soon by a variety of ground - based and space observatories . </S>",
    "<S> we find , in particular , that the recent tentative detection of a sub - mm background would require , if confirmed , strong evolution with cosmic time of the galaxy long - wavelength emissivity . </S>",
    "<S> we finally emphasize the difficulty to test such evolution through observations from currently available millimetric sites on ground .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmic microwave background - cosmology : observations - diffuse radiation - infrared : ism : continuum </S>"
  ]
}