{
  "article_text": [
    "at the low end of the luminosity function , dwarf galaxies seem to be by far the most numerous in the universe .",
    "at least , this is the case in the local group , where 90% of its about 40 members are dwarfs . besides this",
    ", the hierarchic scenarios of galaxy formation , such as an universe dominated by cold dark matter , predict that dwarf galaxies are likely to be the first structures to form , arising from @xmath0 fluctuations in the density distribution of the primeval universe and that they would preclude afterwards to form larger galaxies .",
    "these two reasons are enough to pay a preferential attention to these objects .",
    "the fortunate fact that the local group contains a wide variety of dwarf galaxies provides a good opportunity to study them in depth and to test the predictions provided by cosmology about the formation and evolution of galaxies .",
    "containing stars born over all the life - time of a galaxy , the color - magnitude diagram ( cmd ) is a fossil record of the the star formation history ( sfh ) , which is in turn closely related with the evolution and , in last instance , with the galaxy formation process itself .",
    "the best tool to deciphering that record is the analysis with synthetic cmds , which can simulate any arbitrary input sfh ( aparicio et al .",
    "1996 ; gallart et al .",
    "the fact that this work can only be performed for the most nearby galaxies , makes still more relevant the study of the local group and its close neighborhood .    in this paper",
    ", i will review the synthetic cmd method , its virtues and its shortcomings ( sec . 2 and 3 ) ; give a summary of results obtained for galaxies for which the sfh extending their whole life is available through the synthetic cmds technique ( sec .",
    "4 ) ; make a concise statement about future work ( sec . 5 ) and a short critical discussion of some of the preconceptions and misconceptions related with the sfh of galaxies and its determination ( sec .",
    "the recent growing interest on obtaining detailed sfhs of nearby galaxies has been , at least partially , due to the fast development of our capabilities to determine them .",
    "this is linked to the improvement of both our observational resources and our theoretical tools :    * from the observational side , the better image quality , instrument sensitivity and field of view now available , compared with those of a decade ago , has produced a great increase in the depth and accuracy of cmds . to illustrate this , figs .",
    "1 and 2 show the cmds of two nearby dwarfs : fornax and leo i. in both cases , left - side panels show a decade old data and right - side panels , the latest available data . not only the new data provide information for the main sequence ( ms ) reaching the oldest stars , but also a good sampling of fast stellar evolutionary phases , such as the red - clump ( rc ) and blue - loop ( bl ) of core he - burning intermediate - age stars , or the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) . * from the theoretical side , the improvement concerns two main issues : ( i ) the availability of stellar evolution libraries with a wide coverage in age and metallicity , and including the calculation of advanced phases such as the horizontal - branch ( hb ) or the agb and ( ii ) the development of codes for computation of synthetic cmds .",
    "details on the analysis with synthetic cmds are given in sec .",
    "the information on the sfh contained in cmds and the potentiality of the synthetic cmds technique is visualized in figure 3 .",
    "it shows the stellar population of a simulated galaxy in which the star formation had proceeded at a constant rate from 15 gyr ago to date and in which the metallicity had increased linearly from @xmath1 to @xmath2 . in each panel , stars with ages in the given intervals ( in gyr ) are plotted .",
    "the changes not only in the ms extension , but also in the shape of other features like the rc , the hb , the bl , the red giant branch ( rgb ) or the agb are clear .",
    "it is the analysis of the distribution of the stars across the cmd , which is related to these changes , that can be used to derive the sfh . for details about the features of the cmd and the age distribution of stars populating it",
    "see chiosi et al .",
    "( 1992 ) ; aparicio , & gallart ( 1994 ) ; aparicio et al .",
    "( 1996 ) ; da costa ( 1998 ) and mateo ( 1998 ) .",
    "the method to derive the sfh from synthetic cmds is composed of three main steps : ( i ) computation of the synthetic cmd itself , reproducing a given sfh and using stellar evolutionary models ; ( ii ) simulation of observational effects into the synthetic cmd and ( iii ) comparison of the observational and the synthetic cmd to determine the acceptable and/or best models . careful handling of the problems arising in each of these steps is determinant in the success of the final solution .",
    "i will shortly discuss these problems in the present section .",
    "the main input for the synthetic cmd computation is the sfh , which can be understood as a combination of several simpler functions : the sfr @xmath3 ; the chemical enrichment law @xmath4 ; and the initial mass function ( imf ) @xmath5 .",
    "together with them , a function @xmath6 , controlling the fraction and mass ratio distribution of binary stars is also relevant . in the standard procedure , a monte - carlo generator",
    "is then used to produce , for every star @xmath7 , random values of the mass @xmath8 and the time of birth @xmath9 , according to @xmath5 and @xmath3 , respectively .",
    "then , @xmath9 is used to determine the metallicity @xmath10 through @xmath4 .",
    "later on , the binary nature of the star and , eventually , the mass of its companion , is determined using also a monte - carlo generator and @xmath6 .    at this point ,",
    "the stellar evolution models are used first to determine whether the star is now alive .",
    "if so , an interpolation in the age - mass - metallicity evolution grid space is performed to determine first , the stellar evolution phase and then , the luminosity and effective temperature of the star .",
    "finally , bolometric corrections are applied to obtain the magnitudes and color indices .    the critical point in this procedure",
    "is the interpolation inside a complete grid of stellar evolution models . to achieve a good representation of the observed data ,",
    "such interpolation must be done both in age and metallicity to produce a smooth cmd containing the information of stars of any age and z , and to be able to test any desired chemical enrichment law .",
    "otherwise , a lumpy synthetic cmd would result .",
    "it would not give a good matching to the observational data and hence a reliable solution for the sfh could not be obtained .",
    "besides this , it is not superfluous to note that the stellar evolutionary models must include accurate calculation of the shorter living phases , that can provide useful insight on the sfh . the rc , bl and agb are typical examples of such phases .",
    "the bl and the agb deserve some comment .",
    "both are quite sensitive to age and metallicity and notably contribute to the age - metallicity resolution when the lower ms is not accessible .",
    "however , colors of the bl stars depend on metallicity through parameters difficult to control . as a result",
    ", their color distribution can not be used as a confident indicator of the absolute metallicity distribution , although their luminosity distribution and their total number are good indicators of @xmath3 for stars younger than @xmath11 gyr .",
    "similarly , colors and life - times of agbs depend on the mass loss , again difficult to parameterize , and on the bolometric corrections , ill - known for the very red stars .",
    "nevertheless , their number and relative distribution provide useful constraints on @xmath3 for intermediate to old ages .",
    "in summary , the bl and the agb provide good insight on the sfh , but uncertainties in the way they are distributed in the cmd imply that only rough estimates can be obtained .",
    "martnez - delgado & aparicio ( 1997 ) show how dramatic the consequences can be of neglecting observational effects in the analysis of a stellar population with cmds . including all the sources of uncertainty affecting the photometry of stars",
    ", observational effects must be simulated into the synthetic cmds before comparison with the observations .",
    "while some of these effects are produced at the detector level ( random noise , flat - field , bad pixels ) or are simple results of statistics ( poissonian signal to noise ratio ) , other , like crowding , are intrinsic of the observed object ( surface density , luminosity , and color distributions of stars ) or depend on specific observational conditions ( diffraction limit for space - based telescopes or the atmospheric seeing for ground - based telescopes ) .",
    "in fact , crowding is the effect usually imposing the ultimate limit to the photometry .",
    "observational effects are mainly of three kinds :    * loss of stars , which mainly affects faint objects .",
    "the fraction of measured to existing stars as a function of magnitude is the completeness factor @xmath12 . *",
    "magnitude and color shifts ( @xmath13 ) , which depend on the magnitude and color of the stars . in general",
    ", stars are measured brighter than they are ; blue stars are measured redder and red stars are measured bluer . * total ( external ) errors ( @xmath14 ) of the photometry , which are larger than the internal errors ( @xmath15 ) and which are not related to them in a simple way .",
    "it has been extensively written about the artificial stars procedure used to characterize these effects ( stetson 1994 ) and their trends and way to introduce them in the synthetic cmds ( aparicio & gallart 1995 ; gallart et al 1996a ) .",
    "suffice to note here that @xmath12 , @xmath14 and @xmath13 are related with the distribution of color and magnitudes of the stellar population and with crowding , hence with the stellar surface density and instrumental resolution .",
    "the adequate simulation of observational effects requires the information of a large number of artificial stars , because @xmath13 and @xmath14 follow bidimensional distributions that vary across the cmd .",
    "figures 7 and 8 of aparicio & gallart ( 1995 ) show the trends of the observational effects on cmds of artificial stars",
    ".    provided that a large number of trials ( typically several ten thousand artificial stars ) has been done , we have proposed a simple , non - parametric method to simulate the observational effects in the synthetic cmds . it is described in detail in aparicio & gallart ( 1995 ) and in gallart et al .",
    "( 1996a ) . in short",
    ", the method consist in applying to each star in the synthetic cmd the shifts in color and magnitude observed in an artificial star picked - up randomly from a subsample of artificial stars with similar color and magnitude .",
    "the powerfulness of the method resides in the empirical approach , with no modeling or analytical approximations introduced in the simulation process .",
    "it provides a full representation of all the observational effects in the synthetic cmd .    a refinement of the method consist in using the synthetic cmd itself as the list of artificial stars to be injected in the real images .",
    "the advantage of this approach is that it is free of sampling distortions that would appear in the most densely populated regions of the cmd ( see martnez - delgado et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "the final step is searching the sfh producing the model cmd that best matches the observational one .",
    "usually , the solution is not unique , as a result of the many degeneracies intrinsic to the cmds themselves and uncertainties in the stellar evolution models .",
    "a strong limitation comes from the age - metallicity degeneracy in the rgb and can only be solved in a fully satisfactory way if accurate photometry of the ms is available down to the oldest turn - offs .",
    "but besides these unavoidable intrinsic limitations , the method followed to determine which are the acceptable synthetic cmds and/or best reproducing the data introduces a new source of uncertainty .",
    "several of the methods used to compare model and observational cmds treat o consider the diagrams as bidimensional ( or n - dimensional in the general case if several color indices are used ) distributions of points with gaussian errors and use different techniques to search for good models .",
    "tolstoy & saha ( 1996 ) use bayesian inference to calculate the likelihood of model cmds to be good representations of the data ( see also tolstoy et al .",
    "1998 for a recent application ) ; serra - ricart et al .",
    "( 1996 ) apply a neural network technique to minimize a @xmath16 ; ng ( 1998 ) propose a @xmath16 combined with a poisson merit function to search for the best model and hernndez et al .",
    "( 1999a ) apply a variational method to maximize the likelihood .",
    "the advantage of these approaches is that they are general methods requiring no human intervention for the comparison process : just two distributions of data points are compared with no more assumptions .",
    "the back - draw , in my opinion , is that , as a matter of fact , not all the data points can be considered in an equal base , because different stellar evolutionary phases are known with different accuracy .",
    "for example , the color distribution and blue extension of bl of intermediate mass and massive core he - burning stars , is quite sensitive to metallicity and to not well known details in the stellar evolution models . but the lifetime of the stars in this phase , which is a function of mass and hence of age , is known with good confidence .",
    "if a method just comparing distributions of points is used , a big weight is given to the badly known details of the stellar evolution models and , consequently , the resulting sfh would be affected by this .",
    "but if , due to the uncertainties , these stellar evolutionary phases are removed from the comparison , the information provided by the distribution of these stars in luminosity is lost ( see the discussion by ng 1998 ) .",
    "it is for these reasons why we usually prefer methods of comparison that allow human intervention to decide how different groups of stars have to be considered .",
    "the draw - back is that results could contain some subjectivity effects .",
    "the advantage is that suitable weights can be given to each evolutionary phase . in our approach ,",
    "a good fit of the position and shape of the main features in the cmd is also used to impose a first limit to the range of possible solutions for the sfh .",
    "then several regions are defined in the cmds and the numbers of stars in them are compared through a @xmath16 or a least squares method . the key point of the approach is that the size and location of the bins is decided considering the information provided by the different stellar evolutionary phases .",
    "while a fine grain binning is done in the ms area , larger boxes are used for the upper agbs and a set of bins in luminosity but with no resolution in color is employed for the bl .",
    "a further advantage is that many age intervals can be studied through stars in different stellar evolutionary phases . in those cases ,",
    "the solutions can be compared as a test of consistency .",
    "examples of studies of our group using this approach are gallart et al .",
    "( 1996b , c , 1999b ) ; aparicio et al .",
    "( 1997a , b ) ; martnez - delgado et al ( 1999 ) .",
    "hurley - keller et al . (",
    "1998 ) use a similar technique .",
    "a conceptually analogous method was introduced by bertelli et al .",
    "( 1992 ) ( see also vallenari et al .",
    "a binning procedure is also proposed by dolphin ( 1997 ) .",
    "an early simplified approach , using only luminosity functions was used by the group of bolonia ( e.g. tosi et al . 1991 ) .",
    "the former discussion deals with the method of comparison of cmds itself , but nothing has been said about the sfh search process . in many of the works that study real data , a set of model cmds is computed for several different input sfhs among which the best solution is searched ( tolstoy 1996 ; gallart et al .",
    "1996a , b ; aparicio et al . 1997a ; hurley - keller et al .",
    "this approach is a way to overcome the difficulty imposed by the many degrees of freedom of the problem but introduces an intrinsic limitation : the best solution may not be among the checked sfhs . a way to compensate this limitation is checking many models , selecting all those producing an acceptable matching of the observational cmd and taking the average of them as the solution",
    "however , methods that do not require explicitly computation of the model cmds are preferable .",
    "they have the main formal advantage that require very few or none initial assumptions about the sfh .",
    "examples of them applied to the analysis of real data are dohm - plamer et al .",
    "( 1997 ) ; aparicio et al .",
    "( 1997b ) ; mighell ( 1997 ) ; gallart et al .",
    "( 1999b ) and hernndez et al .",
    "( 1999b ) . dolphin ( 1997 ) shows a consistency test using only synthetic data .    in our recent applications ( aparicio et al .",
    "1997b ; gallart et al .",
    "1999b ; gallart et al .",
    ", this book ) , observational effects are simulated in the way described in sec .",
    "3.2 , and @xmath4 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 are tested together with @xmath3 . only a model cmd with constant @xmath3 for the whole time interval",
    "is required for each combination of @xmath4 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 .",
    "the fact that the model cmds keep a record of the age of every star is used .",
    "the distribution of stars in the boxes defined in the model cmds are computed separately for narrow age intervals . for formal purposes only , we will call @xmath17 the step functions defining these time intervals : @xmath18 for @xmath19 inside the @xmath7-th time interval ; @xmath20 otherwise .",
    "the distribution of stars that would correspond to any @xmath3 can be calculated as a linear combination of the distributions for every age interval :    @xmath21    where the subindices @xmath7 and @xmath22 refer to the narrow age intervals and to the bidimensional bins defined in the cmd respectively and the superindex @xmath23 stands for the distribution in the model cmd .",
    "it is this global distribution which is compared with the results for the observational cmd through    @xmath24    where index @xmath25 refers to the observational cmd .",
    "the sfr can be obtained as    @xmath26    where @xmath27 is the constant sfr of the synthetic cmd we are using .",
    "@xmath16 is a multidimensional function depending on the n @xmath28 coefficients defining @xmath3 . minimizing @xmath16 gives the best @xmath3 for the set of @xmath4 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 used .",
    "a major goal of the analysis of the sfh of nearby galaxies is to compare the properties and evolutionary scenarios for a wide variety of them .",
    "this requires obtaining quantitative sfhs for the full life of as many galaxies as possible .",
    "figure 4 summarizes the results of this kind presently available .",
    "it does not include some detailed works in which , nevertheless , the full history of the object has not been covered .",
    "intentionally , the magellanic clouds have not been included because they probably deserve specific reviews ( see zaritsky , this book and geha et al .",
    "the most comprehensive review of sfhs for galaxies in the local group , including many additional qualitative estimates is by mateo ( 1998 ) .",
    "galaxies in fig .",
    "4 are sorted by decreasing recent to averaged sfr .",
    "a few general conclusions can be drawn from it :    * clear traces appear in all the galaxies of an important star formation activity in the early epoch , regardless of whether the galaxy is a dir or a dsp / de .",
    "* dwarfs classified as dir are characterized by the presence of an enhanced star formation activity for the last few hundred myr .",
    "this is the case even for galaxies like pegasus dir or antlia , that have been sometimes considered as dir / dsp transition objects . *",
    "while dsp / de show no intense present day or very recent star formation activity , the presence of a non - negligible intermediate - age to young star formation activity is a common fact .",
    "mechanisms must be found for how these galaxies retain gas during extended periods of time to produce further generations of stars .",
    "* for the young stars , where time resolution is much better , bursting star formation seems to be present ( see ngc 6822 and pegasus ) .",
    "this fact has also been beautifully illustrated for sextans a ( dohm - palmer et al . 1997 ) , gr8 ( dohm - palmer et al . 1998 ) and leo a ( tolstoy et al . 1998 ) .",
    "* evidence of relatively long periods of star forming activity followed by long quiescent intervals is found in carina ( see also marconi et al .",
    "this book , for the case of fornax ) . * in the cases where a wide field has been covered , gradients in the stellar populations are found in the sense that the external regions of the galaxies lack a recent star formation activity which is present in the central region .",
    "this is the case of antlia and phoenix and a similar result has been found in wlm by minniti & zjilstra ( 1996 ) .",
    "note however that a more accurate analysis of the stellar population , including kinematics , is necessary prior to establish whether the external population is a halo - like one , in the sense of tracing the very early time of the galaxy s history .",
    "among the several ways in which the research of the sfh can improve , i d like to emphasize the following three :      hst can be used to obtain ( i ) deeper cmds of the most nearby objects reaching down to the ms turn - offs of the oldest stars and ( ii ) cmds for galaxies in the range of @xmath29 mpc of similar depth of those obtained from the ground for galaxies inside the local group .",
    "beautiful examples of both kind start now being available .",
    "in particular , gallart et al . ( 1999a , b ) show for leo i how hst data can be used to derive reliable solutions for the sfh ( including @xmath3 , @xmath4 , @xmath5 and @xmath6 ) of the whole life of galaxies at distances up to several hundred kpc .",
    "hernndez et al .",
    "( 1999b ) use hst data of several milky way satellites to obtain @xmath3 from a general variational calculus maximum likelihood method .",
    "although these authors introduce simplifications that are probably too strong ( no chemical enrichment ; no binary stars ; gaussian errors ; most observational effects are neglected ) , the method is a promising one and its full capabilities are still to be developed .",
    "other beautiful examples of detailed sfh , but referred only to the last few hundred myr are by dohm - plamer et al .",
    "( 1997 ) ; gallagher et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and tolstoy et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , among others .    on the other side , lynds et al ( 1998 ) and schulte - ladbeck et al .",
    "( 1998 ) show how hst cmds of a galaxy like ugc 6456 , at a distance of @xmath30 mpc can be used to solve their sfhs with the same level of reliability obtained from the ground for galaxies in the local group , such as ngc 6822 ( gallart et al .",
    "1996b , c ) or pegasus ( aparicio et al .",
    "this is of great importance because it shows the feasibility of obtaining good estimates of the sfh of a large number of galaxies in the vicinity of the local group , increasing the knowledge of the properties of galaxies in regions of different densities .",
    "the new generation of wide field cameras for ground - based telescopes can be exploited to study gradients and differentiated disk - like and halo - like structures of the most nearby galaxies .",
    "the analysis of fornax by stetson et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and phoenix by martnez - delgado et al .",
    "( 1999 ) are first examples in this direction .",
    "kinematic studies carried on with 10 m class telescopes should provide fundamental complementary information on the formation and evolutionary history of these systems .      from hst data , the sfr @xmath3 and an estimate of the chemical enrichment law @xmath4",
    "can be reliably drawn for the full life of the very nearby galaxies .",
    "both functions can be used together to provide clues on the physical evolution of the galaxies in terms of their interaction with the intergalactic medium .",
    "the `` real '' or `` true '' yield @xmath31 is defined as the mass of newly - formed heavy elements that a generation of stars ejects into the interstellar medium per unit mass locked into stellar remnants or long - lived stars ( @xmath32 ) . if @xmath31 is known , the metallicity evolution of the interstellar medium can be obtained through ( see peimbert et al .",
    "1994 )    @xmath33    where @xmath34 is the fraction of mass that remains locked into stellar remnants and long - lived stars in each generation of stars ( instantaneous recycling is assumed ) , @xmath35 is the infall rate and @xmath36 is the gas mass . @xmath37 , @xmath38 , @xmath39 and @xmath36 are , in general functions of time .",
    "the gas mass can be obtained as    @xmath40    with @xmath41 being a function of time accounting for the out - flow rate .    in summary , knowing @xmath3 and @xmath4 , even if they were just crude estimates , and solving the former equations , limits can be put to @xmath35 and @xmath41 and hence to the physical scenario of galaxy formation and evolution through interaction with the intergalactic medium . the necessary information to face these studies start now being available and is of the kind of that provided by gallart et al .",
    "( 1999b ) for leo i ( see also aparicio et al .",
    "to finish , i want to summarize a few topics that i consider to be or to have been ill - established preconceptions or misconceptions in relation to the sfh of dwarf galaxies .",
    "they are not necessarily true or false .",
    "they are only concepts that i see or have seen repeated here and there with no solid justification .",
    "some of them seem to be overcome by now .",
    "others have been discussed throughout this paper . except for items 1 and 4 that are shortly developed in sec .",
    "6.1 and 6.2 , i will only enunciate them with no further comments .    1 .",
    "synthetic cmds are a really very new thing ( see sec .",
    "age - metallicity degeneracy largely avoids the possibility of obtaining information about the sfh from the cmd .",
    "3 .   stellar evolution models are not good enough for deriving the sfh from synthetic cmds .",
    "4 .   blue plumes in dsp galaxies are certainly blue stragglers ( see sec .",
    "dir galaxies have only young stars .",
    "dsp galaxies have only old stars . 7 .",
    "cosmology is important .",
    "the local group is not .        *",
    "the population concept of baade ( e.g. baade 1944 ) . in the opinion of sidney van den bergh ( this meeting )",
    ", this is probably the first step towards the synthetic cmd analysis . *",
    "maeder ( 1974 ) is in my knowledge the first to make and use a synthetic cmd with a computational monte - carlo technique similar to the one now in use .",
    "* schild & maeder ( 1983 ) were the first in my knowledge to compute monte - carlo synthetic cmds applied to the study of the stellar populations in galaxies . * the zvar era .",
    "zvar , by bertelli and other members of the padova group is probably the code more extensively used for the purpose .",
    "chiosi et al .",
    "( 1988 ) , aparicio et al .",
    "( 1990 ) and bertelli et al .",
    "( 1992 ) are representative examples of early use of zvar . the last is the first example of derivation of the full sfh of a nearby galaxy ( the lmc ) with synthetic cmds .",
    "it uses the two - dimensional distribution of stars in the cmd and means an important step forward in the accuracy with which the sfh of the lmc was known . *",
    "the bolonia contribution marked a step forward in the systematic study of the recent sfh of galaxies with monte - carlo synthetic cmds .",
    "tosi et al .",
    "( 1991 ) is the first work of this group on this topic . * and so on ...        the expenses of my participation in this conference have been covered by the organization of the meeting , the iac ( grant p3 - 94 ) and the dgicyt ( grant pb94 - 0433 ) .",
    "i am also very grateful to the persons involved in the organization of the meeting for their permanent and very useful help to solve every kind of small and big problems .",
    "i am grateful to drs .",
    "buonanno , pritchet and stetson for allowing me reproducing their cmds in figs . 1 and 2 .    aparicio , a. , bertelli , chiosi , c. , & garca - pelayo , j.m . 1990 , , 240 , 262 aparicio , a. , & gallart , c. 1994 , in _ the local group : comparative and global properties _ , p. 115",
    "eso conference and workshop proceedings no .",
    "a. layden , r. c. smith , & j. storm aparicio , a. , & gallart , c. 1995 , , 110 , 2105 aparicio , a. , gallart , c. , & bertelli , g. 1997a , , 114 , 669 aparicio , a. , gallart , c. , & bertelli , g. 1997b , , 114 , 680 aparicio , a. , dalcanton , j.j . ,",
    "gallart , c. , & martnez - delgado , d. 1997c , , 114 , 1447 aparicio , a. , gallart , c. , chiosi , c. , & bertelli , g. 1996 , , 469 , l97 baade , w. 1944 , , 100 , 137 bertelli , g. , mateo , m. , chiosi , c. , & bressan , a. 1992 , , 388 , 400 buonanno , r. , corsi , c.e .",
    ", fusi pecci , et al .",
    "1985 , , 152 , 65 chiosi , c. , bertelli , g. , & bressan , a. 1992 , , 30 , 235 chiosi , c. , bertelli , g. , & bressan , a. 1988 , , 196 , 84 da costa , g.s .",
    "1998 , in _ stellar astrophysics for the local group _ ,",
    "a. aparicio , a. herrero , & f. snchez .",
    "cambridge u. p. dohm - plamer , r.c . ,",
    "skillman , e.d . ,",
    "saha , a. , et al .",
    "1997 , , 114 , 2527 dohm - plamer , r.c . ,",
    "skillman , e.d . ,",
    "gallagher , j. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 116 , 1227 dolphin , a. 1997 , _ new astronomy _ , 2 , 397 fox , m.f .",
    ", & pritchet , c.j .",
    "1987 , , 93 , 1381 gallagher , j. , tolstoy , e. , dohm - palmer , r.c . ,",
    "1998 , , 115 , 1869 gallart , c. , aparicio , a. , bertelli , g. & chiosi , c. 1996b , , 112 , 1950 gallart , c. , aparicio , a. , bertelli , g. & chiosi , c. 1996c , , 112 , 2596 gallart , c. , aparicio , a. , & vlchez , j.m .",
    "1996a , , 112 , 1928 gallart , c. , freedman , w.l . , aparicio , a. , et al .",
    "1999b , , submitted gallart , c. , freedman , w. , mateo , m. , et al .",
    "1999a , , in press geha , m.c . ,",
    "holtzman , j.a .",
    ", mould , j.r . ,",
    "1998 , 115 , 1045 hernndez , x. , gilmore , g. , & valls - gabaud , d. , 1999b , in preparation hernndez , x. , valls - gabaud , d. , & gilmore , g. 1999a , , submitted hurley - keller , d. , mateo , m. , & nemec , j. 1998 , , 115 , 1840 lynds , r. , tolstoy , e. , oneil , e.j .",
    ", & hunter , d. 1998 , , 116 , 146 maeder , a. 1974 , , 32 , 177 mighell , k.j .",
    "1997 , , 114 , 1458 martnez - delgado , d. , gallart , c. , & aparicio , a. 1999 , , submitted martnez - delgado , d. , & aparicio , a. 1997 , , 480 , l107 mateo , m. 1998 , , 36 , 435 minniti , d. , & zijlstra , a.a .",
    "1996 , , 467 , l13 ng , y.k .",
    "1998 , , 132 , 133 peimbert , m. , coln , p. , & sarmiento , a. 1994 , in _ violent star formation from 30 doradus to qsos _ , pg . 79 . ed .",
    "g. tenorio - tagle .",
    "cambridge u. p. schild , h. , & maeder , a. 1983 , , 127 , 238 schulte - ladbeck , r.e . , crone , m.m .",
    ", & hopp , u. 1998 , , 493 , l23 serra - ricart , m. , aparicio , a. , garrido , l. , & gaitan , v. 1996 , , 462 , 2221 stetson , p.b .",
    "1994 , , 106 , 250 stetson , p.b . ,",
    "hesser , j.e . , & smecker - hane , t.a .",
    "1998 , , 110 , 533 tolstoy , e. , gallagher , j.s . ,",
    "cole , a.a .",
    ", et al . 1998 , , 116 , 1244 tolstoy , e. , & saha , a. 1996 , , 462 , 672 tolstoy , e. 1996 , , 462 , 684 tosi , m. , greggio , l. , marconi , g. , & focardi , p. 1991",
    ", , 102 , 951 vallenari , a. , chiosi , c. , bertelli , g. , et al .",
    "1996 , , 309 , 367"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> dwarf galaxies may play a key role in the formation and evolution of bigger systems . </S>",
    "<S> this make a topic of major interest knowing how they form and evolve and , in particular , how their star formation histories ( sfhs ) have proceed since their birth . for nearby galaxies , the color - magnitude diagram ( cmd ) </S>",
    "<S> contains stars formed over all their lifetime . </S>",
    "<S> it is hence a fossil record of their sfhs . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis with synthetic cmds provides a powerful tool to retrieve them .    in this paper , </S>",
    "<S> i discuss the critical issues related to the computation of synthetic cmds , present a short summary of the currently available results for the sfh extending the full life of galaxies and make a few critical considerations about the powerfulness and back - draws of the method . </S>"
  ]
}