{
  "article_text": [
    "the fact that interstellar grains get aligned has been puzzling researchers for more than half a century . very soon after the discovery of grain alignment by hall ( 1949 ) and hiltner ( 1949 ) it became clear that the alignment happens in respect to magnetic field . since that time grain alignment stopped to be the issue of pure scientific curiosity , but became an important link connecting polarimetry observations with the all - important interstellar magnetic fields .",
    "the history of grain alignment ideas is exciting ( see review by lazarian 2003 ) but we do not have space here to dwell upon it .",
    "last decade has been marked by a substantial progress in understanding new physics associated with grain alignment .",
    "the theory has become predictive , which enables researchers to interpret observational data with more confidence .    within this short review",
    "we discuss the modern understanding of grain alignment processes applicable to molecular clouds .",
    "we discuss both internal alignment , i.e. the alignment of grain axes in respect to grain angular momentum , and the alignment of grain angular momentum in respect to magnetic field . due to fast grain precession about magnetic field the latter acts as the alignment axis for various alignment mechanisms .",
    "we show that at present the radiative torque alignment is the most promissing mechanism for explaining the bulk of relevant polarimetry data .",
    "however , we show that other mechanisms also have their nishes .",
    "recent reviews of the grain alignment theory include roberge ( 2004 ) , lazarian ( 2003 ) .",
    "progress in testing theory is covered in hildebrand ( 2000 ) , while unusual and exciting aspects of grain dynamics are discussed in lazarian & yan ( 2004 ) .",
    "the interested reader may use the reviews above to guide her in the vast and exciting original literature on grain alignment theory .",
    "polarization from aligned atoms is discussed in a companion paper by yan & lazarian ( this volume ) .",
    "aligned grains absorb more light along their longer direction .",
    "the situation is reversed if grain emission is considered : more emission emanates in the direction of the longer grain axis .",
    "consider polarization arising due to selective extinction of grains first .",
    "for an ensemble of aligned grains the extinction perpendicular and parallel to the direction of alignment and parallel are different .",
    "therefore that is initially unpolarized starlight acquires polarization while passing through a volume with aligned grains",
    ". if the extinction in the direction of alignment is @xmath0 and in the perpendicular direction is @xmath1 one can write the polarization , @xmath2 , by selective extinction of grains as @xmath3 where the latter approximation is valid for @xmath4 . to relate the difference of extinction to the properties of aligned grains one can take into account the fact that the extinction is proportional to the product of the grain density and their cross sections .",
    "if a cloud is composed of identical aligned grains @xmath0 and @xmath1 are proportional to the number of grains along the light path times the corresponding cross sections , which are , respectively , @xmath5 and @xmath6 .",
    "in reality one has to consider additional complications like incomplete grain alignment , and variations in the direction of the alignment axis along the line of sight . to obtain an adequate description one",
    "can ( see roberge & lazarian 1999 ) consider an electromagnetic wave propagating along the line of sight axis .",
    "the transfer equations for the stokes parameters depend on the cross sections , @xmath7 and @xmath8 , for linearly polarized waves with the electric vector , , along the and directions that are in the plane perpendicular to ( see lee & draine 1985 ) .    to calculate @xmath7 and @xmath8 , one transforms the components of to a frame aligned with the principal axes of the grain and takes the appropriately - weighted sum of the cross sections , @xmath5 and , @xmath6 for polarized along the grain axes .",
    "when the transformation is carried out and the resulting expressions are averaged over precession angles , one finds ( see transformations in lee & draine 1985 for spheroidal grains and in efroimsky 2002 for a general case ) that the mean cross sections are @xmath9 @xmath10 where @xmath11 is the angle between the polarization axis and the plane ; @xmath12 is the effective cross section for randomly - oriented grains . to characterize the alignment we used in eq .",
    "( [ eq-2_6 ] ) the raylegh reduction factor ( greenberg 1968 ) @xmath13 , where angular brackets denote ensemble averaging , @xmath14 , @xmath15 is the angle between the axis of the largest moment of inertia ( henceforth the axis of maximal inertia , see fig  1 ) and the magnetic field @xmath16 , while @xmath15 is the angle between the angular momentum @xmath17 and @xmath16 . to characterize @xmath17 alignment in grain axes and in respect to magnetic field ,",
    "the measures @xmath18 and @xmath19 are used .",
    "unfortunately , these statistics are not independent and therefore @xmath20 is not equal to @xmath21 ( see roberge & lazarian 1999 ) .",
    "this considerably complicates the treatment of grain alignment .",
    "polarization arising from emitting grains can be calculated as follows : @xmath22 where both the optical depths @xmath23 are @xmath1 were assumed to be small . taking into account that both @xmath24 and @xmath2 are functions of wavelength @xmath25 and combining eqs.([pabs ] ) and ( [ pem ] ) , one gets for @xmath26 @xmath27 which establishes the relation between polarization in emission and absorption . the minus sign in eq  ( [ pem ] ) reflects the fact that emission and absorption polarization are orthogonal . as @xmath2 depends on @xmath20 ,",
    "@xmath24 also depends on @xmath20 .",
    "dynamics of grains in molecular clouds is pretty involved ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "grain rotation can arise from chaotic gaseous bombardment of grain surface and be brownian , or it can arise from _ systematic torques _ discovered by purcell ( 1975 , 1979 ) .",
    "the most efficient among those are torques arising from h@xmath28 formation over grain surface .",
    "one can visualize those torques imagining a grain with tiny rocket nozzles ejecting nascent high velocity hydrogen molecules ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "indeed , h@xmath28 formation is believed to take place over particular catalytic sites on grain surface .",
    "these catalytic sites ejecting molecules are frequently called `` purcell rockets '' . even when the surroundings of dust grains is mostly molecular , accoring to purcell ( 1979 ) grains can rotate suprathermally , i.e. with kinetic energies much larger that @xmath29 , due to the variation of the accommodation coefficient . indeed , if the temperatures of gas and dust are different , the variations of the sticking probabilities allow parts of the grain to bounce back impinging gaseous atoms with different efficiencies .",
    "in addition , purcell ( 1979 ) identified electron ejection as yet another process that can drive grain to large angular velocities .",
    "all these three processes are so natural that until very recently it was generally accepted that all interstellar grains in diffuse interstellar gas _ must _ rotate suprathermally .",
    "= 1.6 in = 1.8 in    a very different process of grain spin - up can be found in a very important , but not timely appreciated work by dolginov & mytrophanov ( 1976 ) .",
    "these authors considered differential scattering of photons of right and left circular polarization by an irregular dust grain .",
    "as the size of the irregularities gets comparable with the wavelength , it is natural that interaction of a grain with photons will depend on the photon polarization .",
    "unpolarized light can be presented as a superposition of equal number of left and right circularly polarized photons .",
    "therefore it is clear that the interaction with photons of a particular polarization would deposit angular momentum to the grain .",
    "the authors concluded that for typical diffuse ism conditions this process should induce grain rotation at suprathermal velocities .",
    "however , while purcell s torques became a textbook stuff , radiative torques had to wait 20 years before they were reintroduced to the field ( draine 1996 , draine & weingartner 1996 , 1997 ) .",
    "it was realized by martin ( 1971 ) that rotating charged grains will develop magnetic moment and the interaction of this moment with the interstellar magnetic field will result in grain precession .",
    "however , soon a process that renders much larger magnetic moment was discovered ( dolginov & mytrophanov 1976 ) .",
    "this process is the barnett effect , which is converse of the einstein - de haas effect . if in einstein - de haas effect a paramagnetic body starts rotating during remagnetizations as its flipping electrons transfer the angular momentum ( associated with their spins ) to the lattice , in the barnett effect the rotating body shares its angular momentum with the electron subsystem causing magnetization .",
    "the magnetization is directed along the grain angular velocity and the value of the barnett - induced magnetic moment is @xmath30  erg gauss@xmath31 ( where @xmath32 ) . therefore the larmor precession has a period @xmath33  s. if magnetic field direction changes over timescales much larger than @xmath34 , the orientation of grain angular momentum and magnetic field is preserved .",
    "thus mhd turbulence in molecular clouds ( see lazarian & cho 2004 ) does not destroy grain alignment .",
    "this fast larmor precession makes magnetic field in most cases the axis of alignment .",
    "being solid bodies , interstellar grains can rotate about 3 different principal axes of grain inertia . as the result they tumble while rotating .",
    "this effect was attracting attention of the early researchers ( see jones & spitzer 1967 ) till purcell ( 1979 ) identified internal relaxation within grains as the process that can suppress grain rotation about all axes , but the axis corresponding to the grain maximal moment of inertial ( henceforth axis of maximal inertia ) .",
    "indeed , consider a spheroidal grain , which kinetic energy can be presented as ( see lazarian & roberge 1997 ) @xmath35 where @xmath36 is the angle between the axis of major inertia and grain angular momentum ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "in the absence of external torques grain angular momentum is preserved .",
    "the minimum of grain energy corresponds therefore to @xmath37 , or grain rotating exactly about the axis of maximal inertia .",
    "as internal dissipation decreases kinetic energy , it sounds natural that @xmath37 is the expected state of grain subjected to fast internal dissipation .",
    "purcell ( 1979 ) introduced a new process of internal dissipation which he termed `` barnett relaxation '' . this process may be easily understood . we know that a freely rotating grain preserves the direction of @xmath17 , while angular velocity precesses about @xmath17 .",
    "we learned earlier that the barnett effect results in the magnetization vector parallel to @xmath38 .",
    "as a result , the barnett magnetization will precess in body axes and cause paramagnetic dissipation . the `` barnett equivalent magnetic field '' , i.e. the equivalent external magnetic field that would cause the same magnetization of the grain material , is @xmath39  g , which is much larger than the interstellar magnetic field .",
    "therefore the barnett relaxation happens on the scale @xmath40  sec , i.e. essentially instantly compared to the time that it takes to damp grain rotation for typical molecular cloud conditions .",
    "even stronger relaxation process has been identified recently by lazarian & draine ( 1999a ) .",
    "they termed it `` nuclear relaxation '' .",
    "this is an analog of barnett relaxation effect that deals with nuclei . similarly",
    "to unpaired electrons nuclei tend to get oriented in a rotating body .",
    "however the nuclear analog of `` barnett equivalent '' magnetic field is much larger and lazarian & draine ( 1999a ) concluded that the nuclear relaxation can be a million times faster than the barnett relaxation .    why would the actual relaxation rate matter ?",
    "the rate of internal relaxation couples grain rotational and vibrational degrees of freedom .",
    "ld99b showed that this will result in grain `` thermal flipping '' .",
    "such a flipping would average out purcell s torques and result in grain being `` thermally trapped '' in spite of the presence of uncompensated torques .",
    "whether a grain gets `` thermally trapped '' depends on its size ( with the grains less than a critical size @xmath41 rotating thermally ) . while barnett and inelastic relaxation ( see also lazarian & efroimsky 1999 ) results in @xmath41 equal or less than @xmath42  cm , the nuclear internal relaxation provides @xmath43  cm",
    "this means that most grains rotate thermally in the presence of purcell s torques .",
    "the exception to this thermallization are radiative torques that are not fixed in grain coordinates .",
    "such torques can spin - up dust in spite of thermal flipping .",
    "while a number of processes can result in grain angular momentum alignment ( see lazarian 2003 ) , we shall briefly discuss only 3 of them .",
    "* paramagnetic alignment .",
    "*  davis - greenstein ( 1951 ) mechanism ( henceforth d - g mechanism ) is based on the paramagnetic dissipation that is experienced by a rotating grain .",
    "paramagnetic materials contain unpaired electrons which get oriented by the interstellar magnetic field @xmath16 .",
    "the orientation of spins causes grain magnetization and the latter varies as the vector of magnetization rotates in grain body coordinates .",
    "this causes paramagnetic loses at the expense of grain rotation energy .",
    "note , that if the grain rotational velocity @xmath44 is parallel to @xmath16 , the grain magnetization does not change with time and therefore no dissipation takes place .",
    "thus the paramagnetic dissipation acts to decrease the component of @xmath44 perpendicular to @xmath16 and one may expect that eventually grains will tend to rotate with @xmath45 provided that the time of relaxation @xmath46 is much shorter than @xmath47 , the time of randomization through chaotic gaseous bombardment . in practice , the last condition is difficult to satisfy . for @xmath42",
    "cm grains in the diffuse interstellar medium @xmath46 is of the order of @xmath48s , while @xmath47 is @xmath49 s ( see table  2 in lazarian & draine 1997 ) if magnetic field is @xmath50 g and temperature and density of gas are @xmath51 k and @xmath52 @xmath53 , respectively .",
    "however , at the time when it was introduced , in view of uncertainties in interstellar parameters , the d - g mechanism looked plausible .",
    "the first detailed analytical treatment of the problem of d - g alignment was given by jones & spitzer ( 1967 ) who described the alignment of @xmath17 using a fokker - planck equation .",
    "this approach allowed them to account for magnetization fluctuations within grain material and thus provided a more accurate picture of @xmath17 alignment .",
    "the first numerical treatment of d - g alignment was presented by purcell ( 1969 ) . by that time it became clear that the d - g mechanism is too weak to explain the observed grain alignment .",
    "however , jones & spitzer ( 1967 ) noticed that if interstellar grains contain superparamagnetic , ferro- or ferrimagnetic ( henceforth sfm ) inclusions , the @xmath46 may be reduced by orders of magnitude . since @xmath54 of atoms in interstellar dust are iron the formation of magnetic clusters in grains was not far fetched ( see martin 1995 ) .",
    "however , detailed calculations in lazarian ( 1997 ) , roberge & lazarian ( 1999 ) showed that the alignment achievable can not account for observed polarization coming from molecular clouds provided that dust grains rotate thermally .",
    "this is the consequence of thermal fluctuations within grain material .",
    "these internal magnetic fluctuations randomize grains orientation in respect to magnetic field if grain body temperature is close to the rotational temperature .",
    "purcell ( 1979 ) pointed out that fast rotating grains are immune to both gaseous and internal magnetic randomization .",
    "thermal trapping limits the range of grain sizes for which purcell s torques can be efficient ( lazarian & draine 1999ab ) . for grains that are less than the critical size , which can be @xmath55  cm and larger , rotation is essentially thermal .",
    "alignment of such grains is expected in accordance with the dg mechanism predictions ( see roberge & lazarian 1999 ) and seem to be able to explain the residual alignment of small grains that is seen in the kim & martin ( 1995 ) inversion .",
    "an important feature of this weak alignment is that it is proportional to the energy density of magnetic field .",
    "this potentially opens a way for a new type of magnetic field diagnostics .",
    "lazarian & draine ( 2000 ) predicted that pah - type particles can be aligned paramagnetically due to the relaxation that is faster than the dg process .",
    "in fact , they showed that the dg alignment is not applicable to very fast rotating particles , for which barnett magnetic field gets comparable with magnetic fields of the atom neighbors .    * mechanical alignment . *  gold ( 1951 ) mechanism is a process of mechanical alignment of grains . consider a needle - like grain interacting with a stream of atoms . assuming that collisions are inelastic , it is easy to see that every bombarding atom deposits angular momentum @xmath56 with the grain , which is directed perpendicular to both the needle axis @xmath57 and the velocity of atoms @xmath58 .",
    "it is obvious that the resulting grain angular momenta will be in the plane perpendicular to the direction of the stream .",
    "it is also easy to see that this type of alignment will be efficient only if the flow is supersonic .",
    "thus the main issue with the gold mechanism is to provide supersonic drift of gas and grains .",
    "gold originally proposed collisions between clouds as the means of enabling this drift , but later papers ( davis 1955 ) showed that the process could only align grains over limited patches of interstellar space , and thus the process can not account for the ubiquitous grain alignment in diffuse medium .",
    "suprathermal rotation introduced in purcell ( 1979 ) persuaded researchers that mechanical alignment is marginal .",
    "indeed , fast rotation makes it difficult for gaseous bombardment to align grains .",
    "however , two new developments must be kept in mind .",
    "first of all , it has been proved that mechanical alignment of suprathermally rotating grains is possible ( lazarian 1995 , lazarian & efroimsky 1996 , efroimsky 2002 ) .",
    "moreover , recent work on grain dynamics ( lazarian & yan 2002 , yan & lazarian 2003 ) has shown that mhd turbulence can render grains with supersonic velocities . while we do not believe that mechanical alignment is the dominant process , it should be kept in mind while analyzing observations ( see rao et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "* alignment via radiative torques . *",
    " anisotropic starlight radiation can both spin the grains and align them .",
    "this was first realized by dolginov & mytrophanov ( 1976 ) , but this work definitely came before its time .",
    "the researchers did not have reliable means to study dynamics of grains and the impact of their work was marginal . before bruce draine realized that the torques can be treated with the versatile discrete dipole approximation ( dda ) code ( draine & flatau 1994 ) the radiative torque alignment was very speculative .",
    "for instance , earlier on difficulties associated with the analytical approach to the problem were discussed in lazarian ( 1995 ) . however , very soon after that draine ( 1996 ) modified the dda code to calculate the torques acting on grains of arbitrary shape .",
    "his work revolutionized the field !",
    "the magnitude of torques were found to be substantial and present for grains of various irregular shape ( draine 1996 , draine & weingartner 1996 ) .",
    "after that it became impossible to ignore radiative torque alignment .",
    "one of the problem of the earlier treatment was that in the presence of anisotropic radiation the torques will change as the grain aligns and this may result in a spin - down .",
    "moreover , anisotropic flux of radiation will deposit angular momentum which is likely to overwhelm rather weak paramagnetic torques .",
    "these sort of questions were addressed by draine & weingartner ( 1997 ) and it was found that for most of the tried grain shapes the torques tend to align @xmath17 along magnetic field .",
    "the reason for that is yet unclear and more work is clearly necessary before we can treat radiative alignment as a theory rather than an empirical fact .",
    "one of the authors of the review ( al ) recalls that this was also the opinion of lyman spitzer who got interested in the action of radiative torques and was encouraging the author to do analytical work and simple testing to clarify the essence of the radiative torque alignment .",
    "one of the missing pieces of physics , namely the dynamics of radiative torques , has been dealt with recently by weingartner & draine ( 2003 ) , who treated flipping of grains in the presence of monochromatic radiation .",
    "* quantitative description . *",
    " as we discussed above , to relate the polarization to magnetic field , the rayleigh reduction factor @xmath20 should be calculated .",
    "this factor was calculated for dg alignment ( see roberge & lazarian 1999 ) , for purcell alignment ( see lazarian & draine 1997 ) , mechanical alignment of thermally ( see lazarian 1997a ) and suprathermally rotating grains ( see lazarian 1995 , lazarian & efroimsky 1996 , efroimsky 2002 ) .",
    "for radiative torques no quantitative theory exists .",
    "an educated guess may be that for grains larger than the critical size @xmath59 , i.e. the grains are perfectly aligned .",
    "the calculations of the critical grain size can be done by comparing the radiative torques calculated with the dda software and the damping of grain rotation via gas - grain , ion - grain collisions , plasma drag etc .",
    "( see draine & lazarian 1999 for a description of various damping mechanisms ) .",
    "we believe that a substantial degree of understanding of grain alignment has been achieved recently . for the first time",
    "ever the available observational data look consistent with the theoretical expectations .",
    "both the dependences of the polarization degree versus wavelength that follow serkowski law ( serkowski 1973 ) and studies of changes of polarization degree with the wavelength done in far infrared ( see hildebrand 2000 ) are consistent with theoretical predictions ( see discussion in lazarian , goodman & myers 1997 , henceforth lgm97 ) . according to lazarian ( 2003 ) the study of grain alignment at the diffuse / dense cloud interface by whittet et al .",
    "( 2001 ) is suggestive that grains are aligned by radiative torques .",
    "indeed , the latter study finds that the properties of grains stay the same , while the minimal size of the aligned grains is increasing with the increase of extinction .",
    "this behavior is inconsistent with superparamagnetic grains discussed in mathis ( 1986 ) .",
    "for those grains the size of aligned grains is determined by the presence of superparamagnetic inclusion and does not change unless the grain size distribution changes . on the contrary ,",
    "radiative torque efficiency decreases for smaller grains as the shorter wavelength radiation field gets preferentially attenuated by extinction .",
    "an earlier review of observational molecular cloud data was given in lgm97 .",
    "it broadly reconciled the near - infrared data that was suggestive of the suppression of grain alignment at high extinction and the far - infrared data suggestive of grain alignment in the vicinity of stars deep embedded into molecular cloud .",
    "lgm97 showed that within molecular clouds far from embedded stars all the grain alignment mechanisms fail , while near the stars a few of them , particular radiative torques looked promising .",
    "data summarized in hildebrand ( 2003 ) suggest that either hot grains in the vicinity of stars or cold grains at the cloud boundary are well aligned , while the warm grain at the bulk of the cloud are marginally aligned .",
    "this data are consistent with the lgm97 expectations",
    ". however , the data obtained for pre - stellar cores in ward - thompson et al .",
    "( 2000 ) at the first glance seem to be at odds with the lgm97 predictions .",
    "indeed , the properties of these cores summarized in ward - thompson et al .",
    "( 2002 ) and crutcher et al .",
    "( 2004 ) fit into the category of zones that must be dead for grain alignment according to lgm97 .    what could be wrong with lgm97 arguments ?",
    "the latter paper treats grains of @xmath42  cm size .",
    "such grains are typical for diffuse ism , while grains in prestellar cores can be substantially larger .",
    "grain alignment is a function of size .",
    "therefore the estimates in lgm97 should be reevaluated .",
    "cho & lazarian ( 2004 , preprint , henceforth cl04 ) revealed a steep dependence of radiative torque efficiency on grain size . while an earlier study by draine & weingartner ( 1996 ) was limited by grains with size @xmath60  cm , cl04 studied grains up to @xmath61  cm size subjected to the attenuated radiative field calculated in accordance with the prescriptions in mathis , mezger & panagia ( 1983 ) .",
    "figure  3 shows that large grains can be efficiently span up by radiative torques even at the extinction of @xmath62 of 10 and higher .",
    "real molecular clouds are likely to be inhomogeneous . as the result , the radiation has more chances to penetrate deep within molecular clouds",
    ".    in general , alignment of large grains by other mechanisms can also be more efficient .",
    "such grains are not subjected to thermal trapping ( see lazarian & draine 1999ab ) and therefore can be aligned by purcell s mechanism ( see lazarian & draine 1997 calculations that take into account crossover dynamics ) .",
    "larger grains also get larger velocities due to turbulent motions ( see yan & lazarian 2003 ) and therefore are more likely to be aligned mechanically .",
    "this gives further hope that using far infrared polarimetry it is possible to trace magnetic fields deep in molecular clouds .",
    "1 . aligned grains provide a unique way to study magnetic field .",
    "as we better understand grain alignment the interpretation of emission and absorption polarization data in terms of underlying magnetic field gets more reliable .",
    "grain alignment is a complex process that includes precession and gradual alignment of angular momentum in respect to magnetic field and the alignment of grain axes in respect to angular momentum .",
    "the latter alignment influences the former one .",
    "rapid precession of grain angular momentum about magnetic field makes magnetic field the axis alignment even if the alignment mechanism is not of magnetic nature .",
    "internal relaxation is the process that minimizes grain kinetic energy for a fixed angular momentum . as the result of the process grain rotates about its axis of maximal inertia .",
    "relaxation related to the nuclear moments within a grain have been recently identified as the major mechanism of internal relaxation .",
    "internal relaxation couples rotational and vibrational degrees of freedom . as the result",
    ", thermal fluctuations in grain material prevent perfect alignment of grain axes in respect to angular momentum . moreover , thermal fluctuations cause rapid flipping and `` thermal trapping '' of sufficiently small grains , ine .",
    "they prevent the grains from spinning rapidly ( suprathermally ) even in the presence of uncompensated purcell s torques .",
    "paramagnetic alignment is definitely present for small thermally trapped grains .",
    "however , quantitative theories predict that the degree of expected alignment is rather marginal and depends on the magnetic field intensity .",
    "purcell s paramagnetic alignment of suprathermally rotating grains is applicable only to sufficiently large @xmath63  cm grains , i.e. to the grains that are not thermally trapped .",
    "the mechanical alignment should not be disregarded as grains can be driven by turbulence to supersonic velocities .",
    "radiative torques mechanism is the most promising mechanism for alignment of grain angular momentum .",
    "the efficiency of radiative torques depends on grain size and properties of ambient radiation field .",
    "this allows to explain why some interstellar grains are aligned , while others are not aligned .",
    "alignment of large dust grains is possible within cores of molecular clouds .",
    "radiative torques efficiency increases substantially for larger grains . as the result",
    ", even substantially attenuated interstellar radiation field can provide good alignment .",
    "this makes far infrared polarimetry an essential tool for getting insight into the magnetic fields in hotbeds of star formation .",
    "bradley , j.p .",
    "1994 , science , 265 , 925 crutcher r.m . ,",
    "nutter d.j .",
    ", ward - thompson d. , & kirk j.m .",
    "2004 , apj , 600 , 279 davis , l. 1955 , vistas in astronomy , ed .",
    "a.beer , 1 , 336 davis , l. & greenstein , j.l . , 1951 ,",
    "apj , 114 , 206 dolginov a.z . & mytrophanov , i.g .",
    "1976 , ap&ss , 43 , 291            1997 , apj , 480 , 633 efroimsky , m. 2002 , apj , 575 , 886 gold , t. 1951 , nature , 169 , 322 greenburg , 1968 , in nebulae and interstellar matter , eds .",
    "b.m . middlehurst and l.h .",
    "anner , cup , 221 hall , j.s .",
    "1949 , science , 109 , 166 hildebrand , r.h .",
    "2000 , pasp , 112 , 1215 hildebrand , r.h .",
    "2003 , new astronomy , 47 , issue 11 - 12 , 1009 hildebrand , r.h .",
    "& dravogan , m. 1995 , apj , 450 , 663 hiltner , w.a .",
    "1949 , apj , 109 , 471 jones , r.v . , &",
    "spitzer , l.,jr , 1967 , apj , 147 , 943 kim s. h. & martin p.g .",
    "1995 , apj , 147 , 943                                    1999 , mnras , 303 , 673 lazarian , a & finkbeiner , d. 2003 , new astronomy , 47 , issue 11 , 1107 lazarian , a. , goodman , a.a . & myers , p.c .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 273 lazarian , a. , & roberge , w.g .",
    ", 1997a apj , 484 , 230                            1979 , apj , 231 , 404 - 416 ( p79 ) rao , r , crutcher , r.m . ,",
    "plambeck , r.l . ,",
    "wright , m.c.h .",
    "1998 , apj , 502 , l75 roberge w. 2004 , in astrophysics of dust , eds .",
    "adolf n. witt , geoffrey c. clayton & bruce t. draine , asp , vol .",
    "309 , 467      serkowski , k. 1973 , in iau symp .",
    "52 , interstellar dust and related topics , ed .",
    "greenberg & h.c .",
    "van de hulst ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 145 - 160 ward - thompson d. , andre p. , & kirk j. m. , 2002 , mnras , 329 , 257 ward - thompson d. , kirk j. m. , crutcher r. m. , greaves j. s. , holland w. s. , & andre p. 2000 , apj , 537 , l13"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> polarimetry is one of the most informative techniques of studying magnetic fields in molecular clouds . </S>",
    "<S> how reliable the interpretation of the polarization maps in terms of magnetic fields is the issue that the grain alignment theory addresses . </S>",
    "<S> we show that grain alignment involves several processes acting simultaneously , but on different time - scales . </S>",
    "<S> we explain that rotating dust grains get substantial magnetic moment that allows them precess fast about magnetic field lines . as the result </S>",
    "<S> , grains preserve their orientation to magnetic field when the magnetic field direction fluctuates . </S>",
    "<S> we point out to the importance of internal alignment , i.e. the process forces grain axes to be aligned in respect to the grain angular momentum . </S>",
    "<S> we show that subtle quantum effects , in particular relaxation related to nuclear magnetic moments of atoms composing the grain , brings to live complex grain motions , e.g. flips . </S>",
    "<S> these flips substantially alter the dynamics of grain and limit the applicability of earlier theories that did not account for them </S>",
    "<S> . we also briefly review basic physical processes involved in the alignment of grain angular momentum in respect to interstellar magnetic field . </S>",
    "<S> we claim that the bulk of existing observational data is consistent with the radiative torque alignment mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we show that large grains that are known to exist in the cores of molecular clouds may be aligned by the attenuated external interstellar radiation field . </S>"
  ]
}