{
  "article_text": [
    "rotating accretion flows are important ingredients in many astrophysical systems containing a black hole , which involve mass transfer from one object to another ( such as in a binary system ) or from set of objects to another ( such as in a galactic center ) .",
    "the standard disk model of such accretion flows by shakura & sunyaev ( 1973 ) assumes keplerian distribution of accreting matter .",
    "there , the inner edge of the disk is chosen to coincide with the marginally stable orbit located at three schwarzschild radii , @xmath0 , where the schwarzschild radius , @xmath1 , is the horizon of a black hole of mass @xmath2 .",
    "this disk model is clearly incomplete , since the inner boundary condition on the horizon was not taken care of . as an accretion flow approaches the horizon , its radial velocity reaches the velocity of light .",
    "therefore , a black hole accretion flow is necessarily supersonic and must pass through a sonic point where the flow has to be sub - keplerian .",
    "thus , independent of heating and cooling processes , a black hole accretion has to deviate from a standard shakura - sunyaev type keplerian disk .",
    "the disk with realistic accretion flows is called the advective disk ( chakrabarti 1996 ) . here",
    ", we present the results of numerical study of accretion flows near a black hole by assuming they are thin , axisymmetric , and inviscid .",
    "we choose cylindrical coordinates @xmath3 and place a black hole at the center .",
    "we assume that the gravitational field of the black hole can be described in terms of the potential introduced by paczyski & wiita ( 1980 ) @xmath4 where @xmath5 .",
    "the accreting matter is assumed to be adiabatic gas without cooling and dissipation and described with a polytropic equation of state , @xmath6 , where @xmath7 is the adiabatic index which is considered to be constant with @xmath8 throughout the flow .",
    "@xmath9 is related to the specific entropy of the flow , @xmath10 , and varies only at shocks , if present .",
    "since we consider only weak viscosity limit , the specific angular momentum of the accretion flow , @xmath11 , is assumed to be conserved .",
    "thus , unlike a bondi flow , which is described by a single parameter ( say , specific energy ) , the one - dimensional accretion flows are described by two parameters which are the specific energy , @xmath12 , and the specific angular momentum , @xmath13 .",
    "1 shows the classification in the parameter space ( chakrabarti 1989 ; ryu & chakrabarti 1997):n : no sonic points .",
    "shock only if supersonic injection.o : outer sonic point only as in a bondi solution .",
    "no shock.i : inner sonic point only .",
    "shock only if supersonic injection.o@xmath14 : outer and center sonic points .",
    "solution does not extend to the horizon.i@xmath14 : inner and center sonic points .",
    "solution does not extend to large distance.sa : two ( outer and inner ) sonic points .",
    "shock in accretion solutions but not in wind solutions.sw : two sonic points .",
    "shock in wind solutions but not in accretion solutions.nsa : two sonic points .",
    "no shock condition satisfied in accretion solutions.nsw : two sonic points .",
    "no shock condition satisfied in wind solutions .",
    "= 3.3 in    although these solutions are strictly valid for inviscid flows , even when viscosity is high , given that the viscous time - scale is likely to be much larger compared to the infall time - scale , the inviscid solutions are likely to remain important .",
    "2 shows an example numerical solution from the ` sa ' region .",
    "we superposed analytical solution ( solid lines ) and numerical solutions with tvd code ( dashed lines ) and with sph code ( dotted lines ) ( molteni , ryu & chakrabarti 1996 ) .",
    "the tvd calculation was done with @xmath15 grids and the sph calculation was done with @xmath16 particles of size @xmath17 .",
    "matter was injected at the outer boundary located at @xmath18 .",
    "an absorption condition was used to mimic the black hole horizon at the inner boundary which is located either at @xmath19 for the tvd calculation or at @xmath20 for the sph calculation .",
    "the adiabatic index @xmath21 was used .",
    "= 2.95 in    the figure shows an excellent agreement between the analytic and numerical solutions . here",
    ", the flow starts out subsonically , presumably from a keplerian disk .",
    "then , it enters through the outer sonic point ( located at @xmath22 ) , passes through the shock ( located at @xmath23 ) , and subsequently passes through the inner sonic point ( located at @xmath24 ) before entering the black hole .",
    "in multi - dimensional accretion flows , non - steady solutions , as well as steady solutions , exist . here , we discuss some examples of accretion flows with zero specific energy @xmath25 . more extensive discussion on accretion flows with @xmath26 was reported in ryu , chakrabarti & molteni ( 1997 ) .",
    "discussion on extensive calculations for accretion flows with non - zero specific energy @xmath27 will be reported elsewhere ( ryu & chakrabarti 1997 ) .    in these simulations ,",
    "we inject supersonic matter ( with a radial mach number @xmath28 ) at the outer boundary , @xmath29 .",
    "the inflow at the outer boundary is assumed to have a small thickness , @xmath30 , or a small arc angle , @xmath31 .",
    "if zero - energy accretion flows belong the region of ` o ' , most of the material is accreted into the black hole forming a stable quasi - spherical flow or a simple disk - like structure around it ( just as a bondi flow ) .",
    "if accretion flows belong the region of ` sa ' and ` o@xmath14 ' , the incoming material produces a stable standing shock with one or more vortices behind it and some of it is deflected away at the shock as a conical outgoing wind of higher entropy .",
    "accretion flows with parameters in the region ` nsa ' with @xmath32 show an unstable behavior .",
    "3 shows an example numerical solution with @xmath33 . in this case , the structure with an accretion shock and a generally subsonic high density disk is established around the black hole .",
    "however , the structure is not stable . at the accretion shock",
    ", the incoming flow is deflected .",
    "but some of the post - shock flow , which is further accelerated by the pressure gradient behind the shock , goes through a second shock , where the flow is deflected once more downwards .",
    "the downward flow squeezes the incoming material , and the accretion shock starts collapsing @xmath34 . in the process of the collapse , some of the post - shock material escapes as wind but",
    "most is absorbed into the black hole .",
    "after the collapse , the re - building of the accretion shock starts with the incoming material bouncing back from the centrifugal barrier .",
    "the subsonic post - shock region becomes a reservoir of material , so the material is accumulated behind the shock . with the accumulated material a giant vortex",
    "is formed , which in turn supports the accretion shock @xmath35 .",
    "this continues until the incoming flow is squeezed enough so the accretion shock collapsed , and the cycle continues .",
    "the time scale of the periodicity of unstable flows is interesting .",
    "it is in the range of @xmath36 the modulation of amplitude is also very significant , and could be as much as a hundred percent depending on detailed processes .",
    "oscillations with these characteristics have been observed in black hole candidates and are called the qpos . for instance , in the qpos from the low mass x - ray binaries , the oscillation frequency has been found to lie typically between 5 and 60 hz ( van der klis 1989 ) .",
    "thus , compact objects with mass @xmath37 could generate oscillations of right frequencies due to the instability discussed in this paper .",
    "similar oscillations of period on the order of a few hours to a few days are expected in soft x - rays and uv emissions from galactic centers . however , by considering simplified physics which we have assumed here , it may be premature to assume that the presented mechanism would explain all the qpos observed . in some of the cases , the oscillation may be due to the dynamic instability considered in ryu ( 1995 ) , or it may be due to resonance of the cooling time scale ( bremsstrahlung or comptonization , whatever the case may be ) and the infall time scale in the enhanced density region near the centrifugal barrier as shown by molteni , sponholz and chakrabarti ( 1996 ) . in detailed works ,",
    "radiative processes as well as viscosity should be included in the accretion calculations to examine the observational consequences of the present instability .",
    "chakrabarti , s.k . , 1989 , , 347 , 365 .",
    "chakrabarti , s.k . , 1996 ,",
    "physics reports , 266 , 229 .",
    "molteni , d. , ryu , d. , & chakrabarti , s. k. , 1996 , , 470 , 460 .",
    "molteni , d. , sponholz , h. & chakrabarti , s. k. , 1996 , , 457 , 805 .",
    "paczyski , b. , & wiita , p. j. , 1980 , , 88 , 23 .",
    "ryu , d. , brown , g.  l. , ostriker , j.  p. , & loeb , a. , 1995 , , 452 , 364 .",
    "ryu , d. , chakrabarti , s. k. , & molteni , d. , 1997 , , 474 , 378 .",
    "ryu , d. , & chakrabarti , s. k. , 1997 , in preparation .",
    "shakura , n. i. , & sunyaev , r. a. , 1973 , , 24 , 337 .",
    "van der klis , m. , 1989 , , 27 , 517 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present time - dependent solutions of thin , supersonic accretion flows near a black hole and compare them with analytical solutions . such flows of inviscid , adiabatic gas are characterized by the specific angular momentum and the specific energy . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm that for a wide range of above parameters a stable standing shock wave with a vortex inside it forms close to the black hole . </S>",
    "<S> apart from steady state solutions , we show the existence of non - steady solutions for thin accretion flows where the accretion shock is destroyed and re - generated periodically . </S>",
    "<S> the unstable behavior should be caused by dynamically induced instabilities , since inviscid , adiabatic gas is considered . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss possible relevance of the periodic behavior on quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) observed in galactic and extragalactic black hole candidates . </S>"
  ]
}