{
  "article_text": [
    "a reliable age for the local galactic disc places a valuable constraint on both globular cluster ages and cosmological models .",
    "a number of independent methods of investigating this problem have been employed in the past ( eg .",
    "jimenez 1998 and references therein ) , resulting in a broad consensus that the lower limit for the disc age lies between 8 and 12  gyr .",
    "potentially one of the most reliable means of estimating the disc age is via cool white dwarf ( cwd ) stars .",
    "these estimates use the idea , first proposed by schmidt ( 1959 ) , that in a galaxy of finite age there will be a temperature beyond which the oldest , coolest white dwarfs ( wds ) have not had time to cool .",
    "this predicted cut - off in the luminosity function ( lf ) of wds , if satisfactorily observed , can then be used in conjunction with wd cooling models to derive the disc age .",
    "cwds are difficult to find , being both extremely faint and of similar colour to the numerous k and m - type dwarfs ; and are almost exclusively discovered by means of their proper motion .",
    "the cut - off in the wdlf was observed ( liebert , dahn & monet 1988 , hereafter ldm ) after thorough follow up observations of cwd candidates drawn from the luyten half second ( lhs ) catalogue ( luyten 1979 ) .",
    "although at that time a disc age of @xmath4  gyr was derived from this sample ( winget et al .",
    "1987 ) , further observations and improvements in model atmospheres ( bergeron , ruiz & leggett 1997 , hereafter brl ) and theoretical lfs ( wood 1992 , 1995 ) has prompted a recent redetermination of the disc age for the same sample ( leggett , ruiz & bergeron 1998 , hereafter lrb ) , yielding a value of @xmath5  gyr . while the existence of the cut - off in the ldm wdlf has not been challenged by subsequent observational work , the details of its precise position and shape have .",
    "a sample of cwds found using common proper motion binaries ( cpmbs ) , again culled from the luyten surveys , suggest that there are @xmath6 times more very faint cwds than found by ldm ( oswalt et al .",
    "1996 , hereafter oswh ) . a disc age of @xmath7  gyr was found using this sample , and the factor of @xmath6 increase in the faintest wds has been confirmed by an independent search for cwds in the south ( ruiz and takamiya 1995 ) .    until now ,",
    "the proper motion catalogues used to extract samples of cwds have been produced by ` blink ' comparison . while these surveys have clearly been successful in picking up individual stars of low luminosity and high proper motion , the use of such a subjective survey technique raises worries concerning completeness .",
    "the advent of high precision micro - densitometers such as supercosmos ( hambly 1998 and references therein ) allow proper motions and magnitudes to be calculated objectively using a series of plates in the same field .",
    "hambly et al .",
    "( 1997 ) have recently discovered in taurus perhaps the coolest known wd using just such a procedure .",
    "this object , wd 0346 + 246 , should certainly appear in the lhs catalogue , and would then presumably have been included in the ldm sample since it fulfills the given criteria .",
    "this object was discovered serendipitously from work in a particular @xmath8 schmidt field , and therefore casts further doubt on the completeness of the luyten catalogue .    in this work",
    "we exploit both the extensive collection of over 300 plates in eso / serc field 287 and the power of the supercosmos measuring machine to produce a deep , complete multi - colour proper motion survey from which a sample of cwds has been extracted .",
    "much attention was given to the critical question of completeness , with specific reference to the choice of survey limits and the sources of potential contaminants .",
    "the paper is organised as follows : the plate database and reduction of the digitally scanned data is described in section  [ schmidt ] ; the choice of survey limits to combat sample contamination and the method of wd sample selection are discussed in section  [ limits ] ; in section  [ hipms ] the important question of the high proper motion limit is addressed by independent tests ; some follow up observations of our wd candidates are presented in section  [ followup ] ; stellar parameters are calculated for our sample in section  [ samanal ] , which also includes a discussion of potential contaminant populations ; the wdlf from our sample is presented in section  [ wdlf ] , and the derived disc ages discussed in section  [ discuss ] .",
    "in the course of a long term quasar variability study ( eg . vron & hawkins 1995 ) over 300 schmidt plates have been taken in eso / serc field 287 .",
    "figure  [ platehist ] shows the distribution over time of the plate collection in this field in the two principal passbands available , @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "additional plate material exists in the u ( 19 plates ) , v ( 11 plates ) and i ( 40 plates ) passbands .",
    "all these plates have been digitally scanned by either the supercosmos plate measuring machine or its predecessor cosmos ( macgillivray and stobie , 1984 ) .",
    "( 70,40 )    as described in appendix  [ rpms ] , a cwd survey utilising the reduced proper motion ( rpm ) population discrimination technique requires photometry in at least two passbands and proper motion data .",
    "although for most stellar types a survey of this sort will be proper motion limited , for extremely intrinsically faint objects such as cool degenerates the photometric survey limits also become important .",
    "a principal concern in this work is therefore to maximise the survey depth .",
    "the technique of stacking digitised schmidt plates has been in existence for some time ( eg",
    ".  hawkins  1991 ; kemp & meaburn  1993 ; schwartzenberg et al .",
    "1996 ) , and has recently been thoroughly investigated with supercosmos ( knox et al .",
    "the database presented in figure  [ platehist ] is an obvious candidate for stacking in a proper motion survey , since at least 4 plates are available in most years and the use of 4 plate stacks rather than single plate data will yield deeper photometric survey limits with no reduction in the proper motion time baseline . the data has therefore been grouped into 4 plate stacks according to table  [ epochs ] .",
    ".the number of @xmath9 and r 4 plate stacks per annual epoch . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     ( 70,40 )    the hot wd data point not detailed in table  [ lf ] represents the 6 stars with @xmath11 .",
    "these hotter objects tend to have large errors in fitted @xmath12 , and the resulting large horizontal error bars makes broader binning appropriate .",
    "it is necessary to choose either a pure hydrogen or helium atmosphere for each object to construct the lf .",
    "we use our ` best guess ' atmospheres for the lf described here : for each object we choose the atmosphere with the lower @xmath13 model fit to the photometry , with the exception of objects with @xmath14 which are deemed to be occupying the ` non - da gap ' at this temperature ( brl ) and are therefore automatically designated a pure h atmosphere .",
    "note however that the photometry does not adequately constrain atmospheric composition and this ` best guess ' lf is only one arbitrary realisation of the data ( see section  [ discuss ] below ) .",
    "the standard means of assessing the completeness of a sample analysed using the @xmath15 method is to calculate the mean value of the ratio of @xmath16 , the volume out to an object , to @xmath17 . a complete survey evenly sampling the survey volume should yield @xmath18 .",
    "this is generally not the case for published cwd samples , although some authors have incorporated completeness corrections into their analyses to account for the effects of the original survey incompleteness ( oswh ) .",
    "the @xmath19 calculated for this sample is 0.495 or 0.496 choosing either all h or he atmospheres . from a complete sample containing 58 objects we expect @xmath20 , indicating our sample is consistent with being drawn from a complete survey .",
    "it should be emphasised however that this result can not be regarded as proof of completeness , since clearly an incomplete survey sample may also exhibit @xmath21 .",
    "the total space density determined from our ` best guess ' sample is @xmath22 wds per cubic parsec , approximately 25% greater than that found by lrb .",
    "these results are certainly consistent , since the simulations of wood and oswalt ( 1998 ) predict errors of @xmath23 in total space density estimates from samples of 50 cwds using the @xmath15 technique and additional uncertainties are introduced by our lack of knowledge of the wd atmospheric constituents .",
    "our findings reiterate that wds represent only a small fraction ( @xmath24 ) of the local dynamically estimated mass density .",
    "interestingly , we do not confirm the much higher total wd space densities found recently by two independent studies .",
    "we note however that these studies ( ruiz & takamiya 1995 , festin 1998 ) make only a tentative claim to detection of a high wd space density due to the small samples ( @xmath25 ) involved . a third study ( oswh ) searched exclusively for wds in cpmbs , and found a total space density of @xmath26 for these objects . at this space density , and given our survey area and the resolution of the cosmos data , we would not expect to find any cpmb wds .",
    "it is therefore not surprising that no object in our sample is a cpmb member , since the survey technique is only sensitive to lone wds or double degenerate binary systems .",
    "an estimate of the disc age may be obtained by comparing our wdlf with expectations from theoretical models .",
    "we compare our data with two sets of models , which are available in the form of curves at integer 1  gyr disc age intervals .",
    "since we are fitting to a cut - off in space density , the _ lack _ of detected objects beyond our faintest observational bin assumes added significance .",
    "we can calculate the probability of detecting zero objects in the next faintest luminosity bin because we have well defined survey limits : at given faint luminosity the proper motion survey limit is irrelevant and the survey is sampling a known volume defined by the photometric survey limits .",
    "this volume was calculated using b and r magnitudes for very cool wds from the recent models of hansen ( 1998 ) , which combined with the photometric survey limits yield a @xmath27 for both an h and an he atmosphere wd .",
    "the minimum @xmath27 defines the survey volume at that magnitude .",
    "we have assumed the lf at any given luminosity consists of equal numbers of h and he wds , in which case the h wd survey volume provides the best constraint on the lf and is adopted for fitting .",
    "using poisson statistics , the probability of detecting zero objects in a volume v in which a model predicts space density @xmath28 is simply @xmath29 .",
    "we assume the errors on the data points are normally distributed , and derive best fits by maximising the probability of the dataset for each curve and comparing the fits for the various disc ages .",
    "the various inputs to the first set of wdlfs we use , those of wood , were described in detail in wood ( 1992 ) .",
    "careful consideration was given to the various inputs to the wdlf , such as initial mass function , star formation rates and initial - final mass relation .",
    "the wood wd evolutionary models for the wdlfs have since been updated ( wood 1995 , oswh ) , and consist of mixed carbon - oxygen core wds with hydrogen and helium surface layer masses of @xmath30 and @xmath31 respectively , and also utilise revised opacities and neutrino rates .",
    "it is these more recent model wdlfs that are used here .",
    "the best fit of our ` best guess ' lf to the wood model wdlfs is for a disc age of 9  gyr , and is shown in figure  [ woodfit ] .",
    "although this gives a reasonable first indication of the disc age implied by our sample , further investigation is necessary since the photographic photometry fitting procedure used to estimate @xmath32 ( as described in section  [ samanal ] ) does not reliably constrain the atmospheric constituent of the stars in our sample .",
    "we have addressed this question by constructing a large number of wdlf ` realisations ' from our sample data , each time giving each star a 50% probability of having either a h or he atmosphere .",
    "every resulting wdlf was fit to the models and the best fit disc age recorded .",
    "we have also used this analysis to assess the effect of binning on the fitting procedure .",
    "figure  [ agehists ]  ( a ) displays the results of fits to 1000 realisations binned in 1.0 @xmath12 bins and a further 1000 in 0.75 @xmath12 bins .",
    "these results give a fairer indication of the disc age and associated errors than figure  [ woodfit ] , which is effectively one arbitrarily picked realisation .",
    "( 70,40 )    ( 70,40 )    the second set of theoretical wdlfs we use are described in garca - berro et al .",
    "( 1997 ) ( henceforth gb models ) .",
    "these lfs include the expectation that the progenitors of the faintest wds are likely to have been massive stars since these stars evolve more quickly and the resulting ( oxygen - neon ) massive wds also cool faster .",
    "these models also include a predicted delay in carbon - oxygen wd cooling induced by the separation of c and o at crystallization ( hernanz et al .",
    "the incorporation of these considerations into the theoretical wdlf leads to a broader predicted peak at the tail of the lf .",
    "we find a best fit of 11  gyr to our sample , as shown in figure  [ garfit ] .",
    "again , we have investigated the effect of our poor knowledge of our samples atmospheres in the same way as above .",
    "the results , shown in figure  [ agehists ]  ( b ) , highlight the effect that variations in binning can have on the fits for this second set of models .",
    "( 70,40 )    the major contributor to this problem seems to be that the model curves are sufficiently indistinct in the region of our sample dataset ( as can be seen clearly in figure  [ garfit ] ) that changes in observational lf binning can have a significant bearing on the result of the fit .",
    "this effect is apparent in figure  [ agehists ]  ( b ) , where a bin size of 0.75 @xmath12 yields a strong preference of a disc age of 14  gyr , in contrast to the 12 - 13  gyr disc age selected by the other binning regime ( note also that 14  gyr was the oldest curve available for fitting ) .",
    "although it is difficult to resolve this matter satisfactorily with the current data set , there are two pertinent points to raise .",
    "the problem does not apply to the wood models , the fits to which are extremely difficult to dislodge from the 911  gyr region indicated by figure  [ agehists ]  ( a ) .",
    "secondly , wood and oswalt ( 1998 ) , as a result of their monte carlo analysis of the wdlf , recommend choosing a binning in which the crucial lowest luminosity bin contains @xmath6 objects ; giving a reasonable compromise between the requirements of good signal to noise in the final bin and having that bin as faint as possible to provide maximum information on the position of the cut off .",
    "this means a bin size of 1 @xmath12 for our data set , for which the fitted disc age is well constrained for both models .",
    "a brief investigation of the effect of altering the disc scale height in equation  [ vcalc ] revealed that for any scale height between 250 and 400 pc the alterations in space densities for a lf binned as in table  [ lf ] are restricted to a few hundredths in @xmath33 .",
    "variations at this level have a negligible effect on the fits to model lfs .",
    "this behaviour is to be expected , since it is objects with large @xmath34 which are most affected by changes in the scale height , and these make the smallest contributions to the space density when using the @xmath15 prescription",
    ".    an overview of all the various fittings to both sets of models points firmly to a disc age between 9 and 11  gyr using the wood models , and an age of 12 - 14  gyr using the gb models .",
    "this discrepancy is expected ( lrb , garca - berro et al . 1997 ) and indicates the extent of errors introduced by uncertainties in the wd crystallisation process ; the wood model disc age should be a reliable lower limit however , and figure  [ agehists ] demonstrates the difficulty in obtaining a disc age of less than 9  gyr from our data .",
    "we note that the wood models seem to represent our data better , the gb models not following the peak in the observed lf . wood ( 1992 ) reported that the uncertainties in the inputs to model wdlfs lead to a further @xmath35  gyr contribution to the total error .",
    "further insight into the error associated with the disc age may be gained by considering the extremities of the distribution of atmosphere types within the sample .",
    "the 50% probability assigned to the h and he atmosphere is adopted in the absence of strong evidence for a dominant atmospheric type amongst the crucial coolest wds ( see eg . the coolest bin in figure 1 of brl ) , and has no physical basis . adopting all h atmospheres leads to high space density estimates in the final lf bins and arbitrarily old disc age estimates .",
    "more interestingly , a lf composed of all he atmosphere wds is still incompatable with disc ages below 8 gyr , regardless of the model wdlf used .",
    "this reiterates the important point that the cosmologically interesting lower disc age limit appears to be 8  gyr , and that even a disc as young as this must be considered unlikely ( figure  [ agehists ] ) .",
    "our adopted disc age estimation is therefore @xmath2  gyr .",
    "there are at least two possible effects arising from our present lack of extensive follow up observational data that could affect the derived disc age .",
    "first , as may be seen in figure  [ spechplot ] there is a small group of objects lying just beyond our rpmd cut - off that have not been included in our cwd sample .",
    "although the distribution of known wds on the rpmd ( the brl objects in figure  [ rpmdcomp ] ) indicates a population of cwds is not expected in this region , the reason for this may be that many of the known cwds have been themselves selected on the basis of rpm criteria ( luyten 1970 ) .",
    "it may be that the region of the rpmd just beyond our cut - off has not been adequately investigated before , since in the presence of noisier data from blink comparators and eye - measure photometry it would be hopelessly confused .",
    "these considerations argue strongly for a wholesale spectroscopic survey using multi - fibre instruments of the entire population below @xmath36 for complete confidence that our sample does not exclude any cwds . for the present ,",
    "the possibility that a few more cwds exist in our catalogue but do not satisfy our rpmd survey criteria can not be ruled out .",
    "such objects would certainly be very cool , resulting in a higher disc age estimate .",
    "the second effect concerns the question of mass .",
    "the difficulty is amply demonstrated by the case of cwd eso 439 - 26 ( ruiz et al .",
    "1995 ) , which was observed to have a luminosity fainter by 1 magnitude than the wdlf cut off .",
    "analysis of the object s optical energy distribution in conjunction with a measure of trigonometric",
    "parallax allowed the authors to conclude that it s low luminosity was in fact due to its large mass , or small radius .",
    "again , ideally it would be desirable to obtain parallaxes and ccd optical and ir photometry of our entire sample , obviating the need to assume a mass of @xmath37 ( and allowing the surface composition to be constrained ) .    in summary ,",
    "our wd sample has passed every test for completeness applied to it .",
    "the calculated space density of wds is slightly higher than that for the ldm sample , however we do not detect the much higher total space densities found by more recent authors ( ruiz 1995 , festin 1998 ) .",
    "our wdlf yields a disc age estimate of @xmath2  gyr , older but still consistent with previous estimates ( winget 1987 , lrb , oswh ) . in the context of current cosmochronometry , our disc age estimate is consistent with current globular cluster age estimates of 13 - 14gyr ( vandenberg 1998 ) . finally , when combined only with a conservative 1  gyr value for the halo  disc formation interval ( burkert , truran & hensler 1992 , pitts & tayler 1992 ) and a further 1 gyr for the big bang ",
    "halo formation interval , a 10  gyr disc excludes @xmath38 , @xmath39 cosmologies based on current estimates for @xmath40 of 60 - 80 ( freedman 1998 ) .",
    "1 .   using a large collection of cosmos / supercosmos",
    "digitised schmidt plate data in eso / serc field 287 we have extracted a sample of proper motion objects .",
    "number counts indicate this sample is complete down to the survey proper motion limit , which was chosen with care to exclude contaminant spurious proper motion measures .",
    "a sample of cool white dwarfs have been culled from our proper motion objects using the reduced proper motion technique . by overplotting samples of known extreme subdwarfs",
    "we show our cwd sample is unlikely to be contaminated by other stellar population groups .",
    "we have confirmed the wd status of a number of our sample with aat spectroscopy .",
    "the sample passes the @xmath3 completeness test .",
    "we calculate a total wd space density of @xmath22 wds per cubic parsec using schmidt s @xmath1 method .",
    "careful comparison of luminosity functions constructed from our sample and theoretical models indicate an age for the local galactic disc of @xmath2  gyr , older than previous estimates using this technique .",
    "we would like to thank m. wood and e. garca - berro for access to theoretical wdlfs , and p. bergeron , p. hauschildt and b. hansen for supplying model atmosphere predictions .",
    "thanks also to s. ryan for supplying lists of subdwarfs , and to andy taylor for useful discussions concerning statistics .",
    "this work would not have been possible without the time and expertise of the supercosmos and uk schmidt library staff .",
    "particular thanks to harvey macgillivray , mike read and sue tritton .",
    "richard knox acknowledges a pparc postgraduate studentship",
    ".    99    beard s.m . ,",
    "macgillivray h.t . ,",
    "thanisch p.f . , 1990 ,",
    "mnras , 247 , 311 bergeron p. , wesemael f. , beauchamp a. , 1995 , pasp , 107 , 1047 bergeron p. , ruiz m.t . , leggett s.k . , 1997 , apjs , 108 , 339 burkert a. , truran j.w . , hensler g. , 1992 , apj , 391 , 651 evans d.w . , 1989 , a&as , 78 , 249 evans d.w . , 1992 , mnras , 255 , 521 festin l. , 1998 , a&a , 336 , 883 fleming t.a . , liebert j. , green r.f . , 1986 ,",
    "apj , 308 , 176 freedman w.l . , 1998 , in turok n. , ed . , proceedings for `` critical dialogs in cosmology '' , in press ( princeton university press ) ( preprint astro - ph 9612024 ) garca - berro e. , isern j. , hernanz m. , 1997 , mnras , 289 , 973 giclas h.l .",
    ", burnham r. , thomas n.g .",
    ", 1971 , lowell proper motion survey , northern hemisphere catalogue ( flagstaff : lowell ) giclas h.l .",
    ", burnham r. , thomas n.g . , 1978 , lowell proper motion survey , southern hemisphere catalogue lowell obs . bull . 164 , vol viii , p.89 greenstein j.l . , liebert j. , 1990 , apj , 360 , 662 hambly n.c .",
    ", smartt s.j . ,",
    "hodgkin s.t . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 489 , l157 hambly n.c . , miller l. , macgillivray h.t . , herd j.t . ,",
    "cormack , w.a . , 1998 , mnras , 298 , 897 hansen b.m.s . , 1998 ,",
    "nature , 394 , 860 hauschildt p.h .",
    ", allard f. , baron e. , 1998 , apj , in press hawkins m.r.s .",
    ", 1986 , mnras , 223 , 845 hawkins m.r.s .",
    ", bessell m.s . , 1988 ,",
    "mnras , 234 , 177 hawkins m.r.s . , 1991 , in iau commission 9 : working group on wide  field imaging , newsletter no .  1 , 23 hawkins m.r.s .",
    ", ducourant c. , jones h. r. a. , rapaport m. , 1998 , mnras , 294 , 505 hernanz m. , garca - berro e. , isern j. , mochkovitch r. , segretain l. , chabrier g. , 1994 , apj , 434 , 652 isern j , garci - berro e , hernanz m. , mochkovitch r , torres s , 1998 , apj,503 , 239 jimenez r. , flynn c. , kotoneva e. , 1998 , mnras , 299 , 515 kemp s.n .",
    ", meaburn j. , 1993 , a&a , 274 , 19 knox r.a . , hambly n.c .",
    ", hawkins m.r.s . , macgillivray h.t .",
    ", 1998 , mnras , 297 , 839 leggett s.k . , ruiz m.t . , bergeron p. , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 497 , 294 liebert j. , dahn c.c . , and monet d.g . , 1988 ,",
    "apj , 332 , 891 luyten w.j . , 1969 , proper motion survey with the 48  schmidt telescope xxi ( u. minn ) luyten w.j . , 1970 , white dwarfs , u. minn luyten w.j . , 1974 , proper motion survey with the 48  schmidt telescope xxxviii , u. minn luyten w.j",
    ". , 1979 , proper motion survey with the 48 ",
    "schmidt telescope lii , u. minn luyten w.j . , 1979 , lhs catalogue , u. minn macgillivray h.t .",
    ", stobie r.s .",
    ", 1984 , vistas in astronomy , 27 , 433 monet d.g . , et al . , 1992 , aj , 103 , 638 oswalt t.d . , smith j.a . , 1995 , koester d. & werner k. , eds . , in white dwarfs , springer , berlin , p.24 oswalt t.d . , smith j.a , , wood m.a . , hintzen p. , 1996 ,",
    "nature , 382 , 692 pitts e. , tayler r.j .",
    ", 1992 , mnras , 255 , 557 ruiz m.t .",
    ", takamiya m.y . , 1995 ,",
    "aj , 109 , 2817 ruiz m.t . ,",
    "bergeron p. , leggett s.k .",
    ", anguita c. , 1995 , apj , 455 , l159 ryan s.g . , 1989 , aj , 98 , 1693 schmidt m. , 1959 , apj , 129 , 243 schmidt m. , 1968 , apj , 151 , 393 schmidt m. , 1975 , apj , 202 , 22 schwartzenberg j.m . , phillipps s. , parker q.a . , 1996 ,",
    "a&as , 117 , 179 stobie r.s . , ishida k. , peacock j.a . , 1989 , mnras , 238 , 709 tinney c.g . , reid i.n . , mould j.r . , 1993 ,",
    "apj , 414 , 254 vandenberg d.a . , 1998 , bedding t. r. , booth a. j. & davis j. , eds .",
    ", in iau symp fundamental stellar properties : the interaction between observation and theory , kluwer , dordrecht , p.439 vron p. , hawkins m.r.s . , 1995 , a&a , 296 , 665 winget d.e . ,",
    "hansen c.j . ,",
    "liebert j. , van horn h.m . , fontaine g. , nather r.e .",
    ", kepler s.o .",
    ", lamb d.q .",
    ", 1987 , apj , 315 , l77 wood m.a . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 386 , 539 wood m.a . , ,",
    "1995 , koester d. & werner k. , eds .",
    ", in white dwarfs , springer , berlin , p.41 wood m.a .",
    ", oswalt , t.d . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 497 , 870",
    "the reduced proper motion ( rpm ) is defined by @xmath41 where m is apparent magnitude and @xmath42 proper motion .",
    "a reduced proper motion diagram ( rpmd ) is a plot of colour against rpm .",
    "it is a powerful way of combining proper motions and photometry to distinguish stellar population groups .",
    "equation  [ rpm ] can be re - written using the relationships @xmath43 and @xmath44 to give @xmath45 where m is the absolute magnitude , @xmath46 the transverse velocity ( in @xmath47 ) and d the distance .",
    "since m and @xmath46 are both intrinsic properties of the star , so too is h.    to see the significance of h , suppose that every star had an identical @xmath46 ; h would then clearly be simply m plus a constant and the distribution of a particular population group in h at a particular colour would depend solely on the spread of the populations colour - magnitude relation at that colour .",
    "of course there is a distribution in @xmath48 for each population , but since the tangential velocities are distributed around a most probable value the rpm serves as an estimate of m , ie .",
    "@xmath49 ( a and b constants ) .",
    "the resulting locus for each population in the rpmd is then the convolution of its colour magnitude distribution with its @xmath48 distribution over the diagrams colour range . to allow population discrimination in some colour region",
    "we therefore only require that the various population loci do not overlap significantly in that region of the rpmd . in effect",
    "the rpmd is analogous to the hertsprung - russell diagram , and in both plots the white dwarf population is quite distinct in most colours ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we describe a new multi  colour proper motion survey for cool white dwarfs ( cwds ) . </S>",
    "<S> the observational database consists of @xmath0 digitally scanned schmidt plates in eso / serc field 287 . </S>",
    "<S> the entire survey procedure , from the raw schmidt plate data to final white dwarf luminosity function ( wdlf ) is described , with special emphasis on completeness concerns .    </S>",
    "<S> we obtain a sample of 58 wds , for which we have follow up ccd photometry and spectroscopy of a representative sub  sample . </S>",
    "<S> effective temperatures and luminosities of our sample objects are determined by comparing photometry with the model atmosphere predictions of bergeron , saumon and wesemael . </S>",
    "<S> space densities are calculated using an adaptation of schmidts @xmath1 method , from which a wdlf is constructed . </S>",
    "<S> comparison of our observational lf with the models of both wood and garca - berro et al . </S>",
    "<S> indicate an age for the local galactic disc of @xmath2  gyr . </S>",
    "<S> importantly , we find no evidence of incompleteness in our survey sample . </S>",
    "<S> proper motion number counts imply the survey is complete , and the wd sample passes the @xmath3 completeness test .    </S>",
    "<S> surveys  stars : luminosity function  white dwarfs </S>"
  ]
}