{
  "article_text": [
    "pks 1830 - 211 is a radio bright source determined to be a gravitationally lensed quasar from its ring - like morphology @xcite toward which molecular absorption has been detected @xcite .",
    "the object consists of two flat spectrum images connected by a nearly circular , low surface brightness steep spectrum einstein ring @xcite .",
    "the two bright sources are separated by @xmath3 and lie to the northeast ( ne ) and southwest ( sw ) of the ring center .",
    "wiklind and combes ( 1996 ) discovered twelve different rotational transitions involving five different molecular species toward pks 1830 - 211 in unresolved spectra .",
    "the lines had widths of @xmath4kms@xmath0 , depths of @xmath5% , and were redshifted to @xmath6 . based on standard isotopic ratios ,",
    "the detection of h@xmath7co@xmath8 implied that the hco@xmath8 was optically thick .",
    "this assumption along with published flux ratios of the ne and sw components led to the conclusion that the absorption was only in the southwest component .",
    "spectra of the two main components were obtained with the berkeley illinois maryland association ( bima ) array by resolving the source in the 3-mm band @xcite .",
    "the molecular absorption only appeared in the sw component as was expected , but did not reach the zero flux level .",
    "these results seemed to conflict with an analysis done by wiklind and combes ( 1998 ) on the unresolved spectrum of pks 1830 - 211 where the shift in the field phase center at the frequency corresponding to the hco@xmath8 transition was consistent with saturated absorption in the sw image .",
    "high - resolution hco@xmath8 spectra of the unresolved source taken with the plateau de bure interferometer @xcite showed that the trough of the absorption is not flat as would be expected from complete saturation .",
    "the line profile was also clearly asymmetric with the broader wing toward negative velocities .",
    "these results are reasonable for absorption due to a multi - component cloud with possible small scale structure rather than one optically thick cloud",
    ".    galactic models @xcite , a determination of the quasar redshift , @xmath9 @xcite , and lensing models @xcite combined to form a coherent picture of this gravitational lens system and the hubble parameter was determined to be @xmath10kms@xmath0mpc@xmath0 @xcite .",
    "the rather large uncertainty in the time delay measurement , about 20% @xcite , is the major source of error in this estimate of @xmath11 .",
    "continued monitoring of the flux ratio of pks 1830 - 211 would allow for a better estimate of the time delay and therefore a better determination of the hubble parameter .",
    "the flux ratio can be easily determined from an unresolved spectrum of the source if the absorption in the sw image is saturated @xcite .",
    "while many lines have been studied in this system , high - resolution spectra of saturated absorption in the resolved sw image have yet to be presented .",
    "this paper presents observations of pks 1830 - 211 made with the bima interferometer in hat creek , california @xcite which yielded spectra of the two individual components .",
    "there have been a couple of important improvements to the bima array since the published results of frye et al .",
    "the most significant upgrade has been the installation of new sis mixers in 1997 which has halved the receiver noise temperatures @xcite .",
    "there have also been new a - array stations added which produce a better imaging beam .",
    "the observations presented here were done with higher spectral resolution than the previous bima observations and were intended to give a more detailed look at the line profile of the resolved sw image . in ",
    "2 the observations and observing conditions are outlined and the details of the self - calibration procedure used in the data reduction are given .",
    "section 3 presents flux values and an analysis of the spectra .",
    "rotation temperatures , column depths , and the implications of the line profiles are then discussed in  4 .",
    "pks 1830 - 211 was observed in the 3-mm band using the `` a- '' configuration of the bima array which is the standard a configuration without the longest baselines at 1.9 km .",
    "the correlator was set so that in each sideband there were two spectral windows containing 128 channels with a spectral resolution of 1.2kms@xmath0 and four wide band windows each containing 32 channels and spanning 100mhz .",
    "the first local oscillator was tuned so that the redshifted ( @xmath12 ) rotational transitions of hco@xmath13 and hcn , at 94.588ghz and 93.977ghz respectively , fell into the two high resolution windows .",
    "the hco@xmath13 line was doppler tracked throughout the observations .",
    "the standard quasar 3c273 was observed to calibrate the passband , uranus gave an absolute flux scale , and 1733 - 130 was used as a secondary calibrator .",
    "pks 1830 - 211 was observed in 30 minute intervals using 23 second integrations with the intention of self calibration .",
    "data were used from two separate observing tracks on 1999 december 27 and 28 . the observations on the 27th were good with typical system temperatures between 200k and 300k and the rms phase variations measured on 100 m baselines were on the order of 200@xmath14 m .",
    "the atmospheric conditions on the 28th were even better with slightly lower system temperatures and phase variations of @xmath15 m .",
    "pks 1830 - 211 is a bright source which can be self calibrated on a record - by - record basis .",
    "the data on each day was split into two datasets corresponding to the upper and lower side bands and the phases were first corrected in the lower side band using an iterative self - calibration process .",
    "the first iteration used a point source at the observing center as a model , and produced a two - component image .",
    "the inverted clean model containing two main components was then used as the self - calibration model in the subsequent iteration .",
    "two self - calibration iterations were needed for the image to converge .",
    "the upper side band was then phase calibrated in the same way with the only difference being that the first model used in the self - calibration iteration was the clean model from the lower side band .",
    "the spectral windows were then phase calibrated channel by channel using a 65 minute time interval allowing enough signal for a reliable calibration .",
    "the bandpass was determined from 3c273 and was applied to the source and then the datasets were scaled to the flux of uranus measured on december 27 .",
    "the calibrated datasets were then combined and inverted into a single plane upper side band continuum map and two 128 plane spectral cubes .",
    "all reductions were done using the miriad software package .",
    "the two main components were not resolved to a sufficient degree in all of the data due to the position angle of the synthesized beam and therefore some data were discarded .",
    "a local sidereal time range of 17001900 was used on both nights covering an elevation range from 17 to 27@xmath16 .",
    "the resulting synthesized beam dimensions are @xmath17 fwhm with a position angle of @xmath18 .",
    "this resolution issue and the implications will be considered further in the following section .",
    "the combined datasets yield a ne continuum level of @xmath19jybeam@xmath0 and a sw level of @xmath20jybeam@xmath0 with the flux levels of the individual datasets agreeing to within 10% .",
    "although this is known to be a highly variable source @xcite , these levels are reasonable in comparison to previous results @xcite .",
    "the flux ratio of the two images , @xmath21 , is expected to be more accurate than the overall flux scale and agree to within 3% on the two days .",
    "the separation angle was determined using the inverted clean model of the combined datasets giving a value of @xmath22 , consistent with previously published values @xcite .",
    "spectra were taken from the two 128 plane data cubes containing the hco@xmath1 and hcn@xmath2 transitions at the locations of the continuum peaks ( see fig . [ f1 ] ) .",
    "the line profiles obtained here are in good qualitative agreement with the high resolution ( 0.5kms@xmath0 ) spectrum of hco@xmath1 in fig .",
    "7 of wiklind and combes , 1998 ( hereafter 7wc ) .",
    "the absorption widths are comparable at about 45kms@xmath0 fwhm , and the asymmetry in the lines is apparent with the broader side toward negative velocities .",
    "there is some residual flux in the trough of the absorption , however there is no apparent slope as seen in 7wc .",
    "the absorption in the sw image reaches the zero level with 5 channels at or below zero flux in the hco@xmath13 window and 3 channels in the hcn window . in reference to 7wc , a numerical average over 20kms@xmath0 ( 16 channels ) around the centroid of the lines was computed giving an average flux level in the absorption trough .",
    "this procedure applied to the high - resolution profile of hco@xmath1 in 7wc yielded a value of @xmath23 0.040.06jy due to the slope of flux in the absorption trough assuming that the negative velocity edge of the the narrow profile corresponds to a zero flux level in the sw image .",
    "the ne and sw components are known to have sizes at or below the milliarcsecond scale @xcite , however the two images in our dataset did not deconvolve into two point sources . a no noise , no phase error model of our observations revealed flux contamination between the two images at the level of 0.01jybeam@xmath0 preventing a double point source deconvolution .",
    "therefore the flux of a saturated line averaged across the narrow trough given the profile of 7wc and our resolution determined from models is expected to be between 0.050.07jybeam@xmath0 .",
    "the average flux levels measured in the absorption troughs of the present data are 0.058 and 0.066jybeam@xmath0 for the hco@xmath13 and hcn lines respectively .",
    "the data show no evidence of absorption in the ne component in hco@xmath13 however a small absorption feature is noticeable in the hcn window at 0kms@xmath0 .",
    "this feature appeared only in the december 28 data and is small but statistically significant reaching the @xmath24 level .",
    "it is interpreted as a small amount of contamination from the sw component .",
    "this dataset is unique in showing direct evidence of spatially and spectrally resolved saturated absorption in pks 1830 - 211 .",
    "the noise in our spectra , with a measured rms of 0.098jybeam@xmath0 , is too high to verify the upward slope from negative to positive velocities in the hco@xmath13 window which is seen in 7wc .",
    "however , the absorption does reach zero flux levels in multiple channels in each window and the profile is consistent with saturation given the profile in 7wc and the observational models constructed .",
    "these results are contrary to the results obtained by frye et al .",
    "( 1996 ) who also used the bima array to resolve the two components , but obtained absorption spectra that were only @xmath25 saturated .",
    "the data quality and the judiciousness in setting the self - calibration parameters determine the reliability of an iterative self - calibration process .",
    "lower data quality leads to longer , more elaborate calibrations which often require extensive flagging and ultimately challenge the soundness of the result .",
    "starting with a self - calibration model that does nt represent the known spatial distribution of flux only makes the process more unstable .",
    "our data were taken in better conditions than the previous bima observations and with new sis receivers , both of which contributing to a higher overall data quality .",
    "there were also different a - array antenna stations producing a better beam from which this image based reduction may have benefited .",
    "the calibration process involved only two iterations and varying the self - calibration parameters , such as the calibration interval and convergence criteria , produced consistent results .",
    "all of these considerations give us much confidence in the robustness of our result .    the residual flux in the absorption trough is thought to be due to small scale structure in the absorbing cloud which translates into a varying covering factor as a function of velocity @xcite .",
    "the asymmetry seen in the lines is also evidence of a complex , inhomogeneous absorbing medium .",
    "however , in order to get any quantitative information out of these profiles it is necessary to make simplifying assumptions about the equilibrium state of the gas and the structure .",
    "the deep absorption prevents a direct determination of the physical parameters of the absorbing medium , however limits can be determined using a lower limit of the velocity integrated optical depth .",
    "the hco@xmath1 and hcn@xmath2 line profiles presented here with their @xmath26 counterparts presented in menten et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and carilli et al .",
    "( 1998 ) give low values for the rotation temperatures , @xmath27k , consistent with previous analyses @xcite .",
    "this result implies that hcn and hco@xmath13 are primarily excited by the cmb , so we can assume that the rotation temperature of these molecules are @xmath28k which is the temperature of the cmb at @xmath6 .",
    "this value of @xmath29 along with the calculated velocity integrated optical depths give lower limits to the column densities for hcn and hco@xmath13 ; @xmath30hcn@xmath31@xmath32 and @xmath30hco@xmath33@xmath32 .",
    "the lensing galaxy in which this absorption is taking place is likely a massive , early - type spiral @xcite . given that the abundance ratios are somewhat similar to the milky way , the column densities derived above imply an h@xmath34 column of @xmath30h@xmath35 but the low average excitation temperatures of the hcn and hco@xmath13 lines imply a moderately low average volume density ( @xmath36@xmath37 ) .",
    "therefore the pathlength through the cloud must be greater than 1pc , but it is not clear how extended the cloud is in the line of sight direction .",
    "the full velocity range over which there is absorption is @xmath38kms@xmath0 which is not atypical for observations in the milky way @xcite .",
    "however according to galactic @xcite and lensing @xcite models , the lensing galaxy of pks 1830 - 211 is oriented almost face on ( @xmath39 ) and the light from the sw image is traversing the lensing galaxy at a galactocentric distance between 1.8kpc and 3kpc . assuming this orientation , it is hard to imagine how the absorption occurs over such a large velocity range ( see menten et al .",
    "the two main components of the gravitational lens pks 1830 - 211 have been resolved with the bima interferometer .",
    "the continuum levels are @xmath40jybeam@xmath0 for the ne component and @xmath41jybeam@xmath0 for the sw component giving a flux ratio of @xmath21 .",
    "these levels are expected to vary , but are consistent with other published values .",
    "high - resolution spectra ( 1.2kms@xmath0 ) of the redshifted lines of hco@xmath1 and hcn@xmath2 were shown to reach the zero flux level in the sw image but with a non zero flux level averaged across the narrow trough .",
    "these results are an improvement over the previous bima observations of this object @xcite and are in agreement with what would be expected from saturated absorption by a complex absorbing cloud with multiple components and small scale structure .",
    "comparing our line profiles with previously published spectra of the hco@xmath42 and hcn@xmath26 transitions in the sw component @xcite gives a low upper bound on the excitation temperature , @xmath27k , which translates to fairly high column densities , @xmath30hcn@xmath31@xmath32 and @xmath30hco@xmath43@xmath32 .",
    "the high column densities imply a large h@xmath34 column but the low excitation temperatures suggests that the volume density of h@xmath34 is moderately low .",
    "given the estimated galactocentric distance of the absorbing cloud @xmath44kpc and the inclination angle of the galaxy , @xmath45 , the line widths are remarkably large .",
    "we would like to thank dick plambeck for helping with the many questions that arose during this research .",
    "also thanks to mel wright for help with generating model observations and for general advice .",
    "michiel hogerheijde and geoff marcy both made helpful contributions .",
    "blf would like to thank joe silk and tom broadhurst for their ideas and contributions .",
    "this research has been funded by nsf grant ast-9981308 .",
    "carilli , c. , menten , k. , reid , m. , rupen , m. , & claussen , m. , 1998 , in asp conf .",
    "144 , radio emission from galactic and extragalactic compact sources , ed .",
    "j. a. zensus , g. b. taylor , & j. m. worbel ( san francisco : asp ) , 317 engargiola , g. & plambeck , r. , 1998 , proc .",
    "spie , 3357 , 508 frye , b. , welch , w. j. , & broadhurst , t. , 1996 , , 478 , l25 jauncey , d.l .",
    ", et al . 1991 , nature , 352 , 132 johns , d. , et al . 1996 , , 470 , l23 kochanek c. & narayan , r. , 1992 , , 401 , 461 lidman , c. , courbin , f. , meylan , g. , broadhurst , t. , frye , b. , & welch , w. , 1998 , , 524 , l57 lovell , j. , jauncey , d. , reynolds , j. , wieringa , m. , king , e. , tzioumis , a. , mcculloch , p. , & edwards , p. , 1998",
    ", , 508 , l51 menten , k. , carilli , c. , & reid , m. , in asp conf .",
    "156 , highly redshifted radio lines , ed . c. l. carilli , s. j. e. radford , k. m. menten , & g. i. langston ( san francisco : asp ) , 218 nair , s. , narashima , d. , & rao , p. , , 407 ,",
    "46 rao , p. & subrahmanyan , r. , 1988 , , 231 , 229 subrahmanyan , r. , narashima , d. , rao , a. , & swarup , g. , 1990 , , 246 , 263 van ommen , t. , jones , d. , preston , r. , & jauncey , d. , , 444 , 561 .",
    "welch , w. , et al .",
    "1996 , , 108 , 93 wiklind , t. & combes , f. , 1996 , nature , 379 , 139 wiklind , t. & combes , f. , 1998 , , 500 , 129"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper presents data from the bima interferometer showing spatially resolved absorption spectra of the gravitationally lensed quasar pks 1830 - 211 . </S>",
    "<S> high - resolution ( 1.2kms@xmath0 ) spectra were taken in two spectral windows centered on the redshifted frequencies of the hco@xmath1 and hcn@xmath2 molecular transitions . </S>",
    "<S> there is no molecular absorption in the northeast image but the southwest image reveals optically thick absorbing gas at these transition frequencies . </S>",
    "<S> further analyses conclude that the spectra are consistent with completely saturated absorption in the southwest image and the line profiles suggest that the absorbing medium is complex , perhaps containing multiple components and small scale structure . </S>",
    "<S> the absorption occurs along a pencil beam through the lensing galaxy which is thought to be a late type spiral oriented almost face on . </S>",
    "<S> however , the spectra show absorption spanning more than 60kms@xmath0 which is difficult to explain for this scenario . </S>"
  ]
}