{
  "article_text": [
    "a  classical \" x - ray nova typically brightens in x - rays by as much as @xmath0 in a week and then decays back into quiescence over the course of a year .",
    "the optical counterpart , if visible , undergoes a similar outburst cycle , although the amplitude is more modest ( typically @xmath1  5 - 7 mag ) . for reviews on the x - ray and optical properties of x - ray novae",
    "see tanaka & shibizaki @xcite and van paradijs & mcclintock @xcite , and for a recent compendium of light curves see chen et al .",
    "@xcite . not all light curves of x - ray novae have the classical shape just described ; for example , some are flat - topped or triangular in shape @xcite . a few others can not be described simply and are truly extraordinary , such as the light curves of the superluminal radio jet sources gro j1655 - 40 and grs1915 + 105 @xcite .",
    "it is remarkable that most x - ray novae contain black holes since black hole primaries are rare among the persistent x - ray binaries @xcite .",
    "the firm evidence for black holes in x - ray novae is derived from radial velocity data , which has been obtained in quiescence for eight systems ( table 1 ) .",
    "several additional x - ray novae probably contain black hole primaries based on the x - ray spectral / temporal properties they share with the black hole systems in table 1 , and also with cygnus  x-1 and lmc  x-3 ; these include , for example , grs1009 - 45 , gs1354 - 64 , a1524 - 62 , 4u1630 - 47 , grs1716 - 249 and grs1915 + 105 .",
    "finally , a relatively few x - ray novae contain neutron stars : for example , cen  x-4 , 4u1608 - 52 , h1658 - 298 and aql x-1 . in this paper",
    ", we restrict ourselves to discussing recent results obtained for the eight dynamical black hole binaries ( table 1 ) plus the superluminal source and microquasar grs1915 + 105 @xcite .    .selected dynamical data for eight black - hole x - ray novae [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ , < \" , ]",
    "the absorption - line velocities of the secondary star can be determined very precisely in quiescent x - ray novae because the non - stellar light from the accretion disk and/or the adaf region ( see below ) is small or modest compared to the light of the secondary .",
    "for example , consider the semiamplitude of the radial velocity curve , k , for v404 cyg , a0620 - 00 and xn mus 1991 , which are the three brightest systems listed in table 1 . for v404",
    "cyg the uncertainty in k is only @xmath2 0.3% ( see table 1 ) , based on extensive observations made during four observing seasons .",
    "the uncertainties are somewhat larger for two other systems : two independent determinations of k differ by a few standard deviations for a0620 - 00 and xn",
    "mus 1991 , which corresponds to differences of 2.3% and 3.6% , respectively ( see table  1 ) .",
    "assuming these small differences are significant , they may be due to measurement error , or they may be due to systematic effects associated with the tidally - distorted secondary @xcite . in either case , the observed errors in k contribute little ( @xmath1 10% ) to the uncertainty in the mass of the black hole , @xmath3 , compared to the uncertainties due to the orbital inclination angle , @xmath4 ( see below ) .",
    "uncertainties in the mass of the secondary , @xmath5 , are generally less important than those in @xmath4 .",
    "the value of the mass function is an absolute lower limit on the mass of the compact primary @xcite :    @xmath6    thus the compact primaries in the first six systems in table  1 , which have large mass functions and m@xmath7 , are too massive to be neutron stars and are almost certainly black holes within general relativity @xcite . the last two systems in table  1 , gro j0422 + 32 and 4u1543 - 47 , have small mass functions .",
    "consequently , they are much weaker dynamical black - hole candidates because one must also set secure limits on @xmath4 and/or m@xmath8 , which is generally much less straightforward than measuring k.    to determine the mass of the black hole ( not just a limit on the mass ) , one must determine both @xmath4 and m@xmath8 in addition to the value of the mass function . the inclination angle @xmath4 , which is the more important parameter , can be difficult to nail down .",
    "for example , two studies of a0620 - 00 have given the following discrepant results : @xmath9 m@xmath10 @xcite and @xmath11 m@xmath12 @xcite .",
    "for gro j0422 + 32 the discrepancy is even larger : @xmath13 @xcite , and @xmath14 @xcite .",
    "the one exceptionally clear - cut case is gro j1655 - 40 : the high quality of the four - color ellipsoidal light curve data and the excellent model fit yield a precise inclination of 69.5 @xmath15 ; the black hole mass is @xmath16 @xcite .",
    "see also van der hooft et al .",
    "@xcite for a more conservative appraisal .    because of the generally large systematic errors just discussed , we choose not to summarize the masses of the black hole primaries .",
    "instead we refer the reader to the papers cited in table 1 and to a recent compilation by bailyn et al .",
    "@xcite who examine the distribution of the masses of black holes in x - ray novae .",
    "they argue that these masses are all consistent with a single value of @xmath17 , _ except _ for v404  cyg which has a distinctly higher mass , @xmath18 . in a second compilation ,",
    "casares @xcite compares the masses of 17 neutron stars to the lower limits on the masses of the dynamical black holes .",
    "the six compact x - ray sources discussed above with m@xmath19 plus the two high - mass x - ray binaries cyg x-1 and lmc x-3 are almost certainly black holes within general relativity",
    ". it would be difficult to overstate the importance of this conclusion because it is the fundamental ground for all studies of accreting black holes .",
    "the dynamical test has proved to be the only acid test for the presence of a black hole ; a long history of attempts to distinguish black holes from neutron stars via spectral and temporal x - ray signatures have failed to yield any reliable criteria @xcite with one possible exception @xcite .",
    "as discussed below , new attempts are now being made : sensitive imaging observations of the faint quiescent states of accreting black holes are providing the first evidence for event horizons , and timing and spectral studies with rxte are revealing probable relativistic effects .",
    "however , the underpinning for this new and promising work , which is discussed in the following sections , is the dynamical determinations that eight x - ray binaries almost certainly contain black holes .",
    "as discussed above , the best evidence for black holes comes from dynamical studies of x - ray binaries that contain massive compact stars .",
    "unfortunately , this evidence alone is not decisive because it presumes that general relativity is the correct theory of strong gravity @xcite .",
    "moreover , the dynamical evidence can not rule out exotic models of massive , collapsed stars that have tangible surfaces @xcite .",
    "for some time it has been clear that to advance further we must attempt to make clean quantitative measurements of relativistic effects that occur in the near vicinity of a black hole or a neutron star .",
    "however , it has been unclear how this might be done @xcite .",
    "recently , there have been major advances in both theory ( e.g. the adaf model of accretion ; see below ) and in observational capabilities ( e.g. rxte ) . as a consequence",
    ", it appears that we are beginning to discern effects predicted by general relativity that occur in the near vicinity of accreting black holes .",
    "we briefly discuss progress on three fronts : ( 1 ) evidence for the existence of event horizons ; ( 2 ) fast , stable qpos that emanate from near the event horizon ; and ( 3 ) three basic types of low energy spectra that may reveal the metric of the black hole .",
    "an advection - dominated accretion flow ( adaf ) is defined as one in which a large fraction of the viscously generated heat is advected with the accreting gas and only a small fraction of the energy is radiated .",
    "the adaf model has been applied very successfully in fitting the broadband spectra ( optical to x - ray ) of x - ray novae in quiescence . in the following , to be definite , we refer the reader to a discussion of the model for v404 cyg @xcite , the brightest x - ray nova in quiescence .",
    "the low accretion rate flow proceeds via a standard thin accretion disk , which transforms itself by evaporation totally into a corona or adaf at @xmath20 ( @xmath21 is the schwarzschild radius ) . the hot flow in the inner region is quasi - spherical and optically thin .",
    "when the gas reaches the black hole , the ion and electron temperatures are @xmath22 and @xmath23 .",
    "the bulk of the x - ray and optical emission is produced within @xmath24 300 km of the black hole .",
    "the radiation from the adaf is in the form of comptonized synchrotron and bremsstrahlung emission and has a broad spectrum extending from the near - ir to soft gamma - rays .",
    "the x - ray spectrum and non - stellar optical spectrum for v404 cyg are very well fitted by this model .",
    "in addition to @xmath25 , the model has five parameters ; however , four of these have very little effect on the computed spectrum ( see figures 3 - 5 in narayan et al .",
    "the fifth parameter , the mass transfer rate , was determined by normalizing the model to the data at 3.5 kev : m @xmath26 yr@xmath27 . the overall radiative efficiency of the accretion flow is @xmath2  0.05% ( compared to @xmath2  10% for standard disk accretion ) @xcite .",
    "when a hot adaf flow with its extremely low radiative efficiency encounters a quiescent black hole , then the enormous thermal energy stored in the gas ( @xmath22 ) simply disappears through the event horizon .",
    "the energy flow rate into the black hole is @xmath28 m@xmath29 .",
    "what about a neutron star accretor ?",
    "it is reasonable to expect that a quiescent x - ray nova with a neutron star primary ( e.g. cen x-4 ) will also accrete via an adaf with a low radiative efficiency ( @xmath2  0.05% ) .",
    "now , however , the energy of the superheated gas can not disappear .",
    "the gas falls on the neutron star and heats its surface .",
    "once a steady state is reached , the star s luminosity will be the same as for a thin disk and the accretion efficiency will be @xmath2  10% , far higher than for the black hole .",
    "thus , for the same m in quiescence we expect a black hole to be substantially less luminous than a neutron star , precisely as observed @xcite .",
    "figure 1 compares @xmath30 for five neutron stars ( open circles ) to this same quantity for all of the black holes listed in table  1 except xn oph 1977 ( filled circles ) . without exception ,",
    "every black - hole x - ray nova in quiescence has a smaller value of @xmath30 than any of the quiescent neutron - star systems .",
    "in fact , even if one treats the limits as data points , the luminosity swing from outburst to quiescence is higher for the black holes by a factor of @xmath2100 on average .",
    "furthermore , the difference in luminosity swings between black holes and neutron stars is statistically significant at the @xmath299.5% level of confidence @xcite .",
    "the most plausible explanation for this difference is that black holes have event horizons and neutron stars do not .",
    "thus a black hole will hide any thermal energy it accretes , whereas a neutron star must re - radiate any thermal energy it accretes .",
    "for further discussion of this evidence for black - hole event horizons and a thorough discussion of the data plotted in figure  1 , see garcia et al .",
    "@xcite .",
    "in our black hole sample we have included only the dynamically confirmed black holes ( table 1 ) and we have considered only data of very high quality collected by imaging telescopes ( einstein , rosat and asca ) . on the other hand ,",
    "chen et al .",
    "@xcite have argued that in this comparison one should include the data for all plausible quiescent x - ray novae , even if the data quality is relatively poor and the nature of the compact primary is uncertain .",
    "accordingly , chen et al .",
    "@xcite have presented an alternative version of figure 1 above .",
    "the upper half of their figure is populated with an additional dozen or so upper limits and detections of probable neutron stars . on casual inspection",
    "these relatively low sensitivity data appear to blur the difference between the luminosity swings of black holes and neutron stars .",
    "in fact , however , a proper statistical analysis of all the data would very likely show that the addition of these low quality data does not affect the significance of the results quoted above .    indeed ,",
    "data of low qualilty are irrelevant : what is needed for progress are data of higher quality .",
    "note that only upper limits are available for four of the seven black hole systems in quiescence ( whereas all of the neutron stars are detected ) .",
    "it is probable that all these black holes will be detected soon by axaf or xmm , which can only serve to make the difference in luminosity swing between black holes and neutron stars more dramatic .",
    "high frequency qpos have been observed with rxte from two black hole candidates , the microquasars grs1915 + 105 and gro j1655 - 40 .",
    "most reliable is grs1915 + 105 , which very frequently shows a sharp ( q @xmath31 20 ) qpo at a frequency of 67 hz @xcite .",
    "the variation in the central frequency is only 1 hz . the rms amplitude is typically about 1% ; however , both the amplitude and the phase lag of the qpo increase quite significantly with energy .",
    "gro j1655 - 40 has displayed a high frequency qpo at 300 hz during seven observations when the spectrum was exceptionally hard . combining all these data",
    ", the feature has a total statistical significance of 14@xmath32 , a q of @xmath31 3 , and an amplitude near 0.8% @xcite .",
    "several models for the black hole qpos have been discussed .",
    "the simplest of these relates the observed frequency to the frequency of the minimum stable orbit . for a schwarzschild black hole",
    ", this picture implies masses of 33  m@xmath33 for grs1915 + 105 @xcite and 7.4  m@xmath33 for gro j1655 - 40 @xcite .",
    "the latter case is most intriguing because the dynamically - determined mass for gro j1655 - 40 is @xmath34 @xcite !",
    "the  diskoseismic \" model invokes radial disk modes with eigenfrequencies that depend on the mass and angular momentum of the black hole . for grs1915 + 105 , this model predicts a 10.6  m@xmath33 schwarzschild and a 36.3  m@xmath33 extreme - kerr black hole @xcite .",
    "it has also been suggested that the fast qpos are due to the precession frequency of an accretion disk that is experiencing frame dragging caused by a rotating black hole @xcite . in this model",
    ", the observed qpo provides a direct measure of the black hole s angular momentum once its mass is determined .",
    "presently it is unclear which model , if any , correctly describes the observed qpos . nevertheless , it is plain that these qpos are effective probes of the very inner regions of the accretion flow .      an ultrasoft spectrum  i.e . one that is distinctly softer than the spectra of neutron star sources ",
    "has long been recognized as a useful signature of a black hole @xcite .",
    "an ultrasoft component in the spectrum of a luminous black hole is well explained by quasi - blackbody emission from the inner portion of an accretion disk , which extends down to the minimum stable orbit .",
    "the ultrasoft spectral component is not , however , an infallible signature of a black hole because it is sometimes absent .",
    "for example , see figure 2 in sunyaev et al .",
    "@xcite , which shows the high - luminosity spectra of three of the black holes listed in table 1 : the ultrasoft component is completely absent in both v404 cyg ( the most secure black hole candidate ) and in gro j0422 + 32 , whereas it is strong in gs2000 + 25 .",
    "zhang et al .",
    "@xcite argue that this extraordinary spectral difference , and also the harder low - energy spectra of the microquasars , grs1915 + 105 and gro j1655 - 40 , are due to the rotation of the black hole relative to its accretion disk .",
    "specifically , they argue that ( 1 ) the harder spectra of the microquasars is due to the near - extreme prograde rotation of their kerr black holes , ( 2 ) the systems with ultrasoft spectral components ( e.g. gs2000 + 25 and xn mus 1991 , etc . ) contain slowly rotating schwarzschild black holes , and ( 3 ) the systems with no ultrasoft component ( e.g. v404 cyg , gro j0422 + 32 , etc . ) contain near - extreme retrograde black holes .",
    "the authors consider a number of subtelties in deriving relations between the blackbody luminosity and disk temperature _ vs. _ the angular momentum of the black hole . but",
    "qualitatively , their results can be easily understood in terms of the depth of the gravitational potential at the location of the minumum stable orbit  i.e . at the inner edge of the disk . for extreme kerr , schwarzschild , and extreme retrograde holes ,",
    "the radii of the minimum stable orbits are m , 6 m and 9 m ( c = g = 1 ) , and the approximate accretion efficiencies are 30% , 6% and 3% , respectively .",
    "the most compelling example considered by zhang et al . is gro j1655 - 40 because its black hole mass , distance and other parameters are well determined .",
    "applying their model , they conclude that the primary is a kerr black hole spinning at between 70% and 100% of the maximum rate .",
    "unfortunately , the other black hole systems provide few additional constraints on the model of zhang et al . the good result for gro j1655 - 40",
    "underscores the need for more work on determining inclinations , masses and distances for selected x - ray novae .",
    "it must be considered good fortune that x - ray novae have revealed fast , stable qpos that almost certainly come from the near vicinity of the black hole primary .",
    "it is also fortunate that rxte has the collecting area and telemetry capability to scrutinize these relatively weak temporal features . indeed , as a consequence of the ` no - hair ' theorem , many of us have occasionally feared that it might prove impossible to achieve a useful quantitative test of general relativity by observing an accreting black hole . unlike the case of a magnetized neutron star , the erratic magnetohydrodynamic effects of gas orbiting a black hole might hopelessly confuse any relativistic effects @xcite .",
    "it now seems that the prospects are bright for tests of general relativity in the strongest possible gravitational fields .",
    "in addition to the qpos , it appears that the low - energy spectra of luminous x - ray novae , which almost certainly originate in strong fields near the minimum stable orbit , have yielded important information on the metric .",
    "finally , the dramatic difference in luminosity between a hot adaf flow that impinges on a black hole and one that strikes the surface of a neutron star provides the first evidence for the intangible entity that defines a black hole , namely , its event horizon .",
    "the foundation for these studies has been the firm evidence that a half - dozen x - ray novae contain black holes ( table 1 ) .",
    "the discovery of additional dynamically - determined black holes remains an important task .",
    "however , much future dynamical work needs to be directed toward determining the precise masses of selected black holes . presently , only gro j1655 - 40 has both a precise mass and a good distance .",
    "consequently , its black hole served as a touchstone for interpreting the fast qpos and the low - energy spectral data .",
    "garcia , m. r. , mcclintock , j. e. , narayan , r. , and callanan , p. j. , to appear in the proceedings of the 13th north american workshop on cvs , eds .",
    "s. howell , e. kuulkers , and c. woodward , san francisco : asp ( 1997 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> most x - ray novae ( aka soft x - ray transients ) contain black hole primaries . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the large mass functions measured for six x - ray novae directly clinch the argument ( within general relativity ) that they contain black holes . </S>",
    "<S> these firm dynamical results are discussed , and the urgent need to determine precise masses for black holes is stressed . the dynamical evidence for black holes is convincing but it is indirect . </S>",
    "<S> now it appears that _ direct _ evidence may be at hand . </S>",
    "<S> three recent studies have revealed phenomena that very likely probe strong gravitational fields : ( 1 ) a comparison of the luminosities of black hole systems and neutron star systems has yielded compelling evidence for the existence of event horizons ; ( 2 ) rxte observations of fast , stable qpos have probed the very inner accretion disks of two black holes ; and ( 3 ) three different types of low energy spectra have been linked to different black - hole spin states ( e.g. kerr _ vs. _ schwarzschild ) . </S>"
  ]
}