{
  "article_text": [
    "observations of gravitational lensing provide a probe of the distribution of mass in the universe on scales ranging from micro - lensing by sub - solar mass objects in the galactic halo to weak - lensing by large - scale structures of the universe . in order to survey matter both light _ and",
    "_ dark on different size scales , unbiased systematic searches for lensing events within a well - defined sample of background sources must be carried out . since the discovery of giant arcs in the region of clusters a370 and cl2244 ( lynds & petrosian 1986 ; soucail et al .",
    "1987 ) more than 50 clusters have been found to contain arc - like images of background galaxies , including a clear example of multiple imaging by the cluster 0024 + 1654 ( colley , tyson & turner 1996 ) .",
    "the lensed images provide diagnostics for the cluster potential , allowing the distribution of mass to be mapped independently of the distribution of light .",
    "however , the currently known examples can not tell us about the _",
    "general prevalence _ of mass structures on the scale of clusters of galaxies ( cgs ) because they are in no sense statistically complete , having largely been discovered through observations of previously known clusters . only by carefully examining a large well - defined sample of background sources for cases of gravitational lensing",
    "can we hope to place constraints on the general distribution of cluster - sized masses .",
    "@xmath1-body cold - dark - matter ( cdm ) simulations of the universe make predictions about the degree of clustering of dark matter haloes at different epochs ( for example jenkins et al .",
    ". the statistics of strong gravitational lensing events within a sample of background sources should therefore allow us to distinguish between models with different rates of cluster evolution .",
    "early simulations by wambsganss et al ( 1995 ) suggested that there could be as many strongly - lensed sources with image separations @xmath25 , associated with groups and clusters of galaxies , as there are with image separations @xmath35  associated with single galaxy lenses .",
    "the jvas and class lens surveys ( king et al . 1999 ; myers 1996 ) found a lensing rate of approximately 1 in 500 for lens systems with image separations between 03 and 6 .",
    "this suggests that in a search for lens systems associated with clusters of galaxies , a background source population of at least @xmath4 is necessary before useful cosmological constraints can be set .",
    "previous searches for strong lensing events with image separations greater than a few arcseconds have started with quasar surveys because they provide a sample of objects with high mean redshift , which increases the lensing probability , and relatively low surface density , which reduces the number of false positives from random associations .",
    "maoz et al .",
    "( 1997 ) used a subsample of 76 quasars from the hst snapshot survey ( maoz et al .",
    "1992 ) to look for lensing events with angular separations of 7  to 50 .",
    "the fact that no lens systems were found allowed some extreme cosmological scenarios to be ruled out , for example that there exists a large population of ` failed ' or ` dark ' clusters . however , the small size of the parent sample limited the ability to place useful constraints on more conventional cosmological models .    in designing surveys to look for cluster - mass lenses ,",
    "a basic problem arises when trying to recognise strongly - lensed images . as the image separation increases , the time delay between the images increases , and at a separation of tens of arcsec",
    "the characteristic delay can be hundreds of years .",
    "basic properties of quasars such as the continuum emission , the emission line spectrum and the radio source nuclear structure may change significantly over this time . due to their intrinsic variability , quasars are therefore not optimally - suited for use as probes for lensing by clusters of galaxies . a search method using background sources which are expected , a priori , to show no significant changes in physical properties over timescales of @xmath51000  years is required to overcome this problem .    this paper is concerned with the arcminute radio cluster - lens search ( arcs ) , a project aimed at looking for strong gravitational lensing by galaxy clusters in a systematic and uniform manner .",
    "we use the fact that extended emission ( @xmath2few  kpc ) from an extragalactic radio source is unlikely to vary over the timescales of interest . in order to maximise our parent sample of background sources , whilst minimising the observational effort in following up potential lens candidates",
    ", we started from the existing first 1.4  ghz survey ( becker , white & helfand 1995 ) and the automatic plate measuring ( apm ) optical catalogue ( for example irwin , maddox & mcmahon 1994 ) . the first survey provides both high sensitivity and sufficient resolution to allow us to reject most multiple sources as candidate lens systems directly before any follow - up observations have taken place .",
    "furthermore , demanding stellar optical identifications of the radio sources from the apm catalogue both increases the mean redshift of the parent sample and provides a filter against selecting intrinsic double sources as lens candidates .",
    "we describe our selection algorithm for identifying gravitational lens candidates from the first and apm catalogues in section [ selection ] .",
    "we then go on to describe the subsequent follow - up observations in section [ radio_obs ] , including an analysis of the remaining cg - lens candidates at each observational stage .",
    "a review of the project and future work is laid out in section [ discussion ] .",
    "our aim is to maximise the probability of detecting gravitational multiple images produced by cgs while minimising the observational effort required to confirm or refute them . as we pointed out above ,",
    "reliable searches for lensing events on these scales require us to select background parent sources which should not vary over the relevant timescales which could extend to hundreds of years .",
    "we must also maximise the redshift of these background sources which increases the lensing probability .",
    "the first survey combined with the apm catalogue derived from the palomar observatory sky survey ( poss ) plates enables us to achieve these goals .",
    "( 5,3.5 ) ( -3.5,-6.5 )    ( 4,4 ) ( -4,-7 )      the faint images of the radio sky at twenty centimetres ( first ) survey will eventually cover 10000 square degrees of the north galactic cap .",
    "the survey area will coincide with the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) , upon completion of which @xmath650  per  cent of all first sources will be optically identified to the @xmath7 limit of sdss . for our purposes , the north galactic cap portion of the catalogue dated 98feb04 was used .",
    "this contains 382892 sources covering 4150 square degrees of the sky in the region ra@xmath8 to ra@xmath9 , and @xmath102212to @xmath105736 .",
    "the lower flux density limit is 1  mjy with a typical rms noise of 0.15  mjy and a beam - size of 54 ; source positions are tied to the jvas calibrator reference frame ( patnaik et al .",
    "1992 ; browne et al . 1998 ; wilkinson et al .",
    "1998 ) with a systematic uncertainty of @xmath3003 , while the overall systematic positional errors are @xmath301 throughout the survey area .",
    "source parameters were derived by fitting elliptical gaussian models .",
    "a more complete description of the first catalogue can be found at url http://sundog.stsci.edu/.    approximately 2.5  per  cent of ` sources ' in the first catalogue are flagged as possible side - lobes of strong sources . only about 15  per  cent of these sources are likely to be real , equivalent to less than 0.5  per  cent of the total .",
    "we therefore removed all possible side - lobes from our version of the catalogue prior to our analysis .",
    "the apm catalogue is derived from the uk schmidt and poss plates . for our present purposes we used apm data obtained from the poss for the region covered by first .",
    "the apm catalogue contains data from blue o plates and red e plates to limiting magnitudes of 21.5 and 20 respectively , with a positional accuracy of @xmath61 .",
    "each detection is parameterised in terms of position , magnitude , and a classification into a stellar or a non - stellar object based on the light profiles of a detection ; a ` merged ' classification exists where an object falls between these two types .",
    "a more complete description of the apm sky catalogues can be found at url http://www.ast.cam.ac.uk/`~`apmcat/.    ( 10,9 ) ( 12.5,-1.5 )      in order to look for possible cases of multiple imaging we must define a parent sample of `` primary '' sources around which we will search for `` secondary '' images .    with an average beam size of @xmath65 , the first survey can confidently identify resolved structure down to an angular scale of @xmath625 ( fwhm ) . for redshifts",
    "@xmath11 , this corresponds to a linear scale of @xmath12  kpc ( for @xmath13  kms@xmath14mpc@xmath14 ) .",
    "a region of this size will not vary in spectral or luminosity characteristics over periods of hundreds of years .",
    "we therefore placed a minimum angular size limit of 25 along the deconvolved major axis of our primary sources .",
    "we chose the maximum angular size of our primary sources to be 15   to avoid confusion with potentially - lensed secondary images with similar angular separations .    with the resolution of the first survey",
    "many faint radio sources will be resolved into multiple components with angular separations less than 15 ; these components are listed separately in the first catalogue .",
    "we therefore constructed two classifications of primary sources , those with a single component and those with two components ( see figure [ primary_source ] ) .",
    "one could include primary sources with three or more components , but for simplicity we ignored such sources ( inclusion of these sources would only increase our sample size by @xmath610  per  cent ) . in the case of a single component our maximum primary source size of 15refers to the major axis given in the first catalogue , in the case of two components it refers to the angular separation of the components .",
    "we defined the central position of a two - component primary source to lie on the line connecting the individual component positions , weighted by the integrated component flux densities ( see for example macklin 1981 ) .",
    "the `` fractional centroid distance '' being the fractional distance to the centroid from the brighter component is defined as @xmath15 where @xmath16 , @xmath17 are the integrated flux densities of the brighter and dimmer components respectively .",
    "we can then write the angular distance from the brighter component to the weighted central position as @xmath18 , where @xmath19 is the angular separation of the two components .",
    "two extreme cases of composite primary sources are illustrated in figure [ composite_source ] .    in order to select `` clean '' primary fields and to avoid double counting",
    ", we placed a window with a radius of 15centred on the central position ( defined above ) of each primary source .",
    "we only included a source in our primary sample if no additional components were within the annulus .",
    "this will help prevent more complex ( i.e. @xmath20 component ) sources from infiltrating our sample .",
    "we finally imposed the condition that the integrated flux density must be @xmath2135  mjy .    to increase the probability of lensing , it is desirable to select background sources with as high a mean redshift as possible . to this end",
    "we selected only those primary radio sources with stellar optical counterparts in the apm catalogue on the o and/or e plate . by choosing stellar objects with associated radio emission",
    "we expect to select a high proportion of quasars , and hence to maximise the mean redshift ( see section [ redshift ] ) .",
    "radio sources with non - stellar i.e. galaxy identifications will tend to have redshifts @xmath22 and therefore have a greatly reduced probability of being lensed .",
    "optical identifications with a limiting e magnitude brighter than 20 also make it possible to characterise the redshift distribution of the primary sample with optical spectroscopy using moderate - sized telescopes .",
    "in addition , an optical identification on a primary source will provide a filter against selecting classical double radio sources as lens candidates ( see section [ initial_selection ] ) .",
    "a significant number of faint red galaxies are identified as non - stellar on the e plates , but have a stellar classification on the o plates due to the detection of only the central region of the galaxy .",
    "figure [ colour_plots ] illustrates the three distinct populations present in a primary source sample when we allowed there to be a non - stellar identification on one of the poss plates . to simplify the optical identification process for arcs , an optical object with different classifications on the two plates",
    "is not acceptable as a quasar identification .",
    "in fact , as figure [ colour_plots ] shows , those sources with stellar classifications on one plate and stellar or no classification on the other plate are predominantly blue , as would be expected for quasars ( see for example the catalogue derived from four sdss filters described by newberg et al .",
    "1999 ) .    to take into account the positional accuracies of the apm catalogue , a 3  difference between the apm and radio positions was tolerated ( see section [ separation_section ] ) .",
    "radio positions for the single component sources were taken directly from the first catalogue , whereas the composite source positions were as defined above .",
    "after applying all these selection criteria , a final parent sample of 1023 primary sources remained ( see table [ summary_table ] ) .",
    ".synopsis of the source selection stages of the arcs project .",
    "[ cols= \" < , > \" , ]     ( 5,6.3 ) ( -2.15,6.8 )        by selecting two - component primary sources from a catalogue with the depth of first we will inevitably introduce a contamination to the primary sample in the form of pairs of sources which have no physical association .",
    "we expect this number to be small , but we have made a rough estimate of the number of chance associations of unrelated radio sources posing as two - component sources in the first catalogue .",
    "our selection routine found 5264 two - component primary sources from the radio selection criteria alone i.e. prior to the application of the optical criteria . from the known surface density of first sources",
    "the number of random associations was estimated to be @xmath6100 .",
    "this is a contamination of only @xmath62  per  cent amongst the two - component sources _ before _ our optical criteria have been applied ( i.e. @xmath31  per  cent of _ all _ primaries  see table [ summary_table ] ) . within our final primary sample",
    "we expect this percentage to have been reduced significantly because randomly associated pairs of sources will be less likely to have stellar counterparts at their centroid position in comparison to a genuine physical pair .",
    "our conclusion is that the level of contamination to the primary sample from the selection of false two - component primary sources will be negligible .      since the error in the radio astrometry is negligible relative to the optical astrometric accuracy , and we assume that the optical positional error is purely gaussian , then the separation between the optical position and the true ( i.e. radio ) position , @xmath23 , is described by a rayleigh distribution , viz .",
    "@xmath24dr\\ ] ] where @xmath25 is both the mean and the standard deviation of the distribution .",
    "however , there is a small but significant contamination within our primary sample of radio sources with chance associations with , for example , galactic stellar sources .",
    "this modifies the number of optical ` identifications ' by @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the stellar surface density arcsec@xmath28 in the apm catalogue from both poss plates , @xmath29 is the number of primary sources _ before _ optical identification , and @xmath23 is the distance from the radio source .",
    "given the fact that @xmath30  arcsec@xmath28 within the first region , the total number of random associations amongst the 1023 primary sources is estimated to be @xmath6180 to a radius of 3 .",
    "figure [ separation ] shows a histogram of the angular separation of optical and radio positions in our primary source sample .",
    "the distribution is well described by a rayleigh - plus - random distribution , increasing our confidence that we are selecting extragalactic radio sources with quasar identifications .",
    "the best fit value of @xmath31086 agrees well with the quoted error in the apm positions .",
    "however , to select as many primary sources as possible we retained our 3   tolerance for first  apm positional discrepancies . in an analysis of the lensing frequency within the sample , we must modify the primary sample size to @xmath6850 sources to take account of the expected number of random associations .",
    "we searched the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) for additional information on our primary sources .",
    "a total of 133 sources were found to have a measured redshift at the first position .",
    "we calculated values of @xmath32 , @xmath33 and @xmath34 for this sub - sample .",
    "the total primary sample is on average fainter with @xmath35 and @xmath36 . whilst the sub - sample obtained from ned will be unquantifiably contaminated by a multitude of selection effects",
    ", it is reasonable to assume that the total primary sample will have a higher value for @xmath37 .",
    "in fact , an initial analysis of spectroscopic data from a representative but limited sub - sample of the primary sample suggests that @xmath38 ( phillips et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "( 5,5 ) ( -2.75,-6.3 )      having selected the _",
    "primary _ sources the resolution and sensitivity of the first survey allowed us to search for potential multiple imaging events directly .",
    "we looked in the catalogue near each primary source for any _ secondary _ sources within an angular separation range of 15  and 60  ( figure [ initial_candidate ] ) ; any such secondary sources are putative lensed images of the primary sources .",
    "we did not impose any size selection criteria to the secondaries because a secondary lensed image , with a lower magnification than the primary , will not necessarily be resolved by the first beam .",
    "we also omitted optical selection criteria ; since the secondary will often be weaker , its optical emission could place it below the limit of the poss / apm catalogue ; in addition a stellar object may have varied in magnitude . however",
    ", we did impose a maximum flux ratio of 5:1 between the primary and the secondary .",
    "this places a lower limit on the integrated flux density of a secondary source in the weakest systems to 7  mjy .",
    "if a secondary source is indeed a lensed image of the primary , the conservation of surface brightness means that the secondary will not be resolved out i.e. it will be detectable in first .    in section [ primary_selection ]",
    "we mentioned that a large proportion of extragalactic radio sources will be resolved into multiple components by the first survey .",
    "many such sources consist of two ` lobes ' of emission , the so - called `` classical doubles '' .",
    "it is possible that in selecting primary sources with nearby secondaries , we are selecting a high proportion of classical double radio sources as lens candidates .",
    "however , the optical identification criterion applied during the primary source selection process provides a strong filter _ against _ these types of radio source posing as lens candidates .",
    "this is because the optical counterpart to such an object would be expected to lie _ between _ the lobes rather than on one or both of them as our selection criterion demands .",
    "these selection criteria produced only 91 initial lens candidates i.e. over 90  per  cent of the primary sample could be immediately rejected using the first and poss / apm information .",
    "( 10,7.5 ) ( -4,-2.2 )    ( 4.5,-2.2 )    ( 10,22.5 ) ( -4,13 )    ( 4.5,13 )    ( -4,5.4 )    ( 4.5,5.4 )    ( -4,-2.2 )    ( 4.5,-2.2 )    ( 10,22.5 ) ( -4,13 )    ( 4.5,13 )    ( -4,5.4 )    ( 4.5,5.4 )    ( -4,-2.2 )    ( 4.5,-2.2 )    ( 10,22.5 ) ( -4,13 )    ( 4.5,13 )    ( -4,5.4 )    ( 4.5,5.4 )    ( -4,-2.2 )    ( 4.5,-2.2 )    ( 10,14.7 ) ( -4,5.4 )    ( 4.5,5.4 )    ( -4,-2.2 )    ( 4.5,-2.2 )    up until this point the lens candidate selection process was conducted automatically .",
    "we then went on to examine the first and apm data individually by eye .",
    "the first radio images of the 91 initial lens candidates along with apm information for each field were combined using the aips ( astronomical image processing software ) package .",
    "examples of typical fields are shown in figure [ first_maps ] and the top of figures [ singles_maps ] , [ doubles_maps ] and [ candidates_maps ] .",
    "it is immediately clear that we can reject some more candidates by eye .",
    "the arguments for rejecting a system as a lens candidate can be broken down into two categories : ( 1 ) those where the primary and secondary sources are clearly components of a single larger source ; and ( 2 ) those where lensing arguments can be invoked .",
    "( 1 ) _ single source arguments:_the single source rejection arguments rely on the nature of known multiple - component radio sources .",
    "the morphologies of such sources can include specific features which would not be expected if the components were lensed images of each other .",
    "examples are : extended emission bridging the region between the primary and secondary source , and ` outer ' edges of a primary - secondary pair being brighter than the ` inner ' edges .",
    "we also reject lens candidates where we find an optical counterpart between the primary - secondary pair coincident with an additional unresolved radio component ; this is the position where we would expect an agn to be present .",
    "examples of sources rejected as single sources on the basis of the first maps are 0713 + 369 and 1358 + 290 shown in figure [ first_maps ] .",
    "( 2 ) _ lens arguments:_we use the basic fact that the surface brightness of the background source is conserved in each lensed image .",
    "however , we can only apply this argument to the extended radio structure .",
    "the image flux ratio in the radio and optical regimes can be different due to the the variability arguments laid out in section [ initial_selection ] .    from the original 91 sources with secondary components",
    ", 53 could be rejected following this individual examination leaving only 38 lens candidates which required further observations i.e. less than 4  per  cent of the primary sample .",
    "in order to test the lens hypothesis for the remaining candidates we made higher resolution observations to study candidate source morphology and surface brightness in more detail .      the sample of 38 lens candidates was observed with the vla in a configuration at 6  cm and 20  cm in two 12-hour periods on 1 and 7 april 1998 .",
    "the observing bandwidth was 50  mhz in each of two if channels for both wavelengths , with observing periods of approximately 8  minutes per source per wavelength .",
    "the rms sensitivity was @xmath39 mjy at both wavelengths .",
    "the minimum beam sizes obtained were 04 at 6  cm and 14 at 20  cm when sources were observed near the zenith .",
    "the data were calibrated in a standard fashion using the aips package .",
    "flux calibration was based on two 2-minute observations of 3c286 assuming a flux density of 7.360  jy at 6  cm , and 14.554  jy at 20  cm based on the expression derived by baars et al .",
    "polarisation calibration was based on three 1.5-minute observations of 1613 + 342 , which was assumed to be unpolarised to correct for antenna effects , while 3c286 was used for phase offset corrections between the two measured orthogonal polarisation systems .",
    "each source was cleaned at both 6  cm and 20  cm for stokes parameter i using the difmap software package ( shepherd 1997 ) and where appropriate self - calibration was applied .",
    "polarisation and spectral index data reduction was performed with the standard aips routines . in these cases a uniform convolving beam size of 15 was used at both 6  cm and 20  cm for ease of image comparison .",
    "a gaussian taper was applied in the uv plane to the 6  cm data to 30  per  cent at @xmath40  k@xmath41 in order to restrict the uv range to that of the 20  cm data .",
    "we used similar arguments to those described in section [ arguments ] to classify each system .",
    "the 38 lens candidates fall into three distinct groups : single ` classical double ' radio sources ( @xmath668.5  per  cent ) ; unrelated small angular separation pairs ( @xmath626.5  per  cent ) ; and 2 remaining lens candidates ( @xmath65  per  cent ) . figures [ singles_maps],[doubles_maps ] and [ candidates_maps ] show examples from each of these groups .",
    "( figure [ singles_maps]):in both examples , 1248 + 393 and 1519 + 345 , it can be seen from the a configuration 20  cm data that the primary and secondary components are outer edge - brightened .",
    "the 6  cm data show that the spectra of the outer edges are flattening , consistent with these regions being hot - spots embedded within diffuse lobes .",
    "( figure [ doubles_maps]):the 6  cm a configuration map of example 1000 + 417 shows a compact double primary ( northerly ) source with a central optical counterpart .",
    "the secondary source consists of a central unresolved flat - spectrum component and extended components to the north - east and south - west , with extended emission bridging the entire source .",
    "we can rule this example out as a lens candidate using surface brightness arguments .",
    "in example 1034 + 379 the 20  cm a configuration data shows extended emission bridging two components in the primary ( northerly ) source , while the 6  cm data reveals an unresolved flat - spectrum component at the position of the optical counterpart .",
    "the secondary source at 20  cm contains two edge - brightened components with a non - stellar optical counterpart between , in a position that a host galaxy would be expected .",
    "this example can be ruled out as a lens candidate based on the dissimilar morphologies of the primary and secondary sources , and the orientations of each source relative to one another .",
    "( figure [ candidates_maps]):the a configuration map of 1053 + 457 at 20  cm shows two compact double component sources in a plausible lens configuration .",
    "the 6  cm data show that the primary ( western ) source in fact consists of extended emission bridging two unresolved components , whereas the secondary ( eastern ) source has a single unresolved component with an extended component to the south - east . despite the dissimilarities between sources , we can not unequivocally rule out this system as a lens candidate since unresolved radio components can vary significantly over the time - scale of a time delay .",
    "the 1519 + 387 primary ( western ) source is a composite consisting of an extended western component and an unresolved eastern component in the a configuration 20  cm data .",
    "the secondary source appears largely unresolved in the 6  cm data with a possible detection of extended emission towards the unresolved component of the primary source .",
    "while these components could be interpreted as a single source with a central unresolved core at p1 ( see figure [ candidates_maps ] ) , high resolution merlin data are needed to confirm the extension in the secondary source . at this stage",
    "it remains as a lens candidate .",
    "high resolution data on the two remaining lens candidates 1053 + 457 and 1519 + 387 were taken with merlin at 6  cm in two 16-hour long - track observations on 12 and 21 december 1998 .",
    "the data were in 16@xmath421  mhz bands with an integration time of 8  seconds , giving an rms sensitivity of @xmath39  mjy ; the minimum beam size was @xmath6004 .",
    "flux calibration was based on 25  minute observations of 3c286 assuming a flux density of 7.09  jy .",
    "initial editing of the data was carried out with the standard merlin programs with calibration and mapping again performed in aips and difmap .",
    "the unresolved components in the vla 6  cm data of the primary source of 1053 + 457 are both clearly resolved with merlin ( figure [ merlin_maps ] ) and appear to be edge - brightened .",
    "additionally a central unresolved component is revealed between the two extended components and is close to an optical object ( see figure [ candidates_maps ] ) .",
    "the unresolved component in the secondary source also appears to be slightly resolved while the extended component to the south east is almost resolved out . on the lens hypothesis",
    "we would expect the two resolved components in the primary source also to be detected in the secondary source .",
    "this is not the case .",
    "we detect only one resolved component in the secondary , which is also of lower surface brightness than either of the resolved components in the primary source .",
    "we can therefore reject 1053 + 457 as a lens candidate .",
    "the secondary source in 1519 + 387 is clearly resolved with merlin while the primary component remains unresolved .",
    "we can categorically reject this source as a lens candidate .",
    "we have completed what is currently the largest unbiased survey for multiple image gravitational lens systems with image separations @xmath215 .",
    "our primary sample of 1023 sources was selected from the first and apm catalogues , and our search for lens candidates within this sample was achieved by looking for additional nearby images within the first catalogue . as a result our follow - up required only 38 candidates",
    "be observed with the vla , and just two of these necessitated higher resolution observations with merlin .",
    "no cases of gravitational multiple imaging with image separations in the range 15to 60were found .",
    "a synopsis of the numbers of sources at each stage of the selection process is given in table [ summary_table ] .",
    "wambsganss et al ( 1995 ) made predictions of `` wide - separation '' lensing rates using @xmath1-body simulations with scdm parameters ( see also wambsganss , cen & ostriker , 1998 ) .",
    "however , the resolution and scale of the simulations were not adequate to provide a reliable estimate of the number of multiple imaging events that we would expect to see in an unbiased search .",
    "in particular , cluster mass density profiles must be simulated more accurately because the shape of the profile has a significant influence on a cluster s ability to produce multiple images . in order to draw",
    "any significant cosmological conclusions from our result more realistic predictions of the number of wide - separation multiple imaging events in different cosmological scenarios need to be made .",
    "the results of such simulations are also necessary if we are to determine the sample size for any future expansion of the arcs project .    to examine the practicability of increasing the size of the arcs sample we have calculated the maximum size of a sample which can be selected from currently available first data and the pending sdss data . as described in section [ first ]",
    "first has been designed to coincide with the sdss survey region .",
    "it is estimated that @xmath650  per  cent of all sources in first will be identifiable on sdss to @xmath4324 down to the 1  mjy limit of first . using our radio - only primary source sample of 12932 ( table [ summary_table ] )",
    "this could result in a primary sample of @xmath26500 if sdss is used instead of the apm catalogue at the optical identification stage .",
    "taking a more conservative approach by specifying an optical magnitude limit of @xmath4323 we would still expect to increase our primary sample to @xmath23000 .",
    "it should be noted that these figures are firm lower limits on what could be achieved because our radio - only primary sample has a lower 1.4  ghz flux limit of 35  mjy ( c.f .",
    "the 1  mjy limit of first ) . the latest version of the first catalogue dated 99jul21 contains 477247 reliable sources over 5450 square degrees of the northern sky ( c.f .",
    "382892 sources in the 98feb04 version we used ) . if we also lower the integrated flux density limit of a primary source to 5  mjy , thus giving a minimum secondary flux density at the detection limit of the first survey i.e. 1  mjy , a total radio - only primary sample of 62891 sources results . applying the above optical arguments with a limiting magnitude of @xmath4323",
    ", this should produce a primary sample of @xmath215000 .",
    "it would appear that upon completion of sdss there will be no problem constructing a sample of background sources at least an order of magnitude larger than that presented in this paper .",
    "it is practicable to search such a primary source sample for instances of wide - separation lensing events . with",
    "the experience gained in this pilot study , we believe that the efficiency of our search technique could be improved by up to a factor @xmath62 .",
    "this is largely based upon our increased confidence in the first survey images for use in rejecting false positives before any further observations of lens candidates are made at higher resolution . selecting a primary sample of ,",
    "say , 10000 sources , a two - fold improvement in the initial candidate selection would result in only @xmath6200 candidates requiring vla a configuration follow - up with @xmath610 requiring further observations with merlin .",
    "this is equivalent to @xmath63 days of vla time and @xmath63 days of merlin time .    in summary",
    ", we have established that it is possible to make a reliable unbiased search for lens systems with image separations in the range 15to 60 .",
    "furthermore it is possible to use existing radio and optical data to significantly reduce the required observing time for such a search .",
    "what we currently lack are reliable predictions of the lensing frequency for different cosmologies to compare with our null result .",
    "we wish to thank the vla and merlin staff for making these observations possible .",
    "the vla is the very large array and is operated by the national radio astronomy observatory which is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "merlin is the multi - element radio linked interferometer network and is a national facility operated by the university of manchester on behalf of pparc .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "this research was supported in part by the european commission , tmr programme , research network contract erbfmrxct96 - 0034 ` ceres ' .",
    "pmp would also like to thank pparc for the support of a studentship award .",
    "99 baars j. w. m. , genzel r. , pauliny - toth i. i. k. , 1977 , witzel a. , a&a , 61 , 99 becker r. h. , white r. l. , helfand d. j. , 1995 , apj , 450 , 559 browne i. w. a. , patnaik a. r. , wilkinson p. n. , wrobel j. m. , 1998 , mnras , 293 , 257 colley w. n. , tyson j. a. , turner e. l. , 1996 , apj , 461 , l83 irwin m. , maddox s. , mcmahon r. , 1994 , spectrum , 2 , 14 jenkins a. , frenk c. s. , pearce f. r. , thomas p. a. , colberg j. m. , white s. d. m. , couchman h. m. p. , peacock j. a. , efstathiou g. , nelson a. h. , 1998 , apj , 499 , 20 king l. j. , browne i. w. a. , marlow d. r. , patnaik a. r. , wilkinson p. n. , 1999 , mnras , 307 , 2 , 225 lynds r. , petrosian v. , 1986 , bull .",
    "aas , 18 , 1014 macklin j. t. , 1981 , mnras , 196 , 967 maoz d. , bahcall j. n. , schneider d. p. , doxsey r. , bahcall n. a. , lahav o. , yanny b. , 1992 , apj , 394 , 51 maoz d. , rix h. , gal - yam a. , gould a. , 1997 , apj , 486 , 75 myers s. t. , 1996 , in astrophysical applications of gravitational lensing , ed . c. s. kochanek & j. n. hewitt ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 317 newberg h. j. , richards g. t. , richmond m. , fan x. , 1999 , apjs , 123 , 2 , 377 patnaik a. r. , browne i. w. a. , wilkinson p. n. , wrobel j. m. , 1992 , mnras , 254 , 655 shepherd m. c. , 1997 , adass vi , a.s.p . conference series , 125 , 77 soucail g. , mellier y. , fort b. , mathez g. , hammer f. , 1987 , a&a , 184 , l7 wambsganss j. , cen r. , ostriker j. p. , turner e. l. , 1995 , science , 268 , 274 wambsganss j. , cen r. , ostriker j. p. , 1998",
    ", apj , 494 , 29 wilkinson p. n. , browne i. w. a. , patnaik a. r. , wrobel j. m. , sorathia b. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 790"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of an unbiased radio search for gravitational lensing events with image separations between 15  and 60 , which would be associated with clusters of galaxies with masses @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> a parent population of 1023 extended radio sources stronger than 35  mjy with stellar optical identifications was selected using the first radio catalogue at 1.4  ghz and the apm optical catalogue . </S>",
    "<S> the first catalogue was then searched for companions to the parent sources stronger than 7  mjy and with separation in the range 15to 60 . </S>",
    "<S> higher resolution observations of the resulting 38 lens candidates were made with the vla at 1.4  ghz and 5  ghz , and with merlin at 5  ghz in order to test the lens hypothesis in each case . </S>",
    "<S> none of our targets was found to be a gravitational lens system . </S>",
    "<S> these results provide the best current constraint on the lensing rate for this angular scale , but improved calculations of lensing rates from realistic simulations of the clustering of matter on the relevant scales are required before cosmologically significant constraints can be derived from this null result . </S>",
    "<S> we now have an efficient , tested observational strategy with which it will be possible to make an order - of - magnitude larger unbiased search in the near future .    </S>",
    "<S> = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupeurmn @mathgroup@bold@groupeurbn @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupmsamn @mathgroup@bold@groupmsamn = `` 019 = ' ' 016 = `` 040 = ' ' 336 = \" 33e = </S>",
    "<S> = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 = = = = = = = =    [ firstpage ]    cosmology : observations , ( cosmology : ) gravitational lensing , galaxies : clusters : general , radio continuum : general </S>"
  ]
}