{
  "article_text": [
    "the double pulsar system , psr j07373039 , recently reported by burgay et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and lyne et al .",
    "( 2004 ) is likely to unlock many mysteries concerning isolated neutron star magnetospheres and winds as well as the nature of the pulsar emission mechanism .",
    "a 22.7-ms pulsar ( ) and a 2.77 sec pulsar ( ) revolve about each other in a 2.4h , nearly edge - on orbit .",
    "the two stars show interesting and contrasting emission properties .",
    "pulsar exhibits a complex double profile structure .",
    "apart from an eclipse when is behind ( with respect to our sight line ) , this pulsar does not show significant variation in its flux . the flux and profile structure of show remarkable variations as a function of orbital phase ( lyne et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "a simple pressure balance calculation leads to the conclusion that the mhd wind of will surpress a large fraction of the quasi - static magnetosphere .",
    "the eclipse duration of is roughly consistent with this idea ( lyne et al .",
    "2004 ; kaspi et al .",
    "2004 ) . detailed calculations of the -wind/-magnetosphere interactions are required for comparisons with observations ( arons et al .",
    "2004 ) . in this model a bow shock , magnetosheath , magnetopause and magnetotail structures , which are relativistic analogs of solar wind / earth magnetosphere structures , are established around .    in this work ,",
    "we first present polarimetric measurements on these two stars .",
    "these observations were conducted at the national radio astronomy observatory green bank telescope ( gbt ) . after describing our observational setup in ",
    "[ sec - observation ] , we present our results in  [ sec - result ] .",
    "our observations place strong constraints on the geometrical orientation of * a * s rotation and magnetic axes .",
    "we also present our rotation measure ( rm ) measurements for the two stars . in  [ sec - model ]",
    "we discuss implications of our polarimetric results within the context of the arons et al . model .",
    "observations were performed at the gbt with two backends : bcpm ( berkeley  caltech pulsar machine ; see e.g. , camilo et al .",
    "2002 ) and gbpp ( green bank ",
    "berkeley pulsar processor ; see e.g. , backer , wong & valanju 2000 ) .",
    "the pulsar system was observed at four different frequencies on 2003 december 11 , 19 , 23 , & 24 , and 2004 january 1 .",
    "the bandwidths of our bcpm observations were 96 mhz at 2.2 ghz and 1.4 ghz , and 48 mhz at 0.82 ghz and 0.43 ghz .",
    "the gbpp bandwidths were 28 mhz at 2.2 ghz , 1.4 ghz and 0.82 ghz and 11 mhz at 0.43 ghz .    on 2003 december 11 we observed with the gbpp at 1.4 ghz using the published ephemeris ( burgay et al .",
    "2003 ) and an integration time of 100s .",
    "the gbpp provides synchronously averaged , coherently dedispersed profiles that allow calculation of all stokes parameters .",
    "we first detected and then generated an ephemeris for with the bcpm filter bank total - power data of 2003 december 11 .",
    "this ephemeris was used for gbpp observations of at 0.82 ghz on 2003 december 19 .",
    "gbpp observations continued with at 0.43 ghz ( briefly ) , 0.82 ghz and 2.2 ghz and at 0.43 ghz .",
    "we also measured a correlated ( fully linearly polarized ) noise source and observed pulsars with known polarization characteristics ( psr b0656 + 14 and psr b0919 + 06 ) for calibration purposes .",
    "gbpp observations of psr b1929 + 10 at 0.82 ghz by i. stairs for another program on 2003 december 26 were also analyzed for calibration .",
    "the top panel of fig .  [ fig : avga ] shows the average profile of at 0.82 ghz .",
    "the pulsar shows two prominent regions of emission with sharp outer edges , and shallower inner edges .",
    "the dotted and dashed lines indicate observed average profiles in linear and circular polarization , respectively .",
    "we also show the linear polarization position angle as a function of pulse longitude in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : avga ] .",
    "the longitude region @xmath4 to @xmath5 , and probably the region from @xmath6 to @xmath7 , are affected by the presence of quasi - orthogonal polarization modes .",
    "the two emission regions display rough mirror symmetry in both total intensity and linear polarization .",
    "we show in the inset on the figure two portions of the profile `` mirror - folded '' to align the outer edges and emphasize this point .",
    "these mirror symmetries suggest to us that these two portions of the pulse arise from traversals of a wide - angle hollow cone at the same magnetic pole rather than the two opposite poles .",
    "we have chosen the arrangement of the profile in rotational longitude with steep outer edges in fig .",
    "[ fig : avga ] owing to what is often seen in more compact hollow cones ( e.g. , manchester 1996 ) .",
    "assuming the rotating vector model ( rvm ; radhakrishnan & cooke 1969 ) , we performed a least squares fit to the position angle sweep to obtain the value of the angle ( @xmath8 ) between @xmath9 and @xmath10 and the angle ( @xmath11 ) between the line of sight and @xmath9 at closest approach .",
    "for this purpose , we ignored the longitudes mentioned above where the pa is likely corrupted by quasi - orthogonal emission modes .",
    "the fit was done via a simple grid search in @xmath8 and @xmath11 ( e.g. nice et al .",
    "this allowed us to map out @xmath12 contours for the solutions , which are plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : rvmfit ] .",
    "two solutions appear , one with @xmath13 and one with @xmath14 .",
    "the large-@xmath8 solution is unrealistic since it requires a beam opening angle @xmath15 , a geometry where the rvm is likely to be invalid .",
    "furthermore , in this case we would expect to see emission from both magnetic poles , which is inconsistent with the mirror symmetric profile .",
    "we favor the small-@xmath8 solution since it avoids both these problems ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : schematic ] for a diagram of this geometry ) .",
    "unfortunately , this leaves @xmath11 completely unconstrained .",
    "measuring @xmath11 would give a lower limit on the misalignment between @xmath10 and the orbital angular momentum , since the orbital inclination is well known .",
    "however , in the small-@xmath8 solution @xmath16 , so we might expect @xmath17 based on opening angles of other millisecond pulsars .",
    "the characteristics of * b * s emission are much more complex .",
    "lyne et al .",
    "( 2004 ) show that the amplitude and pulse profile vary with orbital phase .",
    "our sensitive data exhibit local maxima in four different `` windows '' in the orbit ( @xmath18 to @xmath19 , @xmath20 , @xmath21 and @xmath22 , respectively ] ) . within the limit of our sensitivity , this 4-window behavior and details of profile evolution within the windows are frequency independent over 0.43 ghz to 1.4 ghz .",
    "the signal is seen in almost all other orbital phases at very low flux levels except for a phase range of @xmath23 to @xmath24 , where no flux is detected above 0.1% of that in window @xmath18 .",
    "the centroid of the strongest emission ( windows @xmath18 & @xmath25 ) is @xmath26 prior to when is behind , and the centroid of the phase range when is invisible is @xmath26 prior to when is in front of . due to the pulse structure evolution",
    ", we present the results separately for the four windows in fig .",
    "[ fig : avgb ] from our 0.82-ghz observation with the same conventions as in fig .",
    "[ fig : avga ] . in window 1",
    "the pulse is polarized at the 15% level and shows orthogonal polarization modes , while in window 2 the polarization is less than a few per cent",
    ". a detailed study of individual pulses from and their evolution as a function of orbital phase by ramachandran et al .",
    "( 2004 ) concludes that the subpulse fluctuations are similar to those found in other pulsars of similar period and pulse morphology .",
    "we have measured the rm of the two pulsars from our 0.82 ghz observations .",
    "assuming linearity of polarization position angle sweep within the small bandwidth of 28 mhz , we have derived rm values for and from window @xmath18 .",
    "we have obtained consistent values of @xmath27 rad m@xmath3 and @xmath28 rad m@xmath3 towards & , respectively .",
    "these values are not corrected for ionospheric contributions . within our measurement errors",
    ", we do not see significant orbital phase dependent variations .",
    "a remarkable feature of both the lyne et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and our gbt observations of j07373039b is the dependence of flux and pulse profile , including polarization properties , on orbital phase , but not on radio frequency .",
    "we concur in general with lyne et al . that the variable influence of on the magnetosphere of is the likely source of the changes . in a companion paper ( arons et al .",
    "2004 ) we develop a detailed model in which s mhd wind confines the magnetosphere .",
    "we outline this model below , and make connections between observational features that both stimulated the model making and provide directions for future work .    in our model",
    "the mhd wind from decelerates through a relativistic bow shock that envelops s magnetosphere . between this shock and the boundary of s closed magnetosphere ( s magnetopause ) the shocked wind plasma forms a relativistic hot layer whose optical depth to synchrotron absorption at 500 mhz is at least 100 , and may be as high as 5000 .",
    "this layer ( the magnetosheath ) is the likely cause of the eclipse of by . in this model",
    "we further interpret the faintest region of emission near its superior conjunction as the result of absorption by the same magnetosheath layer that in these phases is between the observer and the pulsar emission region deep within the magnetosphere .",
    "in kaspi et al .",
    "( 2004 ) we report that the eclipse is asymmetric with slower flux decrease on ingress and a more rapid recovery on egress . as discussed above the strongest and faintest regions of emission",
    "are also asymmetric : both precede times of conjunction by @xmath29 . in our model",
    "these are attributed to the prograde rotation of that leads to an asymmetric magnetopause and magnetotail .",
    "the frequency independence of the eclipse light curve over our observing bands is attributed to sharp boundaries , high optical depths and partial covering in space and/or time .",
    "we favor the interpretation of our polarization observations of that has the dipole field axis nearly aligned with the spin axis , which itself is oblique to the orbital plane and the line of sight .",
    "pulsar would then experience a significant difference in wind pressure and content around the orbit . this variable pressure will affect the size of the polar cap and current structure that could lead to the variations .",
    "the wind , asymmetric or not , will produce a propeller torque on owing to s rotation .",
    "this torque contributes to the observed @xmath30 of . in this model",
    "the emission results from voltage and @xmath31-avalanche current deep within its magnetosphere similar to that in normal pulsars",
    ". the `` normalcy '' of emission is supported by these polarization observations as well as the single pulse study described elsewhere ( ramachandran et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "when we observe , it presents a different face of its closed and confined magnetosphere to the wind depending on the orbital phase .",
    "this variable orientation will also change the magnetosphere and , we suggest , its polar cap and the beamed emission we detect . at this point we can not distinguish between these two possible sources of modification of the secondary star  variable wind pressure impinging on , and variable internal structure at the rotation phase of observation .",
    "they both are seemingly consistent with the frequency independence of the reported phenomena .",
    "both cases will lead to variations in the polar cap size and relativistic current structure of , which will affect the observed flux and its pulse morphology .    in the case of the variable wind pressure",
    ", the phase of modulation of is expected to precess around the orbit as the spin of undergoes geodetic precession .",
    "geodetic precession of will have a more complex effect on its internal response to a wind pressure at the spin phase of observation owing to the multiplicity of angles involved .",
    "our proposed geometry of s beam will be testable as geodetic precession moves the observer through the cone and into a region of invisibility during the 70-year cycle ( lyne et al .",
    "is it improbable that we are seeing both pulsars at the same time ?",
    "we suggest that the wind torque on has aligned pulsar s spin axis with the orbital angular momentum over time . in this case would need to have its dipole axis at @xmath32 , and therefore we will continue to view independent of geodetic precession .",
    "an interesting question is whether the torque of the wind can misalign the dipole while aligning the spin .",
    "the full history of the evolution of the system and the dueling magnetospheric winds remains to be written . in its infancy",
    "might have had a short spin period and strong magnetic field .",
    "if so , then the early wind from could have dominated the magnetosphere and altered its spin and magnetic dipole .",
    "our polarimetric observations indidate that pulsar * a * s spin and magnetic axes are nearly aligned .",
    "this leads us to consider two possible mechanisms for the variability of with orbital phase  ( 1 ) a pole to equator asymmetry of the wind , and ( 2 ) a rotational asymmetry of the force balance radius of the magnetosphere as it adjusts to the wind .",
    "the interaction also contributes to the spin - down torque on the pulsar which may also lead to alignment of the spin and orbital momentum vectors .",
    "geodetic precession will provide an important means of separating the relative importance of the various effects in the coming years .",
    "theoretical calculations are underway to explore these ideas quantitatively .",
    "we thank the gbt staff , and in particular carl bignell , frank ghigo , glen langston and karen oneil , for extensive help with the observations and very useful discussions .",
    "we thank the initial investigators of the j0737 - 3039 system for propagating news of this wonderful discovery in advance of publication .",
    "we thank the organizers of the 2004 january aspen center for physics workshop for providing time to present these results that were developed prior to and indepently of the meeting .",
    "arons , j.a . , spitkovsky , a. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , in preparation backer , d.c . ,",
    "wong , t. & valanju , j. 2000 , apj , 543 , 740 burgay , m. , damico , n. , possenti , a. et al .",
    "2003 , nature , 426 , 531 camilo , f. , stairs , i. h. , lorimer , d. r. et al .",
    "2002 , apj , 571 , 41 kaspi , v. , ransom , s. , backer , d. c. et al .",
    "2004 , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/0401614 ) lyne , a. g. , burgay , m. , kramer , m. et al .",
    "2004 , science , in press ( astro - ph/0401086 ) nice , d.j . ,",
    "splaver , e.m . & stairs , i.h .",
    "2001 , apj , 549 , 516 radhakrishnan , v. , cooke , d. 1969 , apl , 3 , 225 ramachandran , r. , backer , d. c. , demorest , p. et al .",
    "2004 , in preparation"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report here the first polarimetric measurements of the pulsars in the j07373039 binary neutron star system using the green bank telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude both that the primary star ( ) has a wide hollow cone of emission , which is an expected characteristic of the relatively open magnetosphere given its short spin period , and that has a small angle between its spin and magnetic dipole axes , @xmath0 degrees . </S>",
    "<S> this near alignment of axes suggests that s wind pressure on s magnetosphere will depend on orbital phase . </S>",
    "<S> this variable pressure is one mechanism for the variation of flux and profile shape of with respect to the orbital phase that has been reported . </S>",
    "<S> the response of to the wind pressure will also depend on the particular side of its magnetosphere facing the wind at the spin phase when is visible . </S>",
    "<S> this is a second possible mechanism for variability . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that may have its spin axis aligned with the orbital angular momentum owing to s wind torque that contributes to its spindown . monitoring the pulsars while geodetic precession changes spin orientations will provide essential evidence to test detailed theoretical models . </S>",
    "<S> we determine the rotation measures of the two stars to be @xmath1 and @xmath2 rad m@xmath3 . </S>"
  ]
}