{
  "article_text": [
    "shell - type supernova remnants ( snr ) have long been considered as prime candidates for accelerating cosmic rays up to at least 100  tev , but until recently , this statement was only supported by indirect evidence , namely non - thermal x - ray emission interpreted as synchrotron radiation from very - high - energy ( vhe ) electrons in a few objects  @xcite . a more direct proof is provided by the emission of high - energy gamma - rays produced either by inverse compton ( ic ) scattering of high - energy electrons on ambient photons or by nuclear interactions of high - energy protons or ions in the interstellar medium and subsequent @xmath2 meson decays . however , in the @xmath3 energy range , the energetic gamma - ray experiment telescope ( egret ) onboard the compton gamma - ray observatory could not provide an unambiguous detection of a shell - type snr , due to its poor angular resolution and to the difficulty of separating signals of extended objects from the diffuse galactic gamma - ray background . in the very - high - energy range ( @xmath4 200 gev ) on the other hand , the situation is more favorable @xcite : recent imaging atmospheric cherenkov telescopes have achieved angular resolutions of the order of a few arc minutes and the diffuse background is expected to decrease more rapidly with energy than the gamma - ray signal .",
    "the first confirmed gamma - ray signal from a shell - type snr was that of rx  j1713.7 - 3946 detected by the cangaroo - i and cangaroo - ii experiments  @xcite as well as by the h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration  @xcite .",
    "the latter experiment provided the first detailed morphological and spectral study of this source  @xcite .",
    "a second shell - type supernova remnant , rx  j0852.0 - 4622 ( also named g266.2 - 1.2 ) , was recently detected by cherenkov telescopes : the announcement of a signal from the north - western part by the cangaroo collaboration  @xcite was shortly followed by the publication of a complete gamma - ray map of this object by the h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration  @xcite , making it the largest extended source ( 2@xmath5 angular diameter ) ever resolved by a cherenkov telescope .",
    "this previous h.e.s.s .",
    "result was obtained from a short observation campaign ( 3.2 hours ) in 2004 . in this article , we present the results of much longer observations of this source in 2005 ( @xmath6 20 hours ) with the full h.e.s.s . array .",
    "+ rx  j0852.0 - 4622 is located in the south - eastern corner of the vela snr and its study in x - rays as well as in radio is complicated by the superposition of the highly structured emission of the vela remnant .",
    "its discovery in the rosat all - sky survey  @xcite relied on the restriction to energies greater than 1.3  kev where the signal stands out above the soft thermal emission from the vela snr . in x - rays , rx  j0852.0 - 4622 appears as a roughly circular disk with a diameter of 2@xmath5 with a brightening towards the north - western , western and south - eastern rims . since its discovery",
    ", its distance and age have been a matter of controversy .",
    "low values of these quantities have been inferred from the detection by comptel  @xcite of the 1.157  mev gamma - ray line of @xmath7ca due to the decay chain @xmath7ti@xmath8sc@xmath8ca characterized by the @xmath7ti lifetime , whose average value , based on measurements by independent groups , is @xmath9  years @xcite .",
    "on the basis of the @xmath7ti yield and of the x - ray diameter , an age of @xmath6 680 yr and a distance of @xmath6 200  pc , thus close to that of the vela remnant , was proposed  @xcite .",
    "it should be noted that this result was obtained by adopting a mean expansion velocity of 5000  km  s@xmath10 based on the assumption of a purely thermal x - ray spectrum .",
    "however , further observations of the brightest parts of the shell by asca  @xcite , xmm - newton  @xcite and chandra  @xcite demonstrated the non - thermal nature of the x - ray emission . in this framework , different models interpreting the x - ray spectrum yield absorbing column densities for rx  j0852.0 - 4622 significantly larger than that of the vela snr .",
    "moreover , the significance level of the @xmath7ti yield was later questioned in a reanalysis of comptel data  @xcite .",
    "the sc - k emission at about 4  kev expected from the @xmath7ti yield is also controversial : evidence for this line was first claimed from asca sis0 data  @xcite , but not confirmed by sis1 data from which only an upper limit could be deduced  @xcite , whereas a detection at the 4  @xmath11 level was obtained from xmm - newton data  @xcite .",
    "the doubt on the detection of the @xmath7ca and @xmath7sc lines thus affects the interpretation of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 as a young and close - by supernova remnant .",
    "+ in contrast , on the basis of the absorbing column density deduced from the x - ray spectrum ,  @xcite argue in favor of a distance much larger than 200  pc , with the restriction that the remnant be in front of the vela molecular ridge .",
    "otherwise , this concentration of giant molecular clouds , revealed by co data and located at a distance of @xmath6 12  kpc , should produce significant absorption in x - rays in the eastern rim of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 at a level which is not observed .",
    "new estimates of the age and distance of this source were recently proposed by  @xcite , on the basis of the observation of very thin hard x - ray filaments in the north - western edge with the high angular resolution of the chandra satellite . using an empirical relation  @xcite between the filament width on the downstream side of the shock @xmath12 , the roll - off frequency @xmath13 of the synchrotron spectrum and the snr age",
    ", the authors derive an age in the range of @xmath14  yr and a distance of @xmath15  kpc .",
    "+ the possible presence of a compact remnant of the supernova explosion at the center of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 , first suggested from rosat observations  @xcite , was confirmed by beppo - sax  @xcite and chandra  @xcite ; if this object is interpreted as a neutron star , as proposed by  @xcite , rx  j0852.0 - 4622 would be the remnant of a core - collapse supernova .",
    "the absorbing column density obtained from the spectrum of this central object is also significantly higher  @xcite than those measured for the vela remnant , supporting larger distances as suggested by  @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite recently interpreted the radio counterpart of the central object as due to a planetary nebula ; therefore , rx  j0852.0 - 4622 may also be the result of a thermonuclear explosion .",
    "+ to summarize , there remains a large uncertainty on the distance of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 ; this object could be as close as the vela snr ( @xmath6 290  pc ) and possibly in interaction with vela , or as far as the vela molecular ridge ( @xmath6 1  kpc ) .",
    "even the nature of the explosion of the progenitor remains unclear .",
    "in addition , the superposition of the vela snr and rx  j0852.0 - 4622 makes the interpretation of radio and x - ray data difficult . on the other hand , due to its very weak radio - emission  @xcite and to the non - thermal nature of its x - ray spectrum , rx",
    "j0852.0 - 4622 shows remarkable similarities with rx  j1713 - 3946 , also detected in the very - high - energy range .",
    "+ this article is organized as follows . in section 2 , the main characteristics of the h.e.s.s .",
    "telescope array are reviewed and the rx  j0852.0 - 4622 data set is described .",
    "section 3 is devoted to the analysis method ( gamma - ray selection , angular resolution and spectral resolution ) .",
    "results on the gamma - ray morphology of the source are given in section 4 , whereas section 5 is concerned with the spectral analysis .",
    "section 6 reviews and summarises observations relevant to the multiwavelength study of this object , in particular from the x - ray and radio bands .",
    "section 7 attempts to derive some general constraints on the energetics and emission mechanisms in this source , sections 8 and 9 then discuss the electronic and hadronic scenarios respectively and finally in section 10 we draw some general conclusions .",
    "h.e.s.s . is an array of four 13 m diameter imaging cherenkov telescopes located in the khomas highlands in namibia , 1800  m above sea level  @xcite .",
    "each telescope has a tesselated mirror with an area of 107  m@xmath16  @xcite and is equipped with a camera comprising 960 photomultipliers  @xcite covering a field of view of 5@xmath5 diameter . during the observations , an array level hardware trigger requires each shower to be observed by at least two telescopes within a coincidence window of 60  ns  @xcite . due to the efficient rejection of hadronic showers provided by stereoscopy",
    ", the complete system ( operational since december 2003 ) can detect point sources at flux levels of about 1% of the crab nebula flux near zenith with a significance of 5  @xmath11 in 25 hours of observation .",
    "this high sensitivity , the angular resolution of a few arc minutes and the large field of view make h.e.s.s . ideally suited for the study of the gamma - ray morphology of extended sources .",
    "the region of the supernova remnant rx  j0852.0 - 4622 was observed with the complete h.e.s.s .",
    "array between december 2004 and may 2005 for a total observation time of 33 hours of on - source runs .",
    "the data were recorded in runs of typical 28 minute duration in the so - called `` wobble mode '' , where the source is offset from the center of the field of view .",
    "the offset angles both in right ascension and declination ( @xmath170.7@xmath5 , @xmath171.1@xmath5 and @xmath171.56@xmath5 ) were chosen in order to provide a full coverage of this widely extended supernova remnant . in order to reduce systematic effects due to varying observational conditions ,",
    "quality selection criteria were applied on a run - by - run basis resulting in a total of 20 hours of high - quality data at zenith angles between 20@xmath5 and 50@xmath5 ( with an average of 30@xmath5 ) .",
    "the energy threshold of the system increases with the zenith angle : for the observations presented here , the average threshold was around 250 gev .",
    "the data were calibrated as described in detail in  @xcite . in a first stage ,",
    "a standard image cleaning was applied to shower images to remove the contamination due to the night sky background .",
    "several independent analysis methods are used within the h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration  @xcite to cross - check all results .",
    "the results presented in this paper were obtained using a 3d - modeling of the light - emitting region of an electromagnetic air shower , a method referred to as `` the 3d - model analysis ''  @xcite .",
    "all results were verified and confirmed using the standard h.e.s.s .",
    "analysis described in detail in  @xcite .",
    "we briefly recall the main characteristics of these methods :    * the standard stereoscopic analysis is based on the hillas parameters of shower images  @xcite .",
    "the incident direction as well as the shower impact on the ground are reconstructed from the image axes , whereas parameters directly related to the widths and lengths of the images ( mean reduced scaled width and mean reduced scaled length ) are used for gamma - hadron separation .",
    "the gamma - ray energy is estimated from the image intensity taking into account the reconstructed shower geometry , in particular the impact distance .",
    "the performance of this analysis method as applied to extended sources can be found in  @xcite . * in the 3d - model analysis , the cherenkov light emitted by a shower is modeled in the following way : the photon origins ( photosphere ) are distributed according to a 3d - gaussian law and their directions are assumed to follow an anisotropic angular distribution , with the overall requirement of rotational symmetry characteristic of an electromagnetic shower .",
    "the expected number of cherenkov photons collected by each phototube of a given telescope is then calculated by integrating the light yield over the corresponding line of sight .",
    "a comparison of the observed images to the expected ones by means of a maximum likelihood method allows to reject a large fraction of hadronic showers , namely those which are not compatible with rotational symmetry . an additional discrimination between gamma - rays and hadrons is provided by the lateral spread of the photosphere ( or 3d - width ) obtained from the likelihood fit . in practice",
    ", we use a dimensionless parameter directly related to this quantity , the `` reduced 3d - width '' , whose distribution is almost zenith angle independent .",
    "the energy @xmath18 of the primary gamma - ray is then reconstructed calorimetrically from the number of cherenkov photons obtained from the fit .",
    "a complete review of the performance of this analysis method is given in  @xcite .",
    "for the generation of the excess skymaps for rx  j0852.0 - 4622 , two different methods of background subtraction have been applied .",
    "the first one is classic : the background level is estimated from off - source runs , observing sky regions without any gamma - ray sources in the field of view .",
    "for this purpose , 20 hours of off runs taken at similar zenith angles are used .",
    "all events passing the gamma - ray cuts of the different analysis methods , i.e. gamma - ray like background events , are used to estimate the background .",
    "the second method of background subtraction is more recent and is called the `` weighting method ''  @xcite . in this method , the signal and the background are estimated simultaneously in the same portion of the sky . in each sky bin",
    "( treated independently ) , the signal and the background are estimated from those events originating from this bin exclusively .",
    "each event is characterized by a discriminating parameter , the reduced 3d - width defined above .",
    "since its distribution is fairly different for gamma - rays and hadrons , the respective numbers in each population are derived by a likelihood fit .",
    "therefore , no cut on the reduced 3d - width is necessary .",
    "the advantage of these background subtraction methods is that no assumption on the gamma - ray content in the field of view is necessary .",
    "the bin size used in this analysis is 0.05@xmath19",
    "@xmath20 0.05@xmath19 .",
    "the images were further smoothed by a gaussian distribution with a standard deviation of 0.06@xmath19 to reduce the statistical fluctuations .",
    "this procedure was chosen in order to match the h.e.s.s .",
    "angular resolution and the binning of the images .",
    "the resulting excess maps are in units of integrated excess counts per gaussian sigma of the smoothing function .      in the study of the morphology of an extended source , one of the major objectives",
    "is to have the best possible angular resolution . in an array such as h.e.s.s . including 4 telescopes placed in a square formation",
    ", events triggering 4 telescopes are concentrated in the central region of the array , whereas events triggering 2 telescopes , being peripheral , are not so accurately reconstructed as the central ones .",
    "therefore , to obtain a high angular resolution ( of the order of 0.06@xmath19 ) , one can restrict the analysis to events triggering at least 3 telescopes , which also further reduces the hadronic background .",
    "the excess skymap in figure  [ fig::velajr_34tels ] shows the gamma - ray image of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 in a @xmath21 field of view , obtained with the 3d - model and the weighting method by keeping only 3 and 4 telescope events .",
    "the gamma - ray content in this skymap presents a much higher statistics than the one obtained with the h.e.s.s .",
    "dataset from february 2004  @xcite .",
    "the significance is about @xmath22 with an excess of @xmath23 events , keeping all events inside a radius of @xmath24 around the center of the remnant . in order to explore the robustness of the result",
    ", the data set was analyzed using the same calibration and analysis method but applying different sets of cuts , which resulted in different resolutions and statistics , all results being compatible with each other . additionally , the morphology was cross - checked using the standard analysis method for the reconstruction and the on - off method for the background subtraction . the comparison of the results obtained by the 2 methods in a region of @xmath25 radius around the center of the supernova remnant yields a correlation coefficient of @xmath26 .",
    "these tests show that the gamma - ray morphology of the remnant remains consistent when analyzed with different sets of cuts or with different background subtraction methods . + the morphology appearing from the excess skymap in figure  [ fig::velajr_34tels ] reveals a very thin shell of 1@xmath19 radius and @xmath60.2@xmath19 thickness .",
    "it shows several bright regions in the north , north - western and south - eastern parts of the supernova remnant .",
    "another feature is the remarkably circular general shape of this shell , even if the southern part shows a more broken ( non - uniform ) structure than the northern one .",
    "this regular morphology resembles very much the image that one would expect from a homogeneously emitting shell . in order to investigate the projection effect of the 3d - source into a 2d - skymap ,",
    "a simple geometrical model ( `` toy model '' ) of a thin and homogeneous shell has been used and adapted to the data . after calculating the projection ,",
    "the obtained skymap is smoothed according to the average point spread function in this dataset .",
    "the radial profiles ( i.e the number of events per unit solid angle as a function of the distance to the center of the remnant ) obtained with the `` toy - model '' for different values of the shell thickness are then fitted to those obtained from h.e.s.s .",
    "data ( restricting to 3 and 4 telescopes events ) in the northern part of the remnant ( declination higher than @xmath27 ) which exhibits a clear shell as seen on the gamma - ray excess map . for each value of the shell thickness ,",
    "the only parameter of the fit is the outer radius of the shell .",
    "figure  [ fig::radprof_toymodel ] shows that the bright shell observed by h.e.s.s .",
    "is well reproduced by the simple geometrical model . in figure",
    "[ fig::radprof_toymodel ] , the remarkable point to note is the small value of the shell thickness giving the best fit : it is equal to @xmath28 of the radius of the remnant and between 12.5@xmath29 and 22.5@xmath29 at 95% confidence level .",
    "this contrasts with rx  j1713.7 - 3946 , another shell - type supernova remnant resolved by h.e.s.s . , in which the shell thickness that best suited the data was about",
    "45@xmath29 of the radius of the remnant .",
    "this good match of the toy model and the h.e.s.s .",
    "data clearly shows that the gamma - ray emission detected comes from a thin shell .",
    "figures  [ fig::velajr_inf500gev ] and [ fig::velajr_sup500gev ] show the morphology of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 in two distinct energy bands , e@xmath300.5 tev and e@xmath40.5 tev , keeping only events triggering at least 3 telescopes .",
    "the two energy bands were chosen in order to have approximately the same statistics in both datasets . clearly , the morphology of the remnant is the same in the two energy bands .",
    "the overall radial profile in the two energy bands shown in figure  [ fig::energyband_radprof ] confirms that the morphology does not vary significantly with energy .",
    "for the spectral analysis , the source region ( on region ) is defined by a circle of 1@xmath19 radius centered on the position ( @xmath31 = 8@xmath3252@xmath33 , @xmath34 = @xmath3522 ) . in the study of a point - like source , the restricted selection of events due to the knowledge of the exact gamma - ray origin and the reduced offsets of the source from the center of the camera",
    "improve the energy resolution .",
    "however , in the present case , these two characteristics are lost , which results in an average energy resolution @xmath36e / e @xmath6 25@xmath29 for the 3d - model , slightly larger than for a point - like source . the energy resolution can be improved by restricting to 3 and 4 telescope events at the expense of a smaller statistics ( but with the same statistical significance ) . in this study ,",
    "the two possibilities ( restricting or not to 3 and 4 telescope events ) were used in order to verify the stability of our results .",
    "+ the spectral analysis requires selection criteria slightly different from those of the morphological study .",
    "two cuts were applied independently of the telescope multiplicity : a cut on the reduced 3d - width and a cut on the image size at 80 photoelectrons .",
    "all events passing the cuts and with reconstructed direction within a region of 1@xmath19 radius from the center of the remnant are considered as on events .",
    "+ for the background estimation , off events were selected from the same field of view and in the same runs as the on events by selecting the region symmetric to the on region with respect to the camera center ( `` mirrored background '' ) .",
    "a minimum distance of 0.1@xmath19 between the two regions is required in order to avoid any gamma - ray contamination in the off data .",
    "this approach ensures that background events are taken at the same zenith angle and offset angles as the on events , which is crucial because of the strong dependence of the effective area upon these two quantities .",
    "+ the energy spectrum of the gamma - ray excess is then obtained by the method of  @xcite . in this method ,",
    "an a priori spectral shape is assumed , whose parameters are obtained by fitting the expected distribution to the reconstructed energy distribution . in this procedure ,",
    "gamma - ray acceptances and resolutions calculated from simulations are taken into account .",
    "+ the differential energy spectrum thus obtained is shown in figure  [ fig::velajr_spec_pl ] .",
    "it extends from 300 gev up to 20 tev .",
    "the spectral parameters were obtained from a maximum likelihood fit of a power law hypothesis dn / de = @xmath37  @xmath38 to the data , resulting in an integral flux above 1 tev of ( @xmath39 ) @xmath20 @xmath40 and a spectral index of 2.24 @xmath41 .",
    "the present data include much more statistics especially at high energy than the previous h.e.s.s .",
    "measurement  @xcite and a slight deviation from a pure power law can be seen in figure  [ fig::velajr_spec_pl ] .",
    "this can explain that the average spectral index is slightly higher than the one from the previous measurement : @xmath42 . to confirm this spectrum , two other estimates of the spectrum of the whole remnant",
    "were obtained by using other techniques . these checks",
    "ensure that the systematics introduced by the spectral analysis technique or by the background estimation are small .",
    "for these tests , the standard analysis method was applied by using a cut on the `` scaled parameters '' and on the image size at 80 photoelectrons . in figure",
    "[ fig::velajr_allana ] , two different estimates of the spectrum are superimposed to the one obtained with the 3d - model .",
    "one was computed by using the same background estimation with a mirror region and the other by using a background estimation based on off runs taken at similar zenith angles .",
    "all spectra are compatible with each other and all show an indication of deviation from a power - law at high energy .",
    "asca archival data of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 were used to study the non - thermal emission of the remnant in the x - ray band .",
    "figure  [ fig : asca_fov ] shows the asca gis  ( gis2 and 3 ) mosaic image of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 in the @xmath43@xmath44  kev energy band  @xcite obtained by using seven distinct pointings  ( n1n7 ) which almost cover the entire remnant .",
    "standard quality criteria ( screening procedures ) were applied to asca gis data , and spectra were extracted from the seven non - overlapping regions shown in figure  [ fig : asca_fov ] . since the soft thermal emission from the vela snr foreground is spatially variable , background spectra were produced by using blank sky event files , which are considered to contain both non x - ray background and cosmic x - ray background , except for the central pointing  ( n2 ) . for this region , due to different observation conditions , the background spectrum was extracted from large sky survey  ( lss ) data observed during the asca pv phase  @xcite . to derive the spectral parameters ,",
    "the emission was modeled with two components .",
    "a thermal model was used to account for the soft thermal emission from the vela snr , with a column density fixed at @xmath45  @xcite and a temperature of @xmath46(low ) @xmath47  kev , typical values for vela(low ) and @xmath48(vela ) . ] .",
    "an absorbed power law was used for the hard emission .",
    "a simultaneous spectral fitting was performed with both gis instruments from @xmath43 up to @xmath49kev .",
    "figure  [ fig : asca_specn1 ] shows the spectrum extracted from region n1 with the best - fit models ; it exhibits some line - like feature below @xmath50  kev , which originates from thermal emission from the vela snr and/or rx  j0852.0 - 4622 .",
    "the resulting spectral parameters of the fit are the photon index , @xmath51 , the column density for the non - thermal component , @xmath52 and the high temperature of the vela snr thermal component , @xmath46(high)=0.56@xmath53kev .",
    "these values are well consistent with previous results  ( slane et al .",
    "2001 ; iyudin et al . 2005 ; bamba et al .",
    "the derived non - thermal flux from region n1 in the 210kev energy band is 1.87@xmath54 while the thermal flux is @xmath630 times smaller than the non - thermal flux in 210kev band .",
    "some residuals are still visible around 1  kev and suggest that another thermal component , which might originate from rx  j0852.0 - 4622 , is needed . for the other six regions ,",
    "spectra have been fitted with the same procedure as described above .",
    "the resultant photon indices are between 2.5 and 2.8 and the total flux for the seven regions is 8.3@xmath55 ( @xmath50@xmath56  kev ) .",
    "all errors described in this section are statistical and given at 90% confidence level .",
    "the systematic error on the flux implied by the procedure has been estimated as follows : the error due to the uncertainty in the instrumental response is @xmath1710% and the one due to the uncertainty on the surface brightness variation in rx  j0852.0 - 4622 is @xmath1720% .",
    "figure  [ fig::velajr_rosat ] presents the gamma - ray excess map obtained by h.e.s.s . with the superimposed contours of the x - ray data from the rosat",
    "all sky survey .",
    "the overall gamma - ray morphology seems to be similar to the one seen in the x - ray band , especially in the northern part of the remnant where a brightening is seen in both wavebands .",
    "the correlation coefficient between the gamma - ray and the x - ray counts in bins of 0.2@xmath19 @xmath20 0.2@xmath19 is found to be equal to 0.60 and between 0.54 and 0.67 at 95@xmath29 confidence level .",
    "the use of asca data gives a similar result .",
    "the data of the various instruments were then compared to each other in six different sectors defined in figure  [ fig::asca_camembert ] . in each region , the radial profiles were determined .",
    "a binning of 0.1@xmath19 for the radial profiles was used ; this value , larger than the point spread function of each instrument , allows to safely compare their data .",
    "all the radial profiles were normalized to unity .",
    "the results of this study are shown in figure  [ fig::radprof_xray ] .",
    "one should note that , due to an incomplete coverage of the snr in regions 4 , 5 and 6 , the asca data are not reliable at distances larger than @xmath57 degree in these regions and were thus not included ; this incomplete coverage is visible in figure  [ fig::asca_camembert ] .",
    "the different radial profiles are in good agreement with each other in all regions",
    ". differences between x - rays and tev gamma - rays seem to appear mainly in region 3 where a peak is seen only in the tev regime .",
    "unfortunately , as the asca data are incomplete and the rosat data are contaminated by the vela snr , a more quantitative conclusion ( for example on the question of the boundaries of the snr ) can not be drawn .",
    "mosaic observations of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 with the australian telescope compact array ( atca ) were undertaken in november 1999 at frequencies of 1384 mhz and 2496 mhz  @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig::atca ] is a mosaic image of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 obtained from 110 pointings at 1384 mhz .",
    "the image suffers from sidelobes originating from the strong radio source ctb 31 ( rcw 38 ) . a certain similarity between the h.e.s.s .",
    "image ( figure  [ fig::velajr_34tels ] ) and the radio image of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 ( figure  [ fig::atca ] ) can be noticed at first glance .",
    "the overall morphology appears to be similar : many features seen in the tev skymap coincide well with the radio image , such as the bright region in the northern part of the shell and the central filamentary structures inside the snr .",
    "indeed , a high correlation can be seen when superimposing the radio contours to the h.e.s.s .",
    "images , as shown in figure  [ fig::hess_atca ] .",
    "the atca contours directly match the structures from the h.e.s.s .",
    "skymap and the features obtained inside the remnant are also well reproduced .",
    "co data at 2.6 mm wavelength of the region of the vela molecular ridge and its surroundings were taken with the 4-m , mm and sub - mm telescope nanten in 1999  @xcite .",
    "figure  [ fig::fikui ] shows the integrated molecular column density derived from co data , in the rx  j0852.0 - 4622 region .",
    "a high density is clearly visible in the eastern part of the remnant ( which corresponds to regions 3 and 4 defined in figure  [ fig::asca_camembert ] ) due to the presence of the vela molecular ridge ( vmr ) .",
    "unfortunately , in region 4 , uncertainties concerning the x - ray data ( incomplete coverage and contamination by the vela snr foreground ) preclude any firm conclusion concerning a possible anti - correlation with the co data . on the other hand , no clear evidence of interaction between very high energy particles and the vmr",
    "is seen in the h.e.s.s .",
    "data since the gamma - ray flux does not vary by more than a factor of 2 from the eastern to the western sides , whereas the molecular column density drops by a factor of @xmath620 .",
    "figure  [ fig::correl_co_hess ] shows the correlation coefficient between the co and the h.e.s.s .",
    "data calculated in different intervals of distance varying from @xmath58 to 3.2 kpc , in the 6 regions defined previously .",
    "distances were estimated by using a galactic rotation model  @xcite .",
    "no clear correlation can be seen in this figure  [ fig::correl_co_hess ] .",
    "as stated above , the parameters of the supernova remnant rx  j0852.0 - 4622 are not well known , in particular its age and its distance .",
    "indeed , the remnant could be as close as the vela snr ( @xmath59  pc ) and very young , or as far as the vela molecular ridge ( @xmath60  kpc ) .",
    "this leads to a change in the prediction of the x - ray or gamma - ray luminosity by a factor 25 according to the assumed distance .",
    "however , beside the distance , other observational characteristics of the remnant provide some helpful constraints .",
    "the analysis of asca data enabled  @xcite to derive a limit on the thermal content of the remnant emission and therefore a limit on the density @xmath61 of the thermally emitting material in the remnant . using the assumption of thermal equilibrium ,",
    "the limit obtained is @xmath62 , where @xmath63 is the filling factor of a sphere taken as the emitting volume in the region chosen .",
    "it should be noted that this limit is restricted to a gas with temperature above 1  kev because of the contribution of the thermal emission from the vela snr at lower energies ; higher densities of cooler material are thus not excluded .",
    "furthermore , if the shocks are strongly modified by the accelerated particles , the shock heating is substantially reduced and the x - ray data could be consistent with higher densities",
    ". another important piece of information comes from the measured width of the filaments observed by the chandra satellite .",
    "if we assume that these filaments are due to the outer shock , their width determines the downstream magnetic field @xmath64 .",
    "the thickness of the filament observed by chandra in the 2 - 10  kev energy band is : @xmath65 .",
    "this led  @xcite to suggest a value of @xmath66 for a distance of 300  pc . the field evaluation based on the work of  @xcite",
    "gives values @xmath67 .",
    "such values imply that the magnetic field is highly amplified . finally , the morphological analysis of the h.e.s.s .",
    "data sets an upper limit on the thickness of the shell @xmath68% of the radius of the supernova remnant . for electrons , which rapidly lose their energy by synchrotron and inverse compton radiation , the",
    "escape time out of the shell into the remnant interior ( by diffusion and convection ) should be larger than the characteristic time of energy losses .",
    "otherwise , their interactions with photons from the cosmic microwave background would lead to a gamma - ray emission region more extended than that observed by h.e.s.s .. for protons , for which the time scale for energy losses is longer , the escape time must be larger than the age of the supernova remnant .",
    "the characteristic escape time of particles is calculated with the formula @xmath69 , @xmath70 being the diffusive escape time in the bohm diffusion regime and @xmath71 the convective escape time .",
    "the diffusive escape time is given by @xmath72 with @xmath73 the diffusion coefficient for @xmath74  tev particles and @xmath75 the upper limit on the width of the shell as resolved by h.e.s.s . ; the convective escape time is given by @xmath76 with @xmath77 the flow velocity into the interior in the shock frame , as derived from  @xcite and reported in table  [ tab : evol3 ] .",
    "this allows us to calculate a lower limit on the magnetic field @xmath78 , reported in table  [ tab : evol3 ] , in order to confine particles of @xmath79 within the thin shell resolved by h.e.s.s .. however , it should be noted that the shell thickness in the case of a proton model also reflects the thickness of the gas target and is not necessarily a good indicator of thickness of the zone filled by accelerated particles ( unlike the electron case where the cmb radiation provides a uniform target ) .",
    "nevertheless the condition that the acceleration time scale associated with 100 tev particles be less than the age of the remnant , or the equivalent condition that the associated diffusion length scales be small compared to the shock radius , lead , within factors of order unity , to identical lower limits on the magnetic field strength .",
    ".magnetic field @xmath78 , total energy of accelerated protons @xmath80 , efficiency and age of the supernova remnant ( assuming an energy explosion of @xmath81 ) for different values of distance @xmath82 , density of the medium @xmath83 and ejected mass @xmath84 . for the latter ,",
    "we have chosen two possible values for rx  j0852.0 - 4622 : @xmath85 which is typical for snia and @xmath86 as an average value for snii .",
    "@xmath78 is the lower limit on the magnetic field allowing to confine particles of @xmath87 in the thin shell resolved by h.e.s.s .. it has been calculated from the value of the shock velocity @xmath88 indicated in this table as derived from  @xcite .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      another constraint comes from the broadband spectral energy distribution ( from radio to gamma - rays ) as interpreted by a model of emission processes taking place in the supernova remnant .",
    "the objective is to constrain parameters like the magnetic field , the density of the medium and the injection spectrum of the primary particles , thanks to a multi - wavelength study .      the gamma - ray spectrum obtained by analyzing the h.e.s.s .",
    "data is well described by a power - law with a photon index of @xmath89 : @xmath90 this flux can be translated into a global energy flux @xmath91 between 1 and 10  tev by using the formula : @xmath92 which corresponds to a @xmath93-ray luminosity @xmath94 .",
    "if one assumes that the gamma - ray flux is entirely due to proton - proton interactions , we can estimate the total energy @xmath95 of accelerated protons in the range @xmath96  tev required to produce this gamma - ray luminosity . in this energy range , the characteristic cooling time of protons through the @xmath2 production channel is approximately independent of the energy and can be estimated by  @xcite : @xmath97 .",
    "thus:@xmath98 assuming that the proton spectrum continues down to @xmath99  gev with the same spectral slope as that of the photon spectrum , the total energy injected into protons is estimated to be : @xmath100 values of @xmath80 are reported in table  [ tab : evol3 ] for different distances and densities of the ambient medium .",
    "+ the x - ray spectral analysis of the whole remnant in the 2 - 10 kev energy band was presented in section  [ lab : asca ] : the non - thermal spectrum is well described by a power - law with a spectral index of @xmath101 and a flux @xmath102 .",
    "the fluxes at 1.40  ghz and 2.42  ghz were taken from the analysis of the parkes data by  @xcite .",
    "later on , we shall use these multi - wavelength measurements when comparing the h.e.s.s .",
    "spectral data to broadband models .      in the simple model used here",
    ", we assume that primary particles ( protons and electrons ) are injected at a constant rate with the same spectral shape , namely a power - law with an exponential cut - off at the energy @xmath18 , into a spherical shell of fixed thickness @xmath75 . as seen previously , the h.e.s.s .",
    "data require @xmath68% of the remnant radius .",
    "the injection is supposed to last a time t ( the age of the supernova remnant ) in a region of magnetic field @xmath103 and ambient density @xmath83 .",
    "the electron to proton ratio @xmath104 is a free parameter .",
    "the energy distribution of the electrons is calculated at a fixed time @xmath105 by taking into account energy losses due to synchrotron radiation , inverse compton scattering and bremsstrahlung , while the proton spectrum is calculated by taking into account the escape out of the shell by diffusion ( in the bohm diffusion regime ) and convection , as described in section  [ lab : cons ] .",
    "adiabatic losses are neglected .",
    "the broadband spectrum of the source is then derived by taking into account p - p interactions , synchrotron radiation ( of primary and of secondary electrons produced via p - p interactions ) , inverse compton scattering and bremsstrahlung . concerning the energy density of the target photons in the inverse compton process , we added the contribution of the cosmic microwave background , @xmath106 , and that of the galactic seed photons , namely on average : @xmath107 for the optical star light and @xmath108 for the infra - red background @xcite .",
    "+ it is clear that such a model oversimplifies the acceleration process in an expanding remnant , as discussed by e.g.  @xcite and  @xcite . to this",
    "must be added the uncertainties introduced by the dynamics of the ejecta , the nonuniform structure of the ambient medium , and the complexities of the reaction of the accelerated particles on both the magnetic field and the remnant dynamics . however , as a starting point for estimates such a simple model is still , we feel , useful , at least for those cases where the remnant evolution is relatively smooth and the emission is not dominated by relic particles injected and accelerated at earlier times  @xcite .",
    "+ in this study , we explored two different cases of distance ( 200  pc and 1  kpc ) , both for the electronic process ( gamma - rays mainly produced by inverse compton scattering ) and for the hadronic process ( gamma - rays mainly produced by p - p interactions ) . using the free expansion and sedov - taylor phase equations  @xcite , one can easily find that , in the nearby case , the supernova remnant should be very young ( @xmath109  years ) . on the contrary , in the distant case",
    ", the supernova remnant would be rather old ( @xmath110 years ) . in the following scenarios , the total energy injected into the protons",
    "is fixed to @xmath111  erg ( i.e 10% of the energy of explosion of an average supernova ) , and the width of the shell must be smaller than 22.5% of the radius of the remnant . the age of the remnant is assumed to be 500  years at 200  pc and 5000  years at 1  kpc .",
    "the other parameters , namely the characteristics of the injection spectrum ( spectral index and cut - off energy ) , the electron / proton ratio @xmath104 at the injection level , the density of the medium and the magnetic field are free parameters in the fit .",
    "if the tev emission is mainly due to inverse compton scattering , one should note that , independently of the distance assumed , the ratio of the x - ray flux and the gamma - ray flux determines the value of the magnetic field @xmath103 . in the case of rx",
    "j0852.0 - 4622 , assuming that inverse compton emitting electrons are contained in a volume equal to the one responsible for synchrotron emission , one can easily deduce that the magnetic field has to be close to @xmath112 .",
    "figure  [ fig : fitlepton ] a ) shows the best fit obtained , together with the measurements at different wavelengths : the injection spectrum follows a power - law of index 2.4 and an exponential cut - off at 40  tev ; the value of the magnetic field is @xmath113 and the density of the medium should be lower than @xmath114 so that the gamma - ray flux produced by p - p interactions should not be significant .",
    "one can clearly notice that the radio flux predicted by our model is about 3 times larger than the one observed in the radio range by parkes .",
    "even more constraining is the thickness of the shell observed in gamma - rays , which is inconsistent with the observations .",
    "indeed , at 200  pc , our limit on the width of the shell implies @xmath115  pc , which leads to an escape time by diffusion and convection of about 300  years for an ambient density of @xmath114 and an energy of 40  tev . this value is lower than the age of the remnant ( @xmath109  years ) but also lower than the synchrotron loss time of 8700  years .",
    "electrons above @xmath116  tev will escape the shell and thus automatically produce gamma - rays by inverse compton scattering on the cosmic microwave background .",
    "these gamma - rays have on average an energy @xmath117 greater than @xmath118  gev .",
    "therefore , we expect to observe a much thicker shell for @xmath119  gev . the present analysis of h.e.s.s .",
    "data does not show any variation of the morphology of the remnant with the energy , which highly disfavours this scenario .      in the case of a distant object , the magnetic field must also be close to @xmath113 ; the only difference comes from the fact that energy losses are no more negligible since the supernova remnant is older ( @xmath110  years ) .",
    "these energy losses tend to steepen the electron spectrum and , in order to compensate this effect , the cut - off energy has to be increased in comparison to the preceding case .",
    "the parameters of our best fit is an injection spectrum following a power - law with an index of 2.4 , a cut - off energy of 80  tev and an electron / proton ratio @xmath120 ( figure  [ fig : fitlepton ] b ) ) .",
    "the different multi - wavelength data are reasonably reproduced despite a radio flux three times larger than the observational data from parkes .",
    "this last point is not critical since the fit could be improved by including non - linear acceleration effects , which are expected to lead to a steeper rise of the synchrotron sed with frequency above the radio range .",
    "+ in this case , the characteristic time of synchrotron losses is 3700 years for the maximal energy 80  tev , while the age of the snr varies from 4000  years to 9000  years depending on the density of the medium in which it evolves .",
    "one can easily find that the escape time is either larger than the synchrotron loss time or larger than the age of the remnant , and is thus irrelevant in this case .",
    "first , one can see from table  [ tab : evol3 ] that the only way to explain the entire gamma - ray flux by proton - proton interactions in a homogeneous medium is to assume that rx  j0852.0 - 4622 is a nearby supernova remnant ( d @xmath121  pc ) .",
    "indeed , for larger distances and a typical energy of the supernova explosion , the acceleration efficiency would be excessive ( assuming a uniform ambient density compatible with the limit implied by the non - detection of thermal x - rays ) .",
    "nevertheless , a distance of 1  kpc should also be considered if rx  j0852.0 - 4622 is assumed to be the result of a core collapse supernova which exploded inside a bubble created by the wind of a massive progenitor star , as proposed by  @xcite for the snr rx  j1713.7 - 3946 . according to stellar wind theory  @xcite",
    ", the size of the bubble evolves according to the formula : @xmath122  pc . for a density of 1  @xmath123",
    ", the radius of this bubble would be equal to 45  pc . in the case of a close by supernova",
    "remnant , its size would be significantly lower than the size of the bubble and the hypothesis of a homogeneous medium would be satisfactory . on the opposite , for larger distances ( @xmath124  kpc ) , the presence of the vela molecular ridge can produce a sudden increase of the density leading to a smaller bubble ( @xmath125  pc for a density of @xmath126 ) , which would make the proton - proton interactions efficient at the outer shock .",
    "+ in any case , independently of the distance of the remnant , the extension of the h.e.s.s .",
    "spectrum up to 20  tev implies an energy cut - off @xmath18 higher than 100  tev . if we assume that energy losses are negligible over the lifetime of the remnant , the synchrotron spectrum can then be approximated by the formula  @xcite : @xmath127\\ ] ] with @xmath128 this relation implies that the magnetic field should be lower than @xmath129 to obtain a synchrotron peak centered at an energy lower than 2  kev . the gamma - ray flux would then be entirely produced by inverse compton scattering ( as seen previously in the electronic process ) which enables to exclude this situation .",
    "therefore , the magnetic field should be high enough to produce significant energy losses during the lifetime of the remnant @xmath130 ( @xmath109  years ) and create a break in the synchrotron spectrum . refering to  @xcite , to obtain a break at an energy @xmath131 close to @xmath132  kev",
    ", one would need a magnetic field higher than 40  @xmath133 : @xmath134      in this case , our best fit is obtained for an injection spectrum in the form of a power - law with an index of 2.1 , a cut - off at 110  tev and a very low electron / proton ratio of @xmath135 . the density of the medium is 0.2  @xmath136 and the magnetic field amounts to 120  @xmath137 : these two values are compatible with both the limit implied by the absence of thermal x - rays and with the thin filaments resolved by chandra . on the other hand",
    ", one can note in figure  [ fig : fithadron ] a ) that such a model with the above parameters does not provide a good description of the asca data , since the energy losses tend to steepen the electron spectrum .",
    "however , knowing the difficulty of the x - ray spectral analysis , this point can not be used to exclude this scenario .",
    "furthermore , a better agreement could be obtained by simply relaxing the assumption used in the model that electrons and protons have similar injection spectra .      in this last case ,",
    "if the density were low enough as to be compatible with the absence of thermal x - rays , table  [ tab : evol3 ] shows that the values of @xmath80 required to account for the total observed gamma - ray flux exceed the total energy of the supernova explosion assumed in the present calculation or would require an anomalously energetic explosion .",
    "as stated previously , a way out of this difficulty would be to consider the case of a bubble created by the wind of the massive progenitor .",
    "actually , our best fit is obtained for an injection spectrum in the form of a power - law with an index @xmath138 , a cut - off energy at @xmath139  tev and an electron / proton ratio of @xmath140 ( figure  [ fig : fithadron ] b ) ) .",
    "the density of the medium is found to be @xmath141 , which is acceptable in the framework of the bubble scenario .",
    "the magnetic field , @xmath142 , is compatible with the very thin shell resolved by h.e.s.s .. finally , one should note that our model perfectly reproduces the radio and the h.e.s.s .",
    "data , but only approximately the slope coming from the asca spectral analysis .",
    "we have firmly established that the shell - type supernova remnant rx  j0852.0 - 4622 is a tev emitter and for the first time we have resolved its morphology in the gamma - ray range . the thin shell observed by h.e.s.s .",
    "is highly correlated with the emission observed in x - rays with the rosat all - sky survey and asca but is also very similar to the morphology resolved in radio by atca .",
    "the overall gamma - ray energy spectrum extends over two orders of magnitude , providing the direct proof that particles of @xmath143  tev are accelerated at the shock .",
    "there is an indication of deviation from a pure power law at high energy , but the lack of statistics does not enable us to draw any firm conclusions on this point .",
    "this spectrum is very similar to that of the other shell - type supernova remnant resolved by h.e.s.s .",
    ", rx  j1713.7 - 3946 , although the morphology of the latter was very different with a much thicker shell .",
    "+ the question of the nature of the particles producing the gamma - ray signal observed by h.e.s.s . was also addressed . despite the large uncertainty concerning the parameters of rx  j0852.0 - 4622 , the h.e.s.s .",
    "data already give some strong constraints . in the case of a close by remnant ,",
    "the results of the morphological study combined with our spectral modeling highly disfavour the electronic scenario which is unable to reproduce the thin shell observed by h.e.s.s . and the thin filaments resolved by chandra .",
    "the hadronic scenario can approximately reproduce the data at the expense of a very low electron / proton ratio . in the case of a medium distance , the explosion energy needed to explain the gamma - ray flux observed by h.e.s.s .",
    ", taking into account the limit on the density implied by the absence of thermal x - rays , would disfavour the hadronic process . at larger distances , both the electronic and the hadronic scenario are possible , at the expense , for the electronic process , of a low magnetic field of @xmath144 .",
    "such a small magnetic field exceeds typical interstellar values only slightly and is difficult to reconcile with the theory of magnetic field amplification at the region of the shock  @xcite .",
    "+ finally , it appears clearly from figures  [ fig : fitlepton ] and [ fig : fithadron ] , that the flux expected for lower energy gamma - rays ( @xmath145  gev ) for the electronic process ( synchrotron + ic scattering ) or for the hadronic process ( proton - proton interactions ) are significantly different .",
    "the results which should hopefully be obtained by integral , glast or h.e.s.s .",
    "ii will therefore have a great interest for the domain .",
    "the support of the namibian authorities and of the university of namibia in facilitating the construction and operation of h.e.s.s .",
    "is gratefully acknowledged , as is the support by the german ministry for education and research ( bmbf ) , the max planck society , the french ministry for research , the cnrs - in2p3 and the astroparticle interdisciplinary programme of the cnrs , the u.k . particle physics and astronomy research council ( pparc ) , the ipnp of the charles university , the south african department of science and technology and national research foundation , and by the university of namibia .",
    "we appreciate the excellent work of the technical support staff in berlin , durham , hamburg , heidelberg , palaiseau , paris , saclay , and in namibia in the construction and operation of the equipment .",
    "m. filipovic would like to thank milorad stupar for his work on the atca data .",
    "aharonian f. a. , atoyan a.m. , kifune t. , 1997 , mnras , 291 , 162 aharonian f. a. , in very high energy cosmic gamma - ray radiation , world scientific ed . , 2004 ,",
    "aharonian f. a. et al .",
    "( _ h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration _ ) 2004 , nature , 432 , 75 aharonian , f. , et al .",
    "( _ h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration _ ) 2004 , aph , 22 , 109 aharonian , f. , et al .",
    "( _ h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration _ ) 2005b , a&a , 430 , 865 aharonian , f. , et al .",
    "( _ h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration _ ) 2005c , a&a , 437 , l7 aharonian , f. , et al .",
    "( _ h.e.s.s .",
    "collaboration _ ) 2006 , a&a , 449 , 223 aschenbach b. , 1998 , nature , 396 , 141 aschenbach b. , iyudin a. f. & schnfelder v. , 1999 , a&a , 350,997 bamba a. et al .",
    ", 2005a , apj , 621 , 793 bamba a. , yamazaki r. & hiraga j. s. , 2005b , apj , 632 , 294 bell a. r. , lucek s. g. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 433 berezhko e. g. , elshin , v. k. & ksenofontov , l. tl , 1996 , jetph , 82 , 1 berezhko e. g. , vlk h. j. , 2004 , a&a , 419 , l27 berezhko e. g. , vlk h. j. , 2006 , a&a , 451 , 981 bernlhr , k. , et al .",
    "2003 , aph , 20 , 111 brand j. , blitz l. , 2003 , a&a , 275 , 67 chen , w. and gehrels , n. , 1999 , apj , 514 , l103 - 106 chevalier r.a . , liang e.p . , 1989 , apj , 344 , 332 combi j. a. , romero j. e. , benaglia p. , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 519 , l177 duncan a. r. & green d. a. , 2000 , a&a , 364 , 732 drury l. oc . ,",
    "markiewicz , w. j. & vlk , h. j. , 1989 , a&a , 225 , 179 drury l. oc .",
    ", aharonian f. a. & vlk h. , 1994 , a&a , 287 , 959 enomoto r. et al . 2002 , nature 416 , 823 funk , s. , et al .",
    "2004 , aph , 22 , 285 hashimoto , t. , et al .",
    "2001 , nucl",
    "a , 686 , 591 hinton , j.  a. 2004 , newar , 48 , 331 iyudin a. f. et al . , 1998 , nature , 326,142 iyudin a. f. et al . , 2005 , a&a , 429,225 kargaltsev o. et al .",
    "2002 , apj 580 , 1060 katagiri h. et al .",
    ", 2005 , apj , 619 , l163 koyama k. et al . , 1995 ,",
    "nature , 378 , 255 koyama k. et al .",
    ", 1997 , pasj , 49 , l7 lemoine - goumard , m. et al .",
    "2005 , in proceedings of the conference `` towards a network of atmospheric cherenkov detectors vii '' , ed .",
    "b. degrange & g. fontaine ( palaiseau : ecole polytechnique ) , 173 lemoine - goumard , m. , & degrange , b. 2005 , in proceedings of the conference `` towards a network of atmospheric cherenkov detectors vii '' , ed .",
    "b. degrange & g. fontaine ( palaiseau : ecole polytechnique ) , 209 lemoine - goumard , m. , degrange , b. , tluczykont , m. , 2006 , astropart .",
    "phys . , 25 , 195 lu f.j . & aschenbach b. , 2000 .",
    ", 362 , 1083 mathis j.s . ,",
    "mezger p.g .",
    ", panagia n. , 1983 , a&a , 128 , 212 mereghetti s. , 2001 , apj , 548 , l213 moriguchi , y. et al .",
    "2001 , pasj , 53 , 1025 muraishi h. et al . , 2000 ,",
    "a&a , 354 , l57 de naurois , m. , et al .",
    "2005 , in proceedings of the conference `` towards a network of atmospheric cherenkov detectors vii '' , ed .",
    "b. degrange & g. fontaine ( palaiseau : ecole polytechnique ) , 149 pavlov , g. g. , et al . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 559 , l131 piron , f. , 2000 , phd thesis , universit paris xi reynolds , s.p . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 493 , 375 reynoso , e. et al .",
    "2006 , a&a , 449 , 243 schnfelder v. et al .",
    "2000 , in aip conf .",
    "510 , fifth compton symp . ,",
    "m. l. mcconnell & j. m. ryan ( new - york : aip ) , 54 slane p. et al . , 2001 , apj , 548 , 614 stupar , m. et al .",
    "2005 , advances in space research 35 , 1047 truelove j. k. , mckee c. f. , 1999 , apjs , 120 , 299 tsunemi h. et al . , 2000 , pasj , 52 , 887 ueda , y. , takahashi , t. , inoeu , h. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 518 , 656 vincent , p. , et al .",
    "2003 , in proceedings of the 28th international cosmic ray conference , t. kajita et al .",
    "( universal academy press , tokyo , 2003 ) , 2887 yamazaki , r. , kohri , k. , bamba , a. , et al . , 2006 ,",
    "mnras in press , astro - ph/0601704    .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath146 and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath147 .",
    "b ) on the right , the modeling was done by using an injection spectrum in the form of a power - law of index 2.4 , an exponential cut - off at 80  tev and an electron / proton ratio @xmath148 .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath149 , and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath150 .",
    "the parkes data  @xcite in the radio range , the asca data and the h.e.s.s .",
    "data are indicated .",
    "red lines correspond to electrons , and blue lines to protons .",
    "the following processes have been taken into account : synchrotron radiation of primary ( solid red line ) and secondary ( dotted blue line ) electrons , ic scattering ( dotted red line ) , bremsstrahlung ( dotted - dashed red line ) and proton - proton interaction ( solid blue line ) . ]    .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath146 and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath147 .",
    "b ) on the right , the modeling was done by using an injection spectrum in the form of a power - law of index 2.4 , an exponential cut - off at 80  tev and an electron / proton ratio @xmath148 .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath149 , and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath150 .",
    "the parkes data  @xcite in the radio range , the asca data and the h.e.s.s .",
    "data are indicated .",
    "red lines correspond to electrons , and blue lines to protons .",
    "the following processes have been taken into account : synchrotron radiation of primary ( solid red line ) and secondary ( dotted blue line ) electrons , ic scattering ( dotted red line ) , bremsstrahlung ( dotted - dashed red line ) and proton - proton interaction ( solid blue line ) . ]    .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath151 , and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath152 .",
    "b ) on the right , the modeling was done by using an injection spectrum in the form of a power - law of index 2.0 , an exponential cut - off at 100  tev and an electron / proton ratio @xmath140 .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath142 , and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath141 .",
    "the parkes data  @xcite in the radio range , the asca data and the h.e.s.s .",
    "data are indicated .",
    "red lines correspond to the electrons , and blue lines to protons .",
    "the following processes have been taken into account : synchrotron radiation of primary ( solid red line ) and secondary ( dotted blue line ) electrons , ic scattering ( dotted red line ) , bremsstrahlung ( dotted - dashed red line ) and proton - proton interaction ( solid blue line ) . ]    .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath151 , and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath152 .",
    "b ) on the right , the modeling was done by using an injection spectrum in the form of a power - law of index 2.0 , an exponential cut - off at 100  tev and an electron / proton ratio @xmath140 .",
    "the magnetic field amounts to @xmath142 , and the density of the ambient medium is @xmath141 .",
    "the parkes data  @xcite in the radio range , the asca data and the h.e.s.s .",
    "data are indicated .",
    "red lines correspond to the electrons , and blue lines to protons .",
    "the following processes have been taken into account : synchrotron radiation of primary ( solid red line ) and secondary ( dotted blue line ) electrons , ic scattering ( dotted red line ) , bremsstrahlung ( dotted - dashed red line ) and proton - proton interaction ( solid blue line ) . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the shell - type supernova remnant rx  j0852.0 - 4622 was observed with the high energy stereoscopic system ( h.e.s.s . ) of atmospheric cherenkov telescopes between december 2004 and may 2005 for a total observation time of 33 hours , above an average gamma - ray energy threshold of 250  gev . </S>",
    "<S> the angular resolution of @xmath0 ( for events triggering 3 or 4 telescopes ) and the large field of view of h.e.s.s . </S>",
    "<S> ( @xmath1 diameter ) are well adapted to studying the morphology of the object in very high energy gamma - rays , which exhibits a remarkably thin shell very similar to the features observed in the radio range and in x - rays . </S>",
    "<S> the spectral analysis of the source from 300  gev to 20  tev is also presented . </S>",
    "<S> finally , the possible origins of the very high energy gamma - ray emission ( inverse compton scattering by electrons or the decay of neutral pions produced by proton interactions ) are discussed , on the basis of morphological and spectral features obtained at different wavelengths . </S>"
  ]
}