{
  "article_text": [
    "in the first decade of the 21st century , it is being increasingly recognized that many of the clues to the fundamental problem of galaxy formation in the early universe lie locked up in the motions and chemical composition of stars in our milky way galaxy ( for a review , see e.g. freeman & bland - hawthorn 2002 ) .",
    "consequently , significant effort has been placed into planning the next generation of large - scale astrometric surveys like gaia .",
    "stellar spectroscopy plays a crucial role in these studies , not only providing radial velocities as a key component of the 6-dimensional phase space of stellar positions and velocities , but also providing much - needed information on the chemical composition of individual stars . taken together , information on space motion and composition can be used to unravel the formation process of the galaxy .",
    "however , the gaia mission , which will provide astrometry , radial velocities and chemical abundance for up to 1 billion stars , is unlikely to be completed before the end of the next decade . among the existing surveys , the hipparcos and",
    "the tycho-2 catalog have compiled proper motions for 118000 and for 2.5 million stars , respectively , but radial velocities have been completed for only a few ten thousands .",
    "the new release of the hst guide star catalog , gsc2.3 , will include proper motions , and the astrometric satellite diva plans to compile proper motions for up to 40 million stars , but no radial velocities are available for these targets . to our knowledge",
    "no systematic survey is planned so far that includes radial velocities and that is capable of filling this gap in size and time between existing surveys and the gaia mission .    with the successful demonstration of ultra - wide - field ( 40 deg@xmath2 ) multi - object spectroscopy ( mos ) on the uk schmidt telescope of the aao , a major opportunity beckons to generate the first large - scale all - sky spectroscopic survey of galactic stars with a radial velocity precision better than 2kms@xmath3 ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "in this paper we map out the case for rave ( radial velocity experiment ) , an ambitious plan to measure radial velocities and chemical compositions for up to 50 million stars by 2010 using novel instrumentation techniques on the uk schmidt telescope and on a northern counterpart .",
    "rave is a large international collaboration involving a still growing list of astrophysicists from australia , canada , france , germany , italy , japan , the netherlands , the uk and the usa .",
    "the rave survey is split into two components : a pilot survey and a main survey .    * * the pilot survey * is a preliminary spectral survey , using the existing 6df system at the uk schmidt telescope of the aao to observe about @xmath4 stars in @xmath5 days of unscheduled bright - time during the years 20032005 .",
    "the 6df spectrograph will target on the ca triplet region ( 850 - 875 nm ) favored by the gaia instrument definition team .",
    "spectra are taken at a resolution of @xmath6 .",
    "test observations indicate that an accuracy of 2kms@xmath3 can be achieved ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "+ the target list would include a large fraction of the @xmath7 hipparcos stars that are accessible from the southern hemisphere as well as some of the @xmath8 stars of the tycho-2 catalog .",
    "the survey will focus on stars in the color range @xmath9 .",
    "for these stars , useful photometric parallaxes can be derived if the trigonometric parallaxes are not available .",
    "the 6df spectra will also provide useful estimates of the @xmath10 $ ] value . * * the main survey * will utilize a new echidna - style multi fiber spectrograph ( see fig .",
    "2 ) at the uk - schmidt telescope .",
    "it consists of a 2250-spine fiber array covering the full field of the schmidt telescope ( 40 deg@xmath2 ) .",
    "the spines are hexagonally - packed on @xmath11 mm centers .",
    "each spine can be deformed by a piezo element resulting in a 15-arcmin patrol area .",
    "the key advantage of this new mos design is its short reconfiguration time of @xmath12min .",
    "echidna will feed an efficient spectrograph using a high - efficiency volume phase holographic ( vph ) grating and will use a single 2k by 4k red - optimized detector . with 250  coverage required for the ca triplet region ,",
    "a dispersion of 0.375pixel@xmath3 will yield @xmath13 spectroscopy with 2-pixel sampling . + again the survey will target the ca triplet region . at @xmath14",
    "we expect radial velocities at 1kms@xmath3 accuracy .",
    "iron abundances @xmath15 $ ] could be determined to 0.1 dex accuracy and useful estimates of the differential @xmath16 $ ] abundance ratios for about half the stars ( @xmath17 ) .",
    "+ the main study is expected to be performed throughout the period 2006 - 2010 .",
    "owing to the short reconfiguration time of the new echidna mos , about @xmath18 stars can be observed per night in 30 min exposures , resulting in s / n=30 spectra at @xmath19 . throughout the 5 year campaign ,",
    "a total of 25 million stars can thus be targeted .",
    "subject to an equivalent instrument on the northern hemisphere , rave will yield a total of 50 million radial velocities , metallicites and , for a subset of @xmath20 of the sample , also abundance ratios .",
    "the rave survey will provide a vast stellar kinematic database three orders of magnitude larger than any other survey proposed for this decade .",
    "the main data product will be a magnitude - limited survey of 26 million thin disk main sequence stars , 9 million thick disk stars , 2 million bulge stars , 1 million halo stars , and a further 12 million giant stars including some out to 60 kpc from the sun .",
    "rave will offer the first truly representative inventory of stellar radial velocities for all major components of the galaxy .",
    "within the cold dark matter ( cdm ) paradigm , the galaxy built up through a process of accretion over billions of years from the outer halo .",
    "sophisticated computer simulations of structure growth within a cdm universe have now begun to shed light on how this process may have taken place ( see e.g. steinmetz & navarro 2002 ) .",
    "these advanced computer models do not only provide information about the structure and kinematics of the major stellar components of a galaxy but also on their chemical signatures and their stellar age distribution . in the context of these simulations , rave will revolutionize our understanding of the formation and evolution of all major components of the galaxy : the disk , the bulge and the halo .",
    "the details of galaxy formation are not well understood .",
    "in particular , cdm simulations actually predict far more infalling satellites than are currently observed ( moore et al . 1999 ; klypin et al . , 1999 ) .",
    "the orbital timescales of stars in the outer parts of galaxies are several billion years and it is here we would expect to find surviving remnants of accretion .",
    "the disrupting sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy was discovered by ibata et al .",
    "( 1994 ) from a multi - fiber radial velocity survey .",
    "five years later , helmi et al .  ( 1999 ) discovered a stellar stream within 1 kpc of the sun after combining a radial velocity catalog with the hipparcos database .",
    "both of these studies demonstrate the power of accurate radial velocities and proper motions in identifying cold stellar streams .",
    "we can expect rave to reveal evidence of many tens of similar streams both in the halo , in the outer bulge and within the thick disk .",
    "when combined with the next generation of surveys such as diva , this tally may extend to many hundreds of infalling systems",
    ".      a key aspect of rave will be the availability of chemical signatures like @xmath16 $ ] and @xmath10 $ ] , in addition to accurate kinematics .",
    "the @xmath21 elements arise from massive stars and the bulk of their mass is released in type ii supernova explosions .",
    "the fe - peak elements are produced primarily by type ia supernovae which begin to dominate after a billion years or more .",
    "unique signatures from abundance ratio pairs like ( @xmath16 $ ] , @xmath10 $ ] ) may help to identify a common site of formation among widely separated stars .",
    "the use of chemical signatures can be extended to other components of the galaxy , in particular , the halo and the outer bulge and the thick disk .      the formation of stellar bulges , a major element of galaxy classification schemes , is not well understood .",
    "the galactic bulge stars are almost as metal rich as the thin disk but as old as the thick disk and parts of the halo .",
    "our current picture is that large bulges are formed from a rapid collapse of a spherical cloud , and that the small bulges are either formed from accretion or from the action of the central bar after the disk formed . in an alternative model , as favored by the cdm model of structure formation , bulges are the remnants of early gas - rich mergers between some of the first building blocks of a galaxy .",
    "a key constraint is the @xmath16 $ ] abundance ratio , which has been determined for only a few dozen bulge stars to date .",
    "a short star formation epoch either during the collapse of the bulge or , as favored in the cdm model , in the progenitors from which a bulge is assembled is expected to lead to enhanced @xmath16 $ ] for most of the stars ; an extended star formation period during the bulge assembly would imply @xmath16 = 0 $ ] .",
    "the stars in the thick disk are at least as old as those in the globular cluster 47 tuc and it is widely believed to be a ` snap frozen ' relic of the early disk shortly after the onset of disk dissipation . in this picture ,",
    "an infalling satellite vertically heated the early disk to a scale height of 1 kpc .",
    "another possibility is that the thick disk is made up of tidal debris from infalling satellites .    from the combined chemical and kinematic signatures , the rave survey should cleanly distinguish between competing models for the thick disk and thus end a many - year old debate on the origin of the thick disk .",
    "a major unknown in disk formation is whether the extent of the stellar disk is laid down during the major epoch of dissipation , or whether it grows with time .",
    "the rave survey will clearly establish whether the radial extent of the thick disk is comparable to or less than the thin disk .",
    "the chemical information will also be very important .",
    "the existence of an abundance gradient in the thick disk , as we observe in the thin disk , would argue against an infall origin ; unique chemical signatures in the thick disk would argue for an infall origin .",
    "the largest fraction of the rave targets will be thin disk dwarfs and giants .",
    "little is known about the dynamical state of the thin disk beyond 2 kpc of the sun .",
    "the existence of the inner bar and outer stellar warp is firmly established but many areas of astrophysics would benefit from their influence being understood in far more detail .",
    "some external galaxies have optical disks , which appear to be lop - sided with respect to the dark halo . whether this is the case for the galaxy is not known .",
    "the intrinsic brightness of the giants allows these important tracers to be observed throughout the entire optical extent of the galaxy .",
    "the giants probe the large - scale dynamical state of the galaxy , in particular the influence of the inner bar , the outer warp and the degree of eccentricity and lop - sidedness of the optical disk .",
    "the vast number of dwarf stars in the rave survey will reveal the dynamical state of the thin disk and neighboring spiral arms within a few kiloparsecs of the sun s position .",
    "this is crucial information if we are to construct an accurate model of the gravitational potential of the disk , and its distribution function .",
    "recently , it has become clear that even the old stellar populations appear to show sub - structure .",
    "the rave survey will provide fundamental information on how different stellar populations deviate from dynamical equilibrium , and therefore constrain the formation history of the disk and its different components ( e.g. spiral arms , stellar associations , etc ) .",
    "rave is an international project designed to survey radial velocities , metallicities and abundance ratios for the brightest 50 million stars in the galaxy down to a completeness limit of v=16 .",
    "this is sufficiently deep to allow for kinematic and chemical studies of all major stellar components of the galaxy .",
    "rave has a number of science goals addressing a wide range of priority areas in galactic structure and dynamics .",
    "the rave survey is expected to be performed throughout the period 2003 - 2010 .",
    "it also provides an opportunity to pre - empt some of the spectral work in the gaia mission , providing results up to one decade earlier than that planned for the gaia final release and probably still well ahead of the launch of gaia ( 2012 ) .",
    "thus rave serves as an ideal real - data training set for the final design of the gaia data reduction pipeline and may even influence some of the final design decisions .",
    "freeman , k. , bland - hawthorn , j. , 2002 , , 40 , 487 .",
    "helmi , a. , white , s.d.m .",
    ", de zeeuw , p.t . , zhao , h. , 1999 , nature , 402 , 53 ibata , r.a . ,",
    "gilmore , g. , irwin , m.j .",
    ", 1994 , nature , 370 , 194 klypin , a. , kravtsov , a.v . ,",
    "valenzuela , o. , prada , f. , 1999 , , 552 , 82 .",
    "moore , b. , ghigna , s. , governato , f. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , stadel , j. , 1999 , , 524 , l19 steinmetz , m. , navarro , j.f .",
    ", 2002 , new astronomy , 4/7 , 155 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> rave ( radial velocity experiment ) is an ambitious program to conduct an all - sky survey ( complete to v = 16 ) to measure the radial velocities , metallicities and abundance ratios of 50 million stars using the 1.2-m uk schmidt telescope of the anglo - australian observatory ( aao ) , together with a northern counterpart , over the period 2006 - 2010 . </S>",
    "<S> the survey will represent a giant leap forward in our understanding of our own milky way galaxy , providing a vast stellar kinematic database three orders of magnitude larger than any other survey proposed for this coming decade . </S>",
    "<S> rave will offer the first truly representative inventory of stellar radial velocities for all major components of the galaxy .    </S>",
    "<S> the survey is made possible by recent technical innovations in multi - fiber spectroscopy ; specifically the development of the echidna concept at the aao for positioning fibers using piezo - electric ball / spines . </S>",
    "<S> a 1m - class schmidt telescope equipped with an echidna fiber - optic positioner and suitable spectrograph would be able to obtain spectra for over @xmath0 stars per clear night .    </S>",
    "<S> although the main survey can not begin until 2006 , a key component of the rave survey is a pilot program of @xmath1 stars which may be carried out using the existing 6df facility in unscheduled bright time over the period 20032005 .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in    matthias steinmetz + </S>"
  ]
}