{
  "article_text": [
    "the mass of our galaxy can be computed from dynamical studies of its rotation and of the motion of its satellites , or alternatively it can be evaluated from its visible components , primarily stars .",
    "that these two estimates disagree by a factor 5 - 10 constitutes the problem of galactic dark matter .",
    "either the laws of dynamics we use are wrong on galactic scales ( few kiloparsecs ) , or there exists some form of galactic matter that does not emit or absorb enough electromagnetic radiation to be directly detectable .",
    "studies of many other spiral galaxies confirm that this problem is not unique to the milky way .",
    "originally proposed by b.  paczyski ( 1986 ) as a probe of galactic dark matter , the gravitational microlensing technique relies on detecting the transient magnification and/or deflection of the light from extragalactic stars by intervening machos .",
    "the a priori mass range for machos is very wide , between about @xmath0 and @xmath1 ( corresponding to event durations ranging from one hour to a few decades ) .",
    "lighter primordial h / he objects would have evaporated since the galaxy formed @xcite ; a halo full of heavier objects would be devoid of globular clusters by now @xcite .",
    "the search for gravitational microlensing phenomena in our galaxy has now been going on for over a decade .",
    "although the prime suspects for machos were initially brown dwarfs ( 0.01 to @xmath2 ) , and although many arguments existed against real or imaginary objects of other masses , the survey groups have chosen to cover the widest possible fraction of the 11 orders of magnitude macho mass range .",
    "the first microlensing candidates were reported in 1993 , towards the   @xcite and the galactic centre @xcite by the ,  and  collaborations . as the present review centers on halo dark matter",
    ", i will mostly discuss results from the former two groups .",
    "(  microlensing studies have concentrated on the galactic bulge , see e.g. . )",
    "other groups contribute to the field .",
    "three of them are follow - up groups , gman , mps and planet ; they observe microlensing events alerted upon by the survey groups .",
    "the moa group conducts a survey mainly dedicated to the search for planets ( see e.g. ) , a topic that is also a prime motivation of mps @xcite and planet @xcite . finally , the point - agape group attacks the more ambitious goal of microlensing towards m31 @xcite .    as the present review is short and contains no calculations ,",
    "i refer the interested reader to other sources @xcite .",
    "this article is organised as follows . in sect .  2 , i recall the main properties of microlensing and the information that can be obtained from its observation .",
    "3 discusses results from observations towards the large magellanic cloud ( ) . in sect .  4 , the same is done for the small magellanic cloud ( ) .",
    "5 contains a critical assesment of these results , and conjectures about what the future may hold .    finally , sect .",
    "6 gives my conclusions .",
    "when both the source star and the lens are simple ( non - binary ) and their size can be neglected , microlensing depends on two distances and one mass @xcite .",
    "the magnification is @xmath3^{1/2 } $ ] , where @xmath4 is the ratio @xmath5 . here",
    ", @xmath6 is the angular separation between the lens and the `` true '' position of the source (  when the lens is far away ) , and @xmath7 is the natural angular scale for significant microlensing , @xmath8^{1/2 } , $ ] where @xmath9 is the lens mass , @xmath10 its distance and @xmath11 the distance to the source is also the angular radius of the so - called `` einstein '' ring occuring for @xmath12 . ] . for small @xmath4 , @xmath13",
    "; at large @xmath4 , @xmath14 dies out quite fast , @xmath15 .    as the lensing object moves with respect to the line of sight to the source star , microlensing phenomena are transient .",
    "their natural timescale is the time needed to move by an angle equal to @xmath7 , @xmath16 , where @xmath17 is the proper motion ( angular velocity ) of the lens w.r.t .",
    "the line of sight .",
    "the simplest microlensing light curves depend on four parameters , the baseline ( unmagnified ) flux , the time @xmath18 of maximum magnification @xmath19 , and the timescale @xmath20 . if a significant fraction of the flux comes from a blended star many @xmath7 away , a ( fifth ) blending parameter is necessary .",
    "these four ( five ) parameters can be determined by fitting the known functional form of the light curve to the measurements .",
    "of these parameters , only one contains information on the lens , @xmath20 , and this is degenerate in the lens mass , distance and velocity .",
    "two other parameters can be used , in a statistical sense , to test that the observed light curves are indeed due to microlensing  : the source star magnitude and the minimum impact parameter @xmath21 ( @xmath22 ) .",
    "if one can ignore detection efficiency and blending effects , @xmath21 should display a flat distribution ; its true expected distribution can be obtained from a simulation of the observing program .",
    "similarly , as the lens does not choose the source it lenses , the source star should be distributed randomly in the colour - magnitude diagram , once again apart from detection efficiency which favors brighter stars . at present ,",
    "such tests have only been done convincingly for microlensing in the galactic plane , where enough events have been found ( few hundreds ) .    ignoring efficiency , the average expected microlensing timescale for magellanic cloud stars is @xmath23 ( this is obtained from an `` isothermal '' spherical halo model that explains the galactic rotation curve , with @xmath24 within 50  kpc . ) the expected average @xmath7 is about @xmath25 , which explains why the search for microlensing has concentrated up to now on observing the magnification , not the deflection .",
    "astrometric microlensing (  measuring the photocentre motion during microlensing ) will be feasible quite soon , especially with the foreseen fame , gaia and sim astrometric satellites .",
    "i do not discuss it further and refer the reader to the review of ; let me mention only that astrometric microlensing has a shallower dependence on the impact parameter , and that it provides information complementary to that of photometric microlensing ; this will help in breaking the timescale degeneracy .",
    "apart from microlensing timescale , the other important observable is its rate .",
    "as @xmath26 , a dark lens produces significant microlensing in a solid angle @xmath27 , and the probability that microlensing is currently occuring on a given star is thus proportional to the ( weighted ) integral of the mass density along the line of sight .",
    "this is known as the `` optical depth '' and it can be shown to be of order @xmath28 ( @xmath29 is the galactic rotation velocity ) .",
    "this very low probability is the key factor for the observing strategy of the survey groups  : they must monitor few tens of million stars a few times per week in order to reach the necessary sensitivity .",
    "experimentally , the optical depth is measured from the detected microlensing events as @xmath30 where @xmath31 is the number of stars monitored for a duration @xmath32 , and @xmath33 is the overall detection efficiency for events with timescale @xmath20 . here is such that @xmath34  =  100% if all microlensing events with @xmath35 occuring within @xmath32 are detected . ]    finally , when blending is negligible or is due to a star with the same colour as that being microlensed , microlensing is achromatic .",
    "survey groups thus monitor their fields in at least two bandpasses , using this as a tool to identify intrinsic variable stars , that are at least @xmath36 times more abundant than microlensing phenomena .      in order to learn more about the lensing object",
    ", one needs more observables than just @xmath20 .",
    "this is possible when the approximation of simple microlensing breaks down , and when another distance scale ( perpendicular to the line of sight ) can be measured and compared to @xmath7 .",
    "there are three classes of such scales , according to whether they lie in the observer , source or lens plane .    in the observer plane",
    ", the earth orbital motion can lead to measurable distortions that allow one to compare its semi - major axis to @xmath7 for long enough events , @xmath37  months @xcite .",
    "such a `` parallax '' distortion is largest when the lens is closer to the observer , and unobservable when it is located near the source , in the magellanic clouds .",
    "alternatively , the same microlensing phenomenon observed simultaneously from two distant points in the solar system could provide the same information @xcite ( see for a recent spectacular illustration of these ) .",
    "as they provide an additional distance scale in the observer plane , such situations allow one to measure the angular velocity of the lensing object as would be seen from the source star , @xmath38 .",
    "this provides some discriminating power  : magellanic cloud lenses will have a high mc - based angular velocity @xmath39 , whereas halo lenses will generally show a lower value .",
    "in the source plane , the separation of the two components of a binary source star can play the same role , provided their revolution period is measured ; examples are events eros2-gsa2 @xcite and macho-96-lmc-2 @xcite .",
    "alternatively , the source star diameter can be used , especially when it nears or crosses a caustic curve ( see e.g. and references therein ) . in the case of a simple lens",
    ", the caustic `` curve '' reduces to a point , @xmath12 . for a double lens ,",
    "caustic curves have a more complicated structure , that can however be determined from the mesured light curve .",
    "if the source star angular diameter is known , the time it takes to cross the caustic curve is a rather direct measure of the relative proper motion of the lens , @xmath17 , relative to the line of sight .    in the lens plane ,",
    "finally , a double lens with measured separation and period would also allow to reduce , or even break the degeneracy .",
    "another interesting observable regarding double ( or multiple ) lenses is the relative rate of these with respect to simple microlensing .",
    "double lenses can be detected as such when the component angular separation is of order @xmath7 .",
    "when they are much closer , they act effectively as a single lens ; when they are much further , one component is simply not detected from the light curve .",
    "the rate for detectable double lensing was estimated at 5 - 10% for galactic plane lenses @xcite .",
    "recent measurements by  @xcite bear out this prediction .",
    "the magellanic clouds are close enough that many tens of million stars can be resolved from comparatively small ground - based telescopes , and far enough that a search for microlensing will sample an appreciable fraction of the galactic halo .",
    "hence , they are presently the main targets in the search for machos .",
    "i first discuss observations towards the .    because they observed no microlensing candidate with a timescale shorter than 10  days , down to 0.04  day ( 1 hour ) , the  and  groups were able to exclude the possibility that more than 10% of the galactic dark matter resides in planet - sized objects ( @xmath0 to a few @xmath40 ) . ] .",
    "this resulted from a dedicated program by   @xcite , or as a by - product of the search for heavier machos @xcite .",
    "the two groups have combined their limits in .",
    "in contrast , the first few events that were detected with longer timescales aroused at first high hopes that the galactic dark matter problem was about to be solved . in the analysis of their first two - year data set @xcite , the  group found 6 - 8 candidate events towards the  out of 7.5 million monitored stars .",
    "they estimated an optical depth of order half that required to account for the dynamical mass of a `` standard '' spherical dark halo within 50  kpc ] ; the typical timescale of the events , @xmath20 , implied an average mass of about @xmath41 for halo lenses .",
    "the statistics was small enough that a halo full of machos was compatible with the result .",
    "based on two candidates out of 3.3 million monitored stars ,  preferred to set an upper limit on the halo mass fraction in objects of similar masses @xcite . for typical brown dwarf masses ,",
    "the limit was below that required to explain the rotation curve of our galaxy , but it did not conflict with the  result .",
    "the first results towards the  then appeared ( see next section ) .",
    "the  group published an even lower limit on machos , now excluding the upper part of the domain allowed by the results .",
    "it then seemed less likely that the halo could be fully comprised of @xmath41 machos .",
    "the situation was partly clarified in 2000 .",
    "the  group presented an analysis of 5.7 year light curves of 10.7  million stars in the  @xcite with an improved determination of their detection efficiency and a better rejection of background supernova explosions behind the .",
    "a total of 13 - 17 microlensing candidates were found ( including the previous 6 ) .",
    "these two numbers refer to two different analyses of the same data , with stricter or looser selection criteria .",
    "these results from the  group now favour a galactic halo macho component of 20% in the form of @xmath42 objects .",
    "this is their central value , but their result is compatible , at 95% c.l .",
    ", with a halo fraction ranging from 8 to 50% and a macho mass between 0.15 and @xmath43 ( see fig .  1 ) . at about the same time",
    ", the detection of a halo white dwarf population at the level of a 10% component was also reported by .",
    "almost simultaneously , the  group presented its results from a two - year survey of 17.5 million stars in the  @xcite .",
    "one of the two  microlensing candidates was seen to vary again , 8 years after its first brightening , and was thus eliminated from the list of microlensing candidates .",
    "two new candidates were identified .",
    "a few months later , this analysis was extended to three - year light curves of 25.5 million stars ; this essentially confirmed the results of the two - year analysis @xcite .",
    "the total number of microlensing candidates towards the  from  is now five , one from  and four from .",
    "the candidates timescales agree with those from , at an average of about 30  days . provided the events are due to halo lenses , this is compatible with @xmath42 lensing objects .",
    "the rate measured by  is about twice lower than that of . because this rate is 10 times lower than expected if s are a substantial component of the galactic halo , and because the four new  candidates do not show excellent agreement with simple microlensing light curves ,  continues to quote an upper limit on the fraction of the galactic halo in the form of s ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "it can be seen that this combined limit from all  data sets excludes the upper 25% of the parameter space domain favored by .",
    "[ ht ]    the 13  microlensing candidates selected with stricter criteria all have timescales smaller than 75  days .",
    "the  group has used this to obtain an upper limit on black hole dark matter in the galactic halo @xcite .",
    "they conclude that less than 40% of the halo dark matter can be in the form of 1 to @xmath44 objects . altogether , microlensing surveys have now probed slightly more than 8 orders of magnitude in possible macho masses .    some microlensing events towards the  display interesting peculiarities .",
    "event macho - lmc-1 is much better fit by a binary lens with no caustic crossing @xcite ; this is presently the shortest timescale candidate towards the magellanic clouds .",
    "event macho - lmc-9 is a double lens with caustic crossing @xcite ; its proper motion is very low , thus favoring an interpretation as a double lens within the .",
    "the source star for event macho - lmc-14 is double @xcite and this has allowed to conclude that the lens is in the . event macho - lmc-5 is probably due to a galactic disk lens ( and d. bennett , 2001 , personal communication ) .",
    "although the  offers about 5 - 10 times less stars than the for microlensing studies , it is a valuable target . because the lines of sight to the  and  are close ( about 20  degrees apart ) , the timescale distributions of microlensing candidates towards the two clouds should be nearly identical if lenses belong to the galactic halo .",
    "( the difference in the average timescale for lenses of a given mass is much lower than the width of the distribution . )",
    "this point has been emphasised by -  as reported in  - as a way to distinguish between microlensing being due primarily to halo lenses or to magellanic cloud lenses .",
    "also , the event rates should be comparable , although the ratio is more halo model dependent .",
    "of course , this model dependency can be turned into an advantage , and may allow one to estimate the flattening of the halo @xcite , if this is where the lenses are .    at the time of this review ( june 2001 ) , only two microlensing events have been detected towards the , macho-97-smc-1 ( @xmath45 eros-97-smc-1 ) and macho-98-smc-1 .",
    "these events imply an optical depth towards the  which is consistent with that measured towards the  by the  group .",
    "( because of the small statistics , this is not very informative . )",
    "however , further information exists on both events that point to microlensing due to  lenses .",
    "the situation regarding the second microlensing event , macho-98-smc-1 , is straightforward .",
    "it was first alerted upon by the  group on 25 may 1998 , and a probable caustic crossing due to a double lens was announced soon after , on 8 june 1998 .",
    "the source star was monitored by most microlensing groups .",
    "this allowed the second caustic crossing to be entirely covered , by the  and   groups , resulting in a measurement of the crossing duration , from which the relative proper motion could be measured .",
    "separate or combined analysis of the data from all five groups led to the conclusion that the double lens proper motion , about 1.4  km  s@xmath46  kpc@xmath46 , is extremely unlikely to be that of a halo object ( , and references therein ) .",
    "therefore it must be located in the .",
    "the first candidate microlensing event towards the was reported by .",
    "it was observed independently by . as observed by and confirmed by",
    ", the source star is a periodic variable ( p  =  5.12  d ; a  =  5% ) .",
    "it is bright , actually the brightest for all microlensing events towards the magellanic clouds .",
    "it also has the longest timescale of all  or  events , @xmath47  d. as such , it is a particularly good place to look for a `` parallax '' distortion ( see sect .",
    "no parallax could be measured from  data , indicating that the lensing object is probably in the   @xcite .",
    "have also searched for a parallax distorsion in the  data for this event ; this unsuccessful search produces a lower limit on @xmath39 that strengthens this conclusion , at the 97% c.l .",
    "the present situation is thus that none of the two microlensing events observed towards the  are due to halo lenses .",
    "the  group has used this to present limits obtained from their  two - year data alone on the fraction of stellar mass machos in the halo @xcite .",
    "i now discuss a few topics arising from these results in more detail .",
    "the macho collaboration favours an interpretation of their candidates in terms of galactic halo lensing objects .",
    "they find that their sample is not , or little , contaminated by variable stars . in support of this",
    ", the distribution of stellar luminosities of their microlensing candidates agrees with that of  stars @xcite .",
    "the distribution of maximum magnifications is also compatible with a random minimum distance of approach of the lens to the star line of sight .",
    "these two tests could have revealed a possible contamination of the sample by intrinsic variable stars .",
    "( the same is true for the  candidates , but the small number of candidates precludes any significant conclusion . )      even if all  candidates are _ bona fide _ microlensing phenomena , the corresponding optical depth is twice lower than that from . as the two numbers are compatible within errors , this might simply be a statistical fluctuation .",
    "it seems useful , though , to search for candidates that should have been observed by both surveys .",
    "such a study reveals no problem .",
    "the actual overlap between the two data sets is not very large , and only one candidate is found in both analyses  : candidate eros2-lmc-5 is identical to macho - lmc-26 , which does not meet the  strict selection criteria . recall also that the first  microlensing event was observed by the two groups .",
    "an accurate measurement of the optical depth requires knowledge of the number of monitored stars @xmath31 , and unbiased estimates of the ratio @xmath48 for all candidate events . here",
    ", the effect of blending can be serious  : it leads to an underestimate of @xmath20 , and of @xmath19 as well .",
    "( the latter can influence the candidate list through a minimum cut on this variable . )",
    "an underestimate of @xmath20 however can be partially compensated by the corresponding underestimate of the detection efficiency , @xmath34 . on the other hand , faint stars blended with brighter ones",
    "can lead to additional detectable microlensing , for low enough impact parameters @xmath21 .",
    "this can best be corrected for through simulated images . on that topic ,",
    "the  treatment is in principle more complete than that of , and this could be an important point if the blending correction is large .",
    "but  fields are slightly less crowded in average , and studies have indicated that the overall effect of blending is small . note that efficiencies from  are larger than those of ; this depends a lot on the list of monitored stars , the sampling and on the chosen analysis cuts . a larger correction for blending in the  data would lead to a",
    "_ larger _ efficiency , and thus a lower microlensing optical depth , thus increasing the difference with .",
    "could it be that the different fields followed by  and  really have different optical depths  ? this would certainly be the case if most lenses are in the magellanic clouds , as the optical depth would then be larger towards the centre , where there are more stars ,  more lenses .",
    "the importance of this so - called `` self - lensing '' was first stressed in @xcite .",
    "covers a larger solid angle in the  ( 64  deg@xmath49 ) than , which monitors primarily 15  deg@xmath49 in the central part of the .",
    "the  rate should thus be less contaminated by `` self - lensing '' .",
    "however , the macho group has compared their sample to predictions of a specific model of the , and finds that the observed distribution favours halo lenses , although they can not completely exclude  lenses in a kind of  `` halo '' @xcite .      out of the 20 or so microlensing candidates towards the magellanic clouds , it has been possible to localise with reasonable certainty five of them .",
    "none of these localised lenses are in the halo .",
    "the two  events are due to lenses ( see sect .  4 ) , one from its binary lens nature , the other one from the absence of a measurable microlensing parallax .",
    "three  event lenses have been localised , two in the   ( one double lens , one double source ) and one in the galactic disk .",
    "the magellanic cloud double lenses ( macho-98-smc-1 and macho - lmc-9 ) are especially interesting . if one naively extrapolates to cloud lenses the result that , for galactic disk lenses , about 10% show their binarity in the light curve @xcite , one is tempted to ask where are the 20 ( @xmath50 ) simple magellanic cloud lenses . here again , the small statistics forbids us to go much further .      what are the prospects for more statistics towards the  ?",
    "the  group has analysed 5.7 years of data out of a final total of 7.5 years ( observations were terminated at the end of 1999 ) .",
    "this would represent only a modest increase .",
    "in addition to the 15  deg@xmath49 analysed in , 25 more have been monitored with a less frequent sampling .",
    "these fields would have a lower efficiency for the range of @xmath20 displayed by present candidates , but would increase the sensitivity to heavier machos .",
    "the  group has analysed 3 years of data for 25 million stars , and expects to have a final data sample ( by 2002 ) of 35 million stars over 6 years .",
    "this would represent an almost threefold increase in sensitivity .",
    "also , the  group has recently commissionned a new camera that will allow them to multiply their data taking rate by a factor 5 ; they will probably follow more magellanic clouds fields than in the past .",
    "what are we to think of the present number of halo lenses ( zero ) in the search for microlenses towards the  ?",
    "in other words , how many  halo microlens events ( with @xmath51 ) should have been observed by both groups , if the signal presented by  is entirely due to halo lenses  ?",
    "have investigated this .",
    "the  group monitored at least 2.2 million stars and has observed them over 6.5 years ( alcock et al .",
    "assuming equal detection efficiencies for  and   target stars , @xcite estimate that  should observe in average @xmath52 events , where @xmath53 is the ratio of the optical depth towards the  and . in the standard spherical halo model , @xmath54 , and thus the expected number of events",
    "is about 4.2 . in the same way , using the published  efficiencies towards the  @xcite , one obtains for 6 years monitoring of 5.3 million stars about 3.6 events .",
    "@xcite estimate that , out of these @xmath55  events , only about 1.1 are common .",
    "hence , provided none of the above assumptions is wrong , the prospect of an independent measurement of the optical depth towards the  looks good .",
    "agreement in the microlensing rates and durations would represent , in my opinion , one of the most interesting tests of the halo lens hypothesis .      what could the @xmath56 objects implied by the   result be  ?",
    "a possible answer is white dwarfs , although the mass seems a bit low .",
    "many groups have undertaken the search for halo white dwarfs , that would be detected directly through their high proper motion when they traverse the galactic disk in the solar vicinity .",
    "a detection has been presented by , at the level of 10% of the expected local dark halo density .",
    "other surveys report negative results @xcite .",
    "more recently , another detection was reported at the level of 2% of the expected local dark halo density @xcite .",
    "this result has been criticized by , , and . at present , it does not seem possible to identify these possible detections with the objects responsible for the  result .",
    "microlensing surveys have not ( yet ? ) found enough machos to explain the galactic rotation curve .",
    "the undisputed result of the  and  groups is that there exist strong limits on machos in the mass range between @xmath0 and @xmath57 .",
    "between 0.1 and @xmath58 , the two groups have candidates , some of which are undisputable microlensing phenomena .",
    "their results are compatible , as is apparent in fig .  1 , but they interpret them differently . in my view , the issue of where the lenses are is not yet solved , but there are good prospects for doing so in the coming years .",
    "no long timescale candidates have been seen , that could be attributed to a halo object more massive than the sun . between 1 and @xmath59 ,",
    "the sensitivity of the two surveys is such that they should have already seen a few events due to putative heavy machos ; the ensuing limits are still weak . above @xmath59 ,",
    "there is not enough sensitivity yet . in the absence of alternative ideas to look for such heavy machos , any progress from the surveys in this mass range is welcome .    finally , the search for microlensing towards the magellanic clouds will not stop with  and . very soon , larger earth - based surveys , such as ogle3 or supermacho ,",
    "will also contribute to this topic .",
    "microlensing towards m31 will provide a new line of sight that should help in interpreting the results .",
    "a few years later , simultaneous astrometric and photometric microlensing measurements from astrometric satellites will allow to directly find the lens position , for those few events with measurable `` microlensing parallax '' .",
    "afonso c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1999 , a&a 344 , l63 afonso c. et al .",
    "( , - , ,  and ) , 2000 , apj 532 , 340 albrow m.d .",
    "planet ) , 2000 , apj 535 , 176 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1993 , nat 365 , 621 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1995 , apj 449 , 28 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1996 , apj 471 , 774 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1997a , apj 486 , 697 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1997b , apjl 491 , l11 alcock c. et al .",
    "(  + ) , 1998 , apjl 499 , l9 alcock c. et al .",
    "(  + ) , 2000 , apj 541 , 270 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 2000 , apj 542 , 281 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 2001a , apjl 550 , l169 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 2001b , apj 552 , 259 alcock c. et al .",
    "( ) , 2001c , apj 552 , 582 ansari r. et al .",
    "( ) , 1996 , a&a 314 , 94 arras p. and i. wasserman , 1999 , mnras 306 , 257 aubourg  .",
    "et al . ( ) , 1993 , nat 365 , 623 aubourg  .",
    "et al . ( ) , 1995 , a&a 301 , 1 aurire m. et al .",
    "( point - agape ) , 2001 , apjl 553 , l137 bond i.a .",
    "( moa ) , 2001 , preprint astro - ph/0102184 , submitted to mnras derue f. et al .",
    "( ) , 1999 , a&a 351 , 87 dominik m. and a. hirshfeld , 1996 , a&a 313 , 841 einstein a. , 1936 , science 84 , 506 ; see also renn j. et al .",
    ", 1997 , science 275 , 184 , + which show that the same result had already been obtained by einstein in 1912 flynn c. et al .",
    "2001 , mnras 322 , 553 frieman j. and r. scoccimarro , 1994 , apjl 431 , l23 gibson b.k . and",
    "c. flynn , 2001 , science 292 , 2211 , + full text at www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/2211a goldman b. ( ) , 2000 , preprint astro - ph/0008383 , to appear in the proceedings of the moriond 2000 workshop _ cosmological physics with gravitational lensing_. gould a. , 1992 , apj 392 , 442 gould a. , j.n . bahcall and c. flynn , 1997 , apj 482 , 913 gould a. , 2000 , preprint astro - ph/0004042 , to appear in asp conference series gould a. , 2001 , pasp 113 , 903 graff d. , t. lasserre and a. milsztajn , 2001 , in preparation graff d. , 2001 , science 292 , 2211 , + full text at www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/2211a griest k. and w. hu , 1992 , apjl 397 , 362 ; ibid . 407 , 440 ibata r. et al . , 2000 ,",
    "apj 532 , l41 lasserre t. et al .",
    "( ) , 2000 , a&a 355 , l39 mao s. and b. paczyski , 1991 , apjl 374 , l37 milsztajn a. et al .",
    "( ) , 2001 , nucl .",
    "b ( proc . suppl . ) 91 , 413 oppenheimer b.r .",
    "et al . , 2001 ,",
    "science 292 , 698 paczyski b. , 1986 , apj 304 , 1 paczyski b. , 1996 , ara&a 34 , 419 palanque - delabrouille n. et al .",
    "( ) , 1998 , a&a 332 , 1 refsdal s. , 1966 , mnras 134 , 315 reid i. , k. sahu and s. hawley , 2001 , apj 559 , 942 reyle c. , a. robin and m. creze , preprint astro - ph/0108134 , to appear in a&a renault c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1997 , a&a 324 , l69 renault c. et al .",
    "( ) , 1998 , a&a 329 , 522 rhie s.h .",
    "et al . ( mps + moa ) , 2000 , apj 533 , 378 roulet e. and s. mllerach , 1997 , phys .",
    "279 , 67 de rujula a. , p. jetzer and e. masso , 1992 , a&a 254 , 99 sackett p. and a. gould a. , 1993 , apj 419 , 648 sahu k.c . , 1994 ,",
    "nature 370 , 275 soszyski i. et al .",
    "( ) , 2001 , apj 552 , 731 udalski a. et al .",
    "( ) , 1993 , acta astron .",
    "43 , 289 udalski a. et al .",
    "( ) , 1997 , acta astron .",
    "47 , 431 udalski a. et al .",
    "( ) , 2000 , acta astron .",
    "50 , 1 wu x .-",
    ", 1994 , apj 435 , 66"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the status of the microlensing search for galactic dark matter in the form of massive astronomical compact halo objects ( machos ) is reviewed . </S>",
    "<S> unresolved issues are discussed , as well as possible ways to solve these . </S>"
  ]
}