{
  "article_text": [
    "this paper is part of a global analysis of star counts developed to constrain consistently scenarii of galaxy formation and evolution.the central tool of this approach is the `` besanon '' model of population synthesis .",
    "this model is gradually tuned to fit an increasing number of observational constraints while keeping compatibility with previous fits and theoretical prescriptions . in the present paper",
    "we address the problem of the halo ( dark or visible ) by trying to compare the properties of the spheroid population ( the visible halo ) with the dark matter halo , as traced by microlensing at high galactic latitudes and by the rotation curve .",
    "if the dark matter is made at least partly of stellar remnants , as shown by recent statistics of microlensing at high galactic latitudes @xcite , the density trend of this matter should be close to a power law with index of 2 ( as expected from a flat rotation curve ) .",
    "it is natural to think of a similar shape for the stellar spheroid .",
    "constraints on the overall shape of the dark halo are poor .",
    "cosmological simulations of halo formation generally predict that halos are flattened by about c / a @xmath5 0.7 @xcite .",
    "but the axis ratio depends on how much the halo matter is dissipative , the more dissipative , the flatter the halo .",
    "direct determinations of the dark matter distribution in polar ring galaxies show flattened halos with c / a @xmath5 0.5 @xcite .",
    "concerning the spheroid population , most previous analyses suggest rather steep density slopes with power indices between 3.0 and 3.5 . however , these analyses are based on rather small samples of well identified tracers .",
    "the estimated flattening also cover a wide range between 0.6 to 1.0 :    the distribution of galactic globular clusters appears to be well fitted by a power law density with index @xmath6 and flattening of 1 .",
    "hawkins rr lyrae observations @xcite showed @xmath7 with a flattening of 0.9 .",
    "saha @xcite , using a spherically symmetric model , found @xmath8 out to 25 kpc but then the rr lyrae density falls off more rapidly beyond 25 kpc .",
    "another study of rr lyrae by wetterer @xcite showed that a spherically symmetric model yields @xmath9 whereas an ellipsoidal distribution yields @xmath6 .",
    "sluis @xcite counted blue horizontal branch ( bhb ) stars and rr lyrae and found @xmath10 and @xmath11 .",
    "still from bhb star counts , sommer - larsen @xcite derived @xmath12 and @xmath8 up to 40 kpc , preston @xcite found that @xmath13 increases from 0.5 to 1 up to 20 kpc with @xmath14 .",
    "soubiran @xcite showed that @xmath15 is compatible with the kinematical behavior of a star sample near the north galactic pole .",
    "k dwarf counts with hst yield @xmath16 and @xmath17 @xcite .",
    "all of these studies were based on a few hundred objects at most .    in order to find new constraints on the spheroid density law",
    ", we undertook a photometric and astrometric sample survey in various galactic directions .",
    "we complemented these data with existing deep photometric star counts in several high and intermediate latitude fields .",
    "most such counts contain large numbers of halo dwarfs , but they can not be distinguished from thick disc dwarfs by their colours but at faint magnitudes .",
    "since no large optical surveys were available at magnitude fainter than 20 , we used heterogeneous data coming from various studies ( often of extragalactic aim ) in various photometric systems .",
    "the population synthesis model used here permits to perform a global analysis of these heterogeneous data , since observational data can be simulated in each field with the true observational conditions ( photometric system , errors and selection effects ) .",
    "the synthetic approach allows also to estimate the biases and expected contaminations by other populations .    in section  2",
    "we describe the model of population synthesis and external constraints on the spheroid population . in section  3",
    "we describe the data sets and the comparison method . in section  4",
    "we discuss the results and their implications for the dark matter halo .",
    "we have used a revised version of the besanon model of population synthesis .",
    "previous versions were described in bienaym et al . and haywood et al . .",
    "the model is based on a semi - empirical approach , where physical constraints and current knowledge of the formation and evolution scenario of the galaxy are used as a first approximation for the population synthesis .",
    "the model involves 4 populations ( disc , thick disc , halo and bulge ) each deserving a specific treatment .",
    "the bulge population which is irrelevant for this spheroid analysis will be described elsewhere .",
    "a standard evolution model is used to produce the disc population , based on a set of usual parameters : an initial mass function ( imf ) , a star formation rate ( sfr ) , a set of evolutionary tracks ( see haywood et al . , 1997 and references therein ) .",
    "the disc population is assumed to evolve during 10 gyr .",
    "a set of imf slopes and sfr s are tentatively assumed and tested against star counts .",
    "the tuning of disc parameters against relevant observational data was described in haywood et al . .",
    "the model fixes the distribution of stars in the space of intrinsic parameters : effective temperature , gravity , absolute magnitude , mass and age .",
    "these parameters are converted into colours in various systems through stellar atmosphere models corrected to fit empirical data . while some errors still remain in the resulting colours for some spectral types , the overall agreement is good in the major part of the hr diagram .    since the haywood et al .",
    "model was based on evolutionary tracks at solar metallicities , inverse blanketing corrections are introduced to give to the disc a metallicity distribution in agreement with twarog @xcite age / metallicity distribution ( mean and dispersion about the mean ) .",
    "the model returns the present - day distribution of stars as a function of intrinsic parameters in a unit volume column centered at the sun position .",
    "since the evolution model does not account for orbital evolution , stars are redistributed in the reference volume over the z axis .",
    "the key for redistributing stars along the z - axis is age : an empirical relation associates z velocity dispersions to ages .",
    "then the boltzmann equation is used to convert z velocity distributions into z density .",
    "the model is dynamically self - consistent in the sense that the potential used in the boltzmann equation is the one generated by the total mass distribution of stellar populations .",
    "the self consistency is established iteratively .",
    "we slice the disc populations into seven isothermal populations of different ages , from 0 to 10 gyr . each sub - population",
    "( except the youngest one , which can not be considered as relaxed ) has its velocity dispersion imposed by the age / velocity dispersion relation .",
    "we then deduce the scale height of each sub - population using the boltzmann equation .",
    "the overall scheme is described in bienaym .",
    "resulting density laws are used to correct the evolution model distribution in and off the plane , then to compute the stellar densities all over the galaxy .",
    "a detailed analysis of the thick disc population from photometric and astrometric star counts has been given elsewhere .",
    "the kinematics , metallicity , and density law were measured allowing us to constrain the origin for this population . in this series of papers",
    ", evidence was given that the majority of thick disc stars should originate from a merging event at the beginning of the life of the thin disc , after the first collapse .",
    "one or several satellite galaxies have heated the thin disc , then the gas re - collapsed and reformed a new thin disc .    in the population synthesis process",
    ", the thick disc population is modeled as originating from a single epoch of star formation .",
    "we use bergbush & vandenberg @xcite oxygen enhanced evolutionary tracks .",
    "no strong constraint exists on the thick disc age until now .",
    "we assume an age of 11 gyr , which is slightly older than the disc and younger than the halo .",
    "the initial mass function is modeled by a simple power law with a slope about @xmath18 , referring to the notation @xmath19 .",
    "the thick disc metallicity can be chosen between and dex in the simulations .",
    "the standard value of dex is usually adopted , following in situ spectroscopic determination from gilmore et al .",
    "@xcite and photometric star count determinations .",
    "the low metallicity tail of the thick disc seems to represent a weak contribution to general star counts @xcite .",
    "it was neglected here .",
    "an internal metallicity dispersion among the thick disc population is allowed .",
    "the standard value for this dispersion is 0.25 dex .",
    "no evidence has been found for a significant metallicity gradient in the thick disc population ( robin et al , 1996 ) .",
    "the thick disc density law is assumed to be a truncated exponential : at large distances the law is exponential . at short distances",
    "it is a parabola .",
    "this formula ensures the continuity and derivability of the density law ( contrarily to a true exponential ) and eases the computation of the potential .",
    "the scale height of the exponential can vary between 600 and 2600 pc .",
    "the standard value , 760 pc , has been obtained from star count fitting in various directions ( robin et al , 1996 ) .",
    "nevertheless , it can be shown that star counts when restricted to a small number of galactic directions and a small magnitude range do not give a strong constraint on the scale height , but rather on the parameter : ( local density)@xmath20(scale height)@xmath21 .",
    "at present there is no accurate determination of the thick disc density in the solar neighbourhood , independently from the scale height .",
    "but reasonable values range between 700 to 1200 pc for the scale height and 1 to 4% for the local density relative to the thin disc .",
    "we assume a homogeneous population of spheroid stars with a short period of star formation .",
    "we thus use the bergbush and vandenberg @xcite oxygen enhanced models , assuming an age of roughly 14 gyr ( until more constraints on the age are available ) , a mean metallicity of -1.7 dex and a dispersion of 0.25 about this value .",
    "no galactocentric gradient is assumed .",
    "the imf has to be constrained either from globular clusters ( if they are representative of the spheroid population ) or from deep star counts .",
    "this point is discussed in section  3 .",
    "the density of spheroid stars is modeled by a power law :    @xmath22    where @xmath23 is the local density , @xmath24 is the power law index and @xmath25 is the flattening .",
    "the local density can be constrained by local measurements of high velocity stars , or by remote counts of giants ( spectroscopically selected ) or dwarfs ( photometrically selected ) .",
    "the local density can not be determined independently from the other density parameters with our limited number of data sets .",
    "thus we have used independent constraints from the literature on the local spheroid density .      the local stellar spheroid density , @xmath23 ,",
    "is bounded by observational data on halo dwarfs and giants .",
    "figure  [ fig - flum ] shows the luminosity function obtained by different authors .",
    "we only selected recent results obtained in good conditions from sufficiently large samples .",
    "bahcall et al @xcite and gizis & reid @xcite derived their values from high proper motion dwarf samples .",
    "dahn et al @xcite determined accurate parallaxes for local late - type subdwarfs and deduced the local luminosity function of halo stars in the absolute visual magnitude range 9 to 14 .",
    "these three results are biased by the kinematic selection .",
    "they took the bias correction into account but this correction is model dependent and introduces an unknown uncertainty into the result .",
    "we expect that the differences between the three measurements rely upon this correction . on the giant side ,",
    "morrison @xcite used a non kinematically - biased sample of halo giants , selected from their metallicity to estimate the spheroid local density . in figure",
    "[ fig - flum]a we show the luminosity function from bergbush and vandenberg ( 1992 ) for a population of 14 gyr with a metallicity of -1.75 and an imf slope @xmath0 of 2 . if we let the local halo density vary from a factor of 0.75 to 1.25 relative to this reference model ( dotted lines in figure  [ fig - flum]a ) , we get a good agreement with the specified observations given their uncertainties . in the next section",
    "we allow the local density to vary within these limits .",
    "obtaining good constraints on the spheroid density law requires a good photometric accuracy .",
    "this generally depends on using ccd detectors on large telescopes , on fields as wide as possible to cover large samples , and a large range of galactocentric distances .",
    "this can be obtained with a number of data sets at various galactic latitudes and longitudes .",
    "we have collected such data sets from the literature .",
    "most have been made for extragalactic purposes .",
    "the main data characteristics are summarized in table  1 .",
    "the photometric systems are close to the johnson - cousins system .",
    "spheroid star selection was based on their magnitude and colour ( either b - v , v - r , or v - i , depending on the available observations ) , in order to avoid presence of contamination by other populations . aiming at model independent results , the model was used essentially to select colour and magnitude ranges and fields where the contamination by thick disc stars remains negligible under any reasonable thick disc hypothesis . for this reason all",
    "data brighter than magnitude 20 at intermediate and low latitudes were excluded .",
    "a small number of disc white dwarfs is also present in the selection but the proportion is at most a few percent and has no consequence on the result .",
    "our survey program include at the moment two fields , one towards the north galactic pole , another at intermediate latitude ( l=150,b=60 ) .",
    "the ngp field is the deepest up to now : it is complete and free from galaxy contamination up to magnitude 24 .",
    "a full description of these data sets will be given in a forthcoming paper .",
    "the other selected data sets are the six fields of the dms survey @xcite observed in v and r bands at medium latitude , 4 fields from the canada - france redshift survey ( cfrs , @xcite ) dedicated to galaxy counts , two fields from the koo and kron investigation for quasars @xcite , another field from reid and majewski near the north galactic pole @xcite .",
    "the absolute visual magnitude of halo stars in the selected samples ranges between 3 and 8 , except our north galactic pole field which reaches m@xmath26 .",
    "all these fields taken together cover a large part of the ( r , z ) plane , as can be seen in figure  [ fig - rz ] where the distributions in r and z of 90% of halo stars in each field of view are drawn .    [ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     spheroid models with a local density 0.75 @xmath23 and 1.0 @xmath23 give the maximum likelihood , well in agreement with the previous result .",
    "however the model with 0.50 @xmath23 is noticeably worse .",
    "eventually , the resulting imf slopes do not depend significantly on the assumed density laws and the likelihood is well peaked around the maximum indicating a robust determination .",
    "we conclude that the imf of the halo , in the mass range [ 0.1 , 0.8 ] is :    @xmath27    while the imf slope of the thick disc seems to be slightly smaller and similar to the disc s @xcite .",
    "these values do not account for binarity .",
    "thus the true imf should slightly steepen .",
    "we leave the value uncorrected until more data are available on the binary fraction among low mass spheroid stars .",
    "this result is the first direct measurement of the mass function of field star spheroid with a good statistics , thanks to the wide field of the ccd mosaic .",
    "several previous determinations used kinematically selected samples ( see section  2.4 for references ) or deep fields . but the latter were limited to narrow fields : the first attempt by richer & fahlman @xcite lead to a very steep imf slope of @xmath28 which had given hope for a dark matter halo of brown dwarfs .",
    "later results have given shallower slopes but the uncertainties were not significantly decreased .",
    "gould et al .",
    "@xcite analyzed a sample of 166 stars in 53 hst wfpc fields , making difficult the de - correlation between structural parameters of the spheroid and its mass function .",
    "they found a luminosity function down by a factor two from the present one and deduced an imf slope of @xmath29 ( in our notation ) .",
    "their result relies upon the assumption that the spheroid has a mean metallicity of -1.0 , which looks too high considering most direct measurement of its abundances .",
    "this high metallicity induces an overestimate of the luminosity at a given colour , hence of the distance , as well as an overestimate of the mass relatively to a smaller assumed metallicity .      if we independently check the results obtained in inner fields and in outer fields , we are able to search for solutions with varying power law index and flattening over the galactic radius .",
    "contrarily to preston et al . (",
    "1991 ) we find no evidence for varying power law index or flattening .",
    "however , a round spheroid is ruled out by the inner field data as well as by fields at low latitudes . thus our results are compatible with a true power law and a constant flattening all along the tested galactic radius .",
    "when comparing data sets from different sources in close galactic fields , discrepancies appear which are larger than expected on the basis of pure random noise .",
    "this may be due either to data incompleteness , or to systematic errors in the photometry ( including mismatch of the standard photometric system ) , or to true inhomogeneities in the spheroid distribution .",
    "currently available data are not sufficient to discriminate between these different causes .",
    "homogeneous wide field surveys will be necessary to clarify these aspects .",
    "the scope of the current investigation is for this reason limited to large scale average characteristics .",
    "the blue peak at these magnitudes may be contaminated by disc white dwarfs or by thick disc main sequence stars .",
    "the former are very few compared to the density of the halo .",
    "the contamination by disc white dwarfs , as determined by the model , is at most 5% in the magnitude range 22 - 24 .",
    "the contamination from the thick disc has been estimated using our best fit thick disc model as adjusted on medium deep star counts .",
    "the contamination can reach about 30% in the magnitude range 18 - 20 but becomes negligible at magnitude larger than 20 as seen in figure  [ fig - contamin - mag ] .",
    "hence , we do not take into account magnitudes lower than 20 in our study .",
    "had the thick disc contamination been underestimated , then the contribution assigned to the halo in the blue peak would be too large , resulting in a possible distortion of the density law . in order to evaluate how this would affect our conclusions , we have investigated different thick disc models which could fake the halo contribution to the blue peak .",
    "attempts were limited to realistic thick discs roughly fitting the red peak .",
    "we have selected two extreme thick disc parameters for which the contamination to the blue peak becomes significant . a thick disc with a local density of 3.9% , a scale height of 1150 pc and an imf slope of 1 .",
    "( referred to as model b ) . a thick disc with a scale height of 2 kpc , a local density of 0.5% and an imf slope of 1.75 .",
    "( model c ) . with such thick disc models ,",
    "the process of adjusting the spheroid density law parameters end up to tiny local density of about 25% of the standard value and very small power law index of the order of 1.5 .",
    "surprisingly , the fit is good on star counts up to magnitude 22 , showing that a large range of parameters can reproduce a wide set of star counts .",
    "however at magnitude 22 - 24 , model b and c are unable to reproduce the counts , as exemplified in figure  [ fig - contaminbc ] , where at the top star counts at the pole in the magnitude range 22 - 24 are overestimated in the blue peak , and in the range 18 - 22 ( bottom ) the fit is still acceptable .",
    "so , the degeneracy between thick disc models and halo parameters holds only if star counts are not deep enough .",
    "keeping reasonable values for the thick disc parameters leads to a small contamination with no risk of underestimation of the halo density .",
    "if the thick disc contribution is higher than expected from standard models then we would overestimate the local halo density and power law index , strengthening our conclusion towards a flat spheroid with a small power law index .",
    "we have shown that , with the data available up to now , the spheroid star distribution follows a power law with an index smaller than previously thought .",
    "it is moderately flattened , as already found by several investigations .",
    "the best fit power law index is found 2.44 for a flattening of 0.76 .",
    "we can not exclude a spheroid population having a power law as low as 2 and an axis ratio of 0.5 at the 2 sigma level . assuming a high exponent of 3.5 , as suggested by some globular cluster and rr lyrae data , model predictions deviate significantly from observations in the external parts of the galaxy whatever reasonable flattening is adopted .",
    "the imf slope of the spheroid is found to be @xmath30 , value which gives a local density of 1.64 10@xmath2 stars pc@xmath3 and a mass density of 4.15 10@xmath4 pc@xmath3 for the stellar halo , yet this value ignores possible old white dwarfs . with this slope",
    "the expected mass density of brown dwarfs in the halo makes a negligible part of the dark matter halo , as already estimated from microlensing surveys .",
    "recent searches for ancient halo white dwarfs have given a hope to identify the microlensing events with such objects @xcite .",
    "ibata et al .",
    "@xcite conclude that old white dwarfs may constitute a significant fraction of about 10% of the dark matter halo . in the mean time",
    ", microlensing experiments have narrowed the range of the estimated halo baryonic fraction to 20 to 50% @xcite .",
    "these two results are well in agreement according to the uncertainties .",
    "so , as star count data progresses in depth and extent , the picture of the spheroid star population that comes out points to characteristics quite compatible with what we know about the distribution of baryonic dark matter if it is made of stellar remnants , suggesting a common dynamical origin .",
    "the visible spheroid and its heavy counterpart of dark remnants can make a significant but not dominant part of the so - called dark matter halo .",
    "alcock , c. , allsman , r. , alves , d. , axelrod , t. , becker , a. , bennett , d. , cook , k. , dalal , n. , drake , a. , freeman , k. , geha , m. , griest , k. , lehner , m. , marshall , s. , minniti , d. , nelson , c. , peterson , b. , popowski , p. , pratt , m. , quinn , p. , stubbs , c. , sutherland , w. , tomaney , a. , vandehei , t. , and welch , d. : 2000 ,    , c. , allsman , r.  a. , alves , d. , ansari , r. , aubourg , e. , axelrod , t.  s. , bareyre , p. , beaulieu , j.  p. , becker , a.  c. , bennett , d.  p. , brehin , s. , cavalier , f. , char , s. , cook , k.  h. , ferlet , r. , fernandez , j. , freeman , k.  c. , griest , k. , grison , p. , gros , m. , gry , c. , guibert , j. , lachieze - rey , m. , laurent , b. , lehner , m.  j. , lesquoy , e. , magneville , c. , marshall , s.  l. , maurice , e. , milsztajn , a. , minniti , d. , moniez , m. , moreau , o. , moscoso , l. , palanque - delabrouille , n. , peterson , b.  a. , pratt , m.  r. , prevot , l. , queinnec , f. , quinn , p.  j. , renault , c. , rich , j. , spiro , m. , stubbs , c.  w. , sutherland , w. , tomaney , a. , vandehei , t. , vidal - madjar , a. , vigroux , l. , and zylberajch , s. : 1998 , , l9    , c. , allsman , r.  a. , alves , d. , axelrod , t.  s. , becker , a.  c. , bennett , d.  p. , cook , k.  h. , freeman , k.  c. , griest , k. , guern , j. , lehner , m.  j. , marshall , s.  l. , peterson , b.  a. , pratt , m.  r. , quinn , p.  j. , rodgers , a.  w. , stubbs , c.  w. , sutherland , w. , welch , d.  l. , and the macho collaboration : 1997 , , 697    , e. , bareyre , p. , brehin , s. , gros , m. , lachieze - rey , m. , laurent , b. , lesquoy , e. , magneville , c. , milsztajn , a. , moscoso , l. , queinnec , f. , rich , j. , spiro , m. , vigroux , l. , zylberajch , s. , ansari , r. , cavalier , f. , moniez , m. , beaulieu , j.  p. , ferlet , r. , grison , p. , madjar , a.  v. , guibert , j. , moreau , o. , tajahmady , f. , maurice , e. , prevot , l. , and gry , c. : 1993 , , 623                dahn , c.  c. , liebert , j. , harris , h.  c. , and guetter , h.  h. : 1995 , in c.  g. tinney ( ed . ) , _ the bottom of the main sequence and beyond _ , pp 239248 , springer , proceedings of the eso workshop held in garching , germany , 10 - 12 august 1994"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> as part of a global analysis of deep star counts to constrain scenarii of galaxy formation and evolution , we investigate possible links between the galactic spheroid and the dark matter halo . </S>",
    "<S> a wide set of deep star counts at high and intermediate galactic latitudes is used to determine the large scale density law of the spheroid . assuming a power density law , the exponent , flattening , local density and imf slope of this population </S>",
    "<S> are estimated . </S>",
    "<S> the estimation is checked for robustness against contamination of star counts by the thick disc population . </S>",
    "<S> contamination effects are derived from a model of population synthesis under a broad variety of thick disc parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the parameter fit is based on a maximum likelihood criterion . </S>",
    "<S> the best fit spheroid density law has a flattening of 0.76 , a power index of 2.44 . </S>",
    "<S> there is a significant degeneracy between these two parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the data are also compatible with a slightly less flattened spheroid ( c / a = 0.85 ) , in combination with a larger power index ( 2.75 ) . a flatter spheroid ( c / a = 0.6 ) with a power index of 2 is not excluded either . </S>",
    "<S> we also constrain the spheroid imf slope @xmath0 to be 1.9 @xmath1 0.2 , leading to a local density of 1.64 10@xmath2 stars pc@xmath3 and a mass density of 4.15 10@xmath4 pc@xmath3 . with this slope </S>",
    "<S> the expected mass density of brown dwarfs in the halo makes a negligible part of the dark matter halo , as already estimated from microlensing surveys .    </S>",
    "<S> so , as star count data progresses in depth and extent , the picture of the spheroid star population that comes out points to a shape quite compatible with what we know about the distribution of baryonic dark matter if it is made of stellar remnants , suggesting a common dynamical origin . </S>"
  ]
}