{
  "article_text": [
    "mass loss by dust driven winds of asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) stars probably is one of the major mechanism which recycle material in the galaxy ( e.g.  sedlmayr 1994 ) .",
    "most stars ( @xmath0 ) will eventually become agb stars and subsequently end their life as white dwarfs surrounded by planetary nebulae .",
    "agb stars are cool ( @xmath1  k ) and luminous ( @xmath2 of a few @xmath3 to a few @xmath4  l@xmath5 ) and a majority of them are pulsating long - period variables ( lpvs ) .",
    "the outer layers of many agb stars provide favorable conditions for the formation of molecules and dust grains .",
    "dust grains play an important role for the heavy mass loss of these stars ( up to ( @xmath6/yr ) .",
    "pulsation causes an extended atmosphere where the dust is condensing .",
    "the dust absorbs the light of the central star and re - radiates it at longer wavelengths in the infrared rage ( @xmath7 m ) .",
    "the density of material in the circumstellar envelope may be so large that the star becomes completely obscured in the optical rage .",
    "due to observational difficulties in determining the mass loss rates of these objects considerable effort has been put into a theoretical description of the mass loss of agb stars ( e.g.   fleischer et al .",
    "1992 ; hfner & dorfi 1997 ) . the overall goal is to develop a mass loss description that can be used as input to evolutionary models and thereby probe the chemical evolution of the galaxy .",
    "we present here how the wind properties of carbon - rich models are influenced by the micro - physical properties of the dust grains .",
    "the models predict mass loss rates , wind velocities and dust - to - gas ratios by solving the equations of continuity , motion and energy for the gas and a set of equations describing the formation of dust grains .",
    "the transfer of radiation is calculated frequency - dependently for the gas and dust ( hfner 1999 ; hfner et al .",
    "basically only four stellar parameters are needed as input for the models ; the stellar mass ( @xmath8 ) , the effective temperature ( @xmath9 ) , the luminosity ( @xmath2 ) of the star and the gas abundance ratio ( @xmath10 ) of carbon to oxygen .",
    "however , to describe the pulsations of the star two additional parameters are required for the prescription of the inner boundary condition ; a pulsation period ( p ) and a velocity amplitude ( @xmath11 ) , which simulates a pulsating stellar surface as a means of mechanical energy input .",
    "the number densities of the molecules relevant to the carbon dust formation are calculated assuming chemical equilibrium between h , h@xmath12 , c , c@xmath12 , c@xmath12h and c@xmath12h@xmath12 after the fraction of carbon bound in co has been subtracted .",
    "nucleation , growth and destruction of dust grains are supposed to proceed by reactions involving c , c@xmath12 , c@xmath12h and c@xmath12h@xmath12 .",
    "dust is formed by a series of chemical reactions in which atoms or molecules from the gas phase combine to clusters of increasing size .",
    "the molecular composition of the gas phase determines which atoms and molecules are available for the cluster formation and grain growth .",
    "this can lead to a layered structure of the circumstellar envelope .",
    "dust formation alters the atmospheric structure which significant influence the local and global circumstellar envelope dynamics and the detailed time - dependent spectral appearance .    in the case of pulsating atmospheres of mira and other lpvs",
    "the condensation of dust grains is strongly connected with the shock wave structure of the circumstellar envelope , usually triggered by a 2-step mechanism .",
    "first there is nucleation of critical clusters followed by growth to macroscopic dust grains .",
    "grain growth will usually proceed far from equilibrium and it is necessary to use a time - dependent description of grain growth to determine the degree of condensation and other relevant properties of the dust .",
    "the grain growth is treated by the moment method which describe the time evolution of an ensemble of macroscopic dust grains of various sizes and requires the nucleation rate as input ( gail & sedlmayr 1988 ; gauger et al .",
    "the moment method needs the following dust properties as external input : ( 1 ) the optical properties of the relevant dust types , ( 2 ) the intrinsic density of the dust material(s ) , ( 3 ) the sticking coefficient which describes the efficiency of growing dust grains from the atomic precursors , and ( 4 ) the surface tension of the dust grains which controls the efficiency of nucleation .",
    "the purpose of this work is to investigate in detail how the predicted wind properties of the carbon - rich agb models are influenced by the choice of these quantities .    for the mass loss models it is important to know how the uncertainty in the chosen dust parameters affects the obtained results .",
    "the model parameters are listed in tables @xmath13 .",
    "for a given set of stellar parameters and elemental abundance , the mass loss rate , the outflow velocity and the degree of condensation is obtained by averaging the outflow of the time - dependent models .",
    "previous models presented in earlier papers ( e.g.  andersen et al .",
    "1999 ) were all based on gray radiative transfer while the models presented here are calculated using frequency dependent radiative transfer for the gas and dust ( see hfner et al .",
    "2002 for details ) .",
    "dynamic atmosphere models are undergoing a transition from qualitative modeling of physical processes to realistic quantitative predictions and interpretations of observations .",
    ".list of the different dust data used . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "we have investigated in detail how the predicted wind properties of the carbon - rich agb models are influenced by the choice of micro - physical dust parameters .    for the mass loss models it is important to know how the uncertainty in the chosen dust parameters affects the obtained results .",
    "the choice of the micro - physical parameters can change the predictions for the mean outflow velocity of the gas and dust by a factor of 4 , the predicted degree of dust condensation by a factor of 10 and the predicted mass loss by a factor of 2 . in the transition between models with and without mass - loss",
    "the choice of micro - physical parameters is vital for whether a particular set of stellar parameters will give rise to a dust - driven mass loss or not .",
    "andersen a. , loidl r. , hfner s. , 1999 , a&a 349 , 243 campbell m.f . , harvey p.m. , hoffmann w.f . , elias j.h . , neugebauer g. , gezari d.y . , westbrook w.e . , hudson h.s . , soifer b.t . , werner m.w . , 1976 , apj 208 , 396 draine b.t . , lee h.m . , 1984 , apj 285 , 89 fleischer a.j . , gauger a. , sedlmayr e. , 1992 , a&a 266 , 321 gail h .-",
    ", sedlmayr e. , 1986 , a&a 166 , 225 gail h .-",
    ", sedlmayr e. , 1988 , a&a 206 , 153 gauger a. , gail h .-",
    ", sedlmayr e. , 1990 , a&a 235 , 345 grtler j. , kmpe c. , henning th .",
    ", 1996 , a&a 305 , 878 hfner s. , 1999 , a&a 346 , l9 hfner s. , dorfi e.a . , 1997 , a&a 319 , 648 hfner s. , loidl - gautschy r. , aringer b. , jrgensen u.g . , 2002 , subm . a&a jger c. , mutschke h. , henning th . , 1998 , a&a 332 , 291 martin p.g . ,",
    "rogers c. , 1987 , apj 322 , 374 rouleau f. , martin p.g . , 1991 , apj 377 , 526 sedlmayr e. , 1994 , in molecules in the stellar environment , lnp 428 , ed .",
    "jrgensen ( springer , berlin ) , 163 sopka r.j . ,",
    "hildebrand r.h . ,",
    "jaffe d.t . , et al . , 1985 ,",
    "apj 294 , 242 tabak r.g . , hirth j.p . , meyrick g. , roark t.p . , 1975 , apj 196 , 457"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present self - consistent dynamical models for dust driven winds of carbon - rich agb stars . </S>",
    "<S> the models are based on the coupled system of frequency - dependent radiation hydrodynamics and time - dependent dust formation . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate in detail how the wind properties of the models are influenced by the micro - physical properties of the dust grains that enter as parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the models are now at a level where it is necessary to be quantitatively consistent when choosing the dust properties that enters as input into the models . at our current level of sophistication </S>",
    "<S> the choice of dust parameters is significant for the derived outflow velocity , the degree of condensation and the estimated mass loss rates of the models . in the transition between models with and without mass - loss </S>",
    "<S> the choice of micro - physical parameters turns out to be very significant for whether a particular set of stellar parameters will give rise to a dust - driven mass loss or not . </S>"
  ]
}