{
  "article_text": [
    "the `` second parameter effect '' ( spe ; see * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) has been at the center of the debate on galaxy formation during the last two decades . in particular the interpretation of _ most _ of the observed differences of hb morphology at fixed metal content in globular clusters ( gcs ) in terms of age differences @xcite leads to the conclusion that a large age spread is present in the stellar galactic halo . in the last few years",
    "a body of stringent observational evidence has demonstrated that this interpretation was unjustified @xcite . moreover",
    "the advent of larger and/or space located telescopes and more efficient detectors has removed any need ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) of relying on hb morphologies to estimate ages , carrying within reach the best suited age indicator ( i.e. , the main sequence turnoff ( msto ) , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) over the whole range of distances of galactic gcs .",
    "we are now in the much safer condition of splitting the old version of the spe conundrum into two distinct and well defined questions : ( 1 ) what physical quantities are actually driving differences in hb morphology , i.e. a problem of stellar astrophysics , and ( 2 ) what are the age distribution , the age - metallicity and the age - galactocentric distance relations of the galactic gc system , i.e. a problem of galactic astronomy .    in the context of the spe debate ,",
    "the classical gc pair ngc  288 and ngc  362 has been the subject of extensive study and long standing controversies ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* hereinafter svb96 , and references therein ) .",
    "in this paper we present the results of a specific observational test devised to measure the age difference between these two clusters with high accuracy . in doing this ,",
    "we take also advantage of the detailed abundance analysis recently published by @xcite .",
    "the results of the test will drive a detailed investigation on the origin of the observed difference in hb morphology , performed with modern color - magnitude diagram ( cmd ) synthesis techniques ( as adopted by * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , that will be presented in a companion paper ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper  ii ) .",
    "the plan of the paper is as follows : in  2 we briefly recall and comment on previous results on the age differences between ngc  362 and ngc  288 , and we describe the planned test .",
    "the metal abundance estimates found in the literature are also reviewed . in ",
    "3 the observational material and data reductions are described and  4 is devoted to the actual application of the age difference test . a direct comparison with previous realizations of the bridge test is also presented and it is demonstrated that the present application is superior to previous ones (  4.5 ) .",
    "the underlying assumptions at the basis of the bridge test are also critically discussed (  4.6 ) . in",
    " 5 we comment on an interesting spin - off of our results concerning the origins of ngc  288 and ngc  362 .",
    "finally , the results of the whole analysis are summarized and discussed in  6 .",
    "ngc  288 and ngc  362 are two well known and relatively nearby southern clusters ( @xmath5 and @xmath6 respectively , * ? ? ?",
    "since the early spectrophotometric estimates ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) it was realized that they were quite similar in metal content , a claim that has been confirmed many times ( see  2.1 . ) .",
    "hence , the strong difference in hb morphology [ @xmath7 for ngc  288 and @xmath8 for ngc  362 @xcite , @xmath9 and @xmath0 are the number of stars bluer than the instability strip ( @xmath10 ) , redder than the instability strip ( @xmath9 ) and lying inside the instability strip , i.e. rr lyrae variables ( @xmath0 ) . ] at similar metallicity made these two clusters an excellent test case to study the spe .    based on the hb morphology , a large difference in age ( @xmath11  gyr ) was suggested as the sp at work in this couple by @xcite , later revised by the same authors to @xmath12 gyr @xcite .",
    "@xcite found that age differences larger than @xmath13  gyr were indeed required to account for this second parameter pair , unless absolute ages smaller than @xmath14  gyr were assumed .",
    "hence it is important to obtain independent age estimates based on observations of the msto , to settle the issue whether or not age can be considered the ( sole )  second parameter \" at play in this case ( see paper  ii for an extensive discussion ) .",
    "while the comparison of two clusters of similar metal content remains the case in which the most secure estimates of age differences can be obtained , a number of important sources of uncertainty can still plague the measures ( * ? ? ? *",
    "svb96 ) :    1 .",
    "if the considered clusters have similar hb morphologies , the match of the hbs obtained by shifting of the cmds can provide a direct comparison virtually independent of distance and reddening . in the opposite case ,",
    "i.e. very different morphologies , as for ngc  288 and ngc  362 , this approach is obviously impossible and independent estimates of the relative distance and reddening are necessary .",
    "these estimates are the major contributors to the final error budget of the relative age measure @xcite .",
    "in particular , the estimate of the relative distance has to be based on ( a ) questionable extrapolations of the observed hb to an _ unobserved _ common level ( the theoretical zero - age horizontal branch ( zahb ) at the instability strip level , for example ) or on ( b ) matching of the main sequences , made difficult by the morphology of the sequence ( i.e. its high slope in the cmd ) and by uncertainties in the reddening @xcite ; 2 .",
    "even if the overall metal abundance is similar , undetected ( or unmeasured ) differences in @xmath15-elements abundances or in primordial he abundance ( @xmath16 ) can lead to significant misinterpretation of observed differences in the location of the msto and the hb ( * ? ? ?",
    "* svb96 ) . a detailed and comparative abundance analysis of a significant sample of ngc  288 and ngc  362 stars has become available only very recently @xcite .",
    "the problem of he abundance will be briefly discussed in  2.1 ; 3 .",
    "the comparison of photometric material taken under different conditions ( i.e. telescope , cameras , observing run , set of absolute calibrators , actually adopted filters , etc . ) is not necessarily safe and can introduce significant errors in age difference estimates @xcite .",
    "for instance , slight differences in the adopted filters can introduce color equations depending on the local set - up of the observations .",
    "merging deep and bright photometries taken from different sources can introduce deformations in the cmd , altering the final comparison between the msto , for example by changing the relative difference between the msto and the hb magnitudes and colors in the cmd .    while many authors have provided estimates of the age difference between ngc  288 and ngc  362 based on sufficiently deep photometry to sensibly measure the msto , their analyses suffered from at least one of the problems described above .",
    "@xcite compared their deep ccd photometry of ngc  288 with a composite cmd of ngc  362 obtained by merging the faint stars sample observed with a ccd camera by @xcite with the bright stars sample obtained by @xcite based on photographic plates calibrated with photoelectric photometry . hence , this analysis was prone to all three sources of uncertainties described above .",
    "the adopted difference in apparent distance modulus was @xmath17 .",
    "the pound et al .",
    "results were compatible with a significant age difference between the two clusters , ngc  288 being older .",
    "however they concluded that the age difference was not sufficient to explain the observed hb morphologies and suggested the existence of as yet undetected differences in chemical composition .",
    "both @xcite and @xcite tailored their observations to minimize the effects associated with point 3 , by observing both clusters in the same observing run , with the same observational setup and tying the photometry to a common calibration ( see the discussion in  6 in * ? ? ?",
    "however , they were forced to assume and/or derive the relative distance and reddening from less safe ways than direct hb matching , thus both studies suffer from the associated uncertainties ( point 1 ) .",
    "the two analyses reached the same conclusion , i.e. that ngc  288 is @xmath13  gyr older than ngc  362 .",
    "the adopted @xmath18 were @xmath19 for @xcite and @xmath20 for @xcite .",
    "age indicators based on color differences between the msto and some point at the base of the red giant branch ( rgb ) [ @xmath21 are by definition independent of distance and reddening . in case of application to clusters of the same metallicity , their strong dependence on this last parameter can be ignored ( see the discussion in svb96 and * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore , given the vicinity in the cmd of the two involved features , strong influences by inhomogeneous calibrations are less likely .",
    "their most noticeable drawback stands in the theoretical calibration , since , as well known since long ago @xcite , uncertainties in the free parameters of the stellar models ( as , e.g. , the mixing length ) and in the transformations from the theoretical ( @xmath22 ) to the observational ( @xmath0 , ) plane affect model predictions about _ colors _ much more than those about luminosity .",
    "this is particularly critical because of the exceptional sensitivity of these kinds of _ horizontal _ parameters to age @xcite .",
    "for instance , in the calibration adopted by @xcite to analyze the ngc  288 - ngc  362 pair by means of a horizontal differential parameter , an age difference of 1 gyr is associated to a difference in the adopted observable of 0.01 - 0.02 mag , depending on the absolute age of the oldest cluster .",
    "@xcite , based on unpublished data from other authors , concluded that ngc  288 is @xmath23 gyr older than ngc 362 , but the formal error on their @xmath24 is 0.014 mag , i.e. @xmath25 and the uncertainty associated with the theoretical calibration is not quantified .",
    "independently of the quoted problems affecting each of the described estimates , similar results were found by the different authors and the question appeared as almost settled in the middle of the 90s , when svb96 introduced a decisive change of perspective .",
    "these authors were the first to apply the idea of using a cluster with a bimodal hb morphology and similar metallicity ( ngc  1851 ) to perform a purely differential match between ngc  362 and ngc  288 , thus removing the uncertainties associated with point 1 , while performing an age test based on the whole morphology of the msto region , including magnitudes and colors .",
    "hereafter we will refer to the test devised by svb96 as the _ bridge test _ , since the hb of ngc  1851 is used as a bridge to match the hbs of ngc  288 and ngc  362 @xcite .",
    "in particular svb96 matched the msto regions of ngc  362 and ngc  288 to that of ngc  1851 and then checked whether the hb of ngc  362 matched the red part of the hb of ngc  1851 and if the hb of ngc  288 matched the blue hb of ngc  1851 . finding a good overall match they concluded that `` ... all three clusters do , indeed , have the same age to within quite a small uncertainty ( @xmath26 gyr ) .",
    "moreover , small cluster - to - cluster differences in [ fe / h ] or @xmath27 $ ] will not alter this conclusion because we have effectively used the @xmath28 ( vertical parameter ) method , which is insensitive to modest changes in heavy element abundances ... '' .    while the comparison devised by svb96",
    "appears to be the most robust either from an observational or a theoretical point of view , their actual application of the test suffers from all the uncertainties described in point 3 above .",
    "in fact , they adopted the photometry of @xcite for ngc  1851 , the data of @xcite for the bright ( @xmath29  mag ) part of the ngc  288 cmd and @xcite for the faint part , and finally the photographic photometry of @xcite for the bright ( @xmath30  mag ) part of the ngc  362 cmd , and @xcite for the faint part of the same cluster .",
    "very inhomogeneous databases were compared , therefore both internal ( bright vs. faint ) and external ( differences in the absolute calibrations and/or observational setup ) effects can undermine the test .",
    "furthermore the plots of the cmd of ngc  1851 erroneously included a few rr lyrae among the brightest blue hb stars , an occurrence that makes less stringent the matching between the hb of ngc  1851 and the one of ngc  288 ( see the _ note added in proof _ in svb96 ) .",
    "this source of uncertainty was removed in the analysis by @xcite who confirmed the svb96 result ( the derived @xmath18 are @xmath31 for svb96 and @xmath32 for @xcite ) .",
    "nevertheless , vandenberg adopts the same inhomogeneous dataset as svb96 .",
    "the pernicious effects of the use of heterogenous databases in the previous realizations of the bridge test will be described and discussed in  4.5 .",
    "it is straightforward to conclude that the svb96 test can be refined by settling the point-3-related problems and by adopting a slightly different strategy . in our view , a more tightly constraining test would be obtained by _ matching the hbs _ and comparing the resulting differences in the msto regions instead of the opposite .",
    "for instance , the clumpy red hbs of ngc  362 and ngc  1851 provide a much stronger reference point for the comparison than the msto - sgb almost - sinusoidal curve .",
    "there are two recent studies in the literature that attempt a relative age estimate involving the three clusters we are dealing with and that present a high degree of homogeneity in the observational material .",
    "@xcite presented a homogeneous and accurately calibrated photometric database of southern gcs including ngc  288 , ngc  362 and ngc  1851 .",
    "they find an age difference between ngc  288 and ngc  362 of @xmath33 gyr and of @xmath34 gyr between ngc  288 and ngc  1851 , ngc  288 being the older cluster .",
    "the final cmds are more fuzzy and contain less stars than our dataset [ see in particular the scarcely populated hb of ngc  1851 , fig .  8 of @xcite ] .",
    "in the analysis , @xcite did not attempt a specific bridge test , since they were interested in the establishment of a global relative age scale based on both vertical and horizontal age diagnostics .",
    "@xcite presented preliminary results of a bridge test involving the above quoted clusters based on strmgren @xmath35 photometry , carried out with the same instrumental set - up .",
    "he applied the test in the same way as svb96 and @xcite and confirmed their results . a deeper analysis ( still based on",
    "the assumption that the three clusters have the same abundance of heavy elements ) however showed that an age difference up to @xmath36 gyr between ngc  288 and ngc  362 can not be entirely excluded ( grundahl , private communication ) .    from the above discussion",
    "it is clear that ( a ) despite extensive efforts the question of the age difference between ngc  288 and ngc  362 is not settled yet , and ( b ) a bridge test performed with homogeneous observational material is - presently - the most secure way to obtain the final answer ( see  4.5 ) . with this purpose we obtained _",
    "deep @xmath0 and @xmath1 photometry of ngc  288 , ngc  362 and ngc  1851 during the same observational run , with the same observational setup and locked to the same calibrating color equations_. we used this observational material to perform a more robust version of the bridge test , obtaining the best minimization of the uncertainties related to points 1 and 3 above , given the current technical limitations .",
    "the next subsection will deal with point 2 .",
    "any of the above described estimates of the relative ages of ngc  288 and ngc  362 have to take into account the following question : do indeed the two clusters have the same chemical composition ? while photometric and spectroscopic estimates were in agreement since the earliest times , there was room for non - negligible differences in the overall metal content ( up to @xmath37  dex ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and , above all , the @xmath15-element abundance as well as the extent of possible mixing phenomena @xcite were largely unconstrained .",
    "as a reference we report the metallicity listed by @xcite , i.e. @xmath38=-1.40\\pm 0.12 $ ] for ngc  288 and @xmath39 for ngc  362 .",
    "studies based on high resolution spectra @xcite resulted in detailed analysis of the abundance pattern which confirms a close similarity between the two clusters ( see * ? ? ? * for references and discussion ) .",
    "the very recent study by @xcite couples the accurate reconstruction of the abundance pattern performed by @xcite ( including also al , sc and eu ) with the `` large '' sample approach by @xcite .",
    "they observed 13 and 12 hb stars in ngc  288 and ngc  362 , finding @xmath38=-1.39 \\pm 0.01 $ ] and @xmath38=-1.33 \\pm 0.01 $ ] respectively , and very similar abundance patterns ( in particular , both clusters have @xmath27\\sim + 0.3 $ ] ) .",
    "they also analyzed possible diagnostics of mixing and mass loss and finally concluded:_`` ...",
    "ngc  288 and ngc  362 have roughly the same abundance , roughly the same @xmath15 enhancement ratio , roughly the same percentage of mixed stars , the same extent of deep mixing within those stars , and no extreme mass loss taking place on the giant branch ... '' _    the only small difference pointed out by shetrone & keane is in the oxygen abundance . from the analysis of the na - o anticorrelation ( observed in both clusters )",
    "they argue that ngc  288 has a primordial oxygen abundance larger by @xmath40 dex than ngc  362 .",
    "given the current uncertainties @xcite we regard this difference as marginal , in the present context .",
    "however it has to be noted that , if real , it would provide a further problem in the explanation of the difference in the hb morphology , since higher o abundances have to correspond to redder morphology , all other parameter being fixed ( see paper ii for discussion ) .    despite some disagreement in the zero points of the metallicity scale ,",
    "there is a broad consensus on the _ similarity _ in chemical composition between ngc  288 and ngc  362 .",
    "it is difficult to find another couple of clusters for which such a large and detailed amount of spectroscopic analysis is available showing that indeed they are a spe couple , i.e. they have the same metal content .",
    "hence our age test is now grounded on the most solid basis attainable with `` state of the art '' abundance analysis techniques .",
    "the case of ngc  1851 is much less fortunate since no high dispersion analysis is available in the literature .",
    "all papers we have consulted adopt @xmath38=-1.33\\pm 0.1 $ ] from @xcite .",
    "@xcite measured equivalent widths of ca ii lines in eight hb stars in ngc  1851 , obtaining @xmath38=-1.4\\pm 0.15 $ ] , in good agreement with the previous estimate .",
    "thus we can only conclude that ngc  1851 has an overall metallicity similar to ngc  288 and ngc  362 .",
    "however this can be accepted as a sufficient condition for using the cmd of this cluster as a bridge since it is difficult to conceive a inhomogeneity in chemical composition that could change the relative luminosity level of its blue and red hb in different ways ( but see * ? ? ?",
    "* and  4.6 for different viewpoints and caveats ) .",
    "there is still an important factor in the chemical composition of the considered clusters that may affect both age estimates and hb morphology and can not be fruitfully constrained with spectroscopy , i.e. the helium abundance @xmath16 .",
    "@xcite has recently reviewed the methods to determine @xmath16 in gcs and has concluded that the technique based on population ratios ( the so - called @xmath9 method , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) remains the most reliable one , despite the significant uncertainties associated .",
    "the @xmath9 method has been applied to ngc  288 , ngc  362 and ngc  1851 by several authors @xcite adopting slightly different techniques .",
    "all the above quoted studies have not found any evidence of a difference in @xmath16 between the three considered clusters , and the application of the @xmath9 method to our data confirms this result .",
    "it has however to be recalled that the current uncertainties still leave room for the possibility of significant differences in the he abundance .",
    "finally , a recent analysis by @xcite suggests that it is very unlikely that early deep mixing phenomena may significantly affect galactic globulars .",
    "the observations have been carried out during the nights of 1997 january 2 and 3 , at the 2.2 m eso / mpi telescope at la silla ( chile ) with the efosc2 camera , equipped with a loral / lesser @xmath41 pixels ccd .",
    "the pixel scale is @xmath42 arcsec / pixel , and the effective field of view is @xmath43 arcmin@xmath44 .",
    "the gain is @xmath45 and the read - out noise is @xmath46 rms .    the seeing conditions were average during the january 2 night ( @xmath47  arcsec ) when the ngc  1851 and ngc  288 observations were carried out , and worsened ( @xmath48  arcsec ) during the second night when we observed ngc  362 .    for each cluster two partially overlapping fields",
    "have been observed :    * an inner field ( int ) , centered on the center of the cluster and observed with short and intermediate exposure times ( 1  s , 1  min , 2  min ) with the aim of sampling the bright stars . *",
    "an outer field ( out ) in which also long exposures ( 10  min ) have been acquired in order to sample the main sequence in relatively uncrowded regions .",
    "the rationale of the observational strategy was to obtain a large and complete sample of evolved stars to have a well defined hb , and to obtain deep photometry in the most favorable conditions to get a clean msto region and a well sampled ms .",
    "each frame has been corrected for bias and flatfield and the overscan area has been trimmed using standard iraf packages .",
    "the relative photometry has been carried out with the psf - fitting code dophot @xcite , running on a compaq / alpha station at the bologna observatory .",
    "a quadratic polynomial has been adopted to model the spatial variations of the psf . since the code provides a classification of the sources , after each application we retained only the sources classified as",
    "_ bona fide _ stars ( types 1 , 3 and 7 ) .",
    "the relative photometry catalogues from different exposure frames were reported to a common relative system for each field ( int and out ) and merged into a single final catalogue .",
    "in particular , since typical intermediate exposures frames sampled simultaneously the hb and the to region we carefully checked that the merged catalogues accurately reproduce the morphology of the cmds from intermediate exposures . the int and out catalogues",
    "were reported to the out relative system with the same accuracy , and the aperture corrections were determined for suitable bright and uncrowded stars in each of the out fields using iraf / phot .",
    "thus , the final instrumental cmds are free from any spurious distortion .",
    "many standard stars taken from the list by @xcite have been observed during both nights to provide a transformation to the standard johnson - cousins system . in fig .",
    "1 the calibrating color equations are shown . in the present context",
    "it is important to note that ( 1 ) the whole color range of the final cmds is covered by the observed standards : in the instrumental color index the extreme blue hb ( bhb ) stars have @xmath49 , the reddest rgb tip stars @xmath50 and the whole ms and sgb regions are contained between @xmath51 and @xmath52 ; and ( 2 ) the photometry of both nights is tied to the same color equation .",
    "thus , even if the absolute calibration is not correct _ the differential comparisons between the cmds obtained during this observational run are fully self - consistent over the whole range of magnitudes and colors_. we checked our calibrated data with the photometry by @xcite and the results of this comparison are shown in fig .  2 .",
    "while there is good agreement for ngc  288 , significant zero - point shifts are detected for ngc  362 and ngc  1851 .",
    "the presence of thin cirrus during the observations could be responsible for the small difference with respect to @xcite .",
    "thus in the following we will adopt their absolute calibration . on the other hand",
    ", we emphasize that for the bridge test the absolute calibration is unimportant , so this is not a concern . apart from the quoted shifts the agreement with rosenberg et al .",
    "is excellent and the linearity of the relative photometry is confirmed .      in order to obtain the best suited samples for the test we selected the stars in each catalogue according to the following criteria :    1 .   all the stars with photometric errors in @xmath0 or @xmath1 larger than 0.1  mag",
    "have been excluded from the samples ; 2 .",
    "all the stars of ngc  1851 with @xmath53  mag and with a distance from the cluster center @xmath54  px have been excluded from the sample .",
    "all the stars of ngc  362 with @xmath55  mag and with a distance from the cluster center @xmath54  px were also excluded . in this way",
    "we avoid confusion in the sgb - msto region of the cmds due to uncertainties in the photometry of faint stars in the most crowded part of the fields . in the ngc  288 images the crowding is moderate everywhere and such selection was unnecessary .",
    "the final selected samples provide very well populated evolved sequences ( collecting stars from the whole observed fields ) and very clean sgb - msto regions populated by relatively uncrowded stars .",
    "the catalogues of the selected samples are presented in tables 1 , 2 and 3 for ngc  288 , ngc  1851 and ngc  362 , respectively .",
    "as a fast guidance for the reader we present also the average photometric errors as a function of @xmath0 magnitude in table 4 . note that these are formal errors as provided by the psf fitting code , thus taking into account only the uncertainties associated with the actual @xmath56 ratio of the observed stars and with the fit process ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a discussion ) .",
    "the cmds from the final samples are shown in fig",
    ".  3 ( panel _ ( a ) _ : ngc  288 , 10990 stars ; panel _ ( b ) _ : ngc  1851 , 9118 stars ; panel _ ( c ) _ : ngc  362 , 7499 stars ) . the encircled dots in fig .",
    "3 are the rr lyrae variables we identified in our samples from the lists found in the literature : @xcite for ngc  288 ; @xcite for ngc  1851 , and the @xcite catalogue for ngc  362 , in the version updated to 1996 by c. clement and kindly made available in electronic form by the same authorcclement / read.html . ] .",
    "the open squares in the cmds of ngc  288 and ngc  1851 are the probable bona - fide extreme hb star ehb 1 identified by @xcite in ngc 288 , and two ultraviolet sources identified by the uit satellite ( uit-31 and uit-44 ) in ngc  1851 @xcite .",
    "we also cross correlated our catalogue of ngc  288 with the catalogue of proper motions by @xcite , which partially covers the cluster .",
    "only one obvious non - member star was identified ( guo 4110 ) , that is not shown in fig .",
    "3 because it lies outside the limit of the plot .",
    "ngc  362 is located in the foreground of the small magellanic cloud ( smc ) halo , and a population of smc main - sequence stars and giants can be seen blueward and redward , respectively , of the ngc  362 main - sequence in figure  3 .",
    "however , the smc contamination is evidently quite small for @xmath57  mag ( cf .",
    "the ngc  362 background field cmd of * ? ? ? * ) and thus insignificant for the present purposes .",
    "we identified three possible foreground stars in the hb locus of ngc  362 using the astrometric catalog of @xcite .",
    "these foreground candidates have both small proper motion errors and low probability of cluster membership .",
    "one of these foreground candidates ( t245 ) is identified along the blue hb in fig .  3 ( open triangle ) , while the other two ( t134 , t324 ) are located near the clump of red hb stars . in fig .  3",
    "are also indicated two blue hb stars ( open squares ) in ngc  362 which were identified as spectroscopic cluster members by @xcite ( their mj 6558 and mj 8241 ) .",
    "while the blue hb of ngc  362 is quite sparse , it does allow a direct comparison with the hb of ngc  288 , and can provide a check on our bridge match .",
    "all the relevant features of the cmds are very clean and well defined and they do not show any particular new feature with respect to previous studies , thus we do not discuss them in detail .",
    "some evidence emerging from the cmd of ngc  362 deserves just a brief comment .",
    "first , as mentioned earlier , the obvious plumes of stars between @xmath58 and @xmath59 at @xmath60 and @xmath61 are , respectively , the ms and the rgb of the small magellanic cloud that lie in the background of this cluster .",
    "second , the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) sequence of ngc  362 , at @xmath62v@xmath63 and @xmath64 , is particularly tight and well defined with respect to that of the other two clusters .",
    "this can be due to the very clumpy nature of the red hb of ngc  362 : the evolutionary paths of most stars from the hb along the agb are very similar for all the stars of ngc  362 since their initial conditions on the zahb are very similar . on the other hand the agb of ngc  1851 and",
    "ngc 288 should have a sizeable contribution from stars that were located at very different colors along the zahb .      before proceeding any further",
    "it is important to address a point that may undermine the very basis of the bridge test .",
    "it has in fact been suggested @xcite that gcs with multimodal hb morphology ( including ngc  1851 ) are not _ single age - single metallicity _ objects as any classical globular , but do host populations of different metallicity and/or age that would be responsible for the anomalous hbs .",
    "the hypothesis is not new and reappears in the literature from time to time under different forms @xcite , but no observational evidence supporting this view has been found yet @xcite .",
    "it is interesting to note that in the only proven case of a globular with multiple population , i.e. @xmath65  centauri @xcite , the metallicity spread was immediately recognized as soon as the first modern cmd was assembled @xcite .",
    "the case of ngc  1851 has been studied in detail by @xcite , who , from the observed width of the rgb and ms , concluded that any possible metallicity dispersion in this cluster is @xmath66 dex in @xmath67}$ ] , in excellent agreement with the analogous results by @xcite .",
    "we measured the color width of the rgb at the hb level ( in the range @xmath68 ) in order to obtain a @xmath69}$ ] from @xmath70 through the calibration of the @xmath71 parameter [ see @xcite , for definition , calibration and references ] .",
    "we find @xmath72  mag for ngc  362 , ngc  288 and ngc  1851 , respectively , in good agreement with the above results .",
    "adopting the calibration by @xcite the maximum metallicity dispersion of ngc  1851 is @xmath69 } < 0.15 $ ]  dex , neglecting all observational sources of scatter along the rgb . in this context",
    "it is more important to note that the rgb width of the three considered clusters , observed under similar conditions , is very similar , indicating that no significant intrinsic difference in the color distribution of the rgb is observed .",
    "an analogous test concerning possible age spreads has been performed by studying the dispersion in @xmath0 around the ridge line in the most horizontal part of the sgb ( @xmath73 ) , that we will adopt in  4.4 as an age diagnostic .",
    "it turns out that @xmath74  mag for ngc  362 , ngc  288 , and ngc  1851 , respectively .",
    "again , the result is _ very similar _ for the three clusters suggesting that if an intrinsic age spread were present in ngc  1851 , so it would also in the cases of ngc  288 and ngc  362 . neglecting observational errors and assuming that all the observed @xmath75 is due to an intrinsic spread in age",
    ", this is constrained to @xmath76  gyr , according to the age scale illustrated in ",
    "4.4 below .",
    "it can be concluded that the existing data constrain any possible age and metallicity spread in ngc  1851 to small amounts , so that the explanation of the anomalous hb morphology in these terms can be excluded .",
    "on the other hand , @xcite found that the radial distribution of bhb stars is significantly different from that of rgb and sgb stars in the outer region of the cluster ( @xmath77  arcsec ) .",
    "such evidence can be more easily reconciled with scenarios in which dynamical processes favor the production of bhb stars , in agreement with the results by @xcite and @xcite , than with the hypothesis of a stellar system with multiple populations .",
    "important tools for the actual application of the bridge test are the ridge lines of the clusters on the cmds .",
    "we derived the ridge lines by averaging and 2-sigma clipping on boxes of different sizes , depending on the density of stars and on the required resolution , in different regions of the cmds ( an approach similar to that adopted by * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the ridge lines of the ms and rgb sequences are presented in table  5 , while the hb ridge lines are reported in table  6 . in fig .  4 a zoomed view of the msto region",
    "is presented , to allow a direct comparison of the adopted fiducials with the data for this crucial part of the cmds .",
    "the bridge test has been conceived essentially as an age test .",
    "therefore , to remove the undesired effects of distance and reddening , it seems much more advisable to find the best match for the less age - dependent features of the cmds ( hb luminosity level , rgb ) and to check the consequent agreement or disagreement between the more age - sensitive features ( sgb , msto ) .",
    "furthermore , hb stars are less plagued by crowding effects and the same morphology of the features provides a much firmer benchmark for matching with respect to the nearly vertical msto region . for these reasons we adopt the matching of the hbs as the preferential version of the bridge test and",
    "we try the approach of svb96 only as a check .",
    "the final results are independent of the adopted strategy .",
    "the match between the bhbs of ngc  288 and ngc  1851 is presented in fig .  5 .",
    "the ridge line of ngc  1851 ( heavy lines in both panels ) is superposed to the observed hb of ngc  288 ( filled circles ) .",
    "an excellent match is found if the shifts @xmath78  mag and @xmath79  mag are applied to report ngc  288 upon ngc  1851 .",
    "panel _ ( a ) _ of fig .",
    "5 shows the effects of the adoption of different shifts in @xmath0 by reporting copies of the ngc  1851 ridge line shifted by @xmath80 mag in @xmath0 ( thin lines ) with respect to the true ridge line .",
    "it can be readily appreciated that a difference of @xmath81 mag with respect to the adopted shift would clearly produce a poor match between the hbs .",
    "since the same compatibility range is obtained if the ngc  1851 data points are compared with the ridge line of ngc  288 , we add in quadrature the two terms to take into account the uncertainties of both the ridge lines , so obtaining a global  conservative  compatibility range of @xmath82  mag .",
    "the effects of changes in the adopted color shift are reported in the panel _",
    "( b ) _ of fig .  5 in a strictly analogous way by reporting copies of the ngc  1851 ridge line shifted by @xmath83 mag in @xmath84 .",
    "a difference of @xmath85  mag with respect to the adopted color shift is  at most  marginally acceptable .",
    "we followed the approach presented in fig .  5 since the adopted shifts are the basis of the bridge test , thus their reliability and the associated uncertainties have to be firmly assessed . as a final choice we conservatively adopt the compatibility ranges found in fig .  5 as the uncertainty in the shifts .",
    "for ngc  288 : @xmath86  mag and @xmath87  mag .",
    "@xcite and @xcite ( as well as the analysis presented in paper  ii ) suggest that the brightest and reddest stars in the hb of ngc  288 are somehow anomalous and/or significantly evolved , therefore they can cause misleading matches when compared with hb stars of other clusters .",
    "we emphasize that our match between the hbs of ngc  288 and ngc  1851 is primarily based on the match of the bluer part of the distributions .",
    "this is a rather inescapable choice , since these are the best populated and tightest parts of the hbs .",
    "in particular the tight sequence of the hb of ngc  288 in the range @xmath88 ( see fig .  5 and 6 ) is the key feature for the adopted match .",
    "we note that fixing this feature an excellent overall fit is obtained , thus the presented match is unlikely to be affected by the possible anomalous status of the stars discussed by the quoted authors . the point is clearly illustrated in fig .",
    "6 where we reported the bhb stars of ngc  1851 ( crosses ) and of ngc  288 ( open circles ) after the application of the obtained shifts .",
    "the region of the bhb that provides the basis for the determination of the shift is enclosed in a square .",
    "the adopted ridge line of the bhb of ngc  1851 is also overplotted to allow a direct comparison between the data and the fiducial .",
    "the red part of the bhb ridge line is reported ( and will be reported in the following plots ) as a dotted curve to put in evidence that _ ( a ) _ this is the most uncertain part of the ngc  1851 ridge line and , _",
    "( b ) _ _ it has not been taken into account _ in our shift determination .",
    "it can be readily appreciated that we made all efforts to avoid any possible ambiguity in the determination of the shift between ngc  288 and ngc  1851 .",
    "nevertheless , we want to stress again that the match of the blue hbs is the most uncertain passage of the whole bridge test , from an observational point of view .",
    "the match between the well populated and clumped red hb ( rhb ) of ngc  362 and ngc  1851 is a much simpler task .",
    "panel _ ( a ) _ of fig .",
    "7 shows the excellent match between the histograms of the rhb of ngc  1851 ( dashed heavy line ) and of the rhb of ngc  362 ( thin continuous line ) that is obtained applying a shift of @xmath89 mag to ngc  362 .",
    "the clear peaks in the distributions offer a robust reference to derive the optimal shift . in panel _ ( b ) _ of fig .",
    "7 the cumulative distributions of rhb stars in @xmath0 are compared by adopting slightly different shifts .",
    "the thin solid lines represent the distributions of the rhb of ngc 362 after the application of the shifts @xmath90  mag , from left to right respectively .",
    "it is evident that a difference of @xmath91  mag with respect to the adopted @xmath0 shift would provide a much poorer fit between the two distributions .",
    "the color shift has been found by comparing also the rgbs and the final adopted shifts to report ngc  362 upon ngc  1851 are @xmath92  mag and @xmath93  mag .",
    "the adopted shifts are in agreement , to within the uncertainties , with the current estimates of distance moduli and reddening differences among the considered clusters ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the final difference in the apparent distance moduli between ngc  362 and ngc  288 that is implicitly obtained with the derived shifts is @xmath94 , where the errorbar should be considered as a compatibility range , which takes into account all the uncertainties .",
    "the overall match among the ridge lines after application of the above shifts can be judged from fig .",
    "the agreement is as good as possible for the hb ( obviously ) but is also very good for the whole rgb and lower ms .",
    "the only significant difference appears in the msto region of the cmd , which anticipates the main result that will be discussed below : the msto and sgb sequences of ngc  288 are fainter and redder than those of ngc  362 and ngc  1851 , while the latter two clusters seem similar in this regard .    in fig .",
    "9 a close view of the two crucial regions of the cmd is provided to make clear the effects of the adopted matching . in panel _ ( a ) _ it can be appreciated the fine agreement between the ngc  288 ( open dots ) and ngc  362 ( crosses ) data points and the ridge line of ngc  1851 in the hb region of the cmd . in panel _",
    "( b ) _ the shifted ridge lines of ngc  288 ( heavy solid line and open circles ) and of ngc  362 ( heavy dashed line and crosses ) are reported .",
    "it is readily evident that the msto and the sgb of ngc  362 are significantly brighter and bluer than those of ngc  288 .",
    "the differences are larger than the maximum errors in the applied shifts .",
    "all other parameters being fixed , we are led to the conclusion that _ ngc  362 is younger than ngc  288_. we will quantify such an age difference in  4.3 and 4.4 .      the result of the bridge test in the version introduced by svb96 ( i.e. , matching mstos and checking the agreement of the hbs ) is shown in fig .",
    "10 , which is analogous to fig .",
    "9 . in panel _ ( b ) _ the ridge lines of ngc  288 ( open circles ) and ngc  362 ( crosses ) have been shifted to provide the best match to the ridge line of ngc  1851 ( heavy solid line ) in the msto and sgb region .",
    "the adopted shifts are @xmath95 and @xmath96 for ngc  288 , and @xmath97 and @xmath98 for ngc  362 .",
    "the overall fit is excellent , nevertheless a mismatch in the color of the base of the rgb of ngc  288 and ngc  362 is evident and turned out to be unavoidable ( and has been noted also by @xcite ) .",
    "note that the observed mismatch is consistent with the existence of an age difference between the two clusters , ngc  288 resulting the older one ( see below ) .",
    "the same shifts have been applied to the ngc  288 and ngc  362 data and the corresponding cmd of the hb region is shown in panel _ ( a ) _ of fig .  10 and compared to the ridge line of ngc  1851 ( the symbols are the same as in panel _ ( a ) _ of fig .",
    "the mismatch between the data and the ridge line is well beyond the compatibility range , that is reported as a couple of thin lines paralleling the hb of ngc  1851 .",
    "note that the adopted shift introduces an obvious mismatch also among the upper rgb sequences .",
    "therefore there is no room for a simultaneous superposition of the hbs and the mstos of the three considered clusters .",
    "_ we conclude that this version of the bridge test also implies a significant age difference between ngc  362 and ngc  288 , the former being the younger cluster .",
    "_      as a first method to quantify the detected age differences we use the same differential age parameters adopted by @xcite , namely :    * the _ horizontal _",
    "parameter @xmath99 , i.e. the difference in color between the msto point and the point 2.5  mag brighter in @xmath0 on the base of the rgb ; * the _ vertical _",
    "parameter @xmath3 , i.e. the difference in magnitude between the hb level and the msto point .",
    "we refer the reader to svb96 and @xcite for a thorough discussion about these parameters .",
    "the close similarity in metal content will greatly contribute to reduce the uncertainties in the final age difference estimates from both observables , especially for ngc  362 and ngc  288 ( cf .",
    " 2.1 ) .",
    "we start with the horizontal parameter , whose application is independent of the accurate matching obtained for the bridge test . from the ridge lines of the clusters we obtain @xmath100  mag , @xmath101  mag , and @xmath102  mag , in excellent agreement with the results of @xcite . from their figs .  4 and 9",
    ", we obtain an age difference @xmath103  gyr by averaging over the ( fully compatible ) estimates derived by adopting different sets of models ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter scl9 ; ) ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter ccdw98 ; ) ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter v2000 ) ) .",
    "the age difference between ngc  362 and ngc  1851 is found to be null to within the errors .    given the optimal match obtained between the hbs of the considered clusters we can obtain differences in @xmath3 just by subtracting the observed @xmath104 values once the shifts presented in  4.1 are applied . in this way most of the uncertainties associated with the determination of the hb level are avoided .",
    "we obtain @xmath105  mag and @xmath106  mag , just a few hundredths of a magnitude less than found by @xcite , i.e. , @xmath107 and @xmath108 , respectively , but still in good agreement .",
    "the resulting age differences are @xmath109  gyr and @xmath110  gyr .",
    "also in this case the estimates from different sets of models are in good agreement , to within the errors . the age difference between ngc  362 and ngc  1851",
    "can be considered marginal ( see below ) .",
    "therefore , independently of the adopted set of theoretical models and on the differential age parameter used , an age difference of @xmath111  gyr is measured between ngc  288 and ngc  362 , the reported error bar covering the whole compatibility range spanned by the two independent estimates .",
    "any derived age difference slightly depends on the absolute age of the oldest cluster ( the age zero point ) .",
    "the above result can be appreciably changed by this effect only if an age lower than 12  gyr is assumed for ngc  288 .",
    "the observed @xmath3 as well as the direct comparison with various sets of isochrones suggest instead an absolute age @xmath112  gyr for this cluster , although this value is subject to possible systematic errors ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "while the uncertainty in the abundance of ngc  1851 renders its age estimate less reliable , our test strongly suggests that ngc  1851 is significantly younger than ngc  288 and has an age similar to that of ngc  362 . because of these uncertainties and since our goal is to study in detail the couple ngc  362/ngc  288 we will concentrate on these clusters in the remainder of this analysis , as well as in paper  ii , leaving ngc  1851 ( the `` bridge '' cluster ) for occasional reference .      in fig .",
    "11 the ridge lines of ngc  288 ( thick solid line ) and ngc  362 ( thick dashed line ) , properly shifted according to the results of the matching of the hbs , are superposed to three different sets of isochrones of the appropriate metal contentmandrake / orfeo.html ) .",
    "the ccdw isochrones have been retrieved from the gipsy database ( http://www.mporzio.astro.it/@xmath113mkast/gipsy/homegipsy.html ) ] .",
    "the age range covered by each set is @xmath114  gyr from left to right .",
    "each set of isochrone has been reported to the same distance and reddening as the ridge lines by applying the distance modulus and reddening of ngc  1851 , as taken from ( * ? ? ? * from column 8 of their tab .  2 ) .",
    "minor adjustments have been made to best fit the nearest isochrone to the ridge line of ngc  288 ( see below ) .    in panel _",
    "( a ) _ the comparison is with the scl97 isochrones with standard helium abundance @xmath115 , solar element mix and @xmath38=-1.0 $ ] . according to @xcite this is the proper set of isochrones to compare against clusters with @xmath38=-1.3 $ ] and a typical halo @xmath15-enhancement ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as is the case for ngc  288 and ngc  362 ( cf .",
    " 2.1 ) . a simple color shift of @xmath116  mag in @xmath84 , applied to the whole set , reports the 13  gyr isochrone to an excellent superposition with the ridge line of ngc  288 .",
    "the age step between isochrones is 1  gyr . in panel _",
    "( b ) _ the ridge lines are compared with the ccdw98 set of isochrones at @xmath38=-1.31 $ ] , standard helium and solar element ratios .",
    "the @xmath38=-1.0 $ ] isochrones are not present in the ccdw98 set thus we can not properly account for @xmath15-enhancement in this case .",
    "the 13 gyr isochrone was fitted to the ngc  288 ridge line by shifting the whole set by @xmath117  mag in @xmath84 .",
    "the comparison with the @xmath118 , @xmath38=-1.31 $ ] , @xmath15-enhanced isochrones by v2000 is shown in panel _ ( c ) _ of fig .",
    "a shift of @xmath119  mag in @xmath84 has been applied to the whole set . in this case",
    "the age step between the isochrones is 2  gyr .    despite the differences in the models and in the assumptions , the results of all the comparisons are very similar .",
    "the optimal removal of the effects of distance and reddening we have obtained with the `` bridge matching '' and the close similarity in chemical composition allow a very robust approach to the estimate of the age difference between ngc  288 and ngc  362 from fig .",
    "the nearly horizontal region of the sgb , between @xmath120  mag and @xmath121  mag is a well defined ( and easy to measure ) observational feature that provides a natural age scale and that can be straightforwardly compared to model predictions . from this comparison",
    "an age difference of 2  gyr is clearly detected , independent of the adopted set of isochrones .",
    "it is worth noting that if the luminosity of the msto points are considered , a slightly larger difference is obtained ( 2.5 to 3  gyr ) in good agreement with what found with the differential vertical parameter @xmath3 , in the previous section . given the quoted uncertainties associated with the _ measure _ of @xmath104 we consider the estimate obtained from the horizontal region of the sgb as more reliable and we adopt it as our final value , recalling that it is in agreement with the estimates obtained in the previous section , to within the errors .",
    "to evaluate the range of age differences that are still ( at least marginally ) compatible with the data we explore the effects of the following ( very unlikely ) occurrences : ( a ) we consider the maximum possible errors in matching the hb , as evaluated in  4.1 , figs .  4 and 5 , all in the directions leading to the maximum overestimate of the age differences , and ( b ) we consider the maximum possible errors all in the opposite direction , leading to the maximum underestimate of the age difference .",
    "the results are shown in fig .",
    "12 by comparing the ridge lines with the scl97 set of isochrones , with the same arrangement and symbols as in fig .  11 .",
    "an additional shift has been also applied to the ridge lines , corresponding to the error bars of the shifts adopted to match the hbs .",
    "case ( a ) is considered in panel _",
    "( a ) _ of fig .  12 .",
    "the additional shifts @xmath122  mag and @xmath123  mag have been applied to the ridge line of ngc  362 , such shifts being @xmath124  mag and @xmath125  mag in the case of ngc  288 .",
    "the age difference is still @xmath126  gyr , as judged from the luminosity of the horizontal part of the sgb .",
    "the case ( b ) is shown in panel _ ( b ) _ : the same shifts have been applied to the ridge lines , but with opposite sign , and a maximum age difference of @xmath13  gyr is clearly obtained . also in these cases if one rely only on @xmath127 for his estimate , larger age differences would be obtained .",
    "formal errors of @xmath37  gyr or lower are often associated with differential age estimates . despite the great reliability of the present result",
    ", we prefer to provide a conservative range of compatibility as the uncertainty associated with our age estimate .",
    "thus when we present the final result of our bridge test , i.e. _ the age difference between ngc  288 and ngc  362 is @xmath128  gyr _",
    ", what we are actually implying is that _ age differences lower than + 1  gyr or larger than + 3  gyr are excluded by the test_.    some caveats associated to the assumptions of the bridge test will be discussed in  4.6 .      following a suggestion of the referee , we performed a comparison between our photometry and the assembly of datasets adopted by svb96 and v2000 in their previous realizations of the bridge test .",
    "the comparison was required to clarify the reasons for the different results we obtain with respect to svb96 and v2000 , given that the adopted shifts are roughly similar .",
    "the comparisons have been made possible by the kind helpfulness of dr .",
    "vandenberg who provided the databases that he and svb96 adopted in their tests .",
    "unfortunately the ngc  362 catalogue provided by dr .",
    "vandenberg was lacking positional information , thus the cross - correlation with our data was not possible .    in fig .",
    "13 we report : the difference between the v magnitudes measured in the present analysis and those by @xcite - adopted by svb96 and v2000 - versus our v magnitude for the common stars in ngc  1851 ( panel _ ( a ) _ ) ; for ngc  288 ( panel _ ( b ) _ ) , the difference between our v magnitudes and those by @xcite ( open triangles , adopted by svb96 and v2000 for @xmath129 ) , and by @xcite ( full and open squares , adopted by svb96 and v2000 for @xmath130 ) versus our v magnitude .",
    "the plots reported in panels _ ( c ) _ and _ ( d ) _ will be described below .",
    "the comparisons can be made just for the v data since we have ( v , i ) photometry while svb96 and v2000 based their tests on ( b , v ) photometry .",
    "the comparison of the photometry shown in fig .",
    "13 can be summarized as follows :    1 .",
    "( a)_. our v photometry and the one by @xcite are in excellent agreement . here",
    "the comparison is limited to @xmath131 because the available catalogue lacks the faint stars .",
    "however this is the only relevant range for ngc  1851 in the present test . 2 .",
    "( b)_. the agreement with bergbusch s photometry is quite good , the average @xmath28 is @xmath132 in the considered range of magnitudes .",
    "however it is important to recall that both svb96 and v2000 applied a shift of @xmath133 mag to report bergbusch s data in the photometric system of @xcite , following the prescriptions of the same author .",
    "we guess this is due to a typographical error since both us and v2000 independently found that the true shift is in fact @xmath133 . ] .",
    "hence , the actual difference between our v photometry and the photometry of bright stars adopted by svb96 and v2000 amounts to @xmath134 mag , i.e. a quite sizeable mismatch .",
    "3 .   panel _",
    "( b)_. the @xcite dataset appears not consistent with bergbusch s photometry and also not self - consistent .",
    "this is not exceedingly surprising , since this dataset was obtained by assembling different photometries , obtained at different epochs , under different conditions and with different instruments and telescopes . in particular",
    "the filled squares are stars measured in the inner part of the cluster , with a photometric set - up mainly devoted to the sampling of bright stars , while the open squares are stars from the outer , less crowded fields , observed with the aim of sampling the faintest part of the ms . in the present plot we obtained the observed segregation just by plotting as filled",
    "squares the stars with @xmath135 px and plotting as open squares the stars with @xmath136 px , in our reference frame .",
    "such spatial threshold has the purpose of showing separately the two different samples that are merged together in the final dataset , putting in evidence the obvious unconsistency .",
    "note that the `` faint '' sample ( open squares ) naturally provides the clean ms shown in the cmd presented in panel _",
    "( compare with panel _",
    "( c ) _ ) , and a measure of @xmath127 obtained from this sample would be brighter by @xmath66 mag , thus mimicking a younger age , more similar to ngc  362 .",
    "4 .   as an indirect test on the ngc  362 dataset we fitted our ridge lines for ngc  362 and ngc  288 with the same isochrones and with the same adoption on the apparent distance moduli as v2000 .",
    "we obtained an absolute age of @xmath137 gyr for ngc  288 and @xmath138 gyr for ngc  362 , i.e. broadly compatible with the results of v2000 .",
    "this may be taken as an indication of rough self - consistency between our dataset and the one adopted by v2000 for ngc  362 .",
    "nevertheless , only direct comparison would provide the final check .",
    "the above results provide a direct demonstration of the superiority of our bridge test with respect to previous ones and clearly indicates the reasons of the different result we obtain .",
    "we recall that our databases have been successfully tested for self - consistency and linearity by the comparison with the photometry by @xcite , performed _ over the whole range of magnitude _ covered by the data and in _ both",
    "_ passbands ( see fig .  2 ) .",
    "we want to stress here that the adoption of strictly homogeneous databases is mandatory to obtain safe results from this kind of test ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for further discussion on the importance of the homogeneity of datasets ) .",
    "this was the fundamental rationale at the basis of our repetition of the bridge test ( see  2 ) , and the above discussion provides a direct proof that the experiment was worth repeating .",
    "we emphasize that there are realistic cases where it is not possible to identify inconsistencies in a composite photometric datasets ( e.g. few common stars , common stars in a restricted range of magnitude etc . ) .",
    "however one has to be aware of the danger involved in the adoption of such datasets in such tricky business as the measure of age differences .",
    "the fundamental assumption at the basis of the bridge test is that _ the horizontal branch stars of clusters of the same metallicity ( @xmath139 ) and helium content ( @xmath16 ) have the same luminosity at any given color_. in the present case , the first underlying hypothesis , i.e. same metallicity , is clearly fulfilled while , as already stated , we do not have fully conclusive constraints on @xmath16 ( see  2.1 and  4.5 ) . a higher helium content in ngc  288 would produce a brighter hb in this cluster , thus mimicking an age difference . on the other hand , if ngc  362 were he - enhanced , the age difference measured by the bridge test would underestimate the actual age difference . in this regard",
    "we have to rely on the fact that the observed @xmath9 parameters strongly suggest that the helium content of the considered clusters is very similar .",
    "it may also be conceived that even if both these hypotheses are fulfilled , the same _ fundamental assumption _ may be false , i.e. there is some factor other than @xmath139 and @xmath16 that can differentially affect the hb _ luminosities _ of two clusters with similar @xmath16 and @xmath139 @xcite .",
    "the first possibility coming to mind is _ core rotation _ , that may make an hb star brighter and bluer than canonical expectations due , e.g. , to an increase in the helium - core mass at the he - flash .",
    "it is interesting to note that the bhb stars of ngc  288 seem to be remarkably fast rotators @xcite , while , unfortunately , no observational constraint in this sense is available for ngc  362 and ngc  1851 .",
    "recent measures of rotation of hb stars in globulars @xcite provided clear indications that we are far from a complete understanding of the effects of rotation on hb stars .",
    "hence , this possibility remains to be explored .",
    "we note that the @xmath9 method calibration",
    "_ assumes _ that the canonical he - core mass is the same for all clusters , which may not necessarily be true ; independent observational constraints on the @xmath140 value are difficult to obtain , as reviewed by @xcite .",
    "deep mixing phenomena can alter the he content of some rgb stars , as proposed and discussed by @xcite .",
    "the `` mixed stars '' would place themselves on the zahb at higher @xmath141 and higher luminosity with respect to `` non - mixed stars . ''",
    "if , for instance , this were the origin of the bimodal hb of ngc  1851 ( i.e. non - mixed stars populating the rhb and mixed stars populating the bhb , as indeed suggested by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) then the adoption of its hb as the bridge between ngc  288 and ngc  362 would lead to an _ underestimate _ of the _ true _ age difference . while there is no clear evidence of a difference in the deep mixing extent between ngc  288 and ngc  362 @xcite , we are unaware of sufficiently detailed spectroscopic analyses of ngc  1851 bright giants that would conclusively rule out the possibility that its bhb stars are the progeny of he - mixed giants ( but see * ? ? ?",
    "at the same time , whether he mixing takes place at all is currently a much - debated issue , and we refer the reader to the papers by @xcite for some recent insight on this complex problem .",
    "finally , there is mounting evidence that many field blue subdwarf ( sdb ) stars are in fact binary systems ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) , supporting the possibility that some bhb stars may be the result of evolution of some kind of binary ( see * ? ? ? * and reference therein ) .",
    "the consequences of this scenario have not yet been studied and may affect our conclusion in some unknown way .    one way to test the existence of luminosity differences between hbs of gcs having similar metallicity is through a traditional _ period - shift analysis _ of their fundamental - mode , rrab lyrae variables . as pointed out by @xcite , the pulsational properties of rr lyrae variables can be useful indicators of a non - canonical origin for bimodal - hb and second - parameter clusters , given that these properties are sensitive to the basic physical parameters of the stars .",
    "in particular , differences in the hb luminosity should reflect themselves , at constant metallicity and temperature , in the form of noticeable  period shifts \" ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .    indeed , using this method",
    ", evidence has been reported that the ngc  1851 hb might be somewhat brighter than the hbs of other clusters of similar [ fe / h ] @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite obtained new ccd data for the ngc  1851 rr lyrae population and argued that the earlier evidence was a spurious consequence of the poor quality of the previously employed photographic data for this cluster s variables .    the period - blue amplitude ( @xmath142 ) diagram appears to be particularly suitable to carry out period shift analyses , in view of the evidence @xcite that @xmath142 is , at least to first order , a reasonable temperature indicator for the fundamental - mode rr lyrae . in fig .",
    "14 , we present this diagram for the rrab variables in ngc  1851 , ngc  288 , and ngc  362 . the data for these three clusters were retrieved from @xcite , respectively .",
    "note that , in the case of walker s data , we have discarded all stars which , according to his fig .  3 ,",
    "may show signs of the blazhko effect and/or have ill - defined light curves .",
    "for ngc  288 , where only @xmath0 amplitudes are available , we obtained the @xmath10 amplitudes assuming @xmath143 @xcite . in fig .",
    "14 , we overplot , on the cluster data , the mean line obtained for the m3 ( ngc  5272 ) rrab lyrae variables by @xcite .",
    "figure  14 suggests that the ngc  1851 variables do have , at a given temperature ( amplitude ) , systematically longer periods than their counterparts in ngc  362 .",
    "note , in particular , that while only 20% of the ngc  1851 variables fall below the m3 line , as many as 57% of the ngc  362 rrab lyrae are located below such a line . the mean period shift between the two clusters , according to these data , amounts to @xmath144which , if interpreted in terms of a difference in hb luminosity between ngc  362 and ngc  1851 , implies that the latter has a brighter hb by @xmath145  mag .",
    "though a variation in the rr lyrae mass by @xmath146 ( with lower masses in the case of ngc  1851 ) could also account for such a period shift , it is unclear that any second parameter candidate could cause a change in mass _ at a fixed effective temperature _ without provoking a change in luminosity as well .",
    "either option , or a combination of the two , presents problems for the use of ngc  1851 as the  bridge \" for the bridge test . moreover , one will readily notice from fig .",
    "14 that the single rrab in ngc  288 appears to be much brighter than any rrab stars in _ either _ ngc  1851 or ngc  362 ; therefore , in the event that the ngc  1851 rr lyrae overluminosity is interpreted as evidence of evolution away from a blue zahb , one must also conclude that , remarkably , _ all _ ngc  1851 variables are less evolved than the single rrab that is found in ngc  288 .",
    "this , in turn , creates another potential problem for the bridge test , in the sense that the assumption that the blue hbs of ngc  288 and ngc  1851 are entirely equivalent would break down .",
    "in fact , while some problems are encountered when attempting to model the redder bhb stars in ngc  288 ( @xcite ; paper  ii ; catelan et al .",
    ", in preparation ) , the same effect , while also present , appears to be less severe in the case of ngc  1851 .",
    "more data would be vital to solve these problems and place the bridge test on a firmer footing ; in particular , spectroscopic gravities for the blue hb stars in both ngc  288 and ngc  1851 and new rr lyrae light curves for ngc  362 seem essential .    of course ,",
    "if significant differences in helium content , core rotation and/or any other  second parameter \" that affects hb luminosity do exist and effectively change the hb luminosity of gcs with similar metallicity , our whole distance and age scales of gcs may be in error , since both are mostly based on the use of hb stars as standard candles ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* )  the same fundamental assumption of the bridge test .",
    "thus , while our present knowledge and data admittedly do not allow complete control of all the variables that may affect a differential age estimate , and while some problems still exist that require further analysis , the _ bridge test _ is , with the currently available data , the most robust approach to estimate the age difference between ngc  362 and ngc  288 _ within the canonical framework_.",
    "if an age difference of at least 2 gyr between ngc  288 and ngc  362 is confirmed , this will open a scenario for the formation of these clusters that deserves some comment .",
    "it is generally accepted that an @xmath15-enhanced abundance pattern is the signature of enrichment dominated by type  ii supernovae and , consequently , of a short delay between the onset of star formation and the formation of the @xmath15-enhanced stars ( @xmath147 gyr ; * ? ? ?",
    "it is very interesting to note that though ngc  362 seems to have formed @xmath48 gyr later than ngc  288 , both clusters are equally @xmath15-enhanced .",
    "this suggests that both ngc  362 and ngc  288 were born shortly after the ( local ) onset of star formation , in regions / subsystems that had different evolutionary histories .",
    "the existence of subunits with independent star formation and chemical enrichment histories in the early galaxy is consistent with the scenario envisaged by @xcite as well as with modern cold dark matter cosmological models .",
    "we have performed an optimally suited specific test to estimate the age difference between the gcs ngc  288 and ngc  362 .",
    "the bimodal hb of ngc  1851 is used as a bridge to match the different hbs of ngc  288 and ngc  362 to a common level , so ( hopefully ) eliminating the effects of distance and reddening and providing the possibility of a direct comparison of the most age sensitive features of the cmds , i.e. the msto and sgb .",
    "we believe we have obtained a much more robust estimate of the age difference between ngc  288 and ngc  362 with respect to previous ones , for the following reasons :    1 .",
    "we have adopted extremely homogeneous datasets , specifically tailored for the test ; 2 .",
    "a detailed and extensive abundance pattern comparison between ngc  288 and ngc  362 was available for the first time @xcite , showing that the similarity in chemical composition between the two clusters is not limited to the overall metallicity but includes also @xmath15-elements ( as well as other chemical species ) ; 3 .   the shifts adopted to match the hbs",
    "provide an excellent overall match also for the rgb and for the lower ms , while any other set of shifts we tried produced significant mismatches in these sequences ( see fig .",
    "8 ; fig .  10 and  4.2",
    "; see also v2000 and @xcite ) .",
    "we demonstrated that the previous realizations of the bridge test were plagued by non - self - consistency of the photometry , due to the adoption of very heterogeneous datasets ( see  4.5 ) .    according to the bridge test we find that _ ngc  362 is younger than ngc  288 by _",
    "gyr , in good agreement with the estimates we have also obtained from other differential age diagnostics @xmath3 and @xmath99 , the latter being completely independent of the bridge test procedure .",
    "our result is also in good agreement with the age scale recently obtained by @xcite from a very homogeneous photometric database , and is compatible with the previous findings by @xcite .",
    "the possible sources of systematic error that may still affect our results are associated with _ ( a ) _ the significant uncertainties in the @xmath9 parameters , which leaves room for undetected differences in he content and _ ( b ) _ any unknown ( or unidentified ) process able to significantly ( and differentially ) change the luminosity of the hb of at least one of the considered clusters .",
    "we critically discuss some possible caveats associated with the method utilizing , in particular , a period - shift analysis for the rr lyrae variables in the clusters ; this indicates some puzzling discrepancies and the need of better , modern time - series data for ngc  362 ( see  4.6 ) .    in a companion paper ( paper  ii )",
    ", the difference in hb morphology between ngc  288 and ngc  362 will be addressed in detail , in order to investigate anew whether our preferred age difference between ngc  288 and ngc  362 may completely account for the spe in the considered case .",
    "this research has been funded by the italian murst through the cofin p. 9902198923_004",
    "grant , assigned to the project _",
    "stellar dynamics and stellar evolution in globular clusters._. the financial support to s. galleti has been provided by the osservatorio astronomico di bologna .",
    "part of the data analysis has been performed using software developed by p. montegriffo at the osservatorio astronomico di bologna .",
    "support for m.c . was provided by nasa through hubble fellowship grant hf01105.0198a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc . , for nasa under contract nas  526555 .",
    "thanks the osservatorio astronomico di bologna for the kind hospitality during the stage of revision of the present manuscript .",
    "we are grateful to m. limongi , m. castellani and s. deglinnocenti for their help in the retrieving of isochrones sets from the orfeo and gipsy databases respectively .",
    "we are grateful to f. grundahl for communications of results before publications and for useful discussions .",
    "d. dinescu is warmly thanked for her help in the search for non member stars in ngc  288 .",
    "this research has made use of nasa s astrophysics data system abstract service .",
    "300 alcaino , g. , liller , w. , alvarado , f. , & , wenderoth , e. 1990 , , 99 , 817 bailyn , c. d. 1995 , , 33 , 133 behr , b. b. , djorgovski , s. g. , cohen , j. g. , mccarthy , j. k , cot , p. , piotto , g. , & , zoccali , m. 2000 , , 528 , 849 bellazzini , m. , & messineo , m. 1999 , in astroph . & space science lib .",
    "225 , the chemical evolution of the milky way : stars versus clusters , ed .",
    "f. matteucci & f. giovannelli , ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , p. 213",
    "( astro - ph/9910522 ) bergbusch , p. a. 1993 , , 106 , 1024 bergbusch , p. a. , & vandenberg , d. a. 2001 , , in press ( astro - ph/0102480 ) bolte , m. 1987 , , 315 , 469 bolte , m. 1989 , , 97 , 1688 bolte , m. 1992 , , 82 , 145 bono , g. , cassisi , s. , zoccali , m. , & piotto , g. 2001 , , 546 , l113 borissova , j. , catelan , m. , & valchev , t. 2001 , , in press ( astro - ph/0010078 ) brown , j. a. , wallerstein , g. , & zucker , d. 1997 , , 114 , 180 buonanno , r. , corsi , c. e. , bellazzini , m. , ferraro , f. r. , & fusi pecci , f. 1997 , , 113 , 706 buonanno , r. , corsi , c. e. , pulone , l. , fusi pecci , f. , & bellazzini , m. 1998a , , 333 , 505 buonanno , r. , corsi , c. e. , zinn , r. , fusi pecci , f. , hardy , e. , & suntzeff , n. b. 1998b , , 501 , l33 buzzoni , a. , fusi pecci , f. , buonanno , r. , & corsi , c. e. 1983 , , 128 , 94 carney , b. w. 1996 , , 108 , 900 carretta , e. , & gratton , r. 1997 , , 121 , 95 cassisi , s. , castellani , v. , deglinnocenti , s. , & weiss , a. 1998 , , 129 , 267 ( ccdw98 ) catelan , m. 1997 , , 478 , l99 catelan , m. 1998 , , 495 , l81 catelan , m. 2000 , , 531 , 826 catelan , m. , & de freitas pacheco , j. a. 1993 , , 106 , 1993 catelan , m. , de freitas pacheco , j. a. , & horvath , j. e. 1996 , , 461 , 231 catelan , m. , sweigart , a. v. , & borissova , j. 1998 , in asp conf . ser . vol .",
    "135 , a half - century of stellar pulsation interpretations , ed .",
    "p. a. bradley & j. a. guzik ( san francisco : asp ) , 41 catelan , m. , bellazzini , m. , landsman , w.b .",
    ", ferraro , f. r. , fusi pecci , f. , & , galleti , s. 2001 , , submitted ( paper  ii ) catelan , m. , ferraro , f. r. , & rood , r. t. , 2001 , , submitted cavallo , r. m. , & nagar , n. m. , 2000 , , 120 , 1364 clement , c. , 1997 , aas newsl . , 84 , 15 croke , b. f. w. 1993 , phd thesis , university of new south wales da costa , g. s. , & , armandroff , t. e. 1990 , , 100 , 162 dantona , f. 2000 , in the galactic halo : from globular clusters to field stars , 35th lige int .",
    "coll . , ed .",
    "a. noels , p. magain , d. caro , e. jehin , g. parmentier , & a. thoul ( lige : universit de lige ) , 433 dickens , r. j. , croke , b. f. w. , cannon , r. d. , & , bell , r. a. 1991 , , 351 , 212 dickens , r. j. , & , woolley , r. v. d. r 1967 , r. obs . bull .",
    ", 128 , 255 ferraro , f. r. , messineo , m. , fusi pecci , f. , de palo , a. , straniero , o. , chieffi , a. , & limongi , m. 1999 , , 118 , 1738 fusi pecci , f. , renzini , a. , 1978 , in iau symp .",
    "n. 80 , the hr diagram : the 100th anniversary of henry norris russell , a.g .",
    "davis philip and d.s .",
    "hayes eds .",
    ", boston : d. reidel pub .",
    "co. , p.225 fusi pecci , f. , ferraro , f. r. , bellazzini , m. , djorgovski , s. g. , piotto , g. , & buonanno , r. , 1993 , , 105 , 1145 fusi pecci , f. , & bellazzini , m. 1997 , in the third conference on faint blue stars , ed .",
    "a. g. d. philip , j. liebert , r. saffer , & d. s. hayes ( schenectady : l. davis press ) , 255 gratton , r. 1987 , , 179 , 181 gratton , r. , sneden , c. , carretta , e. , & bragaglia , a. 2000 , , 354 , 169 gratton , r. g. , et al .",
    "2001 , , in press ( astro - ph/0012457 ) green , e. m. , & , norris , j. e. 1990 , , 353 , l17 green , e. m , liebert , j. , & saffer , r. a. 2001 , in twelfth european workshop on white dwarfs ( san francisco : asp ) , in press ( astro - ph/0012246 ) grundahl , f. 1999 , in asp conf .",
    "192 , spectrophotometric dating of stars and galaxies , ed .",
    "i. hubeny , s. heap , & r. cornett ( san francisco : asp ) , 223 grundahl , f. , catelan , m. , landsman , w. b. , stetson , p. b. , & andersen , m. i. 1999 , , 524 , 242 guo , x. , 1995 , phd thesis , yale university harris , w. e. 1982 , , 50 , 573 harris , w. e. , bell , r. a. , vandenberg , d. a. , bolte , m. , stetson , p.b . ,",
    "hesser , j. e. , van den bergh , s. , bond , h. e. , fahlman , g. g. , & richer , h. d. 1997 , , 114 , 1030 iben , i. 1968 , , 220 , 143 jurcsik , j. 1995 , aca , 45 , 653 kaluzny , j. 1996 , , 120 , 83 kaluzny , j. , krzemiski , w. , & nalezyty , m. 1997 , , 125 , 337 landolt , a. u. 1992 , , 104 , 340 layden , a. c. , ritter , l. a. , welch , d. l. , & webb , t. m. a. , 1999 , , 117 , 1313 lee , k .- w .",
    ", lee , s .- w . , & sung , h. 1998 , jkas , 31 , 19 lee , y .- w . ,",
    "demarque , p. , & zinn , r. 1988 , in calibration of stellar ages , ed .",
    "philip ( schenectady : l. davis press ) , 149 lee , y .- w . , demarque , p. , & zinn , r. 1994 , , 423 , 248 lee , y .- w . ,",
    "yoon , s .- j .",
    ", lee , h .- c .",
    ", & woo , j .- h . 1999a , in asp conf .",
    "192 , spectrophotometric dating of stars and galaxies , ed .",
    "i. hubeny , s. heap , & r. cornett ( san francisco : asp ) , 185 lee , y .- w . , joo , j .-",
    "sohn , y .-",
    "j . , rey , s .- c . , lee , h .- c .",
    ", & , walker , a. r. 1999b , , 402 , 55 maxted , p. f. l. , heber , u. , marsh , t. r. , & north , r. c. 2001 , mnras , in press ( astro - ph/0103342 ) mcwilliam , a. 1997 , , 35 , 503 messineo , m. 1996 , thesis of degree , bologna university moehler , s. , landsman , w. b. , & dorman , b. 2000 , , 361 , 937 pancino , e. , ferraro , f. r. , bellazzini , m. , piotto , g. , & zoccali , m. 2000 , , 534 , l83 parise , r.a . , et al . , 1994 , , 423 , 305 peterson , r. c. 1985 , , 294 , l35 pilachowski , c. a. , & sneden , c. 1983 , , 95 , 229 pound , m. w. , janes , k. a. , & heasley , j. n. 1987 , , 94 , 1185 pritzl , b. , smith , h. a. , catelan , m. , & sweigart , a. v. 2000 , , 530 , l41 renzini , a. , & fusi pecci , f. 1988 , , 26 , 199 rodgers , a. w. , & harding , p. 1987",
    ", , 99 , 961 rosenberg , a. , saviane , i. , piotto , g. , & aparicio , a. 1999 , , 118 , 2306 rosenberg , a. , piotto , g. , saviane , i. , & aparicio , a. 2000 , , 144 , 5 rutledge , g. a. , hesser , j. e. , & stetson , p. b. 1997 , , 109 , 907 saffer , r. a. , green , e. m. , & bowers , t. p. 2001 , in twelfth european workshop on white dwarfs ( san francisco : asp ) , in press ( astro - ph/0012244 ) salaris , m. , chieffi , a. , & straniero , o. 1993 , , 414 , 580 sandage , a. 1990 , , 350 , 631 sandquist , e. l. 2000 , , 313 , 571 sarajedini , a. , & demarque , p. 1990",
    ", , 365 , 219 saviane , i. , piotto , g. , fagotto , f. , zaggia , s. , capaccioli , m. , & aparicio , a. 1998 , , 333 , 479 sawyer - hogg , h. 1973 , publ . , david dunlap .",
    "obs . , 3 , n. 6 schechter , p. , mateo , m. , & saha , a. 1993 , , 105 , 1342 schlegel , d. j. , finkbeiner , d. p. , & davis , m. 1998 , , 500 , 525 searle , l. , & zinn , r. 1978 , 225 , 357 ( sz ) shetrone , m. d. , & keane , m. j. 2000 , , 119 , 840 ( sk00 ) stetson , p. , vandenberg , d. a. , & bolte , m. 1996 , , 108 , 560 ( svb96 ) straniero , o. , chieffi , a. , & limongi , m. 1997 , , 490 , 425 ( scl97 ) sweigart , a. v. , 1997 , , 474 , l23 sweigart , a. , & catelan , m. 1998 , , 501 , l63 tucholke , h .- j .",
    "1992 , , 93,311 van den bergh , s. 1996 , , 471 , l31 vandenberg , d. a. , bolte , m. , & stetson , p. 1990",
    ", , 100 , 445 vandenberg , d. a. , swenson , f. j. , rogers , f. j. , iglesias , c. a. , & alexander , d. r. 2000 , , 532 , 430 vandenberg , d. a. 2000 , , 129 , 315 vandenberg , d. a. , bolte , m. , & stetson , p. b. 1996 , , 34 , 461 walker , a. r. 1992 , , 104 , 1063 walker , a. r. 1998 , , 116 , 220 weiss , a. , denissenkov , p. a. , & charbonnel , c. 2000 , , 356 , 181 yoon , s .- j . , lee , c .- h . , & lee , y .- w . 2000 , , 196 , # 41.02 zinn , r. 1980 , , 42 , 19 zinn , r. 1985 , , 293 , 424 zinn , r. , & west , m. j. 1984 , , 55 , 45 zoccali , m. , cassisi , s. , bono , g. , piotto , g. , rich , r. m. , & djorgovski , s. g. 2000 , , 538 , 289    lccccccc 1 & 13.068 & 0.012 & 11.605 & 0.009 & 270.54 & 735.19 & + 2 & 13.580 & 0.007 & 12.354 & 0.011 & 711.61 & 742.51 & + 3 & 13.709 & 0.021 & 12.704 & 0.028 & 1152.19 & 289.67 & + 4 & 13.654 & 0.010 & 12.406 & 0.012 & 1030.82 & 795.28 & + 5 & 14.956 & 0.015 & 13.969 & 0.021 & 246.91 & 315.11 & + 6 & 14.352 & 0.013 & 13.708 & 0.021 & 1440.71 & 1668.03 & + 7 & 16.289 & 0.035 & 15.442 & 0.036 & 1637.03 & 1680.05 & +    lccccccc 1 & 15.917 & 0.010 & 14.912 & 0.010 & 1017.61 & 328.47 & + 2 & 16.072 & 0.010 & 15.464 & 0.010 & 664.70 & 354.91 & v11 + 3 & 16.186 & 0.010 & 15.396 & 0.010 & 800.21 & 378.90 & + 4 & 17.465 & 0.020 & 16.494 & 0.020 & 1239.68 & 455.88 & + 5 & 16.165 & 0.010 & 15.344 & 0.010 & 492.83 & 515.76 & + 6 & 16.098 & 0.010 & 15.101 & 0.010 & 1202.77 & 590.08 & + 7 & 15.124 & 0.010 & 14.016 & 0.010 & 1043.44 & 659.45 & +    lccccccc 1 & 14.805 & 0.004 & 13.758 & 0.005 & 1032.35 & 355.13 & + 2 & 15.358 & 0.005 & 14.482 & 0.010 & 946.28 & 361.07 & + 3 & 15.269 & 0.004 & 14.423 & 0.004 & 698.51 & 377.37 & + 4 & 16.708 & 0.005 & 15.321 & 0.005 & 748.67 & 398.34 & + 5 & 15.389 & 0.004 & 14.420 & 0.005 & 876.02 & 413.71 & + 6 & 15.502 & 0.005 & 14.739 & 0.006 & 847.30 & 423.78 & + 7 & 16.515 & 0.008 & 15.668 & 0.006 & 1116.93 & 429.80 & +    ccccccccc 12.5 & 0.006 & 0.008 & & & & & 0.006 & 0.010 + 13.5 & 0.008 & 0.012 & & 0.009 & 0.013 & & 0.008 & 0.012 + 14.5 & 0.009 & 0.013 & & 0.006 & 0.011 & & 0.007 & 0.009 + 15.5 & 0.007 & 0.011 & & 0.006 & 0.010 & & 0.004 & 0.007 + 16.5 & 0.006 & 0.010 & & 0.006 & 0.010 & & 0.007 & 0.009 + 17.5 & 0.006 & 0.009 & & 0.006 & 0.010 & & 0.007 & 0.011 + 18.5 & 0.008 & 0.013 & & 0.004 & 0.007 & & 0.011 & 0.018 + 19.5 & 0.013 & 0.022 & & 0.005 & 0.010 & & 0.018 & 0.033 + 20.5 & 0.024 & 0.042 & & 0.009 & 0.017 & & 0.034 & 0.060 + 21.5 & 0.046 & 0.077 & & 0.017 & 0.032 & & 0.103 & 0.153 + 22.5 & & & & 0.043 & 0.077 & & & +    cccccccc 12.6 & 1.814 & & 13.3 & 1.818 & & 12.6 & 1.609 + 12.9 & 1.492 & & 13.4 & 1.609 & & 13 & 1.424 + 13.15 & 1.374 & & 13.80 & 1.391 & & 13.5 & 1.292 + 13.65 & 1.262 & & 14.15 & 1.297 & & 14 & 1.189 + 14.15 & 1.154 & & 14.65 & 1.188 & & 14.5 & 1.079 + 14.65 & 1.089 & & 15.15 & 1.112 & & 15 & 1.018 + 15.15 & 1.026 & & 15.65 & 1.05 & & 15.5 & 0.9607 + 15.65 & 0.9663 & & 16.15 & 0.9993 & & 16 & 0.9206 + 16.15 & 0.9337 & & 16.65 & 0.96 & & 16.5 & 0.8961 + 16.65 & 0.9045 & & 17.15 & 0.9286 & & 17 & 0.8653 + 17.15 & 0.8795 & & 17.65 & 0.8979 & & 17.5 & 0.8486 + 17.65 & 0.8591 & & 18.15 & 0.8677 & & 18 & 0.8157 + 18 & 0.8434 & & 18.65 & 0.8493 & & 18.2 & 0.7919 + 18.1 & 0.8361 & & 18.82 & 0.8358 & & 18.3 & 0.6876 + 18.2 & 0.8239 & & 19 & 0.738 & & 18.4 & 0.6477 + 18.3 & 0.8155 & & 19.1 & 0.6733 & & 18.5 & 0.6255 + 18.4 & 0.7723 & & 19.2 & 0.6527 & & 18.6 & 0.6112 + 18.5 & 0.7081 & & 19.3 & 0.641 & & 18.7 & 0.606 + 18.6 & 0.6757 & & 19.4 & 0.6367 & & 18.8 & 0.6057 + 18.7 & 0.6553 & & 19.5 & 0.6322 & & 18.9 & 0.6055 + 18.8 & 0.6449 & & 19.6 & 0.6321 & & 19 & 0.6106 + 18.9 & 0.6399 & & 19.7 & 0.6349 & & 19.1 & 0.6145 + 19 & 0.6364 & & 19.8 & 0.6393 & & 19.2 & 0.6185 + 19.1 & 0.6361 & & 19.9 & 0.6444 & & 19.3 & 0.6255 + 19.2 & 0.6399 & & 20 & 0.6493 & & 19.4 & 0.6324 + 19.3 & 0.645 & & 20.1 & 0.6548 & & 19.5 & 0.6379 + 19.4 & 0.6498 & & 20.2 & 0.6614 & & 19.5 & 0.6379 + 19.5 & 0.6553 & & 20.3 & 0.6682 & & 20 & 0.6926 + 19.6 & 0.6619 & & 20.4 & 0.6747 & & 20.5 & 0.749 + 19.7 & 0.6691 & & 20.5 & 0.6825 & & 21 & 0.8254 + 19.8 & 0.6769 & & 20.5 & 0.6825 & & & + 19.8 & 0.6769 & & 21 & 0.745 & & & + 20.3 & 0.7288 & & 21.5 & 0.8135 & & & + 20.8 & 0.8026 & & 22 & 0.8998 & & & + 21.3 & 0.8988 & & & & & & + 21.8 & 1.001 & & & & & & +      -0.090 & 17.01 & & -0.030 & 16.89 & & & + -0.045 & 16.24 & & 0.020 & 16.65 & & & + 0.019 & 15.93 & & 0.070 & 16.39 & & & + 0.109 & 15.54 & & 0.120 & 16.17 & & & + 0.243 & 15.39 & & 0.170 & 16.13 & & & + & & & 0.220 & 16.11 & & & + & & & 0.270 & 16.06 & & & + & & & & & & & + & & & 0.650 & 16.17 & & 0.650 & 15.51 + & & & 0.750 & 16.17 & & 0.750 & 15.51 + & & & 0.850 & 16.17 & & 0.850 & 15.51 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present deep @xmath0 ,  @xmath1 photometry of the globular clusters ngc  288 , ngc  362 and ngc  1851 obtained during a single observational run under strictly homogeneous conditions . </S>",
    "<S> we use the bimodal horizontal branch ( hb ) of ngc  1851 as a `` bridge '' to obtain the optimum relative match between the hbs of ngc  288 and ngc  362 . in this way </S>",
    "<S> we can effectively remove the uncertainties associated with distance , reddening and inhomogeneities in the absolute calibration , thus obtaining a very robust , purely differential estimate of the age difference between these two clusters . according to the bridge test , ngc  288 is found to be older than ngc  362 by @xmath2 gyr . </S>",
    "<S> this result is fully confirmed also by all classical differential age diagnostics , either based on the luminosity ( @xmath3 ) or color [ @xmath4 of the main sequence turnoff point . </S>"
  ]
}