{
  "article_text": [
    "the magnetic field in molecular clouds provides pressure support against gravity and carries away angular momentum prior to and during the collapse of cloud cores to form stars .",
    "magnetic fields may also drive the evolution of protostellar discs through the magnetorotational instability , dynamo activity , or by magnetic launching and collimation of jets from their surfaces or inner edges .    the diffusion of magnetic field through the weakly ionised molecular gas plays a crucial role , allowing gas to slip through the magnetic field , or vice - versa .",
    "it is usually considered using one of two limits : ( i ) ambipolar diffusion , in which the magnetic field is frozen into the charged species and drifts along with them through the neutrals ; and ( ii ) resistive diffusion , in which charged particles are completely decoupled from the field by collisions with neutrals .",
    "both limits neglect hall diffusion , which qualitatively changes the evolution of the magnetic field from any given initial configuration and has profound implications for the magnetically - mediated processes associated with star formation .    here",
    "i present some calculations illustrating the relevance of hall diffusion to molecular clouds and protostellar discs .",
    "the diffusion of a magnetic field in weakly ionised gas is determined by the drift of charged particles through the dominant neutral component in response to the electric field in the neutral rest frame , @xmath0 .",
    "the drift speed parallel to the magnetic field is set by the drag associated with neutral collisions . in the plane",
    "perpendicular to the magnetic field , the electric force @xmath1 on a particle of charge @xmath2 and mass @xmath3 is balanced by the magnetic and drag forces ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : hall ] ) .",
    "the relative importance of these two forces is determined by the hall parameter @xmath4 in the limit @xmath5 , the drag force is negligible , and the drift speed @xmath6 satisfies @xmath7 . in this case",
    "the charged particle is tied to the magnetic field line . in the other limit @xmath8 ,",
    "the magnetic force is negligible and the drag force @xmath9 .",
    ", width=377 ]    at typical molecular cloud densities , ions and electrons have @xmath10 and drift perpendicular to both @xmath11 and @xmath0 .",
    "charged grains , however , have a large collisional cross - section , so that drag is much more important and @xmath12 .",
    "grains therefore drift obliquely to @xmath13 .",
    "the grain population acquires a significant charge through the sticking of electrons , and the ensemble of drifting grains modifies the vector relationship between the current density @xmath14 and @xmath0 .",
    "this relationship can be expressed in terms of a tensor conductivity @xmath15 : @xmath16 where @xmath17 and @xmath13 are the components of @xmath0 parallel and perpendicular to @xmath18 , and @xmath19 , @xmath20 and @xmath21 are the field - parallel , hall , and pedersen conductivities , respectively .",
    "the magnetic field evolves according to @xmath22 the departure from flux - freezing  magnetic diffusion",
    " arises from the second term on the right hand side and is determined by the magnetic field configuration via the conductivity tensor : @xmath23 .",
    "there are three distinct diffusion regimes :    1 .",
    "ambipolar diffusion : @xmath24 ; 2 .",
    "hall diffusion : @xmath25 ; and 3 .",
    "resistive diffusion : @xmath26 .",
    "the vector evolution of the magnetic field in the presence of hall diffusion is quite different from the other two regimes .",
    "many of the magnetic field geometries adopted in studies of ambipolar or resistive diffusion  in which the magnetic field lies within a plane of symmetry ",
    "break down when hall drifts are present.the evolution is not invariant under global reversal of the magnetic field and plane - polarised damped alfvn waves do not exist ( wardle & ng 1999 ) .",
    "the consequences of hall diffusion during star formation and the subsequent evolution of protostellar discs are profound , as found for example in the magnetorotational instability ( wardle 1999 ; balbus & terquem 2001 ; salmeron & wardle this volume ) .",
    "the degree of hall diffusion in molecular clouds depends on charged particle abundances ; especially of grains .",
    "[ fig : ionisation ] shows the abundances of charged species in molecular clouds for two standard grain models : 0.1@xmath27 grains , and grains with an mrn size distribution .",
    "these ionisation equilibrium calculations follow umebayashi & nakano ( 1990 ) and nishi , nakano & umebayashi ( 1991 ) in following the abundance of h@xmath28 , h@xmath29 , he@xmath28 , c@xmath28 , representative molecular ( m@xmath28 ) and metal ( m@xmath28 ) ions , electrons , and grains .",
    "the calculations have been improved by allowing for the higher grain charge states that appear at temperatures in excess of 10 k. here i have adopted an ionisation rate @xmath30 and gas temperature 30 k. at this temperature , 0.1 @xmath27 grains acquire one or two electrons via sticking of electrons . at low densities",
    "this has negligible effect on the gas phase ionisation levels because of the relatively small numbers of grains ( @xmath31 ) . once the density exceeds @xmath32 , the sticking of electrons and ions to grains becoming increasingly important , with recombinations occurring predominantly on grain surfaces rather than in the gas phase .",
    "an mrn grain size distribution contains many more small grains which typically acquire a single electron .",
    "these more numerous grains dominate the recombination process at lower densities ( @xmath33 ) .",
    "the conductivity tensor for the two grain models can be calculated once the magnetic field is specified .",
    "it s instructive to consider the ratio of the hall and pedersen conductivities ( @xmath20 and @xmath21 as a measure of the significance of the hall effect in magnetic diffusion .",
    "contours of @xmath34 are plotted in the @xmath35 plane for the 0.1 @xmath27 and mrn grain models in figs .",
    "[ fig : unplane ] and [ fig : mrnplane ] respectively . in light of the qualitative changes to magnetic field evolution ,",
    "i recommend feeling nervous about neglecting hall diffusion when @xmath34 is above 0.1 , the second contour level in these plots .",
    "for the 0.1 @xmath27 grain model ( fig .",
    "[ fig : unplane ] ) , two islands of hall diffusion are apparent .",
    "the left - hand island follows the locus where the grain hall parameter is of order unity and grains partially decouple from the magnetic field .",
    "the island is truncated at low densities where the relative abundance of charged grains becomes too small to influence the conductivity significantly ( see fig . [",
    "fig : ionisation ] ) .",
    "the right - hand island occurs where the ion hall parameter is of order unity .",
    "a zero - line occurs between these two islands where the contributions of grains and ions to @xmath20 cancel because they carry charge of opposite signs .",
    "the location and size of the grain island depends on the grain size distribution , as size determines both the typical charge acquired by sticking of thermal electrons and ions and the drag coefficient with the neutrals . in fig .",
    "[ fig : mrnplane ] , the solid contours show @xmath36 for an mrn size distribution .",
    "this has many small grains that acquire a single negative charge ( see fig . [",
    "fig : ionisation ] ) , so the grain island extends to lower densities but falls off at the highest densities when the abundances of positive and negatively charged grains are almost equal and their hall contributions cancel .",
    "the addition of ice mantles to the grains ( dashed contours in fig .",
    "[ fig : mrnplane ] ) tends to extend the island to the left , as grains have a higher drag coefficient and decouple at lower densities for a given magnetic field strength .",
    "clearly , hall diffusion is significant for both the 0.1 @xmath27 and mrn grain models at densities @xmath37 and the 0.1 - 10 mg magnetic field strengths in molecular clouds .",
    "however , the effect is reduced if there are many more small grains ( such as pahs , or an mrn distribution that extends down to a few angstrom ) , or if the characteristic grain size is much larger than @xmath38 . in the former case ,",
    "small grains are the dominant charged species at all densities ( see nishi , nakano & umebayashi 1991 ) and the near - equality in abundances of positively- and negatively - charged grains supresses the hall effect . in the latter case , grains are sufficiently rare that the grain island is shifted to @xmath39 g , in excess of molecular cloud magnetic field strengths .",
    "magnetic coupling in protostellar discs is thought to be poor because of two contributing factors .",
    "first , the magnetic field must couple to the gas on timescales orders of magnitude shorter than those in molecular clouds .",
    "second , because the gas density is high , recombination occurs more rapidly and the fractional ionisation is low .",
    "third , within a few au of the central protostar the disc column density shields the gas from cosmic - rays or x - rays .",
    "this has led to a picture of magnetic activity occurring only in the surface layers over much of the disc ( gammie 1996 ; wardle 1997 )    by way of illustration , let us examine the conductivity tensor in a minimum - mass solar nebula model at 1 au from the central star .",
    "the temperature and midplane density are @xmath40 and @xmath41 respectively .",
    "the disc is assumed to be ionised from above and below by cosmic rays at a rate @xmath42 where @xmath43 is the surface density from height @xmath44 to the surface , by x - rays from the protostar according to fig .  3 of igea & glassgold ( 1999 ) and by natural radioactivity at a uniform rate @xmath45 .",
    "in principle , the grain population is determined by competition between growth or sublimation of ice mantles , sticking , shattering , gravitational settling to the disc midplane , and stirring by convection or turbulence ( e.g.  weidenschilling & cuzzi 1993 ) . for the sake of definiteness ,",
    "i consider two simple models : ( i ) 0.1 @xmath46 grains , and ( ii ) no grains ( assuming that they have settled to the midplane ) . in the latter case ,",
    "metal atoms play a key role in determining the ionisation fraction in the absence of grains and are conservatively assumed to be depleted by a factor of @xmath47 over the interstellar value .",
    "the resulting vertical profile of the conductivity tensor in these two models is plotted in the top panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : bhplot ] for a uniform 100 mg magnetic field .",
    "the much larger conductivities in the no - grain model within three scale heights of the midplane reflects the lack of grains  the charge is carried by more mobile free ions and electrons .",
    "the decoupling of ions from the magnetic field for densities @xmath48 means that hall component is larger than the pedersen component beween 1.5 and 4 scale heights , and is 80% of @xmath21 even at the midplane . in the 0.1 @xmath27 grain model",
    ", the hall conductivity dominates the pedersen conductivity within 4 scale heights of the midplane .    one measure of whether the conductivity is sufficient for the magnetic field to interact with the disc material , is whether the field is unstable to the magnetorotational instability .",
    "this is determined by comparing the coupling parameter @xmath49 to the ratio of alfvn speed to sound speed , @xmath50 . here",
    "@xmath51 is the frequency above which ideal mhd breaks down and @xmath52 is the keplerian frequency .",
    "if hall diffusion is unimportant the criterion is @xmath53 , if it is dominant ( and the magnetic field has the correct orientation ) , then @xmath54 is necessary .",
    "the coupling parameter is plotted as a function of height in the lower panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : bhplot ] .",
    "the entire disc is magnetically active in the settled - grain case , whereas in the single - size grain model the layers above 2.5 scale heights are active . in both cases ,",
    "hall diffusion is important throughout the active regions .",
    "balbus s. a. , terquem c. , 2001 , apj , 552 , 235 gammie c. f. , 1996 , apj , 457 , 355 hawley j. f. , balbus s. a. , 1991 , apj , 376 , 223 igea j. , glassgold a. e. , 1999 , apj , 518 , 848 nishi r. , nakano t. , umebayashi t. , 1991 , apj , 368 , 181 umebayashi t. , nakano t. , 1990 , mnras , 243 , 103 wardle m. , 1997 , in proc . iau colloq .",
    "163 , accretion phenomena and related outflows , ed .",
    "d. wickramasinghe , l. ferrario , g. bicknell ( san francisco : asp ) , p. 561 wardle m. , 1999 , mnras , 307 , 849 ( w99 ) wardle m. , ng c. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , 239 weidenschilling s. j. , cuzzi j. n. , 1993 , in protostars & planets iii , ed . e. h. levy , j. i. lunine ( tucson : univ .",
    "arizona press ) , p. 1031"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the breakdown of flux - freezing in molecular clouds and protostellar discs is usually approximated by ambipolar diffusion at low densities or by resistive diffusion at high densities . here i discuss an intermediate regime in which the hall term in the conductivity tensor is significant , and the vector evolution of the magnetic field  and therefore the evolution of the system under consideration  is dramatically altered . </S>",
    "<S> calculations of charged particle abundances in dense gas in molecular clouds and protostellar discs demonstrate that hall diffusion is important over a surprisingly broad range of conditions . </S>"
  ]
}