{
  "article_text": [
    "a recent characterization of the large - scale 3d distribution of the neutral gas ( h@xmath0i ) deficiency around the virgo i cluster ( vic ) region by ( * ? ? ? * hereafter paper  i ) has shown that there are a significant number of galaxies with a dearth of atomic hydrogen at large virgocentric distances .",
    "these peripheral gas - deficient objects , which can be observed both in the cluster front and in a probable background group well behind the cluster core , show gaseous deficiencies comparable in strength to those measured in the centers of virgo and other rich galaxy clusters .",
    "one of the mechanisms that can most naturally account for the observed reduction in the interstellar gas content of cluster galaxies is the ram pressure ablation caused by the rapid motion of galaxies through the dense intracluster medium ( icm ) .",
    "there is now compelling evidence for the decisive participation of this process in the gaseous deficiencies of spirals located in the centers of rich clusters , either directly from observations @xcite including the discovery of shrunken gaseous disks @xcite and the finding that h@xmath0i  deficient spirals are on very eccentric orbits @xcite or from theoretical studies that have checked the efficiency of this mechanism ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* to name only a few ) .    in the outer cluster regions the low density of the intergalactic medium calls , in principle , for alternative gas removal mechanisms , such as gravitational tidal interactions .",
    "indeed , observational evidence suggests that processes of this kind might have played an important role on the evolution of the galactic population in distant clusters ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) due to favorable conditions for frequent low - relative velocity encounters among the galaxies in early epochs .",
    "although in the vic region low - relative - velocity galaxy - galaxy interactions may also be responsible for the gaseous deficiencies observed in some of the peripheral galaxies , it should not be forgotten that the dynamics of the virgo region is dominated by large - scale non - hubble radial streaming motions . in this context , it is plausible that some galaxies at large virgocentric distances are on very eccentric orbits that carry them right through the cluster center with high relative velocities and are therefore liable to have suffered a strong interaction with the icm .",
    "one of the most influential studies of the local supercluster based on dynamical model calculations is the analysis by @xcite of the infall of galaxies in the virgo southern extension ( or virgo ii cloud ) toward the vic .",
    "the lumpy distribution of galaxies in space led these authors to predict a very irregular infall rate which would be responsible for the secular evolution of the mix of morphological types in the cluster .",
    "it was suggested that the formation of the cluster took place at an early epoch when the universe was about one fourth of its present age  by a first generation of , probably , early - type galaxies .",
    "afterwards , infall was reduced until very recently when the large spiral - rich virgo ii cloud has begun to fall into the cluster diluting the fraction of early - type systems . the fact that tully & shaya saw very few outwardly moving galaxies outside the @xmath1 vic circle supported their argument that most , or perhaps all , spirals and irregulars in virgo , mostly supplied by the virgo ii cloud , were recent arrivals .",
    "all the findings of @xcite were based on a data set that contained a limited number of galaxies with relatively uncertain distance estimates .",
    "now , with a much larger sample and more accurate distances , we provide evidence that a substantial number of galaxies , with a wide range of clustercentric distances , are expanding away from virgo .",
    "this suggests that these galaxies are probably reemerging after infall .",
    "if our    captypefigure    interpretation of the situation is correct , then there is a more continuous influx of galaxies into virgo than previously anticipated , so the hypothesis that the strong gaseous deficiencies currently seen in some peripheral objects were originated in a previous infall episode is worth exploring .",
    "a continuous representation in rectangular equatorial coordinates of the spatial distribution of h@xmath0i  deficiency in the vic region is shown in figure  [ voxel ] .",
    "this image is like a radiograph in which the shade intensity informs on the average h@xmath0i  deficiency of the galaxy distribution observed from a given viewing angle .",
    "three dark spots indicating the accumulation of galaxies with a dearth of neutral hydrogen are easily identified aligned along the line - of - sight ( los ) . in @xcite",
    "it is demonstrated that the central enhancement of the h@xmath0i  deficiency , which is essentially coincident with the cluster core , arises from numerous gas - poor galaxies with los distances ranging from @xmath216 to 22 mpc .",
    "another region with important h@xmath0i  deficiency is associated with several nearby galaxies at los distances @xmath21015 mpc , preferentially located to the north of m87 , and moving away from the cluster with large relative velocities .",
    "finally , there is a tentative background group of galaxies at los distances @xmath22530 mpc , most with systemic velocities close to the cluster mean , lying in the region dominated by the southern edge of the classical m49 subcluster , and clouds w@xmath3 and w.    while the frontside enhancement of the h@xmath0i  deficiency is produced by gas - poor galaxies that appear relatively clustered in 3d space simply because they are nearby objects , the gas - deficient enhancement in the background arises from a tight aggregation of galaxies segregated in the four - dimensional position - radial velocity phase space .",
    "up to 15 of the galaxies listed in the data set in @xcite can be identified as probable members of this group , since they all share similar positions on the sky ( @xmath4and  @xmath5 ) .",
    "in addition , 12 of these objects have los distances between 27 and 30 mpc , and 8 of them ( 11 out of the initial 15 ) have systemic velocities between @xmath26001300 kms@xmath6 .",
    "certainly , the lack of good resolution in the radial direction prevents us for claiming that we have identified a true group on a sufficiently safe basis . yet",
    ", the fact that one third of its potential members have gas deficiencies that deviate more than @xmath7 from normalcy and that two of them have h@xmath0i  masses less than 10% of the expectation values for their morphology characteristics that are both typical of rich cluster interiors reinforces the impression that it is not a fortuitous feature .",
    "to model the virgocentric velocity field , we have implemented a simple point mass model for the spherical collapse of a zero - pressure fluid ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ? * and references therein ) .",
    "however , the solution of the problem is not limited to the classical deduction of the velocity field of objects until a singularity first develops .",
    "the calculations are extended beyond that time until galaxies recollapse again by allowing that the spherical shells of matter reaching the singularity pass through themselves and reemerge .    in the present paper , we take the , admittedly crude , point of view of treating galaxies as test particles moving in a constant point - mass potential well , which allows us to ignore the effects of shell crossing on their first orbit .",
    "shell crossing is most important inside the previously relaxed cluster body , but galaxies on first infall spend little time in this region because of their radial trajectories and high pericentric velocities .",
    "hence , the gravitational acceleration they undergo during their first crossing of the cluster core is not expected to differ substantially from that exerted if all the mass were concentrated at the center .    under the point mass approximation ,",
    "the velocity relative to the center of virgo , @xmath8 , for mass - less shells of radius @xmath9 in a universe with null cosmological constant ( a non - null cosmological constant has a negligible contribution in the local universe ) is given by the pair of parametric equations    @xmath10     + for the bound shell case , and by    @xmath11     + for the unbound case . in these expressions",
    ", @xmath12 is the _ effective _ total mass of the vic region ( strictly speaking , the point mass representative of the region under consideration around the vic center ) , @xmath13 is the current age of the universe , and @xmath14 is the gravitational constant . in our double - infall model bound shells reach maximum expansion for development angles @xmath15 and @xmath16 , whereas full collapse is achieved when @xmath17 and @xmath18 .",
    "the predicted radial velocity , @xmath19 , of a galaxy at a distance @xmath20 from the local group ( lg ) and observed at an angular distance @xmath21 from the virgo center can be evaluated from    @xmath22    where @xmath23 and @xmath24 are , respectively , the barycentric distance and velocity of the vic in the lg reference frame . the linear and angular distances of the galaxy are related through the cosine law    @xmath25     + where @xmath26 and @xmath27 are the linear distances expressed in virgo s distance units .",
    "the @xmath28-sign applies for galaxies with @xmath29 , while the @xmath30-sign is for @xmath31 .",
    "as shown in the previous section , our simple dynamical model describing the velocity field in the vic region involves parameterization in terms of @xmath13 , @xmath12 , @xmath23 , and @xmath24 the systemic velocity can be replaced by the cosmological velocity of virgo for a given infall velocity of the lg . in spite of the fact that only three of these parameters are independent , it is advisable to work with no more than _ two _ free parameters , as the current velocity - distance data on the vic are still insufficient to constrain models with so much freedom .",
    "for this reason , we allow the virgo mass and distance to vary freely while keeping @xmath24 fixed to 980 kms@xmath6 .",
    "we have , nonetheless , checked that the range of values of @xmath24 allowed by the observations does not lead to significantly different results .",
    "the viability of the solutions will be cross - checked by comparing the value of @xmath13 predicted by the best fits to the observations with the cosmological age of @xmath32 gyr derived for the @xmath33 , @xmath34 cdm model in the @xmath35-key project by @xcite and the more precise @xmath36 gyr recently inferred by @xcite from cmb observations .    the systemic velocity - distance diagram for the vic region plotted in figure  [ hubdiam]a shows the basic expected features : an initial steeply rising velocity - distance relation at the cluster front , a central broad region with the maximum observed velocity amplitudes , and a final ascending part of the relation , expected to approach the local hubble law asymptotically .",
    "ultimately , all the available good - quality observations should be considered to define the constraints of dynamical models like ours .",
    "unfortunately , as illustrated in figure  [ hubdiam]b , even after we have extended the predictions to the first orbit following rebound , the theoretical pattern can not explain the motions of various systems within the post - rebound expansion regime .",
    "this fact and the difficulties inherent to the modeling of the motions in the innermost cluster region where multiple rebounds are expected to occur prompted us to restrict the acceptable range of models by putting all the weight of the fits on the envelope to the streaming velocities _ within the asymptotic regime _",
    "[ hubdiam]b ) .",
    "this is indeed the fitting procedure adopted by first - infall models and has the advantages of : ( 1 ) relying on the subset of observations that offer the highest constraining power ; ( 2 ) being unaffected by shell crossing ; and ( 3 ) being barely sensitive to the angular distance from the vic center .",
    "the three solid curves in figure  [ hubdiam]a demonstrate the locus of the optimum model for lines - of - sight corresponding to angular separations of 4@xmath37 , 6@xmath37 , and 8@xmath37 . we find it compelling that , in spite of the fact that the minimization relies on a fraction of the data , our best solution explains a large number of the galaxy motions around the vic region .",
    "the good accordance between the observations and the prediction of the double - infall model is reinforced by the remarkable symmetry of the motions with respect to the local hubble flow defined by the imaginary straight    captypefigure    line passing through the position of the lg and that of the predicted vic barycenter ( cf .",
    "[ hubdiam]b ) .",
    "moreover , the error contours in the @xmath38 plane drawn in figure  [ contours ] show that our predictions are in reasonable agreement with previous estimates of the values of these parameters .",
    "thus , while mass calculations of the central cluster region based on the x - ray emission or the virial theorem amount to about several times @xmath39 m@xmath40 , our best estimate @xmath41 m@xmath40 approaches the values @xmath42 m@xmath40 inferred from modelings of the velocity field of the local supercluster @xcite .",
    "the acceptable barycentric distances are also well within the very poorly constrained range ( @xmath21624 mpc ) of vic distances reported in the literature , although our most likely value @xmath43 mpc advocates a large - distance scale which , for a cosmological vic velocity of 1200 kms@xmath6 , brings the _ local _ value of the hubble constant to about 60 km / s / mpc .",
    "furthermore , our best solution leads to @xmath44 gyr , in excellent agreement with the expansion ages advocated in @xcite and @xcite . finally , note from eq .",
    "( [ vobs ] ) that the constraint provided by the motion of the lg with respect to the vic ( i.e. , a null systemic velocity at our position ) is automatically satisfied by the models .",
    "one of the most striking predictions of our model , illustrated in figure  [ hubdiam]b , is that various h@xmath0i - deficient galaxies in the frontside and backside of virgo can be accommodated in the same way on an orbit following rebound and on a first infall trajectory .",
    "we conclude that these galaxies might not be recent arrivals but have already plunged into the vic center in the past .",
    "especially interesting is the case of the h@xmath0i - deficient background group observed at @xmath45 mpc and @xmath46 kms@xmath6 , whose near turnaround position in the hubble diagram and the assumed standard harmonic oscillation movement of the galaxies around the cluster center , together with a cosmic age presumably close to 13.5 gyr , indicate that it might have passed through the virgo core about 4.5 gyr ago .",
    "the fit to the observed velocity field also indicates that a significant number of galaxies in the vic region might be currently falling towards the cluster from the frontside perhaps not for the first time either , so it does not substantiate former claims of a paucity of objects of this sort @xcite .",
    "we do not claim , however , that this is the only possible solution satisfying the observations .",
    "for instance , an alternative model based on the assumption that the gas - deficient group in the background is also on first infall gives similarly reasonable best values of the assumed parameters : @xmath47 m@xmath40 and @xmath48 mpc , leading to @xmath49 gyr . nor",
    "are we endorsing the argument that _ all _ h@xmath0i - deficient galaxies in the vic region have passed through the cluster core .",
    "it is clear from figures  [ hubdiam]a , b that the positions of some gas - poor galaxies , especially in the front cluster side , are best explained according to our model if they are on first infall . in any event",
    ", our dynamical modeling of the vic region has shown that characteristics such as a large virgocentric distance or a near turnaround position are not by themselves conclusive indications of a recent arrival .",
    "the substantial h@xmath0i  deficiency of the background subclump found in @xcite may well have originated in an earlier passage of this entity through the virgo core .",
    "even if our suggestion that the h@xmath0i - deficient group on the backside of the vic might not be a recent arrival is finally proven well - founded , it is still necessary to find an explanation for the apparently long time ( @xmath24.5 gyr ) that these galaxies have maintained a substantial dearth of gas without noticeable consequences on their morphologies : 9 of its 15 probable members are late - type spirals , whereas the 5 with the largest gaseous deficiencies have types sb or later .",
    "( nor do the magnitudes of these latter galaxies show any evidence of a substantial dimming . )",
    "yet , the details and chronology of the evolution of galactic properties triggered by the sweeping of the atomic hydrogen , as well as its repercussions on the star formation rate , are still poorly understood .",
    "for instance , estimates for gas consumption time scales in the absence of gas replenishment from a sample of 36 spiral galaxies of various morphologies by @xcite produced values ranging from 0.9 to 15 gyr , with a median of 3.9 gyr .",
    "these authors also discussed the color evolution of disk galaxies whose star formation has been truncated at various past times and concluded that substantial reddening in the latest spiral types requires that most of their star formation ceased about 5 gyr ago . on the other hand , recent observational studies of the galaxy populations in clusters at different redshifts ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) indicate that while the quenching of star formation induced by the removal of the gas appears to be rapid ( @xmath21 gyr ) , the morphological evolution of disk galaxies takes several billion years .",
    "perhaps evolution is still slower for objects , such as the members of the gas - deficient cloud detected in the background of virgo , that spent most of their time out of the aggressive cluster environment .",
    "we acknowledge brent tully for stimulating conversation and comments , and montserrat lpez for assistance with figure  [ voxel ] .",
    "this work was supported by the direccin general de investigacin cientfica y tcnica , under contract aya20000951 .",
    "ts acknowledges support from a fellowship of the ministerio de educacin , cultura y deporte of spain .",
    "bravo - alfaro , h. , cayatte , v. , van gorkom , j.  h. , & balkowski , c.  2000 , , 119 , 580 cayatte , v. , kotanyi , c. , balkowski , c. , & van gorkom , j.  h.  1994 , , 107 , 1003 dickey , j.  m. , & gavazzi , g.  1991 , , 373 , 347 ekholm , t. , & teerikorpi , p.  1994",
    ", , 284 , 369 fasano , g. , poggianti , b.  m. , couch , w.  j. , bettoni , d. , kjrgaard , & p. , moles , m.  2000 , , 542 , 673 fouqu , p. , solanes , j.  m. , sanchis , t. , & balkowski , c.  2001 , , 375 , 770 freedman , w.  l. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 553 , 47 gavazzi , g. , & jaffe , w. 1987 , , 186 , l1 giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.  p.  1985",
    ", , 292 , 404 larson , r.  b. , tinsley , b.  m. , & caldwell , c.  n.  1980 , , 237 , 692 quilis , v. , moore , b. , & bower , r.  2000 , science , 288 , 1617 sievers , j.  l. , et al .  2002 , astro - ph/0205387 solanes , j.  m. , manrique , a. , gonzlez - casado , g. , garca - gmez , c. , giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.  p.  2001 , , 548 , 97 solanes , j.  m. , sanchis , t. , salvador - sol , e. , giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.  p.  2002",
    ", , submitted ( paper  i ) stevens , i.  r. , acreman , d.  m. , & ponman , t.  j. 1999 , , 310 , 663 tully , r.  b. , & shaya , e.  j. 1984 , , 281 , 31 van dokkum , p.  g. , franx , m. , fabricant , d. , kelson , d.  d. , & illingworth , g.  d. 1999 , , 520 , l95 vollmer , b. , cayatte , v. , balkowski , c. , & duschl , w.  j.  2001 , , 561 , 708"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the presence on the virgo cluster outskirts of spiral galaxies with gas deficiencies as strong as those of the inner galaxies stripped by the intracluster medium has led us to explore the possibility that some of these peripheral objects are not newcomers . a dynamical model for the collapse and rebound of spherical shells under the point mass and radial flow approximations has been developed to account for the amplitude of the motions in the virgo i cluster ( vic ) region . according to our analysis , it is not unfeasible that galaxies far from the cluster , including those in a gas - deficient group well to its background , went through its core a few gyr ago . </S>",
    "<S> the implications would be : ( 1 ) that the majority of the h@xmath0i - deficient spirals in the vic region might have been deprived of their neutral hydrogen by interactions with the hot intracluster medium ; and ( 2 ) that objects spending a long time outside the cluster cores might keep the gas deficient status without altering their morphology . </S>"
  ]
}