{
  "article_text": [
    "the crab pulsar has been the second pulsar to be associated with its supernova remnant ( comella et al . 1969 ) and the interaction between the two has been subject of deep and detailed studies ( e.g. kennel & coronoti 1984 ) .",
    "recently , associating the rosat / hri picture of the pulsar and its surroundings with hst / wfpc2 images of the remnant , hester et al .",
    "( 1995 ) have drawn a convincing picture of the central part of the crab nebula `` symmetrical about the ( presumed ) rotation axis of the pulsar '' with such an axis lying `` at an approximate position angle of @xmath3 east of north '' . however , linking the pulsar rotation to the remarkably symmetrical appearance of the high resolution x and optical data is clearly a kind of default solution since `` the only physical axis that exists for the pulsar is its spin axis '' .",
    "although generally correct , this statement may not represent a complete description of the crab pulsar , which is known to move .",
    "here we want to draw attention to the possible relationship between the crab pulsar proper motion and the symmetric appearence of the inner crab nebula . + isolated neutron stars are fast moving objects ( e.g. caraveo 1993 ; lyne & lorimer 1993 ; lorimer 1998 ) , and the crab is no exception .",
    "measurements of the proper motion of baade s star ( later recognized to be the optical counterpart of the crab pulsar ) were attempted several times ( e.g. trimble 1968 ) , yielding vastly different values .",
    "this prompted minkowski ( 1970 ) to conclude that the proper motion of the star was not reliably measurable .",
    "+ the situation changed few years later , when wyckoff & murray ( 1977 ) obtained a new value of the crab proper motion which allowed to reconcile the pulsar birthplace with the center of the nebula , i.e. the filaments divergent point .",
    "the _ relative _ proper motion , measured by wyckoff & murray over a time span of 77 years , amounts to a total yearly displacement of @xmath4  mas , corresponding to a transverse velocity of 123 km  s@xmath1 for a pulsar distance of 2 kpc . +",
    "what matters here is the direction of such a motion , i.e. its position angle of @xmath5 .",
    "taken at face value , this direction is certainly compatible with the crab axis of symmetry , defined by hester et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , hinting an alignement between the pulsar proper motion and the major axis of the nebula .",
    "+ given the non trivial consequences of this evidence , we have sought an independent confirmation of the pulsar proper motion .",
    "owing to the dramatic evolution of telescopes as well as optical detectors in the last 20 years , we are now in a position to measure anew the crab proper motion in a time span much shorter than the 77 years required by wyckoff & murray .",
    "proper motion measurements rely on accurate relative astrometry . in order to measure the tiny angular displacement of the crab pulsar ,",
    "we need high resolution images taken at different epochs . currently , the best instrument to pursue this task is the wide field planetary camera 2 ( wfpc2 ) , onboard the hubble space telescope .",
    "luckily enough , the crab pulsar is a conspicuous target so that , since the first telescope refurbishing , it has been repeatedly observed ( hester et al .",
    "1995 , 1996 ; blair et al .",
    "of course , different observers used different filters and placed the pulsar either in one of the wide field camera ( wfc ) chips or , more often , in the planetary camera ( pc ) . +",
    "in order to define a homogeneous data set , first we have gone through the exposure list to single out images obtained through the same filter .",
    "since the 547 m medium bandpass ( @xmath6 ) turned out to be the most frequently used , we have examined all the images taken through this filter .",
    "the 547 m data set ( listed in table 1 ) has been retrieved from the hst public database , and , after combining and cosmic ray cleaning , all images have been inspected to define a suitable set of `` good quality '' reference stars .",
    ".547 m filter data set selected from the crab observations available in the hst public database . for each exposure we list the date , the chip containing the pulsar and the exposure time in seconds . [ cols=\"<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "with two independent , fully consistent measurements , we can now proceed to compare the crab pulsar proper motion direction with the axis of symmetry of the inner nebula .",
    "this task is an easy one , since we can use figure 8 of hester et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , where such axis is coincident with the direction defined by the knot1-knot2 alignment .",
    "according to hester et al .",
    "the position angle of this direction is @xmath7 , to which an offset of @xmath8 is to be added to take into account the direction of the crab motion .",
    "this yields a value of @xmath9 , to be compared to our value @xmath10 or to that of wyckoff & murray ( @xmath11 ) .",
    "+ although all these values are affected by non negligible errors , both known , as in the case of the proper motion , and unknown , as in the case of the roughly defined axis of symmetry , an alignement between the pulsar proper motion and the `` axis of symmetry '' of the inner nebula seems to be present .",
    "in fact , the experimental evidence gathered so far shows that the crab pulsar is moving along the major axis of the crab nebula ( wyckoff & murray 1977 ) and that both the knots and the x - ray jet appear aligned to the pulsar proper motion .",
    "although the significant uncertainties of the relevant parameters leave open the possibility of a chance coincidence , it is interesting to speculate on the implications of such an alignement .",
    "+ since a neutron star acquires its proper motion at birth , there is no doubt that the pulsar motion has been present `` ab initio '' , well before both knots and jets came into existence .",
    "however , the proper motion energy content is far too small to account for the surrounding structures and their rapid evolution . therefore , the link , if any , between proper motion and axis of symmetry must be through some basic characteristics which was also present when the crab pulsar was born .",
    "hester et al . ( 1995 ) proposed a scenario associating the symmetrical appearence of the nebula with the pulsar spin axis . under this hypothesis",
    ", the neutron star motion would turn out to be aligned with the spin axis , reflecting an asymmetry of the supernova explosion along the progenitor s spin axis .",
    "proper motion spin axis alignements have been discussed in the literature ( see e.g. tademaru 1977 ) , but no conclusive evidence was found .",
    "+ if the x - ray jets do indeed trace the pulsar spin axis , and the relation between proper motion and axis of symmetry is not a fortuitous one , the crab would provide the first example of such an alignement . while this would shed some light on the mechanisms responsible for the pulsar kick ( e.g. spruit & finney 1998 )",
    ", one must immediately add that nothing similar has yet been found for the very limited sample of the young pulsars we know .",
    "psr 0540@xmath1269 , the twin of the crab in the magellanic cloud , is too far to allow for proper motion measurements in any reasonable time span .",
    "psr 1509@xmath1258 does not have a definite optical counterpart .",
    "the significantly older vela pulsar does not show any alignement between its 50 mas / y proper motion ( nasuti et al .",
    "1997 ) and the x - ray jet proposed by markwardt & gelman ( 1995 ) .",
    "+ before speculating any further , better data are needed to improve our knowledge on the geometry of the crab pulsar surroundings.one more hst observation could easily improve the determination of the proper motion position angle . a very accurate proper motion measurement",
    ", however , will not settle the problem without a substantial improvement on the x - ray side .",
    "a sharper x - ray image is needed to better assess the position angle of the jet(s ) together with their shape and overall dimension .",
    "the axaf high resolution camera could improve significantly on the fuzzy picture of the inner crab nebula obtained by rosat .",
    "+ irrispective of future developments , however , the presence of an observed motion adds a definite direction to the cilindrically symmetrical appearence of the crab .",
    "references blair w.p .",
    ", davidson k , fesen r.a .",
    "et al . , 1997 , apjs 109,473 caraveo p.a . , bignami g.f . ,",
    "mignani r. , taff l. , 1996 , apj 461 , l91 caraveo p.a , 1993 , apj 415 , l111 comella j.m .",
    ", craft h.d . , lovelace r.v.e . , sutton j.m . and tyler g.l.1969 , nat 221 , 453 hester j.j . , scowen p.a . , sankrit r. et al",
    ", 1995 , apj 448 , 240 hester j.j . ,",
    "stone j.m .",
    ", scowen p.a .",
    "et al . , 1996 , apj 456 , 233 holtzman j. , hester j.j .",
    ", casertano s. et al . , 1995 , pasp 107 , 156 ibata r.a . , lewis g.f .",
    ", 1998 , aj  in press ( astro - ph/9809070 ) kennel c.f . ,",
    "coroniti f.v . , 1984 ,",
    "apj 283 , 694 lorimer d. , 1998 , adv . in space research vol .",
    "21 n.1/2 , 177 lyne a. , lorimer d. , 1993 , nature 369 , 127 markwardt c. , gelman h. , 1995 , nature 375 , 40 minkowski r. , 1970 , pasp 82 , 470 nasuti f.p , mignani r. , caraveo p.a .",
    ", bignami g.f . , 1997 ,",
    "a&a 323 , 839 spruit h. , finney e.s . , 1998 ,",
    "nat 393 , 139 tademaru e. , 1977 , apj 214 , 885 trimble v. , 1968 , apj 73 , 535 wyckoff s. , murray c.a .",
    ", 1977 , mnras 180 , 717"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used a set of archived hst / wfpc2 exposures of the inner regions of the crab nebula to obtain a new measurement of the pulsar proper motion , the first after the original work of wyckoff & murray , more than 20 years ago . </S>",
    "<S> our measurement of the pulsar displacement , @xmath0  mas  yr@xmath1 , agrees well with the value obtained previously . </S>",
    "<S> this is noteworthy , since the data we have used span less than 2 years , as opposed to the 77 years required in the previous work . </S>",
    "<S> + with a position angle of @xmath2 , the proper motion vector appears aligned with the axis of symmetry of the inner crab nebula , as defined by the direction of the x - ray jet observed by rosat . indeed , if the neutron star rotation is to be held responsible both for the x - ray jet and for the observed symmetry , the crab could provide an example of alignment between spin axis and proper motion .    </S>"
  ]
}