{
  "article_text": [
    "it is well known that galaxy properties correlate with the environment , e.g. , the morphology - density relation @xcite , star - formation - density relation @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , the detailed joint distribution of these properties as a function of the galaxy clustering remains unclear .",
    "as all the galaxy properties ( e.g. morphology , luminosity , colour ) are correlated it is not surprising that all properties correlate with environment , but the question that arises is which of the properties are correlated to environment independently of the others . in a recent paper , @xcite",
    "systematically explore the local environment of galaxies in the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as a function of their luminosity , surface brightness , colour and srsic index .",
    "these authors find that colour is the galaxy property most predictive of the local environment for field galaxies .",
    "they also analyse pairs of properties taken together , finding that galaxy colour and luminosity jointly comprise the most predictive one .",
    "while clusters of galaxies have been intensively studied over the last decades , detailed studies of galaxy groups and their evolution have only recently begun .",
    "the study of the properties of galaxies in intermediate mass systems is particularly important to understand how galaxies evolve and how different physical mechanisms affect them . in particular ,",
    "galaxy interactions are expected to be more common in groups than in clusters . in groups ,",
    "velocity dispersions are typically not much larger than that of the member galaxies .",
    "it has been argued that the high fraction of early - type galaxies in clusters is mainly the result of galaxy - galaxy interactions within groups @xcite .",
    "@xcite showed how the fraction of star forming galaxies goes down as a function of group mass .",
    "@xcite found a similar trend with decreasing group centric distance .",
    "it is well known that there are correlations between different galaxy properties .",
    "therefore , the observed trend of increasing fraction of non star forming galaxies ( a spectroscopic property ) with group mass , implies a similar relation between the fraction of red galaxies ( a photometric property ) or the fraction of bulge - dominated galaxies ( a morphological property ) with group mass . in this work",
    "we address the following questions : ` which galaxy properties are more tightly correlated with group mass ? ' and ` which galaxy properties are more affected by the position inside a group ? ' .",
    "this paper is organised as follows : in section 2 we describe the sample of galaxies in groups we use ; while the analysis of the dependence of galaxy properties on mass and on the group - centric distance are carried out in sections 3 and 4 respectively .",
    "we summarise our results and discuss them in section 5 .",
    "the sample of galaxies in groups used in this paper has been taken from the group catalogue identified by @xcite .",
    "this catalogue was constructed from the main galaxy sample ( mgs ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) of the fourth data release of the sdss ( dr4 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) following the same procedure as in @xcite .",
    "it consists of a standard friend - of - friend algorithm for group identification , the application of a procedure to avoid artificial merging of smaller systems in high density regions and an iterative method to compute reliable group centre positions .",
    "the catalogue , in its improved identification version , includes 14004 galaxy groups with at least 4 members in the area spectroscopically surveyed by dr4 , accounting for a total of 85687 galaxies .",
    "we have chosen to work with volume limited samples of galaxies instead of using flux limited ones and individual galaxy weights according to their luminosities .",
    "we find that the results are more robust in a volume limited sample . in a magnitude limited sample ,",
    "the galaxy population observed in the nearest groups is significantly different than that observed for the most distant ones .",
    "something similar happens with the groups parameters .",
    "therefore , observational effects such as seeing that affect certain galaxy parameters can introduce systematic effects in our statistics .",
    "in section 3 we present some tests in order to evaluate the reliability of the results .",
    "we have restricted our analysis to galaxies in groups down to @xmath2 and up to a conservative maximum redshift of @xmath3 , that gives a volume limited sample according to the selection criteria of the mgs .",
    "another relevant reason to choose a small value for @xmath4 is related to two of the galaxy parameters we are considering in our analysis : the concentration parameter , defined as the ratio of the radii that enclose 90% and 50% of the petrosian flux and the surface brightness , that involves the latter .",
    "seeing affects the determination of those radii , and this becomes more important for more distant galaxies that have smaller angular size .",
    "our sample consists of 6183 ( @xmath5 ) galaxies in 1691 groups . from this sample",
    "we construct a number of subsamples of galaxies defined by group virial mass and number of members , that are detailed in the analysis sections . throughout this work ,",
    "we use the virial mass and virial radius of groups computed by @xcite .",
    "therefore , when we refer to ` group mass ' , it should be remembered that we are dealing with ` group virial mass ' . the mass distribution for our sample of groups is shown in the lower right panel of figure [ fig1 ] .",
    ".adopted parameter cut - offs [ cols=\"<,>,>\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "by using a large sample of galaxies in groups in the sdss dr4 , we have analysed how the properties of galaxies in groups are related to the environment .",
    "we find that the @xmath0 colour is the parameter most dependent on group mass .",
    "the pair of properties that is most correlated to group mass are @xmath0 colour and @xmath1band absolute magnitude taken together .",
    "our results do not change when we consider massive groups ( @xmath6 ) . regarding the position inside the systems",
    ", again we find that colour is the most predictive property for group - centric distances , while colour and @xmath7 comprise the most predictive pair .",
    "the results do not vary when we exclude low mass systems .",
    "it should be noticed that both , the single and the pair of most predictive galaxy properties as a function of the group environment , are nearly the same ones that @xcite found for field galaxies using the local density .",
    "the only difference appears in the pair of properties when the group - centric distance is considered .",
    "@xcite found that colour and luminosity are the most predictive pair of properties , while according to our results , the pair colour/@xmath7 is the most relevant .",
    "the similarity between our results for galaxies in groups and those by @xcite for field galaxies suggests that the physical process associated with the galaxy formation and evolution are similar for these two environments .",
    "it should be noted that the study of high mass systems gives similar results to those of the whole sample .",
    "this might be indicating that , over an important range of environments , galaxies are affected in a similar way . from field to high mass groups it is expected the merger rate to vary , nevertheless , it is remarkable that the same galaxy property is the one that correlate best with the environment .",
    "it would be interesting to repeat the present analysis for massive clusters of galaxies .",
    "it is also interesting to note that the concentration parameter , closely related to the galaxy morphology , is not good in predicting the group environment .",
    "this is particularly surprising considering the well known effect of morphological segregation in systems of galaxies .",
    "this result indicates that the morphological transformations that produce these relations are in a sense a byproduct of the transformations that produce the environmental trends on other properties like colour .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for helpful comments that improved this paper .",
    "this work has been partially supported with grants from consejo nacional de investigaciones cientficas y tcnicas de la repblica argentina ( conicet ) , secretara de ciencia y tecnologa de la universidad de crdoba and agencia nacional de promocin cientfica y tecnolgica , argentina .",
    "funding for the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national aeronautics and space administration , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the japanese monbukagakusho , and the max planck society .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/. the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium ( arc ) for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the university of chicago , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , the johns hopkins university , the korean scientist group , los alamos national laboratory , the max planck institut fr astronomie ( mpia ) , the max planck institut fr astrophysik ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington .",
    "adelman - mccarthy j.  k. , et al .",
    "2006 , , 162 , 38 blanton , m.  r. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 125 , 2348 blanton , m.  r. , eisenstein , d. , hogg , d.  w. , schlegel , d.  j. , & brinkmann , j.  2005 , , 629 , 143 domnguez , m.  j. , zandivarez , a.  a. , martnez , h.  j. , merch ' an , m.  e. , muriel , h. , & lambas , d.  g.  2002 , , 335 , 825 dressler , a.  1980 , , 236 , 351 gmez , p.  l. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 584 , 210 hashimoto , y. , & oemler , a.  j.  2000 , , 530 , 652 martnez , h.  j. , zandivarez , a. , domnguez , m. , merch ' an , m.  e. , & lambas , d.  g.  2002 , , 333 , l31 merchn , m.  e. , & zandivarez , a.  2005 , , 630 , 759 schlegel , d.  j. , finkbeiner , d.  p. , & davis , m.  1998 , , 500 , 525 strateva , i. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 122 , 1861 strauss , m.  a. , et al .",
    "2002 , , 124 , 1810 yip , c.  w. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 128 , 585 york , d.  g. , et al .",
    "2000 , , 120 , 1579 zabludoff , a.  i. , & mulchaey , j.  s.  1998 , , 496 , 39 zabludoff , a.  i. , & mulchaey , j.  s.  2000 , , 539 , 136 zandivarez , a. , martnez , h.  j. , & merchn , m.  e.  2006 , , in press , preprint ( astro - ph/0602405 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we analyse how the properties of galaxies in groups identified in the sloan digital sky survey depend on the environment . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we study the relationship between galaxy properties and group mass and group - centric distance . among the galaxy properties we have considered here , we find that the @xmath0 colour is the most predictive parameter for group mass , while the most predictive pair of properties are @xmath0 colour and @xmath1band absolute magnitude . </S>",
    "<S> regarding the position inside the systems , the @xmath0 colour is the best tracer of group - centric distance and the most predictive pair of properties are @xmath0 colour and spectral type taken together . </S>",
    "<S> these results remain unchanged when a subsample of high mass groups is analysed . </S>",
    "<S> the same happens if the brightest group galaxies are excluded .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : fundamental parameters  galaxies : clusters : general  galaxies : evolution </S>"
  ]
}