{
  "article_text": [
    "the use of synthetic colour - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) allows people to derive the sf history of nearby galaxies by interpreting the observed features of their resolved stellar populations in terms of stellar evolution ( tosi et al 1991 ) . nowadays , this approach is widely followed by the international community , but some people still wonder whether or not the method and stellar evolution theories are reliable enough to guarantee consistency between results obtained by different groups and/or procedures .",
    "the coimbra experiment was set up to compare the results obtained by different groups from the same set of high quality photometric data , treated with the same procedures both for the data reduction and for the artificial star tests . a general report on the experiment is given by skillman & gallart ( this volume , hereafter sg ) .    the data set refers to hst - wfpc2 images of a field in the lmc bar , kindly made available by t. smecker - hane . our group has adopted the data catalogue provided by a. dolphin from data reduction performed with the hstphot package , and his catalogue for the results of the artificial star tests",
    "to derive the sfh of the lmc field , we have applied the synthetic cmd method , described by tosi et al .",
    "( this volume ) . before creating the synthetic cmds",
    ", it is important to compare the empirical cmd directly with the theoretical stellar evolution tracks to be adopted in the synthetic cmd construction .",
    "this comparison allows one to visualize immediately whether or not the chosen tracks are suitable to simulate the observational cmd , and what are the involved stellar masses , ages and metallicities .",
    "it provides also useful information on the adoptable reddening and distance .",
    "[ tracks ]    the top panels of fig.1 show the superposition of the padova s stellar evolution tracks on the cmd of the lmc field , based on the reddening and distance modulus suggested by the experiment organizers , @xmath0 and @xmath1 , whilst the bottom panels show the effect of assuming @xmath2 .",
    "the current metallicity of the lmc medium , as derived from hii region spectra , is z=0.008 ; hence we consider this value as an upper limit to the initial metallicity of stars born earlier than hii regions .",
    "the shown tracks correspond to z=0.0004 ( fagotto et al , 1994b ) , z=0.004 ( fagotto et al 1994a ) , and z=0.008 ( ibidem ) , and are those adopted for our experiment . in fig.1 models with m@xmath31.9m@xmath4",
    "are plotted as solid lines , and models with @xmath5m / m@xmath6 are plotted as dotted lines .",
    "stars more massive than @xmath74m@xmath4 turn out to be absent in the cmd , both because of a real paucity of young , bright stars and because saturated bright objects were removed from the photometry ( see sg ) .",
    "fig.1 is instructive because it shows that with @xmath8=0.05 even the most metal rich tracks are too blue to account for the observed colour of the brighter portion of the blue plume , while @xmath8=0.08 is the minimum reddening allowing them to reach the required colours .",
    "on the other hand , the z=0.008 tracks have red giant branches ( rgbs ) much redder than the observed one , while the z=0.004 ones are more consistent with the data .",
    "the z=0.0004 models , which have the right colour at the base of the rgb , are definitely too blue at its tip , because they show a much steeper rgb than the other two sets .",
    "these findings let us anticipate that , to obtain synthetic cmds consistent with the data , we can not have sfhs allowing for many rgb stars with either the highest or the lowest metallicity : most of the rgb must have metallicity around z=0.004 .",
    "fig.1 indicates that also the main - sequence ( ms ) stars with z=0.0004 should be a small minority of the whole old population , because the corresponding tracks are located only at the blue edge of the faint ms distribution , with both the adopted reddenings .    with these evolutionary constraints in mind",
    ", we have proceeded to the construction of the synthetic cmds . following the organizers instructions , we have assumed that the oldest stars are 14 gyr old ;",
    "hence our simulations let the sf be already active at that epoch .",
    "each extracted synthetic star was placed in the cmd by suitable interpolations on the padova stellar evolution tracks of one of the three metallicities , z=0.0004 , z=0.004 or z=0.008 .",
    "the experiment data were calibrated in the ground - based johnson - cousins photometric system : to transform the luminosity and temperature of the extracted star into _ provisional _ apparent magnitudes , we have adopted the bolometric corrections and colour - temperature relations from bessel , castelli , pletz ( 1998 ) and a ratio @xmath9=1.25 ( dean , warren , cousins 1978 ) .",
    "we do nt interpolate among isochrones because they are already the result of an interpolation which would add uncertainty on the correct placement of the synthetic star in the cmd .",
    "interpolation over isochrones already converted to the observational plane would clearly add even further numerical noise .    in each mag bin",
    ", we have retained only the fraction of extracted synthetic stars equal to that of recovered artificial stars in dolphin s artificial star catalogue .",
    "then , the retained synthetic stars have been assigned a photometric error derived from the cumulative distribution of dolphin s ( output - input ) mags of artificial stars with input mag equal to the _ provisional _ apparent mag .",
    "since the data catalogue was cut and limited to the range 18@xmath3v@xmath325.5 , we have applied this same cut to the synthetic stars .",
    "we stopped the procedure when the retained synthetic stars were as many as the stars in the chosen portion of the observational cmd ( see fig.2 ) .",
    "the synthetic cmds were computed either with all the stars assumed to be single , or with 30@xmath10 of them assumed to be part of unresolved binary systems with random mass ratio between the primary and secondary component .",
    "to evaluate the goodness of the model predictions , we compare them with : the observational luminosity functions ( lfs ) , the overall morphology of the cmd , its mag and colour distributions , the number of objects in particular phases ( e.g. on the rgb , on the clump , on the blue loops , etc . ) .",
    "[ synth ]    we have computed a variety of synthetic diagrams , letting : a ) the sf range from a constant rate through the whole galaxy lifetime to a number of short episodes , either adjacent , or separated by quiescent phases , or overlapping , b ) the imf exponent vary within @xmath11 ( in the units where salpeter s @xmath12 ) , c ) the metallicity in any episode be any of the three values of the adopted tracks . for the fraction of binary stars , we have only tested the 0 and 30% cases , because the complex morphology of the empirical cmd does nt allow us to really discriminate between different fractions .    to select among the computed cases , we have individuated the 6 regions of the cmd which correspond to evolutionary phases with well defined characteristics that can be taken as reliable constraints .",
    "they are : the bright blue plume , the red clump , the rgb , the sub - giant branch , sgb , the faint ms and the bump at @xmath13 , @xmath14 ; and are indicated in the left - hand panel of fig.2 .",
    "the fitting models are required to reproduce the number of observed stars in each region , the luminosity functions in three colour bins and the overall morphology of the star distribution in the cmd .    in the past",
    "( see greggio et al 1998 ) we have also made use of bi - parametric k - s and @xmath15 analyses to compare the models with the data , but found that statistical tests are not adequate to take properly into account all the uncertainties related to stellar evolution , photometric conversions , and data calibration .",
    "for instance , theoretical colour - temperature conversions are well known to be particularly uncertain for the cooler stars .",
    "synthetic cmds are then likely to systematically mispredict the colours of red giants .",
    "blind statistical tests , giving the same weight to all evolutionary phases , would either reject all models ( including those with correct evolutionary scenario ) , or retain most of them , when the tolerance is increased .",
    "in other words , they wo nt be able to discriminate between possible and impossible scenarios . besides , the ranking resulting from statistical tests is basically driven by the photometric accuracy , i.e. more weight is given to the brightest cmd regions .",
    "however , other , mostly systematic , effects impact on the quality of the fit ; for example , fluctuations due to small number statistics , theoretical uncertainties on the stellar models and photometric conversions , systematic errors in the data calibrations . in the brighter portions of the cmd",
    ", these effects usually dominate over the random photometric errors , so that typical statistical tests largely underestimate the real uncertainty . as a result",
    "the model ranking is based on the fainter , more dispersed cmd regions , where the photometric errors dominate over the systematic ones .",
    "given our current inability to quantify all , mostly theoretical , uncertainties which affect the comparison , we believe that the hess diagram is a good tool to evidentiate the differences between synthetic and empirical cmds , but also emphasizes the shortcomings of blind statistical tests .",
    "indeed , most of the groups partecipating to the experiment who based their results essentially on statistical tests did nt realize the need for a reinforcement of the sf activity in recent epochs or the need for a strong limitation to the activity in the oldest epochs , while these results appeared necessary to all people considering the impact on the cmd characteristics of specific evolutionary phases ( the upper ms and the faintest sgb , respectively ) .    by checking the predicted features of the 6 regions , we have inferred the major evolutionary characteristics of the observed field . to summarize our results",
    ":    * 1 ) * whatever the assumed metallicity , the sf must have been as low as possible at epochs earlier than about 10 gyr ago , otherwise the field would have shown a significantly fainter sgb ( a 14 gyr old sgb is 0.2 mags fainter than the observed one , see the central panel of fig.2 ) .",
    "* 2 ) * a young burst , from 0.10.3 gyr ago and still active with constant sf rate , is needed to guarantee a sufficient population of the brighter portions of the blue plume .",
    "adopting a flatter imf does nt provide the same advantage , because the mass of the stars at the top of the ms ( 34 m@xmath4 ) is not high enough to allow for a significant effectiveness of changes in the imf slope .",
    "* 3 ) * salpeter s imf ( @xmath162.35 extrapolated over the whole 0.6120 m@xmath4 range ) looks appropriate for this field .",
    "small variations in the imf slope can not be excluded , but do nt seem to be needed either .    * 4 ) * there is no significant signature of the presence of binary stars in the observed cmd , but assuming in the synthetic diagrams that about 30% of the stars are unresolved binaries allows to more appropriately cover the whole color range of the various phases : without binaries , both the bright and the faint mss look too much skewed towards their blue edge .    *",
    "5 ) * the lowest metallicity tracks , with z=0.0004 , are too blue to allow for a good fit to the data . to let them provide ms and rgb in the observed colour ranges ,",
    "we should assume reddenings as high as @xmath17 ( and distance moduli as low as 18.17 ! )    with the parameters provided by the experiment organizers , namely age 14 gyr , @xmath0 and @xmath1 , we do nt find a good fit to the data , because of the offsets already discussed above .",
    "if we assume @xmath2 and allow for the formation of only a few stars in the first epochs , the situation greatly improves .",
    "our favoured solution ( shown in the right - hand panel of fig.2 ) corresponds to assuming a first episode of sf from 14 to 10 gyr ago ( with metallicity z=0.004 , and very low sf rate to severely limit its number of formed stars and make their too faint sgb not too visible ) , a second one from 10 to 3 gyr ago , a third from 3.5 gyr ago to the present epoch , and a fourth still active burst started 0.1 gyr ago .",
    "the overlap of the two episodes from 3.5 to 3 gyr ago is needed to reproduce the bump at @xmath18 and @xmath19 .",
    "the quantitative fit achieved here depends on the adopted tracks and it is therefore necessary to perform the experiment with other sets of models in order to quantify the effects on the derived sfh of the existing uncertainties on stellar evolution theories ( e.g. geneva vs padova , see e.g. greggio et al .",
    "1998 , aloisi et al 1999 ) .",
    "we plan to perform this check in the second phase of the experiment ( see sg ) .",
    "the sfh corresponding to the best synthetic cmds described in the previous section is shown in the bottom - right panel of fig.3 in tosi et al .",
    "( this volume ) .",
    "the plotted values are normalized to the area of the observed region and compared with the sf derived by pagel & tautvaisiene ( 1998 ) and others from studies of star cluster properties .",
    "the two distributions differ significantly : we want less ( or no ) sf at the earliest epochs , when they have the major peak , and we have a higher sf rate in the inter - peaks intervals",
    ". we must keep in mind , however , that their models were based on data relative to star clusters , whereas we are studying the sf of field stars .",
    "one could perhaps speculate that the lmc first generated the clusters and only when their main formation was over it allowed field stars to form , at least in our examined region .",
    "then , around 3 - 4 gyrs ago , something ( interactions with the milky way ? ) has triggered an enhancement in both field and cluster star formation .",
    "aloisi , a. , tosi , m. , greggio , l. 1999 , aj , 118 , 302 bessel , m. , castelli , f. , pletz , b. 1998 , a&a 337 , 321 dean , j.f . ,",
    "warren , p.r . , cousins , a.w.j .",
    "1978 , mnras 183 , 569 fagotto , f. , bressan , a. , bertelli , g. , chiosi , c. 1994 , a&as , 104 , 365 fagotto , f. , bressan , a. , bertelli , g. , chiosi , c. 1994 , a&as , 105 , 29 greggio , l. , tosi , m. , clampin , m. , de marchi , g. , leitherer , c. , nota , a. , sirianni , m. 1998 , apj , 504 , 725 pagel , b.e.j .",
    "& tautvaisiene , g. 1998 , mnras , 299 , 535 tosi , m. , greggio , l. , marconi , g. , focardi , p. 1991",
    ", aj , 102 , 951"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we describe the approach adopted by our group to derive the star formation history ( sfh ) of the chosen lmc field , as part of the experiment to compare the predictions obtained by different groups with the synthetic colour - magnitude diagram method . </S>",
    "<S> we point out what are the evolutionary characteristics of the observed stellar populations , and present the sfh scenario which appears to better account for them . </S>",
    "<S> we emphasize the importance of adopting a _ </S>",
    "<S> critical _ approach when dealing with this method . </S>"
  ]
}