{
  "article_text": [
    "the properties of the observed pulsar emission show that radio and gamma - ray photons have nonthermal origin and are produced by relativistic particles in different parts of the pulsar magnetosphere .",
    "the soft x - ray - optical radiation can be a combination of several nonthermal spectral components from the magnetosphere and thermal components from the whole surface of a cooling neutron star ( ns ) and from its hot polar caps heated by the relativistic particles from the magnetosphere .",
    "the nonthermal component has been found to dominate the optical emission of several young , middle - aged , and old pulsars .",
    "it is believed that nonthermal components are powered by ns rotational energy loss @xmath4 , where @xmath5 is the inertia momentum of a ns of 1.4 @xmath6 and 10  km radius , @xmath7 and @xmath8 are the pulsar period and its derivative , respectively .",
    "@xmath9 is frequently called also the spindown luminosity and denoted as @xmath10 .",
    "the ratio @xmath11 , where @xmath12 is the photon luminosity , is used to characterize the efficiency of the conversion of @xmath13 into the pulsar emission at a given spectral domain . in this paper , we analyze the evolution of the nonthermal luminosities and efficiencies of pulsars detected in the optical range .",
    "such analysis has been performed about 10  yr ago in pioneering works @xcite . however , considerable progress in the pulsar distance measurements , and much higher quality of recent optical and x - ray observations allowing to resolve better the nonthermal and thermal emission components from the pulsars and to identify in these ranges several new objects enable us to update significantly previous analysis and to get qualitatively new results on the evolution of old pulsars .    [ cols= \"",
    "< , < , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     [ pulsars ]    [ fig1 ]",
    "we have analyzed multiwavelength nonthermal luminosities of seven pulsars detected in the optical range ( see table 1 ; @xcite ) .",
    "the advantage of this sample is a small ( @xmath1410% ) uncertainty in the distances to the pulsars , determined from the radio or optical parallax measurements .",
    "this strongly minimizes errors in the inferred luminosities .",
    "distances for a few other optical pulsars are much less certain and we excluded them from consideration . in the optical we used the data obtained in the b - band @xcite since practically all the pulsars from our sample were detected in this band and fluxes in other bands are not strongly different from these . using this band also allows us to escape possible contamination of the pulsar fluxes by strong nebular lines in cases when an associated nebula around a pulsar exists , or is expected to exit . in x - rays we used the data obtained in 2 - 10 kev range @xcite , where the nonthermal power law spectral tails dominate over the thermal components detected from several pulsars in a softer energy range .",
    "we added also the data from @xcite on 5 old pulsars recently observed with the chandra and xmm . in the radio and gamma - rays we used the data obtained at 400 mhz ( atnf catalog @xcite ) and in the egret range of 400  mev-10  gev @xcite , respectively . here",
    "we consider only isotropic equivalents of the luminosities neglecting the emission beaming which is not yet properly known in the all considered ranges for all our objects .",
    "the nonthermal luminosity and efficiency evolution of pulsars in different spectral domains , based on the selected sample of the optical pulsars , is shown in fig .  1 .",
    "we note the following points : + ( 1 ) the spindown luminosity decreases monotonically with age , as expected from a formal dependence @xmath15 and longer periods of older pulsars ; ( 2 ) the optical , x - ray and gamma - ray luminosities also decrease with age , but become almost constant starting from a middle - age epoch of @xmath16 yr ; ( 3 ) the radio luminosity is less monotonic but starts to increase gradually approximately from the same age ; ( 4 ) as a result , the evolution of the optical and x - ray efficiencies is non - monotonic and shows a pronounced minimum efficiency at a middle - age epoch of @xmath17 years and comparable higher efficiencies for younger and older pulsars in contrast to the conception of a monotonic decrease of the efficiency with age suggested by @xcite through lack of data on old pulsars at that time ; ( 5 ) the shapes of the dependencies @xmath18 and @xmath19 are remarkably similar to each other ; ( 6 ) the radio and gamma - ray efficiencies increase with age but their increases becomes apparently steeper from the same middle - age epoch .",
    "the fact that older pulsars are much more efficient radio emitters than younger ones is confirmed at a much higher significance level based on a rich sample of radio pulsars extracted from the atnf catalog ( fig .  2 , top panel ) .",
    "the scatter of the data along the mean evolution track shown in this panel by solid line may be explained by different geometrical / beaming factors and uncertainties in the distance .",
    "the pulsars with parallax based distances are generally below this line .",
    "this may reflect a systematic shift between the parallax and dispersion measure distances used for the rest objects .",
    "the nonmonotonic efficiency evolution in x - rays becomes much less obvious if we consider a larger sample of pulsars identified in x - rays including a few of them identified in the optical and x - rays ( fig .",
    "low panel ) .",
    "the statistics is much poor than in the radio and this picture is more affected by the distance and flux uncertainties .",
    "nevertheless , applying linear regression fits separately to sub - samples of sub - middle - aged and post - middle - aged pulsars , one can resolve hints of the nonmonotonic evolution clearly seen in the optical sub - sample .",
    "in the example shown in fig.2 , ( low panel ) the geminga age of @xmath20 yr , when the optical efficiency start to increase , was used to divide by sub - samples . in this case the evolution track of older pulsars may be compatible with what is seen in the radio range ( cf . dashed and solid lines ) . using other",
    "dividing ages from the range of the middle - aged epoch of @xmath21 yr does not change the picture qualitatively though slopes values can be different , but they are always negative and positive for younger and older pulsars , respectively . in all of the x - ray plots we added x - ray data for 5 old pulsars detected recently with chandra and xmm @xcite .",
    "these data are likely to be consistent with the proposed evolution picture .",
    "to confirm or reject it better quality x - ray data and distance information are needed .",
    "similar shapes of the optical and x - ray evolution tracks suggest a correlation between the luminosities in these domains .",
    "this is confirmed by the linear regression fit of the @xmath22 _ vs _ @xmath23 distribution shown in fig .",
    "the correlation coefficient is 0.97 .",
    "a strong correlation implies the same origin for the emission in both spectral domains .",
    "it is independent of the difference in the spectral slopes in these ranges observed for the pulsars of different age .",
    "for instance ,",
    "the extrapolation of the nonthermal component of the x - ray spectrum of young crab - like pulsars strongly overshoots the observed optical fluxes , while for older pulsars the optical fluxes are generally compatible with such extrapolation .",
    "this is reflected in the evolution of the ratio @xmath24 shown in fig .",
    "the ratio becomes almost independent of age starting from a middle - age epoch .",
    "-ray spectral domains and spindown luminosity .",
    "different pulsars are denoted by the same symbols , as in fig .  1 . dashed and solid lines show the best linear regression fits of the whole set of pulsars , and without the two younger ones ( crab and psr b0540 - 69 , with the highest @xmath10 ) , respectively .",
    "the slope values are indicated near the lines .",
    "dotted lines indicate a slope in case of the linear proportionality of the luminosity to the goldreich - julian current @xcite.,width=241 ]      the distributions of the efficiencies of the optical pulsars in different spectral domains _ vs _ spindown luminosity are shown in fig .",
    "these distributions demonstrate that : ( 1 ) in the radio and gamma - rays , less energetic pulsars ( with low @xmath10 ) are more efficient photon emitters than more energetic ones ; ( 2 ) in these ranges the efficiency increases monotonically with the @xmath10 decrease ; ( 3 ) the same is seen in the optical and x - ray ranges with an exclusion of the two most energetic and young pulsars , crab and psr b0540 - 69 , which form a separate sub - class in these distributions ; ( 4 ) recent data for the five old pulsars identified in x - rays ( filled circles in fig .  5 )",
    "do not change the above tendency in x - rays and may even strengthen it ( cf .",
    "[ fig7 ] , bottom panel ) .    as in case of the evolution picture ,",
    "the fact that the pulsars with lower @xmath10 are more effective radio emitters is firmly confirmed by the analysis of a much larger sample of pulsars extracted from the atnf catalog @xcite ( fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] , top panel ) . comparing the triangles and black point distributions in fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] , ( top panel ) , we can note that the scatter around an average distribution shown by the solid line is likely equally caused by uncertainties in the pulsar geometry ( triangle points ) , and dm - based distances ( black points ) .",
    "the slope of the distribution is different from a trivial one assuming @xmath25 ( dashed line in this plot ) but suggests an increase of the radio luminosity @xmath26 .",
    "the separation into two sub - classes of the low and high spindown luminosity pulsars that is clearly seen in the middle panels of fig .  [ fig6 ] for the optical pulsars is not obvious for a wider sample of pulsars identified in x - rays ( fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] , bottom panel ) .",
    "the reasons are likely to be the same as we have mentioned in sect .",
    "3.2 ( poor statistics + distance and flux uncertainties ) .",
    "however , as in the case of the evolution picture for the same sample shown in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] , linear regression fits allow us to resolve a hint of a bimodal distribution with the efficiency increases toward the low and high sides of the considered @xmath10 range . the bottom panel of fig .",
    "[ fig7 ] , where @xmath10 of geminga was used , as in case of fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] , to divide the pulsars by sub - samples , suggests also that the distribution of the low @xmath10 pulsars may be roughly compatible with what is seen in the radio range ( cf .",
    "solid and dashed lines in this plot ) . the suggested bimodal distribution can hardly be explained by geometry effects , if we compare the relatively small scattering of the triangle points around a mean distribution in the radio ( top panel ) , likely caused by geometry effects , and the much larger scattering of all points in x - rays ( bottom panel ) .",
    "our multiwavelength analysis of the nonthermal luminosity and efficiency distributions _ vs _ dynamical age and spindown power of the pulsars detected in the optical range suggests significantly nonmonotonic evolution of their emission in the optical and x - ray domains and/or a bimodal distribution of the respective efficiencies _ vs _ spindown power .",
    "less energetic old pulsars are much more efficient photon emitters than the middle - aged ones and their efficiency is comparable with that for the much younger and energetic crab - like objects . the bimodal structure is not significant but still resolved in a larger sample of pulsars identified in x - rays , where it may be smoothed by large distance and flux uncertainties and needs further study .",
    "an apparent evolution track of old pulsars in the optical and x - rays is roughly compatible with the track seen in the radio range where the evolution is accompanied by a significant increase of the radio - efficiency with ns age .",
    "if it is true , this implies an universal engine that drives the non - thermal evolution of old pulsars by a unified way increasing their efficiency with age in the all spectral domains .",
    "+ this work has been partially supported by conacyt project 36585-e , and rfbr grants 02 - 02 - 17668 ,",
    "03 - 02 - 17423 , 03 - 07 - 90200 and rlss 1115.2003.2    99 mereghetti , s. ; caraveo , p. a. ; bignami , g. , multiwavelength observations of isolated neutron stars , apjs 92 , 521 - 526 , 1994 goldoni p. , musso , c. , caraveo , p. a. , et al.,multiwavelength phenomenology of isolated neutron stars , a&a , 298 , 535 - 543 , 1995 goldreich , p. , julian , w. h. , pulsar electrodynamics .",
    "157 , 869 - 880 , 1996 zharikov , s. , shibanov , yu . ,",
    "koptsevich , a. , et al . , subaru optical observations of the old pulsar psr b0950 + 08 , a&a , 394 , 633 - 639 , 2002 zharikov , s. , shibanov , yu.,mennickent , r. , et al .",
    ", multiband optical observations of the old psr b0950 + 08 , a&a , 417 , 1017 - 1030 , 2004 possenti , a. , cerutti , r.,colpi , m. , et al . , re - examining the x - ray versus spin - down luminosity correlation of rotation powered pulsars , a&a , 387 , 993 - 1002 , 2002 zavlin v. , pavlov g. , x - ray emission from the old pulsar b0950 + 08 , apj , 616 , 452 - 462 2004 www.atnf.csiro.au/reserarch/pulsar thompson , d. , high energy emission from active pulsar , adspr , 25 , 659 - 668 , 2000"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using available multiwavelength data for the pulsars of different ages detected in the optical range , we analyze the efficiencies of the conversion of the pulsar spindown power @xmath0 into the observed non - thermal luminosity @xmath1 in different spectral domains . </S>",
    "<S> we find that these pulsars show significantly non - monotonic dependencies of the optical and x - ray efficiencies ( @xmath2 ) versus pulsar age with a pronounced minimum at the beginning of the middle - age epoch ( @xmath3  yr ) and comparably higher efficiencies of younger and older pulsars . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we find a strong correlation between the optical and 210 kev x - ray luminosities of these pulsars that implies the same origin of their nonthermal emission in both spectral domains . </S>"
  ]
}