{
  "article_text": [
    "the mass transfer in high mass x - ray binaries ( hmxb ) has proved to be difficult to understand in spite of the simplicity of the first analytic descriptions of accretion from a wind ( bondi &  hoyle 1944 ) .",
    "problems arise in the theory , for example , when x - ray feedback on the dynamics is considered ( macgregor &  vitello 1982 ; ho &  arons 1987 )",
    ". the feedback between the x - ray source and a stellar wind can be severe , as the mass accretion rate of a stellar wind depends on @xmath1 , where @xmath2 is the velocity of an x - ray source with orbital velocity @xmath3 relative to a stellar wind with velocity @xmath4 .",
    "the x - rays can reduce @xmath4 by ionizing to higher stages those ions responsible for the acceleration of the wind .",
    "even isolated stellar winds are complex .",
    "the line - scattering force accelerating the wind depends on the wind velocity gradient .",
    "this leads to instabilities such as shocks ( macgregor , hartmann , &  raymond 1979 ; abbott 1980 ; lucy &  white 1980 ; owocki &  rybicki 1984 ) and nonlinearities which are difficult to model numerically ( owocki , castor , &  rybicki 1988 ) .    near orbital phase @xmath5 many x - ray binaries show `` pre - eclipse dips '' that may be caused when the gas stream that feeds the disk passes over the line of sight .",
    "even systems such as 4u  1700 - 377 thought to accrete primarily from a stellar wind rather than roche lobe overflow display increased x - ray absorption at phases @xmath6 ( haberl , white , &  kallman 1989 , heap &  corcoran 1992 ) .",
    "this may be due to an accretion wake , a bow shock that results when the wind encounters the gravity of the compact object .",
    "for both 4u  1700 - 37 and vela x-1 , increased absorption in optical lines is seen at late orbital phases .",
    "accretion wakes are not expected to be as large as the primary star , so are probably not responsible . in vela",
    "x-1 , another structure caused by the interaction between the wind and the compact object , a photionization wake , may cause the absorption ( kaper , hammerschlag - hensberge , &  zuiderwijk 1993 ) .",
    "a photoionization wake has also been invoked to explain the asymmetry of the x - ray eclipse in vela x-1 ( feldmeier et al .",
    "this wind structure was first described by fransson &  fabian ( 1980 ) , and is seen in two - dimensional hydrodynamic simulations ( blondin et al .",
    "1991 ; blondin 1994 ) .",
    "photoionization wakes result when the outflowing stellar wind in the shadow of the primary enounters the slower - moving wind that has been stalled by x - ray ionization . only near the eclipse ingress line",
    "does the moving x - ray shadow of the star allow the fast - moving wind to continue to accelerate as it plows into the stalled wind .",
    "the observations of x - ray dips and eclipses , however , have not provided us with information on the velocity field in the wind . for this , the uv  p  cygni line profiles , formed by resonance scattering in the expanding wind , have proved useful .",
    "hatchett &  mccray ( 1977 ) pointed out that the p  cygni lines in a hmxb would vary over the binary orbit in a characteristic way .",
    "the ion responsible for the line would be removed from a region surrounding the x - ray source , so that at @xmath7 the blue - shifted absorption would be diminished , while at @xmath8 the red - shifted emission would be diminished . in general ,",
    "the `` transparency feature '' in the p  cygni line would shift throughout the orbit depending on the velocity field of the wind .",
    "mccray et al .",
    "( 1984 ) used this method to infer the mass - loss rate and terminal wind velocity of vela  x-1 .",
    "kaper et al .",
    "( 1993 ) showed that the p  cygni line variation in vela  x-1 suggests that the wind velocity does not increase monotonically with radius .",
    "a previous analysis of the p  cygni lines of lmc  x-4 ( boroson et al . 1999 ) attempted to infer the radial velocity law from the orbital line variation .    while previous analyses of the wind velocity field from the hatchett - mccray effect have been semi - empirical , two- and three - dimensional hydrodynamic simulations ( blondin et al .",
    "1990 , 1991 ; blondin 1994 ) have been increasing in sophistication .",
    "such models have been constructed for particular hmxb systems , and have been compared in some cases with x - ray observations ( blondin &  woo 1995 ; wojdowski , clark , &  kallman 1999 ) .",
    "the empirical analysis of the uv lines is hampered by the many degrees of freedom required to describe the three - dimensional velocity and density fields of the wind .",
    "greater physical insight can be provided if the hydrodynamic simulations are used to predict p  cygni profiles , which could then be compared with the observations .",
    "this has not been previously attempted , as most of the methods used to compute p  cygni lines have required the velocity and density fields to be spherically symmetric .",
    "monte - carlo simulation of p  cygni profiles ( stevens 1993 ; knigge , woods , &  drew 1995 ) , however , is not subject to this limitation . in this paper",
    "we confront for the first time hydrodynamic models of stellar wind disruption by a compact object with observations of the uv  p  cygni lines .",
    "we also calculate the differential emission measure in the model of wind and disk , and discuss the expected x - ray emission lines .",
    "the hydrodynamical model used in this paper is a three - dimensional time - dependent numerical simulation of an hmxb first presented by owen & blondin ( 1997 ) .",
    "the parameters of this model were chosen in accordance with the observed parameters of lmc x-4 ( see table 1 ) .",
    "the high x - ray luminosity of lmc x-4 is difficult to reconcile with wind accretion alone , and the presence of a 30 day period in the x - ray light curve ( lang et al .",
    "1981 ) and in the optical light curve ( heemskerk & van paradijs 1989 ) suggests a precessing accretion disk fed by roche lobe overflow .",
    "our numerical model is an extension of previous models ( blondin et al.1990 , blondin et al.1991 , blondin 1994 , blondin & woo 1995 ) used to study the dynamics of the circumstellar gas in hmxbs , and in particular the disruption of the normal ob stellar wind by the compact x - ray source .",
    "these models are based on the time - dependent hydrodynamics code vh-1 , and include ( 1 ) a radiatively driven stellar wind incorporated via the sobolev approximation , ( 2 ) the x - ray photoionization of the wind as approximated by a cutoff of the radiative driving force , and ( 3 ) the x - ray heating and radiative cooling of the circumstellar gas .",
    "the principal modification to this current model over that used in blondin & woo ( 1995 ) is the inclusion of the gravity of the compact x - ray source .",
    "this adds several features to the model , including tidal distortion of the primary , roche lobe overflow leading to the formation of a tidal stream , the presence of an accretion disk , and a realistic mass accretion rate . in order to accurately model these features the spherical numerical grid ( 188 by 63 by 201 zones in @xmath9 , @xmath10 , and @xmath11 )",
    "was structured to provide the highest spatial resolution near the surface of the distorted primary and near the accreting compact object .",
    "the model is evolved only in one hemisphere , assuming reflection symmetry about the equatorial plane .",
    "in addition , a cone about the polar axis is removed from the simulation to reduce the number of time steps needed in the simulation .",
    "the use of an explicit hydrodynamics code restricts the time step to the smallest value of @xmath12 on the grid , where @xmath13 is the width of a numerical zone , and @xmath14 is a characteristic velocity ( either the gas velocity or the sound speed ) . on a spherical grid @xmath13 in the @xmath11 direction",
    "is given by @xmath15 .",
    "therefore , as @xmath16 , the zone width @xmath17 and @xmath18 .",
    "thus , to keep a reasonable value of @xmath19 , we limited the simulation domain to @xmath20 .",
    "the numerical simulation was initialized with the surface of the primary star just inside the critical potential surface , such that the effective potential at the stellar surface was greater than the critical potential by one part in @xmath21 .",
    "the boundary conditions on this surface correspond to an isothermal atmosphere in hydrostatic equilibrium . at the stellar surface temperature of @xmath22",
    "k , the scale height in this atmosphere is @xmath23 cm . from numerical experiments we found that vh-1 could simulate a stable atmosphere with zone spacing as large as twice the scale height ; this is the value used in the present model .",
    "the density at this boundary is set at @xmath24 g @xmath25 , a value determined emperically to produce a stable stellar wind with the given parameters .",
    "the parameters describing the radiative driving force ( @xmath26 , @xmath27 ; see e.g. , castor , abbott & klein 1975 ) were chosen based on the spectral type of the primary star . in the absence of a companion , this model would drive a spherical stellar wind with a mass loss rate of @xmath28 and a terminal wind velocity of @xmath29 km s@xmath30 .",
    "the accretion - driven x - ray flux photo - ionizes , heats , and imparts momentum to the circumstellar gas .",
    "the x - ray luminosity was computed self - consistently as a function of the mass accretion rate onto the compact companion : @xmath31 .",
    "this mass accretion rate , @xmath32 , was computed by removing mass and energy from a block of @xmath33 zones at the location of the companion ( the zone size at this location is @xmath34 cm ) .",
    "however , the dense gas of the tidal stream and accretion disk are expected to be highly optically thick , and will shadow other regions of the binary system from this intense x - ray flux . to account for this shadowing in the simplest fashion , we computed the optical depth from the compact x - ray source to each numerical zone , and reduced the x - ray flux by @xmath35 .",
    "the reduced flux was used to calculate the local photoionization parameter , x - ray heating , and x - ray radiation pressure .",
    "the simulation was evolved for approximately one binary orbital period .",
    "this was sufficient time for the accretion disk to circularize and for the circumstellar gas to reach a state of quasi - equilibrium . by the end of the simulation",
    "there were five key features of the circumstellar gas : a radiatively driven wind from the shadowed surface of the primary star , a wind - compressed disk created by the rapid rotation of the primary star , a tidal stream emanating from the inner lagrange point ( l1 ) , a keplerian accretion disk around the compact object , and an x - ray irradiation driven wind emanating from the inner regions of the accretion disk .",
    "the radiatively driven o - star wind fills a large fraction of the binary system due to the strong shadowing effects of the accretion disk .",
    "this normal stellar wind is marked by the presence of a wind - compressed disk ( bjorkman & cassinelli 1993 ) .",
    "the density of the wind in the equatorial plane is a factor of @xmath36 higher than at other latitudes .",
    "this effect is a direct result of assuming co - rotation between the primary star and the binary system ; a slower stellar rotation would diminish or remove the wind - compressed disk .",
    "the tidal stream is described remarkably well by the analysis of lubow & shu ( 1975 ) .",
    "the tidal stream leaves the l1 point with an angle of @xmath37 , in good agreement with the analytic prediction .",
    "the stream becomes supersonic only @xmath38 cm downstream , with the centroid of the stream following a ballistic trajectory until the stream impacts the disk .",
    "the gas in the stream continues to accelerate , reaching a mach number at impact of @xmath39 .",
    "the width of the tidal stream ( @xmath40 cm ) is in good agreement with lubow & shu ( 1975 ) ; 70 % of the stream mass flux is within their quoted width .",
    "the stream cross section is consitently oblate , with the stream width being about 4/3 of the stream height . as shown by lubow & shu ( 1976 ) , the vertical structure of the stream",
    "is determined entirely by the foot points of the streamlines in the tidal stream , and hence the stream has a scale height much larger than that expected for hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "the density in the tidal stream , and hence the mass transfer rate , is determined by the placement of the stellar surface relative to the l1 point ( an arbitrary boundary condition in our model ) . both the width of , and the density in , the tidal stream decrease as the stream accelerates toward the compact object .    by the end of the simulation the accretion disk has relaxed into a roughly steady - state configuration",
    "the accretion flow has fully circularized and is nearly keplerian , the vertical density profile matches that of an isothermal steady - state disk , and the outer radius is truncated at @xmath41 cm , corresponding to @xmath42 of the roche lobe of the compact object .",
    "note , however , that the mass flux through the disk is not in equilibrium - even if such an equilibrium were possible in this numerical model , it would take far too long to reach .",
    "the outer edge of the disk has a scale height of @xmath43 cm , although the disk is somewhat thinner on the side nearest the primary star and fatter on the far side .",
    "this scale height is consistent with that of an isothermal accretion disk in steady state ( the sound speed of the cold disk gas in our model is @xmath44 cm s@xmath30 ) .",
    "the width of the tidal stream in the vicinity of the disk edge is noticeably wider , with a scale height of order @xmath45 cm . as a result ,",
    "a significant fraction of the tidal stream gas is not stopped at the disk edge , but rather flows over and under the disk along its surface .",
    "this stream overflow ultimately merges with the accretion disk in the vicinity of the point of closest approach : the location at which a ballistic trajectory from the l1 point would reach the closest to the compact companion .",
    "in addition to the impact by the tidal stream , the outer edge of the disk is continually ablated by the strong stellar wind from the primary star . note that this equatorial wind is enhanced by the wind compressed disk effect , and it is not directly affected by the x - ray source since it is shadowed by the accretion disk . as a result ,",
    "the equatorial wind is strong enough to ablate a significant mass flux off the edge of the disk , particularly on the back side as seen in figure  3 .",
    "furthermore , the ram pressure of this equatorial wind inflates the outer edge of the disk , creating a small outer rim that extends higher than the rest of the disk .",
    "although the outer regions of the disk are sufficiently resolved by our numerical grid , the inner regions of the disk are not .",
    "the scale height of a steady isothermal disk at a disk radius of @xmath46 cm should be @xmath47 cm , but the limited resolution of our numerical model limits the disk thickness to values approximately three times larger .",
    "this limitation has direct bearing on the results of this paper in that this poor numerical resolution effectively limits ( through the high opacity of the disk material ) the cone of x - rays to a smaller opening angle than if the disk were adequately resolved at small disk radii .",
    "the intense x - ray luminosity of the accreting compact companion can influence the circumstellar gas in many ways , but in this numerical model the dominant effect is a strong bipolar wind driven off the inner region of the accretion disk via x - ray irradiation .",
    "the dense , cool gas on the surface of the accretion disk is heated by the incident x - ray flux to several million kelvins .",
    "the ensuing high thermal pressure drives a strong wind with velocities reaching 2000 km s@xmath30 .",
    "this irradiation is so intense in this numerical model that the x - ray flux striking the inner disk edge completely ablates the inner disk , leaving a substantial hole . as seen in figure  4 ,",
    "this disk wind is roughly spherical .",
    "this has the interesting effect of producing a large volume of x - ray heated gas with a roughly constant ionization parameter . since both the gas density and x - ray flux are decreasing as the square of the distance from the x - ray source , the ionization parameter in this gas remains at a constant value .",
    "because the poor numerical resolution in the inner accretion disk affects the vertical structure of the disk , the conservation of angular momentum in the disk gas , and the thermal transition of the x - ray heated gas , the geometry and mass flux in this bipolar wind is very uncertain .",
    "nonetheless , it is clear from both simple order of magnitude estimates and from detailed calculations ( de kool & wickramasinghe 1999 ) that the intense x - ray flux present in x - ray binaries will drive a substantial mass loss from the accretion disk .    due to the shadowing effects of the accretion disk , the effects of x - ray photoionization",
    "are restricted to the bipolar disk wind in this model .",
    "gas outside of the disk wind is shielded from the x - ray source , and as a result , there is no independent photoionization wake visible in this model .",
    "instead , there is a relatively dense wake of circumstellar gas piled up along the leading surface separating the disk wind and the stellar wind .",
    "this modest wake , with a density contrast of @xmath48 , can be seen in the horizontal slices shown in figure  5 .    as seen in blondin & woo ( 1995 ) ,",
    "the radiatively - driven wind of the primary star is replaced by a thermally driven wind on the x - ray irradiated face of the primary .",
    "the high x - ray flux on the irradiated surface is strong enough to supress the radiative driving force and quench the normal radiatively driven stellar wind .",
    "instead , the x - ray flux heats the outer atmosphere of the star up to x - ray temperatures , and the ensuing high thermal pressure drives an outflow off the stellar surface . in this particular model , however , the thermally - driven stellar wind is effectively snuffed by the disk wind .",
    "the momentum in the disk wind is sufficiently high that it stops the stellar wind before it can reach a sonic point .",
    "this subsonic outflow is then redirected up over the top of the star along with the supersonic disk wind . this dynamical interaction between star and disk winds",
    "can be seen in figure  3 .",
    "because the density and velocity fields @xmath49 and @xmath50 given by the hydrodynamic model are not spherically symmetric , we can not use an escape probability method ( castor 1970 ; castor &  lamers 1979 ) or the sobolev with exact integration method ( lamers , cerruti - sola , &  perinotto 1987 ) to compute the p  cygni line profiles .",
    "the lines we consider are doublets separated by wavelengths less than the terminal wind velocity .",
    "thus photons emitted by one doublet component can be scattered by the other , coupling different regions of the wind . to circumvent the difficulty of solving the radiative transfer integrals in this situation",
    ", we apply a monte - carlo method similar to that of knigge , woods , &  drew ( 1995 ) .",
    "unique features of our method are discussed in appendix  a. we show tests of our program in the appendix  b.      we start the simulation by following a photon emitted by a random point on the star s surface .",
    "( the emission from the accretion disk should be dominated by emission from the primary . for the uv continuum",
    ", the disk contributes only @xmath51% ) .",
    "the random point is chosen with a weighting that takes into account the gravity darkening appropriate for a high - mass star with a radiative , rather than convective , atmosphere .",
    "the photon s initial direction is chosen randomly , but for the frequency @xmath52 , we step through a range centered on the rest frequency @xmath53 with a width given by the maximum wind velocity . the details of the simulation are generally similar to those used by knigge , et al .",
    "because the wind velocity is not smooth or monotonic down to scales on the order of the grid spacing of the hydrodynamic simulation , we can not solve exactly for a resonant point along the photon s path in which @xmath54 . to work around this",
    ", we allow a microturbulent velocity within the wind .",
    "( for a treatment of microturbulence using the sobolev approximation for the source function in a spherically symmetric wind , see lamers , cerruti - sola , &  perinotto 1987 ) .",
    "in addition to the practical benefit of allowing substantial optical depths at nonresonant points , allowing microturbulence may also simulate turbulent motions on a scale smaller than that of our numeric grid .",
    "the value of the microturbulent velocity that we chose based on the thermal velocity and the deviation in velocity among neighboring grid points is 4%  of the terminal velocity .",
    "such a turbulent velocity does not cause a dramatic change in the p  cygni profiles of symmetric winds .      in order to predict p  cygni profiles from the density and velocity fields computed by the hydrodynamic simulation",
    ", we need to make several auxiliary assumptions .",
    "first , we must assume abundances for carbon and nitrogen ; these are given in table  1 .",
    "although metal abundances in the lmc are generally 20%  of galactic abundances , we have chosen enhanced abundances because the observed and lines are much stronger than expected from a star of the spectral type of lmc  x-4 . as we will see in  [ sec : results ] , this assumption has negligible effect on our conclusions .",
    "second , we must determine the ionization stage of the wind both in the presence and absence of x - ray illumination from the compact object . in the absence of x - ray illumination",
    ", we use an empirical relation @xmath55 for the radial optical depth @xmath56 .",
    "this parameterization is often used to fit ob star spectra ( castor & lamers 1979 ) .",
    "we used values of @xmath57 and @xmath58 that we used in boroson et al .",
    "( 1999 ) to fit the lines observed with the ghrs ( see table  1 ) . in view of the deep absorption troughs seen at @xmath59 and @xmath60 ( atypical for an o7 - 9iii - v star )",
    ", we allowed an additional source of ionization .",
    "lmc  x-4 is known to show a residual x - ray flux during eclipse that is @xmath61%  of its maximum level ( woo et al .",
    "1995 ) , presumably due to thompson scattering of x - rays in the wind .",
    "we determined the ionization stage of the wind in response to the scattered x - rays using the xstar photoionization code ( kallman et al .",
    "1996 ) . using the observed x - ray spectrum of lmc  x-4",
    "diluted to 1%  of the total luminosity , we found the fraction of and for various values of the ionization parameter @xmath62 , where @xmath9 is the distance from the x - ray source to the point in the wind , @xmath63 is the x - ray luminosity , and @xmath64 is the electron density .",
    "the optical depth then follows from the sobolev approximation : @xmath65 where @xmath66 is the electron charge , @xmath67 is the electron mass , @xmath68 is the rest wavelength of the transition , @xmath69 is the oscillator strength , @xmath70 is the number density of element @xmath71 in ionization stage @xmath72 , @xmath73 is the ratio of the mean atomic mass to that of hydrogen , and @xmath74 is the wind velocity derivative in the direction of the photon s path . for the optical depth in the wind",
    "we then choose whichever of @xmath56 or @xmath75 is greater .    in the presence of x - ray illumination ( outside the x - ray shadow of the normal star )",
    ", we again compute @xmath56 and @xmath75 , but now we compute @xmath75 using the ion fractions given by x - ray illumination by the full luminosity of lmc  x-4 ( self - consistently calculated from the accretion rate of the simulation to be @xmath76  erg  s@xmath30 ) .",
    "we now use whichever of @xmath56 or @xmath75 is less .    as the simulation includes dense areas of the wind near the stellar photosphere , the gas stream , and the accretion disk , collisional de - excitation can prevent photons from scattering .",
    "this causes the absorption lines that we modelled empirically with gaussians in boroson et al .",
    "our treatment of the stellar absorption ( see appendix  a ) is neccessarily approximate , as the hydrodynamic simulation does not fully resolve the stellar atmosphere .",
    "the predictions of the line profiles at low velocity , where the stellar absorption is strong , should therefore be considered approximate .",
    "the hydrodynamic model was constructed in order to study the roche lobe overflow and formation of the accretion disk . for these purposes ,",
    "the simulation did not need to extend beyond @xmath77 stellar radii .",
    "we have not attempted to extrapolate the wind density and velocity fields beyond @xmath78 . for a standard @xmath79 stellar wind velocity law , that is @xmath80 the wind only reaches 66%  of its terminal velocity at the edge of the grid .",
    "the region about the poles of the normal star was excluded from the simulation ; the grid only extended from spherical coordinate @xmath81 to @xmath82 .",
    "we simply interpolated the density and temperature fields across the polar region ; this should accurate enough for our current purposes , as this region does not include the accretion wake , photoionization wake , stream , or disk .",
    "the simulation only includes the region above the orbital plane .",
    "when a photon passes below this plane in our simulation , it encounters density and velocity fields that are reflections of those above the plane .",
    "we compare the results of the simulation with the @xmath83 and @xmath84 lines observed with the ghrs and stis aboard the hubble space telescope ( figures  [ fig : n5frame1 ] and [ fig : c4frame1 ] ) .",
    "the model spectra have errors in each 60  km  s@xmath30bin ( determined from photon counting poisson statistics of the monte  carlo simulation ) of @xmath85%  of the flux . for the stis spectra ,",
    "the errors are @xmath61%  in each 30  km  s@xmath30bin .",
    "the simulations reproduce qualitatively the observed hatchett - mccray effect .",
    "the absorption of the and lines is reduced at @xmath7 . in agreement with observations ,",
    "the simulations predict some absorption remaining at @xmath7 .",
    "this results from a combination of true absorption ( collisional de - excitation ) and scattering from the photosphere and dense regions of the wind that are not fully ionized even when exposed to x - rays .",
    "the orbital variability depends on the ratio @xmath86 , where @xmath87 is the x - ray luminosity in units of 10@xmath88  erg  s@xmath30 and @xmath89 is the mass - loss rate in units of @xmath90  yr@xmath30 . in boroson",
    "( 1999 ) , we fit the p  cygni lines observed with the ghrs to find @xmath91 for a homogeneous wind or @xmath92 for a two - component wind with a density contrast @xmath93 . in the hydrodynamic simulation , @xmath87",
    "is fixed at 2 , and @xmath94 ( similar to the value found by woo et al . 1995 ) .",
    "however , we note that the simulated wind is highly inhomogeneous .",
    "while 50%  of the wind volume has a local @xmath95 ( determined from continuity ) , 50%  of the wind mass is in clumps denser by factors @xmath96 .",
    "these clumps are found mostly in the wind - compressed disk .",
    "we investigated whether observable features in the p  cygni profiles could be traced to structures predicted by the hydrodynamic simulation . to do this , we simulated the p  cygni lines from a stellar wind first with a spherically symmetric @xmath14 field given by equation  [ eqn : beta ] and the same density field given by the simulation , and then with both a spherically symmetric velocity field and a spherically symmetric density field given by the continuity equation with @xmath97  yr@xmath30 .",
    "the model predicts slightly greater absorption at @xmath98 than at @xmath99 ( figure  [ fig : asym ] ) as a result of the aspherical wind density .",
    "the enhancement of the red - shifted emission at @xmath99 over @xmath98 ( for both and ) results from the detailed velocity field of the hydrodynamic simulation ( not merely the effect of the binary rotation ) . for a wind with",
    "spherical symmetry and homogeneous density , the ratio of the apparent optical depths in the absorption at the blue doublet component to the absorption at the red doublet component is @xmath100 . in the inhomogeneous wind of the simulation ,",
    "partial covering of the star by dense clumps allows the doublet ratio to approach a @xmath101 ratio ( determined from the profiles given by our monte carlo calculation ) even when the apparent optical depth @xmath102 . by the apparent optical depth we mean @xmath103 , where @xmath104 is the continuum - normalized flux at wavelength @xmath105",
    "this is only an apparent optical depth because the flux at @xmath105 is the sum of fluxes from different sightlines with different optical depths .",
    "there are no signatures of the disk wind seen in figure  4 in the p  cygni profiles , as this wind is ionized to stages higher than and by the unabsorbed x - rays escaping perpindicular to the disk plane .    some discrepancies between the data and model result from the radial cutoff ( @xmath78 ) and the terminal velocity ( @xmath106  km  s@xmath30 ) used in the simulation ( @xmath107  km  s@xmath30 fits the data better ) .",
    "for example , the maximum observed velocity is @xmath108 .",
    "although the simulation predicts the observed @xmath109 at @xmath59 , this results from too large a value for @xmath110 and too small a value for @xmath111 ( which should approach infinity ) . at @xmath112 ,",
    "when the x - rays ionize the wind at large radii , the simulation predicts absorption in the wind at too high a velocity . for the line , using too large a value for @xmath110 results in a merging of the two doublet components .",
    "the simulated profiles do _ not _ show the orbital asymmetry seen in iue equivalent widths ( boroson et al .",
    "1999 ) or in the hst stis spectra ( more absorption is seen for @xmath113 than for @xmath114 ) .",
    "this is shown clearly for the case of in figure  [ fig : asym ] .",
    "although we have made two assumptions designed to increase the ion fraction of ( that the n abundance is not depleted as it is for many lmc stars , and that scattered x - rays can increase the ion fraction ) , we still find that the model does not reproduce the saturated absorption lines at @xmath115 . in order to produce saturated absorption",
    ", the absorbing material must cover the entire stellar surface .",
    "the presence of a ionization front ( masai 1984 ) may invalidate our use of simple scaling with @xmath116 .",
    "that is , at distances far enough from the x - ray source , a large fraction of he ( which has high abundance ) is in the form , and is efficient at absorbing x - rays with @xmath117  ev .",
    "the potential for ionizing to higher stages is 98  ev .",
    "x - ray ionization would not be efficient at ionizing to higher stages if 98  ev photons are absorbed by .",
    "a full treatment of the optically - thick ionization balance is beyond the scope of this paper .",
    "we point out , however , that when we apply equation  15 of masai ( 1984 ) to the wind in lmc  x-4 , we find that the ionization front would be at about 10  stellar radii from the neutron star , outside of the grid of the hydrodynamical simulation . in the lmc  x-4 system ,",
    "the x - ray luminosity is higher and the orbit is more compact than for vela  x-1 , for which masai s analysis may be more appropriate .",
    "this assumes a smooth wind with parameters given by the spatially averaged values of the simulation .",
    "absorption by in an inhomogeneous wind may in general be more important .",
    "most of the inhomogeneity in the present simulation is in the wind - compressed disk about the normal star .",
    "we have found that the x - ray ionization effect is mostly confined to the ionization of the accretion disk wind , as elsewhere the wind is in the shadow of either the disk or the star .",
    "the disk wind should have a nearly constant ionization parameter @xmath118 so that heii should not cause much absorption within this region .",
    "although an ionization front may decrease the effects of x - ray ionization on and , it is unlikely to do so in a manner asymmetric enough to cause the phase asymmetry in the p  cygni profiles ( figure  [ fig : asym ] ) .",
    "we also simulated the p  cygni line variability using density and velocity fields given by a second frame of the hydrodynamic simulation , to get a sense for how much p  cygni variability is to be expected from the `` weather '' of the system .",
    "the time interval between the two frames , 3300  seconds , is approximately the same as the length of an hst orbit , and approximately the flow time across one stellar radius .",
    "the result of the comparison of p  cygni profiles , shown in in figure  [ fig : difs ] , shows that the random variability does not exceed that expected from our simulated photon statistics , @xmath85%  of the flux in each 60  km  s@xmath30 wavelength bin",
    ". thus if these simulations are representative , it should be safe to assume that variability in the line profiles throughout a binary orbit is a reflection of changes in the orientation of the wind and not random variability of the density and velocity fields .      from the density , temperature , and ionization in the hydrodynamic model",
    ", we can also predict the contribution of the wind to the x - ray spectrum .",
    "this should include recombination and fluorescent lines from the x - ray illuminated wind , compton scattering of the x - ray continuum from the neutron star , and thermal bremsstrahlung emitted by the hot wind .",
    "following the method of wojdowski et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , we determine the recombination and fluorescent spectra at each point in the wind from the local @xmath116 , the sum of a blackbody and a cut - off power law approximation to the lmc x-4 x - ray spectrum , and the xstar code . for the bremsstrahlung spectrum",
    ", we use the temperature field of the hydrodynamic model instead of the temperature calculated from xstar , as the wind can also be heated by shocks .",
    "we propagate the wind spectrum along the line of sight , and allow absorption by the ionized wind and by an interstellar column density of neutral gas @xmath119  @xmath120 .",
    "we assume a distance to lmc  x-4 of 50  kpc , and a system inclination of 65@xmath121 .",
    "we show the simulated mid - eclipse spectrum , its separate components , and the observed asca spectrum from the campaign reported in vrtilek et al .",
    "( 1997 ) in figure  [ fig : windemit ] . the predicted spectrum , which we have folded with the asca response , is due almost entirely to compton scattering .",
    "if we fit the observed spectrum with the model with arbitrary normalization , we find the observed spectrum is a factor of  4 brighter than that predicted .",
    "we also computed the wind spectra at @xmath122 , but found no strong line features .",
    "recombination and fluorescent lines provide a negligible contribution because the disk shadows much of the wind .",
    "wojdowski et al . ( 1999 ) found that the hydrodynamic simulation of the wind in smc  x-1 predicts _ greater _ recombination flux than is observed , and suggested this could result from a low metal abundance ( @xmath123 ) .",
    "wojdowski et al .",
    "( 1999 ) did not take into account the absorption of x - rays from the central source to the wind .",
    "no accretion disk was present in the smc  x-1 simulation , although the high x - ray luminosity and the long - term period are evidence that one exists .",
    "the under - prediction of x - rays in mid - eclipse by the lmc  x-4 simulation could result from too thick an accretion disk .",
    "some of the detailed predictions of the hydrodynamic model do not match observations .",
    "in particular , the observed absorption troughs are deeper than predicted by our simulations at @xmath124 , and are deeper than observed at @xmath125 .",
    "we plan to revise the boundary conditions of the simulation to see if the observed line features can be reproduced .",
    "the first adjustments to be made should be minor adjustments to the current model : we know , for example , that the terminal velocity of the wind should be closer to 1000  km  s@xmath30than 2000  km  s@xmath30 .",
    "the mass - loss rate may also be higher than the @xmath126  yr@xmath30 used in the simulation .",
    "both of the parameters depend on the details of the line - scattering responsible for the wind acceleration , parameterized by @xmath127 and @xmath128 in castor , abbott , &  klein ( 1975 ) .",
    "the values of @xmath127 and @xmath128 for the o  star may differ from that assumed for the simulation because of the different abundances in the lmc and in the galaxy , or because of the evolutionary status of the star .",
    "if the mass - loss rate @xmath129 were higher than that assumed in the simulation , the p  cygni absorption would be greater .",
    "two effects combine to increase @xmath130 in equation  [ eqn : sobolev ] . with a higher value of @xmath129",
    ", @xmath131 is increased both because @xmath64 is increased on average ( by conservation of mass ) but also because @xmath132 , the fraction of ions in the absorbing stage is increased as well .",
    "however , the effects of an altered @xmath129 on the hydrodynamics remain to be investigated .",
    "one possible explanation for the enhanced absorption at @xmath0 is that a photoionization wake is present .",
    "the simulations show a similar wake at high stellar latitudes ( figure  5 ) , but the wake does not wind around the star to cause absorption at @xmath133 .",
    "we will extend the simulation to radii @xmath134 to determine whether the restricted size of the simulation grid has prevented a larger wake from forming .",
    "the photoionization wake does not form at lower latitudes because the disk prevents x - rays from ionizing the wind in the orbital plane .",
    "the half - angle of the simulated disk is @xmath135 , but the x - rays are shadowed from a half - angle of @xmath136 by structures in the inner disk .",
    "for all reasonable values of the orbital inclination , the disk shape determined from the simulation prevents direct x - rays from the neutron star from being observed at the earth .",
    "this is consistent with the lack of x - rays for @xmath137 of the 30  day cycle , but is clearly inconsistent with the detection of x - ray pulses and a flux implying near - eddington luminosities during the rest of the cycle .",
    "in future models , we will improve the spatial resolution of the inner accretion disk , to more accurately model the disk structure and x - ray illumination .",
    "this will allow x - rays to be visible at earth for some disk inclinations , and may allow a photoionization wake to form over a larger region .",
    "we will also explore the effects of nonsynchronous rotation of the primary star on the hydrodynamic flow .",
    "the width of optical lines ( hutchings et al . 1978 ) suggests the o star rotates at about half of the orbital frequency .",
    "levine et al . ( 1999 ) measured the orbital period derivative to be @xmath138  yr@xmath30 , and argued , citing similar arguments for the smc  x-1 system , that this results from tidal forces operating only for nonsynchronous rotation .",
    "if the primary does not corotate , then the wind may be launched with an angular velocity ( in the rotating frame ) that enhances the absorption at @xmath60 .",
    "we expect that the comparison of global hydrodynamic models with observations will continue to test our understanding of disks , winds , and their interactions .",
    "our method follows that of knigge et al .",
    "we follow randomly scattering `` photons '' that are actually representative samples of many photons .",
    "a weight assigned to each `` photon '' determines its relative contribution to the final profile .",
    "when there is some probability for a scattering to take place and some probability for the photon to escape the system , the photon scatters , but its weight is multiplied by the scattering probability .",
    "photons emitted on the stellar surface have some small probability @xmath139 of entering our line of sight . as every photon we see",
    "must eventually enter our line of sight , we allow one probability-@xmath139 event to occur each time a photon is emitted or scattered isotropically",
    ". however we no longer follow the path of photons scattered away from our line of sight , as their contribution should be @xmath140 , negligibly small .",
    "for each randomly chosen point on the stellar surface we perform an integration along the line of sight .",
    "the photon s initial weight is @xmath141 , the cosine of the angle between the surface normal and the line of sight .",
    "when we tally the weights of the photons reaching the observer for a given @xmath52 , we normalize based on the weights @xmath141 that were emitted . those photons that are not initially headed towards the observer",
    "are all given a weight of unity , but the distribution of their random directions is chosen to take into account the different fluxes received at various angles . at each scattering , there is again a probability of @xmath139 that it enters the line of sight , so we propagage the photon along the line of sight and collect its weight into frequency bins to form the spectrum . when a photon excites a resonance line ,",
    "there is a probability of @xmath142 $ ] that the excited atom will decay through re - emission and not collisions . here , @xmath143 is the einstein a coefficient and @xmath144 is the decay rate per ion , with the `` collision strength '' @xmath145 ( clark et al . 1982 ) , and @xmath146 defined as the statistical weight of the upper level .",
    "microturbulence affects the monte - carlo simulation in two ways .",
    "first , the probability that a photon is scattered along the line of flight from @xmath147 to @xmath148 is @xmath149 , with @xmath150 here , @xmath151 ( @xmath152 ) is the scattering coefficient in the blue ( red ) doublet component , given by @xmath153 where @xmath154 is the normalized @xmath155 microturbulent velocity and @xmath156 is given by @xmath157 for the blue doublet component and @xmath158 for the red doublet component .",
    "the factor @xmath159 is set to the optical depth in equations  [ eqn : empirical ] or [ eqn : sobolev ] , with the derivatives taken with respect to the line of flight distance @xmath160 rather than the radius @xmath9 from the center of mass of the primary star ( radial optical depths converted to line - of - flight optical depths ) .",
    "once it is determined that a photon scatters along a flight line , the scattering point is determined by the method of knigge et al . , and the probability that the photon is scattered by the blue ( red ) doublet component is @xmath161 ( @xmath162 ) where @xmath163 .",
    "second , a photon s frequency @xmath52 is altered following a scattering , depending on the microturbulent velocity distribution width @xmath164 .",
    "given that the macroscopic velocity field has a velocity vector * v*@xmath165 at point @xmath147 and that the line of flight is defined by the unit vector * n * , the actual microturbulent velocity * v@xmath166 * at point @xmath147 that scatters the photon must have a component along the line of flight * v@xmath166*@xmath167*n*@xmath168 ( if the red component has scattered the line then * v@xmath166*@xmath167*n*@xmath169 ) .",
    "then the velocities in two directions perpindicular to * n * are given by @xmath170 , where @xmath171 is a random number with gaussian distribution .",
    "the frequency of the scattered photon is then @xmath172 for the blue component and @xmath173 for the red component . here",
    ", @xmath174 is the actual velocity vector of the ion that scatters the photon .",
    "in this appendix , we show that our monte carlo p  cygni profile code can reproduce the results of calculations in the literature using the sei method ( lamers et al .",
    "1987 ) or the comoving frame method ( hamann 1981 ) .",
    "we calculate p  cygni profiles for the wind velocity law @xmath175 where @xmath176 , and @xmath177 .",
    "we use a uniform microturbulent velocity @xmath178 and a doublet separation @xmath179 .",
    "the doublet ratio is assumed to be 2:1 ( the oscillator strength in the blue component being greater . )",
    "we make two tests ; one for @xmath180 , and the other for @xmath181 .",
    "the second is a more stringent test , as the typical photon undergoes more scatterings , and errors introduced at each scattering are magnified . for the results of the comoving frame method",
    ", we use the values plotted in fig .",
    "6 of lamers et al . for the results of the sei method , we use profiles computed with our own version of the sei code , which we applied to the lmc  x-4 system in boroson et al .",
    "( 1999 ) .    for these tests",
    ", we use a spherical star .",
    "in contrast to the case in which the star fills its roche lobe , here we know exactly the fraction of line - of - sight photons that do not intersect the stellar surface ( that is , we know the visible surface area of the star exactly . )",
    "thus the continuum level is known , and the number of photons initially emitted along of the line of sight that arrive at each frequency is normalized to this continuum level .",
    "the photons that have scattered into our line of sight are normalized to the total number emitted by the star .",
    "we would like to thank daniel proga , lex kaper , patrick wojdowski , and masao sako for useful discussions .",
    "this work was based on observations with the nasa / esa _ hubble space telescope _",
    ", obtained at the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract go-05874.01 - 94a .",
    "bb acknowledges an nrc postdoctoral associateship .",
    "jmb acknowledges an nsf career award .",
    "abbott , d.c .",
    "1980 , apj , 242 , 1183 bjorkman , j. e. & cassinelli , j. p. 1993 , apj , 409 , 429 blondin , j.m .",
    "1994 , apj , 435 , 756 blondin , j.m . ,",
    "stevens , i.r . , & kallman , t.r .",
    "1991 , apj , 371 , 684 blondin , j.m . ,",
    "kallman , t.r . ,",
    "fryxell , b.a .",
    ", &  taam , r.e .",
    "1990 , apj , 356 , 591 blondin , j.m . , &",
    "woo , j.w .",
    "1995 , apj , 445 , 889 bondi , h. , &  hoyle , f. 1944 , mnras , 104 , 273 boroson , b. , kallman , t. , mccray , r. , vrtilek , s.d . , &",
    "raymond , j. 1999 .",
    "apj , 519 , 191 castor , j. 1970 , mnras , 149 , 11 castor , j.i . , abbott , d.c . , &  klein , r.i .",
    "1975 , apj , 195 , 157 castor , j. , &  lamers , h.j.g.l.m . , 1979 , apjs , 39 , 481 clark , r.e.h . , magee , n.h .",
    "jr . , mann , j.b .",
    ", &  merts , a.l . 1982 , apj , 254 , 412 feldmeier , a. , anzer , u. , boerner , g. , &  nagase , f. 1996 , a&a , 311 , 793 de kool , m. & wickramasinghe , d. 1999 , mnras , 307 , 449 .",
    "fransson , c. &  fabian , a.c .",
    "1980 , a&a , 87 , 102 haberl , f. , white , n.e . , &",
    "kallman , t.r > 1989 , apj , 343 , 409 hamann , w.r .",
    "1980 , a&a , 84 , 342 hatchett , s.p . &  mccray , r. 1977 , apj , 211 , 552 heap , s.r .",
    ", &  corcoran , m.f . 1992 , apj , 387 , 340 heemskerk , m.h.m . &  van paradijs , j. 1989 , a&a , 223 , 154 ho , c. , &  arons , j. 1987 , apj , 321 , 404 hutchings , j.b . , crampton , d. , &  cowley , a.p .",
    "1978 , apj , 225 , 548 kallman , t. , liedahl , d. , osterheld , a. , goldstein , w. , & kahn , s. 1996 , apj , 465 , 994 kaper , l , hammerschlag - hensberge , g. , &  zuiderwijk , e.j .",
    "1994 , a&a , 289 , 846 kaper , l. , hammerschlag - hensberge , g. , &  van loon , j.th .",
    "1993 , a&a 279 , 485 kelley , r.l . ,",
    "jernigan , j.g . , levine , a. , petro , d. , rappaport , s.a .",
    "1983 , apj , 264 , 568 knigge , c. , woods , j.a , &  drew , e. 1995 , mnras , 273 , 225 lamers , h.j.g.l.m .",
    ", cerruti - sola , m. , &  perinotto , m. 1987 , apj , 314 , 726 lang , f.l . ,",
    "levine , a.m. , butz , m. , hauskins , s. , howe , s. , primini , s.a . ,",
    "lewin , w.h.g . ,",
    "baity , w.a . ,",
    "knight , f.k . ,",
    "rothschild , r.e . , petterson , j.a .",
    "1981 , apj , 246 , l21 levine , a. , rappaport , s. , putney , a. , corbet , r. , & nagase , f. 1991 , apj , 381 , 101 levine , a.m. , rappaport , s.a . , &",
    "zojcheski , g. 1999 , apj , submitted , astro - ph/9911173 lubow , s. h. & shu , f. h. 1975 , apj , 198 , 383 lubow , s. h. & shu , f. h. 1976 , apj , 207 , l53 lucy , l.b .",
    ", &  white , r.l .",
    "1980 , apj , 241 , 300 macgregor , k.b . , &  vitello , p.a.j . 1982 , apj , 259 , 267 macgregor , k.b . , hartmann , l. , &  raymond , j.c .",
    "1979 , apj , 231 , 514 masai , k. 1984 , ap&ss , 106 , 391 mccray , r. , kallman , t.r .",
    ", castor , j.i . , &  olson , g.l .",
    "1984 , apj , 282 , 245 owen , m. p. & blondin , j. m. 1997 , in _ accretion phenomena and related outflows ; iau colloquium 163 _ , eds d. t. wickramasinghe , g. v. bicknell & l. ferrario , p. 779",
    "owocki , s.p . , &  rybicki , g.b .",
    "1984 , apj , 284 , 337 owocki , s.p . , castor , j.i , &  rybicki , g.b .",
    "1988 , apj , 335 , 914 stevens , i.r .",
    "1993 , apj , 404 , 281 vrtilek , s.d . ,",
    "boroson , b. , mccray , r. , nagase , f. , &  cheng , f. 1997 , apj , 490 , 377 wojdowski , p.s . ,",
    "clark , g.w .",
    ", &  kallman , t.r . 1999 ,",
    "apj , in press woo , j.w . ,",
    "clark , g.w .",
    ", &  levine , a.m. 1995 , apj , 449 , 880 woo , j.w . ,",
    "clark , g.w . ,",
    "levine , a.m. , corbet , r.h .",
    ", &  nagase , f. 1996 , apj 467 , 811"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we compare the predictions of hydrodynamic models of the lmc x-4 x - ray binary system with observations of uv p  cygni lines with the ghrs and stis spectrographs on the hubble space telescope . </S>",
    "<S> the hydrodynamic model determines density and velocity fields of the stellar wind , wind - compressed disk , accretion stream , keplerian accretion disk , and accretion disk wind . </S>",
    "<S> we use a monte carlo code to determine the uv  p  cygni line profiles by simulating the radiative transfer of uv photons that originate on the star and are scattered in the wind . </S>",
    "<S> the qualitative orbital variation predicted is similar to that observed , although the model fails to reproduce the strong orbital asymmetry ( the observed absorption is strongest for @xmath0 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the model predicts a mid - eclipse x - ray spectrum , due almost entirely to compton scattering , with a factor  4 less flux than observed with asca . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss how the model may need to be altered to explain the spectral variability of the system . </S>"
  ]
}