{
  "article_text": [
    "dust disks composed of particles in the micron to centimetre range are known to exist around many stars that exhibit an infrared excess , such as vega , @xmath1  pictoris , @xmath0  eridani and others ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "particles of this size are affected significantly by solar radiation and corpuscular ( solar wind ) forces , with poynting - robertson ( pr ) and solar wind drag resulting from the moving particle s absorption and reemission of solar energy . over time , these dissipative forces caused by radiation and solar wind act to reduce a dust particle s semi - major axis  and eccentricity , and the particle eventually spirals into the central star @xcite . since the age of most of these systems exceeds the expected lifetime of a small dust particle , the particles must be continually replenished .",
    "the suspected mechanism is a collisional cascade involving primordial planetesimal and smaller sized bodies @xcite as is believed to occur in the edgeworth - kuiper belt ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the destructive process which leads to dust formation has led these disks to be known as ` debris disks ' .    of the debris disks near enough to earth",
    "to be spatially resolved , most show a significant degree of asymmetry ( e.g. vega : @xcite ; @xmath0  eridani : @xcite ) .",
    "the commonly held view is that gravitational interactions with an unseen embedded planet are responsible for most cases of disk structure @xcite .",
    "alternative possible explanations have been considered for specific systems , such as disturbance by a passing star ( e.g. hd141569 : * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a recent large cometary / planetesimal collision ( e.g. fomalhaut : * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and contamination by a background feature such as a distant galaxy ( e.g. vega : * ? ? ?",
    "a planetary companion has several effects on an initially uniform debris disk .",
    "particles near the planet are often ejected due to a close encounter  an effect which is enhanced as the planet s mass increases .",
    "since particles interior to the planet spiral increasingly rapidly into the central star , an interior cleared zone is usually present @xcite .",
    "however , some particles spiralling in towards the star may become trapped in a series of mean motion resonances ( mmrs ) with the planet .",
    "an mmr exists when the ratio of orbital periods for two objects orbiting a central mass is equal to @xmath2 , where @xmath3 and @xmath4 are integers .",
    "the order of an mmr is given by the quantity @xmath5 .",
    "earth has a dust ring formed by dust particles in mmrs @xcite , and neptune is suspected to do the same to kuiper belt dust @xcite .",
    "whilst locked into an mmr with a planet , the angular momentum of the particle lost to poynting - robertson  and solar wind drag is balanced by the resonant forcing of the planet s gravitation .",
    "a particle trapped in an mmr can extend the particle s lifetime to many times the value predicted by poynting - robertson  and solar wind drag alone .",
    "the resultant ` pile - up ' of particles at discrete semi - major axes  tends to cause prominent radial and angular structure in the debris disk @xcite .    in multiple planet systems , it is the outermost planet that generally dominates the structure of the resulting debris disk .",
    "neptune is suspected to play this role in interactions with kuiper belt dust @xcite .",
    "the interior planets , however , can have significant effects on particles which ` leak past ' the outermost planet . in the solar system , for example , jupiter and saturn",
    "eject many dust particles which drift interior to neptune @xcite . for simplicity",
    ", we investigate only single planet systems and assume that the effects of any interior planets which may be present is negligible outside the orbit of the outermost planet .    in this paper",
    ", we numerically simulate a large number of debris disk systems , creating a synthetic debris disk catalogue .",
    "our numerical method is described in section  [ sec : numericmeth ] , and the testing of the code is detailed in section  [ sec : verifycode ] .",
    "we present a small sample of the results from the synthetic catalogue in section  [ sec : synthcat ] , and use the catalogue to select planetary configurations which could be responsible for the observed systems of vega , @xmath0  eridani  and fomalhaut .",
    "the selected systems are then simulated in higher detail in section  [ sec : compareprev ] , and the results compared to observational data .",
    "our conclusions are presented in section  [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "we model the evolution of debris disks using an n - body integrator that includes the effects of radiation pressure , poynting - robertson  and solar wind drag . in this section",
    "we discuss the modifications made to a symplectic integrator to account for the additional forces , as well as our numerical techniques for creating debris disks and recording particle positions .",
    "since the general problem of a particle moving under the influence of gravitational and radiation forces is nonlinear , it is necessary to numerically integrate the orbits of all particles .",
    "commonly used integrators include runge - kutter , burlisch - stoer and mixed variable symplectic ( mvs ) algorithms .",
    "the mvs integrator developed by @xcite is normally the fastest , but has the disadvantage of being unable to follow close encounters between particles and planets , which are crucial to debris disk evolution .",
    "this drawback has been overcome with the use of integrators such as rmvs3 @xcite and symba @xcite , which are based on the @xcite scheme but can integrate close encounters . in this work",
    "we have modified rmvs3 to include radiation and solar wind forces which affect debris disk particles .",
    "such an approach was used by @xcite , who modify a variant of symba .",
    "( note that symba and rmvs3 handle close encounters between particles and planets in different ways . )",
    "rmvs3 assumes that test particles are both massless and collisionless  the problem of dust collisions is discussed in section  [ subsec : collisionalproc ] .",
    "the code requires units such that the gravitational constant @xmath6 and so we have chosen distance , time and mass units to be 1  au , 1  year and @xmath7 respectively . throughout this paper",
    "we shall use @xmath8 for the semi - major axis , @xmath9 for eccentricity , and @xmath10 for inclination , with the subscripts @xmath11 , @xmath12 and @xmath13 referring to a test particle , parent body and planet respectively .    as developed in @xcite and described in @xcite",
    ", rmvs3 expands the hamiltonian of a test particle into two integrable components given by @xmath14 where @xmath15 represents the keplerian motion around the central star , and @xmath16 represents the perturbances on a test particle resulting from the planet(s ) . using a timestep @xmath17 ,",
    "the second order approximation implemented in rmvs3 consists of applying the disturbance hamiltonian for @xmath17/2 , applying the keplerian hamiltonian for @xmath17 , and then applying the disturbance hamiltonian again for @xmath17/2 .",
    "the approximation is accurate as long as the planetary disturbances are small compared to the keplerian evolution .",
    "this assumption of small disturbances does not hold when a particle suffers a close encounter with a planet .",
    "in this situation , since the gravitational effect of the planet on the particle exceeds that of the star , the roles of planet and star are reversed and the keplerian portion of the hamiltonian is taken to occur around the planet and the star is relegated to the role of disturbance @xcite .",
    "although a smaller timestep is used during a close encounter , the duration of an encounter is typically small enough that the simulation proceeds rapidly . in the intermediate region where planetary and stellar forces are comparable , the timestep is also reduced but the integration remains heliocentric .",
    "the magnitude of the radiation force on a particle is given by @xmath18 where @xmath19 is stellar luminosity , @xmath20 is the particle cross - sectional area , @xmath21 is the radiation pressure coefficient , @xmath22 is the speed of light and @xmath23 is the heliocentric distance .",
    "it is standard practice to describe the strength of the radiation force on a given particle as a fraction of the gravitational force on a particle , such that @xmath24 the constant @xmath1 is depends on the particle size and composition , as well as the stellar mass and luminosity , but is independent of the particle s heliocentric distance .",
    "the magnitude of poynting - robertson  drag is proportional to @xmath1 .",
    "the ratio of solar wind drag to poynting - robertson  drag is dependent on particle size , but is relatively constant over the range of particles usually considered ( @xmath25 m , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , so the combined drag effects of pr and solar wind can be expressed using a single parameter given by @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the ratio of solar wind drag to poynting - robertson  drag @xcite .",
    "following @xcite , we use a constant value of @xmath28 in all our simulations .",
    "the acceleration on a particle due to solar wind drag and radiation , ignoring terms of order @xmath29  and higher , is given by @xmath30 \\ , .\\ ] ] the first term in this expression is the result of the outwardly - directed radiation pressure , which causes the net acceleration in the radial direction to be reduced to @xmath31 .",
    "the remaining two terms ( which are smaller by a factor of @xmath32 ) represent the poynting - robertson  and solar wind drag .",
    "poynting - robertson  drag results from the particle s motion relative to the radiation source , which causes a component of the radiation force to oppose the particle s motion . during normal particle movement ,",
    "the first term is accounted for in the keplerian hamiltonian by reducing the central object mass to the ` apparent ' value , while the other terms are added to the disturbance hamiltonian . during a close encounter with a planet",
    ", the entire expression is added to the disturbance hamiltonian .",
    "all simulations commence with a central star , an orbiting planet and a number of test particles distributed around the star with a fixed value of @xmath1 .",
    "the star is fixed at the origin and has mass represented by @xmath33 .",
    "the orbiting planet is described by @xmath34 , @xmath35 and @xmath36 , representing the planet s mass , semi - major axis  and eccentricity respectively .",
    "test particles are assumed to be released from larger ` parent bodies ' ( which are unaffected by radiation pressure ) at the beginning of the simulation .",
    "this is analogous to the creation of dust through the collision of larger rocky bodies in a debris disk .",
    "the concept of a parent body is used only to set initial orbital parameters for test particles ; they play no part in the simulation after initialisation . for each simulation ,",
    "the initial distribution of parent bodies is specified by a range of semi - major axis , eccentricity and inclination values , given by @xmath37 , @xmath38 and @xmath39 respectively .",
    "the arguments of perihelion , longitudes of ascending nodes and mean anomalies for the parent bodies are allocated randomly .",
    "a test particle is then created from each parent body , with semi - major axis , eccentricity and inclination referred to by @xmath40 and @xmath41 respectively . since the test particles are affected by radiation pressure while the parent bodies are not , the test particles will have different orbital parameters from their parent bodies . in particular",
    ", the test particles will have increased semi - major axes  and changed eccentricities , given by    @xmath42    @xmath43      simulating a sufficient number of test particles to resolve the disk structure at all times is computationally expensive and an alternative method , used by @xcite and @xcite , is to simulate a smaller number of particles and regularly record their positions , which can then be summed to produce distribution maps .",
    "a simulation is terminated after a fixed time or when all particles have been destroyed through either ejection via close encounters with planets or accretion onto the central star . in this way",
    ", long lived particles ( trapped in resonances ) contribute more to the final dust distribution .",
    "if we assume the dust distribution is ergodic and that the total dust mass is constant ( i.e. the dust production rate equals the loss rate ) , this approach should give an accurate representation of the actual ` steady - state ' disk structure .",
    "in previous studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) the particle locations have been transformed into a reference frame which rotates with the outermost planet , but this approach is not appropriate for planets with eccentric orbits .",
    "for this reason , we instead ensure that the particle recording takes place with the planet in specific orbital phases . in this way a number of ` snapshots ' of the system are taken with the planet in varying locations , allowing the effect of planetary phase to be studied @xcite .",
    "for example , many simulations utilised a planet with orbital period 300 years and a particle recording time of 1000 years , resulting in particle distributions for three different planetary phases .",
    "it should be noted that there are some limitations to this procedure of simulating a debris disk using a small number of test particles . as discussed by @xcite , because both the probability of being trapped in a particular resonance and the time spent in a resonance depend sensitively on initial conditions , using a limited number of particles may over - exaggerate the importance of a particular resonance .",
    "we have tried to overcome this problem by using an order of magnitude more particles than previous simulations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) in high resolution simulations ( see following sections ) . an additional problem with this procedure is that all of the test particles are released from their parent body at the same time , with a specific planetary phase . in reality ,",
    "dust particles would be released continuously , at random planetary phases .",
    "this effect , however , is not likely to have a significant impact , since the test particles are typically released a long way from the planet and are distributed randomly around the star .",
    "setting a fixed maximum simulation time may also be problematic .",
    "for the small particle number approach to be accurate , the integration should be continued until all test particles have been destroyed .",
    "the termination of a simulation at a predetermined time means that some particles may still be active at the end of the simulation .",
    "one could argue , however , that extremely long - lived particles are unlikely to exist due to destruction via particle collisions .",
    "since rmvs3 is a collisionless code , the destruction of particles in this way is not accounted for .",
    "we investigate these effects in more detail in section  [ subsec : collisionalproc ] .",
    "there is no general solution for the motion of a particle under the influence of radiation and gravitational forces in a system comprising a star and one or more planets .",
    "however , analytic solutions and analytic approximations exist for particle motion in the two - body @xcite and the circularly restricted three - body @xcite problems respectively .",
    "these specific cases can be used to check the accuracy of the modified rmvs3 code .    to ensure that the addition of radiation and solar wind forces did not effect the normal running of the code , we ran a series of tests in which @xmath1 was set to zero , and compared the results to identical tests run using the original rmvs3 .",
    "the results were indistinguishable in all cases .",
    "the time rate of change of a test particle s orbital elements in the radiation - modified two body problem are given in @xcite ( following the work of @xcite ) , and are equal to @xmath44 where @xmath33 is the mass of the central star , and @xmath22 is the speed of light .    to test the code against the two  body solutions , we ran a simulation with a single @xmath45 test particle placed in orbit around a solar - mass star , released from a parent body with @xmath46  au , @xmath47 and @xmath48 . the particle s argument of perihelion",
    ", longitude of ascending node and mean anomaly were selected randomly .",
    "the analytical and numerical results plotted in figure  [ fig : twobody ] are in excellent agreement .",
    "c      the addition of a planet greatly complicates the motion of the test particle , but @xcite have derived expressions for the time evolution of a particle s orbital elements whilst in an mmr with a zero eccentricity planet .",
    "these expressions are a second order approximation , valid only for low test particle eccentricities and inclinations , and low order resonances , and are given by @xmath49 where @xmath50 , @xmath51 , @xmath52 and @xmath53 represent the particle s initial eccentricity and inclination , and @xmath3 and @xmath4 are the integers specifying the resonance .",
    "it should be noted that the location of resonances is shifted from their normal location due to the presence of the radiation force , which causes particles at a given semi - major axis  to orbit more slowly due to the reduced effective gravitational force .",
    "the semi - major axis  of a particle locked in an @xmath2 resonance with a planet is given by @xmath54    we start at time @xmath55 with a single particle placed exterior to the resonance in orbit around a one solar mass star and a planet at 30  au .",
    "we follow the orbital evolution of the test particle as it passes through the mmr until it is ejected from the system , and compare the results with equations  [ eqn : mmr1 ] and [ eqn : mmr2 ] .",
    "we show the results for two different @xmath1 values . in figure",
    "[ fig : threebody]a , a single @xmath56 particle is trapped in a @xmath57 resonance with a neptune mass planet , while in figure  [ fig : threebody]b a particle with @xmath58 is trapped in a @xmath59 resonance with a jupiter mass planet .",
    "the particles orbital elements are well described until their eccentricity and inclination become too large and the analytic solution becomes invalid .",
    "the results shown in figure  [ fig : threebody ] are only a small sample of the large number of tests carried out to ensure the accuracy of the code .",
    "previous studies by @xcite have predicted the general effects of varying planetary mass and eccentricity on the dust distribution in a debris disk . we have generated a synthetic catalogue of debris disks which provides numerical agreement to the theoretical predictions and",
    "can be used as a guide when interpreting observed systems . here",
    ", we present a sample of results obtained from modelling over 300 disks , showing the effects of planetary mass and eccentricity , dust composition ( @xmath1 ) and initial dust distribution on the disk structure . by generating simulated observations of these simulations ,",
    "we show that even observations at a low resolution can distinguish between different planet and dust combinations .    for the creation of our synthetic catalogue",
    ", we allowed five parameters to vary : @xmath60 , @xmath1 , @xmath37 and @xmath38 .",
    "all other parameters were fixed as follows : @xmath61 , @xmath62 , @xmath63 , and planetary period = 300 years ( yielding @xmath64  au ) .",
    "table  [ tab : parameters ] summarises the parameter space we have investigated . of the 600 possible combinations of our five free parameters , approximately 300 disks were simulated .",
    "subsets of the parameter space which were fully explored include @xmath65 , @xmath66 and @xmath67 .",
    ".the range of parameter values used in generating our synthetic catalogue . note that while this parameter space was not completely explored , approximately 300 of the 600 possible disks were simulated .",
    "fully explored parameters ( where the chosen parameter was simulated with all possible combinations of the other parameters ) include @xmath68 , @xmath69 and @xmath70 .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^ , < , < \" , ]     whilst the planetary configuration we have presented here displays a close similarity to the observations of fomalhaut to date , as noted above results from our synthetic catalogue suggest that several parameters from the model may be varied slightly whilst still producing similar results .",
    "the semi - major axis  of the planet is well constrained by the location of the dust ring , but the the production of a single arc of emission is seen with several combinations of massive , moderate eccentricity planets .",
    "thus , this model is only representative of a class of planetary configurations which could be responsible for the structure seen in the fomalhaut disk .",
    "we have modified an n - body symplectic integrator to include the effects of poynting - robertson  and solar wind drag in order to model collionless debris disks , and used the modified integrator to produce a synthetic disk catalogue containing approximately 300 model disks .",
    "the catalogue has two applications : the comparison of theoretical predictions of disk structure to numerical results , and to give an idea of the parameter space which might satisfy a particular observed system , possibly identifying planets which are presently undetectable through doppler shift techniques . using this synthetic catalogue as a guide",
    ", we have produced ` best fit ' models for three observed debris disk systems whose disk structures can be explained by the presence of a planetary companion or companions .",
    "we have modelled vega using a planet with @xmath71 , @xmath72 au and @xmath73 .",
    "the dust distribution generated by this model rotates with the planet , meaning future observations of vega should show changes in spatial dust emission as the planetary phase changes . however , since a range of planetary parameters can produce the dust distribution inferred for the vega system , our solution is representative of that produced by a class of massive ( @xmath74 ) , low eccentricity ( @xmath75 ) planetary companions .",
    "@xmath0  eridani  was modelled using a planet with @xmath76 , @xmath77 au and @xmath78 , a model first proposed by @xcite .",
    "although the dust distribution generated by this model does not rotate with the planet , it does change over the course of an orbital period , offering hope for confirmation by future observations .",
    "however , this model is dependent on the existence of a second , massive inner planet to clear particles interior to the modelled planet , which can not be simulated using the techniques outlined in this paper .",
    "we modelled fomalhaut using a planet with @xmath79 , @xmath80 and @xmath81 .",
    "the dust distribution generated by this model does not change significantly over the course of a planetary orbit , and thus the effect of planetary phase would be difficult to detect in future observations . like the model presented for vega ,",
    "our model for fomalhaut is the best match to current observations from a class of massive , moderate eccentricity planets which generate similar structure .",
    "numerical modelling of planets in dusty debris disks has shown that planets which are undetectable through present techniques are likely to be responsible for the observed asymmetries of known debris disk systems .",
    "it should be noted , however , that it is difficult to positively identify a unique planetary companion without temporal information showing the changes in disk structure over the course of a planetary orbit .",
    "the authors wish to thanks hal levison for useful discussions about rmvs3 and dave wilner for providing an unpublished 350 @xmath82m@xmath0  eridani  image .",
    "we also thank the anonymous referee for providing useful feedback and suggestions .",
    "ad was supported by a summer vacation scholarship from the swinburne centre for astrophysics and supercomputing .",
    "all simulations were run on the swinburne supercomputer .",
    "aumann , h. h. et al .",
    "1984 , , 278 , l23 aumann , h. h. 1984 , pasp , 97 , 885 backman , d. e. & paresce , f. 1993 , in protostars and planets iii , ed .",
    "levy & j.i .",
    "lunine ( university of arizona press ) , 1253 backman , d. e. , dasgupta , a. & stencel , r. e. 1995 , , 450 , l35 barrado y navascues , d. , stauffer , j. r. , hartmann , l. & balachandran , s. c. 1997 , , 475 , 313 burns , j. a. , lamy , p. l. & soter , s. 1979 , , 40 , 1 clampin , m. et al .",
    "2003 , , 126 , 385 dent , w. r. f. , walker , h. j. , holland , w. s. & greaves , j. s. 2000 , , 314 , 702 dermott , s. f. , jayamaran , s. , xu , y. l. , gustafson , b. a. s. & liou , j .- c .",
    "1994 , , 369 , 719 duncan , m. j. , levison , h. f. & lee , m. h. 1998 , , 116 , 2067 greaves , j. s. et al .",
    "1998 , , 506 , l133 hatzes , a. p. et al .  2000 , , 544 , l145 holland , w. s. et al .",
    "1998 , , 392 , 788 holland , w. s. et al .",
    "2003 , , 582 , 1141 kuchner , m. j. & holman , m. j. 2003 , , 588 , 1110 landgraf , m. , liou , j .- c . ,",
    "zook , h. a. & grn , e. 2002 , , 123 , 2857 levison , h. f. & duncan m. j. 1994 , , 108 , 18 liou , j .- c . &",
    "zook , h. a. 1997 , , 128 , 354 liou , j .- c . &",
    "zook , h. a. 1999 , , 118 , 580 liseau , r. 1999 , , 348 , 133 moro - martin , a. & malhotra , r. 2002 , , 124 , 2305 ozernoy , l. m. , gorkavyi , n. n. , mather , j. c. , & taidakova , t. a. 2000 , , 537 , l147 quillen , a. c. , & thorndike s. 2002 , , 578 , l149 wilner , d. j. , holman , m. j. , kuchner , m. j. , & ho , p. t. p. 2002",
    ", , 569 , l115 wisdom , j. & holman , m , 1991 , , 102 , 1528 wyatt , m. c. & dent . w. r. f. 2002 , , 334 , 589 wyatt , s. p. & whipple , f. l. 1950 , , 111 , 134 zuckerman , b. 2001 , , 39 , 549"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> infrared and submillimetre observations of nearby vega - like stars have revealed a number of clumpy , asymmetric dust debris disks . </S>",
    "<S> previous studies using semi - analytical and numerical methods have suggested planetary companions of various mass as the likely cause of most examples of disk asymmetry . in this paper , we modify an n - body symplectic gravitational integrator to include radiation terms and conduct medium - resolution parameter searches to identify likely planetary candidates in observed vega - like systems . </S>",
    "<S> we also present high resolution models of vega and @xmath0  eridani , comparing our results to those of previous authors , and a new model for fomalhaut . </S>"
  ]
}