{
  "article_text": [
    "in two companion papers ( mclure et al . 1999 ; dunlop et al . 2000 ) we present initial and final results from a deep hubble space telescope ( hst ) imaging survey of radio - quiet quasars ( rqqs ) , radio - loud quasars ( rlqs ) and radio galaxies ( rgs ) .",
    "the results presented in these papers were derived from the hst images using a two - dimensional modelling technique developed to cope with such complications as central image saturation , the undersampled nature of wide field ( wf ) camera images , accurate image centering , and the precise form of the hst point spread function ( psf ) .",
    "the primary purpose of this paper is to provide a description of this image analysis method , and to present the results of extensive testing on simulated active - nucleus+host - galaxy images constructed to span the full range of parameter space , and to mimic as closely as possible the real hst data .",
    "these tests on simulated data were central to the development of our modelling technique , and also provide a means of estimating the typical errors in the derived host galaxy parameters as a function of redshift .",
    "we also present new data in the form of infrared tip - tilt images of 4 of the most luminous quasars in our hst - imaging sample , and give the results of applying our two - dimensional modelling technique to these new @xmath3-band data .",
    "the results provide further confidence in our analysis technique , and allow us to determine accurate @xmath1 colours for the hosts of these 4 quasars .",
    "the layout of the paper is as follows . in section 2",
    "we briefly review the main modelling algorithm ( for details see taylor et al .",
    "1996 ) , and explain how the various problems which are specific to deep hst imaging were tackled . in section 3 we explain how synthetic hst quasar+host images were constructed to allow tests of the ability of the modelling technique to reclaim reliable host - galaxy parameters as a function of redshift and nuclear : host ratio .",
    "we then present the results of these tests before proceeding in sections 4 and 5 to describe extensions to the modelling algorithm which were introduced to avoid having to make the assumption that the host galaxies were either perfect de - vaucouleurs spheroids , or freeman discs .",
    "the new ukirt tip - tilt ircam3 images of a subset of the quasar sample are presented in section 6 along with the results of modelling these data in a manner basically identical to that used to model the hst data .",
    "we then briefly describe the outcome of comparing the ukirt- and hst - derived galaxy parameters for these objects , before summarizing our main conclusions in section 7 .",
    "given the difficulties associated with one - dimensional analysis techniques it was decided that a fully two - dimensional approach was needed to fully exploit the depth and resolution of the new hst and ukirt host - galaxy data .",
    "the two - dimensional modelling code used in the analysis described in this paper , mclure et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and dunlop et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , is a development of that which was originally designed for the analysis of the ircam 1 @xmath3band imaging of this sample ( dunlop et al .",
    "1993 , taylor et al .",
    "consequently , only a brief outline of the general algorithm is supplied here , with those interested in a detailed description being referred to taylor et al .",
    "( 1996 ) .",
    "the model host galaxies are initially constructed on a two - dimensional array with the surface - brightness of each pixel described by either a de vaucouleurs @xmath4 law ( de vaucouleurs & capaccioli 1979 ) :    @xmath5\\ ] ]    or a freeman disc law ( freeman 1970 ) : @xmath6 the model galaxies are constructed at much higher resolution than the data plate - scale in order to accurately simulate the rapidly varying surface brightness at small radii ( particularly important with the @xmath4 profile ) . following re - sampling of the model host galaxies , an arbitrarily large amount of flux",
    "is added to the central pixel to represent the unresolved nuclear contribution .",
    "in order to produce a simulated observation this ` zero - seeing ' model is then convolved with a high signal - to - noise observation of the instrumental point spread function ( psf ) .",
    "the goodness of fit between this convolved model and the actual data is then tested on a pixel - by - pixel basis via the @xmath7 statistic , with the parameters determining the form of the model being iterated to find the minimum @xmath8 solution .",
    "the model parameters which are left free during this minimization process are :    * the luminosity of the nucleus * the central brightness of the host galaxy * the scalelength of the host galaxy * the position angle of the host galaxy * the axial ratio of the host galaxy      many authors who have investigated host galaxies using the hst ( hutchings et al .",
    "1994 , boyce et al .",
    "1998 , hooper et al .",
    "1997 ) have made use of the synthetic psfs produced by the tinytim software package ( krist 1998 ) .",
    "this software is capable of reproducing the wfpc2 psf through any of the on - board filters , seemingly removing the need to sacrifice valuable orbits observing the empirical psf .",
    "however , the inability of the tinytim software to reproduce the scattered light halo associated with the wfpc2 psf ( krist 1998 ) make these model psfs unsuitable for the convolution of model quasars .",
    "this fact is illustrated in fig [ psfcom ] which shows a comparison between the high dynamic range empirical psf used in our analysis and the equivalent tinytim model .",
    "it is clear from this that if the model quasars do not include the scattered - light halo , the scalelengths of the underlying host galaxies could be seriously overestimated .",
    "a further issue to be considered when analysing wfpc2 images is the severe undersampling of the wf ccds . given that the central @xmath9 of the @xmath10band quasar images presented in mclure et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and dunlop et al .",
    "( 2000 ) are dominated by the unresolved nuclear component , it was imperative that the undersampling issue was dealt with properly . in order to deal with this problem",
    "a solution was arrived at which , makes use of the sub - sampling capabilities of the tinytim software . although inadequate as a substitute for the empirical psf at large radii , the synthetic models produced by tinytim are an excellent match to the empirical psf in the very central regions where the optical effects are well understood .",
    "the ability of tinytim to produce psf models at fifty times higher resolution than the wf2 plate - scale was used to predict the appearance of the central nine pixels of the wf2 psf with any possible sub - pixel centring .",
    "these predictions are then @xmath8 matched to the core ( central nine pixels ) of the quasar image to give centroiding with theoretical accuracy of @xmath11 pixels . assuming that the tinytim model provides an accurate representation of the true psf in the central @xmath12 , it is then possible to correct the sampling of the central regions of the empirical psf to the same sub - pixel centring as that of the quasar image .",
    "regardless of the care with which model quasars are constructed , two - dimensional modelling will fail to produce accurate results if incorrect allocation of error weighting in the @xmath8 test causes one area of the image to dominate the fit at the expense of others .",
    "the minimum possible error that can be associated with any pixel is a combination of the poisson error due to photon shot noise , plus the read - noise and dark current contributions .",
    "errors introduced during flat - fielding have proven to be negligible in both the hst data and the ircam 3 images considered in here .",
    "figure [ errprof ] shows a comparison between poisson noise predicted by the wf2 noise model ( biretta et al .",
    "1996 ) , and the actual statistical sampling errors as measured from a typical image .    as can be seen from fig [ errprof ] ,",
    "the errors calculated using the noise model are in near - perfect agreement with what is actually seen from the data for all pixels outside a radius of @xmath13 from the quasar core .",
    "consequently , all pixels outside a radius of @xmath9 are simply allocated their expected poisson error during the model fitting process .",
    "however , fig [ errprof ] also demonstrates that this system would grossly underestimate the actual error introduced inside @xmath14 by the severe undersampling of the wfpc2 psf .",
    "therefore , inside a radius of @xmath9 a different system is used to allocate the error weighting .",
    "a series of ten pixel - wide circular annuli centred on the quasar are constructed , and the variance ( @xmath15 ) of the distribution of the pixels falling within each annuli calculated .",
    "all of the pixels falling within a particular annulus are then allocated the annulus variance as their error weighting .",
    "this procedure is still justified even when the underlying host galaxy has a clear ellipticity since , even at hst resolution , the central @xmath9 of the quasar images are dominated by the circular symmetry of the psf . due to the success of the re - sampling technique",
    "discussed above , it was possible to assign a poisson error weighting to the central pixel without biasing the fitting procedure .",
    "this complicated process has proven to be successful , with the vast majority of the 33 hst objects modelled having minimum @xmath8 solutions lying in the @xmath16 region expected for correct weighting ( dunlop et al .",
    "confidence in the weighting system is further strengthened by examination of the pixel maps of reduced @xmath8 values produced for the best - fitting models . shown in fig [ chimap ] a typical @xmath8 map from the best - fit to the radio - loud quasar 1217 + 023 .",
    "it is clear from this figure that the desired uniform spread of @xmath8 values has been achieved , with no one area of the image dominating the fit .",
    "the main advantage of the two - dimensional modelling technique being adopted here is that it allows each individual pixel in the image frame to be included in the model fitting as a degree of freedom .",
    "however , due to the high angular resolution of our data , a typical model fit to a radius of @xmath17 will include some 45000 wfpc2 pixels ( @xmath18 ircam3 pixels ) in each @xmath8 evaluation .",
    "the adopted solution was to utilise the downhill simplex method ( press et al .",
    "1989 ) to locate the global minimum .",
    "although significantly slower than the conjugate gradient method used in taylor et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , downhill simplex minimization was chosen for its robustness in finding the true global minimum , and its insensitivity to the selection of initial conditions .    to determine the prevalence of false minima in the hyper - surface , a high - resolution grid search was undertaken for two objects , with the extent of the search grid being @xmath19 from the parameter values found by the minimization routine .",
    "the results of the grid search for the radio galaxy 3c234.0 , which contains a @xmath20 nuclear component , are shown in fig [ conts ] with the position of the global minimum marked with @xmath21 .",
    "two features of this diagram are worthy of comment .",
    "firstly it can be seen that in both parameter slices the minimum @xmath8 value lies at the bottom of a narrow ` valley ' , suggesting that false minima are not ubiquitous . secondly , despite the expected correlation between galaxy scalelength and central surface - brightness ( abraham et al .",
    "1992 ) , the minimization routine has still successfully located the global minimum .",
    "for the purposes of the full hst host galaxy study it was essential to determine the typical accuracy with which host - galaxy parameters could be recovered . due to the nature of host galaxy work , a data - set for which the host galaxy parameters have been accurately determine previously does not exist , and consequently , an extensive programme of tests was undertaken using synthetic data .    to allow a realistic representation of the range of redshifts displayed by the wfpc2 data",
    "the synthetic agn were constructed at three redshifts , z=0.1 , z=0.2 & z=0.3 . at each redshift 28 elliptical and",
    "28 disc host galaxies models were constructed .",
    "each group of 28 host galaxies consisted of a range of four possible half - light radii ( 5,10,15 and 20 kpc for @xmath22 ) , all of which had the same integrated luminosity .",
    "to each of these four different galaxy scalelengths a range of seven possible nuclear components were added , giving @xmath23 ratios in the range @xmath24 .",
    "the synthetic agn with no nuclear component were included to check that the modelling code did not have a bias towards preferring a nuclear component where none existed .",
    "the final ensemble of models totalled 168 and covered the full range of parameters likely to occur in reality .",
    "when constructing the suite of synthetic quasars several steps were taken to ensure that these simulations reflected the characteristics of actual wfpc2 observations as closely as possible .",
    "the first step was to construct the final synthetic quasar images from a stack of separate frames in an identical fashion to the real data .",
    "as described in mclure et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , the actual quasar observations consist of three deep 600-second exposures which were complimented by three shorter snap - shot exposures of 5 , 26 and 40 seconds , designed to ensure a unsaturated measure of the nuclear component .",
    "the final reduced quasar images consist of a stack of the three long exposures , with the central regions replaced by a scaled snap - shot exposure to recover the quasar s full dynamic range .",
    "the construction of the synthetic quasars proceeded in exactly the same fashion , with individual simulations of each of the six separate exposures .",
    "an appropriate level of background counts were then added to each of the simulated exposures before they were processed by the iraf routine mknoise which simulated the effects of both shot and read - out noise .",
    "the fudicial luminosity of the simulated host galaxies was chosen to match the absolute magnitude of the best - fit to pks 2247 + 14 ( m@xmath25 ) , which was typical of the 12 hosts which had been observed at the time .",
    "the calculation of the absolute luminosity of the hosts at the three redshifts was then determined assuming a typical spectral index of @xmath26 for the f675w filter ( @xmath27 ) , and a cosmology with @xmath28kms@xmath29mpc@xmath29 and @xmath30 .",
    "the cosmological dimming of the agn point source assumed a spectral index of @xmath31 ( neugebauer et al .",
    "figure [ synthgals ] shows the apparent magnitudes for all 33 host galaxies from the hst programme ( see dunlop et al .",
    "2000 ) plotted against redshift .",
    "also shown are the apparent magnitudes of the synthetic host galaxies .",
    "there is a suggestion from fig [ synthgals ] that the synthetic galaxies are fractionally too bright compared to the data , making it arguably slightly too easy for the code to recover the galaxy parameters from the simulated images .",
    "this is confirmed by the results for the full sample which show the mean absolute luminosity of the 33 host galaxies to be m@xmath32 , 0.27 magnitudes fainter than the synthetic hosts used in the testing programme . to illustrate this point the dashed line in fig [ synthgals ]",
    "shows the apparent magnitude of the synthetic host galaxies dimmed by a further 0.27 magnitudes , which clearly provides a better match to the data .",
    "however , the overestimate of the typical host luminosity should be more that off - set by the much larger range of @xmath23 tackled by the modelling code during testing . while the average @xmath23 of the quasars from the hst programme is only @xmath33 , the code has been tested with values of @xmath23 in the range @xmath24 .",
    "one final measure was taken to improve the realism of the synthetic quasar images .",
    "the empirical psf which was used during the production of the synthetic data had an artificial centroiding shift of @xmath34 applied to it , significantly greater than the estimated centroiding error .",
    "this precaution was taken in light of the fact that using the same psf to convolve both the synthetic images and the models used in the fitting process is obviously an idealised situation .",
    "the results from the modelling of the synthetic quasars are listed in tables [ ellips ] , [ discs ] and [ moreres ] .",
    "two features of these results are worthy of individual comment .",
    "firstly , it can be seen that for both host morphologies the errors associated with the determination of all the parameters steadily increase with redshift , as is expected due to inevitable drop in signal - to - noise .",
    "secondly , with regards to the host scalelength it can be seen to be significantly easier to accurately determine this parameter for disc hosts than for ellipticals .",
    "this is again as is expected considering the different behaviour of the freeman and de vaucouleurs surface - brightness laws in the central @xmath14 .",
    "the cusp - like nature of the @xmath4 law at small radii inevitably leads to greater difficulty in de - coupling the relative contributions of the host and nuclear components .",
    "the results of the synthetic data testing can be summarized as follows :    * @xmath35 success in host morphology discrimination .",
    "* host flux determination @xmath36 accurate in all cases . *",
    "error in @xmath37 out to @xmath38 for ellipticals . * error in @xmath39 out to @xmath38 for discs .    where successful morphological determination refers to a @xmath40 between the best - fitting model of the correct morphology , and the best - fitting alternative model , a difference equivalent to the @xmath41 confidence level for a 5-parameter fit ( press et al .",
    "although the high degree of accuracy achieved in these simulations is impressive , it should be noted that these error estimates are only valid for the high resolution data provided by hst . as will be seen in section [ tip - tilt ] , the errors associated with ground - based data can be significantly larger .",
    ".results of the two - dimensional modelling tests using synthetic quasars with elliptical host galaxies .",
    "column 1 gives the redshift of the quasar .",
    "column 2 gives the actual scalelength of the simulated host in kpc .",
    "columns 3 - 8 give the mean percentage error in the reclaimed value of the relevant parameter .",
    "each value is the mean for the seven synthetic quasars produced at a particular redshift , with a particular scalelength ( for each redshift and scalelength combination there where seven different synthetic quasars produced with @xmath23=0 , 0.5 , 1.0 , 2.0 , 4.0 , 8.0 &  16 ) . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,<,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the integrated absolute @xmath3band and @xmath10band magnitudes of the best - fitting host galaxy models are presented in table [ kmags ] .",
    "the absolute magnitudes have been calculated using @xmath42-corrections assuming a spectral index @xmath43 and @xmath26 for the @xmath3- and @xmath10band respectively ( @xmath27 ) .",
    "the calculation of the host luminosities in terms of @xmath44 have been performed taking @xmath45 ( gardner et al .",
    "1997 ) and @xmath46 ( calculated by converting the value of @xmath47 ( lin et al . 1996 ) to an integrated magnitude ) .",
    "again it can be seen that these results confirm the findings of the hst @xmath10band imaging , and the previous @xmath3band imaging ( taylor et al .",
    "1996 ) , that the quasar hosts are all luminous galaxies with @xmath48 .",
    "the fact that in this small group of objects the rlqs are substantially more luminous than the rqqs should not be taken as significant since , 1004 + 130 and 1217 + 023 are found to be brighter than average for rlqs from the @xmath10band modelling , while 0953 + 415 has the largest @xmath23 ratio in the entire 33-object sample .",
    "the excellent agreement of the model results from the @xmath3- and @xmath10band imaging in terms of host morphology and scalelength allows an accurate measurement of the host galaxy optical - infrared colour to be made . the integrated , rest - frame ,",
    "@xmath1 colours listed in table [ kmags ] can be seen to be perfectly consistent with that expected from an old passively evolving stellar population formed at @xmath49 .",
    "this conclusion is confirmed by the @xmath1 colours of the full 33-object sample , where comparison with spectral synthesis models indicates that none of the agn host galaxies have stellar populations younger that @xmath50 gyr at z=0.2 ( dunlop et al .",
    "a further conclusion which can be drawn from the red colours of these host galaxies is that any star formation associated with the agn activity must be confined to the central few kpc , and not widely distributed throughout the body of the host galaxy .",
    "the results of applying our two - dimensional modelling technique to the full range of simulated quasar images provides confidence that , at least at @xmath51 all derived host galaxy parameters can be trusted to a typical accuracy of better than 10% .",
    "this is perhaps not surprising for parameters such as host luminosity , position angle , and axial ratio , but accurate scalelength determination has proved particularly difficult in virtually all previous studies of quasar hosts .",
    "the reliability of our derived scalelengths is further re - inforced by the virtually identical values yielded by the analysis of the infrared tip - tilt images discussed in the previous section .",
    "indeed the fact that such similar scalelengths have resulted from analysis of images taken at different wavelengths , with different plate - scales , and using very different telescopes with very different psf complications is undeniably impressive .",
    "it is this accuracy of scalelength determination that has enabled us , for the first time , to demonstrate that the hosts of rqqs , rlqs and rgs follow a kormendy relation with slope and normalization identical to that displayed by ` normal ' low - redshift massive ellipticals ( mclure et al . 1999 ; dunlop et al .",
    "2000 ) .",
    "the analysis of the new , higher - resolution ( cf dunlop e al . 1993 ) infrared images of the 4 quasars imaged with ircam3 indicates that galaxy scalelength is ( perhaps unsurprisingly ) essentially unchanged between the @xmath10 and @xmath3 wavebands , and that the hst - derived scalelengths should be trusted in preference to those derived by taylor et al .",
    "( 1996 ) from the ircam1 images of dunlop et al .",
    "( 1993 ) . in at least some cases the original infrared - based host - galaxy scalelengths appear to have been",
    "over - estimated from the ircam1 images , although not sufficiently to alter the basic conclusions of taylor et al .",
    "this has been taken into account in a re - analysis of the ircam1 data undertaken by dunlop et al .",
    "( 2000 ) in order to derive reliable @xmath1 colours for _ all _ the host galaxies in the hst sample .",
    "we thank the referee for comments which improved a number of aspects of this paper .",
    "the united kingdom infrared telescope is operated by the joint astronomy centre on behalf of the u.k . particle physics and astronomy research council . based on observations with the nasa / esa hubble space telescope , obtained at the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc . under nasa contract no .",
    "nas5 - 26555 .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "mjk acknowledges the award of a pparc pdra , and also acknowledges support for this work provided by nasa through grant numbers o0548 and o0573 from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by aura , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "rjm acknowledges a pparc studentship .",
    "abraham r.g . , crawford c.s . ,",
    "mchardy i.m . , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 401 , 474 + bahcall j.n . , kirhakos s. , schneider d.p . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 435 , l11 + bahcall j.n . , kirhakos s. , schneider d.p .",
    ", 1995a , apj , 447 , l1 + biretta j.a . , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "wfpc2 instrument handbook version 4.0 + boyce p.j . ,",
    "et al . , 1998 , mnras , 298 , 121 + de vaucouleurs g. , capaccioli m. , 1978 , apjs , 40 , 699 + donofrio m. , capaccioli m , caon n. , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 523 + dunlop j.s . , taylor g.l . , hughes d.h . , robson e.i . , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 455 + dunlop j.s . , mclure r.j .",
    ", kukula m.j . ,",
    "baum s.a . ,",
    "odea c.p . , 2000 , mnras , submitted + freeman k.c , 1970 , apj , 160 , 811 + gardner j.p .",
    ", sharples r.m . ,",
    "frenk c.s .",
    ", carrasco b.e . , 1997 ,",
    "a&as , 190 , 4303 + graham a. , lauer t.r .",
    ", colless m. , postman m. , 1996 , apj , 465 , 534 + hooper e.j .",
    ", impey c.d .",
    ", foltz c.b . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 480 , l95 + hutchings j.b . ,",
    "morris s.c . ,",
    "gower a.c .",
    ", lester m.l . , 1994 , apj , 429 , l1 + krist j. , 1998 , tinytim user manual + lauer t.r .",
    ", et al . , 1995 , aj , 110 , 2622 + lin h. , krishner r.p . , shectman s.a . , landy s.d . , oemler a. , tucker d.l . , schechter p.l . , 1996 , apj , 464 , 60 + mclure r.j . , kukula m.j . , dunlop j.s . , baum s.a . , odea c.p . , hughes d.h . , 1999 ,",
    "mnras , 308 , 377 + neugebauer g. , green g.f . , matthews k. , mcgill j. , scoville n. , soifer b.t . , 1987 , apjs , 93 , 1057 + percival w. , miller l. , mclure r.j . , dunlop j.s",
    ", 2000 , mnras , astro - ph/0002199 + press w.h .",
    ", 1989 , `` numerical recipes '' , cambridge university press + schombert j.m . , 1987 , apjs , 64 , 643 + sersic j.l . , 1968 , atlas de galaxies australes .",
    "observatorio astronomico cordoba + taylor g.t . , dunlop j.s .",
    ", hughes d.h . ,",
    "robson e.i . , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 930 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a description is given of the method used to extract quasar host - galaxy parameters from the deep hubble space telescope ( hst ) quasar images presented by mclure et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 1999 ) and dunlop et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2000 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we then give the results of extensive testing of this technique on a wide range of simulated quasar+host combinations spanning the redshift range of our hst study ( @xmath0 ) . </S>",
    "<S> these simulations demonstrate that , when applied to our deep hst images , our method of analysis can easily distinguish the morphological type of a given host galaxy , as well as determining its scalelength , luminosity , axial ratio and position angle to within an accuracy of a few percent . </S>",
    "<S> we also present new infrared tip - tilt images of 4 of the most luminous quasars in our hst sample , along with the outcome of modelling these data in a similar manner . </S>",
    "<S> the results provide further confidence in the accuracy of the derived host - galaxy scalelengths , and allow accurate determination of @xmath1 colours for this subset of sources . </S>",
    "<S> all 4 of these quasar host galaxies have very similar red colours , @xmath2 , indicative of a well - evolved stellar population .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active  galaxies : photometry  infrared : galaxies  quasars : general </S>"
  ]
}