{
  "article_text": [
    "at least 60% of the soft extragalactic x - ray background ( xrb ) has been resolved into discrete sources ( hasinger et al .",
    "thus , the very nature of the xrb is now essentially understood .",
    "apart from optical identificatons and the determination of lumnosity functions of the contributors to the xrb , many current investigations now concentrate on more subtle properties , such as surface brightness fluctuations at various angular scales .",
    "below @xmath7 the inhomogeneity of the xrb is directly related to individual sources .",
    "an investigation of the statistical character of these fluctuations shows that at least another 15% of the total xrb is produced by discrete sources ( e.g. hasinger et al .",
    "1993 ) . at intermediate scales ,",
    "@xmath8 to @xmath9 , deviations from a smooth distribution are generated primarily by rich clusters of galaxies ( e.g. briel & henry 1993 , and references therein ) .",
    "fluctuations at these angular scales could potentially also result from the nonuniform distribution of sources contributing to the xrb .",
    "upper limits on the amplitude of the xrb variations which impose significant constraints on the clustering properties of sources have been obtained by several authors ( e.g. sotan & hasinger 1994 , and references therein ) .    at still larger scales , @xmath10 , low amplitude inhomogeneities",
    "could originate from extended nearby sources and/or from sources substantially larger than typical rich clusters .",
    "the structure of the xrb at scales above @xmath11 has been investigated in the first paper of this series ( sotan et al .",
    "1996 , hereafter paper i ) . in that work",
    "we have measured total fluctuations of the xrb using the auto - correlation function ( acf ) of the _ rosat _ all - sky survey ( rass ) maps ( see below ) .",
    "a positive acf amplitude has been detected for separations up to @xmath12 .",
    "the measurement of the cross - correlation function between the xrb maps and the distribution of abell clusters revealed that about @xmath13 of the acf amplitude of the xrb at separations @xmath14 can be accounted for by a new class of x - ray emitters associated with rich clusters of galaxies .",
    "the origin of the remaining xrb fluctuations is at present unknown .",
    "it has been suggested that nearby poor groups of galaxies could potentially contribute to the xrb fluctuations ( hasinger 1992 ) .",
    "this is a second paper of the series which presents further results of our study of the large scale fluctuations of the soft xrb .",
    "the aim of this investigation is to determine the average x - ray emissivity of normal galaxies using the extensive rass data .",
    "the x - ray properties of a large number of nearby individual galaxies have been examined on many occasions ( e.g. fabbiano 1989 , eskride et al .",
    "1995 , and references therein ) , but this type of observation can not be effectively used to determine the total local volume emissivity associated with the overall galaxy population .",
    "the main thrust of the present investigation is to utilize correlations between distributions of galaxies and the rass maps .",
    "this was recognized as a potential method for studying the xrb several years ago by turner & geller ( 1980 ) .",
    "they obtained an upper limit of @xmath15% on the fraction of the xrb in the _ uhuru _ energy band ( @xmath16kev ) produced by any class of sources `` represented among bright ( m@xmath17 ) galaxies '' .",
    "jahoda et al .",
    "( 1991 , 1992 ) calculated the cross - correlation function ( ccf ) between the _",
    "a-2 all - sky survey ( @xmath18kev ) and the galaxy surface density based on samples from the uppsala general catalogue ( nilson 1973 , hereafter ugc ) and the european southern observatory catalog ( lauberts 1982 ) .",
    "the detection of a positive correlation signal led jahoda et al . to the conclusion that non - evolving sources can produce as much as 50% @xmath19 30% and 70% @xmath19 40% of the xrb respectively , using the two galaxy catalogues .",
    "their figures were revised downward to ( @xmath20)% by lahav et al .",
    "( 1993 ) who analysed the cross - correlation of the _ ginga _ data with the ugc and iras galaxy samples .",
    "the reason for this reduction resides in different assumptions about the spatial distribution of galaxies contributing to the xrb .",
    "jahoda et al . did not take into account the clustering of galaxies and thus overestimated the average ratio of x - ray emissivity to the surface density of galaxies .",
    "lahav et al . have shown that clustering effects are essential in this case",
    ".    a further refinement of this method was achieved by miyaji et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , who investigated the cross - correlation between _ heao 1 _ a-2 xrb maps and samples of galaxies selected from the _ iras _ point source catalogue . to model the ccf of the xrb  galaxy distribution , they derive formulae describing clustering effects and correlations of x - ray and ir luminosities of the sources under examination .",
    "miyaji et al .",
    "point out that their estimates of the total x - ray volume emissivity above 2kev are model - dependent .",
    "analogous calculations have been performed by carrera et al .",
    "( 1995 ) using _ ginga _ scans in the @xmath21kev band .",
    "they found that @xmath22% of the xrb could be produced by a non - evolving population of galaxies .",
    "the angular resolution of both the _ heao 1 _ a-2 and _ ginga _ lac experiments is defined by the collimator sizes , @xmath23 and @xmath24 , respectively .",
    "all the cosmic signal of correlations on scales @xmath25 is hidden behind the strong correlation amplitude generated by the poor instrumental angular resolution . because typical correlations between the xrb and galaxy distributions at scales @xmath26 are very weak ( see below ) , investigations based on non - imaging optics are virtually restricted to zero - lag cross - correlation measurements .",
    "for instance , this is illustrated by fig .",
    "2 of carrera et al .",
    "the correlations are determined over a wide range of separations , but above @xmath27 any ccf signal is lost in the noise .",
    "three deep _ rosat _ pointings have been used by roche et al .",
    "( 1995 ) to determine the ccf of the unresolved xrb and faint ( b @xmath28 ) galaxies .",
    "the angular resolution of the x - ray telescope allowed for measurements of the ccf amplitude at several separations .",
    "although the scatter between fields is substantial , the mean ccf clearly exhibits an extension exceeding the width of the point spread function .",
    "the x - ray emissivity estimated by roche et al .",
    "converted to @xmath29kms@xmath3mpc@xmath3 amounts to @xmath30ergs@xmath3mpc@xmath4 in the 0.5  2kev band .",
    "treyer & lahav ( 1995 ) applied a correlation formalism to investigate the relationship between the population of faint blue galaxies ( b = 18  23 ) and the soft xrb .",
    "they carefully reevaluated the roche et al .",
    "results and estimate the comoving volume emissivity at @xmath31ergs@xmath3mpc@xmath4 in the @xmath32kev band .",
    "total x - ray emissivity correlated with the galaxy distribution is used to estimate contribution of `` normal '' objects to the total xrb .",
    "term `` normal '' is commonly used to the overall galaxy population as distinct from variety of objects showing any form of activity . in the present paper , normal objects",
    "are those which in the local universe follow the distribution of sample galaxies .",
    "our analysis can not be used to distinguish between various mechanisms of galaxy emission . in particular",
    ", `` classical '' normal galaxy emission due to x - ray binaries and snrs would produce a similar correlation signal to that generated by nuclear galaxy activity distributed among the population of otherwise `` normal '' galaxies ( e.g. elvis et al . 1984 ) .",
    "one could separate stellar signal from scaled down agn behaviour if the spatial distributions of both types of galaxies are different .",
    "several investigations ( iovino and shaver 1988 , kruszewski 1988 , andreani and cristiani 1992 , mo and fang 1993 ) show that a class of powerful agns , viz .",
    "quasars exhibit in fact stronger clustering than general population of galaxies .",
    "however , clustering properties of agns at the faint end of the nuclear luminosity function are not known and it is likely that the spatial distribution of these galactic nuclei is identic to the general galaxy distribution .",
    "identification of x - ray sources directly show what kinds of objects contribute to the xrb at various flux levels . here",
    "we summarize basic data on this subject for comparison with the present results .",
    "the largest contribution to the xrb above _ rosat _ sensitivity threshold comes from agns ( e.g. boyle et al . 1993 and references therein ) .",
    "the deepest _ rosat _ exposure in the _ lockman hole _ resolves about 60% of the background with agns clearly seen in high proportion ( hasinger et al .",
    "1993 , bower et al .",
    "systematic identifications of x - ray sources in a large number of _ einstein _ and _ rosat _ fields show that qsos with luminosities in the range @xmath33 ",
    "@xmath34 ergs@xmath3 in the soft x - rays produce 30% to 90% of the xrb at 2kev .",
    "although , due to poor estimates in the faint end and high redshift evolution of the x - ray luminosity function , above limits are still wide , it is well established that the agn contribution to the xrb is substantially larger than the contribution of ordinary galaxies , i.e. galaxies which produce x - rays through standard thermal processes .",
    "detailed studies of nearby galaxies and the milky way reveal a variety of x - ray sources associated with several galaxy components .",
    "the total x - ray emission of an individual galaxy is a mixture of several constituents .",
    "the integrated flux produced by single and binary stars , supernova remnants , thermal emission by hot gas and  in some objects  non - thermal radiation produced in an active nucleus create a complex x - ray map for each galaxy ( e.g. fabbiano 1989 and references therein ) .",
    "observations using the _ einstein _ and _ rosat _ satellites show that normal galaxies of all morphological types are spatially extended x - ray sources with luminosities in the range of @xmath35 to @xmath36ergs@xmath3 .",
    "separate from this `` normal '' x - ray emission , some fraction of galaxies exhibit non - thermal nuclear activity .",
    "it is likely that luminosities of active galactic nuclei extend to arbitrary low levels and the distinction between normal and active galaxy could in some cases be a matter of convention ( e.g. elvis et al . 1984 ) . using ratio of x - ray to optical luminosities ( excluding non - thermal nuclear component ) integrated emission of normal galaxies contributes @xmath37% to the xrb at 2kev ( fabiano 1989 ) .    clusters of galaxies constitute a separate class of x - ray sources .",
    "observations of distant clusters ( e.g. edge et al .",
    "1990 , henry et al .",
    "1992 , ebeling 1993 , but see also ebeling et al .",
    "1996 ) indicate  although this question still could be debated  that their x - ray luminosity function undergoes strong evolution in the sense that local volume emissivity is greater than that at high redshifts . according to various estimates , contribution of rich , abell - type , clusters to",
    "the xrb falls between 5% and 10% .",
    "correlations between the xrb and selected galaxies provide information on all kinds of x - ray sources which are spatailly correlated with those galaxies",
    ". the ccf signal represents integrated emission of sources occupying specific volume .",
    "luminosity density calculated this way comes both from normal galaxies and agns as well as from clusters of galaxies ( see below ) .",
    "the present calculations give the x - ray volume emissivity but do not allow to isolate individual objects . on the other hand , identifications of sources in flux limited samples provide information on discrete sources , but are ineffective method to calculate total volume emissivity .    in this context",
    "it is important to note that our samples were constructed using apparent magnitudes .",
    "any x - ray emission which is not correlated with galaxies ( e.g. hypothetical x - ray sources associated with dwarf galaxies in voids ) is not taken into account .",
    "thus our measurement is actually a lower limit for the total x - ray emissivity if other kinds of x - ray sources are common in the local universe .",
    "the basic framework of the present investigation is analogous to the work by roche et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , although we are using totally different observational material both in the x - ray and optical domains .",
    "the main advantage of the present analysis resides in the high quality of the x - ray data accumulated in the rass .",
    "the massive amount of the rass data warrants not just a quantitative improvement of the measurement accuracy , but also a substantial extension of the scope of analysis as compared to the previous investigations .",
    "our objective is to determine the ccfs between the xrb and several magnitude limited galaxy samples .",
    "these observed ccfs are compared with predictions based on the correlations of galaxies measured in each sample separately and between the samples .",
    "then , we estimate the ratio of the x - ray  to  optical volume emissivities associated with galaxies and  using optical luminosity density as normalization  we calculate the x - ray volume emissivity .",
    "the organization of the paper is as follows : the x - ray and optical material used in the investigations is described in sections 2 and 3 , respectively .",
    "procedures used to determine the ccfs and their uncertainties are presented in section 4 .",
    "an analysis of the observed ccfs and the construction of models which properly reproduce the observations is given in the section 5 .",
    "we examine some properties of the x - ray emission in section 6 and conclude our investigation with a short discussion in section 7 .",
    "the _ rosat _ ( trmper 1983 ) all - sky survey with the pspc ( pfeffermann et al .",
    "1987 ) is used in the analysis . for",
    "a comprehensive description of the rass see snowden & schmitt ( 1990 ) and voges ( 1992 ) .",
    "basic references and relevant characteristics of the rass are given in paper i. here we summarize only the essential information .",
    "various effects and constituents contaminating the cosmic signal ( particle background , solar scattered x - rays and `` short- and long - term enhancements '' ) have been extracted in a complex and laborious procedure as described by snowden et al .",
    "( 1995 ) . within the _ rosat _ energy band ( @xmath38 kev ) , the amplitude of the galactic component relative to the extragalactic signal increases drastically towards soft energies . in paper",
    "i we discuss this question in some detail and find that useful information on the fluctuations of the extragalactic xrb component are concentrated mainly in two energy bands in the hard portion of the rass labelled r5 and r6 .",
    "the band r5 is centered at @xmath39kev and in terms of puls - height invariant ( pi ) channels includes channels @xmath40 , while the band r6 is defined by channels @xmath41 and is centered at @xmath42kev ( snowden et al .",
    "although the bands r5 and r6 cover overlapping energy ranges , they differ strongly in the level of the galactic contribution .",
    "it is shown in paper i that a specific linear combination of the count rates in bands r6 and r5 is significantly less contaminated by soft emission from hot plasma in the galaxy than each of those bands separately . because in the present investigation we are interested in the extragalactic component of the xrb , we use exactly the same procedure as in paper i to obtain data free from the local contamination , viz .",
    "we utilize a region in the north galactic hemisphere : @xmath43 in which the count rate of the extragalactic component in the band r6 , @xmath44 , is defined as @xmath45 where @xmath46 and @xmath47 denote the count rates in the respective bands ( see paper i for details ) .    for the purpose of the present paper ,",
    "the rass maps are represented by an array of count rates in pixels .",
    "pixels of @xmath48 are used in our calculation .",
    "this size coincides roughly with the area containing 90% of the counts produced by a point source .",
    "galaxy data were divided into several magnitude limited samples . to construct maps of the galaxy distribution suitable for further analysis , we have used the _ catalogue of principal galaxies _ , hereinafter , pgc described by paturel et al .",
    "( 1989 ) and shane and wirtanen ( 1967 , hereafter sw ) counts in @xmath49 pixels kindly provided to us in electronic form by dr .",
    "galaxies selected from the pgc are divided into four samples according to apparent magnitude limits : sample 1 contains galaxies with @xmath50 , sample 2 with @xmath51 , sample 3 with @xmath52 and sample 4 with @xmath53 .",
    "the first three samples are statistically complete , while in sample 4 some galaxies at the faint magnitude limit are missing due to the incompleteness of the pgc ( see below ) .",
    "the fifth sample contains galaxies from the sw counts excluding those present in the first four samples .",
    "thus , it comprises the weakest and  on the average  the most distant galaxies .    to assess completeness of sample 4",
    ", we have used the slope of the number  magnitude relation . in the relevant magnitude range",
    "it is approximately equal to 0.55 ( driver et al . 1994 ) , which is slightly below the slope expected in the euclidean non - expanding model of 0.6 . the number of galaxies expected in sample 4 , based on the extrapolation from samples 2 and 3 and a slope of 0.55 , is 6% larger than that actually listed . using the euclidean slope of 0.6 , this difference increases to 23% .",
    "the average number of galaxies in @xmath54 pixel in the sample 5 is 1.730 .",
    "we derive the approximate faint magnitude limit in this sample of 18.6mag , using the bright end limit of 16mag and assuming the slope of the relation between number counts and apparent magnitude @xmath55 ( driver et al .",
    "a summary of the relevant data on the galaxy samples is given in table 1 .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,<,^ , < \" , ]     observed average amplitudes of optical fluctuations produced by galaxies brighter than @xmath56 are listed in column 2 .",
    "estimates of total fluctuations @xmath57(total ) and x - ray  to  optical ratios @xmath58(total ) are given in columns 3 and 4 , respectively .",
    "we note that @xmath59 exhibits still large variations , although it is substantially more stable than @xmath60 .",
    "we discuss variations of @xmath59 in the next section .",
    "the ratio of apparent fluctuations @xmath59 is equal to the ratio of x - ray  to  optical volume emissivities @xmath61 .",
    "we calculate the optical volume emissivity in the b - band integrating the lf over all the optical luminosities : @xmath62 where @xmath63mpc@xmath4 is the normalization of the schechter lf , @xmath64 ergs@xmath3hz@xmath3 corresponds to @xmath65 .",
    "the galaxy counts using these parameters are in good agreement with the actual number of galaxies in our samples .",
    "we now calculate the x - ray volume emissivity @xmath66 correlated with the galaxy distribution for each sample : @xmath67 to assess contribution of this local emission to the total xrb , we note that without cosmological evolution @xmath68ergs@xmath3mpc@xmath4 in the 0.5  2.0kev band is required to produce the observed intensity of the xrb ( hasinger et al .",
    "1993 , paper i ) .",
    "in column 5 of table 4 we list the ratio : @xmath69 thus , @xmath70 denotes the fractional contribution to the xrb by a nonevolving population of sources generating a constant luminosity @xmath66 per unit volume of co - moving space integrated to large redshifts ( e.g. paper i , eq.18 ) .",
    "estimates of the local volume x - ray emissivity and its contribution to the xrb based on 5 galaxy samples still cover an uncomfortably wide range .",
    "albeit this is distinctly smaller than variations of @xmath60 found when the cross - correlation terms were ignored ( column 4 in table 2 ) , present @xmath70 measurements span from 7% to 38% .",
    "these changes are inconsistent with one value , expected if x - ray properties of each sample are representative to the whole galaxy population .",
    "growth of @xmath70 with @xmath71 taken literally would indicate that samples have substantially different average x - ray luminosities associated with a single galaxy .",
    "obviously , such interpretation is not accepted and an alternative systematic effect is proposed in the next section to explain sample - to - sample variations .",
    "the ratios of x - ray  to  optical fluctuations have been calculated in the preceding section for separations @xmath72 .",
    "we now apply these quantities to synthetize predicted ccf between the galaxy distribution and the x - ray sky in the wider range of separations and compare them with the actual measurements .",
    "the procedure is as follows .",
    "the amplitude of the optical fluctuations @xmath73 is calculated by means of eq.(11 ) using galaxy acfs and ccfs @xmath74 .",
    "the `` @xmath75 '' term at the right - hand side of the equation is used only for zero lag correlations ( @xmath76 in eq.(4 ) ) .",
    "then the values @xmath77 are obtained using the @xmath59 from column 4 of table 4 . finally , predicted ccf @xmath78 for @xmath79 are calculated from eq.(9 ) and the results are shown in figs.3a - e .",
    "open squares and error bars show the actual galaxy  x - ray ccf ( same as in figs.2a - e ) , while crosses represent calculated ccfs according to above prescription . for comparison ,",
    "the acfs in each galaxy sample are shown with filled symbols .",
    "results for sample 1 ( fig.[fig2a ] ) do not allow to make conclusive statements due to excessive uncertainties .",
    "we note only that observed and synthetized acfs in sample 1 are in qualitative agreement and the subsequent discussion is limited to the samples @xmath80 . at separations below @xmath81",
    "all calculated ccfs exhibit similar deviations from the actual measurements : the synthetized zero - lag point is situated above the real one , while the relative positions of the next point ( @xmath82 ) are reversed . this is because the predicted galaxy  x - ray ccfs are obtained under the assumption that the galaxy residing in the zero - lag pixel does not produce x - ray signal in the surrounding pixels .",
    "this condition is not satisfied in the real ccf due to the finite width of the point spread function .",
    "comparison of differences between the simulated and observed ccfs for samples @xmath80 offers a possible explanation of systematic changes of the x - ray  to  optical ratio .",
    "the predicted ccf amplitude in sample 3 at @xmath83 is below the observed ccf .",
    "a similar effect is present in the sample 2 also at larger separations , although within the error bars .",
    "samples 4 and 5 show near perfect agreement between observations and predictions .",
    "these data indicate , albeit at a relatively low significance level , that the total angular extent of x - ray emission associated with galaxies has been underestimated in our calculations in samples 2 and 3 , while galaxies in samples 4 and 5 are more distant and their sizes are below the pixel size . to check quantitatively this effect ,",
    "we have recalculated the x - ray  to  optical ratio and the relative galaxy contribution @xmath70 to the xrb using the first three points instead of two of the acfs and ccfs , e.g. the correlation functions have been averaged over @xmath84 rather than @xmath81 and the calculations described in section 5 have been repeated .",
    "one could expect that this change of the angular separations used in the analysis will not affect results in the samples 4 and 5 .",
    "in fact , we get now @xmath85 and @xmath86 , respectively . differences with our previous estimates of @xmath87 and @xmath88 ( table 4 ) are clearly within the uncertainties . in the sample 3",
    "we obtain substantially increased x - ray contribution , namely @xmath89 , as compared to @xmath90 for @xmath91 .",
    "a similar but weaker effect is detected in the sample 2 : @xmath92 , while @xmath93 .",
    "further increase of separations does not provide more accurate estimates because of the large ccf error bars above @xmath94 .",
    "we conclude that variations of @xmath70 could be eliminated assuming that the average x - ray emission by galaxies in sample 3 extends up to @xmath95 and even to larger distances in the sample 2 .",
    "one should note that the accuracy of the ccf measurements is quite low even at these small separations .",
    "inclusion of the @xmath96 point into the @xmath70 estimates does not reduce the statistical uncertainties involved in our calculations .",
    "it shows only that the data are consistent with the supposition that a substantial fraction of the flux correlated with galaxies originates in extended sources . at the same time",
    ", the extended emission can explain the variations of @xmath70 found for @xmath72 in a natural way .",
    "uncertainties of the relative contribution to the xrb , @xmath70 are produced by various sources .",
    "both statistical as well as systematic effects are present .",
    "our error estimates of the galaxy  x - ray ccfs shown in the figures provide some insight into the problem .",
    "these errors are given as signal  to  noise ratio of the ccf measurements in column 5 of table 2 . because they are directly related to the number of galaxies involved in the computations , sample 5 exhibits the smallest statistical uncertainties .",
    "two other samples which were effectively used to estimate @xmath70 , viz .",
    "samples 3 and 4 , suffer from substantially larger uncertainties .",
    "nevertheless , all three samples eventually provided very similar estimates of the total galaxy contribution to the xrb .",
    "this conspicuous agreement between three samples shows that our approach constitutes an efficient and coherent method of calculations .",
    "we note that three samples of galaxies under consideration cover almost 5 magnitudes in the apparent brightness .",
    "the range of redshifts is also very wide .",
    "the estimated characteristic redshift of the most distant galaxies in the sample 5 exceeds @xmath97 , while the mean redshift in the sample 3 @xmath98 .",
    "the data are quite heterogeneous : sample 3 and 4 come from the pgc while sample 5 is a subset of the sw counts .",
    "all these factors as well as the multi  step procedure of the @xmath70 determination make literal assessment of the final errors unreliable . due to this reason",
    "we refrain from formal estimates of the @xmath70 uncertainties .",
    "however , the results based on samples 3 , 4 and 5 indicate explicitly that the total contribution of x - ray emission associated with the local galaxy population assuming no evolution falls in the range @xmath99 .",
    "the large pixel size does not allow for a detailed study of the spatial distribution of the emission .",
    "crude estimates of the magnitudes involved are obtained as follows .",
    "mean galaxy redshifts in samples 2 and 3 are @xmath100 and @xmath101 , respectively . using the @xmath70 values from table 4",
    "we find out that roughly half of the x - ray emission by galaxies in sample 2 comes from separations greater than @xmath102 while all the emission in sample 3 comes within @xmath9 .",
    "linear sizes corresponding to @xmath102 at @xmath103 and to @xmath9 at @xmath101 are @xmath104mpc and @xmath105mpc .",
    "thus , half of the emission comes from regions of radius @xmath106mpc but well outside the optical extent of galaxies .",
    "we would like to stress once more that the exact nature of the extended emission introduced to obtain consistent results on the x - ray luminosity density within our data is not well constrained by the correlation analysis .",
    "our estimate that about half of the emission could come from regions of @xmath6mpc size does not imply that each galaxy is surrounded by such emitting region .",
    "the extended signal could be generated either by weak sources associated with a large number of individual galaxies or by a small number of stronger sources related to galaxy groups or clusters .",
    "below we consider such two models and confront them with observational constraints .",
    "extended x - ray emission by small clusters and groups of galaxies contained in the galaxy samples used in the present investigation offers a natural explanation for the @xmath6mpc size x - ray sources reported above .",
    "we note that only abell clusters have been excluded from the data , while all variety of smaller groups as well as some unspecified number of rich clusters missed by abell are still present in our material .",
    "obviously , only a fraction of galaxies belongs to those groups or clusters , but our analysis is unable to distinguish between a large number of weak extended haloes around every galaxy and less numerous but stronger x - ray cluster sources .",
    "the possible significance of poor cluster emission for the xrb fluctuations is discussed in some details in paper i. using analogous arguments we conclude that small groups of galaxies most probably could provide sufficient x - ray emission to reproduce our detection of extended sources .",
    "accurate data on statistics of groups of galaxies and their x - ray emission are unavailable . however",
    ", the relationship between various parameters characterizing clusters , such as space density , surface density of galaxies within a cluster ( `` richness '' ) , velocity dispersion and x - ray luminosity show sufficient continuity between rich and poor clusters ( e.g. edge & stewart 1991a , b , henry & arnaud 1991 , david et al . 1993 , dellantonio et al . 1994 ) .",
    "although these data do not provide definitive estimates of the cluster volume emissivity , we assess that the mean emissivity of @xmath107ergs@xmath3mpc@xmath3 indicated by our study is consistent with the data in the literature .",
    "in particular , it coincides with the luminosity density derived from the luminosity function of the x - ray selected groups of galaxies obtained by henry et al .",
    "( 1995 ) . on the other hand ,",
    "the uncertainties of the extrapolation involved in this estimate are large and we do not claim that the extended emission detected in the present investigation is definitely and completely produced in poor clusters .    one should note that the temperature of thermal emission by poor groups of galaxies rarely exceeds 2kev ( dellantonio et al .",
    "thus , groups of galaxies typically are detected neither by _ heao 1 _ a-2 nor _ ginga _ lac experiments which operate in 210kev and 412kev energy bands , respectively . assuming a thermal emission model , estimates of the normal galaxy contribution to the xrb above 2kev by jahoda et al .",
    "( 1991 ) , lahav et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and carrera et al .",
    "( 1995 ) should be compared to our calculations which exclude extended sources .",
    "splitting the total density luminosity into extended and `` point - like '' emission , the contribution of each component to the xrb amounts to @xmath108% . in this case , the results obtained by `` non - imaging '' instruments of roughly 30% are above our estimates . taking into account the large uncertainties of all analyses ,",
    "this difference is probably insignificant .",
    "we now discuss a possibility that extended emission is associated with individual galaxies rather than groups of galaxies .",
    "first , we note that x - ray halo of @xmath6mpc diameter with x - ray luminosity below a few times @xmath109ergs@xmath3 would escape detection as individual source even in extremely deep x - ray exposures .",
    "this is because the surface brightness of such extended source does not exceed one per cent of the average xrb intensity and such weak signal falls below the sensitivity limit in virtually all x - ray experiments .",
    "obviously , a source with these parameters is not recognized as a single object also in the present investigation .",
    "the correlations analysis could reveal their existence only if such sources constitute sufficiently numerous class of x - ray objects .",
    "normal galaxies have soft x - ray luminosities between @xmath35 to @xmath36ergs@xmath3 ( fabbiano et al .",
    "detailed observations reveal often complex x - ray morphology and quite frequently there is no one  to  one match between x - ray and optical features ( e.g. fabbiano 1989 , fabbiano et al .",
    "although some galaxies including our own seem to be surrounded by hot gas emitting soft x - rays ( e.g. pietsch & trmper 1993 , pietsch 1993 , snowden et al .",
    "1994a , ehle et al . 1995 ) , the characteristic size of sources reported in the previous section would represent a new constituent of the galaxy x - ray emission .",
    "we consider here two alternative models for this halo .",
    "first , galaxies may be surrounded by halos of radius @xmath110mpc of hot gas which radiates x - rays in thermal bremsstrahlung .",
    "the gas temperature is not constrained by the present measurement .",
    "one can tentatively assume that @xmath111kev .",
    "in the second model , the emission is produced by a large number of weak sources .",
    "the possible nature of these sources is unknown , but low mass x - ray binaries , neutron stars , black holes or subdwarfs are potential candidates .",
    "we refer to a paper by maoz and grindlay ( 1995 ) who investigated the possibility of a halo around our galaxy built with these objects .",
    "they found that all the observational constraints are not violated if the galaxy  and other spirals  is surrounded by a population of @xmath112 x - ray sources with luminosities @xmath113ergs@xmath3 distributed in a halo with a characteristic radius of @xmath108mpc .",
    "it remains to be seen whether identifications of sources from the deepest _ rosat _ pointings will validate this model or impose observational constrains which force some modifications of its parameters . in the latter case one",
    "should examine if this model could still provide possible explanation for the extended emission indicated by the present investigation .",
    "measurements of the local x - ray volume emissivity are effectively done using correlations between galaxy distribution and the xrb maps .",
    "assuming that the x - ray and optical emissivities are proportional when averaged over large volume of space , we have been able to estimate total production of soft x - rays per cubic mpc .",
    "such analysis has been performed using several galaxy samples with well defined apparent magnitude limits .",
    "wide range of magnitudes corresponds to substantially different depths of the galaxy samples .",
    "however , because of the broad distribution of galaxy absolute optical luminosities , galaxies of quite different apparent magnitudes are spatially correlated .",
    "this leads to significant angular correlations on the celestial sphere between galaxy samples . in the present analysis",
    "all these effects have been accounted for .",
    "x - ray emission associated with the local population of galaxies contributes to the fluctuations of the xrb on degree scale .",
    "the amplitude of these fluctuations can be estimated using our present assessments of the average x - ray luminosity density related to galaxies and fluctuations of the galaxy distribution . in the next paper of this series",
    "we intend to evaluate the magnitude of the galaxy induced xrb fluctuations and relate them to the results of paper i.    the varying ratio of x - ray  to  optical emissivities with redshift and the angular dependence of auto- and cross - correlations indicate the presence of extended x - ray emission . because of the poor statistics , the intensity of this diffuse x - ray radiation is not well determined",
    ". however , the data is consistent with the conjecture that about half of the luminosity comes from regions outside the optical galaxy image .",
    "such extended sources could be associated with extended emission by hot gas in groups and clusters of galaxies , although neither our estimates nor observational data on x - ray properties of such clusters are sufficiently accurate to make a quantitative comparison .",
    "one could expect even greater observational difficulties to verify the `` halo around each galaxy '' model .",
    "if the typical x - ray luminosity of a halo is @xmath114ergs@xmath3 , its detection as a distinct entity would be practically impossible with the present - day instruments . to distinguish between the two models considered here , one needs extensive statistical data on x - ray properties of groups of galaxies .",
    "we expect also that a scrupulous selection of `` isolated '' and `` cluster '' galaxies in our samples would help to address this question .",
    "the _ rosat _ project has been supported by the bundesministerium fr bildung , wissenschaft , forschung und technologie ( bmbf / dara ) and by the max - planck - society .",
    "ams is grateful to prof .",
    "j. trmper for his hospitality and financial support .",
    "this work has been partially supported by the polish kbn grants 2  p304  021  06 and 2  p03d  005  10 .",
    "andreani , p. , cristiani , s. , 1992 , apj 398 , l13 bower , r. g. , hasinger , g. , castander , f. j. , et al . , 1996 , mnras 281 , 59 boyle , b. j. , griffiths , r. e. , shanks , t. , stewart , g. c. , georgantopoulos , i. , 1993 , mnras 260 , 49 briel , u. g. , henry , j. p. , 1993",
    ", a&a 278 , 390 butcher , h. r. , van breugel , w. , miley , g. k. , 1980 , apj 235 , 749 carrera , f. j. , barcons , x. , butcher , j. a. , et al . , 1995 ,",
    "mnras 275 , 22 david , l. p. , slyz , a. , jones , c. , et al .",
    ", 1993 , apj 412 , 479 dellantonio , i. p. , geller , m. j. , fabricant , d. g. , 1994 , aj 107 , 427 driver , s. p. , phillipps , s. , davies , j. i. , morgan , i. , disney , m. j. , 1994 , mnras 266 , 155 ebeling , h. , 1993 , abell and aco clusters of galaxies in the rosat all - sky x - ray survey : a statistical study .",
    "phd thesis , garching , mpe report 250 ebeling , h. , allen , s. w. , crawford , c. s. , et al .",
    ", 1996 , in : zimmermann , h. u. , trmper , j. ( eds . ) rntgenstrahlung from the universe , garching , mpe report 263 , p. 579 edge , a. c. , stewart , g. c. , fabian , a. c. , arnaud , k. a. , 1990 , mnras 245 , 559 edge , a. c. , stewart , g. c. , 1991a , mnras 252 , 414 edge , a. c. , stewart , g. c. , 1991b , mnras 252 , 428 ehle , m. , pietsch , w. , beck , r. , 1995 , a&a 295 , 289 elvis , m. , soltan , a. , keel , w. c. , 1984 , apj 283 , 479 eskride , p. b. , fabbiano , g. , kim , d .- w . , 1995 ,",
    "apjs 97 , 141 fabbiano , g. , 1989 , ara&a 27 , 87 fabbiano , g. , kim , d .- w . , trinchieri , g. , 1992 , apjs 80 , 531 hasinger , g. , 1992 , _ rosat _ deep surveys . in : brinkmann , w. ,",
    "trmper , j. ( eds . ) proc .",
    "mpe conf . ,",
    "x - ray emission from active galactic nuclei and the cosmic x - ray background .",
    "garching , mpe report 235 , p. 321 hasinger , g. , burg , r. , giacconi , r. , et al . , 1993 ,",
    "a&a 275 , 1 ( erratum : a&a 291 , 348 ) henry , j. p. , arnaud , k. a. , 1991 , apj 372 , 410 henry , j. p. , gioia , i. m. , maccacaro , t. , et al . , 1992 , apj 386 , 408 henry , j. p. , gioia , i. m. , huchra , j. p. , et al . , 1995 ,",
    "apj 449 , 422 iovino , a. , shaver , p. a. , 1988 , apj 330 , l13 jahoda , k. , lahav , o. , mushotzky , r. f. , boldt , e. , 1991 , apj 378 , l37 jahoda , k. , lahav , o. , mushotzky , r. f. , boldt , e. , 1992 , apj 399 , l107 kruszewski , a. , 1988 , acta astron .",
    ", 38 , 155 lahav , o. , fabian , a. c. , barcons , x. , et al .",
    ", 1993 , nat 364 , 693 lauberts , a. , 1982 , the eso / uppsala survey of the eso(b ) atlas , eso , garching maccacaro , t. , gioia , i. m. , wolter , a. , zamorani , g. , stocke , j. t. , 1988 , apj 326 , 680 maoz , e. , grindlay , j. , 1995 , apj 444 , 183 miyaji , t. , lahav , o. , jahoda , k. , boldt , e. , 1994 , apj 434 , 424 mo , h. j. , fang , l. z. , 1993 , apj 410 , 493 nilson , p. , 1973",
    ", uppsala general catalogue of galaxies , uppsala astr .",
    "vol . 6 paturel , g. , fouqu , p. , bottinelli , l. , gouguenheim , l. , 1989 , a&as 80 , 299 peebles , p. j. e. , 1980 , the large scale structure of the universe .",
    "princeton univ . press , princeton ,",
    "p. 155 pfeffermann , e. , et al . , 1987 , in : koch , e .- e . , schamhl , g. ( eds . ) soft x - ray optics and technology ( proc .",
    "spie 733 , 519 ) pietsch , w. , 1993 , in : hensler , g. , theis , c. , gallagher , j. ( eds . ) panchromatic view of galaxies , gif - sur - yvette cedex , edition frontiers , p. 137",
    "pietsch , w. , trmper , j. , 1993 , adv .",
    "space res .",
    "13 , 171 roche , n. , shanks , t. , georgantopoulos , i. , et al . , 1995 , mnras 273 , l15 schechter , p. , 1976 , apj 203 , 297 seldner , m. , peebles , p. j. e. , 1977 , apj 215 , 703 shane , c. d. , wirtanen , c. a. , 1967 , publ .",
    "xxii  part i snowden , s. l. , freyberg , m. j. , plucinsky , p. p. , et al . , 1995 , apj 454 , 643 snowden , s. l. , hasinger , g. , jahoda , k. , et al .",
    ", 1994a , apj 430 , 601 snowden , s. l. , mccammon , d. , burrows , d. , mendenhall , j. a. , 1994b , apj 424 , 714 snowden s. l. , schmitt , j. h. m. m. , 1990 , ap&ss 171 , 207 sotan , a. , hasinger , g. , 1994 , a&a 288 , 77 sotan , a. m. , hasinger , g. , egger , r. , snowden , s. , trmper , j. , 1996 , a&a 305 , 17 ( paper i ) treyer , m. a. , lahav , o. , 1995 , mnras submitted , sissa bulletin board , astro - ph/9509013 trmper , j. , 1983 , adv .",
    "space res . 4 , ( 4)241 turner , e. l. , geller , m. j. , 1980 , apj 236 , 1 voges , w. , 1992 , in : guyenne , t. d. , hunt , j. j. ( eds . ) science with particular emphasis on high - energy astrophysics , proc . of satellite symposium 3 ,",
    "space ( noordwijk : esa publication division ) , 9"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the intensity of the soft x - ray background is correlated with the distribution of galaxies . to demonstrate this , magnitude </S>",
    "<S> limited galaxy samples extracted from bright galaxy catalogues and the lick counts are utilized . </S>",
    "<S> significant correlations are detected for all magnitude ranges , i.e. @xmath0 . the local x - ray volume emissivity between 0.5 and 2.0 kev correlated spatially with the galaxy population falls in the range ( @xmath1  @xmath2)ergs@xmath3mpc@xmath4 ( @xmath5kms@xmath3mpc@xmath3 ) . without evolution , this could account for 30%  40% of the total x - ray background , an amount consistent with analogous estimates based on x - ray experiments at higher energies . </S>",
    "<S> the comparison of correlation amplitudes of the x - ray background with galaxies at different apparent magnitudes indicates that roughly half of the emission correlated with galaxies can be produced in extended regions substantially larger than optical extent of a typical galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> a crude estimate for the average size of these sources is @xmath6mpc . </S>",
    "<S> this extended signal in various correlation functions is possibly produced by x - ray emission of hot gas in clusters or groups of galaxies , although a contribution from individual galaxies can not be ruled out .    </S>"
  ]
}