{
  "article_text": [
    "the study of stellar populations in galaxies has focused on ellipticals , due to their uniform properties as a class of objects .",
    "early work proposed a simple formation scenario ( the so - called monolithic collapse model , eggen , lynden - bell & sandage 1962 , larson 1974 , arimoto & yoshii 1987 ) .",
    "however , ellipticals span a large range of masses and the dwarf ellipticals and , while they are similar in morphology , may follow very different evolutionary paths .",
    "foremost in the differences between dwarf and bright ellipticals is the hypothesis that dwarf ellipticals are primordial and that large galaxies are constructed from the merging of dwarf galaxies ( hierarchical models , davis 1985 , white & frenk 1991 , kauffmann & charlot 1998 , somerville & primack 1999 ) .",
    "thus , the age of stellar populations in dwarf ellipticals can be a key test of our galaxy formation scenarios .",
    "the uniformity of bright ellipticals in terms of age and metallicity has been demonstrated in various ways .",
    "for example , the low scatter in the color - magnitude relation for ellipticals argues for a very limited range in age at a particular luminosity ( terlevich 1999 ) . while there is evidence for an intermediate age population in some ellipticals ( trager 2000 ) , spectroscopic studies have convincingly demonstrated that a majority of bright cluster ellipticals are old and the color - magnitude relation is dominated by metallicity effects ( terlevich & forbes 2002 , kuntschner 2000 ) .",
    "a uniform spread of metallicity in ellipticals is consistent with the color-[fe / h ] relation ( rakos 2001 ) which implies an early , and rapid , phase of star formation .",
    "the age and chemical evolution of dwarf ellipticals is less well known , mostly due to their fainter luminosities and lower central surface brightnesses .",
    "pre-21st century results on the stellar populations in dwarf ellipticals focused on their optical / near - ir broadband colors with a small sample of spectroscopic results for objects in virgo and fornax ( see ferguson & binggeli 1994 for a review on the colors and spectra of des ) . the broadband color results were ambiguous with respect to age , with most studies noting that de colors were more similar to galactic globular colors than to cluster ellipticals .",
    "near - ir colors suggest that des behave as metal - rich globulars in the @xmath1,@xmath2 diagram , but that some des have bluer @xmath1 colors ( bothun 1985 ) suggestive of a young population .",
    "spectroscopy of small de samples ( bothun & mould 1988 , held & mould 1994 ) found that nucleated dwarfs ( den ) basically follow the same locus of spectral indices ( such as h@xmath3 ) as galactic globulars .",
    "there were several notable exceptions of dwarfs with strong balmer lines which indicated a young mean age or an intermediate age population , and this agrees with the very recent observations of caldwell ( 2003 ) who find the scatter in balmer line strengths to increase with lower velocity dispersion ( lower mass ) systems .    with respect to stellar populations of des versus dens ,",
    "only the caldwell & bothun ( 1987 ) study performed a detail color study of the two types in the fornax cluster .",
    "they found a color difference between nucleated dwarfs in the sense that dens with brighter nuclei tended to have redder @xmath4 integrated colors , but found no difference between the color of the nucleus and the colors of the stellar envelope that makes up most of the galaxy s light .",
    "this was an unexpected result since the simplest explanation for the nucleation in des is a recent episode of star formation to produce a central cluster .",
    "such an event should produce a different color for the nucleus compared with the envelope of the de , but this is not observed in any sample .",
    "the trend of redder nucleus ( and galaxy ) color with luminosity of the nucleus was interpreted by caldwell & bothun as reflecting the mass - metallicity relation seen in larger galaxies .",
    "caldwell & bothun proposed a scenario where the brighter ( i.e. more massive ) nuclei have strong gravitational fields which not only hold onto more gas to produce more stars , but also more metals to produce redder colors .",
    "presumingly , this occurred coeval with the rest of the dwarf galaxy s star formation such that the color difference due to age is undetected .    the purpose of this project is to examine the narrow band strmgren colors ( @xmath0 ) for a large sample of de and dens in fornax and coma .",
    "our objectives are threefold : 1 ) to make a direct comparison of dwarf and bright elliptical colors and test for any property , from their colors , that signal differences in their underlying stellar populations ( raw empirical tests ) , 2 ) compare their colors to colors of galactic and extragalactic globular clusters , the simplest stellar populations , ( interpretation guided only by data ) and 3 ) compare their colors to predictions from various spectral energy distribution ( sed ) models ( speculation guided by stellar physics ) .",
    "there is no direct method to determine the age of stellar populations in galaxies through colors or spectroscopy , so we are forced to use sed models to quantify our numbers .",
    "however , the relative ages between galaxy types is independent of models and can answer several key questions to the early stages of galaxy evolution .",
    "in our previous work on the narrow band colors of elliptical galaxies , it was useful to make a comparison with simple stellar populations ( ssp ) , i.e. globular clusters . to this end , we have established a metallicity and age baseline using globular clusters from the smc , lmc and milky way ( see rakos 2001 ) .",
    "while this was sufficient to provide calibration [ fe / h ] values for our multi - metallicity models , the globular cluster data lacked sufficient age range to resolve mean age issues and , thus , sed models were consulted .",
    "narrow band data are sparse for globulars clusters , however a new hst narrow band study of the globular cluster system around m87 was recently published ( jordan 2002 ) .",
    "these data were obtained in filters f336w , f410 m , f467 m and f547 m using the wide field planetary camera 2 ( wfpc2 ) and closely match the strmgren filters used for our study ( although the f336w filter is slightly wider than the strmgren @xmath5 filter ) .",
    "the m87 photometry was calibrated to the vegamag system ( hst handbook ) which we have converted to our @xmath0 system using values of @xmath6 , @xmath7 and @xmath8 for vega . for our analysis",
    ", we have trimmed the jordan sample to those objects brighter than 23.5 @xmath9 .",
    "this was done primarily because the photometric errors sharply increase for mags fainter than 23.5 ; however , we also wish to compare the m87 globulars to our milky way sample and the faintest galactic globular in our sample is approximately @xmath10 , which corresponds to @xmath11 for a distance modulus of 31.43 to m87 ( tonry 2001 ) .",
    "the final trimmed sample contained 443 objects .",
    "the m87 globular cluster colors are presented as histograms in figure 1 .",
    "we confirm the bimodality found by jordan in both @xmath12 and @xmath13 .",
    "there are clear peaks at @xmath14 and @xmath15 .",
    "the bimodality is less obvious in @xmath13 , but peaks at @xmath16 and @xmath17 are visible . there is no evidence for a third peak which would correspond to a metal - rich , intermediate age cluster population ( puzia 2002 ) .",
    "most extragalactic globular studies use @xmath18 photometry calibrated to [ fe / h ] using galactic globulars .",
    "while this calibration is less than perfect , it does have the advantage of being relatively insensitive to age effects .",
    "the current @xmath18 to [ fe / h ] conversion estimates that the peak of the blue population occurs at @xmath191.3 dex and the peak of the red at @xmath190.2 dex .",
    "however , in rakos ( 2001 ) , we directly calibrate @xmath13 to [ fe / h ] using the same galactic globular system , with a smaller scatter than @xmath18 .",
    "comparison to sed models confirms that this conversion should be accurate to 0.2 dex for populations with mean ages greater than 8 gyrs . with this calibration",
    ", the two peaks in the jordan data correspond to [ fe / h ] = @xmath191.7 and @xmath190.9 dex , about 0.5 dex more metal poor than the @xmath18 calibration .",
    "note that this difference in [ fe / h ] values to those quoted by jordan or kundu ( 1999 ) are due to differences in the @xmath18 calibration versus @xmath13 , not due to the use of different sed model assumptions .",
    "separate metallicity peaks suggests these are two distinct populations , thus we can use principal component ( pc ) analysis to separate out the populations in multi - color diagrams as we have successfully done on cluster populations ( steindling , brosch & rakos 2001 ) .",
    "briefly , a principal component analysis , in any n - dimensional space , calculates the axis along which the data points present the largest , most significant scatter .",
    "this is called the first principal component ( pc1 ) .",
    "it then proceeds to calculate pc2 , the axis of the second most significant spread in the remaining n-1 dimensional space orthogonal to the first principal component , and so on .",
    "mathematically , this is done by normalizing the coordinates of the data points to standardized variables and calculating their covariance .",
    "the final output are the eigenvectors ( the principal components ) and eigenvalues of this covariance matrix .",
    "the gain of the pc analysis is therefore twofold : ( 1 ) it minimizes the dimensionality of the data and ( 2 ) it provides an orthonormal coordinate system in which the data are most easily characterized .    to simplify comparison between the globular cluster populations and elliptical galaxies , we have applied the same pc axes in our previous papers , derived from all three narrow band colors in coma ellipticals .",
    "the boundary for ellipticals selected in odell , rakos & schombert ( 2002 ) is the condition that pc1 be greater than one .",
    "this same criterion very nicely divides the m87 globulars into two distinct red and blue populations with the same peaks as visible in the integrated population ( see figure 1 ) . for the 443 clusters analyzed , 33% are members of the red population , 67% are members of the blue .",
    "a little numerical experimentation finds that boundary values between 0.8 and 1.2 for pc1 produce similar distributions and , thus , our conclusions are insensitive to the choice of pc axis values .",
    "figure 2 displays the multi - color diagrams for the m87 globulars and the milky way globulars data from rakos ( 2001 ) . here",
    "the m87 data have been binned in constant @xmath20 bins for clarity with each bin containing between 30 and 50 objects .",
    "the @xmath12 data have been shifted 0.3 mags to the red in what is an apparent mismatch in the vegamag calibration to @xmath0 values for vega quoted above .",
    "the source of this additive error is not known ( although is probably due to the wider f336w filter compared to the normal strmgren @xmath5 ) , but is not critical to our discussions below since the @xmath12 data are not a major component of our analysis .    the blue population ( pc1 @xmath21 1 ) has identical properties to the galactic globulars , tracking the same range of metallicity where 90% of the globulars lies between @xmath192.5 to @xmath190.7 . the red population ( pc1 @xmath22 1 ) lies in the region redder in @xmath13 for its @xmath20 colors than galactic globulars .",
    "likewise , the red population has redder @xmath12 colors compared to the blue population for a given @xmath20 value .",
    "the separation of the two globular populations in color space is a critical distinction since , if the difference was a simple one of metallicity , the two populations would overlap in the @xmath13,@xmath20 diagram .",
    "there are many possible star formation histories that would result in values that occupy this region of the two color diagram , however a younger age is the most plausible reason to produce the @xmath13,@xmath20 trend since a change solely in metallicity would track along the blue population as demonstrated by the galactic globulars .",
    "the common interpretation of the dual globular population in galaxies is that the blue population is primordial and the red population was added at a later date either by star formation or mergers with other galaxies ( see kissler - patig 2001 ) . clearly , an age difference is a distinguishing factor in the formation scenarios .",
    "our range of metallicity and population numbers agree with the photometric studies , when adjusted for the @xmath18 calibration difference ( gebhardt & kissler - patig 1999 ) .",
    "age differences are best determined through the balmer lines ( a known age indicator in old populations ) , which requires spectroscopy . for example , cohen , blakeslee & ryzhov ( 1998 ) examined 150 m87 globulars with high resolution keck spectra .",
    "they find no difference in the two populations with respect to balmer lines at about the 2 gyr sensitivity level .",
    "however , the colors in figure 2 are inconsistent with a single age for both red and blue populations .",
    "sed models are of little help in quantifying the suspected age difference since they have an improper slope at the low metallicity end of the globular color sequence .",
    "the solid line in figure 2 is the 14 gyr gttingen ssp models ( schulz 2002 ) . while a fair match for metallicities above @xmath191.5 , the galactic globulars with [ fe / h ] @xmath23 are much bluer in both @xmath20 and @xmath13 than predicted by the models . while there are numerous possible reasons for this discrepancy ( for example , a poor treatment of metal - poor hb stars in the codes ) , it is beyond this study to investigate them all . despite the lack of guidance from the sed models ,",
    "the color difference between the two globular populations in m87 is clear , and metallicity differences will not account for the separation .",
    "thus , we are left with hotter continuum colors for a given metallicity indicating an age difference .        of interest to this paper",
    "is which of these two populations has the most in common , in terms of mean colors , with the properties of dwarf and bright ellipticals .",
    "if the scenario where the red population is formed later is correct , then its colors would match the colors of envelope stars rather than galactic globulars .",
    "if dwarf galaxies are older than bright ellipticals , then we would expect their colors to match the colors of old , metal - poor galactic globulars , albeit at higher metallicities due to the mass - metallicity effect . in any case",
    ", a comparison will be left until the next section .",
    "the multi - color data for the dwarf ellipticals in this sample derive primarily from two previous studies in fornax ( rakos 2001 ) and coma ( odell , rakos & schombert 2002 ) .",
    "the fornax sample was selected from the catalog of ferguson ( 1989 ) and we have adopted his morphological classifications .",
    "the coma sample was classified by visual inspection of the @xmath24 ( 5500 ) ccd frames , guided by the appearance of the fornax dwarf ellipticals to maintain the same general scheme .",
    "in addition , we have placed an upper limit of @xmath2519.5 ( @xmath1918.5 in the blue ) to the sample , regardless of morphological classification , as the canonical luminosity cutoff between giant and dwarf ellipticals . for the coma sample ,",
    "an additional six dwarf ellipticals were recovered off of frames taken from the same telescope set - up as odell , rakos & schombert ( 2002 ) , but during a later observing run .",
    "all the data were reduced in a like manner as described in rakos ( 2001 ) .",
    "the final sample contained 9 des and 40 dens in fornax and 10 des and 32 dens in coma .",
    "in addition , we have used a distance modulus of 31.35 for fornax ( madore 1999 ) and 34.82 for coma .    in our previous work on dwarf and bright cluster ellipticals ( odell , rakos & schombert 2002 , rakos 2001 ) we treated the sequence from giant to dwarf as a continuum , mostly due to the uniform nature of the color - magnitude relation ( cmr ) and the smooth morphology of ellipticals of all luminosities . for low redshift samples",
    ", the cmr has a consistent slope and zeropoint from cluster to cluster , in agreement with a mass - metallicity interpretation of the relationship .",
    "however , as can be seen in figure 3 of odell , rakos & schombert ( 2002 ) , the scatter increases significantly below @xmath26 .",
    "this has been noted in numerous studies of the broadband colors of dwarf ellipticals ( see bender 1993 ) and conselice , gallagher & wyse ( 2002 ) demonstrate that this scatter is a fundamental breakdown of the linear relationship found in brighter ellipticals .",
    "possible interpretations for the increased scatter have focused on the chaotic nature of star formation in low mass systems ( such as variable rates of baryonic blowout ) and hierarchical mergers in order to produce a range of chemical evolution histories . certainly intermediate age stars are evident in nearby des ( e.g. ngc 204 ) and it is entirely possible , in fact quite likely , that age effects become increasing important for the colors of low mass dwarf galaxies ( see caldwell 2003 ) .        given the history of the color - magnitude relation and its importance to galaxy population studies , it is worthwhile revisiting the color - magnitude relation in narrow band colors , particularly over the range of luminosity now available with this new and larger sample .",
    "traditionally , the color - magnitude diagram is plotted in @xmath27 to maximize the metallicity effect as seen across the 4000  break . in odell , rakos & schombert ( 2002 )",
    ", we used the @xmath13 and @xmath20 indices since they are most sensitive to metallicity and age in our narrow band system ( @xmath12 is most sensitive to recent star formation in our distant cluster work ) . to provide a different perspective , in figure 3 we present the @xmath12 colors ( approximately @xmath27 , albeit with narrow band filters ) for the bright ( @xmath28 ) and dwarf ellipticals in coma . in the past",
    ", @xmath12 has been a difficult indice to interpret for ellipticals .",
    "few of the early sed models made accurate predictions for the uv colors in old populations .",
    "and the @xmath12 index is very sensitive to recent star formation or the addition of young stars by a recent merger of a gas - rich spiral . in any case ,",
    "our results are the same if @xmath13 or @xmath20 colors are used instead of @xmath12 .",
    "the @xmath12 cmr for bright ellipticals is very clear , as is the failure of the dwarfs to continue the same slope . while the bright cluster ellipticals have a strong correlation ( @xmath29=0.43 ) taken by themselves , the dwarf ellipticals display no correlation with luminosity and , hence , mass . since dwarf ellipticals do have lower metallicities than bright ellipticals , based on spectroscopy ( held & mould 1994 ) , this breakdown of the cmr signals a real difference in the star formation history of dwarfs as compared to massive cluster ellipticals .    our first attempt to understand the lack of correlation in the cmr at low luminosities involved dividing the dwarf elliptical sample by some other physical characteristic , in this case , structural properties as given by morphology .",
    "with regard to physical morphology , dwarf galaxies are found in a variety of types and isophotal shapes .",
    "dwarf ellipticals are classified primarily by the smooth elliptical shape of their isophotes and indirectly on their gas - poor appearance ( the presence of neutral gas being sharply correlated with a lumpy luminosity distribution ) . within the dwarf elliptical sequence",
    "there are dwarf ellipticals with distinct nuclei ( den ) and those with smooth , lower surface brightness cores ( de ) .",
    "recent imaging has found the nuclei of dens to be similar in size and luminosity ( mass ) to the largest galactic globulars . proposed origin scenarios for nucleated des include accretion of remnant cores of stripped galaxies ( gerola , carnevali & salpeter 1983 ) , gas infall and star formation ( caldwell & bothun 1987 ) or coalescence of several star clusters to form a single , super - massive cluster ( oh & lin 2000 ) . aside from the existence of a nucleus , de and dens have similar properties with the expectation that , on average , des are slightly flatter than dens and dens are more numerous than des ( ferguson 1989 ) .",
    "the different cluster distances and telescope set - ups result in complimentary samples for fornax and coma .",
    "the fornax sample reaches to deeper absolute luminosities than the coma sample ( @xmath1913 versus @xmath1917 ) but , due to limited areal coverage , has very few objects brighter than @xmath1916 .",
    "in contrast , the coma sample covered a larger area , but was not as deep in limiting magnitude .",
    "this resulted in the coma sample filling the luminosity range between @xmath1916 and @xmath1919.5 , as well as providing a comparison sample of giant ellipticals .",
    "as noted by other studies ( ferguson & binggeli 1994 , caldwell & bothun 1987 ) , the den type galaxies are brighter , on average , than the de types . for the combined sample ,",
    "the mean luminosity of dens is 1.3 mags brighter than des . since the nuclei in dens are never brighter than 20% of the total light ( 0.2 mags , ferguson & binggeli 1994 ) , this excess is not due to the nuclear light .",
    "magnitudes and colors were determined through aperture photometry using a curve of growth analysis .",
    "typical errors are 0.1 in @xmath9 , 0.02 in @xmath13 and 0.01 in @xmath20 for the brighter dwarfs , increasing by a factor of 3 to fainter members of our sample .",
    "there are small differences between the two dwarf elliptical classes in average color and these differences are in the opposite direction from expectations based on the color - magnitude relation .",
    "for example , the den class has mean colors of @xmath30 , @xmath31 and @xmath32 ( errors are the mean range of the data , not errors on the mean ) while the mean colors for the de class are @xmath33 , @xmath34 and @xmath35 .",
    "the mean colors are similar , although the den class has a statistically significant bluer mean @xmath13 color ( lower metallicity ) than the de class .",
    "what is significant is the fact that the den sample is brighter , on average by 1.3 mags , to the de sample yet has a bluer mean color in contradiction to the expected higher metallicities for higher stellar mass ( i.e. redder color ) .",
    "this is not a stunning discovery since , as stated above , the color - magnitude relation begins to break down at dwarf luminosities ( rakos 2001 ) . for comparison",
    ", the range in dwarf elliptical @xmath20 and @xmath13 colors overlaps the bright ellipticals with a slightly lower mean metallicity color .",
    "figure 4 and 5 displays the standard two color diagrams used in our previous papers to examine the stellar populations in galaxies in distant clusters . using the same notation as rakos ( 2001 ) , the colors @xmath13 and @xmath20 are the metallicity and continuum indices , respectfully , due to the sensitivity of the @xmath36 filter to various metal lines near 4500  whereas @xmath37 and @xmath24 are selected to cover regions relatively free of absorption or emission features .",
    "the @xmath38 index is the standard strmgren @xmath39 index ( @xmath40 ) , which is useful in discriminating star - forming ( young age ) and non - thermal ( agn ) continuum from the general shape of a galaxy s spectral curve due to old stellar photospheres .",
    "the crossed and open symbols in figure 4 represent the dens and des , respectfully , in fornax and coma while the marked area represents the 95% contour of 100 bright ellipticals in coma ( which is also in agreement with the distribution of bright ellipticals in 20 distant clusters when corrected for passive evolution ) .",
    "in addition , the solid symbols represent 32 milky way globular clusters from rakos ( 2001 ) .",
    "what is immediately obvious from these diagrams is that a majority of the nucleated dwarf ellipticals ( den ) do not lie in a region that is a simple extension of the normal cluster elliptical sequence extrapolated to lower metallicities ( bluer @xmath13 and @xmath20 colors ) .",
    "their average colors are too red in @xmath20 for their values of @xmath13 ( or conversely , they are too blue in @xmath13 for their @xmath20 colors , however , we will argue below that it is difficult to produce bluer @xmath13 colors for a fixed @xmath20 color ) .",
    "similar behavior is found in figure 5 , the @xmath38,@xmath13 diagram .",
    "nucleated dwarfs have low @xmath38 indices compared to normal cluster ellipticals , and are not an extension of the cluster elliptical sequence . a kolmogorov - smirnov ( k - s ) test on the distribution of dens and bright cluster ellipticals rules out their origin as a common population in both diagrams at the 99.9% level .        also shown in figure 4 are vectors of age ( in gyrs ) and metallicity ( in [ fe / h ] dex ) .",
    "these vectors are for 13 gyr populations with a mean [ fe / h ] near solar , but with a spread of internal metallicities .",
    "their angle and length will vary for younger or extremely metal - poor populations , but are presented in the figure as a guide to the reader for the metallicity and age range expected as normal for ellipticals in the literature .",
    "the slope of two color plot for dens is shallower ( @xmath41 ) than the multi - metallicity models ( @xmath42 ) or the cluster ellipticals ( @xmath43 ) and indicates that dens have a narrow spread of internal metallicities .",
    "even extremely metal - rich cluster ellipticals must have a significant population of metal - poor stars to explain the details of their color - metallicity relationship ( rakos 2001 ) .",
    "this reflects in a particular slope in two color diagrams such as figure 4 , a slope that is not reproduced for the dens .",
    "an interesting point to note is that the dens in figures 4 and 5 display more in common with globular clusters than cluster ellipticals with respect to their integrated colors .",
    "normal ellipticals are not simple stellar populations , i.e. one age and one metallicity , so it is not surprising to find that they are not a linear extension of the globular cluster sequence to redder colors ( i.e. higher metallicities ) as can be seen in figure 4 .",
    "in fact , in rakos ( 2001 ) , we were able to model the colors of bright cluster ellipticals in a non - linear fashion , using multi - metallicity models based on globular clusters and ssp models .",
    "we might naively expect the colors of low mass systems to approach the colors of ssp s , like globular clusters , due to a much more limited range of metallicities in the underlying stellar population .",
    "however , figure 4 indicates that dens appear to be an exact extrapolation of the globular cluster sequence , which are a simple stellar population ( i.e. composed of stars of a single metallicity ) and suggests that the spread in the internal metallicities of dens is very small .",
    "in contrast to the dens , the non - nucleated dwarf ellipticals ( de ) lie parallel to the bright elliptical sequence but to the blueward side of the mean @xmath20 color for cluster ellipticals .",
    "this division is also obvious in the @xmath38,@xmath13 diagram where all the normal and de ellipticals have @xmath38 indices greater than @xmath190.1 , but the globulars and dens are primarily below @xmath190.1 regardless of @xmath13 color .",
    "this same difference is seen in all four narrow band colors ( @xmath44 , @xmath12 , @xmath13 and @xmath20 ) and clearly divides the morphological populations of dwarf ellipticals into two groups based solely on the color of the underlying stellar populations . in this sense",
    ", we confirm the results on the early - type galaxies in perseus by conselice , gallagher & wyse ( 2002 ) , that there appear to be two separate elliptical populations in rich clusters ; a bright one , containing normal cluster ellipticals and a faint one containing low mass systems .",
    "it is also important to note that this color difference between des and dens can not be due to the color of the nucleus in den class objects since surface photometry ( caldwell & bothun 1987 ) has shown that the nucleus contributes only between 10 to 15% of the total light of the galaxy .",
    "this would require that the nucleus have a mean @xmath13 color of @xmath190.08 to change the integrated colors of a normal elliptical into the typical color of a den .",
    "there is no indication of an extremely blue nucleus in any of our inner apertures , nor was there any sign of color gradients in the caldwell & bothun photometry of fornax dens .",
    "additionally , a sharp change in @xmath13 color will produce a corresponding blueward shift in @xmath20 of 0.16 mags which makes it impossible to explain a majority of the red dens as blue contaminated normal elliptical colors .    given the detection of two color populations of globular clusters in other galaxies ( burgarella , kissler - patig & buat 2001 ) , it is worthwhile comparing the colors of the dwarf ellipticals presented herein with those simpler stellar populations of globular clusters .",
    "as discussed in  2.1 , the blue population of globulars in m87 is very similar to the milky way globulars , a uniform sample of old , metal - poor systems .",
    "the sequence of color for the blue population matches well with the sequence of metallicity found in our own galaxy s globulars .",
    "in addition , as can be seen in figure 4 , the blue population of globulars in m87 , galactic globulars and the nucleated dwarfs in fornax and coma ( dens ) all form the same sequence of objects whose range of colors are due solely to metallicity .",
    "in contrast , the red population of globulars in m87 lie to the upper left of the blue population similar to the relationship of the colors of non - nucleated dwarfs ( des ) and normal cluster ellipticals to dens .",
    "the red population does not reach the @xmath13 nor @xmath20 values of cluster ellipticals , presumably they do not reach the near - solar metallicities of ellipticals .",
    "figure 6 displays the behavior of the dwarf galaxies in the near - uv color , @xmath12 versus continuum color @xmath20 .",
    "as before , the den galaxies follow the galactic globular colors as well as the m87 blue population of globulars . while there is some intermixing of de types , a majority lie to the redward side of @xmath45 and , again , follow the red population of globulars .",
    "the dashed line is the track of 13 gyrs models from the gttingen ssp models ( schulz 2002 ) , convolved to our metallicity model .",
    "as found in our distant cluster work ( rakos & schombert 1995 ) , @xmath12 is poorly modeled by any group s sed s as it cuts laterally across the color plot .",
    "while the den data lie too blue in @xmath12 as compared to the models , it is not possible to determine if this is due to the lack of some blue component to the uv data in the models ( e.g. blue hb stars ) or some very young population in dwarf ellipticals .",
    "the separation of dwarf ellipticals into nucleated and non - nucleated leads to a surprising dichotomy with respect to their mean colors .",
    "the trend can be summarized in figure 4 where the nucleated dwarfs ( den class ) are redder in @xmath20 and bluer in @xmath13 than normal cluster ellipticals ( also lower @xmath38 indices and bluer @xmath12 colors ) .",
    "in contrast , non - nucleated dwarfs ( de class ) lie in the opposite direction with respect to normal cluster ellipticals ( i.e. , bluer in @xmath20 , see figure 5 ) .",
    "the normal cluster ellipticals are a color population that divides the two dwarf classes , although they overlap with the de galaxies .    with respect to star formation history ,",
    "almost any portion of the two color diagram can be reached by some combination of metallicity , recent star formation or extinction .",
    "however , ellipticals have several limitations in their recent star formation histories that can be further constrained by comparison with other filters as well as spectroscopic and 21-cm studies . through numerous studies of the gas and spectral properties of ellipticals ( trager 2000 )",
    ", it has been demonstrated that recent star formation for cluster ellipticals is extremely limited over the past 5 gyrs , in agreement with their smooth , lacking in star - forming knots , morphological appearance . the lack of far - ir emission from warm dust ( knapp 1989 ) also eliminates reddening by extinction as a major contribution .    a recent star formation history that is quiescent allows us , qualitatively , to consider the evolution of ellipticals through a singular combination of age and metallicity , assuming that the age of the embedded populations is more than 5 gyrs . in order to draw quantitative conclusions on the meaning of the color differences outlined above",
    ", one must consult galaxy evolution models that blend the populations with various metallicities in a galaxy with their calculated variation with time .",
    "thus , our conclusions in this section are mildly model - dependent , and the reader is cautioned to fully explore the limitations of sed models before drawing precise numbers from our data ( such as absolute age in gyrs ) .",
    "as discussed in rakos ( 2001 ) and odell , rakos & schombert ( 2002 ) , relative success in explaining the color - magnitude and the metallicity - color relation in ellipticals has been achieved through the use of a simple , multi - metallicity model where mean age and mean metallicity are the only free parameters .",
    "these models are constructed using the ssp sed s available in the literature , primarily schulz ( 2002 ) , where an estimate of the distribution of metallicity is made based on a simple chemical evolution scenario ( see kodama & arimoto 1997 ) . in brief , our multi - metallicity models start with the concept that a galaxy is composed of a smooth continuum of stars of varying metallicities .",
    "it is obvious from inspection of the stellar populations in our own galaxy , that the colors of a composite system , such as an elliptical , can not be reproduced by using a single stellar population with the mean metallicity of the galaxy . a real galaxy is composed of many stars with a range of metallicities that sum to the luminosity weighted average . from the physics of stellar atmospheres , we know that each group of stars with a particular metallicity will contribute very different amounts of light into the various filters .",
    "in order to correct for this effect , we elected to mix different ssp s using a simple distribution of metallicity that conforms to our expectations based on observations of our own galaxy and chemical evolution models ( kodama & arimoto 1997 ) .",
    "first , the underlying metallicity distribution is assumed to be lorentzian in shape , a long tail to low metallicities and a sharp cutoff at high metallicities .",
    "a range of galaxy metallicities is constructed by holding the lowest metal population fixed ( [ fe / h]=@xmath46 ) and sliding the upper cutoff from high to low . the strmgren colors for each metallicity bin are determined by empirical calibration to globular clusters ( [ fe / h]@xmath47 ) and spectrophotometric ssp models ( [ fe / h]@xmath48 , schulz 2002 ) .",
    "these simple models do an excellent job of reproducing the color - metallicity relationship ( @xmath13 versus [ fe / h ] ) and , assuming a @xmath49 ratio of 5 for early - type galaxies , of mapping the color - magnitude relation into the observed mass - metallicity relation ( odell , rakos & schombert 2002 )    as an example of this process , the 11 and 14 gyr multi - metallicity models are shown in figure 5 . for variety ,",
    "tracks in figure 5 are based on the gttingen ssp models ( schulz 2002 ) rather than the bruzual & charlot models as in our last few papers , but the differences are minor and use of either set of models does not change our basic interpretation .",
    "the models predict a broad range of internal metallicities for high mass ellipticals , decreasing to a narrower range for lower mass systems ( i.e. bluer colors ) .",
    "we note that all the models fail to reproduce the upturn in @xmath13 color for lowest metallicity galactic globulars in the @xmath13,@xmath20 diagram .",
    "this is probably due to a failure in the sed models to correctly track the effect of hot horizontal branch stars ( see leonardi & rose 2003 ) .",
    "calibration to a metallicity scale is achieved through various comparisons with spectroscopy work ( salaris & weiss 1998 ) , but age calibration is highly uncertain due to a lack of young , metal - poor objects around our galaxy .",
    "considering the den ellipticals first , as a class they lie in a region of the multi - color diagrams that are redder in continuum colors while maintaining the same slope in @xmath20,@xmath13 as given by a metallicity effect . when compared to the multi - metallicity models , the den objects have all the indications of a population that has the same color - metallicity relation as cluster ellipticals ( although for lower total metallicities ) but is older by approximately 2 to 3 gyrs ( redder continuum colors ) .",
    "this would make dens some of the oldest stellar objects in the local universe , and the fact that the color sequence of galactic globulars , and the blue population in m87 , track precisely into the den colors would seem to confirm their old age .    it is well established that the colors of bright , early - type galaxies in clusters are dominated by metallicity effects rather than age effects ( kuntschner & davies 1998 , vazdekis 2001 ) .",
    "this , apparently , is also true of dwarf ellipticals , in that the spread of den colors tracks along a metallicity vector , not the age vector ( see figure 4 ) .",
    "the range of metallicities for the den galaxies is similar to that found in previous broadband and spectroscopic studies , ranging from @xmath191.2 to @xmath190.4 [ fe / h ] .",
    "cluster ellipticals range from @xmath190.7 to @xmath500.2 , corrections for age would only adjust these values by 0.1 dex ( in the direction of making the cluster ellipticals more metal - rich ) .",
    "the metallicity values of the lowest [ fe / h ] dens merge with the more metal - rich galactic globulars ( e.g. ngc 204 and pal 12 ) .",
    "interestingly , none of the cluster ellipticals or de class galaxies obtain the lowest [ fe / h ] values of the dens , again supporting the idea that dens are older than des or bright cluster ellipticals . in other words ,",
    "the dens have had a shorter phase of initial star formation and have undergone less chemical evolution .",
    "the interpretation for the de galaxies is opposite to that for dens , such that we have a sequence which is bluer in continuum colors , indicating a younger mean age as compared to dens .",
    "the mean color of des is also slightly bluer than normal cluster ellipticals , although the overlap between des and normal cluster ellipticals is greater than the overlap for dens , making the de population appear as more of a continuation of the normal elliptical track with slightly bluer continuum colors .",
    "as before , the model driven interpretation of these color differences is that des , as a group , are slightly younger than cluster ellipticals by about 1 to 2 gyrs .",
    "this type of behavior , with respect to mean age , has been seen in spectroscopic studies .",
    "for example , poggianti ( 2001 ) completed a spectroscopic study of coma down to @xmath51 . assigning metallicity and age through various fe and balmer line indices ,",
    "they find a bimodal distribution of galaxy ages at low luminosity .",
    "in fact , their figure 7 displays a clear division at faint luminosities into galaxies with ages greater than 9 gyrs ( our dens ) and those with ages younger than 5 gyrs ( our des ) .",
    "their age scale is not sensitive enough to compare the ages of old objects and , thus , lack evidence that the old dwarf galaxies are older than the oldest bright ellipticals as we have shown above .",
    "this new perspective on the colors of ellipticals ( both bright and dwarf ) eliminates a great deal of the confusion in the interpretation of multi - color diagrams with respect to the underlying stellar populations in ellipticals .",
    "for example , the range of mean ages found in fornax ellipticals increased with decreasing luminosity , but not in a linear or systematic manner ( rakos 2001 ) .",
    "we now understand that most of this scatter is due to including both de and dens in the analysis and the fact that the dwarf ellipticals have no correlation between metallicity color and luminosity .",
    "this also drives the cmr in @xmath20 to redder colors for lower luminosities ( as noted in odell , rakos & schombert 2002 ) producing what appears to be an age effect for all ellipticals when , in fact , the inclusion of old dens into the sample is the primary reason as they have mean ages that are older than cluster ellipticals .",
    "the dichotomy by color between des and dens would also explain a great deal of divergence in the literature concerning the ages of ellipticals .",
    "recent spectroscopic work by trager ( 2000 ) , kuntschner ( 2000 ) and caldwell ( 2003 ) have all converged an age for cluster ellipticals which is old ( greater than 10 gyrs ) .",
    "however , caldwell also find that , for low velocity dispersion galaxies ( i.e. low mass ) , the mean age is about 4 to 6 gyrs younger than bright field or cluster ellipticals .",
    "while there are very few des in the caldwell sample , morphologically the sample is similar to low luminosity e and des herein .",
    "their determination of a low mean age from spectroscopic lines agrees well with our global continuum color determination , as their sample is dominated by low luminosity e , s0 s and des with very few dens .    in summary",
    ", our current narrow band dataset extends from globular clusters to the bright cluster elliptical in rich clusters .",
    "when taken as a whole , there is a broad range of metallicities and ages that can explain any particular galaxy s color .",
    "however , when subdivided by galaxy type , a very different picture of galaxy formation and evolution appears .",
    "two separate and distinct populations are indicated by the data .",
    "one population , composed of galactic globulars , the blue population of extragalactic globulars and nucleated dwarf ellipticals ( den ) , displays the clear trend of objects composed of old stars ( at least 13 gyrs based on milky way cm diagrams ) with increasing metallicities similar to standard ssp models . as with globulars , there is no mass - metallicity relation for the dens , i.e. the mean [ fe / h ] is independent of luminosity , which implies that they are not self - enriched like bright cluster ellipticals . and , unlike cluster ellipticals , the slope in the two color diagrams indicate that the colors of dens have a very narrow spread of internal metallicity , which explains their similarity in color space with globulars .",
    "an old age for the den class is also consistent with their cluster spatial distribution , which is much more compact than that of des ( conselice , gallagher & wyse 2001 , ferguson & sandage 1989 ) where hierarchical clustering models predict the oldest galaxies should be located ( white & springel 2000 ) .    while the dens appear to be old objects , we agree with the conclusions of conselice , gallagher & wyse ( 2003 ) , drawn from a study of low mass galaxies in the perseus cluster , that there exists a second population in clusters which can not be primordial .",
    "the second population is composed of the red , metal - rich globulars , non - nucleated dwarf ellipticals ( de ) and bright cluster ellipticals .",
    "the galaxies in this group display a clear mass - metallicity relation , but one that requires the elliptical s stellar populations be a composite of many groups of stars with varying metallicities . regardless of the calibration for age from the sed models , the cluster ellipticals , des and the red population of globulars in m87 are located in a region of the multi - color diagram occupied by bluer stellar populations .",
    "this leaves us to conclude that they are younger , as a group , than the blue population of galactic globulars and dens .",
    "comparison to models places this age difference as between 3 to 4 gyrs .",
    "the implications of two early - type populations in clusters with respect to galaxy formation and evolution scenarios is varied .",
    "while all indications are that ellipticals are some the oldest objects in clusters , the data presented here suggests that only the blue galactic globulars and dens are the primordial objects .",
    "other cluster ellipticals and des have either a later formation time or an initial star formation burst that was prolonged which produced a mean younger age as given by integrated colors .",
    "our data are also consistent with the idea that des are remnants of more massive galaxies where a majority of their mass has been stripped away .",
    "however , this scenario is inconsistent with their structural properties , i.e. they do not have central densities similar to bright ellipticals ( guzman 2003 ) and , thus , we reject it for the following discussion .",
    "the connection between the red globular population and ellipticals would argue for a late formation epoch for ellipticals , in that the red cluster s higher metallicities are not due to internal chemical evolution but produced by their birth in higher metallicity clouds , enriched by previous star formation ( presumingly , the epoch that produced the blue globular population ) .",
    "however , the color - metallicity diagram for ellipticals demonstrates that the global characteristics of ellipticals can not be reproduced by a simple , single metallicity population ( rakos 2001 ) .",
    "their internal stellar population must include a significant metal - poor component and , thus , an extended initial star formation era would best explain their younger age compared to primordial globulars .",
    "yet , this initial epoch of star formation can not have been too prolonged or else extensive color gradients would form in ellipticals .",
    "in addition , a prolonged burst would be inconsistent with bright elliptical @xmath52/fe ratios ( thomas & kauffmann 1999 ) .",
    "it remains an open question for the galaxy modeling community whether the estimated 3 to 4 gyrs age difference between cluster and dwarf ellipticals can be reproduced with small metallicity gradients without resorting to a later epoch of formation than dens and metal - poor globulars .",
    "the fact that the colors of the red population of m87 globulars tracks into the color sequence of cluster ellipticals and de types implies that the metal - rich globulars formed in the enriched gas produced by earlier star formation .",
    "comparison to model tracks dates this era as approximately 2 gyrs after the formation of the blue , metal - poor globulars .",
    "given the rapid enrichment of the environment near ellipticals , it appears that the blue population of globulars in galaxies , such as m87 , is acquired later through mergers of whole galaxy systems or cannibalism of stray globulars in the cluster environment .",
    "this would seem contrary to the arguments that the metal - poor globular population must have formed with its parent galaxy since it is homogeneous .",
    "however , the metal - rich population matches the color of the underlying galaxy envelope and the mean metallicity of the red population of globulars is correlated with the mass of the elliptical ( larsen 2001 ) .",
    "thus , the homogeneous nature and narrow range in metallicity for the metal - poor globulars may be signaling an origin that is common to all galaxies , such as accretion from a common intracluster pool .",
    "our new data on ages of des and dens provides an opportunity to revisit the entire issue on the ages of passively evolving systems , such as ellipticals , in clusters .",
    "most spectroscopic studies have found that bright ellipticals in rich clusters are fairly coeval in their stellar populations ( gonzalez 1993 , trager 2000 , kuntschner 2000 ) with very little variation in age with luminosity .",
    "this would confirm that the uniform slope in the cmr is due to solely a metallicity effect .",
    "our interpretation of figure 4 , the @xmath13,@xmath20 diagram , is that the bright cluster ellipticals in coma have a two - color correlation that is similar in slope to a single age population varying only in metallicity .",
    "there is a slight shift in color , as mentioned in odell , rakos & schombert ( 2002 ) , such that low luminosity ellipticals appear to be younger than their more massive cousins ( i.e. bluer continuum colors ) .",
    "however , we also note that there is a variation in @xmath52 element abundances with luminosity ( see thomas , maraston & bender 2002 , trager 2000 , rakos 2001 ) such that bright ellipticals have @xmath52/fe values greater than dwarf ellipticals .",
    "the @xmath52/fe index is a measure of the duration of the burst of initial star formation where low @xmath52/fe signal prolonged bursts giving time for type i sn to increase the abundance of fe . under this condition , massive ellipticals have shorter durations of star formation compared to low luminosity ellipticals . and longer initial star formation duration would reflect in a younger mean age , as is confirmed in our data for des .    a dissenting view concerning the age of ellipticals is offered by terlevich & forbes ( 2002 ) who find that brighter ellipticals ( i.e. more metal - rich ) have younger mean ages .",
    "this , of course , would make sense in a scenario where metal enrichment is due to a later formation epoch and the gas clouds are overabundant from previous star formation .",
    "however , the required ages for massive ellipticals would be less than 5 gyrs , which is in disagreement with observations of passive evolution for high redshift clusters ( rakos & schombert 1995 , stanford , eisenhardt & dickinson 1998 ) .",
    "this study presents strmgren narrow band photometry of dwarf ellipticals in the fornax and coma clusters , combining samples from previous work with some new objects and colors ( e.g. @xmath12 ) .",
    "our findings can be divided into three parts : pure observations , multi - color analysis and model dependent interpretation , listed herein in descending order of confidence :    * several basic characteristics of nucleated dwarf ellipticals ( den ) and non - nucleated dwarf ellipticals ( de ) , that were discovered by previous broadband studies ( see caldwell & bothun 1987 ) , are confirmed . in terms of total numbers ,",
    "dens are more numerous than des and brighter , on average , by 1.3 mags . the central nucleus , while obvious in physical morphology and surface photometry , rarely contributes more than 10 to 15% of the total light ( mass ) of the galaxy , typical the size and luminosity of a supermassive star cluster . * in our multi - color diagrams ( @xmath13,@xmath20 , @xmath38,@xmath13 and @xmath12,@xmath20 ) , the population of dens are distinct from the colors of des or normal cluster ellipticals . in general , the dens are redder in continuum color ( @xmath20 ) and bluer in metallicity color ( @xmath13 ) . normal dwarfs ( de ) are slightly bluer in continuum colors with bright cluster ellipticals forming a color sequence intermediary between the two types of dwarfs .",
    "this confirms the results of conselice , gallagher & wyse ( 2001 ) , that there are two populations of early - type galaxies in rich clusters . * in comparison with globular cluster colors",
    ", dens appear to be a linear extrapolation of the galactic globular colors and the colors of the blue populations of globulars in other galaxies ( i.e. m87 ) .",
    "cluster ellipticals and des track the red , metal - rich population of extragalactic globulars . * comparing to multi - metallicity models , and assuming that the populations in ellipticals can be described by a set of stars with a smooth distribution of metallicity and with ages greater than 8 gyrs , then dens are 3 to 4 gyrs older than bright cluster ellipticals and about 5 gyrs older than de type galaxies . of the elliptical class",
    ", dens span the lowest metallicities reaching levels that are 0.7 dex below the metal - poorest bright cluster elliptical .",
    "this would support their old age based on the age - metallicity relation for ellipticals from terlevich & forbes ( 2002 ) . *",
    "when placing the various ellipticals and globular systems in order of their relative ages , it appears that only the blue globulars and dens have solely primordial stellar populations .",
    "cluster ellipticals and des either have later formation epochs or a prolonged burst of star formation compared to dens",
    ". however , a lengthy phase of initial star formation does not support the lack of steep color gradients in ellipticals .",
    "the data presented herein does not to support , or refute , any particular galaxy formation scenario .",
    "the most popular scenario , under the cdm framework , is one in which galaxies form through a hierarchical sequence of mergers ( e.g. davis 1985 ) .",
    "this would predict that , in rich environments , high mass galaxies assembled last and , thus , would have the youngest mean age but that there would be a large scatter in age per mass bin . and",
    ", of course , dwarf galaxies would be the initial seeds to galaxy construction and would have the oldest mean ages .",
    "the problem with testing these predictions on cluster ellipticals is that any later star formation , or accretion of a star - forming object such as a spiral , between the formation epoch and the present will produce a young , luminosity weighted , mean age in our narrow band color system even if a majority of the galaxy s stellar population is old .",
    "low metallicity and old age for the dens implies a primordial origin and if the younger age and higher metallicity des have the same formation process then they must have a different formation epoch .",
    "our current data does support the conjecture that _ some _ dwarf galaxies are primordial ( i.e. dens ) .",
    "but , not all cluster dwarf ellipticals are old , thus , the formation of young des may involve stripping of high mass ellipticals as proposed by conselice ( 2003 ) .",
    "lastly , we consider these stellar population results for the whole class of ellipticals in light of their structural and kinematic properties .",
    "the notion that ellipticals divide into bright ellipticals and dwarf ellipticals by structure ( power - law versus exponential profiles ) dates back to ground - based surface photometry in the 1980 s ( see kormendy 1985 ) .",
    "thus , there was some expectation that dwarfs and bright ellipticals would have varying star formation histories or even completely different formation processes .",
    "however , recent work with hst imaging ( graham & guzman 2003 ) has demonstrated that the two morphological types are indeed similar in underlying structure . in this sense",
    ", the connection between de and normal cluster ellipticals becomes one of decreasing mass and metallicity , with some evidence that lower mass ellipticals are slightly younger than more massive cluster ellipticals ( caldwell 2003 ) .",
    "the connection between globular clusters , dens and the new ` ultracompact ' class of galaxies ( phillipps 2001 ) remains an intriguing line of future inquiry .",
    "the authors wish to thank noao and steward observatory for granting telescope time for this project .",
    "one of us ( k. rakos ) gratefully acknowledges the financial support from the austrian fonds zur foerderung der wissenschaftlichen forschung .",
    "special thanks to andres jordan for sharing his hst data on the m87 globulars and to chris conselice for his suggestions .",
    "we acknowledge the support of nasa under grants hst - ar-08758 as well as tools developed under airsp nag5 - 11300 .",
    "arimoto , n. & yoshii , y. 1987 , , 173 , 23 bender , r. , burstein , d. & faber , s. 1993 , , 411 , 153 bothun , g. & mould , j. 1988 , , 324 , 123 bothun , g. , mould , j. , wirth , a. & caldwell , n. 1985 , , 90 , 697 bruzual , a. & charlot , s. 1993 , , 405 , 538 burgarella , d. , kissler - patig , m. & buat , v. 2001 , , 121 , 2647 caldwell , n. & bothun , g. 1987 , , 94 , 1126 caldwell , n. , rose , j. & concannon , k. 2003 , astro - ph/0303345 cohen , j. , blakeslee , j. & ryzhov , a. 1998 , , 496 , 808 conselice , c. , gallagher , j. & wyse , r. 2003 , , 125 , 66 conselice , c. , gallagher , j. & wyse , r. 2001 , , 559 , 791 conselice , c. , gallagher , j. & wyse , r. 2002 , , 123 , 2246 conselice , c. , gallagher , j. & wyse , r. 2003 , , 125 , 66 davis , m. , efstathiou , g. , frenk , c. & white , s. 1985 , , 292 , 371 eggen , o. , lynden - bell , d. & sandage , a. 1962 , , 136 , 748 evans , r. , davies , j. & phillipps , s. 1990 , , 245 , 164 ferguson , h. 1989 , , 98 , 367 ferguson , h. & binggeli , b. 1994 , , 6 , 67 ferguson , h. & sandage , a. 1989 , , 346 , l53 gebhardt , k. & kissler - patig , m. 1999 , , 118 , 1526 gerola , h. , carnevali , p. & salpeter , e. 1983 , , 268 , l75 gonzalez , j. 1993 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , ucsc graham , a. & guzman , r. 2003 , , 125 , 2936 guzman , r. , graham , a. , matkovic , a. & vass , i. 2003 , astro - ph/0303390 held , e. & mould , j. 1994 , , 107 , 1307 jordan , a. , cote , p. , west , m. & marzke , r. 2002 , , 576 , l113 kauffmann , g. & charlot , s. 1998 , , 294 , 705 kissler - patig , m. 2001 , _",
    "extragalactic star clusters : iau symposium series _ 207 , 333 knapp , g. , guhathakurta , p. , kim , d. & jura , m. 1989 , , 70 , 329 kodama , t. & arimoto , n.1997 , , 320 , 41 kormendy , j. 1985 , , 295 , 73 kundu , a. , whitmore , b. , sparks , w. , macchetto , f. , zepf , s. & ashman , k. 1999 , , 513 , 733 kuntschner , h. 2000 , , 315 , 184 kuntschner , h. & davies , r. 1998 , , 295 , l29 larsen , s. , brodie , j. , huchra , j. , forbes , d. & grillmair , c. 2001 , , 121 , 2974 larson , r. 1974 , , 166 , 585 leonardi , a. & rose , j. 2003 , astro - ph/0306358 madore , b. , freedman , w. , silbermann , n. , harding , p. , huchra , j. , mould , j. , graham , j. , ferrarese , l. , gibson , b. , han , m. , hoessel , j. , hughes , s. , illingworth , g. , phelps , r. , sakai , s. & stetson , p. 1999",
    ", , 515 , 29 odell , a. , schombert , j. & rakos , k. 2002 , , 124 , 3061 oh , k. & lin , d. 2000 , , 543 , 620 phillipps , s. , drinkwater , m. , gregg , m. & jones , j. 2001 , , 560 , 201 poggianti , b. , bridges , t. , mobasher , b. , carter , d. , doi , m. , kashikawa , n. , komiyama , y. , okamura , s. & sekiguchi , m. 2001 , , 562 , 689 puzia , t. , kissler - patig , m. , brodie , j. & huchra , j. 1999 , , 118 , 2734 puzia , t. , zepf , s. , kissler - patig , m. , hilker , m. , minniti , d. & goudfrooij , p. 2002",
    ", , 391 , 453 rakos , k. & schombert , j. 1995 , , 439 , 47 rakos , k. , schombert , j. , maitzen , h. , prugovecki , s. & odell , a. 2001 , , 121 , 1974 salaris , m. & weiss , a. 1998 , , 335 , 943 schulz , j. , fritze - v , alvensleben , , moumller , c. & fricke , k. 2002 , , 398 , 89 somerville , r. & primack , j. 1999 , , 310 , 1087 stanford , s. , eisenhardt , p. & dickinson , m. 1998 , , 492 , 461 steindling , s. , brosch , n. & rakos , k. 2001 , , 132 , 19 terlevich , a. & forbes , d. 2002 , , 330 , 547 terlevich , a. , kuntschner , h. , bower , r. , caldwell , n. & sharples , r. 1999 , , 310 , 445 thomas , d. & kauffmann , g. 1999 , _ spectrophotometric dating of stars and galaxies , asp conference proceedings _ , vol .",
    "192 , 261 thomas , d. , maraston , c. & bender , r. 2002 , _ astronomy with large telescopes from ground and space , reviews in modern astronomy _ ,",
    "15 , 219 tonry , j. , dressler , a. , blakeslee , j. , ajhar , e. , fletcher , a. , luppino , g. , metzger , m. & moore , c. 2001 , , 546 , 681 trager , s. , faber , s. , worthey , g. & gonzalez , j. 2000 , , 120 , 165 vazdekis , a. , kuntschner , h. , davies , r. , arimoto , n. , nakamura , o. & peletier , r. 2001 , , 551 , l127 white , s. & frenk , c. 1991 , , 379 , 52 white , s. & springel , v. 2000 , _ the first stars .",
    "proceedings of the mpa / eso workshop _ , 327"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present narrow band photometry of 91 dwarf ellipticals in the coma and fornax clusters taken through the strmgren ( @xmath0 ) filter system . </S>",
    "<S> dividing the sample by dwarf morphology into nucleated ( den ) and non - nucleated ( de ) dwarfs reveals two distinct populations of early - type systems based on integrated colors . </S>",
    "<S> the class of den galaxies are redder in their continuum colors as compared to bright cluster ellipticals and de type dwarfs , and their position in multi - color diagrams can only be explained by an older mean age for their underlying stellar populations . by comparison with the narrow band photometry of the m87 globular cluster system ( jordan 2002 ) </S>",
    "<S> , we find that dens are a higher metallicity continuation of the old , metal - poor color sequence of galactic globulars and the blue population of m87 globulars . </S>",
    "<S> bright ellipticals and de dwarfs , on the other hand , follow the color sequence of the metal - rich , red population of m87 globulars . a comparison to sed models , convolved to a simple metallicity model , finds that dens and blue globulars are 3 to 4 gyrs older than cluster ellipticals and 5 gyrs older than de type galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the implication is that globulars and den galaxies are primordial and have metallicities set by external constraints such as the enrichment of their formation clouds . </S>",
    "<S> bright ellipticals and de galaxies have metallicities and ages that suggest an extended phase of initial star formation to produce a younger mean age , even if their formation epoch is similar to that of dens and blue globulars , and an internally driven chemical evolutionary history . </S>"
  ]
}