{
  "article_text": [
    "in 1977 , nasa / msfc and sao began a study which led to the definition of the then named advanced x - ray astrophysics facility .",
    "this study had been initiated as a result of an unsolicited proposal submitted to nasa in 1976 by prof .",
    "r. giacconi ( harvard university and sao ) and dr .",
    "h. tananbaum ( sao ) .",
    "subsequently : the project received the highest recommendation by the national academy of sciences astronomy survey committee in the report , `` astronomy and astrophysics for the 1980 s '' ; instruments were selected in 1985 ; the prime contractor ( ngst ) was selected in 1988 ; a demonstration of the ability to build the flight optics was accomplished in 1991 ; in 1992 the scope of the mission was restructured to reduce cost , including eliminating servicing ; the observatory was named in honor of the nobel prize winner subramanyan chandrasekhar ( figure  [ f : sc ] ) in 1998 ; and the launch occurred the following year . in 2002 , prof .",
    "giacconi ( figure  [ f : rg ] ) was awarded the nobel prize in physics for his pioneering work in x - ray astronomy .",
    "after two attempts on the evenings of july 19 , and july 21 the observatory was launched on july 23 , 1999 using the space shuttle columbia .",
    "the commander was col .",
    "eileen collins ( figure  [ f : ec ] ) , the first female commander of a shuttle flight . the rest of the crew were : jeffrey ashby the pilot ; and mission specialists catherine cady coleman , steven hawley , and michel tognini . with a second rocket system ,",
    "the inertial upper stage ( ius ) attached , the observatory was both the largest and the heaviest payload ever launched by , and deployed from , nasa s space shuttle .",
    "figure  [ f : cxo_ius_cbay ] shows the ius mated to the observatory and both mounted in columbia s cargo bay prior to launch .",
    "after separation from the orbiter , the ius performed two firings and then separated from the observatory .",
    "the flight system , illustrated in figure [ f : artist_concept_labeled ] , is 13.8-m long by 4.2-m diameter , with a 19.5-m solar - panel wingspan . with extensive use of graphite - epoxy structures ,",
    "the mass is only 4,800 kg , including almost 1,000 kg of optics .",
    "after five firings of an internal propulsion system - the last of which took place 15 days after launch - the observatory was placed in its highly elliptical orbit .",
    "this orbit has a nominal apogee of 140,000 km and a nominal perigee of 10,000 km .",
    "the inclination to the equator is 28.5@xmath0 . with this orbit , the satellite is above the radiation belts for more than about 75% of the 63.5-hour orbital period .",
    "uninterrupted observations lasting more than 2 days are thus possible . the observing efficiency , which also depends on solar activity , varies from 65% to more than 70% .",
    "the spacecraft provides pointing control , power , command and data management , thermal control , and other such services to the scientific payload .",
    "electrical power is obtained from two 3-panel silicon solar arrays that provide over 2000 watts .",
    "three 40-ampere - hour nickel - hydrogen batteries supply power during the rare eclipses .",
    "two low - gain spiral antennas provide spherical communications coverage and the transmission frequency is 2250 mhz .",
    "the downlink provides selectable rates from 32 to 1024 kbps for communication with nasa s deep space network ( dsn ) of ground stations .",
    "commands are sent at a frequency of 2071.8 mhz and the command rate is 2 kbps .",
    "data are obtained from the instruments at a rate of 24 kbs and are recorded using a solid - state recorder with 1.8 gigabits ( 16.8 hours ) of recording capacity .",
    "instrument data , together with 8 kbs of spacecraft data , primarily from the aspect camera system , are downloaded to the dsn typically every 8 hours .",
    "the ground stations then transmit the information to the _ chandra _  science center in cambridge ma where the operations control center is located .",
    "the observatory is designed to operate autonomously , if necessary , for up to 72 hours and no ground intervention is required to place the observatory in a safe configuration after a fault is detected .",
    "safe mode has rarely been entered .",
    "the spacecraft systems and subsystems have no single - point failure - modes that can threaten the mission .    the principal elements of the payload are the pointing control and aspect system (   [ s : aspect ] ) used to determine where the observatory was pointed , the x - ray telescope (  [ s : optics ] ) , and the scientific instruments (   [ s : cameras ] ,   [ s : ephin ] , &   [ s : gratings ] ) .",
    "the specified design life of the mission is 5 years ; however , the only perishable ( gas for maneuvering ) is sized to allow operation for more than 10 years",
    ". the orbit will be stable for decades .",
    "the system of sensors and control hardware that is used to point the observatory , maintain the stability , and provide data for determining where the observatory had been pointing is called the pointing control and aspect determination ( pcad ) system . unlike hst , _ chandra _",
    "pointing requirements are not very stringent because _ chandra _  detectors are essentially single - photon counters and therefore an accurate post - facto history of the spacecraft pointing direction is sufficient to reconstruct the x - ray image .    here",
    "we discuss the pcad  system , how it is used , and the flight performance .",
    "the main components of the pcad  system are :    aspect camera assembly ( aca )  11.2 cm optical telescope ,",
    "stray light shade , two ccd   detectors ( primary and redundant ) , and two sets of electronics .",
    "inertial reference units ( iru )  two irus , each containing two 2-axis gyroscopes .    fiducial light assemblies ( fla )  leds mounted near each x - ray detector which are imaged in the aca via the fiducial transfer system .",
    "fiducial transfer system ( fts )  directs light from the fiducial lights to the aca , via a retroreflector collimator ( rrc ) mounted at the x - ray telescope   center , and a periscope .    coarse sun sensor ( css )  provides all - sky coverage of the sun .",
    "fine sun sensor ( fss )  has a 50@xmath0 fov and 0.02@xmath0 accuracy .",
    "earth sensor assembly ( esa )  conical scanning sensor , used during the orbital insertion phase of the mission .",
    "reaction wheel assembly ( rwa )  6 momentum wheels which change spacecraft attitude .",
    "momentum unloading propulsion system ( mups )  liquid fuel thrusters which allow rwa momentum unloading .",
    "reaction control system ( rcs )  thrusters which change spacecraft attitude .",
    "the aspect camera assembly ( figure [ fg : aspect - fta ] ) includes a sunshade ( @xmath12.5 m long , @xmath155 cm in diameter ) , a 11.2 cm , f/9 ritchey - chretien optical telescope , and ccd   detector(s ) .",
    "this assembly and its related components are mounted on the side of the x - ray telescope .",
    "the camera s field of view is @xmath2 and the sunshade is designed to protect the instrument from the light from the sun , earth and moon , with protection angles of 47@xmath0 , 20@xmath0 and 6@xmath0 , respectively .",
    "only light from the sun can damage the system . having either the moon or the earth in the field - of view only saturates the detector output without incurring damage and therefore only limits the aspects camera s utility .",
    "the moon ( figure  [ f : moon ] ) has been viewed with _",
    ", in part to study the background signal , and in part to learn about the moon s chemical composition .",
    "the aspect camera focal plane detector is a @xmath3 scientific imaging technologies ccd , with @xmath4 micron ( @xmath5 ) pixels , covering the spectral band between 4000 and 9000  .",
    "the ccd   is deliberately placed out of focus ( point source fwhm = 9  arcsec ) to spread the star images over several pixels in order to increase the accuracy of the centering algorithm , and to reduce variation in the point response function over the field of view .",
    "there is a spare ccd , which can be illuminated by rotating a mirror .",
    "the aca electronics track a small pixel region ( either @xmath6 or @xmath7 pixels ) around the fiducial light and star images .",
    "there are a total of eight regions available for tracking .",
    "typically five guide stars and three fiducial lights are tracked .",
    "the average background is subtracted on - board , and image centroids are calculated by a weighted - mean algorithm .",
    "the image centroids and fluxes are used on - board by the pcad , and are also telemetered to the ground along with the raw pixel data .      surrounding",
    "each of the focal - plane detectors is a set of light emitting diodes , or `` fiducial lights '' , which serve to register the detector focal plane laterally with respect to the aca  boresight .",
    "each fiducial light produces a collimated beam at 635 nm which is imaged onto the aca via a collimating lens , corner - cube retro - reflector and periscope ( figure  [ fg : aspect - fta ] ) .",
    "two inertial reference units ( iru ) are located in the front of the observatory on the side of the x - ray telescope .",
    "each iru contains two gyroscopes , each of which measures an angular rate about 2 axes .",
    "this gives a total of eight channels .",
    "data from four of the eight channels can be read out at one time .",
    "the gyros are arranged within the irus , and the irus are oriented , such that the 8 axes are in different directions and no three axes lie in the same plane . the gyros output pulses represent incremental rotation angles . in `` high - rate '' mode",
    ", each pulse nominally represents 0.75 , while in `` low - rate mode '' ( used during all normal spacecraft operations ) each pulse represents nominally 0.02 .",
    "control of the spacecraft momentum is required both for maneuvers and to maintain stable attitude during observations .",
    "momentum control is primarily accomplished using 6 teldix rdr-68 reaction wheel units mounted in a pyramidal configuration . during observing , with the spacecraft attitude constant",
    "apart from dither ( introduced to avoid having the flux from a point source illuminate only a single focal plane detector pixel ) , external torques on the spacecraft ( e.g. gravity gradient , magnetic ) will cause a buildup of momentum in the reaction wheel assembly .",
    "momentum is shed from the reaction wheels by firing small thrusters in the mups and simultaneously spinning down the reaction wheels .",
    "the aspect system serves two primary purposes : on - board spacecraft pointing control and aspect determination , and post - facto ground aspect determination , used in x - ray image reconstruction and celestial location .",
    "the pcad   system has 9 operational modes ( 6 normal and 3 safe modes ) which use different combinations of sensor inputs and control mechanisms to control the spacecraft and ensure its safety . in the normal pointing mode ,",
    "the pcad   system uses sensor data from the aca and irus , and control torques from the rwas , to keep the x - ray target well within @xmath130  of the desired location .",
    "this is done by smoothing ( filtering ) the data that have been taken during the preceding time intervals using aspect camera star centroids ( typically 5 ) and angular displacement data from two of the 2-axis gyroscopes . on short time",
    "scales ( @xmath1seconds ) the spacecraft motion solution is dominated by the gyroscope data , while on longer timescales it is the star centroids that dominate .",
    "the post - facto aspect determination is done on the ground and uses more sophisticated processing and better calibration data to produce a more accurate solution .",
    "the key improvements over the in - flight aspect come from better image centroiding and smoothing all available data over the observation period  as opposed to only a limited set of historical data . in addition",
    ", the aspect solution also accounts for the position of the focal - plane instrument as determined by the images of the fiducial lights .",
    "the important pcad   system performance parameters and a comparison to the original requirements are shown in table  [ tb : aspect - reqs ] . in each case",
    "the actual performance far exceeds the requirements .",
    "celestial location accuracy measures the absolute accuracy of _ chandra _  x - ray source locations . based on observations of 225 point sources detected within 2  of the boresight and having accurately known coordinates",
    ", the 90% source location error circle has a radius of 0.64  ( figure  [ fig : cel_loc ] ) .",
    "fewer than 1% of sources are outside a 1  radius .",
    "the image reconstruction performance measures the effective blurring of the x - ray point spread function ( psf ) due to aspect reconstruction .",
    "a direct measure of this parameter can be made by determining the time - dependent jitter in the centroid coordinates of a fixed celestial source .",
    "any error in the aspect solution will appear as an apparent wobble in the source location .",
    "unfortunately this method has limitations",
    ". when an advanced ccd imaging spectrometer ( acis -   [ s : cameras ] ) detector is at the focus , data are count - rate limited and we find only an upper limit : aspect reconstruction effectively convolves the x - ray telescope  psf  with a gaussian having fwhm of less than 0.25 . with an high resolution camera ( hrc -   [ s : cameras ] ) detector at the focus , observations can produce acceptably high count rates , but the current hrc photon positions have systematic errors due to uncertainties in the hrc calibration .",
    "these errors exactly mimic the expected dither - dependent signature of aspect reconstruction errors , so no such analysis with hrc data has been done .",
    "an indirect method of estimating aspect reconstruction blurring is to use the aspect solution to de - dither the aca star images and measure the residual jitter .",
    "we have done this for 350 observations and find that 99% of the time the effective blurring is less than 0.20  ( fwhm ) .",
    "absolute celestial pointing is defined as the accuracy with which the _ chandra _  line of sight ( the line connecting the nominal aimpoint on the detector and the x - ray telescope node ) can be pointed toward a particular target location on the sky , and is about 3  in radius .",
    "this result is based on the spread of apparent fiducial light locations for @xmath8 observations in the year 2002 .",
    "it should be noted that the 3  value represents the repeatability of absolute pointing on timescales of less than approximately one year . during the first 4 years of the mission , there was an exponentially decaying drift in the nominal aimpoint of about 10 , most likely due to the expected long - term relaxation in spacecraft structures .",
    "the pcad   10-second pointing stability performance is measured by calculating the rms attitude control error ( 1-axis ) over successive 10  second intervals .",
    "the attitude control error is simply the difference between the ideal ( commanded ) dither pattern and the actual measured attitude .",
    "flight data show that after removing known systematic effects , 95% of the rms error measurements are less than 0.04  ( pitch ) and 0.03  ( yaw ) .",
    ".aspect system requirements and performance [ cols=\"<,^,^ \" , ]      there are many ingredients in the effective area of the hetg / acis - s combination .",
    "these include the telescope , the gratings and the various ccd detectors and their filter . the first order effective areas for the heg and meg , after adjusting the bi ccds quantum efficiency to agree with that inferred for the fi ccds , and accounting for the molecular contamination of the acis filter as of the end of 2003 , is shown in figure  [ f : hetgs_area ] .",
    "this effective area was used to analyze the spectrum of the bl lac object , pks 2155 - 304 .",
    "this object is a _",
    "chandra _  calibration source and its spectrum is assumed to be featureless .",
    "figure  [ f : hetgs_pks2155 ] shows the results of the analysis of an observation taken in may of 2000 .",
    "there are no systematic residuals larger than 10% and the spectrum appears featureless at the 3% level .",
    "an example of spectroscopy with the hetg is shown in figure  [ f : hetgs_ss433 ] which shows two hetg / acis - s spectra ( marshall , canizares , & schulz , 2002 ; lopez et al .",
    "2004 ) of the binary source ss 433 taken at different times in the binary period .",
    "the spectra are dominated by strong emission lines on a moderately strong continuum . here",
    "the lines are associated with the oppositely directed , mildly relativistic jets that precess with a period of 164 days ( margon et al .",
    "1977 ; abell & margon , 1979 ) .",
    "marshall , canizares , & schulz ( 2002 ) showed that the emission lines are collisionally excited and consistent with a model of an adiabatically expanding outflow cooling from @xmath9k to @xmath10k .",
    "additionally , the electron density of the jet was estimated to be 10@xmath11 @xmath12 by measuring the ratio of the intercombination and forbidden lines of the si xiii triplet , which in turn provided an estimate for the size of the jet .",
    "the lines from the approaching ( blue ) jet in the first observation were strong enough to show that the resolved lines had a common blueshift , indicating that the jet was produced in a uniform conical outflow .",
    "the doppler broadening of the lines gave the opening angle of the jet , 1.2@xmath0 .",
    "the march 2001 observation took place during orbital eclipse , and the modeling of the red jet by lopez et al .",
    "( 2004 ) found that the visible portion of the jet was @xmath13 cm long . using the system geometry and some system parameters derived from optical observations of the accretion disk",
    ", these authors estimated that the mass of the compact object in ss 433 is about 16 @xmath14 , confirming that it is indeed a black hole .",
    "another example of spectroscopy with the hetg was its use to begin to determine the abundances and ionization fractions of gas in the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "juett , schulz , & chakrabarty ( 2004 ) presented highly resolved spectra of the oxygen @xmath15-shell interstellar absorption edge using x - ray binaries as sources ( figure  [ f : hetgs_ism_abs ] ) .",
    "the @xmath16 and @xmath17 absorption lines from neutral , singly , and doubly ionized oxygen were identified as well as expected absorption edges .",
    "the observed wavelength of o i @xmath16 absorption line was used to adjust the wavelength of the theoretical predictions of the absorption cross sections .",
    "juett , schulz , & chakrabarty ( 2004 ) also placed a limit on the velocity dispersion of the neutral lines of @xmath18200  km  s@xmath19 , consistent with measurements at other wavelengths . finally , the hetg measurements determined the oxygen ionization fractions in the ism in these lines of sight .",
    "this work demonstrated the utility of x - ray spectroscopy for studies of the ism and future work with the observatory will provide measurements of the relative abundances and ionization fractions for elements from carbon to iron for many different lines of sight .",
    "the first x - rays focused by the telescope were observed on august 12 , 1999 .",
    "figure  [ f : crab ] showed one of the early images .",
    "this image of the crab nebula and its pulsar included a major new discovery ( weisskopf et al . 2000 ) - the bright inner elliptical ring showing the first direct observation of the shock front where the wind of particles from the pulsar begins to radiate in x - rays via the synchrotron process .",
    "discoveries of new astronomical features in _",
    "chandra _",
    "images have been the rule , not the exception .",
    "the observatory s capability for high - resolution imaging enables detailed studies of the structure of extended x - ray sources , including supernova remnants , astrophysical jets , and hot gas in galaxies and clusters of galaxies . equally important",
    "s unique contributions to high - resolution dispersive spectroscopy .",
    "as the capability for visible - light spectroscopy initiated the field of astrophysics about a century ago , high - resolution x - ray spectroscopy now contributes profoundly to the understanding of the physical processes in cosmic x - ray sources and is the essential tool for diagnosing conditions in hot plasmas .",
    "the high spectral resolution of the _ chandra _  gratings isolates individual lines from the myriad of spectral lines , which would overlap at lower resolution .",
    "the additional capability for spectrometric imaging allows studies of structure , not only in x - ray intensity , but also in temperature and in chemical composition . through these observations , users are addressing several of the most exciting topics in contemporary astrophysics .",
    "in addition to mapping the structure of extended sources , the high angular resolution permits studies of discrete sources , which would otherwise be impossible .",
    "an example is shown in figure  [ f : browndwarf ] where one sees x - rays produced by twa 5b , a brown dwarf orbiting a young binary star system known as twa 5a6 .",
    "this observation not only demonstrates the importance of the _ chandra_angular resolution but also addresses the question as to how do brown dwarfs heat their upper atmospheres ( coronas ) to x - ray - emitting temperatures of a few million degrees .    from planetary systems to deep surveys of the faintest and most distant objects ,",
    "the scientific results from the first years of _ chandra _  operations have been exciting and outstanding .",
    "we conclude this paper with an overview of some of these results .",
    "we begin with images of the x - ray emission from the planet jupiter .",
    "figure  [ f : jupiter ] shows hot spots at high ( and unexpected ) latitudes that appear to pulsate at approximately a 45-minute period ( gladstone et al .",
    "2002 ) . in this case",
    "the x - rays appear to be produced by particles bombarding the jovian atmosphere after precipitating along magnetic field lines .",
    "figure  [ f : io_europa ] continues the discoveries about the jovian system and shows the first detection of x - rays from two of the moons  io and europa ( elsner et al .",
    "2002 ) .    in figure",
    "[ f : mars ] we show a more recent detection ( dennerl , 2002 ) of fluorescent scattering of solar x - rays in the upper atmosphere of mars .",
    "the x - ray spectrum is dominated by a single narrow emission line , most likely caused by oxygen k - shell fluorescence .",
    "one of the most spectacular _ chandra _  images is the one of the center of our own galaxy ( baganoff et al .",
    "2003 ) shown in figure  [ f : sgra ] . here",
    "we clearly see both point - like discrete sources ( over 1000 ) and diffuse extended emission .",
    "this large amount of hot x - ray emitting gas has been heated and chemically enriched by numerous stellar explosions .",
    "the final legacy of _ chandra _  may ultimately be led by the spectroscopic data .",
    "the energy resolution , enabled by the quality of the optics , is providing new and extremely complex results .",
    "the broad bandpass of the grating spectrometers , combined with high resolution , has proven equally important for astrophysical insights in situations where spectral features are _ not _ present .",
    "for example , the remarkable line - free smoothness of the continuum of the isolated neutron star rxj  1856 - 3754 was a spectacular surprise when revealed in detail using a 500  ks observation .",
    "this object is the nearest and brightest isolated neutron star candidate ( walter , wolk & neuhuser 1996 ) , and it had been hoped that metal lines formed in its outer atmosphere would provide a direct measurement of gravitational redshift and insights into the equation of state of ultra - dense matter .",
    "an early 55  ks exposure lacked the sensitivity to detect weak absorption features ( burwitz et al .",
    "2001 ) , but the 500  ks letg spectrum placed stringent limits on the strengths of any absorption features ( drake et al .",
    "2002 ) , prompting speculation that its outer layers might lack an atmosphere and reside in a solid state ( e.g.  turolla et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "observations with the gratings are not only providing new astrophysical results , they also provide a challenge to atomic physicists .",
    "the heart of the letg+hrc - s bandpass covers the historically relatively uncharted part of the soft x - ray spectrum from 25 - 70   .",
    "prior to _ chandra _ , only a small handful of astrophysical observations had been made at anything approaching high spectral resolution in this range : these were of the solar corona using photographic spectrometers ( widing & sandlin 1986 ; freeman & jones 1970 ; schweizer & schmidtke 1971 ; behring , cohen , & feldman 1972 ; manson 1972 ; acton et al . , 1985 ) .",
    "in comparison , letg spectra of similar x - ray sources  the coronae of the solar - like stars @xmath20  centuri a ( g2  v ) and b ( k1  v ) and of procyon ( raassen et al .  2002 , 2003 )  in this range are at the same time both daunting and revealing .",
    "the pseudo - continuum of solar coronal emission seen by the 1982 july rocket - borne photographic spectrograph described by acton et al .",
    "( 1985 ) is resolved into a dramatic forest of lines in the letg spectra .",
    "this spectral range contains a superposition of `` l - shell '' emission of abundant elements such as mg , si , s and ar , providing a challenge to spectroscopists hoping to understand this region in terms of individual atomic transitions .",
    "drake et al . (",
    "2004 ) have shown that current radiative loss models in common usage by x - ray astronomers underestimate the line flux in the 25 - 70    range by factors of up to 5 .",
    "laboratory efforts prompted by _ chandra _",
    "spectra , and the need for a better theoretical description of plasma radiative emission in this spectral region , are just beginning to unravel the tangle of lines into their parent ions ( e.g.lepson et al .",
    "2003 and references therein ) .",
    "absorption lines also challenge modelers of spectra .",
    "`` supersoft '' sources and x - ray novae with optically - thick atmospheres at temperatures several @xmath21-@xmath22  k had been observed many times by rosat and bepposax ( e.g.  krautter 2002 , and references therein ) .",
    "the letg has revealed that the soft x - ray continuum of these objects hosts a rich array of metal absorption features .",
    "perhaps the best example is the nova v4743  sgr , which became the brightest x - ray source in the sky at wavelengths above 25    ( @xmath23  kev ) in early 2003 , and was caught using the letg+hrc - s as a target of opportunity .",
    "a preliminary analysis of its spectrum was presented by ness et al .",
    "( 2003 ) ; the spectrum is shown in figure  [ f : letg_v4743 ] .",
    "while prominent resonance lines of c , n and o can easily be identified , unlike the case of low - density plasmas , the higher density environment of the nova atmosphere in the gravity of its degenerate host can support substantial absorption from excited states that are more difficult to identify .",
    "determining the origin of the multitude of weaker lines `` gouging '' the continuum will require more complex modeling using realistic model atmospheres .",
    "it can be seen from this example how important the unique broad - band sensitivity of the letg is for disentangling the different parameters describing simple models of these types of source .",
    "coupled with the strong line absorption that modifies the apparent spectrum continuum level is the absorption from intervening material in the circumstellar environment and interstellar medium .",
    "the letg clearly shows this latter attenuation down through two orders of magnitude in flux , out to a wavelength of @xmath24    ( 0.2  kev ) .",
    "high - resolution spectra of seyfert galaxies are now providing new details about the physical and dynamical properties of material surrounding the active nucleus .",
    "for example , the seyfert 1 active galaxy mkn  478 was expected to exhibit absorption lines at shorter wavelengths from a warm absorber that has often been seen in the spectra of other seyfert 1 galaxies , and emission lines at wavelengths of @xmath25    based on an analysis of euve spectra by hwang & bowyer ( 1997 ) .",
    "mkn  478 lies in a direction out of the galaxy that has a particularly low neutral hydrogen column density , and so remains a strong source at these longer wavelengths .",
    "furthermore , for seyfert-1s , whose signal is dominated by a bright x - ray continuum from the central engine , the partially ionized circum - source material introduces prominent patterns of absorption lines and edges .",
    "figure  [ f : ngc5548 ] , e.g. shows a letg / hrc - s spectrum of ngc 5548 .",
    "this spectrum has dozens of absorption lines ( kaastra et al . 2000 ) . for seyfert 2 s the strong continuum from the central engine",
    "is not seen directly , so the surrounding regions are seen in emission .",
    "figure  [ f : ngc1068 ] provides an example of a letg / hrc observation of the seyfert 2 , ngc 1068 ( brinkman et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "one of the more important triumphs of the observatory has been to use the angular resolution and high sensitivity to perform detailed surveys of extended objects such as globular clusters , galaxies , and clusters of galaxies .",
    "figure  [ f:47tuc ] shows one of the spectacular _ chandra _  images of globular clusters ( grindlay et al .",
    "a survey of two interacting galaxies is illustrated in figure  [ f : ngc4490_4485 ] where one sees emission from diffuse gas and bright point sources .",
    "_ chandra _  observations of clusters of galaxies frequently exhibit previously undetected structures with characteristic angular scales as small as a few arc seconds .",
    "these include `` bubbles '' where there is strong radio emission , bow shocks , and cold fronts .",
    "these phenomena are illustrated in the sequence of figures , [ f : perseus]-[f : a2142 ] .",
    "figure  [ f : perseus ] of the perseus cluster ( fabian et al . 2000 ) is a spectacular example of bubbles produced in regions where there is strong radio emission .",
    "figure  [ f:1e0657 ] shows a bow shock propagating in front of a bullet - like gas cloud just exiting the disrupted cluster core .",
    "this observation provided the first clear example of such a shock front ( markevitch et al .",
    "in contrast , figure  [ f : a2142 ] of abell 2142 ( markevitch et al .",
    "2000 ) shows an example of a shockless cold front .    a major triumph of _ chandra _  ( and xmm - newton )",
    "high - resolution spectroscopic observations has been the discovery that that gas in the clusters is typically _ not _ cooling to below about 1 - 2 kev ( see for example the discussion in fabian ( 2002 ) which indicates the presence of one ( or more ) heating mechanisms ) .    some clusters , such as abell 2029 shown in figure  [ f : abell2029 ] ,",
    "do exhibit a smoother relaxed structure . here",
    "we see the thousands of galaxies inside the cocoon of hot , x - ray - emitting gas .",
    "measurement of the temperature and density profiles of the gas , inwards toward the central , dominant galaxy , provides a map of the gravitational potential , and hence the dark matter in the cluster .",
    "the observers , lewis , buote , and stocke ( 2003 ) , showed that the dark matter density increased toward the center in a manner consistent with cold dark matter models .",
    "the study of active galaxies is one of the centerpieces of studies with the observatory .",
    "figure  [ f : ngc6240 ] illustrates a recent spectacular result  the first image of a double quasar nucleus ( komossa et al .",
    "2003 ) .",
    "figure  [ f : m87 ]  illustrates multiwavelength observations of the jets from active galaxies .",
    "chandra _",
    "x - ray image ( marshall et al . 2002 ) shows an irregular , knotty structure similar to that seen at radio and optical ( perlman et al .",
    "2001 ) wavelengths . however , the knots near the central core are much brighter in x - rays    the jet phenomenon now appears to be ubiquitous in astronomical settings , especially with regards to x - ray emission .",
    "one of the most interesting recent _ chandra _  discoveries has been the series of observations of the outer jet of the vela pulsar ( pavlov et al .",
    "2003 ) , a few of which are illustrated in figure  [ f : vela ] where we see the jet , always confined to a narrow segment , but moving about at velocities of about 0.3 - 0.5 c.    no discussion of data taken with the observatory is complete without a mention of the deep surveys .",
    "these are deep exposures of particular regions of the sky to study the populations of the objects detected , especially the faintest ones .",
    "this work is an outgrowth of the study the diffuse x - ray background , the nature of which had been a puzzle for nearly 40 years , although the lack of distortion of the spectrum of the cosmic microwave background placed a strong upper limit to the possibility of a truly diffuse component ( mather et al .",
    "observations with rosat at energies below 2 kev made a major step in resolving a significant fraction ( 70 - 80% ) into discrete objects ( hasinger et al .",
    "currently two long exposures have been accomplished with the _ chandra _  x - ray observatory - the _ chandra _  deep field north ( alexander et al . 2003 ) depicted in figure  [ f : cdfn ] with 2-ms of exposure , and the _ chandra _  deep field south ( giacconi et al .",
    "2001 ) with 1-msec .",
    "these surveys have extended the study of the background to flux levels more than an order of magnitude fainter than previously in the 0.5 - 2.0 kev band and have resolved over 90% of the background into a variety of discrete sources . the largest uncertainty in establishing the fraction is now in the knowledge of the total level of the background itself .",
    "designed for a minium of three years of operation , the _ chandra _  x - ray observatory has , in fact , been operating successfully for more than four and one - half years .",
    "the instrumentation is well understood and there have been few performance surprises once the observatory was comissioned for use .",
    "the number of new discoveries has been outstanding and the observatory has more than lived up to its promise .",
    "the observatory has had , and will continue to have , a profound influence on our understanding of the universe , its constituents , and the physical processes that take place within it .",
    "we acknowledge the major contributions to the success of the observatory and to this paper by the scientists and engineers associated with the instrument teams , the nasa project at msfc , the cxc and its director h. tananbaum , and the various industrial contractor organizations .",
    "tla , rac and jjd were supported by nasa contract nas8 - 39073 .",
    "finally , we acknowlege the tremendous contribution of leon van speybroeck to the _ chandra _  project and we mourn his passing .",
    "the following lists several _ chandra_-related sites on the world - wide web :                              bautz , m.  w. , pivovaroff , m. , baganoff , f. , isobe , t. , jones , s.  e. , kissel , s.  e. , lamarr , b. , manning , h.  l. , prigozhin , g.  y. , ricker , g.  r. , nousek , j.  a. , grant , c.  e. , nishikida , k. , scholze , f. , thornagel , r. , & ulm , g. 1998 , spie , * 3444 * , 210                canizares , c.r . ,",
    "huenemorder , d.p . ,",
    "davis , d.s . ,",
    "dewey , d. , flanagam , k.a . ,",
    "houck , j. , markert , t.h .",
    ", marshall , h.l . ,",
    "schattenburg , m.l . ,",
    "schulz , n.s . , wise , m. , drake , j.j . , & brickhouse , n.s .",
    "2000 , , bf 539 .",
    "l41                                        kenter , a. t. , kraft , r. p. , meehan , g. r. , murray , s .",
    "s. , zombeck , m. v. , donnelly , r. h. , juda , m. , patnaude , d. , pease , d. , fraser , g. w. , pearson , j .",
    "f. , lees , j. e. , brunton , a. n. , barbera , m. , & collura , a. 2000 , spie , * 4012 * , 467    kraft , r. p. , kenter , a. t. , meehan , r. , murray , s. s. , zombeck , m. v. , donnelly , r. h. , juda , m. , patnaude , d. , pease , d. , fraser , g. w. , pearson , f. , lees , j. e. , brunton , a. n. , barbera , m. , & collura , a. , 2000 , spie , * 4012 * , 493                      markevitch , m. , ponman , t.j . ,",
    "nulsen , p.e.j . ,",
    "bautz , m.w . ,",
    "burke , d.j .",
    ", david , l.p . ,",
    "davis , d. , donnelly , r.h . ,",
    "forman , w.r . ,",
    "jones , c. , & 12 coauthors , 2000 , the astrophysical journal , * 541 * , pp .",
    "542 - 549 .",
    "markevitch , m. , bautz , m.  w. , biller , b. , butt , y. , edgar , r. , gaetz , t. , garmire , g. , grant , c.  e. , green , p. , juda , m. , plucinsky , p.  p. , schwartz , d. , smith , r. , vikhlinin , a. , virani , s. , wargelin , b.  j. , & wolk , s. 2003 , , 583 , 70                mueller - mellin , r. , kunow , h. , fleissner , v. , pehlke , e. , rode , e. , roeschmann , n. , scharmberg , c. , sierks , h. , rusznyak , p. , mckenna - lawlor , s. , elendt , i. , sequeiros , j. , meziat , d. , sanchez , s. , medina , j. , del peral , l. , witte , m. , marsden , r. , & henrion , j. 1995 , solar physics,*162 * , 483"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the _ chandra _  x - ray observatory is the x - ray component of nasa s great observatory program which includes the recently launched spitzer infrared telescope , the hubble space telescope ( hst ) for observations in the visible , and the compton gamma - ray observatory ( cgro ) which , after providing years of useful data has reentered the atmosphere . </S>",
    "<S> all these facilities provide , or provided , scientific data to the international astronomical community in response to peer - reviewed proposals for their use . </S>",
    "<S> the _ chandra _  </S>",
    "<S> x - ray observatory was the result of the efforts of many academic , commercial , and government organizations primarily in the united states but also in europe . </S>",
    "<S> nasa s marshall space flight center ( msfc ) manages the project and provides project science ; northrop grumman space technology ( ngst  formerly trw ) served as prime contractor responsible for providing the spacecraft , the telescope , and assembling and testing the observatory ; and the smithsonian astrophysical observatory ( sao ) provides technical support and is responsible for ground operations including the _ chandra _  x - ray center ( cxc ) . telescope and instrument teams at sao , the massachusetts institute of technology ( mit ) , the pennsylvania state university ( psu ) , the space research institute of the netherlands ( sron ) , the max - planck institt fr extraterrestrische physik ( mpe ) , and the university of kiel also provide technical support to the _ chandra _  project . </S>",
    "<S> we present here a detailed description of the hardware , its on - orbit performance , and a brief overview of some of the remarkable discoveries that illustrate that performance . </S>"
  ]
}