{
  "article_text": [
    "availability of suitable ubvri photometric sequences around symbiotic stars is an essential step in promoting a large - scale documentation effort of present time multi - band lightcurves as well as reconstruction of the historical behavior .    to serve for measuring archival plates ,",
    "the sequence stars have to be well isolated from neighbors to avoid blending on short focal length patrol plates , have to be grouped close to the symbiotic variable so as to fall within the same eyepiece field of view , and must extend over a wide range in brightness to easily cover both faint states in quiescence ( like eclipses ) as well as bright outbursts .    to assist present time ccd photometry ( carried out mostly by amateurs with telescopes of 1 - 2 m focal lengths )",
    ", the sequences must also cover a wide range in colors ( to allow simultaneous derivation of transformation coefficients ) , be compact enough to easily fit onto a small ccd ( @xmath05 arcmin in diameter ) and be accurately placed on the ubvri system .",
    "the ubvri sequences on the johnson - cousins system that we have calibrated around more than 80 symbiotic stars follow the above prescriptions and are discussed in this paper .",
    "their use on asiago archive plates is described by jurdana - sepic and munari ( 2002 , and references therein ) .",
    "figure  1 and table  1 show a typical ubvri photometric sequence among the 82 we have calibrated .",
    "the increasing errors at the brightest magnitudes are due to saturation effects , and those at the faintest magnitudes are dominated by the photon statistics .",
    "the symbiotic stars for which we have already obtained the multi - epoch ubvri observations suitable for the calibration of the photometric sequences are listed in table  2 .",
    "of the 82 listed objects , 40 have their sequences published by henden and munari ( 2000 , 2001 ) ; the remaining 42 will follow shortly .",
    "the program stars have been mainly selected from the catalogues of symbiotic stars of allen ( 1984 ) and belczyski et al .",
    "( 2000 )    all observations were made with the 1.0 m ritchey - chrtien telescope of the u.s .",
    "naval observatory , flagstaff station .",
    "a tektronix / site 1024@xmath11024 thinned , backside - illuminated ccd was used , along with proper johnson ubv and kron - cousins ri filters .",
    "the telescope scale is 0.67 arcsec / pix and typical seeing was @xmath22 arcsec .",
    "the color transformation equations for this instrumental combination are particularly good , with slopes deviating from unity by only a few hundredths of a magnitude ( see eq.(1)-(5 ) in henden and munari 2000 ) .",
    "only data collected under photometric conditions ( transformation errors under 0.02 mag ) have been used , and the calibration has been made against the landolt equatorial fields ( landolt 1983 , 1992 ) .",
    "each photometric sequence is composed of 10 to 15 stars , which have been selected and ordered on the basis of their @xmath3 band magnitude .",
    "the latter is reproducible by most filter - equipped ccd cameras , it is the closest one to the @xmath4 band of historical observations , and the @xmath3 band is particularly well suited to investigate the variability of symbiotic stars .",
    "stars of varying color are included in the sequence to allow simultaneous determination of transformation coefficients .",
    "the comparison sequences are tighter around the usual brightness of each symbiotic star and become looser away from it .",
    "the stars included in the comparison sequences have been checked on at least three nights for variability .",
    "we can not obviously rule out beyond doubt that some of them are indeed variable , but the agreement at a few milli - mag level of their magnitude measured on different nights over an interval of months gives some confidence in their use .",
    "allen , d.a .",
    "1984 , proc . a.s.a . , 5 , 369 belczyski k. , mikolajewska j. , munari u. , ivison r.j . & friedjung m. 2000 , , 146 , 407 jurdana - sepic , r. , munari , u. , 2002 , this volume henden a. , munari u. 2000 , 143 , 343 henden a. , munari u. 2000 , 372 , 145 landolt , a. u. , 1983 , 88,439 .",
    "landolt , a. u. , 1992 , 104,340 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> deep , wide - range and accurate ubvri photometric sequences have been established around more than 80 symbiotic stars , to assist current photometry as well as measurement of old photographic plates . </S>",
    "<S> sequences for 40 symbiotic stars have already been published ; the observations for the others have already been secured . </S>"
  ]
}