{
  "article_text": [
    "this paper should be considered as a companion and supplement to the previous papers of our series of radial velocity studies of close binary stars : ( * ? ? ? *",
    "paper i ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper ii ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper iii ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper iv ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper v ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper vi ) .    the current program of radial velocity observations of close binary systems with periods shorter than one day is approximately at its half - way point .",
    "our methods have been evolving slightly during the execution of the 60 radial velocity orbits presented in the six papers of the series , but appear to have stabilized now , warranting a more detailed documentation of the essential steps in our analysis and data reductions .",
    "we summarize these methods and give an overview of the uncertainties so that the results described in the previous and the planned future papers of the series could be better evaluated by readers .",
    "the discussion is limited strictly to methodological aspects and does not include any astrophysical results which will be discussed after the program is concluded .",
    "we observe radial velocities of close binary stars with the 1.88 m telescope of the david dunlap observatory using its medium - resolution spectrograph in the cassegrain focus .",
    "the angular scale in the telescope focus is 6 arcsec per mm .",
    "we use one of the two spectrograph slits , 300 @xmath0 m or 250 @xmath0 m in width , both fixed in the e - w orientation and both 10 mm long .",
    "the angular widths of 1.8 and 1.5 arcsec approximately match the median seeing at the ddo of 1.7 arcsec .",
    "since we started with the shortest - period binaries showing the strongest rotational line broadening , most observations have been made with the 300 @xmath0 m slit .",
    "the scale reduction of the collimator ",
    "camera combination is 4 times resulting in the slit image of 75 @xmath0 m or 62 @xmath0 m for either of the slits .",
    "our light detector is currently a thick , front - illuminated ccd chip of 1024 by 1024 pixels , 19 @xmath0 m square .",
    "thus , the slit images have the total widths of 3.9 or 3.3 pixels while the fwhm widths are about 2.6 and 2.2 pixels for the respective slits . to lower the influence of the readout noise , the two - dimensional ccd images are on - chip binned 4-times in the direction perpendicular to the dispersion direction .",
    "most of the spectral data have been obtained using the 1800 lines / mm diffraction grating , with the spectral window centered on the magnesium triplet mg  i `` b '' at 5184  . for solar - type stars , this region is very rich in spectral lines , which is an essential consideration for our method of radial - velocity measurements  through broadening functions  to succeed .",
    "the main - sequence stars of spectral types of middle - a to middle - k are practically the only stars found in close binaries with orbital periods shorter than one day . at 5184  ,",
    "the spectrograph delivers 0.204 /(19 @xmath0 m pixel ) or about 11.8 km  s@xmath1 per pixel .",
    "as it is well known , when cross - correlation or similar techniques are used , narrow , properly - sampled , symmetric spectral features can be usually measured to better than about 1/10 part of the pixel size , with the accuracy growing in relation to the total length of the spectrum . in our case",
    ", the spectrum has the length of 208    so that we can rather easily determine velocities of sharp - line stars with accuracy of about 1  km  s@xmath1 , as has been verified by many observational programs at the ddo ( see the end of this section ) .",
    "the accuracy for broad - lined spectra of binary components is obviously lower and depends on a combination of many factors .",
    "we discuss the random errors in section  [ rand ] , while systematic uncertainties specific to close binary stars are discussed in section  [ syst ] .",
    "the spectrograph is known to show some flexure limiting exposures to about 30 minutes .",
    "this has not been a real limitation in the observations because our program stars have short periods and in fact require exposures to be no longer than 15  20 minutes to prevent the radial - velocity smearing .",
    "we normally take comparison - lamp ( fear ) spectra before and after each exposure , but sometimes , for the shortest - period binaries , we take two or three stellar exposures for a set of bracketing comparison spectra spaced by no more than half an hour .",
    "the flat field lamp is an internal one in the spectrograph , but we occasionally take also sky flat - field spectra .",
    "we observe typically 3 to 5 radial - velocity standard stars per night .",
    "these stars are selected to have spectra of similar spectral types to our program stars , to serve later as templates in our technique of radial - velocity measurements through broadening functions ( see sections  [ bf ]  [ measur ] ) .",
    "an inter - comparison of radial velocities of standard stars gives an estimate of random errors at the level of about @xmath2 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "this agrees with the results for cepheids observed at the ddo by @xcite and @xcite where the errors were estimated at @xmath3 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "a fraction in these errors may come from our continuing use of the iau standard - star list as published in the nautical almanac 1995 . as explained in @xcite , the iau list contained at that time a few stars which are unsuitable as radial velocity standards .",
    "since we used many different standard stars from the iau list , these systematic errors averaged out to some degree and manifested themselves mostly as random errors .",
    "we now use exclusively the list of @xcite , but the results of our program may be affected by the uncertainties in the old standard velocity data at a level of 0.2  0.5 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "the reductions consist of several stages .",
    "stage # 1 consists of a transformation from two - dimensional images to one - dimensional , wavelength - calibrated , rectified spectra .",
    "all the steps , starting with de - biasing and flat - fielding , utilize the standard techniques within iraf .",
    "we make sure to use a consistent set of low - order polynomials for the dispersion relation and use the iraf rejection algorithm for rectification of the spectra ; both steps are facilitated by the short length of our spectra within which the dispersion and the ccd sensitivity vary only slightly and in a smooth way .",
    "figure  [ fig1 ] shows a typical spectrum for our program of the binary kr  com , one of the stars presented in the most recent paper of the series ( * ? ? ?",
    "* paper vi ) .",
    "it is a typical , yet difficult case , in the sense that we have been frequently dealing with rather complex , multi - component spectra even among relatively bright stars ( 7th magnitude in this case ) .",
    "some systems of our program have been previously known binaries , too difficult to handle using traditional ( including cross - correlation ) methods , but many were recently discovered as photometric variables .",
    "the spectra of kr  com are dominated by the third , slowly rotating component which  although the fainter one in the visual system  dominates the spectral appearance and produces sharp , easily identifiable spectral lines .",
    "the triplicity of kr  com went apparently unnoticed for so long mostly because the spectra , superficially , look like those of a single , slowly - rotating star and  paradoxically  the spectrum of the brighter binary component is not normally visible .",
    "the presence of the binary , which produces the broad spectral signature , manifests itself spectrally only through merging of more common , weaker lines and the general lowering of the continuum and is difficult to notice in low s / n spectra .",
    "the low - level photometric variability of the whole system is due to the contact binary which is the brighter component in the system , but the variability signal is sufficiently `` diluted '' in the combined light of the system that it took the high quality of the hipparcos photometry to discover it .",
    "spectra like that shown in the left panel of figure  [ fig1 ] are not analyzed directly , but are subject to the broadening - function extraction process , which is followed by measurements of radial velocities .",
    "step # 2 of the analysis is determination of the broadening function ( bf ) . the bf approach was described before in @xcite and is discussed more extensively in section  [ bf ] .",
    "in essence , it consists of a linear , least - squares determination of the broadening convolution kernel from rotationally- and orbitally - broadened spectra , utilizing spectra of sharp - line , slowly rotating radial - velocity standards .",
    "we do not use the popular cross - correlation function ( ccf ) technique because it appears to give inferior and biased results for close binary systems .",
    "we now try to explain this rather strong statement .    1",
    ".   the ccf _ combines _ the broadening of the program spectrum with that of the template , with the resulting loss of resolution , while the bf approach attempts to _ remove _ the common broadening contributions .",
    "only if the template spectrum were a series of delta - functions , would the results be the same .",
    "the definition of the baseline in the ccf is usually difficult and may lead to problems when relative luminosities of components are determined .",
    "3 .   outside of the main peak which is used for radial velocity determination",
    ", the ccf always shows a fringing pattern which may affect the strength and intensity of secondary correlation peaks for multiple systems .",
    "for very close binaries , the secondary fringes frequently produce the `` peak - pulling '' effect of the systematically smaller radial - velocity amplitudes , but a more complex interaction is entirely possible .",
    "the shape of the ccf beyond the main correlation peak depends on the shape of the stellar spectrum .",
    "_ for the same star , observations in different parts of the spectrum define different ccf s .",
    "_ this problem is rarely recognized and is particularly severe for sparse spectra , when the ccf is analyzed over a wide range of correlation lags .",
    "the problems listed above are illustrated in figure  [ fig1 ] for the case of the triple system kr  com .",
    "in the right panel , we show a comparison of the bf with the ccf for the same spectra .",
    "while the bf very clearly shows all three components in the system , it would be very difficult separate the three signatures using the ccf . the superior resolution offered by the bf approach",
    "has permitted us to analyze spectra with very strong rotational broadening , combined with situations of three or more sets of blended lines in triple and quadruple systems , with component stars showing different amounts of rotational broadening .",
    "such systems have been frequently abandoned in the past because of insurmountable difficulties with separating and measuring radial velocities of individual components .",
    "the problems of the baseline location and fringing in the ccf , as well as of the dependence on the shape of the stellar spectrum are illustrated in figure  [ fig2 ] .",
    "this figure contains a result of the following data - processing experiment . a high quality , but somewhat sparse stellar spectrum ( left panel , sampled at equal velocity steps of 0.88 km  s@xmath1 ) was convolved with the single - star rotational - broadening pattern with @xmath4 km  s@xmath1 and then subject to the ccf determination .",
    "no noise was added , so the ccf is basically perfectly determined and can be used for a direct comparison with the assumed broadening function .",
    "the right panel of the figure compares the assumed broadening profile ( dotted line ) , which is the same as the bf , with the ccf ( full line ) . the strong fringes in the ccf are very well visible . in this particular case , the unusual strength the positive fringes results from the low density of spectral features in the original spectrum and illustrates the dependence of the ccf on the stellar spectrum . while the bf formalism is insensitive to the density and distribution of the spectral lines , the ccf  beyond the main peak  does depend on the spectral region .",
    "thus , sparse spectra will lead to less - well defined broadening functions with larger _ random errors _",
    "( simply because of the lower information content ) , while the ccf will additionally show _ systematic differences _ in the fringing pattern outside the main peak .",
    "the negative fringes which are always present in the ccf can produce a quasi - baseline around the main correlation peak at a very different level than expected . in the case shown in figure",
    "[ fig2 ] , the local baseline is located about @xmath5 below the originally assumed broadening profile .",
    "if only a small part of the ccf were used , this is where the baseline would normally be located .",
    "since a ccf would rarely be used for anything else but a radial - velocity determination from the correlation peak , the exact location of the baseline may seem immaterial . however , when a secondary star is added to the picture , with the similar rotational broadening and a velocity separation comparable to the rotational broadening , as is the case for short - period binary stars , then the secondary peak in the ccf will definitely interact with the primary - star fringing pattern ; there will be also the reverse interaction of the secondary pattern with the primary peak .",
    "for single objects , the fringes are basically irrelevant , so that very close or identical radial velocities are determined using both techniques .",
    "problems occur when multiple components are present in the spectra and are particularly severe in the ccf when broadening of the lines is of the same scale as the line splitting , exactly the situation we face in our program .",
    "we recognize that a method based on the two - dimensional cross - correlation function called todcor @xcite has been developed and successfully applied to several multi - lined stellar systems showing sharp spectral lines .",
    "we did not attempt to use this technique mostly because we feel more comfortable with a tool developed by ourselves , but also because ( 1 )  todcor is designed for sharp - lined spectra and has not been demonstrated to work for the very broad lines of contact binaries , and ( 2 )  we frequently deal with mixed very broad and narrow spectral signatures which would require extension of the todcor capabilities even further .",
    "we note that the non - linear nature of the cross - correlation complicates derivation of relative luminosities of components and requires a complex calibration while our linear approach gives directly the relative luminosities through integration of the individual features in the broadening functions .",
    "this is particularly convenient for systems with components showing very different degrees of rotational broadening .",
    "we define the broadening functionrucinski . ] as a function that transforms a sharp - line spectrum of a standard star into a broadened spectrum of a binary or , for that matter , of any other star showing geometrical , doppler - effect line broadening .",
    "this way we not only determine the broadening - function shape , but also automatically relate absolute velocities of program stars to radial - velocity standards used as templates , a common advantage with the ccf approach .",
    "we do not use model spectra , e.g.   through representation of spectral lines by delta functions . while the broadening functions determined that way",
    "would be cleaner and much better defined than those utilizing standard - star templates , the advantage of the automatic relative radial - velocity calibration would be lost .",
    "we perform all radial velocity determinations in the geocentric system and only later transform the results to the barycentric ( heliocentric with planetary corrections ) system .",
    "thus , we start with a raw template spectrum @xmath6 , with its wavelength scale in @xmath7 , and a raw program spectrum @xmath8 , with its wavelength scale in @xmath9 . both @xmath6 and @xmath8",
    "are rectified and normalized to unity . to diminish importance of the one - to - zero discontinuities at the ends of the spectra , we invert them so that the absorption lines are represented by positive spikes : @xmath10 and @xmath11 .",
    "the spectra must be of similar spectral type .",
    "we normally use the templates with spectra within one spectral type .",
    "however , we have found that f - type templates will work reasonably well for radial velocity determinations between middle a - types to early k - type stars ; however , the relative luminosity estimates from the individual peaks will then be wrong .",
    "the spectra must be first re - sampled into equal steps in velocity . in our case",
    "the velocity step is typically @xmath12 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "an auxiliary vector of wavelengths is now created with elements : @xmath13 , where @xmath14 is the index in the new vector and @xmath15 , where @xmath16 is the velocity of light .",
    "the origin of this vector , @xmath17 , is selected to fall just above both origins of @xmath7 and @xmath9 for a meaningful interpolation of both spectra into the new wavelength scale .",
    "the length of @xmath18 is in our case usually selected to be @xmath19 spectral elements .",
    "the spectra @xmath20 and @xmath21 are linearly interpolated using @xmath22 , by treating @xmath7 and @xmath9 as the respective abscissas , to create the spectra used in the bf derivation : for the template , @xmath23 , and for the program star , @xmath24 . after this is accomplished , the three wavelength vectors @xmath22 , @xmath7 and @xmath9 are no longer needed because the program and the template spectra are now in the same ( geocentric ) velocity system",
    ". we can think about them as functions @xmath25 and @xmath26 with the same velocity axis or vectors @xmath27 and @xmath28 over the same range of indices .    the convolution operation which maps a sharp - line spectrum @xmath23 into a broad and/or binary - star spectrum @xmath24",
    ", @xmath29 can be written as an array operation , @xmath30 in which the rectangular array @xmath31 is created from the vector @xmath28 by placing it as columns of @xmath31 after shifting it downward by one index for each successive column ( see below or , for further details , consult @xcite ) .",
    "the broadening function is represented by a vector of the unknowns in the solution , @xmath32 .",
    "the array @xmath31 has the short dimension @xmath33 and the long dimension @xmath34 ; it accomplishes the mapping of @xmath35 .",
    "we normally use the odd number for the size of the broadening function , @xmath33 , to have it centered at the pixel symmetrically distant from both ends .",
    "also , for proper handling of the ends , @xmath36 points are removed from both ends of @xmath27 .    the convolution operation equivalent to eq .",
    "( [ eq2 ] ) , which is used in the least - squares determination of @xmath32 , can be written as a system of over - determined linear equations : @xmath37 the number of equations should be several times larger than the number of unknowns , @xmath38 . in our program , we normally use @xmath39 and @xmath40 .",
    "the size of the broadening function , @xmath33 , translates into the relative velocity range ( program minus template ) of @xmath41 km  s@xmath1 insuring a good definition of the bf itself and of the flat baseline around it .",
    "the actual size of the broadening function is a matter of choice ; sometimes we repeat the bf determination with a smaller @xmath33 for binary systems with moderate line splitting when a wide window of over 1400 km  s@xmath1 is not needed .",
    "the point is to use as short a bf as possible because the quality of the determination ( over - determinacy ) increases in relation to how many times the spectra are longer than the bf .",
    "solving of the broadening function @xmath42 is accomplished by least - squares .",
    "we are strong advocates of the singular value decomposition ( svd ) technique which is particularly useful in eliminating those parts of the spectra that carry no information ( the inter - line continuum ) , but create linear dependencies .",
    "the approach involving rejection of small singular values is the best for restoration of the shape of the bf for its subsequent modeling .",
    "however , with the radial velocities in mind , we do not in fact eliminate any singular values . in this respect , we have made some departure from the original philosophy , but this departure has a reason ; if some basis functions are eliminated , there exists a possibility that the spectral features may acquire asymmetries through an unwanted conspiracy of the basis functions which remain in the definition of the bf . by retaining all singular values",
    ", we treat each element of @xmath42 ( eqs .",
    "( [ eq2 ] )  ( [ eq3 ] ) ) as a totally independent variable , not related in any way to its neighbors .",
    "thus , any least - squares technique can be used at this stage , although we continue to use the svd as easier to use and more transparent for the matrix inversion .",
    "the details of the svd approach to solve the array equation eq .",
    "( [ eq2 ] ) or its equivalent eq .",
    "( [ eq3 ] ) for the bf vector @xmath32 are described in @xcite and the programming examples are given in @xcite .",
    "even without elimination of any singular values in the svd solution , this approach has an advantage that one decomposition of the template - spectrum array , @xmath43 , can serve to determine @xmath32 from several program spectra through the inverted relation , @xmath44 .",
    "for an excellent exposition of the svd technique stressing its beneficial properties , see @xcite .",
    "irrespective of which method of the least - square solution is used , the resulting broadening functions are always very noisy and can not be used for radial - velocity measurements .",
    "the reason for the excessive noise is that each element of the solution @xmath42 is unrelated to its neighbors and is treated as a separate unknown .",
    "we know , however , that our spectral resolution is controlled by the spectrograph slit which introduces coupling between neighboring points of the bf . in our case , the intrinsic smoothing introduced by one of the entrance slits is characterized by the fwhm of about 2.6 or 2.2 pixels .",
    "it is therefore reasonable to apply some smoothing to the noisy bf s .",
    "superficially , this step does the same to the final shape of the bf as smoothing through rejection of noise absorbed by high - order singular values in the svd technique ; however , this operation is strictly local whereas removal of some singular values may introduce non - local effects .",
    "usually , we smooth the broadening functions by convolving them with a gaussian with @xmath45 pixels ( fwhm=3.53 pixels ) ; for poor spectra of very faint stars we are sometimes forced to use @xmath46 ( fwhm=4.71 pixels ) .",
    "such smoothing is slightly stronger than its instrumental counterpart by the spectrograph slit , but is nevertheless very small , when compared with widths of lines in binary stars with periods shorter than one day .",
    "step # 3 is the radial velocity determination from the broadening functions .",
    "we determine the radial velocities of each binary component in the geocentric system , relative to the template star , @xmath47 . following that , the relative velocities are transformed to the solar system barycenter with @xmath48 , where @xmath49 are the barycentric ( sometimes called `` heliocentric '' ) velocity corrections resulting from the orbital earth motion for the program and template spectra and @xmath50",
    "is the barycentric velocity of the template star .",
    "the broadening function @xmath51 determined in the previous step is defined at points separated by equal steps in relative geocentric velocity , in our case normally @xmath12 km  s@xmath1 , spanning the velocity range @xmath52 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "the velocities of stellar components are determined by simultaneous fitting of several gaussian curves to that many spectral features as are seen in the bf .",
    "thus , it would be a 4-parameter gaussian fit for a single star ( baseline @xmath53 , strength @xmath54 , position @xmath55 , width @xmath56 ) , a 7-parameter fit for a binary or a 10-parameter fit for a triple system , etc .",
    ", as in : @xmath57 where @xmath58 represents the number of stellar components in the system .",
    "we found that least - squares gaussian fits for single stars are usually stable , while those involving more components ( binary , triple and higher multiplicity systems ) are numerically unstable forcing us to fix or manually adjust the width parameters , @xmath59 .    in triple systems which we encountered so far ,",
    "the most typical combination has been a broad - lined close binary accompanied by a sharp - lined , slowly - rotating star . in such situations , we first leave the width and position of the third , sharp component floating in order to determine best possible parameters for its subsequent subtraction from the bf . for the example shown in figure  [ fig1 ] ,",
    "the gaussian widths for the binary components were _ assumed _ at @xmath60 km  s@xmath1 and @xmath61 km  s@xmath1 while the width @xmath62 was _ determined _ at 24.74 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "we found that situations similar to that shown in the figure require a careful removal of the third - component signature . in order to define the bf for the close binary the best way possible ,",
    "we can not remove the averaged signature of the third star from many spectra and must subtract it as it is defined for the same observation",
    ". there may be many reasons why subtraction of the averaged third - star peak leaves too large residuals , including small changes in the effective resolution , imperfections in the geocentric to barycentric transformations or instabilities in the spectrograph .",
    "obviously , this approach reduces the accuracy of the third - star velocities , but our goal has been to determine the best velocities for the close binary so that we accept this limitation .",
    "the bf for the binary is usually very well defined , see for example figure  4 in paper  iv for ht  vir .",
    "the random radial - velocity errors for binaries in occurring in triple systems are only slightly larger than for the isolated binaries , typically by less than 1  km  s@xmath1 in the errors of @xmath63 , @xmath64 and @xmath65 , which simply reflects more degrees of freedom in the problem ( see the discussion in section  [ rand ] and in figure  [ fig4 ] ) . much more difficult to characterize",
    "are systematic uncertainties .",
    "one manifestation of such uncertainties is the occasional presence of an undesirable `` cross - talk '' in the three - feature fits in the sense that the third - star velocities sometimes correlate with the binary phase .",
    "we always check the third - star velocities for the dependence on the binary phase and sometimes find a correlation .",
    "( for a rather extreme case , see the discussion of ii  uma in paper  vi ) .",
    "it is usually quite difficult to find reasons for the cross - talk and each case seems to be unique .",
    "faintness of the star and/or poor spectra certainly magnify the problem which depends on such factors as the location of the third peak in the bf relative to the peaks for the binary system stars ( i.e.  with which component the third peak mergers most of the time ) or the overall degree of the line splitting for the binary system ( which depends on the orbital inclination ) .",
    "typically , the cross - talk increases the error per observation of the third - star from the expected level ( for a sharp - line star ) of @xmath66  km  s@xmath1 , to the level of @xmath67  km  s@xmath1 . except for noting the presence of the cross - talk , we are not in position to study it more extensively given the different type of the binary - phase dependence in each case .",
    "our hope is that the cross - talk will average out in the velocities of the third component , although the final proof will come only through external comparisons .",
    "the stress has been always on the quality of the binary solutions , perhaps at the expense of the quality of the radial - velocity data for the third components .",
    "we measure the radial - velocities for the binary components , and  if necessary , of a spectroscopic companion  but do not estimate the accuracy of the radial - velocity measurements at this stage . in principle",
    ", it is possible to establish a relation between the signal - to - noise ( s / n ) in the spectrum and in the broadening function @xcite , but further propagation of the errors into the velocity errors is more complex and depends on many factors .",
    "while such a relation would be definitely needed for full modeling of the bf s , we feel that complexity of the error analysis is not warranted in our case .",
    "thus , we do not determine the radial - velocity errors from the individual bf s , but evaluate them externally later from the orbital velocity solutions .",
    "such estimates may be perhaps overly pessimistic , as they incorporate systematic deviations from the orbital motion models .",
    "most importantly , however , the random errors are not the limiting factor in our results ; the real difficulty is in evaluation of systematic uncertainties .",
    "we address this issue in section  [ syst ] , after describing the orbital solutions ( section  [ orb ] ) and the externally - evaluated random errors ( section  [ rand ] ) .",
    "step # 4 of the reductions is the determination of the radial - velocity orbit using individual velocities of both components at all observed orbital phases .",
    "currently , we do so by measuring individual velocities of components , although a more global approach involving modeling of broadening functions would be definitely much preferable .",
    "the broadening functions have the potential of providing much more information than just simple velocity centroids so that orbital solutions could be carried to a much higher level of sophistication than in this series of papers .",
    "such use of the bf s was described in @xcite , where modeling of the bf shape was advocated .",
    "full modeling of this type requires knowledge of the orbital inclination , which is usually not available , and involves a simultaneous determination of the radial - velocity span , @xmath68 , the mass ratio , @xmath69 and the degree - of - contact parameter , @xmath70 .",
    "the complexity of such a global approach is the main reason why we continue to use single velocities to characterize motions of stellar components , but we do recognize limitations of this approach which may generate systematic uncertainties in the final results ; this is discussed in section  [ syst ] .",
    "we should add , that originally , this program was intended to provide the @xmath63 values from a small number of radial - velocity measurements , to relate to the then newly available hipparcos tangential velocities .",
    "however with time , our program acquired its current significance as the main contributor of radial velocity orbits for short - period binaries ( this circumstance taking place partly `` by default '' , through a surprising lack of similar programs at other observatories ) .",
    "thus , we continue to use the gaussian fits , but recognize that all our spectra and the broadening functions may be used for a much more extensive modeling .",
    "all short - period binary systems observed by us so far have circular orbits resulting in sine - curve variations of orbital velocities .",
    "the only exception that we had to consider is the third star in the system of ht  vir ( paper  iv ) on an eccentric orbit ; for this case we used the model of @xcite . because eclipse effects of rotationally broadened lines change line shapes and produce undesirable radial - velocity shifts , we eliminate observations close to orbital conjunctions , usually within the phase ranges 0.85  0.15 and 0.35  0.65 .",
    "the orbital solutions are obtained iteratively .",
    "first , we use the linear model of two sine curves and one constant value , with an assumed moment of the primary eclipse @xmath71 . thus , for @xmath72 observations ,",
    "we simultaneously fit by least squares @xmath73 equations of the type : @xmath74 @xmath75 is the orbital phase , @xmath76 . similarly to @xmath71 , the period @xmath24 is usually taken from literature sources and is fixed ; only in a few cases we attempted to improve its value .",
    "the equations can be weighted at this point when observations are of different quality .",
    "the weighting schemes are discussed in descriptions of stellar systems in individual papers and are given in the tables with radial velocities .",
    "note the sign convention in the equations , which implies that we usually start with an assumption that the primary , more massive component ( star 1 ) is eclipsed at the photometric primary minimum .",
    "in other words , we assume that for a contact system the configuration is of an a - type contact binary .",
    "we identify the w - type systems when this assumption is not valid .",
    "the resulting @xmath63 , @xmath64 , @xmath65 are the first approximations of the orbital parameters .",
    "the next step in the iterative solution consists of the application of the linearized versions of equations  ( [ eq5 ] )  ( [ eq6 ] ) for @xmath77 , @xmath78 , @xmath79 and @xmath80 .",
    "we always first use any available literature value for @xmath71 and then improve it by solving the linearized equations until all corrections @xmath81 no longer change .",
    "it is at this stage that we determine random - error uncertainties of the orbital parameters and the radial - velocity errors per observation .",
    "least - squares solutions of the linearized equations ( [ eq5 ] )  ( [ eq6 ] ) can provide mean standard errors of the orbital parameters @xmath63 , @xmath64 , @xmath65 and @xmath71 .",
    "we do not use such errors because they usually underestimate the random error uncertainties .",
    "instead , we use the `` bootstrap sampling '' technique which involves multiple ( thousands of times ) re - sampling of the data with possible repetitions , with subsequent solutions of all such datasets . by forming statistics of the spread in the resulting parameters and by determining the inner 67 percent distribution ranges",
    ", we estimate equivalents of the mean standard errors .",
    "they are sometimes close to the linear estimates , but usually are larger . in any case , we consider them more realistic as they include inter - parameter correlations .",
    "we have sufficient amount of information from all our orbital solutions to analyze sizes and distributions of our random errors . for that purpose , we used all the available solutions , eliminating three systems observed at the dominion astrophysical observatory , as reported in paper  i , and adding w  crv described separately @xcite , altogether 58 orbital solutions .",
    "the statistics of mean standard errors per single observation , @xmath82 , for the primary ( @xmath83 ) and the secondary ( @xmath84 ) components , is shown in the first panel of figure  [ fig3 ] .",
    "the median values of the errors are @xmath85 km  s@xmath1 and @xmath86 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "the corresponding distributions for the errors of the radial - velocity amplitudes , @xmath87 , are shown in the upper right panel .",
    "the median values are @xmath88 km  s@xmath1 and @xmath89 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "the center - of - mass velocities @xmath63 are better established than @xmath90 because two stars contribute in each solution to one number .",
    "the median value of these errors is @xmath91 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "finally , the distribution of the mean standard errors of the initial epoch , @xmath92 , is shown in the last panel of figure  [ fig3 ] .",
    "the median value for this error is , @xmath93 days ( about 1.5 minute ) .",
    "the mean standard errors of the orbital parameters are correlated .",
    "the most interesting correlations are shown in figure  [ fig4 ] .",
    "the two upper panels show that the mean error of the center - of - mass velocity , @xmath94 , which appears to be a convenient measure of the quality of the orbital data .",
    "it depends on the brightness of the system and on the orbital period .",
    "it is confined within @xmath95 km  s@xmath1 for @xmath96 , but increases to slightly over 2 km  s@xmath1 for @xmath97 ( the left upper panel ) .",
    "the scatter in @xmath94 increases for short - period systems ( the right upper panel of figure  [ fig4 ] ) , but this may be due to the fact that most of our targets had periods within 0.3  0.6 days , in a range where a genuine frequency maximum exists in the volume - limited samples of contact binaries @xcite . the systems with longer periods , @xmath98 days , tend to show small errors , but these are exactly those binaries which had been overlooked before among bright stars and have been easy targets for our program .",
    "the error @xmath94 correlates tightly with @xmath87 and with @xmath82 , as shown in the four lower panels of figure  [ fig4 ] . a particularly close correlation with the slope close to unity exists between @xmath99 and @xmath94 ( middle left panel ) .",
    "binaries observed in spectroscopic triple systems show slightly larger random errors than when isolated , typically by less than 1  km  s@xmath1 in the errors of @xmath63 , @xmath64 and @xmath65 .",
    "such binaries are shown by open symbols in all plots in figure  [ fig4 ] .",
    "it is difficult to evaluate systematic uncertainties of our results .",
    "the systematic errors depend in a complex way on the orbital parameters and couple with the random errors .",
    "the main source of the systematic errors is the measurement of radial velocities from the broadening functions .",
    "we approximate the center - of - mass positions with the light centroids and measure the centroids by fitting gaussians .",
    "the latter assumption , that the radial velocities of the light centroids coincide with radial velocities of the mass centers , is  in general  not fulfilled by distorted components in close binary systems and is particularly dangerous for contact binaries where the peaks in the bf s are not symmetric , with steeper outer parts and more gently sloping inner parts .",
    "direct modeling of the bf s would avoid this systematic error ( see the end of this section ) .",
    "some insight into systematic uncertainties involving the gaussian approximation of the peaks in the broadening functions can be obtained by applying gaussians of various widths and evaluating systematic shifts in the results .",
    "we will consider here , as a case study , of a typical , 9 magnitude , a - type contact system gm  dra from the most recent paper  vi .",
    "let us first consider one broadening function for the orbital phase 0.283 of gm  dra ( the lowest panel of figure  [ fig5 ] ) .",
    "for this particular broadening function , we would normally select the best - fitting gaussians to have the width parameters @xmath100 km  s@xmath1 and @xmath101 km  s@xmath1 ( see eq .",
    "( [ gauss ] ) ) .",
    "however , as an experiment , we considered widths between the estimated narrowest and widest acceptable values of @xmath59 : @xmath102 km  s@xmath1 and @xmath103 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "the extreme cases are shown by dotted and broken lines in figure  [ fig5 ] .",
    "for the full ranges of the widths , the change in the measured velocity of the primary component is from @xmath104 km  s@xmath1 to @xmath105 km  s@xmath1 , while the change for the secondary component is from @xmath106 km  s@xmath1 to @xmath107 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "thus , systematic errors in radial velocities appear to be at a level of 1.5 to 2.5 km  s@xmath1 , with larger velocities ( in the absolute sense ) associated with larger assumed widths of the fitting gaussians .",
    "analysis of the type presented above can be done for all available broadening functions , at all orbital phases .",
    "the four upper panels of figure  [ fig5 ] show the shifts in the measured centroids for all available observations of gm  dra obtained around the orbital quadratures , within the orbital phase ranges 0.15  0.35 and 0.65  0.85 , as marked in the figure .",
    "the gaussian widths @xmath59 were incremented in equal steps and for each assumed width a full radial velocity determination was performed . as we can see in the figure ,",
    "the systematic effects are clearly present , especially for the secondary ( less - massive ) component .",
    "the shifts are typically at the level below 2 km  s@xmath1 for the primary component , but the shifts of the order of 5  7 km  s@xmath1 are not uncommon for the secondary component .",
    "the shifts depend on side of the binary system ( or the sign of the radial velocity ) observed at a given orbital quadrature .",
    "the overall tendency appears to be that the wider gaussian width @xmath59 result in velocities further away from the center - of - mass velocity , i.e.  such ones which should lead to systematically larger values of the orbital amplitudes , @xmath90 .",
    "this is confirmed by the actual determinations of the radial velocity orbits for the extreme values of [ @xmath108 , @xmath109 pairs , selected to deviate from the optimal values of 120 and 80 km  s@xmath1 by @xmath110 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "the systematic changes for the particular case of gm  dra strongly depend on the parameter considered . while the changes in @xmath63 are within @xmath111 and @xmath112 km  s@xmath1 , those in the amplitudes are larger : @xmath113 and @xmath114 km  s@xmath1 for @xmath64 and as much as @xmath115 and @xmath116 km  s@xmath1 for @xmath65 . while the ranges of the gaussian widths @xmath59 were intentionally exaggerated in the experiment , to estimate the largest systematic deviations , we clearly see that systematic effects may set an important limitation on our results . for comparison",
    ", we note that the random errors of the orbital parameters of gm  dra are @xmath117 km  s@xmath1 , @xmath118 km  s@xmath1 and @xmath119 km  s@xmath1 ( paper  vi ) .",
    "thus , for this particular binary , the systematic uncertainty appears to be larger than the random error only for @xmath65 , but then it is even two times larger .",
    "optimally , the systematic effects resulting from the use of different widths in the gaussian fits should be evaluated for each binary through a process similar to that applied to gm  dra .",
    "however , we feel that it is impractical to perform similar analyses for all systems in this program . besides , we know that application of the gaussian fits is  in any case  a crude approximation and that the best approach would be to _ model _ the broadening functions as it was done in @xcite .",
    "full bf modeling would permit inclusion of more spectra than we utilize now because , currently , we measure for radial velocities only those bf s which show a clear splitting of the spectral signatures .",
    "by addition of these spectra we would increase the available material by about 20  30 percent , which would only slightly reduce random errors and thus produce a very modest improvement in accuracy .",
    "much more important would be a reduction or entire elimination of the systematic errors , which may reach levels of 5  7 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "for most binaries of this program , this would typically correspond to about 2  3 percent error in @xmath90 , but in some extreme cases of small semi - amplitudes , the errors may reach 10  15 percent . while the approach involving combined radial velocity and light - curve modeling would avoid the main systematic effects , it would require a considerable organizational and computational effort , introducing large delays in our mostly observational program .",
    "since our radial velocity observations are  for most systems ",
    "the first and the only ones , we decided to accept the level of systematic errors generated by the use of the measuring gaussians and make our solutions generally available , keeping in mind their systematic uncertainties which must be taken into account when considering the overall accuracy of our program .",
    "the ongoing survey of close binary systems with periods shorter than one day , currently conducted at the david dunlap observatory , has resulted in a consistent set of radial velocity orbits for sixty previously unobserved binaries to approximately 11th magnitude .",
    "while , at the start , the survey concentrated on systems which simply had not been studied before ( for various reasons , but mostly because of inadequate instrumentation and data - analysis tools some half a century ago , when this field was very active ) , the photometric discoveries of the hipparcos satellite are now dominating in numbers .",
    "there was only one hipparcos system among the first twenty orbits ( papers i and ii ) , 9 such systems among the next twenty orbits ( papers iii and iv ) and 15 such systems among the most recent twenty orbits ( papers v and vi ) .",
    "about 50 known , photometrically - discovered binaries still remain to be observed and analyzed and new ones are constantly added to catalogs , some of them quite bright . regrettably , apparently there is no similar survey for the southern hemisphere .",
    "our survey is quasi - random in the sense that we observe all short - period ( @xmath120 day ) , bright , previously unobserved binaries . with such criteria ,",
    "the contact binaries absolutely dominate in numbers . among the 60 systems described in the previous six papers , only 8 were not contact systems .",
    "this is partially due to strong selection effects against detection of detached binaries , but mostly due to the very high frequency of contact binary systems in the old - disk population , particularly in the period range 0.3 to 0.5 days , but with a tail extending beyond one day , to about 1.3  1.5 days .",
    "the high frequency of incidence is strongly manifested in the volume - limited ogle sample and in open clusters @xcite . because our survey is magnitude limited",
    ", we tend to include many brighter systems from the tail of the distribution between 0.5 day and our current upper limit at one day .",
    "otherwise , we do not discriminate among binary systems in any other way .",
    "in particular , the random character of the survey has resulted in discoveries of the largest ( @xmath121 , v753  mon ; paper  iii ) and the smallest ( @xmath122 , sx  crv ; paper  v ) known mass ratios among contact binaries .",
    "the ddo survey is characterized by moderate random errors of about 1  2 km  s@xmath1 for the orbital parameters , @xmath63 , @xmath64 and @xmath65 , and  upon completion  can serve as a useful database of parameters of very close binary systems .",
    "we are aware , however , that our final parameters contain systematic uncertainties resulting from our radial - velocity measurement techniques . while the use of the broadening functions permitted us to analyze close binaries in several multiple , visual / spectroscopic systems providing data which were too `` difficult '' before , our extraction of individual radial velocities from the broadening functions , through gaussian fitting ,",
    "is a disputable approach for contact binary systems . because the line - broadening for such systems is very strong , comparable with orbital velocities of hundreds of km  s@xmath1 , and  in fact  somewhat asymmetric ,",
    "our measuring technique may lead to systematic errors reaching levels of 5  7 km  s@xmath1 or even more .",
    "paradoxically , through the use of the broadening functions in place of the cross - correlation functions , we have uncovered real physical reasons why the gaussian approximation is only barely appropriate .",
    "the correct approach avoiding the systematic errors would be to model the broadening functions and determine the radial velocities in terms of the mass ratio , @xmath69 , and the scaling factor , ( @xmath68 ) , with the shift , @xmath63 .",
    "the models would require independent input from parallel solution of light curves , providing the orbital inclination angle , @xmath123 , as well as the degree - of - contact , @xmath70 .",
    "currently , most of the program targets have not had their light - curves solved , and even if some attempts have been made , we would not trust them for the following simple reason : we have seen so many cases of the spectroscopic mass ratio different from the previous photometric mass - ratio determinations , @xmath124 , that we feel very strongly that the values of @xmath125 are usually not properly constrained and may be plainly wrong ) , producing a very complex bias in the uncertainties of @xmath125 . ] , leading to entirely incorrect combinations of orbital parameters .",
    "we envisage that the results of this survey will provide just a first stage of an iterative process . in future ,",
    "our spectroscopic values of mass ratio , @xmath126 , should permit solution of light curves which were previously unsolvable because to the poorly constrained mass ratios .",
    "the derived information on ( @xmath123 , @xmath70 ) pairs would permit , in turn , a re - discussion of the broadening functions and determination of the final orbital parameters , free of systematic uncertainties .    concerning the instrumental developments at the ddo : soon , we plan to start using a new ccd system based on a much more sensitive detector .",
    "while the analysis of the data should remain the same as described above , we may have to select the targets more discriminately .",
    "in particular , it may turn out impractical to observe all binaries with periods shorter than one day down to to the expected limiting magnitude of about 12.5 magnitude . indeed , from the point of astrophysical usefulness , it would be advantageous to reduce the deficit of the intrinsically faint contact systems among spectroscopically studied binaries of the magnitude - limited sample , by attempting to form a volume - limited sample through giving preference to very short - period systems .    while many persons have participated in this program and have either co - authored the previous papers or their contributions have been acknowledged there , special thanks are due to dr .",
    "hilmar duerbeck who contributed to setting the goals of the program in its early stages when it was concerned mostly with the center - of - mass velocities for contact binaries for a planned spatial - velocity investigation .",
    "the author would like to thank stefan mochnacki and mel blake for reading and commenting on an early version of the paper .",
    "thanks are also due to the anonymous referee for two very careful and constructive reviews .",
    "evans , n. r. 2000 , , 119 , 3050 lu , w. , & rucinski , s. m. 1993 , , 106 , 361 lu , w. , & rucinski , s. m. 1999 , , 118 , 515 ( paper i ) lu , w. , rucinski , s. m. & ogloza , w. 2001 , , 122 , 402 ( paper  iv ) mochnacki , s. w. & doughty , n. a. 1972a , , 156 , 51 mochnacki , s. w. & doughty , n. a. 1972b , , 156 , 243 morbey , c. 1975 , , 87 , 689 press , w. h. , teukolsky , s. a. vettering , w. t. & flannery , b. p. 1992",
    ", numerical recipes in fortran , second edition , cambridge univ .",
    "press rucinski , s. m. 1992 , , 104 , 1968 rucinski , s. m. 1998 , , 116 , 2998 rucinski , s. m. 1999 , `` precise stellar radial velocities '' , asp conf .",
    "vol.185 , eds .",
    "j. b. hearnshaw & c. d. scarfe , p.82 rucinski , s. m. & lu , w. 1999 , , 118 , 2451 ( paper ii ) rucinski , s. m. & lu , w. 2000 , , 315 , 587 rucinski , s. m. , lu , w. & shi , j 1993 , , 106 , 1174 rucinski , s. m. , lu , w. & mochnacki , s. w. 2000 , , 120 , 1133 ( paper iii ) rucinski , s. m. , lu , w. , capobianco , c. c. mochnacki , s. w. , blake , m. 2001 , , 122 , 1974 ( paper  v ) rucinski et al .",
    "2002 , , submitted ( paper  vi ) stefanik , r. p. , latham , d. w. & torres , g 1999 , `` precise stellar radial velocities '' , asp conf .",
    "vol.185 , eds .",
    "j. b. hearnshaw & c. d. scarfe , p.354 sugars , b. j. a & evans , n. r. 1994 , , 88 , 270 zucker , s. & mazeh , t. 1994 , , 420 , 806 zucker , s. , torres , g. & mazeh , t. 1995 , , 452 , 863"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> methods used in the radial - velocity program of short - period binary systems at the david dunlap observatory are described with particular stress on the broadening function ( bf ) formalism . </S>",
    "<S> this formalism has permitted determination of radial velocities from complex spectra of multiple - component systems with component stars showing very different degree of rotational line broadening . </S>",
    "<S> the statistics of random errors of orbital parameters is discussed on the basis of the available orbital solutions presented in the six previous papers of the series , each with ten orbits . </S>",
    "<S> the difficult matter of systematic uncertainties in orbital parameters is illustrated for one typical case of gm  dra from the most recent paper  vi . </S>"
  ]
}