{
  "article_text": [
    "the disrupted magnetic braking model has enjoyed considerable success in explaining the @xmath1 hour period gap in the period distribution of the cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) .",
    "the essential idea is that the cvs with orbital periods @xmath2 evolve towards shorter periods due to a combination of angular momentum losses from magnetic braking due to a magnetised wind originating from the secondary star , and from gravitational radiation ( verbunt & zwaan  ; rappaport , verbunt & joss  ; see howell , nelson & rappaport   for a recent review ) .",
    "magnetic braking dominates at longer periods .",
    "as the donor secondary decreases in mass , its thermal time - scale increases , until thermal relaxation can no longer keep pace with the mass transfer rate being driven by magnetic braking , and it becomes increasingly bloated with respect to thermal equilibrium .",
    "when , as the orbital period reaches ( @xmath3 ) , the secondary s convective envelope penetrates to the stellar center , its large - scale magnetic field loses its radiative anchor and , being buoyant , is expelled from the star .",
    "this sudden cessation of magnetic braking allows the distended secondary to contract more rapidly than its roche lobe , and mass transfer ceases until angular momentum losses to gravitational radiation have reduced the binary separation far enough for the secondary to again fill its roche lobe , at an orbital period of @xmath4 .",
    "it is important to recognize that , were the secondary to remain in thermal equilibrium throughout its evolution , it would evolve continuously through the period gap with no abatement of mass transfer .    a subset of the cvs are known to be magnetic and classified as either am hers or intermediate polars ( ips )  @xcite . in the am hers the magnetic white dwarf is in synchronous rotation with the orbit so that its spin period @xmath5 is equal to the orbital period @xmath6 . in the ips ,",
    "the magnetic white dwarf is asynchronous ( typically @xmath7 ) .",
    "some 65 confirmed am hers are known , of which 37 have direct magnetic field measurements ( see wickramasinghe & ferrario   for a recent review ) .",
    "the estimated effective dipolar fields range from @xmath8 mg .",
    "the ip class contains fewer confirmed members ( 26 ) .",
    "indirect estimates of their field strengths suggest dipolar fields in the range @xmath9 mg .",
    "any theory which purports to explain the period distribution of cvs must also account for the properties of the magnetic cvs which , as a group , comprise some @xmath10 of all cvs of known orbital period  @xcite .",
    "the possibility that the magnetic field of the white dwarf may affect the orbital evolution of the binary was first discussed by wickramasinghe & wu   in relation to the am her type systems .",
    "this research was prompted by the early discovery of several am herculis systems in the period gap before the results of the enlarged sample of am hers from the rosat survey became available .",
    "here it was argued that at strong fields , the magnetised wind from the secondary may become trapped by the combined magnetosphere of the primary and the secondary and result in a reduction in the magnetic braking rate . if the braking rate was effectively curtailed , systems will evolve towards shorter periods almost entirely by gravitational radiation .",
    "the proposal was that there will be no disruption in magnetic braking , and that no period gap will form .",
    "li , wu & wickramasinghe   extended the mestel & spruit   wind theory for single stars and developed a theory for evaluating the braking rate in synchronised am herculis type binary systems .",
    "these models assume that the secondary star has a dynamo generated field with a dipole moment oriented perpendicular to the orbital plane , and that the magnetic white dwarf is locked in synchronous rotation by magnetostatic torques .",
    "the dipole moment of the white dwarf is then oriented anti - parallel to that of the secondary star .",
    "the calculations showed that for a fixed orbital period , the braking rates dropped by several orders of magnitude as the polar field strength increased from @xmath11 to @xmath12 mg , and the magnetosphere of the white dwarf engulfed the companion star and trapped the wind .",
    "subsequently , li & wickramasinghe   allowed for more general orientations of the dipole moment of the secondary star and showed that the largest reductions in the braking rate occurred for the case where the dipole moment was nearly ( within @xmath13 ) aligned with the spin axis .",
    "the rosat survey  @xcite resulted in a large increase in the number of known am hers  @xcite , and allowed a better statistical analysis of the period distribution of the magnetic and non - magnetic cvs . at long orbital periods ,",
    "the numbers of am hers falls much more rapidly than those of non - am hers , a difference attributable to a competition between accretion torques and magnetic torques which favors magnetic torques at low donor masses , short orbital periods , and small orbital separations . as cvs evolve to shorter orbital period , then , a growing fraction achieve synchronism and evolve from non - am her to am her systems .",
    "meaningful comparisons of am her to non - am her period distributions are therefore limited to short orbital periods , where statistics are presumably dominated by the influx of systems from longer orbital periods , as opposed to birth within the period interval of interest . wheatley s",
    "application of the two - sided kolmogorov ",
    "smirnov test to systems with orbital periods less than 32 yielded a @xmath14 probability that am her and non - magnetic distributions were drawn from the same parent population , a difference he regarded as not significant .",
    "( hellier & naylor  , on the other hand , found a similar figure for systems with orbital period less than @xmath15 , and regarded it as significant . )",
    "we shall see below that the differences between am her and non - am her distributions should be most evident within the period gap itself , and that a two - sided kolmogorov  smirnov test applied only to systems _ within the gap _ yields a @xmath16 probability that they belong to the same parent distribution .",
    "this comparison is still hampered by small numbers , but we regard the difference as compelling , if not yet conclusive .    in this paper we reports results of calculations of the orbital evolution of magnetic cvs which allow for a reduction in magnetic braking following the theory of li et al .",
    "we use our results to analyse the data on the period distribution of the magnetic cvs , and more generally to re - assess the role played by disrupted magnetic braking in the formation of the period gap .",
    "magnetic field measurements from zeeman and cyclotron spectroscopy provide estimates either of the effective dipolar photospheric field , or of magnetic fields at accretion spots on the white dwarf surface .",
    "we use as our data base for am hers the list of field measurements given in  @xcite based on these techniques updated to include the recent field measurement of v884 her  @xcite . the braking calculations",
    ", however , require the magnetic moment which is difficult to estimate from observations .",
    "the magnetic moment while being proportional to the magnetic field is also proportional to the cube of the stellar radius .",
    "unfortunately , the latter , which is derived from the mass , is poorly determined . indeed , even in the few eclipsing systems where the orbital inclination is well constrained",
    ", there is no consensus on the component masses , and these are even less well determined in other systems . in our calculations , the magnetic moments have been chosen to be in the range @xmath17 g  @xmath18 which is consistent with the observed effective dipolar field range if allowance is made for a spread in white dwarf mass .",
    "our list of cvs is drawn from the database of downes et al .",
    "current on 2002 january 25 .",
    "we have included the intermediate polars in our ` non - magnetic ' sample because to a first approximation , we expect them to evolve under the normal braking law . however , it is likely that many ips become synchronised as they evolve toward shorter periods , becoming am her systems .",
    "this possibility needs to be considered when comparing observed distributions .",
    "we show in figure 1 the distributions of am hers and other types of cvs as a function of orbital frequency ( hr@xmath19 ) , binned into frequency intervals 0.025 hr@xmath19 . in these units",
    "the canonical ` period gap ' corresponds to the frequency range @xmath20 hr@xmath19 .",
    "we choose to display the distribution in terms of frequency , rather than more conventionally in terms of period , in order to spread the short - period peak and to make the period gap more apparent . in this figure , and throughout the rest of this paper , we will continue to display results in terms of orbital frequency for ease of comparison ; however , we will cast our discussion in the more familiar terms of orbital period , and show at the top of each figure the corresponding period scale .",
    "a glance at figure 1 shows the following characteristics :    there is an abrupt drop in the number of non - am her systems at periods above 2.1 hours , which can be considered the lower end of the gap . at longer periods",
    ", there is a gradual rise in their number distribution , with the distribution rising rapidly at @xmath21 hours , which can be considered the upper end of the period gap .",
    "this plot clearly shows that the gap is itself not totally devoid of stars .",
    "rather there is a tendency for this canonical period gap to fill in from the higher period end .",
    "the period gap is decidedly less well - defined among the am her stars .",
    "the average number of systems per unit orbital frequency within the 2.13 hour period range is smaller than among systems at shorter period ( higher frequency ) , but the increase in numbers at longer period ( lower frequency ) is much less pronounced than among the non - am her systems .",
    "moreover , among the magnetic systems , the canonical period gap appears to fill from the lower period ( higher frequency ) end , opposite to the behaviour seen for the other cvs .",
    "the kolmogorov  smirnov two - sample statistic , applied only to those systems of confirmed orbital period falling within the gap in figure 1 , yields only a @xmath16 probability that am her systems and non - am her systems are drawn from the same population .",
    "we show in figure 2 the distribution of field strength as a function of orbital frequency for the 37 systems for which field estimates are available .",
    "the fields correspond to effective dipolar fields for cases where photospheric zeeman measurements are available , or where cyclotron fields are available for both poles . for other systems ,",
    "the fields correspond to the value measured at a single pole .",
    "this plot shows that there is no significant difference between the mean field of systems within the canonical period gap and outside .",
    "furthermore , there is no obvious correlation between field strength and orbital period for systems within the @xmath0 period region .",
    "the braking rate of synchronised magnetic binaries depends on the interaction of the stellar wind with the combined magnetospheres of the components stars .",
    "it is therefore a function of a number of parameters which fall into two basic categories : those which specify the magnetic interaction , and those which specify the properties of the wind .",
    "there are four parameters belonging to the first category which enter directly into the calculations of the braking rates .",
    "these are the masses @xmath22 and @xmath23 of the primary and the secondary stars respectively , the radius @xmath24 of the secondary , and the magnetic moment @xmath25 of the primary star .",
    "the magnetic moment @xmath26 of the secondary is not a free parameter but is calculated on the assumption that prior to the star becoming fully convective , the mean surface field evolves with angular velocity according to a power law @xmath27 where @xmath28 is the angular frequency of rotation .",
    "mestel & spruit   considered the cases @xmath29 as being most consistent with the observations of late type stars , and we accordingly adopt @xmath29 in our models .",
    "however , it should be noted that this law does not allow for complexities such as dynamo saturation which may play a role in binary evolution where rapid rotation rates are encountered as the orbit shrinks .",
    "the magnetic moment of the secondary star @xmath30 is a strong function of its radius @xmath24 . among the cv donors we wish to model , that radius is itself",
    "strongly correlated with the stellar mass .",
    "we therefore parametrise @xmath24 in terms of a pseudo - radius @xmath31 which removes the lowest - order power - law relationship between @xmath24 and @xmath23  @xcite .",
    "thus , @xmath32 where @xmath33    after the star becomes convective we assume that the intrinsic mean field is effectively zero .",
    "the secondary star will have an induced dipole moment of @xmath34 where @xmath35 is the orbital separation .",
    "the induced dipole moment is typically a factor @xmath36 times lower than the intrinsic dipole moment of the primary star , and there will be no open flux to produce braking even if a wind persists . in this regime we can therefore assume that braking is dominated by angular momentum loss by gravitational radiation .",
    "it can be seen from the above , that apart for the wind parameters to be discussed in the next section , the braking rate can be parametrised terms of @xmath37 .      in the braking of single stars by a magnetised stellar wind",
    ", both thermal and centrifugal effects can play an important role in different mass and rotation regimes .",
    "the mestel & spruit   theory allows a convenient parametrisation of these effects . in the context of the cvs , however , due to their rapid rotation we can assume that centrifugal effects dominate over the entire observed range  @xcite .",
    "the formulation of the magnetic braking problem for centrifugally driven winds has been described in detail by li et al .  .",
    "we therefore present only the basic equations and our method of solution , and refer the reader to this paper for further details .",
    "the basic assumption underlying our calculations is that the dipole moment of the secondary star is oriented perpendicular to the orbital plane  the likely orientation for a dynamo generated field .",
    "the magnetic moment of the primary star must then be anti - aligned with that of the secondary in the minimum energy configuration ( stable equilibrium ) .",
    "the magnetic moment of the white dwarf rotates through @xmath38 radians as the polarity of the secondary star switches during its magnetic cycle .",
    "we assume that this adjustment occurs on a time scale that is shorter than the magnetic cycle time scale , and that a given system spends the bulk of its evolution with the dipoles nearly anti - aligned . in this context",
    "we note that in the few well studied am hers there is a preference for the dipole axes to be aligned with the spin axis  @xcite .",
    "changes have been observed in the rotational azimuth of the magnetic axis in three of am her systems on a time scale of @xmath39 years ( see wickramasinghe & wu 1991 , wu & wickramasinghe 1993 ) but no changes in magnetic polarity have so far been reported .    in what follows",
    "we make the explicit assumption that the braking rates that we deduce for anti - aligned systems are representative of the mean braking rate under which the am hers evolve .",
    "we consider a coordinate system in which the secondary star is at the origin @xmath40 , @xmath41 in the direction of the orbital angular momentum , and the primary star is in the negative @xmath42 direction at ( 0,@xmath43,0 ) .",
    "the field components in the plane @xmath44 containing the two dipole moments are @xmath45\\ ] ] and @xmath46\\ ] ] where @xmath47 where @xmath48 and @xmath49 are the radial distances of a field point from the primary and the secondary stars respectively .    the dead zones are assumed to be isothermal with sound speed @xmath50 and to corotate with the secondary star .",
    "the condition of magnetostatic equilibrium then yields the density within this region . for a point with polar coordinates ( @xmath51 ) along a field line starting from the surface of the secondary ( @xmath52 , @xmath53 ) , the density is  @xcite @xmath54\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath55 at the density at the base of the dead zone . here",
    "@xmath56 and @xmath57 respectively measure the importance of centrifugal and gravitational effects of the two stars relative to thermal effects on the wind .",
    "we trace the magnetic field lines by solving the coupled differential equations @xmath58 and @xmath59 where @xmath60 is the total field .",
    "the critical field lines which separate the wind zones from the dead zones are determined by the pressure balance condition @xmath61 for assumed dead zone parameters , which we have evaluated as in li et al .",
    ", these calculations yield the region @xmath62 of open field lines in the plane @xmath44 which is then used to estimate the fractional area @xmath63 on the surface of open magnetic flux .",
    "@xmath63 depends primarily on the magnetic moment of the primary star and of the mass of the secondary star , and only weakly on @xmath22 .",
    "the dependence of @xmath63 on these two parameters is shown in figure 3 .",
    "we note in particular the rapid drop in open flux for large @xmath25 at fixed @xmath23 which plays a crucial role in determining the characteristics of the orbital evolution to be discussed in the next section .    as shown by li et al .",
    ", the braking rate takes a particularly simple form when the wind is centrifugally driven . in this limit",
    "@xmath64 the same theory also provides an expression for @xmath65 which involves wind and dead zone parameters .",
    "however , the dependence of these quantities on spectral type is unknown , and as discussed by li & wickramasinghe  , a simple scaling from solar values is inappropriate . following previous investigators , we have accordingly chosen to normalise the braking rate so as to reproduce the observed period gap in the limit of zero magnetic field .",
    "this normalisation corresponds to a braking rate of @xmath66 dyn  cm for a roche lobe filling secondary star in a non - magnetic ( @xmath67 ) cv at an orbital period of @xmath15  @xcite .",
    "the mass of the white dwarf and its magnetic moment are essentially free parameters in our calculations as are the mass of the secondary and the factor @xmath68 which determines the radius of the donor star .",
    "we have constructed a grid of magnetic braking rates as a function of @xmath37 , and used these to calculate orbital evolution for various initial component masses .",
    "we have explored the evolutionary consequences of attenuated magnetic braking using the bipolytrope code developed by rappaport et al .",
    ", as modified by nelson , rappaport & joss  .",
    "this code idealizes the convective envelope - radiative core structure of near - main sequence stars of arbitrary degeneracy as @xmath69 polytropic envelopes fitted to @xmath70 polytropic cores , and reproduces the most important features of mass - losing lower main sequence stars with considerable fidelity . except",
    "as noted below , we assume solar composition for the donor star throughout , with photospheric opacities adopted from alexander   after rappaport , joss & webbink  .    for purposes of computing mass transfer rates",
    ", we fit isothermal atmospheres to the bipolytropes , and write the mass transfer rate explicitly in terms of the difference between the fitting point radius for this atmosphere and the roche lobe radius of the donor star .",
    "however , in the calculations presented here , that difference never exceeds @xmath71 of the stellar radius , so we could have achieved the same results for all practical purposes by limiting the stellar radius to the roche lobe radius as a surface boundary condition .",
    "we assume that the white dwarf mass remains constant throughout the evolution of our model binaries , with all mass lost by the hydrogen - rich donor lost from the system in nova explosions .",
    "the ejected mass is assumed to carry off a specific angular momentum equal to the orbital angular momentum per unit mass of the white dwarf .",
    "observationally , nova outbursts are found in non - am her systems and am her systems alike ( _ viz . _",
    "v1500 cyg ) .",
    "the heavy - element enhancements typical of the ejecta of well - studied novae  @xcite are unmistakable evidence that the underlying white dwarfs do not generally grow in mass during the course of evolution , but may in fact suffer net erosion through nova outbursts . provided that this erosion is not so severe as to drive the binary toward dynamical instability ( roughly , that @xmath72 ) , that the binary in question has not arrived at the onset its cataclysmic variable phase just above the period gap , and that the angular momentum content of nova ejecta has not been seriously underestimated , then the width and position of the period gap are insensitive to our assumption of constant white dwarf mass .",
    "figure 4 illustrates this point , by comparing a family of evolutionary tracks for nonmagnetic cvs , differing in the extent of systemic mass loss , but converging to identical total masses at the upper edge of the period gap .",
    "figure 5 underscores the point implicit in figure 4 : for a given magnetic braking rate , the position and width of the period gap depends principally on the component masses of the binary as it ceases magnetic braking , and not on its evolutionary history in reaching that point . since the disrupted magnetic braking model for the period gap associates the cessation of magnetic braking with the donor star becoming fully convective , the principal factors governing the position and width of the period gap ( again , for a given magnetic braking rate ) are ( i ) the mass of the white dwarf ( or , equivalently , the mass ratio ) , and ( ii ) the chemical composition of the donor star .",
    "the mass of the white dwarf influences the period gap through its role in orbital dynamics .",
    "smaller white dwarf masses demand larger mass transfer rates to moderate the rate of roche lobe contraction induced by angular momentum losses to magnetic braking .",
    "these higher mass transfer rates in turn drive the donor star further from thermal equilibrium , expanding the period gap , as seen in figure 6 . however , the effect is only strong for binary mass ratios near the limit of dynamical stability for fully convective donors ( @xmath73 ) , and can not by itself account for cvs found in the gap .",
    "figure 7 illustrates the effect of varying metallicity of the donor star on the position and width of the period gap .",
    "metal - deficient donors are systematically bluer and more luminous than their solar - composition counterparts of the same mass .",
    "their higher luminosities endow them with shorter thermal time scales , and they therefore adhere more closely to the thermal equilibrium main sequence before turning fully convective than do solar - composition stars . as seen in figure 6 , then , metal - deficient stars encroach into the period gap from the long - period ( low - frequency ) end .",
    "we tentatively suggest , therefore , that the small number of non - am her - type cvs spilling into the period gap at long period may be relatively metal - poor .",
    "metal - deficient main sequence stars are also physically smaller at low masses than solar composition stars , and so the short - period ( high - frequency ) boundary of the period gap migrates toward shorter periods ( higher frequencies ) .",
    "the preceding considerations demonstrate that , within the context of the disrupted magnetic braking model , the period gap is a robust entity .",
    "one can account for small numbers of non - am her cvs in the gap by appealing to newly - formed systems in which the donor stars are already fully convective main sequence stars with masses in the 0.20.3 m@xmath74 range , or by appealing to infiltration by metal - deficient donors at the long - period end of the gap .",
    "however , in light of the robustness of the period gap , the difference in orbital period distributions between am her systems and non - am her systems seen in figure 1 strongly suggests that the am her systems deviate from the disrupted braking law which seems to apply to all other cvs .    as described in section 3 , in synchronous rotators ( am her binaries )",
    ", the dipole field of the white dwarf can close field lines from the donor star , suppressing the stellar wind on otherwise open field lines , and thereby suppress angular momentum losses .",
    "we have incorporated the attenuated magnetic braking model described there into the evolutionary model described above , under the assumption that the white dwarf magnetic dipole moment , like its mass , remains constant in time .",
    "our model sequences assume that the white dwarf is locked in synchronism with the binary orbit from the very onset of mass transfer , i.e. , that the system is of am her type throughout its evolution .",
    "we show in figure 8 the effect of increasing magnetic moment , @xmath75 , of the white dwarf primary on the evolution of a typical am her system with initial component masses @xmath76 m@xmath74 for the white dwarf and @xmath77 m@xmath74 for the donor secondary .",
    "as the braking torque is suppressed with increasing @xmath75 , mass transfer rates above the period gap subside , and the donor star is no longer driven so far from thermal equilibrium before it becomes fully convective at the top ( lower frequency edge ) of the period gap . as the donor star is no longer so severely inflated in comparison with its thermal - equilibrium main sequence counterpart , so its contraction following cessation of the magnetic braking driving mass transfer is also less severe .",
    "mass transfer resumes at longer orbital period ( lower orbital frequency ) than in the disrupted magnetic braking model for non - am her - type cvs because the donor is no longer so severely undermassive for its orbital period , and the period gap fills from its shorter period ( higher frequency ) end . as seen in figure 5 , this filling of the period gap is progressively greater as @xmath75 increases , and magnetic braking prior to the secondary s loss of its dipole field is suppressed . for sufficiently high values of @xmath75",
    "( see @xmath78 g @xmath18 in figure 5 ) , magnetic braking becomes inconsequential , and the system evolves more or less continuously through the period gap ( the momentary dip in mass transfer rate at @xmath79 owing to an inflection point in the thermal equilibrium mass - radius relation at the point stars become fully convective ) .",
    "figure 9 illustrates the dependence of the upper and lower edges of the period gap on white dwarf mass @xmath22 and magnetic moment @xmath75 .",
    "we define the upper ( lower - frequency ) edge of the period gap as the point at which the donor star becomes fully convective . in those cases where magnetic braking remains strong enough to drive the donor out of thermal equilibrium , this point indeed marks a local minimum in the orbital period , which increases momentarily ( if only by a very small increment ) as the mass transfer rate subsides .",
    "we take the lower ( higher - frequency ) edge of the period gap as the period maximum ( frequency minimum ) during the thermal time scale mass transfer episode visible as a slim vertical loop in figure 5 . for sufficiently large white dwarf magnetic moments ,",
    "where magnetic braking is nearly completely suppressed , this loop disappears , and we then define the lower edge of the period gap as the local maximum in @xmath80 .",
    "it is evident from figure 9 that , for white dwarf moments @xmath81",
    "g @xmath18 , the gap edges asymptotically approach those of the non - am her systems . at the other extreme , for white dwarf moments",
    "@xmath82 g @xmath18 , the gap is reduced to a momentary hiccup as the donor becomes fully convective . for intermediate white dwarf moments ,",
    "the period gap fills from its short - period ( high - frequency ) end , as indeed observations suggest ( see figure 1 ) . a clear prediction of our model is that , as more am her systems are discovered within the period gap , a clear trend of increasing magnetic moment with increasing orbital period ( decreasing orbital frequency ) should emerge .    to facilitate comparison with observed am her stars in the period gap ,",
    "we have used the nauenberg   mass - radius relation for cold white dwarfs to convert the dipole moments of figure 9 to polar fields .",
    "the region immediately surrounding the period gap is shown in figure 10 .",
    "unfortunately , empirical masses of white dwarfs in am her binaries are generally very poorly - constrained .",
    "however , to the extent that our model results can be taken at face value , the positions of observed systems in figure 10 can be used to set upper limits to their white dwarf masses , since for given dipole moment , the polar field strength decreases rapidly with increasing mass . in this figure , am her binaries must fall _ outside _ the gap corresponding to their white dwarf masses , thus implying that qs tel , v381 vel , v516 pup , and uw pic must contain white dwarfs of mass @xmath83 m@xmath74 .",
    "the reader is cautioned , however , that this constraint is quite sensitive to the precise location of the short - period ( high - frequency ) edge of the canonical period gap .",
    "the am her stars , unlike cataclysmic variables generally , have mostly been discovered through all - sky surveys , where they appear as strong x - ray emitters .",
    "we can therefore approximate the selection effects governing their discovery by treating them as an x - ray - brightness limited sample , with x - ray luminosities proportional to the mass transfer rate @xmath84 . to the extent that x - ray extinction is negligible",
    ", the distance to which systems are sampled is then proportional to @xmath85 .",
    "if the threshold distance is small compared with the scale height of am her systems with respect to the galactic plane , then the apparent distribution should be roughly isotropic , and the number of systems sampled varies as @xmath86 ; should the distance be large compared with the scale height ( but still small compared with the radial scale length of the galactic disk ) the number of systems varies as @xmath84 itself .",
    "the number of systems in any orbital frequency interval is then simply proportional to the lifetime of the system in that interval , i.e. , to @xmath87 . as a point of reference , the mean value of @xmath88 of the am her systems in figure 1 is 0.51 , indistinguishable from that of a spherical source distribution ( @xmath89 ) .",
    "figure 11 illustrates the relative discovery probabilities arising from this simple model of selection effects , in the two limiting cases regarding their spatial distribution , for our fiducial evolutionary sequence . in reality",
    ", we expect cvs to form with a range of component masses , and this will affect the overall form of the true distribution .",
    "in particular , systems with a given initial secondary mass , @xmath90 , contribute to the distribution only at orbital frequencies @xmath91 above the frequency at which the cv first reaches interaction ( cf . figure 5 ) . likewise , magnetic cvs will contribute to the am her distribution only at orbital frequencies above those at which they first reach synchronism .",
    "nevertheless , as seen above , the properties of individual systems at the upper and lower edges of the period gap , and the positions of those edges , are insensitive to their initial conditions .",
    "one feature immediately evident from figure 11 is that the number density per unit orbital frequency of cvs at the upper ( low - frequency ) edge of the period gap is decidedly greater than at its lower ( high - frequency ) edge .",
    "the ratio of these two number densities , as defined at the very edges of the period gap , amounts to a factor of 5.4 for non - am her systems with a spherical source distribution ( 1.9 in a planar distribution ) . among the am her systems of increasing magnetic moment @xmath75 ,",
    "the amount by which this ratio exceeds unity is roughly proportional to the width of the period gap appropriate to that value of @xmath75 .",
    "reference to figure 1 shows that the non - am her systems have a much higher number density of systems at the upper edge of the period gap than at its lower edge , in at least qualitative agreement with figure 11 .",
    "however , among am her systems themselves , this ratio of number densities is plainly less than unity .",
    "the period gap is for them only partially filled , and the marked increase in number density beyond the lower ( high - frequency ) edge of the gap should be matched by an equally marked increase at the upper ( low - frequency ) edge .",
    "the clear implication is that more am her - type systems emerge from the period gap than enter it .",
    "thus , a significant fraction of am her systems below the period gap must have entered the gap in a non - am her ( asynchronous ) state , i.e. , as intermediate polars . as asynchronous systems , they suffered full magnetic braking above the gap , and were driven out of thermal equilibrium to the same extent as other non - am her systems .",
    "they therefore remain detached until resuming mass transfer at the lower edge of the gap as defined by other non - am her systems , in transit becoming synchronously locked , but failing to appear either as cvs or am her systems within the gap . systems which achieve synchronism while crossing the period gap thus contribute to the am her population only at periods below the gap .",
    "comparison of figure 11 with figure 1 also shows that the theoretical period minimum of am her stars lies at significantly shorter period ( higher frequency ) than observed .",
    "this is a problem pervading cv evolution generally , since both am her systems and non - am her systems are driven through this period minimum by gravitational radiation .",
    "kolb & baraffe   discuss a number of possible explanations for this discrepancy .",
    "among these possibilities , they note that a four - fold increase in orbital angular momentum loss rate ( above that given by gravitational radiation alone ) would raise the cv minimum period to that observed ( if we discount the anomalous cases of v485 cen at @xmath6 = 0984 and 1rxs j2329 + 0628 at @xmath92 = 1070 ) .",
    "however , we find that at these ultashort orbital periods , the white dwarf magnetic field should suppress a magnetic stellar wind entirely among am her systems .",
    "the fact that both am her binaries and non - am her binaries are subject to the same minimum period ( figure 1 ) then suggests that stellar winds are not responsible for this discrepancy .",
    "we summarise our principal conclusions as follows :    \\(a ) the width of the period gap , and the position of its lower boundary , is a function of the magnetic moment of the primary star . for sufficiently high magnetic moments ( @xmath93 g @xmath18 ) , the gap disappears , and mass transfer is driven primarily by gravitational radiation .",
    "\\(b ) observations of am her - type systems show that the period gap is less pronounced than that of cvs belonging to all other classes .",
    "in particular , the am hers appear to fill the gap from the short - period ( @xmath94 ) end , behaviour which supports the reduced braking theory outlined in section 3 .",
    "in contrast , non - am her systems encroach on the period gap from its long - period edge , behaviour which we suggest may reflect lower metallicities of these particular systems .",
    "\\(c ) the differences between the distributions of am her binaries and non - am her binaries within the period gap in turn provide strong prima facie evidence that magnetic stellar winds are indeed the dominant angular momentum loss mechanism among non - am her binaries .",
    "\\(d ) the abundance of am hers immediately below the period gap , in comparison with their numbers immediately above the period , requires that a significant proportion of the am hers found below @xmath4 entered the period gap as ips , and become synchronised only as mass transfer ceased within the gap .",
    "the smaller accretion torques , and increased magnetic interaction ( due to the reduction in orbital separation ) allowed these systems to remain synchronised as they emerge from the gap .",
    "rfw thanks the astrophysical theory centre , department of mathematics , australian national university , where this work was begun , for its hospitality , and lilia ferrario for her generous assistance .",
    "dtw in turn acknowledges the hospitality of the department of astronomy , university of illinois , where this work was completed .",
    "both authors thank an anonymous referee for constructive remarks .",
    "studies of interacting binaries are supported at the university of illinois by national science foundation grant ast 9618462 .",
    "alexander , d. r. 1975 , apjs , 29 , 363 alexander , d. r. 1980 , private communication downes , r. a. , webbink , r. f. , shara , m. m. , ritter , h. , kolb , u. , duerbeck , h. w. , 2001 , pasp , 113 , 764 .",
    "gehrz , r. d. , truran , j. w. , williams , r. e. , starrfield , s. 1998 , pasp , 110 , 3 hellier , c. naylor , t. , 1998 , mnras , 295 , l50 howell , s. b. , nelson , l. a. , rappaport , s. , 2001 , apj , 550 , 897 kolb , u. , baraffe , i. , 1999 , mnras , 309 , 1034 li , j. , wu , k. , wickramasinghe , d. t. , 1994a , mnras , 268 , 61 li , j. , wu , k. , wickramasinghe , d. t. , 1994b , mnras , 270 , 769 li , j. , wu , k. , wickramasinghe , d. t. , 1995 , mnras , 276 , 255 li , j. , wickramasinghe , d. t. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 718 mestel , l. , spruit , h. , 1987 , mnras , 226 , 57 nauenberg , m. , 1972 , apj , 175 , 417 nelson , l. a. , rappaport , s. , joss , p. c. , 1993 , apj , 404 , 723 patterson , j. , 1994 , pasp , 106 , 209 rappaport , s. , joss , p. c. , webbink , r. f. , 1982 , apj , 254 , 616 rappaport , s. , verbunt , f. , joss , p. , 1983 ,",
    "apj , 275 , 713 schmidt , g.d . , ferrario , l. , wickramasinghe , d. t , smith , p. , 2001 , apj ( in press ) thomas , h .- c . ,",
    "beuermann , k. , reinsch , k. , schwope , a. d. , trmper , j. , voges , w. , 1998 , a&a , 335 , 467 verbunt , f. , zwaan , c. , 1981 , a&a , 100 , l7 voges , w. , et al . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 349 , 389 .",
    "voges , w. , et al . , 2000 , iauc 7432 .",
    "warner , b. , 1995 , cataclysmic variables , cambridge univ .",
    "press , cambridge wheatley , p. j. , 1995 , mnras , 274 , l51 wickramasinghe , d. t. , wu , k. , 1991 , mnras , 253 , 11p wickramasinghe , d. t. , wu , k. , 1994 , mnras , 266 , l1 wickramasinghe , d. t. , ferrario , l. , 2000 , pasp , 112 , 873 wu , k , wickramasinghe , d. t. , 1993 , mnras , 265 , 115"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> am her variables  synchronised magnetic cataclysmic variables ( cvs )  exhibit a different period distribution from other cvs across the period gap . </S>",
    "<S> we show that non - am her systems may infiltrate the longer - period end of the period gap if they are metal - deficient , but that the position and width of the gap in orbital period is otherwise insensitive to other binary parameters ( excepting the normalisation of the braking rate ) . in </S>",
    "<S> am her binaries , magnetic braking is reduced as the wind from the secondary star may be trapped within the magnetosphere of the white dwarf primary . </S>",
    "<S> this reduced braking fills the period gap from its short - period end as the dipole magnetic moment of the white dwarf increases . </S>",
    "<S> the consistency of these models with the observed distribution of cvs , both am her and non - am her type , provides compelling evidence supporting magnetic braking as the agent of angular momentum loss among long - period cvs , and its disruption as the explanation of the @xmath0 period gap among nonmagnetic cvs .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : evolution - stars : magnetic fields - novae , cataclysmic variables </S>"
  ]
}