{
  "article_text": [
    "supernova remnants and the interstellar medium act upon each other reciprocally . the energy of supernova remnants ( snrs ) heats and",
    "ionizes the interstellar medium ( ism ) , and their blast waves govern mass exchange between the hot , warm , and cool phases of the ism . in turn",
    ", the extant ism determines the evolution of snr blast waves as they propagate through the environment it provides .",
    "thus , in order to understand the large - scale structure of the ism , we must also discern the nature of shock evolution in inhomogeneous media .",
    "the cygnus loop supernova remnant provides an ideal laboratory in which to examine these issues .",
    "it is relatively unobscured , with @xmath4 @xcite , and nearby ( @xmath5 pc ; @xcite ) , so 1 corresponds to @xmath6 cm .",
    "it is a middle - aged supernova remnant , not only in terms of absolute lifetime , @xmath7 yr ( @xcite , scaling for the revised distance ) , but more importantly because the interaction of the blast wave with the ism dominates its evolution and its appearance at all wavelengths . at optical wavelengths ,",
    "the outstanding features are due to decelerated shocks that propagate through dense interstellar clouds .",
    "shocks that are reflected off the cloud surfaces propagate back through previously shocked material , further heating and compressing it , enhancing x - ray emission @xcite .",
    "one example of this characteristic interaction is the southeast knot .",
    "@xcite drew attention to this apparently insignificant feature in the optical and x - ray emission , which has a small angular extent compared to the diameter of the cygnus loop . in contrast to the snr as a whole , the optical appearance of the southeast knot suggests that it represents only a very minor enhancement in the local ism , or that the interaction is very young .",
    "@xcite support the former interpretation , proposing that this represents the late stage of interaction with a small cloud that has been completely engulfed by the blast wave and is in the process of being shredded by fluid instabilities @xcite .",
    "x - ray imaging contradicts this interpretation , however , because the knot is located at the apex of a large - scale ( 0.5 degree ) indentation in the eastern limb as traced by very low surface brightness x - ray emission @xcite .",
    "thus , the obstacle is certainly large , extending at least 5 pc along the line of sight , and the interaction is at an early stage .",
    "the optical emission is confined to a @xmath8 region , but the apparent insignificance of the southeast knot may belie its importance .",
    "the highest surface brightest optical and x - ray emitting regions of the cygnus loop are associated with the well - developed reflected and transmitted shocks that form in mature cloud  blast - wave interactions ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the morphology of these bright regions is notoriously complex because multiple shocks are present along the same line of sight . only in a few cases",
    "is the geometry unambiguous , such as the western limb @xcite .",
    "in addition , the development of fluid dynamic instabilities into the non - linear regime during the late phase of interaction adds to the challenge of interpreting the more prominent regions .",
    "these difficulties suggest that focussing on very recent interactions , although intrinsically fainter , may provide useful insights into the sizes , shapes , and density contrasts characterizing the clouds in the vicinity of the cygnus loop .    in this work ,",
    "we use the the _ hubble space telescope _ ( _ hst _ ) to examine the variation in optical line emission on scales of @xmath9 cm , assuming a distance of 440 pc . clarifying the geometry of the emitting regions , we trace the motion of the blast wave in this cloud interaction and quantify the relevant physical processes .",
    "we present the data in  [ sec : data ] , discuss the morphology and physics in   [ sec : morph ] and [ sec : phys ] , respectively , and summarize our conclusions in  [ sec : concl ] .",
    "we obtained the data from the _ hst _ archive at the space telescope science institute .",
    "the observations with the wide - field planetary camera 2 ( wfpc2 ) were performed 1994 november 25 for program 5774 ( principal investigator j. hester ) .",
    "figure [ fig : xray ] illustrates the location and orientation of these observations on the soft x - ray image of the surrounding field obtained with the _ rosat _ high resolution imager @xcite .",
    "a total exposure of 2200 s in two frames ( to facilitate removal of cosmic rays ) was taken through each of three narrow filters .",
    "the f502n filter includes 3 @xmath10 , f656n includes h@xmath3 , and f673n includes 2 @xmath11 .",
    "we employed standard _",
    "hst _ pipeline processing , then used the iraf task crrej to remove cosmic rays in the average images .",
    "we assembled the individual detector images into a single mosaic using iraf s wmosaic .",
    "figure [ fig : ha ] contains the h@xmath3 image , with the detectors pc1 , wf2 , wf3 , and wf4 identified counterclockwise , beginning at the upper left .",
    "the @xmath12 pixels of the pc1 correspond to @xmath13 , and the @xmath14 wf pixels are equivalent to @xmath15 .",
    "we apply the flux calibration of @xcite , using the 1998 calibration .",
    "the system throughput is 0.104 , 0.111 , and 0.052 for h@xmath3 , 2 , and 3 , respectively @xcite .",
    "the supernova blast wave moves from west to east across the field of view and has recently encountered a cloud of denser - than - average interstellar gas . in the _ hst _ field ,",
    "we observe the southern section of the interaction , which extends out of the field of view to the north for another @xmath16 .",
    "we combine the three narrow - band data sets in a false - color image ( figure [ fig : color ] ) , with h@xmath3 mapped in red , 2 in green , and 3 in blue .",
    "magenta thus corresponds to strong h@xmath3 and 3 , while yellow shows where h@xmath3 and 2 appear together .",
    "cyan , which would come from strong coincident 3 and 2 is almost entirely absent from the image .        in figure",
    "[ fig : color ] , color and morphology are strongly correlated .",
    "the shock morphology is distinctly stratified , with several characteristic types of filaments dominating the composition of the image .",
    "similar to larger - scale observations of the cygnus loop at lower resolution , the two fundamental characteristic morphologies  sharp filaments and diffuse emission ",
    "correspond to two distinct viewing geometries @xcite .",
    "the sharp filaments arise in wavy sheets viewed edge - on , through tangencies , and in general these shocks propagate in the plane of the sky .",
    "this is the most favorable geometry for unambiguously viewing the stratification of the post - shock flow as it cools and recombines .",
    "the images therefore reveal in turn the balmer - dominated and 3-dominated regions behind the shock front .",
    "in contrast , shocks viewed face - on produce diffuse emission . because larger swept - up column densities are required for this diffuse emission to be detectable , it is more likely to exhibit the characteristics of a complete radiative shock , namely strong 2 emission relative to 3 and h@xmath3 .    toward the north and west",
    "the morphology becomes less filamentary , and secondary colors ( magenta and yellow ) , as opposed to primary colors , become more common , with the superposition of multiple cooling stages observed along the line of sight .",
    "green and yellow are prevalent in the western sections of the southern filaments .",
    "this is most apparent at the heel of the emission , which delimits the western extent of the cloud in wf3 , the lower right quadrant of the image .",
    "the bright yellow complex at this location traces strong h@xmath3 and 2 , which is characteristic of shocks that have swept up a substantial column ( @xmath17 ) and formed complete cooling and recombination zones .",
    "the slowest shocks show up as 2 ( green ) only ; occasionally these regions appear as high surface brightness knots ( e.g. , at the bottom edge of wf2 , the lower left quadrant ) . in these instances ,",
    "the primary blast wave is strongly decelerated in the dense cloud medium .",
    "more common is the extended , faint 2 emission , which is widespread across wf2 and wf3 . in general , this relatively smooth 2 emission occurs by itself , unassociated with h@xmath3 or other filaments .",
    "this low surface brightness 2 emission is bounded on the western side by a sharp edge that delineates the current location of the shock within the cloud .",
    "this edge can be traced from the bright green knots at the western limit of wf2 , then running north and northwest into wf3 , around the bright heel and to the northeast up into the bright complex in wf4 at the upper right .",
    "this edge probably represents the original and undisturbed surface of the cloud , since the interaction is recent and has not yet had a significant dynamical effect on the cloud . in several locations , we identify the initial development of the radiative zone , finding 2 emission downstream of h@xmath3 filaments ( near the right center of wf2 and at the bottom of the heel in wf3 , for example ) .",
    "the 2 emission is typically offset behind the shock front by @xmath18 ( @xmath19 cm ) .",
    "unlike the sharply - peaked h@xmath3 filaments , the 2-emitting region is resolved , with flux extending over an arcsecond - scale region of the sky behind any distinct portion of the shock front .",
    "the brightest incomplete 3 filaments and the 2-emitting shocks in the heel region are clearly physically associated . at the center of the field of view",
    "the two main h@xmath3/3 filaments are part of a segment of blast wave that is propagating to the southeast .",
    "two tangencies to this surface form the two most prominent incomplete 3 shocks and their preceding balmer filaments .",
    "the filament turns through 45 degrees to form a funnel - like cusp with the heel . tracing the upper filament towards the heel , the 3 emission first merges with the h@xmath3 , producing magenta in the false - color image .",
    "it then disappears as it eventually joins the shocks driven into the western extremities of the cloud .",
    "similar morphologies are formed by the blast - wave  cloud collision farther north in the xa region @xcite .",
    "emission from shocks with well - developed cooling and recombination zones comprise the northern section of the interaction and fill the wf4 field .",
    "the absence of large - scale filamentary structures implies that these shocks are more nearly face - on and are lighting up the surface of the cloud .",
    "the sharp filamentary structures in this region have 3 emission , appearing blue and magenta , and can be connected to the balmer - dominated and incomplete shocks farther south .",
    "these less - decelerated shocks appear in projection against this northern field , so the relative east - west position does not correspond to absolute advancement within the cloud .",
    "the prominent , sharp - edged , red structures are balmer - dominated filaments and appear as a part of a continuous , gently rippled sheet , as in the extreme southern section of wf2 .",
    "these filaments are due to fast shocks ( @xmath20 ) that excite h@xmath3 emission by electron collisions in pre - shock gas that is predominantly neutral and atomic @xcite .",
    "the excitation is confined to in a narrow zone immediately behind the shock front , and the resultant face - on h@xmath3 surface brightness is low .",
    "thus , in these `` non - radiative '' shocks , the filaments are seen as bright , sharp structures when the shock front is close to tangency with the line of sight ( cf .",
    "since the gas must be neutral to produce these filaments , they also mark regions where the gas is being shocked for the first time , delineating the outer boundary of the blast wave .",
    "gas - dynamic phenomena in which the gas is multiply shocked , including reflected shocks , can not produce balmer - dominated filaments .",
    "the balmer filaments with no associated 3 ( blue ) emission have swept up @xmath21 .",
    "these shocks has suffered the smallest deceleration . while the general trend in this image is for shocks to propagate from west ( left ) to east ( right ) , filaments at skewed angles",
    "reveal their direction of propagation when they have swept up sufficient column for 3 ( @xmath22 ) or 2 ( @xmath23 ) emission to be detectable downstream .    at the center of the field",
    "are two good examples of patches of 3 emission that are correlated with balmer - line filaments .",
    "their appearance is consistent with a volume of 3 emission bounded on the upstream side by the balmer - line - delimited shock transition .",
    "the shock at this location is propagating to the southeast .",
    "farther east in the pc1 is an amorphous region of pure 3 .",
    "any associated h@xmath3 is very faint , suggesting that the direction of propagation of the blast wave here is more nearly face - on .",
    "the 3-dominated incomplete shocks extend to the top of the image and are interspersed with and project against more complex and diverse emission morphologies .",
    "in these images , the relationship between the balmer filaments and the downstream 3 emission of the incomplete shock distinguishes the physical conditions that are present .",
    "we examine the filament near the center of the wf3 field , which provides a particularly clear example . at this location ,",
    "a balmer - line filament bounds an incomplete cooling and recombination zone .",
    "the ratio of 3 to h@xmath3 surface brightness reaches a plateau of about 6 at a distance @xmath24 cm behind the current location of the shock front , which the center of the h@xmath3 emission defines .",
    "this value exceeds the maximum of about 2 that can occur in fully radiative shocks , identifying it unambiguously as an incomplete shock .",
    "0.1 in    the key parameter that determines the location and width of the 3 emission zone is swept - up column density behind the shock front .",
    "more exactly , the 3 surface brightness profile constrains the ambient density and shock velocity . in general , 3 emission rises gradually and closer to slower shock fronts , while the profile is sharply peaked and offset farther downstream from fast shocks , as figure [ fig : models ] illustrates . the effect of increasing density is to shift the primary 3 peak closer to the shock front .",
    "( in all cases , the initial , smaller peak about @xmath25 cm behind the shock front occurs while oxygen is excited to higher ionization states , when 3 is not the dominant coolant . )     0.1 in    we apply updated versions of the models described by @xcite and @xcite for shock velocities ranging from 100 to 190 , convolving these models with the instrumental profile measured from point sources in the field of view .",
    "the balmer filament fixes the location of the shock transition , and the free parameters are shock velocity , pre - shock density , and depth of the surface along the line of sight . while the models include magnetic fields , in the hot , post - shock gas these data trace , thermal pressure dominates , and the effect of magnetic pressure is negligible .",
    "we find good agreement with both @xmath26 and @xmath27 , with density @xmath28 and @xmath29 respectively , in these two cases ( figure [ fig : datamod ] ) .",
    "we can not significantly distinguish between these fast shocks because the instrumental resolution dominates the emission profile , but we prefer @xmath30 because the location of peak emission of this model better matches the observations .",
    "the residuals between the model and data at distances around @xmath31 cm are likely the result of poor subtraction of the local background where the flux is extremely low .",
    "thus , we adopt the model parameters @xmath30 and @xmath32 . in calculating the total flux",
    ", we initially assume that the geometry of the emission region is a thin sheet that extends @xmath33 cm in the line of sight , which is the observed extent of the filament across the image .",
    "comparison of the observed and predicted intensities implies that the line of sight depth of the filament is in fact factors of 3 to 4 times its extent in the plane of the sky .",
    "this is a natural result because our selection bias favors bright filaments , which tend to be those with the greatest extent along the line of sight .",
    "the inferred velocity is robust against uncertainties in the assumed distance to the cygnus loop , while the derived densities are inversely proportional to distance .    for comparison ,",
    "we compute the pressure from the x - ray observations of the same region .",
    "the surface brightness measured with the _ rosat _ high resolution imager corresponds to an emission measure of @xmath34 . here",
    "we assume a temperature @xmath35 k and solar abundances with two caveats : the temperature in this small region may be somewhat different than the average temperature , which is weighted by the brightest x - ray emission ; and gas - phase depletion and subsequent grain destruction may alter the abundances @xcite . using the line of sight depth @xmath36 cm determined above and a 20% contribution of metals to the electron density , @xmath37 , we require @xmath38 .",
    "thus , pressure @xmath39 , which is comparable to the ram pressure that drives the cloud shock , based on the best - fitting parameters above .",
    "these balmer filaments and their associated incomplete shocks are distinct from those observed around the perimeter of the cygnus loop . in those cases ,",
    "the filaments define the nearly - circular undisturbed blast wave and are continuous over scales of @xmath40 @xcite .",
    "the corresponding shocks propagate through a much less dense medium than the southeast cloud provides .",
    "@xcite , for example , find @xmath41@xmath42 and @xmath43 in a filament on the northeast periphery , based on ultraviolet line fluxes and intensity ratios . assuming the same initial blast wave properties at the northeast limb and in the southeast knot , we conclude that the latter must be a younger interaction .",
    "the overpressure that has developed behind the southeast shock drives it strongly into the cloud at a pressure exceeding that of the primary blast wave , as measured in other cloud encounters of the cygnus loop @xcite .",
    "the maximum overpressure of a cloud interaction is a factor of 3 once steady flow is established @xcite , or up to a factor of 6 when the blast wave encounters a plane of material @xcite , which is more similar to this very early stage of interaction with a large cloud .",
    "the greater overpressure of the southeast knot is indicated not only in comparison with the northeastern filament , but also ( and more significantly ) when the average blast wave pressure , @xmath44 , derived from global x - ray data @xcite is considered .",
    "the large overpressure at the southeast knot therefore indicates highly non - steady flow . a shock having @xmath30 is unstable unless the transverse magnetic field @xmath45 g , but because the timescale for the development of secondary shocks is long ( on the order of @xmath46 years )",
    ", they do not appear yet in this case @xcite .",
    "thus , the transient nature of the current conditions is expected .",
    "only later will a slower , large - scale , coherent shock arise in a more developed interaction , similar to the western edge of the cygnus loop , for example .",
    "multiple shocks along the line of sight confuse the 3 profile in several other locations where balmer emission bounds a region of bright 3 , so we can not directly compare with the models , but we can characterize them qualitatively .",
    "we identify the balmer filament at the center of the mosaicked field as a region of lower density , because the 3 emission is broader and offset farther downstream . immediately behind the filament at the west - center of the wf2 field ,",
    "the fully - radiative signature of 2 implies that this is a higher density region .",
    "the emission at the extreme southeast of the wf2 field consists exclusively of h@xmath3 , which suggests that the shock propagates through lower density here , perhaps in the extended envelope of the cloud .",
    "furthermore , this region includes not only the sharp filaments that characterize the edge - on view , but also more diffuse emission where the shock surface is viewed at oblique angles .",
    "thus , this region must be _ intrinsically _ bright .",
    "the emissivity depends linearly on @xmath47 and @xmath48 @xcite , so the shock velocity is higher here .",
    "the _ hst _ images of the interaction between the cygnus loop blast wave and an interstellar cloud reveal emission variations on the smallest measurable scales ( @xmath49 cm ) .",
    "the blast wave can not be identified as a single , uniform entity , but is broken into a complex of interacting shock fronts as it encounters the obstacle .",
    "we identify the characteristic morphology of sharp filaments , where a shock front is viewed edge - on , and diffuse emission , where the view is face - on , on the sub - arcsecond scales that wfpc2 probes .",
    "the 3 profile immediately behind the shock front that balmer - dominated filaments define reveals relatively fast shocks ( @xmath2 ) in the high - density ( @xmath50 ) cloud medium .",
    "balmer filaments without associated 3 or 2 emission arise in slightly lower - density regions behind faster shocks . because this emission is intrinsically bright ,",
    "we detect the diffuse component , which is viewed obliquely , as well as the more common sharp filaments where the shock front is viewed edge - on . exhibiting extensive networks of non - radiative shocks , the southeast knot must represent the early stage of interaction between the cloud and blast wave .",
    "this example thus illustrates that complex shock propagation and emission morphology occur before the onset of instabilities that destroy clouds completely .",
    "we thank ravi sankrit for computing the shock model emission profiles .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through grant number ar-08005 from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by aura , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "blair , w. p. , sankrit , r. , raymond , j. c. , & long , k. s. 1999 , , 118 , 942 chevalier , r. a. , & raymond , j. c. 1978 , , 225 , l27 chevalier , r. a. , raymond , j. c. , & kirshner , r. p. 1980",
    ", , 235 , 186 cox , d. p. , & raymond , j. c. 1985 , , 298 , 651 fesen , r. a. , kwitter , k. b. , & downes , r. a. 1992 , , 104 , 719 graham , j. r. , levenson , n. a. , hester , j. j. , raymond , j. c. , & petre , r. 1995 , , 444 , 787 hester , j. j. 1987 , , 314 , 187 hester , j. j. , & cox , d. p. 1985",
    ", , 300 , 675 hester , j. j. , raymond , j. c. , & blair , w. p. 1994",
    ", , 420 , 721 holtzman , j. a. , burrows , c. j. , casertano , s. , hester , j. j. , trauger , j. t. , watson , a. m. & worthey , g. 1995 , , 107 , 1065 hst data handbook , vol .",
    "m. voit 1998 , ( stsci : baltimore ) innes , d.  e.  1992 , , 256 , 660 klein , r. i. , mckee , c. f. , & colella , p. 1994",
    ", , 420 , 213 ku , w.  h .-",
    "m . , kahn , s.  m. , pisarski , r. , & long , k.  s.  1984 , , 278 , 615 levenson , n. a. , graham , j. r. , hester , j. j. , & petre , r. 1996 , , 468 , 323 levenson , n. a. , graham , j. r. , keller , l. d. , & richter , m. j. 1998 , , 118 , 541 levenson , n. a. , graham , j. r. , & snowden , s. l. 1999 , , 526 , 874 mckee , c.  f. , & cowie , l.  l.  1975 , , 195 , 715 parker , r. a. r. 1967 , , 149 , 363 raymond , j. c. 1979 , , 39 , 1 raymond , j. c. 1991 , , 103 , 781 raymond , j.  c. , hester , j.  j. , cox , d. , blair , w.  p. , fesen , r.  a. , & gull , t.  r.  1988 , , 324 , 869 sankrit , r. , blair , w. p. , raymond , j. c. , & long , k. s.  2000 , , 120 , 1925 spitzer , l.  1982 , , 262 , 315 vancura , o. , raymond , j.  c. , dwek , e. , blair , w.  p. , long , k.  s. , & foster , s.  1994 , , 431 , 188"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with _ </S>",
    "<S> hubble space telescope _ wide - field planetary camera 2 observations of the cygnus loop supernova remnant , we examine the interaction of an interstellar cloud with the blast wave on physical scales of @xmath0 cm . </S>",
    "<S> the shock front is distorted , revealing both edge - on and face - on views of filaments and diffuse emission , similar to those observed on larger scales at lower resolution . </S>",
    "<S> we identify individual shocks in the cloud of density @xmath1 having velocity @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> we also find the morphologically unusual diffuse balmer - dominated emission of faster shocks in a lower - density region . </S>",
    "<S> the obstacle diffracts these shocks , so they propagate at oblique angles with respect to the primary blast wave . </S>",
    "<S> the intricate network of diffuse and filamentary h@xmath3 emission arises during the early stage of interaction between the cloud and blast wave , demonstrating that complex shock propagation and emission morphology occur before the onset of instabilities that destroy clouds completely . </S>"
  ]
}