{
  "article_text": [
    "since the pioneering studies of lupton & gunn ( 1987 ) and its subsequent applications to fit actual globular cluster observations it is evident that galactic globular clusters exhibit some degree of rotation , and that there is also a consistent amount of observed flattening of their shapes ( white & shawl 1987 ) .",
    "more recently , van leeuwen et al . ( 2000 ) and anderson & king ( 2003 ) measure globular cluster rotation in proper motion , in order to derive the true direction of its rotational axis .",
    "though not dominant the amount of rotational energy could also not be neglected on the other hand side , as was seen by the models of einsel & spurzem , which showed that even a moderate fraction of rotational energy in a cluster leads to significantly faster core evolution .",
    "this is the third in a series of studies on the dynamical evolution of rotating stellar system by using orbit - averaged 2d fokker - planck ( fp ) models that include the effects of initial rotation . in the previous two papers , pre - collapse evolution",
    "( einsel & spurzem 1999 , paper i ) and the evolution after core - collapse ( kim et al . 2002 , paper ii ) of rotating clusters composed of equal mass stars were studied . in the present study",
    "we explore the dynamical evolution of the rotating stellar systems with mass spectrum as a natural extension to the previous works .",
    "we expect that the exchange of angular momentum between different mass species would significantly affect the course of dynamical evolution , as the energy exchange is known to play important role in the evolution of multi - mass clusters .",
    "direct integration of the fokker - planck equation is used as a statistical method .",
    "comparisons between results obtained with fp method and results from @xmath2-body simulation show that the approximations and assumptions which were used in fp models are reasonable , but need to be checked carefully by comparison of different methods .",
    "the simplest implementation of an fp model is a one - dimensional ( 1d ) fp model where the distribution function @xmath3 is assumed to depend only on the energy @xmath4 of stars .",
    "all physical properties depend on the distance from the cluster center only ( cohn 1980 ; lee , fahlman & richer 1991 ) .",
    "the use of 1d models is inspired by the fact that the shape of globular clusters is approximately spherical , but it ignores the anisotropy of the velocity dispersion .",
    "observations of globular clusters and theoretical models suggested that there exists a difference in the velocity dispersion between radial and tangential direction , especially for stars in the outer regions of the clusters ( takahashi 1995 , 1996 , 1997 ) .",
    "the two - dimensional fp model where distribution function depends on energy and angular momentum with spherical geometry has been pioneered by cohn ( 1979 ) but studied extensively only recently because of difficulties in numerical integration of the equations ( takahashi , lee & inagaki 1997 , takahashi & lee 2001 ) . in our case",
    ", modelling axisymmetric systems with only two integrals requires a careful check in particular .",
    "any third integral is neglected here completely , which means that the diffusion properties of orbits in the axisymmetric potential are treated as a function of two integrals only .",
    "although there are successes in previous fp models to explain the dynamical evolution of star clusters , only few of them considered the natural and important physical property of the existence of an initial angular momentum in the star cluster .",
    "kim et al . ( 2002 ) have reviewed briefly the previous studies where the initial rotation is considered .",
    "they presented the first post - core collapse studies on the evolution of rotating stellar systems and found that the global shape of the rotational structure of the globular cluster changes little , though the strength of the rotation ( measured using the magnitude of the rotational velocity or the @xmath1-component of the angular momentum ) decreases continuously with time due to the outward transfer of the angular momentum .",
    "an incorporation of mass loss and enhanced two - body relaxation processes accelerated the evolution of the star cluster not only in core - collapse time , but also the dissolution time of the cluster .",
    "they found an approach to self - similar evolution in late core - collapse .",
    "the previous studies where the initial rotation is considered , assumed a star cluster with equal mass stars .",
    "inclusion of the initial mass spectrum known to change the evolution of star clusters significantly , shortening of core - collapse times for example ( lee , fahlman & richer 1991 ) .",
    "we also expect that there may be important physical processes between different mass species concerning the exchanges of the angular momentum . until now",
    ", no study has been done on rotating star clusters with mass spectrum except for one preliminary work by spurzem & einsel ( 1998 ) . in this paper , thus we present the study of dynamical evolution of the rotating star cluster with the initial mass function ( imf hereafter ) .",
    "we first investigate the evolution of two - component models as a simplest extension of the single mass models .",
    "then we extend our study to the multi - mass models represented by ten different mass species .",
    "the difference of our models as compared to the preliminary work by spurzem & einsel ( 1998 ) is that first our improved code includes more accurate numerical integration and discretisation procedures as described in paper ii , and here we do an extensive parameter study , which did not exist before .",
    "the outline of the present paper is as follows ; in section 2 , the fp equations for the multi - mass system and the initial models are presented .",
    "we concentrate on the evolution up to the core collapse of two component models in section 3 and multi - mass models in section 4 .",
    "we further discuss the evolution beyond the core collapse for both two - component and multi - component models section 5 .",
    "we summarize our main results in section 6 .",
    "we have constructed a computational scheme to study the dynamical evolution of rotating stellar systems with mass spectrums in detail with higher accuracy both for pre- and post - collapse .",
    "the framework of the method is essentially an extension of the method used in paper ii .",
    "the multi - mass fp equation under a fixed potential can be written in a flux - conserving form as follows :    @xmath5    where @xmath6 is the phase space volume accessible for stars with @xmath4 and @xmath7 , and @xmath8 , @xmath9 and @xmath10 are the distribution function and the particle flux in energy ( @xmath4 ) and @xmath1-component of angular momentum ( @xmath7 ) of the i - th component , respectively .",
    "the expression for phase space volume is given in paper i. the particle fluxes @xmath9 and @xmath10 can be expressed as follows :    @xmath11    where @xmath12 , @xmath13 , etc are the diffusion coefficients and are given in the appendix of paper i for single component models .",
    "the extention to the multi - mass models can be simply done by applying the distribution function of the @xmath14-th component in the expression of these coefficients .",
    "it is necessary to add energy source to explore the evolution after core - collapse .",
    "primordial binaries and massive stars are important energy sources , since they can delay significantly the core - collapse time and change the early evolution of stellar systems ( gao et al .",
    "1991 , giersz & spurzem 2000 ) .",
    "however , the specification of primordial binaries could introduce many more model parameters .",
    "the treatment of such binaries in fp code is not so trivial either . since we are mainly concerned with the general effects of rotation on the dynamical evolution of star clusters , we limit ourselves to simplest cases . as a way to follow the dynamical evolution beyond the core collapse",
    ", we have only considered the heating effect of binaries formed by three - body processes .",
    "heating formula for three - body binaries of lee , fahlman & richer ( 1991 ) is used in our models ( see also takahashi 1997 for the discussion of this formula ) . in their formulation , the total heating rate per unit volume is given by    @xmath15    where @xmath16 , @xmath17 , and @xmath18 are the number density , stellar mass , and one - dimensional velocity dispersion , respectively , of the @xmath14-th component , and @xmath19 is the mass density - weighted central one - dimensional velocity dispersion . the standard value of @xmath20 is used for present study .",
    "heating rate for each mass component is obtained by distributing the total heating rate such that    @xmath21    where @xmath22 and @xmath23 represent mass density of each component and total density .",
    "giersz & spurzem ( 1997 ) have demonstrated that such a simple approximations work very well for modelling the post - collapse evolution of globular clusters .",
    "we employ the rotating king models as initial models following lupton & gunn ( 1987 ) .",
    "we assume that there is no initial mass segregation among different mass species .",
    "our present initial models are , therefore simple extension of the initial models used in papers i and ii . these models are characterized by two parameters : dimensionless central potential @xmath24 and rotational parameter @xmath25 .",
    "we have studied the evolution of clusters with @xmath26 and @xmath27 , respectively .",
    "model clusters are assumed to rotate in circular orbits around mother galaxy , so that the mean density within the tidal radius ( @xmath28 ) remains a constant throughout the evolution .",
    "we examined the evolution of clusters with various amount of the initial rotations ( see tables 1 and 2 for the list of the initial models of two component , and multi - component , respectively ) .",
    "first , we considered the models with two - component mass species .",
    "two - component models are expected to provide us with understanding the essential features of the evolution of the multi - component clusters ( for example , the transfer of angular momentum between two mass components ) .",
    "we have examined the wide range of individual stellar mass ratio @xmath29 and total mass ratio @xmath30 , where @xmath31 .",
    "the quantities @xmath32 and @xmath33 can be compared with the work of khalisi ( 2002 ) and fregeau et al .",
    "next , we considered clusters which have continuous mass spectra .",
    "we choose simple power - law mass function for convenience .",
    "the number of stars in a mass interval ( @xmath34 ) is given by    @xmath35    where @xmath36 and @xmath37 denote the minimum and the maximum masses , respectively .",
    "the dynamic range of mass spectrum , expressed as @xmath38 is 10 for present study .",
    "we have studied the evolution of clusters with three different shapes of mass function : @xmath39= @xmath40 and @xmath41 , where @xmath42 represents salpeter - type mass function .",
    "we list the parameters of the models with continuous mass spectrum in tables 1 and 2 . for models of post core - collapse ,",
    "we consider only a model with a mass function with @xmath42 .",
    "the number of mass groups used in present study is ten .",
    "the mass of each group is assigned such that    @xmath43    the total mass of @xmath14th mass group is    @xmath44    [ tab3 - 1 ]    .initial models of clusters with @xmath26 . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 6 ] displays the run of central angular speed ( @xmath45 ) as a function of the total central density for the model with the mass function of m2a .",
    "the solid lines and the dashed lines represent @xmath45 of high mass and low mass components , respectively .",
    "it is shown clearly that @xmath45 of the higher mass component increases very quickly only during early phase of evolution .",
    "for the models rotating slowly ( @xmath46 and @xmath47 ) @xmath45 of lower mass component decreases by a small amount .",
    "for rapidly rotating clusters , however , @xmath45 increases with increase of central density .",
    "the rapid increase of @xmath45 of high mass component in the early phase is a caused by rapid collapse of the high mass stars : as they lose energy , they rotate faster .    the mass weighted angular speeds in the core as a function of @xmath48 for the models in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 6 ] are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 7 ] . during early evolution",
    ", @xmath45 increases rapidly for models with large rotation , then it grows slowly with increase of central density , reaching self - similar phase in evolutionary path .",
    "einsel & spurzem ( 1999 ) introduced the parameter @xmath49 which characterizes the self - similar evolution of central angular speed as follows ,    @xmath50    the calculated values of @xmath49 for the present two - component models are listed in table 3 . on average , @xmath51 with weak dependence on the initial rotation for model m2a .",
    "this value of @xmath49 is about twice of those of single mass models .",
    "einsel & spurzem ( 1999 ) obtained @xmath52 depending on the initial rotation for their model cluster with central potential @xmath26 .",
    "the relationship between the central density , @xmath53 , and @xmath45 for models with mass function m2e ( @xmath54 ) are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 8 ] . for @xmath53 versus @xmath48 ,",
    "we have plotted the velocity dispersion of individual mass component for model without initial rotation and models with @xmath55 and @xmath56 , while only the rotating models are shown for @xmath45 versus @xmath48 plot . the starry mark in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 8](a ) represents the starting point of evolution for both mass components .",
    "the central velocity dispersion of high mass component decreases dramatically , while that of low mass component increases slightly at early evolutionary stage due to the energy equipartition between two mass components .",
    "the decrease of the central velocity dispersion for model with higher initial rotation is larger than that of the lower initial rotation .",
    "inspection of fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 8](a ) reveals that the slope in log - log plot for massive component becomes @xmath57 regardless of degree of rotation .",
    "two - body relaxation causes the outward transfer of the angular momentum and escape of stars at the outer parts , leading to the decrease of rotational energy .",
    "kim et al ( 2002 ) showed that the maximum value of rotational velocity ( @xmath58 ) in equator decreases monotonically for their single mass models . in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 9 ] , we displayed the evolution of maximum rotational speed at equator , where the effect of the rotation is largest , for model with the central potential @xmath26 and mass function m2a .",
    "only four different models for initial degree of rotation is plotted to avoid complexity .",
    "different line styles represent the different initial rotations .",
    "the thick lines represent the run of maximum rotational velocity at equator for the high mass component , and the thin lines for low mass component .",
    "the maximum rotational speed of low mass component decreases with the central density .",
    "the central density increases with time monotonically for core - collapse models as shown in sect .",
    "the rotational speed for the high mass component , especially for model with the initial degree of rotation @xmath55 increases during early evolutionary stage , and it remains around 0.2 afterward .",
    "however , the maximum rotational speed for rapidly rotating model ( i.e. , @xmath59 ) decreases with central density monotonically for both components .",
    "we have shown the run of the maximum rotational speed at equator for models with the central potential @xmath26 and @xmath60 in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 10 ] . to investigate the difference in rate of angular momentum transfer between two mass components , we include 6 different mass function models .",
    "the individual mass ratio ( @xmath61 ) and the total mass ratio ( @xmath62 ) of initial model are marked in the figure .",
    "while the maximum rotation speeds of the high mass component increases slightly for model with lowest individual mass ratio ( @xmath63 ) , it increase more steeply for other models .",
    "the maximum rotational velocity of high mass component for models with @xmath64 and @xmath65 remains a nearly constant afterward .",
    "kim et al . ( 2002 ) found that the specific angular momentum ( @xmath66 ) decreases with time for models with central king s potential @xmath26 .",
    "[ fig3 - 11 ] shows the evolution of maximum specific angular momentum with the increase of central density for the same models to those of fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 10 ] .",
    "the line style and the thickness of each line represent the same mass function model shown in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 10 ] .",
    "the maximum angular momentum decreases monotonically irrespective of the mass function and the mass component , although the rate of decrease depends on the individual mass ratio and the mass components .",
    "[ fig3 - 12](a ) and ( b ) shows the time evolution of the total central density for cluster models with mass functions mca , mcb and mcc .",
    "for each mass function three models with the different initial rotation are plotted together . since we select the continuous mass function of the power - law type and the index of power - law varies with time due to difference in mass evaporation rates among different mass groups , we distinguish the initial power - law index ( @xmath67 ) with the power - law index ( @xmath39 ) at time @xmath68 .",
    "the values of the initial power - law index are shown in figure and the models with the same mass function are connected with lines for clarity .",
    "like single component or two - component models , the models with the higher initial rotation evolve more rapidly than the those with lower initial rotation . among the models with the same amount of the initial rotation",
    "the cluster with the flatter initial mass function ( @xmath69 ) has a longer collapse time , when the time is measured in the initial half - mass relaxation time . for models without initial rotation it is known that the core - collapse time for cluster with steeper mass function is shorter than that for the cluster with shallower mass function ( e.g. , lee , fahlman & richer 1991 ; lee & goodman 1995 ; takahashi 1997 ) .",
    "we have shown the evolution of the central one dimensional velocity dispersions and the central angular speeds of individual mass components for the with @xmath70 and the initial power - law slope @xmath71 in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 13 ] .",
    "the evolution starts at lower left corner as marked by a starry point in each figure .",
    "the individual mass of each mass group decreases upward in @xmath53 versus @xmath48 , and vice versa for @xmath45 versus @xmath48 as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 13 ] .",
    "the parameters @xmath72 and @xmath49 which characterize the core - collapse phase as defined in eqs .",
    "( 10 ) and ( 11 ) are @xmath73 and @xmath74 .    the effects of the initial mass function on the central velocity dispersion and the central angular speed are shown in figs .",
    "[ fig3 - 14 ] [ fig3 - 15 ] , respectively .",
    "we keep the scales of the horizontal axis and the vertical axis to be the same for all panels .",
    "the direction for the increase of mass of each mass group is indicated by arrows in the figures . for most massive component",
    "as @xmath67 decreases @xmath53 decreases more rapidly , driving more rapid evolution of the cluster as indicated by earlier core - collapse .",
    "the development of the mass segregation is established more quickly for the model with the steeper mass function . for @xmath45 versus @xmath48 ( fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 15 ] ) we have shown only the early stage of evolution since the rotation affects mainly during the initial period .",
    "it is evident that the development of self - similar core - collapse phase occurs earlier for the model with the steeper mass function than that with flatter mass function .",
    "the central angular speed at a given central density is larger for the model with the steeper mass function .",
    "the rapid increase of the central angular speed for the highest mass group and the slow decrease for the lowest mass group for the model with @xmath75 is a consequence of the rapid development of mass segregation .",
    "the steep decrease of central velocity dispersion drives the increase of the central angular speed because of negative specific moment of inertia .",
    "[ fig3 - 16 ] displays the evolution of the maximum rotational velocities of individual mass components at the equator for the model with @xmath76 .",
    "we included the models with mass functions mca , mcb and mcc together .",
    "the total mass of each mass group increases along the arrow shown in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 16](a ) .",
    "the evolution of rotational speed for the cluster with the continuous mass function is similar to that of the two component models . for the model with @xmath75",
    "the maximum rotational speed of the mass component of @xmath77 remains nearly a constant .",
    "since the radius where the rotational velocity becomes maximum at the equator decreases with the time , the mass group with @xmath77 rotates faster with time.the constant behaviour of the maximum rotational speed occurs for the mass group of @xmath78 for model with @xmath79 and mass group @xmath80 for model with @xmath69 , respectively .",
    "[ fig3 - 17](a ) and ( b ) show the evolution of the maximum rotational speed and the evolution of the maximum angular momentum at equator for model with @xmath81 and mass function with @xmath79 .",
    "the maximum rotational speed of the lower mass groups decreases more than the cluster rotating slowly ( see fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 16](b ) for comparison ) . while the high mass component rotates faster , the angular momentum decreases continuously through whole evolutionary phase .",
    "since the outward transfer of angular momentum for each mass species is closely related with the two - body relaxation process , the evolution of the maximum of the angular momentum reaches a plateau when it is measured in the central density .",
    "so far we have concentrated our discussion until the core - collapse .",
    "we now discuss the evolution beyond the core collapse .      figs .",
    "[ fig3 - 18 ] and [ fig3 - 19 ] show the time evolution of the central density of the rotating stellar systems beyond the core collapse .",
    "the evolutions for two component models with the central potential @xmath82 ( fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 18](a ) ) and 3 ( fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 18](b ) ) are displayed for clusters with three different initial rotations ( @xmath83 and @xmath56 for @xmath82 , and @xmath84 and @xmath85 for @xmath86 ) . for two component clusters we employed the mass function m2c , while the mass function mcb for the continuous mass spectrum is included .",
    "the models with the largest initial rotation ( solid lines ) reach the collapse earlier than the models with smaller initial rotation ( dashed and dotted lines ) .",
    "we can clearly see the acceleration of the evolution during pre and post collapse phases due to initial rotation .",
    "[ fig3 - 20 ] displays the run of the individual central density for models with the continuous mass spectrum .",
    "the mass segregation due to the energy equipartition during the early stage is shown clearly for all the present models .",
    "the run of the central density after core bounce roughly follows a power - law of @xmath87 , for all mass groups .",
    "the index of power - law tends to be smaller for lower mass components . for the non - rotating model",
    "we find @xmath88 for the highest mass group ( @xmath89 ) and @xmath90 for the lowest mass group ( @xmath91 ) .",
    "these values are not far from the power law slope @xmath92 of the central density with time which was derived by kim , lee & goodman ( 1998 ) , for two - component models .",
    "these slopes increase with the initial rotation : @xmath93 and @xmath94 for the @xmath89 and the @xmath91 , respectively , for model with @xmath95 .",
    "we have shown the evolution of the total mass of the cluster for all post - collapse models in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 21 ] . the initial mass function , the central king s potential and the degree of rotation are shown in each panel .",
    "the epochs of core - collapse are marked by open squares .",
    "note the marked core - collapse time is obtained not from the present post - collapse models but from the pre - collapse models discussed in  3 .",
    "[ fig3 - 21](a ) and ( b ) are the results obtained from two component models .",
    "the total mass of rotating cluster decrease more rapidly than the non - rotating cluster not only pre - collapse phase , but also after core - collapse .",
    "the raid decrease of total mass for rotating model results in smaller tidal radius .",
    "the evolution of the mass - weighted central velocity dispersion ( @xmath53 ) as a function of the central density ( @xmath48 ) is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 22 ] .",
    "the evolution of the central velocity dispersion after core - bounce for all post - collapse models shows a similar trend , i.e. , the effect of rotation on the central velocity dispersion after core - bounce is very small .",
    "since the core rotates like a rigid body , the rotation velocity near the cluster center is negligible .",
    "while the run of @xmath53 on @xmath48 during pre - collapse shows the power - law behaviour due to self - similarity of collapsing core for the single mass system ( cohn 1980 , kim et al 2002 ) , the stellar system with mass spectrum does not show a simple power - law in the early phase as explained in sect .",
    "3.2 , due to the mass segregation .",
    "the behaviour of @xmath53 on @xmath48 after core - bounce can be , however approximated as a simple power - law even for the multi - mass systems because the mass - segregation was already established at the time of the beginning of the expansion .",
    "the power - law index @xmath72 can be predicted by applying energy balance argument ( kim et al .",
    "inspection of fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 22 ] shows @xmath96 , slightly smaller than the power - law index of @xmath97 obtained for the single mass system .    in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 23 ] , we have shown the run of the mass - weighted central angular rotational speed ( @xmath45 ) on the central density ( @xmath48 ) for the whole post - collapse models which have the initial rotation .",
    "the angular speed also appears to follow roughly power law on @xmath48 during both pre- and post - collapse , except for the early evolutionary stage in the pre - collapse phase for the models with @xmath86 .",
    "the evolutions of @xmath45 on @xmath48 after the very early stage shows a similar trend irrespective of the degree of the initial rotation .",
    "it implies that the effect of the initial rotation for the cluster center disappears quickly .",
    "the evolutions of @xmath53 and @xmath45 on @xmath48 of the individual mass component for models with the continuous mass spectrum is displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 24 ] .",
    "the run of @xmath53 is represented well by a simple power - law",
    ". the higher the stellar mass , the shallower the power - law index . while the mass - weighted central angular rotation speed appears to show the power - law behaviour on @xmath48 , @xmath45 of the low mass stars deviates from the power - law type evolutionary behaviour during post - collapse phase .",
    "it shows much steeper decrease than higher mass components , though the contribution of the lower mass component on the total @xmath45 is negligible .      in figs .",
    "[ fig3 - 25 ] and [ fig3 - 26 ] , we have shown the radial profiles of the rotational velocity at equator for model with @xmath81 and continuous mass spectrum with @xmath79 .",
    "the run of the rotational velocity for the selected mass components ( @xmath98 ) is displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 26 ] .",
    "epochs shown in this plot are @xmath99 and @xmath100 , where the core - collapse occurs at @xmath101 . at @xmath102",
    "the cluster is nearly completely dissolved .",
    "the half - mass radii at these each evolutionary times are marked with open squares and the direction with increasing times is shown with arrow in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 25 ] .",
    "note that x - axis , i.e. , radius of cylindrical coordinate is measured in units of the current core radius .",
    "total rotational velocity decreases continuously with time due to the loss of the angular momentum through the cluster boundary .",
    "the outward transfer of the angular momentum causes the increase of the radius when it is measured in units of current core radius , where the rotational velocity becomes the maximum .",
    "the radius of maximum rotational velocity decreases after core bounce due to the higher mass - loss . while the changes of angular momentum due to the outward transfer and the loss through the cluster boundary changes the structure of the velocity profile beyond the half - mass radii , the shape of rotational velocity inside the cluster core remains to be rigid body rotation .",
    "mass segregation drives the concentration of the higher mass stars in the cluster center while the lower mass stars go to the outer halo of the cluster .",
    "this leads to the preferential evaporation of lower mass stars through the the tidal boundary .",
    "therefore , low mass stars are selectively depleted from the initial mass function , resulting a change of the mass function with time . near the end of the evolution ,",
    "the mass function can even be inverted , i.e. , there are more high mass stars than lower mass stars . the global mass function @xmath103 at several selected epochs for four different models with the continuous mass spectrum is displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 27 ] .",
    "we include the non - rotating models and the rapidly rotating models in order to study the effect of the initial rotation on the mass function .",
    "the shape of the mass function at the time of core - collapse is distinguished by dashed line from the mass function at the other epochs .",
    "the evolution of power - law index ( @xmath104 ) for whole post - collapse models with the continuous mass spectrum is shown is fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 28 ] .",
    "the mass function deviates from the power - law as a result of mass - dependent evaporation rates . in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 28 ] , we have shown the typical error of the fitted power - law index for the models which has the highest initial rotation .",
    "the epochs where the core - collapse occurs is marked with open squares . in the figures ,",
    "we have chosen @xmath105 for the abscissa instead of time because the life - time of clusters are significantly different for different models .",
    "it is evident that the behavior of @xmath39 does not depend sensitively on the degree of rotation , although the rotation causes less change of @xmath39 .",
    "although the effect is small , the rotation causes slower changes in @xmath39 as a function of @xmath105 .",
    "the angular momentum exchange among different mass species appears to act against the mass segregation .",
    "the mass function also becomes dependent on the location as the mass segregation proceeds .",
    "the existence of initial rotation and its outward transfer also affect the energy exchange process that causes mass segregation . in order to see the role of rotation on the mass segregation ,",
    "we have compared the evolution of @xmath39 at four different locations in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 29 ] .",
    "the different locations are chosen such that @xmath106 and @xmath107 .",
    "the slope of mass function inside the core ( fig [ fig3 - 29]a ) increases with time during pre - collapse evolution . at the time of the core - collapse the shape of the mass spectrum become inverted for all models .",
    "the power - law index @xmath39 at this evolutionary stage remains @xmath108 with a weak dependence on the the degree of the initial rotation .",
    "the mass function within the half - mass radius is flattened continuously with the decrease of total mass .",
    "the model without the initial rotation has a rather shallower mass function at fixed total mass compared to that of the cluster rotating fast .",
    "initial rotation plays an important role in removing the stars through the tidal boundary including both the lower and higher mass stars .",
    "compared to non - rotating models , high mass stars in rotating models appear to have higher chance of evaporation .",
    "thus the mass function changes more slowly for rotating models than non - rotating models .",
    "since the effect of the initial rotation remains in region @xmath109 , it is expected that the shapes of mass function in this region shows significant dependence on rotation .",
    "the concentration of the high mass component in the cluster center drives the steepening of the mass function near the half - mass radius .",
    "when the development of mass segregation is settled in , the slope of the mass function decreases with time due to the selective evaporation of the lower mass stars through the tidal radius .",
    "the evolution of @xmath39 for the highly rotating model shows a different profile compared to that of non - rotating model at this radial region .",
    "while there is a central concentration of the massive stars , the angular momentum which has the maximum around @xmath110 pushes the high mass stars outward .",
    "therefore , there is only a little change in @xmath39 during the early evolutionary stage for rapidly rotating models .",
    "we have studied the dynamical evolution of the rotating stellar systems with the mass spectrum by solving the orbit - averaged 2d fp equation in ( @xmath111 ) space .",
    "numerical simulations are performed both for simple two component clusters and for clusters with a power - law mass function represented by ten mass species . in order to explore the evolution after core collapse we add the heating by three - body processes .",
    "we have employed rotating king models as initial models , where the velocity dispersions for all mass components are equal , i.e. , no mass segregation at the beginning .",
    "the rotating king models are characterized by two parameters : initial central potential ( @xmath24 ) and degree of initial rotation ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "clusters with two different central potential @xmath82 and @xmath112 are studied extensively . for models only until core - collapse",
    ", we have studied the evolution of the clusters with six different mass functions for two - component models , while three models are studied for clusters with a continuous mass function ( power - law ) . for models where the evolution beyond the core - collapse are explored",
    ", we consider clusters with a mass function m2c ( @xmath113 ) for the two component model and clusters with @xmath79 for the model with continuous mass spectrum .",
    "our results show that , as in equal mass system , the presence of the initial rotation accelerates the dynamical evolution as manifested by rapid core collapse and dissolution .",
    "the degree of the acceleration depends on the amount of the initial rotation and the shape of mass function . as the ratio of the mass ( @xmath61 ) increases the degree of the acceleration decreases for two component models since both mass segregation and the rotation compete in acceleration of core - collapse .",
    "if @xmath61 is very large , the mass segregation alone could significantly reduce the core - collapse time and there is not much room for rotation to accelerate further . for models with the power - law mass function , the acceleration rate of core - collapse due to the rotation is larger for the model with a steeper slope of the mass function for a given initial rotation parameter ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "the shortening of the life - time ( dissolution of cluster ) due to the rotation is observed far beyond the core bounce .",
    "the increase of mass loss rate , resulting from the enhanced two - body relaxation process causes the faster dissolution of cluster .",
    "the evolution of @xmath53 on @xmath48 can be approximated by a power - law except for the early evolutionary stage regardless of the degree of rotation both for pre- and post - collapse .",
    "the measured power law index @xmath72 for pre - collapse is very close to the value obtained for single mass system , while we have obtained a slightly shallower slope for post - collapse phase .",
    "the development of mass segregation , a consequence of the evolution of the multi - mass system is visible clearly both for non - rotating and rotating models .",
    "the evolution of @xmath45 on @xmath48 shows a power - law behaviour , too .",
    "the slope of the power - law is , however , larger than that obtained for the single mass cluster .",
    "while the angular momentum is transferred only outward for the equal mass system , the exchange of the angular momentum between different mass species occurs for the multi - mass system , resulting a faster increase of @xmath45 on @xmath48 . due to a cooperation of the central concentration of the massive stars ( mass segregation ) and the transfer of angular momentum from high mass to low mass stars",
    ", the radii where @xmath114 reaches the maximum value goes outward .",
    "the maximum rotation of the most massive stars even increases at the early times , while it shows a monotonic decrease for the single mass system .",
    "there are a few observations regarding the direct measurement of the rotation parameter ( @xmath114 ) ( gebhardt et al .",
    "recently gerssen et al .",
    "( 2002 ) reported the kinematical study of the central part of the globular cluster m15 , including @xmath114 .",
    "m15 is known as the globular cluster which contains a collapsed core .",
    "the radial profile of @xmath115 ( rotational velocity over one dimensional velocity dispersion ) shows a steep increase and a rapid decline followed by a slow rise .",
    "the steep rise of @xmath115 near the cluster center can not be explained by a single mass model ( kim et al .",
    "we have shown the run of @xmath115 for two component model in fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 30 ] at two selected epochs , one in pre - collapse ( @xmath116 ) and the other after core bounce ( @xmath117 ) , together with the observed data by gebhardt ( 2002 ) .",
    "the radius is measured in current half - mass radius .",
    "it is evident that cluster loose the angular momentum through the tidal boundary .",
    "the behaviour of the mass - weighted @xmath115 ( fig .",
    "[ fig3 - 30](a ) ) are roughly similar to that of observed profile of m15 except for the central region .",
    "note that the known half - mass radius of m15 is @xmath118 ( djorgovski 1993 ) .",
    "for the high mass component , @xmath119 where @xmath14 represents the individual mass component , at @xmath120 is higher than that obtained at @xmath121 , especially beyond @xmath110 .",
    "it is mainly due to the lower velocity dispersion after core bounce , not due to the higher value of the rotation velocities .",
    "the highly rotating central region of m15 is , as in single mass system , not explained with the current multi - mass models , although there is difference in rotational structure between the single mass and the multi - mass systems . from the kinematical study of the central region of m15 , gerssen et al .",
    "( 2002 ) proposed the presence of intermediate mass black hole ( imbh ) with @xmath122 . on the contrary , baumgardt et al .",
    "( 2002 ) demonstrated that the rise of velocity dispersion into the center can be explained with the clustering of the remnant stars , which are expected to be overwhelmingly populated in the cluster core than the normal stars .",
    "however , they did not rule out the possibility of the presence of imbh",
    ". it may be necessary to include the remnant stars and the imbh in current 2dfp models to investigate the role of the initial rotation on the observed strong increasing of @xmath115 near the center of m15 .",
    "the models presented here still neglect many important physical processes occurring in real star clusters .",
    "the stellar evolution and primordial binaries are known to affect the early evolution of globular clusters .",
    "the possible existence of intermediate mass black hole in the center could also affect the course of dynamical evolution",
    ". these will be the task of future works .",
    "anderson , j. & king , i.r .",
    ", 2003 , apj , 126 , 772 baumgardt , h. , hut , p. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s.l.w . , &",
    "portegies zwart , s. , 2002 , apj , 582 , l21 cohn h. , 1979 , apj , 234 , 1036 cohn h. , 1980 , apj , 242 , 765 djorgovski , s. g. , 1993 , in structure and dynamics of globular clusters , eds . s. g. djorgovski and g. meylan , astronomical society of pacific , p373 einsel c. , spurzem r. , 1999 , mnras , 302 , 81 fregeau , j.m . , joshi , k.j . , portegies zwart , s.f . , & rasio , f.a . , apj , 2002 , 570 , 171 gao , b. , goodman , j. , cohn , h. , & murphy , b. , 1991 , apj , 370 , 567 gebhardt , k. , 2002 , private communication gebhardt , k. , pryor , c. , williams , t. b. , & hesser , j. e. , 1995 , aj , 110 , 1699 gerssen , j. , van der marel , r. p. , gebhardt , k. , guhathakurta , p. , peterson , r. , & pryor , c. , 2003 , apj , in press .",
    "giersz , m. , & spurzem , r. , 2000 , mnras , 270 , 700 goodman j. , 1983 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , princeton university goodman j. , 1987 , apj , 313 , 576 khalisi , e. , doctoral thesis , univ .",
    "heidelberg , 2002 , http://www.ub.uni-heidelberg.de/archiv/3096 kim , e. , einsel , c. , lee , h. m. , spurzem , r. & lee m. g. , 2002 , mnras , 334 , 310 kim , s. s. , lee , h. m. & goodman , j. , 1998 , apj , 495 , 786 lee , h. m. , fahlman , g. & richer , h. , 1991 , apj , 366 , 455 lee , h. m. & goodman , j. , 1995 , apj , 443 , 109 van leeuwen , f. , le poole , r.s . ,",
    "reijns , r.a . ,",
    "freeman , k.c .",
    ", & de zeeuw , p.t . , 2000 , a&a , 360 , 471 lupton , r.h . , & gunn , j.e . , 1987 ,",
    "aj , 93 , 1106 portegies zwart , s.f . ,",
    "takahashi , k. , 1999 , cemda , 73 , 179 princeton univ .",
    "press spitzer l. jr . & hart m. h. , 1971 , apj , 164 , 399 spurzem r. , einsel c. , 1998 , in d.r .",
    "merritt , m. valuri , j.a .",
    "sellwood , eds , massive stellar clusters , asp conf .",
    "182 , asp : san francisco , p. 105 .",
    "takahashi , k. , 1995 , pasj , 47 , 561 takahashi , k. , 1996 , pasj , 48 , 691 takahashi , k. , 1997 , pasj , 49 , 547 takahashi , k. & lee , h. m. , 2000 , mnras , 316 , 671 takahashi , k. , lee , h. m. & inagaki , s. , 1997 , mnras , 292 , 331 takahashi , k. , & portegies zwart s.f .",
    ", 1998 , apjl , 503 , l49 white e.r . , shawl j.s . , 1987 , apj , 317 , 246"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have studied the dynamical evolution of rotating star clusters with mass spectrum using a fokker - planck code . as a simplest multi - mass model , </S>",
    "<S> we first investigated the two - component clusters . rotation is found to accelerate the dynamical evolution through the transfer of angular momentum outward , as well as from the high masses to the low masses . </S>",
    "<S> however , the degree of acceleration depends sensitively on the assumed initial mass function since dynamical friction , which generates mass segregation , also tends to accelerate the evolution , and the combined effect of both is not linear or multiplicative . </S>",
    "<S> as long as dynamical friction dominates in the competition with angular momentum exchange the heavy masses lose random energy and angular momentum , sink towards the centre , but their remaining angular momentum is sufficient to speed them up rotationally . </S>",
    "<S> this is gravo - gyro instability . as a consequence </S>",
    "<S> , we find that the high mass stars in the central parts rotate faster than low mass stars . </S>",
    "<S> this leads to the suppression of mass segregation compared to the non - rotating clusters . from the study of multi - component models , we observe similar trends to the two - component models in almost all aspects . </S>",
    "<S> the mass function changes less drastically for clusters with rotation . unlike non - rotating clusters , the mass function depends on @xmath0 and @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> our models are the only ones that can predict mass function and other quantities to be compared with new observations .    </S>",
    "<S> celestial mechanics , stellar dynamics  globular clusters : general </S>"
  ]
}