{
  "article_text": [
    "accurate photometry of giant hii regions ( gehrs ) is a key source of information about the energetics of these large star - forming regions .",
    "the luminosity emitted through the recombination lines of ionised hydrogen ( h@xmath5 , h@xmath6 ) allows to estimate the number of ionising photons which in turn establish the requirements for the stellar population responsible for such an ionising flux .",
    "several reviews have already discussed these properties , such as kennicutt , shields and melnick .",
    "these emission lines had been found to have supersonic widths by smith & weedman , .",
    "such behaviour is puzzling , as supersonic motion can not be sustained without a source of energy to fuel it .",
    "melnick and later terlevich & melnick   found that the gas velocity dispersion ( @xmath2 ) measured from a recombination line in giant hii regions correlates well with the total luminosity ( @xmath7 ) emitted in the respective line , and also with the overall radius of the nebula ( @xmath8 ) . in a logarithmic plane , total flux and nebula radius",
    "follow a linear relation with the line width @xcite and the following approximations hold : @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "these dependences resemble much those of virialised systems , such as globular clusters and elliptical galaxies , and lead the authors to suggest a gravitational explanation for this observed kinematical behaviour .",
    "other authors confirmed the existence of a correlation , although they found different slopes for the linear regression .",
    "new models were produced to account for the underlying dynamics .",
    "turbulence ( @xmath11 , hippelein ) and multiple shells ( @xmath12 , arsenault & roy ) were introduced in the models .",
    "fuentes masip et al .",
    "have obtained imaging spectroscopy of the irregular galaxy ngc  4449 with which they detected and analysed its giant hii regions .",
    "they studied the correlation of size and luminosity with the velocity dispersion and found a regression for the subsample that showed supersonic motions , high surface brightness and single gaussian emission lines .",
    "this linear regression in the log plane had a slope of @xmath13 which is consistent with a gravitational origin of the supersonic motions .",
    "the intriguing aspect of the @xmath7@xmath2 relation is that although we know that massive stars produce strong winds and in many cases we can see features that _ look like _ shells , the scaling laws seem to suggest that gravity may play a central role .",
    "attempts to determine the main broadening mechanism in hii regions with supersonic linewidths were made for the closest and most luminous gehrs within the local group , 30 doradus in the large magellanic cloud and ngc  604 in m  33 .",
    "chu & kennicutt used longslit echelle spectroscopy data on several positions of 30 doradus and found that its global supersonic linewidth breaks up into a large number of smaller supersonic structures , which combine with a smooth underlying turbulent velocity field .",
    "they suggested that gravitation could not contribute significantly to the observed nebular kinematics .",
    "this finding was partly confirmed by melnick , tenorio - tagle and terlevich who obtained a single longslit echelle spectrum with higher resolution and signal to noise ratio .",
    "the slit used to obtain the spectrum , passed through several important features which are analysed in their paper .",
    "however , they find no discrete component with supersonic velocity widths , beyond a very broad component ( @xmath14 45 km s@xmath15 ) found towards all lines of sight .",
    "this does not seem to be the case for ngc  604 .",
    "muoz - tun et  al .",
    ", analysed high spatial and spectral resolution h@xmath16 emission line data on ngc  604 and concluded that although there is a contribution from shells and filaments to the observed gas kinematics , the overall supersonic behaviour is dominated by unresolved components , observed throughout the whole intensity range . by modelling the expected behaviour of the emission line supersonic width and intensity of a gehr they suggested evolutionary effects to explain their different observed behaviour .",
    "in a similar study , yang et al .   concluded that a substantial fraction of the broadening must be due to gravity .",
    "the regression among global characteristics of gehrs also holds for hii galaxies .",
    "these are luminous star forming regions that dominate the galaxian energy output .",
    "the relation between a distance independent parameter , such as the linewidth , and the luminosity of the object allows us to use them as distance indicators .",
    "the strength of the flux emitted in the recombination lines of these objects makes them available as far as @xmath17 , and even further with the new generation large telescopes .",
    "lowenthal et al .   have already obtained keck spectroscopy of a sample of @xmath18 galaxies from the hubble deep field project @xcite .",
    "they found that these objects seem to lie at the bright end of the luminosity - size relation present for hii galaxies although the starburst origin of their observed spectra remains to be proven .",
    "melnick et al .  , making use of guzmn et al .   together with koo et al .   and pettini et al .",
    "data for high @xmath19 , have re - analysed the luminosity - linewidth regression for hii galaxies and found a good correlation up to z @xmath20 3 , in spite of several systematic effects that might be increasing the observed scatter in the regression .",
    "previous studies dealing with the @xmath21 regression for the giant hii regions have used datasets from a variety of sources and detectors , which may lead to large internal errors of the samples .",
    "the largest and more homogeneous available photometric data in the literature for the h@xmath16 emission line in gehrs is k79 , which is used by hippelein and arsenault & roy in their studies .",
    "photometry was performed by melnick and later by melnick et al .  .",
    "these data are discrepant , reasons for that could be the use of non - linear detectors , the lack of good standards for narrowband emission line photometry , or uncertainties in the extinction corrections .",
    "the disagreements between previous luminosity estimations of gehrs suggests that errors in the determination of fluxes may be a main contributor to the observed spread in the @xmath21 regression .",
    "the goal of the present photometric study is to achieve a standard set of h@xmath16 emission fluxes from nearby extragalactic giant hii regions to use as the ` local ' reference system . to this end",
    "we have performed ccd photometry on a set of gehrs from galaxies with relatively well known distances , in order to calculate their absolute fluxes .",
    "the observations are described in section [ sec : photobs ] , the data reduction is described in section [ sec : photdatred ] , and section [ sec : photfluxcal ] introduces the flux calibration process designed for this work . the procedures used to obtain",
    "the total fluxes in each band are listed in section [ sec : alphabeta ] and the results , plus comparison with previous studies are shown in section [ sec : photresults ] .",
    "extinction maps are presented in section [ sec : extinction ] .",
    "the relation between the luminosity and width of the emission lines is discussed in section [ sec : lsigma ] and conclusions are drawn in section [ photdiscussion ] .",
    "ccd frames of the selected giant hii regions were obtained during seven nights at the 1.0 m jacobus kapteyn telescope ( jkt ) in the observatorio del roque de los muchachos ( orm ) la palma , spain , in august 1997 .",
    "five out of the seven nights were of excellent photometric quality ; a sixth one , although not photometric , was useful too .",
    "the last night of the run had variable sky conditions so the data was not included in the analysis .",
    "the average seeing conditions were monitored from the image quality of short exposures of the flux standard stars , and an upper limit was also estimated from stellar sources present in our longer exposed nebular frames .",
    "these estimations , and the atmospheric extinction measurements available from the carlsberg meridian circle , also located at la palma , are listed in table  [ seeing ] .",
    ".sky conditions for the la palma sky during the observing run .",
    "seeing conditions were measured from stellar sources on the ccd images .",
    "the extinction data is provided by the carlsberg meridian circle ( la palma ) [ cols=\"<,^,^ \" , ]     no matter what quantitative criteria is established , the final decision turns out to be subjective at this stage .",
    "there is a compromise between discarding any region that shows signs of evolution and keeping a fair number of gehrs as to attempt a regression analysis .",
    "therefore , the short list includes : ngc  6822 i , ngc  6822 iii , ngc  604 , ngc  5471 a , ngc  5461 a , and ngc  5447 a. a similar plot as the one presented in figure [ ivss_all ] but for the mentioned subsample is shown in figure [ ivss_good ] . in it we have included the linear fit to the points , which was found to be @xmath22 the slope and zeropoint are  within the errors  in agreement with the values found by fuentes - masip et al .   for their sample of high surface brightness giant hii regions in ngc 4449 , supporting a virialised system as the origin of the supersonic motions .",
    "this paper presents the results of new @xmath1 and @xmath0 ccd photometry of ten giant hii regions lying in local group galaxies .",
    "the comparison of these fluxes with previous work suggests some systematic errors affecting the flux determinations made with photoelectric detectors .",
    "a serious problem is the lack of a uniform method for flux calibration and for that we have introduced the use of spectrophotometric standards in order to rigorously calculate the continuum flux correction .",
    "accounting for the fact that the filter used is broader than the emission feature is very important , and it is generally not discussed in papers dealing with this issue .",
    "accurate knowledge of the emission line characteristics are crucial in order to calculate its position within the filter transmission curve and its relative width .",
    "all these make the narrowband photometry of emission line objects a very difficult one , specially when they are extended objects and aperture spectrophotometry is not possible either .",
    "the analysis presented here has two important although apparently dissimilar results :    * giant extragalactic hii regions are far too heterogeneous objects as to blindly include them in a sample for use as an accurate ( rms @xmath23 ) distance indicator .",
    "* young gehrs and the kinematical cores of gehrs included in this study do follow a tight relation in the @xmath24 vs.  @xmath2 plane",
    ".    the first item does not preclude the use of gehrs as a distance indicator , but establishes that a careful selection based on the kinematical properties  or ages  of these is a must , as the luminosities of the young gehrs and kinematical cores seem to correlate very well with the velocity dispersion of the region .",
    "the use of the total h@xmath16 ( or h@xmath25 ) luminosity of the region has not eliminated the problem of dealing with other parameters of the nebula , as it was hoped it would .",
    "what were thought to be ` supergiant ' gehrs ( such as ngc  5461 and ngc  5471 ) should be better considered as a group of hii regions , out of which one ( or several ) of them might be a true gehr .",
    "the emission line flux originated in non - giant hii regions can be partially responsible for the observed scatter in the regression .",
    "the second item mentioned above indicates that another factor that turns out to be very important is the age , or evolutionary stage , of the regions .",
    "it has already been shown for the particular case of 30 doradus , that older bursts of star formation can coexist in an active star forming region .",
    "hence , the presence of clear signatures of recent massive star formation do not necessarily indicate that we are looking at an extremely young hii region . although the most recent burst of stars will be responsible for the bulk of the ionisation of the gas  and hence of the emitted flux ",
    "the effect of previous stellar generations could have modified substantially the interstellar gas kinematics .",
    "new observational efforts should be directed to the use of imaging spectrographs to analyse giant hii regions in the local group to learn more about the kinematical characteristics of the emitted flux .",
    "other global properties from hii regions , such as the equivalent width @xmath26 of the h@xmath25 line known to vary with the evolutionary stage ( dottori  , copetti et al .  ) can be used to estimate the age of the gehrs .",
    "a calibration of a larger sample will be decisive to prove what is suggested from the data now available and to provide a link with what is observed for starburst galaxies .",
    "the authors wish to thank fruitful discussions with casiana muoz - tun and enrique prez .",
    "the jkt is operated on the island of la palma by the isaac newton group in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias .",
    "we acknowledge pparc funding for the observing run at la palma , where the ing staff has been more than helpful .",
    "special thanks again to don pollaco for lending us his own narrowband filter for h@xmath25 .",
    "much of this work was developed during visits to inaoe who hosted and supported our stays there .",
    "glb thanks partial funding from unesco and the universidad nacional de la plata ( unlp ) that supported travelling expenses .",
    "the authors acknowledge the data analysis facilities provided by the starlink project which is run by cclrc on behalf of pparc .",
    "in addition , the following starlink packages have been used : photom , gaia .                                  , d.  d. , illingworth , g.  d. , freedman , w.  f. , graham , j.  a. , hill , r. , madore , b.  f. , saha , a. , stetson , p.  b. , kennicutt , r.  c. , j. , mould , j.  r. , hughes , s.  m. , ferrarese , l. , phelps , r. , turner , a. , cook , k.  h. , ford , h. , hoessel , j.  g. , and huchra , j. : 1996 , , 26        , r.  c. , j. , stetson , p.  b. , saha , a. , kelson , d. , rawson , d.  m. , sakai , s. , madore , b.  f. , mould , j.  r. , freedman , w.  l. , bresolin , f. , ferrarese , l. , ford , h. , gibson , b.  k. , graham , j.  a. , han , m. , harding , p. , hoessel , j.  g. , huchra , j.  p. , hughes , s. m.  g. , illingworth , g.  d. , macri , l.  m. , phelps , r.  l. , silbermann , n.  a. , turner , a.  m. , and wood , p.  r. : 1998 , , 181                  , j. : 1992 , in _ star formation in stellar systems , iii canary islands winter school of astrophysics , puerto de la cruz , tenerife , spain , december 2 - 13 , 1991 , cambridge university press , 1992 , edited by tenorio - tagle , g. , prieto , m. and sanchez , f. _            , c. : 1994 , in _ violent star formation : from 30 doradus to qsos .",
    "proceedings of the first iac - rgo meeting held in puerto naos , la palma , spain , november 8 - 12 , 1993 , cambridge university press , 1994 , edited by tenorio - tagle , g. _"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have obtained accurate ccd narrow band @xmath0 and @xmath1 photometry of giant hii regions in m  33 , ngc  6822 and m  101 . </S>",
    "<S> comparison with previous determinations of emission line fluxes show large discrepancies ; their probable origins are discussed . </S>",
    "<S> combining our new photometric data with global velocity dispersion ( @xmath2 ) derived from emission line widths we have reviewed the @xmath3 relation . </S>",
    "<S> a reanalysis of the properties of the gehrs included in our sample shows that age spread and the superposition of components in multiple regions introduce a considerable spread in the regression . combining the information available in the literature regarding ages of the associated clusters , evolutionary footprints on the interstellar medium , and kinematical properties of the knots that build up the multiple gehrs </S>",
    "<S> , we have found that a subsample - which we refer to as young and single gehrs - do follow a tight relation in the @xmath4 plane .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : individual : ngc6822 , m33 , m101  h ii regions  galaxies : star clusters </S>"
  ]
}