{
  "article_text": [
    "for decades , theoretical evolutionary models have been an essential tool for interpreting the positions of stellar populations on the hertzsprung - russell diagram . in particular ,",
    "studies of star and planet formation have relied on these models to provide estimates of masses and ages of members of star - forming regions ( @xmath7  myr ) .",
    "because the uncertainties in the models are largest at such early stages @xcite , observational tests of the masses and ages inferred from the models have been crucial @xcite .",
    "however , for young objects with masses below 0.3  @xmath8 , fewer tests of the mass estimates are available @xcite .",
    "recently , @xcite partially addressed this problem by measuring a dynamical mass for a low - mass companion , ab  dor  c , that is much older than star - forming regions but still above the main sequence .",
    "this object was first detected indirectly by @xcite through astrometry of ab  dor , which is a well - studied nearby young k - type star ( @xmath9  pc ) .",
    "@xcite resolved ab  dor  c from the primary with adaptive optics ( ao ) images and used a combination of these data and the astrometry from @xcite to arrive at a mass of @xmath10  @xmath8 .",
    "after adopting an age of 50  myr for the ab  dor system , they found that the theoretical evolutionary models of @xcite overestimated the near - infrared ( ir ) fluxes of ab  dor  c by roughly one magnitude . as a result",
    ", @xcite concluded that these models underestimate the masses of young low - mass objects by a factor of two and that many of the objects previously identified as brown dwarfs in star - forming regions and open clusters are instead low - mass stars .",
    "the observations of ab  dor  c by @xcite ( hereafter c05 ) potentially provide an important new test of the theoretical evolutionary models of low - mass objects . however , the results of this test hinge on reliable measurements of the mass , age , luminosity , and temperature of ab  dor  c. @xcite recently reexamined the age constraints of the ab  dor system , concluding that it has the same age as the pleiades open cluster ( @xmath11 - 125  myr ) , which removed the discrepancy between the luminosity reported by c05 and the value predicted by the models of @xcite . in this paper",
    ", we reexamine other stellar properties of ab  dor  c , namely its luminosity and temperature , and describe the constraints these data provide for evolutionary models (   [ sec : abdor ] ) .",
    "in addition , we present a second test of the models at low masses , but now at much younger ages ( @xmath12  myr ) , in which we compare the low - mass initial mass function ( imf ) for nearby star - forming regions as derived with the models of @xcite and @xcite to the relatively accurate and well - calibrated imf of the solar neighborhood under the assumption that the true imfs of these populations are the same (   [ sec : imf ] ) .",
    "given the large flux ratio and small angular separation of ab  dor  a and c , a robust photometric measurement of the latter with ao images requires careful consideration of the possible errors inherent to data of this kind . for these reasons",
    ", we have analyzed the data published in c05 , which are now available to the public at the data archive of the european southern observatory ( eso ) .",
    "the data with which c05 reported the first direct detection of ab  dor  c were obtained during the commissioning of the simultaneous differential imaging mode ( sdi , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) of the high - resolution near - ir camera ( conica , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which was used in conjunction with the nasmyth adaptive optics system ( naos , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) on eso s very large telescope ( vlt ) .",
    "the sdi technique , first illustrated by @xcite and further developed by @xcite , uses the relative spectral contrast between a primary and a companion to suppress the contrast - limiting speckle noise .",
    "it has been shown that significant improvements in speckle suppression are gained through the sdi technique .",
    "however , non - common path errors , differential chromatic aberrations , alignment - sensitive ghost images , flat - field miscalibration , and detector read noise can significantly exceed the photon noise .",
    "although these data are not directly relevant to testing the theoretical evolutionary models , we examine them in this section because of the importance of testing the abilities of new observational techniques like sdi .",
    "the sdi observations from c05 were obtained on the night of 2004 february 1 and consisted of a set of images at five dither positions followed by a second set of dithered images with the instrument rotator offset by @xmath13 . at a given position",
    ", four sdi images were obtained through narrow - band filters , one at 1.575  , one at 1.600  , and two at 1.625  . after removing bad pixels and dividing by flat field images , we created images that were spatially scaled by the ratio of central filter wavelengths to make the diffraction and speckle pattern for all images coincident in image coordinates .",
    "the images were optimally aligned to subpixel accuracies using the flux conserving interpolation routine _ interpolate _ within idl .",
    "after the subpixel alignment , the individual images were optimally flux scaled to minimize the residual counts in the non - saturated regions of the psf halo in the subtracted image .",
    "the images were then spatially filtered as in @xcite .",
    "the six different non - redundant subtraction combinations possible between the four images were created using these optimal subtraction routines for each of the 10 dither positions .",
    "because the plate scale is independent of the wavelength in the sdi mode of conica , when the images are spatially de - magnified to match the diffraction pattern of the psfs with different wavelengths , the positions of a companion in different filters becomes radially misaligned to a degree proportional to the demagnification factor and the distance from the center of the primary psf . as a result , the signature of a real ( non - methane ) companion using the sdi technique is not just a fainter version of the primary psf but rather a subtraction between two radially misaligned psfs , as illustrated in figure  [ fig : sdi ] .",
    "this effect essentially improves the sensitivity to the detection of companions by producing a more unique and detectable signal even when the companion has no intrinsic spectral contrast between the narrow - band filters .    at the position of ab  dor  c reported by c05",
    ", we find a point source appearing in all four of the unsubtracted images of the sdi data at a signal - to - noise of @xmath14 .",
    "however , this feature overlaps with the diffraction spider arm , making the differential imaging crucial in confirming it is as a real companion with these data alone .",
    "indeed , after the optimal alignment and subtraction routine was performed through the dataset , we found no obvious signature of a companion at this location in any iteration of the optimally subtracted images .",
    "although not done by c05 , we performed an additional step to remove possible fixed noise from the reduced differential images by subtracting the reduced data sets taken at the different instrument rotator angles .",
    "this would produce a negative version of the companion s signal at the same radius as the companion , but separated in position angle equal to the instrument rotator angle change ( 33@xmath15 ) . from this analysis",
    ", we again found no obvious signature of a companion .",
    "a similar type of reduction was performed by @xcite , resulting in the images in the first panel of their figure 4 .",
    "in contrast to their claims , we see no significant detection of a companion in those data . to quantify the detection limits ,",
    "a noise analysis was performed using the five dithered images for each rotation angle for each of the six subtraction combinations .",
    "because the central five pixels surrounding ab  dor  a were saturated , a psf for use with artificial companions could not be measured from these data .",
    "however , prior to that sequence of images , c05 obtained a single short exposure in which ab  dor  a was not saturated .",
    "we adopt this psf of ab  dor  a for artificial companions in the following analysis . this use of a psf from a short exposure tends to overestimate the strehl ratio of the longer exposure , which results in a detection limit that is overly optimistic . based on the spectra of late - m objects at a variety of ages ( e.g. ,",
    "* ) , the maximum flux ratio expected for ab  dor  c between the 1.625 and 1.575  narrow - band filters is @xmath16 .",
    "therefore , we simulated ab  dor  c with an artificial companion that was 125 and 112 times fainter than ab  dor  a for the images at 1.625 and 1.575  , respectively .    by combining the signal from the artificial companion with the standard deviation of the total flux in bins of linear size similar to the diffraction limit ( @xmath17  pixels ) around a ring at the radius of ab  dor  c reported by c05 ( @xmath18  pixels ) , we arrived at an expected signal - to - noise ratio of 1.2 for ab  dor  c. we checked the validity of this measurement by inserting the artificial companion into the raw data at the separation of 0@xmath1916 reported by c05 , repeating the reduction procedures , and visually inspecting the resulting images . for comparison , we also included companions at larger separations of 0@xmath194 , 0@xmath1964 , and 0@xmath1988 .",
    "the differenced sdi images containing these companions are shown in figure  [ fig : sdi ] .",
    "although a companion of this contrast would easily be detected at separations beyond @xmath20 , it is not reliably detected at the radius of @xmath21 reported by c05 for ab  dor  c. thus , we can not reproduce the putative detection of a companion shown in figure 1b from c05 .",
    "their image also does not exhibit the expected plus / minus asymmetry expected for sdi data of this kind .",
    "nor is that source evident in the difference between two instrument rotator angles in the first panel of figure  4 from @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite does show a significant detection of ab  dor  c in newer sdi data obtained after c05 when the companion had moved to a larger separation , which is consistent with the detection limits that we have measured .",
    "in addition to the sdi data , c05 obtained near - ir broad - band images of ab  dor with conica and naos ( naco ) . for ab",
    "dor  c , c05 reported two  @xmath22 errors of + 0.19 and -0.24 at @xmath1 , + 0.13 and -0.15 at @xmath2 , + 0.12 and -0.15 at @xmath3 .",
    "these errors correspond to signal - to - noise ratios of 10 , 16 , and 11 in the three bands , respectively , which are substantially better than achieved in previous companion searches with naco @xcite . to investigate this apparent discrepancy , in this section we present a detailed , explicit analysis of the photometric errors for ab  dor  c in the data obtained by c05 , including the possible systematic errors inherent to high contrast photometric measurements with ao observations .",
    "we also consider the unpublished images in a narrow - band filter at 3.74   that were obtained of ab  dor with naco .    on the night of 2004",
    "february 4 , c05 obtained 15 images with exposure times of 10  s among 5 dither positions for each of the @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 filters and three images with exposure times of 3.45  s ( 10 coadds of 0.345  sec ) .",
    "a similar set of exposures was obtained through the nb3.74 filter , but with exposure times of 3.6  s ( 10 coadds of 0.36  sec ) .",
    "after flat fielding , dark subtraction , and removal of bad pixels , we constructed a sky frame in a given filter from a median combination of unaligned images and subtracted it from each image in that filter .",
    "we aligned the resulting images to subpixel accuracy using the same idl interpolation routine as in the sdi data reduction . in the long exposures ,",
    "pixels within a radius of @xmath23 from ab  dor  a were saturated .",
    "these images were aligned using the unsaturated wings of ab  dor  a. we also generated a set of images that were spatially filtered by subtracting from each image the same image convolved with a gaussian with a width roughly equal to the fwhm for each wavelength @xcite . in the resulting images ,",
    "the low frequency psf variations are suppressed .",
    "the final nonfiltered and filtered images for @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 are shown in figure  [ fig : jhk ] .",
    "the companion ab  dor  c is apparent in the individual reduced 10  s images at @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 , but not nb3.74 .",
    "a detection at nb3.74 is not expected given the total exposure time in that filter .",
    "although other fixed speckles and diffraction artifacts are present in the halo of ab  dor  a at comparable brightness , ab  dor  c is the only `` speckle '' that remains at a constant position in the @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 images .",
    "if it were a fixed diffraction speckle , the separation would be proportional to the central wavelength of the filter .",
    "the fact that it is in the same position in the three broad - band filters as well as the unsubtracted sdi images and is in all the different dither positions demonstrates the reality of the companion .    to measure photometry for ab  dor  c from the @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 images",
    ", we used the shorter , unsaturated exposures of ab  dor  a to construct a psf for each filter and calibrated it with photometry of ab  dor  a from 2mass .",
    "we confirmed the accuracy of this calibration by extracting photometry for ab  dor  ba+bb , which appeared in some of the long exposures , and comparing it to the 2mass measurements . in each filter , the calibrated psf was scaled and subtracted from the image at the position of ab  dor  c with a scale factor optimized such that the residual at the location of ab  dor  c matched the light level of the adjoining regions .",
    "the errors in these photometric measurements were computed from the standard deviation of the brightness at the position of ab  dor  c in an area with a width equal to the psf s fwhm through the 15 images .",
    "in addition , we calculated the standard deviation of flux in fwhm - sized bins at all position angles at a constant radius from ab  dor  a as done in the contrast sensitivity estimations of @xcite .",
    "this analysis resulted in errors slightly larger than those calculated from the variance through a data set at the position of ab dor c ; specifically , the errors are 12% , 17% , and 7% larger using the method from @xcite for the @xmath1 , @xmath2 and @xmath3 bands , respectively .",
    "this is likely due to the fact that the diffraction spikes from the secondary support create intrinsic variability around the psf halo at a constant radius .",
    "for this reason , we use the lower error values calculated as the standard deviation of the flux through the data set at the position of ab  dor  c. the photometry and errors produced by this analysis are presented in table  [ tab : phot ] .",
    "we also list the measurements from c05 for comparison .",
    "the photometric errors for ab  dor  c that we derive from c05 s images are significantly larger than those reported by c05 . in comparison , the nonfiltered naco data from @xcite exhibited an average sensitivity of 5  @xmath22 at @xmath24 and @xmath21 , which corresponds to @xmath14  @xmath22 for an object at the contrast of ab  dor  c and thus is consistent with the photometric errors we measure from the nonfiltered images .",
    "note that although the sensitivities from @xcite for filtered images are better than those from the nonfiltered data , they represent only the significance of a detection rather than bona fide photometric errors because they do not include the systematic errors introduced by the filtering process .",
    "in addition to the photometric errors listed in table  [ tab : phot ] , the noise associated with the variability of the reference psf must also be taken into consideration .",
    "the reference psfs are from the short exposures of ab  dor  a ( 0.345  s @xmath25 10 coadds @xmath25 3 ) , which were measured at a different time than the longer exposures that detected ab  dor  c ( 10  s @xmath25 1 coadd @xmath25 15 ) .",
    "because the total exposure time among the short exposures in a given band was comparable to just one long exposure , we can not directly measure the temporal variability of the psfs used in the photometric analysis .",
    "however , the nb3.74 data , which were obtained on the same night as the long exposures , encompassed a longer time baseline . these data consisted of a continuous series of 15 frames of 0.36  s @xmath25 10 coadds .",
    "the combination of three consecutive images within this series has a similar total clock time as one long exposure .",
    "therefore , from the series of 15 images we were able to construct 5 independent unsaturated psfs that were measured on the same timescale as the long exposures .",
    "the variability of the nb3.74 psf can then be translated into variabilities at other wavelengths using a relation between the strehl ratio ( @xmath26 ) , the rms wavefront error ( @xmath27 ) , and the observing wavelength @xmath28 : @xmath29 . defining the fractional error in the strehl ratio to be @xmath30",
    ", the fractional error relationship between two wavelengths then can be arrived at through algebraic manipulation : @xmath31 .",
    "the standard deviation of the strehl ratio of the 5 nb3.74 images was measured to be @xmath32 . to match the aperture used in the photometric analysis , we estimated the changes in the strehl ratio using the total counts within the fwhm core of the psf .",
    "the @xmath33 , @xmath34 , and @xmath35 fractional strehl ratio errors are found to be 1.286 , 1.155 , and 1.087 respectively .",
    "these errors were propagated with those found from the halo noise at the radius of ab  dor  c and are presented in table  [ tab : phot ] .",
    "c05 used the spectroscopic mode of naco to obtain near - ir spectra of ab  dor  c on the night of 2005 february 4 .",
    "the naco system was configured to provide a slit width of @xmath36 , a spectral coverage of 2 - 2.5  , and a resolution of @xmath37 .",
    "eight dithered one - minute exposures were obtained with the slit aligned along ab  dor and the position of ab  dor  c measured by c05 , and another set of eight exposures were taken with the slit rotated by @xmath38 .",
    "the primary was saturated in these data .",
    "c05 and @xcite described some of the details of their processing of these data .",
    "we have retrieved the naco spectroscopic data for ab  dor  c from the eso archive and have performed an independent analysis , which we now describe . after dividing by flat field images , we straightened the images to precisely align the dispersion and spatial directions with the image coordinate axes . to detect ab  dor  c within the wing of the psf of ab  dor",
    ", we differenced spectral images at opposite instrument rotator angles . to account for changes in the psf , prior to this differencing we measured the fluxes as a function of wavelength between radii of 8.5 and 12.5 pixels on the left and right sides of ab  dor for each of the eight images at each of the two rotator angles , which we refer to as @xmath39 where @xmath40left or right , @xmath41 - 8 , and @xmath42 or 180 ( degrees ) .",
    "we then computed @xmath43 and @xmath44 for all combinations of @xmath45 and @xmath46 .",
    "these ratios measured the change in the psf on each side of ab  dor between a given pair of exposures . to achieve a reliable psf subtraction",
    ", the psf change should be the same on each side of ab  dor .",
    "therefore , we considered only pair subtractions in which @xmath47 was approximately constant with wavelength . for each of these retained pairs , we fit a function to @xmath48 that was linear with wavelength , multiplied the exposure at the second rotator angle ( @xmath49 ) by this fit , and subtracted the resulting image from the image at the first angle ( @xmath42 ) .",
    "this process produced 9 good detections of ab  dor  c out of the 16 that were possible .",
    "we extracted these 9 spectra , combined them , and divided by the spectrum of a telluric standard star , hd  34286 ( g3v ) .",
    "the resulting spectrum was multiplied by the solar spectrum to correct for the spectral slope and absorption features of this standard . because the 9 individual spectra of ab  dor  c exhibited significant differences in their spectral slopes , the slope of the combined spectrum probably was not accurate .",
    "we removed the slope of the spectrum by dividing by a polynomial fit to the continuum .",
    "the final spectrum of ab  dor  c is shown in figure  [ fig : spec1 ] .",
    "for the spectral classification of ab  dor  c , we use the dwarf standards obtained with spex at the nasa infrared telescope facility by @xcite .",
    "the resolution of the spex data is @xmath50 , which is higher than that of the naco spectrum of ab  dor  c ( @xmath51 ) . to enable a reliable comparison of the spectral features in these spectra , we smoothed the spex data to the same resolution as the naco data . to do this , we compared the ar lamp spectra obtained with the spex and naco spectra and identified a gaussian function convolution for the spex data that produced the same fwhms as in the naco spectra .",
    "we then applied this gaussian function to the spectra of the m dwarfs from @xcite .",
    "the resulting spex data of gl  213 ( m4v ) , gl  51 ( m5v ) , gl  406 ( m6v ) , vb  8 ( m7v ) , and vb  10 ( m8v ) are plotted with the naco spectrum of ab  dor  c in figure  [ fig : spec1 ] .",
    "the slopes of these standard spectra have been removed in the same manner as for ab  dor  c.    we now measure the spectral type of ab  dor  c by comparing the strengths of the na  i doublet , ca  i triplet , and co band heads in its spectrum to those exhibited by the dwarf standards in figure  [ fig : spec1 ] . the na  i absorption in ab  dor",
    "c is weaker than that of m5v and m6v and stronger than that of m4v , m7v , and m8v .",
    "because this doublet is weaker in pre - main - sequence objects than in dwarfs @xcite , the strength observed for ab  dor  c is consistent with types of m5-m6 , but not m4 , m7 , or m8 . in terms of both ca",
    "i and co , ab  dor  c is best matched by m6v . compared to m4v and m5v , the lower surface gravity of ab  dor  c could explain its stronger co , but not the weaker ca  i @xcite .",
    "meanwhile , the opposite is true for m7v and m8v . in particular",
    ", co is significantly weaker in ab  dor  c than in m8v , and the inconsistency is even larger when the gravity differences are considered . taken together , the strengths of na  i , ca  i , and co indicate a spectral type of m6@xmath5 for ab  dor  c.    based on the spectrum of ab  dor  c that they measured from the naco data , c05 and @xcite derived a spectral type of m8@xmath5 for ab  dor  c. we comment on a few aspects of their classification . in agreement with our results in figure  [ fig : spec1 ]",
    ", c05 found that ab  dor  c exhibited stronger na  i than vb  10 ( m8v ) .",
    "however , they attributed this difference to the lower surface gravity of ab  dor  c , even though na  i transitions in general @xcite and this @xmath6-band doublet specifically @xcite are known to become weaker , not stronger , with decreasing surface gravity .",
    "the stronger na  i absorption in the spectrum from c05 relative to m8v can only be explained by a spectral type that is earlier than m8v since the strength of this feature reaches a maximum at m6v and decreases with later types @xcite .",
    "in addition to dwarfs , @xcite used young objects in upper scorpius as standards .",
    "compared to a spectrum of a m7 member of that association @xcite , ab  dor  c exhibited stronger na  i and co , which @xcite cited as evidence for a spectral type later than m7 . however , as already noted , stronger na  i would imply a type earlier than m7 , not later",
    ". meanwhile , the difference in co is likely due to the fact that the spectral resolution of the data for upper scorpius from @xcite was much lower than the resolution for ab  dor  c.    c05 also found good agreement between the broad spectral shapes ( i.e. , steam absorption ) of their spectrum of ab  dor  c and a spectrum of vb  10 from @xcite , which seemed to support an m8 classification for the former .",
    "however , the validity of this comparison is questionable for the following reasons .",
    "first , c05 corrected for telluric absorption in their data by dividing by the spectrum of a solar - type star .",
    "they multiplied this result by the solar spectrum to remove the spectral slope and absorption features intrinsic to the telluric standard . in comparison",
    ", @xcite also divided their spectrum of vb  10 by a telluric standard ( an a0 star ) , but did not attempt to remove the intrinsic spectrum of that standard .",
    "thus , the procedures of c05 and @xcite should produce spectral slopes that differ systematically , which would preclude a meaningful comparison of the steam bands in the resulting spectra of ab  dor  c and vb  10 .",
    "in addition , @xcite stated that they ( and presumably c05 ) were unable to  preserve the continuum \" of ab  dor  c during their data reduction , which also would obviate the use of steam in the spectral classification .",
    "it is useful to consider the spectral type of ab  dor  c in the context of the low - mass pleiades members ppl15  a and b , which have well - constrained masses and spectral types and have similar ages as ab  dor  c. according to the spectral type of m8@xmath5 reported by c05 , ab  dor  c should be cooler than ppl15  a and b ( m6 and m7 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , the dynamical mass of ab  dor  c ( @xmath10  @xmath8 , c05 ) is equal to or greater than the masses of ppl15  a and b , each of which have a firm upper mass limit of 0.1  @xmath8 based on the presence of li @xcite and are probably brown dwarfs based on their binary data @xcite .",
    "thus , these relative spectral types and masses of ab  dor  c and ppl15 are incompatible . meanwhile , the spectral type of m6@xmath521 that we measure for ab  dor  c is perfectly consistent with ppl  15 .",
    "@xcite recently derived an age for ab  dor from a color - magnitude diagram and the kinematics of the ab  dor moving group . in a diagram of @xmath53 versus @xmath54",
    ", they found that the ab  dor group and the pleiades were approximately coeval ( @xmath11 - 125  myr , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this result was supported by the kinematic analysis , which suggested that the two populations originated in the same large scale star - formation event .",
    "@xcite briefly addressed the age of ab  dor and the results of @xcite .",
    "first , they quoted @xcite as finding that the ab  dor group is brighter by 0.1  mag than the pleiades in @xmath53 versus @xmath54 .",
    "however , that was not the case .",
    "instead , @xcite reported an offset of 0 - 0.1  mag in a visual comparison of the histograms of the @xmath53 offsets between the observed positions of stars in each population and a fit to the lower envelope of the pleiades sequence . in a more quantitative and definitive comparison",
    ", @xcite found that the mean offsets of the two populations were indistinguishable , indicating no detectable age difference .",
    "@xcite then presented a comparison of the pleiades and the ab  dor group sequences in @xmath53 versus @xmath55 and claimed to find an offset of 0.15  mag in @xmath53 between the sequences at @xmath56 .",
    "however , a diagram of that kind is a poor choice for measuring ages and comparing sequences because the dynamic range of @xmath55 is very small , nearly an order of magnitude lower than that of @xmath54 .",
    "in fact , the sequences of stellar populations are vertical in @xmath53 versus @xmath55 for low - mass stars later than k7 , as illustrated in figure  [ fig : jk ] . as a result ,",
    "the stars that are normally most valuable for measuring ages because of their large displacements above the main sequence are made useless by plotting them in @xmath53 versus @xmath55 . finally , even if the ab  dor group and the pleiades are compared in @xmath53 versus @xmath55 , as we have done in figure  [ fig : jk ] , their sequences are still very similar . following the procedure used for @xmath53 versus @xmath54 by @xcite , we compared the mean offsets of the stars in the ab  dor group and the pleiades from the lower envelope of the pleiades .",
    "the difference between these mean offsets ranges between -0.05 and 0.05 depending on the exact range of colors that is considered .",
    "thus , the mean offsets for the ab  dor group and the pleiades are indistinguishable in @xmath53 versus @xmath55 , in agreement with the results from @xmath53 versus @xmath54 , and we find no basis in the work of @xcite for modifying the age estimate of ab  dor from @xcite .",
    "we now estimate the bolometric luminosity and effective temperature of ab dor  c from our broad - band photometry and spectral classification and compare them to the values predicted by the evolutionary models of @xcite .",
    "we have computed the luminosity by combining our corrected @xmath2 magnitude in table  [ tab : phot ] , the distance of ab  dor @xcite , the @xmath2-band bolometric correction of m6 field dwarfs ( bc@xmath57 , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and an absolute bolometric magnitude of 4.75 for the sun , arriving at @xmath58  @xmath59 . because the @xmath60 and @xmath61 colors of ab  dor  c are consistent with those of m6 field dwarfs , a luminosity derived from @xmath1 or @xmath3 produces a similar result . in figure",
    "[ fig : lbol ] , we compare our measurements of @xmath62 , @xmath63 , @xmath53 , and @xmath64 for ab  dor  c to the values predicted by the theoretical evolutionary models of @xcite . for ab",
    "dor  c , we adopt an age of 75 - 150  myr @xcite . using this age",
    ", the luminosity measured by c05 agrees well with the model predictions , as shown by @xcite , while the agreement is slightly worse using our new ( smaller ) luminosity estimate .",
    "however , the predicted luminosities are still well within the one @xmath22 uncertainties of our measurement .",
    "similarly , each of the near - ir magnitudes that we measured for ab  dor  c is consistent with the model values within the ( large ) photometric uncertainties .",
    "it is likely that deficiencies do exist at smaller levels in the predicted parameters , particularly the ir magnitudes ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    to compare our spectral classification of ab  dor  c to the model predictions",
    ", we must adopt a conversion of spectral types to temperatures . using the dwarf temperature scale from @xcite , which was a fit to data from @xcite , the spectral type of m6@xmath5 for ab  dor  c corresponds to @xmath65  k.",
    "this estimate does not include the uncertainty in the m dwarf temperature scale , which is non - negligible .",
    "an additional uncertainty is present for ab  dor  c because a dwarf scale , even if perfectly determined , may not apply to young objects @xcite . nevertheless , even with underestimated errors , it is useful to compare our temperature estimate for ab  dor  c to the model predictions .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : teff ] , our spectral classification of ab  dor  c is consistent with the temperatures predicted by the models of @xcite when the dwarf scale from @xcite is adopted .",
    "the results of tests of evolutionary models at ages of @xmath66  myr like the one supplied by ab  dor  c do not necessarily extend to much younger ages .",
    "the uncertainties in the evolutionary calculations become larger at younger ages , and thus it would not be surprising if the models were robust for relatively evolved objects like ab  dor  c that are approaching the main sequence but had significant errors at ages of a few million years @xcite . model tests that apply directly to the youngest ages are needed . in this section , we present such a test of the masses estimated with the evolutionary models of @xcite and @xcite for low - mass stars and brown dwarfs in star - forming regions .",
    "the galactic disk appears to be populated predominantly by stars born in embedded clusters rather than in isolation ( * ? ? ?",
    "* references therein ) . therefore ,",
    "unless the imfs of embedded clusters have changed significantly during the lifetime of the galaxy , the current generation of clusters should have the same average imf as the solar neighborhood . among the best - studied star - forming clusters , the imfs of stars and brown dwarfs inferred from a given set of evolutionary models exhibit relatively little variation @xcite .",
    "in logarithmic units where the salpeter slope is 1.35 , the imfs in most of these clusters rise from high masses down to a solar mass , rise more slowly down to a maximum at 0.1 - 0.2  @xmath8 , and then decline into the substellar regime , as in the orion nebula cluster ( @xmath67  myr , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) and ic  348 ( @xmath68  myr * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the only clear exception is the imf in the taurus star - forming region ( @xmath12  myr ) , which peaks near 0.8  @xmath8 @xcite , but quiescent , low - density regions like taurus produce an insignificant number of stars compared to the giant molecular clouds that contain most embedded clusters @xcite .",
    "therefore , we can compare the model - derived imfs of star - forming clusters to the imf of the solar neighborhood to check the accuracy of mass estimates for young low - mass stars and brown dwarfs .    to represent the imf of a typical embedded cluster , we select the imf of ic  348 from @xcite , which was derived with an h - r diagram of the cluster , the evolutionary models of @xcite and @xcite , and the temperature scale described in @xcite .",
    "that imf consists of primaries plus companions at projected separations greater than 300  au , and thus more closely resembles an imf of primaries rather than a single star mass function . for the imf of stars in the solar neighborhood",
    ", we adopt the measurement by @xcite with a modification to exclude companions with projected separations less than 300  au , making it suitable for comparison to ic  348 . similar measurements of the imf of field stars have been presented by @xcite and @xcite . because the mass - luminosity relation is a function of age for brown dwarfs at any age , and the ages of individual field brown dwarfs are unknown , a unique , well - sampled imf of field brown dwarfs can not be constructed .",
    "therefore , we compare only the imfs of low - mass stars between the solar neighborhood and ic  348 .",
    "the available constraints on the substellar imf for the field @xcite have been compared to measurements in star - forming regions in previous work @xcite .",
    "the imfs for the solar neighborhood and the ic  348 star - forming cluster are compared in figure  [ fig : imf ] .",
    "these imfs are rather similar ; both are roughly consistent with a salpeter slope above a solar mass and are slightly rising from a solar mass to 0.1  @xmath8 .",
    "previous comparisons of the mass functions of young clusters and the solar neighborhood have arrived at the same conclusion ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this agreement supports the validity of the masses we have inferred from the models of @xcite and @xcite for young low - mass objects .",
    "meanwhile , c05 concluded that the masses of young low - mass members of clusters have been underestimated by a factor of two with the evolutionary models of @xcite .",
    "to investigate this possibility , we have modified the imf for ic  348 by doubling the mass estimates below 0.08  @xmath8 . because our adopted temperature scale and evolutionary models produce accurate masses at @xmath69  @xmath8 @xcite , the factor by which the original masses are multiplied is selected to decrease linearly with log  m from two at 0.08  @xmath8 to unity at 0.5  @xmath8 .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : imf ] , the resulting imf differs significantly from the imf of the solar neighborhood .",
    "most notably , the relative numbers of stars at 0.25 and 0.1  @xmath8 differ by an order of magnitude between the two imfs .",
    "this exercise demonstrates that the masses derived for the low - mass members of ic  348 can not be underestimated by a factor of two if the imf of galactic star - forming clusters and the solar neighborhood are similar .",
    "an alternative illustration of this result is the following .",
    "our use of the evolutionary models indicates that young objects with optical spectral types of m7 and later are brown dwarfs .",
    "objects at these spectral types are relatively rare in star - forming regions @xcite . in comparison ,",
    "stars at masses of 0.1 - 0.2  @xmath8 are the most abundant stars in the field . therefore , members of star - forming regions at types of m7 and later can not be low - mass stars unless the imfs of those regions and the solar neighborhood are radically different .    we have applied the above test only to the specific methods and models used in estimating masses by @xcite . the results of this test do not apply to the synthetic near - ir magnitudes , other sets of evolutionary models , or other temperature scales .",
    "c05 found that the evolutionary models of @xcite overestimated the @xmath1 and @xmath2-band brightnesses of ab  dor  c by one magnitude and concluded that  the young , cool objects hitherto thought to be substellar in mass are therefore about twice as massive , which means that the frequency of brown dwarfs and planetary mass objects in young stellar clusters has been overestimated \" and that  such errors will require serious revision of the frequency for the lowest - mass objects ... at young ages \" .",
    "we find that this conclusion is oversimplified and unwarranted .",
    "first , the error factor in the mass estimates for young low - mass objects is a strong function of the stellar parameters considered , the choice of evolutionary models , and other considerations , such as the adopted conversion between spectral types and temperatures .",
    "for instance , even in the analysis of c05 , the apparent error factor varied from 2 for @xmath1 and @xmath2 to only 1.3 for @xmath6 .",
    "the conclusions of c05 included implications for measurements of substellar imfs in star - forming regions , but they did not actually test the methods predominantly used to derive masses in those surveys . instead , they considered mass estimates based on the synthetic near - ir magnitudes , whereas bolometric luminosity is the most common parameter used in deriving masses for low - mass imfs .",
    "in fact , within the age and luminosity uncertainties quoted by c05 , the models of @xcite are formally consistent with the observations of ab  dor  c , and so their sweeping conclusions regarding the validity of the models and of the measurements of substellar mass functions were not justified by their own data . meanwhile",
    ", the new estimate of the age for ab  dor  c from @xcite indicates reasonable agreement between its predicted luminosity and the values measured by c05 and in this work (   [ sec : compare ] ) .",
    "in addition to the synthetic near - ir magnitudes , c05 compared the effective temperature predicted for ab  dor  c to the spectral type of m8@xmath5 that they measured from ir spectroscopy , and concluded that the models overestimated its temperature .",
    "however , we measure an earlier spectral type of m6@xmath5 for ab  dor  c from c05 s spectroscopic data , which is in agreement with the model predictions if a dwarf temperature scale is adopted .",
    "purely on an observational basis , a spectral type earlier than the one reported by c05 is expected given that ab  dor  c has a mass greater than or equal to that of ppl  15  a and b ( m6 and m7 ) .",
    "we have also presented a simple test of the general possibility that the masses of young low - mass stars and brown dwarfs , particularly in star - forming regions ( @xmath12  myr ) , have been significantly underestimated in previous studies using the models of @xcite .",
    "this test consisted of a comparison of the model - derived imfs of star - forming regions and the imf of the solar neighborhood .",
    "the agreement between these imfs supports the accuracy of the masses for young low - mass objects when they are derived by combining measurements of spectral types and luminosities with the models of @xcite and @xcite and the temperature scale of @xcite .",
    "these mass estimates can not have very large systematic errors ( @xmath70 ) unless the imf produced by the current generation of star formation in the galactic disk is significantly different from the imf of the solar neighborhood .",
    "however , this test does not exclude smaller systematic errors .",
    "indeed , for the primary in a young spectroscopic binary in upper scorpius , @xcite recently measured a dynamical mass of @xmath71  @xmath8 , which is higher than the value of 0.2 - 0.3  @xmath8 derived with the same methods and models used in the above imf measurements . a more definitive test of those methods and models would be possible with a verification of the spectral type of that binary , as noted by @xcite .",
    "dynamical masses at lower masses are also needed because the systematic errors could depend on mass @xcite .",
    "we are grateful to neill reid for providing his data for the mass function of the solar neighborhood .",
    "we thank mike cushing for providing the ar lamp spectra from spex .",
    "k. l. was supported by grant nag5 - 11627 from the nasa long - term space astrophysics program .",
    "lccccccccc @xmath1 & 10 & 10.76@xmath72 & 150@xmath5215 & & 3.0 & 10.72@xmath73 & 145@xmath5249 & 10.72@xmath74 & 145@xmath5264 + @xmath2 & 16 & 10.04@xmath75 & 120@xmath527.5 & & 4.2 & 10.18@xmath76 & 136@xmath5233 & 10.18@xmath77 & 136@xmath5239 + @xmath3 & 11 & 9.45@xmath78 & 80@xmath527.5 & & 3.9 & 9.79@xmath79 & 110@xmath5229 & 9.79@xmath80 & 110@xmath5231 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper , we assess the constraints on the evolutionary models of young low - mass objects that are provided by the measurements of the companion ab  dor  c by close and coworkers and by a new comparison of model - derived initial mass functions ( imfs ) of star - forming regions to the well - calibrated imf of the solar neighborhood . after performing an independent analysis of all of the imaging and spectroscopic data for ab  dor  c that were obtained by close , we find that ab  dor  c ( which has no methane ) is not detected at a significant level ( signal - to - noise@xmath0 ) in the simultaneous differential images ( sdi ) when one narrow - band image is subtracted from another , but that it does appear in the individual sdi frames as well as the images at @xmath1 , @xmath2 , and @xmath3 . our broad band photometry for ab  dor  c is consistent with that of close . however , the photometric uncertainties that we measure are larger than those derived by close ; our uncertainties are consistent with those measured in other studies using the same adaptive optics system . using the age of @xmath4 - 150  myr </S>",
    "<S> recently estimated for ab  dor by luhman , stauffer , and mamajek , the luminosity predicted by the models of chabrier and baraffe is consistent with the value that we estimate from the photometry for ab  dor  c. we measure a spectral type of m6@xmath5 from the @xmath6-band spectrum of ab  dor  c , which is earlier than the value of m8@xmath5 reported by close and is consistent with the model predictions when a dwarf temperature scale is adopted . in a test of these evolutionary models at much younger ages , we show that the low - mass imfs that they produce for star - forming regions are similar to the imf of the solar neighborhood . </S>",
    "<S> if the masses of the low - mass stars and brown dwarfs in these imfs of star - forming regions were underestimated by a factor of two as suggested by close , then the imf characterizing the current generation of galactic star formation would have to be radically different from the imf of the solar neighborhood . </S>"
  ]
}