{
  "article_text": [
    "long - slit spectroscopy can be used to advantage in the investigation both of point sources and of extended emission .",
    "but for optimum results , reduction packages of some sophistication are required since the observed spectrum comprises the superposed spectra of all objects falling within the slit .",
    "thus , for a point source , the spectrum of the underlying extended emission and the spectra of any nearby point sources need to be subtracted in order to extract the uncontaminated 1-d spectrum of the target .",
    "correspondingly , for an extended object , the spectra of any superposed point sources must be subtracted in order to extract the uncontaminated 2-d spectrum of the target .",
    "the subtraction tasks described above are clearly straightforward if the intensity of the extended emission has an approximately linear variation along the slit and if point sources are well separated . for such cases ,",
    "standard iraf procedures are applicable and not easily improved upon .",
    "but these same procedures must be expected to perform poorly when the observed field is not so simple .",
    "accordingly , the aim of this investigation is to develop procedures for treating such cases .",
    "examples which require more complex treatment include spectra of star clusters , planetary nebulae in local group galaxies , h  ii regions in spiral arms , jets in young stars and galaxies , galactic nuclei and gravitational lenses .",
    "software that performs the above subtraction tasks in the more challenging circumstances where the extended emission is structurally complex and where the broadened spectra of point sources overlap are described and tested in this paper .",
    "of course , given the errors associated with real data , no procedure can carry out these extraction tasks perfectly .",
    "thus , some cross contamination will always remain in the extracted spectra of overlapping point sources as also between the extracted spectrum of a point source and that of the underlying extended emission .",
    "nevertheless , procedures that perform such extractions with close to the optimum achievable reliability are clearly desirable .",
    "section 2 introduces two channel restoration in imaging and points out its relevance for the decomposition of long - slit spectra .",
    "section 3 presents the iterative technique for a homogeneous background and section 4 for the general case of an inhomogeneous background .",
    "section 5 presents simulations and applications of both methods to real data .",
    "as this investigation was underway , other authors have presented their treatments of essentially the same problem and a comparison between these various approaches is given in section 6 .",
    "the software implementation of the two new methods is briefly described in section 7 and the conclusions in section 8 .",
    "the two iterative schemes for decomposing long - slit spectra , to be described in sections 3 and 4 , are variants of a previously - developed two - channel restoration procedure for astronomical images .",
    "accordingly , we first recall salient aspects of this earlier work and identify an important innovation adopted here .",
    "the problem of extracting reliable spectra of point sources and background from a long - slit spectrum is technically similar to that of achieving high photometric accuracy when restoring an _ image _ containing point sources superposed on extended emission . for this latter problem ,",
    "richardson - lucy ( rl ) ( ( @xcite , @xcite ) or maxent restorations are not satisfactory because of the ringing that occurs in the background close to the point sources .",
    "following earlier work by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite adopted a two channel approach to overcome this problem .",
    "all objects that the investigator deems to be point sources are allocated to one channel and all remaining emission to the second channel .",
    "the merit of this approach is that , rather than being presented with the impossible task of discovering delta functions from noisy and band - limited data , the restoration procedure is _ told _ which objects are to be restored as delta functions .",
    "nevertheless , in order for the iterative procedure to find the desired solution , it also proves necessary to prevent the second channel from partially modelling the point sources as sharp peaks in the extended emission .",
    "this is accomplished by limiting the resolution of the second channel .    in the lucy - hook scheme @xcite , the angular resolution of @xmath0 , the model of the extended emission ,",
    "was limited by adding an entropic regularization term to the objective function to be maximized .",
    "this term penalizes differences between @xmath0 and @xmath1 , the convolution of @xmath0 with an appropriate resolution kernel .",
    "although effective , this procedure has the disadvantage of introducing a free parameter @xmath2 , the constant controlling the relative importance of the regularization term in the objective function .",
    "an implementation of the lucy - hook scheme for long - slit spectra has been described by @xcite and applied @xcite .    in this paper , the required resolution limit is instead imposed by defining the restored background @xmath0 to be the convolution of a non - negative auxiliary function @xmath3 with a resolution kernel @xmath4 . clearly , @xmath4 itself then represents the narrowest feature that can appear in @xmath0 . accordingly ,",
    "if the fwhm of @xmath4 exceeds that of the psf , the convolution of @xmath0 with the psf can not fit the observed profile of a point source , which must therefore be modelled in the first channel as a delta function of appropriate amplitude .    as with images , an astronomer reducing a long - slit spectrum",
    "will often be confident in identifying some objects as point sources and will wish to benefit from the improved reduction that can result from providing such input .",
    "the two techniques described in this paper differ only in their assumptions about the background . in this section",
    ", we make the strong , restrictive assumption that the background source is homogeneous .",
    "thus , although the intensity of the background emission may vary along the slit , its spectrum does not .",
    "an example is a long - slit spectrum in the core of a globular cluster : numerous faint members then form a smooth background whose spectrum to a good approximation is spatially - invariant because of orbit - mixing .      to simplify the description of the scheme , we assume that the observed spectrum @xmath5 is a continuous function of the two variables @xmath6 and @xmath7 , where @xmath6 denotes wavelength and @xmath7 is the spatial coordinate perpendicular to the direction of dispersion .",
    "we further suppose that the spectra of the point sources have @xmath6 -independent centroids @xmath8 - i.e. , they are dispersed horizontally .",
    "of course the actual code works with pixellated data and can correct for the curvature of the point - source spectra .",
    "let @xmath9 be the spectrum of the @xmath10th point source and let @xmath11 be the spatially - invariant spectrum of the homogeneous background whose normalized spatial profile is @xmath12 . then",
    ", if @xmath13 is the spatial distribution of a point source at @xmath14 due to instrumental broadening and seeing ( for a ground - based telescope ) , the two- dimensional model for the observed spectrum is @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the broadenened and therefore @xmath6-dependent profile of the background .",
    "now , as discussed in sec .",
    "2 , the model as defined by eqs . ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) is not yet satisfactory since a point source ( especially one with a spectrum similar to that of the background ) can be partially modelled as a peak in @xmath12 . to eliminate this near indeterminacy",
    ", we impose a resolution limit on @xmath0 by writing @xmath17 where @xmath18 is a non - negative normalized auxiliary function and @xmath19 is a non - negative normalized kernel function .",
    "if @xmath4 is a bell - shaped function with fwhm significantly greater than that of @xmath20 , then point - like peaks can not appear in @xmath12 . by thus preventing the point - sources from partially contaminating our model of the background",
    ", we simultaneously improve the accuracy of the extracted point - source spectra .",
    "( 1)-(3 ) define the model used to decompose a long - slit spectrum under the assumption that the background is homogeneous . in fitting this model to an observed spectrum @xmath5 , the unknowns to be estimated are the spectra @xmath21 and @xmath11 and the auxiliary function @xmath18 .",
    "note that the spatial profile of the background @xmath12 is not a basic unknown but is obtained incidentally from @xmath18 via eq.(3 ) .",
    "the point - spread function @xmath13 and the resolution kernel @xmath4 are user - supplied and thus treated as known functions in the iterative fitting procedure described below .",
    "the centroids @xmath22 of the point - source spectra are also user - supplied and are held fixed during the iterations .",
    "these @xmath22 can be input by the user or determined by cross - correlation with the point - spread function .",
    "we now estimate the unknown functions @xmath23 , @xmath24 and @xmath3 by iteratively improving the fit of @xmath25 to the observed spectrum @xmath26 .",
    "this iterative technique , which is based on the rl algorithm ( richardson 1972 ; lucy 1974 ) , alternates between improving the spectra @xmath21 and @xmath11 and improving the auxiliary function @xmath18 .",
    "the scheme is initiated with flat , featureless estimates for the unknown functions .",
    "thus we take @xmath27 and set the normalized auxiliary function @xmath28 , where @xmath29 is the spatial extent of the spectrum .",
    "after initiation ( iteration @xmath30 ) or after a failed test of convergence ( @xmath31 ) , improved estimates of the spectra @xmath21 and @xmath11 are obtained as follows : + 1 ) with the current estimate of the auxiliary function @xmath18 , the profile of the background @xmath12 is computed from eq.(3 ) .",
    "+ following this initial calculation , the remaining steps are carried out at each discrete @xmath6 in the observed spectrum .",
    "+ 2 ) the broadened profile of the background @xmath32 is computed from eq .",
    "\\3 ) with the current estimates of @xmath23 and @xmath24 , the @xmath7-dependence of @xmath33 is derived from eq .",
    "( 1 )    \\4 ) improved values of the amplitudes @xmath23 are obtained by applying the correction factors @xmath34    \\5 ) an improved value of @xmath24 is obtained by applying the correction factor @xmath35    when the above correction factors have been applied at all @xmath6 s , the improved spectra are input to this iteration s next stage - sec.3.3.2 -wherein @xmath18 is improved .      since the background is here assumed to have a spatially - invariant spectrum , the profile function @xmath12 and the auxiliary function @xmath18 from which it is derived are @xmath6-independent . in principle , therefore , these functions could be estimated from the data at a single @xmath6 , but at the price of then neglecting information at other @xmath6 s . to avoid this",
    ", we project the model and the data onto the @xmath7-axis - i.e. , we integrate over @xmath6 .",
    "let @xmath36 denote the integral of @xmath37 .",
    "then , from eq.(1 ) , @xmath38 where @xmath39 and @xmath40 are the corresponding integrals of the broadened background @xmath41 and of the @xmath10th broadened point source @xmath42 , respectively .",
    "now , using eqs ( 1),(2 ) and ( 5 ) , we can relate @xmath39 to the auxiliary function @xmath18 .",
    "the result is the integral equation @xmath43 where @xmath44 denotes the integral of @xmath11 and @xmath45 note that @xmath46 is a normalized non - negative function .    having derived this basic integral equation",
    ", we can now describe the steps that result in an improved estimate for the auxiliary function @xmath18 .",
    "+ 1 ) the effective broadening function @xmath46 defined by eq .",
    "( 8) is computed .",
    "\\2 ) the integrated model @xmath36 is computed from eqs .",
    "( 6 ) and ( 7 ) .",
    "\\3 ) an improved @xmath18 is obtained by applying the correction factor @xmath47 where @xmath48 denotes the @xmath6-integrated observed spectrum @xmath5 .",
    "when the above correction has been made , control moves to this iteration s next stage wherein convergence is tested .      as measures of the corrections made in sec .",
    "3.3.1 to the spectra , we compute @xmath49 for each point source , and the corresponding quantity @xmath50 for the background . the symbol @xmath51 is the difference in value between successive iterations .",
    "similarly , we assess the corrections made in sec .",
    "3.3.2 to the normalized function @xmath18 by computing the quantity @xmath52    if _ any _ of the quantities @xmath53 , @xmath50 or @xmath54 exceeds an appropriately small quantity @xmath55 , control returns to sec .",
    "3.3.1 in order to carry out the @xmath56-th iteration .",
    "if the above convergence test is satisfied , the reduction is finished and it remains only to output the quantities of scientific interest .",
    "these are the spectra @xmath21 and @xmath11 and the normalized profile of the background @xmath12 .",
    "for some problems , the spectra of some or all of the point sources will be of primary interest ; in others , the spectrum of the background ; in yet others , the spatial profile of the background .",
    "in addition , the two - dimensional residual spectrum @xmath57 is computed and displayed .",
    "ideally , these residuals will be entirely attributable to statistical fluctuations in the observed spectrum @xmath5 .",
    "but if some residuals are significant , a flawed or incomplete reduction is indicated - see comment f ) below .",
    "of particular interest in this regard is the use of this residual spectrum to discover evidence that the background s spectrum is not spatially - invariant and to identify the astrophysical source - e.g. , nebular emission . note that a weak departure from spatial invariance is likely to be _ _ less evident if the spectrum were reduced without this assumption ( sec .",
    "4 ) and then such a departure sought by inspecting the two - dimensional background spectrum @xmath58 that is part of the output in the inhomogeneous case .",
    "the auxiliary function @xmath18 is not part of the standard output . in particular",
    ", this function does not provide a better model of the background s profile than does @xmath12 .",
    "the following comments are intended to clarify various aspects of this iterative scheme : + a ) the correction factors defined by eqs .",
    "( 4 ) and ( 5 ) are obtained from the rl algorithm by noting that the spectra @xmath21 and @xmath11 are spatially broadened into their respective contributions to the observed spectrum according to the functions @xmath59 and @xmath32 .",
    "similarly , the correction factor defined by eq .",
    "( 9 ) follows from noting that @xmath18 is broadened into @xmath39 according to the function @xmath46 .",
    "note that all these correction factors are unity if the model exactly matches the observed spectrum .",
    "\\b ) the scheme does not correct the extracted spectra @xmath21 and @xmath11 for instrumental broadening in the @xmath6- direction , and thus they are not affected by deconvolution artifacts .",
    "accordingly , the subsequent analysis of one of these point - source spectra can be carried out exactly as if it were the spectrum of an isolated point source extracted with a conventional package .",
    "similarly , the spectrum of the background can be analysed as if the observation was of a source not contaminated by point sources .",
    "\\c ) in conventional applications of the rl algorithm , it is advisable to limit the number of iterations in order to avoid fitting statistical fluctuations in the data ( lucy 1974 ) . here",
    "this is prevented by the resolution limit imposed by the kernel @xmath4 , and so the iterations can be continued to convergence .",
    "\\d ) in the software package , the unknown functions @xmath23 , @xmath24 and @xmath3 are represented as finite vectors .",
    "the converged solution obtained with the above iteration scheme effectively determines the elements of these vectors from the principle of maximum likelihood ( lucy 1974 ) .",
    "\\e ) statistical fluctuations in the extracted spectra @xmath21 and @xmath11 are not reduced by imposing a resolution limit in the @xmath6-direction nor by restricting the number of iterations . instead ,",
    "noise in the @xmath23 is reduced by an effective weighted co - addition in the spatial direction using the broadening function @xmath59 ( cf horne 1986 ; robertson 1986 ) .",
    "similarly , noise in @xmath24 is reduced by an effective weighted co - addition using the broadening function @xmath32 .",
    "\\f ) the model @xmath33 obtained with the above iterative scheme will not necessarily fit the observed spectrum @xmath5 to within errors .",
    "significant residuals will remain if the assumptions underlying the model are violated . in particular , the background s spectrum may not be spatially - invariant . also the user - supplied broadening function @xmath59 may be inaccurate .",
    "point sources not allocated to the first channel will also give significant residuals since , by design , the resolution kernel @xmath4 then prevents a close fit . in this case , a second reduction with additional designated point sources is clearly called for .",
    "a further cause of significant residuals would be a marginally - resolved source with fwhm less than that of @xmath4 .",
    "in this section , we relax the constraint that the background is homogeneous . thus the general case is now treated where the background s spectrum varies with position along the slit .      if the background is _",
    "in_homogeneous , its spectrum @xmath60 is _ not _ separable into the product @xmath61 as assumed in sec .",
    "3.2 . accordingly",
    ", in this case , the model for the two - dimensional spectrum is    @xmath62    where @xmath63 is the broadened spectrum of the background .",
    "now , as in sec .",
    "3.2 , we must prevent point sources from being partially modelled as peaks in @xmath58 . to eliminate this possibility",
    ", we again impose a limit on the spatial resolution of the background by writing @xmath64 where @xmath65 is a non - negative auxiliary function and @xmath19 is a non - negative normalized kernel function .",
    "( 12)-(14 ) define the model used to decompose a long - slit spectrum of an inhomogeneous background with superposed point - sources in fitting this model to an observed spectrum @xmath5 , the unknowns to be estimated are the spectra @xmath21 and the auxiliary function @xmath65 .",
    "the spatially - varying spectrum of the background @xmath58 is not a basic unknown but is obtained incidentally from the auxiliary function @xmath65 via eq.(14 ) .    as in sec . 3 ,",
    "the point - spread function @xmath13 and the resolution kernel @xmath4 are user - supplied , thus treated as known functions in the iterative fitting procedure described below , and the centroids @xmath22 of the point source spectra also remain fixed .",
    "we now estimate the unknown functions @xmath23 and @xmath3 by iteratively improving the fit of @xmath25 to the observed spectrum @xmath26 .",
    "this iterative technique , which is again based on the rl algorithm , repeatedly sweeps through the spectrum improving both the spectra @xmath21 and the auxiliary function @xmath65 until convergence is achieved .",
    "the scheme is initiated with @xmath66 for all @xmath10 and with @xmath67 .",
    "in addition , the normalized effective broadening function @xmath68 that maps @xmath65 into @xmath69 - see eqs . ( 13 ) and ( 14 ) - is computed and stored for use during the iterations .    at each iteration ,",
    "the following calculations are made at every discrete @xmath6 in the observed spectrum :    \\1 ) the @xmath7-dependence of the broadened background @xmath69 is computed by convolving the current estimate of @xmath65 with @xmath70 .",
    "\\2 ) the @xmath7-dependence of @xmath33 is computed from eq.(12 ) using the current estimates of the amplitudes @xmath23 .",
    "\\3 ) improved point - source amplitudes @xmath23 are obtained by applying the correction factors @xmath71    \\4 ) the auxiliary function @xmath65 is improved by applying the correction factor @xmath72      when steps 1)-4 ) have been carried out at all @xmath6 s , convergence is tested .",
    "the quantities tested are @xmath53 as previously defined by eq.(10 ) and @xmath54 , which is redefined here as @xmath73 if _",
    "any _ of the @xmath53 or @xmath54 exceeds an appropriately small quantity @xmath55 , control returns to step 1 ) above in order to carry out a further iteration .",
    "if the above convergence test is satisfied , the reduction is finished and it remains only to output the quantities of scientific interest .",
    "these are the spectra of the point sources @xmath21 and the two - dimensional spectrum of the background @xmath74 .",
    "this latter quantity is computed from the converged auxiliary function @xmath3 via eq.(14 ) .    from @xmath74 , one - dimensional plots of the background spectrum at different positions @xmath75 along the slit can be displayed .",
    "alternatively , one - dimensional plots of the background s spatial profile at different @xmath6 s can be extracted .    as in the homogeneous case ,",
    "the two - dimensional residual spectrum @xmath57 is also computed and displayed .",
    "if some residuals are statistically significant , a flawed or incomplete reduction is indicated - see comment b ) below .",
    "the following comments refer to differences between this iteration scheme and that of sec .",
    "\\a ) statistical fluctuations in the extracted background spectrum @xmath58 are reduced by an effective weighted co - addition in the spatial direction using the broadening function @xmath70 given by eq .",
    "( 15 ) .",
    "\\b ) the converged model @xmath33 obtained with the above iterative scheme will not necessarily fit the observed spectrum @xmath5 to within errors . but significant residuals are less likely than in the previous case because the restrictive assumption of a spatially - invariant background spectrum has been dropped .",
    "nevertheless , as previously , significant residuals will remain if the user - supplied broadening function @xmath59 is inaccurate , if the second channel still contains point - sources , or if the background contains structure or resolved sources with widths narrower than that of @xmath4 .",
    "the two techniques are distinguished by their treatment of the extended source .",
    "if the spectrum of the extended source changes with spatial position across the slit , then the inhomogeneous technique should be applied ; if the spectrum of the extended source is expected not to vary with position then the homogeneous code is applicable and will give a more robust estimation for the extended source with incidental improvements in the extracted spectra of the point sources .",
    "the capabilities are illustrated by figure 1 which shows a simulated 2d spectrum and the results of extraction of the point source spectra using the inhomogeneous technique ( sect .",
    "the extended source consists of two spectral components with differing spatial extents - one with a sloping background and the other with line emission .",
    "the point sources have respectively a continuum with an absorption line and a flat continuum with emission lines .",
    "the difference in the continua of the two point sources is 1.75mag . at the short wavelength end of the spectrum .",
    "the results for the restored spectrum are shown : the match of the restored extracted point source spectra ( integrated over the spatial extent ) and the input templates are excellent .",
    "the difference between the restored long - slit spectrum ( point and extended sources ) and the input shows only random noise and no systematics , validating , in practice , the techniques described in section 4 .    in reality , the spectrum of the psf ( hence called the slit spread function ssf ) is often not a perfect match to the data because of instrumental effects and changing seeing ( for ground - based data ) ; the exact position of the point source(s ) ( required to shift the ssf to the position of a point source ) are also not known .",
    "ideally a psf star should be placed on the slit together with the target , or , in the case of mulit - slit instruments , on another slitlet .",
    "however even having a star on the slit is not a guarantee of a good ssf .",
    "experiments with ground - based data on a visual binary with separation @xmath76 seeing , using an ssf derived from a star at the edge of the slit , resulted in systematic residuals of the restoration which were spectrally varying .",
    "thus the ssf at the edge of the slit was not identical to that at the centre on account of optical aberrations in the spectrometer .",
    "for hst spectra taken with stis , for example , a spectrum of a point source at approximately the same position on the slit as the source could be used for the ssf .",
    "however very often suitable stars have lower signal - to - noise than the target or were not similarly centred in the slit .",
    "in addition two hst ssf s may not be identical because of `` breathing '' ( thermally induced changes in the telescope focal length ) , particularly if the exposure times differ greatly between the object and ssf star .    in the case of space - based or adaptive optics",
    "long - slit spectra , the ssf can be constructed from an optical model , such as tinytim for hst @xcite .",
    "tiny tim delivers a monochromatic psf or a psf integrated over a filter passband . integrating the psf with a slit of the correct size and pixel sampling allows a monochromatic long - slit psf to be formed .",
    "interpolating several such across the wavelength range of a long - slit spectrum allows construction of a high fidelity ssf image . in order to obtain the utmost from the slit spectra to be decomposed",
    ", precuations should be taken at the time of observation , or even at the time of instrument design in the case of a specialized instrument .    in the following three sub - sections , examples of the application of the two techniques to a variety of particular problems",
    "are illustrated .",
    "figure 2 shows a long - slit spectrum of the nucleus of the seyfert i galaxy ngc  4151 taken by stis with the g430 m grating ( pi : hutchings ; programme id:7569 ; see @xcite ) .",
    "this was actually taken without a slit .",
    "an ssf image was constructed from five tinytim psf s interpolated over the wavelength range of 4830 to 5090  and with a broad slit ( 0.8@xmath77 ) .",
    "the inhomogeneous code ( sect .",
    "4 ) is obviously necessary for this application since the spectrum of the extended source has different emission line contributions across the slit .",
    "the extracted point source spectrum of the nucleus of ngc  4151 is shown in the fig .",
    "the scientific aim is to extract the spectrum of the point source nucleus , uncontaminated by the extended line emission .",
    "several values of the width of the gaussian smoothing kernel were tried but the flux of the resulting bright point source showed relatively little sensitivity to the kernel width .",
    "the other aspect of this extraction would be to study the emission line spectrum in the close vicinity of the nucleus from the extended emission with the point source removed .",
    "the veracity of the reconstruction in such a case depends critically on how well the model ssf matches the ssf at the time of observation .",
    "an important class of astronomical problems involve detecting the spectra of faint extensions around bright point sources , such as the underlying galaxy of a qso , the optical jet emission from a pre - main sequence star or an agn .",
    "such cases mandate the careful subtraction of the point source spectrum to reveal the extended spectral features near the point source .",
    "both techniques presented here are well suited to such problems and present a systematic alternative to the ad - hoc approach of psf fitting ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "figure 3 shows an example of a long - slit spectrum across a broad - absorption line qso ( q2059 - 360 ) . this is a raw spectrum with sky lines included ;",
    "the broad ly-@xmath2 absorption line is well seen with a trace of extended emission towards its long wavelength edge .",
    "the upper , extended object , spectrum is of another galaxy .",
    "the data was kindly provided by b. leibundgut and was taken with the eso ntt and emmi spectrometer .",
    "there was no suitable bright star nearby to provide the ssf and the spectrum of a spectrophotometric standard with the same set - up had different seeing .",
    "the spectrum of the bal qso itself was used , with the ly@xmath2 region interpolated and smoothed in the dispersion direction .",
    "the inhomogeneous technique was employed to separate the ly@xmath2 emission source from the bal continuum spectrum .",
    "the right hand panel of fig.3 shows the result : the bright bal qso continuum is very effectively subtracted .",
    "the homogeneous technique could also have been used to model the sky background , which when subtracted from the spectrum in fig.3 reveals the extended ly@xmath2 emission source .",
    "the last example is a long - slit spectrum of a globular cluster , in this case ngc  5272 taken with the stis spectrometer and g430l grating ( pi m. shara , hst proposal 8226 ) .",
    "figure 4 shows how crowded the spectrum is and that there is essentially no region which can be used to estimate the background .",
    "about 120 point source spectra could be discerned by eye in this 2d spectrum .",
    "clearly it would be very difficult , if not impossible , to extract the spectra of all the stars on the slit without resort to profile fitting .",
    "the positions of all the stars were determined by fitting gaussians or simple centroids and a psf was provided by the brightest star in the spectrum , suitably cleaned of its neighbouring spectra .",
    "the background is assumed to be composed of sky , very faint cluster members from orbit mixing and bright sources close to the slit edge . assuming this background does not change its spectral signature across the slit , then the homogeneous technique should be applied .",
    "the right hand diagram of fig.4 shows the spatial profile along the slit and the restored profile of the background with the stars removed .",
    "the first attempts showed point source spectra remaining in the background from stars that were closely blended and that were missed in the visual identification . finally",
    "the positions of 129 stars were used as input to the task and their stellar spectra were recovered .",
    "some high excursions in the background remain which suggest the presence of stars omitted from the input catalogue of point sources .",
    "a variety of other methods for separating the spectra of point sources from the spectrum of an extended source have recently appeared .",
    "@xcite use an adaption of the mcs image deconvolution algorithm @xcite .",
    "the required psf for the deconvolved image is chosen , and the psf , which should be applied to restore the data to this chosen psf , is applied in the deconvolution . in the long - slit case",
    "each spectral element is deconvolved independently and three functions are minimized for the fit of the point sources , the smoothness ( on the length scale of the output resolution ) of the background and the length scale of the correlation in the spectral direction ( viz .",
    "spectral resolution ) .",
    "the @xmath78 minimization requires the assignment of two lagrange multipliers . since the position of the point - sources",
    "is not fitted in the two techniques presented here , only one user - specified parameter - the width of the smoothing kernel for the extended object spectrum - is required in comparison .",
    "direct psf fitting has also been applied to the separation of point and extended sources from the spatial component of long - slit spectra .",
    "@xcite presented a method based on the optimal extraction technique to extract spatially blended spectra , but prior subtraction of the extended sources is assumed and not explicitly treated .",
    "the maximum entropy method has been used by @xcite in application to overlapping spectra but here separate @xmath78 minimization cycles are required for the spectra of the point sources , the position of the point sources and the determination of the ssf . again",
    "spatially varying extended sources are not covered by the extraction technique .",
    "the two r - l based methods presented here treat the extended source explicitly as part of the restoration process and thus offer a wider range of astrophysical applicability .",
    "both these techniques are based on a well - known image restoration technique .    for _ unblended",
    "_ spectra of point sources , results obtained with the techniques described here can be compared with those for the optimal extraction method of @xcite .",
    "as expected - see sect .",
    "3.4e , the results are then similar , in particular with regard to achieved signal - to noise .",
    "the homogeneous and inhomogeneous background extraction codes are included in the stecf iraf layered package ` specres ' to extract spectra from longslit or 2-d spectra with an a priori ssf .",
    "the input data are the 2d spectrum and the ssf and a table listing the positions of the point sources .",
    "the output products are the extracted spectra of the point sources and the restored background image , either with or without the point sources included .",
    "a task is also provided in the package to produce an ssf image from sets of ( 2-d spatial ) psf s at different wavelengths , simulating the spatial profile produced by placing a long - slit over a point source .",
    "further information and help pages for the routines are available at : http://www.stecf.org/  jwalsh / specres/ the algorithms have been made flexible , can deal with slightly tilted spectra , spatially subsampled ssf s , and allow the position of point sources to be refined by cross - correlation .",
    "a separate table file is output for each extracted point source .",
    "data quality of the input 2d spectrum is considered in order to neglect bad pixels and , if statistical errors are available , then multiple trials can be performed to determine the error estimates on the restored spectra .",
    "two iterative techniques , based on the richardson - lucy algorithm , have been presented for decomposing a long - slit spectrum into its constituent parts , namely into the spectra of the point sources and the spectrum of the background .",
    "these techniques are applicable to complex fields where standard extraction routines fail or perform poorly .",
    "a variety of tests , with real and simulated data , confirm the ability of these techniques to provide effective reductions for complex fields .",
    "we would like to thank richard hook for allowing us to use his iraf ` cplucy ' code as a basis for the lucy - hook algorithms described here and for generous advice on implementation of restoration methods .",
    "we also thank ian howarth and bruno leibundgut for providing their ground based spectra for testing the techniques .",
    "courbin , f. , magain , p. , kirkove , m. , sohy , s. 2000 , , 529 , 1136 frieden , b. r. , wells , d. c. 1978 , j. opt .",
    ", 68 , 93 hook , r.n . ,",
    "lucy . l.b . ,",
    "stockton , a. , ridgway , s. 1994 , st - ecf newsletter 21 , 16 hook , r.n .",
    "l.b . , 1994 , in proc .",
    "the restoration of hst images and spectra , ( eds .",
    "hanisch & r.l .",
    "white ) , stsci , 86 horne , k. 1986 , , 98 , 609 hynes , r. i. , 2002 , , 382 , 752 khmil , s. v. , surdej , j. , 2002 , , 387 , 347 hutchings , j. b. , crenshaw , d. m. , danks , a. c. , gull , t. r. , kraemer , s. b. , nelson , c. h. , weistrop , d. , kaiser , m. e. , joseph , c. l. , 1998 , , 118 , 2101 krist , j. , 1995 , in astronomical data analysis software and systems iv , asp conference series , vol .",
    "shaw , r. a. , payne , h. e. , hayes , j. j. e. , p. 349",
    "lucy , l. b. 1974 , , 79 , 745 lucy , l. b. 1992 , , 104 , 1260 lucy , l.b . 1994 , in proc .",
    "the restoration of hst images and spectra , ( eds .",
    "hanisch & r.l .",
    "white ) , stsci , 79 magain , p. , courbin , f. , sohy , s. , 1998 , , 494 , 472 moller , p. , 2000 .",
    "eso messenger , no .",
    "99 , 26 robertson , j. g. 1986 , , 98 , 122 richardson , w. h. 1972 , jou . opt .",
    ", 62 , 55 titterington , d. m. 1985 , a&a , 144,381 walsh , j. r. 1997 , in the 1997 hst calibration workshop ( eds .",
    "s. casertano , r. jedrzejewski , t. keyes , m. stevens ) , 156 walsh , j. r. 2001 , st - ecf newsletter , no ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> two iterative techniques are described for decomposing a long - slit spectrum into the individual spectra of the point sources along the slit and the spectrum of the underlying background . </S>",
    "<S> one technique imposes the strong constraint that the spectrum of the background is spatially - invariant ; the other relaxes this constraint . </S>",
    "<S> both techniques are applicable even when there are numerous overlapping point sources superposed on a structurally - complex background . </S>",
    "<S> the techniques are tested on simulated as well as real long - slit data from the ground and from space . </S>",
    "<S> + key words : instrumentation : spectrographs  methods : data analysis  techniques : spectroscopic </S>"
  ]
}