{
  "article_text": [
    "spatially - resolved measurements of the cluster gas temperature are necessary for such an extensive and important problem as determining cluster masses ( e.g. , fabricant et al .  1984 ;",
    "white et al .",
    "1993 ) . beyond that",
    ", the cluster temperature structure can provide information on the dynamical history of these systems .",
    "rich and massive clusters should be just forming now in the hierarchical clustering scenarios with a high matter density parameter @xmath3 ( e.g. , blumenthal et al .",
    "1984 ) . on the other hand , in an open universe most present - day clusters should be old , because their formation is inhibited after @xmath4 , @xmath5 denoting the present epoch ( white & rees 1978 ) .",
    "hydrodynamic simulations of cluster growth ( e.g. , navarro et al .  1995 ;",
    "evrard et al .",
    "1996 , hereafter emn ) predict a largely constant temperature profile in the inner part and its decline in the outer regions for the relaxed clusters , with a steeper decline in the open universe models .",
    "young clusters which have recently undergone a merger should retain a complex temperature structure ( e.g. , schindler &  1993 ) . however , while there is a wealth of cluster simulations in various cosmological scenarios , until recently , direct spatially - resolved temperature measurements have been possible with only a limited accuracy , especially for the hotter , more massive systems ( e.g. , hughes 1991 ; eyles et al .",
    "1991 ; miyaji et al .  1993 ; briel & henry 1994 , hereafter bh ; henry & briel 1995 ) .  with its broad energy coverage combined with imaging capability ( tanaka et al .",
    "1994 ) is set to significantly improve the situation .",
    "some results have already appeared ( e.g. , arnaud et al .  1994 ; markevitch et al .",
    "1994 , 1996 , hereafter m94 and m96 ; ikebe et al .",
    "1996 ) .    in this _",
    ", we use  data to derive temperature maps of nearby a2256 ( @xmath6 ) , a2319 ( @xmath7 ) , and distant a2163 ( @xmath8 ) and a665 ( @xmath9 ) .",
    "all four are hot , lack cooling flows and are probably not fully relaxed , which is suggested by either the substructure in their x - ray images or by galaxy velocities ( e.g. , briel et al .",
    "1991 ; elbaz et al .",
    "1995 ) . for a2256 ,",
    "a temperature map was earlier presented by bh who used  pspc , and our results are compared with theirs .",
    "results on the temperature structure near the center of a2163 were reported in m94 . in m96 , a steep radial temperature decrease was found in this cluster .",
    "interestingly , a recent measurement of the sunyaev - zeldovich effect toward a2163 by holzapfel et al .",
    "( 1996 ) independently suggests a similar decrease , although with marginal significance .",
    "below , a less model - dependent , two - dimensional approach to the  data is employed to confirm the result of m96 and find similar phenomena in other three clusters .",
    "for a2256 , data from the two pointings were used which total 63  ks of useful time .",
    "the pointings are offset by 6  from one another , have the `` roll angles '' between the cluster and mirror axes which differ by about 100 , and are carried out with different gis onboard background rejection modes ( high background during the early 28 ks and normal background during the subsequent observation . ) all of this facilitated useful internal consistency checks of the results .",
    "a2319 has two pointings of 28  ks in total with a relative offset of 12 . for these two bigger clusters not entirely covered by the sis",
    ", only the gis data were used for computational simplicity .",
    "both sis and gis were used for a2163 , which has a single 27  ks pointing .",
    "a665 was observed in one pointing for 33  ks .",
    "the detector plus sky background was modeled using the blank field observations normalized according to their exposures . a @xmath10 relative error of 20%",
    "was assigned to these normalizations ( 5% for the a2163 gis data , see m96 ) .",
    "a problem was encountered while modeling the sis background for a665 , for which the normalization calculated this way was obviously too high .",
    "we chose to use only the gis data for this cluster .    to reconstruct the cluster temperature maps , the scheme described in m96",
    "was used , which consists of simultaneous fitting of the spectra from all chosen image regions , all detectors and all pointings , taking into account the psf scattering .",
    "the projected temperature was assumed constant within each region of interest .",
    "the iron abundance and @xmath11 were fixed at the same values for all regions . to minimize @xmath12 as a function of many free parameters and avoid false minima , the annealing method from press et al.(1992 )",
    "the image regions we use are all larger than 56across , which is sufficiently large compared to the @xmath13 half - power diameter of the  psf .",
    "the psf was modeled by interpolation between the gis images of cyg x-1 ( takahashi et al .",
    "only  data above 2.5  kev were used due to the uncertainty of our psf model below that energy .",
    "relative psf uncertainty of 15% ( @xmath10 ) was included in the confidence intervals calculation .",
    "for the purpose of this work ,  pspc images were used to model the cluster projected emission measure .",
    "they were corrected for the gas non - isothermality in each iteration by dividing the brightness by the plasma emissivity in the pspc band for a given temperature ( which does nt significantly change the results ; m96 ) .",
    "the images were obtained using the snowden et al .",
    "( 1994 ) procedure .",
    "statistical and background errors were included into the confidence intervals of our temperature values . to correct for inaccuracy of the attitude solution ,  and  images",
    "were aligned by eye after convolving the former with the  response .",
    "uncertainty of this operation ( about @xmath14 at 90% ) was included in the confidence intervals for the two big clusters .",
    "given the relative complexity of the method , it is useful to present some consistency checks which were performed .",
    "our results may be affected by the following :    _ errors in the code .",
    "_ currently there are at least three other independent techniques for the  cluster analysis , which give results consistent with this method .",
    "an isothermal cluster was simulated by ikebe ( 1996 ) and it was possible to extract its input temperatures with the code used here .",
    "r.  mushotzky communicated that the temperature profile of a2163 derived using the code of k.  arnaud is similar to that in m96 . using another independent technique , churazov et al .",
    "( 1996 ) derived temperatures for a2256 and a2319 similar to those presented here .",
    "_ use of rosat brightness map .",
    "_ an incorrect emission measure model may result in distorted temperatures .",
    "for a2163 , the temperatures and a @xmath15-model density profile were fitted together using  only , and the obtained density profile was in agreement with a better - constrained  profile ( m96 ) . for the remaining three clusters ,",
    "an analogous test was performed , in which relative normalizations between the model annuli , set by the  image , were freed and fitted together with the temperatures .",
    "their resulting values were consistent with 1 , as is expected if the  emission measure model is adequate .",
    "cooling flows would require a different approach , which is the reason of our choice of non - cooling flow clusters for the present work .",
    "_ psf and effective area miscalibration .",
    "_ all analysis methods are currently using essentially the same psf model .",
    "this model has been tested by comparison with the point sources at different focal plane positions ( takahashi et al .",
    "1995 ; ueda 1996 ) and found adequate to the accuracy level which is used here .",
    "ikebe ( 1996 ) checked the effective area calibration and found that it is adequate after certain correction .",
    "we also note that there are no bright sources in the vicinity of these clusters that may produce any significant stray light contamination . for the bigger clusters a2256 and a2319 , the psf - scattered contribution to the flux of a particular image region , was less than a half for most of the regions , thus a psf error does not propagate strongly to the measured temperatures .",
    "however , images of these clusters span the whole gis field of view and the effective area miscalibrations may in principle affect the results , especially for the hotter a2319 .",
    "different pointings to these clusters help reduce the chances of both errors . for the two smaller clusters ,",
    "the psf - scattered contributions were about 2/3 of the outer flux and even greater for some of the a665 regions , making the results for these clusters dependent on the reliability of the psf model .",
    "it is not inconceivable that other  instrumental effects exist that are not understood at the moment , so the best check of the results would be that by another telescope .",
    "pspc results for a2256 and a665 are included below for this purpose .",
    "more on this comparison is presented in markevitch & vikhlinin ( 1996 , hereafter mv ) .",
    "for a2256 , we obtained average values over the inner @xmath16 of @xmath17  kev and an iron abundance relative to allen ( 1973 ) of @xmath18 , in agreement with  ( hatsukade 1989 ) .",
    "for a2319 , our average @xmath19  kev is in agreement with  mpc ( david et al.1993 ) , and our abundance is @xmath20 . for a665 , an average temperature of @xmath21  kev was found in the inner @xmath22 , in agreement with  ( hughes & tanaka 1992 ) .",
    "results for the whole of a2163 were reported in m94 . for all clusters , the average spectra can be acceptably fit with a single - temperature model . however , spatially resolved fits reveal significant deviations from isothermality for all four clusters .",
    "their two - dimensional temperature maps overlaid on the  brightness contours are presented in fig .  1 ( plate 1 ) , and fig .",
    "2 shows projected temperatures averaged over the concentric annuli ( the a2163 profile is presented in m96 ) .",
    "the best - fit @xmath12 values for the maps in fig .  1 are 301/40817 d.o.f . , 220/26614 d.o.f . , 55/10010 d.o.f .  and 39/607 d.o.f .  for a2256 , a2319 , a2163 and a665 , respectively , suggesting that our conservative compound errors are , if anything , slightly overestimated . when fit separately , different pointings to a2256 and a2319 give consistent results , with best - fit values within the 90% intervals for simultaneous fit in all but a couple of regions , which is even fewer than expected from statistical scatter .",
    "cooler spots are observed near the centers of these two clusters , coincident with the substructures in their x - ray images . in a2256 ,",
    "the approximate subgroup region has best - fit @xmath23  kev , compared to an average of 8.7  kev for the immediate surrounding .",
    "it is higher than the  value of @xmath24  kev ( j. p. henry , personal comm . ) and than the  value ( miyaji et al .",
    "because the subgroup is projected on the hotter main cluster , one expects that the  value would be higher . in a2319 ,",
    "the subgroup region has best - fit @xmath25  kev , compared to an average of 10  kev at that radius .",
    "otherwise , the central @xmath26  mpc regions of these two clusters are roughly isothermal at the present accuracy ( the center of a2256 appears hotter than the second ring , but only with a marginal significance ) .",
    "we could not confirm existence of the two hot spots in a2256 reported in bh and ascribed to the effect of a merger .",
    "the temperatures in our approximately correspondent regions 6 and 9 are consistent with the average temperature at this radius within the much smaller errors ( fig .",
    "a reanalysis by mv of the  pointings using a scheme less sensitive to calibration uncertainties , has shown that those hot spots are probably artifacts .    beyond @xmath26  mpc , the temperature in both clusters is found to decline with radius , with no significant deviations from symmetry .",
    "the  a2256 temperature profile is in good agreement with that from obtained by mv ( fig .",
    "2_a _ ) , while having a much better accuracy .",
    "the  measurement of miyaji et al .  for @xmath27",
    "is in agreement as well .",
    "bh derived a different  temperature profile ( although insignificantly so ) , which is addressed by mv . using bh and jones & forman ( 1984 ) fits of the density profiles ,",
    "the temperatures correspond to a polytropic index of @xmath28 ( 1.41.7 90% interval ) and @xmath29 ( 1.081.40 ) for outer a2256 and a2319 , respectively . for a2319 ,",
    "a tentative temperature estimate is also obtained for @xmath30  mpc , suggesting that the profile steepens with radius .",
    "the temperature profiles in these clusters are to some extent similar to that of coma ( hughes 1991 ) .      for a2163 and a665 ,",
    "greater off - center distances are within the  field of view .",
    "a2163 was reported earlier ( m96 ) to have a largely isothermal inner @xmath31  mpc profile at around 11  kev , and beyond this , a sharp drop of the temperature down to 4  kev at @xmath32  mpc . an azimuthally - resolved measurement ( fig .",
    "1_c _ ) shows the temperature dropping in all four directions off the cluster center , although the individual constraints are poor .",
    "averaged over the central @xmath31  mpc ( @xmath33 ) region , a665 has a temperature of @xmath34  kev",
    ". the temperature drops to @xmath35  kev on average in the 612  annulus ( because of our restricted energy band , only the upper bound and not the best - fits value is meaningful . )",
    "it decreases in all four off - center directions as well ( fig .",
    "region 6 has a point source with an apparently non - thermal spectrum .",
    "it was fitted simultaneously with other spectra although its influence on the other regions was small .",
    "since the outer cluster temperature appears to be within the  energy band , we have undertaken to analyze the archival 40  ks pspc observation of a665 to confirm the  result .",
    "the pspc and gis temperatures obtained in two concentric annuli are shown in fig .",
    "2_c_. the two instruments are in good agreement , and a temperature drop is suggested by the pspc data as well , although marginally significantly . the absorption column was kept fixed at its galactic value in the  fit since varying it was not required by the @xmath36-test , while freeing it makes the best - fit outer temperature still lower .",
    "the observed temperature decline in the outer part of a2163 corresponds to a polytropic index of @xmath37 ( @xmath38 at 90% confidence ) , while for a665 , @xmath39 ( @xmath40 ) , adopting the density profiles from elbaz et al .",
    "( 1995 ) and the  image , respectively .",
    "although a2256 and a2319 clearly exhibit substructure in their  x - ray images , no large - scale merger signatures , such as those predicted by hydrodynamic simulations ( e.g. , schindler & 1993 ; emn ) , are seen in the temperature maps of their central parts .",
    "this may indicate that the current mergers have not proceeded far enough to disturb the bulk of gas .",
    "for example , roettiger et al .  (",
    "1995 ) specifically simulated a2256 and found that the cluster image , galactic velocities and absence of the cluster - scale temperature variations are consistent with an epoch of about 0.2  gyr before core passage of an infalling subunit",
    ". the observed relative symmetry of the temperatures in a2256 and probably a2319 suggests that their outer parts have been undisturbed by major mergers for the past few gyr , making these clusters good candidates for an accurate mass measurement , which will be made in a future paper .",
    "apart from the subgroups , the temperature profiles of these two clusters are qualitatively similar to those predicted by the simulations of navarro et al .  and emn for clusters in equilibrium .",
    "interestingly , the observed temperature decline starts at smaller radii than emn predict for the flat universe models without galactic winds , and is closer to their open universe model , in which clusters are expected to have steeper density and temperature profiles ( hoffman & shaham 1985 ; crone et al .",
    "1994 ; jing et al .",
    "however , the published simulations including gas are limited to the cdm initial perturbations spectrum , and our sample is limited to just a couple of rather specific clusters ( e.g. , lacking cooling flows unlike most of the clusters ) .",
    "a study of several other clusters is underway with , which will show how common this phenomenon is .",
    "the temperature falls even steeper in a2163 and perhaps in a665 .",
    "however , as was noted in m96 , the low outer values may in fact not be representative of the mean gas temperature at those radii .",
    "for example , the measured electron temperature may be lower than that of ions heated by shock waves , because the timescale of electron - ion equipartition via collisions becomes non - negligible at such low plasma densities .",
    "other possibilities involve cold gas clumps or point sources which can not be localized by either or  but significantly contribute to the flux .",
    "on the other hand , if the outer gas temperatures are indeed as low as measured , the observed steep profiles would have interesting implications for the physical conditions of the gas ( although it may be premature to speculate using such poor data constraints . )",
    "firstly , the outer cluster parts with a steeper than adiabatic temperature decline should be convectively unstable , and convection should develop on a timescale of the order of the free - fall time ( a few gyr ) and erase the gradient .",
    "thus , existence of a steep gradient implies that the cluster can not have remained in its present state for a longer time than this .",
    "another interesting problem is how such a temperature distribution may have emerged .",
    "early simulations of infall of the cold gas into the cluster and its heating via the release of its potential energy ( e.g. , bertschinger 1985 ) predict that such a process should form shallower temperature distributions .",
    "a steeper slope may therefore indicate that the gas in the central part has accumulated additional energy from another source .",
    "hydrodynamic merger simulations predict ( pearce et al .",
    "1994 ) that during a merger , energy is transferred from the dark matter to the gas , increasing its entropy in the center .",
    "thus the observed profiles may independently indicate that these clusters have experienced major mergers .",
    "there is some evidence of the asymmetric temperature variations in the central part of a2163 ( m94 ) and recent weak lensing analysis reveals two mass peaks near its center ( squires et al .",
    "a665 has a markedly asymmetric x - ray image which may remain from a merger .",
    "schindler &  ( 1993 ) predict that a merger shock wave would manifest itself at certain stages as a sharp projected temperature gradient in the cluster outer part , not accompanied by a similarly noticeable feature in the wide - band surface brightness , which is what we may be observing in the two more distant clusters .",
    "the author thanks  team for continuous support .",
    "he is grateful to c. l. sarazin , a. c. fabian , r. f. mushotzky and the referees for useful discussions , and to a. vikhlinin for help with the  data analysis .",
    "he thanks isas , where most of this work was done , for its hospitality and support .",
    "further support was provided by the smithsonian institution , and by nasa grants nag5 - 2526 and nag5 - 1891 .                                                                                to fig .",
    "2.projected temperatures of a2256 , a2319 and a665 in concentric annuli . errors",
    "panels _ ( a ) _ and _ ( c ) _ also show  pspc results from mv and this work , respectively .",
    "parts of the cluster affected by cooler structures in a2256 ( regions 4 , 9 and 10 in fig .",
    "1_a _ ) and a2319 ( region 2 ) are excluded and for a2319 shown separately .",
    "the outer measurement in a2319 , shown by dashed cross , is less reliable because in different pointings this annulus is always close to the edge of the fov and covers non - overlapping parts of the cluster .",
    "1.  temperature maps ( color ) of a2256 , a2319 , a2163 and a665 , overlaid on the  pspc brightness contours .",
    "regions in which the temperature is measured are sectors of the concentric annuli . for a2256 ,",
    "the regions are centered on the main subcluster peak , and for other clusters , on the brightness peak .",
    "the regions are numbered in the maps and their temperatures are shown in the accompanying panels with 90% errors . dotted horizontal lines in those panels",
    "correspond to the average temperature within the annulus .",
    "regions 1 and 14 of a2319 and region 1 of a2163 and a665 are whole rings .",
    "the outer region of a2319 is not fully covered by the two pointings .",
    "the linear scale shown is for @xmath41 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> data are used to obtain two - dimensional gas temperature maps of the hot non - cooling flow clusters a2256 , a2319 , a2163 and a665 . in all four clusters , the temperature decreases significantly at off - center distances of @xmath0  mpc ( @xmath1 ) . </S>",
    "<S> central regions of the two nearer clusters a2256 and a2319 are resolved by  and appear largely isothermal except for the cooler spots coincident with the subunits in their x - ray surface brightness . </S>",
    "<S> although the existence of this substructure may suggest ongoing merger activity , no asymmetric features in the temperature distribution resembling those in the hydrodynamic merger simulations ( e.g. , schindler &  1993 ) are apparent . in the outer parts of the clusters , the temperature declines symmetrically with radius . in a2256 and a2319 </S>",
    "<S> , it follows a polytropic slope with @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> this is somewhat steeper than the simulations predict for a flat cdm universe and is closer to the open universe predictions ( evrard et al .  </S>",
    "<S> 1996 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the temperature drop is more prominent in the outer regions of a2163 and a665 and appears even steeper than adiabatic ( although not inconsistent with it ) . </S>",
    "<S> if the gas in the outskirts of these two clusters is indeed as cool as we measure , the cluster atmospheres should be convectively unstable and transient . </S>",
    "<S> also , such a steep temperature profile could not possibly emerge if the gas was heated only via the release of its own gravitational energy during infall . </S>",
    "<S> this may indicate the presence of an additional heat source in the inner cluster , such as merger shocks transferring energy from the dark matter to the gas . </S>",
    "<S> the results suggest that a2256 and a2319 are pre - merger systems and a2163 and a665 are ongoing or post - mergers .    </S>",
    "<S> accepted for _ the apj letters _ </S>"
  ]
}