{
  "article_text": [
    "the advantages of using astronomy in the classroom are multiples :    * the universe and its objects have to be learned in most of the curricula , either as part of physics courses , or on its own .",
    "* astronomy may provide a good application of many of the concepts developed in physics and mathematics curricula .",
    "* astronomy is at the intersection of many areas of the knowledge , either in fundamental and applied sciences .",
    "it is a good illustration of the usefulness of an interdisciplinary approach . *",
    "it is also a good illustration of the emergence of science over the past centuries , and of the idea ( still developing ) of the place of mankind in the universe . * many of the astronomical concepts",
    "have been developed in various historical areas ( mesopotamia , egypt , ancient greece , arabic countries , occidental world ... ) .",
    "the goal of the hands - on universe ( hou ) program is to promote the use of astronomy within the high and middle schools and to enable students to use data or to request there own observations from professional or dedicated observatories .",
    "hou has been historically developed at the university of california berkeley , as a curriculum program . in this framework ,",
    "a dedicated software to analyse astronomical images has been written .",
    "now , hou has been extended to more than nine countries over four continents , and promotes the use of a global network of telescopes .    in this paper",
    "we present the main features of the hou program , and its global approach .",
    "as explained above , beside astronomy one of the main goals of hou is to use the concepts and data acquired in astronomy to introduce the scientific notions in physics and mathematics , for high - school students . as an illustration",
    "the following concepts may be introduced using astronomical data :    * in physics , the notion of speed of light may be illustrated by reproducing the romer s experience . * in mathematics , notions such coordinates , maps and transformations may be illustrated using celestial reference systems .",
    "astronomical observation brings these transformations from abstract to real life . * in image and signal processing , concepts like contrast may be approached when pupils work with actual images . *",
    "an astronomical observatory has many complex instruments , and if automated , it is a good illustration of automation for a technology course ( e.g. housekeeping ) .",
    "* of course , an actual exploration of solar system bodies brings `` life '' to an introduction to astronomy .",
    "though hou has for main goal the teaching at the high and middle school level , many demonstrations have been performed for the general audience , e.g. at the open days of the university of berkeley , at the science museum of tokyo , at the sitef technological exhibition in toulouse , and at the villette science museum in paris .",
    "a specific computer program has been developed which provides access in a simplified form to most of the functions available in astronomical data processing software .",
    "it has been written for pc and macintosh type computers , and give a clear interface for pupils .",
    "the data processing functions include various color tables , computation of sky level , aperture photometry , slice extraction , histogram and axes plotting ... several of these features are illustrated in figure 1 on an image of m 33 taken by the tarot telescope ( bor et al .",
    "2000 ; bor et al .",
    "global hou ( g - hou ) is an open network of teachers , high - schools , epo and research institutions , whose goal is the use of astronomy in the various curricula .",
    "several resources are shared , like exercises , images , telescope time .",
    "several telescopes are giving time to the g - hou network , e.g. the tarot instrument in france , the keio observatory in japan , the katzman observatory in the usa , etc .",
    "some of them are professional research instruments , while several others have been developed first for educational purpose .",
    "most of these telescopes have capabilities to be remotely operated .",
    "this global network is widely spread in longitude ( and also in latitude ) and has for advantage that pupils may access telescopes during normal classroom hours , while there is the night at the telescope site .",
    "several successful experiences have been made , e.g. during the open days of the university of berkeley , the sitef exhibition in france , or within the framework of the astronomy class of the tokyo science museum .",
    "they all bring the powerful ( and somewhat magic ) possibility to see the night sky of other countries .",
    "this feature , together with the use of archival , or pre - requested data , open the possibility for students to perform their own scientific program . as an example , for a study of the colors of stars , a sequence of multi - color observations may be requested and the hr diagram built directly from the data by the pupils .",
    "another striking example is the discovery of a kuiper belt asteroid by the astronomy class of mount northfield college ( ) ) .",
    "this discovery has been confirmed by another high - school class , showing the level of cooperation reached within the g - hou program .",
    "more generally speaking , g - hou is a mean for children from various countries and languages to exchange and collaborate .",
    "there is however some difficulties in the fact that the educational programs may be quite different between various countries .",
    "for instance , there is no dedicated `` astronomy '' course in france ( and in most countries ) , while this happen quite often in the usa .",
    "this means that astronomy has to be used as a tool to introduce other concepts in physical sciences or mathematics , e. g. distance , color and temperature ... the use of astronomy , with `` real data '' at hand has proven to be very effective to stimulate the pupil interest in science courses , including in un - favorised areas .",
    "we presented the hands - on universe program , whose home page is .",
    "one of the most interesting feature of this program is the use of actual , as well as archived , data within the classroom and the ability for students from various countries to build their own research program and to work with `` their '' data .",
    "several exercises have been designed by the teachers participating to the program , most of them aimed at introducing the notions and concepts used in physical sciences , technology and mathematics courses .",
    "last but not least , through the use of telescopes located in many countries over the globe , a form of powerful and genuine cooperation between teacher and children from various countries is promoted , with a clear educational goal ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> hands - on universe ( hou ) is an educational program that enables students to investigate the universe while applying tools and concepts from science , math , and technology . using the internet , hou participants around the world request observations from an automated telescope , download images from a large image archive , and </S>",
    "<S> analyze them with the aid of user - friendly image processing software . </S>",
    "<S> this program is developing now in many countries , including the usa , france , germany , sweden , japan , australia , and others . </S>",
    "<S> a network of telescopes has been established among these countries , many of them remotely operated , as shown in the accompanying demo . using this feature , students in the classroom are able to make night observations during the day , using a telescope placed in another country . </S>",
    "<S> an archive of images taken on large telescopes is also accessible , as well as resources for teachers . </S>",
    "<S> students are also dealing with real research projects , e.g. the search for asteroids , which resulted in the discovery of a kuiper belt object by high - school students . </S>",
    "<S> not only hands - on universe gives the general public an access to professional astronomy , but it is also a more general tool to demonstrate the use of a complex automated system , the techniques of data processing and automation . </S>",
    "<S> last but not least , through the use of telescopes located in many countries over the globe , a form of powerful and genuine cooperation between teachers and children from various countries is promoted , with a clear educational goal . </S>"
  ]
}