{
  "article_text": [
    "the nature of brightest cluster galaxies ( bcgs ) has long been a subject of interest and much debate @xcite . in particular , investigators have asked whether their origin is statistical or special in nature , that is , whether they follow a special distribution independent of the fainter galaxies in the cluster , or on the contrary , they are merely the extreme values of the same global distribution derived for all cluster galaxies .    on the theoretical side , there has been renewed interest in this subject with recent studies of the relation between galaxies and their dark matter haloes from a theoretical , statistical point of view , involving the study of the distribution of the galaxy population through different haloes while bypassing the complications of the physics of galaxy formation ( e.g. , @xcite ) . since these involve populating dark matter haloes with galaxies , they usually lead to a distinction between central and satellite galaxies .",
    "this in turn has lead to , in many of these works , central galaxies being treated separately from the rest , and therefore having a distinct distribution , with consequences visible , for example , in the luminosity function",
    ". some of these studies have in fact looked at some specific bcg - related properties of clusters , like the magnitude gap ( e.g. , @xcite ) .    in the past",
    ", observational studies which have focused on this issue @xcite have been hindered by the limited numbers of high luminosity galaxy observations available , since the strongly declining nature of the bright end of the luminosity function requires having very large samples to obtain significant numbers of high luminosity galaxies . due to this , these studies were mostly inconclusive when it came to answer the question of whether bcgs were statistical or special in nature , although many works hinted at the latter .",
    "more recently , the advent of large scale surveys such as the 2df galaxy redshift survey or the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) , has motivated plentiful , ongoing work on this subject ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "this issue is in large part motivated by the fact that , observationally , bcgs do look different from other galaxies .",
    "they usually sit at the centre of the cluster , and tend to be considerably brighter than the remaining cluster members .",
    "the most striking case is cd galaxies , found in the centre of rich clusters and which dominate their satellites in both size and brightness , while having a characteristically distinct morphology and surface brightness distribution ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "likewise , cd galaxies tend to be brighter than what would be expected from the bright end of the cluster galaxy luminosity function .",
    "in fact , it has been observed that , when analyzing composite luminosity functions of cluster galaxies , the most luminous of them form a hump at the bright end ( e.g. , @xcite ) . yet , at the same time , there is little variation in magnitude among them @xcite .",
    "this ties in with the fact that the luminosity of bcgs is expected to vary only slowly with increasing cluster luminosity ( @xcite ; see also the results for the mass luminosity relation of central galaxies in @xcite ) .    in order to try to answer this problem from available observational data ,",
    "two different indicators have been considered .",
    "one is the shape of the overall distribution of the magnitude of bcgs .",
    "if bcgs are merely the extreme cases of a general distribution applicable to all cluster galaxies , then it is expected that results from extreme value theory in statistics apply , predicting a resulting distribution shaped like the gumbel distribution @xcite . on the other hand ,",
    "if bcgs are considered a special , distinct type of galaxy , then some particular distribution is to be expected , such as a gaussian @xcite or lognormal .",
    "some studies have also raised the possibility that it could be actually a combination of the two , probably depending on the type of cluster @xcite .",
    "the other property studied is the ratio @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the average magnitude difference between the first and second brightest galaxies , and @xmath7 the dispersion in the magnitude of the first brightest galaxy .",
    "it is possible to prove the powerful conclusion @xcite that , if all galaxies are drawn from the same statistical distribution , regardless of its exact form , then @xmath8 .",
    "observational results give a value for @xmath9 around 1.5 ( e.g. , @xcite ) , which would exclude this possibility .",
    "this has led to the study of possible alternative scenarios for the formation of bcgs , in order to account for their special nature .",
    "one such is galactic cannibalism , initially proposed by ostriker and collaborators @xcite .",
    "such a scenario is akin to taking the above case of having all galaxies drawn from the same distribution , but then merging the brightest of them with one or more of the others . from this simplistic model of the process",
    ", it is easy to see that this mechanism would help to solve the above problem , mostly by increasing the value of @xmath6 as the luminosity of the first brightest galaxy is driven up by the mergers and the brightness of the surviving second brightest galaxy declines as luminous galaxies are merged out of existence .    in the present paper",
    ", we explore this issue in light of the non - parametric model for the mass luminosity relation presented in @xcite ( hereafter paper i ; see also @xcite ) . the basic idea behind the non - parametric model is to adopt the simple proposition that more luminous galaxies are hosted in more massive haloes / subhaloes .",
    "no attempt at physical modelling is made and the association is made simply by matching one - to - one the rank ordered observational list of galaxies with the rank ordered computed list of haloes / subhaloes .",
    "we here extend this model by introducing scatter into it , and also by considering possible effects on the total disruption of some subhaloes into the total luminosity related to the halo .    as is the case in hod models ( e.g. , @xcite )",
    ", this model naturally gives rise to a separation between central and satellite galaxies , by associating the former with the parent halo itself and the latter with the subhaloes associated with it .",
    "we analyze this issue in more detail , studying how it affects the cluster galaxy luminosity function and gives rise to a bright end bump caused by the central galaxies .",
    "we then develop a model for the bcg luminosity distribution . since the halo in fact arises from the union of subhaloes",
    "this non - parametric model is a statistically well defined variant of the cannibalism scenario .",
    "this paper is organised as follows : in section 2 , we give a brief summary of the non - parametric model relating galaxy luminosity with halo / subhalo mass presented in paper i , and introduce a simple recipe for checking the contribution of destroyed subhaloes to the halo mass , and how this changes our estimate of the total luminosity . in section 3 , we introduce scatter into the non - parametric model by building a conditional luminosity function , where we consider two possibilities for it , either a simple lognormal shape or a better motivated approach involving the distribution of concentration for haloes of a given mass . in section 4 ,",
    "we explore more indepth how the model gives rise to a central / satellite galaxy separation , and show how this impacts the cluster galaxy luminosity function . in section 5 ,",
    "we build up a model for the distribution of cluster galaxies , based on the mass - luminosity relation and the halo / subhaloes separation which underpins it . in section 6 ,",
    "we present simple models to account for another two possible origins for the bcg distribution : first , we consider that all cluster galaxies are drawn from the same distribution ; then we take a simple model for cannibalism , by merging two of the galaxies ( the brightest plus one other ) in the first example .",
    "finally , in section 7 we present the results of all models for the average magnitude of first and second brightest galaxies as well the dispersion of the former as a function of cluster luminosity .",
    "we then compare these results with observations .    throughout",
    "we have used a concordance cosmological model , with @xmath10 , @xmath11 , @xmath12 and @xmath13 @xcite .",
    "the work presented below is based on the non - parametric model for relating galaxy luminosity with halo / subhalo mass presented in paper i. the basic idea is that more massive haloes / subhaloes have deeper potential wells and will thus accrete more gas and subsequently will have more luminous galaxies forming within them . in effect , we take the relation between galaxy luminosity and halo / subhalo mass to be one to one and monotonic . an additional extra ingredient is necessary to maintain this approximation in the framework of the model , since subhaloes lose mass to the parent halo after accretion due to tidal interactions .",
    "alternatively put , a halo is not simply the sum of the identifiable subhaloes within it due to tidal stripping .",
    "therefore , we need to account for the mass of the subhaloes not at present , but that which they had at the time of their merger into the parent .",
    "the relation between mass and luminosity is then obtained statistically by matching the numbers of galaxies with the total number of hosts , that is , haloes plus subhaloes through their distributions .",
    "the halo abundance is given by the usual sheth - tormen mass function @xcite :    @xmath14    with @xmath15 , @xmath16 , @xmath17 and @xmath18 ; as usual , @xmath19 is the variance on the mass scale @xmath20 , @xmath21 is the growth factor , and @xmath22 is the linear threshold for spherical collapse , which in the case of a flat universe is @xmath23 , with a small correction dependent on @xmath24 ( @xmath25 for @xmath10 ) .    following the discussion in paper i , we will assume a very simple model for the subhalo mass distribution within the parent . in terms of their original , pre - accretion mass , we assume that the subhalo distribution is given by a simple schechter function :    @xmath26    where the cutoff parameter @xmath27 serves to insure that no subhalo was larger than half the present mass of the parent ( otherwise it would , by definition , be the parent ) . the slope @xmath28 is set to the same value as is generally found for the present day subhalo mass function in simulations ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "the normalization @xmath29 $ ] is set so that the total mass originally in subhaloes corresponds to the present day mass ( where the integration is done to an upper limit of @xmath30 ) .",
    "this approximation potentially ignores the problem of total disruption of some of the merged subhaloes , as can occur for example in the case of major mergers , by assuming that all of these subhaloes are still present and that therefore the total fraction of mass originally in subhaloes is one . in @xcite , we showed that as long as this fraction is close to one , then the resulting mass luminosity relation is similar , with both number of satellites in a halo and their total luminosity decreasing slightly . from the study of simulation results it is still not completely clear how to treat this complex issue , and no simple analytical models are available , so we explore a simple recipe to better account for this problem in the context of our model in section [ sect : destroyedsh ] .",
    "the galaxy distribution is given by the luminosity function .",
    "this is given by the usual schechter function fit :    @xmath31    the values of the parameters will depend on the waveband used . in this paper , we use mostly the k - band luminosity function from the 2mass survey , with parameters given by @xmath32 , @xmath33 and @xmath34 @xcite . for comparison",
    ", we also obtain the @xmath35-band 2df survey , with @xmath36 , @xmath37 and @xmath38 @xcite .",
    "also note that we are in fact extending these fits as necessary , including beyond the magnitude interval in which they were obtained .",
    "the basic mass - luminosity relation can then be obtained from these ingredients by a counting process , matching the numbers of galaxies at a given luminosity to the total number of hosts at a given mass :    @xmath39    where the host contribution is separated into a halo term , @xmath40 , and a subhalo term obtained by summing up all the subhaloes at that mass , @xmath41 .",
    "an average relation between host mass and galaxy luminosity can then be built through this process , with results that match well with observations ( see paper i for a detailed analysis ) .",
    "the resulting relation can be well fit by a double power law of the type :    @xmath42^{1/k } } \\ , , \\ ] ]    where the differents parameters are shown in table [ mlfitparam ] ; mass is in units of @xmath43 , luminosity in @xmath44 .",
    "the fit was done in the mass range @xmath45 ( @xmath46 in the @xmath47 band case ) to @xmath48 @xmath43 .",
    "[ mlfitparam ]    .fit parameters for the mass - luminosity relation . [ cols=\"<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     table 2 shows the values we obtain for the parameters of the modified mass - luminosity relation of equation ( [ eq : mlmod ] ) . figure [ fig : clfdistribution ] shows examples of the actual distribution we obtain for the bcg luminosity , both for the lognormal model and for the concentration model .",
    "as was briefly mentioned above , the way we build up the mass - luminosity relation naturally gives rise to a model for clusters , featuring a distinct separation between central and satellite galaxies .",
    "this comes from the fact that we consider that galaxies are hosted by both the parent halo and the subhaloes . since we consider that the same mass - luminosity relation applies for both , and the former will be , by definition , considerably more massive than the latter , this results in there being a central , very luminous galaxy , hosted by the parent halo , while fainter satellite galaxies are spread throughout in the subhaloes .    of particular importance for the question of whether the first brightest galaxies are special",
    ", this separation implies that these galaxies should indeed have a special luminosity distribution , independent from that of the remaining galaxies in the cluster .",
    "this comes from the fact that the distribution functions of these two types of galaxies will be different in origin : the central galaxies one will be determined by the halo mass function , while the satellite galaxies one will depend on the subhalo mass function .",
    "this dichotomy is also found in hod models , for instance when accounting for total galaxy occupation number ( e.g. , @xcite ) : while @xmath49 , the probability that a halo of mass @xmath20 hosts @xmath50 galaxies , is poissonian at high @xmath50 , where satellite galaxy numbers dominate , it is significantly sub - poissonian at low @xmath50 , indicating that the distribution of the central galaxies is much more deterministic .",
    "this has an important consequence , derived from the fact that , at high mass , and therefore also at high luminosity , the total mass function is dominated by the haloes , not subhaloes .",
    "this means that , when analysing the luminosity function of galaxies in clusters , the brightest region will be dominated by the central galaxies , which will actually be more abundant overall than the brightest of the satellite galaxies .",
    "we then expect that this will cause a feature in the cluster galaxy luminosity function at the bright end ; this point will be examined in further detail below .",
    "another consequence is that we expect the luminosity of the central galaxy in the cluster to be completely determined by halo mass and its distribution , without the need to account for surviving subhaloes .",
    "it is in fact possible to derive the different contributions to the global luminosity function from the central and satellite galaxies , by associating them with the halo and subhalo distributions , respectively , and then using the clf formalism presented in the previous section :    @xmath51    where the @xmath52 indexes refer to the haloes and subhaloes , respectively .",
    "the derived luminosity functions for central and satellite galaxies are shown in figure [ centrallffig ] .",
    "unsurprisingly , the central galaxies completely dominate the overall luminosity function at high luminosity , with their numbers becoming comparable to the satellites only at low luminosity .",
    "this simply reflects the trends seen in the halo and subhalo numbers ( see paper i ) .",
    "the expected relative contributions of both types of galaxies are still uncertain : while @xcite using their semi - analytical modelling find satellite galaxies to dominate at the faint end , @xcite using a conditional luminosity function formalism find that central galaxies dominate throughout the range ( likewise , @xcite find that central galaxies dominate the stellar mass function on any mass scale ) .",
    "-band , lognormal model , but the results are similar for the concentration model .",
    "it is very noticeable that the halo numbers dominate in this luminosity range .",
    "the relative satellite contribution to the total luminosity function is qualitatively similar to what is found by other authors @xcite.,width=317 ]      a necessary first step before continuing this analysis is to define precisely what we mean by a  cluster  .",
    "we will opt for a simple choice , following the standard abell definition of rich cluster , namely that it must have upwards of 30 objects brighter than @xmath53 , where @xmath54 is the magnitude of the third brightest galaxy in the cluster .",
    "it is then possible , following our model , to translate this into a minimum mass threshold for a halo to host a cluster , as follows .",
    "the third brightest galaxy will correspond to the second most massive subhalo ( since the brightest galaxy is hosted by the parent halo itself ) , and the probability of this having a mass @xmath55 is then :    @xmath56    where @xmath57 is the mass distribution function of the subhaloes , equation ( [ shmf ] ) , and @xmath58 is the average number of subhaloes more massive than @xmath59 in a parent halo of mass @xmath60 .",
    "this expression assumes that the distribution of subhalo masses is poissonian with average @xmath61 , as expected for the subhaloes ( e.g. , @xcite ; since we are looking at cluster sized haloes , @xmath61 will be large in this case ) , and it is simply the product of the probability of having a subhalo with mass @xmath55 , given by the first term on the right hand side , by the poisson probability of having exactly one subhalo more massive than @xmath55 .",
    "using the fact that @xmath62 , it is easy to check that this probability is well normalized to 1 .",
    "the average value of the magnitude corresponding to this subhalo , @xmath54 , can then be calculated from the distribution by :    @xmath63    where @xmath64 represents the corresponding magnitude as a function of the subhalo mass , calculated using the mass - luminosity relation from section 2 . in this instance",
    ", we have used the simpler relation of equation ( [ mlfit ] ) , since it greatly simplifies the calculations and using the full clf results in only a slight difference .    using this magnitude we",
    "can then obtain @xmath53 , and then convert this back into a mass threshold , @xmath65 , which will be dependent on the parent halo mass .",
    "finally , we can find the probability , as a function of @xmath60 , that @xmath66 ( giving more than 30 objects above the magnitude limit , when including the central galaxy ) .",
    "since we are assuming that the subhalo distribution is poissonian , this will simply be given by @xmath67 , where @xmath68 is the normal poisson probability with average @xmath69 .",
    "this gives a smooth transition for the mass of cluster hosting haloes , shown in figure [ clustprob ] , starting around a halo mass of @xmath70 , but which depends on the luminosity function considered .     contains more than 30 galaxies brighter than @xmath53 and",
    "is considered a rich cluster according to the usual abell definition .",
    "using either the @xmath35 or the @xmath71 bands to do the counting results in the two different curves.,width=317 ]      once we have a mass threshold for haloes hosting clusters , obtaining the cluster galaxy luminosity function is straightforward : we simply sum up the mass function of haloes above this threshold with the mass function of all the subhaloes hosted by them ( i.e. , use equation ( [ shmf ] ) , but further multiplied by a term to reflect the probability that the halo does indeed host a rich cluster , given by the result shown in figure [ clustprob ] ) .",
    "then , we transform this into a luminosity function using the clf .",
    "our result is shown in figure [ cglffig ] .",
    "the two curves correspond to the two models for the dispersion used , described in the previous section . also shown , for comparison ,",
    "is the global lf .",
    "only galaxies above the mass threshold shown in figure [ clustprob ] were considered.,width=317 ]    qualitatively , we obtain a good agreement with observed luminosity functions ( such as the one of @xcite , although in this particular case a direct comparison is difficult because these results are in a different band ; redoing our analysis in the same band produces a good match ) , particularly in the lower luminosity range . at the bright end , there is some disagreement caused by a particular feature of our result , a bump in the luminosity function at the bright end .",
    "it is simple to understand that this bump is caused by the central galaxies .",
    "the discrepancy in numbers between central and satellite galaxies comes from the fact that , at high luminosity , the contribution from parent haloes to the total luminosity distribution ( shown in figure [ centrallffig ] ) completely dominates over the subhalo one .",
    "this is a reflection of the fact that haloes are much more abundant at the high mass end than subhaloes ( see paper i ) .",
    "in fact , it can be seen from the figure that these central galaxies essentially correspond to the high luminosity end of the global luminosity function .",
    "this is hardly surprising , since we can expect the most luminous galaxies to lie at the centre of the most massive clusters .",
    "such a feature is thus a natural consequence of the model : very luminous galaxies will predominantely be central galaxies of high mass haloes , which will therefore dominate in number over satellite galaxies of the same luminosity ; at the same time , since we introduce a lower mass limit to rich cluster hosting haloes , the faint end contribution to the luminosity function of galaxies in such clusters will come entirely from satellites .",
    "it is important to note that this is not a particularity of this specific model : any model associating central galaxies with parent haloes and satellite galaxies with subhaloes will show a similar feature , due to the discrepancy in numbers between the two at high mass ( though it may also require that this be associated with high luminosity in both cases ; or , more particularly , that the same mass - luminosity relation is used for both haloes and subhaloes , as is the case in the model used here ) .",
    "a note of caution comes from the fact that the shape of the bump depends on the dispersion in the clf : the smaller it is , the sharper the bump will be .",
    "furthermore , the actual shape of the bump is determined by the cluster definition being used , through the cluster threshold mass discussed in the previous section .",
    "this cutoff mass is responsible for the decreasing values of the cluster galaxy luminosity function on the left side of the bump ; a lower threshold mass would result in a wider bump .",
    "taking this threshold to lower and lower values ( beyond the range where it would be reasonable to assume the presence of clusters ) results in the progressive disappearance of the bump as we naturally regain the overall global luminosity function .",
    "it should be stressed , however , that the presence of a bump is a fundamental prediction of the model , independent of the precise cluster definition being used , since it is a direct consequence of the discrepancy in numbers between haloes and subhaloes at high mass .",
    "this kind of feature is also present in some recent work dealing with hod models and the central / satellite galaxy separation . in @xcite",
    "( see also @xcite ) , the authors use a semi - analytical model of galaxy formation to obtain the conditional galaxy baryonic mass function . for high mass haloes in the range we are considering here",
    ", they also obtain a high mass bump in this function caused by the central galaxy .",
    "they show that the baryonic mass function can be described by combining a schechter function representing the satellite galaxies contribution with a high mass gaussian due to the central galaxy . likewise ,",
    "@xcite build up hod models from sdss results , and analyze the central / satellite galaxy split ; from this , they build conditional luminosity functions , and show that their results imply that the central galaxies lie far above a schechter function extrapolation of the satellite population .",
    "the observational work also hints at similar features : for example , it is known that cd galaxies are brighter than what is given by the bright end of the cluster galaxy luminosity function ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "this is also present in studies of the luminosity function of galaxies in clusters ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "all this once again reinforces the notion that central galaxies form a special distribution , essentially separate from the satellite galaxy one .",
    "as discussed above , the non - parametric model used naturally builds a picture of galaxy clusters .",
    "this translates itself into a procedure to build up the total luminosity distribution of galaxies within a halo of a given mass .",
    "this will be composed of two steps , one dealing with the satellite galaxies in the subhaloes , another with the central galaxy .      in this step ,",
    "we need to sum up the total luminosity in the satellite galaxies contained in the halo .",
    "we start by taking the total number of subhaloes in a given halo , as calculated from the shmf ( that is , the occupation number ; see paper i ) , as an average number for a parent halo of this mass , taking into account the effect of destroyed subhaloes as introduced in section 2.1 . in this step",
    "it is necessary to specify a minimum mass : we take a low enough value to ensure that we account for all subhaloes massive enough to give a noticeable contribution to the total luminosity of the halo .",
    "we then assume that the total number of subhaloes follows a poisson distribution ( as discussed above ; e.g. , @xcite ) .    for each subhalo , up to a total as calculated from the poisson distribution , we determine a mass , by assuming the subhaloes follow a random distribution given by the subhalo mass function ( [ shmf ] )",
    ". then we convert this to the luminosity of the hosted galaxy using the mass luminosity relation .",
    "finally , once we have the total number of subhaloes ( as determined initially from the poisson distribution ) , we can sum all of their calculated luminosities to obtain the total in satellite galaxies .",
    "at the same time , the average luminosity of the brightest satellite galaxy can be calculated in a more direct fashion .",
    "using the subhalo mass distribution , we can get the probability distribution of the mass of the most massive subhalo .",
    "analogously to what was done in the previous section for the second most massive subhalo ( see equation [ 2ndmass ] ) , this will be given by    @xmath72    where @xmath73 as before .",
    "used together with the mass luminosity relation , the average luminosity of the galaxy hosted in the most massive subhalo ( and therefore the most luminous of the satellites ) is simply given by @xmath74 .",
    "the way we have built up the clf gives us a natural way of obtaining the distribution of the luminosity of first brightest galaxies with cluster luminosity , since we are already introducing a distribution with mass .",
    "we use the results of both the lognormal and concentration models for comparison .",
    "the total luminosity is obtained by summing over the bcg and satellite contributions , and taking into account the effect of the destroyed subhaloes from section 2.1 .",
    "the average total luminosity at any given mass is simply the sum of the average luminosities of the bcg and satellites , and is , by construction , equal to the one shown in figure [ fig : fdest ] .",
    "finally , we can also obtain the global distribution of bcg luminosity over all clusters . to do this",
    ", we use the cluster threshold mass , as calculated in the previous section , and simply integrate the conditional distribution we have multiplied by the halo mass function :    @xmath75    where @xmath76 is the halo mass function , given by ( [ stmf ] ) , and @xmath77 is the probability that a halo of mass @xmath20 hosts a rich cluster , as given in figure [ clustprob ] .",
    "in this section , we introduce two other simple models to complement the one presented above in order to allow better comparisons with the observational results . the first , and , a priori , best motivated",
    "is based on the simple assumption that the bcgs are merely the extreme values of the unique distribution that applies to all cluster galaxies .",
    "we do this based on a regular cluster galaxy luminosity function , and build the bcg distribution directly from it .",
    "the second is based on assuming some form of cannibalism .",
    "we use a simple approach to model this mechanism , that of merging the brightest galaxy with one other , where both are taken from the universal distribution in the first case we consider .",
    "the simplest assumption possible when studying the distribution of the galaxies in a cluster is that they are all drawn from the same statistical distribution ( for example , a schechter function for luminosity ) .",
    "the galaxies in a cluster would then simply be a random sample drawn from this distribution , with the brightest galaxy simply the extreme value of this sample .",
    "this approach has been studied in the literature before ( e.g. , @xcite ) . in particular , it has been shown that this approach leads to a result from extreme value theory , the gumbel distribution , for the overall distribution of the magnitudes of the first brightest galaxy @xcite .",
    "this is given by    @xmath78    with @xmath79 , where @xmath80 is the mean of the magnitude values and @xmath81 is a measure of the steepness of fall of the parent distribution .",
    "in the present paper , we take a slightly different approach , in order to match that which we will take for the other models .",
    "this model and subsquent calculations are similar to the ones presented in @xcite , although some details , like the luminosity function used , will be different .",
    "we begin by assuming that the parent distribution of the luminosity of the galaxies in a cluster is given by a schechter function , equation ( [ schechter ] ) ( for simplicity , we use the same values for @xmath82 and the faint end slope , @xmath83 , as the global luminosity function ) .",
    "the only dependence on the actual cluster considered comes in the normalization , which we set so that the total luminosity in all the galaxies equals the cluster luminosity , @xmath84 :    @xmath85 l _ * } \\ , .\\ ] ]    we then take the value of the distribution of the first brightest galaxy at a given luminosity to be the probability that there are no galaxies brighter than that luminosity , times the probability that there is a galaxy at that luminosity .",
    "the latter is simply given by ( [ schechter ] ) , while for the former we take a poisson fluctuation around the average number of galaxies obtained by integrating the parent distribution , ( [ schechter ] ) .",
    "thus , the luminosity distribution for the brightest cluster galaxy is given by :    @xmath86    where the integral in the exponential can be resolved to @xmath87 $ ] . using the same principles as discussed in section [ sect : clmass ] above ,",
    "it is simple to show that this probability distribution is adequately normalized to 1 .",
    "similarly , the probability for the luminosity of the second brightest galaxy is given by the product of the probability of having a galaxy at a given luminosity by the probability of there being a single galaxy brighter than that luminosity .",
    "in general , and again taking poisson fluctuations around the average number , the distribution of the n - th brightest galaxy will be given by :    @xmath88    likewise , the joint probability of having the first brightest galaxy at luminosity @xmath89 and the second at @xmath90 ( given by the product of the probability of a galaxy at @xmath90 , another at @xmath89 , none in between and none above @xmath89 ) can also be derived :    @xmath91    once we have these distributions , it is then easy to obtain the various statistics we are interested in : the average magnitude of the first and second brightest galaxies , @xmath0 and @xmath92 , the dispersion in first brightest galaxy magnitude , @xmath7 , and the average magnitude difference between these two @xmath93 .",
    "some caution is necessary with the last one , since the fact that @xmath89 and @xmath90 are not independent variables would necessitate the use of the joint distribution ; however , it turns out that the integrals over this joint distribution resolve to two different integrals over the two separate distributions , so that @xmath94 as calculated for each separate , individual distribution .      to illustrate the effect of galactic cannibalism",
    ", we consider here two simple models , starting with a common distribution like the one discussed in the previous section , and then merging the brightest galaxy with one of the others .    in general , the distribution of the new bcg will have to be taken from the joint distribution of the previous first and n - th brightest galaxies .",
    "it is important to note that these variables are not independent , and as such when calculating the average of the sum it will not , in principle , be possible to separate it into integrals over the two individual distributions ( except in the particular case when @xmath95 , as noted above ) .",
    "the simplest possible model to consider when taking account of cannibalism is to merge the two brightest galaxies from a common distribution .",
    "thus , the luminosity of the brightest galaxy is now given by the sum of the luminoisities of the previous two brightest galaxies , with a distribution given by the joint distribution of equation ( [ dist_12bg ] ) .",
    "the second brightest galaxy is now the old third brightest , with a distribution given by equation ( [ dist_n ] ) , with @xmath97 .",
    "the remaining calculations follow the same pattern as discussed in the previous case .",
    "it is to be expected that , due to the fact that the new first brightest luminosity is the result of the sum of two previous variables , the dispersion in first brightest luminosity will be slightly lower than before .",
    "likewise , it is obvious that the difference in magnitude between first and second brightest galaxies will now be much larger .",
    "a slightly more realistic toy model to illustrate galactic cannibalism is to proceed similarly as described above , but instead of merging the first brightest galaxy with the second , to take some weighting function to reflect the probability that the merger will occur with any one other of the galaxies in the cluster .",
    "we take the probability of the merger occuring with the n - th brightest galaxy to be proportional to its average luminosity , @xmath99 ; this gives greater weight to the first few brightest galaxies , but since the average luminosity decreases only slowly with @xmath100 , the probability is split over a wide range .",
    "we consider a possible merger down to the 30th brightest galaxy in the cluster , for which the merger probability given by this prescription will be below 1% .",
    "the total probability distribution of the new bcg luminosity is obtained from the joint probability distribution of the different weighted pairs .",
    "since the variables are not independent and therefore this joint distribution can not be split into a product of terms each dependent only on a single variable , to calculate @xmath0 , @xmath92 and @xmath7 it is necessary to solve complicated integrations .",
    "we turn instead to a monte carlo method , building up the distribution of the new bcg luminosity by randomly generating merger pairs and the luminosity of their components , and then summing them . the new second brightest galaxy will be either the old one , or the old third brightest , depending on whether the merger occurred with the former or not .",
    "we start by showing the results for average magnitude of first and second brightest galaxies as a function of total cluster luminosity , for each of the models , in figures [ m1avgfig ] and [ m2avgfig ] .",
    "the first noticeable thing is that the curves for both the concentration and lognormal models are very similar , which is not too surprising given the similar mass - luminosity relations obtained for each of them ( see table 2 ) , even though they were built in independent ways .",
    "this is in fact a success for the concentration model , since the lognormal model is by construction made to provide the best fit to the observed bcg magnitude , while the concentration model is not .    comparing the different sets of curves",
    ", it is easy to see the differences between the models .",
    "the statistical distribution has the lowest average bcg luminosity , which is considerably higher for the other models .",
    "this comes from the fact that all other models take the bcg distribution to be special , like an additional distribution added on to the base schechter distribution of the satellite galaxies .",
    "looking at the average magnitude of the second brightest galaxy , the most obvious factor is that the one from the more extreme cannibalism model is much lower than the others ; once again , this is unsurprising since this is essentially the third brightest galaxy in the statistical model .",
    "likewise , the 1+n cannibalism model gives essentially the same result as the statistical one , since the second brightest galaxy is the same in both in most cases . both of our models give considerably brighter values for the second brightest galaxy .",
    "this probably indicates that the luminosity function we used to generate the statistical and cannibalism models does not have enough bright galaxies ( i.e. , @xmath101 is too low ) , which is not very surprising since we are using the parameters of the global one . on the other hand , if this were to be the case then it is quite probable that the cannibalism models would then give bcgs which are too bright .",
    "-band , of the first brightest galaxy , as a function of the total cluster luminosity , as calculated for the different models : the ones based on the clf formalism introduced , the statistical model and two forms of cannibalism : the extreme @xmath96 , and the softer @xmath98 .",
    "the data points shown are binned values of cluster galaxy data supplied by yen - ting lin ( 2006 , private communication).,width=317 ]    , but for the second brightest galaxy in the cluster.,width=317 ]    in any case , this problem should be less of an issue when looking at the magnitude gap @xmath6 , shown in figure [ delta12fig ] .",
    "the values for the cannibalism 1 + 2 model are obviously much too high to match the observed ones : it is clear that merging the two brightest galaxies leaves too big a gap to the next brightest .",
    "the values for the statistical model are too low , in this case probably indicating that it is the bcg which is too faint .",
    "the values for the other , 1+n , cannibalism model look rather better , while both of our models show good agreement with the observations . but note the size of the errorbars in the observational data : the scatter in the observed values is quite large ( see also @xcite ) . since the scatter in the bcg magnitude is small , most of the scatter here in @xmath6 is likely coming from the second brightest galaxy .",
    "the shape seen in the curves of figure [ delta12fig ] is unsurprising : the fact that @xmath6 is increasing as the total luminosity goes down is a natural consequence of the decreasing number of satellites at this lower end .",
    "in fact , these correspond to haloes of only a few times @xmath102 , and therefore many of these systems will not actually even be clusters ( cf figure [ clustprob ] ) .    .",
    "the data points come are again binned values from the catalogue supplied by yen - ting lin .",
    "the large errorbars reflect the fact that the scatter in the values of @xmath6 in these clusters is very large . for comparison , another observational value for @xmath6 , but in the @xmath103-band ,",
    "is of @xmath104 magnitudes @xcite .",
    "the values we obtain are also qualitatively consistent with the results of @xcite.,width=317 ]    figure [ sigfig ] shows the calculated dispersion in the magnitude of the first brightest galaxy . binning the lin observational data results in values of @xmath7 of 0.3 to 0.4 magnitudes .",
    "a direct comparison of this value with the model results shows that the values we obtain for our model are slightly too low , while the values for the statistical and cannibalism models look reasonable .",
    "there is , however , an additional point to bear in mind : these observational values are obtained by binning over a certain cluster luminosity range .",
    "part of this observed scatter then simply comes from the fact that the average magnitude is changing as a function of this .",
    "when taking this into account , the values we get from our model are in fact in good agreement with the observed ones . also , using bayes theorem , it is possible to derive values for the dispersion in the mass of the hosting halo for a given galaxy luminosity . doing so we obtain values which are in qualitative agreement with the ones found by @xcite , although a direct comparison is complicated by the fact that they use @xmath35-band instead of @xmath71-band for the galaxy luminosity .",
    "-band , is @xmath105 @xcite . using a clf approach similar to ours",
    ", @xcite obtains a value of @xmath106 in the r - band.,width=317 ]",
    "in the present paper we focus on the implications of the mass luminosity relation first introduced in paper i on the properties of clusters , and more in particular on whether bcgs are statistical or special in nature .",
    "we expand the model of paper i by introducing scatter into the relation , building a clf based on two different models : a simple lognormal shape or a model based on the distribution of concentrations in haloes of a given mass .",
    "we also introduce a simple model to evaluate the mass fraction in subhaloes which have been completely disrupted since they were accreted .",
    "we have argued that this model naturally gives a separation between central and satellite galaxies in a cluster , with the former having a distinct distribution based on the halo mass function .",
    "we have shown that this leads to a characteristic bump in the cluster galaxy luminosity function , qualitatively similar to that seen in some observational work and some semi - analytical hod based models .",
    "this is caused by the fact that , at any given high mass , haloes are considerably more abundant than subhaloes , coupled with the fact that , in any single system , central galaxies will be considerably brighter than the satellites ( since the subhaloes are much less massive than the parent halo ) .",
    "together with this , the faint end is completely determined by the satellite galaxies in the subhaloes , since we put in a minimum mass threshold for the haloes we consider host clusters .    finally ,",
    "to look at the question of the nature of bcgs , we study some statistical indicators that may provide a clue to this problem , namely the ratio @xmath9 between the magnitude difference between first and second brightest galaxies in a cluster , @xmath6 , and the dispersion of the former , @xmath7 .",
    "we also introduce two simple models to account for two different possibilities that are usually considered : the statistical hypothesis , that is , that all galaxies in a cluster , including the bcg , are drawn from the same distribution ; and galactic cannibalism , where the bcg grows by merging with other galaxies in the cluster . as is already known , any model of the former gives a value for @xmath9 which is too small compared to what is observed . at the same time , we show that the simplest case of the latter , that of merging the two brightest galaxies from a common distribution , gives a value of @xmath6 which is far too large .    from the results we obtain , it is possible to draw some answers to the issue discussed in the introduction about the nature of bcgs .",
    "the statistical hypothesis , which assumes that bcgs are drawn from the same universal distribution , can be ruled out .",
    "it gives values of @xmath7 which are too big and @xmath6 which are too small .",
    "on the other hand , the simplistic model we analyse for galactic cannibalism looks to be far too extreme .",
    "mainly , it gives values of @xmath6 which are far too large compared to what is observed .",
    "this model mimics the scenario of two similar sized clusters merging , with a final distribution of galaxies which can be well fit by a single distribution , but where the bcg is then built up by merging the two bcgs of the original clusters . from our results",
    ", we expect that if such a scenario does occur , a merging of the brightest galaxies is excluded , as it leaves a too bright bcg and too large a gap to the second brightest galaxy ( but see the discussion in @xcite )",
    ". a more general cannibalistic scenario , where the bcg is built up by merging with one other galaxy , is however not excluded , nor is the possibility of minor mergers , where one of the merging systems is much smaller than the other such that its brightest galaxy will not be the second brightest galaxy in the resulting cluster .",
    "it is worth noting that this fits in well with the results of recent semi - analytic simulations done by @xcite , who find that bcg growth occurs fast enough that major mergers are relatively rare , and that most of the later growth is through minor mergers .",
    "our model gives results which can be regarded as halfway between the other two : the bcg is in fact the product of a special distribution and is considerably brighter than what would result from a single distribution , but the second brightest galaxy is not as faint as in the cannibalistic scenario .",
    "the question remains , however , of what is the bcg formation scenario expected in this case .",
    "a satisfactory answer , in the framework of the way the mass luminosity relation is built , would require going back to the simulations and following the behaviour of the halo and its subhaloes .",
    "there is an important assumption which has been implicit throughout this paper : that both the central and satellite galaxies follow the same mass luminosity relation .",
    "this may indeed appear to be contradictory with the possibility that the central galaxies are special , since it may seem to imply that they are formed through the same processes .",
    "on the other hand , the model is based on structure build up through the merger of dark matter haloes , and we assume that the satellite galaxies were formed in their own independent haloes , prior to being accreted into their present parent halo",
    ". this original halo would be the one that determines their properties , since the galaxy stops accreting gas or undergoing mergers of its own once its halo merges into the parent system and it becomes a satellite ( and hence the need for some mass loss prescription ) .",
    "therefore , it is to be expected that at least in some cases , they would have been a bcg in their own system themselves , and therefore it may not be unreasonable to assign them the same mass luminosity relation .",
    "still , this leaves out the very important factor that the formation epoch may well be different , together with subsquent growth of the bcg in the parent system . at the same time",
    ", halo numbers completely dominate at high mass ( and therefore it is to be expected the same is true of central galaxy numbers at high luminosity ) , and consequently the total average mass luminosity relation should be pretty much the same as calculated .",
    "we should stress the fact that our concentration models gives quite good results , since unlike the lognormal model , it does not involve any fitting of parameters to bcg results .",
    "in fact , it is quite interesting that it gives values for the dispersion in bcg magnitude so close to the ones from the lognormal model , when the latter was set to the value that results in the best fit to the observed bcg magnitudes . in light of the recent discussion about the effects of additional parameters , such as environmental density , halo formation time or concentration ( e.g. , @xcite ) , on the clustering of halos and subsequently on the hod",
    ", this seems to indicate that taking the halo mass as the primary determinant of the hosted galaxy luminosity , and then taking concentration as a secondary variable which determines the scatter around the average value is a good way to proceed .",
    "we would like to thank yen - ting lin for making his data on cluster galaxy luminosities available to us .",
    "av acknowledges financial support from fundao para a cincia e tecnologia ( portugal ) , under grant sfrh / bd/2989/2000 .",
    "99 benson a.  j. , frenk c.  s. , baugh c.  m. , cole s. , lacey c.  g. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , 679 bhavsar s.p .",
    ", 1989 , apj , 338 , 718 bhavsar s.p . ,",
    "barrow j.d . , 1985 , mnras , 213 , 857 berlind a.  a. , weinberg d.  h. , 2002 , apj , 575,587 berlind a.a . , kazin e. , blanton m.r . , pueblas s. , scoccimarro r. , hogg d.w . , astro - ph/0610524 , submitted to apj bernardi m. , hyde j.b . , sheth r.k . ,",
    "miller c.j .",
    ", nichol r.c . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , in press , astro - ph/0607117 bernstein j.p . ,",
    "bhavsar s.p . ,",
    "2000 , mnras binggeli b. , sandage a. , tammann g.a . , 1988 , ara&a , 26 , 509 bullock , j.  s. , kolatt , t.  s. , sigad , y. , somerville , r.  s. , kravtsov , a.  v. , klypin , a.  a. , primack , j.  r. , dekel , a. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 559 capaccioli m. , 1989 , in the world of galaxies , ed . h.g .",
    "corwin & l. bottinelli , springer , berlin , 208 colless m. , 1989 , mnras , 237 , 799 conroy c. , wechsler r.h . ,",
    "kravtsov a.v . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 647 , 201 cooray a. , 2006 , mnras , 365 , 842 cooray a. , milosavljevi m. , 2005a , apj , 627 , l85 cooray a. , milosavljevi m. , 2005b , apj , 627 , l89 de lucia g. , blaizot j. , 2006 , mnras , accepted , astro - ph/0606519 de propris r.  et al . , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 725 dressler a. , 1978 , apj , 222 , 23 eke v.r .",
    "et al . , 2004 ,",
    "mnras , 355 , 769 gao l. , white s.d.m . , jenkins a. , stoehr f. , springel v. , mnras , 355 , 819 graham a. , lauer t.r . , colless m. , postman m. , 1996 , apj , 465 , 534 hausman m.a .",
    ", ostriker j.p . , 1978 , apj , 224 , 320 hoessel j.g . , gunn j.e . , thuan t.x . , 1980 , apj , 241 , 486 hoessel j.g . , schneider d.p . , 1985 , aj , 90 , 1648 kochanek c.  s. , et al . , 2001 , apj , 560 , 566 kravtsov a.  v. , berlind a.  a. , wechsler r.  h. , klypin a.  a. , gottlber a. , allgood b. , primack j.  r. , 2004 , apj , 609 , 35 lin y. , mohr j.j . , 2004 , apj , 617 , 879 lin y. , mohr j.j . , stanford s.a . , 2004 , apj , 610 , 745 von der linden a. , best p.n . , kauffmann g. , white s.d.m . , 2006 , astro - ph/0611196 , submitted to mnras loh y. , strauss m.a . , 2006 , mnras , 366 , 373 macci a.v . , dutton a.a . , van den bosch f.c . , moore b. , potter d. , stadel j. , 2006 , astro - ph/0608157 , submitted to mnras milosavljevi m. , miller c.j . , furlanetto s.r .",
    ", cooray a. , 2006 , apj , 637 , l9 navarro j.  f. , frenk c.  s. , white s.  d.  m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 norberg p.  et al . , 2002 , mnras , 336 , 907 ostriker j.p . , hausman m. a. , 1977 , apj , 217 , l125 ostriker j.p . , tremaine s.d .",
    ", 1975 , apj , 202 , 113 peebles , p.j.e . , 1968 , apj , 153 , 13 postman m. , lauer t.r . , 1995 , apj , 440 , 28 sandage , a. , 1972 , apj , 178 , 1 schneider d.  p. , gunn j.  e. , hoessel j.  g. , 1983 , apj , 268 , 476 shaw l. , weller j. , ostriker j.p .",
    ", bode p. , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 646 , 815 sheth r.  k. , tormen g. , mnras , 1999 , 308 , 119 spergel d.  n.  et al . , 2006 , astro - ph/0603449 , submitted to apj tasitsiomi a. , kravtsov a.  v. , wechsler r.  h. , primack j.  r. , 2004 , apj .",
    "614 , 533 tremaine s.d .",
    ", richstone d.o . , 1977 , apj , 212 , 311 vale a. , ostriker j.  p. , 2004 ,",
    "mnras , 353 , 189 vale a. , ostriker j.  p. , 2006 , mnras , 371 , 1173 ( paper i ) van den bosch f.  c. , tormen g. , giocoli c. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 1029 van den bosch f.c .",
    "et al . , 2006 , astro - ph/0610686 , submitted to mnras wang l. , li c. , kauffmann g. , de lucia g. , 2006 , mnras , 371 , 537 wechsler r.h . , zentner a.r .",
    ", bullock j.s . , kravtsov a.v . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , in press , astro - ph/0512416 weller j. , ostriker j.  p. , bode p. , shaw l. , 2005 , mnras , 364 , 823 yagi m. , kashikawa n. , sekiguchi m. , doi m. , yasuda n. , shimasaku k. , okamura s. , 2002 , aj , 123 , 87 yang x.h . , mo h.j . ,",
    "van den bosch f.c . , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 1057 yang x.h .",
    ", mo h.j . , jing y.p . , van den bosch f.c . , 2005 , mnras , 358 , 217 zehavi i. et al . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 630 , 1 zentner a.r . ,",
    "berlind a.a .",
    ", bullock j.s . , kravtsov a.v . ,",
    "wechsler r.h . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 624 , 505 zheng z. et al . , 2005 , apj , 633 , 791 zhu g. , zheng z. , lin , w.p .",
    ", jing y.p . , kang x. , gao l. , 2006 , astro - ph/0601120 , submitted to apj"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we revisit the longstanding question of whether first brightest cluster galaxies are statistically drawn from the same distribution as other cluster galaxies or are `` special '' , using the new non - parametric , empirically based , model presented in @xcite for associating galaxy luminosity with halo / subhalo masses .    </S>",
    "<S> we introduce scatter in galaxy luminosity at fixed halo mass into this model , building a conditional luminosity function ( clf ) by considering two possible models : a simple lognormal and a model based on the distribution of concentration in haloes of a given mass . </S>",
    "<S> we show that this model naturally allows an identification of halo / subhalo systems with groups and clusters of galaxies , giving rise to a clear central / satellite galaxy distinction , obtaining a special distribution for the brightest cluster galaxies ( bcgs ) .    </S>",
    "<S> finally , we use these results to build up the dependence of bcg magnitudes on cluster luminosity , focusing on two statistical indicators , the dispersion in bcg magnitude and the magnitude difference between first and second brightest galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we compare our results with two simple models for bcgs : a statistical hypothesis that the bcgs are drawn from a universal distribution , and a cannibalism scenario merging two galaxies from this distribution . </S>",
    "<S> the statistical model is known to fail from work as far back as @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> we show that neither the statistical model nor the simplest possibility of cannibalism provide a good match for observations , while a more realistic cannibalism scenario works better . </S>",
    "<S> our clf models both give similar results , in good agreement with observations . </S>",
    "<S> specifically , we find @xmath0 between -25 and -25.5 in the k - band , @xmath1 and @xmath2 between 0.6 and 0.8 , for cluster luminosities in the range of @xmath3 to @xmath4 .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : haloes  galaxies : fundamental parameters  galaxies : clusters : general  dark matter  methods : statistical </S>"
  ]
}