{
  "article_text": [
    "future all - sky space astrometric missions produce huge amounts of data that can not be sent down to earth",
    ". therefore either only those parts of the sky which are of interest for astronomers ( namely small patches around stars or other objects ) have to be handpicked for telemetry or all astrometrically relevant object parameters have to be computed already on board .",
    "the latter will be performed on gaia , the next esa astrometric space mission , whereas the former will be chosen for reduction of the downlink rate for diva .",
    "an object detection algorithm , suitable for diva to extract such small patches around detected objects , will be presented in this paper ; it is general enough to be adopted to similar mission requirements on other satellites .",
    "diva is a small astrometric satellite planned for launch in 2006",
    ". it will provide high - precision positions , proper motions , parallaxes and photometric data for some 35 million stars , and spectrophotometric information for about 12 million stars .",
    "a major technical constraint of the diva satellite mission is the limited data downlink rate .",
    "while 100 mbit / s of raw data are produced by the diva detectors , only 0.7 mbit / s can be sent to the ground for 17 hours each day .",
    "no loss - less compression algorithm is able to account for such a large discrepancy .",
    "moreover , diva follows the conservative approach that the astrometric data analysis is completely performed on ground .",
    "this , however , means that all data relevant for the astrometric , photometric , and spectroscopic measurements of diva have to be selected in real time . for the sky mapper ccd detectors ( sm1 , sm2 ,",
    "see fig.[fp ] ) these are the contents of small rectangular patches of ccd pixels surrounding an object ( single or multiple star ) .",
    "intensive studies with simulated data have shown that sizes of @xmath0 are sufficient for stars with diva magnitudes @xmath1 and @xmath2 for stars down to the limit of @xmath3 .",
    "diva magnitudes are similar to @xmath4- and @xmath5-magnitudes and have their maximum sensitivity at about 600 nm .",
    "this article mainly deals with the detection and centroiding of stars .",
    "nevertheless , the algorithm presented here also detects non - resolved double stars as well as the dense regions of cores of globular clusters which can not be resolved by diva or any other astrometric space mission but which are well above any reasonable detection limit . in principle",
    ", this algorithm can also detect minor planets in the solar system , but this was not tested and is not subject of this paper .    moreover , it is important to distinguish the objects of interest from detector artifacts , particularly cosmic ray hits ( short : cosmics ) and bad columns .",
    "both tasks  object detection and artifact elimination  have to be performed for sm1 in almost real time on the ipu ( instrument processing unit ) with only a limited amount of buffer capacity ; additionally , the positions of such objects have to be identified on the sm2 detector which were missed due to the gaps between the four sm1 ccd chips .",
    "the scientific data of diva do not only consist of the rectangular patches on the sm detectors .",
    "brighter stars ( @xmath6 ) are also seen as spectroscopicly dispersed images ( dispis ) on the sc detectors ( see fig.[fp ] ) .",
    "their positions are predicted from the centres of the objects found by the sm1 ( and in a few cases on sm2 , respectively ) .",
    "rectangles containing the dispis are cut out of the sc detectors for further analyses on ground .",
    "diva will capture image data in time delayed integration ( tdi ) mode where the ccd read out is synchronised with the satellite rotation . as a consequence , there are no images in the usual sense of frames but a continuous stream of single lines . for our simulation",
    "we will always use 1158 of such lines , corresponding to 1.5  seconds of observations .",
    "the resulting frame size @xmath7 ( 4 ccds ) corresponds to the amount of sm data that can be stored in the ipu ringbuffer .",
    "section[problem ] specifies the requirements that must be fulfilled by any appropriate object detection algorithm .",
    "section[simulation ] presents the simulated data , which is the input of the proposed object detection algorithm presented in section[algorithm ] .",
    "the efficiency and quality of the algorithm is described in section[evaluation ] .",
    "the object detection algorithm should deliver at least 3 output parameters .",
    "first of all , the centre of the detected object in pixel coordinates of the corresponding ccd chip characterises the position of the object uniquely .",
    "secondly , the magnitude of each object is needed , in order to decide if this object must be cut out on the sc chips and to reject stars fainter than a given threshold .",
    "thirdly , cosmic - ray hits have to be distinguished from single stars , double stars and extended objects like the cores of globular clusters .    around the predicted centre of a detected object some small rectangular patch of pixels",
    "is cut out for telemetry . to make sure that all relevant information is included in the pixel array",
    "the computed centre of the object must not differ from the real centre of the object by more than 2 effective pixels in each direction .",
    "for on - board software there are additional constraints that do not hold for on - ground software .",
    "firstly , the available ram for code and data is very limited .",
    "it will amount to only 256 or 512 kbyte for the diva project .",
    "therefore it is not possible to process large parts of data .",
    "in fact an effective object detection algorithm should work as local as possible in the sense of a a very limited number of ccd lines only .",
    "secondly , the computational power of space - qualified processors is still very low : diva will fly with 20 mhz processors so that any code must be designed optimised to meet these requirements .",
    "the quality of an detection algorithm is judged by comparison with the detection probabilities that are predescribed for a particular satellite mission @xcite .",
    "for diva they are presented in table [ probability ] .    .required detection probability as a function of the object magnitude [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the presence of m31 has almost no influence on the rate of successful detection .",
    "the only problem is caused by false detections in the very neighbourhood of the galaxie s core .",
    "this is very similar to some false detections caused by noise peaks close to bright saturated stars .",
    "s core creates an area on the ccd which is above the detection threshold so that this single criterion is always fulfilled . if then , due to noise , a pixel is a local maximum , it is treated as a star .",
    "however , even the high number of false detections would cause no real limitations , because they are restricted to extremely small areas of the sky .",
    "although the described algorithm has not been tested on the diva computer hardware , we believe that this peak can still be handled ( from conservative estimations we expect that we can handle about 300 - 1000 detections per second ) . since m31 can be regarded as a worst case , we do not expect similar problems elsewhere . if we were , due a data overflow , forced to disregard a part of the stars in this region",
    ", this would only lead to a smaller number of measurements since not always the same stars would be lost .",
    "our very simple four - neighbourhood local maximum method together with some special algorithms for saturated stars , cosmic detection , and magnitude determination turned out to fulfill the requirements of astrometric satellite missions like diva : it is fast , finds the centres of nearly all stars down to @xmath8 and most at the limit of @xmath3 , rejects cosmics very efficiently , calculates the stellar magnitudes with sufficient precision , and has a very low number of false detections .",
    "the number of wrong identifications only increases in the neighbourhood of bright extended objects like extremely bright and saturated stars or the cores of bright galaxies .",
    "since such peaks correspond to only very small areas of the sky ( corresponding to only fractions of a second during diva measurements ) they do not pose major difficulties .",
    "a comparison of our method with other local segmentation algorithms has shown it s superiority in both speed and reliability .",
    "as an example we have tested the efficiency of the local sextractor and swa algorithms and found that their ability to detect bright and saturated stars was well below the requirements .",
    "alternatives to local detection like adaptive image segmentation algorithms based on entropy and conditional entropy would cause a need for more memory for the on - board computer than usually available on space missions .",
    "guhathakurta p. , webster z.t .",
    ", yanny b. , schneider d.p .",
    ", bahcall j.n . ,  globular cluster photometry with the hubble space telescope .",
    "color gradients and blue stragglers in the central region of m30 from wide field planetary camera 2 observations  , 1998 , aj , 116 , 1757 .",
    "liu , t. , kender , j.r . ,",
    "hjelsvold , r. , pizano , a. ,  a fast image segmentation algorithm for interactive video hotspot retrieval \" , ieee workshop on content - based access of image and video libraries , 2001 , www.cs.columbia.edu/tliu/download/cbaivl@xmath92001.pdf .",
    "szymanski m. , udalski a. , kubiak m. , kaluzny j. , mateo m. , krzeminski w. ,  the optical gravitational lensing experiment .",
    "the general catalog of stars in the galactic bulge . i.",
    "the stars in the central baade s window ogle field bwc  , 1996 , acta astronomica , v.46 , pp.1 - 8 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we propose an object detection algorithm which is efficient and fast enough to be used in ( almost ) real time with the limited computer capacities onboard satellites . for stars below the saturation limit of the ccd detectors </S>",
    "<S> it is based on a four neighbourhood local maximum criterion in order to find the centre of a stellar image . for saturated stars </S>",
    "<S> it is based on the assumption that the image is increasing monotonically towards the centre in the unsaturated part of the image . </S>",
    "<S> the algorithm also calculates approximate stellar magnitudes and efficiently rejects most of the cosmics which would otherwise lead to a large number of false detections . </S>",
    "<S> the quality of the algorithm was evaluated with the help of a large set of simulated data for the diva satellite mission ; different assumptions were made for the noise level , and the presence of cosmics or for a variable sky background . </S>",
    "<S> we could show that our algorithm fulfills the requirements for diva ; only in the case of simulated images which included the bright galaxy m31 some fainter stars could not be detected in the galaxy s vicinity . </S>",
    "<S> since stellar images contain large areas without any stars , we propose an additional block - skipping algorithm which can be coded on special - purpose hardware . </S>"
  ]
}