{
  "article_text": [
    "the complicated trajectory through core collapse determines the state of the cold nuclear matter deep inside the protoneutron star . at its surface and above",
    ", the hot mantle of shock - dissociated nucleons grows by the continued accumulation of infalling matter , heated by the impact at the fairly stationary accretion front at a radius of order @xmath3 km .",
    "simulations with general relativistic neutrino transport in spherical symmetry have explored , in detail , the important role of weak interactions between neutrinos and nuclear matter in stratified layers of curved space - time @xcite . before",
    "@xmath4 ms after bounce , the entropy of the shocked matter is even higher than the entropy that would be achieved by infinitely long exposure to the prevailing neutrino field .",
    "after that , the neutrinospheres recede to smaller radii and produce higher luminosities . the accretion front moves to larger radius where the gravitational potential is weaker and the infalling matter has less kinetic energy . only after that time , do the conditions develop for neutrino heating to become effective . as illustrated in fig .  1 , incoming fluid elements experience an entropy increase toward the equilibrium entropy set by the prevailing neutrino abundances .",
    "if the fluid element is compressed during infall , antineutrinos are preferentially absorbed to adjust the electron fraction in response to the increased electron fermi energies ; if it expands , more neutrinos are absorbed .",
    "the infalling fluid element crosses the equilibrium entropy at the gain radius . due to the small reaction time scale in the cooling region",
    ", the state of the fluid element approximately follows the local equilibrium entropy and electron fraction thereafter until the neutrinos become trapped behind the energy - dependent neutrinospheres . the caption of fig .",
    "1 encapsulates the well - known reasons why spherically symmetric supernova models have failed to explain the observed explosions .",
    "spherically symmetric simulations ignore fluid instabilities ( for a recent discussion of convection in the heating region and protoneutron star see e.g. refs . @xcite and @xcite respectively ) . in spite of the agreement that fluid instabilities favor explosions",
    ", the latter references suggest that they might develop more slowly than hitherto assumed , leading to failed supernova explosions in two - dimensional simulations as well .",
    "the computation time spent on hydrodynamics is likely to be negligible in accurate supernova simulations in one or even two dimensions .",
    "most time is spent on energy - dependent neutrino transport . a systematic improvement of the neutrino transport from one to two dimensions alone required a substantial increase of computation time in yet incomplete implementations @xcite and three - dimensional neutrino transport has not yet been attempted with a reliable resolution of the neutrino phase space . following the three - dimensional simulations of @xcite , we try to balance the computation time spent on hydrodynamics and neutrino transport by maximizing the degrees of freedom in the fluid dynamics in combination with approximations in the neutrino transport .",
    "the effect of magnetic fields on the dynamics of the nucleons in the hot mantle has not yet been studied in three - dimensional numerical simulations with neutrino transport approximations .",
    "a simple and fast three - dimensional magneto - hydrodynamics code @xcite provides the core of our simulations .",
    "it spans a central region of @xmath5 with an equidistant resolution of @xmath6 km in cartesian coordinates .",
    "this covers the hot mantle and part of the infalling layers .",
    "the code has received a new parallelization with mpi for cubic domain decomposition that minimizes the resources occupied on distributed memory machines by a simple and efficient reuse of buffer zones during the directional sweeps .",
    "the finite differencing is second order accurate in time and space and handles discontinuities in the conservation equations with a total variation diminishing scheme .",
    "furthermore , a specific choice of the finite differencing for the update of the magnetic field conserves its divergence to machine precision .",
    "a velocity decomposition in the spirit of @xcite has been implemented such that the entropy equation is solved for a smooth large - scale bulk velocity and the total energy equation for small - scale velocity perturbations .",
    "we embed the computational domain of the mhd code in spherically symmetrically infalling outer layers that are evolved by an implicitly finite differenced one - dimensional hydrodynamics code @xcite .",
    "our collapse simulations are launched from a @xmath7 m@xmath8 progenitor model @xcite .",
    "the lattimer - swesty equation of state @xcite is used .",
    "we imposed a rotation with angular velocity @xmath9 s@xmath10 along the z - axis with a quadratic cutoff at @xmath11 km radius .",
    "along the same axis , we added a homogeneous magnetic field of @xmath12 gauss .",
    "the deleptonization during collapse has been parameterized in a simplistic way : an investigation of the spherically symmetric model n13 @xcite with boltzmann neutrino transport reveals that the electron fraction during infall can roughly be approximated as a function of density @xmath13 . in our three - dimensional simulation",
    ", we update the electron fraction with @xmath14   $ ] , where the function @xmath15 has been read out of model n13 at the time of core - bounce . the effectiveness of this simple parameterization for this exploratory simulation is demonstrated in fig .  2 .        due to the rotation , the polar infall velocities are slightly larger than the equatorial infall velocities .",
    "when the central density reaches @xmath16 g@xmath17 the magnetic field lines become visibly distorted . due to the centrifugal forces , the projection of the velocities onto the plane orthogonal to the initial magnetic field is largest at about @xmath11 km above and below the gravitational center .",
    "these are then the locations where the magnetic field lines condense most rapidly , bending slightly outward around the center . with ongoing collapse , this effect shifts to smaller radii and becomes more pronounced . at bounce ,",
    "the magnetic field exceeds @xmath18 gauss in these hot spots located @xmath19 km above and below the center .",
    "the field lines run along double cones aligned with the z - axis , except for the small deviation that circumvents the center . in the early shock expansion until @xmath20 ms after bounce , the shock front is almost spherically symmetric .",
    "afterward , the simulation becomes unrealistic , because the dynamically important neutrino burst is completely ignored . behind the expanding accretion front ,",
    "entropy variations due to variations in the shock strength induce fluid instabilities that entangle the magnetic field lines .",
    "3 shows an example snapshot at @xmath21 ms after bounce .",
    "the simulations have been performed on @xmath22 processors of the @xmath23 processor mckenzie cluster at cita .",
    "they required a wall clock time of @xmath24 hours .",
    "we demonstrated that three - dimensional magnetohydrodynamics simulations in the supernova context are feasible at a comfortable spatial resolution and that one - dimensional hydrodynamics is likely to find a natural successor in future investigations of stellar core collapse .",
    "as the neutrino interactions in the postbounce phase are crucial and very sensitive to the neutrino energies , we plan to continue with a multi - group neutrino light - bulb simulation to study on a more realistic numerical foundation interesting suggested effects of magnetic fields in the hot mantle ( see e.g. refs .",
    "@xcite ) .",
    "9 s.  w. bruenn , k.  r. denisco and a. mezzacappa , apj 560 ( 2001 ) 326 . m. liebendrfer , m. rampp , h .-",
    "janka and a. mezzacappa , astro - ph/0310662 .",
    "m. liebendrfer , messer , mezzacappa , et al . ,",
    "apjs 150 ( 2004 ) 263 .",
    "r. buras , rampp , janka and kifonidis , phys .",
    "( 2003 ) 241101 .",
    "s.  w. bruenn , e.  a. raley and a. mezzacappa , astro - ph/0404099 .",
    "e. livne , burrows , walder , lichtenstadt and thompson , apj 609 ( 2004 ) 277 . c.  f. fryer and m.  s. warren , apjl 574 ( 2002 ) 65 .",
    "u. pen , p. arras and s. wong , apjs 149 ( 2003 ) 447 .",
    "h. trac and u. pen , new .",
    "( 2004 ) 443 .",
    "m. liebendrfer , s.  k. rosswog , and f .- k .",
    "thielemann , apjs 141 ( 2002 ) 229 .",
    "k. nomoto and m. hashimoto , phys .",
    "163 ( 1988 ) 13 .",
    "j. lattimer and f.  d. swesty , nucl .",
    "a535 ( 1991 ) 331 . c. thompson , apj 534 ( 2000 ) 915 . s. akiyama , j.  c. wheeler",
    ", d.  l. meier and i. lichtenstadt , apj 584 ( 2003 ) 954 .",
    "t.  a. thompson , e. quataert , a. burrows , astro - ph/0403224 .",
    "k. kotake , yamada , sato , sumiyoshi , ono , suzuki , phys .",
    "d 69 ( 2004 ) 124004 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> all recent numerical simulations agree that stars in the main sequence mass range of @xmath0 m@xmath1 do not produce a prompt hydrodynamic ejection of the outer layers after core collapse and bounce . </S>",
    "<S> rather they suggest that stellar core collapse and supernova explosion are dynamically distinct astrophysical events , separated by an unspectacular accretion phase of at least @xmath2 ms duration . </S>",
    "<S> as long as the neutrinospheres remain convectively stable , the explosion dynamics is determined by the neutrons , protons , electrons and neutrinos in the layer of impact - heated matter piling up on the protoneutron star . the crucial role of neutrino transport in this regime has been emphasized in many previous investigations . here , we search for efficient means to address the role of magnetic fields and fluid instabilities in stellar core collapse and the postbounce phase . </S>"
  ]
}