{
  "article_text": [
    "ss  433 is one of the most powerful and most studied jet sources in our galaxy .",
    "it is a high - mass x - ray binary system located at a distance of about 5  kpc [ e.g. @xmath0 in vermeulen et al .",
    "( 1993a ) ; @xmath1 in stirling et al .",
    "2002 ; the most recent and likely estimate is @xmath2 in blundell & bowler ( 2004 ) ] .",
    "the nature of the accreting compact object , either black hole ( bh ) or neutron star ( ns ) , is still controversial .",
    "the most remarkable feature of the source is the presence of bipolar , precessing , mildly - relativistic jets .",
    "these jets are observed at wavelengths from radio to x - rays and have been widely studied over about 30 years .",
    "the geometry of the jets is well described to first order by the so - called ` kinematic model ' ( abel & margon 1979 ; milgrom 1979 ; hjellming & johnston 1981 ; see eikenberry et al . 2001 and stirling et al .",
    "2002 for an update ) : the system is ejecting matter in the form of two anti - parallel narrow jets , with an opening angle less than @xmath3 .",
    "these jets precess in a @xmath4 half - opening angle cone with a period of about 162.4 days ( e.g. eikenberry et al .",
    "the individual jet components move ballistically away from the system .",
    "the angle between the precession axis and the line of sight is about @xmath5 , and the projection of the jets onto the plane of the sky results in a twisted trace .",
    "a velocity of @xmath6 has been inferred from doppler - shifted optical emission lines in the thermal component of the jets .",
    "the velocity of the jets seems to be stable , although a @xmath7 per cent symmetrical scattering in the doppler - shifts of the optical lines ( see eikenberry et al . 2001 ) can be interpreted as an actual scatter of the velocity of the optical emitting jet component , i.e. at least up to distances of @xmath8  cm from the binary core , where the optical emission lines originate ( e.g. shaham 1981 ) .",
    "ss  433 is the only known galactic relativistic jet source to reveal the presence of baryonic matter in the jets , in the form of emission lines ( both in optical and x - rays ; e.g. margon et al .",
    "1979 ; kotani et al . 1994 ) from thermal gas . the model developed and generally accepted to describe the emission of the thermal component of the jets is the ` adiabatic cooling model ' ( brinkmann et al . 1991 ; kotani et al . 1996 ; see also marshall et al .",
    "the temperature and the density of the jet gas decrease with increasing distance from the binary core .",
    "close to the binary core , at distances less than @xmath9  cm , the jet gas is at a temperature of about @xmath10  k ( consistent with the temperatures of the inner regions of the accretion disc ) , and emits in the x - ray band .",
    "subsequently the gas in the jets cools ; at distances of about @xmath11  cm from the core the temperature is of the order of @xmath12  k and the gas emits optical radiation .",
    "based on the adiabatic cooling model , beyond this point the gas should be too cool to thermally emit optical or x - ray radiation .",
    "an alternative model has been proposed in which a high temperature plasma emitting in x - rays coexists with clumps of cold matter emitting optical lines ( bodo et al .",
    "1986 ; brinkmann et al .",
    "non - thermal ( synchrotron ) radio emission from the jets is observed at distances of @xmath13  cm from the binary core ( e.g. hjellming & johnston 1981 ) .",
    "c +   +    recent observations , however , appear to contradict , at least partially , the predictions of the adiabatic cooling model . in an observation taken with the chandra high energy transmission grating spectrometer ( hetgs ) , marshall et al .",
    "( 2002 ) first discovered arcsec scale x - ray jets in ss  433 .",
    "further spatially resolved x - ray spectral analysis of the arcsec jets , using a chandra advanced charge - coupled device imaging spectrometer ( acis)-s observation , revealed highly - ionised doppler shifted iron emission lines at distances of about @xmath14  cm from the binary core ( migliari , fender & mndez 2002 ) .",
    "this indicated that in situ re - heating of atoms takes place in the jet flow , which is still moving with ( mildly- ) relativistic velocity more than 100 days after launch from the binary core .",
    "migliari et al .",
    "( 2002 ) also attempted to explain this re - heating by means of shocks formed due to collisions of different blobs launched with a slightly different velocity at the same precession phase , i.e. a faster blob which catches up a slower blob ejected later .",
    "in this paper we present all the currently available chandra observations of ss  433 .",
    "we report on the morphology and evolution of the extended x - ray emission regions and present evidence for long - term and daily variability of the arcsec x - ray jets , discussing possible physical scenarios .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     inspecting three @xmath15  ks zeroth order hetgs images taken over a period of @xmath16 days ( @xmath17 , @xmath18 and @xmath19 in fig .  1 ) , we observe rapid and significant changes in the arcsec scale x - ray jets on timescales of @xmath20 days .",
    "the structural variations of the jets of these three observations can also be observed in the lower panels of fig .",
    "4 ( @xmath17 , @xmath18 and @xmath19 ) where the east jet counts at @xmath21  arcsec increase from observation @xmath17 to observation @xmath18 and then decrease again in @xmath19 .",
    "note that since we are observing the counts projected in the e - w direction , which is not the direction of blob b , we are following mostly the evolution of blob a. in fig .",
    "5 we show the contour plots of the observations @xmath17 , @xmath18 and @xmath19 superimposed to the precession trace of the jets , shifted in phase of @xmath22 ( more details are presented in blundell & bowler 2004 ; see also stirling et al .",
    "2004 ) with respect to the model in stirling et al .",
    "( nevertheless , with or without this small shift the results of this work are not significantly affected , neither qualitatively nor quantitatively . )",
    "the contour levels correspond to the smoothed image .",
    "the minimum significance signal to noise ratio in the smoothing procedure has been decreased from 3 ( as in fig .  1 ) to 2.5 in order to emphasise the knot structures in the jets .",
    "the knot structure is observable when the counts of the source and the resolution and the sensitivity of the instrument are high enough ( e.g. acis - s observations in fig .  1 , @xmath23 and fig .  1 , @xmath24 and the nearly 30 ks hetgs observation in fig .  1 , @xmath25 ) .",
    "we have chosen the size of the circular regions in which we estimate the counts , as large as the original - size pixel of the image , and such that outside the circle regions the counts per rebinned - pixel of a point source distributed on the image by the psf are less than the 25 per cent of the counts per rebinned - pixel at the peak .",
    "we observe a knot getting brighter from may 8th to may 10th ( knot a ) and subsequently on may 12th we see it apparently moving , following the precession trace ( knot b ) .",
    "this indicates that we are observing two knots lying on the precession trace , at different precession phases , which brighten up sequentially . to quantify these brightenings",
    "we have estimated the background subtracted counts in the circular regions a and b for these three observations ( see table 3 ) .",
    "the counts have been normalised to the exposure time of the may 12th observation .",
    "taking the counts in the regions on may 8th as a reference , we observe region a brightening @xmath26two days later and subsequently region b getting brighter , @xmath26four days later . considering statistical errors , both brightening are significant at the @xmath27 confidence level if we consider may 8 knots as a reference : knot a : may 10@xmath28may 8=@xmath29 , i.e. 99.1% significance ; knot b : may 12@xmath28may 8=@xmath30 , i.e. 99.7% significance .",
    "( when testing against the null hypothesis of a constant model , the probability of obtaining a larger value of @xmath31 is 3% for knot a and 1% for knot b. ) since _ i ) _ the core count rate decreases from may 8th to may 10th while the count rate of knot a increases and _ ii ) _ we observe a ( albeit small ) decrease in the count rate of knot a ( which is closer to the core than knot b ) from may 10th to may 12th , while the count rate of knot b increases , and since the psf of the core is about symmetric at those distances from the core , we are confident that we are observing actual variations in the jets , not directly related to contaminations of the psf of the core .      analysing the 60 ks acis - s observation of ss 433 ( fig .  1 , @xmath24 )",
    "we have selected two regions of the image corresponding to the east ( the region is smaller than the one shown in fig .  1 , @xmath24 and zoomed on the two knots clearly visible in the image ) and the west jets .",
    "we have applied baricenter corrections and extracted the background subtracted light curves in these regions with a time bin of @xmath32  s , in the range 0.5 - 10  kev .",
    "we have fit the two light curves with a constant and did a @xmath33 test to check if they are consistent with a steady jet emission on time scales of hours .",
    "the west jet is consistent with being steady .",
    "however , in the light curve of the east jet , although it does not show any systematic trend , we can reject a steady distribution at the 3.5 per cent level ( the fit with a constant gives a @xmath34 with 9  @xmath35 ) . assuming a variation in the east jet - the variation is marginally significant and needs to be confirmed - because of the signal propagation speed , the linear size of the emitting region should be smaller than @xmath36 au , where @xmath37 .",
    "we have also extracted the lightcurve , with the same time bin , of the readout streak of the image , to check the variability of the core .",
    "the core is consistent with being steady over the whole observation .",
    "whatever the underlying explanation , the rapid variability indicates that the observed extended x - ray emission originates in physically small components which may be suffering shock acceleration , as we now consider .",
    "the lack of correlation with precession phase indicates an origin of this phenomenon in a more random process , e.g. the variability of the underlying accretion flow .      the possibility of internal shocks ( orginally proposed by rees 1978 for the radio galaxy m87 ) between ` blobs ' ejected at almost the same precession phase with slightly different velocities ( the mean speed of the thermal matter in the jet is @xmath6 and might be scattered of @xmath38 per cent : eikenberry et al .",
    "2001 ; see also blundell and bowler 2004 ) can explain the arcsec - scale jet x - ray brightenings ( migliari et al .",
    "knot brightenings similar to those described above in x - ray are also observed in the radio band on much smaller physical scales ( e.g. vermeulen et al .",
    "mioduszewski et al .",
    "( 2004 ) have recently monitored with the vlba the milli - arcsec scale variability of ss  433 for one - fourth of the jet precession cycle . in the 42 days of their radio monitoring",
    "we observe an average of a blob ejection every @xmath39 days , with a peak of one every 2 - 3 days in the most active period . in 6 days",
    "the jet axis has moved , due to precession , of about @xmath40 .",
    "with such a small angle , two @xmath41-size blobs ( e.g. begelman et al . 1980 ) can still interact with each other if the second blob has been launched faster than the first , although they move in slightly different directions . in the case of a blob with a velocity of @xmath42 launched 6 days after a blob with a velocity of @xmath43 ,",
    "the second blob should reach the first at a distance of @xmath44  cm from the core . to explain knots getting brighter at distances of @xmath45  cm from the core , where we observe the arcsec - scale x - ray jets , the difference in the blobs velocities can be smaller and an ` internal shock ' mechanism may explain what we observe in x - rays .    if this is the correct scenario and since we observe in both x - ray ( fig .  1 ) and radio images ( mioduszewski et al .",
    "2004 ) knots getting brighter with no dependence on distance or precession phase , the velocity scattering of the ejections should be more or less random with respect to periodicities of the system . therefore , we must note that the fact that the first time the arcsec x - ray jets of ss  433 have been ` monitored ' with three observations within about five days ( observations @xmath17 , @xmath18 , @xmath19 ) show what seems to be a ` sequence ' of events where two knots get brighter one after the other ( knot a , and then knot b in fig .  5 ) , is at least curious and worth investigating .",
    "moreover , mioduszewski et al .",
    "( 2004 ) show that radio knots can get brighter at distances of @xmath8  cm from the core .",
    "this distance seems too short for an internal shock scenario which considers two blobs launched 6  days ( but even 2 - 3 days ) apart with a velocity difference of only @xmath46 per cent ( i.e. a factor of more than 2 in the speed of one of the blobs is still needed ) .",
    "based on this , we suggest that something else might be at the origin of the knot brightening in the jets , which can account for both large and small - scale observations and for the sequence of brightenings observed in x - rays .",
    "we suggest a new scenario in which the slower - moving clouds are energised erratically by a more powerful , faster , unseen flow .      in fig .",
    "5 we observe two knots , corresponding to regions a and b. the kinematic model tells us the projection onto the plane of the sky of the knots ejected .",
    "by identifying these knots on the precession trace we can de - project the image and give a three dimensional position of the knots . a sketched view from `` above '' of the east jet as observed in fig .",
    "5 is shown in fig .",
    "6 . as described in   4.1",
    ", we assume that a shock wave forms and travels at relativistic velocities ( faster than the knots velocity which is about 0.26  c ) through the jet . assuming a distance to the source of 5  kpc",
    ", we can now estimate the time scales and spatial scales involved in such shock events . in the may 10th image of fig .",
    "5 we see that knot a is about in the middle of the ` descending ' trace at a distance of about @xmath47  cm from the binary core . following the kinematic model , we infer that knot a was ejected about 200 days before the observation , and is moving away from us at an angle to the line of sight of @xmath48 ( see fig .",
    "the may 12th image in fig .  5 shows knot b at the bottom of the precession trace at a distance of about @xmath49  cm from the core .",
    "knot b was ejected from the binary system about 40 days earlier than knot a , and is moving towards us with an angle to the line of sight of @xmath50 ( see fig .",
    "the shock wave interacts first with knot a and then with knot b. at the time at which the shock interacts with knot a , this was about 20 light days farther from us than knot b. therefore , the shock wave has to travel the projected distance between the two knots in about 22 days ( we observe knot b brightening no more than two days after knot a ) . in order to observe the brightenings of the two components within two days ,",
    "the shock has to travel with a velocity of @xmath51 [ the velocity is @xmath52 if we use the most recent estimate for the distance of 5.5  kpc ( blundell & bowler 2004 ) ] .",
    "note that the value we have inferred of @xmath53 might be considered as a lower limit because i ) the positions of the knots on the precession trace were chosen by eye from fig .  5 , any other position on the ` descending ' trace of any of the two knots would decrease the light days difference to us between the knots and thus increase the velocity of the shock ; ii ) the brightening of knot b after knot a might have happened anytime within the 2 days between may 10th and may 12th observations , thus , since usually the radiative lifetime of the thermal knots is of the order of two days or more ( vermeulen et al .",
    "1993b ) , we may consider 2 days as an upper limit in time .",
    "what we observe is therefore consistent with being due to a shock wave which travels from the binary core downstream in the jet with an inferred velocity of @xmath54",
    ". this shock should be broader than the thermal jet collimation angle of @xmath41 as inferred by optical spectral analysis at distances of @xmath11  cm from the core , because it has to brighten up two knots with different precession phase ( i.e. angle to the line of sight ) . since the velocity of this shock wave is greater than that observed for the moving components ( including the possible scatter of 15 per cent ; eikenberry et al .",
    "2001 ) , it seems to correspond to an unseen second component to the outflow .",
    "eight x - ray chandra images of ss  433 revealed that its arcsec x - ray jet structure varies very rapidly , possibly as short as hour timescales .",
    "the observations show that the reheating processes , which are at the origin of the x - ray jets , have no preference for a particular precession phase of the jet or distance from the binary core .",
    "in particular , a sequence of three images made within about five days show two knots in the east jet getting brighter sequentially , suggesting that both knots are responding to the same phenomenon .",
    "radio changes , like those described above in x - rays , have been observed also on smaller scales ( of the order of @xmath55  cm from the binary core ; vermeulen et al .",
    "1993a ; see also mioduszewski et al .",
    "x - ray images indicate that the shocks which may cause those changes in radio continue also on larger scales . moreover , since the knots fade significantly on timescales of days ( bullets which emit optical line have a typical lifetime of @xmath56 days : vermeulen et al .",
    "1993b ; fig",
    ".  5 also shows a knot in the west jet fading in a few days ) , and assuming that the brightening of the two knots a and b are responding to the same underlying phenomenon , a frequent ` pumping ' of such shocks is required .",
    "put in another way , if the core energy source switches off , we would expect the arcsec - scale x - ray jets to fade away very rapidly .",
    "another possibility , other than a single shock wave , is sequence of shocks , like a wave train . in this case",
    "there is the possibility that knot a and knot b have been brightened by two different crests of the same wave train . if on may 8th the first crest has already passed knot a , it has to be since about 2 - 6 days , which is the range in which we expect the knot to fade away almost completely .",
    "therefore , if this first crest brightens knot b on may 12th , it takes @xmath57  days to travel @xmath58  cm ( see fig .",
    "6 ) , implying a slightly slower shock wave with a velocity of @xmath59 .",
    "if a second crest of the wave train brightens knot a on may 10th , the spacing between the crests is of a few days .",
    "the possible existence of an underlying , energising flow which is not directly observed and has a velocity greater than the observed components might have seemed speculative only a few years ago .",
    "however , recent detailed studies of the jets from two neutron star x - ray binaries , sco x-1 ( fomalont et al . 2001 ) and cir x-1 ( fender et al .",
    "2004 ) , have revealed precisely this phenomenon . in sco x-1 fomalont et al .",
    "( 2001 ) observed compact radio jet lobes moving outward with a velocity of at most @xmath60 .",
    "they observed that flares in the core and in the lobes are correlated and indicate an energy flow moving from the core within the jet beams with a speed of @xmath61 .",
    "a similar behaviour has been observed in cir  x-1 .",
    "fender et al .",
    "( 2004 ) observed an ultrarelativistic energy flux moving from the core with a velocity of @xmath62 and brightening consequently two radio jet lobes of the approaching jet which are observed to move much slower .",
    "the two lobes which get brighter in cir  x-1 are not precisely aligned with the core ( although a very small angle of the jet to the line of sight , as cir  x-1 seems to have , would amplify the apparent misalignement ) , further supporting the idea that the second component relativistic jet flow might be less collimated than the slower discrete knot ejections observed getting brighter .",
    "the observations presented here challenge our current understanding of ss  433 , which has been considered one of the best known galactic source to date .",
    "we thank the referee , herman marshall , for insightful comments which helped to improve the paper . sm wishes to thank gabriele ghisellini for stimulating discussions .",
    "abell g.o . , margon b. , 1979 , nature , 279,701 begelman m.c . , sarazin c.l . ,",
    "hatchett s.p . ,",
    "mckee c.f . , arons j. , 1980 , apj , 238 , 722 blundell k.m , mioduszewski a.j . , muxlow t.w.b . ,",
    "podsiadlowski p. , rupen m.p . ,",
    "apj , 2001 , 562 , l79 blundell k.m . , bowler m.g . , 2004 , apjl , 616 , l159 bodo g. , ferrari a. , massaglia s. , tsinganos k. , 1985 , a&a , 149 , 246 brinkmann w. et al . , 1991 , a&a , 241 , 112 brinkmann w. , fink h.h . , massaglia s. , bodo g. , ferrari a. , 1988 , a&a , 196 , 313 eikenberry s.s . ,",
    "cameron p.b . , fierce d.m . ,",
    "kull d.m . ,",
    "dror d.h . , houck j.r . , 2001 ,",
    "apj , 561 , 1027 fender r. et al . , 2004 , nature , 427 , 222 fomalont et al .",
    ", 2001 , apj , 553 , l27 hjellming r.m . ,",
    "johnston k.j . , 1981 , nature , 290 , 100 gies d.r .",
    ", huang w. , mcswain m.v . , 2002 , apj , 578 , l67 kotani t. et al . , 1994 , pasj , 46 , l147 kotani t. , kaway n. , matsuoka m. , brinkmann w. , 1996 , pasj , 48 , 619 marshall h.l .",
    ", canizares c.r .",
    ", norbert s.s . , 2002 , apj , 564 , 941 milgrom m. , 1979 , a&a , 76 , l3 migliari s. , fender r. , mndez m. , 2002 , science , 297 , 1673 mioduszewski a. , rupen m. , taylor g. , walker c. , 2004 : http://www.nrao.edu/pr/2004/ss433/ namiki m. , kaway n. , kotani t. , makishima k. , 2003 , pasj , 55 , 281 paragi z. , vermeulen r.c .",
    ", fejes i. , spencer r.e . , stirling a.m. , a&a , 1999 , 348 , 910 rees m.j . , 1978 , mnras , 184 , 61p shaham j. , 1981 , vistas astron . , 25 , 217 stirling a.m. , jowett f.h .",
    ", spencer r.e .",
    ", paragi z. , ogley r.n . ,",
    "cawthorne t.v . , 2002 , mnras , 337 , 657 stirling a.m. , spencer r.e . , cawthorne t.v .",
    ", paragi z. , 2004 , mnras , in press .",
    "vermeulen r.c . ,",
    "schilizzi r.t . ,",
    "spencer r.e .",
    ", romney j.d . , fejes i. , 1993a , apj , 270 , 177 vermeulen r.c .",
    "et al . 1993b , apj , 270 , 204"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the x - ray images of all the available chandra observations of the galactic jet source ss  433 . </S>",
    "<S> we have studied the morphology of the x - ray images and inspected the evolution of the arcsec x - ray jets , recently found to be manifestations of in situ reheating of the relativistic gas downstream in the jets . </S>",
    "<S> the chandra images reveal that the arcsec x - ray jets are not steady long term structures ; the structure varies , indicating that the reheating processes have no preference for a particular precession phase or distance from the binary core . </S>",
    "<S> three observations made within about five days in may 2001 , and a 60 ks observation made in july 2003 show that the variability of the jets can be very rapid , from timescales of days to ( possibly ) hours . </S>",
    "<S> the three may 2001 images show two resolved knots in the east jet getting brighter one after the other , suggesting that a common phenomenon might be at the origin of the sequential reheatings of the knots . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss possible scenarios and propose a model to interpret these brightenings in terms of a propagating shock wave , revealing a second , faster outflow in the jet .    </S>",
    "<S> binaries : close  stars : binaries : individual : ss 433  ism : jets and outflows radio continuum : stars </S>"
  ]
}