{
  "article_text": [
    "the most distant observable galaxies are radio galaxies .",
    "because these objects can be seen to large redshifts and because they are spatially extended , they are unique probes of the early universe and important laboratories for testing models of galaxy formation . the most efficient way of obtaining significant samples of radio galaxies at redshifts @xmath0 is to concentrate on the counterparts of radio sources with ultra - steep spectra ( uss , @xmath16 ; e.g. miley & chambers 1989 ; chambers & miley 1989 ) . during the last 5 years",
    "more than 60 radio galaxies with @xmath0 have been discovered ( including those described in this paper ) , mostly using this technique .",
    "the most distant uss radio galaxy discovered so far is 8c1435 + 633 at @xmath17 @xcite .",
    "high redshift radio galaxies ( hzrgs ) exhibit a large variety of properties .",
    "remarkable is the initially unexpected alignment between the uv / optical emission and the radio structures and the common presence of enormous ( @xmath18 kpc ) ionized gas halos for which the lyman @xmath5 emission line is very strong ( e.g. mccarthy et al . 1993 ) .",
    "the variety of emission components from hzrgs and their large luminosities provide unique diagnostics for studying galaxies in the early universe .    in order to study the nature of hzrgs and their evolution , it is important to obtain a large sample of such objects . after the initial success of the high redshift search technique on a sample of 4c uss sources ( 8 of 33 had @xmath0 , miley & chambers 1989 ; chambers & miley 1989 ) , we set about increasing the number of hzrgs by extending the uss search method to larger and fainter samples of radio sources .",
    "the resultant leiden intermediate - flux compendium of uss sources was the basis for a key programme carried out at the european southern observatory in chile between 1990 and 1994 .",
    "this programme was remarkably successful , resulting in the discovery of 22 new radio galaxies with @xmath4 .",
    "the project consisted of several steps .",
    "first , samples of uss sources were compiled having a range of finding frequencies and flux densities ( see rttgering et al .",
    "secondly , high resolution ( @xmath19 ) imaging of uss sources with the vla was carried out ( see rttgering et al .",
    "1994 ) to obtain good positions so that the uss sources could be identified on deep ccd images .",
    "thirdly , a subset of the sources was imaged in @xmath20 band with 2-m class telescopes to obtain reliable identifications ( see rttgering et al .",
    "1996a ) . )",
    "finally , low - resolution spectroscopy was carried out with 4m - class telescopes on a subset of the objects to determine their redshifts . here",
    "we present the results of this spectroscopy .",
    "we have augmented it with previously unpublished data from the original 4c sample in order to carry out some initial statistical analyses .",
    "the spectra presented here have been the starting point for several follow - up programmes to investigate various properties of hzrgs , some of which are discussed elsewhere in this thesis .",
    "the structure of this paper is as follows . in section 2",
    ", we describe the sample selection and in section 3 the observations and reduction of the data .",
    "the redshifts and spectra are presented in section 4 .",
    "we also analyze the properties of the emission lines in this section , determining velocity shifts between the emission lines and searching for correlations with other properties of the radio galaxies . in section 5",
    "we discuss our results .",
    "we consider the efficiency of the uss technique for finding high redshift radio galaxies and briefly discuss the radio luminosity function of uss sources at high redshifts .",
    "furthermore , we investigate a possible origin for the observed velocity shifts of ly@xmath5 with respect to the higher ionization lines as being due to associated hi absorption systems . in section 6",
    "we summarize our results and conclusions .    throughout this paper",
    "we assume a hubble constant of @xmath21 km s@xmath7 mpc@xmath7 and a deceleration parameter of @xmath22 .",
    "the sources whose optical spectroscopy we shall discuss here , have been selected either from the compendium of uss sources as compiled by rttgering et al .",
    "( 1994 ) or from the 4c sample of uss sources as presented by tielens et al .",
    "( 1979 ) .      the leiden compendium of uss radio sources ( rttgering et al .",
    "1994 ) contains sources from a variety of radio catalogues , including the 8c at 38 mhz @xcite , the 6c at 151 mhz @xcite , the texas sky survey at 365 mhz @xcite , the molonglo catalogue at 408 mhz @xcite , the 1400 mhz nrao sky survey condon @xcite and the 4.85 ghz sky survey @xcite .",
    "the resulting compendium therefore contains sources with a range of finding frequencies .",
    "the median flux density at 365 mhz is @xmath23 jy .",
    "a large fraction of the sources from this compendium has been imaged at @xmath20-band to a level of @xmath24 using 2-m class telescopes at eso and la palma ( e.g. rttgering et al .",
    "1996a )    since our main aim was to obtain a sample of @xmath0 radio galaxies for subsequent detailed studies , we selected sources for spectroscopy so as to optimize the chance of finding high redshift objects . in carrying out the project , compromises had to be made in the selection of targets .",
    "it was regarded as of paramount importance to increase the _ number _ of high redshift radio galaxies . in order to optimize the use of the scarce 4m - class telescope time towards this goal ,",
    "additional selection criteria were applied to reduce the number of spectroscopic targets . while recognizing that these additional criteria introduce complications on subsequent statistical analyses , we regarded it as more important at this stage to increase the number of high redshift galaxies whose properties could be studied in detail .",
    "two additional radio - based criteria were therefore used in optimizing the spectroscopic targets for high redshift objects .",
    "first , we excluded the counterparts of diffuse radio sources .",
    "diffuse ( fanaroff - riley class 1 , fanaroff & riley 1974 ) radio morphologies are known to be associated with relatively weak ( nearby ) radio sources .",
    "secondly , we concentrated on the counterparts of smaller ( @xmath25 ) radio sources .",
    "taking account of the well - known correlation of radio angular size with redshift for quasars @xcite , only 25% of @xmath0 steep spectrum quasars have angular sizes @xmath26 .",
    "hence , even if radio galaxies are systematically larger by a factor of 2 , this criterion should exclude relatively few @xmath0 objects .",
    "finally , a selection on optical magnitude from the ccd imaging was applied , concentrating on the objects with faint optical identifications ( @xmath27 ) as the best candidates for distant radio galaxies .",
    "the 4c uss sample comprised 33 sources from tielens et al .",
    "( 1979 ) that have spectral indices @xmath1 between 178 and 5000 mhz .",
    "further details on the sample selection and observations can be found in chambers & miley ( 1989 ) ; chambers , miley and van breugel ( 1987 ) and chambers et al ( 1996a ) . within this sample 8",
    "have @xmath0 @xcite , including 4c40.36 at @xmath28 @xcite , 4c41.17 @xcite and 4c48.48 at @xmath28 @xcite . here",
    "we will present the spectral properties for these 8 sources .",
    "their median flux density at 365 mhz is @xmath29 jy .",
    "the observations were carried out with ccd slit spectrographs on the 3.6 m telescope and the ntt ( 3.5 m ) of the european southern observatory ( eso ) at la silla and on the wht ( 4.2 m ) of the observatorio del roque de los muchachos at la palma .",
    "the eso observations were carried out as part of a `` key programme '' .",
    "details of the observational setup are given in table 1 .",
    "typical observing times were 12 hours per object .    the emission line regions of distant radio galaxies are typically extended by at least several arc seconds and oriented along the radio axis ( e.g. mccarthy et al .",
    "in order to optimize the signal to noise for detecting such emission lines , we therefore usually aligned the slit in the direction of the radio source and used a relatively large slit width ( @xmath30 ) .",
    "the typical emission line widths of distant radio galaxies is @xmath31 km s@xmath7 . with the slit width and the gratings used ( see table 1 ) , the resolution of the spectra",
    "are comparable to the expected width of the emission lines .",
    "since the targets were too faint to be seen on the tv guiders , the following procedure was used for positioning the objects in the slit .",
    "the slit was first centered on either a reference star from the space telescope guide star system ( gss ) or from a star on the r - band ccd frames @xcite , whose position had been accurately determined with respect to the gss system .",
    "a short exposure was made to check that this fiduciary star was indeed centered in the slit and the telescope was then offset to the target .",
    "since the relative position between the target and the positional reference star is known with an uncertainty of less than @xmath32 , the target was assumed to be in the slit .",
    "reduction of the spectra was carried out using the ` long - slit ' package in the iraf image reduction package developed by the us national optical astronomy observatory ( noao ) .",
    "for the data taken on every night , first a bias was constructed averaging 10 `` zero second '' exposures taken at either the beginning or at the end of each night .",
    "this bias was subtracted from every non - bias frame .",
    "the pixel - to - pixel gains were calibrated using flat fields obtained from an internal quartz lamp .",
    "wavelength calibration was carried out by measuring the positions on the ccd of known lines from either an he - ne or a cu - ar calibration lamp , fitting a polynomial function to these data , and applying the resultant calibration factors .",
    "we estimate the accuracy of the wavelength calibration to be about 5 % of the resolution , i.e. @xmath23    ( see table 1 ) .",
    "the sky contribution was removed from the frames , by subtracting a sky spectrum obtained by fitting a polynomial to the intensities measured along the spatial direction on the two - dimensional spectrum not including the spatial rows / columns where the targets were positioned .",
    "one - dimensional spectra were extracted by averaging in the spatial direction over an effective aperture as large as the spatial extent of the brightest emission line .",
    "each night one or two standard stars were observed and used for the flux - calibration .",
    "we estimate that the flux - calibration is good to @xmath33 .",
    "after all the geometrical and intensity calibrations were applied and the sky background level was subtracted , identification of the various emission lines in the spectra was attempted .",
    "depending on their redshifts , the emission line spectra of radio galaxies are dominated by one or several of the following lines : ly@xmath5 @xmath34 1216 , [ oii ] @xmath34 3727 , [ oiii ] @xmath345007 , h@xmath5 @xmath34 6563 + [ nii ] @xmath34 6583 @xcite . for the more distant ( @xmath35 ) radio galaxies other lines that are characteristic of the spectra , but with fainter intensities ( 5 - 10% of ly@xmath5 ) are civ , heii , ciii ] , cii ] , [ neiv ] , mgii and [ nev ]",
    "the procedure for determining the redshifts consisted of first attempting to identify detected emission lines with the dominant lines and thereafter searching for fainter lines at the appropriate redshift .",
    "an additional consideration is the presence of the ly@xmath5 `` break '' in the continuum spectrum due to the ly@xmath5 forest or a decrease in the intensity of the stellar continuum bluewards of ly@xmath5 .",
    "the presence of such a break at the appropriate wavelength is an additional argument for identifying a line with ly@xmath5 .",
    "we note that 1243 + 036 ( z=3.6 ) is the only object in the @xmath0 sample for which we have detected only one emission line .",
    "for a number of reasons we are confident that the redshift is correct , the most important being that [ oiii ] 5007 emission is clearly detected in the infrared at the expected wavelength ( cf van ojik et al 1996a ) .      after an initial identification of the lines",
    ", each spectrum was analyzed and relevant parameters of the lines were determined .",
    "the first step was fitting the line with a gaussian profile superimposed on a constant continuum .",
    "from this , the peak intensity and the width ( fwhm ) of the line were obtained .",
    "the effect of noise on each spectrum was determined by calculating the rms intensity in a line - free spectrum , i.e. excluding wavelengths within twice the measured fwhm of the emission lines or residual sky lines .",
    "the rms intensities in these resulting spectra were calculated in bins of about 25 pixels .",
    "the values for the rms in each bin were fitted with 4th order polynomials . these polynomials",
    "then give an estimate of the local rms at each location in the spectra .",
    "the uncertainty in the wavelength of the intensity peak of an emission line is a combination of the systematic uncertainties in the wavelength calibration , estimated to be 5 % of the resolution , and the uncertainty in the measurement of the peak position , estimated to be ( fwhm @xmath36 ) , where @xmath37 is the signal to noise ratio of the observed emission line ( e.g. condon 1989 ) . the weighted average of the redshifts of the peaks of the emission lines has been taken as the redshift of the radio galaxies .",
    "the uncertainties in the redshift determination were calculated in two ways .",
    "first , it was calculated from a weighted average of the uncertainties in the peak positions of the identified lines .",
    "secondly , it was calculated from the differences between the observed redshift of the source and the redshifts of the individual lines . since some of the lines have velocity shifts with respect to other lines ( see below ) , these two errors are not always in agreement .",
    "the uncertainty in the redshift , given in table 2 , is the largest of these two values .",
    "especially the ly@xmath5 emission line may be affected by hi absorption so that the true centroid of the ly@xmath5 emission line is not well determined by a gaussian fit .",
    "this may cause a different redshift for the ly@xmath5 line than for the other emission lines in the spectrum ( see sects .",
    "4.2 and 5.4 ) , thus contributing to the uncertainty in the redshift .",
    "the deconvolved widths ( fwhm ) of the lines were determined assuming that the lines are gaussian .",
    "we note that from observations of the ly@xmath5 emission at resolutions of a factor 10 higher than the observations presented here it is clear that the line profiles can be very complex @xcite .",
    "the deconvolved width presented here is therefore only a rough estimate of the true width .",
    "the formal uncertainty in the deconvolved width ( fwhm ) is a combination of ( i ) the uncertainty due to the signal to noise ratio of the line , estimated to be ( fwhm@xmath38 ) ( e.g. condon 1989 ) and ( ii ) the uncertainty in the resolution , estimated to be 10 % .",
    "if the fitted fwhm is less than the resolution or the determination of the deconvolved fwhm is less than its error , then the error in the deconvolved fwhm is taken as the upper - limit to the deconvolved fwhm .",
    "the line flux was obtained by summing the intensities of the pixels above the determined continuum over a wavelength range of size 4 times the width ( fwhm ) of the line and centred at the peak of the emission line .",
    "the error in the flux determination is calculated taking into account ( i ) the signal to noise ratio of the line and ( ii ) the error in the flux calibration , estimated to be 10% .",
    "we note that in general the emission region will be significantly more extended than the width of the slit and that therefore the fluxes of the lines are a lower limit to the total flux of the emission line .",
    "the rest - frame equivalent width of each line was determined as the ratio of the line intensity to the local continuum intensity divided by @xmath39 . since the continuum emission from our targets is faint , in a significant number of cases only an upper limit to the continuum could be determined , yielding a lower limit to the equivalent width .    in general the spatial extent of the ly@xmath5 emission line",
    "was observed to be significantly larger than the point spread function determined by the seeing .",
    "the angular size was determined by measuring the distance ( in arcseconds ) between the most extreme spatial points where ly@xmath5 was detected on the two - dimensional spectrum , i.e. at a limiting surface brightness in the spectra of typically 10@xmath40 erg s@xmath7 @xmath41 @xmath7 arcsec@xmath7 .",
    "this measurement is clearly dependent on parameters such as seeing and signal to noise ratio of the line and therefore the tabulated values should be taken only as an indication of the size .",
    "furthermore , it is clear from narrow band imaging that the morphology of the ly@xmath5 emission is usually complex and non - spherical .",
    "hence , extensions in directions other than the slit direction ( along the radio axis ) will differ from the tabulated values presented here . the higher ionization lines were usually not detected with enough signal to noise to decide whether they were spatially resolved .",
    "they may be similarly extended as the optical continuum emission from the radio galaxies ( usually 23@xmath42 ) .",
    "from our spectroscopic observations we have found redshifts for a total of 64 uss radio sources , of which 29 are at redshifts larger than 2 . in fig .",
    "1 the individual spectra of the objects with @xmath4 are presented .",
    "the lines that we have identified are indicated in the plots of the spectra .",
    "we also have indicated with the symbol @xmath43 , where the spectra are severely affected by badly subtracted sky - lines . in a large fraction of such cases",
    "we excluded the affected pixels and therefore the residual sky - lines are absent on the plots of the spectra . in table 2 the redshifts of the objects with @xmath44 plus the relevant parameters of the emission lines in the spectra are presented .",
    "table 3 lists the sources with redshifts smaller than 1.9 . in the case of three objects for which only one emission line was detected",
    ", the redshift needs confirmation and is shown in parentheses .",
    "the redshift distribution of our sample of radio galaxies is shown in fig .",
    "2 .    from a few objects broad emission lines were observed ( @xmath45 km s@xmath7 fwhm ) and they are therefore probably quasars .",
    "the broad line objects with @xmath0 are 1113@xmath46178 and 1436 + 157 .",
    "the latter object is a quasar with a possible companion galaxy within the extended ly@xmath5 halo of the quasar , oriented along the radio axis .",
    "because no obvious line emission was detected from the companion , we can not definitely say whether this is an associated quasar  galaxy pair .",
    "statistical evidence for the preferential occurrence of companion galaxies in the direction of the radio axis was provided by the @xmath20 band images of our sample of radio sources @xcite .",
    "however , line emission was usually observed only from one of both objects , as in the case of 0828 + 193 at @xmath47 and the above mentioned 1436 + 157 at @xmath48 .",
    "therefore for these individual cases it is unclear whether both objects are at the same redshift . only in 1707 + 105 at @xmath49",
    "is the ly@xmath5 emission observed to have two clear spatial peaks corresponding to the @xmath20 band positions of two galaxies oriented along the radio axis .      in the following",
    "we shall investigate the properties of the emission lines and the presence of correlations between the derived emission lines properties of the radio galaxies with redshifts larger than 1.9 ( all objects from table 2 ) .",
    "we do not include the two objects with broad ( @xmath50 km s@xmath7 fwhm ) emission lines in the analysis .",
    "thus , the sample for which we search for correlations of the properties consists of 28 hzrgs .",
    "ly@xmath5 is the strongest and most spatially extended emission line in the spectra of our hzrgs .",
    "the measured spatial extent of ly@xmath5 along the slit ranges from a few arcseconds to 16 arcseconds , corresponding to @xmath51 to 140 kpc . in fig .",
    "3 we show the distribution of ly@xmath5 luminosities .",
    "the large spatial extent of ly@xmath5 along the slit indicates that the ly@xmath5 extent perpendicular to the slit may be larger than the slit width ( @xmath52 ) .",
    "therefore , it is possible that the true ly@xmath5 luminosities are a factor of @xmath29 higher than measured in our spectra .",
    "roughly 80% of the radio galaxies have ly@xmath5 luminosities larger than 10@xmath53 erg s@xmath7 . given the sensitivities of our spectroscopy ( see rttgering 1993 ) , this is unlikely to be a selection effect .",
    "the ly@xmath5 luminosities are comparable to the radio luminosities of the radio galaxies and also comparable to the luminosities of extended ly@xmath5 emission observed in high redshift radio loud quasars @xcite .    assuming a volume filling factor of the emission line gas of 10@xmath54 as derived from sulphur emission lines of low redshift radio galaxies @xcite , the ly@xmath5 luminosities of the radio galaxies imply masses in ionized gas of a few times 10@xmath55 to a few times 10@xmath56 m@xmath57",
    "( see also van ojik 1995a and 1995b ) .",
    "the equivalent widths of the various emission lines ( ly@xmath5 , civ , heii , ciii ] ) are plotted against each other in fig .",
    "4 . in the cases where the continuum level could not be measured ,",
    "lower limits to the equivalent widths were determined . in a few cases where",
    "an emission line was not detected but the continuum could be measured , an upper limit to the equivalent width of the line was determined .",
    "we find that the rest frame equivalent widths of all 4 lines are strongly correlated with each other .",
    "spearman rank analysis of the correlations give confidence levels of more than 99% .",
    "the strongest and most obvious correlations are visible between the equivalent widths of the higher ionization lines ( civ , heii , ciii ] )",
    ". the correlations with the ly@xmath5 equivalent width are less significant .",
    "we note that most of the lower limits imply that the true correlations between the equivalent widths might be even stronger than seen in fig .",
    "4 . we found no evidence for correlations of the equivalent widths with other properties of the radio galaxies within our sample ( radio size , luminosity , distortion , spectral index ) .",
    "in many cases we find that the redshifts of the peak intensities determined using gaussian fits to the individual emission lines in a spectrum differ by more than the combined errors in the redshifts of the individual lines .",
    "the rms - uncertainties in the wavelength calibration are typically less than 2  , corresponding to @xmath58 km s@xmath7 , while the measured velocity shifts between the lines are between several hundreds and sometimes almost @xmath59 km s@xmath7 .    to establish the reality of these shifts we must ensure that there are no systematic errors in our wavelength determination .",
    "an uncertain wavelength determination may occur when an emission line occurs at a wavelength outside the range of the lines emitted by the calibration lamp , so that the wavelengths are determined by extrapolation rather than by interpolation from the calibration lines .",
    "this is the case for 0448 + 091 , where ly@xmath5 is at 3692    and the detections of civ , heii and ciii ] are marginal . in the observing session during which 0448 + 091 was observed ( wht january 1991 ) there were few calibration lines in the far blue .",
    "the bluest usable calibration line was at 4131  .",
    "thus , the ly@xmath5 emission line was 340   blueward of the nearest calibration line .",
    "this extrapolation may well have caused an erroneous determination of the wavelength of ly@xmath5 and we therefore ignore this galaxy in considering the velocity correlations . during the other observing sessions",
    "there were no such problems and calibration lines were available down to 3888  .    finally , there is the problem is the presence of strong skylines . in the objects",
    "0529@xmath46549 , 0828 + 193 and 4c26.38 the civ emission line is affected by the 5577   skyline . we have therefore excluded these three objects in the following analysis of the velocity shifts .",
    "after also leaving out 1243 + 036 for which ly@xmath5 was the only detected emission line in the spectrum , the final sample for which we have carried out the velocity shift analysis consists of 23 hzrgs .",
    "the determined velocity shifts between the various emission lines and their uncertaintes are listed in table 4 . in this table",
    "negative values indicate that the first line is redshifted with respect to the second .",
    "although the uncertainties on most velocity shifts are large and the shifts have only a 23 @xmath60 significance , the presence of velocity shifts in the sample is statistically significant ( see below ) .    in fig .",
    "5 we show the velocity shifts between the emission lines ly@xmath5 , civ , heii and ciii ] plotted against each other .",
    "several correlations between the velocity differences are apparent : strong correlations are present between the measured velocity differences of the higher ionization lines with respect to ly@xmath5",
    ". objects with larger velocity shifts in one high ionization line with respect to ly@xmath5 tend to show also larger shifts of the other high ionization lines with respect to ly@xmath5 .",
    "this is strong evidence that there is a real systematic shift between the redshift of the peak intensity of ly@xmath5 with respect to the other lines .    from fig .",
    "5 it can also be seen that in almost all objects civ is redshifted with respect to both heii and ciii ] . the average shift of civ with respect to heii is @xmath61 km s@xmath7 and civ with respect to ciii ] is @xmath62 km s@xmath7 .",
    "there may also be a correlation between the velocity differences of civ with heii and civ with ciii ] , although the errors on the individual points of the plot are larger than in the case of the first three correlations .",
    "one object that has a relatively large offset in the plots from the other objects and relatively large uncertainties is 1138 - 262 .",
    "this radio galaxy is a very peculiar galaxy , both from its @xmath20 band image , where it is an extremely clumpy galaxy @xcite , and from a high resolution radio image @xcite , where it appears as a string of radio knots .",
    "furthermore , the high resolution ly@xmath5 spectrum reveals that it has a very peculiar velocity structure @xcite .",
    "although it has these peculiarities which may be the cause of its particular position in the velocity plots , we have no reason to believe that our velocity determination has any systematic error as in the case of 0448 + 091 .",
    "we find from a spearman rank analysis that the correlations of velocity shifts of the higher ionization with respect to ly@xmath5 are significant at a confidence level of more than 99% .",
    "the apparent ( civ  heii)(civ  ciii ] ) correlation would have a formal significance in a spearman rank analysis of 95% , but the errors on the individual points are too large to allow a spearman rank analysis . furthermore",
    ", if the previously mentioned radio galaxy 1138 - 262 is omitted , the correlation becomes insignificant ( 85% ) .",
    "thus , we conclude that this apparent correlation is not statistically significant .",
    "no significant correlations were found between the other velocity differences .",
    "thus , the three most significant correlations in the velocity shifts indicate that there is frequently a velocity shift between the ly@xmath5 line and the higher ionization lines .    summarizing",
    ", we find that in many cases significant velocity shifts between emission lines are present .",
    "velocity shifts of ly@xmath5 with higher ionization lines are strongly correlated and civ appears to be mostly redshifted with respect to heii and ciii ] .",
    "a comparison with velocity shifts earlier reported in quasars and radio galaxies @xcite and their possible interpretation will be discussed in a next section .",
    "the technique of selecting ultra steep spectrum radio sources , has proven to be very successful in finding distant radio galaxies . in total we have obtained spectra of 147 objects , of which for 64 ( 44% ) we have been able to determine a redshift . from the remaining objects no clear emission lines were observed .",
    "there are four possible explanations for the failure to detect emission lines in these objects .",
    "first , the objects did not have emission lines of sufficient strength to be detectable in the given atmospheric conditions and sensitivities .",
    "secondly , many of these sources may be at redshifts between @xmath63 and @xmath64 , where there are no extremely strong emission lines visible in the optical window .",
    "thirdly , some objects may be at @xmath65 , where ly@xmath5 is shifted beyond the red of the window to be observable .",
    "fourthly , there may have been some unseen errors in the telescope pointing .    of the 147 objects observed , 29 ( 19.7% )",
    "are at redshifts larger than 2 , which shows that the uss selection is indeed an efficient way of finding very distant radio galaxies .",
    "taking into account the preselections from vla imaging of @xmath66 sources and from @xmath20 band ccd imaging of @xmath67 objects , we can say that of the radio sources with spectral index @xmath1 , radio size @xmath25 and faint optical identification ( @xmath68 ) , roughly 1 in 5 objects is at a redshift larger than 2 .    to further assess the efficiency of the uss selection technique we examined the relation between redshift and spectral index . in fig .",
    "6 we plot this relation for a total of 108 radio galaxies , where the spectral index is that defined between the lowest available frequency above 150 mhz and 5 ghz .",
    "apart from our uss sources ( selected @xmath1 ) , this plot also includes radio galaxies from the molonglo survey ( @xmath69 , mccarthy et al .",
    "1990a , 1990b ) , the bologna radio catalogue ( @xmath69 , mccarthy et al . 1991 ; lilly 1988 ) , 8c @xcite and 6c @xcite .    from this plot",
    "we see that there is a clear trend for the higher redshift sources to have steeper radio spectra .",
    "the median spectral index of all sources is @xmath70 . at @xmath71",
    "the median spectral index is @xmath72 , at redshifts between 1 and 2 it is @xmath73 , at redshifts between 2 and 3 it is @xmath74 and at @xmath2 the median spectral index is @xmath75 a spearman rank correlation analysis shows that the correlation between spectral index and redshift is present at a confidence level of more than 99.9% . if only considering the radio galaxies at redshifts larger than 1 , this correlation is still significant at the 98% confidence level .",
    "particularly , for the steepest spectra the efficiency of the technique in finding the most radio distant radio galaxies is remarkable .",
    "of all sources with radio spectra steeper than @xmath76 almost 30%@xmath7715% are at redshifts larger than 3 , compared with only 3%@xmath772% of the sources with spectral index between @xmath78 and @xmath76 .",
    "this continued steepening of the observed radio spectra with redshift can be understood as the effects of the `` k  correction '' at radio wavelengths : there is a well known tendency of radio sources to have spectra which steepen at higher frequencies . for objects at higher redshifts the receivers sample higher emitted frequencies and steeper spectra .",
    "evidence that the intrinsic radio spectra of hzrgs indeed continue to steepen to higher frequencies comes from 5 and 8 ghz vla observations of our sample @xcite .",
    "an additional effect that could contribute is that the radio emission would have an intrinsically steeper spectrum at a fixed rest frame frequency due to increased inverse compton losses from scattering of the microwave background , which is stronger at higher redshifts ( krolik & chen 1991 ; see also blumenthal & miley 1979 ; chambers et al .",
    "1990 ) .",
    "further it has been suggested that the spectral index might be linked to the total radio power @xcite possibly due to the density of the environment .",
    "because we are observing a flux limited radio sample , the objects at the highest redshifts may have a larger average radio power .",
    "however , at @xmath0 the range in radio power of the sources is relatively small .",
    "there is no evidence for a correlation between radio power and the spectral index of the @xmath0 sources ( see carilli et al .",
    "although a mechanism in which a denser environment of a radio source ( as might be expected around primeval galaxies in the early universe ) may cause the radio lobes to have a steeper spectrum , the most plausible cause for the strong relation of spectral index with redshift , remains the steepening of the radio spectrum at higher rest frame frequencies with a possible contribution from increased inverse compton losses due to the more intense microwave background at high redshifts .",
    "although there appears to be an abrupt decrease in the observed number of radio galaxies at redshifts @xmath2 , this does not necessarily imply a real decrease in the space density of radio galaxies at those redshifts ( e.g. dunlop & peacock 1990 ) .",
    "a nice way to test for evolution beyond a defined redshift @xmath79 is to use a modified version of the @xmath80@xmath81@xmath82 test , the `` binned '' @xmath80@xmath83@xmath82 ( e.g. osmer & smith 1980 ) .",
    "for such a test it is important that the flux limit of a survey is well established .",
    "the flux limits for our samples of uss sources are not well defined for three reasons .",
    "first , our sample from the texas catalogue and the sample from the 4c survey do not have a well determined flux limit . at low flux levels ( @xmath84 jy for the texas catalogue and @xmath85 jy for 4c ) the surveys are incomplete .",
    "secondly , the actual flux limit for the texas catalogue is a function of source morphology .",
    "thirdly , the selection on spectral index by combining two radio catalogues increases the flux limit at low frequencies for sources with steeper spectra .",
    "this poorly known flux limit introduces an error in the @xmath80@xmath83@xmath82 of at least 0.10.2 ( see rttgering 1993 ) .",
    "therefore we conclude that our present sample of uss radio galaxies , does not allow us to decide whether there is a decrease in source density at the highest redshifts .",
    "three important ionization mechanisms that have been considered for the emission line regions of radio galaxies are shock ionization from the interaction with the radio lobes , photoionization by hot stars and photoionization by the active nucleus . in general",
    ", the line ratios of radio galaxies and the rest frame equivalent width of ly@xmath5 are not well reproduced by shock ionization models , nor by hot stars , and photoionization by a nuclear uv continuum appears to be the dominant mechanism of ionization @xcite .",
    "the strong correlations between the equivalent width of the emission lines found for our sample is further support that the emission lines are all produced by the same ionization mechanism and are consistent with central photoionization .",
    "velocity shifts between different emission lines in the spectrum of quasars occur frequently . for the broad lines of quasars ,",
    "the high ionization lines and ly@xmath5 are systematically blueshifted with respect to the low ionization lines and h@xmath5 by as much as 4000 km s@xmath7 @xcite .",
    "these velocity shifts have been attributed to outflow of highly ionized gas from the active nucleus in combination with obscuration of the far side of the quasar s emission line region .",
    "the characteristics of the velocity shifts in our hzrgs are quite different from those of quasars .",
    "not only are the shifts generally smaller , but also the shifting of the peak of the ly@xmath5 line with respect to the peak of the higher ionization lines is not observed in quasars , where ly@xmath5 together with the higher ionization lines are shifted with respect tot the lower ionization lines and h@xmath5 .",
    "furthermore , in quasars the shifts are observed in the broad line region , i.e. on a very different scale than the narrow line region of radio galaxies .",
    "it is therefore plausible that the origin of the velocity shifts between the emission lines in hzrgs is different from that in quasars .",
    "we consider two explanations for the occurrence of the velocity shifts in our sample of hzrgs .",
    "first , the spatial distribution and the velocity field of the high ionization lines and the ly@xmath5 emission lines are not necessarily the same and could lead to the observed velocity shifts . in radio galaxies",
    "there have been reports of velocity shifts of up to @xmath86 km s@xmath7 between the emission lines @xcite .",
    "these have also been proposed to be related to the nuclear activity @xcite or to be due to inflow or outflow on the near side of the galaxy , with obscuration of the emission from the far side of the galaxy @xcite .",
    "secondly , a large fraction ( 60 % ) of hzrg show the presence of strong associated hi absorption in spectra of ly@xmath5 emission at a resolution a magnitude higher than the spectra presented in this paper ( rttgering et al . 1995a ; van ojik et al .",
    "1996b ) . in most cases",
    "the ly@xmath5 emission is absorbed at wavelengths blueward of the peak of the ly@xmath5 emission , resulting in a red - shift of the peak of the ly@xmath5 emission when observed at low resolution .",
    "since the observed correlations appear to be mainly due to the ly@xmath5 emission line shifting with respect to the higher ionization lines , this indicates that hi absorption systems may play a role in producing the observed velocity shifts . in the next paragraph",
    "this will be further considered .",
    "because of resonant scattering of ly@xmath5 photons , associated hi absorption systems can produce a strong absorption feature in the ly@xmath5 emission profile that alters the shape of the line .",
    "when observed at low spectral resolution this may result in a slightly different redshift for the ly@xmath5 line than for the higher ionization lines .",
    "an absorber located at a small blueshift ( or redshift ) with respect to ly@xmath5 will cause a slightly higher ( or lower ) redshift for the measured peak of ly@xmath5 . to investigate whether the effect of associated hi absorption systems on ly@xmath5 could indeed produce the range of observed velocity shifts , we have simulated the profile which would be observed if a ly@xmath5 emission line with associated hi absorption was observed at low spectral resolution .",
    "we assume that the original emission line profile of ly@xmath5 is gaussian .",
    "an absorption feature is produced in the emission line profile by convolving it with a voigt profile for a given hi column density and offset velocity from the ly@xmath5 emission peak .",
    "the resultant theoretical profile of ly@xmath5 emission with absorption feature is then convolved with the instrumental resolution .",
    "the peak position of this simulated `` observed '' profile is determined and gives the offset velocity with respect to the peak of the original gaussian ly@xmath5 emission line profile .",
    "we have carried out the simulations for an instrumental spectral resolution of 20  ( fwhm ) which is representative for our observations , and an observing wavelength of 4000   for ly@xmath5 , so that the instrumental resolution is 1500 km s@xmath7 .",
    "the parameters that influence the resultant ly@xmath5 velocity shift are the offset velocity of the hi absorption system , the hi column density , the doppler parameter ( @xmath87 ) of the absorber , and the width of the original gaussian ly@xmath5 emission line . from the high resolution observations of 0943@xmath46242",
    "@xcite it was found that the hi absorption system has a column density of @xmath88 @xmath41 with a doppler parameter of 55 km s@xmath7 , while the velocity width of the original ly@xmath5 emission profile was estimated to be 1575 km s@xmath7 .",
    "the velocity width of ly@xmath5 is usually in the range of 10001500 km s@xmath7 ( fwhm ) ( e.g. mccarthy 1993 ; see also section 3 and van ojik et al .",
    "therefore , we shall assume similar parameters of the ly@xmath5 emission and hi absorption systems for our simulations .",
    "column densities range from 10@xmath89 to 10@xmath90 @xmath41 , doppler parameters of the absorption systems range from 2575 km s@xmath7 and the offset velocity of the absorber is varied from 0 to 1500 km s@xmath7 we have performed the simulations for input gaussian emission lines of widths 1800 , 1500 and 1000 km s@xmath7 ( fwhm ) .",
    "figure 7 shows the resultant velocity shifts for the observed ly@xmath5 profile as a function of absorber offset .",
    "the solid lines are for column densities 10@xmath91 , 10@xmath92 and 10@xmath93 @xmath41 with @xmath94 km s@xmath7 . for each column density",
    "the lower and upper dashed / dotted lines indicate the shifts for @xmath95 and @xmath96 km s@xmath7 .",
    "the different plots are for ly@xmath5 velocity widths of 1800 , 1500 and 1000 km s@xmath7 ( fwhm ) .",
    "figure 7 also shows the amount of flux that remains after hi absorption as a function of absorber offset , for hi column densities and ly@xmath5 widths the same as above .",
    "the solid lines are for @xmath94 km s@xmath7 , while lower and upper dotted lines now correspond to @xmath96 and @xmath95 km s@xmath7 .",
    "figure 8 indicates the maximum shift of the ly@xmath5 peak that can be produced by hi absorption systems of different column densities and doppler parameters .",
    "we find from these simulations that , depending on the velocity width of ly@xmath5 emission line , hi absorption systems can produce velocity shifts in the observed peak of ly@xmath5 emission of 100600 km s@xmath7 for hi column densities of 10@xmath9110@xmath93 @xmath41 .",
    "such velocity shifts are comparable with the velocity shifts observed in our sample of radio galaxies .",
    "thus , the velocity shifts between ly@xmath5 and the higher ionization lines could be explained if the majority of hzrgs have strong ( n(hi ) @xmath97@xmath98 @xmath41 ) associated absorption .",
    "however , the presence of associated hi absorption systems can not be the cause for all observed velocity shifts between the various emission lines .",
    "of the objects with significant velocity shifts , there are at least five with known strong hi absorption in the ly@xmath5 line @xcite , but also four that do not have strong associated hi absorption .",
    "these last objects actually have some of the largest observed significant velocity shifts between the emission lines .",
    "furthermore , the origin of the observed systematic shift of civ with respect to heii and ciii ] is unclear .",
    "possibly , different velocity profiles cause the observed shifts between these emission lines if they originate from different regions in the galaxies .",
    "we note that civ is also sensitive to absorption .",
    "however , for an hi absorption with high column density ( @xmath99 @xmath41 ) , the associated civ absorption column density is usually a factor 10@xmath1010@xmath11 lower ( e.g. bergeron & stasiska 1988 ) and will not have a very strong effect on the position of the peak of the line .",
    "thus , hi absorption systems can not be the only cause of velocity shifts .",
    "additional mechanisms such as outflow or inflow combined with obscuration , as proposed for quasars , or radio source induced displacements must be important .",
    "it is well known that the major axes of the optical continuum and the radio emission of radio galaxies at @xmath100 are aligned , while low redshift radio galaxies have a weak tendency to have the optical minor axis aligned with the radio axis @xcite .",
    "interpretations of the `` alignment effect '' include jet - induced star formation and scattering of anisotropically emitted nuclear continuum @xcite .",
    "the @xmath20 band continuum of many of the @xmath101 radio galaxies is contaminated by strong emission lines extended in the direction of the radio axis .",
    "such strong extended emission lines might cause the alignment effect , which is often measured at the lowest flux levels of the extended emission .",
    "it has therefore been suggested that the observed alignment does not involve the optical continuum ( e.g. meisenheimer et al . 1994 ) . at redshifts of @xmath23 ,",
    "the strong [ oii]@xmath343727 emission line is in @xmath20 band .",
    "this emission line is usually spatially extended in the direction of the radio axis ( see mccarthy et al .",
    "at redshifts between 1.9 and 3 , however , there are no strong emission lines in @xmath20 band .",
    "the only significant emission line present in @xmath20 band at these redshifts might be ciii]@xmath341909 .",
    "from the measured equivalent widths measured for our sample of hzrgs we deduce that ciii ] contributes less than 10% to the @xmath20 band flux and often less than 5% . although ciii ] may be slightly spatially resolved , it is very unlikely that it would cause a strong alignment .    for 18 of the @xmath4 objects of the leiden uss compendium we have the radio position angle from 20 cm",
    "vla maps @xcite and an @xmath20 band image from which we could reliably determine the optical position angle @xcite .",
    "figure 9 shows the difference between the optical continuum axis and the radio axis for these 18 objects , divided into two groups with less than 5% line contamination in @xmath20 band and with line contamination between 5% and 10% .",
    "the alignment is similarly strong for both subsets , indicating that the minor contamination by line emission from ciii ] in @xmath20 band does not play a role .",
    "this plot provides further evidence that the previously inferred alignment between the optical continuum of hzrgs and the radio structure is real .",
    "the observed differences between steep spectrum quasars and radio galaxies have been explained as merely due to whether the radio source axis is more closely aligned with the line of sight ( quasars ) or in the plane of the sky ( galaxies)(see antonucci 1993 and references therein ) .",
    "clearly this model predicts that the projected linear sizes of quasars should on average be smaller than that of radio galaxies .",
    "barthel ( 1989 ) found that steep - spectrum quasars with @xmath102 have sizes that are systematically smaller than radio galaxies with @xmath102 by a factor 2.2 , indicating a cone angle of @xmath103 along which the quasar can be seen .",
    "gopal - krishna and kulkarni ( 1992 ) have obtained a similar results for a sample of radio sources with @xmath104 . at low redshift",
    ", it seems that there is a relative shortage of observed steep spectrum quasars @xcite , indicating that the simple unification scheme with a fixed cone angle breaks down at low @xmath105 .",
    "we have compared the radio source size distribution for the @xmath0 uss radio galaxies presented here with the radio source sizes for the @xmath0 quasars from the quasar sample studied by barthel and miley @xcite ( see fig .",
    "10 ) . in both cases the linear sizes have been calculated using a hubble constant of @xmath106 km s@xmath7 mpc@xmath7 and a decelaration parameter of @xmath107 .",
    "the mean angular radio size of the quasars is @xmath108 and of the uss radio galaxies @xmath109 .",
    "the ratio between the sizes is 2.2 , the same factor as has been found for the lower redshift objects . within the context of the model of barthel",
    ", this would imply that the cone angle of @xmath103 that had been found for the sources with @xmath110 also holds at high redshift .",
    "however , there are two selection effects . first",
    ", as we have pointed out previously , there is an angular size bias in the uss sample in favour of small radio angular sizes .",
    "secondly , the radio galaxies all have have been selected to have ultra - steep spectral indices , whereas the quasars form a proper flux limited sample with a median spectral index of @xmath111 .",
    "we show the projected linear size of the radio galaxies and quasars as a function of spectral index in fig .",
    "this shows evidence that the steepest - spectrum quasars tend indeed to be the largest . restricting the sample to uss quasars , the 4 remaining sources are too few for a meaning full statistical comparison with the uss radio galaxies .",
    "we therefore conclude that the difference in the source size distribution for the @xmath0 uss radio galaxies and radio galaxies is merely tentative .",
    "a proper comparison between the sizes of radio galaxies and quasars should include data covering a similar range of spectral indices for each species .",
    "in this paper we have presented spectroscopic results for galaxies associated with 64 ultra steep spectrum radio sources . of these radio galaxies ,",
    "29 are at @xmath0 and the three highest redshifts are 3.6 , 3.8 and 3.8 .",
    "our ultra steep spectrum ( uss ) criterion ( @xmath1 ) has proven to be the most efficient way of finding distant radio galaxies .",
    "we find that even among the uss sources , there is a strong correlation between the spectral index and redshift .",
    "the most distant radio galaxies within the uss sample have the steepest radio spectra .",
    "in our sample there are 3 radio galaxies at @xmath2 and 26 at @xmath3 .",
    "however , the present sample of uss radio galaxies does not allow us to decide whether there is a decrease in co - moving source density at the highest redshifts , because of the uncertain flux limit of the sample of radio sources .",
    "we have analyzed the spectra of the 30 objects with the highest redshifts ( @xmath4 ) .",
    "for these high redshift radio galaxies , ly@xmath5 is almost always the dominant emission line , with a rest frame equivalent width ranging from @xmath6   to more than 1000  .",
    "the equivalent widths of the most important emission lines ( ly@xmath5 , civ , heii , ciii ] ) are found to correlate strongly with each other . the large rest frame equivalent widths and the correlation between the equivalent widths of the emission lines , confirm that photoionization by a central continuum source is most likely the dominant ionization mechanism .",
    "there are significant velocity differences between the various emission lines of our high redshift radio galaxies ; mainly the ly@xmath5 line is shifted with respect to the higher ionization lines .",
    "velocity shifts range from 100 to almost 1000 km s@xmath7 in some cases .",
    "simulations show that the effects of associated hi absorption on the ly@xmath5 emission line may be responsible for most of these velocity shifts . however",
    ", in at least a few objects , other mechanisms such as organized kinematics of the ly@xmath5 emission line gas ( e.g. inflow or outflow ) and obscuration of the line emission from the far side of the galaxy must play a role .",
    "the sample of objects discussed here is well suited for follow - up observations .",
    "various detailed studies of their properties are presented in other papers or are underway , both with ground - based telescopes and with the hst .",
    "we acknowledge support from an eu twinning project , funding from the high - z programme subsidy granted by the netherlands organization for scientific research ( nwo ) and a nato research grant .",
    "the work by wvb for this project was performed at igpp / llnl under the auspices of the u.s .",
    "dept . of energy under contract w-7405-eng-48 .",
    "antonucci r. , 1993 , , 473    barthel p.  d. , 1989 , , 606    barthel p.  d. , miley g.  k. , 1988 , , 319    baum s.  a. , heckman t.  m. , 1989a , , 681    baum s.  a. , heckman t.  m. , 1989b , , 702    baum s.  a. , heckman t.  m. , van breugel w. , 1992 , , 208    begelman m.  c. , cioffi d.  f. , 1989 , , l21    bergeron j. , stasiska g. , 1986 , , 1    blumenthal g. , miley g. , 1979 , , 13    carilli c.  l. , rttgering , van ojik r. , h. j.  a. , miley g.  k. , van breugel w. , 1996 , submitted    carswell r.  f. , mountain c.  m. , robertson d.  j. , et al . , 1991 , , l5    chambers k.  c. , miley g. , 1989 , in : kron , r.  g. ( ed . ) the evolution of the universe of galaxies : the edwin hubble centennial symposium .",
    "san francisco : astron .",
    "society of the pacific , p. 373",
    "chambers k.  c. , miley g. , van breugel w. , 1988 , , l47    chambers k.  c. , miley g.  k. , van breugel w. , 1987 , , 604    chambers k.  c. , miley g.  k. , van breugel w. j.  m. , 1990 , , 21    chambers k.  c. , miley g.  k. , van breugel w. j.  m. , huang j. , 1996 , submitted    chambers k.  c. , miley g.  k. , van breugel w. j.  m. , et al . , 1996 , submitted    charlot s. , fall s.  m. , 1993 , , 580    condon j. , 1989 , , 13    condon j. , broderick j. , 1985 , , 2450    condon j. , broderick j. , 1986 , , 1051    condon j. , broderick j. , seielstad g. , 1989 , , 1064    corbin m.  r. , 1990 , , 346    dey a. , cimatti a. , van breugel w. , antonucci r. , spinrad h. , 1995 , submitted    di  serego  alighieri s. , fosbury r. a.  e. , tadhunter p. q.  c. , 1989 , , 307    douglas j.  n. , bash f. , torrence g.  w. , wolfe c. , 1980 , , 1    dunlop j. , peacock j. , 1990 , , 19    eales s.  a. , rawlings s. , dickinson m. , et al .",
    ", 1993a , , 578    eales s.  a. , rawlings s. , puxley p. , rocca - volmerange b. , kuntz k. , 1993b , , 140    espey b.  r. , carswell r.  f. , bailey j.  a. , smith m.  g. , ward m.  j. , 1989 , , 666    fanaroff b.  l. , riley j.  m. , 1974 , , 31    ferland g. , osterbrock d. , 1986 , , 658    ferland g. , osterbrock d. , 1987 , , 145    gaskell c.  m. , 1982 , , 79    gopal  krishna , kulkarni v. k. , 1982 , , 11    hales s. e.  g. , baldwin j.  e. , warner p.  j. , 1988 , , 919    heckman t.  m. , lehnert m.  d. , miley g.  k. , van breugel w. , 1991 , , 373    heckman t.  m. , van breugel w. j.  m. , balick b. , butcher h.  r. , 1982 , , 529    kapahi v.k . , 1990 , in : zensus j. a. , pearson t. j. ( eds . ) parsec - scale radio jets .",
    "krolik j.  h. , chen w. , 1991 , , 1659    lacy m. , miley g. , rawlings s. , et al . , 1994a , , 504    lacy m. , rawlings s. , warner p.  j. , 1992 , , 404    laing r. , peacock j.  a. , 1980 , , 903    large m.  i. , mills b.  y. , little a.  g. , crawford d.  f. , sutton j.  m. , 1981 , , 693    lilly s. , 1988 , , 161    mccarthy p.  j. , van breugel w. , kapahi v.  k. , 1991 , , 478    mccarthy p. , 1991",
    ", , 518    mccarthy p. , spinrad h. , van breugel w. , et al .",
    ", 1990a , , 487    mccarthy p. , van breugel w. , spinrad h. , djorgovski s. , 1987 , , l29    mccarthy p.  j. , 1993 , , 639    mccarthy p.  j. , kapahi v.  k. , van breugel w. , subrahmanya c. , 1990b , , 100    meiseneimer k. , hippelein h. , neeser m. , 1994 , in : bicknell g.  v. , dopita m.  a. , quinn p.  j. ( eds . ) the first stromlo conference : the physics of active galaxies .",
    "54 , p. 397",
    "miley g. , chambers k. , 1989 , in : meurs e.  j.  a. , fosbury r.  a.  e. ( eds . ) eso workshop on extranuclear activity in galaxies , p.  43",
    "osmer p.  s. , smith m.  g. , 1980 , , 333    osterbrock d.  e. , 1989 , , mill valey : university science books    pentericci l. , miley g.  k. , rttgering h. j.  a. , van ojik r. , 1996 , in preparation    rees m.  j. , 1989 , , 1p    rees n. , 1990 , , 233    rttgering h. j.  a. , 1993 , , university of leiden    rttgering h. j.  a. , lacy m. , miley g.  k. , chambers k.  c. , saunders r. , 1994 , , 79    rttgering h. j.  a. , hunstead r. , miley g.  k. , van ojik r. , wieringa m.  h. , 1995 , , 389    rttgering h. j.  a. , miley g.  k. , chambers k.  c. , 1996a , , 51    rttgering h. j.  a. , west m.  j. , miley g.  k. , chambers k.  c. , 1996b , , 307 376    spinrad h. , 1986 , , 601    tadhunter c.  n. , 1991 , , 46p    tadhunter c.  n. , scarrott s. , draper p. , rolph c. , 1992 , , 53p    tielens a. , miley g. , willis a. , 1979 , , 153    van breugel w. j.  m. , miley g.  k. , heckman t.  m. , butcher h. , bridle a. , 1985 , , 496    van ojik r. , rttgering h. j.  a. , carilli c. , et al .",
    ", 1996a , , in press    van ojik r. , rttgering h. j.  a. , miley g.  k. , hunstead r.  w. , 1996b , , submitted    wilkes b.  j. , 1984 , , 73",
    "* fig . 1 . * one dimensional spectra of @xmath4 uss sources    * fig",
    ". 1 . *  continued .    * fig . 1 . *  continued .",
    "* fig . 1 . *  continued .    * fig",
    " continued .    * fig . 1 . *  continued .    * fig . 1 . *  continued .    * fig",
    " continued .    * fig .",
    "* redshift distribution of the uss radio galaxies in our sample whose redshifts could be determined    * fig .",
    "* distribution of the ly@xmath5 luminosities    * fig .",
    "* the rest frame equivalent widths of the emission lines ly@xmath5 , civ , heii and ciii ] plotted against each other .",
    "lower limits are indicated in the plot as upward and rightward pointing arrows , upper limits as downward and leftward pointing arrows    * fig .",
    "the velocity shifts between the emission lines ly@xmath5 , civ , heii and ciii ] plotted against each other    * fig . 6 .",
    "* radio spectral index plotted against redshift for 108 radio galaxies .",
    "filled dots are from our uss sample .",
    "the spectral indices are determined between the lowest available frequency above 150 mhz and 5 ghz .",
    "the open circles are also from our uss sample with redshifts obtained at lick observatory by mccarthy & van breugel ( 1994 , private communication ) .",
    "the crosses ( @xmath112 ) are from the molonglo sample of mccarthy ( 1990a,1990b ) , the pluses ( @xmath113 ) are bologna sources ( mccarthy 1991 , lilly 1988 ) , the triangles are from the 8c survey ( lacy et al . 1994 , lacy 1992 ) and",
    "the diamond is 6c1232 + 39 ( eales & rawlings 1993 ) .    * fig",
    ". 7 . * _ left ) _ velocity shifts of observed ly@xmath5 peaks produced by hi absorption systems as a function of absorber offset velocity .",
    "plots are for different n(hi ) as indicated ( in @xmath41 ) .",
    "solid lines are for @xmath94 km s@xmath7 , dashed / dotted lines are lower and upper values calculated for @xmath95 and 75 km s@xmath7 . _",
    "right ) _ flux ratios of ly@xmath5 before and after absorption with indicated hi column density .",
    "solid lines for @xmath94 km s@xmath7 , lower and upper dashed / dotted lines for @xmath96 and 25 km s@xmath7 . for more details see text    * fig .",
    "* maximum velocity shifts of the peak of ly@xmath5 as a function of hi absorption column density .",
    "the solid lines are for the indicated original widths of ly@xmath5 emission ( in units km s@xmath7 fwhm ) and @xmath94 km s@xmath7 .",
    "lower and upper dashed / dotted lines correspond to @xmath95 and @xmath96 km s@xmath7    * fig .",
    "* difference between the orientation of the optical @xmath20 band and the radio axes for 18 uss sources with @xmath114 .",
    "at these redshifts there are no strong emission lines with wavelength within the filter bandpass .",
    "the alignment is similarly strong for objects with line contaminations in @xmath20 band of 5%10% as for those objects with less than 5% line contamination    * fig .",
    "* comparison of the projected linear sizes for @xmath0 radio sources .",
    "left shows the steep spectrum quasars from the sample of barthel and miley .",
    "right shows the distribution for our uss radio galaxies    * fig . 11 . *",
    "the linear size as a function of spectral index for the @xmath0 uss radio galaxies ( left ) and quasars from the barthel and miley sample ( right )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present spectroscopic observations for 64 radio galaxies having ultra steep radio spectra . </S>",
    "<S> twenty - nine objects have redshifts @xmath0 , the largest redshifts being almost 4 . our ultra steep spectrum </S>",
    "<S> ( uss ) criterion ( @xmath1 ) has proven to be the most efficient way of finding distant radio galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we find that even among the uss sources , there is a strong statistical correlation between the spectral index and redshift . </S>",
    "<S> the most distant radio galaxies within the uss sample have the steepest radio spectra .    in our sample </S>",
    "<S> there are 3 radio galaxies at @xmath2 compared with 26 at @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> however , the present data do not allow us to decide whether there is a decrease in co - moving source density at the highest redshifts .    </S>",
    "<S> we have analyzed the spectra of the 30 objects with the highest redshifts ( @xmath4 ) . </S>",
    "<S> for these high redshift radio galaxies , ly@xmath5 is almost always the dominant emission line , with a rest frame equivalent width ranging from @xmath6   to more than 1000  . </S>",
    "<S> the equivalent widths of the most important emission lines ( ly@xmath5 , civ , heii , ciii ] ) are found to correlate strongly with each other . </S>",
    "<S> the large rest frame equivalent widths and the correlation between the equivalent widths of the emission lines , confirm that photoionization by a central continuum source is most likely the dominant ionization mechanism .    </S>",
    "<S> there are significant velocity differences between the various emission lines of our high redshift radio galaxies ; in particular the ly@xmath5 line is shifted with respect to the higher ionization lines . </S>",
    "<S> velocity shifts range from 100 to almost 1000 km s@xmath7 in some cases . </S>",
    "<S> simulations show that the effects of associated hi absorption on the ly@xmath5 emission line may be responsible for most of these velocity shifts . </S>",
    "<S> however , other mechanisms such as organized kinematics of the ly@xmath5 emission line gas ( e.g. inflow or outflow ) and obscuration of the line emission from the far side of the radio galaxy may also play a role .    </S>",
    "<S> * spectroscopy of ultra  </S>",
    "<S> steep spectrum radio sources : *    * a sample of @xmath0 radio galaxies *    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ h.j.a . </S>",
    "<S> rttgering@xmath8 , r. van ojik@xmath9 , g.k . </S>",
    "<S> miley@xmath9 , k.c . </S>",
    "<S> chambers@xmath10 , w.j.m . </S>",
    "<S> van breugel@xmath11 , s. de koff@xmath12 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ @xmath9leiden observatory , p.o . </S>",
    "<S> box 9513 , 2300 ra , leiden , the netherlands    @xmath13mullard radio astronomy observatory , cavendish laboratory , madingley road , cambridge , cb3 0he , england    @xmath14institute of astronomy , madingley road , cambridge , cb3 0 ha , england    @xmath10institute for astronomy , university of hawaii , 2680 woodlawn drive , honolulu , hawaii 96822 , usa    @xmath11institute for geophysics and planetary physics , lawrence livermore national laboratory , l-413 , livermore , ca 94550 , usa    @xmath15space telescope science institute , 3700 san martin drive , baltimore md21218 , usa _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    h. rttgering et al . </S>",
    "<S> : spectroscopy of ultra  steep spectrum radio sources    astronomy and astrophysics , main journal    \\3 . </S>",
    "<S> extragalactic astronomy    11.01.2 , 11.01.4    h. rttgering ,    leiden observatory , p.o . </S>",
    "<S> box 9513 , 2300 ra , leiden , the netherlands    * key words : * galaxies : active  galaxies : redshifts </S>"
  ]
}