{
  "article_text": [
    "ngc6440 is a globular cluster near the center of the galaxy , at a distance of 8.5kpc and reddened by @xmath2 ( ortolani et al .",
    "a bright x - ray source was detected near this cluster with oso-7 and with uhuru from 1971 december 17 to 1972 january 21 ( markert et al .",
    "1975 , forman et al .  1976 ) .",
    "uhuru observations obtained before 1971 oct 23 and after 1972 mar 1 did not detect the source ( forman et al .",
    "1976 ) . during the outburst the transient x - ray source",
    "had a virtually constant luminosity of about @xmath3 , in the 2 - 11kev band . before and after the outburst the flux was less than 5%  of this .",
    "( we use the conversion of uhuru @xmath4 to flux given by bradt &   mcclintock 1983 ; and the absorption column @xmath5 determined by in t zand et al .  1999 . )    a dim source was detected in the core of ngc6440 with the einstein satellite , and again with rosat , at a luminosity of @xmath6 , in the 0.5 - 2.5kev band ( hertz &  grindlay 1983 ; johnston et al .",
    "1995 ) ; after conversion to the 2 - 11kev band , this corresponds to @xmath7 of the outburst flux .    on 1998",
    "august 22 a bright transient source appeared again in ngc6440 , observed with bepposax .",
    "the position coincides with the globular cluster within the accuracy of 1@xmath8 .",
    "this time the outburst lasted rather shorter : the source had a luminosity of @xmath9 on aug 22 , @xmath10 on aug 26 , and @xmath11 on sep 1 , in the 2 - 10kev band ( in t zand et al .",
    "1999 , also see fig.[xcur ] )",
    ".    like persistent bright x - ray sources , transients occur more often in globular clusters per unit of stellar mass than in the galactic disk . to understand this overabundance one would like to study these sources at optical and ultraviolet wavelengths .",
    "so far , no transient x - ray source in a globular cluster has been optically identified .",
    "such identification is difficult because the relatively large error circle of the x - ray position contains a large number of stars .",
    "we therefore obtained a rosat hri observation as soon as possible after the detection of the transient with bepposax , in the hope of improving the x - ray position .",
    "the optical brightness of soft x - ray transients is known to vary in tandem with the x - ray luminosity ( for a review , see e.g.  chen et al .",
    "we therefore obtained optical images of ngc6440 to look for objects that vary in tandem with the x - ray flux , in the hope of identifying the optical counterpart of the transient .",
    "in sect.2 we describe the results of the new rosat hri observation , and also analyse archival rosat data of ngc6440 . in sect.3",
    "we describe the optical observations and the search for an optical counterpart to the x - ray source .",
    "our results and their implications are discussed in sect.4 .",
    ".log of the rosat hri observations of ngc6440 . for each observation",
    "we give the jd at start and end of the exposures and the effective exposure time , and the number of counts and the countrate for the central source , according to the standard reduction .",
    "errors for detections are 1-@xmath12 ; the upper limits are 2-@xmath12 .",
    "[ tablog ] [ cols=\"<,<,>,^,^ \" , ]",
    "optical images while the x - ray source was still on were taken for us in service time in the night of 1998 august 26 to 27 at the 3.5-m new techology telescope ( ntt ) at la silla , using the superb seeing imager susi2 , and with the 8-m unit telescope # 1 ( antu ) of the very large telescope at paranal , using the vlt test camera .",
    "we will only discuss the ntt observations here , as these had better seeing .",
    "with susi2 , one 10-s and two 100-s exposures were taken through a bessell r filter , as well as two 900-s exposures through a bessell  b filter . during the observations , the seeing varied between @xmath13 from the first r - band image to @xmath14 in last b - band image .",
    "the night was not photometric .",
    "the detector was a mosaic of two eev ccds , each composed of @xmath15 square pixels of @xmath16 m on the side .",
    "they were read out binned by 2 in each direction , as the plate scale of @xmath17 would substantially oversample the seeing . for all but the first",
    ", 10-s r - band image , the telescope was offset such that the core of the cluster was not too close to the gap between the two ccds .",
    "the data reduction was done using standard procedures , determining the bias from the overscan regions ( after verification on bias frames ) and correcting for pixel - to - pixel sensitivity variations using dome flats taken in the morning following the observations .    on 1999 july 15 , when the x - ray source was off , we took images with the focal reducer / low dispersion spectrograph fors1 on antu through bessell r , b , and u filters .",
    "the night was not photometric , and the seeing varied from @xmath18 to @xmath14 .",
    "two 10-s and one 100-s exposures were taken in  r , two 30-s and one 300-s in  b , and one 100-s and one 600-s in  u. the detector was a tektronix ccd with @xmath19 pixels of @xmath20 m .",
    "the standard resolution collimator was used , for which the plate scale is @xmath21 .",
    "the detector was read out through all four amplifiers , using the low - gain setting , of about @xmath22 .",
    "the data reduction was done using standard procedures . from bias frames taken before and after the night",
    ", it was found that the level was somewhat variable , both in time and in position on the detector , but that the offsets remained constant relative to the levels found from the overscan pixels ( the latter determined separately for the four quadrants ) .",
    "for bias subtraction , therefore , we subtracted both the levels from the overscan regions in individual frames , as well as an average of the overscan - corrected bias frames .",
    "the frames were corrected for sensitivity variations using flat fields constructed from images of the sky taken at dusk and dawn .",
    "since the conditions were not photometric during either of our two runs , we can not reliably calibrate our data .",
    "we obtained a rough calibration using b and r magnitudes of hamuy ( 1986 ) of the integrated flux of the cluster .",
    "magnitudes are listed for two apertures , with diameters of 80 and 100 ; these give consistent results .",
    "the calibration is consistent within 0.1mag with one photoelectric b magnitude from martins & harvel ( 1979 ; star  5 ) , within 0.3mag with b and r magnitudes inferred from v and i magnitudes measured by ortolani et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , but differs at the 0.5 magnitude level from what one would infer using photographic b magnitudes from martins et al .",
    "we therefore estimate that the zero - point uncertainty on our quoted magnitudes is about 0.5mag .",
    "astrometry of our frames was done relative to the usno - a2.0 catalogue ( monet et al .",
    "for all usno - a2.0 stars overlapping with the best - seeing fors 10-s r - band image , centroids were determined and the pixel coordinates corrected for instrumental distortion using a cubic radial distortion function provided to us by t.  szeifert and w.  seifert ( 1999 , private communication ) . from these , the zero point position , the plate scale , and the position angle on the sky were determined .",
    "unexpectedly , the root - mean - square residuals are rather large , about @xmath23 in each coordinate .",
    "this is substantially larger than what we generally found in other fields ; for instance , for a field at @xmath24 and @xmath25 , we find residuals of @xmath26 in each coordinate .",
    "most likely , the problem lies with the severe crowding in the field of ngc  6440 , which causes many of the usno - a2.0 stars to be blended .",
    "furthermore , the usno - a2.0 stars appear to have been derived from two different sets of plates , with epochs 1950.465 and 1980.488 .",
    "the former will be plates taken from palomar , at high airmass .",
    "for our solution , therefore , we selected only measurements for the more recent epoch , and from these , only those 246 stars which were well - exposed and appeared stellar on our fors image . for these ,",
    "the rms residuals were @xmath27 and @xmath28 in right ascension and declination , respectively .",
    "this is still much larger than usual , and therefore it is difficult to estimate the uncertainty .",
    "fortunately , there is one tycho star , tyc 6257 - 368 - 1 , at the southern edge of our vlt images .",
    "while this star is strongly overexposed , it was possible to determine a reasonably accurate centroid ( verified using different exposures ) .",
    "the coordinates we infer using our astrometry are offset from the tycho-2 coordinates ( hg et al .",
    "2000 ) by @xmath29 and @xmath30 in right ascension and declination , respectively .",
    "we conclude that the systematic uncertainty in our astrometry is @xmath31 , i.e. , substantially less than the uncertainty in the x - ray positions .",
    "the individual frames were tied in to the astrometry using some 400 secondary reference stars in a square region 2  on a side centered on ngc  6440 , but excluding stars within 20  of the core .",
    "typical residuals range from @xmath32 in each coordinate for the tie to the susi r - band images to @xmath33 for that to the fors u - band images .      in fig.[fig : optical ] , the reduced on and off - state b and r - band images are shown .",
    "the positions of the two x - ray sources fall close to the core of ngc  6440 and because of the crowding it is difficult to discern variable stars directly .",
    "to get an objective measure of variability in the core , we formed on - off difference images .",
    "for this purpose , we used the optimal image subtraction technique introduced by alard & lupton ( 1998 ) . in this method",
    ", the image with better seeing is convolved with a kernel chosen such that the convolved point - spread function is as close as possible to that of the image with the worse seeing . in our case",
    ", this did not work perfectly , because for both bands the seeing is comparable in the on and off images , while the shapes of the point spread functions are somewhat different ; the result is a convolution kernel which is negative in some points ( in directions where `` sharpening '' of the better - seeing image is required ) .",
    "we proceeded by convolving the worst - seeing ( fors ) images with a gaussian with @xmath34 .",
    "relative to this slightly smoothed image , it was possible to determine a kernel which is positive everywhere .",
    "after convolution with this kernel , the susi image and the slightly smoothed fors image have very similar point - spread functions , and the subtraction works well .",
    "the on minus off difference images found using the above method are shown in fig.[fig : optical ] .",
    "it is clear that a number of stars brightened or dimmed considerably ; a conspicuous one is star v0 on the western end of the core . most of these variables , including v0 , are bright , red stars , most likely near the end of the asymptotic giant branch ; indeed , the reddest , most luminous object in the sample of ortolani et al .",
    "( 1994 ) was found to be variable as well ( it is out of the field shown in fig.[fig : optical ] ) .",
    "if the optical emission of the x - ray source is dominated by an accretion disk , as is generally the case for low - mass x - ray binaries , the optical counterpart is expected to be blue , and the brightess difference between on and off is expected to be relatively large .",
    "given the problems with crowding , the resolution element that includes the source may not appear to be blue , but the difference between on and off should be blue . for this reason , we do not consider v0 to be a likely candidate ; more likely , it is a mira type variable .",
    "one could envisage a wide binary in which a mira star transfers matter during its expansion .",
    "however , in that case the outburst would be expected to last rather longer than observed .    in each of the error circles ,",
    "there is one source which was brighter when the x - ray source was on , and for which the difference flux is substantially bluer than that for other variables in the field . for x1 ,",
    "the source v1 is just outside the western edge of the error circle , while for x2 , v2 is just inside the error circle .",
    "the coordinates of these variables are given in table[tabpos].v2 may be interesting in particular , since the relative brightening for that source is the second - largest in the field ( about 10% in b , @xmath35 in r ; the largest relative brightening  50% and 100% , respectively ",
    "is shown by v0 ) .",
    "if v1 or v2 were the optical counterpart of the x - ray transient , we would expect that the source in quiescence had negligible contribution to the optical flux in the off image . the excess flux in the on image",
    "then would correspond to the the total flux of the source in outburst .",
    "we estimate the corresponding magnitudes using our approximate calibration . for v1",
    "we find @xmath36 , @xmath37 , and for v2 @xmath0 , @xmath38 .",
    "correcting for reddening , one infers @xmath39 and @xmath40 , respectively , again indicating that v2 is very blue .    from the above",
    ", it seems that v2 has all the characteristics expected for the optical counterpart .",
    "it is clear , however , that finding a variable source inside one of the two error circles is not unlikely , even one whose variation is relatively blue .",
    "therefore , at present we consider this source as no more than an interesting candidate .",
    "we have tried to reconstruct the approximate x - ray lightcurve of the august 1998 outburst by combining data from various measurements .",
    "detections were made by the wide field cameras and the narrow field instruments on board of bepposax on aug 22 and 26 , respectively ; and by the xte all sky monitor in a seven - day period starting on aug 19 .",
    "we revise the flux detected with the wide field cameras to @xmath41mcrab , slightly upwards from the values given in in t zand et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , on the basis of a better calibration .",
    "upper limits were obtained with the bepposax wide field cameras on sep 1 and with the xte all sky monitor in the seven days periods preceding and following the detection .",
    "fig.[xcur ] shows the resulting lightcurve .    extrapolating the 5-day exponential decay from the bepposax detections to the time of the rosat hri observation",
    ", we predict an x - ray luminosity of @xmath42 in the rosat band ; this is about an order of magnitude above the observed upper limit",
    ". this may imply that the decay accelerated ; or alternatively that the spectrum softened , since low - energy photons are much more affected by the heavy absorption towards ngc6440 .",
    "there is indeed evidence for other x - ray transients that the spectrum in the low state is much softer than during outburst , e.g.  for aql x-1 ( verbunt et al .",
    "1994 ) .",
    "the x - ray lightcurve shown in fig.[xcur ] implies that the optical observations were made at an x - ray flux level of about 10mcrab , corresponding to a source luminosity @xmath43 .",
    "van paradijs &  mcclintock ( 1994 ) give a semi - empirical relation between the orbital period , x - ray luminosity and absolute visual magnitude of a low - mass x - ray binary .",
    "applying this relation to the transient in ngc6440 with the estimate of the x - ray luminosity for the time of the optical observation , we obtain @xmath44 for an assumed 1hr period . at the distance and reddening of ngc6640",
    "this corresponds to @xmath45 .",
    "the intrinsic @xmath46 colour of low - mass x - ray binaries is close to zero ; with the reddening to ngc6440 we thus predict @xmath0 for a one hour period . for a period of 5hr ( 0.2hr )",
    "the predicted magnitude is about 1 magnitude brighter ( fainter ) .",
    "we conclude that the candidate in the error circle of x2 is viable ; the proximity of the predicted @xmath47 magnitude to the observed one is fortuitous , considering that the spread in the relation given by van paradijs & mcclintock is about a magnitude , and that our estimate of the x - ray luminosity is uncertain .",
    "we therefore dare not estimate an orbital period on the basis of the magnitude of our candidate .",
    "the core of ngc6440 contains psrb1745@xmath4820 ( lyne et al .",
    "the total energy loss @xmath49 for the pulsar is about @xmath50 , where @xmath51 is the moment of inertia of the neutron star , @xmath52 its rotation frequency and @xmath53 the time derivative of @xmath52 .",
    "typical x - ray luminosities for radio pulsars are of order @xmath54 ( e.g.  fig.4 in verbunt et al .  1996 ) .",
    "we conclude that it is very unlikely that the pulsar is responsible for the observed x - ray flux of x1 or x2 .",
    "we have made use of the rosat data archive of the max planck institut fr extraterrestrische physik at garching ; and of the simbad database operated at centre de donnes astronomiques in strasbourg .",
    "the rosat hri data of 8 sep 1998 and the eso data of 26/27 aug 1998 were obtained as target of opportunity observations , triggered by quick look analysis of bepposax observations .",
    "we thank michael smith for making the bepposax observations quickly available , and vanessa doublier and bruno leibundgut for making the eso ntt and vlt observations .",
    "trmper , j. , hasinger , g. , aschenbach , b. , bruninger , h. , briel , u. , burkert , w. , fink , h. , pfeffermann , e. , pietsch , w. , predehl , p. , schmitt , j. , voges , w. , zimmermann , u. , beuermann , k. 1991 , nat , 349 , 579          zimmermann , h. , becker , w. , belloni , t. , dbereiner , s. , izzo , c. , kahabka , p. , schwentker , o. 1996 , ser s guide : extended scientific analysis system to evaluate data from the astronomical x - ray satellite rosat , edition 5 , technical report , mpe"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the bepposax wide field cameras detected a transient in ngc6440 on 1998 aug 22 . </S>",
    "<S> rosat did not detect this source on 1998 sep 8 , indicating that the x - ray flux had decreased by a factor 400 at least , and/or that the x - ray spectrum had become appreciably softer . </S>",
    "<S> analysis of archival rosat hri data reveals two sources associated with ngc6440 ; one of these may be the transient in quiescence . </S>",
    "<S> we have also obtained b and r images of ngc6440 on 1998 aug 26 and again on 1999 july 15 , when the transient had returned to quiescence . </S>",
    "<S> subtraction of these images reveals one object in the core which was brighter in b , but not in r , during the x - ray outburst . </S>",
    "<S> we estimate @xmath0 and @xmath1 on 1998 aug 26 , which makes it a viable candidate counterpart . </S>"
  ]
}