{
  "article_text": [
    "for some thirty years since the discovery of gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a basic understanding of the nature of the brief intense flashes of @xmath0-rays remained elusive . throughout much of the 1970s and 1980s the prevailing view was that grbs arise from the surface of neutron stars in and around our galaxy ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a review ) , though , by the mid-1990s , the isotropic distribution of grbs on the sky ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) served as the cornerstone of mounting evidence suggesting an extra - galactic origin ( see * ? ? ? * for a review ) .",
    "the main impedance to progress was the difficulty of localizing bursts to an accuracy high enough to unequivocally associate an individual grb with some other astrophysical entity .",
    "in large measure the localization problem was due to both the transient nature of the phenomena and the fact that the incident direction of @xmath0-rays are difficult to pinpoint with a single detector ; for example , the typical 1-@xmath3 uncertainty in the location of a grb using the _ burst and transient source experiment _ ( batse ) was @xmath4@xmath5 degree in radius @xcite .",
    "the interplanetary network ( ipn ; see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) localized grbs using burst arrival times at several spacecrafts throughout the solar system and provided accurate localizations ( 3 @xmath3 localizations of @xmath6few to hundreds @xmath7 arcmin@xmath8 ) to ground - based observers ; however , the localizations were reported with large time delays ( days to months after the grb ) .",
    "the crucial breakthrough came in early 1997 , shortly following the launch of the bepposax satellite @xcite . on - board instruments",
    "@xcite were used to rapidly localize the prompt and long - lived hard x - ray emission of the grb of 28 february 1997 ( grb 970228 ) to a 3 @xmath3 accuracy of 3 arcmin ( radius ) and relay the location to ground - based observers in a matter of hours . fading x - ray @xcite and optical @xcite emission , the so - called `` afterglow , '' associated with grb 970228",
    "were discovered .",
    "ground - based observers noted @xcite a faint nebulosity in the vicinity of the optical transient ( ot ) afterglow .",
    "subsequent _ hubble space telescope _ ( hst )",
    "imaging resolved the nebulosity @xcite and showed that the morphology was indicative of a distant galaxy @xcite .",
    "three years later , we now know the redshift of this faint , blue galaxy is @xmath9 @xcite .",
    "the next prompt localization of a grb yielded the first confirmed distance to the grb through optical absorption spectroscopy : grb 970508 occurred from a redshift @xcite .",
    "the first radio afterglow was detected from grb 970508 which , through observations of scintillation , led to the robust inference of superluminal motion of the grb ejecta @xcite .",
    "these measurements ( along with the dozen other redshifts now associated with individual grbs ) have effectively ended the distance scale debate and solidified grbs as one of the most energetic phenomena known ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the cosmological nature of grbs now frames our basic understanding of the physics of grb phenomena .",
    "the general energetics are well - constrained : given the observed fluences and redshifts , approximately @xmath10@xmath11 erg in @xmath0-ray radiation is released in a matter of a few seconds in every grb .",
    "the grb variability timescale suggests that this energy is quickly deposited by a `` central engine '' in a small volume of space ( radius of @xmath12 km ) and is essentially optically thick to @xmath0-ray radiation at early times .",
    "this opaque fireball of energy then expands adiabatically and relativistically until the @xmath0-ray radiation can escape ; the emitting surface of the grb is likely to be 10@xmath13@xmath14 cm from the explosion site and probably arises from the interaction of internal shocks initiated by the central engine ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    ". only a small amount of baryonic matter ( @xmath15 ) can be entrained with the fireball since too much baryonic matter , a condition referred to as the `` baryonic loading '' problem , would essentially stall the relativistic expansion of the fireball .",
    "the transient afterglow phenomena is thought to be due to synchrotron radiation arising from the interaction of the relativistic ejecta and the ambient medium surrounding the burst site ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* for reviews ) .",
    "the relativistic nature of the expanding shock ( which also gives rise to the grb ) is required to avoid the so - called compactness problem ( see * ? ? ? * ) and , as mentioned above , was observationally confirmed with radio scintillation measurements of the afterglow of grb 970508 @xcite .",
    "while the grb emission and the afterglow phenomenon are now reasonably well - understood , one large outstanding question remains : what makes a @xmath0-ray burst ? specifically what are the astrophysical objects , the `` progenitors '' , which produce @xmath0-ray bursts ?",
    "to - date several theoretical considerations appear to implicate the progenitors as stellar - mass systems involving a compact source , probably a black hole ( bh ) .",
    "first , the implied ( isotropic ) energy release in @xmath0-rays are typically 10@xmath16@xmath17 times the rest - mass energy of the sun . the estimated efficiency of conversion of the initial input energy ( either poynting flux or baryonic matter ) to @xmath0-rays ranges from @xmath61% ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) to as much as @xmath660% ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; therefore , the best - guess estimate of the total energy release is roughly comparable to the rest - mass energy of one solar mass .",
    "second , the variability timescale ( few ms ) observed implies the energy deposition takes place in a small region of space ( radius of @xmath18 ms @xmath19 km ) .",
    "third , the inferred rate of grb occurrence , about 4 per day in the universe above current detection thresholds , and the lack of burst repetition ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) suggest that grb events are rare ( @xmath20 yr@xmath21 galaxy@xmath21 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and catastrophically destroy the individual progenitors .    the progenitor models which most naturally explain these observables in the grb phenomena fall in to two broad classes  the coalescence of binary compact stellar remnants and the explosion of a massive star ( `` collapsar '' ) .",
    "an active galactic nucleus ( agn ) origin is another possibility , however the variability timescale still requires the energy source to be stellar - mass objects @xcite .",
    "we briefly summarize the popular progenitor models and refer the reader to @xcite for a more in - depth review . in both the collapsar and the merging remnant class of progenitors",
    "a spinning bh is formed .",
    "the debris , either from the stellar core of the collapsar or a tidally disrupted neutron star , forms a temporary accretion disk ( or `` torus '' ) which then falls into the bh releasing a fraction of gravitational potential of the matter . in this general picture",
    "( see * ? ? ? * for a review ) , the lifetime of the accretion disk accounts for the duration of the grb and the light - crossing time of the bh accounts for the variability timescale .",
    "the grb is powered by the energy extracted either from the spin energy of the hole or the from the gravitational energy of the in - falling matter .",
    "the coalescing compact binary class @xcite was favored before the first redshift determination because the existence of coalescence events of a double neutron star binaries ( ns  ns ) was assured ; at least a few ns  ns systems in our galaxy ( e.g. , psr 1913 + 16 , psr 1534 + 12 ) will merge in a hubble time thanks to the gravitational radiation of the binary orbital angular momentum ( see * ? ? ?",
    "further , the best estimate of the rate of ns  ns coalescence in the universe ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) was comparable to an estimate of the grb rate @xcite .",
    "recently , stellar evolution models have suggested that black hole  neutron star binaries ( bh  ns ) may be formed at rates comparable to or even higher than ns ",
    "ns binaries ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , though no such systems have been observed to - date .",
    "there are other merging remnant binaries which may form grbs , notably merging black hole ",
    "white dwarf ( bh  wd ) binaries @xcite and black hole  helium star binaries",
    "( bh  he ) ( see * ? ? ?",
    "the collapsar class is comprised of a rotating massive star , either isolated or in a binary system , whose iron core subsequently collapses directly to form a black hole @xcite . to avoid baryon loading",
    "the progenitor star should have lost most , if not all , of its extended gas envelope of hydrogen by the time of collapse .",
    "the progenitors of collapsars ",
    "likely wolf - rayet stars  are then closely related to the progenitors of hydrogen - deficient supernova , namely type ib / ic supernovae ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "perhaps one distinguishing difference is that high angular momentum is necessary in collapsars .",
    "high angular momentum centrifugally supports a transient torus around the bh , creating a natural timescale for mass - energy injection .",
    "the efficiency of energy conversion is also helped around a spinning bh .",
    "further , angular momentum creates a natural rotation axis along which large density gradients allow for the expanding blastwave to reach relativistic speeds",
    ".    how can this large variety of viable grb progenitors be distinguished ?",
    "direct associations with other known astrophysical entities is possible . for massive stars , the energy release from the collapse of the core of the star , just as in supernovae",
    ", is sufficient to explode the star itself .",
    "this may result in a supernova - like explosion at essentially the same time as a grb .",
    "the first apparent evidence of such a supernova associated with a cosmological grb came with the discovery of a delayed bright red bump in the afterglow light curve of grb 980326 @xcite .",
    "the authors interpreted the phenomena as due to the light - curve peak of a supernova at redshift @xmath22 .",
    "later , @xcite and @xcite found similar such red bump in the afterglow of grb 970228 . merging remnant progenitors models ( e.g. , bh",
    "ns systems ) have difficulty producing these features in a light curve on such long timescales and so the supernova interpretation , if true , would be one of the strongest direct clues that grbs come from massive star explosions . however , the supernova story is by no means complete .",
    "for instance , in only one other grb ( 000911 ) has marginal ( @xmath62 @xmath3 ) evidence of a sn signature been found @xcite ; further , many grbs do not appear to show any evidence of sne signatures ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "even the `` supernova '' observations themselves find plausible alternative explanations ( such as dust echoes ) that do not strictly require a massive star explosion @xcite .",
    "we note , however , that all other plausible explanations of the observed late - time bumps require high - density environments found most readily in star forming regions .",
    "@xcite emphasize that if a grb comes from a massive star , then the explosion does not take place in a constant density medium , but in a medium enriched by constant mass loss from the stellar winds .",
    "one would expect to see signatures of this wind - stratified medium in the afterglow ( e.g. , bright sub - millimeter emission at early times , increasing  cooling frequency  with time ; see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . however , afterglow observations have been inconclusive @xcite with no unambiguous inference of grb in such a medium .",
    "recent work has begun to focus on the immediate environments of grbs as a means toward divining the nature of the progenitors .",
    "this has come primarily from detections of line features in now five grb afterglows ( e.g. , 970508 and 970828 * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the most recent and convincing detection so far comes from observations of the afterglow of grb 991216 @xcite .",
    "individually , the observational significance of the line detections are marginal but on the whole there appears to be a good case for line emission features in the afterglow of some grbs .",
    "if so , the inescapable conclusion is that there must exist dense matter in the vicinity of the explosion ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a seeming discordance with the expectations of ns ",
    "ns merger models .",
    "we emphasize that even the connection of grbs to stellar - mass progenitors has yet to be established .",
    "the most compelling arguments we have outlined ( e.g.  temporal variability ) rely on theoretical interpretations of the grb phenomena .",
    "further , direct observational results ( sne signatures and transient fe - line emission ) are not yet conclusive .    in this paper",
    "we examine the observed locations of grbs with respect to galaxies .",
    "we find an unambiguous correlation of grb locations with the uv light of their hosts , providing strong indirect evidence for the connection of grbs to stellar - mass progenitors . beyond this finding",
    ", we aim to use the location of grbs to distinguish between stellar - mass progenitor models . in  [ sec : location ] we review the expectations of grb locations from each progenitor model . then in   [ sec : offdata][sec : astlevels ] we discuss the instruments , techniques , and expected uncertainties involved in constructing a sample of grb locations about their host galaxies . in  [ sec : indivoff ] we comment on the data reductions specific to each grb in our sample .",
    "the observed distribution is shown and discussed in  [ sec : offdist ] and then statistically compared with the expected offset distribution of leading progenitor models (  [ sec : compare ] ) .",
    "last , in ",
    "[ sec : offsum ] we summarize and discuss our findings .",
    "before the detailed modeling of light curves were used to constrain the nature of supernovae progenitors , the location of supernovae in and around galaxies provided important clues to the nature of the progenitors ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "for instance , only type ia supernovae have been found in elliptical galaxies naturally leading to the idea that the progenitor population can be quite old whereas the progenitors of type ii and type ibc are likely to be closely related to recent star formation ( cf . * ? ? ? * for review ) .",
    "further , in late - type galaxies , type ibc and type ii supernovae appear to be systematically closer to hii star forming regions than type ia supernovae ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "this is taken as strong evidence that the progenitors of type ibc and type ii sne are massive stars ( see * ? ? ?",
    "since the most massive stars explode soon ( @xmath23 yr ) after zero - age main sequence ( zams ) , we expect grbs from collapsars to be observed in galaxies undergoing vigorous star formation ( _ i.e. _ , late - type , irregular , and starburst galaxies ) .",
    "merging neutron stars on the other hand require a median time to merge of since zams ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". the instantaneous rate of grbs from binary mergers , then , is more a function of the integrated ( as opposed to instantaneous ) star formation rate in its parent galaxy .",
    "so if grbs arise from the death of massive stars we do not expect early - type ( _ i.e. _ , elliptical and s0 ) host galaxies , whereas grbs from merging remnants could occur in such galaxies . in principle , due to the significant time from zams to the mergers of ns  ns and bh ",
    "ns binaries , such merging remnants should produce grbs at preferentially _ lower _",
    "redshift than collapsars and promptly bursting binaries ( bh  he ) . in practice , though , distinguishing the grb(@xmath24 ) rate from the sfr(@xmath24 ) rate is extremely difficult without tens if not hundreds more grb redshift measures ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "more importantly , independent of galaxy type , the locations of grbs within ( or outside ) galaxies provide a powerful clue towards distinguishing the progenitor scenarios .",
    "massive stellar explosions occur very near their birth - site , likely in active hii star - forming regions , since the time since zams is so small .",
    "bh  he binaries will merge quickly and so are also expected to be located near star - forming regions @xcite . in stark constant , ns ",
    "ns and ns  bh binaries merge far from their birthsite .",
    "these stellar remnant progenitors will merge after at least one of the binary members has undergone a supernova .",
    "each supernova is thought to impart a substantial `` kick '' on the resulting neutron star ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; for those binary systems which survive both supernovae explosions , the center  of  mass of the remnant binary itself will receive a velocity boost on the order of a few hundred km / s ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "that is , ns ",
    "ns or ns  bh binaries will be ejected from their birthsite .",
    "the gradual angular momentum loss in the binary due to gravitational radiation causes the binary to coalesce ( or `` merge '' ) which then leads to a grb .",
    "the exact time until merger ( @xmath25@xmath26 yr ) depends on the masses of the remnants and binary orbit parameters .",
    "population synthesis models have all shown that roughly one third to one half of ns  ns and bh ",
    "ns binary mergers will occur beyond 10 kpc in projection from the centers of their hosts @xcite .",
    "the exact distribution of merger sites depends sensitively on the gravitational potential of the host and the ( radial ) distribution of massive star birth sites .",
    "how have locations of grbs within ( or outside ) galaxies impacted our understanding of the progenitors of grbs thus far ? as mentioned above , the first accurate localization @xcite of a grb by way of an optical transient afterglow revealed grb 970228 to be spatially coincident with a faint galaxy @xcite . though the nearby galaxy was faint , @xcite estimated the _ a posteriori _ probability of a random location on the sky falling so close to a galaxy by chance to be low . as such",
    ", the galaxy was identified as the host of grb 970228 . @xcite",
    "further noted that the ot appeared offset from the center of the galaxy thereby calling into question an active galactic nucleus ( agn ) origin .",
    "soon thereafter @xcite found , and then @xcite confirmed , that grb 970508 was localized very near the center of a dwarf galaxy .",
    "given that underluminous dwarf galaxies have a weaker gravitational potential with which to bind merging remnant binaries , both @xcite and @xcite noted that the excellent spatial coincidence of the grb with its putative host found an easier explanation with a massive star progenitor rather than ns ",
    "ns binaries .",
    "once the afterglow fades , one could study in detail its environment ( analogous to low - redshift supernovae ) .",
    "unfortunately , however , the current instrumentation available for grb observations can not pinpoint or resolve individual grb environments on the scale of tens of parsecs unless the grb occurs a low redshift ( @xmath27 ) and the transient afterglow is well - localized . at higher redshifts ( as all grbs localized to - date )",
    ", only the very largest scales of galactic structure can be resolved ( e.g.  spiral arms ) even by hst .",
    "therefore , the locations of most individual grbs do not yield much insight into the nature of the progenitors . instead",
    ", the observed _ distribution _ of grbs in and around galaxies must be studied as a whole and then compared with the expectations of the various progenitor models .",
    "this is the aim of the present study .",
    "as we will demonstrate , while not all grbs are well - localized , the overall distribution of grb offsets proves to be a robust clue to the nature of the progenitors .    in this paper",
    "we present a sample of grb offset measurements that represents the most comprehensive and uniform set compiled to - date .",
    "every grb location and host galaxy image has been re - analysed using the most uniform data available .",
    "the compilation is complete with well - studied grbs until may 2000 . throughout this paper",
    "we assume a flat @xmath28cosmology ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) with @xmath29 km s@xmath21 mpc@xmath21 , @xmath30 , and @xmath31 .",
    "the primary goal of this paper is to measure the offsets of grbs from their hosts where the necessary data are available .",
    "ideally this could be accomplished using a dataset of early - time afterglow and late - time host imaging observed using the same instrument under similar observing conditions .",
    "the natural instrument of choice is hst given its exquisite angular resolution and astrometric stability .",
    "though while most hosts have been observed with hst at late - times , there are only a handful of early - time hst detections of grb afterglow . on the other hand ,",
    "early ground - based images of grb afterglows are copious but late - time seeing - limited images of the hosts give an incomplete view of the host as compared to an hst image of the same field .",
    "moreover , ground - based imaging is inherently heterogeneous , taken with different instruments , at different signal - to - noise levels , and through a variety observing of conditions ; this generally leads to poorer astrometric accuracy . bearing these imperfections in mind",
    "we have compiled a dataset of images that we believe are best suited to find offsets of grbs from their hosts .",
    "a listing of the dataset compilation is given in table [ tab : offsets ] .",
    "we include every grb ( up to and including grb 000418 ) with an accurate radio or optical location and a deep late - time optical image .",
    "there is a hierarchy of preference of imaging conditions and instruments which yield the most accurate offsets ; we describe the specifics and expected accuracies of the astrometric technique in  [ sec : astlevels ] .",
    "we group the datasets into 5 different levels ordered by decreasing astrometric accuracy .",
    "levels 14 each utilized differential astrometry and level 5 utilizes absolute astrometry relative to the international coordinate reference system ( icrs ) .",
    "specifics of the individual offset measurements are given in  [ sec : astlevels ] .",
    "the ideal dataset for offset determination is a single hst image where both the transient and the host are well - localized ( hereafter `` self - hst '' ) ; so far , only grb 970228 , grb 990123 and possibly grb 991216 fall in this category .",
    "the next most accurate offset is obtained where both the early- and late - time images are from hst taken at comparable depth with the same filter ( hereafter `` hst@xmath32hst '' ) .",
    "in addition to the centering errors of the ot and host , such a set inherits the uncertainty in registering the two epochs ( e.g. , grb 970508 ) .",
    "next , an early deep image from ground - based ( gb ) keck , palomar 200-inch ( p200 ) , or the very large telescope ( vlt ) in which the ot dominates is paired with a late - time image from hst ( e.g. ,  grb 971214 , grb 980703 , grb 991216 , grb 000418 ; `` gb@xmath32hst '' ) . though in the majority of these cases most of the objects detected in the hst image are also detected in the keck image ( affording great redundancy in the astrometric mapping solution ) , object centering of ground - based data is hampered by atmospheric seeing .",
    "the next most accurate localizations use ground - based to ground - based imaging to compute offsets ( `` gb@xmath32 gb '' ) .",
    "last , radio localizations compared with optical imaging ( `` radio@xmath32opt '' ) provide the least accurate offset determinations .",
    "this is due primarily to the current difficulty of mapping an optical image onto an absolute coordinate system ( see  [ sec : vlahst ] ) .",
    "most of the hst images of grb afterglow and host were acquired using the _ space telescope imaging spectrograph _",
    "( stis ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "stis imaging under - samples the angular diffraction limit of the telescope and therefore individual hst images essentially do not contain the full astrometric information possible . to produce a final image that is closer to the diffraction limit , interpixel dithering between multiple exposures",
    "is often employed .",
    "the image reconstruction technique , which also facilitates removal of cosmic - rays and corrects for the known optical field distortion , is called `` drizzling '' and is described in detail in @xcite .",
    "we use this technique , as implemented using the iraf package dither and ditherii , to produce our final hst images .",
    "we retrieved and reduced every public stis dataset of grb imaging from the hst archive and processed the so - called `` on  the  fly calibration '' images to produce a final drizzled image .",
    "these images are reduced through the standard hst pipeline for bias subtraction , flat - fielding , and illumination corrections using the best calibration data available at the time of archive retrieval .",
    "the archive name of the last image and the start time of each hst epoch are given in columns 2 and 3 of table [ tab : offset - log ] .",
    "some hst grb imaging has been taken using the stis / longpass filter ( f28x50lp ) which , based on its red effective wavelength ( central wavelength @xmath33 ) , would make for a good comparison with ground - based @xmath34-band imaging .",
    "however , the longpass filter truncates the full stis field of view to about 40% and therefore systematically contains fewer objects to tie astrometrically to ground - based images .",
    "therefore , all of the hst imaging reported herein were taken in ( unfiltered ) stis / clear ( ccd50 ) mode .",
    "unlike the longpass filter , the spectral response of the clear mode is rather broad ( 200010000  ) .",
    "we use the known optical distortion coefficients appropriate to the wavelength of peak sensitivity @xmath35   of this observing mode to produce final images which are essentially linear in angular displacement versus instrumental pixel location .",
    "the original plate scale of most stis imaging is 0.05077 @xmath36 0.00007 pixel@xmath21 @xcite , though there is a possibility that thermal expansion of the instrument could change this scale by a small amount ( see appendix [ sec : errors ] ) .",
    "the pixel scale of all our final reduced hst images is half the original scale , _",
    "i.e. _ , 0.02539 pixel@xmath21 .",
    "ground - based images are all reduced using standard practice for bias subtraction , flat - fielding , and in the case of @xmath37-band imaging , fringe correction . in constructing a final image",
    "we compute the instrumental shift of dithered exposures relative to a fiducial exposure and co - add the exposures after applying the appropriate shift to align each image .",
    "all images are visually inspected for cosmic - ray contamination of the transient , host or astrometric tie stars .",
    "pixels contaminated by cosmic rays are masked and not used in the production of the final image .",
    "here we provide a description of the astrometric reduction techniques for both our ground - based and the hst images , and issues related to the five levels of astrometry summarized in  [ sec : dataselect ] .",
    "a discussion of the imaging reductions and astrometry for the individual cases is given in section ",
    "[ sec : indivoff ] .",
    "an ideal image is one where the optical transient and the host galaxy are visible in the same imaging epoch with hst .",
    "this typically implies that the host galaxy is large enough in extent to be well - resolved despite the brilliance of the nearby ot . of course , a later image of the host is always helpful to confirm that the putative afterglow point source does indeed fade . in this case ( as with grb 970228 and grb 990123 ) the accuracy of offset determination is limited mostly by the centroiding errors of the host `` center '' and optical afterglow .",
    "uncertainties in the optical distortion corrections and the resulting plate scale are typically sub - milliarcsecond in size ( see appendix [ sec : errors ] ) .    in principle",
    "we expect centering techniques to result in centroiding errors ( @xmath38 ) on a point source with a signal - to - noise , sn , of @xmath39 ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , where @xmath40 is the instrumental full - width half maximum ( fwhm ) seeing of the final image .",
    "since @xmath40 is typically @xmath41 milliarcsecond ( mas ) we expect @xmath6milliarcsecond offset accuracies with self - hst images .      here",
    ", two separate hst epochs are used for the offset determination .",
    "the first epoch is taken when the afterglow dominates the light and the second when the host dominates .",
    "in addition to the centroiding errors , the astrometric accuracy of this level is limited by uncertainty in the registration between the two images .    in general when two images are involved ( here and all subsequent levels ) , we register the two images such that an instrumental position in one image is mapped to the instrumental ( or absolute position ) in the other image .",
    "the registration process is as follows .",
    "we determine the noise characteristics of both of the initial and final images empirically , using an iterative sigma - clipping algorithm .",
    "this noise along with the gain and effective read noise of the ccd are used as input to the iraf / center algorithm .",
    "in addition we measure the radial profile of several apparent compact sources in the image and use the derived seeing fwhm ( @xmath40 ) as further input to the optimal filtering algorithm technique for centering ( ofilter ; see * ? ? ?",
    "for faint stars we use the more stable gaussian algorithm .",
    "both techniques assume a gaussian form of the point - spread function which , while not strictly matched to the outer wings of the keck or hst psfs , appears to reasonably approximate the psf out to the fwhm of the images .",
    "when computing the differential astrometric mappings between two images ( such as hst and keck or keck and the usno - a2.0 catalog ) we use a list of objects common from both epochs , `` tie objects '' , and compute the astrometric mapping using the routine iraf / geomap .",
    "the polynomial order of the differential fitting",
    "we use depends on the number of tie objects .",
    "a minimum of 3 tie objects are required to find the relative rotation , shift and scale of two images , which leaves only one degree of freedom .",
    "the situation is never this bad : in fact , when comparing hst images and an earlier hst image ( or deep keck image ) we typically find 2030 reasonable tie objects and therefore we can solve for higher - order distortion terms .",
    "figure [ fig : examtie ] shows an example keck and hst field of grb 981226 and the tie objects we use for the mapping .",
    "we always reject tie objects that deviate by more than @xmath42 from the initial mapping .",
    "a full third - order 2-dimensional polynomial with cross - terms requires 18 parameters which leaves , typically , @xmath43 degrees of freedom .",
    "assuming such a mapping adequately characterizes the relative distortion , and it is reasonable to expect that mapping errors will have an r.m.s .",
    "error @xmath44 , where @xmath45 is the average signal  to  noise of the tie objects .",
    "for example , in drizzled hst images @xmath46 mas and @xmath47 so that we can expect differential mapping uncertainties at the 1 mas level for hst@xmath32hst mapping .",
    "cross - correlation techniques , such as iraf / crossdrizzle , can in principle result in even better mapping uncertainties , but , in light of recent work by @xcite , we are not confident that the hst ccd distortions can be reliably removed at the sub - mas level .      this level of astrometry accounts for the majority of our dataset .",
    "in addition to inheriting the uncertainties of centroiding errors and astrometric mapping errors described above , we must also consider the effects of differential chromatic refraction ( dcr ) and optical image distortion in ground based images . in appendix",
    "[ sec : errors ] we demonstrate that these effects should not dominate the offset uncertainties . following the argument above (  [ sec : hsthst ] ) the astrometric mapping accuracies scale linearly with the seeing of ground - based images which is typically a factor of 1020 larger than the effective seeing of the hst images .",
    "an independent test of the accuracy of the transference of differential astrometry from ground - based images to space - based imaging is illustrated by the case of grb 990123 .",
    "in @xcite we registered a palomar 60-inch ( p60 ) image to a keck image and thence to an hst image . the overall statistical uncertainty introduced by this process",
    "( see appendix [ sec : osh - derive ] for a derivation ) is @xmath48 mas ( note that in the original paper we mistakenly overstated this error as 180 mas uncertainty ) . the position we inferred was 90 mas from a bright point source in the hst image .",
    "this source was later seen to fade in subsequent hst imaging and so our identification of the source as the afterglow from p60@xmath32keck@xmath32hst astrometry was vindicated . since the p60@xmath32keck differential mapping accounted for approximately half of the error ( due to optical field distortion and unfavorable seeing in p60 ) , we consider @xmath49 mas uncertainty in keck@xmath32hst mapping as a reasonable upper limit to the expected uncertainty from other cases . in practice , we achieved r.m.s .",
    "accuracies of 4070 mas ( see table [ tab : offsets ] ) .",
    "this level contains the same error contributions as in gb@xmath32hst level , but in general , the uncertainties are larger since the centroiding uncertainties are large in both epochs .",
    "the offsets are computed in term of pixels in late - time image . just as with the previous levels with hst , we assume an average plate scale to convert the offset to units of arcseconds . for lris @xcite and esi @xcite imaging we assume a plate scale of 0.212 pixel@xmath21 and 0.153 pixel@xmath21 , respectively .",
    "we have found that these plate scales are stable over time to better than a few percent ; consequently , the errors introduced by any deviations from these assumed plate scales are negligible .",
    "unfortunately , the accuracy of absolute offset determination is ( currently ) hampered by systematics in astrometrically mapping deep optical / infrared imaging to the icrs .",
    "only bright stars ( @xmath50 mag ) have absolute localizations measured on the milliarcsecond level thanks to astrometric satellite missions such as hipparcos .",
    "the density of hipparcos stars is a few per square degree so the probability of having at least two such stars on a typical ccd frame is low",
    ". instead , optical astrometric mapping to the icrs currently utilizes icrs positions of stars from the usno - a2.0 catalog , determined from scanned photographic plates @xcite .",
    "even if all statistical errors of positions are suppressed , an astrometric plate solution can do no better than inherit a systematic 1-@xmath3 uncertainty of 250 mas in the absolute position of any object on the sky ( @xmath51 and @xmath52 ; * ? ? ?",
    "by contrast , very - long baseline array ( vlba ) positions of grb radio afterglow have achieved sub - milliarcsecond absolute positional uncertainties relative to the icrs @xcite .",
    "so , until optical systematics are beaten down and/or sensitivities at radio wavelengths are greatly improved ( so as to directly detect the host galaxy at radio wavelengths ) , the absolute offset astrometry can achieve 1-@xmath3 accuracies no better than @xmath53 mas ( @xmath54 kpc at @xmath55 ) .",
    "in fact , one grb host ( grb 980703 ) has been detected at radio wavelengths @xcite with the subsequent offset measurement accuracy improving by a factor of @xmath63 over the optical measurement determined herein (  [ subsec:980703 ] ) .",
    "there are three grbs in our sample where absolute astrometry ( level 5 ) is employed . in computing the location of the optical transient relative to the icrs we typically use 2040 astrometric tie stars in common with keck or palomar images .",
    "we then use iraf / ccmap to compute the mapping of instrumental position ( @xmath56 , @xmath57 ) to the world coordinate system ( @xmath58 , @xmath59 ) .",
    "below we highlight the specific reductions for each offset , the results of which are summarized in table [ tab : offsets ] . in total",
    "there are 21 bursts until may 2000 that have been reliably localized at the arcsecond level and 1 burst with an uncertain association with the nearby sn 1998bw ( grb 980425 ) . in our analysis",
    "we do not include @xcite due to lack of late - time imaging data .",
    "thereby , the present study includes 20 `` cosmological '' grbs plus the nearby sn 1998bw / grb 980425 .",
    "offset measurements should be possible for the recent bursts @xcite , @xcite , @xcite and grb 010222 @xcite .    to look for the hosts",
    ", we generally image each grb field roughly a few months to a year after the burst with keck .",
    "typically these observations reach a limiting magnitude of @xmath6026 mag depending on the specifics of the observing conditions .",
    "if an object is detected within @xmath61 arcsec from the afterglow position and has a brightness significantly above the extrapolated afterglow flux at the time of observation , this source is deemed the host ( most grb hosts are readily identified in such imaging ) .",
    "if no object is detected , we endeavor to obtain significantly deeper images of the field .",
    "typically these faint host searches require 13 hours of keck ( or vlt ) imaging to reach limiting magnitudes at the @xmath62 mag level .",
    "if no object is detected at the location of the afterglow , hst imaging is required and the host search is extended to limiting magnitudes of @xmath6329 mag . only 3 hosts in our sample ( grb 990510 , grb 000301c , and grb 980326 ) were first found using hst after an exhaustive search from the ground .",
    "note that the assignment of a certain observed galaxy as the host of a grb is , to some extent , a subjective process .",
    "we address the question of whether our assignments are `` correct '' in  [ sec : angoffs ] where we demonstrate on statistical grounds that at most only a few assignments in the sample of 20 could be spurious . in ",
    "[ sec : angoffs ] we also discuss how absorption / emission redshifts help strengthen the physical connection of grbs to their assigned hosts .    irrespective of whether individual assignments of hosts are correct , we uniformly assign the nearest ( in angular distance ) detected galaxy as the host . in practice",
    "this means that the nearest object ( i.e.  galaxy ) brighter than @xmath6426 mag detected in keck imaging is assigned as the host . in almost all cases , there is a detected galaxy within @xmath61 arcsecond of the transient position .",
    "for the few cases where there is no object within @xmath61 arcsecond , deeper hst imaging _ always _ reveals a faint galaxy within @xmath61 arcsecond . in most cases , the estimated probability that we have assigned",
    "the `` wrong '' host is small ( see  [ sec : angoffs ] ) . after assigning the host , the center of host",
    "is then determined , except in a few cases , as the centroid near the brightest component of the host system . in a few cases where there is evidence for significant low - surface brightness emission (",
    "e.g.  980519 ) or the host center is ambiguous we assign the approximate geometric center as the host center .",
    "a summary of our offset results is presented in table [ tab : offsets ] . since all",
    "our final images of the host galaxies are rotated to the cardinal orientation before starting the astrometric mapping process , these uncertainties are also directly proportional to the uncertainties in @xmath58 and @xmath59 .",
    "it is important to note , however , that the projected radial offset is a positive - definite number and the probability distribution is not gaussian .",
    "thereby , the associated error ( @xmath65 ) in offset measurements does not necessarily yield a 68% confidence region for the offset ( see appendix [ sec : osh - derive ] ) but is , clearly , indicative of the precision of the offset measurement .",
    "once the offsets are determined from the final images , we then measure the half - light radii of the host galaxies .",
    "for extended hosts , the value of the half - light radius may be obtained directly from aperature curve - of - growth analysis .",
    "however , for compact hosts , the instrumental resolution systematically spreads the host flux over a larger area and biases the measurement of the half - light radius to larger values .",
    "we attempt to correct for this effect ( for all hosts , not just compact hosts ) by deconvolving the images with iraf / sclean using an average stis / clear point spread function ( psf ) derived from 10 stars in the final hst image of the grb 990705 field ( which were obtained through low galactic latitude ) .",
    "we then fit curve - of - growth photometry about the host centers and determine the radius at which half the detected light was within such radius .",
    "these values , along with associated errors are presented in table [ tab : offnorm ] .",
    "we tested that the psfs derived at differing roll angles and epochs had little impact upon the determined value of the half - light radius .",
    "the morphology and offset derivation have been discussed extensively in @xcite and we briefly summarize the results . in the hst / stis image ( figure  [ fig : offset1 ] ) , the host appears to be essentially a face - on late - type blue dwarf galaxy . at the center",
    "is an apparent nucleus manifested as a 6-@xmath3 peak north of the transient .",
    "there is also an indication of arm - like structure extending toward the transient .",
    "this image represents the ideal for astrometric purposes ( level 1 ) : both the transient and the host `` center '' are well - localizable in the same high - resolution image .",
    "the transient appears outside the half - light radius of the galaxy .",
    "the host is a compact , elongated and blue galaxy @xcite and is likely undergoing a starburst phase .",
    "the optical transient was well - detected in the early time hst image @xcite and the host was well - detected ( figure  [ fig : offset1 ] ) in the late - time image @xcite .",
    "we masked out a 2  @xmath7 2  region around the ot / host and cross - correlated the two final images using the iraf / crossdrizzle routine .",
    "we used the iraf / shiftfind routine on the correlation image to find the systematic shift between the two epochs .",
    "the resulting uncertainty in the shift was quite small , @xmath66 , @xmath67 pix ( @xmath56 , @xmath57 direction ) .",
    "we also found 37 compact objects in common to both images and performed an astrometric mapping in the usual manner .",
    "we find @xmath68 pix in the ( @xmath56,@xmath57 directions ) .",
    "we centered the ot and the host in the normal manner using the iraf / ellipse task .",
    "the resulting offset is given in table [ tab : offsets ] where we use the more conservative astrometric mapping uncertainties from using the tie objects , rather than the crossdrizzle routine . as first noted in @xcite ( keck imaging ) and then in @xcite ( hst imaging ) , the ot was remarkably close to the apparent center of the host galaxy .",
    "the p200@xmath32keck astrometry from @xcite produced an r.m.s .",
    "astrometric uncertainty of 121 mas , compared to an r.m.s .",
    "uncertainty of 11 mas from hst@xmath32hst astrometry .",
    "the largest source of uncertainty from the hst@xmath32hst is the centroid position of the host galaxy .",
    "the host is identified as the middle galaxy in an apparent 3-component system .",
    "we discuss the host properties and the astrometry ( radio@xmath32opt ) in more detail in @xcite .",
    "the total uncertainty in the radio to keck tie is 506 mas ( @xmath58 ) and 376 mas ( @xmath59 ) .      by all accounts , the host appears to be a typical @xmath69 galaxy at redshift @xmath70 .",
    "the keck@xmath32hst astrometry is discussed in detail in @xcite .",
    "the offset uncertainty found was @xmath65 = 70 mas .",
    "the grb appears located to the east of the host galaxy center , but consistent with the east - west extension of the host ( see figure [ fig : offset1 ] ) .",
    "no spectroscopic redshift for this burst was found .",
    "however , based on the light - curve and the sn hypothesis , the presumed redshift is @xmath711 ( see * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite reported that no galaxy was found at the position of the optical transient down to a 3-@xmath3 limiting magnitude of @xmath72 mag .",
    "given the close spatial connection of other grbs with galaxies , we posited that a deeper integration would reveal a nearby host .",
    "indeed , @xcite recently reported the detection with hst / stis imaging of a very faint ( @xmath73 mag ) galaxy within 25 mas of the ot position .    for astrometry we used an @xmath34-band image from 27 april 1998 when the ot was bright and found the position of the ot on our deep @xmath34-band image from 18 december 1998 .",
    "in this deep @xmath34-band image we found 34 objects in common with the hst / stis drizzled image .",
    "we confirm the presence of this faint and compact source near the ot position though our astrometry places the ot at a distance of 130 mas ( @xmath74 mas ) .",
    "the galaxy and ot position are shown in figure [ fig : offset1 ] .",
    "the low - level flux to the southeast corner of the image is a remnant from a diffraction spike of a nearby bright star .",
    "@xcite find that the putative host galaxy is detected at the 4.5-@xmath3 level .",
    "adding to the notion that the source is not some chance superposition , we note that the galaxy is the brightest object within 3 @xmath7 3 arcsec@xmath8 of the grb position .",
    "there is also a possible detection of a low - surface brightness galaxy @xmath60.5 arcsec to the east of the galaxy .",
    "the afterglow of grb 980329 was first detected at radio wavelengths @xcite . our best early time position was obtained using keck k - band image of the field observed by j.  larkin and collaborators @xcite .",
    "we recently obtained deep r- imaging of the field with keck / esi and detected the host galaxy at @xmath75 mag .",
    "we found the location of the afterglow relative to the host using 13 stars in common to the early k - band and late r - band image .",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : offset1 ] , the grb is coincident with a slightly extended faint galaxy .",
    "our determined angular offset ( cf .",
    "table [ tab : offsets ] ) of the grb from this galaxy is significantly closer to the putative host than the offset determined by @xcite in late - time hst imaging ( our astrometric uncertainties are also a factor of @xmath6 9 smaller ) . the difference is possibly explained by noting that the @xcite analysis used the vla radio position and just 3 usno - a2.0 to tie the grb position to the hst image .",
    "the sn 1998bw was well - localized at radio wavelengths @xcite with an astrometric position relative to the icrs of 100 mas in each coordinate .",
    "ideally we could calibrate the hst / stis image to icrs to ascertain where the radio source lies .",
    "however , without hipparcos / tycho astrometric sources or radio point sources in the stis field such absolute astrometric positioning is difficult .    instead , we registered an early ground - based image to the stis field to determine the differential astrometry of the optical sn with respect to its host . unfortunately , most early images were relatively shallow exposures to avoid saturation of the bright sn and so many of the point sources in the stis field are undetected .",
    "the best seeing and deepest exposure from ground - based imaging is from the emmi / eso ntt 3.5 meter telescope on 4.41 may 1998 @xcite where the seeing was 0.9 arcsec fwhm .",
    "we found 6 point sources which were detected in both the stis / clear and the eso ntt @xmath37-band image .",
    "the use of @xmath37-band positions for image registration is justified since all 6 point sources are red in appearance and therefore unlikely to introduce a systematic error in the relative positioning .",
    "since the number of astrometric tie sources is low , we did not fit for high - order distortions in the eso image and instead we fit for the relative scale in both the @xmath56 and @xmath57 directions , rotation , and shift ( 5 parameters for 12 data points ) .",
    "we compute an r.m.s .",
    "uncertainty of 40 mas and 32 mas in the @xmath56 and @xmath57 positions of the astrometric tie sources .",
    "these transformation uncertainties dominate the error in the positional uncertainty of the sn in the eso ntt image and so we take the transformation uncertainties as the uncertainty in the true position of the supernova with respect to the stis host image .    the astrometric mapping places the optical position of sn 1998bw within an apparent star - forming region in the outer spiral arm of the host 2.4 kpc in projection at @xmath76 to the south - west of the galactic nucleus . within the uncertainties of the astrometry",
    "the sn is positionally coincident with a bright , blue knot within this region , probably an hii region .",
    "this is consistent with the independent astrometric solutions reported by @xcite .",
    "the grb afterglow was well - detected in our early - time image from the palomar 200-inch .",
    "we found 150 objects in common to this image and our intermediate - time keck image .",
    "an astrometric registration between the two epochs was performed using iraf / geomap . based on this astrometry",
    ", @xcite reported the ot to be astrometrically consistent with a faint galaxy , the putative host .",
    "this is the second faintest host galaxy ( after grb 990510 ; see below ) observed to date with @xmath77 .",
    "we found 25 objects in common with the intermediate - time keck image and the hst / stis image .",
    "these tie objects were used to further propagate the ot position onto the hst frame .",
    "inspection of our final hst image near the optical transient location reveals the presence of low surface - brightness emission connecting the two bright elongated structures .",
    "morphologically , the `` host '' appears to be tidally interacting galaxies , although this interpretation is subjective .",
    "the grb location is coincident with the dimmer elongated structure to the north . using the approximate geometric center of the host we estimate the center , albeit somewhat arbitrarily , as the faint knot south of the grb location and @xmath60.3 to the east of the brighter elongated structure .",
    "the half - light radius of the system was also measured from this point . from this `` center ''",
    "we find the offset of the grb given in table [ tab : offsets ] .",
    "the morphology of the system surrounding the grb is complex and discussed in detail in @xcite .",
    "there we found the ot to be within @xmath63 arcsec of 5 apparent galaxies or galaxy fragments two of which are very red ( @xmath78 ) .",
    "in more recent hst imaging , the ot appears nearly coincident with a compact high - surface brightness feature , which we now identify as the host center . given the complex morphology , we chose to isolate the feature in the determination of the half - light radius by truncating the curve - of - growth analysis at 0.5 arcsec from the determined center .",
    "the optical transient was well - detected in our early time image and , based on the light curve and the late - time image , the light was not contaminated by light from the host galaxy .",
    "@xcite recently found that the radio transient was very near the center of the radio emission from the host .",
    "we found 23 objects in common to the keck image and our final reduced hst / stis image and computed the geometric transformation .",
    "the r.m.s .",
    "uncertainty of the ot position on the hst image was quite small : 49 mas and 60 mas in the instrumental @xmath56 and @xmath57 coordinates , respectively .",
    "we determined the center of the host using iraf / ellipse and iraf / center which gave consistent answers to 2 mas in each coordinate .",
    "recently , @xcite compared the vlba position of the afterglow with the position of the persistent radio emission from the host . since both measurements were referenced directly to the icrs ,",
    "the offset determined was a factor of @xmath63 times more accurate than that found using the optical afterglow ; the two offset measurements are consistent within the errors . in the interest of uniformity",
    ", we will use the optical offset measurement in the following analysis .",
    "unfortunately , no optical transient was found for this burst though a radio transient was identified @xcite .",
    "we rely on the transformation between the usno - a2.0 and the keck image to place the host galaxy position on the icrs ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for further details ) .",
    "we then determined the location of the radio transient in the hst frame using 25 compact sources common to both the hst and keck image . in figure",
    "[ fig : examtie ] we show as example the tie objects in both the keck and hst image .",
    "the tie between the two images is excellent with an r.m.s .",
    "uncertainty of 33 mas and 47 mas in the instrumental @xmath56 and @xmath57 positions . clearly , the uncertainty in the radio position on the keck image dominates the overall location of the grb on the hst image .    the host appears to have a double nucleated morphology , perhaps indicative of a merger or interacting system .",
    "@xcite noted , by inspecting both the stis longpass and the stis clear image , that the north - eastern part of the galaxy appeared significantly bluer then the south - western part .",
    "as expected from these colors the center of the host as measured in our late - time @xmath34-band keck lies near ( @xmath79 mas ) the centroid of the red ( south - western ) portion of the host .",
    "we assign the @xmath34-band centroid in keck image as the center of the host .",
    "this grb had an extremely bright prompt optical afterglow emission which was found archivally in images from a robotic telescope , the robotic optical transient search experiment @xcite .",
    "we reported on the astrometric comparison of ground - based data with hst imaging and found that the bright point source on the southern edge of a complex morphological system was the afterglow @xcite .",
    "later hst imaging revealed that indeed this source did fade ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) as expected of grb afterglow .",
    "as seen in figure [ fig : offset2 ] , the host galaxy is fairly complex , with two bright elongated regions spaced by @xmath80 which run approximately parallel to each other .",
    "the appearance of spatially curved emission to the west may be a tidal tail from the merger of two separate systems or a pronounced spiral arm of the brighter elongated region to the north .",
    "we choose , again somewhat subjectively , the peak of this brighter region as the center of the system and find the astrometric position of the grb directly from the first hst epoch .",
    "an optical transient associated with grb 990308 was found by @xcite . though the transient was detected at only one epoch ( 3.3 hours after the grb ;",
    "* ) it was observed in three band - passes , twice in @xmath34-band .",
    "later - time keck imaging revealed no obvious source at the location of the transient to @xmath34 = 25.7 suggesting that the source had faded by at least @xmath67.5 mag in @xmath34-band .",
    "a deep hst exposure of the field was obtained by @xcite who reported that the @xcite position derived from the usno - a2.0 was consistent with two faint galaxies .",
    "we found the offset by two means .",
    "first , we found an absolute astrometric solution using 12 usno - a2.0 stars in common with the later - time keck image .",
    "the hst / stis and the keck @xmath34-band image were then registered using 27 objects in common .",
    "second , we found a differential position by using early ground - based images kindly provided by b.  schaefer to tie the optical afterglow position directly to the keck ( then to hst ) image .",
    "both methods give consistent results though the differential method is , as expected , more accurate .",
    "our astrometry places the ot position further east from the two faint galaxies than the position derived by @xcite . at a distance of 0.73",
    "arcsec to the north of our ot position there appears to be a low - surface brightness galaxy near the detection limit of the stis image ( see figure  [ fig : offset2 ] ) , similar to the host of grb 980519 ( there is also , possibly , a very faint source 0.23 arcsec southwest of the ot position , but the reality of its detection is questionable ) . due to the faintness and morphological nature of the source ,",
    "a detection confidence limit is difficult to quantify , but we are reasonably convinced that the source is real . at @xmath81 mag ,",
    "the non - detection of this galaxy in previous imaging is consistent with the current stis detection .",
    "since the angular extent of the galaxy spans @xmath625 drizzled stis pixels ( @xmath60.63 arcsec ) , more high - resolution hst imaging is not particularly useful for confirming the detection of the galaxy . instead",
    ", deeper ground - based imaging with a large aperture telescope would be more useful .",
    "the keck astrometric comparison to the radio position was given in @xcite , with a statistical error of 250 mas .",
    "we transferred this astrometric tie to the hst / stis image using 8 compact sources common to both the keck and hst images of the field near grb 990506 .",
    "the resulting uncertainty is negligible compared to the uncertainties in the radio position on the keck image .",
    "as first reported in @xcite , the grb location appears consistent with a faint compact galaxy .",
    "@xcite later reported that the galaxy appears compact even in the stis imaging .",
    "this grb is well - known for having exhibited the first clear evidence of a jet manifested as an achromatic break in the light curve ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "recently , we discovered the host galaxy in late - time hst / stis imaging @xcite with @xmath82 .",
    "registration of the early epoch where the ot was bright reveals the ot occurred 64 @xmath36 9 mas west and 15 @xmath36 12 mas north of the center of the host galaxy .",
    "this amounts to a significant displacement of 66 @xmath36 9 mas or  600 pc at a distance of @xmath83 @xcite .",
    "the galaxy is extended with a position angle pa = 80.5 @xmath36 1.5 degree ( east of north ) and an ellipticity of about @xmath60.5 .",
    "in retrospect , the host does appear to be marginally detected in the july 1999 imaging as well as the later april 2000 image although at the time , no galaxy was believed to have been detected @xcite .",
    "@xcite discovered the infrared afterglow of grb 990705 projected on the outskirts of the large magellanic cloud . at the position of the afterglow",
    ", @xcite noted an extended galaxy seen in ground - based @xmath84-band imaging ; they identified this galaxy as the host .",
    "@xcite reported on hst imaging of the field and noted , thanks to the large size ( @xmath85 arcsec ) of the galaxy and resolution afforded by hst , an apparent face - on spiral at the location of the transient .",
    "we retrieved the public hst data and compared the early images provided by n.  masetti with our final reduced hst image .",
    "consistent with the position derived by @xcite , we find that the transient was situated on the outskirts of a spiral arm to the west of the galaxy nucleus and just north of an apparent star - forming region .",
    "this grb is the lowest measured redshift of a `` cosmological '' grb with @xmath86 @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , the astrometric location of the grb appears to be controversial , though there is no question that the grb occurred within the bright galaxy pictured in figure  [ fig : offset2 ] .",
    "@xcite found that the only source consistent with a point source in the earlier hst image was the faint region to the northwest side of the galaxy and concluded that the source was the optical transient .",
    "however , @xcite found that this source did not fade significantly . instead the fruchter et al .",
    "analysis showed , by subtraction of two hst epochs , that a source did fade near the bright region to the southeast .",
    "while the fading could be due to agn activity instead of the presence of a grb afterglow , we adopt the conclusion of fruchter et al .  for astrometry and place conservative uncertainties on the location relative to the center as 75 mas ( 3 pixels ) in both @xmath58 and @xmath59 for 1-@xmath3 errors .",
    "we did not conduct an independent analysis to determine this grb offset .      in our early @xmath87-band image of the field ,",
    "we detect the afterglow as well as 7 suitable tie stars to our late esi image .",
    "the host galaxy is visible in the esi image and the subsequent offset was reported by us @xcite .",
    "an hst image was later obtained and reported by @xcite confirming the presences of the host galaxy .",
    "we reduced the public hst / stis data on this burst and found the offset in the usual manner by tying the ot position from keck to the hst frame .",
    "the grb afterglow position falls near a small , compact galaxy . a fainter galaxy , to the southeast ,",
    "may also be related to the grb / host galaxy system ( see figure  [ fig : offset2 ] ) .",
    "we used 9 compact objects in common to our early keck image ( seeing fwhm = 0.66 ) and the late - time hst / stis imaging to locate the transient .",
    "as noted first by @xcite , the ot is spatially coincident with a faint , apparent point source in the hst / stis image .",
    "our astrometric accuracy of @xmath88 mas of the ot position is about 4 times better than that of @xcite .",
    "thanks to this we can confidently state that the ot coincides with a point source on the hst / stis image .",
    "we believe this point source , as first suggested by vreeswijk et al . , is the ot itself .",
    "the `` location '' of the host galaxy is difficult to determine .",
    "the ot does appear to reside to the southwest of faint extended emission ( object `` n '' from vreeswijk et al .",
    "2000 ) but it is also located to the northeast of a brighter extended component ( object `` s '' from vreeswijk et al .",
    "there appears to be a faint bridge of emission connecting the two regions as well as the much larger region to the west of the ot ( see figure  [ fig : offset2 ] ) .",
    "in fact these three regions may together comprise a large , low - surface brightness system .",
    "again , somewhat arbitrarily , we take the center of the `` host '' to be the peak of object `` s '' .",
    "@xcite , in intermediate - time ( april 2000 ) imaging of the field of grb 000301c , detected a faint unresolved source coincident with the location of the grb afterglow ; the authors reckoned the source to be the faded afterglow itself . in the most recent imaging on february 2001 the same group detected a somewhat fainter , compact object",
    "very near the position of the transient . given the time ( @xmath6 one year ) since the grb the authors suggested that the afterglow should have faded below the detection level and that therefore this object is the host of grb 000301c @xcite    we confirm the detection of this source and measure the offset using earlier time imaging from hst .",
    "though no emission line redshift of this source has been obtained given its proximity to the grb it likely resides at @xmath89 , inferred from absorption spectroscopy @xcite of the ot .",
    "in figure [ fig : offset3 ] we present the late - time image from hst / stis .",
    "a galaxy 2.13 from the transient to the northwest is detected at @xmath90 mag and may be involved in possible microlensing of the grb afterglow ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* )      we reported the detection of an optically bright component and an infrared bright component at the location of grb 000418 @xcite .",
    "@xcite later reported that hst / stis imaging of the field revealed that the ot location was 0.08 @xmath36 0.15 east of the center of the optically bright component , a compact galaxy .",
    "for our astrometry we used an early keck @xmath34-band image and the late hst / stis image .",
    "the astrometric uncertainty is improved over the @xcite analysis by a factor of 2.4 . within errors ,",
    "the ot is consistent with the center of the compact host .",
    "as seen in table [ tab : offsets ] and  [ sec : indivoff ] , there are 20 grbs for which we have a reliable offset measure from self - hst , hst@xmath32hst , hst@xmath32 gb , gb@xmath32 gb , or radio@xmath32opt astrometric ties .",
    "there are several representations of this data worth exploring . in figure",
    "[ fig : skyoff ] we plot the angular distribution of grbs about their presumed host galaxy . in this figure and in the subsequent analysis",
    "we exclude grb 980425 because the association of this grb with sn 1998bw is still controversial . and",
    "more importantly ( for the purposes of this paper ) the relation of grb 980425 with the classical `` cosmological '' grbs is unclear @xcite given that , if the association proved true , the burst would have been under - luminous by a factor of @xmath91 @xcite .",
    "as can be seen from table [ tab : offsets ] and figure [ fig : skyoff ] , well - localized grbs appear on the sky close to galaxies .",
    "the median projected offset of the 20 grbs from their putative host galaxies is 0.17 arcsecond  sufficiently small that almost all of the identified galaxies must be genuine hosts ( see below ) . in detail ,",
    "three of the bursts show no measurable offset from the centroid of their compact hosts ( 970508 , 980703 , 000418 ) whereas five bursts appear well displaced ( @xmath92 ) from the center of their host at a high level of significance .",
    "four additional bursts detected via radio afterglows ( grb 970828 , grb 981226 , grb 990506 ) and grb 990308 ( poor astrometry of the discovery image due to large pixels and shallow depth ) suffer from larger uncertainties ( r.m.s .",
    "@xmath930.3 arcsecond ) but have plausible host galaxies .",
    "as discussed in appendix [ sec : errors ] , gb@xmath32 gb or gb@xmath32hst astrometry could systematically suffer from the effects of differential chromatic refraction , albeit on the 510 mas level .",
    "the hst@xmath32hst measured offsets of grb 970228 , grb 970508 , grb 990123 , grb 990510 , grb 990712 , and grb 000301c are immune from dcr effects . since",
    "optical transients are , in general , red in appearance and their hosts blue , dcr will systematically appear to pull ots away from their hosts in the parallactic direction towards the horizon . comparing the observed offsets directions parallactic at the time of each ot observation in table [ tab :",
    "offsets ] , we find no systematic correlation thus confirming that dcr does not appear to play a dominant role in determining the differential offsets of ots from their hosts .    on what basis can we be confident that the host assignment is correct for a particular grb ?",
    "stated more clearly in the negative is the following question : `` what is the probability of finding an unrelated galaxy ( or galaxies ) within the localization error circle of the afterglow ( 3-sigma ) or , in the case where the localization error circle is very small , whether a galaxy found close to a grb localization is an unrelated galaxy seen in projection ? ''",
    "this probability , assuming that the surface distribution of galaxies is uniform and thus follows a poisson distribution ( i.e.  we ignore clustering of galaxies ) is @xmath94 here , @xmath95 is the expected number of galaxies in a circle with an effective radius , @xmath96 , and @xmath97 is the mean surface density of galaxies brighter than r - band magnitude of @xmath98 , found using the results from @xcite . since grb are observed through some galactic extinction , the surface density of galaxies at a given limiting flux is reduced ; therefore , we use the reddened host galaxy magnitude for @xmath98 (= col .  2 @xmath99 col .  3 of table [ tab : offnorm ] )",
    "there are few possible scenarios for determining @xmath96 at a given magnitude limit .",
    "if the grb is very well localized inside the detectable light of a galaxy then @xmath100 , is a reasonable estimate to the effective radius .",
    "if the localization is poor and there is a galaxy inside the uncertainty position , then @xmath101 .",
    "if the localization is good , but the position is outside the light of the nearest galaxy , then @xmath102 . therefore , we take @xmath103 $ ] as a conservative estimate to the effective radius . here , the quantity @xmath104 is the radial separation between the grb and the presumed host galaxy , @xmath105 is the half - light radius , and @xmath106 is the associated r.m.s .",
    "error ( see table [ tab : offsets ] ) .",
    "if no `` obvious '' host is found ( i.e.  @xmath107 ) then we often seek deeper imaging observations , which will , in general , decrease the estimated @xmath96 as more and more galaxies are detected",
    ". however , the estimate for @xmath108 should remain reasonable since the surface density of background galaxies continues to grow larger with increasing depth .",
    "this is to say that there is little penalty to pay in statistically relating sky positions to galaxies by observing to fainter depths .",
    "the values for @xmath109 are computed and presented in table [ tab : offnorm ] .",
    "as expected , grbs which fall very close to a galaxy ( e.g.  grb 970508 , grb 980703 , grb 990712 ) are likely to be related to that galaxy .",
    "similarly , grb localizations with poor astrometric accuracy ( e.g.  grb 990308 , 970828 ) yield larger probabilities that the assigned galaxy is unrelated .    in the past , most authors ( including ourselves ) did not endeavor to produce a probability of chance association , instead opting to assume that these assigned galaxies are indeed the hosts .",
    "nevertheless , we believe these estimates are conservative ; for instance , @xcite estimated that @xmath110 ( 970228 ) = 0.0016 which is a value 5.8 times smaller than our estimate .",
    "again , we emphasize that the estimated probabilities are constructed _ a posteriori _ so there is no exact formula to the determine the true @xmath110 .",
    "the probability that * all * supposed host galaxies in our sample are random background galaxies is , @xmath111 with @xmath112 and @xmath113 found from equation [ eq : thep ] for each grb @xmath114 .",
    "not surprisingly , this number is extremely small , @xmath115 , insuring that at least some host assignments must be correct .",
    "the probability that * all * galaxies are physically associated ( i.e.  that none are chance super - position of a random field galaxies ) is , @xmath116 in general , the chance that @xmath117 assignments will be spurious out of a sample of @xmath118 assignments is , @xmath119.\\ ] ] @xmath120 reflects the probability that we have generated a number @xmath121 of spurious host galaxy identifications . for our sample ,",
    "we find that @xmath122 , @xmath123 , and @xmath124 and so the number of spurious identifications is likely to be small , @xmath612 . indeed ,",
    "if the two grbs with the largest @xmath125 are excluded ( grb 970828 , grb 990308 ) then @xmath126 ) jumps to 0.76 .",
    "thus we are confident that almost all of our identifications are quite secure .",
    "the certainty of our host assignments of the nearest galaxy to a grb finds added strength by using redshift information . in _ all _ cases where an absorption redshift is found in a grb afterglow ( grb 970508 , grb 980613 , grb 990123 , grb 980703 , grb 990712 , grb 991216 ) the highest redshift absorption system is observed to be at nearly the same emission redshift of the nearest galaxy .",
    "therefore , with these bursts , clearly the nearest galaxy can not reside at a higher redshift than the grb .",
    "the galaxy may simply be a foreground object which gives rise both to nebular line emission and the absorption of the afterglow originating from a higher redshift .",
    "however , using the observed number density evolution of absorbing systems , @xcite calculated that statistically in @xmath127% of such absorption cases , the grb could reside no further than 1.25 times the absorption redshift .",
    "for example , if an emission / absorption system is found at @xmath128 then there is only a @xmath129% chance that the grb could have occurred beyond redshift @xmath130 without another absorption system intervening .",
    "though this argument can not prove that a given grb progenitor originated from the assigned host , the effect of absorption / emission redshifts is to confine the possible grb redshifts to a shell in redshift - space , reducing the number of galaxies that could possibly host the grb , and increasing the chance that the host assignment is correct .",
    "therefore , given this argument and the statistical formulation above , we proceed with the hypothesis that , as a group , grbs are indeed physically associated with galaxies assigned as hosts .      of the 20 grbs with angular offsets five",
    "have no confirmed redshift and the angular offset is thus without a physical scale .",
    "these bursts have hosts fainter than @xmath131 mag and , given the distribution of other grb redshifts with these host magnitudes , it is reasonable to suppose that the five bursts originated somewhere in the redshift range @xmath132 0.55 .",
    "it is interesting to note ( with our assumed cosmology ) that despite a luminosity distance ratio of 37 between these two redshifts , the angular scales are about the same : @xmath133 .",
    "in fact over this entire redshift range , which renders the conversion of angular displacement to physical projection relatively insensitive to redshift .",
    "for these five bursts , then , we assign the median @xmath134 of the other bursts with known redshifts so that ( corresponding to a redshift of @xmath135 ) and scale the observed offset uncertainty by an additional 30% . here",
    ", we use the grb redshifts ( and , below , host magnitudes ) compiled in the review by @xcite .",
    "the resulting physical projected distribution is depicted in figure [ fig : skyoff ] and given in table 1 .",
    "the median projected physical offset of the 20 grbs in the sample is 1.31 kpc or 1.10 kpc including only those 15 grbs for which a redshift was measured .",
    "the minimum offset found is just 91 @xmath36 90 pc from the host center ( grb 970508 ) .",
    "if grbs were to arise from massive stars we would then expect that the distribution of grb offsets would follow the distribution of the light of their hosts .",
    "as can be seen in figure [ fig : offset1 ] , qualitatively this appears to be the case since almost all localizations fall on or near the detectable light of a galaxy .",
    "the next step in the analysis is to study the offsets but normalized by the half - light radius of the host .",
    "this step then allows us to consider all the offsets in a uniform manner . the half - light radius ,",
    "@xmath105 is estimated directly from stis images with sufficiently high signal - to - noise ratio and in the remaining cases we use the empirical half - light radius  magnitude relation of @xcite ; we use the dereddened r - band magnitudes found in the grb host summaries from @xcite and @xcite .",
    "table [ tab : offnorm ] shows the angular offsets and the effective radius used for scaling .",
    "where the empirical half - light radius  magnitude relation is used , we assign an uncertainty of 30% to @xmath105    the median of the distribution of normalized offsets is 0.976 ( table [ tab : offnorm ] ) .",
    "that this number is close to unity suggests a strong correlation of grb locations with the light of the host galaxy .",
    "the same strong correlation can be graphically seen in figure [ fig : hostnorm ] where we find that half of the galaxies lie inside the half - light radius and the remaining outside the half - light radius .",
    "we remark that the effective wavelength of the stis band - pass and the ground - based r band correspond to rest - frame uv and thus grbs appear to be traced quite faithfully by the uv light which mainly arises from the youngest and thus massive stars .",
    "we will examine the distribution in the context of massive star progenitors more closely in ",
    "[ sec : compare - collapsars ] .",
    "a simple way to compare the normalized offsets to the expectations of various progenitor models ( see  [ sec : compare ] ) is through the histogram of the offsets .",
    "however , due to the small number of offsets , the usual binned histogram is not very informative .",
    "in addition , the binned histogram implicitly assumes that the observables can be represented by @xmath59-functions and this is not appropriate for our case where several offsets are comparable to the measurement uncertainty .    to this end",
    "we have developed a method to construct a probability histogram ( ph ) that takes into account the errors on the measurements .",
    "simply put , we treat each measurement as a probability distribution of offset ( rather than a @xmath59-function ) and create a smooth histogram by summing over all grb probability distributions .",
    "specifically , for each offset @xmath136 we create an individual ph distribution function , @xmath137d@xmath138 , representing the probability of observing a host - normalized offset @xmath138 for that burst .",
    "the integral of @xmath139 is normalized to unity .",
    "the total ph is then constructed as @xmath140d@xmath138 = @xmath141 and plotted as a shaded region curve in figure [ fig : offset - log ] ; see appendix [ sec : osh - derive ] for further details .",
    "the total probability histogram @xmath142d@xmath138 is depicted as the solid smooth curve in figure [ fig : offset - cum ] .",
    "there is , as expected , a qualitative similarity between the cumulative total ph distribution and the usual cumulative histogram distribution .",
    "given the observed offset distribution , we are now in the position to pose the question : which progenitor models are favored by the data ?",
    "clearly , grbs as a class do not appear to reside at the centers of galaxies and so we can essentially rule out the possibility that _ all _ grbs localized to - date arise from nuclear activity .      in general , the expected distributions of merging remnant binaries",
    "are found using population synthesis models for high - mass binary evolution to generate synthetic remnant binaries .",
    "the production rate of such binaries from other channels ( such as three - body encounters in dense stellar clusters ) are assumed to be small relative to isolated binary evolution . due to gravitational energy loss ,",
    "the binary members eventually coalesce but may travel far from their birth - site before doing so .",
    "the locations of coalescence are determined by integrating the synthetic binary orbits in galactic potential models .",
    "@xcite , @xcite and @xcite have simulated the expected radial distribution of grbs in this manner .",
    "all three studies essentially agree on the ns ",
    "ns differential offset distributions as a function of host galaxy mass .",
    "( note that the displayed distance axis , when compared to the differential distribution , is erroneously too large by a factor of ten in the _ cumulative _ offset prediction plot in figure  22 of fryer et al .",
    "@xcite suggest that the @xcite synthesis may have incorrectly predicted an over - abundance of compact binaries with small merger ages , because the population synthesis did not include a non - zero helium star radius ; this is not the case although an arithmetic error in our code may account for the discrepancy ( sigurdsson , priv .",
    "communication ) .",
    "the formation scenarios of bh ",
    "ns binaries are less certain than that of ns",
    " ns binaries .",
    "both @xcite and @xcite suggest that so - called `` hypercritical accretion '' @xcite dominates the birthrate of bh ",
    "ns binaries . briefly",
    ", hypercritical accretion occurs when the primary star evolves off the main sequence and explodes as a supernova , leaving behind a neutron star .",
    "mass is rapidly accreted from the secondary star ( in red giant phase ) during common envelope evolution , causing the primary neutron star to collapse to a black hole .",
    "the secondary then undergoes a supernova explosion leaving behind a ns . as in ns ",
    "ns binary formation , only some bh ",
    "ns systems will remain bound after having received systemic velocity kicks from two supernovae explosions .",
    "one important difference is that bh ",
    "ns binaries are in general more massive ( total system mass @xmath143 ) than ns",
    " ns binaries ( @xmath144 ) .",
    "furthermore , the coalescence timescale after the second supernova is shorter that in ns ",
    "ns binaries because of the bh mass . therefore ,",
    "despite similar evolutionary tracks bh  ns binaries could be retained more tightly to host galaxies than ns ",
    "ns binaries @xcite .",
    "@xcite quantified this expected trend , showing that on average , bh ",
    "ns binaries merge @xmath6few times closer to galaxies than ns ",
    "ns binaries .",
    "surprisingly , @xcite found that bh ",
    "ns binaries merged _ further _ from galaxies than ns ",
    "ns binaries , but this result was not explained by @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , just as with ns ",
    "ns binaries , a substantial fraction of bh ",
    "ns binaries will escape the potential well of the host galaxy and merge well - outside of the host .",
    "for example , even in massive galaxies such as the milky way , these studies show that roughly 25% of mergers occur @xmath145 kpc from the center of a host galaxy .    before comparing in detail the predicted and observed distributions",
    ", it is illustrative to note that the observed distribution appears qualitatively inconsistent with the delayed merging remnant binaries .",
    "all the population synthesis studies mentioned thus far find that at approximately 50% of merging remnants will occur outside of @xmath146 kpc when the mass of the host is less than or comparable to the mass of the milky way .",
    "comparing this expectation with figure  [ fig : skyoff ] , where no bursts lie beyond 10 kpc from their host , the simplistic poisson probability that the observed distribution is the same as the predicted distribution is no larger than 2 @xmath147 .    to provide a more quantitative comparison of the observed distribution with the merging remnant expectation , we require a model of the location probability of grb mergers about their hosts . these models , which should in principle vary from host to host , have a complex dependence on the population synthesis inputs , the location of star formation within the galaxies and the dark - matter halo mass .    no dynamical or photometric",
    "mass of a grb host has been reported to - date . however , since grb hosts are blue , starbursts ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) it is not unreasonable to suspect that their masses will lie in the range of 0.001  0.1 @xmath7 10@xmath148 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "the most obvious exceptions to this are the hosts of grb 971214 and grb 990705 which are likely to be near @xmath69 .",
    "the observed median effective disk scale length of grb hosts is @xmath149 kpc though grb hosts clearly show a diversity of sizes ( table [ tab : offnorm ] , col .",
    "this value of @xmath150 is also close to the median effective scale radii found in the @xcite study of nearby compact blue galaxies .    to compare the observed and predicted distributions we use galactic models a ",
    "e from @xcite corresponding to hosts ranging in mass from 0.009  0.62 @xmath151 and disk scale radii ( @xmath150 ) of 1 and 3 kpc .",
    "following the discussion above , we also construct a new model ( @xmath152 ) which we consider the most representative of grb hosts galaxies with @xmath153 km s@xmath21 , @xmath154 kpc , and @xmath155 kpc ( @xmath156 ) .    we project these predicted _ radial _ distribution models by dividing each offset by a factor of @xmath157 since the projection of a merger site on to the plane of the sky results in a smaller observed distance to the host center than the radial distance .",
    "we determined the projection factor of 1.15 by a monte carlo simulation projecting a 3-dimensional ( 3-d ) distribution of offsets onto the sky .",
    "the median projected offset is thus 87% of the 3-d radial offset .",
    "the observed distribution is compared with the predicted distributions and shown in figure [ fig : rem - comp1 ] .",
    "we summarize the results in table [ tab : nsks ] .",
    "only model @xmath158 ( @xmath159 , @xmath160 kpc ) could be consistent with the data ( @xmath161 ) but this galactic model has a larger disk and is probably more massive than most grb hosts .",
    "instead , for the `` best bet '' model @xmath152 , the one - sided kolmogorov - smirnov probability that the observed sample derives from the same predicted distribution is @xmath162 , in agreement with our simplistic calculation above ; that is , the location of grbs appears to be inconsistent with the ns ",
    "ns and ns  bh hypothesis .",
    "if grbs do arise from systems which travel far from their birthsite , then there is a subtle bias in determining the offset to the host .",
    "if the progenitors are ejected from the host by more than half the distance between the host and the nearest ( projected ) galaxy , then the transient position will appear unrelated to any galaxies ( the wrong host will be assigned , of course ) but @xmath110 will always appear high no matter how deep the host search is .",
    "we try account for this effect in our modeling ( appendix [ sec : robust ] ) by synthetically replacing observed ( small ) offsets that are associated with a high value of @xmath110 with new , generally larger , offsets drawing from the expected distribution of offsets for a particular galactic model .",
    "this then biases the distribution of @xmath163 statistics toward _ higher _ values ( by definition ) but the median values of @xmath163 are largely unaffected ( see table [ tab : nsks ] ) .",
    "as discussed , collapsars produce grbs in star - forming regions , as will bh  he binaries .",
    "the localization of grb 990705 near a spiral arm is , of course , tantalizing smaller - scale evidence of the grb  star - formation connection .",
    "ideally , the burst sites of individual grbs could be studied in detail with imaging and spectroscopy and should , if the collapsar / promptly bursting binary origin is correct , reveal that the burst sites are hii regions . unfortunately , the distances to grbs preclude a detailed examination of the specific burst sites at the tens of parsec scale resolution ( the typical size for a star - forming region ) with current instrumentation . adaptive optics ( ao ) laser - guide star imaging may prove quite useful in this regard as will ir imaging with the _ next generation space telescope_.    weaker evidence for a star - formation connection exists in that no grb to date has been observed to be associated with an early - type galaxy ( morphologically or spectroscopically ) , though in practice it is often difficult to discern galaxy type with the data at hand .",
    "indeed most well - resolved hosts appear to be compact star forming blue galaxies , spirals , or morphological irregulars .    above",
    "we have demonstrated that grbs follow the uv ( restframe ) light of their host galaxies .",
    "however , the comparison has been primarily mediated by a single parameter , the half - light radius and the median normalized offset .",
    "we now take this comparison one step further . for the grb hosts with high signal - to - noise hst detections ( e.g.  grb 970508 , grb 971214 , grb 980703 )",
    "our analysis shows that the surface brightness is well - approximated by an exponential disk .",
    "we use this finding as the point of departure for a simplifying assumption about all grb hosts : we assume an exponential disk profile such that the surface brightness of the host galaxy scales linearly with the galactocentric radius in the disk . we further assume that the star formation rate of massive stars scales with the observed optical light of the host ; this is not an unreasonable assumption given that hst / stis imaging probes restframe uv light , an excellent tracer of massive stars , at grb redshifts .    again ,",
    "clearly not all host galaxies are disk - like ( figure  [ fig : offset1 ] ) so this assumption is not strictly valid in all cases .",
    "if @xmath150 is the disk scale length , the half - light radius of a disk galaxy is @xmath164 , so that the simplistic model of the number density of massive star - formation regions in a galaxy is , @xmath165 where @xmath166 . in reality , the distribution of massive star formation in even normal spirals is more complex , with a strong peak of star formation in the nuclear region and troughs between spiral arms ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we make an important assumption when comparing the observed distribution with the star - formation disk model : that each grb occurs in the disk of its host ( see discussion below ) . dividing the observed offset by",
    "the apparent half - light radius host essentially performs a crude de - projection .",
    "we find the probability that the observed distribution could be derived from the simplistic distribution of massive star regions ( eq .",
    "[ eq : sfr ] ) is @xmath167 ( i.e.  the two distributions are consistent ) . in appendix",
    "[ sec : robust ] we show that these results are robust even given the measurement uncertainties .",
    "this broad agreement between grb positions and the uv light of their hosts is remarkable in the sense that the model for massive star locations is surely too simplistic ; even in classic spiral galaxies ( which most grb hosts are not ) star - formation is a complex function of galactocentric radius , with peaks in galactic centers and spiral arms .",
    "furthermore , surface brightness dimming with redshift causes galaxies to appear more centrally peaked , resulting in a systematic underestimate of @xmath105 .",
    "we have determined the observed offset distribution of grbs by astrometrically comparing localizations of grb afterglow with optical images of the field surrounding each grb . in all cases , the grb location appears `` obviously '' associated with a galaxy  either because the position is superimposed atop a galaxy or very near ( @xmath168 ) a galaxy in an otherwise sparse field .",
    "in fact , irrespective of the validity of individual assignments of hosts , the offset distribution may be considered a distribution of grb positions from the nearest respective galaxy at least as bright as @xmath169 ( note that in most cases the host galaxies are much brighter , typically @xmath17026 mag ) .",
    "we find that at most a few of the 20 grbs could be unrelated physically to their assigned host and about a 50% chance that all grbs are correctly assigned to their hosts ( see  [ sec : angoffs ] ) .",
    "we then compare the distribution of grb locations about their respective hosts with the _ predicted _ radial offset distribution of merging binary remnants .",
    "this comparison is complicated by an unknown projection factor for each burst : if a grb occurs near an edge - on disk galaxy there exists no model - independent manner to determine the true 3-d radial offset of the grb from the center of the host .",
    "indeed , in a few cases ( e.g. , grb 980519 , grb 991216 ) even the `` center '' of the host is not well defined and we must estimate a center visually . in all other cases ,",
    "we find the centers using a luminosity - weighted centroid surrounding the central peak of the putative host .    to compare the grb offsets with those predicted by the ns ",
    "ns and ns  bh binary models , we make a general assumption about the projection factor and , to facilitate a comparison in physical units ( that is , offsets in kiloparsec rather than arcseconds ) , we assign an angular diameter distance to the 5 hosts without a confirmed distance (  [ sec : physproj ] ) .",
    "we have shown that the conversion of an angular offset to physical projection is relatively insensitive to the actual redshift of the host .",
    "we estimate that the probability that the observed grb offset distribution is the same as the predicted distribution of ns  ns and bh ",
    "ns binaries is @xmath171 .",
    "insofar as the observed distribution is representative ( see below ) and the predicted distribution is accurate , our analysis renders bh  ns and ns ",
    "ns progenitor scenarios unlikely for long - duration grbs .    having cast doubt on the merging remnant hypothesis , we test whether the offset distribution is consistent with the collapsar ( or bh  he ) class . since massive stars ( and promptly merging binaries )",
    "explode where they are born , we have compared the observed grb offset distribution with a very simplistic model of massive star formation in late - type galaxies : an exponential disk . after normalizing each grb offset by their host half - light radius we compare the distribution with a ks test and find good agreement : @xmath167 .",
    "we have shown that these ks results , based on the assumption of @xmath59-function offsets , are robust even after including the uncertainties in the offset measurements .",
    "thus far we have neglected discussion of the observational biases that have gone into the localizations of these 20 grbs .",
    "the usual problems plaguing supernova detection , such as the brightness of the central region of the host and dust obscuration , are not of issue for detection of the _ prompt _ high - energy emission ( _ i.e. _ , x - rays and @xmath0-rays ) of grbs since the high - energy photons penetrate dust . if the intrinsic luminosity of grbs is only a function of the inner - workings of the central engine ( that is , grbs arise from internal shocks and not external shocks ) then the luminosity of a grb is independent of ambient number density .",
    "therefore , prompt x - ray localizations from bepposax and @xmath0-ray locations from the ipn should not be a function of the global properties of grb environment ; only intrinsic grb properties such as duration and hardness will affect the prompt detection probability of grbs .",
    "the luminosity of the afterglows is , however , surmised to be a function of the ambient number density .",
    "specifically , the afterglow luminosity will scale as @xmath172 where @xmath117 is the number density of hydrogen atoms in the 110 pc region surrounding the grb explosion site ( cf .",
    "* ) . while @xmath173 0.110 cm@xmath16 in the interstellar medium , the ambient number density is probably @xmath17510@xmath176 in the intergalactic medium .",
    "thus grb afterglows in the igm may appear @xmath177 times fainter than grb afterglows in the ism ( and even more faint compared to grbs that occur in star - forming regions where the number densities are higher than in the ism ) .",
    "if only a small fraction of grbs localized promptly in x - rays and studied well at optical and radio wavelengths were found as afterglow , the ambient density bias may be cause for concern .",
    "however , this is not the case . as of june 2001 ,",
    "29 of 34 bursts localized by prompt emission were later found as x - ray , optical , and/or radio afterglow ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) ; that is , almost all grbs have detectable x - ray afterglow .",
    "therefore , _ no more than about @xmath178 of grbs localized by bepposax could have occurred in significantly lower density environments _ such as in the igm ; thus , we do not believe that our claim against the delayed merging binaries is affected by this bias .    what about the non - detection of grb afterglow at optical / radio wavelengths ?",
    "roughly half of grbs promptly localized in the gamma - ray or x - ray bands are not detected as optical or radio afterglow @xcite . while many of these `` dark '' grbs must be due to observing conditions ( lunar phase , weather , time since burst , etc . )",
    "at least some fraction may be due to intrinsic extinction local to the grb .",
    "if so , then these grbs are likely to be centrally biased since the optical column densities are strongest in star - forming regions and giant molecular clouds .",
    "therefore , _ any optically obscured grbs which do not make it in to our observed offset sample will be preferentially located in the disk_. we do not therefore believe the ambient density bias plays any significant role in causing grbs to be localized preferentially closer to galaxies ; in fact , the opposite may be true .",
    "the good agreement between our simplistic model for the location of massive stars and the observed distribution is one of the strongest arguments yet for a collapsar ( or promptly bursting binaries ) origin of long - duration grbs .",
    "however , the concordance of the predicted and observed distributions are necessary to prove the connection , although not sufficient .",
    "we may now begin to relate the offsets to the individual host and grb properties .",
    "for instance , of the grbs which lie in close proximity to their host centers ( grb 970508 , grb 980703 , and grb 000418 ) , there is a striking similarity between their hosts  all appear compact and blue with high - central surface brightness suggesting that these hosts are nuclear starburst galaxies ( none show spectroscopic evidence for the presence of an agn ) .",
    "in fact , the closeness of some grbs to their host centers signifies that our simplistic model for star - formation may require modification .",
    "this is not unexpected since , in the galaxy , star formation as a function of galactocentric radius does not follow a pure exponential disk , but is vigorous near the center and is strongly peaked around @xmath179 kpc ( see * ? ? ? * ) . as more accurate offsets are amassed",
    ", these subtle distinctions in the grbs offset distribution may be addressed .",
    "the authors thank the staff of the w.  m.  keck foundation and the staff at the palomar observatories for assistance .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for very insightful comments ; in particular , the referee pointed out ( and suggested the fix for ) the bias in offset assignment if grbs are ejected far from their host galaxies .",
    "the referee also pointed out that we did not establish that grbs are preferentially aligned with the major axes of their hosts ( as we had claimed in an earlier version of the paper ) .",
    "we applaud e.  berger and d.  reichart for close reads of various drafts of the paper .",
    "we also thank m.  davies for encouraging us to compare several ns ",
    "ns models to the data rather than just one .",
    "we acknowledge the members of the caltech - nrao - cara grb collaboration and p.  van dokkum , k.  adelberger , and r.  simcoe for helpful discussions .",
    "we thank n.  masetti for allowing us access to early ground - based data on grb 990705 and b.  schaefer for kindly providing _ quest _",
    "images of the afterglow associated with grb 990308 .",
    "this work was greatly enhanced by the use of data taken as part of the _ a public survey of the host galaxies of gamma - ray bursts _ with hst ( # 8640 ; s.  holland , p.i . ) .",
    "jsb gratefully acknowledges the fellowship and financial support from the fannie and john hertz foundation .",
    "sgd acknowledges partial support from the bressler foundation .",
    "srk acknowledges support from nasa and the nsf .",
    "the authors wish to extend special thanks to those of hawaiian ancestry on whose sacred mountain we are privileged to be guests . without their generous hospitality , many of the observations presented herein would not have been possible .",
    "174 natexlab#1#1    , c. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , nature , 398 , 400    , c. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , apj , 521 , 602    , j. and king , i.  r. 1999 , pasp , 111 , 1095    , o.  s. , tsvetkov , d.  y. , and filimonova , i.  v. 1994 , pasp , 106 , 1276    , k. , bulik , t. , and zbijewski , w. 2000 , a&a , 355 , 479    berger , e. , kulkarni , s.  r. , and frail , d.  a. 2001 , accepted to apj ; astro - ph/0105081    , h.  a. and brown , g.  e. 1998 , apj , 506 , 780    bloom , j.  s. 1999 , gcn notice 756 ; http://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/gcn/    bloom , j.  s. , diercks , a. , kulkarni , s.  r. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 480    bloom , j.  s. , djorgovski , s.  g. , and kulkarni , s.  r. 2001 , submitted to apj ; astro - ph/0007244    bloom , j.  s. , djorgovski , s.  g. , kulkarni , s.  r. , and frail , d.  a. 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 507 , l25    , j.  s. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 508 , l21    bloom , j.  s. , kulkarni , s.  r. , djorgovski , s.  g. , gal , r.  r. , eichelberger , a. , and frail , d.  a. 1998 , gcn notice 149    , j.  s. , kulkarni , s.  r. , harrison , f. , prince , t. , phinney , e.  s. , and frail , d.  a. 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 506 , l105    bloom , j.  s. , kulkarni , s.  r. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 702    , j.  s. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 518 , l1    , j.  s. , sigurdsson , s. , and pols , o.  r. 1999 , mnras , 305 , 763    , j.  s. , sigurdsson , s. , wijers , r. a. m.  j. , almaini , o. , tanvir , n.  r. , and johnson , r.  a. 1997 , , 292 , l55    bloom , j.  s. _ et al . _ 1999 , nature , 401 , 453    . 2000 , gcn notice 689    , g. , butler , r.  c. , perola , g.  c. , piro , l. , scarsi , l. , and bleeker , j. a.  m. 1997 , a&a , 122 , 299    , n. and podsiadlowski , p. 1995 , mnras , 274 , 461    , m.  s. , pendleton , g.  n. , kippen , r.  m. , brainerd , j.  j. , hurley , k. , connaughton , v. , and meegan , c.  a. 1999 , , 122 , 503    , v. , deharveng , j.  m. , and donas , j. 1989 , a&a , 223 , 42    , t. , belczyski , k. , and zbijewski , w. 1999 , mnras , 309 , 629    , b. 1992 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 391 , l67    castro , s.  m. , diercks , a. , djorgovski , s.  g. , kulkarni , s.  r. , galama , t.  j. , bloom , j.  s. , harrison , f.  a. , and frail , d.  a. 2000 , gcn notice 605    , k.  s. and wang , j. 1999 , apj , 521 , 502    , r.  a. and li , z. 2000 , apj , 536 , 195    , t.  l. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , a&as , 138 , 557    , e. _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 , nature , 387 , 783    davis , l. 1987 , http://iraf.noao.edu/iraf/ftp/iraf/docs/apspec.ps.z    de  bernardis , p. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , nature , 404 , 955    , e.  w. 1999 , aj , 118 , 1882    diercks , a. , castro , s.  m. , bloom , j.  s. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , in preparation    diercks , a. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 764    djorgovski , s. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , in preparation    djorgovski , s.  g. , bloom , j.  s. , and kulkarni , s.  r. 2000 , apj lett . , accepted ; astro - ph/0008029    djorgovski , s.  g. _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , to appear in : proc .",
    "ix marcel grossmann meeting , eds .",
    "v. gurzadyan , r. jantzen , and r. ruffini , singapore : world scientific , in press    djorgovski , s.  g. , gal , r.  r. , kulkarni , s.  r. , bloom , j.  s. , and kelly , a. 1998 , gcn notice 79    djorgovski , s.  g. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , gcn notice 368    , c.  m. , bica , e. , clari ' a , j.  j. , piatti , a.  e. , and ahumada , a.  v. 2001 , a&a , 371 , 895    , d. , livio , m. , piran , t. , and schramm , d.  n. 1989 , nature , 340 , 126    , h.  w. and miller , j.  s. 1998 , proc .",
    "spie , 3355 , 48    , a.  a. and blandford , r. 2000 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 534 , l151    fenimore , e.  e. , epstein , r.  i. , and ho , c. 1993 , a&as , 97 , 59    , e.  e. , ramirez - ruiz , e. , and wu , b. 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 518 , l73    , a.  v. 1997 , ann .",
    ", 35 , 309    , g. , biereichel , p. , mehrgan , h. , meyer , m. , moorwood , a.  f. , nicolini , g. , and stegmeier , j. 1998 , proc .",
    "spie , 3354 , 87    fishman , g.  j. and meegan , c.  a. 1995 , ann .",
    ", 33 , 415    , d.  a. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 525 , l81    , d.  a. , kulkarni , s.  r. , nicastro , s.  r. , feroci , m. , and taylor , g.  b. 1997 , nature , 389 , 261    frail , d.  a. _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , accepted to apj ( letters ) ; astro - ph/0102282    . 1999 , proc .",
    "5th huntsville grbs symp .",
    "( huntsville al , oct . 1999 )    . 2000 , to appear in the 5th huntsville symposium on gamma ray bursts    . 2000 , gcn notice 451    , f. , costa , e. , dal fiume , d. , feroci , m. , nicastro , l. , orlandini , m. , palazzi , e. , and zavattini , g. 1997 , a&a , 122 , 357    fruchter , a. , metzger , m. , petro , l. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 701    fruchter , a. and pian , e. 1998 , gcn notice 151    fruchter , a. , sahu , k. , gibbons , r. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 575    fruchter , a. , thorsett , s. , pian , e. , _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , gcn notice 354    fruchter , a. , vreeswijk , p. , hook , r. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 752    fruchter , a. , vreeswijk , p. , and nugent , p. 2001 , gcn notice 1029    fruchter , a. , vreeswijk , p. , sokolov , v. , and castro - tirado , a. 2000 , gcn notice 872    fruchter , a. , vreeswijk , p. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , gcn notice 1063    fruchter , a. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , gcn notice 386    fruchter , a.  s. and hook , r.  n. 1997 , in applications of digital image processing xx , proc .",
    "spie , vol .",
    "3164 , ed .",
    "a.  tescher ( spie ) , 120125    , a.  s. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , apj , 516 , 683    , c.  l. and woosley , s.  e. 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 502 , l9    , c.  l. , woosley , s.  e. , and hartmann , d.  h. 1999 , apj , 526 , 152    fukugita , m. , ichikawa , t. , gunn , j.  e. , doi , m. , shimasaku , k. , and schneider , d.  p. 1996",
    ", aj , 111 , 1748    fynbo , j. p.  u. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 570    , j.  u. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , accepted for publication in apj letters    galama , t. 1999 , phd thesis , university of amsterdam    , t.  j. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , apj , 536 , 185    . 1998 , nature , 395 , 670    galama , t.  j. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , gcn 313    garnavich , p.  m. , loeb , a. , and stanek , k.  z. 2001 , submitted to apj letters    goodman , j. 1986 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 308 , 47    , p.  j. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 493 , l27    . 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 502 , l123    , j. and tytler , d. 1998 , pasp , 110 , 738    hakkila , j. , meegan , c.  a. , pendleton , g.  n. , briggs , m.  s. , horack , j.  m. , hartmann , d.  h. , and connaughton , v. 1998 , in gamma ray bursts : 4th huntsville symposium , ed . c.  a. meegan , r.  preece , & t.  koshut ( woodbury , new york : aip ) , 236240    , b. m.  s. and phinney , e.  s. 1997 , mnras , 291 , 569    , f.  a. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 523 , l121    hjorth , j. , andersen , m.  i. , pedersen , h. , jaunsen , a.  o. , costa , e. , and palazzi , e. 1998 , gcn notice 109    , j. , holland , s. , courbin , f. , dar , a. , olsen , l.  f. , and scodeggio , m. 2000 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 534 , l147    hjorth , j. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 731    . 2000 , gcn notice 749    , d.  w. , pahre , m.  a. , mccarthy , j.  k. , cohen , j.  g. , blandford , r. , smail , i. , and soifer , b.  t. 1997 , mnras , 288 , 404    holland , s. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 726    holland , s. , fynbo , j. , thomsen , b. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 704    . 2000 , gcn notice 698    holland , s. , m , a. , and hjorth , j. 2000 , gcn notice 793    holland , s. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 777    hurley , k. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 736    . 2000 , gcn notice 791    . 2000 , gcn notice 801    , r. _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 , a&as , 125 , 557    , h.  m. and macleod , j.  m. 1963 , pasp , 75 , 123    , w. , dressler , a. , sivaramakrishnan , a. , carr , d. , koch , e. , epps , h. , hilyard , d. , and pardeilhan , g. 1998 , pasp , 110 , 1487    , r.  c. 1989 , apj , 344 , 685    , r.  a. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 492 , l83    klebesadel , r.  w. , strong , i.  b. , and olson , r.  a. 1973 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 182 , l85    , s. and sari , r. 2001 , apj , 551 , 934    , s.  r. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , proc .",
    "spie , 4005 , 9    . 1998 , nature , 393 , 35    kulkarni , s.  r. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , nature , 395 , 663    , p. 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 523 , l113    lamb , d.  q. 1995 , pasp , 107 , 1152    larkin , j. , ghez , a. , kulkarni , s. , djorgovski , s. , frail , d. , and taylor , g. 1998 , gcn notice 51    lazzati , d. , covino , s. , and ghisellini , g. 2000 , to appear in the proceedings of the 5th huntsville grbs symposium ( huntsville al , oct . 1999 )    . 2001 , mnras , submitted ; astro - ph/0011443    lazzati , d. _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , in preparation    , l. 1980 , a&a , 89 , 41    , a.  i. and woosley , s.  e. 1999 , apj , 524 , 262    , e.  m. and bowers , c.  w. 1997 , in the 1997 hst calibration workshop with a new generation of instruments ; eds .",
    "stefano casertano , robert jedrzejewski , charles d. keyes , and mark stevens .",
    "baltimore , md : space telescope science institute , 144    , n. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , a&a , 354 , 473    , i.  s. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , spie , 3354 , 566    , p. , rees , m.  j. , and wijers , r. a. m.  j. 1998 , apj , 499 , 301    metzger , m. , fruchter , a. , masetti , n. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 733    metzger , m.  r. , djorgovski , s.  g. , kulkarni , s.  r. , steidel , c.  c. , adelberger , k.  l. , frail , d.  a. , costa , e. , and fronterra , f. 1997 , nature , 387 , 879    metzger , m.  r. , kulkarni , s.  r. , djorgovski , s.  g. , gal , r. , steidel , c.  c. , and frail , d.  a. 1997 .",
    "6588    mirabal , n. , halpern , j.  p. , wagner , r.  m. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 650    , d.  g. 1998 , in american astronomical society meeting , vol .",
    "193 , 12003    narayan , r. , paczyski , b. , and piran , t. 1992 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 395 , l83    , h. , seifert , w. , boehnhardt , h. , kiesewetter - koebinger , s. , and rupprecht , g. 1997 , proc .",
    "spie , 2871 , 1222    , s.  c. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 509 , l5    , s.  c. , windhorst , r.  a. , driver , s.  p. , and keel , w.  c. 1996 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 472 , l13    , j.  b. _ et al .",
    "_ 1995 , pasp , 107 , 375    , g. , amram , p. , bergvall , n. , masegosa , j. , boulesteix , j. , and m ' arquez , i. 2001 , a&a , 374 , 800    paczyski , b. 1986 , apj , 308 , l43    . 1995 , pasp , 107 , 1167    . 1998 , apj , 494 , l45    , a. and kumar , p. 2000 , apj , 543 , 66    , e.  s. 1991 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 380 , l17    pian , e. 2001 , to appear in `` supernovae and gamma - ray bursters '' , edited by k. w. weiler , springer - verlag press    pian , e. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 492 , l103    , t. 1999 , phys . rep . , 314 , 575    , l. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 514 , l73    piro , l. _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , gcn notice 959    . 2001 , submitted to science    , s.  f. and spreeuw , h.  n. 1996 , a&a , 312 , 670    , n.  c. and wilkinson , d.  a. 1986 , mnras , 218 , 497    , g. 1953 , pasp , 65 , 242    , m.  j. 1999 , a&as , 138 , 491    , d.  e. 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 521 , l111    reichart , d.  e. 2001 , submitted to apj letters .",
    "sahu , k.  c. _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 , nature , 387 , 476    , k.  c. _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , in astro - ph/0003378    , b.  e. _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 524 , l103    , m. 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 523 , l117    , a. _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , submitted to apj    , v.  v. _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , a&a , 372 , 438    , k.  z. , garnavich , p.  m. , kaluzny , j. , pych , w. , and thompson , i. 1999 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 522 , l39    , r.  c. 1989 , aj , 97 , 1227    stornelli , m. , celidonio , g. , muller , j. , zand , j.  i. , amati , l. , feroci , m. , and gandolfi , g. 2000 , gcn notice 540    , g.  b. , beasley , a.  j. , frail , d.  a. , kulkarni , s.  r. , and reynolds , j.  e. 1999 , a&a , 138 , 445    , g.  b. , bloom , j.  s. , frail , d.  a. , kulkarni , s.  r. , djorgovski , s.  g. , and jacoby , b.  a. 2000 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 537 , l17    taylor , g.  b. _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 , apj ( _ letters _ ) , 502 , l115    taylor , j.  h. 1994 , rev . mod .",
    "phys . , 66 , 711    uglesich , r. , mirabal , n. , halpern , j. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 472    , s.  d. 1992 , aj , 103 , 1788    , j. _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 , nature , 386 , 686    , j. , kouveliotou , c. , and wijers , r. a. m.  j. 2000 , to appear in araa    , m. , perola , c. , piro , l. , and stella , l. 1999 , mnras , 308 , l29    vreeswijk , p.  m. , fruchter , a. , ferguson , h. , kouveliotou , c. , _ et al .",
    "_ 2000 , gcn notice 751    vreeswijk , p.  m. , galama , t.  j. , rol , e. , _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 , gcn notice 310    wax , n. , ed .",
    "1954 , selected papers on noise and stochastic processes ( dover publications , inc . ) , see pg .",
    "238    , e. and draine , b.  t. 2000 , apj , 537 , 796    , c. , mszros , p. , kallman , t. , and rees , m.  j. 2000 , apj , 534 , 581    wijers , r. a. m.  j. , bloom , j.  s. , bagla , j. , and natarajan , p. 1998",
    ", mnras , 294 , l17    woosley , s.  e. 1993 , apj , 405 , 273    , a. , namiki , m. , otani , c. , kawai , n. , murakami , t. , ueda , y. , shibata , r. , and uno , s. 1999 , a&a , 138 , 433",
    "ground - based imaging always suffers from differential chromatic refraction ( dcr ) introduced by the atmosphere .",
    "the magnitude of this refraction depends strongly ( @xmath180 ) on the effective wavelength ( @xmath181 ) of each object , the airmass of the observation , and the air temperature and pressure . with increasing airmass ,",
    "images are dispersed by the atmosphere and systematically stretched in the parallactic direction in the sense that bluer objects shift toward the zenith and redder objects shift toward the horizon .",
    "other sources of refraction , such as turbulent refraction ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , are statistical in nature and will only serve to increase the uncertainty in our astrometric solution .    here",
    "we show that dcr is , in theory , will not dominate our offset determinations . since all of our early ground - based imaging were conducted with airmass ( @xmath182 )",
    "@xmath183 we take as an extreme example an image with airmass @xmath184 , where @xmath24 is the observed zenith angle .",
    "it is instructive to determine the scale of systematic offset shifts introduced when compared with either late - time ground - based or hst imaging where refractive distortions are negligible .",
    "following @xcite , the differential angular distortion between two point sources at an apparent angular separation along the zenith , @xmath185 , may be broken into a color and a zenith distance term .",
    "assuming nominal values for the altitude of the keck telescopes on mauna kea , atmospheric temperature , humidity and pressure , at an effective wavelength of the @xmath34-band filter , @xmath186   @xcite , the zenith distance term is 16 mas for an angular separation of 30 arcsec at an airmass of @xmath184 . to first order ,",
    "the zenith term is linear in angular distance and so , in practice , even this small effect will be accounted for as a first - order perturbation to the overall rotation , translation , and scale mapping between a keck and hst image . in other words , we can safely neglect the zenith term contribution to the dcr .",
    "we now determine the color term contribution .",
    "optical transients of grbs are in general , redder in appearance ( apparent @xmath187 mag ) than their host galaxies ( apparent @xmath188 mag ) .",
    "we assume the average astrometric tie object has @xmath189 mag .",
    "if the ot is observed through an airmass of @xmath190 and then the galaxy is observed at a later time through and airmass of , for example , @xmath191 , then dcr will induce a @xmath12 mas centroid shift between the ot and the host galaxy if the two epochs are observed in @xmath192-band ( cf .",
    "figure  2 of * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in @xmath34-band ,",
    "the filter used in almost all of our ground - based imaging for the present work , the dcr strength is about 20% smaller than in @xmath192-band because of the strong dependence of refraction on wavelength .",
    "therefore we can reasonably assume that dcr should only _ systematically _ affect our astrometric precision at the 510 mas level .",
    "such an effect could , in principle , be detected as a systematic offset in the direction of the parallactic angles of the first epochs of grb afterglow observations . in ",
    "[ sec : angoffs ] we claim that no such systematic effect is present in our data .",
    "dcr could of course induce a larger _ statistical _ scatter in the uncertainty of an astrometric transformation between epochs since individual tie objects are not , in general , the same color and each will thus experience its own dcr centroid shift .",
    "bearing in mind that dcr is probably negligible we can minimize the effects of dcr by choosing small fields and similar spectral responses of the offset datasets .",
    "the hst fields are naturally small and there are enough tie stars when compared with deep ground - based imaging . however , since the spectral response of the hst / stis ccd is so broad , extended objects with color gradients will have different apparent relative locations when compared with our deep ground - based @xmath34-band images . as such , in choosing astrometric tie objects , we pay particular attention to choosing objects which appear compact ( half - light radii @xmath193 0.3 ) on the stis image .      optical field distortion is another source of potential error in astrometric calibration . without correcting for distortion in stis , the maximum distortion displacement ( on the field edges )",
    "is @xmath194 mas @xcite .",
    "this distortion is corrected to a precision at the sub - milliarcsec level on individual stis exposures with iraf / dither @xcite .",
    "@xcite also found that the overall plate scale appears to be quite stable with r.m.s .",
    "changes at the 0.1% level .",
    "we confirmed this result by comparing two epochs of imaging on grb 990510 and grb 970508 which span about 1 year .",
    "the relative plate scale of the geometric mapping between final reductions was unity to within 0.03% .",
    "we do not correct for optical field distortion before mapping ground - based images to hst .",
    "while there may be considerable distortion ( @xmath195 few @xmath196 mas ) across whole ground - based ccd images , these distortions are correlated on small scales . therefore , when mapping a 50 @xmath7 50 arcsec@xmath8 portion of a keck image with an hst image , the intrinsic differential distortions in the keck image tend to be small ( @xmath19750 mas ) .",
    "much of the distortion is accounted for in the mapping by the higher - order terms of the fit , and any residual differential distortions simply add scatter to the mapping uncertainties .",
    "histogram binning is most informative when there are many more data points than bins and the bin sizes are much larger than the errors on the individual measurements .",
    "unfortunately , the set of grb offsets is contrary to both these requirements .",
    "we require a method to display the data as in the traditional histogram , but where the errors on the measurements are accounted for . instead of representing each measurement as a @xmath59-function , we will represent each measurement as a probability distribution as a function of offset .    what distribution function is suitable for offsets ?",
    "when the offset is much larger than the error , then the probability that the burst occurred at the measured displacement should approach a @xmath59-function .",
    "when the offset is much larger than zero , then the probability distribution should appear essentially gaussian ( assuming the error on the measurement is gaussian ) .",
    "however , when the observed offset is small and the error on the measurement non - negligible with respect to the observed offset , the probability distribution is decidedly non - gaussian since the offset is a positive quantity .",
    "the distribution we seek is similar to the well - known rice distribution ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , only more general .",
    "we derive the probability histogram ( ph ) as follows . for each grb",
    "offset , @xmath136 , we construct an individual probability distribution function @xmath137d@xmath138 of the host - normalized offset ( @xmath96 ) of the grb given the observed values for @xmath198 , @xmath199 and host half - light radius @xmath200 and the associated uncertainties . to simplify the notation in what follows",
    ", we drop the index @xmath136 and let all parameters with small capitalization represent dimensionless numbers ; for example , the value @xmath201 , where @xmath105 is the host half - light radius . without loss of generality , we can subsume ( by quadrature summation ) the uncertainties in the host center , the astrometric transformation , and the grb center into the error contribution in each coordinate .",
    "we assume that these statistical coordinate errors are gaussian distributed with @xmath202 and @xmath203 with , for example , @xmath204 therefore , we can construct the probability @xmath205 of the true offset at some distance @xmath206 and @xmath207 from the measured offset location ( @xmath208 ) : @xmath209\\dxp \\ , \\dyp , \\label{eq : pxy}\\ ] ] assuming the errors in the @xmath206 and @xmath207 are uncorrelated .",
    "this is a good approximation since , while the astrometric mappings generally include cross - terms in @xmath210 and @xmath211 , these terms are usually small . if @xmath212 , then eq .  [ eq : pxy ] reduces to the rayleigh distribution in distance from the observed offset , rather than the host center .",
    "the probability distribution about the host center is found with an appropriate substitution for @xmath206 and @xmath207 in eq .",
    "[ eq : pxy ] . in figure",
    "[ fig : proboff ] we illustrate the geometry of the problem .",
    "the greyscale distribution shows @xmath205 about the offset point @xmath213 and @xmath214 .",
    "let @xmath215 and transform the coordinates in eq .",
    "[ eq : pxy ] using @xmath216 , @xmath217 , and @xmath218 .",
    "the distribution we seek , the probability that the true offset lies a distance @xmath138 from the host center , requires a marginalization of @xmath219 over @xmath220 , @xmath221         \\,{\\rm d } \\psi\\label{eq : pr1},\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] finding @xmath222 as the jacobian of the coordinate transformation . in general , equation [ eq : pr1 ]",
    "must be integrated numerically using the observed values @xmath213 ,",
    "@xmath214 , @xmath202 , and @xmath203 .",
    "the solution is analytic , however , if we assume that @xmath223 and @xmath224 , so that , @xmath225 \\ ,      \\int_{\\theta = 0}^{\\pi}\\exp \\left[\\frac{r\\,r_0\\,\\cos     \\theta}{\\sigma_\\rp}\\right ] { \\rm d } \\ , \\theta { \\rm d}r   \\nonumber \\\\           & \\approx & \\frac{r } { \\sigma_{\\rp}^2}\\ ,     \\exp\\left[-\\frac{r^2 + r_0 ^ 2}{2\\sigma_{\\rp}^2}\\right ] \\ ,",
    "i_0\\left(\\frac{r\\,r_{0}}{\\sigma^2_{\\rp}}\\right ) { \\rm d } r ,      \\label{eq : pr2}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath226 is the modified besel function of zeroth order and @xmath227 .",
    "the equation [ eq : pr2 ] is readily recognized as the rice distribution and is often used to model the noise characteristics of visibility amplitudes in interferometry ; visibility amplitudes , like offsets , are positive - definite quantities . only when @xmath228 is the probability distribution exactly a rice distribution , which is usually the case for interferometric measurements since the real and imaginary components of the fringe phasor have the same r.m.s .",
    "equation [ eq : pr1 ] is a generalized form of the rice distribution but can be approximated as a rice distribution by finding a suitable value for @xmath65 .",
    "we find that by letting , @xmath229 equation [ eq : pr2 ] approximates ( to better than 30% ) the exact form of the probability distribution in eq .",
    "[ eq : pr1 ] as long as @xmath230 ( or vise versa ) . in figure",
    "[ fig : probexam ] we show two example offset probability distributions in exact and approximate form .",
    "note that @xmath231 is not necessarily the 68% percent confidence region of the true offset since the probability distribution is not gaussian .",
    "the exact form is used to construct the data representations in figures [ fig : offset - cum][fig : sfr - comp1 ] .",
    "how robust are the estimates of probabilities found comparing the observed distribution and the predicted progenitor offset distributions ? since there are different uncertainties on each offset measurement , the ks test is not strictly the appropriate statistic to determine the likelihood that the observed distribution could be drawn from the same underlying ( predicted ) distribution .",
    "one possibility is to construct synthetic sets of observed data from the model using the observed uncertainties .",
    "however , a small uncertainty ( say 0.2 arcsec in radius observed to be paired with an equally small offset ) which is randomly assigned to a large offset from a monte carlo distribution has a different probability distribution then if assigned to a small offset ( since the distribution in @xmath138 is only physical for positive @xmath138 ) .",
    "instead , we approach the problem from the other direction by using the data themselves to assess the range in ks statistics given our data .",
    "we construct @xmath232 synthetic cumulative physical offset distributions using the smoothed probability offset distributions @xmath137d@xmath138 for each grb . as before @xmath138 is the offset in units of host half - light radius . for each simulated offset distribution @xmath114",
    "we find a set \\{@xmath96}@xmath233 such that , @xmath234 = \\frac{\\int_0^{r_i }   p_i(l)\\,dl}{\\int_0^{\\infty } p_i(l)\\,dl},\\ ] ] where @xmath235 $ ] is a uniform random deviate over the closed interval [ 0,1 ] .",
    "in addition , since some of the host assignments may be spurious chance superpositions , we use the estimate of @xmath125 (  [ sec : angoffs ] ; table [ tab : offnorm ] ) to selectively remove individual offsets from a given monte carlo realization of the offset dataset .",
    "grbs with relatively secure host assignments remain in more realizations than those without .",
    "so , for instance , the offset of grb 980703 ( @xmath110 = 0.00045 ) is used in all realizations but the offset of grb 970828 ( @xmath125 = 0.07037 ) is retained in only 93% of the synthetic datasets .",
    "we evaluate the ks statistic as above for each synthetic set and record the result .",
    "figure [ fig : sfr - comp1 ] depicts the cumulative probability distribution compared with the simple exponential disk model .",
    "the inset of the figure shows the distribution of ks statistics for the set of synthetic cumulative distributions constructed as prescribed above . in both cases ,",
    "as expected , the _ observed _ ks probability falls near the median of the synthetic distribution .",
    "the distribution of ks statistics is not significantly affected by retaining all grb offsets equally ( that is , assuming @xmath110 = 0.0 for every grb offset ) . in table",
    "[ tab : nsks ] we present the result of the monte carlo modeling . using this distribution of ks statistics",
    "we can now assess the robustness of our comparison result : given the data and their uncertainties , the probability that the observed grb offset distribution is the same as the model distribution of star formation ( exponential disk ) is @xmath236 in 99.6% of our synthetic datasets .",
    "grb 970228  &hst / stis / o49001040 & 4.75 sep 1997 & 05 01 46.7 & + 11 46 54 & 4600 & 189 & self - hst & , + grb 970508  &hst / stis / o41c01dim & 2.64 jun 1997 & 06 53 49.5 & + 79 16 20 & 5000 & 25 & hst@xmath32hst & , + & hst / stis / o4xb01i9q & 6.01 aug 1997 & & & 11568 & 89 & & + grb 970828  & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 19.4 jul 1998 & 18 08 34.2 & + 59 18 52 & 600 & 325 & radio@xmath32opt & , + grb 971214  & keck / lris/@xmath37-band & 16.52 dec 1997 & 11 56 26.0 & + 65 12 00 & 1080 & 1.5 & gb@xmath32hst & + & hst / stis / o4t301040 & 13.27 apr 1998 & & & 11862 & 119 & & + grb 980326  & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 28.25 mar 1998 & 08 36 34.3 & @xmath9918 51 24 & 240 & 1.4 & gb@xmath32 gb & , + & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 18.50 dec 1998 & & & 2400 & 267 & & + & hst / stis / o4t301040 & 31.80 dec 2000 & & & 7080 & 1010 & & + grb 980329  & keck / nirc/@xmath87-band & 2.31 apr 1998 & 07 02 38.0 & + 38 50 44 & 2520 & 4.15 & gb@xmath32 gb & , + & keck / esi/@xmath34-band & 1.41 jan 2001 & & & 6600 & 1009 & & + & hst / stis / o65k22yxq & 27.03 aug 2000 & & & 8012 & 884 & & + sn 1998bw  & ntt / emmi/@xmath37-band & 4.41 may 1998 & 19 35 03.3 & @xmath9952 50 45 & 120 & 8.5 & gb@xmath32hst & + ( grb 980425 ? ) & hst / stis / o65k30b1q & 11.98 jun 2000 & & & 1185 & 778 & & + grb 980519  & p200/cosmic/@xmath34-band & 20.48 may 1998 & 23 22 21.5 & + 77 15 43 & 480 & 1.0 & gb@xmath237gb@xmath237hst & , + & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 24.50 aug 1998 & & & 2100 & 97 & & + & hst / stis / o65k41ieq & 7.24 jun 2000 & & & 8924 & 750 & & + grb 980613  & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 16.29 jun 1998 & 10 17 57.6 & + 71 27 26 & 600 & 3.1 & gb@xmath32gb@xmath237hst & , + & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 29.62 nov 1998 & & & 900 & 169 & & + & hst / stis / o65k51zzq & 20.31 aug 2000 & & & 5851 & 799 & & + grb 980703  & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 6.61 jul 1998 & 23 59 06.7 & + 08 35 07 & 600 & 3.4 & gb@xmath32hst & + & hst / stis / o65k61xtq & 18.81 jun 2000 & & & 5118 & 717 & & + grb 981226  & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 21.57 jun 1999 & 23 29 37.2 & @xmath9923 55 54 & 3360 & 177 & radio@xmath237opt(gb)@xmath237hst & + & hst / stis / o65k71axq & 3.56 jul 2000 & & & 8265 & 555 & & + grb 990123  & hst",
    "/ stis / o59601060 & 9.12 feb 1999 & 15 25 30.3 & + 44 45 59 & 7200 & 16.7 & self - hst & + grb 990308  & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 19.26 jun 1999 & 12 23 11.4 & + 06 44 05 & 1000 & 103 & gb@xmath237gb@xmath237hst & + & hst / stis / o65k91e6q & 19.67 jun 2000 & & & 7782 & 470 & & + grb 990506  & keck / lris/@xmath34-band & 11.25 jun 1999 & 11 54 50.1 & @xmath9926 40 35 & 1560 & 36 & radio@xmath237opt(gb)@xmath237hst & + & hst",
    "/ stis / o65ka1uyq & 24.55 jun 2000 & & & 7856 & 415 & & + grb 990510  & hst / stis / o59273lcq & 17.95 jun 1999 & 13 38 07.7 & @xmath9980 29 49 & 7440 & 39 & hst@xmath32hst & , + & hst / stis / o59276c7q & 29.45 apr 2000 & & & 5840 & 355 & & + grb 990705  & ntt / sofi/@xmath238-band & 5.90 jul 1999 & 05 09 54.5 & @xmath9972 07 53 & 1200 & 0.23 & gb@xmath237gb@xmath237hst & + & vlt / fors1/@xmath84-band & 10.40 jul 1999 & & & 1800 & 4.7 & & + & hst / stis / o65kb1g2q & 26.06 jul 2000 & & & 8792 & 386 & & + grb 990712  & hst",
    "/ stis / o59262veq & 29.50 aug 1999 & 22 31 53.1 & @xmath9973 24 28 & 8160 & 48 & hst@xmath237hst & , + & hst / stis / o59274bnq & 24.21 apr 2000 & & & 3720 & 287 & & + grb 991208  & keck / nirspec/@xmath87-band & 16.68 dec 1999 & 16 33 53.5 & + 46 27 21 & 1560 & 8.5 & gb@xmath237gb@xmath237hst & , + & keck / esi/@xmath34-band & 4.54 apr 2000 & & & 1260 & 118 & & + & hst / stis / o59266odq & 3.58 aug 2000 & & & 5120 & 239 & & + grb 991216  & keck / esi/@xmath34-band & 29.41 dec 1999 & 05 09 31.2 & + 11 17 07 & 600 & 13 & gb@xmath237gb@xmath237hst & , + & keck / esi/@xmath34-band & 4.23 apr 2000 & & & 2600 & 110 & & + & hst / stis / o59272giq & 17.71 apr 2000 & & & 9440 & 123 & & + grb 000301c",
    " & hst / stis / o59277p9q & 6.22 mar 2000 & 16 20 18.6 & + 29 26 36 & 1440 & 4.8 & hst@xmath237hst & , + & hst / stis / o59265xyq & 25.86 feb 2001 & & & 7361 & 361 & & + grb 000418  & keck / esi/@xmath34-band & 28.41 apr 2000 & 12 25 19.3 & + 20 06 11 & 300 & 10 & gb@xmath237hst & , + & hst / stis / o59264y6q & 4.23 jun 2000 & & & 2500 & 47 & &    lccccccccc [ tab : offset - tab ] grb 970228 & @xmath990.033@xmath360.034 & @xmath990.424@xmath360.034 & 0.426@xmath360.034 & 12.59 & 0.695 & 7.673 & @xmath990.251@xmath360.259 & @xmath993.256@xmath360.259 & 3.266@xmath360.259 + grb 970508 & 0.011@xmath360.011 & 0.001@xmath360.012 & 0.011@xmath360.011 & 1.003 & 0.835 & 8.201 & 0.090@xmath360.090 & 0.008@xmath360.098 & 0.091@xmath360.090 + grb 970828 & 0.440@xmath360.516 & 0.177@xmath360.447 & 0.474@xmath360.507 & 0.936 & 0.958 & 8.534 & 3.755@xmath364.403 & 1.510@xmath363.815 & 4.047@xmath364.326 + grb 971214 & 0.120@xmath360.070 & @xmath990.070@xmath360.070 & 0.139@xmath360.070 & 1.985 & 3.418 & 7.952 & 0.954@xmath360.557 & @xmath990.557@xmath360.557 & 1.105@xmath360.557 + grb 980326 & 0.125@xmath360.068 & @xmath990.037@xmath360.062 & 0.130@xmath360.068 & 1.930 & @xmath61 &  &  &  &  + grb 980329 & @xmath990.037@xmath360.049 & @xmath990.003@xmath360.061 & 0.037@xmath360.049 & 0.756 & @xmath239 &  &  &  &  + grb 980425 & @xmath9910.55@xmath360.052 & @xmath996.798@xmath360.052 & 12.55@xmath360.052 & 241.4 & 0.008 & 0.186 & @xmath991.964@xmath360.010 & @xmath991.265@xmath360.010 & 2.337@xmath360.010 + grb 980519 & @xmath990.050@xmath360.130 & 1.100@xmath360.100 & 1.101@xmath360.100 & 11.00 &  &  &  &  &  + grb 980613 & 0.039@xmath360.052 & 0.080@xmath360.080 & 0.089@xmath360.076 & 1.174 & 1.096 & 8.796 & 0.344@xmath360.454 & 0.703@xmath360.707 & 0.782@xmath360.666 + grb 980703@xmath240 & @xmath990.054@xmath360.055 & 0.098@xmath360.065 & 0.112@xmath360.063 & 1.788 & 0.966 & 8.553 & @xmath990.460@xmath360.469 & 0.842@xmath360.555 & 0.959@xmath360.536 + grb 981226 & 0.616@xmath360.361 & 0.426@xmath360.246 & 0.749@xmath360.328 & 2.282 &  &  &  &  &  + grb 990123 & @xmath990.192@xmath360.003 & @xmath990.641@xmath360.003 & 0.669@xmath360.003 & 223.0 & 1.600 & 9.124 & @xmath991.752@xmath360.027 & @xmath995.849@xmath360.027 & 6.105@xmath360.027 + grb 990308 & @xmath990.328@xmath360.357 & @xmath990.989@xmath360.357 & 1.042@xmath360.357 & 2.919 &  &  &  &  &  + grb 990506 & @xmath990.246@xmath360.432 & 0.166@xmath360.513 & 0.297@xmath360.459 & 0.647 & 1.310 & 9.030 & @xmath992.221@xmath363.901 & 1.499@xmath364.632 & 2.680@xmath364.144 + grb 990510 & @xmath990.064@xmath360.009 & 0.015@xmath360.012 & 0.066@xmath360.009 & 7.160 & 1.619 & 9.124 & @xmath990.584@xmath360.082 & 0.137@xmath360.109 & 0.600@xmath360.084 + grb 990705 & @xmath990.865@xmath360.046 & 0.109@xmath360.049 & 0.872@xmath360.046 & 18.86 & 0.840 & 8.217 & @xmath997.109@xmath360.380 & 0.896@xmath360.399 & 7.165@xmath360.380 + grb 990712 & @xmath990.035@xmath360.080 & 0.035@xmath360.080 & 0.049@xmath360.080 & 0.619 & 0.434 & 6.072 & @xmath990.213@xmath360.486 & 0.213@xmath360.486 & 0.301@xmath360.486 + grb 991208 & 0.071@xmath360.102 & 0.183@xmath360.096 & 0.196@xmath360.097 & 2.016 & 0.706 & 7.720 & 0.548@xmath360.789 & 1.410@xmath360.744 & 1.513@xmath360.750 + grb 991216 & 0.211@xmath360.029 & 0.290@xmath360.034 & 0.359@xmath360.032 & 11.08 & 1.020 & 8.664 & 1.828@xmath360.251 & 2.513@xmath360.295 & 3.107@xmath360.280 + grb 000301c & @xmath990.025@xmath360.014 & @xmath990.065@xmath360.005 & 0.069@xmath360.007 & 9.821 & 2.030 & 9.000 & @xmath990.222@xmath360.130 & @xmath990.581@xmath360.046 & 0.622@xmath360.063 + grb 000418 & @xmath990.019@xmath360.066 & 0.012@xmath360.058 & 0.023@xmath360.064 & 0.358 & 1.118 & 8.829 & @xmath990.170@xmath360.584 & 0.109@xmath360.514 & 0.202@xmath360.564      grb 970228 & 24.60@xmath360.20 & 0.630 & 0.00935 & 0.345@xmath360.030 & 0.316@xmath360.095 & 1.6 & 1.233@xmath360.146 + grb 970508 & 24.99@xmath360.17 & 0.130 & 0.00090 & 0.089@xmath360.026 & 0.300@xmath360.090 & 0.4 & 0.124@xmath360.129 + grb 970828 & 25.10@xmath360.30 & 0.100 & 0.07037 &  & 0.296@xmath360.089 & 1.5 & 1.603@xmath361.780 + grb 971214 & 25.65@xmath360.30 & 0.040 & 0.01119 & 0.226@xmath360.031 & 0.273@xmath360.082 & 1.1 & 0.615@xmath360.321 + grb 980326 & 28.70@xmath360.30 & 0.210 & 0.01878 & 0.043@xmath360.028 & 0.116@xmath360.035 & 0.2 & 3.023@xmath362.532 + grb 980329 & 27.80@xmath360.30 & 0.190 & 0.05493 & 0.245@xmath360.033 & 0.168@xmath360.050 & 1.3 & 0.152@xmath360.202 + grb 980425 & 14.11@xmath360.05 & 0.170 & 0.00988 & 18.700@xmath360.025 &  & 2.1 & 0.671@xmath360.003 + grb 980519 & 25.50@xmath360.30 & 0.690 & 0.05213 & 0.434@xmath360.041 & 0.279@xmath360.084 & 2.2 & 2.540@xmath360.332 + grb 980613 & 23.58@xmath360.10 & 0.230 & 0.00189 & 0.227@xmath360.031 & 0.352@xmath360.106 & 1.2 & 0.392@xmath360.338 + grb 980703 & 22.30@xmath360.08 & 0.150 & 0.00045 & 0.169@xmath360.026 & 0.392@xmath360.117 & 0.9 & 0.663@xmath360.385 + grb 981226 & 24.30@xmath360.01 & 0.060 & 0.01766 & 0.336@xmath360.030 & 0.327@xmath360.098 & 1.7 & 2.227@xmath360.996 + grb 990123 & 23.90@xmath360.10 & 0.040 & 0.01418 & 0.400@xmath360.028 & 0.341@xmath360.102 & 2.2 & 1.673@xmath360.117 + grb 990308 & 28.00@xmath360.50 & 0.070 & 0.31659 & 0.213@xmath360.028 & 0.156@xmath360.047 & 1.1 & 4.887@xmath361.776 + grb 990506 & 24.80@xmath360.30 & 0.180 & 0.04365 & 0.090@xmath360.027 & 0.308@xmath360.092 & 0.5 & 3.297@xmath365.196 + grb 990510 & 27.10@xmath360.30 & 0.530 & 0.01218 & 0.167@xmath360.041 & 0.205@xmath360.061 & 0.9 & 0.393@xmath360.111 + grb 990705 & 22.00@xmath360.10 & 0.334@xmath241 & 0.01460 & 1.151@xmath360.030 & 0.400@xmath360.120 & 5.7 & 0.758@xmath360.045 + grb 990712 & 21.90@xmath360.15 & 0.080 & 0.00088 & 0.282@xmath360.026 & 0.403@xmath360.121 & 1.0 & 0.175@xmath360.284 + grb 991208 & 24.20@xmath360.20 & 0.040 & 0.00140 & 0.048@xmath360.026 & 0.330@xmath360.099 & 0.2 & 4.083@xmath362.994 + grb 991216 & 25.30@xmath360.20 & 1.640 & 0.00860 & 0.400@xmath360.043 & 0.288@xmath360.086 & 2.1 & 0.898@xmath360.127 + grb 000301c & 28.00@xmath360.30 & 0.130 & 0.00629 & 0.066@xmath360.028 & 0.156@xmath360.047 & 0.4 & 1.054@xmath360.462 + grb 000418 & 23.80@xmath360.20 & 0.080 & 0.00044 & 0.096@xmath360.027 & 0.345@xmath360.103 & 0.5 & 0.239@xmath360.670      collapsar  & expon . &",
    "@xmath242 & & & 0.454 & 0.409 & 0.401 & 0.996 +  /promptly bursting binary & disk + ns ",
    "ns , bh  ns  & a@xmath243 & 1.5 kpc & 100 km s@xmath21 & @xmath244 & 9.5 @xmath245 & 2.2 @xmath147 & 2.2 @xmath147 & 0.003 + & a & 1.0 kpc & 100 km s@xmath21 & @xmath246 & 6.9 @xmath147 & 1.7 @xmath247 & 1.8 @xmath247 & 0.139 + & b & 1.0 kpc & 100 km s@xmath21 & @xmath248 & 4.9 @xmath147 & 2.0 @xmath247 & 2.0 @xmath247 & 0.243 + & c & 3.0 kpc & 100 km s@xmath21 & @xmath248 & 3.5 @xmath249 & 4.7 @xmath249 & 4.7 @xmath249 & 0.001 + & d & 1.0 kpc & 150 km s@xmath21 & @xmath250 & 2.5 @xmath247 & 6.0 @xmath247 & 6.3 @xmath247 & 0.553 + & e & 3.0 kpc & 150 km s@xmath21 & @xmath250 & 5.7 @xmath249 & 1.3 @xmath245 & 1.3 @xmath245 & 0.001 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a comprehensive study to measure the locations of @xmath0-ray bursts ( grbs ) relative to their host galaxies . in total , we find the offsets of 20 long - duration grbs from their apparent host galaxy centers utilizing ground - based images from palomar and keck and space - based images from the hubble space telescope ( hst ) . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss in detail how a host galaxy is assigned to an individual grb and the robustness of the assignment process . the median projected angular ( physical ) offset is 0.17 arcsec ( 1.3 kpc ) . </S>",
    "<S> the median offset normalized by the individual host half - light radii is 0.98 suggesting a strong connection of grb locations with the uv light of their hosts . </S>",
    "<S> this provides strong observational evidence for the connection of grbs to star - formation .    </S>",
    "<S> we further compare the observed offset distribution with the predicted burst locations of leading stellar - mass progenitor models . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , we compare the observed offset distribution with an exponential disk , a model for the location of collapsars and promptly bursting binaries ( e.g.  helium star  </S>",
    "<S> black hole binaries ) . </S>",
    "<S> the statistical comparison shows good agreement given the simplicity of the model , with the kolmogorov - smirnov probability that the observed offsets derive from the model distribution of @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> we also compare the observed grb offsets with the expected offset distribution of delayed merging remnant progenitors ( black hole  neutron star and neutron star  </S>",
    "<S> neutron star binaries ) . </S>",
    "<S> we find that delayed merging remnant progenitors , insofar as the predicted offset distributions from population synthesis studies are representative , can be ruled out at the @xmath2 level . </S>",
    "<S> this is arguably the strongest observational constraint yet against delayed merging remnants as the progenitors of long - duration grbs . </S>",
    "<S> in the course of this study , we have also discovered the putative host galaxies of grb 990510 and grb 990308 in archival hst data . </S>"
  ]
}