{
  "article_text": [
    "the identification of dwarf galaxies in different environments plays an important role for the verification of cosmological models .",
    "cold dark matter models predict a large number of small dark matter ( dm ) halos as sub - structures around milky way - sized halos as well as galaxy cluster - sized halos ( e.g. moore et al .",
    "if every small dm halo would contain luminous matter , many dwarf galaxies are expected in basically all environments .",
    "however , already in the local group there exists a strong discrepancy , the so - called `` missing satellite problem '' ( e.g. klypin et al .",
    "the faint end of its galaxy luminosity function is quite flat ( @xmath1 , pritchet & van den bergh @xcite ) compared with cdm model predictions .",
    "several studies of galaxy clusters show rising numbers of low - luminosity des down to about @xmath2 mag with very different faint - end slopes in the range @xmath3 ( e.g. trentham & tully @xcite ) . however , it is not known whether the luminosity function in clusters continues to @xmath4 , as it does in the local group .",
    "do dsphs actually exist in galaxy clusters ? and",
    "how abundant are they ?    here , we present the identification and analysis of dwarf spheroidals in nearby clusters , namely the fornax , hydrai and centaurus cluster .",
    "end of 1999 , we observed the core of the fornax cluster through the johnson @xmath5 filters with the wide - field ccd ( wfccd ) at the 100-inch du  pont telescope at las campanas , chile . the pixel scale of 0.77 arcsec / pixel favours the detection of very low surface brightness galaxies .",
    "the photometric parameters of the des / dsphs have been derived from the analysis of their surface brightness profiles ( see fig .",
    "1 ) : the total magnitude by a curve of growth analysis , the color within an aperture of 8 arcsec diameter , and the central surface brightness from an exponential fit to the outer part of the profile .",
    "first results of our study were presented in hilker et al .",
    "( @xcite ) .",
    "about 70 new dsph candidates have been discovered beyond the limits of the fornax cluster catalog ( fcc , ferguson @xcite ) , the faintest one with an absolute magnitude of @xmath6 mag and a central surface brightness of @xmath7 mag / arcsec@xmath8 .",
    "the dsphs follow similar magnitude - surface brightness and also colour - magnitude relations as their counterparts in the local group ( see figs .  1 and 2 in hilker et al .",
    "the faint - end slope of the luminosity function of the dsphs is flat ( @xmath9 , see fig .",
    "3 in hilker et al .",
    "@xcite ) .",
    "the only difference between the local group dsphs and those in the fornax cluster are their sizes .",
    "2 shows that at a given total magnitude , the des / dsphs in fornax are on average larger than their local group counterparts ( data from grebel et al .",
    "this is also reflected in the magnitude - surface brightness diagram ( fig .",
    "3 ) where the local group dwarfs have on average a higher central surface brightness than the fornax dsphs .",
    "this finding might be explained by environmental effects , i.e. the strong tidal forces in a cluster that lead to more extended , lower surface brightness dwarf galaxies , and finally to a destruction of dsphs close to the cluster center ( e.g. hilker et al .",
    "the wfccd study has shown that the combination of deep multi - color photometry in a wide field with a sufficient resolution is crucial in order to identify dwarf spheroidal candidates in nearby clusters . however , one still can not be sure that all dsph candiates are real cluster members , as long as one has not measured their distances .",
    "therefore , to improve the membership assignment , we have re - imaged the central fornax cluster with substantially better spatial resolution ( 0.2 arcsec / pixel ) using imacs and magellan at lco . from the first part of our survey",
    ", we directly determined the cluster membership for 10 previously unconfirmed candidate des in the magnitude range @xmath10 mag using the sbf method ( fig .  2 ,",
    "see mieske et al .",
    "@xcite for details of this method ) .",
    "this extends the magnitude range of confirmed cluster members far into the regime where the faint end slope @xmath11 dominates the galaxy luminosity function .",
    "furthermore , we improved the morphological cluster membership assignments for fainter galaxies ( @xmath12 mag ) . for the vast majority of de candidates we confirm the probable cluster membership , such that @xmath11 changes by less than 0.02 compared to the previously determined value .",
    "only very few dsph candidates turn out te be likely background galaxies due to their better resolved morphology ( see fig .  2 ) .",
    "we find two new dsph candidates from our imacs imaging ( see fig .  3 ) .",
    "including them does not change @xmath11 , either .",
    "this further confirms the strong discrepancy between the number of low mass dark matter halos expected in a @xmath0cdm universe and the number of low luminosity galaxies .",
    "the new membership determinations from the first part of the `` fornax deep field '' survey are summarised in the magnitude - surface brightness plot ( see fig .  3 ) . except for a few barely resolved galaxies ( close to the dashed line )",
    ", the morphological membership classification seems to work very reliable .     of the colour - magnitude relation ,",
    "open triangles those galaxies that were identified only by eye .",
    "double circles indicate cluster membership confirmed with sbf , single circles probable membership due to morphology .",
    "probable background galaxies ( due to morphology ) are crossed out .",
    "the two filled hexagons mark two additional cluster member candidates found from the imacs imaging .",
    "the dashed line indicates a scale length of 2.5 arcsec for an exponential profile .",
    "the dotted lines are the 3@xmath13 deviations from the magnitude - surface brightness relation as defined by the fornax des .",
    "the solid curve shows the completeness limit of 50%.,scaledwidth=78.0% ]",
    "the central parts of the hydrai and centaurus cluster have been imaged through johnson @xmath5 with fors1 at the vlt in dark time and under excellent seeing conditions ( for first results , see mieske & hilker @xcite ) .",
    "a first visual inspection of the images revealed a wealth of faint , spatially resolved dsph candidates .",
    "the surface brightness profiles of a small random sample has been measured .",
    "their structural and photometric parameters are such that they fall on top of the colour - magnitude and magnitude - surface brightness relation defined by the fornax dsphs .",
    "the publication of these results is in preparation .",
    "the counterparts of local group dsphs do exist in fornax .",
    "they follow similar colour - magnitude and magnitude - surface brightness relations , except that the fornax dsphs seem to be in average larger at a given total magnitude than the local group dsphs . +",
    "* sbf - cluster memberships and improved morphological classifications do not change the shallow faint end slope of @xmath14 derived from the wfccd - data by more than 0.02 , posing a challenge to @xmath0cdm theory . +",
    "preliminary analysis of deep vlt images in hydrai and centaurus show that dsph candidates exist in these clusters , and that they follow similar scaling relations as their counterparts in fornax .",
    "more on this in forthcoming publications ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this contribution , we report on the discovery of dwarf spheroidals ( dsphs ) in the core of the fornax cluster . their photometric properties  like magnitude , colour , surface brightness  are very similar to those of local group dsphs . </S>",
    "<S> however , at a given total magnitude , dsphs in fornax seem to be more extended than their local group counterparts . the membership of several dwarf galaxy candidates in fornax has been confirmed by surface brightness fluctuation measurements on deep wide - field images taken with the magellan telescope . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis of these images also confirms the flat faint end slope of the luminosity function for dsphs in fornax which contradicts the expected large number of small dark matter halos connected to dwarf galaxies in @xmath0cdm theory . </S>",
    "<S> dwarf spheroidals have also been detected in the hydrai and centaurus cluster . </S>",
    "<S> a preliminary analysis of their photometric properties shows that they obey similar scaling relations as their counterparts in fornax and the local group . </S>"
  ]
}