{
  "article_text": [
    "the advent of large - scale , digital sky surveys has enabled a remarkable increase in our ability to distinguish substructures in our galaxy @xcite . among the first discoveries in the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) data",
    "were the remarkably strong tidal tails of palomar 5 @xcite , spanning over @xmath1 on the sky .",
    "tidal tails of globular clusters are particularly interesting from a dynamical standpoint as they are expected to be very cold @xcite .",
    "this makes them potentially useful for constraining not only the global mass distribution of the galaxy , but also its lumpiness @xcite .",
    "globular cluster tidal tails were first discovered in a photographic survey of 12 southern halo clusters by @xcite .",
    "@xcite and subsequent workers found similar evidence for tidal tails in over 30 other galactic globular clusters .",
    "once the characteristic , power - law departure at large radius from a king profile was recognized as a signature of unbound stars , evidence of tidal tails was detected in globular clusters as far away as the halo of m31 @xcite .",
    "ngc 5466 is an interesting globular cluster in many respects .",
    "it has a blue horizontal branch and a large , centrally concentrated distribution of blue stragglers @xcite . on the other hand , like pal 5 ,",
    "ngc 5466 is a low metallicity ( [ fe / h ] = -2.22 ) , low mass , and low concentration cluster .",
    "@xcite determined a very low @xmath2 for this cluster and suggested that it must have lost a significant fraction of its low mass stars . combining these factors with ngc",
    "5466 s putative orbit , @xcite ranked it among globular clusters most likely to have suffered substantial tidal stripping over time .",
    "evidence for the existence of unbound stars around ngc 5466 was first presented by @xcite .",
    "@xcite examined the spatial distribution of cluster member candidates within a degree of ngc 5466 using apm data data .",
    "most recently , @xcite used sdss photometry to discover a tidal stream extending @xmath3 from ngc 5466 on either side .",
    "in this paper we examine a much larger region of the sdss to search for tidal streams associated with both ngc 5466 and ngc 5272 .",
    "we briefly describe our analysis in section [ analysis ] .",
    "we discuss our findings for both ngc 5466 and ngc 5272 in section [ discussion ] , and make concluding remarks in section [ conclusions ] .",
    "data comprising @xmath4 , and @xmath5 measurements and their errors for @xmath6 stars in the region @xmath7 r.a . @xmath8 and",
    "@xmath9 were extracted from the sdss database using the sdss casjobs query system .",
    "the data were analyzed using the matched - filter technique described by @xcite , and the reader is referred to this paper for a complete description of the method .",
    "briefly , we constructed an observed color - magnitude density or hess diagram for ngc 5466 using stars within @xmath10 of the cluster center .",
    "a star count weighting function was created by dividing this color - magnitude distribution function by a similarly binned color - magnitude distribution of the field stars . the hess diagram for field stars",
    "was created using all stars in rectangular regions to the east and west of ngc 5466 , each region subtending @xmath11 square degrees .",
    "the weighting function was then used on all stars in the field and the weighted star counts were summed by location in a two dimensional array .",
    "we used all stars with @xmath12 .",
    "as ngc 5466 has @xmath13 , reddening is not expected to be a significant problem .",
    "nonetheless , variations in foreground reddening across a large field could introduce corresponding variations in sample completeness and possibly spurious structures .",
    "we therefore dereddened the sdss photometry as a function of position on the sky using the dirbe / iras dust maps of @xcite .",
    "the applied values of @xmath14 ranged from 0.006 to 0.06 over a field area of 1446 square degrees .",
    "we optimally filtered the @xmath15 and @xmath16 star counts independently as a consistency check .",
    "the @xmath17 and @xmath18 data were found to be too noisy to contribute significantly to the final signal - to - noise ratio . as expected ,",
    "the highest filter weight is given to turn - off and horizontal branch stars , as these populations lie blueward of the vast majority of field stars .",
    "however , main sequence stars contribute significantly by virtue of their much larger numbers .    in figure 1 we show the final , filtered star count distribution , created by co - adding the weight images generated independently for the @xmath19 and @xmath20 color pairs .",
    "the image has been smoothed with a gaussian kernel of full width @xmath21 . a low - order ,",
    "polynomial surface was fitted and subtracted from the image to remove large scale gradients due to the galactic disk and bulge .",
    "we note that there are discernible features running parallel to the sdss scan directions ( or `` stripes '' ) , particularly in the northeastern quadrant",
    ". these are artifacts introduced by variations in seeing and transparency from one stripe to the next .",
    "if we limit our analysis to stars brighter than @xmath22 , these features largely disappear .",
    "however , to improve our signal - to - noise ratio we maintain a faint magnitude cut off of @xmath23 and disregard features which mimic the scan pattern of the survey .",
    "extending @xmath24 to the southeast of the ngc 5466 and @xmath3 to the northwest are fairly strong concentrations of stars which are obviously connected to the cluster .",
    "these are the features recently reported by @xcite .",
    "though these tidal arms show little evidence of the s shape characteristic of weak tidal stripping , this would be consistent with our current viewing location very nearly in the plane of the ngc 5466 s orbit .",
    "extending @xmath25 from ngc 5466 towards the southeast and @xmath26 to the northwest is an almost linear feature which cuts across several scan stripes .",
    "the feature is @xmath27-@xmath3 wide along most of it s discernible length .",
    "this width is similar to that observed in the tidal tails of pal 5 and in agreement with the expectation that stars stripped from globular clusters should have a very low velocity dispersion .",
    "the stream is not associated with the sagittarius dwarf debris stream , which runs roughly parallel to the current feature but is much broader and lies @xmath28 to the south of the field shown in figure 1 .",
    "the stream is not a product of our dereddening procedure ; careful examination of the reddening map of @xcite shows no correlation between this feature and the applied reddening corrections . to be certain ,",
    "we reran our matched - filter analysis using the original data uncorrected for reddening . though less strong",
    ", the feature in figure 1 remains quite apparent .",
    "the stream is also not due to confusion between galaxies and stars at faint magnitudes .",
    "we have filtered the sdss galaxy catalog over the same field area in a manner identical to that used for objects classified as stars .",
    "there is indeed evidence of confusion in that there is an obvious concentration of `` galaxies '' within a few arcminutes of the center of ngc 5466 .",
    "however , there is no concentration of galaxies coincident with the extended feature in figure 1 .",
    "at its southeastern end the stream appears to be truncated by the limits of the available data . on the northwestern end ,",
    "the stream becomes indiscernible westward of ra = 180 .",
    "based on the proper motion @xcite and assumed orbit of the cluster ( see below ) , the northwestern end of the current tidal stream should be roughly a factor of two further away from us than the cluster itself . in an attempt the trace the stream still farther westwards , we reapplied the matched filter after shifting the ngc 5466 color - magnitude sequence fainter by 1.5 magnitudes",
    ". however , no evidence for a continuing stream could be detected using the present analysis . while it is conceivable that we are seeing the physical end of the stream ( and therefore the very first stars to be stripped from ngc 5466 ) it seems more likely that our failure to trace the stream any further simply reflects increasing contamination by field stars at fainter magnitudes and the reduced power of the optimal filter .    in figure 2",
    "we show the locations of @xmath11 stars with colors and magnitudes which would put them on the blue end ( @xmath29 ) of ngc 5466 s horizontal branch . while the statistics are small and there are interesting groupings here and there across the field , these blue stars show a marked tendency to lie along the tidal stream . measuring over a radius range of @xmath27 to @xmath30 from the cluster these hb stars are between 2 and 3 times more likely to be found within @xmath31 of the center of the tidal stream .",
    "there are seven lines of reasoning that indicate that the feature in figure 1 is indeed a tidal stream associated with ngc 5466 .",
    "1 ) we know from the work of @xcite that ngc 5466 possesses tidal tails extending at least @xmath32 on the sky .",
    "2 ) our optimal filter technique recovers the strong , @xmath3 tidal tails found by @xcite .",
    "3 ) the projection of the @xmath0-long feature passes within @xmath33 of the center of ngc 5466 .",
    "4 ) the feature disappears if the hess diagrams used to create the matched filters are shifted either blueward or redward of the observed color - magnitude sequence of ngc 5466 .",
    "5 ) the apparent width of the feature is in accord with expectations for globular cluster tidal tails ( e.g. pal 5 ) .",
    "6 ) though much noisier , the distribution of candidate horizontal branch stars also shows a tendency to concentrate along the stream defined by main sequence / rgb stars .",
    "7 ) given the expectation that the stream traces the orbital path of the cluster , its orientation is consistent with the previously derived space motion of the cluster ( see below ) .    integrating the weighted star counts along each stream over a width of @xmath34 and beyond @xmath3 from ngc 5466 itself",
    ", we find the total number of stars in the discernible streams to be @xmath35 .",
    "based on a comparison between the observed sdss luminosity function of ngc 5466 ( measured outside the saturated central region ) and that of other well studied globulars , we estimate that between two thirds and three quarters of the cluster stars are missing from the sdss field sample due to incompleteness at @xmath36 .",
    "the apparent stream must therefore contain at least @xmath37 main sequence stars .",
    "if the leading and trailing arms are assumed to be symmetric , then we might expect another thousand stars in the region not covered by the sdss dr4 . in total",
    "this represents only about 3% of the current mass of the cluster .",
    "however , if the luminosity function of the tails is heavily biased towards low mass ( i.e. the missing low mass stars postulated by @xcite ) , then both the number of stars and the cluster mass fraction resident in the tidal tails may be much higher .",
    "the surface density of stars fluctuates considerably along each stream . for stars with @xmath38",
    "the average surface density is @xmath39 stars per square degree , with several peaks along the streams ranging from 20 to over 30 stars per square degree .",
    "this may be compared with a total surface density of 7600 field stars per degree squared for all stars with @xmath38 and illustrates the remarkable power of matched filtering .",
    "the tidal tails of ngc 5466 are evidently much more tenuous than those of pal 5 , for which @xcite found surface densities typically in excess of 100 stars per square degree .",
    "however , the relative magnitudes of the surface density fluctuations along the length of the stream are quite similar .      assuming globular cluster tidal streams follow the orbits of their parent clusters @xcite , we can use the observed orientation of the newly discovered stream to better constrain the orbit of ngc 5466 .",
    "we use the galactic model of @xcite for orbit integration . using the lick - based proper motion measurements of @xcite we find a projected orbit as shown by the solid line in figure 2 . using @xcite s hipparcos - derived proper motions we find the orbit projection shown by the dotted line .",
    "the uncertainties on the two measurements are similar , and the plate - based measurements are in agreement with hipparcos measurements at the @xmath40 level .",
    "the orbit projections diverge from one another by @xmath41 , and the tidal stream clearly favors the ground - based proper motion measurement .    even using the @xcite proper motion measurement ,",
    "the match between the projected orbit and the tidal stream is not completely satisfactory .",
    "the northwestern stream does not lie perfectly along any computed orbit and , indeed , appears to depart in places from a smooth curve .",
    "this is due in part to small number statistics , but could also be due to 1 ) irregularities in the potential of the galactic halo , 2 ) a recent weak encounter between stream stars and a substantial mass concentration in the disk ( e.g. a large molecular cloud ) , or 3 ) confusion .",
    "if we ignore the apparent enhancements westward of ra = @xmath42 , the stream becomes somewhat less meandering and more closely resembles the computed orbits . if we set ( u , v , w ) = ( 290 , -240 , 225 km s@xmath43 ) , we arrive at the dash - dot line in figure 2 .",
    "since our vantage point is very nearly within the plane of ngc 5466 s orbit , we would not expect to see a significant offset between the computed orbit and the leading and trailing tails .",
    "the u , v , w velocities required to match the stream depart from the proper motion measurement of @xcite at the @xmath44 level , and from the hipparcos measurement at the @xmath45 level .",
    "all reasonable orbits predict a total length of @xmath46 kpc for the northwestern arm , and @xmath47 kpc for the southeastern . at the end of the northwestern arm ,",
    "the orbital path is inclined to our line of sight by some @xmath48 .",
    "similar matched filtering procedures were applied to the present dataset to search for tidal streams associated with ngc 5272 .",
    "based on a color - magnitude sequence which has a somewhat bluer rgb and a brighter turnoff than that of ngc 5466 , we expected to be considerably more sensitive to any tidal streams associated with this cluster .",
    "however , no evidence for tidal streams could be found .",
    "this is in qualitative agreement with the results of @xcite , who estimated a probability of disruption for ngc 5272 roughly sixty times lower than that for ngc 5466 .",
    "applying optimal contrast filtering techniques to sdss data , we have detected a tenuous stream of stars roughly @xmath0 long on the sky . based on several pieces of evidence , we associate this stream with the halo globular cluster ngc 5466 .",
    "verification of the stream and its association with ngc 5466 will require radial velocity measurements of individual stars along its length .",
    "based purely on sdss colors , there are @xmath49 candidate stream stars along the length of the tail with @xmath50 ( i.e. above the subgiant branch ) . of these , we expect @xmath51 stars to be _ bona fide _ orphans of ngc 5466 .",
    "once vetted , these stars will become prime targets for the space interferometry mission , whose proper motion measurements will enable very much stronger constraints to be placed on both the orbit of the cluster and on the potential field of the galaxy .",
    "funding for the creation and distribution of the sdss archive has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national aeronautics and space administration , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the japanese monbukagakusho , and the max planck society .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.                                      odenkirchen , m. , grebel , e. k. , rockosi , c. m. , dehnen , w. , ibata , r. , rix , h. , solte , a. , wolf , c. , anderson , j. e. jr . ,",
    "bahcall , n. a , brinkmann , j. , csabai , i. , hennessy , g. , hindsley , r. b. , ivezic , z. , lupton , r. , munn , j. a. , pier , j. r. , stoughton , c. , york , d. g. 2001 , , 548 , 1650"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on the detection in sloan digital sky survey data of a @xmath0 tidal stream of stars , extending from bootes to ursa major , which we associate with the halo globular cluster ngc 5466 . using an optimal contrast , </S>",
    "<S> matched filter technique , we find a long , almost linear stellar stream with an average width of 1.4 . </S>",
    "<S> the stream is an order of magnitude more tenuous than the stream associated with palomar 5 . </S>",
    "<S> the stream s orientation on the sky is consistent to a greater or lesser extent with existing proper motion measurements for the cluster . </S>"
  ]
}