{
  "article_text": [
    "in the linear regime of the gravitational instability scenario the underlying mass distribution is directly traced by the galaxy peculiar velocities .",
    "measurement of the radial component of the galaxy peculiar velocities , the only component that one can easily observe , is carried out with one of many available techniques , the most common among which are the tully - fisher - like methods (  tully & fisher 1977 , faber & jackson 1976 ) .",
    "normally , these methods exploit a well defined intrinsic relation between two or more of the galaxy observed properties that facilitates establishing its actual distance from the observer . the estimated distance is then used together with the measured galaxy redshift , to determine the galaxy radial peculiar velocity .",
    "assuming an irrotational flow on large scales and the knowledge of @xmath4 ( the cosmological mass density parameter ) , it is straightforward to use the measured radial peculiar velocities to recover the full underlying mass overdensity ( bertschinger & dekel 1989 , dekel , bertschinger & faber 1990 , zaroubi 2002 , zaroubi 2002 ) .",
    "in addition , the same mass - density could be probed by galaxy redshift catalogues assuming a simple linear biasing scheme that connects it to the spatial galaxy distribution ( kaiser 1984 , bardeen 1986 ) .",
    "to date , galaxy redshift and peculiar motion surveys are the main tools with which astronomers explore the distribution of matter in the nearby universe .    since the two types of data , galaxy peculiar velocity catalogues and galaxy redshift surveys , probe the underlying mass distribution comparing the two provides a simple and powerful test on the paradigm of gravitational instability and gives a model independent measurement of @xmath0 , the ratio between the linear growth factor , @xmath5 ( @xmath6 ) and the linear biasing factor of the galaxy population . in most cases",
    "the comparison is either performed by deriving galaxy peculiar velocities from the galaxy density field and confront them with the measured velocities point - by - point , an approach usually called `` velocity - velocity '' comparison ( e.g. , davis , nusser & willick 1996 , willick & strauss 1998 , zaroubi 2002 , zaroubi 2002 ) . or by adopting the so called `` density - density '' approach in which the velocity data is used to infer the full mass density field ( bertschinger & dekel 1989 , zaroubi 2002 ) and compare it with the galaxy distribution (  sigad et al . 1998 , zaroubi 2002 ) . with the exception of the potent algorithm ( see  sigad et al .",
    "1998 ) , all the comparison methods yield a low value of @xmath0 consistent with @xmath7 and bias factor of @xmath8 .",
    "another approach to the comparison that does nt fit into the two general classes outlined earlier , is the one proposed by juszkiewicz ( 1999 ) who start from the pair conservation equation ( peebles 1980 ) and evolve it further to the quasi - linear regime of gravitational instability . in the pair conservation approach , which yields a value of @xmath0 that is consistent with the one derived from velocity - velocity analyses ( ferreira 1999 , feldman 2003 ) , a relation between the mean pairwise velocity at a certain separation and the density correlation function is derived .",
    "the comparison in this approach is significantly simplified by avoiding the spatial point - by - point matching required in previous methods thus reducing the noise involved .",
    "the juszkiewicz ( 1999 ) approach is similar to the one developed in this paper except that we are interested in the variance of the peculiar velocity at a given smoothing scale rather than the pairwise peculiar velocity at a given separation .    in this study",
    ", we derive a very simple , model independent and linear relation , valid in the distant observer limit , between the overdensity and peculiar velocity two point correlation functions assuming gaussian smoothing .",
    "the method is first used to construct a nonparametric estimator of the mass - density power spectrum .",
    "then the paper concentrates on the relation between the variance ( 2-point correlation at zero distance ) of the two fields .",
    "this relation basically reduces the comparison between the catalogues to two numbers allowing a robust extraction of the parameter @xmath0 .",
    "the proposed equation is especially suited to future peculiar velocity data sets like , the 6df which will measure the the peculiar velocities of @xmath9 galaxies with their @xmath10 relation up to @xmath11  mpc / h distance .",
    "currently , the main sources of error in the redshift - peculiar motion comparison are the large random and systematic uncertainties carried by the peculiar motion measurements , for example the tully - fisher - like relations has an inherent uncertainty of @xmath12 of the distance .",
    "data obtained with more accurate distance indicators do exist ( tonry 1991 , riess , press & kirshner 1995 ) , unfortunately however , either they are not at significant distances ,  the surface - brightness - fluctuations method , or they reach large distances but are too sparse ,  the supernovae - ia data . in the future , by using the thermal and kinematic sunyaev - zeldovich ( sz ) effect ( sunyaev & zeldovich 1972 ) , both the accuracy of the peculiar velocity measurement and the spatial coverage of the data are expected to increase dramatically where the uncertainty is expected to amount to an absolute error of @xmath13 ( diaferio 1994 ) and the number of observed objects to reach @xmath14 clusters",
    ". the main difficulty in this case , assuming a reasonable control over the systematics , will be posed by the large mean separation between the galaxy - clusters observed with the sz effect .",
    "the power of the method proposed here is that it reduces the contribution of the measurement noise and sparseness of the sample to a bare minimum .",
    "the paper is organized as follows : section  [ theory ] presents the main theoretical formulae . in section  [ secatpscz ] the method is applied to the psc@xmath1 redshift galaxy catalogue and the secat peculiar velocity survey . in section  [ 6df ]",
    "the applicability of the method to future surveys ,  the 6df galaxy survey and the kinematic and thermal sz cluster survey , is discussed .",
    "in this section , we first derive the main theoretical relation ( subsection  [ 2point ] ) and show how it could be used to estimate the matter power spectrum from peculiar velocity data ( subsection  [ powerspec ] ) . then in subsection  [ estimator ] the variance component of the main relation is used in order to estimate the value of @xmath0 from comparison between galaxy redshift surveys data and peculiar velocity data .",
    "the @xmath0 measurement error for a typical case is derived in subsection  [ noise ] .",
    "the derivation is performed within the framework of linear gravitational instability , under the assumption of statistical homogeneity and isotropy .",
    "consider a radial peculiar velocity field @xmath15 measured in a very distant patch of the sky smoothed with a gaussian window function with scale @xmath16 , @xmath17 . in the limit of @xmath18 , where @xmath19 is the correlation radius of peculiar velocities and @xmath20 is the distance of the patch from the observer . a smoothed radial field within a given observed volume can be written as , @xmath21 where the superscript @xmath22 refers to values smoothed with a gaussian kernel of radius @xmath16 , @xmath23 is a unit vector along the line - of - sight , and @xmath24 is fourier transform of the smoothing kernel .",
    "the two - point correlation function of the gaussian smoothed line - of - sight galaxy peculiar velocity is : @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the mass density power spectrum and @xmath27 is the radius vector separating between any two points . since there are two independent directions that appear in eq .",
    "[ eq : v2pt ] one ca nt invoke symmetry arguments in order to proceed .",
    "however , since in the distant - observer - limit the line - of - sight direction is approximately constant across the observed volume and independent of the direction of @xmath27 , one can average over all possible directions of @xmath27 relative to @xmath28 ( arbitrary direction ) by integrating equation  [ eq : v2pt ] with @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is cosine the angle between the two vectors @xmath27 and @xmath28 : @xmath31 where @xmath32 is an average over statistical ensemble and over @xmath30 , @xmath33 is the zero order spherical bessel function and @xmath34    assuming statistical isotropy for the velocity field ,  symmetry between the line of sight and the other two orthogonal directions one obtains the following equation : @xmath35 with the factor @xmath36 coming from the symmetry argument .",
    "now to the last step in the calculation , for a gaussian smoothing kernel , @xmath37 , the derivative of the line of sight velocity two point correlation function with respect to @xmath16 , yields : @xmath38 here @xmath39 is the two point correlation function of the smoothed densities .",
    "notice that eq .",
    "[ eq : v2ptd2pt ] can only be obtained when @xmath40 , strictly valid only with gaussian smoothing kernel .",
    "obviously , for a given 3 dimensional peculiar velocity field the two point correlation function of the gaussian smoothed velocity , @xmath41 , is related to its density counterpart through the equation , @xmath42 which is similar to equation  [ eq : v2ptd2pt ] without the factor of @xmath36 and with no need for averaging over @xmath30",
    ".    it might be easier to interpret equation  [ eq : v2ptd2pt ] in its integral form , where the integral is performed over the smoothing radius .",
    "let @xmath43 and @xmath44 the two smoothing radii that bound our integral , therefore , @xmath45 in the @xmath46 limit , the left - hand side of equation  [ eq : energy ] describes the mean change in the kinetic energy associated with the smoothed velocity due to the variation of the smoothing radius , whereas the right - hand side depicts the 3-dimensional integral of the density variance of the smoothed field over the smoothing scale .",
    "the right - hand side term is very similar to the normal potential energy except that @xmath16 does not represent a proper distance between points . in other words , the variation in the kinetic - like energy comes from the `` potential - energy - like '' behavior of the modes corresponding to the scales between @xmath43 and @xmath44 , with exponentially decreasing contributions from larger and smaller scale modes . if @xmath47 then the interpretation is not as simple but still the left- and right - hand sides correspond to a sort of a _ two - point kinetic - energy _ and _ potential - energy _ , respectively , with the same scales contributing to the modification as before . therefore , equation  [ eq : energy ] is an `` energy equation '' of sorts as it describes the _ two point _",
    "`` potential - like '' and `` kinetic - like '' energy partition within a gaussian window function .",
    "dimensional arguments significantly restrict the mathematical form of the relation between the velocity and the density 2 points correlation functions .",
    "therefore , it is not surprising that the theoretical relation shown by equation  [ eq : v2ptd2pt ] is very similar to the irvine - layzer cosmic energy equation which describes how the energy of the universe is partitioned between kinetic and potential energy ( irvine 1961 , 1965 ; layzer 1963 , 1966 ; see also mo , jing & brner 1997 ) .",
    "the main approach currently used to measure the mass - density power spectrum from peculiar velocity data is the likelihood method introduced by zaroubi  ( 1997 ; see also , freudling  1999 and zaroubi  2001 ) in which a theoretical power spectrum with few free parameters and a noise model are assumed .",
    "since in this method the data is forced to fit a specific power spectrum shape , an inaccurate description of the noise model could propagate to large scales and contaminate the measured power spectrum .",
    "indeed the results obtained with this method have been yielding unrealistically high amplitude of the mass - density fluctuations power spectrum ( consistent with @xmath48 ) .",
    "therefore , direct nonparametric methods for power - spectrum estimation from peculiar velocity data are needed .",
    "the question we pose here is : can equation  [ eq : v2ptd2pt ] be used to directly estimate the mass power spectrum from peculiar velocity data ?",
    "in the ideal case in which the uncertainties in the measurement are neglected and the data extends to infinity and samples the universe very accurately , the answer is clearly yes .",
    "a good point from which to start the derivation of the power spectrum estimator is the relation between the power spectrum and the smoothed density two point correlation function , @xmath49 substituting this into equation  [ eq : v2ptd2pt ] and integrating over the variable @xmath50 from zero to @xmath51 after multiplying with @xmath52 , one obtains the following relation , @xmath53 where the orthonormality of the spherical bessel function is used (  arfken & weber 2002 ) . the left hand side of eq .",
    "[ eq : ps ] is a quantity that can be directly measured from the velocity data ; whereas , the right - hand side shows the estimated quantity .",
    "since we use smoothed velocity data , the power spectrum is determined up to a factor of @xmath54 and with a resolution that can not exceed the scale imposed by the gaussian smoothing .    for a real application , the discrete and noisy nature of the data should be taken into account ,  some of the steps leading to eq .",
    "[ eq : ps ] has to be modified .",
    "for example , to maintain the orthogonality of the spherical bessel functions on a finite spherical volume one has to impose appropriate boundary conditions ( see fisher  1995 & zaroubi 1995 for examples ) .",
    "however , the main hurdle for this direct approach to power spectrum estimation is the noise contribution ; this issue is deferred to a future work .",
    "[ eq : v2ptd2pt ] is the most general relation derived in this paper .",
    "however , in order to use it to estimate the value of @xmath0 , it is simpler to restrict ourselves to the relation between the density and velocity variances , namely , apply the equation in the limiting case of @xmath55 to yield : @xmath56 where @xmath57 and @xmath58 are the peculiar velocity and density - contrast variances , respectively .",
    "the numerical calculation of @xmath59 is straightforward .",
    "one has to smooth the measured velocity field with a gaussian window , calculate its variance and obtain its derivative by finite differencing ( see subsection  [ noise ] for a similar explicit calculation ) .",
    "the right - hand - side of equation  [ eq : sigvsigd ] is obtained from the galaxy redshift catalogue by taking the variance of the smoothed real - space density field .",
    "the proposed estimator requires no heavy data manipulation and is easy to calculate . due to",
    "the smoothing involved , the estimator is robust with regard to instabilities caused by the large random noise .",
    "in addition , to avoid the cosmic variance contribution to the error analysis , the comparison between the two types of data sets is performed within the same region of space . both features , simplicity and stability ,",
    "render the estimator very appealing to use .",
    "the contribution of the measurement error to the estimator in equation  [ eq : sigvsigd ] is readily calculated with the following discrete approach .",
    "let @xmath60 be the noise associated with particle @xmath61 , then the smoothed noise is , @xmath62    subsequently , the expectation value of the noise two point correlation is , @xmath63 the last equation assumes that the measured errors are statistically uncorrelated .",
    "we now require that @xmath64 and sum over all the data points .",
    "the expectation value of the noise contribution to the variance of the velocity is : @xmath65 therefore , the noise variance that adds to the left hand side of equation  [ eq : sigvsigd ] is readily obtained by finite differencing :    @xmath66    the contribution of the noise variance to the right hand side of eq .",
    "[ eq : sigvsigd ] is typically small and is neglected here .",
    "however , it is straightforward to account for in the case of unusually noisy data .",
    "in this section equation  [ eq : sigvsigd ] is employed for comparison between the psc@xmath1 galaxy redshift catalogue ( saunders 2000 , branchini 2000 ) and the secat galaxy peculiar velocity catalogue ( zaroubi 2002 ) which is a combination of the two homogeneous peculiar velocity catalogues , the sfi catalogue of spiral galaxies ( giovanelli 1998 , haynes 1999 ) and the enear catalogue of early - type galaxies ( da costa 2000 ) .",
    "the secat catalogue extends to a distance of about @xmath68 and the psc@xmath1 goes to about twice of that . therefore , in order to avoid cosmic variance contamination of the measurement the comparison between the two is restricted to the closer distance .",
    "prior to applying the method to the actual data , however , one needs to address the question of whether it is realistic to expect a reliable estimation of the value of @xmath0 with noisy and close by catalogue such as the secat .",
    "hence , the next subsection is dedicated to testing with mock catalogues how robust our estimator is .",
    "the density and peculiar velocity mock catalogues used in this section are derived from the @xmath69 resolution reconstruction of the density field from the psc@xmath1 galaxy redshift catalogue ( branchini 2000 ) , where the peculiar velocity field is obtained using linear theory from the galaxy redshift space positions assuming a value of @xmath70 .",
    "the mock secat peculiar velocity catalogue has the same distances and number of points the real secat has , but with the velocities of the psc@xmath1 reconstructed velocity field .",
    "obviously , it would have been better to use a full nonlinear n - body simulation with which to test the method . however , since the positions of the actual measured velocities are controlled by the specific distribution of the galaxies in the nearby universe we choose to test the method with data that has the same spatial distribution as the real universe , albeit the lack of full nonlinearity .",
    "given the heavy smoothing involved in the analysis this way of assigning velocities to mock data is satisfactory  for testing the method with full nonlinear simulation see section  [ 6df ] .",
    "after assigning the velocities to the noise free mock data , we generate 30 mock catalogue with the random errors added to their distance and velocity values in concordance with the observational uncertainties .    however , as a first step we wish to test whether the method works in the distant observer limit with homogeneous sampling and noise free data .",
    "in this case we have constructed the mock velocity data by sampling the psc@xmath1 catalogue on every 8-th grid point where the velocity is taken to be equal to the @xmath1 component to mimic the distance observer limit .",
    "figure  [ fig : mocktests ] shows @xmath0 as a function of the smoothing scale ( dotted - dashed line ) which agrees quite well , especially at larger smoothing scales , with the expected value shown with the dotted horizontal line .",
    "( 8,9 ) ( -2.3 , -3 . )    next , the same mock data is used but the peculiar velocity is chosen to be the radial velocity ,  the distant - observer - limit is relaxed .",
    "the points that were chosen for the comparison are restricted to the range @xmath71 from the center of the box ( relaxing this restriction alters the results but marginally ) .",
    "the result of this test is shown as a dashed line in figure  [ fig : mocktests ] indicating that the recovered @xmath0 is in agreement with its original value .",
    "the third issue to test is whether the spatial coverage of the data set is sufficient , namely , whether the number of secat galaxies and their actual sky distribution are good enough for a recovery of the @xmath0 value ?",
    "the answer is given by the solid line in figure  [ fig : mocktests ] clearly showing that at small smoothing scales , @xmath0 is underestimated , then it increases with the smoothing radius until the correct value is recovered on scales larger than @xmath72 .",
    "here the positions of the mock velocity data are the same as the galaxy positions in the secat catalogue but their velocities are taken from the psc@xmath1 velocity field with no noise addition .",
    "one might argue that there is no clear convergence of the value of @xmath0 at @xmath73 in figure  [ fig : mocktests ] , therefore , one might need to go to larger scales .",
    "however , given the size of the current velocity data catalouges a larger scale smoothing becomes comparable to the volume of the data set itself and one has to start to worry about sampling issues within the gaussian kernel itself . as will be shown later , the lack of convergence is an issue , however less severe , for the real secat and psc@xmath1 data .",
    "( 8,9 ) ( -2.3 , -3 . )    the final step in our testing is to apply the method to a `` full '' mock secat catalogue ( with noise and actual sampling ) .",
    "the solid line in figure  [ fig : mockvspscz ] shows the mean value of @xmath0 as a function of the smoothing radius as recovered from 30 mock secat catalogues with the error bars indicating the @xmath74 scatter about the mean .",
    "@xmath0 is clearly well reconstructed with large smoothing radii .",
    "there is also some bias in the mean value of @xmath0 at the smaller smoothing radii with respect to the @xmath0 obtained from the noise - free data ( dashed line ) , which is probably due to overestimation of the noise variance at smaller scales .",
    "this is not a big worry as on small scales the psc@xmath1 catalogue used to produce the velocity data has limited nonlinear evolution due to its poor resolution ( @xmath75 ) and its velocities are purely linear .",
    "please note that the error bars shown here are correlated .",
    "the uncertainty estimates made for this figure , and for the rest of the figures in the paper , are based on one of the error bars and not their combination .",
    "having tested the method on mock catalogues and demonstrated that , on large scales , it gives unbiased results for a secat - psc@xmath1 comparison , we now apply it to the real data .",
    "figure  [ fig : secatvspscz ] shows the measured @xmath0 as a function of the smoothing radius where it has a value of @xmath76 at smoothing radius of @xmath77 but drops down as the smoothing radius increases to @xmath78 , the curve becomes almost flat at @xmath79 .",
    "the error bars here are taken from the @xmath74 uncertainties determined from the 30 mock catalogues .",
    "branchini  ( 1999 ) have used two methods to solve for the redshift distortion equation ( kaiser 1987 ) and reconstruct the real - space density from the psc@xmath1 galaxy redshift distribution , one is based on the yahil  ( 1989 ) iterative method and the other on the nusser & davis ( 1994 ) spherical harmonic expansion approach . in the previous analysis we have used data obtained with the former method . however , to examine the robustness of the measured value of @xmath0 we perform the same comparison but with the later method . the dashed line in figure  [ fig : secatvspscz ]",
    "shows @xmath0 as a function of smoothing radius deduced from the second method which is well within the @xmath74 uncertainty level , albeit being slightly smaller .",
    "( 8,9 ) ( -2.3 , -3 . )    on small smoothing scales the behavior of the curves shown in figure  [ fig : secatvspscz ] is systematically different from those obtained from the analysis of the mock catalogues , the former drops with scale while the later increases .",
    "we attribute this difference to the fact that the psc@xmath1 catalogue has a limited resolution and its velocity field is purely linear .",
    "in the near future , the 6df galaxy survey ( jones  2004 ) will measure the redshifts of around 150000 galaxies , and the peculiar velocities of a 15000-member sub - sample , over almost the entire southern sky .",
    "when complete , it will be the largest redshift survey of the nearby universe , reaching out to about @xmath80 , and more than an order of magnitude larger than any peculiar velocity survey to date .",
    "since the two datasets will be obtained from the same survey , the galaxy redshift and peculiar velocity catalogues will have the valuable attribute of being subjected to the same selection effects .    despite the relatively large volume covered by the 6df galaxy peculiar velocity survey the relative nature of the errors in the @xmath10 distance estimation",
    "might still diminish the information content of the data . to evaluate this effect",
    "we apply eq .",
    "[ eq : sigvsigd ] to mock 6df galaxy redshift and peculiar velocity catalogues . in this experiment",
    "the catalogues are constructed from the full nonlinear n - body numerical simulation described by cole  ( 1998 ) , specifically , the simulation labeled @xmath81 in their paper .",
    "the simulation assumes a cdm power spectrum of fluctuations with @xmath82 , @xmath83 , rms fluctuation of the mass contained in spheres of radius @xmath84 , @xmath85 and a cdm power spectrum shape parameter , @xmath86 , of @xmath87 .",
    "the simulation box side is @xmath88 and has @xmath89 particles .",
    "the mock catalogues where produces by carving out 6 hemispheres of radius @xmath90 of the simulation box .",
    "we obtain the redshift and peculiar velocity catalogues with uniform sampling of the galaxies in the simulated hemisphere in accordance with the expected sampling of the 6df survey .",
    "the real - space distribution is presumed to have negligible errors ; but the distances in the peculiar velocity catalogues carry errors of @xmath91 of their actual values . the input linear bias factor , @xmath92 is one .",
    "the star symbols in figure  [ fig : mock6df ] show the average @xmath0 value recovered from the 12 mock catalogs , as a function of smoothing scale .",
    "the error bars show the associated variance .",
    "the continuous line shows the average @xmath0 value recovered from the same 12 mock catalogues in which no errors have been added to velocities . clearly , the recovered @xmath0 is close to its input value at all smoothing scales .",
    "if the error level we get is realistic the accuracy with which the 6df galaxy survey will recover the @xmath0 parameter ( @xmath93 ) is indeed encouraging .",
    "the recovery of @xmath0 down to @xmath94 scale is very encouraging too as it indicates that the gaussian cell `` energy - like '' equation holds also for the quasilinear regime .",
    "obviously , this point needs to be further explored with many simulations and over a wide range of point separations .",
    "( 8,9 ) ( -2.1 , -2.5 )      inverse compton scattering of cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) photons off thermal electrons within the hot intra - cluster medium of galaxy clusters produce two effects .",
    "first , distortion of the cmb black - body spectrum causing the cluster to appear brighter or dimmer at different frequencies and , second , an achromatic modification of its surface brightness .",
    "these effect are known , respectively , as the thermal and kinematic sunyaev - zeldovich effects ( sunyaev & zeldovich 1972 ) .",
    "the two combined with a measure of the cluster temperature give the cluster s radial peculiar velocity component to a high degree of accuracy .",
    "current estimates of the measured distance - independent _ absolute _ uncertainty are as low as @xmath95 ( holder 2004 ) .",
    "the thermal component of the sz effect is now routinely measured with interferometers and major efforts are underway to survey the sky with in the thermal sz relevant spectral range .",
    "since the sz effect is redshift independent , this kind of survey will provide an unbiased catalogue of the massive clusters as far back as their formation redshift ( see  carlstrom , holder & reese 2002 for a review ) .",
    "the kinematic sz is an order of magnitude weaker than the thermal component and therefore has been harder to measure ( holzapfel 1997 ; benson  2003 ) . in the future however , the kinematic sz effect will be measurable and together with the thermal sz component will provide wide angle surveys of galaxy - cluster peculiar velocities up to redshift of about @xmath96 .",
    "such data will probe the evolution of the dark energy and galaxy - cluster bias evolution and clearly distinguish between various theoretical scenarios of cosmological evolution .",
    "like the 6df galaxy survey , the future sz surveys will probe the density and the peculiar velocity of the same region of space with the same objects and therefore allow a measurement of @xmath4 ( through @xmath0 ) .",
    "the left hand panel of figure  [ fig : dark ] shows the evoution of @xmath97 as a function of redshift for different values of @xmath4 for flat @xmath98cdm universes normalize to the case of @xmath82 and @xmath99 case .",
    "this figure demonstrates the sensitvity of the cluster sz peculiar motions to the value of @xmath4 .",
    "the right hand panel of figure  [ fig : dark ] shows the evolution of @xmath97 as a function of redshift for various values of the dark energy equation of state parameter , @xmath100 , in a flat universe ( haiman , mohr & holder 2001 ) . as pointed out by lahav ( 1991 )",
    "the evolution of @xmath5 partially cancels out with the evolution in the hubble parameter .",
    "the weak dependence of the evolution on @xmath100 clearly shows that the equation of state is very hard to measure with peculiar velocity data . on the other hand",
    "however , this insensitivity facilitates a very accurate measurement of the clusters biasing factor and its evolution as a function of redshift .",
    "( 8,8.8 ) ( -3 , -1.6 )    ( 8,8.8 ) ( -1.5 , -1.6 )    the expected superior quality of the measured peculiar velocity of individual clusters is hampered by their sparseness .",
    "therefore , it is essential to analyze the data with methods that are stable with respect to this feature .",
    "the method developed here is a good candidate as it is simple , easy to apply , involves no complicated inversion schemes and the vast majority of the measured clusters will satisfy the distant - observer - limit assumed in the derivation .",
    "initial application of the method to realistic mock catalogues shows a good success in the recovery of the @xmath0 .",
    "however , the mock data to which we applied it were at redshift zero and limited in size . when the cluster mass cut - off exceeds @xmath101 the simulation box is left with very small number of clusters . in order to test the applicability of the method",
    "properly one should apply it to very large scale simulations that span the redshift range of @xmath102 ; a task that will be deferred to the future .",
    "in this paper we introduced the _",
    "gaussian cell two point `` energy - like '' equation _ connecting the two point density and peculiar velocity correlation functions .",
    "the interpretation of this equation is that the change in the velocity correlation function is caused by density variation coming from scales larger than the scale set by the gaussian smoothing ; this analytic cancellation of the small scale power is particular to gaussian kernels .",
    "two practical applications of the _ gaussian cell two - point energy - like equation _ have been developed here , the first is direct matter power spectrum estimator from peculiar velocity data , and the second is @xmath0 measurement from comparison of galaxy peculiar velocity and redshift surveys .",
    "the later application was restricted to the velocity dispersion ,  the @xmath46 , case .    in the @xmath46 case ,",
    "the relation derived here is similar in its mathematical form to the irvine - layzer cosmic energy equation .",
    "this is not surprising as each of the two relations reflect some sort of energy balance and should , due to dimensionality arguments , be homologous .    restricting the main formula to the variance case",
    "the relation could be easily used to estimate the value of @xmath0 from comparison between galaxy peculiar velocity and redshift catalogues . in this paper",
    "we showed that despite their proximity the psc@xmath1 galaxy redshift survey and the secat galaxy peculiar velocity data could be reliably used to derive the value of @xmath0 .",
    "the result is consistent with that of previous analyses .",
    "the variance case has also been shown to apply to the 6df galaxy survey , despite being far from the distant - observer - limit .",
    "using mock 6df catalogues we have demonstrated that our method can be successfully used to extract cosmological parameters from the real sample .    in the future , the eminent detectability of the kinematic sunyaev - zeldovich effect will provide peculiar velocity measurements for large number of galaxy clusters at redshifts extending back to the formation epoch of cluster ( @xmath103 ) .",
    "this type of data is ideal to explore with the _ gaussian cell two - point energy - like equation _ as it satisfy all of the required assumptions and have small measurement errors with large spatial coverage .",
    "the redshift coverage of the sz data will allow an accurate measurement of the evolution of the clusters biasing factor with redshift .",
    "the main hurdle these data sets will pose is the limited resolution with which they will sample the universe as the comoving rms distance between rich galaxy - clusters is of the order of @xmath104 .",
    "we have also shown that the _ gaussian cell two - point energy - like equation _ could be used to estimate the matter power spectrum peculiar velocity data in a non - parametric fashion .",
    "this is a very important application since the current measurements of the mass power spectrum from peculiar velocity employs likelihood analysis with specific models that almost certainly do not properly account for the noise contribution ( zaroubi 1997 , 2001 ) .",
    "a non - parametric measurement on the other hand will allow a scale - by - scale dissection of the various components contributing to the measured power spectrum allowing the isolation of the noise part .",
    "finally , given the simplicity of equation  [ eq : v2ptd2pt ] it is tantalising to attempt to extend it to the quasi - linear regime to obtain a nonlinear description of the evolution of the two point peculiar velocity correlation function similar to the very successful quasi - linear extension of its density counterpart ( hamilton 1991 ) . indeed , figure  [ fig : mock6df ] gives an encouraging indication that the equation might hold for the quasi - linear regime .",
    "this will be further explored in a future work .",
    "the authors would like to acknowledge the hospitality of the `` institute of theoretical physics '' , the technion , haifa .",
    "we also would like to thank adi nusser for his very insightful comments .",
    "arfken , g. b. , weber , h.j.,mathematical methods for physicists , 5@xmath105 edition , 2001 , academic press , new york .",
    "bertschinger e. , & dekel a. 1989 , apjl , 336 , l5 branchini , e. ; teodoro , l. ; frenk , c. s. ; schmoldt , i. ; efstathiou , g. ; white , s. d. m. ; saunders , w. ; sutherland , w. ; rowan - robinson , m. ; keeble , o. ; tadros , h. ; maddox , s. ; oliver , s. , 2000 , mnras , 308 , 1 .",
    "benson , b. a. ; church , s. e. ; ade , p. a. r. ; bock , j. j. ; ganga , k. m. ; hinderks , j. r. ; mauskopf , p. d. ; philhour , b. ; runyan , m. c. ; thompson , k. l. , 2003 , apj , 592 , 674 cole s. , hatton s. , weinberg d. , frenk c. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 945 carlstrom j. e. , holder g. p. , reese e. d. , 2002 , ara&a , 40 , 643 davis , m. , nusser , a. , & willick , j. a. 1996 , apj , 473 , 22 da costa , l. n. ; bernardi , m. ; alonso , m. v. ; wegner , g. ; willmer , c. n. a. ; pellegrini , p. s. ; rit , c. ; maia , m. a. g. 2000 , aj , 120 , 95 dekel a. , bertschinger e. & faber s.m .",
    "1990 , apj , 364 , 349 diaferio a. , borgani s. , moscardini l. , murante g. , dolag k. , springel v. , tormen g. , tornatore l. , tozzi p. , 2004",
    ", mnras submitted ( astro - ph/0405365 ) faber , s. m. , jackson , r. e. , 1976 , apj , 204 , 668 feldman , h. , juszkiewicz , r. , ferreira , p. , davis , m. , gaztanga , e. , fry , j. , jaffe , a. , chambers , s. , da costa , l. , bernardi , m. , giovanelli , r. , haynes , m. , wegner , g. , 2003 , apj , 596 , l131 .",
    "fisher , k. , lahav , o. , hoffman , y. , lynden - bell , d. and zaroubi , s. , mnras , 272 , 885 . freudling w. , zehavi i , da costa , l.n . , dekel , a. , eldar a. , giovanelli r. , haynes m.p .",
    ", salzer j.j .",
    ", wegner g. , zaroubi , s. , 1999 , apj , 523 , 1 .",
    "giovanelli , r. ; haynes , m. p. ; freudling , w. ; da costa , l. n. ; salzer , j.j . ; wegner , g.,1998 , apj , 505 , l91 haiman , z. , mohr , j.j . , holder , g.p .",
    ", 2001 , apj , 553 , 545 hamilton , a. j. s. , matthews , a. , kumar , p. , lu , e. , 1991 , apj , 374 , l1 .",
    "haynes , m. p. , giovanelli , r. , chamaraux , p. , da costa , l. n. , freudling , w. , salzer , j. j. , & wegner , g. 1999 , aj , 117 , 2039 holder , g.p . , 2004 , apj , 602 , 18 holzapfel , w. l. ; ade , p. a. r. ; church , s. e. ; mauskopf , p. d. ; rephaeli , y. ; wilbanks , t. m. ; lange , a. e. , 1997 , apj , 481,35 irvine w. m. , 1961 , phd thesis , harvard university irvine w. m. , 1965 , ann .",
    "phys . , 32 , 322 d. h. jones , w. saunders , m. colless , m. a. read , q. a. parker , f. g. watson , l. a. campbell , d. burkey , t. mauch , m. hartley , p. cass , d. james , k. russell , k. fiegert , j. dawe , j. huchra , t. jarrett , o. lahav , j. lucey , g. a. mamon , d. proust , e. m. sadler , k. wakamatsu , 2004 , mnras submitted ( astro - ph/0403501 ) juszkiewicz , r. , ferreira , p. g. , feldman , h. a. , jaffe , a. h. , davis , m. , 2000 , science , 287 , 109 .",
    "kaiser , n. , 1984 , apj , 284l , 9 .",
    "kaiser , n. , 1987 , mnras , 227 , 1 .",
    "layzer d. , 1963 , apj , 138 , 174 .",
    "lahav , o. , rees , m.j . ,",
    "lilje , p.b . ,",
    "primack , j.r . , 1991 , mnras , 251 , 128 .",
    "layzer d. , 1966 , apj , 145 , 349 .",
    "mo , h.j . ,",
    "jing , y.p . , brner , g. , 1997 , mnras , 286 , 979 .",
    "nusser a. , davis m. , 1994 , apj , 421 , l1 .",
    "peebles p. j. e. , 1980 , the large scale structure of the universe .",
    "princeton univ . press , princeton , nj .",
    "riess , a. g. , press w. h. , & kirshner , r. p. 1995 , apj , 438 , l17 .",
    "saunders , w. , sutherland , w. j. , maddox , s. j. , keeble , o. , oliver , s. j. , rowan - robinson , m. , mcmahon , r. g. , efstathiou , g. p. , tadros , h. , white , s. d. m. , frenk , c. s. , carramiana , a. , hawkins , m. r. s. , 2000 , mnras , 317 , 55 sunyaev , r. a. , & zeldovich , ya . b. 1972 , comments astrophys .",
    "space phys . , 4 , 173 suto , y. , cen , r. , ostriker , j. p. , 1992 ,",
    "apj , 395 , 1 tonry , j.l . , 1991 , apj , 373 , l1 tully , r. b. ; fisher , j. r. , 1977 , astronomy & astrophysics , 54 , 661 yahil a. , strauss m. a. , davis m. , huchra j. p. , 1991 ,",
    "apj , 372 , 380 .",
    "zaroubi , s. , 2002 , mnras , 331 , 901 .",
    "zaroubi , s. , m. bernardi , l.n .",
    "da - costa , y. hoffman , m.v .",
    "alonso , g. wegner , c.n.a .",
    "willmer , p.s .",
    "pellegrini , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 375 .",
    "zaroubi , s. , branchini , e. , hoffman , y. & da costa , l.n . , 2002 , mnras , 336 , 1234 .",
    "zaroubi , s. , hoffman , y. , fisher , k. , and lahav , o. , 1995 , apj , 449 , 446 .",
    "zaroubi , s. , zehavi , i. , dekel , a. , hoffman , y. and kolatt , t. , 1997 , apj , 486 , 21 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we introduce a simple linear equation relating the line - of - sight peculiar velocity and density contrast correlation functions . </S>",
    "<S> the relation , which we call the _ gaussian cell two - point `` energy - like '' equation _ , is valid in the distant - observer - limit and requires gaussian smoothed fields . in the variance case ,  at zero lag , the equation is similar in its mathematical form to the layzer - irvine cosmic energy equation . </S>",
    "<S> @xmath0 estimation with this equation from the psc@xmath1 redshift galaxy survey and the secat catalogue of peculiar velocities is carried out , returning a value of @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> the applicability of the method for the 6df galaxy redshift and peculiar motions survey is demonstrated with mock data where it is shown that beta could be determined with @xmath3 accuracy . </S>",
    "<S> the prospects for constraining the dark energy equation of state with this method from the kinematic and thermal sunyaev - zeldovich cluster surveys are discussed . </S>",
    "<S> the equation is also used to construct a nonparametric mass density power spectrum estimator from peculiar velocity data .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : clusters : general  galaxies : distances and redshifts  cosmology : theory  large - scale structure of universe  cosmological parameters </S>"
  ]
}