{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxy clusters provide a special environment for their members .",
    "in contrast to the field , the number volume density of galaxies is high and the relative velocities are large .",
    "the gravitational potential of a cluster is filled by the intracluster medium ( icm ) , a hot x  ray emitting gas , and the overall mass  to  light ratio is much larger than for the individual galaxies indicating the presence of vast amounts of dark matter .",
    "this environment exerts a strong influence on the evolution of the cluster galaxies superposed on the ( field ) evolution that arises from the hierarchical growth of objects and the declining starformation rates over cosmic epochs . besides tidal interactions between galaxies including merging as",
    "can also be observed in the field , cluster members are affected by clusterspecific phenomena related to the icm ( like ram - pressure stripping ) or the structure of the cluster ( like harassment ) . for a recent overview see third volume of the carnegie observatories astrophysics series .",
    "imprints of these interactions can not only be seen in present - day clusters , but also manifest themselves in a strong evolution of the population of cluster galaxies .",
    "one example is the photometric butcher  oemler effect of an increasing fraction of blue galaxies with redshift ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) implying a rising percentage of starforming galaxies .",
    "another example is the rapid decline of the abundance of lenticular galaxies ( s0 ) from the dominant population in local clusters to a few percent at a lookback time of @xmath5gyrs ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "these observations have led to the question whether field spirals falling into a cluster can be subject to such morphological transformations that they appear as s0 galaxies today .",
    "independent from whether this overall scenario is true or not , the observed tidal interactions ( either between galaxies or with the cluster potential ) may cause substantial distortions both on the structure and the kinematics of the galaxies involved .",
    "indeed , @xcite , for example , found that half of their sample of 89 disk galaxies in the virgo cluster exhibit kinematic disturbances ranging from modest ( e.g. asymmetric ) to severe ( e.g. truncated curves ) peculiarities . on the other hand , many local cluster galaxies , for which only hi velocity widths ( in contrast to spatially resolved velocity profiles ) were measured , follow a tight tully ",
    "fisher relation similar to field spirals ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this tfr connects the luminosity of the stellar population of a galaxy to its internal kinematics which are dominated by the presence of a dark matter halo @xcite .",
    "but it is not yet clear whether the halo of dark matter and , therefore , the total mass of a galaxy can also be affected by certain interaction phenomena . in numerical simulations of the evolution of substructure in clusters by @xcite ,",
    "the dark matter halo of a galaxy that falls into the cluster is truncated via tidal interactions so that the mass - to - light ratio of a galaxy gets reduced during its passage to the cluster core .",
    "@xcite simulates the tidal field along galactic orbits in hierarchically growing clusters , and finds that about 40% of the dark halo of a massive galaxy ( @xmath6km / s ) is lost between @xmath7 and @xmath8 .",
    "but the rotational velocity at @xmath5 disk scale lengths is predicted to hardly change ( decrease by @xmath9% ) .",
    "since in models of hierarchically growing structure clusters are still in the process of forming at @xmath10 in the concordance cosmology , a higher infall rate and more interactions are expected at redshifts @xmath11 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . with the availability of large telescopes ,",
    "it is now feasible to conduct spatially resolved spectroscopy of the faint galaxies at these redshifts to observationally test these predictions .",
    "therefore , we have performed a large campaign at the vlt targeting seven distant rich clusters with @xmath12 .",
    "the clusters were chosen from a very limited list with existing hst / wfpc2 imaging ( mainly the core regions ) at the time the project started ( 1999 ) and that are accessible with the vlt .",
    "ms100812  has no hst imaging but was included since it was imaged extensively during fors science verification time .",
    "the main goal is to derive the two - dimensional internal kinematics of disk galaxies from emission lines . in combination with measurements of starformation rates , luminosities and structural parameters we aim at disentangling the effects of different interaction processes and find out about their respective actual effectiveness and importance for galaxy evolution .    in this letter",
    ", we present the results for the first three clusters of our survey : ms100812  ( @xmath0 ) , cl0303@xmath117  ( @xmath2 ) , and cl041365  ( @xmath3 ) .",
    "they were observed with fors1 in mos mode , while the other four clusters ( cl0016@xmath11609 , ms0451.60305 , zwcl1447.2@xmath12619 & ms2137.32353 ) had mxu spectroscopic observations with fors2 requiring different reduction techniques that will be presented in future papers . while in paperii  @xcite we give all the data that can be deduced from each single spectrum , we analyze in this letter only the late  type galaxies which exhibit spatially resolved emission .",
    "one setup in the mos mode of fors1 provides 19 individual slitlets . for each cluster",
    "two setups have been designed with different rotation angles of the instrument . using grism 600r and slitwidths of 1 ,",
    "the spectra have a dispersion of @xmath131.08 / pixel , a spectral resolution of @xmath14 and typical wavelengths of @xmath15 . in standard configuration fors",
    "has a field of view of @xmath16 with a spatial scale of 0.2/pixel . to achieve our signal  to  noise requirements of @xmath17 in the emission lines of an @xmath18 galaxy , the total integration time",
    "was set to @xmath132hrs .",
    "seeing conditions ranged between 0.7 and 1.3  fwhm .",
    "spatially resolved velocity profiles @xmath19 were determined from either the [ oii]3727 , h@xmath20 or [ oiii]5007 emission line . in eight cases , two lines with sufficient",
    "@xmath4 were visible which then were treated separately yielding consistent results .",
    "the spectral profile of an emission line was fitted by a gaussian ( in case of [ oii ] by a double gaussian ) after applying a median filter window of typically 0.6  to enhance the @xmath4 stepping along the spatial axis .",
    "since the apparent disk sizes of spirals at intermediate redshifts are only slightly larger than the slitwidth ( 1 ) , the slit covers a substantial fraction of the two  dimensional velocity field .",
    "therefore , the spectroscopy is an integration perpendicular to the slit s spatial axis .",
    "because of this effect , the maximum rotation velocity @xmath21 can not be determined `` straightforward '' from the observed rotation .",
    "as described in @xcite and @xcite , we overcome this problem by simulating such longslit spectroscopy of each galaxy individually . in short , a two - dimensional velocity field",
    "is created assuming a specific rotation law that is weighted by the galaxy s luminosity profile and convolved to match the seeing at the time of our observations .",
    "taking into account the galaxy s inclination , position angle , and disk scalelength , a synthetic rotation curve is generated with @xmath21 as the only remaining free parameter .",
    "@xmath21 is then determined by matching the synthetic to the observed velocity profile . for the galaxies analyzed here , we used for the model rotation curve a simple parameterization with a linearily rising inner part that turns over into a flat outer part . but as is demonstrated by @xcite , @xmath21 is hardly changed when the universal rotation curve by @xcite is used instead .",
    "the inclinations , position angles and scalelengths were derived via 2-d @xmath22fits of exponential disks to the galaxies profiles in fors images .",
    "the fwhm was 0.59  ( ms100812 ) , 0.77  ( cl041365 ) and 1.0  ( cl0303@xmath117 ) , respectively .",
    "the fits accounted for the psf .",
    "spirals with too low an inclination ( @xmath23 ) have not been used for the @xmath21 derivation .",
    "galaxy luminosities were derived from total magnitudes of fors images in the @xmath24 ( ms100812 ) or @xmath25 ( cl041365  and cl0303@xmath117 ) band , respectively , as measured with sextractor @xcite . observed magnitudes were corrected for galactic ( from @xcite ) and intrinsic extinction ( following @xcite ) and transformed to restframe johnson @xmath26 according to their spectrophotometric type using model seds corresponding to sa , sb , sc and sdm , and calculated for a flat @xmath27 cosmology ( @xmath28kms@xmath29mpc@xmath29 ) .",
    "the average overall error in the photometry is estimated to be @xmath30 .",
    "the mos mode of fors1 , which was the only multiplex technique available for the first observations of our campaign , has some disadvantages for the spectroscopy of spiral galaxies in clusters , which are removed by the mxu mode of fors2 that we could use for the other four clusters of our survey .",
    "firstly , the 19 slitlets of fixed length ( @xmath31 ) have only one degree of freedom for placing a slitlet onto an object .",
    "this leads to somewhat inefficient coverage of cluster member candidates and many slitlets must be filled by strongly relaxing the ideal selection criteria .",
    "secondly , once a certain rotation of the field is chosen , all the 19 slitlets have the same orientation on the sky .",
    "ideally , the slit should be placed along the major axis of a galaxy to probe its rotation around the center .",
    "although we have targeted each cluster with two different setups , the deviation @xmath32 between slit angle and position angle was rather large in some cases leading to geometric distortions of the observed velocity profile that could not be corrected for .",
    "these galaxies are not used in the further analysis of the internal kinematics here but are valuable ingredients for future studies of e.g. starformation rates or structural properties of cluster members .    as is specified in more detail in paperii , our method of selecting cluster spiral candidates was different for each cluster due to the limited information of published studies .",
    "the most comprehensive source was available for ms100812 , for which we exploited a catalog of @xmath33 cluster members with published spectral types @xcite .",
    "a list of candidates in cl041365  was prepared by comparing optical ",
    "nearinfrared colors by @xcite to evolutionary stellar population models of an updated version of @xcite . for cl0303@xmath117",
    ", we mainly utilized a spectroscopic catalog of @xcite .",
    "mos slitlets that could not be filled by a galaxy from our input lists were placed on objects selected according to their structural appearance and magnitudes as measured on our fors images .",
    "if no suitable candidate for a late  type galaxy was available , the slitlet was placed on an elliptical candidate since understanding the phenomenon of galaxy transformation requires the analysis of the whole galaxy population of a cluster .",
    "redshifts and spectral types could be determined for 12/13 spiral / elliptical members of ms100812  ( plus 4/2 s / e field galaxies ) , 8/1 spiral / elliptical members of cl041365  ( plus 11/6 s / e field galaxies ) , and 10/7 spiral / elliptical members of cl0303@xmath117  ( plus 15/0 s / e field galaxies ) . while the early  type galaxies will be discussed in a future paper ,",
    "we here concentrate on the emission  line galaxies .",
    "as was pointed out by @xcite only galaxies with a rotation curve that rises in the inner region and then clearly turns into a flat part should be used for a tully  fisher diagram . in such a case ,",
    "the measured @xmath21 is representative for the influence of the dark matter halo on the galaxy s kinematics and is indicative for the total dynamical mass of the galaxy . for our three clusters",
    ", we were able to determine @xmath21 for 7/5/1 different member galaxies , respectively , ( and 1/5/1 field spirals ) .",
    "the remaining cluster spirals either have too low @xmath4 of their emission lines to spatially analyse the internal kinematics ( in 0/0/4 cases ) , have too low inclination @xmath34 or too large mismatch angle @xmath32 ( in 1/3/5 cases ) , or exhibit intrinsic distortions ( in 4/0/0 cases ) .    in fig.[fig",
    ": rc ] we show as an example position ",
    "velocity diagrams for all member galaxies in ms100812  that have sufficient @xmath4 . of the 12 members ,",
    "of which four were observed twice with different slit angles with respect to their major axis , seven exhibit the `` classical '' rotation curve shape rising in the inner part and turning over to a flat regime ( labeled `` tf '' ) .",
    "four members clearly show disturbed kinematics ( panels b , j , l , & m ) .",
    "the distortion seen in panel m ( & n ) most probably arises from a bar which is readily visible in the direct image .",
    "two `` double  hits '' were observed with very big mismatch angles ( panels c & k ) so that their velocity profiles look peculiar . in one case ( panel h )",
    "the object fell onto the slitlet by chance and is too weak ( small ) to derive its structural parameters .    in the figure ,",
    "the galaxies are ordered according to their projected distance to the cluster center ( ranging from 285kpc to 1230kpc ) .",
    "there is no trend visible of the rc form as a function of clustercentric distance , i. e. distorted velocities are not uniquely tied to the central region .",
    "but since our observations cover only the region within the virial radius of the cluster ( @xmath35kpc ) , this is in accordance with dynamical models in which the galaxy population of a cluster is well - mixed within that region @xcite . in particular , we most probably do not have any new arrivals from the field in our sample .",
    "in fig.2 , we present the tully  fisher diagram for the distant cluster galaxies .",
    "only those galaxies for which @xmath21 could be determined enter the plot .",
    "the ordinate gives the restframe absolute johnson @xmath26-band magnitudes .",
    "we also show the position of those field galaxies that were serendipitously observed in the cluster fields and that have @xmath36 ( 3 spirals at @xmath37 may be members of a background cluster behind cl041365 ) . for comparison , we include the distant field galaxies from the fors deep field @xcite which were observed with exactly the same instrumental setup @xcite .",
    "the linear bisector fit to this sample is flatter than the slope fitted to the local sample of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* pt92 ) , which is given with its @xmath38 deviations .",
    "the distant cluster spirals are distributed very much alike the field population that covers similar cosmic epochs ( @xmath39 with the bulk of galaxies at @xmath40 and @xmath41 ) .",
    "no significant deviation from the distant field tfr is visible and the cluster sample has not any increased scatter , but the low number of cluster members prohibits any quantitative statistical analysis .",
    "nevertheless , we can conclude that the mass  to  light ratios of the observed distant cluster spirals cover the same range as the distant field population indicating that their stellar populations were not dramatically changed by possible clusterspecific interaction phenomena .",
    "in particular , we do not detect any significant overluminosities as would be expected in the @xmath26 band if strong starbursts had occured in the recent past of the examined cluster galaxies .",
    "with respect to the tully  fisher relation obeyed by local galaxies ( e.g. pt92 ) , our cluster sample follows the same trend as the fdf galaxies . since mostly only the bright galaxies made it into the tf diagram ,",
    "the cluster members occupy a region where no significant luminosity evolution is visible .    ",
    "tully  fisher diagram of cluster spirals in ms100812  ( filled triangles ) , in cl041365  ( filled squares ) , and cl0303@xmath117(filled diamond ) .",
    "also shown are seven field objects ( open symbols ) that were serendipitously observed . in comparison to the fors deep field sample of 77 field galaxies",
    "@xcite with @xmath39 ( small open circles ) , the cluster galaxies are similarly distributed and do not deviate significantly from the linear fit to the fdf sample ( solid line ) .",
    "the cluster members follow the same trend with respect to the local tfr ( the fit @xmath38 to the @xcite field sample is given ) as the distant field galaxies with the brightest galaxies exhibiting the smallest luminosity evolution .",
    "but we emphasize that this conclusion is true only for those objects that enter the tf diagram .",
    "since a significant fraction of our cluster galaxies can not be used for a tf analysis due to their distorted kinematics the above conclusions are not generally valid for the whole cluster sample .",
    "the objects with intrinsically peculiar velocity curves may actually be subject to ongoing or may have experienced recent interactions .",
    "such processes most probably also influence the stellar populations of a galaxy changing its integrated luminosity as well .",
    "tidal interactions for example could distort the spiral arms while inducing starbursts at the same time leading to enhanced luminosities . since we do not know where the galaxies with peculiar kinematics lie in the tf plane , it is not possible to decide whether a particular galaxy has an increased or decreased luminosity .",
    "overall , these galaxies span a very similar range in apparent magnitudes to the tf cluster members .    exploring the spatially resolved kinematics of disk galaxies in distant clusters",
    "has become feasible only recently .",
    "* mj03 ) studied a sample of 7 spiral galaxies in the cluster ms1054.40321 at @xmath42 with fors at the vlt in a similar configuration as our own spectroscopy .",
    "compared to a number of field spirals at corresponding redshifts , which were observed at the same time , they find that the cluster members have brighter @xmath26 luminosities by @xmath43 ( @xmath44 significance ) for their rotational velocities .",
    "the difference to the average brightening of our cluster members is hardly significant and may be due to a combination of low - number statistics and systematic deviations .",
    "but we also can not rule out that the differences are real and may be connected to the higher redshift of ms1054 or other characteristics of that cluster .",
    "@xcite et al . examined galaxies in the cluster cl0024@xmath11654 ( @xmath45 ) with the keck 10m - telescope .",
    "the ten galaxies that appear in their tf diagram have a larger scatter than the local pt92 sample , but show no evidence for an evolution of the zero - point .",
    "the authors argue that processes acting on the cluster galaxies some time before the lookback time of the observations involving either starbursts or a truncation of star formation may have caused a decreased or increased mass  to  light ratio , respectively , which is manifested in the increased scatter .    in a future paper",
    "we will present our analysis for the other four clusters of our campaign .",
    "with more cluster member galaxies both in the tf diagram and those with peculiar kinematics , we may hopefully be able to quantitatively investigate the galaxy evolution in rich clusters and to give also statistical tests .",
    "we acknowledge the thorough comments by the referee .",
    "we are very grateful to drs .",
    "s. wagner ( heidelberg ) , u. hopp ( mnchen ) and r. h. mendez ( hawaii ) for performing part of the observations and thank eso and the paranal staff for efficient support .",
    "we also thank the pi of the fors project , prof .",
    "i. appenzeller ( heidelberg ) , and prof",
    ". k. j. fricke ( gttingen ) for providing guaranteed time for our project .",
    "we also acknowledge fruitful discussions with drs .",
    "b. milvang  jensen ( mpe garching ) and m. verheijen ( potsdam ) .",
    "this work has been supported by the volkswagen foundation ( i/76520 ) and the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( fr 325/461 and sfb 439 ) .",
    "metevier , a.  j. : 2003 , in j.  s. mulchaey , a. dressler , and a. oemler ( eds . ) , _ clusters of galaxies : probes of cosmological structure and galaxy evolution _ ,",
    "carnegie observatories astrophysics series vol . 3 , p. in press , carnegie observatories , pasadena"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we introduce our project on galaxy evolution in the environment of rich clusters aiming at disentangling the importance of specific interaction and galaxy transformation processes from the hierarchical evolution of galaxies in the field . </S>",
    "<S> emphasis is laid on the examination of the internal kinematics of disk galaxies through spatially resolved mos spectroscopy with fors at the vlt . </S>",
    "<S> first results are presented for the clusters ms1008.11224 ( @xmath0 ) , cl0303@xmath11706 ( @xmath2 ) , and cl04136559 ( f1557.19tc ) ( @xmath3 ) . out of 30 cluster members with emission - lines , 13 galaxies exhibit a rotation curve of the universal form rising in the inner region and passing over into a flat part . </S>",
    "<S> the other members have either intrinsically peculiar kinematics ( 4 ) , or too strong geometric distortions ( 9 ) or too low @xmath4 ( 4 galaxies ) for a reliable classification of their velocity profiles . </S>",
    "<S> the 13 cluster galaxies for which a maximum rotation velocity could be derived are distributed in the tully  fisher diagram very similar to field galaxies from the fors deep field that have corresponding redshifts and do not show any significant luminosity evolution with respect to local samples . </S>",
    "<S> the same is true for seven galaxies observed in the cluster fields that turned out not to be members . </S>",
    "<S> the mass  to  light ratios of the 13 tf cluster spirals cover the same range as the distant field population indicating that their stellar populations were not dramatically changed by possible clusterspecific interaction phenomena . </S>",
    "<S> the cluster members with distorted kinematics may be subject to interaction processes but it is impossible to determine whether these processes also lead to changes in the overall luminosity of their stellar populations . </S>"
  ]
}