{
  "article_text": [
    "the presence of magnetic stellar winds has long been known to decelerate the rotation of low - mass stars ( e.g. kraft 1967 ; skumanich 1972 ; sonderblom 1983 ) .",
    "the magnetized wind causes loss of spin angular momentum as a result of chromospheric coronal activity of cool @xmath0 stars with subphotospheric convection zones ( mestel 1984 ) . in tight synchronized binaries ,",
    "the loss of spin angular momentum occurs at the expense of the orbital angular momentum . as a result",
    "the orbital period decreases while the stellar components spin up and approach one another .",
    "based on skumanich s observations , verbunt & zwaan ( 1981 ) derived an expression for the effect of magnetic braking and applied it to lmxbs by extrapolating , the dependence of the magnetic braking on the orbital angular velocity , down to very short orbital periods ( @xmath1 hr  1 day ) .",
    "however , a fundamental law of angular momentum loss is unknown for rapidly rotating stars .",
    "rappaport , verbunt & joss  ( 1983 ) investigated a weaker dependency on the stellar radius .",
    "meanwhile , it now seems that the necessary stellar activity perhaps saturates for rotation periods shorter than 23 days ( rucinski 1983 ; vilhu & walter 1987 ; stepien 1991 ) which leads to a much flatter dependence of the angular momentum loss rate on the angular velocity than is given by the skumanich - law ( @xmath2 vs. @xmath3 ) .",
    "based partly on observational work , stepien  ( 1995 ) derived a new magnetic braking law which smoothly matches the skumanich - law dependence for wide systems to the dependence obtained by rucinski  ( 1983 ) for the short orbital period ( @xmath4 days ) systems .    given the new and possibly less dominant role of a magnetic stellar wind , it is important to investigate the dependence of orbital decay on the internal structural changes of a star in a close binary system .",
    "the expansion of a ( sub)giant star will also cause it to rotate slower and hence , for a synchronous system , additional transfer of orbital angular momentum into spin angular momentum must take place . here",
    "we investigate the effect of orbital decay caused by nuclear expansion of a pre - rlo star and compare it to various magnetic braking laws .",
    "in figs .  12 we show the pre - rlo evolution of a binary consisting of a @xmath5 star and a @xmath6 neutron star with an initial orbital period of 3.0 days ( i.e. a typical progenitor system for an lmxb ) . in this case",
    "we have not included the effect of magnetic braking ( which will be included later ) in order to concentrate on the spin - orbit effect only caused by stellar expansion . nor have we included the direct loss of orbital angular momentum as a result of gravitational wave radiation and stellar wind mass loss  both which are insignificant in this case and omitted for the sake of clarity .",
    "the neutron star can be considered as a point mass which only interacts with its companion through gravitation . in each panel",
    "we have plotted a relevant parameter as a function of the model number in our evolutionary sequence .",
    "we refer to tauris & savonije  ( 1999 ) for further details on the stellar evolution code and the estimate of the tidal torque and dissipation of energy . the gray area on the right - hand side in each panel marks the onset of the epoch of roche - lobe overflow ( rlo ) .",
    "we have only included the first hundred models or so of the mass transfer phase . + in table  1 is written the values of most of the parameters for model numbers : 1 , 105 and 988  corresponding to zams , @xmath7 gyr ( complete termination of core h - burning ) and @xmath8 gyr ( onset of rlo ) , respectively .",
    ".stellar and orbital parameters for the lmxb in figs",
    ".  12 [ cols= \" < , > , > , > \" , ]     skumanich - law    stepien ( 1995 )    we shall now briefly describe the evolution of the system considered . while on the main - sequence ( the first 10 gyr ) the gyration radius is decreased by 40@xmath9% which causes the moment of inertia to decrease slightly since the radius of the star is almost constant . only toward the very end of core",
    "h - burning the radius expands enough to increase the moment of inertia . from here on , between model 105 and the onset of rlo at model 988 , the gyration radius is increased by a factor of 2.36 while the nuclear expansion of the star increases its radius by a factor of 2.84 .",
    "hence the moment of inertia ( @xmath10 ) is increased by a factor of 19.0 .",
    "this causes the spin angular momentum of the star ( @xmath11 ) to increase similarly .",
    "however , since the system is tidally locked the forced synchronization compensates for the increase in spin angular momentum by tapping orbital angular momentum and thus decreasing the orbital period ( energy ) and increasing the orbital angular velocity , @xmath12 ( equal to the stellar angular spin rate ) .",
    "therefore @xmath13 increases by a factor of 20.7 ( and not 19.0 ) since @xmath12 is increased slightly by 8.6@xmath9% .",
    "the increase in @xmath13 ( @xmath14 g @xmath15 s@xmath16 ) is exactly equal to the decrease in @xmath17 and hence the total angular momentum is conserved , as it should be .",
    "the orbital decay is seen in the decrease of the orbital period from 3.0 days to 2.759 days and the orbital separation is shortened by @xmath18 .",
    "the corresponding decrease in orbital energy ( increase in binding energy ) is @xmath19  erg .",
    "however , the increase in rotational energy ( @xmath20 ) of the star is only @xmath21  erg and hence we can conclude that roughly half of the liberated orbital energy is converted into rotational energy of the non - degenerate star and roughly half of the energy goes into heat ( tidal dissipation energy ) in its convective envelope .",
    "note , that the tidal dissipation energy rate reaches a value of @xmath22% of the total nuclear energy production rate in the h - shell of the star at the moment of rlo ( @xmath23 ) .",
    "this is shown in the plot in the bottom right panel of fig .  1 .      in fig .",
    "3 we have plotted the relative decrease in @xmath24 as a function of initial @xmath24 ( top panel ) and as a function of stellar mass ( bottom panel ) .",
    "the orbital period decay caused by nuclear expansion is seen to be strongest for systems with @xmath25 days ( for a @xmath5 star ) .",
    "this trend is expected , since for very close binaries ( @xmath26 day ) the star does nt expand much before filling its roche - lobe . and for very wide systems",
    "the decay also decreases since the tidal torques become weaker with distance .",
    "note , that for wide system ( @xmath27 days ) the direct stellar wind mass loss ( not included here ) would cause the systems to _ widen _ prior to rlo since the donor star will be quite evolved before filling its roche - lobe ( see fig .  6 in tauris & savonije 1999 ) .",
    "+ the orbital decay for binaries with @xmath28 days is seen to be largest ( @xmath29 13@xmath9% ) for stars with masses",
    "this is interesting since the effect of a magnetic stellar wind is somewhat weak for these relatively heavy stars which do nt have very dominant convective envelopes like the @xmath5 stars .",
    "hence , for stars in this mass interval the effect of orbital decay due to nuclear expansion is particularly important .",
    "we have demonstrated how the nuclear expansion of a binary star will cause the orbital period to decrease by @xmath31% prior to rlo . in this section we will now compare that result with the effect of magnetic braking .",
    "the skumanich - law expression can be written as ( verbunt & zwaan 1981 ) : @xmath32 stepien ( 1995 ) derived a magnetic braking law which contains the skumanich - law dependence ( @xmath33 ) for wide systems , and with the dependence obtained e.g. by rucinski  ( 1983 ) for short orbital systems ( @xmath34 ) .",
    "we slightly rewrite the expression by stepien ( 1995 ) and obtain ( in cgs units ) : @xmath35 the two equations above represent a strong and a weak magnetic braking torque , respectively .",
    "rappaport , verbunt & joss ( 1983 ) introduced a braking law depending explicitly on the radius of the star : @xmath36    in fig .",
    "4 we have shown the magnitude of the different braking laws for the parameters of the system plotted in figs .  1 - 2 ( i.e. for a given orbital period we have used the values of @xmath37 and @xmath38 calculated in our model to estimate the torques at that exact epoch of evolution ) .",
    "we assumed @xmath39 in the equation by rappaport , verbunt & joss  ( 1983 ) for an intermediate magnetic braking law .",
    "the label at the end of each plotted curve in the figure corresponds to the above eqs .",
    "13 : ( 1 ) skumanich - law , ( 2 ) stepiens law , ( 3 ) rvj .",
    "the curve with label  4 \" is the calculated braking torque caused by the nuclear expansion of the non - degenerate star .",
    "the lower panel is a zoom - in on the upper two curves .",
    "it can be seen that if the magnetic braking law is relatively weak at short orbital periods ( stepiens law ) then the braking torque due to nuclear expansion becomes more important than the magnetic stellar wind braking .",
    "it is therefore important to include this spin - orbit effect in all detailed calculations of close binaries with a low - mass star .",
    "whether or not the actual magnetic braking torque is weak or strong at short orbital periods is , in our opinion , not a settled question . despite the emerging evidence for a saturation of the magnetic braking torque at short orbital periods",
    ", we find that there are problems with the formation of short orbital period ( 0.55 days ) binary millisecond pulsars with low - mass ( @xmath40 ) helium white dwarf companions _",
    "if _ the magnetic braking torque is weak .",
    "the main outline of the controversy is the following ( see our publication to be submitted shortly ) : there is emerging evidence ( observationally and partly theoretically , see section 1 ) that the effects of a magnetic stellar wind saturates a short orbital periods . on the other hand , a weak magnetic braking law ( fx .",
    "stepien 1995 ) results in a timescale problem since the required formation time for a binary millisecond pulsar , with the above mentioned observed properties , becomes larger than the hubble - time ( @xmath29 13 gyr ) .",
    "the total formation time is the sum of the pre - rlo evolution time of the lmxb progenitor , plus the mass transfer time in the x - ray emitting lmxb phase .",
    "the problem can not just be solved by increasing the donor star mass , since the final mass of the white dwarf companion to the millisecond pulsar has to be @xmath41 or less .",
    "we have demonstrated that the nuclear expansion of a ( sub)giant star in a close binary will cause the orbital period to decrease by @xmath29 10@xmath9% prior to rlo .",
    "the magnitude of this effect is similar what is expected in the case of a weak magnetic braking law .",
    "hence , we recommend all detailed binary evolution calculations to include the effect of nuclear expansion . the strength of the actual magnetic braking is uncertain and we encourage further investigations .",
    "kraft , r. p. 1967 , 150 ,",
    "551 mestel , l. 1984 , in `` cool stars , stellar systems , and the sun '' , eds .",
    "baliunas , l. hartmann , springer - verlag , berlin , p.@xmath949 nieuwenhuijzen , h. , & de jager , c. 1990 , 231 , 134 rappaport , s. , verbunt , f. , & joss , p. c. 1983 , 275 , 713 rucinski , s. m. 1983 , observatory , 103 , 280 skumanich , a. 1972 , 171 , 565 sonderblom , d. r. 1983 , 53 , 1 stepien , k. 1991 , acta astron .",
    ", 41 , 1 stepien , k. 1995 , mnras , 274 , 1019 tauris , t. m. , & savonije , g. j. 1999 , 350 , 928 verbunt , f. , & zwaan , c. 1981 , 100 , l7 vilhu , 0 . , & walter , f. m. 1987 , 321 , 958"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the effect of orbital decay caused by nuclear expansion of a ( sub)giant star in synchronous binary system . </S>",
    "<S> we compare this effect with the presence of a magnetic stellar wind and show that the additional transfer of orbital angular momentum into spin angular momentum is relatively important  especially since it has been shown that the effect of magnetic braking saturates at short orbital periods . </S>"
  ]
}