{
  "article_text": [
    "lynden - bell ( 1969 ) suggested that active galaxies are fuelled by accretion of matter onto supermassive black holes and that massive dark compact objects could therefore be present in the nuclei of many quiescent galaxies as remnants of qsos .",
    "now there is solid observational evidence for the presence of supermassive black holes in our own and in many nearby galaxies .",
    "a correlation between the mass of a supermassive black hole and the luminosity of the bulge of the host galaxy was already apparent in the first small sample of detections .",
    "the larger samples meanwhile available have backed up the existence of such a correlation ( kormendy 1993 ; kormendy & richstone 1995 ; magorrian et al .",
    "1998 ; ford et al . 1998",
    "; van der marel 1998 ; ho 1998 ; mc leod 1998 ) .",
    "the growth history of these supermassive black holes is , however , rather uncertain .",
    "it is widely believed that they built up during the qso epoch , around @xmath0 . as pointed out by phinney ( 1997 ) and discussed in more detail by haehnelt , natarajan & rees ( 1998 , hnr98 ) ,",
    "the total integrated mass density in remnant black holes substantially exceeds the integrated mass density accreted onto supermassive black holes by optically bright qsos unless either the efficiency for producing radiation is rather small or the masses of black holes in nearby galaxies are overestimated ( see also richstone et al .",
    "1998 for a review ) .",
    "this leaves some room for accretion other than that inferred from optically bright qsos ( see also fabian & iwasawa 1999 and salucci et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "a striking feature of the activity of optically bright qsos is the fast evolution of their space density .",
    "a rapid rise between @xmath1 and @xmath2 is followed by a strong decline after @xmath3 ( e.g. shaver et al .",
    "this rapid rise can be plausibly explained by the evolution of the dark matter ( dm ) distribution in hierarchical cosmogonies ( haehnelt & rees 1993 , hr93 ) : deeper potential wells form at later times and the first potential wells which are deep enough to retain their gas in spite of the input of energy and momentum due to star formation offer the best conditions for efficient formation of supermassive black holes . as discussed by hr93 and cavaliere , perri & vittorini ( 1997 ) , the decline in the activity of galactic nuclei",
    "is probably due to a transition from a high - redshift phase , in which supermassive black holes form in initially gas rich nuclei , to a low - redshift phase , where qsos are refuelled by mergers of increasingly gas - poor galaxies .",
    "the late merging of gas - poor galaxies containing supermassive black holes will obviously affect the mass distribution of remnant black holes .",
    "for instance , it will introduce scatter in any relation between properties of galaxies and masses of remnant black holes .",
    "here we use monte carlo realizations of the merging histories of dm haloes , together with a simple scheme for galaxy formation , to model the merging of galaxies in a hierarchical cosmogony .",
    "we investigate different schemes for the accretion of matter onto supermassive black holes and we study the effect on the mass distribution of remnant black holes in low - redshift galaxies .",
    "the structure of the paper is as follows . in section 2",
    "we describe the monte carlo simulations . in section 3",
    "we compare the resulting relations between masses of black holes and luminosities of bulges to that observed in nearby galaxies .",
    "section 4 contains our conclusions .",
    "we assume a flat cosmology with @xmath4 , @xmath5 and a hubble constant of @xmath6 .",
    "the standard paradigm for the formation of structure in the universe is the gravitational instability of density fluctuations in a primordial gaussian random field . in this picture , the number density of collapsed dm haloes is accurately described by the press - schechter formula @xmath7 ( press & schechter 1974 ) . here",
    "@xmath8 is the cosmological density at redshift @xmath9 , @xmath10 is the variance of the linearly extrapolated density field on the scale @xmath11 , @xmath12 is defined as @xmath13 , where @xmath14 is the over - density threshold at which density fluctuations collapse , and @xmath15 is the linear growth factor of density fluctuations .",
    "the variance of the density field is related to the power spectrum of the density fluctuations . here",
    "we assume a standard cold dark matter power spectrum as given by bond & efstathiou ( 1984 ) , with a normalisation that reproduces the present - day space density of clusters of galaxies ( eke , cole & frenk 1996 ) .",
    "the dependence of the linear growth factor on redshift is given by heath ( 1977 ) .",
    "techniques for generating monte carlo realizations of the merging histories of dm haloes based on extensions of the press - schechter formula have been described for instance by cole & kaiser ( 1988 ) , cole ( 1991 ) , lacey & cole ( 1993 ) , kauffmann & white ( 1993 ) and somerville & kolatt ( 1997 ) .",
    "the basic equation is the conditional probability that a halo of mass @xmath11 at redshift @xmath9 has a progenitor of mass @xmath16 at redshift @xmath17 , @xmath18^ { 3\\over 2}}\\ ; \\exp{\\biggl   \\ { -{[(\\omega(z+\\delta z)-\\omega(z)]^2\\over 2[\\sigma_0 ^ 2(m-\\delta m)-\\sigma_0 ^ 2(m ) ] } \\biggr \\ } } \\\\\\nonumber\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] ( lacey & cole 1993 ) .",
    "we follow the description of somerville & kolatt ( 1997 ) to construct monte carlo realizations of the merging histories of dm haloes from equation ( 2 ) .",
    "the probability distribution ( 2 ) is used to assign a mass @xmath11 to a progenitor at redshift @xmath19 of a dm halo of mass @xmath20 at @xmath21 .",
    "the procedure is iterated and further progenitors are drawn from the distribution ( 2 ) , but the merging history is followed only for haloes with circular velocities @xmath22 above a certain threshold @xmath23 . haloes with @xmath24 are treated as accreted mass .",
    "progenitors with a mass larger than the not yet allocated mass are discarded .",
    "we construct progenitors of progenitors until all haloes have @xmath24 .",
    "the procedure is repeated for a representative sample of haloes at @xmath21 .",
    "we adopt a step of @xmath25 and a resolution of @xmath26 .",
    "the modelling of galaxies within hierarchal cosmogonies has reached a considerable level of complexity .",
    "here we concentrate on the effects of mergers on the growth of supermassive black holes and on the distribution of remnant black holes .",
    "therefore we adopt a rather simple scheme for galaxy formation similar to that proposed by white and rees ( 1978 ) , which should nevertheless catch the essential features of the hierarchical merging of galaxies ( white 1996 ) .",
    "important conditions for the formation of a galaxy in a collapsed dm halo are the ability of the gas to cool and the ability of the halo to retain its gas in spite of the input of energy and momentum due to star formation and supernova explosions .",
    "the ability of the gas to cool depends on the temperature and the density of the gas . for cooling by bremsstrahlung",
    "these dependencies conspire to give an upper limit for the mass of the gas which is able to cool efficiently ( silk 1977 ; rees & ostriker 1977 ) .",
    "feedback from star formation is more important in haloes with shallower potential wells and therefore smaller circular velocities ( see e.g. kauffmann , white & guiderdoni 1993 , kwg93 ) . here",
    "we do not treat the cooling and feedback explicitly .",
    "instead , we introduce an effective efficiency for star formation , which depends on the halo circular velocity in such a way that the mass of the galaxy associated with a dm halo of mass @xmath27 at redshift @xmath9 scales as @xmath28}\\ ] ] independently of redshift ; @xmath29 and @xmath30 are chosen in such a way that the luminosity function of our simulated galaxies reproduces the observed luminosity function of galaxies at redshift zero ( fig.1 ) . the cut - off in virial velocities",
    "mimics the inability of the gas to cool and form stars in the very deep potential wells which form at late times .",
    "when dm haloes merge , it will take some time before the corresponding galaxies sink to the centre of the merged halo due to dynamical friction . to model",
    "this , we follow kwg93 and assume that initially a single galaxy forms at the centre of each halo .",
    "when haloes merge , the central galaxy of the largest progenitor halo becomes the central galaxy of the new halo .",
    "the `` satellite '' galaxies are assumed to merge with the central galaxy on the dynamical friction time - scale @xmath31 ( binney & tremaine 1987 ) .",
    "here @xmath11 , @xmath32 , @xmath33 are the mass , the virial radius and the circular velocity of the new halo and @xmath34 is the total mass of the satellite including its dm halo . the stellar mass of the merged galaxy is assumed to be the maximum of the sum of the stellar masses of the merging galaxies and the mass given by equation ( 3 ) . if the latter is larger , we interpret the difference @xmath35 as the amount of gas that has formed stars in the disks of the galaxies since the last merger .",
    "we follow kwg93 again and introduce a critical mass ratio @xmath36 above which a merger produces an elliptical galaxy . for mass ratios below the threshold the smaller galaxy",
    "is assumed to be tidally disrupted and its mass is added to the disk of the larger one .",
    "the value of @xmath36 is determined by requiring the monte carlo simulations to reproduce the observed bulge luminosity function , once the other free parameters have been fixed",
    ". a mass - to - light ratio of @xmath37 is used ( salucci et al . 1999 ) .",
    "figure 1 compares the resulting luminosity functions to those observed .      in a hierarchical",
    "cosmogony supermassive black holes grow by merging and by accretion of gas . here",
    "we assume that a major galactic merger leads to an immediate coalescence of the supermassive black holes contained in the merging galaxies .",
    "this should be a reasonable assumption for violent mergers , though in a smooth stellar background it may take longer for the holes to coalesce ( begelman , blandford & rees 1980 ) .",
    "some fraction of the gas which is able to cool in dm haloes is assumed to be accreted onto the merged supermassive black hole .",
    "the fraction of cool gas ending up in the hole should have a complicated dependence on halo and galactic properties ( redshift , past accretion history , past star formation history , past merging history , angular momentum ) .",
    "we shall not attempt to model these processes here in detail .",
    "we shall rather investigate three very simple models for the efficiency of accretion .",
    "* during a major merger a fixed fraction of the gas that has formed stars since the last merger in the disks of the colliding galaxies is accreted onto the supermassive black hole formed by the coalescence of the supermassive black holes in the merging galaxies ( @xmath38 , @xmath39 ) .",
    "* as in model ( i ) but with an accretion efficiency dependent on redshift to approximate the redshift evolution of the accretion onto black holes inferred from the counts of optically bright qsos ( @xmath40 , @xmath41 ) .",
    "* during a major merger a fraction of the total baryonic mass of the merged dm halo is accreted onto the supermassive black hole with an accretion efficiency dependent on redshift as in model ( ii ) and with the same cut - off for high circular velocity as in equation ( 3 ) to mimic the inability of the gas to cool in deep potential wells which form at late times ( @xmath42}$ ] , @xmath43 ) .",
    "figure 2 shows the fraction of the total mass accreted before redshift @xmath9 in the monte carlo simulations and the observed fraction inferred from the blue light emitted by optically bright qsos ( soltan 1982 ; choski & turner 1992 ) .",
    "models ( ii ) and ( iii ) approximate the observed redshift evolution by construction , whereas in model ( i ) most of the mass is accreted at lower redshifts than those indicated by the epoch of optically bright qsos . model ( iii )",
    "is similar to that recently proposed by haiman & loeb ( 1998 ) .",
    "the normalisation @xmath44 is determined by requiring the monte carlo simulations to reproduce the comoving mass density of supermassive black holes at the present time . as discussed in the introduction and by hnr98 , this value is still uncertain , and here we have used a value of @xmath45 .",
    "this value is about six times larger than that estimated by choski & turner ( 1992 ) using optical counts of unobscured qsos .",
    "figure 3a shows the observed black hole masses and bulge luminosities for a sample of 39 galaxies as compiled by ho ( 1998 ) and magorrian ( 1998 ) , together with a linear least square fit and the @xmath46 deviation .",
    "figures 3b , 3c and 3d show the results of the monte carlo simulations .",
    "models ( i ) and ( ii ) both reproduce the observed roughly linear relation between black hole mass and bulge luminosity .",
    "this is mainly due to our assumption that the accreted mass is proportional to the mass that has formed stars , which is strictly true in model ( i ) and is still a good approximation for model ( ii ) . in model ( i )",
    "the relation is very tight , tighter than observed . in model ( ii ) , instead , the different redshift evolution of the mass forming stars and of the mass accreted onto supermassive black holes acts as a substantial source of scatter , which is now comparable to that in the observed relation . model ( iii ) produces a shallower relation of black hole mass to bulge luminosity ; the predicted remnant black hole masses in large bulges are here considerably smaller than observed ; this is due to the non - linear relation between bulge mass and halo mass : as the assumed star formation efficiency depends on the depth of the potential well , the bulge mass rises faster than the halo mass with increasing bulge luminosity .",
    "the scatter in model ( iii ) is again comparable to the observed scatter and to that in model ( ii ) .",
    "we have checked the sensitivity of our results to some of our assumptions .",
    "the slope of the relation of black hole mass to bulge luminosity depends only weakly on the cosmology , on the details of the galaxy formation scheme and on the quasar epoch once the parameters have been fixed to reproduce the present - day bulge luminosity function and the integrated mass density in black holes .",
    "the scatter in this relation , however , grows when the difference between the redshift evolution of star formation and black hole accretion increases .",
    "we have used monte carlo realizations of the extended press - schechter formalism together with simple schemes for galaxy formation and mass accretion onto supermassive black holes to investigate how the merging and accretion history of supermassive black holes within a hierarchical cosmogony affects the mass distribution of remnant black holes in low - redshift galaxies .",
    "the observed roughly linear relation between black hole masses and bulge masses can be reproduced if the mass accreted during a major merger is a fixed fraction of the mass of the gas that has formed stars in the merging galaxies since the last major merger .",
    "this relation is preserved if this fraction is independent of mass but varies with redshift , but such a variation introduces significant scatter into the relation . the redshift variation necessary to match the evolution of the global mass accretion rate inferred from the integrated light emission of optically bright qsos ( assuming that their radiation efficiency does not depend on redshift ) results in a scatter that is comparable to that in the observed relation .",
    "the linear relation between bulge and black hole mass and the modest scatter in this relation at the bright end of the bulge luminosity function seem to suggest that for most of the integrated mass density in supermassive black holes a common mechanism determines the efficiency for mass accretion of supermassive black holes and the efficiency for star formation .",
    "the scatter in the observed relation must be at least partially due to observational errors and there seems not much room for additional sources of intrinsic scatter at the bright end of the luminosity function ( except in the somewhat artificial model ( i ) ) . at the faint end",
    "the scatter in the observed relation seems to increase .",
    "this might indicate that here other parameters , e.g. the spin of the dm halo , influence black hole and star formation in a different way .",
    "if the accreted mass scaled with the mass of the halo rather than with the stellar mass , the black hole mass would depend on the bulge mass less steeply than observed and black holes in luminous bulges would be less massive than the observations suggest .",
    "we thank guinevere kauffmann and simon white for comments on the manuscript .",
    "this work was supported by the ec tmr network for `` galaxy formation and evolution '' .",
    "andrea cattaneo acknowledges the support of an isaac newton studentship .",
    "99 begelman m.c . ,",
    "blandford r.d .",
    ", rees m.j . , 1980 , nat . , 287 , 307 binney j. , tremaine s. , 1987 , galactic dynamics , princeton university press , princeton bond j.r . , efstathiou g. , 1984 , apj , 285 , l45 cavaliere a. , perri m. , vittorini v. , 1997 , mem .",
    "ital . , 68 , 27 choski a. , turner e.l . , 1992 , mnras , 259 , 421 cole d. , kaiser n. , 1988 , mnras , 233 , 637 cole s. , 1991 , apj , 367 , 45 cole s. , aragon - salamanca a. , frenk c. , navarro j. , zepf f. , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 781 eke v.r . , cole s. , frenk c.s",
    ". , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 263 fabian a.c .",
    ", iwasawa k. , 1999 , mnras , submitted , pre - print astro - ph/9901121 ford h.c . , tsvetanov z.i . , ferrarese l. , jaffe w. , 1998 , in sofue y. , ed .",
    "184 , the central regions of the galaxy and galaxies .",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p. 377",
    "haiman z. , loeb a. , 1998 , apj , 503 , 505 haehnelt m. , rees m.j . , 1993 , mnras , 263 , 168 ( hr93 ) haehnelt m. , natarajan p. , rees m.j . , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 817 ( hnr98 ) heath d.j . , 1977 , mnras , 179 , 351 kauffmann g. , white s.d.m . , 1993 , mnras , 261 , 921 kauffmann g. , white s.d.m . , guiderdoni b. , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 201 kormendy j. , 1993 , in beckman j. , colina l. , netzer h. , eds .",
    ", the nearest active galaxies .",
    "consejo superior de investigaciones cientificas , madrid , p. 197 kormendy j. , richstone d. , 1995 , ara&a , 33 , 581 lacey c. , cole s. , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 lynden - bell d. , 1969 , nat .",
    ", 223 , 690 mac leod k.k . , 1996 , in eso - iac conference on quasar hosts .",
    "tenerife , in press magorrian j. , et al . , 1998 ,",
    "aj , 115 , 2285 marzke r.o . , nicolaci da costa l. , pellegrini p.s .",
    ", willmer c.n.a .",
    ", geller m.j . , 1998 , pre - print astro - ph/9805218 phinney e.s . , 1997 , in sanders d.b . , barnes j. , eds . , iau symp",
    "186 , galaxy interactions at low and high redshift .",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p. 94",
    "press w.h .",
    ", schechter p. , 1974",
    ", apj , 187 , 425 rees m.j .",
    ", ostriker j.p . , 1977 , mnras , 179 , 541 richstone d. , et al . , 1998 , nat . suppl . , 395 , 14 salucci p. , szuszkievicz e. , monaco , p. ,",
    "danese , l. , 1999 , mnras , submitted , pre - print astro - ph/9811102 shaver p.a . ,",
    "wall j.v . ,",
    "kellermann k.i . ,",
    "jackson c.a . ,",
    "hawkins m.r.s . , 1996 , nat . , 384 , 439 silk j. , 1977 , apj , 211 , 638 soltan a. , 1982 , mnras , 200 , 115 somerville r.s . ,",
    "kolatt t.s . ,",
    "1997 , pre - print astro - ph/9711080 white s.d.m . , 1996 , in schaeffer r. , silk j. , spiro m. , zinn - justin , j. , eds . , cosmology and large scale structure .",
    "elsevier , amsterdam , p. 349",
    "white s.d.m . , rees m.j",
    ". , 1978 , mnras , 183 , 341"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the growth of supermassive black holes by merging and accretion in hierarchical models of galaxy formation is studied by means of monte carlo simulations . </S>",
    "<S> a tight linear relation between masses of black holes and masses of bulges arises if the mass accreted by supermassive black holes scales linearly with the mass forming stars and if the redshift evolution of mass accretion tracks closely that of star formation . </S>",
    "<S> differences in redshift evolution between black hole accretion and star formation introduce a considerable scatter in this relation . a non - linear relation between black hole accretion and star formation results in a non - linear relation between masses of remnant black holes and masses of bulges . </S>",
    "<S> the relation of black hole mass to bulge luminosity observed in nearby galaxies and its scatter are reproduced reasonably well by models in which black hole accretion and star formation are linearly related but do not track each other in redshift . </S>",
    "<S> this suggests that a common mechanism determines the efficiency for black hole accretion and the efficiency for star formation , especially for bright bulges .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1*mh : # 1 *    galaxies : formation , nuclei  quasars : general  black hole physics </S>"
  ]
}