{
  "article_text": [
    "in order to increase our knowledge of extra - galactic stellar systems like elliptical galaxies , we observe the average galaxy brightness , which gives rise to the traditional broad - band colours and spectral - line indices .",
    "in addition , we observe the variance of the galaxy brightness , i.e. , the surface - brightness fluctuations ( tonry & schneider 1988 ) .",
    "of course , the ultimative goal is to obtain stellar luminosity functions and colour - magnitude diagrams , i.e. , accurate photometry of individual stars .    until recently ,",
    "colour - magnitude diagrams have been obtained solely from ground - based imaging of stars in our local neighbourhood , i.e. , field stars and stars in open- and globular clusters of our galaxy , in addition to approaches to local group dwarf spheroidals and the magellanic clouds ( _ low surface - brightness _ stellar systems ) from ground ( e.g.  freedmann 1992 ) and space ( e.g.  mighell & rich 1996 ) .",
    "then grillmair et  al .",
    "( 1996 ) presented an impressive colour - magnitude ( cm ) diagram of m32 , our closests elliptical and companion to the andromeda galaxy , based on hubble space telescope imaging ( archive data , i d 5233 ) . using the same data we have been able to reproduce the cm diagram of m32 which in itself",
    ", however , was not the main goal of our work .",
    "we have carried out an investigation of the reliability of the cm diagram , that is , an estimation of the photometric quality of the detected stars .",
    "the image crowding in dense fields like that of the _ high surface - brightness _ elliptical m32 may cause spurious detections and severely reduce the reliability of the photometry . in the present paper",
    "we discuss specific aspects of the photometric quality of extra - galactic stellar systems , aspects that supplement the discussion by grillmair et  al .    in our latest paper ( sodemann & thomsen 1996 ) we presented ground - based imaging of m32 obtained with the nordic optical telescope with a seeing of fwhm @xmath4 using @xmath5 pixels .",
    "we identified a systematic variation in the @xmath6 and @xmath7-band surface - brightness fluctuations ( sbf ) of @xmath8  mag in the radial range @xmath9 . in our search for the stars responsible for this variation we made a comparison of simulated stellar fields with the ground - based sbf observations . from this",
    "it became clear that it was not possible to supplement the measurements of the sbf with stellar photometry of the most luminous stars , due to excessive crowding .",
    "however , at least in some cases the superb resolution of the hubble space telescope s ( hst ) wide field planetary camera 2  the planetary camera ( pc ) with seeing of fwhm @xmath10 using @xmath11 pixels  makes it possible to resolve more than just the very brightest stars .",
    "grillmair et  al .",
    "( 1996 ) presented a cm diagram based on hst - imaging of a region @xmath0 from the centre of m32 . from the surface brightness @xmath12 of m32",
    "we can compare this off - centre field with a central field at @xmath1 from the centre .",
    "assuming that the same type of stars are responsible for the surface brightness at the two distances , the number of stars per area is @xmath13 times higher in the central field ( @xmath14 and @xmath15 ) .",
    "this merely indicates differing problems introduced by image crowding , problems that may turn up when dealing with cm diagrams of fields at various distances from the galaxy centre .",
    "we shall return to this later .    when discussing luminosity functions and cm diagrams we are interested in knowing to what magnitude limit we have actually been able to observe stars , a limit set mainly by a compromise between the image crowding and resolution , and the amount of exposure time .",
    "this magnitude limit is usually measured by addition and retrieval of a small number of faint artificial stars , that is , the test of ( in)completeness .",
    "however , whereas the traditional method of adding artificial stars estimates the detection probability it does not measure the photometric quality of the detected stars or the effects of spurious detections caused by severe image crowding .",
    "that is , the estimate of the limiting magnitude is based on information about the location ( the coordinates ) of the added / recovered star alone and not on the magnitude of the recovered star .",
    "for the data presented here , one important result of the image crowding is the following : an artificial star of known magnitude added to the programme frame may be recovered with a magnitude up to 1@xmath16 brighter than its original magnitude , but it turns out that it is not equally likely that this star will be recovered with a magnitude 1@xmath16 fainter than its original magnitude .",
    "( in sec .",
    "3 we show that the asymmetry in the distribution of recovered stars can not be explained as a result of plotting the data as a function of magnitude ) . thus , the typical measure @xmath17 , the standard deviation , of the accidental error at a given magnitude is not an adequate description for this asymmetric distribution of recovered stars and has to be supplemented with additional error estimates .",
    "drukier et  al .",
    "( 1988 ) raised the problem of ` bin jumping ' and pointed out a way to account for this when correcting a measured luminosity function for incompleteness .",
    "lepoy et  al .",
    "( 1993 ) also discuss the effects of severe image crowding , which may produce an artificial enhancement of the bright end of the measured luminosity function if not dealt with in an appropriate way ( see also renzini 1992 ) .",
    "we shall concentrate on the implications of crowding on stellar photometry of hst imaging of extra - galactic systems like the compact elliptical galaxy m32 .",
    "we begin with a description of the data and image handling ( sec .  2 ) .",
    "after that follows a discussion on the artificial - star experiments in connection with the off - centre field at @xmath0 from the centre of m32 ( sec .  3 ) and the dense central field at @xmath1 ( sec .",
    "we summarise the results in sec .  5 .",
    "the observational basis for this paper is hst imaging of an off - centre field at @xmath0 from the centre of m32 taken with the wfpc2 on october 22 , 1994 ( standard - calibration observations , archive data , i d 5233 ) .",
    "see grillmair et  al .",
    "1&2 for an outline of the m32 pc field on the sky .",
    "the 2@xmath184 500  sec frames in f555w ( v ) and f814w ( i ) , respectively , were co - added through the cosmic - ray removing software of groth & shaya ( 1992 ) resulting in two programme frames",
    ". an i - band programme frame of the field at @xmath1 was produced in a similar way from 3 exposures of 400  sec each ( archive data , i d 5464 ) .",
    "correction for vignetting was carried out according to holtzman et  al .",
    "( 1995a ) , and standard magnitudes and colour were derived using the calibrations in holtzman et  al .",
    "( 1995b ) .",
    "we have adopted @xmath19 for the galactic absorption ( burstein & heiles 1984 , cardelli et  al .",
    "1989 ) : the luminosity functions and cm diagrams have been corrected for this .",
    "the programme frames did not contain sufficiently bright , isolated stars to define a proper point - spread function ( psf ) . therefore , model psfs generated by the program tiny tim ( krist 1993 ) defined the artificial stars added during the completeness tests and the master psf of the psf - fitting software by stetson s ( 1987 ) daophot  ii package .",
    "the completeness tests were carried out by adding stars distributed according to the observed cm diagram .",
    "the 2@xmath1812 star signs in fig .",
    "[ cm ] for i and v , respectively , outline the range of magnitudes and colours .",
    "a total of 7110 artificial stars were added to each of the two programme frames .",
    "when carrying out an addition of stars , only very few ( in principle _ one _ , or several laid in a grid ) ought to be added at a time so as to avoid confusion between added stars and an increase of the image crowding . as an alternative",
    ", we split the addition of the artificial stars into two and those stars which happened to be added near another artificial star were removed .",
    "the stars were added using our hst - sim routines , which scale and add the required number of psfs ( the routines are implemented using interactive data language , idl ) .",
    "the routines take into account the geometric distortion inherent in the wfpc2 optical system , and shifting and rebinning of the subsampled psfs provide subpixel positioning . finally , poissonian photon noise and gaussian read noise are added .",
    "the photometry of objects in the programme frames was obtained through a procedure that included several passes of object identification and measurement of magnitudes , using daophot  ii .",
    "first we worked through the identification of objects in the i - frame . in order to identify as many objects as possible and to ease the identification of faint objects we carried out @xmath20 iterations , successively reaching fainter magnitudes .",
    "for every two iterations we concatenated the lists of hitherto revealed stars , subtracted those from the original frame , and continued from there .",
    "the iterations ended when we reached a threshold of 4 standard deviations of the background level , as calculated by daophot - at that point only a few hundred stars were identified and successfully subtracted by allstar and an additional iteration did not provide more objects .",
    "the final allstar list of all stars in i was then applied for star - subtraction in the v frame . after having calculated flux - averaged positions based on the i and v list of objects we again ran allstar on both frames , now with fixed coordinates . in this way",
    "a total of 19461 stars were found to match in v and i. the photometry of the star - added frames was carried out in a way identical to that of the programme frames .",
    "note , grillmair et  al .  applied stetsons s ( 1994 ) photometry package allframe .",
    "they found that the global characteristics of the cm diagram produced using daophot  ii / allstar were essentially identical to those found using allframe .",
    "we have made no attempts to correct for the m31 background stars as none of the conclusions of this paper depend on knowing this accurately . according to grillmair et  al .",
    "about 18% of the @xmath21 stars identified in the programme frames originate in m31 .",
    "the luminosity functions and cm diagrams of the off - centre field of m32 are seen in fig . [ lumfu ] and [ cm ] . with the artificial - star experiments as our basis",
    "we will now discuss the uncertainty associated with the identified stars .    in fig .",
    "[ quarti ] and [ quartv ] the magnitude of each group of added stars is indicated by a vertical line .",
    "the magnitudes of the recovered stars are binned into histograms of @xmath22 bins , one histogram for each magnitude group of added stars .",
    "each of the histograms has been normalised so that they all cover the same number of stars ( implying that the number - axis is arbitrary ) .",
    "this illustrates that the brightest stars are easily identified , whereas fainter stars are ` spread out ' from their original magnitude ( the vertical line ) to surrounding magnitudes .",
    "firstly , note that for the faintest bins the probability of a star being found in a bin other than the one to which it was added is nonvanishing .",
    "if we want to correct the luminosity function for incompleteness , this ` bin jumping ' has to be taken into account ( drukier et  al .",
    "secondly , the ` bin jumping ' is clearly asymmetric with an extended tail of bright measurements .",
    "as the measurement errors are clearly not gaussian we shall replace the usual , but now inadequate , standard deviation @xmath17 by the mean absolute deviation ( mad ) .",
    "( the mad is related to the median as the standard deviation is related to the mean , but the mad does not require that the distribution of the errors is gaussian and it is a more robust estimator than is the mean , press et  al .",
    "in addition , we supplement with the lower and upper quartile , and several percentiles , of the magnitude of the recovered star @xmath23 . these numbers are indicated in fig .",
    "[ quarti ] and [ quartv ] and illustrate that the faintest stars in the cm diagram are very likely identified too bright by several tens of a magnitude as compared to their true , unaffected magnitude .",
    "note , the straight lines represented by diamond symbols in fig .",
    "[ quarti ] , [ quartv ] , and [ fig9 ] indicate the magnitude of the added stars @xmath24 and the expected magnitude of the recovered stars _ if they are not affected _ by ` binjumping ' , i.e. , @xmath25 . in order to claim that we are able to carry out reliable photometry",
    ", @xmath24 must be a unique function of @xmath23 , and we must be certain that we are measuring the added star and not a statistical lump of unresolved stars .",
    "the distribution of the colour of recovered stars is , however , fairly symmetric and much less wide than that of the two passbands individually ( fig .",
    "[ dvi ] ) .",
    "that is , the added stars which undergo ` bin jumping ' tend to keep their original colour , mainly because they are most likely identified on top of a star with a colour similar to their own ",
    "the majority of stars in the cm diagram are found along the giant branch with @xmath26 .",
    "we may therefore expect that the colours of the stars in the cm diagram are correct .",
    "[ sym ] illustrates that the asymmetric distribution in the histogram of recovered stars is not a result of plotting the number of stars as a function of magnitude .",
    "we generated a gaussian distribution of fluxes according to @xmath27 , where @xmath28 , @xmath29 , and @xmath30 .",
    "the corresponding magnitudes @xmath31 were binned into @xmath22 bins .",
    "the increase in the number of stars fainter than @xmath32 ( @xmath33 ) exceeds a small increase just below @xmath34 and is clearly opposite the asymmetry seen in fig .",
    "[ quarti ] and [ quartv ] .",
    "note that secker & harris ( 1993 ) adopt a gaussian function to represent the measurement error as a function of magnitude .",
    "the limiting magnitudes at half probability are @xmath35 and @xmath36 for the m32 off - centre field .",
    "the limiting magnitudes are based on _ all _ the stars plotted in fig .",
    "[ quarti ] and [ quartv ] , respectively , i.e. , regardless of the associated error estimate .",
    "note , the standard deviation @xmath17 , as calculated by allstar , amounts to only @xmath37 and @xmath38 at the limiting magnitudes for i and v , respectively , whereas the mad is higher by a factor of 3.8 and 2.8 as compared to the standard deviation ( for a gaussian distribution @xmath39 ) .",
    "this merely indicates that in the present investigation the standard deviation , as given by allstar , may be considered too optimistic .",
    "based on the investigation of the off - centre field it is possible to predict the number of identified stars in a central field at about @xmath1 , where the density is @xmath13 times higher than in the off - centre field ( sec .  1 ) .",
    "the i - band luminosity function of the off - centre field starts to turn over at a number density of @xmath40 per @xmath22 in the pc frame ( fig .",
    "[ cm ] ) . in a field with density 40 times higher than this",
    ", the turn - over would correspond to a magnitude of @xmath41 , or at the very brightest end of the luminosity function where the number density drops to zero .",
    "an interesting question is whether it is possible to find stars of @xmath42 in the central region of m32 .",
    "( this magnitude corresponds to @xmath43 , the expected tip of the red - giant branch for metal - poor stars , e.g.  lee et  al .",
    "1993 , and could provide an estimate of the distance to the galaxy ) . to address this question",
    "we have investigated a central field in m32 ( archive data , i d 5464 ) , the analysis being virtually identical to that of the off - centre field .",
    "( the addition of artificial stars was split up so that no more than one magnitude group at a time , corresponding to @xmath44 stars , was added to the programme frame ) .",
    "the luminosity function of the central field is seen in fig .",
    "[ histo_i ] .",
    "apparently we do see stars of magnitude @xmath42 ( fig .",
    "[ histo_i ] ) . however , when we discuss the central field , we also have to consider the confusion that spurious detections due to sbf may cause , i.e. , the confusion between single objects and detection of statistical lumps in the background of unresolved stars ( they both have the shape of the psf ) . this problem is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ diagr ] where we see that bright objects around , e.g. , @xmath42 are indeed detected and located in the recovery tests with artificial stars of magnitude @xmath45 and fainter .",
    "the completeness tests show that _ if _ stars of magnitude @xmath42 are present in the centre of m32 , then we will be able to identify them ( the data in fig .",
    "[ diagr ] imply a limiting magnitude at half probability of @xmath46 for the central field of m32 ) .",
    "what we do not know is how large a fraction of the supposedly identified bright stars in fig .",
    "[ histo_i ] are merely compounds of fainter , unresolved stars .",
    "the limiting magnitude itself gives us no information about that .    as will be evident from the following",
    ", we can only expect very few of the brightest stars of the observed luminosity function to be single objects .",
    "[ fig9 ] illustrates that it is not possible to distinguish between the distributions of stars added at @xmath47 and fainter .",
    "that is , when we identify a star with magnitude @xmath47 or fainter , then we can by no means tell the true magnitude of that star .",
    "the completeness tests imply a limiting magnitude of @xmath48 as mentioned above , but this limit only indicates the detection probability .",
    "we are inclined to disregard the stars in fig .",
    "[ histo_i ] that are fainter than @xmath47 ( i.e. , even stars brighter than @xmath49 ) , since we have no reason to believe that they are single point sources .",
    "this is further emphasised by a simple simulation of the stellar field at @xmath1 : as the stellar content we adopt only one type of stars , namely stars of magnitude @xmath50 ( sodemann & thomsen 1996 ) .",
    "our hst - sim routines add the required number of such ` fluctuation stars ' ( psfs ) of magnitude @xmath51 to reach the average surface brightness of @xmath15 as observed for the central frame , and photometry is carried out by daophot  ii .",
    "the luminosity function of this simulated stellar field is seen in fig .",
    "[ histo_sim ] and should be compared with the luminosity function of the observed central field ( fig .",
    "[ histo_i ] ) .",
    "the similarities are striking and tell us that the objects in fig .",
    "[ histo_i ] may all , except for a very few of the brightest , be described as mere fluctuations and not as single point sources .",
    "based on fig .",
    "[ histo_sim ] we may explain the observed ` skewness ' in fig .  [ fig9 ] as follows",
    ". those of the faint added stars which were located on top of a bright fluctuation have inevitably been measured too bright and therefore end up in the left part of the ` magnitude bands ' of recovered stars ( a magnitude band being defined by the 93.75 and 6.25 percentiles ) , whereas the stars in the right part of the ` magnitude bands ' were located on top of a less bright fluctuation .",
    "we do not correct the observed luminosity functions for incompleteness and binjumping for the following reasons .",
    "concentrating on the @xmath6-band , for the field at @xmath0 the histograms of recovered stars are distinguishable for magnitudes that correspond to the giant branch and down to @xmath52 where incompleteness starts to set in ( fig .",
    "[ lumfu ] and [ quarti ] ) . in this paper",
    "we do not require the incompleteness - corrected luminosity function , and correction for binjumping would only affect the magnitudes around the limiting magnitude . for the field at @xmath1 ,",
    "the luminosity function is comparable to any of the distributions of added test stars fainter than @xmath47 , and an attempt to deconvolve the effects of ` binjumping ' would thus be an ill - posed problem .",
    "in this paper we have discussed the effects that severe image crowding has on stellar photometry .",
    "the investigation covered two fields of the high - surface brightness elliptical galaxy m32 observed with the hst s pc ( archive data , i d 5233 and 5464 ) .",
    "we have carried out a large number of artificial - star experiments , that is , addition and retrieval of artificial stars .",
    "our experiments clearly show the presence of ` binjumping ' : the faint stars added to the programme frames are recovered too bright ; the fainter the star and the denser the field , the bigger is the effect of ` binjumping ' .",
    "the traditional indicator of ( in)completeness of the photometry , @xmath53 , merely provides a detection probability but not the quality of the photometry .    for the less dense field at @xmath0 from the centre of m32 , the effects of image crowding show up around the limiting magnitude @xmath49 ( @xmath54 ) .",
    "stars fainter than that are found too bright by several tens of a magnitude as compared to their true magnitude , whereas their colour is mainly unaffected .",
    "for the far more dense field at @xmath1 from the centre , ` binjumping ' affects stars that are even brighter than @xmath49 ( @xmath55 ) . as our fig .",
    "[ fig9 ] demonstrates , only the very brightest stars with @xmath56 may be considered to represent single objects .",
    "thus , we do measure single stars of , e.g. , @xmath42 ( corresponding to @xmath43 , the expected tip of the red - giant branch for metal - poor stars ) in the off - centre field at @xmath0 , but based on the present data it is not possible to claim that for the central field at @xmath1 , where the density is 40 times higher .",
    "finally , we would like to emphasize that the data analysis , which has been introduced and described in the present paper in relation to hst imaging , should be carried out for essentially all imaging of severely crowded fields .",
    "1995 burstein d. , heiles c. , 1984 , apjs 54 , 33 cardelli j.a . ,",
    "clayton g.c .",
    ", mathis j.s . , 1989 ,",
    "apj 345 , 245 drukier g.a . ,",
    "fahlman g.g . ,",
    "richer h.b . , 1988",
    ", aj 95 , 1415 freedman w.l",
    ". , 1992 , in the stellar population of galaxies , barbuy b. , renzini a.  ( eds . ) proc .",
    "iau symp .",
    "149 , dordrecht : kluwer , 169 grillmair c.j . ,",
    "lauer t.r . , worthey g. , et  al . , 1996 , aj 112 , 1975 groth e. , shaya e. , 1992 , in final orbital / science verification report , faber s.m .",
    ", westphal j.a .",
    "stsci , baltimore , chap .",
    "14 holtzman j.a .",
    ", hester j.j . , casertano s. , et  al . , 1995a , pasp 107 , 156 holtzman j.a .",
    ", burrows c.j . , casertano s. , et  al .",
    ", 1995b , pasp 107 , 1065 krist j. , hasan h. , 1993 , in astronomical data analysis software and systems ii , asp conference series 52 , hanisch r.j . , brissenden r.j.v . ,",
    "barnes j.  ( eds . ) , 530 lee m.g . , freedman w.l .",
    ", madore b.f . , 1993 ,",
    "apj 417 , 553 lepoy d.l . ,",
    "terndrup d.m .",
    ", frogel j.a . , et  al . , 1993 , aj 105 , 2121 mighell j.m . , rich r.m . , 1996 , aj 111 , 777 press w.h . , flannery b.p",
    "teukolsky s.a . , vetterling w.t . , 1992 , in numerical recipes in c. ",
    "( cambridge university press ) , 611 renzini a. , 1992 , in galactic bulges , dejonghe h. , habing h.  ( eds . ) proc .",
    "iau symp .",
    "153 , dordrect : kluwer , 151 secker j. , harris w.e . , 1993 , aj 105 , 1358 sodemann m. , thomsen b. , 1996 , aj 111 , 208 stetson p.b . , 1987 ,",
    "pasp 99 , 191 stetson p.b . , 1994 ,",
    "pasp 106 , 250 tonry j.l .",
    ", schneider d.p . , 1988 , aj 96 , 807"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a thorough investigation of stellar photometry based on hst imaging of crowded fields at @xmath0 and @xmath1 from the centre of the high - surface brightness elliptical galaxy m32 . </S>",
    "<S> the principal investigators of the present archive data have elsewhere presented an impressive colour - magnitude diagram of the field at @xmath0 . based on the same data we enlarge on their photometric analysis and supplement with error estimators that more clearly show the implications of severe image crowding on the stellar photometry . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the faintest stars ( @xmath2 , @xmath3 ) are found too bright by several tens of a magnitude . for the field at @xmath1 </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that it is not possible to obtain reliable stellar photometry , standard deviations being larger than 0.4  mag . </S>",
    "<S> artificial - star experiments show that only very few of the brightest stars of the luminosity function can be expected to represent single objects , the majority being either spurious or not as bright as measured . </S>",
    "<S> the paper as such introduces and demonstrates basic guide lines which may be used when dealing with stellar photometry of severely crowded fields . </S>"
  ]
}