{
  "article_text": [
    "solar - type flares are common on cool stars with outer convective envelopes . extensive observations of flares on magnetically active m dwarfs ( dme ) in the solar neighborhood have revealed many similarities including the presence of enhanced and broadened balmer emission , increases in optical white light and radio emission , and similar time scales for the impulsive and gradual phases .",
    "a detailed comparison of solar and stellar flares is presented in .",
    "the generally accepted model of solar flares assumes that reconnecting magnetic fields cause the acceleration of electrons ( and possibly protons ) .",
    "the accelerated electrons travel down magnetic field lines , impacting in the lower atmosphere , producing hard x - ray bremsstrahlung and causing increased optical continuum and line emission .",
    "as the electrons heat the lower atmosphere , it expands and `` evaporates '' into the transition region and corona , thereby increasing the thermal soft x - ray flux .",
    "the neupert effect describes the relationship between hard and soft x - rays on the sun @xcite , and stellar observations of the neupert effect provide evidence that stellar and solar flare processes show similar effects .    even though solar and stellar flares are likely to be produced by the same basic mechanisms , the different physical conditions on m dwarfs compared to the sun give rise to a number of observational differences .",
    "flares on dme stars occur more frequently and are often much more energetic than solar flares .",
    "this is likely the result of the stronger magnetic fields on dme stars @xcite which produce more magnetic activity than on the sun . for stellar flares , increases in the optical continuum",
    "are very common ; this is often taken as the defining observational signature of a flaring star . however , detectable elevations in the optical continuum are rare in solar flares , since the sun has much brighter background continuum emission , and therefore only the largest flares produce enough white light contrast to be seen .    on the sun ,",
    "impulsive hard x - rays are spatially and temporally correlated with increased white light emission @xcite . by extension ,",
    "the rapid rise in near ultraviolet and blue emission seen in stellar flares is thought to correspond with the solar impulsive phase .",
    "therefore , stellar optical flares are likely to be the analog to solar white light flares .",
    "we recently developed models of impulsive solar white light flares ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter a05 ) , and in this paper",
    "we apply those techniques to model impulsive m dwarf flares .",
    "previous and recent m dwarf flare observations ( hereafter , we refer to @xcite as h03 ) are used to provide observational constraints on the models .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section 2 ,",
    "we briefly outline the method by which the radiative hydrodynamic equations are solved .",
    "we also describe the procedure used to generate the initial atmosphere and the methods for incorporating soft x - ray and electron beam heating into the simulations . in section 3",
    ", we discuss the dynamics of our simulations and present detailed line and continuum profiles . in section 4 , we compare the m dwarf models to the solar models of a05 , while in section 5 we compare predictions of our models to stellar flare observations .",
    "in section 6 we present our conclusions .",
    "the method we have used is described in detail in a05 and @xcite , and we refer the reader to those papers for a more detailed discussion .",
    "the equations of hydrodynamics , statistical equilibrium and radiative transfer are solved on a one - dimensional adaptive grid using the radyn code @xcite .",
    "the preflare atmosphere was generated in a manner similar to ah99 .",
    "we assume that the plasma moves along field lines in a flux tube which we approximate as a one - dimensional cylinder .",
    "our model flux tube extends from the photosphere to the corona and has a length of @xmath2 cm .",
    "the preflare atmosphere of @xcite was used as the initial starting state for the atmospheric structure .",
    "constant non - radiative quiescent heating was applied to grid zones with photospheric column mass ( i.e. column mass greater than 3.16  g  @xmath3 ) to balance the energy losses in the photosphere .",
    "the upper boundary was held at @xmath4 k. with these boundary conditions and no external sources of heating , the atmosphere was allowed to relax to a state of hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "we modeled a flare by calculating the radiative hydrodynamic response to a beam of non - thermal electrons injected at the top of the loop .",
    "the electron beam heats the stellar atmosphere which increases the soft x - ray , extreme ultraviolet and ultraviolet radiation ( hereafter , we refer to these collectively as xeuv flux ) ; this further heats the atmosphere through radiative backwarming . for the dynamic simulations",
    ", we change the upper boundary condition to a transmitting boundary and remove its temperature constraint .",
    "we note that with no external source of coronal heating our coronal model will cool",
    ". however , the time scale for coronal cooling is much greater than the impulsive time scale @xcite . as the flare evolves , material flows through the upper boundary , emulating the expansion of the flux tube .",
    "since our flux tube has a fixed length of @xmath2  cm , the loop apex and the upper corona move outside the region of computation during the course of the flare simulation .",
    "our concern in this paper is modeling optical and uv emission which primarily originate from the lower atmosphere . in @xcite , we found that chromospheric heating from the upper corona was negligible when compared to the energy deposited by the electron beam .",
    "thus , the `` loss '' of the upper corona is not likely to affect the chromospheric emission .",
    "the non - lte atomic level populations are obtained for a six level with continuum hydrogen atom , nine level with continuum helium atom and six level with continuum ion using the technique of @xcite .",
    "we calculate numerous bound - bound and bound - free transitions in detail .",
    "these are listed in tables  1 and 2 of a05 .",
    "complete redistribution is assumed for all transitions , but the effects of partial redistribution are approximated for the lyman transitions by truncating the line profiles at 10 doppler widths .",
    "other transitions are included as background opacity in lte .",
    "the opacities were obtained from the uppsala package of @xcite .",
    "we include optically - thin radiative cooling from bremsstrahlung and coronal metal transitions using emissivities acquired from the atomdb database @xcite .",
    "the equations are solved on an adaptive grid using 250 grid points in depth , 5 in angle and up to 100 in frequency for each transition .",
    "numerous observations of hard x - rays during _ solar _ flares indicate the presence of downward directed non - thermal electrons impacting in the lower solar atmosphere .",
    "unfortunately , current instruments are unable to detect hard x - rays produced from flares on stars other than the sun .",
    "however , as mentioned above , observations of the neupert effect provide justification that the heating mechanisms may be the same .",
    "therefore , in these models we employ an electron beam as the source of heating in the lower stellar atmosphere .",
    "in particular , we use an electron beam with energy spectrum obtained by @xcite for the 23 july 2002 x - class _ solar _ flare observed by rhessi .",
    "the injected electrons are found to have a double power law energy distribution of the form @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the electron energy flux that enters the magnetic loop ; @xmath7 is the cutoff energy below which the x - ray emission is assumed to be thermal ; and @xmath8 is the break energy where the distribution shifts from spectral index @xmath9 to @xmath10 .",
    "we take @xmath9 , @xmath10 , @xmath7 , @xmath8 to be constant with values of 3.0 , 4.0 , 37 kev and 105 kev respectively corresponding to the peak of the 23 july 2002 flare .",
    "the rate of energy deposited by the electron beam is modeled using the technique of @xcite .    during flares ,",
    "the density in the transition region and corona becomes elevated increasing the amount of xeuv photons originating from these regions .",
    "the outward - directed photons we detect as enhanced emission , while the downward - directed photons heat the lower atmosphere through increased photoionizations .",
    "we have used the atomdb database to determine the thermal volume monochromatic emissivity as a function of wavelength and temperature .",
    "we include line emissivities calculated for approximately 34,000 transitions at 37 temperature points ranging from @xmath11 k to @xmath12 k. we have grouped the transitions into 14 wavelength bins with a range of 1  2500  .",
    "table  3 in a05 lists the range and emissivity - weighted central wavelengths of each bin .",
    "the xeuv backwarming rate is calculated from equation  6 of a05 with the assumption that the energy from the photoionized electrons is entirely converted to heat .",
    "we carried out two flare simulations , corresponding to moderate beam heating with an electron flux , @xmath13 ergs @xmath3 s@xmath1 ( the f10 flare ) and strong beam heating with @xmath14 ergs @xmath3 s@xmath1 ( the f11 flare ) .",
    "the f10 flare was evolved for 230 s and the f11 flare for 15 s. in both cases the beam energy spectrum is given by the double power law as described in equation  [ eqn : dpl ] .",
    "figure  [ fig : f10gen ] shows the evolution of the temperature and density stratification , the electron beam energy deposition rate , the ionization fraction , and the electron density during the f10 flare .",
    "the electron beam initially penetrates to a depth of 0.26 mm , and the surrounding temperature quickly rises in response ( the first column of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10gen ] ) . a large hydrodynamic wave forms and begins to carry material from the chromosphere into the transition region . by 0.25 s ,",
    "the temperature plateaus at @xmath09000 k in the region of beam energy deposition as a result of elevated hydrogen radiative cooling . for the next several seconds",
    ", the flare evolves slowly as much of the beam energy is radiated away by hydrogen emission ( the second column of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10gen ] ) .",
    "this results in significantly stronger hydrogen emission lines .",
    "the transition region continues to fill up with plasma evaporated from the chromosphere and becomes extended in height ( see panels 3 and 4 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10gen ] ) . by 10.0 s",
    "most of the hydrogen in the region of beam heating is ionized , and the radiative cooling is no longer able to balance the beam heating .",
    "the atmosphere rapidly heats to a temperature of @xmath15 k , but by 25.0 s it again plateaus ( third column of fig .  [",
    "fig : f10gen ] ) .",
    "this time the equilibrium is a result of helium radiative cooling , and a relatively gentle phase begins as hydrogen and helium radiate away most of the beam energy .",
    "we note that although the plasma in the extended transition region ( z=0.8  2.2 mm in panel 4 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10gen ] ) appears to have `` cooled , '' when compared to the preflare atmosphere , this is not the case .",
    "material from lower , cooler regions is brought upward and heated .",
    "for example , the plasma located in this region has a temperature of about 60,000 k at 75.0  s , but originates in the chromosphere from a height of 0.3 mm and a temperature of 5000  k. in general , when comparing the atmospheric structure during the flare evolution , care must be taken to consider that the plasma has moved .    by 98",
    "s , the helium in the region of beam heating has become almost completely ionized and can no longer effectively cool the atmosphere ( panel 9 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10exp ] ) .",
    "the atmosphere responds by explosively heating .",
    "the temperature quickly rises ( panel 2 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10exp ] ) , and a large hydrodynamic wave is created .",
    "we refer to this period as the explosive phase .",
    "explosive phase dynamics are shown in figure  [ fig : f10exp ] .",
    "a high temperature bubble forms in the region near 1.5 mm ( second column of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10exp ] ) and for the next 130 s the bubble expands as the wave propagates through the atmosphere .",
    "this stellar flare simulation was not able to track the wave passing through the top of flux tube , and did not attain a steady state .",
    "our final atmosphere ( last column of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10exp ] ) has a denser corona and transition region ( panel 8) than the preflare atmosphere .",
    "we note that much of the original corona has flowed through the original flux tube boundary . in a05 we found , for solar flare simulations , that after the wave passed through the boundary of the flux tube the loop heated quickly .",
    "the solar flare loop top eventually reached a steady state temperature approximately five times the preflare value , and we expect a similar result for stellar flare loops .    the gentle and explosive phase energetics are plotted in figure  [ fig : ebal ] . during the gentle phase , the energy deposited by the beam is essentially balanced by radiative cooling ( panel 1 ) .",
    "a small amount of energy goes into increasing the helium ionization in the region of 1.0  1.5 mm ( see the inset in panel 2 ) . once the helium is completely ionized , the radiative cooling sharply drops , and the explosive phase begins .",
    "in the explosive phase , there is a significant portion of the beam energy in the region of the expanding high temperature bubble ( see panel 2 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10exp ] ) that is not radiated away ( panel 3 of fig .",
    "[ fig : ebal ] ) .",
    "most of this energy goes into increasing the temperature ( panel 4 ) and expanding the bubble ( see p d(1/@xmath16 ) in panel 3 ) .",
    "the evolution of the f11 flare is similar to f10 , but proceeds much faster .",
    "figure  [ fig : f11atm ] shows the atmosphere at several times during this flare . as in f10 , the beam initially penetrates to a height of 0.26 mm , and in response the atmosphere rapidly heats to about 10,000 k. a strong hydrodynamic wave begins to carry material into the transition region . by 0.03",
    "s , the temperature increase has stabilized as the beam heating is in equilibrium with hydrogen radiative cooling .",
    "this equilibrium lasts until 0.16 s when most of the hydrogen in the region of beam heating has been ionized . in a fashion similar to f10 ,",
    "the atmosphere again quickly heats but by 0.5 s plateaus at 50,000 k as a result of an equilibrium of beam heating with helium radiative cooling ( first column of fig .",
    "[ fig : f11atm ] ) . by 2.5",
    "s , helium in the region of 0.3 mm is completely ionized , and the atmosphere undergoes explosive heating ( second column of fig .",
    "[ fig : f11atm ] ) . as in f10 , a high temperature bubble forms and propagates toward the boundary of the flux tube .",
    "a notable difference between f10 and f11 is the height at which this happens : @xmath17 mm in f10 compared to 0.3 mm in f11 , see panel 2 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10exp ] and panel 2 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f11atm ] .",
    "the evolution of f11 is much quicker than f10 , so less material has had time to evaporate into the upper atmosphere .",
    "the beam therefore , deposits most of its energy lower in the atmosphere in f11 than in f10 . at 15.9",
    "s there is a very steep decrease in temperature at @xmath18 mm ( panel 4 ) .",
    "this is caused by the high level of radiative cooling due to increased density at the front of the outward - directed explosive wave .",
    "this is likely an artifact of the simulation , as strongly blue - shifted transition region material is not seen in flare observations ( see   [ sec : uvlvel ] ) .",
    "mass motions during the flare simulations cause significant doppler shifts and introduce large asymmetries in the line profiles .",
    "figure  [ fig : lprof ] shows line profiles for four important lines during f10 .",
    "the first column ( panels 1 , 6 , 11 and 16 ) show that at 1.0 s these emission lines have increased in intensity , but there are no large mass motions since the line profiles are relatively symmetric . in the second column , however , the line profiles are significantly distorted as a result of large velocities produced by flare heating .",
    "the line profiles are especially complicated when they are formed in regions of oppositely directed waves .",
    "for example , the h@xmath19  profile in panel 2 has an enhanced red wing indicating downward - directed plasma , but its line center is blue - shifted .",
    "the line center is formed higher in the stellar atmosphere than the wings , where the plasma is `` evaporating '' into the transition region . in panel 5 , h@xmath19has a very large blue wing .",
    "this is the result of the high velocity , high density evaporation wave passing through the boundary of the flux tube .",
    "h@xmath20  responds to flare heating very quickly . by 1.0",
    "s ( panel 6 ) , it is already about 150 times brighter than in the preflare atmosphere .",
    "also note that h@xmath20becomes very broad , as discussed in more detail in   [ sec : lbroad ] .",
    "the  304  line becomes very bright as a result of the extended transition region that forms during the gentle phase ( see panel 4 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10gen ] ) . during this phase",
    ", it becomes the most intense line in the flaring spectrum .",
    "the  304  flux reaches a maximum at the onset of the explosive phase ( fig .",
    "[ fig : lprof ] , panel 13 ) .",
    "once the explosive phase begins , the atmosphere heats beyond 50,000 k ( i.e. the temperature of formation of ) and the intensity decreases ( panels 14 and 15 ) . in panel 14 ,",
    "a 22 km  s@xmath1 wave produced at the onset of the explosive phase causes an enhanced blue peak in the  304  line profile . as this wave passes into the higher temperature regions of the corona , it begins to move faster . by 230",
    "s , the wave is moving at 129 km  s@xmath1 and  304  shows a strong blue - shift ( panel 15 ) .",
    "in contrast , the ca  ii  k  line is sensitive to velocities in the chromosphere . in panel 17 , ca  ii  kis blue - shifted indicating evaporation of chromospheric material into the transition region .",
    "the ca  ii  k  line profiles in panels 18 and 19 are red - shifted as a result of chromospheric condensation waves . at 100  s , a relatively slow ( @xmath06  km  s@xmath1 ) downward directed wave produced from the initial beam impact passes through the region of ca  ii  kformation producing the red shift ( panel 18 ) . at 135  s , a much faster condensation wave ( @xmath030  km  s@xmath1 ) produced from the explosive increase in temperature passes through this region and ca  ii  k  is further red - shifted ( panel 19 ) .",
    "our flare simulations exhibit strongly enhanced optical continuum emission .",
    "figure  [ fig : cspec ] shows optical continuum spectra for the preflare atmosphere and a few times during the f10 ( panel a ) and f11 ( panel b ) flares . a large balmer jump and noticeable paschen jump",
    "are clearly present in these spectra .",
    "the elevated flux peaking at about 6500   is primarily the result of blackbody emission and indicates heating has occurred in the photosphere .",
    "the electron beam is unable to penetrate deeply enough to directly heat the photosphere ; instead the heating in this region is primarily due to radiative backwarming from the balmer and paschen continua .",
    "this is shown in figure  [ fig : photoheat ] which plots the energy deposited in the lower atmosphere as a function of height above the photosphere .",
    "important contributors to the gain in internal energy are plotted in figure  [ fig : photoheat]a showing that energy deposited by radiation is the dominant form of flare heating in the photosphere .",
    "figure  [ fig : photoheat]b plots the most important contributors to the radiative heating and indicates that balmer and paschen continua significantly heat the lower atmosphere .",
    "the photosphere reaches a maximum temperature increase of 400  k for f10 and 1200  k for f11 .",
    "this together with the elevated paschen continuum produces a 32% and a 129% increase in the optical continuum ( measured at 6000  ) for f10 and f11 respectively .",
    "compared to the sun , an active m dwarf has a higher surface gravity , a cooler photosphere , and a hotter corona . figure  [ fig : pfas]a compares the temperature structure of our m dwarf preflare atmosphere with the solar preflare atmosphere used in a05 .",
    "the higher surface gravity on the m dwarf compresses the atmosphere relative to the sun , causing the chromosphere and transition region to be closer in height to the photosphere than in the solar model .",
    "the density of the m dwarf corona is approximately an order of magnitude greater than the solar corona .",
    "the compressed atmosphere results in a much narrower range of beam energy deposition ( shown in figure  [ fig : pfas]b ) .",
    "many of the features predicted by the solar models of a05 are similar to those in the m dwarf simulations presented here .",
    "for example , despite differences in atmospheric structure , both types of simulations predict chromospheric evaporation waves of similar speeds .",
    "the reason for this is that the beam energy is deposited in each atmosphere at nearly the same column mass .",
    "since the same beam energy is assumed in the solar f10 and m dwarf f10 simulations , and the mass above the beam impact location is nearly the same , similar velocities should be expected .",
    "another important similarity is that both types of simulations exhibit an initial gentle phase followed by explosive eruption in the transition region when the balance between flare heating and radiative cooling is broken .",
    "however , there is significant difference between the m dwarf and solar models in the onset time of the explosive phase .",
    "the explosive phase starts at 98  s and 2.5  s for the m dwarf f10 and f11 flares and at 73  s and 1.0  s for the solar f10 and f11 flares .",
    "the reason for this is that since the m dwarf model has a higher coronal density , it takes longer for the helium to be fully ionized so that the beam heating overcomes the radiative cooling .",
    "another difference is the intensity of the emitted radiation . in the solar model ,",
    "the helium - emitting plateau in the transition region becomes much more extended than in the m dwarf models ( compare the first panels of fig .  [",
    "fig : f10exp ] and fig .  4 of a05 ) causing a larger  304  enhancement in the solar case .",
    "this is seen in figure  [ fig : heiias ] which shows light curves for the  304  line during the f10 solar and m dwarf simulations . in both cases , the  304  flux peaks at the onset of the explosive phase .",
    "in contrast , the hydrogen balmer line emission is stronger in the m dwarf flare spectrum .",
    "since the sun has a hotter photosphere , the continuum level is much higher for the solar balmer lines .",
    "the balmer line profiles for the solar and m dwarf cases are similar , but since the line to continuum ratio is higher in the m dwarf case , it has more balmer line emission .",
    "the h@xmath20  line profile in figure  [ fig : hbas ] illustrates this effect .",
    "numerous photometric observations of flares on active m dwarfs have shown that the continuum spectrum fits well to a blackbody of approximately 9000 k .",
    "this is puzzling because the electron beam , which is the assumed source of flare heating , is unable to deposit sufficient energy in the photosphere to heat it to so high a temperature .",
    "one explanation , proposed by @xcite , suggested that xeuv backwarming may be responsible for heating the photosphere during flares . to test this",
    ", we included xeuv backwarming as described in   2 .",
    "figure  [ fig : xeuv ] plots the energy deposited during the f10 flare due to xeuv emission and compares it to beam heating .",
    "we find that the xeuv heating is about a hundred times smaller than the beam heating and does not significantly contribute to heating the photosphere . as discussed in ",
    "[ sec : cont ] balmer and paschen continuum backwarming does heat the photosphere , but even this is insufficient to raise the temperature to 9000 k.    another explanation is that the observed  enhanced spectrum may not actually be the result of blackbody emission , but rather may be due to increased balmer emission from the chromosphere . this explanation is supported by these simulations . despite a lack of direct photospheric heating ,",
    "when convolved with the bandpasses these simulations do produce a spectrum with the general shape of a blackbody with a temperature of 8000  9000  k. figure  [ fig : bbfit ] shows an example of the convolved spectrum and blackbody fit . in a fashion similar to h03",
    "we include an additional measurement in the uv , centered at 1469   .",
    "the spectrum is similar to observed continuum enhancements seen during flares ( cf .",
    "figure  10 of h03 ) , and therefore , it is plausible that the ubiquitous white light continuum may not be thermal in nature , but actually a result of balmer and paschen emission .",
    "however , the increased _",
    "u _ band seen in our simulations is the result of a strongly elevated balmer jump which has not been observed in stellar flare spectra @xcite .",
    "an initial dimming in the stellar continuum at the onset of a white light flare has been observed by many authors @xcite . in a manner similar to @xcite and a05",
    ", our simulations also exhibit initial continuum dimming .",
    "figure  [ fig : cdim ] shows light curves for balmer and higher order hydrogen continua .",
    "the continuum dimming seen here is a result of non - thermal ionization produced by the electron beam and can be understood as follows .",
    "the beam raises collisional rates in the upper chromosphere causing higher population densities for the excited states of hydrogen .",
    "this increases the absorption probability for balmer and higher order hydrogen continuum photons , which previously would have escaped and been seen as continuum emission .",
    "this results in an initial decrease in the continuum intensity .",
    "the time between flare onset and the re - brightening of the continuum is controlled by the ratio of recombinations to photoionizations .",
    "as the flare evolves , the increased electron density in the upper chromosphere elevates the recombination rate and begins to reduce the population excess of the excited states of hydrogen .",
    "this decreases the photoionization rate , and the continuum re - brightens .      during the impulsive phase the balmer lines dramatically increase in width , as observed by numerous authors .",
    "figure  [ fig : balwid ] shows line profiles computed during f10 for h@xmath20 , and h@xmath21  and compares them to line profiles observed during the impulsive peak of flare 8 of h03 .",
    "similarly , figure  [ fig : hgbf ] shows the h@xmath21  line compared to the line profile obtained by @xcite . in each case",
    "the quiescent line emission has been removed from the line profile . to aid in measuring the line width ,",
    "smoothing has been applied to the h03 observed line profile . to include the broadened wings , we measure line widths at one tenth maximum . in both the simulation and the h03 flare observation ,",
    "h@xmath20  increases to a width of about 16  , and h@xmath21  reaches a peak line width of 10  .",
    "the @xcite flare was much larger than the h03 flare , and in this flare h@xmath21  had a peak width of 15   compared to 13.1 obtained in our f11 simulation .",
    "the observed line broadening is likely caused by either stark broadening from the increased electron density in the flaring atmosphere , or from turbulent and mass motion flows in the flaring atmosphere . found that mass flow velocities of @xmath0100  300 km s@xmath1 would be required to produce the observed balmer line widths . in both our f10 and f11 models ,",
    "chromospheric velocities are much less than these ( h@xmath21  has a maximum velocity of @xmath010 km s@xmath1 ) , and we find that in these simulations the line broadening is almost entirely due to the stark effect .",
    "the balmer decrement represents the relative energy emitted in various balmer lines .",
    "it is defined as the ratio of the excess flare emission in the balmer lines relative to a fiducial , often taken to be h@xmath20  or h@xmath21 .",
    "information about the electron density in the balmer line forming region of the atmosphere may be inferred , with steeper decrements implying smaller electron densities .",
    "a simple explanation for this is that as densities increase , the lower order lines become thicker and more energy can escape in the higher order lines , making the decrement shallower .",
    "since the decrement is a relative measure , it makes comparing flares of different sizes straightforward . in table",
    "[ table : baldec ] , we present balmer decrements calculated relative to h@xmath21  for f10 and f11 and compare them to several observations .",
    "we have also included the ca  ii  kdecrement . for the f10 and f11 simulations we employed a six level hydrogen atom , and",
    "therefore we could not directly calculate balmer lines higher than h@xmath21  in detail . to obtain line fluxes for higher order lines we passed a `` snapshot '' of the atmosphere at the peak of balmer emission to the static radiative transfer code , multi @xcite .",
    "in multi we used a 13 level hydrogen atom , allowing us to model the balmer lines through h12 . comparing f11",
    "to f10 shows that for a larger flare , h@xmath21  becomes relatively stronger than the other balmer lines .",
    "all the observed balmer decrements more closely match f11 than f10 , as expected since these flares were all relatively large .",
    "the decrements for a flare on ad leo reported by @xcite are especially close to f11 , indicating that the flare chromospheric structure likely resembles the structure predicted by this simulation .",
    "the continuum carries 79% of the total emission in the f10 flare .",
    "the lines are relatively stronger in the f11 flare with the continuum carrying only 72% of the energy .",
    "both model predictions are considerably smaller than ratios typically observed for m dwarf flares .",
    "h03 observed a continuum emission to total emission ratio of @xmath092% for five moderate flares on ad leo .",
    "@xcite also observed a ratio of 92% for a flare on ad leo , and for a very large flare @xcite obtained a ratio of 86% .",
    "our over - estimation of the relative line strength is likely due to the fact that these simulations do not reproduce the featureless @xmath09000 k white light continuum observed in m dwarf flares .",
    "if we add a 9000  k blackbody spectrum to our model spectrum , we do obtain a line to continuum ratio of more than 90% as expected .",
    "another possible reason for the significant line emission from our simulations is the shape of the beam energy spectrum .",
    "if we are over - estimating the concentration of beam energy that is deposited in the upper chromosphere , the excess heating will produce too much balmer emission .",
    "the majority of the beam energy is deposited within a relatively narrow region of the chromosphere and causes large increases in the balmer emission . @xcite",
    "have shown , using a fokker - planck description of the electron beam , that the beam energy deposition is over a wider region and higher in the atmosphere than is predicted by the analytic expression employed in these simulations .",
    "less concentrated heating will likely produce less dramatic balmer emission and a line to continuum ratio which more closely matches observations .",
    "h03 observed numerous transition region and coronal lines with the hst / stis instrument during flares on ad leo .",
    "they found that many of the lines formed in the transition region were red - shifted during the impulsive phase of the flare , and interpreted this as an example of chromospheric condensation . to compare our simulations to these observations",
    ", we used the chianti @xcite database to produce synthetic line profiles for the lines observed by h03 . in our flare simulations , we find multiple regions of the atmosphere with typical transition region temperatures ( @xmath010@xmath22 ) .",
    "for example , at 150 s in f10 ( panel 3 of fig .",
    "[ fig : f10exp ] ) there are three regions with this temperature ( @xmath23 and 3.6 mm ) .",
    "the outer two ( @xmath24 and 3.6 mm ) are traveling upward producing blue - shifted emission and the inner one ( @xmath25 mm ) is moving deeper into the atmosphere causing red - shifted emission . in figure  [ fig : vel ] we compare the velocity of the downward directed plasma with the velocities obtained during flare 8 of h03 .",
    "both the simulation and observations exhibit velocities of 20  40 km s@xmath1 in agreement with the condensation velocities predicted by @xcite .",
    "we have constructed radiative hydrodynamic simulations of a flaring m dwarf atmosphere and used them to explore the flare - induced optical and uv emission .",
    "we find that the dynamics of the impulsive flare naturally divide into two phases , an initial gentle phase followed by a period of explosive increases in temperature and pressure .",
    "the explosive wave front creates a high temperature bubble which expands until the wave passes through the boundary of the flux tube .",
    "the atmosphere then attains a steady state with a corona and transition region that are denser than the preflare atmosphere .",
    "line emission is greatly enhanced in both the moderate ( f10 ) and strong ( f11 ) flare simulations .",
    "as chromospheric material is evaporated into the transition region , the  304  line is especially enhanced , becoming the strongest line in the spectrum .",
    "large hydrodynamic waves produced by the flare heating cause significant doppler shifting of the line profiles .",
    "the  304line exhibits a peak upward velocity of 129 km  s@xmath1 , and the ca  ii  k  line has a peak downward velocity of 30 km  s@xmath1 . we compared the predicted velocity of our downward - directed condensation wave to velocities measured in transition region lines by h03 , and found that both models and observations exhibited velocities between 20  40 km  s@xmath1 .",
    "stark broadening caused by the increased electron density in the flaring atmosphere makes the balmer lines very wide .",
    "we compared our f10 balmer profiles to the observations in h03 , and found that for both observations and simulations h@xmath20  had a width of 16  , and h@xmath21  had a width of 10  .",
    "we also found that for the stronger @xcite flare , the h@xmath21  line was similar in width and shaper to the f11 h@xmath21  line profile .",
    "our simulations predict elevated optical continuum emission .",
    "a large balmer jump in the flare spectrum radiatively backwarms the atmosphere below the temperature minimum region and heats the photosphere by about 400  k in the f10 case and 1200  k for f11 . with the elevated paschen continuum this produces a 32% increase in the continuum level for f10 and a 129% increase for f11 .",
    "the predicted photospheric temperature increase is not large enough to explain the observed blackbody continuum of @xmath09000 k. our predicted spectrum , when convolved with the  filters , does produce a spectrum which looks like a 9000 k blackbody , but this depends on the presence of a large balmer jump which has not been seen in m dwarf flares .",
    "the optical continuum exhibits an initial dimming which also has been observed in m dwarf flares . in our simulations ,",
    "the dimming is a result of non - thermal ionizations due to the electron beam causing an over - density of excited states of hydrogen .",
    "we have successfully modeled velocities , line broadening , and balmer decrements .",
    "while broad band colors are matched by our spectrum convolved with filter curves , the continuum does not match in details , predicting a large balmer jump and a noticeable paschen jump which are not observed .",
    "the formation of the strong , featureless white light continuum during stellar flares , therefore , remains a mystery .",
    "although we have taken great care to make these simulations as accurate as possible , we have found it necessary to make several limiting assumptions .",
    "the atmosphere is assumed to be one - dimensional , plane - parallel , and aligned with the magnetic field .",
    "this neglects the possibility that radiation can escape through the sides of the flux tube .",
    "the ion and electrons temperatures are assumed to be the same .",
    "we have also assumed complete redistribution holds for all transitions . by neglecting mhd effects",
    "we have implicitly assumed that that magnetic pressure is much higher than the gas pressure and effectively confines the plasma to the flux tube .",
    "we plan to make several improvements to these models . as mentioned above the analytic treatment of @xcite results in the beam energy being deposited in a relatively narrow region of the atmosphere causing steep electron density gradients and much stronger than observed balmer emission .",
    "we plan to incorporate a model of the electron beam using fokker - planck kinetic theory .",
    "preliminary analysis shows a wider range of energy deposition with a larger portion of the beam deposited in higher regions of the atmosphere than predicted by @xcite .",
    "this will also provide more direct heating to the corona . with these changes ,",
    "we hope to be able to model a larger flare loop , as is probably more appropriate for the stellar flare case",
    ". this may allow the stellar flare explosive wave to pass through the top of the loop , and thereby allow the flare loop to obtain a steady state as in the solar case .",
    "this work has been partially funded by nsf grant ast02 - 05875 and hst grants ar-10312 and go-8613 .",
    "the computations presented here were carried out on the astronomy condor network at the university of washington , and we would especially like to thank john bochanski for contributing many hours of computer time .",
    "abbett w. p. & hawley s. l. 1999 , , 521 ,",
    "906 abdul - aziz , h. , et al .",
    "1995 , , 114 , 509 alekseev , i.  y. , et al .",
    "1994 , , 288 , 502 allred , j.  c. , hawley s. l. , abbett w. p. , & carlsson , m.  2005 , , 630 , 537 auer , l.  h. , heasley , j.  n. , & milkey , r.  w.  1972 , a computational program for the solution of non - lte transfer problems by the complete linearization method , kitt peak national observatory , contib .",
    "555 cargill , p.  j.  1994 , , 422 , 381 , m. 1986 , a computer program for solving multi - level non - lte problems in moving or static atmospheres ( uppsala astronomical report no .",
    "33 ) carlsson , m. , & stein , r.  f.  1994 , in proc .",
    "mini - workshop on chromospheric dynamics , ed .",
    "m.  carlsson ( oslo : institute of theoretical astrophysics ) , 47 carlsson , m. , & stein , r.  f.  1995 , , 440 , l29 carlsson , m.  & stein , r.  f.  1997 , , 481 , 500 cram , l.  e. , & woods , d.  t.1982 , , 257 , 269 cristaldi , s. , rodono , m. , & gershberg , r.  e.  1980 , , 89 , 123 dere , k.  p. , landi , e.,mason , h.  e. , monsignori fossi , b.  c. , & young , p.  r.  1997 , , 125,149 ding , m.  d. , & fang , c.  2000 , , 317 , 867 doyle , j.  g. , butler , c.  j. , bryne , p.  b. , & van den oord , g.  h.  j.  1988 , , 193 , 229 eason , e.  l.  e. , giampapa , m.  s. , radick , r.  r. , worden , s.  p. , & hege , e.  k.  1992 , , 104 , 1161 emslie , a.  g.  1978 , , 224,241 fisher , g.  h.  1989 , , 346 , 1019 garca - alvarez , d. , jevremovi ' c , d. , doyle , j.  g. , & butler , c.  j.  2002 , , 383 , 548 giampapa , m.  s. , africano , j.  l. , klimke , a. , parks , j. , quigley , r.  j. , robinson , r.  d. , & worden , s.  p.  1982",
    ", , 252 , l39 guedel , m. , benz , a.  o. , schmitt , j.  h.  m.  m. , & skinner , s.  l.  1996 , , 471 , 1002 gustafsson , b.  1973 a fortran program for calculating `` continuous '' absorption coefficients of stellar atmospheres(uppsala : landstingets vergstader ) haisch , b. , strong , k.  t. , & rodono , m.  1991 , , 29 , 275 hawley , s.  l. , & fisher , g.  h.  1992 , , 78 , 565 hawley , s.  l. , & pettersen , b.  r.  1991 , , 378 , 725 hawley , s.  l. , et al .",
    "1995 , , 453 , 464 hawley , s.  l. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 597 , 535 holman , g.  d. , sui , l. , schwartz , r.  a. , & emslie , a.  g.  2003 , , 595 , l97 hudson , h.  s. , acton , l.  w. , hirayama , t. , & uchida , y.  1992 , , 44 , l77 jevremovic , d. , butler , c.  j. , drake , s.  a. , odonoghue , d. , & van wyk , f.  1998 , , 338 , 1057 johns - krull , c.  m. , hawley , s.  l. , basri , g. , & valenti , j.  a.  1997 , , 112 , 221 johns - krull , c.  m. , & valenti , j.  a.  1996 , , 459 , l95 mauas , p.  j.  d. , & falchi , a.  1996 , , 310 , 245 mauas , p.  j.  d. , & gomez , d.  o.  1997 , , 483 , 496 mctiernan , j.  m. , fisher , g.  h. , & li , p.  1999",
    ", , 514 , 472 mitra - kraev , u. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 431 , 679 neupert , w.  m.  1968 , , 153 , l59 phillips , k.  j.  h. , bromage , g.  e. , dufton , p.  l. , keenan , f.  p. , & kingston , a.  e.  1988 , , 235 , 573 rodono , m. , et al .  1984 , esa sp-218 : fourth european iue conference , 247 scharmer , g. b. , & carlsson , m.  1985 j. comput . phys . , 59 , 56 smith , r.  k. , brickhouse , n.  s. , liedahl , d.  a. , & raymond , j.  c.  2001 , , 556 , l91 young , p.  r. , del zanna , g. , landi , e. , dere , k.  p. , mason , h.  e. , & landini , m.  2003 , , 144 , 135    lcccccc f10 flare & 1.28 & 1.00 & 0.96 & 0.82 & 0.74 & 0.96 + f11 flare & 1.19 & 1.00 & 0.89 & 0.64 & 0.53 & 0.12 + ad leo ( hp91 ) & 1.24 & 1.00 & 0.85 & 0.64 & 0.47 & 0.22 + ad leo ( r84 ) & & 1.00 & 0.85 & 0.53 & 0.39 & 0.15 + uv cet ( p88 ) & & 1.00 & 0.69 & 0.47 & 0.42 & 0.83 + uv cet ( e92 ) & & 1.00 & 0.96 & 0.46 & 0.34 & 0.09 + yz cmi & & 1.00 & 0.69 & 0.54 & 0.45 & + ez aqr & 1.38 & 1.00 & 0.83 & 0.54 & 0.36 & + solar m - class flare & 1.74 & 1.00 & 0.80 & 0.63 & &"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on radiative hydrodynamic simulations of m dwarf stellar flares and compare the model predictions to observations of several flares . </S>",
    "<S> the flares were simulated by calculating the hydrodynamic response of a model m dwarf atmosphere to a beam of non - thermal electrons . </S>",
    "<S> radiative backwarming through numerous soft x - ray , extreme ultraviolet , and ultraviolet transitions are also included . </S>",
    "<S> the equations of radiative transfer and statistical equilibrium are treated in non - lte for many transitions of hydrogen , helium and the ion allowing the calculation of detailed line profiles and continuum radiation . </S>",
    "<S> two simulations were carried out , with electron beam fluxes corresponding to moderate and strong beam heating . in both cases </S>",
    "<S> we find the dynamics can be naturally divided into two phases : an initial gentle phase in which hydrogen and helium radiate away much of the beam energy , and an explosive phase characterized by large hydrodynamic waves . during the initial phase , lower chromospheric material is evaporated into higher regions of the atmosphere causing many lines and continua to brighten dramatically . </S>",
    "<S> the  304  line is especially enhanced , becoming the brightest line in the flaring spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> the hydrogen balmer lines also become much brighter and show very broad line widths , in agreement with observations . </S>",
    "<S> we compare our predicted balmer decrements to decrements calculated for several flare observations and find the predictions to be in general agreement with the observations . during the explosive phase both condensation and evaporation waves are produced . </S>",
    "<S> the moderate flare simulation predicts a peak evaporation wave of @xmath0130 km s@xmath1 and a condensation wave of @xmath030 km s@xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the velocity of the condensation wave matches velocities observed in several transition region lines . </S>",
    "<S> the optical continuum also greatly intensifies , reaching a peak increase of 130% ( at 6000  ) for the strong flare , but does not match observed white light spectra . </S>"
  ]
}