{
  "article_text": [
    "nuclear activity in galaxies manifests itself in a variety of forms from nearby low luminosity active galactic nuclei ( agn ) , such as seyferts and liners , to powerful distant quasars and radio galaxies . in these sources ,",
    "the nuclear activity is responsible for radiation detected across the entire electromagnetic spectrum . in the radio loud active galaxies , such as quasars and radio galaxies ,",
    "the radio emission demonstrates the influence of the agn , for example via the formation of powerful jets ( fanaroff & riley 1974 ) .",
    "additionally ample evidence is also available from other wavelength ranges ( _ e.g _ optical ) for the interaction of the nuclear activity with the surrounding galactic interstellar medium ( ism ) such as via the detection of outflows from nuclear regions of some seyfert galaxies ( _ e.g. _ ngc3079 , cecil et al .",
    "the commonly accepted standard model for nuclear activity asserts that the agn is fuelled by the release of gravitational potential energy as galactic material is accreted onto a central super - massive black hole . as such it is incumbent upon investigators to study not only the effects of this nuclear activity ( _ e.g. _ jets ) but also the physical and kinematic environment that surrounds the agn , since this provides a method by which we can study how gas , dust and stars act as fuel for the activity we observe as well as how this activity impacts the surrounding ism .    at the present time",
    "most high angular resolution studies of powerful active galaxies have concentrated upon investigating the consequences of the activity ( _ e.g. _ the synchrotron emission such as radio jets ) , rather than the cause of the activity ( _ e.g. _ cold neutral and molecular gas that fuels the nuclear activity ) .",
    "this has primarily been a direct consequence of observational constraints resulting from the relatively small collecting areas of the current generation of mm - wavelength aperture synthesis instruments and the surface brightness sensitivity of decimetre wavelength interferometers precluding observations of cold thermal gas emission at angular resolutions of @xmath41arcsec .",
    "however using current radio aperture synthesis techniques it is possible to observe cold gas , via decimetre transitions such as hi , oh and h@xmath5co , in absorption against the bright background radio continuum of some galaxies , on sub - arsecond angular scales .",
    "( 80,75 ) ( 0,0 )    .summary of observations .",
    "all three of these observations were made in spectral line mode with the bandwidth centred at 1.359ghz . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab3 ]      the jet structure on sub - arcsecond angular resolution scales has been discussed in detail by several authors ( _ e.g. _ bridle et al .",
    "1981 ; akujor et al . 1996",
    "; beswick et al . 2002 ) .",
    "however the observations of the inner kiloparsec region of the jet presented here provides the highest angular resolution image of the inner jet region at any frequency .",
    "the spectral indices of the brightest jet components between 1.3 and 4.5ghz are listed in tab.2 . with the exception of the core ( discussed above ) ,",
    "these do not have inverted spectra and fall within the range of 0.5@xmath61 .",
    "there are no significant spectral index gradients detected along the path of the jet , however the western jet components tend to have somewhat steeper spectral indices . at @xmath0ghz frequencies the radio spectrum of a jet",
    "is affected by free - free absorption due to intervening ionised material along the line of sight to the observer and by spectral ageing of electrons along the jet .",
    "thus the slight steepening of the spectral index against the western side of the jet can be interpreted as an increase in free - free absorbing material in front of this half of the source compared to the eastern side , superimposed upon any spectral ageing effects .",
    "this interpretation is likely to be a consequence of generally higher gas columns against the western side of the source .",
    "this is consitent with the western jet receding as proposed by beswick et al . and akujor et al . and supported by the detection of one - sided optical jet emission in k - band _ nicmos _ images ( leahy et al .",
    "1999 ) which is coincident with the radio emission from components e1 , e2 and e3 .    assuming that the sub - kpc scale jets are intrinsically symmetric and are moving with relativistic velocities , the size of the counter - jet emission ( western side ) is expected to appear smaller than that of the jet emission . from the jet counter - jet arm ratio",
    "( see _ e.g. _ giovannini et al .",
    "1998 ; taylor and vermeulen 1997 ) estimated from the image in fig.3 ( lower panel ) , we derive @xmath7cos@xmath8@xmath00.55 where @xmath7 is @xmath9/c , @xmath9 is the jet bulk velocity , and @xmath8 is the jet orientation with respect to the line of sight",
    ".    the large gap between the core and e3 could be due to non - continuous activity of the central agn ( but no gap is visible on the western side ) or more likely to a doppler de - boosting effect .",
    "if the jet velocity is @xmath00.995c as found in other low and high power radio galaxies ( see _ e.g. _ giovannini et al .",
    "2001 ) , the observed arm ratio implies @xmath1055@xmath11 and the doppler factor is = 0.2 . with this low value",
    ", the observed jet brightness is too faint to be visible . in this scenario",
    "the extended emission ( e1 , e2 , e3 , w1 , and w2 ) is not the image of the fast jet itself but low velocity shear layer emission surrounding the fast jet spine .",
    "this interpretation is in agreement with the large transversal size of the visible emission and with the brightness symmetry of e and w components .",
    "the presence of a velocity structure in an intermediate jet region ( from the pc to the kpc scale ) is expected by the model proposed by laing ( 1996 ) and related to the jet interaction with a dense ism ( giovannini 2003 ) .    upon larger scales , as shown in fig.2 , the @xmath010 kiloparsec scale jet of 3c293 has a p.a.@xmath045 .",
    "the apparently discordant trajectories of the inner and outer jet structures imply a large position angle change of the jet during this radio galaxy s lifetime .",
    "this position angle change probably implies that the radio emission from 3c293 has gone through two more outbursts and that the younger radio emission observed from the inner jet might be a signature of the radio emission from 3c293 being ` born again ' ( akujor et al 1996 ) . in this case",
    "the large scale jet emission would the remnant of older outbursts while the bright inner jet emission is the result of an outburst of order 10@xmath12 years old .",
    "the trigger for this latter outburst , possibly 3c293 s interaction with its nearby companion , may also have affected the alignment of the radio emission from this latter outburst .",
    "as has previously been noted by beswick et al . ( 2002 ) , the distribution of hi absorption against the central jet within 3c293 can be broadly split into two differing gas components on the basis of the absorption line widths and spatial distribution . as such , these two components can be treated separately since they trace two different gas distributions and at the resolution of these observations are spatially separated .      against the eastern jet",
    "the hi absorption lines have a narrow velocity width ( @xmath040kms@xmath1 see tab.3 ) centred at @xmath013500kms@xmath1 with no broad absorption lines detected against this part of the source .",
    "narrow hi absorption lines are often considered to be indicative of absorption that is the result of ambient gas and hence are often attributed to gas lying at some distance from the centre of the galaxy . in the case of 3c293 this is the most plausible explanation for the location of the narrow hi absorbing gas seen in front of the eastern jet . in fig.7",
    "the areas of highest hi opacity are clearly shown to approximately follow a strip with a p.a .",
    "of @xmath035 .",
    "this distribution is , within astrometric errors , co - spatial with the area of increased hi optical depth observed in lower resolution merlin hi absorption observations , associated with the location of foreground dust obscuration observed in _ hst _ images ( see figure4 & section 4.1 of beswick et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "as can be seen from the absorption spectra ( fig.4 ) and the channel maps presented in fig.6 , the velocity structure narrow absorption is only spread over a few channels .",
    "however even with the velocity resolution afforded by these observations ( @xmath028.8kms@xmath1channel@xmath1 ) it can be seen in fig.7 that the narrow absorption traces a small but distinct velocity gradient of @xmath050kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 in an approximately south - west to north - east direction .",
    "this velocity gradient is also evident in the gaussian fitted central velocities of the spectra ( tab.3 ) and in fig.6 .",
    "this observed velocity gradient is only traceable over an area of a few tenths of an arcsecond ( limited by the background continuum extent ) but is consistent with the shallow hi absorption velocity gradient ( @xmath046kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 ) observed over several arcseconds at lower resolution by beswick et al .",
    "additionally , this shallow hi structure is consistent with the velocity gradients in ionised gas ( @xmath044kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 along a pa@xmath060@xmath665 ) found using long - slit optical observations of [ oii ] and [ oiii ] emission lines by van breugel et al .",
    "van breugel et al s observations of the optical ionised gas traced this @xmath044kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 velocity gradient across the optical extent of 3c293 out to radii of @xmath010 , well beyond the inner radio jets mapped in this experiment .",
    "the co - spatial nature of the narrow hi absorbing material against the eastern jet with a foreground dust lane , along with its consistent velocity structure compared to the optical emission line gas , implies that all three of these components within the ism of 3c293 are associated and probably undergoing the same rotation .",
    "considering that the velocity gradients observed in both the narrow hi absorbing and the optical emission line components are consistent and the physical extent over which the optical velocity gradient is observed ( out to a radius @xmath010@xmath08kpc ) , it is reasonable to conclude that both of these components , along with the dust lanes , follow the galaxy s rotation .",
    "consequently it can be concluded that the dust , ionised gas and narrow hi absorption are situated on the nearside of the galaxy at a radius of @xmath08kpc and hence are not directly involved in the fuelling of the central activity .",
    "( 80,93 ) ( 0,0 )      against the western portion of the vlbi scale jet structure , relatively broad and complex hi absorption is traced ( figs.5 & 8) . as we have discussed in section4.2",
    "the western jet is more deeply embedded within the host galaxy than the eastern components and is viewed through higher hi gas column densities than the eastern jet .",
    "the velocity structure of the hi absorption against this portion of the source is complex , as seen in the position velocity diagrams ( fig.8 ) .",
    "it should initially be noted that the velocity structure highlighted in this figure only represents a relativity small region of gas in front of the radio continuum structure .",
    "however , fig.8 does show some structure within the absorbing gas , especially in the lower ( 80 and 50mas ) angular resolution parts where both the absorbing gas and illuminating continuum are less resolved .",
    "these velocity structures become even more apparent in still lower resolution study of this source , such as figure6 of beswick et al .",
    "this hi velocity distribution can be interpreted in at least two ways .",
    "one interpretation of the data presented is that the velocity structure against the western half of the source is the result of two gas systems centred at @xmath013325 and 13500kms@xmath1 respectively .",
    "an alternative hypothesis is that the absorption traces a velocity gradient in the gas in front of the agn and sub - kiloparsec scale jet , along with some gas clouds red or blueshifted away from this velocity gradient .",
    "first , let us consider the hypothesis that the observed absorption against the core and western part of the inner radio jet in 3c293 is composed of two gas systems at different velocities . in this scenario",
    "the two gas structures are situated along the line of sight to western half of the source at an undetermined distance from nucleus .",
    "this interpretation provides some explanation for the velocity structures observed in fig.8 and , to a lesser extent , those observed in figure6 of beswick et al .",
    "the velocity structure seen in fig.8 and in the gaussian fits of spectra 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 in table.3 can be satisfactorily fitted by two unassociated absorbing gas structures in the line of sight to the western jet and as such this must be the first explanation considered .    in section5.1 the narrow absorbing component against the eastern jet was discussed and interpreted to most likely be the result of ambient gas situated toward the nearside of the host galaxy .",
    "this component was shown to posses a small velocity gradient of @xmath050kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 .",
    "if it is assumed that this narrow component continues across the entire source , as is reasonable if this gas is associated with gas situated away from the centre of the source , this velocity gradient would imply that a narrow absorption component with a velocity of @xmath013430 , 13422 and 13410kms@xmath1 at positions core ( 7 ) , w1(8 ) and w2(11 ) respectively should be observed .",
    "although these velocity components are not directly matched by hi absorbing components fitted to the spectra against the western jet ( table3 ) small variations in the gradient between the eastern and western halves of the source could be invoked in order to make the velocities consistent . in this scenario",
    "the narrow absorption could account for one of the two composite gas structures that are observed against the western jet , with one other velocity component required to replicate the observed structure .",
    "this second velocity component can thus be accounted for by either gas localised toward the western jet or , more probably gas situated closer to the western jet and core structure in order that the projected angle of the inner jet ( see section 4.2 ) results in the radio continuum components e1 , e2 or e3 lying in front of the gas and thus not illuminating it .",
    "the broad and complex absorption against the western jet can also be interpreted as tracing gas in rotation about the nucleus of the galaxy .    at resolutions of @xmath01 arcsec , haschick & baan ( 1985 )",
    "only marginally resolved the radio continuum in the core region of 3c293 into a two - component structure .",
    "haschick & baan identified the first of these components with several high optical depth absorption components ( @xmath13 ) which trace a velocity gradient of 83kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 .",
    "this was interpreted as rotation of gas within a disk or ring . with a factor of @xmath07 higher resolution , beswick et al .",
    "( 2002 ) also traced and began to resolve a still steeper gradient of 179kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 centred on the agn .",
    "these conclusions are also supported by ovro co observations of a rotating asymetric ring of molecular gas surrounding the nuclear region ( evans et al .",
    "these lower resolution observations imply the existance of some form of rotating gas toward the centre of 3c293 .    if the results presented in this paper are also considered to trace gas rotating about the core as observed at lower resolution by haschick & baan ( 1985 ) , evans et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and beswick et al .",
    "( 2002 ) , a similar , although a still steeper , velocity gradient might be expected to be observed . in this scenario",
    "the hi absorption against the western jet and core should partially trace any gas rotating about the galaxy centre .",
    "if this is the case the best fit for these observations is a gradient of @xmath0410kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 centred upon the core and observed against a small area of the radio jet ( see fig.8 ) .    assuming that this steep velocity gradient is real , is it the inner part of the same rotating gas structure observed by both haschick & baan s and beswick et al . in hi and evans",
    "et al . in co ? considering the angular resolution of both haschick & baan s and beswick et al s previous experiments",
    "it is probable that , if they were observing the same rotating ring of neutral gas , the angular resolution of their experiments will have smeared the rotational velocities observed .",
    "this effect will have resulted in them only observing a lower limit in true velocity gradient .",
    "if the gradient observed here is real these even higher angular resolution hi absorption observations trace a steeper velocity gradient , equivalent to 0.34kms@xmath1pc@xmath1 .",
    "unfortunately due to the lack of background radio continuum adjacent to the eastern side of the core this velocity gradient can only be traced over a few hundred parsecs against the core and the western lobe . assuming the velocity gradient traced in fig.8 is just a section of the inner part of an inclined rotating disk of neutral gas and that the disk is centred upon the core component , a dynamical lower limit upon the enclosed mass within a radius of 400pc of @xmath14m@xmath15 can be calculated , where @xmath16 represents the inclination of the assumed disk and @xmath8 is the angle between the major axis of the ring / disk and the axis over which the position - velocity diagram has been average ( east - west ) .",
    "this value compares well with that derived over a larger radius by beswick et al .",
    "( 2002 ) .",
    "the presence of a ring of neutral gas inferred from hi absorption observations has been reported in several previous cases in both radio galaxies ( _ e.g. _ ngc4261 , van langevelde et al .",
    "2000 and 1946 + 708 , peck , taylor & conway 1999 ) and seyfert galaxies ( gallimore et al . 1999 ) ranging in size from a few tens of parsecs to a 100 or more parsecs .",
    "although the circumnuclear ring of hi inferred in 3c293 is considerably larger in extent than many other such examples , it has been traced over a very wide range of scales from few tens of parsecs out to greater than half a kiloparsec thus overlapping with the disk scales previously observed in similar sources .",
    "this circumnuclear ring or disk of neutral gas appears to be situated within the radius of an asymmetric molecular gas ring detected in co emission and absorption ( evans et al .",
    "evans et al . determined the radius of the molecular disk to be @xmath02.8kpc and containing @xmath010@xmath17m@xmath18 of material within this radius with @xmath010@xmath19 of this mass made up of molecular gas . in these senses",
    "the neutral and molecular gas structures appear to mimic an ` onion - skin ' model in which a region of ionised gas surrounds the agn , and in turn is encompassed by a ring of neutral gas beyond which lies the molecular gas .",
    "this model has been successfully used to explain the gas structure of nuclear regions of seyfert galaxies ( _ e.g. _ mundell et al .",
    "2003 ) albeit in lower power agn and on much smaller scales .",
    "( 80,100 ) ( 0,0 )      in the last few years one of the most interesting observational hi absorption results to emerge has been the detection of incredibly broad , low optical depth , blue - wings in the absorption spectra of some active galaxies ( _ e.g. _ oosterloo et al . 2000 ; morganti et al .",
    "in particular , morganti et al , using the wsrt observed a @xmath01000kms@xmath1 blue - shifted wing to the already broad hi absorption detected against the central ten kiloparsecs of 3c293 .",
    "this broad hi absorption with typical opacities of @xmath00.15@xmath19 interpreted to be the result of outflows of gas from the central region , which are probably driven by interactions between the radio plasma and the ism . without the angular resolution to determine which part of the complex radio jet structure ( see fig.3 ) illuminates and/or interacts with this ism component , morganti et al .",
    "inferred from the location of the broad optical emission lines ( coincident with the eastern jet components in fig.3 ) that it is probable that broad hi also originates from in the vicinity of e1 , e2 and e3 components .",
    "as has already been discussed , we surmise that this portion of the radio jet is approaching , and it is also the location of a reported optical jet feature ( leahy et al .",
    "the trajectory of this portion of the jet , along with its location buried deep within a dust lane in the central few kiloparsecs of the host galaxy do support their hypothesis .",
    "additionally as we describe in section 4.1.2 the radio jet emission observed is consistent not with a fast jet but with emission from a low velocity shear layer surrounding the faster jet spine .",
    "this may provide an environment in which a jet - ism interaction can occur and accelerate material to the high velocities seen by morganti et al . whilst also allowing regions to cool and recombine to become neutral while moving at high velocities .",
    "this part of the inner jet in 3c293 has previously been suggested as the site for probably jet - ism interactions and the entrainment of gas by van breugel et al .",
    "( 1984 ) . unfortunately neither the observations presented here or those presented in beswick et al .",
    "( 2002 ) have the sensitivity or sufficient bandwidth to confirm the broad hi absorption detected with wsrt and hence can not be used to categorically pinpoint the spatial location of this blue - shifted gas .",
    "however it is clear that this broad absorption component is probably not related to the relatively narrow and deep nuclear absorption detected in this and by previous hi observations of this source ( _ e.g. _ haschick & baan 1985 ; beswick et al .",
    "we have used observations made using the vla including pie town , merlin and global vlbi to study the 1.3ghz radio continuum structure of the central kiloparsec of the peculiar radio galaxy 3c293 and to investigate the kinematics and the distribution of hi via absorption against this radio continuum .",
    "we confirm the component identified originally by akujor et al .",
    "( 1996 ) as the most probable site of the central engine and place limits upon its size of @xmath417pc . using both merlin 4.5ghz data ( akujor et al . 1996 ) and new high resolution 1.3ghz observations presented here we determine a radio spectral index of @xmath200.11 for the core component .",
    "we discuss in detail the differences in the value of this spectral index compared to that derived for the same component at higher radio frequencies ( @xmath21 ; akujor et al .",
    "it is concluded the flat spectral index derived in this study may be affected by a significant amount of unresolved radio emission from the jet close to the agn and that this has been incorporated in our 1.3ghz flux density measurement of the component resulting in the observed flat spectrum .",
    "in addition to the core we have mapped the radio continuum emission of the jet in 3c293 across a variety of angular scales . from this multi - scale approach",
    "it is apparent that the trajectory of the radio jet emission in 3c293 has changed significantly over the source s lifetime . in this region ,",
    "observational data suggest the presence of an intrinsically symmetric jet with a highly relativistic spine , surrounded by a low velocity shear layer because of the jet interaction with the dense ism .",
    "the jet orientation with respect to the line of sight is @xmath050@xmath11 with the eastern jet approaching us .",
    "extensive hi absorption has been detected against both the eastern and western jet components within the central kiloparsec of 3c293 , consistent with lower angular resolution studies by haschick & baan ( 1985 ) and beswick et al .",
    "( 2002 ) . as was previously known , the structure of the hi absorption against the eastern jet components primarily consists of strong and narrow features with a small velocity gradient whereas the absorption against the western and core components are much broader .",
    "the narrow hi absorption detected against the eastern radio jet traces a small velocity gradient of @xmath22kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 , consistent with the velocity gradient observed in ionised gas by van breugel et al .",
    "additionally we have re - confirmed ( following beswick et al .",
    "2002 ) that this narrow hi absorption is co - spatial with the location of dust lanes observed by the _ hst_. from the association of these three components we conclude that they are all most likely situated @xmath08kpc from the central part of the galaxy and are all probably undergoing galactic rotation .    against the western radio jet and core complex hi absorption",
    "is also detected .",
    "this absorption is discussed in terms of either tracing two gas structures at undetermined distances along the line of sight to the jet or a steep velocity gradient which may be interpreted as neutral gas in rotation about the core .",
    "if this is interpreted as rotation by a gas disk , it would imply an enclosed mass of at least 1.7@xmath210@xmath3 solar masses within a radius of 400pc of the core .",
    "rjb acknowledges pparc support .",
    "abp thanks the staff of jodrell bank observatory for their hospitality , and acknowledges support from mpifr during this project .",
    "we would also like to thank j. p. leahy for useful discussions about this project and allowing us access to his data prior to publication .",
    "we thank a. pedlar for his numerous contributions to the earlier stages of this project and encouragement throughout .",
    "the authors also thank the referee for many useful comments that have helped to improve the content and structure of this publication .",
    "the vla and vlba are operated by the national radio astronomy observatory .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is a facility of the national science foundation operated under cooperative agreement by associated universities , inc .",
    "merlin is a national facility operated by the university of manchester on behalf of pparc in the uk .",
    "the european vlbi network is a joint facility of european , chinese , south african and other radio astronomy institutes funded by their national research councils .",
    "akujor c. e. , leahy j. p. , garrington s. t. , sanghera h. , spencer r. e. , schilizzi r. t. , 1996 , mnras , 278 , 1 allen m. g. , sparks w. b. , koekemoer a. , martel a. r. , odea c. p. , baum s. a. , chiaberge m. , macchetto f. d. , miley g. k. 2002 apjs , 139 , 411 baan w. a. , haschick a. d. , 1981 , apj , 243 , l143 beswick r. j. , pedlar , a. , holloway , a. j. , 2002 , mnras , 329 , 620 beswick r. j. 2002 , phd thesis , univ .",
    "manchester , uk .",
    "bridle a. h. , fomalont e. b. , cornwell t. j. , 1981 , aj , 86 , 1294 cecil g. , bland - hawthorn j. , veilleux s. , filippenko , a. v. , 2001 , apj , 555 , 338 evans a. s. , sanders d. b. , surace j. a. , mazzarella j. m. , 1999 , apj , 511 , 730 fanaroff b. l. , riley j. m. , 1974 , mnras , 167 , 31 gallimore j. f. , baum s. a. , odea c. p. , pedlar a. , brinks e. , 1999 , apj , 524 , 684 giovannini g. , cotton w. d. , feretti l. , lara l. , venturi t. , 1998 , apj , 493 , 632 giovannini g. , cotton w. d. , feretti l. , lara l. , venturi t. , 2001 , apj , 552 , 508 giovannini g. , 2003 , in _  the physics of relativistic jets in the chandra and xmm era \" , _",
    "eds g. brunetti , d.e .",
    "harris , r.m .",
    "sambruna , g. setti ; new astronomy reviews , vol .",
    "47 , p551 haschick a. d. , baan w. a. , 1985 , apj , 289 , 574 heckman t. m. , illingworth g. d. , miley g. k. , van breugel w. j. m. , 1985 , apj , 299 , 41 jackson n. j. , beswick r. j. , pedlar a. , cole g. h. j. , sparks w. b. , leahy j. p. , axon d. j. , holloway a. j. , 2003 , mnras , 338 , 643 laing r. s. , 1996 , in _",
    "`` energy transport in radio galaxies and quasars '' , _ eds . hardee p. e. , bridle a. h. , zensus j. a. , astron .",
    "100 , san francisco , p. 241",
    "leahy j. p. , sparks w. b. , jackson n. j. f. , 1999 , aas , 194 , 7304l maloney p. r. , hollenbach d. j. , tielens a. g. g. m1996 , apj , 466 , 561 martel a. r. , et al . 1999 ,",
    "apjs , 122 , 81 morganti r. , oosterloo t. a. , emonts b. h. c. , van der hulst j. m. , tadhunter c. n. , 2003 , apj , 593 , l69 mundell c. g. , wrobel j. m. , pedlar a. , gallimore j. f. 2003 , apj , 583 , 192 oosterloo t. a. , morganti r. , tzioumis a. , reynolds j. , king e. , mcculloch p. & tsvetanov z. 2000 , aj , 119 , 2085 peck a. b. , taylor g. b. , conway j. e. 1999 , apj , 521 , 103 pedlar a. , fernandez b. , hamilton n. g. , redman m. p. , dewdney p. e. 1998 ,",
    "mnras , 300 , 1071 shostak g. s. , van gorkom j. h. ekers r. d. , sanders r. h. , goss w. m. , cornwell t. j. , 1983 , a & a , 119 , l3 taylor g. b. , vermeulen r. c. 1997 , apj,485 , l9 thomasson p. , 1986,qjras , 27 , 413 van breugel w. , heckman t. , butcher h. , miley g. , 1984 , apj , 277 , 82 van langevelde h. j. , pihlstrm y. m. , conway j. e. , jaffe w. , schilizzi r. t. , 2000 , a & a 354 , l45 [ lastpage ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using a combination of observations involving the vla , merlin and global vlbi networks we have made a detailed study of the radio continuum and the neutral hydrogen ( hi ) kinematics and distribution within the central kiloparsec of the radio galaxy 3c293 . </S>",
    "<S> these observations trace the complex jet structure and identify the position of the steeply inverted radio core at 1.3ghz .    </S>",
    "<S> strong hi absorption is detected against the majority of the inner kiloparsec of 3c293 . </S>",
    "<S> this absorption is separated into two dynamically different and spatially resolved systems . against the eastern part of the inner radio jet narrow hi absorption is detected and shown to have higher optical depths in areas co - spatial with a central dust lane . </S>",
    "<S> additionally , this narrow line is shown to follow a velocity gradient of @xmath050kms@xmath1arcsec@xmath1 , consistent with the velocity gradient observed in optical spectroscopy of ionised gas . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the narrow hi absorption , dust and ionised gas are physically associated and situated several kiloparsecs from the centre of the host galaxy . against the western jet emission and core component , </S>",
    "<S> broad and complex hi absorption is detected . </S>",
    "<S> this broad and complex absorption structure is discussed in terms of two possible interpretations for the gas kinematics observed . </S>",
    "<S> we explore the possibility that these broad , double absorption spectra are the result of two gas layers at different velocities and distances along these lines of sight . </S>",
    "<S> a second plausible explanation for this absorbing structure is that the hi is situated in rotation about the core of this radio galaxy with some velocity dispersion resulting from in - fall and outflow of gas from the core region . </S>",
    "<S> if the latter explanation were correct , then the mass enclosed by the rotating disk would be at least 1.7@xmath210@xmath3 solar masses within a radius of 400pc .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : individual : 3c293  radio lines : galaxies  galaxies : radio  galaxies : active </S>"
  ]
}