{
  "article_text": [
    "dwarf elliptical galaxies ( de ) are the most ubiquitous type of galaxy in the local universe @xcite . despite their plenitude , we still do not understand fully the formation mechanism of these low mass , gas  poor systems .",
    "one clue to the evolution of dwarf elliptical galaxies is the morphology  density relation : similar to giant elliptical galaxies , dwarf elliptical galaxies are found primarily in high density regions such as galaxy clusters , compact groups , and loose groups @xcite .",
    "however , unlike their giant cousins , the stellar distribution in dwarf elliptical galaxies is exponential in nature @xcite , indicating that dwarf elliptical galaxies are not just lower mass versions of giant elliptical galaxies .",
    "thus , the evolutionary scenarios proposed for giant elliptical galaxies may not be relevant for the dwarf elliptical class .    while some aspects of galaxy evolution undoubtedly arise from initial conditions , on - going evolution is likely accelerated and affected by different mechanisms in dense cluster environments .",
    "as the nearest such location , the virgo cluster serves as the best laboratory for exploring the details of evolution under intracluster conditions , providing access to spatial scales and mass and luminosity ranges that are not achievable in more distant systems . as discussed in @xcite , the galaxy population in virgo",
    "is dominated by dwarf galaxies which , because of its proximity , can be identified in large numbers .",
    "thus , virgo provides an ideal setting for the study of dwarf galaxy evolution in the cluster environment .",
    "a multitude of evolutionary scenarios have been proposed to explain the relationship between gas  poor dwarf elliptical galaxies and gas  rich dwarf irregular galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". the key component of these models is the gas removal process : gas is removed either through a  ` blow  out' following a starburst episode , or via ram pressure stripping as the galaxy encounters the hot intergalactic medium ( igm ) or intracluster medium ( icm ) .",
    "note that the latter method provides a natural explanation to the density - morphology relationship observed in the dwarf galaxies of the local group @xcite and in clusters @xcite , while the former method has difficulty explaining this phenomenon .",
    "interestingly , if either of the above scenarios are correct , the stellar remnant ( de ) should have the same kinematic properties as the progenitor ( di ) . however , the ground  breaking kinematic work by @xcite on de s in virgo and @xcite on three de companions of m31 suggested that this may not be the case for des : of the 5 dwarf elliptical galaxies in these two early studies , none are supported by rotation ( v@xmath3@xmath4 20 km  s@xmath0 ) ; in contrast , most dwarf irregular galaxies of comparable mass ( or luminosity ) are rotationally supported .",
    "recently , however , @xcite have shown that `` tidal stirring ''  or repeated tidal shocks suffered by dwarf satellite galaxies  can convert a di into a de by both removing its gas and changing it into a dynamically hot galaxy .",
    "thus , lack of rotation in de galaxies does not exclude the conversion of di to de , but may indicate a more catastrophic evolutionary pathway than blow  out or ram pressure stripping alone .",
    "the number of dwarf elliptical galaxies with spatially resolved rotation curves is still quite small , however .",
    "stellar kinematics of large samples of dwarf elliptical galaxies are needed to investigate fully kinematic constraints on evolutionary scenarios .",
    "several projects with modest sample sizes have recently appeared in the literature ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . here , we present the first results from a program to measure the stellar kinematics of dwarf galaxies ; rotation curves and velocity dispersions of sixteen dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster are discussed in this paper .    the paper is organized as follows .",
    "the spatially resolved kinematic observations are described in section 2 . in section 3 , the observed kinematic properties",
    "are compared to those of giant elliptical galaxies and dwarf irregular galaxies .",
    "in contrast to previous studies of des , seven of the sixteen galaxies in this sample have clear evidence of rotational support .",
    "these results are discussed in the context of dwarf galaxy evolution in section 4 .",
    "the conclusions of the paper are summarized in section 5 .",
    "we selected a moderate sized sample of nearby dwarf elliptical galaxies for spatially resolved kinematic observations from the virgo cluster catalog ( vcc , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "the target galaxies were selected based on their apparent magnitude ( m@xmath5 ) , morphological classification ( de ) , and on their apparent ellipticity ( @xmath6 ) .",
    "the latter criterion was imposed to mitigate the affects of disk projection in the measurement of rotational velocities , and it should be noted that its adoption biases the sample toward objects with higher apparent rotation velocity . the implication of this bias in terms of the galaxy evolution scenarios described in section 4 is uncertain .",
    "the sample was further restricted to the luminous dwarf elliptical galaxies in the vcc with measured recessional velocities that place them within the virgo cluster ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , at a distance of approximately 16.1 mpc ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "dynamically young , virgo is known to contain several substructural units @xcite and appears to be elongated along the line - of - sight @xcite . recent observations of surface brightness fluctuations @xcite have shown that the de population is stretched in depth similarly to the bright elliptical population @xcite but not as extended as claimed previously by @xcite .",
    "figure [ fig : virgo ] shows the location of the selected galaxies within the virgo cluster ; the targeted galaxies were selected to include a range of environments within the cluster , sampling both the cluster core and the outer field .",
    "the observational properties of the selected galaxies are tabulated in table [ tab : global ] . included in table",
    "[ tab : global ] are the morphological class from the vcc @xcite and group assignments from @xcite . the tabulated position angle , ellipticity , apparent magnitude , central surface brightness , and scale length",
    "are derived from ellipse fitting of ubvri images obtained with the vatt 1.8 m telescope @xcite .",
    "we note that the newly derived ellipticities are in excellent agreement with those values previously published for vcc 543 , vcc 990 , vcc 1122 , vcc 1308 , vcc 1514 , vcc 1743 , and vcc 2019 @xcite .",
    "high resolution optical spectra of the target galaxies were obtained with the double spectrograph on the 5 m palomar telescope on the nights of 2001 march 19 - 21 and 2002 apr 8 - 10 .",
    "the 6800   dichroic was used to split the light to the two sides ( blue and red ) of the spectrograph .",
    "both sides of the spectrograph were equipped with 1200 l / mm gratings ( blazed at 5000   on the blue side and blazed at 9400   on the red side ) .",
    "the thinned tek 1024 @xmath7 1024 ccd on the blue side of the spectrograph had a read noise of 8.6 e@xmath8 , a system gain of 2.13 , and an angular scale of 0.624 arcsec / pix .",
    "the thinned tek 1024 @xmath7 1024 ccd on the red side of the spectrograph had a read noise of 7.5 e@xmath8 , a system gain of 2.0 , and an angular scale of 0.482 arcsec / pix .",
    "the blue side was centered at the mg ib triplet , with wavelength coverage of 4800  5700   and an effective resolution of 2.3   ( 0.88  / pix ) . the red side was centered at the ca triplet , with wavelength coverage of 8250  8900   and an effective resolution of 1.6   ( 0.64  / pix ) .    a summary of the observations is tabulated in table [ tab : obs ] .",
    "the 2  long slit was oriented along the optical major axis of each galaxy .",
    "since the galaxies in this sample are faint and low surface brightness , the telescope was centered on a nearby bright star and then offset to the galaxy position .",
    "the slit viewing camera provided confirmation that the slit was aligned and centered appropriately . to improve the sensitivity ,",
    "the slit was set to a width of 2  for all observations ; the seeing was approximately 1  during all 6 nights .",
    "due to the low surface brightness nature of the de galaxies , long integration times ( on the order of 2  3 hours per pointing ) were necessary to have sufficient signal  to  noise in the absorption lines to trace the stellar kinematics to large radii .",
    "observations of standard stars were obtained at the beginning and end of the night .",
    "flux calibration was derived from observations of feige 34 , bd + 75 325 , and bd + 33 2642 @xcite .",
    "the nights were non - photometric , but generally transparent .",
    "at least 6 radial velocity standards ( f7 - k2 giants ) were also observed each night in order to create stellar templates for cross - correlation analysis .",
    "the radial velocity standards are tabulated in table [ tab : stars ] . during the 2002 april observing run ,",
    "several stars with low metallicities were targeted in order to verify that spectral differences between the template stars ( typically solar metallicity ) and the low metallicity dwarf elliptical galaxies did not introduce systematic errors .",
    "as expected , we did not find that the metallicity of the template star had a significant effect on the derived redshift or velocity dispersion for these modest dispersion observations .",
    "the spectra were reduced and analyzed with the iraf package .",
    "the spectral reduction included bias subtraction , scattered light corrections , and flat fielding with both twilight and dome flats . the 2dimensional ( 2-d )",
    "images were rectified based on arc lamp observations ( blue ) or night sky lines ( red ) and the trace of stars at different positions along the slit .",
    "confirmation of the wavelength solution was provided by comparing the observed heliocentric velocities of the radial velocity standards with those found in the literature .",
    "a small systematic offset ( 2 km  s@xmath0 , or 0.1 pixel ) was found between the blue and red spectra and the literature values , which is well within the expected error for these relatively high signal - to - noise stellar observations .",
    "the accuracy of the spatial rectification was confirmed by measuring the location of the each galaxy s center of light at several different wavelengths ; spatial offsets from one end of the spectra to the other were minimal for both sides of the spectrograph .    each galaxy observation consisted of multiple 1200 sec exposures .",
    "night sky lines were removed from the two dimensional images before the individual images were averaged together .",
    "the final combined images were flux calibrated based on the sensitivity function derived from the flux standards observed each night .",
    "one - dimensional ( 1-d ) spectra of the stars and galaxies were extracted from the 2-d spectra using the task apall .",
    "integrated spectra for each galaxy are shown in figure [ fig : spec ] .",
    "several different techniques were used to extract kinematic data from the observed spectra .",
    "the first technique employed was a straight  forward gaussian fit to the strongest lines ( the 3 mg ib lines on the blue side and the ca triplet on the red side ) . to improve the signal  to  noise ratio",
    ", the 2-d images were boxcar smoothed to a spatial resolution of 1.87/pix for the blue camera ( binned by 3 pixels ) and 2.41/pix for the red camera ( binned by 5 pixels ) . the rotation curves were determined from the centroid of the gaussian fits and velocity dispersions were determined by subtracting the instrumental width ( derived from the standard star observations ) in quadrature from the observed line widths . while the values obtained from this simplistic measurement technique are not reported here , the gaussian fitting procedure provided a baseline value for the rotation curves and velocity dispersion measurements described below .",
    "fourier analysis provides a more robust measure of the stellar kinematics , particularly when line shapes are not expected to be perfect gaussian profiles .",
    "the rotation curves for each galaxy were derived from cross  correlation analysis of the observed spectra with radial velocity template stars ( table [ tab : stars ] ) . in order to determine which of the radial velocity standards provided the best template match to the galaxy spectra , all of the radial velocity standards observed during the same observing run were cross - correlated with the 1-d galaxy spectra ( figure [ fig : spec ] ) using the task fxcor in the rv package .",
    "the radial velocity standards were then rank ordered based on the derived tonry - davis ratio ( tdr , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) for each galaxy .",
    "the later spectral types ( g5 iii - k2 iii ) proved to have the best correlation coefficients when cross correlated with the dwarf elliptical galaxy spectra ; in fact , the best template match for both observing runs was hd 65934 , a star classified as a g8 iii . for both observing runs ,",
    "the seven stars with the highest average tdr were used in the subsequent analysis .    prior to further cross ",
    "correlation analysis , the 2-d images were boxcar smoothed to a spatial resolution of approximately 2/pix ( see above ) , 4/pix , and 8/pix to increase the signal  to  noise ratio .",
    "each row of each 2-d image was cross  correlated with the selected subset of radial velocity standards using xcor in the contributed redshift package of stsdas .",
    "the task xcor was selected for the final analysis because it returned both a redshift and a velocity dispersion measurement . in this analysis ,",
    "the derived centroid values were not sensitive to the spectral type of the template star ; typical individual differences between the systemic velocity measured by each of the templates were on the order of 6 km  s@xmath0  on the red side and 12 km  s@xmath0  on the blue side and relative velocity differences were much smaller than that .",
    "the systemic heliocentric velocities for each galaxy are tabulated in table [ tab : results ] .",
    "the error estimates quoted in table [ tab : results ] are derived from the dispersion of results from the different analysis techniques and cross correlation of the galaxy spectra with different template stars .",
    "these errors should be considered indicative of both systematic and random errors ; typically , the quoted errors are larger than the formal errors returned by the iraf tasks .",
    "in general , when smoothed to a spatial resolution of 2/pix , the galaxy rotation curves could be traced to radii of approximately 20  or 1.56 kpc at the distance of virgo .",
    "there were no significant differences between the rotation curves derived from the mg ib and those derived from the ca triplet lines .",
    "the derived rotation curves are shown in figure [ fig : rot ] , with the maximum velocity width denoted by dashed lines . except for vcc 1075 and vcc 1857 ,",
    "all of the plots in figure [ fig : rot ] are from the data binned to 2  resolution .",
    "seven of the sixteen galaxies have clear evidence of a velocity gradient across the stellar component ; the rotational component is easily discernible in the raw image for all of these galaxies .",
    "the slope of the rotation curve was derived from linear regression analysis of all of the data points ( both blue and red cameras ) and is tabulated in table [ tab : results ] .",
    "the representative maximum rotation velocity ( v@xmath3 ) was derived from the fitted rotation curve and the maximum radius at which the rotation curve could be measured .",
    "the rotation velocities are tabulated in table [ tab : results ] .",
    "five of the galaxies in the present sample are also included in @xcite ; in all cases , the present rotation curves trace the galaxy kinematics to a significantly larger radius due to both the limited slit length of the keck observations and to signal  to  noise ratio concerns . thus , the derived maximum rotation velocities are larger than previously reported .    the same cross - correlation analysis yielded a velocity dispersion measurement for each galaxy .",
    "the velocity dispersion measurements were calibrated by analyzing the artificially broadened spectra of one of the template stars . based on",
    "the stellar template , observations with the blue camera did not have sufficient resolution to provide accurate velocity dispersion measurements of these galaxies , while the ca line observations had sufficient resolution to measure velocity dispersions greater than 35 km  s@xmath0 .",
    "the measured velocity dispersions are shown in figure [ fig : rot ] and the central ( @xmath9 ) and median ( @xmath10 ) values are tabulated in table [ tab : results ] .",
    "the median velocity dispersion is derived from the average of the measurements at all radii .",
    "the typical velocity dispersion for the galaxies in this sample is 44 @xmath2 5 km  s@xmath0 . in general , given the relatively poor spectral resolution of both cameras and low velocity dispersions of the galaxies , the reported velocity dispersions should be considered indicative upper limits .",
    "for comparison , three of these galaxies have velocity dispersions in the published literature [ vcc 543 and vcc 1122 , @xcite and @xcite ; vcc 917 , @xcite ] .",
    "the mean velocity dispersion for vcc 1122 reported in @xcite is larger than the value reported here , but is consistent with the central velocity dispersion measurement .",
    "figure [ fig : comp ] shows a direct comparison of the line shape expected for a template star broadened by the velocity dispersion for the integrated spectrum of vcc 1122 ; the derived velocity dispersion is clearly a good match to the observed spectra .",
    "the velocity dispersion of vcc 543 reported here is comparable to that of @xcite ; similar good agreement is found between the new observations of vcc 917 and those reported in @xcite , although the reported systemic velocity of vcc 917 is significantly different than that reported here .",
    "the derived rotation velocities and velocity dispersions indicate that several dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster have significant rotation components .",
    "the ratio of the rotation velocity to velocity dispersion for the virgo dwarf elliptical galaxies is shown in figure [ fig : anisotrop ] and tabulated in table [ tab : results ] .",
    "note , however , that the anisotropy parameters , ( v/@xmath10 ) * , listed in table [ tab : results ] and shown in figure [ fig : anisotrop ] should be considered representative lower limits for the des .",
    "not only are the derived velocity dispersions representative upper limits , the present observations only sampled the kinematics along the major axis ; if the des have a significant velocity gradient along a different axis , such as found in some di galaxies [ e.g. , ngc 625 , @xcite and ngc 5253 , @xcite ] , the derived anisotropy parameters will be underestimates of their true values . also shown in figure [ fig : anisotrop ] are the anisotropy parameters for giant elliptical galaxies from @xcite and the dwarf elliptical galaxies in @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite .",
    "five of the dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo sample have a significant rotation component .",
    "these galaxies overlap the locus of anisotropy parameters found in giant elliptical galaxies , where the lower luminosity ellipticals tend to have large anisotropy parameters .",
    "eight of the remaining dwarf elliptical galaxies have modest anisotropy parameters , while only one , vcc 1261 , has an extremely low value . these results are significantly different than those reported by @xcite and the early studies of @xcite and @xcite where it appeared that dwarf elliptical galaxies had no significant rotation component",
    ". however , the recent observations by @xcite and @xcite revealed a handful of dwarf elliptical galaxies with significant rotation .",
    "thus , it appears that the kinematics of some dwarf elliptical galaxies are dominated by rotation , not random motions .    while this result is counter to the results reported in earlier studies , it should not be surprising . the dwarf elliptical galaxies in this sample",
    "are all located in the region of strong overdensity that characterizes the virgo cluster .",
    "it is well known that galaxies located near the cluster center are deficient in neutral hydrogen relative to their counterparts in the field ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for giant spiral galaxies , the loss of their ism may result in modest morphological changes , including suppression of their star formation activity ( e.g. , * ?",
    "however , despite these changes , gas - deficient giant spiral galaxies are likely still to be classified as spiral galaxies since there are striking morphological differences between giant spiral and elliptical galaxies .",
    "this is not the case for dwarf galaxies .",
    "dwarf elliptical galaxies and dwarf irregular galaxies share common morphological parameters ; both have approximately exponential surface brightness profiles and have similar central surface brightnesses and scale lengths ( see section 4 for further discussion of the similarities between des and dis ) .",
    "thus , their structural parameters do not provide a strong morphological distinction between dwarf elliptical galaxies and dwarf irregular galaxies ; rather , their morphological classification is highly dependent on the patchy appearance ( or absence thereof ) due to irregular star formation activity across the surface of the galaxy .",
    "if star formation ceases in a dwarf galaxy , the resulting system is likely to be classified as a dwarf elliptical galaxy once the massive stars , which provide the patchy contrast , have evolved off of the main sequence .",
    "in fact , it is this morphological commonality that first led to the idea that dwarf elliptical galaxies could evolve passively from dwarf irregular galaxies after a starburst episode ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "if the dwarf elliptical galaxies in this sample are the end products of dwarf irregular galaxies which have been stripped of their ism , the observed rotation velocities should be similar to the rotation velocities of normal dwarf irregular galaxies .",
    "the correlation between rotation width ( corrected for inclination ) and absolute magnitude for the dwarf elliptical galaxies is shown in figure [ fig : tf ] .",
    "also shown in figure [ fig : tf ] are the values for dwarf irregular galaxies compiled in @xcite and the correlation derived for spiral galaxies @xcite",
    ". in general , dwarf irregular galaxies have a large scatter in the tully - fisher diagram , in part due to uncertain inclination and velocity dispersion corrections .",
    "however , there is still a general trend that more luminous dwarf irregular galaxies have larger rotation widths .",
    "many of the dwarf elliptical galaxies also appear to follow this trend ; the exceptions are vcc 917 , 1122 , 1261 , 1308 , 1514 , and 2050 , which are under - rotating for their observed luminosity .",
    "these galaxies all have kinematic slopes which are less than 20 km  s@xmath0  kpc@xmath0 ; we designate these galaxies as the `` non - rotating '' sample .",
    "those that follow the tully - fisher relation ( vcc 178 , 437 , 543 , 965 , 990 , 1036 , 2019 ) are designated the `` rotationally supported '' sample . note that vcc 1743 and vcc 1857 also appear to be rotationally supported , but their observations are too poor quality to include in the statistics .",
    "these groupings are similar to those seen in the anisotropy diagram ( figure [ fig : anisotrop ] ) , with the exception that vcc 178 and 965 fall in the `` modest '' ( v/@xmath10 ) * grouping .",
    "we elect to separate the kinematic samples based on the amplitude of the slope of the rotation curve and location in the tully - fisher diagram since the velocity dispersion measurements are not as secure as the rotation curve measurements for these observations .",
    "note that figure [ fig : tf ] compares stellar ( de ) and gaseous ( di and spirals ) rotation curves . while the stars and gas are expected to be kinematically coupled in normal galaxies , it is necessary to consider whether the stellar rotation curves sample fully the rotation velocities of these galaxies .",
    "as mentioned above , the observations were limited to the optical major axis ; for most galaxies , this is the axis with the largest velocity gradient , and thus it is reasonable to assume that the rotation curves measured here are representative .",
    "however , the stellar rotation curves were traced out to only a modest radius whereas the neutral gas velocity widths include emission from gas that extends well beyond the optical galaxy .",
    "nonetheless , if the dwarf elliptical galaxies and dwarf irregular galaxies have similar kinematic properties , it should be possible to correct for this effect on a statistical basis .",
    "for comparison , we consider the neutral gas distribution and kinematics for a sample of 20 galaxies selected from the optical imaging samples of @xcite and @xcite , i.e. , a subset of the dwarf irregular galaxies shown in figure [ fig : tf ] . the resolved hi distribution and kinematics",
    "were obtained with very large array during several observing runs from 1993 - 2000 .",
    "while the majority of the hi synthesis data is as yet unpublished , the di sample includes the galaxies in @xcite with distances scaled to an h@xmath11 of 75 km  s@xmath0  mpc@xmath0 .",
    "a histogram of the extent of the hi distribution to optical scale length for the di sample is shown in figure [ fig : slope]a . to determine the statistical correction to convert from a stellar rotation width to a neutral gas rotation width , we measured the ratio of the maximum rotation velocity to the slope of the rotation curve .",
    "a histogram of the v@xmath12/slope for dwarf irregular galaxies is shown in figure [ fig : slope]b , where the slope of the rotation curve is in units of km  s@xmath0  per scale length .",
    "the mean value is 2.45 @xmath2 0.58 scale lengths , which shows remarkable ( and perhaps co - incidental ) agreement with the use of the velocity at 2.2 scale lengths as a fiducial measure of spiral galaxy rotation curves ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "based on these results , it is likely that the stellar rotation curves obtained here underestimate the maximum rotation velocity for the dwarf elliptical galaxies since most were traced out to only 1 - 1.5 scale lengths .",
    "arrows in figure [ fig : tf ] indicate the location of each galaxy if the stellar rotation curves were traced to 2.45 scale lengths and the galaxy dynamics follow similar trends as those of the neutral gas in di galaxies .",
    "given the uncertainties associated with this velocity width correction , it is premature to draw far reaching conclusions from the revised velocity widths .",
    "nonetheless , it is important to note that such measurements could provide significant constraints on the luminosity evolution of de galaxies .",
    "in particular , these rough correction factors indicate that the progenitor galaxies were at most only 2 magnitudes more luminous than the present population ( i.e. , the revised rotation widths are comparable to those of galaxies 2 magnitudes more luminous ) .",
    "if these results are confirmed by observations that fully trace the galaxy dynamics , the progenitor population of virgo des must be restricted to moderate luminosity systems .",
    "in particular , it is unlikely that des evolve from significantly more luminous galaxies .",
    "one of the perplexing issues in galaxy evolution is the remarkable commonality between dwarf elliptical galaxies and dwarf irregular galaxies .",
    "these low mass systems have similar stellar distributions , both in terms of functional form ( exponential ) and in terms of typical central surface brightnesses and scale lengths @xcite .",
    "furthermore , both dis and des follow the same luminosity - metallicity relation , where the more luminous galaxies are more metal rich , regardless of their gas content @xcite .",
    "in fact , aside from their current gas content and star formation activity , the low mass galaxy classes are remarkably similar in stellar content and morphology .",
    "as mentioned in the introduction , the apparent morphological similarity between the low mass galaxy classes led to several possible evolutionary scenarios that linked dwarf irregular galaxies and dwarf elliptical galaxies .",
    "however , the apparent kinematic mis - match between des and dis posed a severe constraint for evolutionary pathways between dis and des since angular momentum must be conserved ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "however , the early studies included only a small number of des .",
    "the new observations presented here indicate a remarkable similarity between the kinematic properties of many dwarf elliptical and dwarf irregular galaxies ; these results re - open the possibility that some des are formed from passive evolution of dis .    to some degree ,",
    "the question of whether dwarf elliptical galaxies evolve from dwarf irregular galaxies is tautological since every de _ must _ have been gas - rich and star - forming at some point in the past .",
    "standard morphological classification would identify these gas - rich , low mass galaxies as dis .",
    "thus , the relevant question is not whether a de evolves from a di , but what caused the progenitors of des to stop forming stars and to lose their ism .",
    "one popular scenario is that the progenitors were too low mass to retain their ism after a star formation episode ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in this scenario ,",
    "the kinetic energy from supernovae explosions is sufficient to sweep out the remaining ism after a starburst episode .",
    "however , more recent calculations indicate that it may be more difficult to remove the ism of a dark matter dominated galaxy than previously thought ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "furthermore , detailed star formation histories of nearby dwarf spheroidal galaxies indicate these extremely low mass galaxies were able to retain their ism through several star formation episodes ( e.g. , carina dsph , * ? ? ?",
    "thus , internal gas - loss mechanisms face several challenges to explain the diversity of stellar populations , the relative chemical enrichment , and the relative gas - richness of low mass galaxies .",
    "alternatively , the key to the formation of dwarf elliptical galaxies may be an external process .",
    "dwarf elliptical galaxies are the most strongly clustered galaxy type @xcite .",
    "they are predominantly found in high density regions , either in galaxy clusters or located near more massive spiral and elliptical galaxies . given the strong morphology - density relation for dwarf elliptical galaxies",
    ", it is reasonable to assume that the environment may play a crucial role in their evolution .",
    "segregation within the dwarf ellipticals in virgo itself has already been noted by several authors @xcite , who point out that the nucleated de s occupy the cluster core , whereas the majority of non - nucleated ones are found in the peripheral regions .",
    "furthermore , as discussed in section 3 , ram pressure stripping is an efficient mechanism to remove the ism from cluster members , regardless of total mass .",
    "infall of galaxies into the virgo cluster is an ongoing process @xcite ; one thus expects that small groups of galaxies similar to the local group continue to fall into the virgo cluster .",
    "given the simple surface mass density criteria for ram pressure stripping @xcite , essentially all low mass dwarf irregular galaxies falling into the virgo cluster will be stripped of their gas ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "indeed , there is evidence of a very recent case of stripping of a virgo dwarf galaxy ( ugc 7636 , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "unless one imagines that all dwarf galaxies that fall into the virgo cluster are already des ( and the fact that they are falling in from low density environments argues strongly against this ) , then it would appear to be inevitable that some of the des in the virgo cluster are stripped dis .",
    "since dwarf irregular galaxies are dark matter dominated , removal of their ism will have only a modest effect on their kinematics .",
    "however , subsequent passages through the cluster could further disrupt the stellar kinematics via galaxy harassment or merging events . thus ,",
    "if dis are converted into des via ram pressure stripping , one might expect a correlation between the location of dwarf elliptical galaxies with significant rotation and the cluster center . while the present sample is relatively small , figure",
    "[ fig : cluster ] shows a hint of such a relationship , in the sense that galaxies with little - to - no rotation appear to be located predominantly in the cluster core or in high density clumps , while those with significant rotation are in the outskirts of the cluster .",
    "this is consistent with the idea that gas - rich dwarf galaxies are stripped of their gas during a passage through the intracluster medium ; the non - rotating dwarf elliptical galaxies may be remnants of gas - rich systems that have made multiple passes through the icm , or had a catastrophic event occur .",
    "we caution , however , that the present sample size is relatively small and biased toward the more luminous cluster des ; further observations of a larger sample of dwarf elliptical galaxies throughout the cluster environment are needed to investigate this suggestive trend .",
    "although we have argued above that the available observations do not allow us to establish the relative strengths of the rotationally supported and non - rotationally supported de populations , we can not close without some speculation on the presence of non - rotating de galaxies .",
    "following the same line of argument given above , i.e. , that it is almost inescapable that some of the des observed in the virgo cluster must have lost their gas to ram pressure stripping , it is also likely that some dwarf galaxies entered the virgo cluster as des before they encountered sufficient hot gas for stripping",
    ". it also seems inescapable that some di galaxies interact tidally with more massive galaxies , and thereby lose gas in this manner .",
    "given that it is difficult to quantify the relative importance of these three different channels of cluster de galaxy formation , we caution against single channel evolutionary scenarios .",
    "specifically , we note that explanations for the density ",
    "morphology relationship in the local group may be irrelevant for the cluster density  morphology relationship .",
    "a more comprehensive study of kinematics in de galaxies in both environments is warranted .",
    "based on the data in hand , however , it is clear that environmental pathways for di to de conversion must be considered ; if further observations support the trend indicated in figure [ fig : cluster ] , relevant theories for the formation and evolution of dwarf galaxies must include environmental factors as well as internal processes .",
    "we present long - slit optical spectroscopy along the major axis of 16 dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster .",
    "the major results of these observations are as follows :      \\(2 ) five of the 14 galaxies with measured velocity dispersions have anisotropy parameters ( v/@xmath10 ) * @xmath13 1 . , indicating significant rotational flattening .",
    "only one of the remaining 9 des has ( v/@xmath10 ) * @xmath4 0.3 .",
    "the remainder have modest anisotropy parameters , indicating that rotational flattening may be significant for the majority of dwarf elliptical galaxies in this sample .",
    "these kinematic results re - open the possibility that dwarf elliptical galaxies may be the end products of dwarf irregular galaxies that have lost their ism via ram pressure stripping or other non - catastrophic processes . the morphological similarities between gas - rich dwarf irregular galaxies and gas - poor dwarf elliptical galaxies appear to extend beyond the stellar distributions and metal enrichment ; many gas - rich and gas - poor dwarf galaxies have common dynamical properties , as would be expected for passive evolution models .",
    "we dedicate this paper in memory of j.  bev oke , whose spectrographs have enabled a plethora of science for many decades and whose dedication and kindness encouraged several generations of scientists to use those spectrographs well .",
    "lvz thanks elizabeth barton for many thought - provoking conversations about galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "lvz acknowledges partial support from the herzberg institute of astrophysics and the national research council of canada ; lvz also acknowledges partial support from indiana university .",
    "eds is grateful for partial support from a nasa ltsarp grant no .",
    "nag5 - 9221 and the university of minnesota .",
    "mph has been supported by nsf grants ast-9900695 and ast-0307396 .",
    "bender , r. , burstein , d. , & faber , s. m. 1992 , , 399 , 462 bender , r. , & nieto , j.l .",
    "1990 , , 239 , 97 bender , r. , paquet , a. , & nieto , j.l .",
    "1991 , , 246 , 349 binggeli , b. , popescu , c. c. , & tammann , g. a. , 1993 , , 98 , 275 binggeli , b. , sandage , a. & tammann , g. a. 1985 , , 90 , 1681 binggeli , b. , sandage , a. & tammann , g. a. 1988 , , 26 , 509 binggeli , b. , tammann , g. a. & sandage , a. & 1987 , , 94 , 251 binggeli , b. , tarenghi , m. , & sandage , a.  1990 , , 228 , 42 conselice , c. j. , oneil , k. , gallagher , j. s. , & wyse , r. f. g. 2003 , , 591 , 167 conselice , c. j. , gallagher , j. s. , & wyse , r. f. g. 2001 , , 559 , 791 ct , s. , carignan , c. , & freeman , k. c. 2000 , , 120 , 3027 courteau , s. & rix , h .- w . 1999 , , 513 , 561 davies , j. i. , & phillipps , s. 1988 , , 233 , 553 de rijcke , s. , dejonghe , h. , zeilinger , w.  w. , & hau , g.  k.  t.  2001 , , 559 , l21 de rijcke , s. , dejonghe , h. , zeilinger , w.  w. , & hau , g.  k.  t.  2003 , , 400 , 119 de young , d. s. , & heckman , t. m. 1994 , , 431 , 598 de young , d. s. , & gallagher , j. s. 1990 , , 356 dekel , a. , & silk , j. 1986 , , 303 , 39 drinkwater , m. , & hardy , e. 1991 , , 101 , 94 ferrara , a. , & tolstoy , e. 2000 , , 313 , 291 ferguson , h. c. , & binggeli , b. 1994 , , 6 , 67 ferguson , h. c. , & sandage , a. 1989 , , 346 , 53 gallagher , j.  s.  & wyse , r.  f.  g.  1994 , , 106 , 1225 geha , m. , guhathakurta , p. , & van der marel , r. p. 2002",
    ", , 124 , 3073 geha , m. , guhathakurta , p. , & van der marel , r. p. 2003",
    ", , 126 , 1794 giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m. p. 1983",
    ", , 88 , 881 gunn , j.  e.  & gott , j.  r.  i.  1972 , , 176 , 1 james , p. a. 1994 , , 269 , 176 jerjen , h. , binggeli , b. & barazza , f.d .",
    "2004 , , 127 , 771 kelson , d. d. et al .",
    "2000 , , 529 , 768 kobulnicky , h. a. , & skillman , e. d. 1995 , , 454 , l121 koopmann , r. a. , & kenney , j. d. p. 1998",
    ", , 497 , l75 kormendy , j. 1985 , , 295 , 73 lin , d. n. c. & faber , s. m. 1983 , , 266 , l21 loose , h.h . , & thuan , t. x. 1986 , , 309 , 59 mac low , m.m . , & ferrara , a. 1999 , , 513 , 142 marcolini , a. , brighenti , f. , & dercole , a. 2003 , , 345 , 1329 mayer , l. , governato , f. , colpi , m. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , & lake , g.  2001a , , 547 , l123 mayer , l. , governato , f. , colpi , m. , moore , b. , quinn , t. , wadsley , j. , stadel , j. , & lake , g.  2001b , , 559 , 754 neilsen , e.h .",
    "& tsvetanov , z.i .",
    "2000 , , 536 , 155 oh , k.s . & lin , d.n.c 2000 , , 543 , 620 oke , j. b. 1990 , , 99 , 1621 papaderos , p. , loose , h.h . , fricke , k. j. , & thuan , t. x. 1996a , , 314 , 59 patterson , r.  j.  & thuan , t.  x.  1992 , , 400 , l55 pedraz , s. , gorgas , j. , cardiel , n. , snchez - blzquez , p. , & guzmn , r. 2002 , , 332 , l59 richer , m. g. , & mccall , m. l. 1995 , , 445 , 642 ryden , b. s. , terndrup , d. m. , pogge , r. w. , & lauer , t. r. 1999 , , 517 , 650 sancisi , r. , thonnard , n. , & ekers , r.  d.  1987 , , 315 , l39 silich , s. a. , & tenorio  tagle , g. 1998 , , 299 , 249 silk , j. , wyse , r. f. g. , shields , g. a. 1987 , , 322 , l59 simien , f.  & prugniel , p.  2002",
    ", , 384 , 371 skillman , e. d. , & bender , r. 1995 , rev .",
    "aasc , 3 , 25 skillman , e. d. , kennicutt , r. c. , & hodge , p. w. 1989 , , 347 , 875 smecker - hane , t. a. , stetson , p. b. , hesser , j. e. , & lehnert , m. d. 1994 , , 108 , 507 solanes , j",
    ".- m . , manrique , a. , garca - gmez , c. , gonzlez - casado , g. , giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m. p. 2001",
    ", apj , 548 , 97 solanes , j .- m . , sanchis , t. , salvador - sol , giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m. p. 2002",
    ", , 124 , 2440 sung , e.c .",
    ", han , c. , ryden , b. s. , chun , m.s . , & kim , h.i .",
    "1998 , , 499 , 140 tonry , j. , & davis , m. 1979 , , 84 , 1511 tully , r. b. , & pierce , m. j. 2000 , , 533 , 744 tully , r.  b.  & shaya , e.  j.  1984 , , 281 , 31 van den bergh , s.  1994 , , 428 , 617 van zee , l. 2001 , 121 , 2003 van zee , l. , & barton , e. g. 2004 , in prep van zee , l. , haynes , m. p. , & salzer , j. j. 1997a , , 114 , 2479 van zee , l. , haynes , m. p. , salzer , j. j. , & broeils , a. h. 1997b , , 113 , 1618 van zee , l. , salzer , j. j. , & skillman , e. d. 2001 , , 122 , 121 west , m.j . &",
    "blakeslee , j.p . 2000 , , 543 , l27 yasuda , n. , fukugita , m. & okamura , s. 1997 , , 108 , 417 young , c. k. & currie , m. j. 1995 , , 273 , 1141"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> new observations of 16 dwarf elliptical galaxies in the virgo cluster indicate that at least seven des have significant velocity gradients along their optical major axis , with typical rotation amplitudes of 20 - 30 km  s@xmath0 . of the remaining nine galaxies in this sample , 6 have velocity gradients less than 20 km  s@xmath0kpc@xmath0 while the other 3 observations had too low of a signal  to  noise ratio to determine an accurate velocity gradient . </S>",
    "<S> typical velocity dispersions for these galaxies are @xmath144 @xmath2 5 km  s@xmath0 , indicating that rotation can be a significant component of the stellar dynamics of virgo des . when corrected for the limited spatial extent of the spectral data , the rotation amplitudes of the rotating des are comparable to those of similar brightness dis . </S>",
    "<S> evidence for a relationship between the rotation amplitude and galaxy luminosity is found , and , in fact , agrees well with the tully - fisher relation . </S>",
    "<S> the similarity in the scaling relations of dis and des implies that it is unlikely that des evolve from significantly more luminous galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> these observations reaffirm the possibility that some cluster dwarf elliptical galaxies may be formed when the neutral gaseous medium is stripped from dwarf irregular galaxies in the cluster environment . </S>",
    "<S> we hypothesize that several different mechanisms are involved in the creation of the overall population of de galaxies , and that stripping of infalling dis may be the dominant process in the creation of des in clusters like virgo . </S>"
  ]
}