{
  "article_text": [
    "in this paper we present the results of our follow - up work on the 9th cambridge survey ( 9c hereafter ) .",
    "the 9c survey was carried out at 15ghz with the ryle telescope ( rt see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , primarily motivated by the need to identify foreground sources in the fields surveyed by the cambridge / jodrell / tenerife cosmic microwave background experiment , the very small array ( vsa , e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "a rastering technique was used to scan the fields with each possible detection being followed up with pointed observations to confirm its existence and measure its flux density or to rule it out : see @xcite for a full description of 9c .",
    "the survey fields were chosen to contain few very bright radio sources , but otherwise should be representative of the radio sky in general .",
    "15ghz is the highest radio frequency at which an extensive survey has been carried out , so 9c provides new insights into the properties of the radio source population .",
    "current models of radio source growth that consider the effects of self absorption on the synchrotron emission from young sources indicate that very young radio sources ( tens to hundreds of years old ) should have radio spectra which peak between about one gigahertz and a few tens of gigahertz @xcite , with younger sources having spectra peaking at higher frequencies than older sources .",
    "any radio survey is biased toward the selection of sources with spectra peaking close to the selection frequency , hence 9c should provide a means of generating samples rich in sources peaking at close to 15ghz and thereby testing the models of source growth in very young sources .",
    "we have selected 176 sources from the 9c survey ( 155 of which are from complete flux - limited samples ) and carried out multi - frequency simultaneous radio observations to obtain the continuum radio spectra and maps . _",
    "r - band optical imaging was performed in order to make optical identifications ( ids ) .",
    "_    the layout of this paper is as follows . in  [ sec : data ] we discuss sample selection , data acquisition and data reduction . in  [ sec : results ] we present the results  the radio flux densities , radio maps and optical counterpart data . in  [ sec : stats ] we discuss the sample statistics with regard to the radio spectra , radio morphology , optical colour and optical morphology . in  [ sec : compare ] we compare these results with previous work and in  [ gps ] we consider a means of increasing the efficiency of selecting rising spectrum sources .",
    "we summarise our findings in  [ sec : discussion ] .",
    "two complete samples of sources were selected from the first three regions of the 9c survey , coincident with the vsa fields at @xmath0 , @xmath1 and @xmath2(j2000.0 ) .",
    "sample a is complete to 25 mjy and contains 124 sources selected from regions in all three fields , a total area of 176 square degrees .",
    "sample b is complete to 60 mjy , with 70 sources in a total area of 246 square degrees ; it consists of all sources in sample a above 60 mjy ( 39 sources ) , plus 31 additional sources from a further region of the 9h field .",
    "additionally 21 9c sources ( sample c ) were observed which were either outside the sample areas or had flux densities lower than the selection limit ",
    "these do not form a complete sample .",
    "simultaneous continuum snapshot observations were made for each source at frequencies of 1.4 , 4.8 , 22 and 43ghz with the vla of the national radio astronomy observatory ( table [ radio_obs ] ) and at 15ghz with the rt .",
    "in addition , 51 sources from the @xmath3 field were observed within a few months at 31ghz with the owens valley radio observatory ( ovro ) 40 m telescope .",
    "the _ uv - plane coverage of the vla differs significantly for the different sets of observations .",
    "the data from jan 2002 were taken in the @xmath4 move configuration and only a few antennas had been moved into their a - array positions ; although at 4.8ghz , for example , there are baselines out to 500kilo-@xmath5 , the majority are less than 15kilo-@xmath5 and the resulting beam is messy . in order to obtain good flux density estimates and a smooth beam , the central portion of the _ uv - plane ( corresponding to the d - configuration baselines ) was used ; after this , the full _ uv - coverage was used to look for structure on smaller angular scales _ _ _    the vla data were reduced using the nrao ` aips ` package . for each dataset maps",
    "were made and cleaned with the ` aips ` task ` imagr ` .",
    "self - calibration was applied to those maps with sufficiently high signal to noise ratio  typically sources with point - like components having flux densities of around 40mjy or greater . in each case",
    "one or more rounds of self - calibration , in phase and in amplitude and phase , were carried out to maximise the signal to noise ratio of the final map .",
    "time spent on source was typically about 40 s at 1.4ghz , 60 s at 4.8ghz , 100 s at 22ghz and 120 s at 43ghz , giving typical rms noise values of 0.5 , 0.4 , 0.8 and 2mjy respectively .",
    "the vla flux calibration is assumed to be good to about 1percent , 2percent , 5percent and 10percent at 1.4 , 4.8 , 22 and 43ghz respectively .",
    "each source was observed for about 20 minutes with the rt ; the rms noise is about 0.9mjy and the calibration uncertainties are approximately 3percent .",
    "the ovro 40-m observations were carried out between 2002 jan and 2002 july .",
    "the rms noise on the flux density measurements is typically 1 mjy , but is often higher for the brighter sources .",
    "flux calibration uncertainties are about 5percent .    [",
    "cols=\"<,<,<,<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]",
    "we have defined complete , flux - limited samples from a survey at 15ghz that contain higher fractions of gps sources than samples selected at lower radio frequency . future work on gps sources will benefit if complete samples of such objects can be selected without the need for time - consuming multi - frequency measurements of all objects in the flux - limited samples .",
    "the efficiency of selecting gps sources can be increased by removing sources with steeply falling spectra as indicated by existing survey measurements : in particular comparison of the old , non - simultaneous nrao vla sky survey ( nvss , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) flux density measurements at 1.4ghz and the 9c catalogue flux densities for each object gives an indication of the spectral type .",
    "figure [ c ] shows histograms of the ratio between the simultaneous flux density measurements to those from surveys  the top figure shows this histogram for the 1.4-ghz data ( follow - up vla : nvss ) and the lower is for the 15-ghz data ( follow - up rt : 9c ) .",
    "the 15ghz histogram is wider , indicating , as expected , that source variability is more prevalent at 15ghz than at lower radio frequency .",
    "nvss was carried out between 1993 and 1996 and the 9c data points were taken between 1999 november and 2001 june , so the time offset between the survey data points and our simultaneous data points is around 6 years for the 1.4ghz data and between about 1 and 2 years at 15ghz . to quantify the variability of the 9c samples on timescales from a few days to a year or",
    "so we are carrying out systematic rt observations at 15ghz of one third of the sources from the flux - limited samples ( chosen randomly ) , to be presented elsewhere .",
    "figure [ oldlc ] shows the correlation between spectral index calculated between 1.4 and 15ghz from nvss and 9c and the spectral index calculated from the simultaneous measurements at 1.4 and 4.8ghz ( i.e. the spectral index we use to classify the radio sources ) .",
    "the graph shows that the two measurements are similar , but there is significant scatter .",
    "the gps sources with @xmath6 have a tendency for their nvss/9c spectral indices to be higher than their simultaneous 1.4 to 4.8ghz spectral indices .",
    "this is due to the turnover or flattening of the spectra of these sources between 4.8 and 15ghz .",
    "note however that , as suggested in section [ sec : radio_stats ] , the sources have not turned over sufficiently to have steeply falling spectra when averaged between 1.4 and 15ghz . selecting all sources that have an nvss/9c spectral index less steep than @xmath7 will pick up all of the rising spectrum sources , as well as a few flat spectrum sources , but very few steep spectrum objects ( since the spectral index of a convex - spectrum source increases with frequency ) . using the spectral",
    "index cut - off of @xmath8 , and a 9c flux limit of 25mjy creates a sample in which 49percent of the sources would have a simultaneous spectral index of @xmath6 .",
    "our follow - up of 176 radio sources taken from the 9c catalogue has shed light on the properties of the high frequency radio population .",
    "multi - frequency simultaneous measurements have provided maps and radio spectra .",
    "optical imaging at the palomar 60-inch telescope in combination with the dss2 digitised form poss - ii sky survey plates has led to the identification of counterparts for a total of 155 of the 176 sources studied .",
    "( ) at a flux limit of 25mjy , 18percent of sources display spectra that peak at 5ghz or above .",
    "27percent of the 60mjy sample peak at 5ghz or above .",
    "these rising spectrum sources represent a much larger fraction of the radio source population at 15ghz than at lower radio frequencies .",
    "( ) increasing the flux limit raises the fraction of rising spectrum sources : in a sample of sources selected with a 9c flux density at 15ghz of more than 150mjy , 39percent of the sources have rising spectra between 1.4 and 5ghz .",
    "( ) at higher frequencies the median spectral index increases , due to turn - over .",
    "however , the median value remains constant up to 15ghz .",
    "( ) the optical counterparts of the steep spectrum sources are less often blue in colour than those of the flat and rising spectrum sources .",
    "the optical colours and sizes suggest that between one third and one half of the peaked spectrum and flat spectrum sources may be quasars .",
    "( ) we have shown that a sample defined as a flux - limited complete sample from 9c and then refined to contain only those sources having a spectral index taken from nvss at 1.4ghz and 9c at 15ghz of @xmath8 will still contain all of the peaked - spectrum sources from the complete sample .",
    "the efficiency of finding peaked - spectrum objects can thus be raised to 49percent  allowing larger samples of gps sources to be studied with the same amount of dedicated telescope time , without compromising on completeness .",
    "rcb is supported by a pparc studentship .",
    "gc acknowledges support from pparc observational rolling grants ppa / g / o/2003/00123 and ppa / g / o/2001/00575 .",
    "the second palomar observatory sky survey ( poss - ii ) was made by the california institute of technology with funds from the national science foundation , the national aeronautics and space administration , the national geographic society , the sloan foundation , the samuel oschin foundation , and the eastman kodak corporation .",
    "the digitized sky survey was produced at the space telescope science institute under u.s .",
    "government grant nag w-2166 .",
    "the images of these surveys are based on photographic data obtained using the oschin schmidt telescope on palomar mountain and the uk schmidt telescope .",
    "the plates were processed into the present compressed digital form with the permission of these institutions .",
    "99 becker r.h . ,",
    "white r.l . ,",
    "helfand d.j . , 1995 , aj , 450 , 559 condon j.j . ,",
    "cotton w.d . ,",
    "greisen e.w . ,",
    "yin q.f . , perley r.a",
    ". , taylor g.b . ,",
    "broderick j.j . , 1998 , aj , 115 , 1693 jones m.e . , 1991 , in cornwell t.j .",
    ", perley r. , eds , asp conf .",
    "19 , radio interferometry - theory , techniques and applications .",
    ", san fransisco , p. 395",
    "mclean b.j . ,",
    "greene g.r . ,",
    "lattanzi m.g .",
    ", pirenne b. , 2000 , in manset n. , veillet c. , crabtree d. , eds , asp conf .",
    "216 , astronomical data analysis software and systems ix , p. 145",
    "mcmahon r. , white r. , helfand d. , becker r. , 2002 , apjs , 143 , 1 odea c.p .",
    ", 1998 , pasp , 110 , 493 peacock j.a . , wall j.v . , 1981 , mnras , 194 , 331 reid i.n .",
    "et al . , 1991 , pasp , 103 , 661 riley j.m . , rawlings s. , mcmahon r.g . , blundell k.m . ,",
    "miller p. , lacy m. , waldram e.m .",
    ", 1999 , mnras , 307 , 293 snellen i.a.g .",
    ", schilizzi r.t . ,",
    "miley g.k .",
    ", de bruyn a.g . ,",
    "bremer m.n . ,",
    "rttgering h.j.a . , 2000 , mnras , 319 , 445 waldram e.m . , pooley g.g . ,",
    "grainge k.j.b .",
    ", jones m.e . , saunders r.d.e . ,",
    "scott p.f . ,",
    "taylor a.c . , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 915 watson r.a .",
    ". , 2003 , mnras , 341 , 1057"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have carried out extensive radio and optical follow - up of 176 sources from the 15ghz 9th cambridge survey . </S>",
    "<S> optical identifications have been found for 155 of the radio sources ; optical images are given with radio maps overlaid . </S>",
    "<S> the continuum radio spectrum of each source spanning the frequency range 1.4 - 43ghz is also given .    </S>",
    "<S> two flux - limited samples are defined , one containing 124 sources complete to 25mjy and one of 70 sources complete to 60mjy . </S>",
    "<S> between one fifth and one quarter of sources from these flux - limited samples display convex radio spectra , rising between 1.4 and 4.8ghz . </S>",
    "<S> these rising - spectrum sources make up a much larger fraction of the radio source population at this high selection frequency than in lower frequency surveys .    </S>",
    "<S> we find that by using non - simultaneous survey flux density measurements at 1.4 and 15ghz to remove steep spectrum objects , the efficiency of selecting objects with spectra rising between 1.4 and 4.8ghz ( as seen in simultaneous measurements ) can be raised to 49percent without compromising the completeness of the rising spectrum sample .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  radio continuum : general  surveys </S>"
  ]
}