{
  "article_text": [
    "there are many types of variable stars whose mechanism for variability ( mainly pulsation , rotation , eruptive processes , and geometric effects ) is well studied and well understood observationally and theoretically . among them ,",
    "the pulsating variable stars have been investigated vigorously because they yield information on their stellar mass and their interior physical properties .",
    "they are a powerful tool for measuring distances in the galaxy and extra - galactic systems ( 1 ) because they are luminous and ( 2 ) because they have been shown empirically to obey a period - luminosity ( pl ) relation .",
    "the pl relation for classical cepheids was discovered by leavitt ( 1908 ) and used to measure the distance of galaxies .",
    "however , there is a discrepancy between the distance to the lmc derived from the pl relations for cepheids and that derived for rr lyraes ( walker 1992 ) .",
    "this discrepancy may be due to uncertainties in the absolute calibration and a sensitivity to metallicity effects ( caputo 1997 ) .",
    "it is important to establish pl relations of any new objects which are independent of these variable stars .    a pl relation for long period red variables ( miras and semi - regular variables ( hereafter srs ) )",
    "will be a useful distance indicator because these stars are numerous and have high luminosities .",
    "however , they are the least studied star type because of their complex pulsation mechanism .",
    "difficulties arise from uncertainties in our understanding of the convective energy transport and the opacity resulting from the many molecular absorption lines .",
    "we present in this paper the results of our study of lmc miras and srs using the moa database .",
    "this database was generated from the moa project microlensing survey .",
    "a pl relation for miras of the lmc was presented by glass & lloyd - evans ( 1981 ) and glass & feast ( 1982 ) .",
    "they observed 11 miras in the infrared bands @xmath4 .",
    "however , there was a large amount of scatter in the plot ( @xmath5 mag ) because their observation time was limited and it did not cover the whole phase of variations .    to reduce the scattering in the plot due to poor phase coverage , extensive infrared observations have been made ( feast et al .",
    "1989 ; hughes & wood 1990 ) , and a narrow pl relation was obtained ( @xmath6 mag ) .",
    "feast ( 1996 ) showed that the miras in the lmc follow a narrow pl relation in both absolute bolometric magnitude , @xmath7 , and absolute @xmath0-magnitude , @xmath8 , and he concluded that all miras pulsate in the same mode .",
    "wood & sebo ( 1996 ) found two sequences in a @xmath0 band pl diagram for the small amplitude srs in the lmc .",
    "one was the well - known mira sequence , and the other ( eight stars ) was located at the position which is parallel to the mira sequence and their periods were approximately half the periods of miras on the pl diagram .",
    "this discovery encouraged a hypothesis that the pulsation mode of these stars in the secondary sequence must be in a higher mode . using the hipparcos database of nearby stars , bedding & zijlstra ( 1998 ) discovered the srs which are located in the secondary sequence of wood & sebo ( 1996 ) .",
    "bedding and zijlstra interpreted the sequence of srs as evolutionary ( see whitelock ( 1986 ) ) .    feast ( 1999 ) suggested that both miras and srs pulsate in the same mode , possibly both in the first overtone .",
    "the arguments were based on the angular diameter measurements of nearby miras and the pl relationship of the miras and srs in globular clusters .",
    "he agreed with bedding and zijlstra ( 1998 ) that the sequence which is located on the shorter period side of the mira sequence in the pl plane is an evolutionary track ending at the mira sequence .",
    "feast also suggested that the mira sequence would be a collection of variable stars with different chemical abundances and/or with different stellar mass .",
    "in this case , it was not necessary that miras and srs pulsate in different modes .    as described above , there are two theories on the short - period stars in the pl diagram for long - period red variable stars .",
    "considering that the pulsation features of the miras and srs depend on several factors , other physical properties must also be considered .",
    "the study of stellar colour will be interesting because this gives us the temperature of stellar surface , stellar radius and mass which are the important factors of the pulsation period .",
    "recently , the continuous observation of a great number of stars using ccd cameras which cover a large image area became possible . the recent report of wood ( 2000 ) based on the @xmath0 band photometry and the period derived from the macho database indicated plausible sequences on the pl diagram .",
    "this diagram shows at least five sequences falling parallel to the mira sequence . according to wood ,",
    "the three sequences containing the mira sequence were explained as being different pulsation modes .",
    "however , more information is required to settle this issue .",
    "the features of the other two sequences are unknown , and it is expected that further independent observations and detailed investigation will reveal the nature of these stars .",
    "we worked on the problem using the moa database which contained data for a large number of stars in the lmc .",
    "the period , magnitude colour , amplitude and periodicity for each star was determined .",
    "we found an independent group of short period stars in a sample of 146 stars .",
    "we investigated the properties of these stars through their colour , amplitude and periodicity , and discuss the possibility of that they are higher mode pulsators .    following an introduction to the moa project",
    ", we describe our observation and photometry systems in sections 2 and 3 . to obtain the light curves of variable stars , a careful calibration of each image frame",
    "is required .",
    "this procedure is described in section 4 . in sections 5 and 6 ,",
    "the data reduction and period analysis methods are described . in section 7 , the colour - magnitude diagram ( cmd ) of the lmc stars observed using our system is presented and the period - magnitude relation will be given in section 8 .",
    "the period - colour relation is presented and discussed in section 9 .",
    "the result of the conversion of moa magnitudes to @xmath0 band values will be given in section 10 , along with a @xmath9 diagram . in section 11",
    "we discuss the possibility of the existence of multiple sequences in the ( @xmath1 ) plane with the amplitude distribution . in section 12",
    "we summarise our results .",
    "the moa project commenced observations in may 1996 with the aim of observing microlensing events towards the lmc , smc and galactic bulge .",
    "the observational program was undertaken at the university of canterbury s mt .",
    "john observatory ( @xmath10 above sea level ) in the centre of the south island of new zealand .",
    "the moa project uses a 61 cm ritchey - chrtien cassegrain telescope with modified optics to give a wide fov at f/6.25 .    for the first set of observations in 1996 ( series 1 ) , we used the original f/13.5 telescope optics and monitored @xmath11 stars in three lmc fields with the mosaic ccd camera , moa - cam1 .",
    "moa - cam1 was constructed with nine ti tc215 ccds with @xmath12 pixels whose pixel size was @xmath13 m @xmath14 m . from january 1997 to july 1998 , in series 2 , the optics were altered to f/6.25 .",
    "moa - cam1 covered 3 fields in the lmc bar ( @xmath15 stars ) and 2 fields in the smc ( @xmath16 stars ) .",
    "the current set of observations , series 3 , started in august 1998 .",
    "for this series , a new camera , moa - cam2 is in use .",
    "moa - cam2 consists of three abutted site @xmath17 pixel thinned , back - illuminated ccds with @xmath18 m @xmath19 m pixels .",
    "the pixel size is @xmath20 , giving a field of view of @xmath21 for each chip .",
    "the details of moa - cam2 are in yanagisawa et al .",
    "( 2000 ) . in this series",
    "we are observing 16 lmc fields ( @xmath22 stars ) , 8 smc fields ( @xmath23 stars ) and 14 galactic bulge fields .    we used two broad - band filters to maximise photon collection .",
    "the moa blue filter ( @xmath24 ) covers @xmath25 m",
    "( @xmath26 nm ) and moa red filter ( @xmath27 ) covers @xmath28 nm ( @xmath29 nm ) .",
    "the spectral transmission curves for each filter are shown in fig .  1 .    the moa instrumental photometry has been transformed to the standard johnson @xmath3 and kron - cousins @xmath30 ( @xmath31 ) by comparisons with about one hundred stars imaged by hubble space telescope ( hst ) .",
    "we describe these details in section 4 .",
    "the variable star study based on the moa database was reported in hearnshaw , bond , rattenbury , et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , noda , takeuti , bond , et al . ( 2000 ) , and takeuti , noda , bond , et al .",
    "( 2000 ) .",
    "regular 300 second exposures were made towards the large magellanic cloud and the small magellanic cloud .",
    "180 second exposures were made for the galactic bulge ( gb ) fields . under the current system",
    ", it takes 70 seconds to read out the 3 ccd images for each exposure .",
    "dark frames for each exposure were prepared every photometric night and dome flats or dark - sky flats were also frequently taken .",
    "observational data were archived on dlt tapes and all the data were analysed in both japan and new zealand .",
    "series 1 , 2 and 3 images were analysed using dophot photometry software ( schechter et al .",
    "the size of the series 2 database created by the subsequent photometry is @xmath32 40 gbytes .",
    "a new online analysis system based on image subtraction has been developed in new zealand . in the year 2000",
    "this system was able to find several microlensing events in real time and issue alerts to the astronomical community via the wwwphysib / alert / alert.html ] .",
    "we are re - analyzing some parts of our data with this method .",
    "before undertaking data analysis using the dophot program , all image files were prepared with dark and the flat field frames .",
    "dophot was used in a fixed position warm start mode , using the best photometric images as templates .",
    "it takes about 50 minutes to analyze one lmc frame with our computer .",
    "there were more than 400 measurements in the series 2 ( 1.6 year ) and series 3 ( 1.4 year ) database .",
    "we obtain only relative magnitudes from the dophot analysis .",
    "we also use non - standard filters , thus a transformation of our instrumental magnitude to the standard @xmath3 and @xmath31 is required .",
    "this transformation is described in the next section .",
    "the transformation of the moa photometry to the standard system was carried out using hubble space telescope ( hst ) image data . more details are given by kato ( 2000 ) .",
    "we defined the transform relation for moa - cam1 and moa - cam2 separately because their ccd quantum efficiencies were quite different ( the quantum efficiency of moa - cam2 was twice as high as that for moa - cam1 ) .",
    "although the filter system is exactly the same , this will cause serious differences in the relative magnitudes returned by dophot .",
    "the dophot magnitudes were calculated using photon quantities only , so a difference in ccd quantum efficiency will affect the dophot output directly . to get standard magnitudes for moa - cam2 , we performed the procedure described below .",
    "photons coming from a star show a complicated scattering pattern around a central position caused by atmospheric turbulence . a point - spread function ( psf ) models",
    "the scatter .",
    "the dophot code estimated each magnitude using an elliptical gaussian with seven free parameters as a model for a stellar psf .",
    "a common psf was adopted for all stars ( bright stars and faint stars ) in a frame , however it was clear that there were significant differences between the profiles for bright stars and that for faint stars .",
    "the former were weighted by the photon statistics of the star itself , and the latter were weighted by the photon statistics of the sky , so the latter should show larger scattering .",
    "the detailed study of the psf indicated that the function often differs from the elliptical gaussian ( alard & lupton 1998 ) . the error due to this discrepancy is approximately @xmath330.05 mag for the bright stars and @xmath330.09 mag for the faint stars .",
    "it was not a critical problem if we define a mean magnitude with more than 100 measurement points to study stellar intensity , because the scatter due to psf model inadequacy usually occurs at random .",
    "as we were using large ccd chips , we have to determine the position dependent error for each ccd chip . in order to investigate this",
    ", we observed the globular cluster ngc3201 at various positions on each chip , and compared stellar magnitudes with published magnitudes obtained using @xmath34 filters by alcaino et al .",
    "we found that the error was smaller ( @xmath35 mag ) than the dophot psf photometry error ( @xmath36 mag ) .",
    "this was a systematic error however , and did not disappear even if we deal with a mean magnitude .    in the third step , also using the ngc3201 data , we computed the chip to chip differences for the magnitude zero point :    @xmath37    we used the chip3 scale as our standard as it gave the most linear response .    for the final step",
    ", we converted our @xmath24 and @xmath27 magnitudes to standard johnson @xmath3 and kron - cousins @xmath30 ( @xmath31 ) respectively .",
    "the brightness of stars was acquired from an adu ( analog digital unit , 1 adu corresponded to 1.3 electrons for moa - cam2 ) value which corresponded to the number of photons measured with the assumed psf via the dophot photometry .",
    "we define the zero - point of magnitude for moa as 1 adu",
    ". therefore all of the obtained magnitudes are negative , and we have to correct the zero - point of our magnitude in order to obtain actual magnitudes .",
    "we analyzed the hst data of the lmc obtained with the wide field planetary camera2 ( wfpc2 ) to correct for atmospheric seeing . since the filters for wfpc2 had been transformed to the johnson @xmath3 and @xmath31 by holtzman et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , we were able to compare the converted hst magnitudes directly with those of our one hundred stars .",
    "finally , we found a relation to convert the @xmath38 and @xmath39 for moa - cam2 ;    @xmath40 @xmath41 @xmath42    for moa - cam1 ;    @xmath43    @xmath44    @xmath45    hereafter , we deal with @xmath38 and @xmath39 as the moa standard magnitudes . in fig .  2 , we show the colour magnitude diagram ( cmd ) obtained by moa - cam2 for our observation fields in the lmc bar .",
    "the limiting magnitude was around 20.5 mag for moa - cam2 , and 19 mag for moa - cam1 . since our passbands were broad and covered frequencies from violet to near infra - red bands , the colour is not sensitive for blue stars .    to minimize the effects of the non - uniformity of the sky and system on the raw magnitudes ( i.e. dophot output magnitudes ) we :    1 .",
    "divide the ccd chips into small regions ( 200 @xmath46 200 pixels ) 2 .",
    "select eighty bright stars which had more than 100 measurement points in each small region 3 .",
    "regard stars with a small scatter as ` non - variable ' stars , i.e. , where the number of observed points more than 4 sigma from the average magnitude was less than 15 4 .",
    "calculate magnitudes for all stars by comparison with the ` non - variable ' stars .",
    "that is , the moa standard magnitudes were determined relative to the magnitudes of the near ` non - variable ' stars in each small region .    through the revision of our calibration procedure , we obtained progressive and interesting diagrams compared with our previous reports ( hearnshaw , bond , rattenbury , et al .",
    "2000 ; noda , takeuti , bond , et al . 2000 ; takeuti , noda , bond , et al .",
    "details are given in later sections .",
    "we selected long - period red variables from the series 2 database using the following criteria :    1 .",
    "each star should be ` photometric ' and have a ` single star shape ' as judged by dophot .",
    "2 .   light curves should be sufficiently long ( @xmath47 100 points ) .",
    "3 .   light curves of each star must have large variability , i.e. , the reduced @xmath48 for a fit to mean brightness should be larger than @xmath49 and @xmath50 . here",
    "@xmath51 corresponded to the upper @xmath52 limit of the reduced @xmath48 distribution . for the moa database @xmath53 .",
    "+ to obtain large amplitude variables , we applied the additional criteria : + 4 .",
    "low amplitude stars at an early stage of the study are rejected by removing those stars which had a magnitude difference between the fourth highest and fourth lowest magnitude values of less than 1.3 magnitudes .",
    "this difference was larger than the amplitude @xmath54 determined in section 6 .",
    "this selection was done for the results of moa - cam1 system without using the colour dependence in equations ( 8) - ( 10 ) .",
    "this sample of large amplitude stars might be affected when we use the correct colour relation .",
    "we select redder stars for large amplitude ; @xmath55 for the moa - cam1 system .",
    "we obtained 1,067 light curves for the candidates of variable stars with large amplitude after applying criteria ( iv ) and ( v ) on the series 2 database .",
    "light curves from series 2 and series 3 were cross referenced to stars from their respective templates .",
    "we rejected unreliable light curves , and finally obtained 908 light curves . in fig .",
    "3 we show an example of a light curve .    we also found 485 small amplitude variable star candidates by applying a further criterion after numbers ( i ) to ( iii ) above .",
    "we analyse the large amplitude variables in this work .",
    "we will present the small amplitude variable star results in a future paper .",
    "as the first stage in the period analysis , we used the * p*hase * d*ispersion * m*inimization method for * m*oa ( pdmm ) which is a pdm method ( stellingwerf 1978 ) modified to operate on large photometry datasets .",
    "the pdmm algorithm finds a likely light curve period together with a reliability parameter , @xmath56 , for a large number of light curves automatically .",
    "@xmath57 indicates a complete cyclic change and @xmath58 indicates no periodicity .",
    "the amplitude , the difference between the magnitudes of the brightest and the faintest bins , was also calculated .",
    "we converted the magnitudes of each bin to intensities and calculated the mean intensity .",
    "we denote the mean magnitude values as @xmath59 and @xmath60 .",
    "we executed this code using both colours ( @xmath61 ) for the 908 selected light curves .",
    "since our dataset included scattered data points , the pdmm algorithm sometimes gave integral multiples or sub - multiples of the period , or in the worst case an incorrect result .",
    "to avoid simple errors in the periods obtained by the automatic analysis , we checked all code output carefully , and ran the pdm code manually to determine the most likely periods .",
    "we accepted a period which had good agreement between both colours . in fig .  4",
    ", we present an example of pdmm figures . the upper diagram shows the reliability of the testing period .",
    "a small value of @xmath56 indicates a likely value for the period .",
    "the bottom diagram shows the light curve folded with the most likely period .",
    "the total dataset ( series 2 to series 3 ) extends over about 3 years ( @xmath621,060 days ) , so periods less than @xmath62400 days should be well determined because these have more than 2.5 cycles of variation within the observation period .",
    "we classified 908 candidate light curves by their features of periodicity .",
    "among 908 stars , 329 stars show clear variability and of these , 259 stars had periods which were relatively well - determined .",
    "we rejected light curves like eclipsing binaries , then chose light curves whose periods were longer than @xmath63 ( 30 days ) .",
    "we also required @xmath64 ( 400 days ) reflecting the dataset time span .",
    "finally , 146 light curves were left .",
    "the reliability parameter @xmath56 for these curves is less than 0.67 ( the mean @xmath62 0.38 ) with 15 folding bins .",
    "we show the distribution of @xmath56 in fig .  5 .",
    "other candidates , the stars with poor determined period , short period or small amplitudes , will be the subject of future work . here",
    "we give observational values for 146 stars in table  1 ( i d , @xmath65 , @xmath66 , @xmath67 , @xmath59 , @xmath54 , @xmath68 , period , @xmath56 ) .",
    "i d is the moa database star number , ( @xmath69 ) is the right ascension and declination respectively . comparing the coordinates of 629 stars in tables  2 @xmath62 6 of hughes & wood ( 1990 ) with our sample",
    ", we identified at least 34 stars as a control .",
    "the i d numbers of their tables are indicated in the remarks column .",
    "spectral types given in their tables are also shown .",
    "the 34 stars consisted of 21 oxygen - rich stars and 13 carbon - rich stars . in fig .  6",
    ", we show the relation between the period determined via the pdm method and the period tabulated in hughes & wood ( 1990 ) for 30 stars whose periods are well - determined by us .",
    "it is clear that the periods are coincident and the differences between moa and hughes & wood ( 1990 ) is less than 2 % .",
    "we used these 30 stars for the conversion to the @xmath0 magnitude system as described in the following section . here",
    ", we note that hughes & wood ( 1990 ) tabulated two periods , 170 days and 319 days , for the star nlmc3 - 288533 .",
    "we adopted 319 days as their period because we obtained 307.6 days for the period of this star via our analysis using the pdm method .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     note : @xmath70 magnitudes are measured to within @xmath33 0.03 mag .    amongst the eight stars of group @xmath2 ,",
    "nlmc3 - 214266 should be a massive star , not a star evolved from the red giant branch or the first red giant branch as pointed out in section 9.1 .",
    "we examine the properties of the other seven stars .",
    "the differences between the brightness of the group @xmath2 stars and of the group@xmath71 stars is evident in fig .",
    "the faintest star , nlmc1 - 118904 , was equally bright in @xmath72 with the other six stars of group @xmath2 .",
    "the amplitude of nlmc1 - 239264 was larger than the other six stars , but the position on the period - luminosity diagram was not peculiar .",
    "we have to study the nature of this star by comparison with more abundant samples to determine whether or not this star is different from the others .    in fig .",
    "15 , the stars in group @xmath2 were located parallel to the sequence of group @xmath71 ( corresponding to the mira sequence of hughes & wood ( 1990 ) ) and separated by @xmath73 .",
    "the seven stars in group @xmath2 were located at a similar position to the short - period red ( sp - red ) stars which were reported by feast & whitelock ( 2000 ) analyzing galactic miras . while the sp - red stars had large amplitude and mira - like properties , our group @xmath2 stars had small amplitudes except nlmc1 - 239264 and showed less regular variations , different from the galactic miras .",
    "the definition of the galactic miras is that their amplitude in standard @xmath3-light should be larger than 2.5 mag .",
    "it is a natural classification because there are few stars with such amplitudes .",
    "however , such a gap was not distinct in @xmath74-band observations of long period variables in the lmc ( whitelock , 1997 ) . if we try to define miras in the lmc by fig .",
    "17 , the boundary might be at around 2.2 mag , though the small sample size makes that inconclusive .",
    "therefore we discuss the long period variables of the lmc with no sharp distinction between miras and semi - regulars .",
    "the theoretical models of long - period variables predict the ratio of fundamental to first or second overtone period should be @xmath75 .",
    "the stars in group @xmath2 were very similar to those compared with the higher mode pulsators by wood and sebo ( 1996 ) .",
    "higher mode pulsators are also expected to have smaller amplitudes than fundamental mode pulsators .",
    "the smallness of the amplitudes of these stars in fig .",
    "17 and fig .",
    "18 supported this point .",
    "therefore if the stars in group @xmath71 were fundamental pulsators , the seven stars in group @xmath2 could be first or second overtone pulsators . on the other hand , as described above , these stars might be the counterparts of short - period red ( sp - red ) stars reported by whitelock , marang , and feast ( 2000 ) .",
    "these authors point out that the kinematics of such stars were different from the blue stars with similar periods .",
    "such differences indicate a considerably different stellar age and imply a difference of evolutionary process due to a distinct chemical composition . a further development in the theory of stellar structure",
    "is needed before it will be possible to judge whether these seven stars are counterparts of sp - red stars ( and are higher mode pulsators ) or not .    to study these stars further we plotted , in fig .",
    "19 , the @xmath76 colour against @xmath77 magnitude with the symbols being the same as in fig .  15 .",
    "the seven stars of group @xmath2 are located at the reddest and highest luminosity region where longer - period variables are also located .",
    "this suggests that the radius of these stars is very similar to that of longer - period stars .",
    "the difference in the period of stars of similar radius is explained by the difference in the mass @xmath78 and the pulsation property @xmath79 .",
    "the estimate of the pulsation property for these stars has not been completed because of the uncertainty in the pulsation theory , but the effect of the chemical composition and the stellar mass on @xmath79 looks negligible for a given mode ( barthes and tuchman 1994 ) .",
    "the difference in the period - temperature relation found in the globular clusters ( whitelock 1986 ) has been resolved using different chemical compositions , but the difference in the period of the stars of which the colour is the same can not be explained this way .",
    "the difference in the stellar mass and the mode of pulsation should be studied to explain the difference in the period .",
    "when the distribution of periods with stellar physical properties is continuous , it is reasonable to suppose that this is due to changes in stellar mass or other stellar parameters such as chemical composition . since the periods of these seven stars are separated from their long - period counterparts , the enhancement of a different mode",
    "is suggested .",
    "further progress in data reduction is required to examine the existence of the gap in the periods of this luminous red domain of the colour-@xmath0 diagram .",
    "when we consider the excitation of different modes , we have to study the reason for such a mode selection . in the classical cepheids and rr lyrae stars ,",
    "the higher mode pulsators have been found on the blue side , or small stellar radii side , of the colour - magnitude diagram .",
    "therefore it seems difficult to compare directly the group @xmath2 stars with higher mode pulsators of the cepheid instability strip . on the other hand , it may be interesting to compare the surface gravity between them .",
    "the surface gravity of the higher mode pulsators is high for stars in the cepheid instability strip .",
    "this implies that the surface gravity of the group @xmath2 stars might be also high .",
    "the critical frequency of the stellar atmosphere ( i.e. , the boundary frequency of reflection or transmission at the stellar surface ) must be high for a high surface gravity . the enhancement of high frequency , or short period pulsation in group @xmath2 stars suggests high stellar mass when we suppose the same situation for the transmission and reflection for all pulsating stars .",
    "there are 46 stars in group @xmath80 .",
    "many carbon - rich stars might be included in this group .",
    "12 group @xmath80 stars are the same as the carbon - rich stars tabulated in hughes & wood ( 1990 ) .",
    "there was a possibility that about 50 @xmath62 60 stars among the sample of 146 are carbon - rich stars as mentioned in section 10 .",
    "these carbon - rich stars were estimated to be too faint in our @xmath77 conversion . also , in the amplitude distribution ( fig .",
    "17 ) , there was no obvious difference between group @xmath71 and group @xmath80 .",
    "we conclude most group @xmath80 stars were carbon - rich and should be included in group @xmath71 .",
    "however , we need to distinguish oxygen - rich stars from carbon - rich stars in order to investigate whether a long - period sequence exists , and if the strip structure is real or not . future study of the relationship using a @xmath2-band filter should help resolve this issue .",
    "wood ( 2000 ) presented the sequential structure of the pl diagram using a large sample . because our sample size is small",
    ", it was hard to confirm this structure , except for the existence of a separate group of red short - period stars .",
    "however , it should be noted that these red short - period stars were of small amplitude ( @xmath54 ) and less regular ( small @xmath56 ) . these will be useful characteristics in the study of the nature of these stars . in the period-@xmath0 diagram",
    ", the stars , nlmc3 - 214266 and nlmc1 - 239264 , were also contained in group @xmath2 implying that it is necessary to investigate the properties of individual star even in large scale photometry in order to understand the period - luminosity relation . the individual star discovered by wood ( 2000 )",
    "should also be checked to determine whether it is to be included in group @xmath2 and the in the set of galactic red sp stars .",
    "we selected long - period red lmc variables from the three year moa database , and executed a careful period analysis using the pdmm and pdm codes .",
    "we selected 146 variable stars using criteria which focus on long - period red variables ( miras and srs ) , and investigated their properties .",
    "their observational data were tabulated .",
    "in the ( @xmath81 ) and ( @xmath82 ) diagrams , the luminosity of stars in the major cluster tended to decrease as the period increases . in the ( @xmath83 ) diagram ,",
    "the colours were redder as the periods were longer .",
    "we transformed @xmath61 magnitudes to @xmath77 values using 19 oxygen - rich stars , and presented the period - luminosity ( pl ) relation in the ( @xmath84 ) plane .",
    "many of the stars in our sample , including the large amplitude stars , fell near the position corresponding to the o - mira sequence by feast et al .",
    "( 1989 ) and hughes & wood ( 1990 ) . a small number of stars ( 8) formed a separate group in the period - magnitude or period - colour diagrams . this group ( group @xmath2 ) was found in the bright and short period region of the ( @xmath84 ) plane compared with the o - mira sequence .",
    "these stars showed less periodic variation , and six of them had small amplitudes .",
    "the separation in @xmath85 between them and the main group was @xmath62 0.4 .",
    "they were on the red side of the period - colour diagram and were located at the reddest and brightest tip of the colour-@xmath77 diagram similar to the long - period members . if our conversion scale is adequate , it indicates that some of the stars pulsate in a short period compared with the stars which may have a similar radius .",
    "these facts were possibly explained by the assumption proposed by wood & sebo ( 1996 ) : that those six stars with short periods and small amplitudes were higher mode pulsators than the stars on the o - mira sequence .",
    "two particular stars , nlmc3 - 214266 and nlmc1 - 239264 , were included in group @xmath2 .",
    "these stars showed different features from the other six variable stars .",
    "their pulsation property possibly differs from the other six stars .    in the ( @xmath84 ) diagram , below the o - mira sequence",
    ", many stars were located in a wide region . since",
    "almost all identified c - miras were found in this domain , we supposed that a large number of such variable stars were c - miras which were more luminous than the magnitude indicated here . in order to reduce the systematic scattering in the ( @xmath84 ) diagram , it was necessary to distinguish carbon - rich stars from oxygen - rich stars in advance .",
    "the difficulty in distinguishing oxygen - rich and carbon - rich stars comes from the fact that our blue filter covers both the standard @xmath2 and @xmath3 bands .",
    "it is expected that in the future these stars will be observed in the @xmath2 or @xmath3 bands which will distinguish between carbon - rich stars and oxygen - rich stars .",
    "alternatively , using any passband which avoids the effect of tio bands to estimate the bolometric magnitude of the stars could be used .",
    "improvement in the magnitude calibration and confidence in the interpretation of the plural sequences is expected to follow from the analysis of further large observational databases .",
    "we are grateful to a. tanaka for his collaboration in preparing the pdm code .",
    "we wish to thank p.a.whitelock for her useful comments and help .",
    "we also thank h. saio for helpful discussions .",
    "this work is supported by a grant - in - aid for scientific research ( a ) of the japan ministry of education , science , sports and culture , and also by the marsden fund of the royal society of new zealand .",
    "abe f. et al ( the moa collaboration ) , 1997 , variable stars and the astrophysical returns of microlensing surveys , edited by roger ferlet , jean - pierre maillard and brigitte raban , france : editions frontieres , 75 alard c. and lupton r.h . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 503 , 325 alcaino g. , liller w. and alvarado f. , 1989 , a&a , 216 , 68 barthes d. , tuchman y. , 1994 , a&a 289 , 429 becker , s.a . , 1998 , a half century of stellar pulsation interpretation asp conf . ser . , 135 , 12 bedding t.r . and zijlstra a.a . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 506 , l47 caputo f. , 1997 , mnras , 284 , 994 feast m.w . ,",
    "glass i.s . , whitelock p.a . and catchpole r.m.,1989 , 241 .",
    "375 feast m.w . , 1996 , mnras , 278 , 11 feast m.w . , 1999 , asymptotic giant branch stars , iau symp .",
    "no 191 , 109 feast m.w . and whitelock p.a .",
    ", 2000 , mnras , 317 , 460 glass i.s . and feast m.w . , 1982 ,",
    "mnras 199 , 245 glass i.s . and lloyd - evans , t . , 1981 ,",
    "nature 291 , 303 hearnshaw j.b . ,",
    ", rattenbury n.j . , noda s. and takeuti m. , et al . , 2000 , the impact of large - scale surveys on pulsating star research , iau colloquium no.176 , eds.l .",
    "szadados , d.w .",
    "kuitz , asp conf .",
    "ser . , 203 , 31 holtzman j.a . ,",
    "burrows c.j . , casertano s. , et al . , 1995 ,",
    "pasp , 107 , 1065 hughes s.m.g . , and wood p.r . , 1990 , aj , 99 , 784 kato y. , 2000 , proceedings of the cosmic - ray research section of nagoya university , vol41 , no.1 , 127 kienzle , f. , burki , g. , burnet , m. , and meynet , g. , 1998 , a&a , 337 , 779 kurochkin n.e . , 1992 , sov .",
    ", lett . , 18 , 410 leavitt h.c . , 1908 , harvard ann .",
    "60 , no.4 menessier , m.o . , and alvarez , r. , 1999 , asymptotic giant branch stars , iau symp .",
    "191 , 117 noda s. , takeuti m. , et al . , 2000 , the impact of large - scale surveys on pulsating star research , iau colloquium no.176 , eds.l .",
    "szadados , d.w .",
    "kuitz , asp conf .",
    "ser . , 203 , 80 schechter p.l . ,",
    "mateo m. , and saha a. , 1993 , pasp , 105 , 1342 smak j. , 1964 , apj supple .",
    "9 , 141 stellingwerf r.f .",
    ", 1978 , apj , 224 , 953 takeuti m. , noda s. , et al . , 2000 , the impact of large - scale surveys on pulsating star research , iau colloquium no.176 , eds.l .",
    "szadados , d.w .",
    "kuitz , asp conf .",
    "ser . , 203 , 120 trams n.r . , van loon j.th . and waters l.b.f.m et al . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a 346 , 843 yanagisawa t. and the moa project , 2000 , experimental astronomy , 10 , 519 whitelock p.a . , 1986 , mnras , 219 , 525 whitelock p.a . , 1999 , variables stars and the astrophysical returns of the microlensing surveys .",
    "r. ferlat , j .-",
    "maillard , and b. raban , editions frontieres , 163 whitelock p. , marang , f. , and feast , m. w. , 2000 , mnras , 319 , 728 wood p.r . and sebo k.m . , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 958 wood p.r .",
    ", 2000 , pasa , 17 , 18"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> one hundred and forty six long - period red variable stars in the large magellanic cloud ( lmc ) from the three year moa project database were analysed . </S>",
    "<S> a careful periodic analysis was performed on these stars and a catalogue of their magnitudes , colours , periods and amplitudes is presented . </S>",
    "<S> we convert our blue and red magnitudes to @xmath0 band values using 19 oxygen - rich stars . </S>",
    "<S> a group of red short - period stars separated from the mira sequence has been found on a ( @xmath1 ) diagram . </S>",
    "<S> they are located at the short period side of the mira sequence consistent with the work of wood and sebo ( 1996 ) . </S>",
    "<S> there are two interpretations for such stars ; a difference in pulsation mode or a difference in chemical composition . </S>",
    "<S> we investigated the properties of these stars together with their colour , amplitude and periodicity . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that they have small amplitudes and less regular variability . </S>",
    "<S> they are likely to be higher mode pulsators . </S>",
    "<S> a large scatter has been also found on the long period side of the ( @xmath1 ) diagram . </S>",
    "<S> this is possibly a systematic spread given that the blue band of our photometric system covers both standard @xmath2 and @xmath3 bands and affects carbon - rich stars .    </S>",
    "<S> = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupeurmn @mathgroup@bold@groupeurbn @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupmsamn @mathgroup@bold@groupmsamn = `` 019 = ' ' 016 = `` 040 = ' ' 336 = \" 33e = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 = = = = = = = =    [ firstpage ]    catalogues  stars : agb and post - agb  stars : oscillations  stars : variables : other  magellanic clouds </S>"
  ]
}