{
  "article_text": [
    "the discovery of strong and remarkably coherent high - frequency x - ray brightness oscillations in at least sixteen neutron stars in low - mass binary systems has provided valuable new information about these stars , some of which are likely to become millisecond pulsars .",
    "oscillations are observed both in the persistent x - ray emission and during thermonuclear x - ray bursts ( see van der klis 1997 ) .",
    "the kilohertz quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) observed in the persistent emission have frequencies in the range 3251200  hz , amplitudes as high as @xmath3% , and quality factors @xmath4 as high as @xmath5 .",
    "two kilohertz qpos are commonly observed simultaneously in a given source ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "although the frequencies of the two qpos vary by hundreds of hertz , the frequency separation @xmath6 between them appears to be nearly constant in almost all cases ( see van der klis et al.1997 and mndez et al .",
    "1997 ) .    the @xmath0250600  hz brightness oscillations observed during type  i x - ray bursts are different in character from the qpos observed in the persistent emission ( see strohmayer , zhang , & swank 1997 ) .",
    "only a single oscillation has been observed during x - ray bursts , and the oscillations in the tails of bursts appear to be highly coherent ( see , e.g. , smith , morgan , & bradt 1997 ) , with frequencies that are always the same for a given source ( comparison of burst oscillations from over about a year shows that the timescale for any variation in the oscillation frequency is @xmath7  yr ; strohmayer 1997 ) .",
    "the burst oscillations in and ( see strohmayer , swank , & zhang 1998 ) have frequencies that are consistent with the separation frequencies of their kilohertz qpo pairs . the burst oscillations in ( zhang et al .",
    "1997 ) and ( smith et al .  1997 ) have frequencies that are consistent with twice the separation frequencies of their kilohertz qpo pairs ( zhang et al .  1997 ; wijnands & van der klis 1997 ) .",
    "the evidence is compelling that the burst oscillations are produced by rotation with the star of one or two nearly identical emitting spots on the surface ( see strohmayer et al .",
    "the frequencies of the burst oscillations are therefore the stellar spin frequency or its first overtone .",
    "the frequency separation @xmath6 between the two kilohertz qpos observed in the persistent emission of a given star is closely equal to the spin frequency of the star inferred from its burst oscillations ( see miller , lamb , & psaltis 1998 , hereafter mlp ) .",
    "although other types of models have been suggested ( klein et  al .  1996 ; titarchuk & muslimov 1997 ) , the evidence favoring beat - frequency models of the two kilohertz qpos is very strong ( see van der klis 1997 ) , and we therefore focus on these .",
    "the magnetospheric beat - frequency model was developed to explain the single , @xmath01560  hz `` horizontal branch oscillation '' ( hbo ) observed in the z sources ( see lamb 1991 ) . in this model , the frequency of the hbo is the difference between the keplerian orbital frequency @xmath8 at the main radius where the stellar magnetic field picks up and channels gas from the accretion disk onto the magnetic polar regions and the stellar spin frequency @xmath9 .",
    "strohmayer et  al .",
    "( 1996 ) applied the magnetospheric beat - frequency idea to the kilohertz qpo pairs , interpreting the frequency of the higher - frequency qpo in a pair as @xmath10 and the frequency of the lower - frequency qpo as .",
    "although it explains naturally why the frequency separation between the qpos in a pair is nearly constant in most sources and equal to the burst oscillation frequency or half this frequency , there are many serious difficulties with the magnetospheric beat - frequency interpretation of the kilohertz qpos ( see mlp ) .",
    "the most fully developed and successful model of the kilohertz qpos is the so - called sonic - point beat - frequency model , in which the higher frequency in a qpo pair is the orbital frequency of gas at the inner edge of the keplerian disk flow and the lower frequency is the difference between this frequency and the spin frequency of the neutron star .",
    "the sonic - point model was developed ( mlp ) specifically to explain the kilohertz qpo pairs and is based on previous work ( miller & lamb 1996 ) which showed that the drag force produced by radiation from a central star can terminate a keplerian disk flow near the star . in the sonic - point model , some accreting gas spirals inward in nearly circular keplerian orbits until it is close to the neutron star , where radiation forces or general relativistic effects cause a sudden increase in the inward radial velocity , which becomes supersonic within a small radial distance ( see fig .",
    "the sharp increase in the radial velocity is usually caused by the drag exerted on the accreting gas by radiation from the star , but may instead be caused by general relativistic corrections to newtonian gravity if the gas in the keplerian disk flow reaches the innermost stable circular orbit without being significantly affected by radiation .",
    "as the disk flow approaches the sonic point , the optical depth of the flow in the radial direction ( measured from the stellar surface ) typically falls steeply with decreasing radius ( see fig .",
    "the change from optically thick to optically thin disk flow occurs within a few photon mean free paths and is somewhat analogous to the ionization front at the boundary of an hii region , except that here the photon mean free path increases because the radiation is removing angular momentum and the flow is accelerating inward , causing the density to fall sharply , whereas in an ionization front the mean free path is increases because radiation is removing bound electrons from atoms and molecules , causing the opacity to fall sharply .",
    "once the accreting gas is exposed to the radiation from the star , it loses its angular momentum to radiation drag in a radial distance @xmath11 .",
    "it then falls inward supersonically along spiral trajectories and collides with the neutron star around its equator , producing an x - ray emitting equatorial ring .",
    "[ transition ] -1.5truecm -1.0truecm    gas streaming inward from clumps orbiting near the sonic radius along trajectories with the tight spiral shape shown in figure  3a generates the more open spiral density pattern shown in figure  3b .",
    "collision of the denser gas from the clumps with the stellar surface creates beams of brighter x - ray emission , like the beam indicated by the white dashed lines in figure  3b .",
    "these beams move around the star s equator , generating a quasi - periodic brightness oscillation with frequency @xmath12 .",
    "the lower - frequency qpo is generated by weak x - ray beams produced by funneling of part of the accretion flow near the star by the star s weak magnetic field .",
    "these beams rotate _ with the star _ and modulate the radiation drag acting on the gas at the sonic radius , modulating the inward mass flux and the luminosity at the sonic - point beat frequency @xmath13 ( or ) .",
    "[ spirals ] -2.2truecm    0.8truecm    -3.2truecm    the sonic - point model is consistent with the accretion rates , stellar magnetic fields , and scattering optical depths inferred previously from  and  observations of the atoll and z sources and accounts for the main features of the kilohertz qpos , including their high and variable frequencies , their high amplitudes and coherences , and the common occurrence of kilohertz qpos in pairs ( see mlp ) .",
    "it also explains naturally why the frequency separation between the frequencies of a kilohertz qpo pair is nearly constant and equal to the burst oscillation frequency or half this frequency .",
    "finally , the sonic - point model can account for the similar frequency ranges of the kilohertz qpos in sources with very different accretion rates and magnetic fields .",
    "the frequency of the higher - frequency qpo in a kilohertz qpo pair is almost certainly the orbital frequency of gas in keplerian orbit around the star .",
    "if so , the high frequency and coherence these qpos allow one to derive tight upper bounds on the masses and radii of the neutron stars that produce such qpos and significant constraints on the equation of state of neutron star matter .    to see how such bounds can be constructed , suppose first that the star is not rotating and assume that , for the star in question , @xmath14the highest observed value of the frequency of the higher - frequency ( keplerian - frequency ) qpo in the kilohertz qpo pair  is 1220  hz ( this is the highest qpo frequency detected so far in any source ; see mlp ) . obviously , the radius @xmath15 of the orbit of the gas producing the qpo must be greater than the radius @xmath16 of the star .",
    "this means that the star s representative point in the @xmath16,@xmath17 plane must lie to the left of the cubic curve @xmath18 ( the dashed curve shown in figure  4a ) which relates the star s mass to the radius of orbits with frequency 1220  hz . in order to produce a wave train with tens of oscillations",
    ", @xmath15 must also be greater than the radius @xmath19 of the innermost stable circular orbit , so the actual radius of the orbit must lie on the portion of the @xmath20 curve that lies below its intersection with the diagonal line @xmath21 ( the dotted line shown in figure  4a ) which relates the star s mass to @xmath19 . as figure  4a shows , this requirement bounds the mass and radius of the star from above . for",
    "@xmath22 , the representative point of the star must lie in the pie - slice shaped region enclosed by the solid lines in figure  4a .",
    "thus , the mass and radius of a nonrotating star with this qpo frequency would have to be less than @xmath23 and 16.0  km , respectively .",
    "figure  4b compares the mass - radius relations for nonrotating stars given by five equations of state with the region of the radius - mass plane allowed for three values of @xmath14 .    -1.5truecm",
    "-0.5truecm    the allowed region of the @xmath16,@xmath17 plane is affected by rotation ( see mlp ) .",
    "the parameter that characterizes the importance of rotational effects is the dimensionless quantity , where @xmath24 and @xmath17 are the angular momentum and gravitational mass of the star . for the spin frequencies @xmath0300  inferred in the kilohertz qpo sources",
    ", @xmath25 is @xmath26 , depending on the equation of state .",
    "figure  1c illustrates the effects of slow stellar rotation on the allowed region of the @xmath16,@xmath17 plane .",
    "the region allowed for a slowly rotating star is always larger than the region allowed for a nonrotating star , regardless of the equation of state .",
    "however , the region allowed for a rapidly rotating star can be smaller than that for the corresponding nonrotating star ( miller , lamb , & cook 1998 ) .",
    "if the frequency of a kilohertz qpo can be established as the orbital frequency of gas at the innermost stable circular orbit , this would be an important step forward in our understanding of strong - field gravity and the properties of dense matter , because it would confirm one of the key predictions of general relativity in the strong - field regime and fix the mass of the neutron star in that source , for each assumed equation of state .",
    "probably the most convincing signature would be a fairly coherent kilohertz qpo with a frequency that reproducibly increases steeply with increasing accretion rate but then becomes constant and remains nearly constant as the accretion rate increases further .",
    "this behavior emerges naturally from general relativistic calculations of the gas dynamics and radiation transport in the sonic - point model ( see fig .",
    ". the constant frequency should always be the same in a given source .",
    "this work was supported in part by nsf grant ast  96 - 18524 , nasa grant nag  5 - 2925 , and nasa rxte grants at the university of illinois , and by nasa grant nag  5 - 2868 at the university of chicago .",
    "klein , r.i . , jernigan , j.g . , arons , j. , morgan , e.h . , &",
    "zhang , w. 1996 , apj , 469 , l119 lamb , f.  k. 1991 , in neutron stars : theory and observation , ed . j. ventura & d. pines , ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 445 mndez , m. , et al .",
    "1997 , apj , in press ( preprint astro - ph/9712085 ) miller , m.c . , & lamb , f.k .",
    "1996 , apj , 470 , 1033 miller , m.  c. , lamb , f.  k. , & cook , g. 1998 , in preparation miller , m.c . , lamb , f.k . , & psaltis , d. 1998 , apj , in press ( mlp ) smith , d.a . ,",
    "morgan , e.h . , & bradt , h. 1997 , apj , 479 , l137 strohmayer , t.e . , swank , j.h .",
    ", zhang , w. 1998 , in the active x - ray sky , ed . l. scarsi , h. bradt , p. giommi , & f. fiore , nuclear phys .",
    ", in press ( astro - ph/9801219 ) strohmayer , t. , zhang , w. , swank , j.h .",
    "1997 , apj , 487 , l77 strohmayer , t. 1997 , talk presented at the 1997 head meeting , estes park , colorado titarchuk , l. , & muslimov , a. 1997 , a&a , 323 , l5 van der klis , m. 1997 , in the many faces of neutron stars , proc .",
    "nato asi , lipari , italy ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , in press ( astro - ph/9710016 ) van der klis , m. , wijnands , r. , horne , k. , & chen , w. 1997 , apj , 481 , l97 wijnands , r.a.d . , & van der klis , m. 1997 , apj , 482 , l65 zhang , w. , lapidus , i. , swank , j.h . , white , n.  e. , & titarchuk , l. 1997 , iau circ ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> one of the most dramatic discoveries made with the _ rossi x - ray timing explorer _ is that many accreting neutron stars in low - mass binary systems produce strong , remarkably coherent , high - frequency x - ray brightness oscillations . </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath03251200  hz quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) observed in the accretion - powered emission are thought to be produced by gas orbiting very close to the neutron star , whereas the @xmath0360600  hz brightness oscillations seen during thermonuclear x - ray bursts are produced by one or two hot spots rotating with the star and have frequencies equal to the stellar spin frequency or its first overtone . </S>",
    "<S> the oscillations constrain the masses and radii of these neutron stars , which are thought to be the progenitors of the millisecond pulsars . </S>",
    "<S> modeling indicates that the stars have spin frequencies @xmath0250350  hz and magnetic fields @xmath010@xmath1  </S>",
    "<S> @xmath2  g. </S>"
  ]
}