{
  "article_text": [
    "the existence of black holes is accepted as a fact of the cosmos by many astrophysicists .",
    "the evidence for the existence of massive objects that may be compact enough to be black holes is strong , however there is as yet no direct evidence of any mass that is contained within its schwarzschild radius and even that would not necessarily prove the object to be a black hole .",
    "supermassive compact objects have been found in the nuclei of most galaxies and objects of stellar mass are abundant within our own and other galaxies . while these compact objects are commonly called black holes no compelling observational evidence of an event horizon , the quintessential feature of a black hole , has yet been found .",
    "it has been pointed out previously ( abramowicz , kluzniak & lasota 2002 ) that it would be very difficult to prove the existence of event horizons if objects with large surface gravitational redshift exist .",
    "extreme redshifts could make such objects nearly as dark as a black hole ( see appendix a ) . if not different from a black hole in some other way , it would not seem to matter much whether or not the black hole candidates are actual black holes . on the other hand ,",
    "nearly every object of stellar mass or greater is known to be magnetic to some degree .",
    "whatever their origins , magnetic fields and their synchrotron radiations are ubiquitous among the black hole candidates . instead of possessing event horizons ,",
    "some of these compact objects might be found to be both intrinsically magnetic and highly redshifted . since magnetic moments",
    "are forbidden attributes for black holes , there would be important consequences for astrophysics if some of the black hole candidates were found to possess them .",
    "already some evidence for the existence of magnetic moments has been presented for both gbhc and agn ( robertson & leiter 2002 , 2004 , 2006 schild , leiter & robertson 2006 , 2008 ) .",
    "others have reported evidence for very strong magnetic fields in gbhc , e.g. , a field in excess of @xmath0 g has been found at the base of the jets of grs 1915 + 105 ( gliozzi , bodo & ghisellini 1999 , vadawale , rao & chakrabarti 2001 ) .    these findings provided motivation for the development of a fully general relativistic model of a gravitationally compact , intrinsically magnetic , eternally collapsing object that we call a meco ( leiter & robertson 2003 , mitra 2006a , b , c , robertson & leiter 2003 , 2004 , 2006 , hereafter rl03 , rl04 , rl06 ) .",
    "a meco avoids rapid collapse to a black hole state by radiating away its mass - energy at an eddington limit rate .",
    "it is characterized by both an extreme redshift and a strong intrinsic magnetic moment ( see appendix a - d ) .",
    "the large redshift accounts for the low quiescent surface luminosities of gbhc and agn and their extremely long ( many hubble times ) radiative lifetimes .",
    "the meco model has been shown ( mcclintock , narayan & rybicki 2004 ) to be consistent with the lower limit on the quiescent emission from the gbhc xte j1118 + 480 .",
    "we show here that it is also consistent with the low luminosity of sgr a*.    the meco model for disk accreting gbhc and agn accounts for the existence of their low / hard and high / soft x - ray spectral states .",
    "the rotating magnetic moments provide a robust universal magnetic propeller mechanism for spectral state switches ( ilarianov & sunyaev 1975 , campana et al . , 1998 , 2002 , rl02 , rl03 ) .",
    "the high / soft @xmath1 low / hard transition marks the start of a magnetic propeller regime , the end of accreting plasma being able to penetrate inside the corotation radius and the beginning of a low state jet outflow .",
    "the meco model correctly predicts ( rl04 ) that this transition occurs at about @xmath2 of eddington limit luminosity for both gbhc and agn .",
    "the luminosities at the transition and in quiescence have permitted the determinations of the magnetic moments and spin rates for meco - gbhc ( rl02 , rl06 , and eqs 6 & 10 , table 1 ) .",
    "spectral state switches are common to dwarf novae , the neutron stars and gbhc of low mass x - ray binary systems and agn .",
    "they are signatures of intrinsic magnetism , however they have not yet been accepted as such because it is generally believed that the black hole candidates are actual black holes and can not possess magnetic moments .",
    "meco interacting with accretion disks , as shown in rl04 , can produce low / hard state jet outflows with correlated radio and x - ray emissions ( @xmath3 ) in accord with observations ( gallo , fender & pooley 2003 , markoff et al .",
    "2003 , falcke , krding & markoff 2004 , maccarone , gallo & fender 2003 ) . to account for the similar correlations for agn and neutron star or dwarf nova systems",
    ", it was necessary to explore the mass scaling relations for the meco model ( rl04 ) .",
    "these meco mass scaling relationships , including those associated with the magnetic moments and spin rates that have been able to account for the radio / x - ray luminosity correlations of agn and gbhc ( rl04 ) , are listed in the right hand column of table 1 .",
    "it is a remarkable fact that no further adjustments to these meco mass scaling parameters are needed for the successful application of the meco model to the case of sgr a*. they also account for the newly discovered quasar accretion structures ( schild , leiter & robertson 2006 , 2008 ) revealed by microlensing observations of the quasars q0957 + 561 and q2237 + 0305 .",
    "the observed structures are consistent with the strongly magnetic meco model but do not accord with standard thin disk models of accretion flows into a black hole . since even the nearest gbhc are much too small to be resolved in the detail shown by the microlensing techniques which were used in the study of q0957 and q2237 , sgr a * is likely the only remaining black hole candidate for which resolved images might reveal whether or not it possesses a magnetic moment .",
    "for this reason it is important that it be tested .    because much of the spectrum of sgr a * appears to originate in synchrotron - cyclotron radiation",
    ", a serious test of the hypothesis that sgr a * might possess an intrinsic magnetic moment will require global solutions for the magnetic field and electron density distributions for some kind of accretion flow . while this will require future detailed simulations that are beyond the scope of the present work , we show in this paper that analytic methods can be used to give here a good accounting of the physical properties of the radio / nir and x - ray spectral characteristics , luminosities and polarizations that have been observed for sgr a*. we find that we must consider bondi accretion for a quiescent meco and",
    "then show that we can reconcile the observed low luminosity of sgr a * with the expected bondi accretion flow rate .    for the discussion to follow and also for the convenience of readers who might wish to relate meco properties to observations of other objects , we have tabulated a number of useful relations in table 1 .",
    "many of the parameters are given in terms of quiescent x - ray luminosity @xmath4 , or the luminosity , @xmath5 , at the transition high / soft @xmath1 low / hard state since these are often measurable quantities .",
    "some new developments , minor corrections and general features for the meco model are presented in appendixes a - e.    [ cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      +      as shown in appendix e , the luminosity produced in the axial inflows to distance @xmath6 from the meco is ( eq .",
    "32 ) @xmath7 for @xmath8 , this yields @xmath9 . to @xmath10 and @xmath11 ,",
    "the luminosity in the polar flow would be @xmath12 . for comparison , the spectrum reported by an et al .",
    "( 2005 ) shows a luminosity of @xmath13 to a frequency of 560 ghz .",
    "the discrepancy between these results occurs primarily in the lower frequencies .",
    "the flux at @xmath14 consistent with eq .",
    "2 is about one order of magnitude below the observed radio spectral trend .",
    "this should be expected because most of the radio spectrum would be generated in the outflow , but eq.2 should be fairly accurate in the nir which is produced only in the inflow .    at frequencies above about @xmath15 ,",
    "the axial flow is optically thin and dominated by cyclotron fundamental frequencies that can be associated with position in the dipole magnetic field ; i.e. , @xmath16 .",
    "thus inside @xmath17 , it is also shown in appendix e that luminosity varies with frequency along the axial flows such that ( appendix e eq .",
    "33 ) @xmath18 thus the spectral index in the optically thin ir / nir would be @xmath19 for the conical inflow model .",
    "the average of four measurements reported in bn06 in the nir wavelength range from @xmath20 is @xmath21 . using a distance to sgr a * of @xmath22 , the average flux calculated here from eq .",
    "3 for the same four wavelengths is @xmath23 .",
    "this result and the variability shown by measurements at the position of sgr a * strongly suggests that the nir spectrum originates in a variable accretion flow that is consistent with the meco model . while the flux calculated here",
    "is somewhat larger than the lowest flux used in bn06 to constrain an accretion rate to an assumed hard surface , it should be remembered that variability in the accretion flow would produce opportunities to observe both higher and lower luminosities .",
    "it should also be noted that the calculated luminosity is sensitive to the electron temperature , which is poorly constrained . on balance , the agreement between meco calculated and averaged observed luminosities seems reasonable .",
    "in addition to sensitivity to the electron temperature , the luminosity generated in the inflow depends on the meco spin rate which then determines the size of the corotation radius ( @xmath24 ) and hence the fraction of the bondi flow that can reach the central meco .",
    "we should expect the spin rate to be influenced by angular momentum transported to the meco by its accretion environment .",
    "nevertheless , the similar corotation radii ( @xmath25 ) of disk accreting gbhc and agn are necessary for consistency with their mass scale independent radio cutoffs at @xmath2 of eddington limit luminosity . given this mass scale invariant property ,",
    "it is not surprising that they seem to show little variability in spins that scale as @xmath26 .",
    "while we must admit that it is fortuitous that a similarly scaled spin provides reasonable results for the meco model of sgr a * , it also suggests that it may have had an accretion history similar to that of other agn .    for an optically thick slice in the inflow at frequencies below @xmath27",
    ", the cyclotron spectrum would produce luminosity from an axial region of thickness @xmath28 that would be proportional to @xmath29 times lateral surface area @xmath30 .",
    "the correlation of frequencies with position , @xmath6 , in the inflow is surely weaker in the broad radio spectral band , but if we still associate @xmath6 with frequency as @xmath31 , the luminosity from the band would then be proportional to @xmath32 , hence the spectral index for the optically thick band between @xmath33 and @xmath34 would be @xmath35 , compared to the reported @xmath36 ( an et al .",
    "on the other hand , if viewed looking parallel to the equatorial plane , the luminosity in the outflow could be calculated in the same way in a series of slices of thickness @xmath28 with outflow radius proportional to @xmath37 ( @xmath38 ) to obtain the same spectral index .",
    "both radio and nir spectral indexes are sensitive to the shape of the conical inflow pattern .",
    "dipole magnetic field lines have some curvature that would slightly widen the cone at the top . if the  cone",
    "\" radius were proportional to @xmath39 with @xmath40 , it would increase the overall luminosity and spectral index calculated for the nir and decrease the spectral index in the optically thick region below the spectral peak .",
    "this suggests that some refinements of our model might be expected to produce closer agreement with observations but that is a task for another time .",
    "electrons become mildly relativistic with lorentz factors of @xmath41 for small @xmath6 .",
    "some x - ray emission would arise from compton scattering within @xmath42 in the polar inflow .",
    "electron densities are also large enough in this region to produce some thermal brehmsstrahlung .",
    "the calculation of synchrotron self - compton ( ssc ) contribution can be started by differentiation of eq . 2 to obtain the luminosity contribution from axial thickness @xmath28 as @xmath43 , where @xmath44 is the rate of production of synchrotron photons of average energy @xmath45 within @xmath28 . in passing through distance @xmath46 , on average , these photons will experience @xmath47 collisions , where @xmath48 is the electron density and @xmath49 the thompson cross - section",
    ". the average energy gained per collision would be @xmath50 .",
    "substituting for @xmath48 , @xmath51 and @xmath52 as a function of @xmath6 , and integrating over @xmath6 , gives the x - ray self - synchrotron luminosity as @xmath53 which provides about @xmath54 to @xmath55 .",
    "for a gaunt factor of @xmath56 for small z , thermal brehmsstrahlung contributions can be calculated similarly .",
    "the emissivity obtained is @xmath57 .",
    "integration over the axial cone volume and all frequencies yields a thermal ( primarily x - ray ) luminosity of @xmath58 this provides another @xmath59 to @xmath55 .",
    "though both calculated x - ray luminosities might be increased somewhat by considering a flared  cone \" , their combined contributions should still fall well below the @xmath60 observed in the 0.5 - 7 kev band ( baganoff et al .",
    "nevertheless , both depend on the square of electron density which could enhance their contributions to the luminosity in flares relative to synchrotron luminosity . these x - ray luminosity variations in flares would be strongly correlated with the nir synchrotron luminosity variations and without time delays since both originate in the same population of electrons .",
    "a substantial fraction of the quiescent x - ray luminosity appears to come from a spatially extended source ( baganoff et al . 2003 ) .",
    "there is a considerable volume in the meco magnetosphere in which temperatures and densities would be high enough to produce thermal x - rays . within the rough bounds of the magnetosphere outside the corotation radius there is a volume of @xmath61 . using @xmath62 as an average radius in the bondi flow , we estimate the corresponding electron temperature to be @xmath63 and the electron density to be @xmath64 . for these parameters , a gaunt factor of 3 and the @xmath65 bandwidth from 0.5 - 7 kev",
    ", we find an average thermal brehmsstrahlung emission rate of @xmath66 .",
    "multiplying by the magnetosphere volume , we obtain @xmath67 , which is reasonably close to the observed quiescent x - ray luminosity of sgr a*.    the axial inflows constitute such a small fraction of the bondi accretion rate that their contributions to the spectrum below @xmath68 are much smaller than the radiation from the much larger outflow",
    ". we do nt know how much the outflows might contribute in harmonic frequencies above @xmath69 , but since the luminosity calculated for the axial flow did not account for the observed luminosity or flux to a frequency of @xmath34 , there is a significant contribution from the outflow that has not been considered .",
    "accurately quantifying the radio luminosity will require knowledge of the plasma and magnetic field distributions , as previously mentioned .",
    "all that we can do here is set an upper limit on what might be produced in the outflow . for an accretion rate of @xmath70",
    ", electrons would flow outward at a rate of @xmath71 .",
    "if they each had the energy they could extract from the protons while reaching the corotation radius , there would be about @xmath72 available for radiation .",
    "the actual radiation rate would probably be much smaller as few of the electrons that would flow out would reach such small distances from the meco . in this regard ,",
    "in reaching a steady state , the magnetic propeller eventually must drive the outflow beyond the bondi radius , cutting off a large fraction of the flow into the bondi sphere and eventually producing a large torus where the outflow stops beyond the bondi radius and temperature @xmath73 at the bondi radius . ] .",
    "a luminosity of a few times @xmath74 would seem to be entirely reasonable .",
    "the meco - bondi flow pattern has two major regions of strong , ordered magnetic fields , with the strongest fields along the polar axis . with the nir generated within the the polar inflow",
    ", its linear polarization direction would be essentially perpendicular to the axis .",
    "the equatorial outflow would produce magnetic field lines stretched generally radially along the outflow .",
    "these field lines would be perpendicular to the magnetic axis and there are several possibilities for what might be observed , depending on the orientation of the magnetic axis and equatorial plane relative to an observer .",
    "yusef - zadeh et al . ( 2006 ) showed some evidence of outflow from sgr a*. the apparent flow was in a generally wsw direction from sgr a*. proper motion studies have provided confirmation ( muzic et al . , 2007 ) of a general , uncollimated outflow .",
    "gravity , a recently proposed high resolution interferometric imaging system ( eisenhauer 2008 ) , should be capable of revealing the nature of the plasma flows in the vicinity of sgr a * in unprecedented detail .",
    "if what has been observed at radio frequencies would be a view into the meco - bondi equatorial outflow , we would see the limb brightened regions of the outflow extending wsw ( and ene ) against the plane of the sky , with magnetic field lines stretched out along the flow .",
    "linear polarizations from the outflow would then be generally perpendicular to the radio luminosity and in the sse - nnw direction .",
    "a sketch of the way this might appear is shown in figure 2 .",
    "the radio polarization has been observed at @xmath75 ( bower et al .",
    "2003 ) and clearly displayed , aligned perpendicular to the wsw - ene direction of the limb brightened part of the outflow .",
    "( see fig .",
    "2.1 , http://www.cfa.harvard.edu/sma/newsletter/smanews_21dec2006.pdf ) .",
    "weaker polarization would be produced further out in the flow where the field is weaker and fundamental cyclotron frequencies would be lower .",
    "in addition to the polarization direction at radio frequencies matching expectations for an outflow , strong polarization has been observed in the nir with a direction roughly 90 degrees ( ene ) different from that seen at radio frequencies ( eckart et al .",
    "as noted , this is consistent with the polarization that should be seen perpendicular to the field lines in the inflow if viewed at high inclination to the inflow axis .",
    "a view with this orientation would be a view fairly directly into the equatorial outflow and directly down the magnetic field lines of the outflow . because of the dipole nature of the meco magnetic field , a view directly into the equatorial plane would have outgoing magnetic field lines on one side of the the plane and ingoing field lines on the other .",
    "outflowing electrons would produce left circular polarization from outflow on one side of the equatorial plane and right circular polarization from the other .",
    "since it is unlikely that the thickness of the outflow would be resolved , there would be a net circular polarization only if viewed at some inclination to the outflow equatorial plane .",
    "this could occur while still having a large inclination relative to the inflow axis .",
    "electrons spiraling outward on field lines directed toward us would produce a ( negative ) left circular polarization .",
    "the circular polarization ( @xmath76 ) of sgr a * ( bower 2000 ) is unusually strong for an agn and approximately double the degree of linear polarization at the same frequency .",
    "it seems unlikely that it would originate in a depolarizing medium .",
    "while it exhibits short - term variability , it has maintained a stable ( negative ) sense for over 25 years . in this context",
    "it is important to note that the observation of stable directions , with some variability in flares , for both linear and circular polarizations are unique observable features of the meco model for sgr a*. all of these properties are determined by the strength of the intrinsic magnetic field of the meco within the center of sgr a*.      the observed polarizations are consistent with a view close to the equatorial plane of the outflow and across the axial inflow as shown in figure 2 .",
    "for this orientation we should see an increasingly wide outflow zone at longer radio wavelengths . inside any surface of constant magnetic field strength cutting through the outflow , we would expect optically thick cyclotron radiant flux of @xmath77 to be generated .",
    "the apparent size of its limb brightened photosphere image in the equatorial outflow would be roughly throughout . ]",
    "proportional to @xmath78 and ellipsoidal as has been observed ( bower et al .",
    "2004 ) . the major axis of the ellipsoid is apparently aligned with the direction of outflow ( muzic et al .",
    "2007 , yusef - zadeh et al . 2006 , bower et al . 2004 ) and perpendicular to the radio polarization direction ( bower et al . 2003 ) .",
    "these observations are consistent with our prediction that the apparent size and ellipsoidal shape of the radio images of sgr a * are due to the equatorial outflow from a meco in the center of sgr a*.    scattering theory also predicts image sizes proportional to @xmath79 . the image sizes ( bower et al .",
    "2004 , shen et al .",
    "2005 ) have been interpreted only as scattering features superimposed on a compact object even though the major axis of the observed ellipsoids is twice the length of the minor axis .",
    "the galactic center scattering screen is two to three orders of magnitude greater than what is seen in ngc6334b , the next most scattered source ( bower et al . 2004 ) .",
    "a heavy screen would be expected for the base of the meco outflow where its highest radio frequencies would be generated .",
    "the claimed detection of an intrinsic size of @xmath80 for sgr a * rests on apparent deviations from the scattering theory with its wavelength exponent of 2 , but for the cyclotron - synchrotron radiations considered here the exponent and deviations at distances inside the corotation radius could arise in a different way .",
    "only much less luminous radio emissions should be generated in the inflow at wavelengths below about 0.3 mm ( @xmath15 ) .",
    "33 ( appendix e ) gives an expected flux of @xmath81 for this wavelength and a distance of @xmath82 to sgr a*.    as shown above , the surface emissions from a meco model for sgr a * would peak well below detection limits at @xmath83 . at wavelengths differing by a factor of even two from the thermal peak a meco would be as dark as a black hole ( see appendix a - c ) .",
    "since we identify the @xmath15 to nir spectrum as originating in concentrated axial flows into the magnetic poles , we would expect image sizes at optically thin wavelengths to no longer be proportional to @xmath79 and to be elongated along the inflow axis rather than the equatorial plane . in the optically thin flow , axial distance from the meco should be correlated with frequency as @xmath84 . hence on the basis of the meco model for sgr",
    "a * we are led to the prediction that , if viewed at high inclination to the polar axis , there would be two axial lobes , beginning at about @xmath85 and extending ever closer to a central dark source at shorter wavelengths . depending on the inclination there might be significant doppler boosting in the lobe with flow components",
    "directed more toward us , however at these radial distances there would not be a uniform background of sub - mm to nir radiation against which a very dark shadow of the meco could be viewed .",
    "there would be such a background only for wavelengths that originated inside @xmath86 and were extremely refracted gravitationally .",
    "these wavelengths would necessarily be in the nir .",
    "the meco - bondi model presented here can be compared with the radiatively inefficient accretion flow ( riaf ) into a black hole ( yuan , quataert & narayan 2003 ) .",
    "to produce the observed polarization of the optically thick radio emission , the internally generated magnetic field of the riaf would need to be oriented generally e - w .",
    "this might occur in two different ways .",
    "( a ) if the riaf magnetic field responsible for the polarization were toroidal within the thick riaf disk , the riaf disk would need to be seen nearly edge - on in order to have a consistent magnetic field direction as seen from our side .",
    "there would only be one direction of flow observed , either e - w or w - e , in the radio .",
    "accordingly , a suitable radio interferometric array analogous to the proposed nir gravity array ( eisenhauer et al .",
    "2008 ) might be able to distinguish a riaf from a meco outflow .",
    "but in the nir , the riaf flow might show no preferential direction as observed with the gravity array because both near and far sides could be seen at once if sufficiently optically thin .",
    "the nir , which would be produced closer to the central black hole is optically thin and would be produced in part by non - thermal electrons .",
    "it is the power - law distribution of non - thermal electron energies in the optically thin part of the flow that would produce the orthogonal polarization of the nir ( agol 2000 ) .",
    "( b ) if the riaf magnetic field were poloidal ; i.e. , with field lines emerging perpendicular to the disk , then the disk would need to be oriented generally n - s , but again seen nearly edge on . again",
    "the flow would appear to be unidirectional .",
    "the orthogonal polarization of the nir would then arise in the same way as before .",
    "thus with either orientation , both polarizations would originate in the geometrically thick disk of the riaf and it should not look the same as the two zone flow of the meco - bondi model shown in figure 2 .",
    "it is clear that the accretion rate in a riaf must be of order @xmath87 , and far below the bondi rate of @xmath88 in order to produce the observed strong linear polarization within the flow .",
    "exactly how the riaf might accomplish this is unknown .",
    "it has been suggested that the disk evaporates in a wind or that a jet outflow occurs . for a jet outflow to be consistent with observations ( yusef - zadeh et al .",
    "2006 , muzic et al .",
    "2007 , bower 2003 ) the riaf disk would need to be aligned generally n - s with a generally e - w jet . though this would give more of the appearance of figure 2 , a jet would be an actual collimated outflow rather than just a limb brightened region of a toroidal outflow and the flow in the riaf disk would still be unidirectional rather than into the central region from both above and below as in the flow into the poles of a meco .",
    "the gravity array should be able to distinguish these possibilities .",
    "ironically , if inflows were observed to disappear into an unseen dark object from both above and below , it could be mistaken for the flow into a black hole event horizon , but some explanation would then be required for an equatorial outflow which ought to also be observed , by means not presently known",
    ". there would be too much luminosity generated by a kerr - metric ergospheric jet .",
    "4 ) if the flow if hot enough to produce the quiescent soft x - rays over an extended region , why does it not produce more and harder luminosity in the riaf part of the flow 5 ) while it is clear that a source of non - thermal electrons must exist within the black hole riaf model there still remains an unsolved problem about the source of their energy . clearly these non - thermal electrons can not have been accelerated by magnetic reconnection processes because if that were the case then the black hole riaf would be too bright in the nir to fit the sgr a * observations . in spite of these problems ,",
    "a black hole riaf can be used to account for most of the spectral distribution that has been observed , provided that it would be allowed to produce some radio emission in the disk as well as the jet .",
    "this is necessary in order to account for the observed timing of nir / x - ray flares with both preceding and trailing radio flares . ] .",
    "we have shown that the meco model accounts for the lack of observed surface luminosity from sgr a*. although it is necessary to know the global distributions of electron density and magnetic fields before spatial and spectral energy distributions can be accurately calculated , we have shown that a spectrum of approximately the correct luminosity and spectral indexes would be produced in the inflow - outflow zones of a bondi accretion flow into the magnetic field of a meco .",
    "the equatorial outflow would produce optically thick cyclotron radiation with positive spectral index at frequencies below @xmath89 .",
    "the axial inflow would produce steeply declining ( negative index ) optically thin nir emissions as well as some correlated x - ray ssc and brehmsstrahlung emissions that could be observed in flares caused by high density clumps in the inflow .",
    "we have shown that timing of flares in radio / nir / x - ray bands is consistent with the meco - bondi model , with some weak sub - mm flaring preceding the strongest nir and ssc x - ray flares which are then followed by stronger delayed sub - mm and radio flare emissions .",
    "the part of the bondi flow that eventually departs in the equatorial outflow would produce radio emissions , possibly to frequencies as high as @xmath89 , and including nearly everything below @xmath90 .",
    "the bulk of the quiescent x - ray luminosity would be thermally generated within the magnetosphere in a mixed inflow / outflow pattern of @xmath91 size .",
    "we have shown that the low bolometric luminosity of sgr a * can be reconciled with an expected bondi accretion rate in a completely natural way .",
    "the magnetic propeller mechanism is a robust , stable physical mechanism for reducing the bondi accretion rate to levels compatible with the low luminosity of sgr a*. the only parameters that have been necessary for these calculations are the ion density and sound speed at the bondi radius , mass , magnetic moment and spin .",
    "the first three of these have been taken from work reported by others .",
    "the intrinsic magnetic moment of a meco is an inherent , mass dependent feature which is generated by the effects of the quantum electrodynamic stablility conditions that are required by the einstein - maxwell equations that describe the highly red shifted eddington limited meco collapse process ( rl06 ) .",
    "its magnitude sets a natural high frequency limit for the synchrotron emissions in the axial inflow .",
    "our estimate of spin has been taken from our previous work that has accounted for the radio / x - ray luminosity correlations and spectral state switches for agn and gbhc ( rl04 ) and the microlensed image of the quasar q0957 + 561 ( schild , leiter & robertson 2006 ) .",
    "in retrospect , it is fortuitous that this choice has worked out well , but it suggests that the accretion history of sgr a * may be similar to that of other agn .",
    "since they do not possess event horizons , highly red shifted general relativistic meco contain intrinsic magnetic moments that can interact with their environments .",
    "the intrinsic meco magnetic moment automatically produces the ordered magnetic fields necessary to account for the observed strong linear polarization . in the meco - bondi inflow - outflow model for sgr",
    "a * described here , there are regions of differing magnetic field strength and orientation , strong density variations and both inflows and outflows .",
    "we have shown that there are places of origin in this flow for all of the spectral , spatial , polarization and timing features that have so far been observed for sgr a*. the patterns of inflow and outflow differ from those expected of black hole models and should be observable by the proposed gravity array ( eisenhauer et al .",
    "2008 ) . on the basis of the meco - bondi model for sgr",
    "a * we predict that high resolution images in radio frequencies should be elongated in the limb brightened outflow zone , while high resolution images in shorter wavelengths should be elongated along an orthogonal polar axis .",
    "since the emissions in these shorter wavelengths are confined to the narrow axial inflow region , there would be no uniform background to provide a silhouette image of a dark meco except for strong gravitational refraction effects on nir frequencies generated inside @xmath92 .",
    "everything inside @xmath93 would just be dark in the radio frequencies .",
    "the qualitative consistency of the meco - bondi model provides added incentive for doing additional simulations which , in order to succeed , will require substantial computational facilities and expertise .",
    "calculations of the global magnetic field and density distributions will be necessary first steps before synchrotron emissions in the outflow can be calculated . in order to add spectral details , smaller calculation grids close to the central dipole and consideration of light paths in strong field gravity will be required and could be challenging , even for the original us - russia supercomputer collaboration that produced the work of rttl03 .",
    "calculations extending into the region near the photon sphere ought to be able to provide spectral and image details that could be compared with the increasingly high resolution images of sgr a*. further corroboration of the meco - bondi model for sgr a * could be found if further observations eventually reveal nir lobes for accretion flow into the magnetic polar regions , though they would likely be smeared into ellipsoids by gravitational refraction",
    ". a pattern of expected polarizations of radiation should also be computed .",
    "the meco parameters for spin and magnetic moment used here provide a place to start , but for best comparisons these parameters , as well as the bondi flow parameters should be varied .",
    "rather detailed calculations of what might be seen for different axis orientations will also be necessary .",
    "it is our hope that the present paper will provide motivation for the additional work to be done .",
    "abramowicz , m. , kluzniak , w. & lasota , j - p , 2002 a&a , 396 , l31    agol , e. , 2000 apj , 538 , l121    an , t. , et al .",
    ", 2003 apj , 634,49    baganoff , f. , et al . , 2003 apj , 591 , 891    bower , g. , 2000 gcnews 11 , 4    bower , g. , et al . , 2004 science , 304 , 704    broderick , a. , & narayan , r. , 2006 apj , 638 , l21  bn06    campana , s. et al . ,",
    "2002 apj 580 , 389    campana , s. et al .",
    ", 1998 a&a rev .",
    "8 , 279    cavaliere , a. & morrison , p. 1980 apj 238 , l63    corbel , s. , fender , r.p . ,",
    "tzioumis , a.k . , nowak , m.a . ,",
    "mcintyre , v. , durouchoux , p.,sood , r. , 2000 a&a 359 , 251    corbel , s. , nowak , m.a . , fender , r.p . , tzioumis , a.k .",
    "markoff , s. , 2003 a&a 400 , 1007    eckart , a. et al .",
    "2008 a&a , july 8 in press /astro - ph0712.3165    eisenhauer , f. , et al . , 2008 proc .",
    "spie astron .",
    ", 22 - 28 june , marseille , france , in press @xmath94 astro - ph/0808.0063    gallo , e. , fender , r. , pooley , g. , 2003 mnras , 344 , 60    falcke , h. , krding , e. , markoff , s. , 2004 a&a , 414 , 895    falcke , h. , & markoff , s. , 2000 a&a 362 , 113    gliozzi , m. , bodo , g. & ghisellini , g. 1999 mnras , 303 , l37    heinz , s. , sunyaev , r. , 2003 mnras 343 , l59    harding , a. , 2003 , invited talk at pulsars , axps and sgrs observed with bepposax and other observatories , marsala , sicily , sept .",
    "2002 astro - ph/0304120 .",
    "ilarianov , a. & sunyaev , r. 1975 a&a , 39 , 185    kippenhahn , r. & weigert , a. 1990 ` stellar structure and evolution ' springer - verlag , berlin heidelberg new york    landau , l. & lifshitz , e. 1958 ` statistical physics ' , pergamon press ltd , london    leiter , d. , & robertson , s. , 2003 found .",
    "lett . , 16 , 143    maccarone , t. , gallo , e. , fender , r. 2003 mnras 345 , l19    markoff , s. , falcke h. , & fender , r. 2001 a&al , 372 , 25    markoff , s. , nowak , m. , corbel , s. , fender , r. , falcke , h. , 2003 new astron .",
    "47 , 491    mcclintock , j. , narayan , r. , and rybicki , g. , 2004 , apj , 615 , 402    mitra , a. , 2006 new astron .",
    ", 12 , 146 - 160    mitra , a. , 2006 mnras 369 , 492    mitra , a. , 2006 phys .",
    "d , 74 , 034010    muzik , k. , et al .",
    ", 2007 , proc .",
    "intl astron .",
    "union , 2 , 415    robertson , s. & leiter , d. 2002 apj , 565 , 447  rl02    robertson , s. , leiter , d. 2003 apj , 596 , l203",
    "rl03    robertson , s. , leiter , d. 2004 mnras , 350 , 1391  rl04    robertson , s. , and leiter , d. 2006 ` the magnetospheric eternally collapsing object ( meco ) model of galactic black hole candidates and active galactic nuclei ' , pp 1 - 45 ( in new developments in black hole research , ed .",
    "p.v.kreitler , nova science publishers , inc .",
    "isbn 1 - 59454 - 460 - 3 , novapublishers.com )  rl06  astro - phys/0602543    romanova , m. , toropina , o. , toropin , y. , & lovelace , r. , 2003 apj , 588 , 400    romanova , m. , ustyugova , a.,koldoba , a. , & lovelace , r. , 2005 apj , 635 , l165    schild , r. , leiter , d. & robertson , s. , 2006 aj , 132 , 420    schild , r. , leiter , d. & robertson , s. , 2008 aj , 135 , 947    shen , z. , et al . , 2005 nature , 438 , 62    stirling a. m. , et al . , 2001 mnras 327 , 1273    toropina , o. , romanova , m. , toropin , y. , & lovelace , r. , 2003 apj 593 , 472    vadawale , s. , rao , a. & chakrabarti , s. 2001 a&a , 372 , 793v    yuan , f. , markoff , s. & falcke , h. , 2002 a&a , 383 , 854    yuan , f. , quataert , e. , narayan , r. , 2003 apj 598 , 301    yusef - zadeh et al . , 2006 ,",
    "in vi microquasar workshop : microquasars and beyond , sept .",
    "18 - 22 , 2007 , como , italy , astro - ph/0612156    yusef - zadeh et al . ,",
    "2006 apj 650 , 189    yusef - zadeh et al . , 2008 apj , 682 , 361    zaumen , w. t. , 1976 apj , 210 , 776",
    "* a. eco models * + an  eternally collapsing object \" eco is a gravitationally compact mass supported against gravity by internal radiation pressure ( mitra 2006 ) . in its outer layers of mass , a plasma with some baryonic content is supported by a _",
    "net _ outward flux of momentum via radiation at the local eddington limit @xmath95 given by @xmath96 here @xmath97 is the opacity of the plasma , subscript s refers to the baryonic surface layer and @xmath98 is the gravitational redshift at the surface . in general relativity",
    "@xmath6 is given by @xmath99 for a hydrogen plasma , @xmath100 @xmath101 /g and @xmath102 where @xmath103 is the mass in solar units .",
    "since the temperature at the baryon surface is beyond that of the pair production threshold , there is a pair atmosphere further out that remains opaque .",
    "the net outward momentum flux continues onward , but diminished by two effects , time dilation of the rate of photon flow and gravitational redshift of the photons .",
    "the escaping luminosity at a location where the redshift is @xmath6 is thus reduced by the ratio @xmath104 , and the net outflow of luminosity as radiation transits the pair atmosphere and beyond is @xmath105 finally , as distantly observed where @xmath106 , the luminosity is @xmath107 for hydrogen plasma opacity of 0.4 @xmath101 g@xmath108 , and a typical gbhc mass of @xmath109 this equation yields @xmath110 erg s@xmath108 .",
    "but since the quiescent luminosity of a gbhc must be less than about @xmath111 erg s@xmath108 , we see that it is necessary to have @xmath112 .",
    "even larger redshifts are needed to satisfy the quiescent luminosity constraints for agn .",
    "this is extraordinary , to say the least , but perhaps no more incredible than the @xmath113 of a black hole .    at the low luminosity of eq .",
    "10 , the gravitational collapse is characterized by an extremely long radiative lifetime , @xmath114 ( robertson & leiter 2003 , mitra 2006 ) given by : @xmath115 with the large redshifts that would be necessary for consistency with quiescent luminosity levels of bhc , it is clear why such a slowly collapsing object would be called an  eternally collapsing object \" or eco .    for @xmath116 ,",
    "radiation is impeded by passage through a small escape cone such that the fraction of radiation that could escape if isotropically emitted at radius r would only be @xmath117 for very large @xmath6 , @xmath118 and @xmath119 .    at the outskirts of the pair atmosphere of an eco",
    "the photosphere is reached . here",
    "the temperature and density of pairs has dropped to a level from which photons can depart without further scattering from positrons or electrons .",
    "nevertheless , the redshift is still large enough that their escape cone is small and most photons will not travel far before falling back through the photosphere . if we let the photosphere temperature and redshift be @xmath120 and @xmath121 , respectively , the net escaping luminosity is @xmath122 but in the radiation dominated region beyond the photosphere , the temperature and redshift are related by @xmath123 where @xmath73 is the distantly observed radiation temperature . substituting into the previous equation ,",
    "we obtain @xmath124 and , for hydrogen plasma opacity @xmath125^{1/4}}~~~~k\\ ] ] the left equality of eq .",
    "15 can be written in terms of the distantly observed spectral distribution , for which the radiant flux density at distance r ( @xmath126 ) and frequency @xmath127 would be @xmath128      as previously discussed ( rl06 ) , if one naively assumes that the photon support for an eco originates from purely thermal processes , one quickly finds that the temperature in the baryon surface layer would be orders of magnitude higher than the pair production threshold . the compactness guarantees ( cavaliere & morrison 1980 ) that photon - photon collisions would produce numerous electron - positron pairs .",
    "drift currents proportional to @xmath129 reactively generate extreme magnetic fields .",
    "we assumed that the baryonic surface field reaches an equipartion level with a surface magnetic field of @xmath130 g ( harding 2003 , zaumen , 1976 ) that is capable of creating bound electron - positron pairs on the baryon surface .",
    "the interior magnetic field in a stellar mass meco - gbhc is about what would be expected from flux compression during stellar collapse . at the meco surface radius ( @xmath118 ) , the ratio of tangential field on the exterior surface to the tangential field just under the meco surface is given by ( rl06 ) @xmath131 @xmath132 we have previously taken @xmath133 gauss as typical of the interior field that can be produced by flux compression during stellar gravitational collapse . using this value",
    "the preceding equation has the solution . @xmath134",
    "the magnetic moment of a meco would be @xmath135 we have found that this magnetic moment , and the spin rates given by table 1 , eq . 6",
    "give the meco model a good correspondence with observations of spectral state switches and the radio luminosities of jets for both gbhc and agn ( rl02 , rl03 , rl04 , rl06 ) .",
    "the photosphere , as a last scattering surface , can be found from the condition that ( kippenhahn & wiggert 1990 ) @xmath136 where @xmath137 is an increment of proper length in the pair atmosphere and @xmath138 is the combined number density of electrons and positrons along the path .",
    "landau & lifshitz ( 1958 ) show that @xmath139 where p is the momentum of a particle , @xmath140 , k is boltzmann s constant , @xmath141 is planck s constant and @xmath142 , the mass of an electron . for low temperatures such that",
    "@xmath143 this becomes : @xmath144 @xmath145 where @xmath146k .",
    "we can express @xmath137 in terms of changing redshift as @xmath147 for @xmath118 substituting into eq .",
    "23 and using @xmath148 beyond the photosphere we obtain the relation @xmath149 using eqs . 16 and 19 , we have numerically integrated this equation to obtain the photosphere temperatures and redshifts for various masses .",
    "the results are represented with errors below 1% for @xmath150 solar mass by the relations : @xmath151 and @xmath152 these relations , though little different from those of rl06 , correct an error in our previous development of the photosphere temperature .    * d. accretion efficiency for meco surface luminosity * + we need to reconsider how accreting material interacts with a meco .",
    "bn06 assumed that for large redshifts , accretion energy would be converted to luminosity immediately with 100% efficiency . in previous work ( rl03 , rl06 )",
    "we mistakenly made the same assumption .",
    "it is true that a meco will eventually achieve 100% efficiency , but the conversion takes place on the time scale of the meco radiative lifetime .",
    "accreting particles that reach the photosphere do not produce a hard radiative impact .",
    "they first encounter soft photons , then photons of @xmath153 mev and electron - positron pairs near the photosphere and they eventually penetrate the baryon surface where the net outflowing luminosity is already at the local eddington limit rate . this provides a very soft landing .",
    "perhaps the easiest way to show the difference between landing on a cushion of photons and striking a hard surface is to consider the pressure that accreting matter could exert if stopped dead at the photosphere and compare that to the radiation pressure already there .",
    "radiation pressure at the photosphere ( hence the luminosity also ) would need to change by only about the same amount as the accretion pressure for the meco to remain stable .",
    "consider a particle of rest mass @xmath154 in radial free fall from infinity .",
    "its speed as it reaches the photosphere would be essentially light speed , @xmath155 , according to an observer at the photosphere , and it would have a momentum of @xmath156 , where @xmath157 is the lorentz factor , and proper time , @xmath114 , moving with the particle are related by @xmath158 .",
    "an interval @xmath159 for an observer at rest at the photosphere is related by @xmath160 , from which it follows that @xmath161 . ] .",
    "if particles arrive at the locally observed rate of @xmath162 , then the quantity of momentum deposited according to the observer at the photosphere would be @xmath163 . with the substitution of @xmath164 for @xmath159 ,",
    "this becomes @xmath165 .",
    "thus the rate of momentum transport , as observed at the photosphere is @xmath166 , where @xmath167 .",
    "if momentum were deposited uniformly at the photosphere , the accretion pressure would be @xmath168 erg @xmath169 , using eq .",
    "27 for @xmath121 and @xmath170 . for the mass of sgr",
    "a * and @xmath171 g / s , this would yield @xmath172 erg @xmath169 .",
    "the radiation pressure at the photosphere would be @xmath173 erg @xmath169 , using eq .",
    "this pressure ratio would be @xmath174 , however , the actual ratio of accretion and radiation pressures would be smaller yet because the entire momentum is not deposited in a hard surface impact at the photosphere . only about @xmath175 of the incoming momentum",
    "is transferred to the entire pair atmosphere .",
    "this is just too little to affect the radiation leaving the photosphere .",
    "finally , we note that in an equipartition magnetic field , the temperature of the pair plasma layer is buffered near the pair threshold temperature .",
    "adding energy just produces more pairs rather than raising the temperature .",
    "of course , for stability , the meco must adjust its radiation rate to accomodate a growing mass , but as distantly observed , the luminosity produced by the incremental increase of mass is negligible . for mass accretion rate @xmath176",
    "the radiated luminosity increases at a rate of about @xmath177 .",
    "we conclude that the efficiency and thermal equilibrium constraints of bn06 simply do not apply to the meco surface .",
    "eventually the radial infall of accreting particles ends , on average somewhere below the meco baryon surface . with the temperature at the base of the pair atmosphere at @xmath178 k , eq .",
    "23 shows the local pair density to be near @xmath179 .",
    "the proper length thickness of the pair atmosphere is @xmath180 and the optical depth is @xmath181 . assuming that protons in an accreting plasma interact with the electron - positron pairs via coulomb scattering , the fraction of the accretion energy that they can transfer directly to the pair atmosphere is only @xmath182 .",
    "photons in the pair atmosphere are somewhat more effective in absorbing accretion energy . for conditions in the pair atmosphere , about @xmath175 of the accretion energy can be removed by photon collisions with incoming electrons , however , the escape cone allows only about one in @xmath183 of the compton enhanced photons to escape .",
    "most of the brehmsstrahlung produced is therefore buried below the meco baryon surface which is itself covered by an extremely optically thick layer of pairs for which the escape cone is negligibly small . with due consideration of the small escape cone , it can be easily shown that if accreting protons are stopped in a layer below the photosphere for which the redshift is @xmath184 , then the ratio of accretion pressure to radiation pressure already in the layer is @xmath185 , for @xmath186 .",
    "accretion pressure is completely insignificant even for accretion rates exceeding the classical edddington limit . in effect",
    ", a meco just swallows accreting particles about as effectively as a black hole .    * d.1 high / soft spectral states * + reconsideration of the meco surface accretion efficiency necessitates a new interpretation of the high / soft spectral states of disk accreting systems . at accretion rates above the transition to the soft state ,",
    "most of the luminosity of the high / soft state must arise from the accretion disk rather than the meco .",
    "this can occur with high efficiency corresponding to an accretion disk that can penetrate well inside what would otherwise correspond to the marginally stable orbit of a non - magnetic black hole .",
    "the inner disk of a meco is supported in part by magnetic pressure , as previously described in rl06 and disk accretion efficiencies can reach 42% at the photon sphere at @xmath55 . inside the photon sphere ,",
    "gravitational redshift offsets the effect on luminosity of additional radiant energy release by accreting matter .",
    "the energy equation for the bondi flow is @xmath187 where @xmath188 is the bondi flow speed , @xmath189 the ratio of specific heats for the gas , @xmath190 the mass of the central object and @xmath52 the radial coordinate distance from its center . the continuity equation for a rate of mass flow @xmath191 is @xmath192 we adopt the values @xmath193 , @xmath194 , @xmath195 ( baganoff 2003 ) and a specific heat ratio of @xmath196 for atomic hydrogen .",
    "having adopted these values , they set the bondi radius as @xmath197 and they must be entered consistently in the energy equation .",
    "we use @xmath198 , where @xmath199 for an adiabatic flow .",
    "using @xmath200 and substituting into the energy equation produces an equation of the form @xmath201 where a , b and c are constants .",
    "solutions for v for various values of r are given in table 2 .",
    "once v has been determined , @xmath202 can be obtained from the continuity equation , and the pressure and proton temperature can be found from the adiabatic conditions . for @xmath196 ,",
    "the inflow never becomes supersonic , but it very closely approaches sound speed ( which is half what the free - fall speed would be ) by the time the magnetosphere is reached .    for the dilute plasma at the bondi radius ,",
    "there is a relatively low frequency of electron - proton collisions .",
    "the kinetic energy gained by falling electrons is not sufficient to keep them in thermal equilibrium with the ions .",
    "approximately half of the gravitational energy released goes into heating the ions while the electrons remain relatively cold .",
    "the electrons do gain some energy , which we can calculate , in collisions with protons .",
    "as the plasma falls by @xmath203 , the time taken is @xmath204 .",
    "an electron travels @xmath205 in this time .",
    "the number of collisions with ions in this time is the distance travelled divided by the mean free path , @xmath206 , where @xmath207 is the coulomb cross - section .",
    "@xmath208 is the electron energy , @xmath51 the electron temperature and @xmath209 is the coulomb logarithm , which we assume to have the value 30 . for collisions with protons which , on average , have much more momentum than the electrons , the fraction of proton energy , @xmath210 , that can be transferred is approximately @xmath211 .",
    "then while falling dr , an electron gains energy @xmath212 .",
    "taking @xmath213 for both the proton thermal speed and speed of descent and substituting for @xmath214 and @xmath215 , this integrates to yield @xmath216 and specifically , @xmath217 yields the values in table 2 .",
    "an electron moving with the protons at speed @xmath218 in a magnetic field would emit cyclotron radiation at a rate @xmath219 . comparing this rate for the axial dipole field of a meco with the mass of sgr a * with @xmath220 above",
    ", we find that the radiation rate would exceed the rate that electron energy is extracted from the protons for @xmath221 , which holds for @xmath222 , and cyclotron frequencies above @xmath223 . nearer the meco at smaller axial distances and higher frequencies ,",
    "the electron energy extracted from the protons in the flow is essentially all that is available for radiation .",
    "this permits a rough calculation of the luminosity generated in the polar inflow .",
    "we approximate the polar inflow geometry within the magnetosphere as a cone of lateral radius @xmath224 at distance z from the magnetic pole . see figure 1 .",
    "the number of electrons in the cone in axial thickness @xmath28 is @xmath225 .",
    "thus the rate that they can radiate is about @xmath226 .",
    "substituting for @xmath227 , @xmath228 , @xmath229 as before and using @xmath230 , @xmath231 from equations in table 1 , this reduces to @xmath232 , which integrates to give the luminosity for polar inflow to axial distance @xmath6 as @xmath233 this last result includes an additional factor of two to account for inflow into both magnetic poles .    where the flow is optically thin above @xmath15 , the larmor frequency should strongly dominate the spectrum .",
    "this frequency is a function of the magnetic field strength , which varies as @xmath234 .",
    "alternatively , we can say that position @xmath6 in the polar axial inflow is correlated with the dominant radiation frequency as @xmath31 . substituting @xmath235 for @xmath6 in the expression just preceding eq .",
    "32 , one obtains @xmath236 hence the spectral index in the optically thin sub - mm / nir would be @xmath237 for the meco model ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in previous work we have presented evidence for the existence of intrinsic magnetic moments in black hole candidates . </S>",
    "<S> we later developed a general relativistic , magnetospheric eternally collapsing object ( meco ) model for black hole candidates and showed that the model is consistent with broad band spectral and luminosity characteristics and accounts for the radio / x - ray luminosity correlations of both galactic black hole candidates ( gbhc ) and active galactic nuclei ( agn ) . </S>",
    "<S> since magnetic moments are forbidden attributes for black holes , the meco model has the potential to test whether black hole candidates are actual black holes . </S>",
    "<S> we show here that the meco model has the advantage of being able to : a ) satisfy the luminosity constraints that have been claimed as proof of an event horizon for sgr a * , b ) reconcile the low bolometric luminosity with the expected bondi accretion rate for sgr a * by means of a magnetic propeller driven outflow , c ) account for the sgr a * nir and x - ray luminosities , the general characteristics of its broad band spectrum , and the sequence of flares in different spectral ranges as well as the pattern of its observed orthogonal polarizations . </S>",
    "<S> we also include specific predictions for images that may be obtained in sub - millimeter to nir wavelengths in the near future . </S>",
    "<S> high resolution images in radio frequencies should be elongated in an equatorial outflow plane , while high resolution images in shorter infrared wavelengths should be elongated along an orthogonal , magnetic polar inflow axis ( generally n - s ) . </S>",
    "<S> since the emissions in these shorter wavelengths are confined to a narrow axial inflow cone , and radio frequencies are generated primarily at greater distances in the equatorial outflow , there would be no uniform background to provide a silhouette image of a dark central object . </S>",
    "<S> additional future tests for the presence of an intrinsic magnetic moment for sgr a * will require global solutions for electron density and magnetic field distributions in a bondi accretion flow into a compact , rotating magnetic dipole . </S>",
    "<S> these will provide for definitive tests in the form of detailed calculations of spectral and spatial luminosity distributions and polarization maps for direct comparison with high resolution images of sgr a*.    _ key words : _ accretion , accretion disks  black hole physics  </S>",
    "<S> galaxy : center  gravitation  infrared : general  magnetic fields </S>"
  ]
}