{
  "article_text": [
    "common envelope ( hereafter ce ) evolution is thought to be the consequence of a dynamical mass transfer event in a close binary system .",
    "a dynamical mass transfer instability can occur when mass is being transferred from the more massive to the less massive component and the mass donor has a deep convective envelope , as in the case of a giant or agb star losing mass to a less massive companion .",
    "when these conditions are realized , the mass losing star is usually unable to contract as rapidly as its roche lobe and thus it starts transferring mass on a dynamical timescale . typically , under such conditions , the secondary is unable to accrete all the proffered mass , and it is driven out of thermal equilibrium . the system is then expected to quickly reach a configuration in which the core of the evolved star and the companion are orbiting each other inside a common envelope of gas which is not corotating with the binary ( see recent reviews by webbink 1988 ; iben & livio 1993 ; livio 1996 ) .",
    "the main effect of the ce phase is expected to be a substantial reduction in the separation of the binary , possibly accompanied by the ejection of the entire envelope .",
    "the concept of ce evolution , as described above , was introduced by paczyski ( 1976 ) to explain the formation of cataclysmic variables and by ostriker ( 1975 ) in the context of massive x - ray binaries .",
    "it is now thought that all binary systems containing at least one compact component and with orbital periods shorter than a few days ( this includes most cataclysmic variables , binary pulsars , and x - ray binaries ) must have gone through a common envelope phase ( except perhaps in dense cluster environments , where close stellar encounters can operate ) .",
    "it is not surprising , therefore , that this topic has received considerable attention in recent years and has been the subject of many theoretical studies ( de kool 1987 , 1990 ; livio & soker 1988 ; terman et al .  1994 , 1995 and references therein ) .",
    "most of these theoretical studies have focused on the final stages of the ce evolution , in an attempt to determine the orbital parameters of the emerging binary ( taam & bodenheimer 1991 ; taam et al .  1994 ; yorke et al .",
    "however , the treatment of the formation and early dynamical evolution of ce systems has been extremely crude until now .",
    "for example , a fictitious drag force was applied to trigger the initial spiral - in in the calculation of terman et al .",
    "( 1994 ) and the secondary was placed directly inside the envelope of the primary in terman et al .",
    "( 1995 ) .",
    "there are several reasons why it is important to study this early phase of ce evolution .",
    "( i )  this is the only phase in the life of a ce system that can be modeled in a realistic way . indeed",
    ", current three - dimensional hydrodynamic codes can only follow reliably the _ dynamical phase _ of the evolution .",
    "the later stages depend crucially on angular momentum and energy transport processes that are difficult to model and take place on dissipation timescales , which can be many orders of magnitude longer than the dynamical time .",
    "( ii )  it is clear that an accurate calculation of the early dynamical phase is required in order to establish the _ initial conditions _ of separate calculations for the dissipative phase .",
    "attempts to predict the final outcome of a ce phase based on the efficiency parameter for energy deposition @xmath6 ( livio & soker 1988 ) give results that depend critically on the assumptions made about these initial configurations . indeed , because of the uncertainty in the initial configuration ( and the ambiguity in estimating its binding energy ) , various _ definitions _ of @xmath6 , e.g.  in iben & tutukov ( 1984 ) and de kool ( 1990 ) , can give results that differ by as much as a factor @xmath7 ( yungelson , tutukov & livio 1993 ) .",
    "( iii )  in some cases it is possible that the complete ejection of the envelope could occur on a timescale not much longer than the dynamical time ( say @xmath3 dynamical times ) .",
    "in such a case , a purely dynamical calculation can in fact provide a complete description of the ce phase .    in this paper",
    ", we present the results of new hydrodynamic calculations in three dimensions for the unstable mass transfer in a close binary and the early dynamical evolution of a ce system .",
    "the calculations are done for a binary containing a red giant with a less massive main - sequence star companion , representing a typical progenitor of a pre - cataclysmic - variable system .",
    "the initial conditions for these calculations are carefully constructed equilibrium configurations for the close binary at the onset of dynamically unstable mass transfer . in ",
    "2 we review our numerical method , smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) and we describe how to construct equilibrium configurations for close binaries in three dimensions . in ",
    "3 we present and discuss our numerical results . a summary and conclusions follow in  4 .",
    "the smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) method has been used for the calculations presented here .",
    "sph is a lagrangian method that was introduced to treat astrophysical problems involving self - gravitating fluids moving freely in three dimensions ( see monaghan 1992 for a recent review ) .",
    "our sph code was developed originally by rasio ( 1991 ) , specifically for the study of close stellar interactions ( rasio & shapiro 1991 , 1992 ) . the implementation of the sph scheme is similar to that adopted by hernquist & katz ( 1989 ) , but the gravitational field is calculated using a fast grid - based fft solver .",
    "the neighbor searching is performed using a multigrid hierarchical version of the linked - list method usually adopted in p@xmath8 m particle codes ( hockney & eastwood 1988 ) .",
    "other details about the implementation , as well as a number of test - bed calculations using our sph code for binary systems are presented in the above references .",
    "the highest - resolution calculation presented here was done using @xmath9 sph particles , and each particle interacting with a nearly constant number of neighbors @xmath10 .",
    "the gravitational potential is calculated by fft on a @xmath11 grid . with these resources , a complete calculation , starting from the onset of mass transfer and ending with the formation of a quasi - static ce configuration , takes about 250 cpu hours on an ibm sp-2 supercomputer .",
    "we use a constant number density of sph particles with varying particle masses to construct the initial conditions .",
    "this is done in order to maintain good spatial resolution and mass resolution near the stellar surface , which is particularly important for problems involving tidal interactions and mass transfer in close binaries .",
    "we use a simple ideal gas equation of state with @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the pressure , @xmath14 is the density , and @xmath15 is a function of the local specific entropy @xmath16 . our implementation of sph uses @xmath17 as a fundamental variable and integrates an evolution equation for entropy rather than energy ( rasio & shapiro 1992 ) .",
    "shocks are the only source of entropy production in these calculations and we use the standard sph artificial viscosity to treat them .      we consider a binary system containing a red giant primary and a main - sequence secondary .",
    "the primary has a mass @xmath18 .",
    "the red giant is modeled as a compact core plus an extended envelope , with a mass ratio @xmath19 , i.e. , @xmath20 and @xmath21 .",
    "the mass of the secondary is @xmath22 .",
    "both the secondary and the red - giant core are modeled as point masses interacting with the gas through gravity only .",
    "close to the point masses , the gravitational field is smoothed over a length @xmath23 comparable to the local sph smoothing length .",
    "specifically , we treat the core and the secondary as uniform - density spheres of radius @xmath23 when computing their gravitational interaction with an sph particle .",
    "typically we have @xmath24 , where @xmath25 is the radius of the red - giant envelope . the gravitational interaction between the two point masses themselves",
    "is not smoothed .",
    "initially the envelope of the red giant is assumed to have constant specific entropy , i.e. , we let @xmath26constant for all sph particles at @xmath27 .    throughout this paper ,",
    "numerical results are given in units where @xmath28 , where @xmath29 is the gravitational constant , @xmath30 is the total mass of _ gas _ in the system ( initially inside the red giant envelope ) , and @xmath17 is the ( constant ) entropy variable at @xmath27 . in these units ,",
    "the binary separation at @xmath27 ( onset of mass transfer ) is @xmath31 and the radius of the red giant is @xmath32 .",
    "the units of time , velocity , and density are then @xmath33      in addition to its normal use for dynamical calculations , sph can also be used to construct highly accurate hydrostatic equilibrium configurations in three dimensions ( rasio & shapiro 1994 , 1995 ) .",
    "we consider only _ synchronized _ binary configurations in this paper .",
    "this is a reasonable assumption for a system with moderate mass ratio , and we have checked that the synchronized configuration we construct at @xmath27 is indeed tidally stable ( although marginally ) .",
    "binary systems with more extreme mass ratios can never reach a stable synchronized configuration and in such a case an initial condition containing a nonspinning primary may be more realistic ( see , e.g. , rasio 1996 and references therein ) .    for a synchronized system ,",
    "the entire mass of fluid is in uniform rotation and equilibrium solutions can be constructed by simply adding a linear friction term @xmath34 to the euler equations of motion in the corotating frame .",
    "this forces the fluid to relax to a minimum - energy state .",
    "we use @xmath35 in our units , which makes the damping of unwanted oscillations nearly critical and optimizes the computation time to converge toward an equilibrium .",
    "initially , a spherical envelope of constant specific entropy and density is used for the red giant and the two stars are placed at a large separation @xmath36 . while the relaxation takes place , the particle entropies are maintained constant and their positions are continuously adjusted ( by a simple uniform translation along the binary axis ) so that the separation between the two centers of mass remains constant .",
    "simultaneously , the angular velocity @xmath37 defining the corotating frame is continuously updated so that the net centrifugal and gravitational accelerations of the two centers of mass cancel exactly . with large enough numbers of sph particles ( @xmath38 ) ,",
    "very accurate equilibrium solutions can be constructed using this relaxation technique , with the virial theorem satisfied to an accuracy of about one part in @xmath39 and excellent agreement found with analytic solutions .",
    "in addition , stable equilibrium configurations can be maintained accurately during dynamical integrations lasting up to @xmath3 dynamical times ( rasio & shapiro 1994 , 1995 ) .    in order to construct an initial condition corresponding to the onset of mass transfer",
    ", the separation @xmath40 between the centers of mass during the relaxation calculation is decreased very slowly ( on a time scale much longer than @xmath41 ) so that an entire equilibrium _ sequence _ is constructed in a single integration . in practice",
    "we let @xmath42 , where @xmath43 corresponds to well separated components and @xmath44 in our units . using this procedure",
    ", we can determine precisely the roche limit configuration ( equilibrium configuration with minimum @xmath40 ) simply by observing the moment when the first few sph particles begin drifting across the inner lagrangian point , onto the secondary ( rasio & shapiro 1995 ) .",
    "this roche limit configuration , corresponding to the onset of mass transfer , is then used as an initial condition for a dynamical integration .",
    "a particle plot corresponding to the initial roche limit configuration is shown in fig .  1 ( @xmath27 )",
    ". the large tidal distortion of the envelope near the axis is evident and there are just a few particles that have crossed the inner lagrangian point .",
    "soon after the beginning of mass transfer , a thick torus of material forms around the secondary ( @xmath45 ) . as the initial stream leaving the primary is compressed rapidly in a convergent flow and later self - intersects at a highly supersonic speed , the gas is strongly shocked and the torus expands rapidly and thickens , leading to a radial outflow around the secondary in addition to the beginning of an accretion flow ( cf .",
    "sawada et al .  1986 ) .",
    "the mass transfer rate increases rapidly , on a timescale comparable to the orbital period .",
    "two factors contribute to making the mass transfer dynamically unstable here ( for general discussions of unstable mass transfer , see hjellming & webbink 1987 ; hjellming 1989 ; hut & paczyski 1984 ) .",
    "first , as the red giant primary loses mass , the isentropic envelope responds adiabatically by expanding .",
    "second , since the mass transfer is from the more massive to the less massive component , and since angular momentum is lost from the orbit , the orbital separation tends to decrease .",
    "the two effects combine to make roche lobe overflow accelerate catastrophically on a dynamical timescale .",
    "by @xmath46 , the companion is entering the dense outer layers of the red giant envelope and will then plunge in almost radially .    in this dynamical calculation ,",
    "the spiral - in phase is very brief , taking just about one orbital period .",
    "this is because we start the calculation when a dynamically significant amount of mass is already being transferred . in reality , of course , this phase is expected to be much longer , as the roche lobe eats slowly into the outer atmosphere of the primary ( e.g. , webbink 1984 ) .    figure  2 shows the evolution of the separation between the two point masses during the entire calculation .",
    "the orbital decay is very slow at first , but accelerates catastrophically around @xmath46 .",
    "as soon as it enters the denser region of gas inside the red giant envelope , the companion sinks relatively quickly into the deep interior of the envelope , with the separation decreasing to about half a stellar radius by @xmath47 .",
    "this phase of the evolution is characterized by a much stronger dynamical interaction between the companion and the entire mass of gas in the system .",
    "the motion of the companion inside the envelope is largely supersonic , especially in the outer layers where large mach numbers are reached . as a result ,",
    "during the initial phase of the radial plunge , strong dissipation occurs in a simple bow - shock structure behind the companion .",
    "this is illustrated in figure  3 , which shows regions of high and low entropy in the gas .",
    "here we use @xmath48 to separate the `` high - entropy '' particles . recall that all particles have @xmath49 at @xmath27 . in our units",
    ", a change of order unity in @xmath17 over a distance of order unity corresponds to a buoyancy force comparable to gravity ( i.e. , @xmath50 gives a brunt - visl frequency comparable to the local dynamical frequency @xmath51 ) .",
    "by @xmath52 , however , the red giant core itself has been displaced away from its original position at the center of the envelope , and the two point masses are now truly orbiting one another inside a common gravitational potential well .",
    "the dissipation process becomes much more complex at this point ( fig .",
    "3c , d ) , with several interacting spiral shock fronts propagating out .",
    "these spiral shocks provide the basic coupling mechanism between the gas and the binary at the beginning of this strongly dynamical phase of the evolution , while viscous dissipation becomes dominant near the end ( see below ) .",
    "it is during this phase of strong dynamical interaction between the two point masses and the gas that a large redistribution of energy and angular momentum takes place in the system .",
    "figures  4 and  5 show the transfer of energy and angular momentum from the orbital motion to the gas during the dynamical evolution .",
    "the energy transfer rate appears approximately constant during the entire phase of strong dynamical interaction ( @xmath53 ) .",
    "instead , the orbital angular momentum is lost mostly during the initial spiral - in and the first radial plunge , but then becomes approximately constant for @xmath54 . by the end of the calculation , essentially all of the angular momentum in the system has been transferred to the gas .",
    "linear momentum is also exchanged between the gas and point masses and , since the gas ejection is not isotropic , the binary receives a small recoil velocity @xmath55 . at the end of our calculation",
    "we find @xmath56 in our units , which corresponds to @xmath57 for a typical system .",
    "an important question concerns the motion of the gas in the immediate vicinity of the binary system after the formation of the common envelope . in our highest resolution calculation ,",
    "_ we find that a corotating region of gas forms at the center of the common envelope_. the corotating gas is concentrated near the orbital plane .",
    "this is illustrated in figure  6 , which shows the distribution of sph particles in the @xmath58 plane at @xmath59 . here",
    "@xmath60 , where @xmath61 is the component of the particle velocity in the azimuthal direction and @xmath62 is the distance to the rotation axis ( vertical axis passing through the center of mass of the binary ) . both the equatorial radius and the vertical thickness of the corotating region",
    "are roughly comparable to the binary separation .",
    "this corotating region continues to exist and remains well resolved until the end of our highest - resolution calculation ( but see  3.4 below ) .    at the end of our calculation ( @xmath63 ) ,",
    "most of the mass in the common envelope has relaxed to a quasi - static equilibrium .",
    "the value of the virial ratio for the bound gas is @xmath64 , where @xmath65 is the kinetic energy , @xmath66 is the gravitational potential energy , and @xmath67 is the internal energy ( this dimensionless virial ratio would be zero in strict hydrostatic equilibrium ) .",
    "the envelope is rapidly rotating , with @xmath68 , not far from the secular stability limit at @xmath69 ( e.g. , tassoul 1978 ) .",
    "the mass loss fraction can be determined using the method of rasio & shapiro ( 1991 ) , based on the specific binding energy and enthalpy of each individual particle . using this method",
    "we find that about 10% of the total mass of gas has become unbound by the end of the calculation ( but see the discussion in  3.5 below ) .",
    "the final density @xmath14 , specific entropy @xmath70 , and specific angular momentum @xmath71 inside the common envelope are shown in figure  7 as a function of the interior mass fraction @xmath72 .",
    "the quantities shown have been mass - averaged over cylindrical shells centered on the rotation axis .",
    "the correspondence between the interior mass fraction @xmath72 and the radius @xmath62 of a cylinder is also shown ( fig .",
    "the outermost @xmath73% of the mass is unbound .",
    "for the bound gas , the specific angular momentum increases with @xmath62 , as required for dynamical stability ( e.g. , tassoul 1978 ) .",
    "the specific entropy of the bound gas is nearly constant or increasing everywhere except near the center , close to the binary , where it decreases outwards .",
    "this is a clear sign that _ most of the envelope is or has been dynamically unstable to convection_. the specific entropy profile left behind by the dynamical interaction between the shrinking binary and the envelope has @xmath74 .",
    "convective ( rayleigh - taylor ) instabilities then develop , redistributing the material so that a nearly constant specific entropy profile is obtained .",
    "close to the binary , however , the convective motions have not yet had the time to develop and an unstable entropy gradient is still seen .",
    "careful examinations ( e.g. , using computer animations ) of the fluid motions in the inner envelope do indeed reveal the presence of convective motions . on a dynamical timescale , and with the fairly coarse spatial resolution of a three - dimensional calculation",
    ", these convective motions take the form of large bubbles of higher - entropy gas rising through a region of lower - entropy gas that surrounds them . a clear example of such a rising high - entropy bubble ( by far the largest observed in this calculation ) is visible to the left of the binary in the particle plot of figure  3c ( and fig .",
    "such large inhomogeneities in the gas near the center also produce torques on the binary , leading to the somewhat irregular variation of the angular momentum near the end of the calculation ( fig .  4 , @xmath75 ) .",
    "our sph calculations of the ce evolution must be terminated when the separation between the two inner cores becomes comparable to the local spatial resolution in the central region of gas .",
    "otherwise the interaction between the orbital motion and the gas can no longer be treated correctly .",
    "the conditions at the end of our highest - resolution run are illustrated in figure  8 .    in a calculation with a smaller number of particles one",
    "may be tempted to continue past this point .",
    "this may be necessary for the gas to reach a quasi - steady state at the end of the calculation .",
    "however , misleading results can then be obtained .",
    "most importantly for this problem , the motion of the gas in the vicinity of the binary system at the end of the calculation will be corrupted by the loss of spatial resolution there .",
    "if we repeat the same calculation as above with @xmath76 particles ( which decreases the spatial resolution by a factor @xmath77 ) , and integrate until the same final binary separation is reached , we no longer find that the gas is corotating with the binary at the end .",
    "this is shown in figure  9 , where we compare the final rotation profiles for the two calculations .",
    "the reason is simply that all sph particles within a region of size @xmath78 close to the center ( where @xmath79 is the average sph smoothing length in that region ) must necessarily have comparable values of @xmath37 .",
    "therefore , the true angular velocity profile near the center of any rapidly rotating configuration will always be truncated at some distance @xmath80 inside which @xmath37 will appear nearly constant . in figure  9 , we see that , with a lower - resolution calculation , we would have concluded incorrectly that the angular velocity of the binary is @xmath73 times larger than that of the gas near the center of the final configuration .",
    "having found that the main coupling mechanism between the binary and the gas in the final steady state is viscous transport of angular momentum in the differentially rotating envelope , we must now also ask how accurately this can be represented in numerical calculations .",
    "sph calculations in particular can have large spurious shear viscosity because of the representation of the fluid by discrete particles , and because all forms of artificial viscosity ( introduced in the method to treat shocks ) also introduce artificial shear viscosity .",
    "extensive tests of sph using simple experiments with shear flows indicate that the angular momentum transport timescale in differentially rotating envelopes may be typically @xmath3 dynamical times ( lombardi , rasio , & shapiro 1995 ) .",
    "this is not much longer than the time span of the present calculations , and therefore we expect the numerical viscosity to play a significant role in our results .    indeed , if , for example , we repeat short segments of the numerical integration around @xmath81 with different values for the parameters of the artificial viscosity , we find that the value of the energy transfer rate ( slope of the curves near @xmath81 in fig .",
    "4 ) changes slightly .",
    "if we vary the artificial viscosity parameters over the full range of values that would still lead to a reasonable treatment of shocks ( smoothing a simple one - dimensional shock front over a distance @xmath82 ) , the energy transfer rate varies by as much as @xmath83%",
    ". however , a large effective viscosity may well be present in the real system if , as our results suggest , the initial entropy profile in the envelope as it is created is unstable to convection .",
    "although our three - dimensional calculations can not resolve the fine details of the convective motions , a large eddy viscosity is expected in this regime . if processes like convection ( or perhaps magnetic fields ; cf .",
    "regs & tout 1995 ) determine the effective viscosity of the envelope in the real system , then we may not be able to calculate the evolution in a quantitatively accurate way ( a similar problem arises in models of accretion disks ) . in that case , a low - resolution but qualitatively reasonable calculation such as the one presented here may be our only resource for developing a theoretical understanding of ce evolution .",
    "a naive extrapolation of the energy transfer rate shown in figure  3 would lead to the conclusion that the entire envelope is liberated in a time @xmath84 , which in our units ( cf .",
    "[ 2 ] ) means @xmath85yr .",
    "similarly , if we look at the mass loss fraction as a function of time ( fig .",
    "10 ) , a simple extrapolation would predict that all the gas becomes unbound after this time .",
    "a direct determination of this time is impossible here because the calculation must be terminated well before a large fraction of the mass has been ejected .",
    "in addition , at the end of our calculation , there are large uncertainties in the determination of the gas mass fraction that is likely to become unbound eventually .",
    "this is because we can not predict how much of the enthalpy associated with each fluid particle will be later transformed into kinetic energy of a radial outflow . if we include the enthalpy in the estimate of the binding energy ( as done in rasio & shapiro 1991 ) , we obtain an upper limit to the mass loss fraction .",
    "if we do not include it we obtain a lower limit .",
    "the two estimates differ significantly at the end of our calculation ( fig .",
    "if the evolution of the ce system indeed continues on this short viscous transport time , and if we assume that the binary orbit ceases to evolve when the total gas energy becomes positive , then we can predict the final binary separation simply from conservation of energy ( fig .  4 ) .",
    "this gives a final separation @xmath86 in our units , or @xmath87 .",
    "this number is in reasonable agreement with the parameters of v471 tau ( which our initial condition is meant to represent ) , where @xmath88 and @xmath89 ( iben & livio 1993 ) .",
    "over such a short time , energy transport processes and radiative losses in the gas are completely negligible , implying that a proper definition of the parameter @xmath6 should give @xmath5 in this case . for comparison , one of the commonly used approximate definitions @xmath90 ( iben & livio 1993 , eq .",
    "[ 17 ] ) gives @xmath91 if we insert @xmath92 and our values of the masses .",
    "the calculations presented in this paper cover the _ initial dynamical phase _ of ce evolution , i.e. , a brief episode of unstable mass transfer followed by rapid spiral - in of the companion into the primary and the formation of a ce configuration .",
    "for the first time , this dynamical phase of ce evolution has been followed starting from a realistic initial condition .",
    "specifically , we have demonstrated that hydrodynamic calculations can be started from an exact hydrostatic equilibrium solution , representing a close binary system at the onset of unstable mass transfer , and can then follow the evolution through the entire dynamical phase until a quasi - static ce configuration is formed .",
    "our hydrodynamic calculations can treat only a relatively short evolutionary timescale ( @xmath93 dynamical times , i.e. , @xmath94yr for a typical system ) .",
    "consequently , the final ce configuration obtained in the present study could be regarded merely as the initial condition for a potentially slower spiral - in phase , which is regulated by viscous dissipation .",
    "the total amount of mass that became unbound during the dynamical phase is only about 10% of the envelope mass .",
    "this is to be expected given the short duration of this phase .",
    "we have pointed out , however , that an extrapolation of the energy transfer rate obtained in the final stages of our calculation could imply the ejection of the entire envelope on a very short timescale ( @xmath4yr ) and a high efficiency ( @xmath5 ) of the process .",
    "the corresponding reduction in the binary separation would be by a factor @xmath95 , which is sufficient to explain the formation of a system like v  471  tau .",
    "perhaps our most significant new result is that , during the dynamical phase of ce evolution , a corotating region of gas is established near the central binary .",
    "this is done through a combination of spiral shock waves and gravitational torques that can transfer angular momentum from the binary orbit to the gas , and are most effective in the region close to the binary .",
    "the corotating region has the shape of an oblate spheroid encasing the binary ( i.e. , the corotating gas is concentrated in the orbital plane ) .",
    "our results suggest that the subsequent evolution of the system will be determined by the _ viscous coupling between this rigidly rotating inner core and the outer , differentially rotating envelope_. the assumption that rigid rotation will be tidally enforced in a core surrounding the inner binary",
    "was already made in the pioneering paper by meyer & meyer - hofmeister ( 1979 ) .",
    "later , clear indications for such a configuration were obtained with the first two - dimensional numerical calculations of ce evolution ( e.g. , sawada et al .",
    "although the results of some more recent calculations done in three dimensions ( terman et al .  1994 , 1995 ) appear to indicate that the angular velocity of the gas near the center falls short of corotation , we have pointed out that this may well be the result of insufficient spatial resolution in those calculations .",
    "accurate calculations of the dissipative phase of ce evolution , including viscous transport of angular momentum and energy transport in the envelope , will be very difficult , given the large uncertainties in our basic understanding of these processes in general .",
    "if , however , as our results suggest , the envelope is convective , the effective viscous dissipation rate may be large enough to eject the entire envelope on a timescale as short as @xmath3 dynamical times . in that case ,",
    "a simple extrapolation of our dynamical results , as mentioned above , may in fact provide a reasonably accurate description of the entire ce evolution .    we thank the institute of astronomy at the university of cambridge , uk , for hospitality while this paper was being written . this work was begun at the institute for advanced study in princeton , where f.a.r .  was supported by a hubble fellowship , funded by nasa through grant hf-1037.01 - 92a from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by aura , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "m.l .  acknowledges support from nasa grant nagw-2678 .",
    "computations were performed on the ibm sp-2 parallel supercomputer at the cornell theory center , which receives major funding from the nsf and from ibm corporation , with additional support from the new york state science and technology foundation and members of the corporate research institute .",
    "de kool , m. 1987 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , university of amsterdam de kool , m. 1990 , , 358 , 189 hernquist , l. , & katz , n. 1989 , , 70 , 419 hjellming , m. s. 1989 , phd thesis , univ .  of illinois hjellming , m. s. , & webbink , r. f. 1987 , apj , 318 , 794 hockney , r. w. , & eastwood , j. w. 1988 , computer simulations using particles ( bristol : adam hilger ) hut , p. , & paczyski , b. 1984 , , 284 , 675 iben , i. & tutukov , a. v. 1984 , , 54 , 335 iben , i. , jr .",
    ", & livio , m. 1993 , , 105 , 1373 livio , m. 1996 , to appear in proceedings of nato asi on evolutionary processes in binary stars , eds .  r.a.m.j .  wijers et  al .",
    "( dordrecht : kluwer ) , in press livio , m. & soker , n. 1988 , , 329 , 764 lombardi , j. c. , rasio , f. a. , & shapiro , s. l. 1995 , in preparation meyer , f. , & meyer - hofmeister , e. 1979 , , 78 , 167 monaghan , j. j. 1992 , ara&ap , 30 , 543 ostriker , j. p. 1975",
    ", paper presented at iau symp .",
    "73 , the structure and evolution of close binary systems paczyski , b. 1976 , in the structure and evolution of close binary systems , eds .",
    "eggleton , s.  mitton & j.  whelan ( dordrecht : reidel ) , p. 75",
    "rasio , f. a. 1991 , phd thesis , cornell university rasio , f. a. 1996 , to appear in proceedings of nato asi on evolutionary processes in binary stars , eds .",
    "r.a.m.j .",
    "wijers et al .",
    "( dordrecht : kluwer ) , in press rasio , f. a. , & shapiro , s. l. 1991 , , 377 , 559 rasio , f. a. , & shapiro , s. l. 1992 , , 401 , 226 rasio , f. a. , & shapiro , s. l. 1994 , , 432 , 242 rasio , f. a. , & shapiro , s. l. 1995 , , 438 , 887 regs , e. , & tout , c. a. 1995 , mnras , 273 , 146 sawada , k. , hachisu , i. , & matsuda , t. 1984 , mnras , 206 , 673 sawada , k. , matsuda , t. , & hachisu , i. 1986 , mnras , 219 , 75 tassoul , j. 1978 , theory of rotating stars ( princeton : princeton univ .  press ) taam , r. e. , bodenheimer , p. & ostriker , j. p. 1978",
    ", , 222 , 269 taam , r. e. & bodenheimer , p. 1991",
    ", , 373 , 246 taam , r. e. , bodenheimer , p. & rozyczka , m. 1994 , , 431 , 247 terman , j. l. , taam , r. e. , & hernquist , l. 1994 , , 422 , 729 terman , j. l. , taam , r. e. , & hernquist , l. 1995 , , 445 , 367 webbink , r. f. 1984 , , 277 , 355 webbink , r. f. 1988 , in critical observations versus physical models for close binary systems , ed .",
    "k. c. leung ( new york : gordon & breach ) , 403 yorke , h. w. , bodenheimer , p. & taam , r. e. 1995 , , in press yungleson , l. r. , tutukov , a.v . & livio , m. 1993 , , 418 , 794"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the formation of a common envelope system following dynamically unstable mass transfer in a close binary , and the subsequent dynamical evolution and final fate of the envelope . </S>",
    "<S> we base our discussion on new three - dimensional hydrodynamic calculations that we have performed for a close binary system containing a @xmath0 red giant with a @xmath1 main - sequence star companion . </S>",
    "<S> the initial parameters are chosen to model the formation of a system resembling v  471  tau , a typical progenitor of a cataclysmic variable binary . </S>",
    "<S> the calculations are performed using the smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) method with up to @xmath2 particles . as initial condition </S>",
    "<S> we use an exact hydrostatic equilibrium configuration at the onset of dynamically unstable mass transfer . </S>",
    "<S> the nonlinear development of the instability is followed using sph until a quasi - static common envelope configuration is formed . in our highest - resolution calculation </S>",
    "<S> , we find evidence for a corotating region of gas around the central binary . </S>",
    "<S> this is in agreement with the theoretical model proposed by meyer & meyer - hofmeister ( 1979 ) for the evolution of common envelope systems , in which this central corotating region is coupled to the envelope through viscous angular momentum transport only . </S>",
    "<S> we also find evidence that the envelope is convectively unstable , in which case the viscous dissipation time could be as short as @xmath3 dynamical times , leading to rapid ejection of the envelope . </S>",
    "<S> for v  471  tau , our results , and the observed parameters of the system , are entirely consistent with rapid envelope ejection on a timescale @xmath4yr and an efficiency parameter @xmath5 . </S>"
  ]
}