{
  "article_text": [
    "bl lac objects and other blazars are characterized by their rapid large - amplitude continuum variability , which is usually explained by relativistic beaming in a jet emanating from the active galactic nucleus @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite pointed out that gravitational micro - lensing of a compact continuum source by stars in the core of an intervening galaxy could enhance this continuum variability , and furthermore , could explain the peculiar defining properties of bl lac objects , namely , weak or absent emission lines . according to this idea , gravitational micro - lensing magnifies the nuclear light from the background quasar but not that of the larger emission - line region , thus diluting the lines and reducing their equivalent widths .",
    "if the gravitational lensing hypothesis is correct it implies at least four observable effects .",
    "first , the nuclei of bl lac objects should be slightly off - centered with respect to the surrounding nebulosity ( which would be the intervening galaxy rather than a host galaxy ) .",
    "second , the nebulosity is about 20 times more likely to be an elliptical galaxy than a spiral galaxy , because of the relation between velocity dispersion and lensing probability @xcite .",
    "third , an excess of intervening absorption systems should be observed in bl lacs spectra .",
    "fourth , because of the macro - lensing by the entire intervening galaxy , in some cases multiple images of the active nucleus should be observed ( as in the case of qso lenses ) .",
    "observations of some individual sources in the past decade have offered mixed support for the gravitational lensing hypothesis . on the one hand , it appeared in some cases that the surrounding nebulosity was off - center with respect to the bl lac nucleus ( e.g. , ao  0235 + 164 : @xcite ; pks  0537 - 441 : @xcite ; ms  0205.7 + 3509 : @xcite ) . however , because of the difficulty of such observations ( in terms of spatial resolution , background subtraction and appropriate definition of the psf ) most of these results were not confirmed by subsequent studies ( @xcite ) .    at the same time , mg  ii absorption systems are significantly more common in bl lac spectra than in quasar spectra @xcite , suggesting an unusually high occurrence of foreground objects . however , vla radio images of these same bl lac objects do not show the expected gravitational lensing features @xcite , so again , the relevance of gravitational lensing to the bl lac phenomenon is controversial .",
    "the hst snapshot survey of bl lac objects ( @xcite ) provided a homogeneous set of 110 high - resolution images through the f702w filter ( approximately r - band ) , analysis of which yielded a full characterization of the host galaxies and a detailed view of their close environments .",
    "in particular , for low redshift ( @xmath0 ) @xcite showed that the nuclei of bl lacs are centered ( within an accuracy of 0.05 arcsec ) with respect to their surrounding nebulosity , contrary to what is predicted by the gravitational lensing hypothesis .",
    "@xcite also found that the host galaxy morphologies were overwhelmingly elliptical rather than disky , perhaps more than lensing would predict .    yet",
    "the hst snapshot survey also yielded some possible evidence in favor of gravitational lensing .",
    "in particular , @xcite reported a number of close compact companions , which , based on the limited hst photometry available , were consistent with lensed images .",
    "lensing had been seen previously in hst images of quasars @xcite , albeit at a much lower rate ( 1 lens in @xmath1 quasar images , compared to 3 lens candidates in 110 bl lac images ) .",
    "the mixed evidence , and the lingering possibility that lensing is important in bl lac objects , make it essential to follow up on the three candidate lenses from the hst snapshot survey @xcite .",
    "one candidate was a possible arc or einstein ring which will not be discussed here ( odowd et al . in preparation ) .",
    "the other two candidates , 1es 0502 + 675 ( @xmath2 ) and 1es 1440 + 122 ( @xmath3 ) , showed possible multiple images with separations of @xmath4  arcsec . in the case of 1es 0502 + 675 ,",
    "the case was strengthened by an hst nicmos h - band image that showed the colors of the nucleus and the companion were similar @xcite .",
    "however the lack of further photometric information or spectroscopy of the candidate lenses prevented any definitive conclusion .",
    "we report here the results of two specific observational programs carried out in order to clarify the nature of these two bl lac objects . the first program , aimed at obtaining deep vla images of the two fields , is described in   2 . the second program , described in   3 , involved hst optical spectroscopy of the two bl lacs and their companions",
    "the results of both programs , which indicate that the companions are foreground galactic stars , are given in   4 , along with a brief discussion of the radio properties of the two bl lac objects .",
    "the main conclusions from this work are summarized in   5 . in this paper",
    "we use h@xmath5 = 70 km sec@xmath6 mpc@xmath6 and q@xmath5 = 0.5 .",
    "the two bl lac objects 1es 0502 + 675 and 1es 1440 + 122 were observed with the nrao vla in the a configuration on 1999 june 21 ( 1es 0502 + 675 ) and june 24 ( 1es 1440 + 122 ) for 2 hours each at 8.4 , 15 , and 22  ghz ( see tables 1 and 2 ) . both objects were observed again several months later ( 1es 1440 + 122 ,",
    "11 november ; 1es 0502 + 675 ,",
    "14 november ) , with the vla in the b configuration in order to have better uv coverage to search for a possible extended radio emission . to maximize the sensitivity to faint features ,",
    "the second - epoch observations of both sources were done only at 8.4  ghz .",
    "the data were calibrated in the standard way using the nrao aips package and reduced using the aips task imagr .",
    "calibrated data at 8.4  ghz in the a and b configurations were combined to obtain a more sensitive map . the angular resolution and sensitivity of the final calibrated images",
    "are given in tables 1 and 2 .",
    "* 1es 0502 + 675 * the vla images show that this bl lac object is unresolved in the a configuration at all frequencies and in the longer observation in the b configuration at 8.4  ghz . in the latter observation",
    "the source flux density is consistent with the flux density at the same frequency measured at higher resolution a few months before .",
    "this confirms that no extended low surface brightness structure is present and that no flux density variability occurred between the two observations .",
    "the 15  ghz image of 1es 0502 + 675 is shown in fig .  1 .    in table 1",
    "we report the relevant parameters from the new images together with the data from the nvss survey at 1.4  ghz @xcite . the spectral index ( s(@xmath7 )",
    "is flat with a possible indication of self - absorption at @xmath8  ghz : @xmath9 and @xmath10 .",
    "the low - resolution ( hpbw = @xmath11 ) 1.4  ghz flux density confirms the lack of any extended structure .",
    "vla images in the a configuration show only the unresolved nuclear emission from this bl lac object ( fig .  2 and table  2 ) . the radio spectrum is flat , @xmath12 , but at 8.4  ghz the total flux in the shortest baselines is significantly higher than the peak flux density . in the observation in the b configuration , thanks to the presence of short baselines and to the longer integration time , extended low - brightness emission is visible around the nuclear source .    in fig .",
    "3 we show the image obtained by combining the a and b configuration data at 8.4  ghz . no evidence of a variation in the core flux density is present between the two observations 5 months apart . in the 1.4  ghz image from the nvss survey",
    "@xcite the source is only marginally resolved because of the large beam .",
    "the spectrum is steep at low frequency with an evident flattening at high frequency , as is typical of bl lac objects in which a flat - spectrum core dominates at high frequencies and an extended steep - spectrum component dominates at low frequencies .",
    "hst wfpc2 images of 1es 0502 + 675 and 1es 1440 + 122 in the f702w filter are shown in figs .  1 and 2 ( gray scale ) together with radio maps at 15  ghz ( contours ) .",
    "the optical exposures were 740 and 320 seconds , respectively .",
    "details of the analysis procedures can be found in @xcite .    for 1es 0502 + 675 , the magnitude of the brightest source is m@xmath13  mag , and that of the companion is m@xmath14  mag . for 1es 1440 + 122",
    ", the central source is m@xmath15  mag , and the closest companion has m@xmath16  mag .",
    "note that the companion galaxy @xmath17  arcsec nw of 1es 1440 + 122 does not emit at radio frequencies .    comparing the images and the radio and optical positions it is clear that in both cases , the radio emission is identified with the bl - lac object at the center of a giant elliptical galaxy .",
    "we note that the radio images were self - calibrated and we estimate an astrometric precision of @xmath18 , and the absolute accuracy of hst astrometry is comparable .",
    "however , considering that the two secondary objects have been identified as local stars ( see   3 ) , and that all bl lac objects are radio loud , we are confident in our identification of the radio sources with the bl lac objects .",
    "optical spectra of the two bl lac objects and their companions were obtained with the space telescope imaging spectrograph ( stis ) using two different setups : grism g750l to cover the region around 7500   and grism g430l to cover the region around 4300  . in both cases a slit of @xmath19  arcsec was centered on the companion and oriented in the direction of the bright bl lac nucleus .",
    "the observations took place on march 9th 2001 for 1es 0502 + 675 and on december 22nd 2002 for 1es 1440 + 122 .",
    "the total integration times for each spectrum were 2300 seconds for 1es 0502 + 675 and 2000 seconds for 1es 1440 + 122 .",
    "standard data reduction was performed using the hst pipeline to produce two - dimensional wavelength- and flux - calibrated spectra .",
    "extraction of 1-dimensional spectra was then performed using the standard routines available in iraf .",
    "the extracted spectra of the two close companions are shown in figures 4 and 5 .",
    "because of the narrowness of the slit and the high level of cosmic rays the extracted spectra are somewhat noisy , but they are quite obviously not typical of bl lacs , which are dominated by featureless power - law continua . in low - redshift bl lacs such as these two objects ,",
    "there are sometimes stellar absorption features arising in the host galaxy , but the features seen here are clearly at zero redshift . for the companion of 1es 0502 + 675",
    "the detected absorption features indicate that it is a star of intermediate spectral type ( likely f or g ) . in the case of 1es 1440 + 122",
    "no clear absorptions are observable but the shape of the continuum suggests a later spectral type star ( likely k ) .",
    "we have tested the hypothesis that unresolved companions @xmath20 from two bl lac objects be lensed images of the nuclei .",
    "both deep radio observations of the fields and optical spectroscopy of the companions yield a negative result .",
    "the companions are not emitting at radio frequencies ( in sharp contrast to the bl lac nuclei ) and their optical spectra exhibit continua and ( for 1es 0502 + 675 ) absorption features typical of intermediate spectral type stars .",
    "therefore , despite the relatively low probability of having such close projections by chance given the observed surface density of stars at intermediate galactic latitudes , the observed close companions are indeed stars unrelated to the bl lac sources .    from a dataset of 30 hst fields centered on bl lacs at @xmath0",
    ", we estimated @xcite a probability p=0.06 of having one or more moderately bright companions within a radius of 0.5  arcsec of any position . for the whole dataset ( 110 images ) of the hst snapshot survey",
    ", assuming the same average surface brightness for galactic stars , one would expect to observe @xmath21 chance projections with separation @xmath22  arcsec in the whole survey , while 2 were observed .",
    "thus this discrepancy is just an unlikely statistical fluctuation .      *",
    "1es 0502 + 675 * : in the radio band this source appears as a classical bl lac - type object dominated by nuclear emission with a flat spectrum .",
    "since no extended emission , such as a resolved jet , was detected in this source , we compare its radio properties with those of fr  i radio galaxies @xcite assuming a parsec - scale jet velocity with lorentz factor @xmath23 oriented at @xmath24 with respect to the line of sight . from the observed core radio power at 5  ghz , @xmath25  w / hz , we infer an intrinsic core radio power @xmath26 @xmath27  w / hz assuming a spectral index @xmath28 .",
    "we use this estimate and the general correlation between core and total radio power @xcite to derive the expected unboosted total flux at 408  mhz , @xmath29  w / hz . at the source redshift ( @xmath30 )",
    ", this corresponds to a rather modest total flux density , 0.8  mjy , in agreement with the non - detection of any extended flux density in the 1.4  ghz nvss data .    with its low intrinsic radio power , 1es",
    "0502 + 675 is very comparable to nearby low - power fr  i radio galaxies , such as the b2 radio galaxies .",
    "it is visible at @xmath31 only because of relativistic beaming , illustrating how relativistic jets are present also in low - power radio sources .    *",
    "1es 1440 + 122 * : for this bl lac object we detected in the radio band both the extended and the core emission .",
    "the observed nuclear radio power is @xmath32  w / hz and the estimated radio power at 408  mhz , derived from the measured extended emission assuming @xmath33 , is @xmath34  w / hz . from the core dominance @xcite we derive that the jet velocity has to be @xmath35 and the orientation angle @xmath36 . assuming a fast jet with @xmath37 ,",
    "the orientation angle is roughly @xmath38 degrees .",
    "this source thus appears similar to high - intermediate radio power fr  i radio galaxies and its de - projected linear size should be @xmath39  kpc in agreement with the size - radio power distribution for b2 radio galaxies ( @xcite and figure 11 in @xcite ) .",
    "the main result of this work is that the companions detected within 0.3 arcseconds of each of the bl lac objects studied , 1es 0502 + 675 and 1es 1440 + 122 , are not lensed images .",
    "this conclusion is supported by both optical spectroscopy and radio observations of the two fields .",
    "the companions are galactic stars seen by chance in close alignment with the bl lac nuclei . in these two bl lac objects",
    " the only lens candidates in the large hst snapshot survey  gravitational lensing does not occur .",
    "thus the present observations lead further support against the idea that gravitational microlensing is needed , or even relevant , to explain the peculiar properties of any bl lac objects .",
    "apart from lensing the new radio observations also allow us to characterize the radio properties of the bl lac objects themselves .",
    "these are well consistent with the the average properties of the class , seen at the redshift of the two objects , and with being beamed versions of fr  i galaxies ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on deep radio images and optical spectroscopy of two bl lac objects that have very close compact companions . </S>",
    "<S> the two targets , 1es 0502 + 675 and 1es 1440 + 122 , were selected from the hst imaging survey of 110 bl lacs as candidates for possible gravitational lensing . </S>",
    "<S> the new observations clearly demonstrate that the companion objects are not secondary images of the active nuclei but , in spite of the relatively low chance projection probability , foreground galactic stars . </S>",
    "<S> gravitational lensing appears to be unimportant to the bl lac phenomenon . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the radio properties of the bl lac objects in the context of standard beaming models , and show they are as expected for beamed fr  i radio galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}