{
  "article_text": [
    "gravitational microlensing has been rapidly maturing in the last few years ( see paczyski 1996 for a review ) . up to now",
    ", about two hundred microlensing events have been detected , about 15 of these are toward the large and small magellanic clouds ( lmc , smc , alcock et al .",
    "1993 , 1997b ; aubourg et al . 1993 ) while the rest are toward the galactic bulge ( alcock et al .",
    "1995 , 1997a ; udalski et al .",
    "1994a , 1994b ; alard & guibert 1997 ) .",
    "thanks to the early warning / alert systems ( udalski et al . 1994c ; alcock et al .",
    "1996 ) , microlensing events are now routinely identified in real - time .",
    "this allows simultaneous photometric ( alcock et al .",
    "1997c ; albrow et al . in preparation ) and",
    "spectroscopic observations ( lennon et al . 1996 , 1997 ) . to date , for all the microlensing events , the intervening lens has never been convincingly detected toward either the galactic bulge or the lmc . since the lens and source are aligned to about @xmath10 arcsecond ,",
    "if the lens is luminous , the observed light curve should include the light from the lens as well as the source .",
    "in fact towards the galactic bulge the lenses are expected to be normal stars .",
    "the situation is less clear toward the lmc , however if some of the lenses are within the lmc itself ( sahu 1994 ; wu 1994 ) or in tidal debris or streams ( zhao 1998 ) , then these should be luminous as well .",
    "as it is most likely that the lens is less massive and considerably fainter than the source , the problem then is how to detect its presence .",
    "photometric methods rely on the fact that the lens contribution will distort the light curve and potentially this can be used to detect the lens ( di stefano & esin 1995 ; kamionkowski 1995 ; buchalter et al .",
    "so far this photometric method has not yielded a reliable detection of the lens due to the source blending problem in the crowded fields ( see discussion ) . in this paper , we suggest a spectroscopic method to infer the presence of the lens .",
    "this method is based on the fact that the lens and the source have radial velocities that differ by @xmath1 , and hence the observed spectra should include stellar lines from both components shifted relative to each other by @xmath2  in the optical range ; the required resolution to detect such a line shift is therefore not exceedingly high .",
    "the detectability of the lens component in the composite is obviously a function of the ratio of the brightnesses of the source and the lens , and their intrinsic spectral distributions .",
    "the situation is analogous to the detection of spectroscopic binaries , except that there are two essential differences : the lens is normally expected to be much fainter than the source and the light ratio changes during the microlensing event .",
    "we make use of this latter effect in the method presented here , and , using simulated composite spectra , we have experimented with different methods to detect the lens . in brief",
    "we find that the differential cross - correlation of two spectra obtained at different epochs offers an efficient way of detecting the lens ; this method is explained in sect . 2 and",
    "the simulation results are presented in sect .",
    "we outline practical observing strategies and discuss our results in sect .",
    "a common method to measure radial velocities is the cross - correlation technique .",
    "the cross - correlation function for two functions @xmath11 and @xmath12 is defined as ( ) = _",
    "x_1^x_2 y(x ) h(x+)dx , where @xmath13 is a function of wavelength .",
    "this method works well if the spectra @xmath14 and @xmath15 focus their spectral power in similar features .",
    "let @xmath15 be a single component radial velocity standard .",
    "if @xmath14 is a single component spectrum , the radial velocity simply corresponds to the position of the correlation maximum .",
    "for a two - component spectrum , such as in our case , one might expect that the relative radial velocity can be measured from the distance of the correlation maxima , provided these are well separated and distinguishable from sidelobes . however , most lenses are expected to be much fainter than the source , and moreover the source itself is faint ( with visual magnitudes typically between 19 and 21 for the galactic bulge ) . in this case",
    "the use of a direct cross correlation technique is inappropriate , especially when the spectral resolution is low , since it becomes difficult to detect the correlation maximum due to the lens ( see fig .",
    "we therefore experimented with other estimators .",
    "we found that a differential cross - correlation of composite spectra observed at two different magnifications ( eq . [ equ : diff - corr ] ) provides a more sensitive signature to determine the relative radial velocity between the lens and source .",
    "suppose we have a series of spectra obtained during a microlensing event .",
    "each spectrum is a composite of the lens and ( amplified ) source : [ equ : composite ] y_i(x ) = _ is(x ) + l(x ) + n_i(x ) ,   x , where @xmath16 is a sequence number , @xmath17 are the intrinsic source and lens spectrum respectively , @xmath18 is the noise term , and @xmath19 is the ( intrinsic ) amplification of the source .",
    "the observed spectra are sampled logarithmically , so a velocity shift is a uniform linear shift in @xmath13 .",
    "radial velocity measurements are usually performed using rectified spectra , i.e. , spectra which are normalized to the continuum , where the continuum is determined by an interpolation of the observed spectrum by low - order polynomials . from here on , we will assume that @xmath20 has been rectified using standard procedures .",
    "since we determine the radial velocity by comparing the relative shift in the positions of spectral lines , we are only interested in the alternating part of @xmath21 coming from the lines .",
    "therefore we subtract the mean of @xmath21 and normalize the spectrum by its _ rms _ :",
    "y_i(x ) = y_i(x ) - _ i , where @xmath22 and @xmath23 are the mean and rms of the rectified spectrum within a certain spectral range @xmath24 .",
    "note that this normalization , which brings each composite spectrum onto the same scale , requires neither an accurate knowledge of the ( intrinsic ) magnification nor that of the absolute flux distribution .",
    "this property is one of the benefits compared to a method which makes direct use of eq .",
    "( [ equ : composite ] ) to disentangle @xmath25 and @xmath26 algebraically from at least two different observations @xmath27 and @xmath28 .",
    "spectral regions with many well separated intrinsic atomic and molecular lines are well suited for correlation studies .",
    "non - intrinsic features such as interstellar nad lines , telluric or night sky lines should be avoided if the residues of these lines have significant spectral power . in practice , we choose the spectral window between 5100and 5700  which includes mostly narrow metal lines . at low resolution , the spectral power is dominated by strong well separated features such as mgb triplet , and few strong fei lines .",
    "we avoid the balmer lines ( e.g. , h@xmath29 ) for the correlation because the significance of the radial velocity indicator varies with the spectral types if these temperature sensitive lines are included .",
    "the differential correlation function of two spectra , @xmath30 and @xmath31 , is defined as [ equ : diff - corr ] = - , where @xmath30 should be taken as the spectrum with the highest @xmath32 , e.g. , a spectrum observed near the maximum of magnification . the second term ( auto - correlation of @xmath30 ) in eq .",
    "( [ equ : diff - corr ] ) is symmetric , but the first term ( cross - correlation term ) is in general asymmetric , so the differential correlation function is asymmetric .",
    "it is easy to show that when the amplification is very high for @xmath30 , the differential correlation function is essentially reduced to the cross - correlation of the source and the lens spectrum .",
    "the maximum of the differential correlation function simply corresponds to the difference in radial velocity between the lens and the source .",
    "we evaluate the errors in the relative radial velocity by comparing the derived radial velocity in simulations with different noise patterns .",
    "the composite spectra were created using rectified synthetic lens spectra , @xmath33 , and source spectra , @xmath34 , y_i(x ) = , where @xmath35 is the lens - to - source light ratio when the source is at the baseline , i.e. , when it is unamplified .",
    "we investigate three combinations of the lens and source spectra : a k0 star lensed by a k5 star , an f5 star lensed by a k5 star and an f5 source by a solar - type ( g2 ) lens .",
    "the choice of source spectral types is guided by the fact that most sources identified in the bulge have magnitudes and colours implying that they are main sequence or turn - off stars of spectral types f to k. this is supported by recent spectroscopic observations ( lennon et al .",
    "1996 , 1997 ) .",
    "the choice of the lens spectral types is more problematic since we can not at present generate convincing m - dwarf spectra .",
    "we therefore restrict ourselves to the cases of k and g dwarfs , thereby limiting the lens masses ( @xmath36 ) which we sample to @xmath37 .",
    "we return to this very important point in the discussion .",
    "theoretical spectra are calculated using an extended grid of homogeneous , plane - parallel model atmospheres described by fuhrmann et al .",
    "lte - line formation was performed with molecular and atomic lines from kurucz ( 1992 ) .",
    "the @xmath38-values for most lines within @xmath39  have been adjusted to the solar flux atlas ( kurucz et al .",
    "we find that the significance of the cross - correlation signatures depends on the assumed combination of spectral types ( and spectral correlation range ) .",
    "however the physical approximations of the models and the accuracy of the line data have little impact on the results . for each spectrum",
    ", the spectral resolution has been reduced to the desired value by a convolution with gaussian profiles ; then normally distributed noise pattern are added according to the spectral @xmath32 .",
    "the @xmath32 of the composite when amplified by @xmath19 is given by @xmath40 where we have assumed that the @xmath32 is dominated by photon noise .",
    "the baseline signal - to - noise ratio , @xmath41 , has been scaled from our previous real - time spectroscopic observations of microlensing events ( lennon et al .",
    "1996 , 1997 ) or from technical specifications of typical high - resolution spectrographs for 8 - 10 m class telescopes .",
    "the difference in radial velocity of the lens and source is taken to be @xmath42 .",
    "this range is chosen because of the following reasons : toward the lmc , the random radial motion of halo lenses is expected to be @xmath43 , where @xmath44 is the circular velocity of the halo .",
    "if the lmc self - lensing contributes significantly to the optical depth , then the lmc lenses are expected to be kinematically hot , with velocity dispersion @xmath45 ( gould 1995 ) .",
    "the lenses and sources in the galactic bulge have velocity dispersions of about 100@xmath9 .",
    "therefore the difference in radial velocity between the lens and source is about @xmath46 .",
    "since the lens is expected to be much fainter than the source , we have studied cases where the lens - to - source light ratio at the baseline is between 0.1 to 0.01 , corresponding to differences in apparent magnitude ( @xmath47 ) of 2.5 and 5.0 .",
    "we first illustrate the difficulty in detecting the lenses using the standard cross - correlation technique . in fig . 1",
    ", we show the auto - correlation functions for @xmath48 for two spectral resolutions , @xmath49 with @xmath50 and @xmath8 , respectively .",
    "one clearly sees that there is no secondary correlation maximum associated with the lens : it is simply lost in side lobes .",
    "since the minimum spectral resolution to detect the line shift is given by @xmath51 , we first study simulations with medium resolution @xmath52 .",
    "the @xmath32 is chosen to be between 10 and 16 at the baseline and the @xmath32 at the peak amplification is taken to be 50 , implying magnifications of 25 and 10 respectively ; such peak magnifications are typical for the observations conducted by lennon et al .",
    "( 1996 , 1997 ) .",
    "2 shows the results for @xmath53 and 0.04 , respectively .",
    "it appears that when the lens - to - source light ratio is 0.1 , the radial velocity can be inferred with an accuracy of @xmath54 .",
    "this determination is least reliable when the lens is a g2 star and the source f5 , because the density of spectral lines from molecules and neutral metals is lower at higher effective temperatures .",
    "when the lens - to - source light ratio is reduced to 0.04 , the reliability is still acceptable when the lens is a k5 star , but it becomes worse when the source is an f5 star and the lens a g2 star : two of the three simulations show large departures from the input radial velocity , indicating for such low values of @xmath35 , the differential correlation method is not sensitive enough .",
    "it appears that with spectral resolution of about 6000 , the lens can be detected reliably when the intrinsic ( unamplified ) lens - to - source light ratio is about @xmath55 .",
    "note that the significance of the correlation maximum is better for the case where the lens and source are both cool stars .",
    "this is mainly caused by an increase in the number of metal lines as the effective temperature decreases .",
    "we next consider the situation for high - resolution spectrographs available on 8 - 10 m class telescopes .",
    "we will take the uves instrument to be installed on the vlt ( pilachowski et al .",
    "1995 ) as an example .",
    "the @xmath41 is taken to be 6 or 9 when the source is unmagnified ; this corresponds to a @xmath32 achieved for a @xmath56 star with a one - hour exposure .",
    "[ fig : hires ] shows numerical results for @xmath57 for a lens - to - source light ratios of 1.3% and 3.3% .",
    "the @xmath32 at the maximum is taken to be 30 , implying magnifications of 30 and 10 respectively .",
    "for the case of @xmath58 , some inferred radial velocity show large deviations from the input value . for @xmath59 ,",
    "the situation is much improved .",
    "the radial velocity is recovered reliably , with an accuracy of @xmath60 , for all combinations of lens and source spectral distributions .",
    "we have ran simulations with radial velocity differences as low as @xmath61 for @xmath59 , and the radial velocity difference can still be inferred quite reliably .",
    "it is clear that with such high resolutions , the stellar lines are resolved , although contaminated by noise ; the differential cross - correlation yields very reliable radial velocities for a lens - to - source light ratio of @xmath62 .",
    "therefore , the detection of microlenses with such high - resolutions is clearly feasible .",
    "so far we have mainly concentrated on the high - magnification microlensing events that allow us to obtain high s / n ratio spectrum at the peak , however , events with low magnifications are more common ( the lensing frequency roughly scales as @xmath63 ) , we have therefore also ran simulations for a case with a peak magnification of 2.5 .",
    "we found that in such cases , we can still detect the lenses spectroscopically when @xmath64 with baseline s / n @xmath65 .",
    "it appears that our method works rather well for even modestly magnified microlensing events .",
    "however , in reality , highly magnified microlensing events are still preferred since the high s / n spectrum at the peak allows the intrinsic source properties be more realiably derived ; such properties are valuable for not only lensing studies but also for the kinematical and chemical evolution of the galactic bulge ( lennon et al .",
    "as we have implied above , the choice of our spectral types does not sample lens masses below about 0.5 solar masses .",
    "if we assume that the lensing in the bulge is primarily self - lensing , such that lens and source both reside there , then this implies a mean lens mass of around 0.3 - 0.5 solar masses ( depending on the mass function ) . if the most likely lens is an m dwarf ( @xmath66 ) with an absolute visual magnitude of around m@xmath67 ( compared with m@xmath68 for a k5 dwarf ) , while a typical turn - off star in the bulge would have m@xmath69 which implies that the light ratio would be of order 10@xmath70 . detecting such a lens",
    "is clearly much more difficult and therefore it is necessary to investigate the fraction of lens with masses above about 0.5 solar masses .",
    "the luminosity function of the bulge stars implies a mass function of @xmath71 for @xmath72 and @xmath73 for @xmath74 ( holtzman et al .",
    "1998 ) , since the event rate scales as @xmath75 , one can estimate that roughly 45% of the lenses have mass above @xmath76 ; in the above estimate , we have ignored the detection efficiency as a function of event duration since each lens mass produces very broad event duration due to the convolution of kinematics and lens distances ( e.g. , mao & paczyski 1996 ) .",
    "this estimate is still uncertain , since the mass function of the bulge implied by the microlensing experiments is still under debate and of course is an important objective of microlensing surveys ( see , e.g. , han & lee 1997 ; zhao & de zeeuw 1997 ; see gould 1996 for a review ) . in this respect the detection of even only the most luminous lenses is obviously very important .",
    "we have shown through realistic simulations that it is possible to detect the presence of the lens using high - resolution spectrographs available on 8 - 10 m class telescopes ( pilachowski et al .",
    "1995 ) , even when the lens to source light ratio is as small as @xmath6 .",
    "this method complements the photometric detection of blending in microlensing .",
    "the spectroscopic observations will yield further kinematical information on the lens and source , which will provide more constraints on the modelling of microlensing events .",
    "the observations will require flexible scheduling of telescope time .",
    "such real - time spectroscopic observations have already been carried out successfully by lennon et al .",
    "( 1996 , 1997 ) using the ntt at eso .",
    "unfortunately , the spectral resolution used , @xmath77 , was too low to detect the relative radial velocity as our numerical simulations suggest .",
    "the proposed spectroscopic observations should first be performed with the bulge microlensing events for two reasons .",
    "first , the number of events is a factor of ten larger toward the bulge , therefore we can select highly amplified events to perform high @xmath32 observations .",
    "second , the bulge sources are brighter than those in lmc .",
    "notice that the lens - to - source light ratio obviously increases when the source becomes fainter .",
    "the best cases to study the lenses are therefore highly amplified faint stars .",
    "if the proposed method works for bulge microlensing events , then it is clearly very interesting to extend such high resolution observations toward the lmc .    detailed photometric follow - up observations make the selection of spectroscopic observations simpler since the photometric effect detected in real - time can already tell us whether some additional light from the lens or a nearby source is present by chance alignment .",
    "the second possibility arises because the bulge and lmc are both crowded ; many of the current observed microlensing events are influenced by such blending , since they exhibit astrometric centroid shifts of a few tenths of arcseconds during microlensing ( goldberg & wozniak 1997 ) .",
    "photometric methods to detect the lenses ( e.g. , kamionkowski 1995 ) are unable to tell whether the additional light is from the lens or from a blended source .",
    "our method is subject to the same difficulty , although here the derived kinematical information will be helpful since the transverse motions ( and hence indirectly the radial velocities ) is subject to the duration constraint while that of a random blending star is not .",
    "the proposed method can of course be used to confirm such blending .",
    "however if one is more interested in detecting the lens , events with astrometric shifts should be eliminated .",
    "the seeing expected on the sites of 8 - 10 m class telescopes will be substantially better than the typical seeing at the current microlensing survey sites ( @xmath78 ) .",
    "many of the blended events will be spatially resolved .",
    "furthermore , with the superior resolution of hst , one can largely tell whether the light is from the lens or a random star along the line of sight .",
    "if the additional light is not from a random star , then it is either from the lens or from a close binary .",
    "the latter possibility can be detected either photometrically from the light curve ( han & gould 1996 ) or spectroscopically from the velocity shift in different epochs .",
    "the combination of hst and spectroscopic observations on 8 - 10 m class telescopes therefore provides a powerful way of probing the lenses . in this work ,",
    "we have tried to address the rather modest goal of detecting the lens using spectrocopic techniques .",
    "the presence of the lens is inferred from the peak position of differential correlation function .",
    "it is clear that the peak height is correlated ( in some way ) with the lens - to - source flux ratio ( see figs . 2 and 3 ) .",
    "however , it remains to be seen whether this quantity can be reliably deteremined when the lens spectral type is unknown and with realistic s / n .",
    "clearly it will be very exciting if the lens - to - source flux ratio can be inferred , since this will provide additional constraints on the lensing parameters ( gould & loeb 1992 ; gaudi & gould 1997 ) .",
    "although the proposed differential correlation technique seems to work reasonably well , it will be very interesting to explore other statistical techniques such as the todcor method developed by zucker & mazeh ( 1994 ) in the context of spectroscopic binaries .",
    "we plan to address these important issues in a further work .",
    "we are grateful to thomas gehren , peter schneider , klaus simon and hongsheng zhao for useful discussions .",
    "insightful comments by the referee , andrew gould , have much improved the paper .",
    "we also thank penny sackett and bohdan paczyski for encouragements .",
    "this project is partly supported by the `` sonderforschungsbereich 375 - 95 fr astro - teilchenphysik '' der deutschen forschungsgemeinschaft .",
    "alard c. , guibert j. 1997 , a&a 326 , 1 alard c. , mao s. , guibert j. : 1995 , a&a 300 , l17 alcock c. , akerlof c.w .",
    ", allsman r.a . , et al .",
    "1993 , nat 365 , 621 alcock c. , allsman r.a . ,",
    "axelrod t.s .",
    ", et al . 1995 , apj 445 , 133 alcock c. , allsman r.a . , alves d. , et al .",
    "1996 , apj 463 , l67 alcock c. , allsman r.a . , alves d. , et al .",
    "1997a , apj 479 , 199 alcock c. , allsman r.a . , alves d. , et al . 1997b , apj 486 , 697 alcock c. , allen w.h .",
    ", allsman r. , et al . 1997c , apj 491 , 436 aubourg e. , bareyre p. , brhin s. , et al .",
    "1993 , nat 365 , 623 han c. , lee s. 1997 , preprint ( astro - ph/9705137 ) buchalter a. , kamionkowski m. , rich r.m .",
    "1996 , apj 469 , 676 di stefano r. , esin a.a . , 1995 , apj 448 l1 fuhrmann k. , pfeiffer m. , frank c. , reety j. , gehren t. 1997 , a&a 323 , 909 gaudi s. , gould a. 1997 , apj 486 , 85 goldberg d. m. , wozniak p. 1997",
    ", preprint ( astro - ph/9712262 ) gould a. , loeb a. 1992 , apj 396 , 104 gould a. 1995 , apj 441 , 77 gould a. 1996 , pasp 108 , 465 han c. , gould a. 1996 , apj 480 , 196 holtzman j.a . , watson a.m. , baum w.a .",
    ", et al . 1998 , preprint ( astro - ph/9801321 ) kamionkowski m. 1995 , apj 442 , l9 kurucz r.l . , 1992 ,",
    "mexicana astron .",
    "astrof . , 23 , 45 kurucz r.l . , furenlid i. , brault j. , testerman l. 1984 , _ solar flux atlas from 296 to 1300 nm _ , kitt peak national obs . , tucson lennon d.j . , mao s. , fuhrmann k. , thomas , g. 1996 , apj 471 , l23 lennon d.j . , mao s. , reetz j. , et al .",
    "1997 , the messenger 90 , 30 mao s. , paczyski b. 1996 , apj 473 , 57 paczyski b. 1996 , ara&a 34 , 419 pilachowski c. , dekker h. , hinkle k. , et al .",
    "1995 , pasp 107 , 983 sahu k. c. 1994 , nat 370 , 275 udalski a. , szymaski m. , kaluzny j. , et al .",
    "1994a , aca 43 , 289 udalski a. , szymaski m. , stanek k.z .",
    "1994b , aca 44 , 165 udalski a. , szymaski m. , kaluzny , j. , et al .",
    "1994c , aca 44 , 227 wu x .-",
    "1994 , apj 435 , 66 zhao h. 1998 , mnras 294 , 139 zhao h. , de zeeuw , p.t .",
    "1997 , preprint ( astro - ph/9712177 ) zucker s. , mazeh t. 1994 , apj 420 , 806"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we propose a new method to detect the gravitational lenses in the ongoing microlensing experiments using medium and high resolution spectroscopy ( @xmath0 ) . </S>",
    "<S> since the radial velocity of the lens and lensed source typically differs by @xmath1 , the spectral lines from the lens and source will be shifted relative to each other by @xmath2  in the optical . </S>",
    "<S> we simulate realistic composite spectra assuming different spectral types for the lens and source and study the lens detectability as a function of the signal - to - noise ratio , spectral resolution and lens - to - source light ratio . </S>",
    "<S> we show that it is possible to measure the difference in radial velocity from an unequivocal signature in the difference of cross- and auto - correlation functions calculated from two spectra obtained at different magnifications . </S>",
    "<S> if the lens is brighter than 10% ( @xmath3 ) of the unmagnified source we find that a spectral resolution of @xmath4 and a signal - to - noise of 50 ( at magnification maximum ) are sufficient to determine the relative radial velocity of the lens . at @xmath5 , the spectral resolution of high resolution spectrographs of 8 - 10 m class telescopes , the lens could even be detected at a brightness of @xmath6 ( @xmath7 ) of the source . </S>",
    "<S> radial velocities higher than @xmath8 can be measured with an accuracy of a few @xmath9 . </S>",
    "<S> practical difficulties and observation strategies are also discussed . </S>"
  ]
}