{
  "article_text": [
    "in the last few years , great strides have been made towards understanding the nature of the faint sub - mjy and microjy radio source population .",
    "most of these studies have employed connected arrays , such as the vla _",
    "richards et al .",
    "1998 , richards 2000 ; merlin _",
    "e.g. _ muxlow et al .",
    "1999 ; atca _",
    "e.g. _ norris et al .",
    "2001 and the wsrt _",
    "garrett et al . 2001 ) .",
    "these observations typically integrate for many days on relatively small patches of sky , targeting well known `` deep field '' regions , rich in complimentary observations at sub - mm , mid - ir , near - ir , optical and x - ray wavelengths .",
    "such radio observations reach r.m.s .",
    "noise levels @xmath0  few microjy / beam , encountering source densities of @xmath1 per square arcmin at 1.4 ghz .    until recently the idea that vlbi observations could detect even one solitary , compact radio source in these narrow , radio - quiet , deep field regions would have been tantamount to a declaration of professional suicide . however , such observations are now possible due to : ( i ) increasing individual telescope sensitivity coupled with sustained , high data rate recording systems , ( ii ) the simultaneous employment of both phase - referencing and wide - field imaging techniques , and ( iii ) the availability of more capable correlators , matched by equally impressive desktop data analysis facilities .    in this paper",
    "i will review the current status of deep , wide - field , vlbi continuum imaging - focusing on the technique and the science it enables .",
    "i will also look forward to future developments ( e.g. @xmath2evn )  these promise to completely transform our current capabilities , in a way that will open - up entirely new areas of vlbi research .",
    "but first i begin with a summary of the properties of the faint , sub - mjy and microjy radio sky .",
    "fig .  1 presents a deep 1.4 ghz wsrt image ( garrett et al .",
    "2000a ) of the hubble deep field ( hdf  williams et al .",
    "one of the simplest but most striking observations is the close correspondence between faint wsrt 1.4 ghz detections and iso @xmath3 m detections . in particular , the vast majority of these distant sources that are common to both the wsrt and iso appear to follow the well - known fir - radio correlation ( garrett 2002 ) .",
    "this fir - radio correlation was first observed with respect to `` normal '' star - forming galaxies in the local universe ( e.g. condon 1992 ) .",
    "its extension to these much more luminous and more distant systems in the hdf ( the wsrt / iso sample has a median redshift of 0.7 ) is convincing evidence that the majority of the faint radio source population are identified as star forming galaxies with star formation rates ( sfr ) often well in excess of 100  m@xmath4/yr .",
    "this observation ( see fig .",
    "[ fir - rc ] ) is backed up ( richards et al .",
    "1998 , muxlow et al . 1999 ) by the measured angular size of the radio sources , their radio morphology / steep radio spectra , and their optical morphology ( the latter often showing evidence for galaxy interactions ) .",
    "a picture is thus developing of a radio sky that literally `` lights up '' at microjy flux density levels , with the bulk of the radio emission being directly related to massive star - formation i.e. supernovae events and the global acceleration of cosmic ray electrons via propagating shocks that are associated with these events .",
    "note , however , that these conclusions are dominated by the faintest ( and most numerous ) microjy radio sources , in particular the agn fraction is observed to increase rapidly at higher ( sub - mjy ) flux density limits . in addition , there is a significant fraction of these faint radio sources for which little is known , these are the optically faint radio source population  believed to be high redshift galaxies in which the dust content is large enough to completely obscure the ir , optical , uv and even soft x - ray emission .",
    "there seems to be a correspondence between this population and the faint scuba source population ( e.g. hughes et al . 1998 ) .",
    "the latter are now considered to be responsible for the vast bulk of the star formation in the early universe but their detailed properties remain largely unknown . in particular , it is unclear whether the radio and fir emission arise via agn , star formation activity or some combination of both phenomena .",
    "in principle extremely sensitive global vlbi observations have sufficient resolution to distinguish between agn and starburst activity in these optically faint radio sources .",
    "a taste of what may be possible is provided by the recent evn observations of the hubble deep field .",
    "on 12 - 14 november 1999 the evn conducted the first pilot vlbi `` blank field '' observations of the radio sky .",
    "the field chosen was the hdf - n  an area that is just about as empty and undistinguished as the radio sky gets .",
    "the brightest source in the @xmath5 arcminute radial field of view was an fr - i radio galaxy with a total wsrt 1.4  ghz flux density of @xmath6  mjy .",
    "the data were recorded at a rate of 256 mbits / sec for 32 hours  a sustained capability that is unique to the evn ( and has recently been extended to 512 mbits / sec ) . observing in external phase - reference mode ,",
    "a total of @xmath7 hours of `` on - source '' data were collected . with a resolving beam area 1 million times smaller than the wsrt hdf - n observations , the evn surveyed an area of about 12 square arcminutes .",
    "six hdf - n radio sources were thus targeted simultaneously ( using wide - field imaging techniques ",
    "see garrett et al .",
    "the final naturally weighted images have an r.m.s",
    ". noise level of @xmath8jy / beam  much larger than that expected from thermal noise considerations ( @xmath9jy / beam ) .",
    "the images are probably limited by the inclusion of poorly calibrated or completely corrupt data - difficult to identify in this case , and not uncommon with external phase - calibration during observations made at solar maximum .",
    "nevertheless , the evn simultaneously detected three radio sources above the @xmath10jy ( @xmath11 ) limit , in the inner part of hdf - n region ( see fig  [ evn_im ] ) .",
    "these include : vla  j123644 + 621133 ( a @xmath12 , low - luminosity and extremely distant fr - i radio source which is resolved by the evn into a core plus hot - spots , the latter being associated with the larger scale radio jet ) , vla  j123642 + 621331 ( a dust enshrouded , optically faint ",
    "@xmath13 , @xmath14 starburst system  waddington et al .",
    "1999 ) and the faintest detection , vla  j123646 + 621404 ( a face - on spiral galaxy at @xmath15 with a total evn flux density of @xmath16jy / beam ) .",
    "the diversity of optical type is interesting but the real surprise is the detection of a radio - loud agn in the dust obscured , @xmath17 , starburst system .",
    "this argues that at least some fraction of the optically faint radio source population harbour hidden agn ( this may be similar to the same obscured population detected by chandra ) .",
    "these agn powered systems might be quite difficult to detect with scuba , if the dust temperatures are higher than that associated with pure star forming systems . in any case",
    ", the detection of this system highlights the use of vlbi as a powerful diagnostic  able to distinguish in principle ( via brightness temperature arguments ) between radio emission generated by nuclear starbursts and agn .",
    "the evn observations of the hdf suggest that deep , wide - field vlbi studies are not only possible , but in principle they can deliver important astronomical results .",
    "so far we have only scratched the surface . in a sense",
    ", we are just beginning to appreciate the fact , that vlbi has reached a sensitivity level where we can expect to detect many discrete radio sources in a single field of view ( _ irrespective _ of where you point the telescopes ! ) .",
    "this is quite a departure from the traditional vlbi `` postage stamp '' approach of observing specific , singular targets , often chosen from flux limited catalogues of the very brightest and most compact radio sources in the sky .      in the short - term continuum vlbi sensitivity",
    "is set to continue its steady improvement ",
    "three new telescopes are expected to come on - line ( including the 64-m sardinia radio telescope , see grueff these proceedings ) and various upgrades are already well advanced ( e.g. the replacement of the surface of the lovell 76-m ) .",
    "recent evn test observations have demonstrated that the new 2-head , 512 mbit / sec data recording system can reach thermally limited r.m.s .",
    "noise levels of @xmath18  microjy / beam with ( on - source ) integration times of only @xmath19 hours .",
    "there is every reason to believe that much longer observations employing `` in - beam '' phase - calibration techniques ( rather than external phase - calibration ) can also attain thermally limited noise levels .",
    "for example , currently a 24 hour observation of a carefully selected deep field should attain a r.m.s .",
    "noise level of @xmath20  microjy / beam .",
    "similar noise levels can be achieved with a global vlbi array . at these sort of flux density levels ,",
    "the radio sky becomes so crowded that it makes sense to image out a large fraction of the primary beam of the largest individual antennas in the array .",
    "the anticipated introduction of extremely fine spectral resolution and sub - second integration times at the evn data processor at jive , will make it possible to do just this .",
    "dozens of faint sub - mjy and microjy radio sources will thus be simultaneously targeted and imaged with milliarcsecond resolution , full uv - coverage and microjy sensitivity .",
    "the `` postage stamp '' era of vlbi will thus be consigned to the astronomical dust bin , and with it , the current limitations of vlbi to conduct unbiased , general sky surveys .",
    "[ inbeam ] highlights the type of vlbi , deep field observing philosophy that might be employed .",
    "the `` in - beam '' calibrator is chosen to be bright enough to provide adequate snr in the phase solutions but not so bright as to impose dynamic range limitations on the surrounding field ( see garrett 2000b for a more detailed explanation ) .",
    "pc disk - based `` recording '' systems ( e.g. mkv , whitney 2001 and pc - evn , parsley 2001 ) are expected to replace the aging mkiv and vlba tape recorders over the next few years .",
    "initially they provide the same level of economy , capacity and recording data rates as current tape based systems but with a much reduced level of maintenance and a much higher level of reliability .",
    "in addition , the capacity of these disk - based systems is also expected to increase rapidly , as they take advantage of the continuing commercial development of pcs and their peripheral storage devices .",
    "commercially operated optical fibre networks also appear capable of distributing vlbi data from telescopes to a central correlator in real - time .",
    "tests are already being conducted , both within europe , the us and between the two continents ( see schilizzi these proceedings & schilizzi 2002 ) . in any case , the expectation is that vlbi will be able to utilise several ghz of bandwidth on the same time - scale as the evla and e - merlin begin operation i.e. before the end of the current decade .",
    "employing several ghz of bandwidth has of course implications down the line : a more capable correlator will be required , perhaps not very different to the system now being designed for the evla and e - merlin .",
    "vlbi data acquisition electronics will also need to be completely redesigned , and broad - band receivers must be introduced at telescopes across the network",
    ". a new instrument will thus emerge ( currently dubbed @xmath2evn ) that will deliver substantial benefits : sub - microjy noise levels and almost full uv - coverage at @xmath21  cm ( see fig .",
    "[ uvcov ] ) .",
    "at these sub - microjy noise levels , it should be possible to begin to detect not only traditional vlbi targets such as low - luminosity agn , sn ( snr ) etc .",
    ", but also cosmologically distant , nuclear starburst galaxies , such as those now observed ( but typically not well resolved ) by connected arrays in the hubble deep field . fig .",
    "[ arp220 ] shows how the radio and sub - mm flux density of arp 220 changes with redshift . in nuclear starbursts ( such as arp 220 ) a large fraction of the radio emission",
    "is contained within a region of intense star formation , usually less than a kpc across . at cosmological distances 1",
    "kpc corresponds to an angular diameter of @xmath22 arcsecond on the sky , a scale size that is ideally suited to a combined @xmath2evn and e - merlin array .    with a star formation rate ( sfr ) of @xmath23",
    "m@xmath4/yr , fig .",
    "[ arp220 ] shows that arp 220 could in principle be detected by the @xmath2evn out to cosmologically interesting redshifts . since many of the galaxies in the hdf have inferred sfr that are more than an order of magnitude larger than arp 220 , the radio structure of galaxies at even earlier epochs may be probed .",
    "it is not clear what to expect but the view is expected to be dramatic , as massive star formation ( and its violent `` radio loud '' aftermath ",
    "sn , snr and grbs ) rampages unchecked through still - forming galaxies .",
    "a detailed study of the radio structure of such distant systems will probably require the nanojy sensitivity of a high resolution , next generation radio instrument , such as the square km array ( ska ) .",
    "deep radio continuum images can tell us how star formation is distributed through a given system , providing clues to the nature of the galaxy formation process itself and the importance of galaxy interactions and mergers , not to mention the inter - relationship between agn activity and star formation .",
    "but in the meantime , the @xmath2evn with baselines on the scale of several thousand km , ghz of bandwidth , `` fantastic '' input and output data rates , and of course microjy sensitivity , can make a useful start in this area .",
    "the @xmath2evn will also form a natural test - bed for the ska , encountering many of the same problems and initial limitations .",
    "the next few years promise to be exciting and challenging , for radio astronomy in general but vlbi in particular .",
    "several of the results shown here were made in collaboration with several colleagues .",
    "i d particularly like to acknowledge contributions made by ger de bruyn , simon garrington and tom muxlow .",
    "i d also like to thank the organisers of the meeting for their support , _ pazienza _ ( particularly with regard to the production of this paper ) and the memorable entertainment at the conference dinner !",
    "9999 aussel , h. , cesarsky , c.j . ,",
    "elbaz , d. , starck , j.l . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a _ 342 _ , 313 barger , a.j . ,",
    "cowie , l.l . ,",
    "trentham , n. , et al . , 1998 ,",
    "aj _ 117 _ , 102 condon , j.j .",
    ", 1992 , ara&a , _ 30 _ , 575 garrett , m.a . ,",
    "porcas , r.w .",
    ", pedlar , a. et al . , 1999 ,",
    "newar , _ 43 _ , 519 ( astro - ph/9906108 ) .",
    "garrett , m.a . , de bruyn , a.g . ,",
    "giroletti , m. , baan , w.a . ,",
    "schilizzi , r.t .",
    ", 2000a , a&a letters , _ 361 _ , l41 ( astro - ph/0008509 ) garrett , m.a .",
    ", 2000b , _ procs .",
    "of the vsop symposium",
    ": h. hirabayashi , p.g .",
    "edwards , and d.w .",
    "murphy , published by the isas , pp 269 - 272 ( astro - ph/0003073 ) garrett , m.a . ,",
    "muxlow , t.w.b . ,",
    "garrington , s.t .",
    "et al . , 2001 , a&a letters , _ 366 _ , l5 ( astro - ph/0008509 ) garrett , m.a . ,",
    "2002 , a&a letters , 384 , l19 - 22 ( astro - ph/0202116 ) hughes , d.h . , serjeant , s. , dunlop , j. , et al .",
    ", 1998 , nature , _ 394 _ , 241 muxlow , t.w.b .",
    ", wilkinson , p.n . , richards , a.m.s . , et al . , 1999 , newar , _ 43 _ , 623 norris , r.p , hopkins , a. , sault , r.j . , et al .",
    ", 2000 , _ procs . of the eso workshop  deep fields _ ,",
    "cristiani , renzini & williams , springer pp 135 - 138 parsley , s. , 2001 , `` pc - evn project plan '' , evn document 113 richards , e.a .",
    ", kellermann , k.i . , fomalont , e.b . , et al . , 1998 , aj , _ 116 _ , 1039 richards , e.a . 2000 , apj , _ 533 _ , 611 schilizzi , r.t . , 2002 ,",
    "`` networking in europe  status and plans '' , _ proc .",
    "e - vlbi workshop _ , web.haystack.mit.edu/e-vlbi/ waddington , i. , windhorst , r.a , cohen , et al .",
    ", 1999 , apjl , _ 526 _ , l77 whitney , a.r . , 2001 ,",
    "mark v memo series no .",
    "1 williams , r.e . ,",
    "blacker , b , dickinson , m. et al .",
    ", 1996 , aj , _ 112 _ , 1335"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i review the current status of deep , wide - field vlbi continuum surveys . </S>",
    "<S> i also discuss anticipated short and long - term improvements in sensitivity ( e.g. the eevn ) , and the science these developments will enable .    </S>",
    "<S> .5 cm </S>"
  ]
}