{
  "article_text": [
    "with the advent of the new generation of infrared space telescopes it has become possible to study in great detail the mid - infrared ( mir ) spectral region of galaxies , that had been previously sampled only with broadband filters by iras . besides the hot continuum emission",
    ", an important component observed in the mir spectra of many dusty galactic and extragalactic objects is constituted by strong emission features at 3.3 , 6.2 , 7.7 , 8.6 , 11.3 and 12.7  @xmath0 m .",
    "these features are most commonly ascribed to aromatic c - c and c - h vibrations in large planar polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( pah ) molecules , with size @xmath1 10  and containing @xmath2 c atoms ( leger & puget 1984 ; allamandola et al .",
    "1985 ; puget & leger 1989 ; tielens et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "the environmental conditions that may contribute to the mir continuum emission are quite well understood in terms of a strong radiation field that heats dust at the required temperatures .",
    "such regions are mainly located in the vicinity of hot stars , in the agn torii and in dense circumstellar envelopes of cool evolved stars .",
    "conversely our knowledge of the origin of pah emission is still controversial , in spite of its importance for an accurate modelling of the mir spectral region .",
    "detailed observations with iso have allowed deep investigations of the properties and variations of pah features in different galactic environments - post - agb stars , planetary nebulae , reflection nebulae , young stellar objects , hii regions and photo - dissociation regions ( pdr ) , diffuse interstellar medium - , as well as in different galaxies ( e.g. cesarsky et al .",
    "1996 ; verstraete et al . 1996 ; beintema et al . 1996 ; boulanger et al . 1996 ; mattila et al . 1996",
    "; peeters , spoon , & tielens 2004a ; see the review by peeters et al .",
    "2004b and references therein ) .",
    "the aromatic emission features in most galaxies have been found to be very similar to those in galactic star forming regions and in the cirrus ( metcalfe et al .",
    "1996 ; vigroux et al . 1996 ; genzel et al . 1998 ; lutz et al . 1998 ; rigopoulou et al . 1999 ; tielens 1999 ; helou et al .",
    "2000 ; forster schreiber et al . 2003 ; lu et al .",
    "however mir spectra with different appearances have been observed in peculiar environments , with particularly strong radiation fields ( e.g. in agns , genzel et al .",
    "1998 ; lutz et al . 1998 ) .",
    "this has led to the use of pah emission as a tracer of the star formation process ( roussel et al .",
    "2001 , forster schreiber et al .",
    "2004 ) , and its lack as indicative of an agn dominated emission mechanism ( genzel et al . 1998",
    "; clavel et al .",
    "2000 ; laurent et al .",
    "2000 ) .",
    "more recently , a comprehensive analysis of the mir to fir spectra of galactic star forming regions , normal galaxies and starbursts suggests that pahs are a better tracer of b stars rather than of massive o stars ( peeters et al .",
    "2004a , boselli , lequeux , & gavazzi 2004 , madden 2005 ) .",
    "this has been found also by tacconi - garman et al .",
    "( 2005 ) by direct high resolution 3 @xmath0 m imaging of two nearby starbursts ( ngc253 and ngc1808 ) : they find no spatial coincidence between the detailed distribution of pah emission and the sites of the most recent star formation .    several recent works have also shown that the intensity of the pah bands is systematically lower in very low metallicity galaxies , such as blue compact dwarfs and dwarf galaxies in general , and some irregulars ( e.g. madden 2000 ; galliano et al .",
    "2003 , 2005 ; boselli et al . 2004 ; dale et al . 2005 ; engelbracht et al .",
    "this has been ascribed either to a lower intrinsic pah abundance or to a higher destruction rate of these molecules due to a strong uv field ( see e.g. the review by madden 2005 ) .    in summary",
    "there is mounting evidence that the use of the mir region and in particular of the pah features as tracers of star formation in galaxies is not straightforward .    in order to correctly interpret the spectra of galaxies , a detailed modelling that includes the complex interaction between the evolution of stellar populations and dust is needed .",
    "in fact while the new observations have allowed us to better define the characterization of pahs in the diffuse medium ( e.g. li & draine 2001 ; zubko , dwek , & arendt 2004 ) , most current spectro - photometric models adopt a pure phenomenological approach ( e.g. dale et al .  2001 ) . a recent model that combines radiation transfer within the star forming regions with the evolution of the powering star clusters",
    "is presented by dopita et al .",
    "this model , though being the most advanced in the specific treatment of the star forming regions , lacks the diffuse component and can not be safely compared with galaxies as a whole . on the other hand the pah treatment in our code grasil ( silva et al .",
    "1998 ) , that takes into account the entire temporal evolution of several subcomponents , was still based on pre - iso data .",
    "for this reason we present here an updated version of grasil including the new developments for the pah emission , and perform an analysis of the evolution of _ normal metallicity _ ( i.e. not dwarf galaxies whose mir seds are observed to behave differently as recalled above ) actively star forming galaxies in the mid infrared .",
    "the structure of the paper is the following . in section",
    "[ sec : grapah ] we summarize the inclusion of the new theoretical model of pahs by li & draine ( 2001 , ld01 hereafter ) .",
    "there we make the important assumption , supported by observations , that the pah abundance within our ( star - forming ) molecular clouds ( mc ) is significantly depleted with respect to that in the cirrus component . in section  [ sec : callu ] we perform a detailed comparison of the new model with nir to radio seds of star forming galaxies taken from the lu et al .",
    "( 2003 ) sample .",
    "we show that , together with the wide nir - radio broad band fluxes , also the mir - iso narrow bands , dominated by pah emission , are very well reproduced .",
    "since these galaxies span a wide range of fir luminosities , we conclude that a proper combination of a cirrus component with pah emission suited for the diffuse ism in our galaxy ( where the ld01 model is calibrated ) , and a mc component with strongly depleted pahs , can be safely adopted in general for star forming galaxies . with this new model",
    "we explore the mir - fir - radio colors of a larger sample of galaxies taken from dale et al .",
    "( 2000 ) for which only broad - band iso , iras and radio fluxes are available ( section  [ sec : colcol ] ) .",
    "this comparison allows us to draw a physical interpretation of the observed data , in terms of the evolution of the starburst phenomenon .",
    "the mid - fir and radio data constitute a unique set of constraints indicating a strong homogeneity of the main physical parameters .",
    "our conclusions are summarized in section  [ sec : conc ] .",
    "in this section we provide a short summary of the properties of grasil .",
    "we defer the reader to silva et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and silva ( 1999 ) for further details .",
    "grasil calculates the uv to radio sed of galaxies by taking into account a detailed treatment of dust reprocessing of stellar radiation .",
    "a particular important point is that the coupling between stars and dust is considered , by letting stars form inside optically thick molecular clouds ( mcs ) and then gradually escape as they grow old .",
    "older stellar generations are distributed within the diffuse ism ( cirrus ) .",
    "this modelling , with a realistic 3-d treatment of extinction and ir emission , allows quantitative physical interpretations of multi - wavelength observations as well as predictions ( e.g. silva et al .",
    "1998 ; granato et al .",
    "2000 ; panuzzo et al .",
    "2003 , 2004 ) .",
    "in addition to the complex geometry , the seds depend on the dust intrinsic properties ( chemical composition , size distribution , shape , see the recent reviews by draine 2003 and dwek 2004 ) .",
    "these properties depend on the different environments in which dust grains form or evolve .",
    "most of the available dust models are suited for the galactic cirrus , for which the largest data set is available .",
    "the dust model we use in grasil is made of graphite and silicate spherical dust grains ( draine & lee 1984 and laor & draine 1993 ) , with a power - law size distribution that extends to include also the very small grains transiently heated by single photons , and by pah molecules .",
    "the dust heating and emission are adequately computed for each component .      in silva",
    "( 1998 ) we took into account five pah emission bands , at 3.3 , 6.2 , 7.7 , 8.6 and 11.3  @xmath0 m .",
    "we adopted the optical - uv absorption cross - section by leger , dhendecourt & defourneau ( 1989 ) , obtained by laboratory measurements for different pah mixtures .",
    "we followed leger et al .",
    "( 1989 ) for the heat capacity as a function of temperature and number of c and h atoms in the molecules .",
    "we adopted a population of pahs with a continuous power - law distribution , @xmath3 , with @xmath4 , the number of carbon atoms in the molecules , extending from 20 to 280 atoms .",
    "this range corresponds to a size @xmath5 to @xmath6  , with @xmath7 ( valid for the catacondensed pahs , the most compact and stable configuration ) .",
    "we took into account the possibility of partial hydrogenation of the molecules , as suggested by observations , and fixed the hydro - coverage ( the ratio of the number of h atoms over the number of available sites ) so to reproduce the observed ratio of c - h and c - c bands in the galactic cirrus .",
    "the abundance of carbon atoms locked in pahs in our dust model is set to 18 ppm in the cirrus , and was 10 times lower in the mcs to account for pah destruction in strong uv fields ( see section  [ susec : mc ] ) .",
    "the pah emissivity is computed following mainly xu & de zotti ( 1989 ) . once emitted ,",
    "pah bands are absorbed by mcs and/or cirrus dust before emerging from the model galaxy .",
    "this treatment provides a rigorous computation of the total energy emitted in these features .",
    "iso data have allowed us to get a deeper knowledge of pah phenomenology , as summarized in the introduction .",
    "in particular , new pah bands have been detected , their profiles studied in different environments and galaxies , thus yielding several constraints for their modelling .",
    "nevertheless , the properties of astrophysical pahs are still rather uncertain , so that , as in the case of dust models in general , their modelling still require ad - hoc settings of parameters to best reproduce the observations .",
    "li & draine ( 2001 ) presented a quantitative model for dust in the diffuse ism , including pahs .",
    "basing on laboratory studies of these molecules , and by comparing with observations , they have provided `` astronomical '' cross sections for pahs , reproduced with drude profiles .",
    "we have updated our model for pahs in grasil by adopting the main features of the ld01 model : in addition to the 3.3 , 6.2 , 7.7 , 8.6 , 11.3  @xmath0 m bands , we now include also the 11.9 , 12.7 , 16.4 , 18.3 , 21.2 , and 23.1  @xmath0 m bands .",
    "absorption and emission from pahs are computed as described above , but adopting the fwhm and emission cross sections by ld01 . as stressed by the authors , available laboratory data on pahs",
    "differ by large factors among different groups , and also between experimental results and theoretical calculations .",
    "therefore , ld01 modified laboratory data for the emission cross sections in order to reproduce observations ( the galactic cirrus emission ) .    the ld01 model for pahs above @xmath8 m is based on laboratory data from moutou et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , since galaxy spectroscopy was not available .",
    "very recently , some works have reported spitzer spectra that probe this poorly known region ( e.g. armus et al .",
    "2004 ; peeters et al .",
    "2004c ; smith et al .",
    "2004 ; weedman et al .",
    "2005 ) . in some cases ,",
    "several new pah features have been observed between @xmath9 and @xmath10 m , but not coincident with the 18.3 , 21.2 , and 23.1  @xmath0 m bands of the model .",
    "instead , in smith et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , no pah band has been observed above @xmath11 m in ngc 7331 .",
    "note anyway that these uncertainties are not expected to affect our results .",
    "indeed we have estimated the contribution of the 18.3 , 21.2 , and 23.1  @xmath0 m bands to the 25 @xmath0 m iras filter as compared to the continuum , for the models fitting the seds described in section [ sec : callu ] .",
    "this estimate refers to the worst case , in which no pah features are present in galaxies above @xmath11 m . in most cases",
    "the contribution is less than 10% , only in a couple of cases it is @xmath12% , i.e. we are always within the iras observational errors .",
    "we also note that the ld01 model fits very well the dirbe data for dust emission in our galaxy ( figures 8 and 10 in ld01 ) , with one of the dirbe filters dominated by these three bands .",
    "it is conceivable that in a few years it will become possible to have enough observational constraints to better define a reference model for astrophysical pahs at long wavelengths .",
    ".properties of the lu et al .",
    "( 2003 ) sub - sample .",
    "the galaxies are ordered by increasing log(@xmath13 ) .",
    "column ( 3 ) displays the fraction of the lw2 flux from the cirrus component over the total lw2 flux of the best fit model .",
    "column ( 4 ) shows the main contributor to the mir sed of the best fit , `` c '' indicates that the mir sed is `` cirrus emission dominated '' , `` m '' indicates that it is `` molecular cloud emission dominated '' , and `` mix '' that the mir sed is a mixed of these two contributions , see fig .",
    "[ fig : pahcalnew ] .",
    "we classify the fit as `` c '' if the ratio @xmath14 is @xmath15 , as `` mix '' if @xmath16 and as `` m '' if @xmath17 . [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     in fig .",
    "[ fig : totalsed ] we show some examples of the full sed fittings we performed to the galaxy sample of table [ tablu ] .",
    "the galaxies shown in the figure are representative of the range of @xmath13 values covered by the sample .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : pahcalnew ] we show the detailed comparison in the mir range between out best fitting models and the data for all the galaxies reported in table [ tablu ] .",
    "the points in the figure refer to the specific fluxes at 6.2@xmath0 m , 6.75@xmath0 m ( iso lw2 ) , 7.7@xmath0 m , 8.6@xmath0 m , 11.3@xmath0 m , 12@xmath0 m ( iras ) , 15@xmath0 m ( iso lw3 ) and 25@xmath0 m ( iras ) . in all cases",
    "the predicted pah features compare very well with the observations being generally within the quoted standard deviations .",
    "we also notice , from table [ tablu ] that , at increasing @xmath18 ratio , the seds shift from cirrus dominated to mc dominated , without any appreciable trend in the goodness of the fit . given the wide range of the luminosity ratios @xmath19 spanned by the sample galaxies ,",
    "we conclude that the model is robust and able to reproduce the continuum seds as well as the mir spectral features , over a wide range of relative star formation activity , from mild to strong starbursts .",
    "we now compare our models with a larger data set of star - forming galaxies for which only broad - band iso and iras fluxes are available .",
    "this observational sample is taken from dale et al .",
    "they published global iso fluxes for a large sample of galaxies , for which also iras data are available .",
    "these galaxies were observed within the iso key project on the interstellar medium of normal galaxies ( helou et al .",
    "the parent sample for this project has the original criterion of @xmath20m)@xmath21 3 jy , a published redshift , and no active galactic nucleus or seyfert classification in the ned , although two galaxies of the sample , ngc4418 and mrk331 , show some evidences of hosting an agn .",
    "they span the full range of morphologies , mostly spirals and irregular galaxies , but including two elliptical galaxies ; fir luminosities are @xmath22- @xmath23 l@xmath24 ; fir colors are @xmath25 , and infrared to blue luminosity ratios @xmath26 .",
    "they observed 61 galaxies with the broadband filters , lw2 ( 6.75 @xmath0 m , @xmath27 @xmath0 m ) and lw3 ( 15.0 @xmath0 m , @xmath28  @xmath0 m ) of isocam ( cesarsky et al . 1996 ) .",
    "for this work , we did not include 7 galaxies ( ngc1222 , ugc2855 , ngc2366 , ngc4490 , ngc5866 , ngc6822 , and ngc6946 ) , that either have only lower limits in their mir observations , or are not detected in any lw filter .    for the majority of the galaxies we have also collected , from literature , total fluxes on radio emission at 6.3 and 21 cm ( condon et al .",
    "1990 , 1991 , 1995 ) , that will be used for the characterization of the starburst evolution .",
    "all these data are shown in table [ tab : tabdale ] .",
    "[ fig : dalesample ] shows the location of the galaxies in the regions corresponding to different star formation activities , following the definition by lu et al .",
    "about 43% galaxies of the sample have @xmath290 and @xmath30 , and are considered to be strong starbursts .",
    "about 31% galaxies of the sample fall in the opposite quadrant and are considered to be fir - quiescent galaxies , while the remaining 26% , populating the other two quadrants , are considered to be in a mild starburst phase . in summary the sample of dale et al .",
    "is well suited to study a mild to strong starburst environment .            in the four panels of fig .",
    "[ fig : fin ] we plot the observed iso lw2 and lw3 and iras 12 , 25 , 60 and 100 @xmath0 m flux ratios .",
    "the lw2 filter includes the @xmath31 , @xmath32 , and @xmath33 m pah bands while the lw3 filter includes the @xmath34 , @xmath35 and @xmath36 bands , but it is less affected by pahs as compared to the lw2 . finally also the iras 12@xmath0 m band",
    "is dominated by the emission of the @xmath37 , @xmath34 and @xmath35 pahs .",
    "nearby star forming galaxies are known to follow a well - defined trend in the iras flux density ratios @xmath38 versus @xmath39 ( helou 1986 ; dale et al .",
    "this trend is in the sense that at increasing @xmath39 the @xmath40 and @xmath41 ratios decrease .",
    "this has been explained as an increasing sequence of star formation activity .",
    "the warmer @xmath42 color reflects the fact that higher dust temperatures of big grains ( in thermal equilibrium ) shift the fir emission peak to shorted wavelengths .",
    "the common interpretation of the @xmath43 , @xmath44 behavior is that , at the same time , the stronger radiation field destroys very small grains and pahs ( see section  [ susec : mc ] ) and enhances the mir continuum as well .    in that figure , we have superimposed the time evolution of models computed with three different values of the mcs optical depth , @xmath45= 40 , 50 and 60 , and two escape timescales of newly born stars from their parent mcs , @xmath46=10 myr and @xmath46=30 myr .",
    "the time evolution is indicated by the ratio between the age of the starburst and the e - folding time of the star formation process ( @xmath47 ) , from the beginning of the starburst phase ( @xmath48 ) to the quiescent phase ( @xmath49 ) .",
    "the ticks correspond to different values of the ratio @xmath50 0.05 , 0.08 , 0.12 , 0.20 , 0.31 , 0.50 , 0.80 , 1.26 , 2.00 , 3.15 , 5.0 , and 7.92 , and the evolution is defined by the lines .",
    "the seds of our models are initially dominated by emission of the underlying quiescent disk component which is characterized by cold fir colors ( log(@xmath51 ) @xmath52 - 0.3 ) . as their luminosity increases , due to the rapid formation of new massive stars , they evolve toward hotter fir colors , reaching a maximum when the starburst is well developed ( log(@xmath530 ) .",
    "then they turn back toward cooler fir colors ( but with higher @xmath54 and @xmath55 colors ) as the star formation declines and the oldest stars leave the molecular clouds .",
    "this behavior is common to all the selected starburst models .",
    "the agreement with the data is fairly good .",
    "in addition we may draw the following considerations .",
    "we did not include a pah destruction mechanism continuously increasing with the intensity of the radiation field , instead we made the assumption that within star forming regions pahs are damped by a fixed factor ( see sec .",
    "[ susec : mc ] ) .",
    "therefore the lowering of the @xmath56 and @xmath41 colors in the models simply reflects the progressive dominance of the mc component over the cirrus one , when the starburst is in its star formation peak .",
    "the sequence of colors is then interpreted as an evolutionary sequence characterized by the dominance of the mc over the cirrus component ( helou 1986 ; helou et al .",
    "four main evolutionary phases can be recognized : the early starburst phase characterized by cool @xmath57 colors and low mir - fir colors ; the peak starburst phase with the models reaching the hottest fir colors and the lowest mir - fir colors ; the evolved starburst phase with warm fir colors and warm mir - fir colors ; finally the post starburst phase where the models move toward the cool fir colors and hot mir - fir colors , typical of normal spiral galaxies .",
    "the models considered here do not reach the coolest fir region of the diagram ( @xmath58 ) .",
    "this is the region dominated by normal spiral galaxies as can be seen by the location of the boselli et al .",
    "( 2003 ) virgo spiral galaxy sample , plotted for the purpose of comparison ( open circles ) . in this paper",
    "we have considered models meant to reproduce actively star forming galaxies .",
    "it is conceivable that the coolest region requires a more direct consideration of the pdrs ( see section  [ susec : mc ] ) .",
    "the evolution of the starbursts in the diagrams is modulated by the optical depth of the molecular clouds , which affects primarily the colors @xmath59 and @xmath60 . at larger optical depths these flux ratios decrease .",
    "the flux ratio @xmath44 is instead less dependent on @xmath61 , and in this case both data and models show a lower dispersion .",
    "furthermore the range of allowed optical depths is fairly narrow , ranging from @xmath6240 to @xmath160 .",
    "only a few objects would require a slightly higher optical depth .",
    "these objects are particular in the sense that they do not share the trend common to all the others and the majority of them are actually ulirgs , which could be highly obscured ( prouton et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "the effect of other tested parameters are in brief the following : shorter e - folding times @xmath63 of the burst produce hotter peak models",
    ". however these models are also characterized by a wider evolutionary sequence in the mir colors ; in practice with @xmath64 myr , the evolutionary path is an envelope of the data without matching them . for values of @xmath65 myr ,",
    "the evolution of the mir colors is as observed but the range of the @xmath66 color is very small and concentrated to the warm central region .",
    "the escape timescale of young stars from their parent mcs is well constrained by this comparison .",
    "short escape times , @xmath67 myr , result in too wide evolutionary sequences , in the mir - fir plots , again surrounding the data , while values higher than @xmath68 myr are confined to low mir - fir flux ratios .",
    "the typical escape time suggested by the data is of @xmath69 myr , comparable to the e - folding time of the sfr . as for the molecular gas fraction",
    ", the comparison suggests that it should be confined between 30% and 70% of the total gas mass , with 50% the best value .",
    "summarizing , from the comparison with the data we find the following typical parameters for our models : a star formation e - folding time @xmath70 myr ; fractions of molecular mass between 0.3 to 0.7 , with the hottest models having the lowest molecular gas fraction ; escape times @xmath46 between 10 to 40 myr .",
    "for the majority of the galaxies radio data at 6.2 and 21 cm are available ( see table [ tab : tabdale ] ) .",
    "the radio emission of the models is computed following the prescriptions given in bressan , silva & granato ( 2002 ) .",
    "thermal emission is computed according to the flux of ionizing photons , while the non thermal emission is set proportional to the core collapse supernova rate .",
    "the fir to radio ratio @xmath71 is defined as :    @xmath72    where @xmath73 w  m@xmath74 , with @xmath75 and @xmath76 in jy .",
    "the average observed value of the q parameter for a spiral galaxy is @xmath77 at 1.49 ghz ( condon 1992 ; sanders & mirabel 1996 )    fig .",
    "[ fig : rad ] shows the evolution of the models in composite mir - fir - radio bands .",
    "the agreement between models and data is fairly good , consistent with the fact that the models well reproduce the observed fir - radio correlation .",
    "the partial disagreements in the 21 cm plots for models during the peak phase may be explained by the need to account for free - free absorption ( bressan et al .",
    "2002 ; prouton et al .",
    "again , the region of very quiescent spiral galaxies is not covered by the starburst models .",
    "this paper is devoted to an accurate analysis of the properties of starburst galaxies in the mid infrared .",
    "this spectral region is dominated by pah emission features , and an update with respect to our previous treatment of pahs in our code grasil ( silva et al .",
    "1998 ) was necessary in its two main components , the cirrus and the molecular clouds , respectively .    in the cirrus component",
    "we have introduced the new quantitative description of pahs in the diffuse ism , given by li & draine ( 2001 ) . as for the mc component ,",
    "the observational evidence of a lack of pah emission in regions characterized by strong uv radiation fields , forced us to reduce the pahs abundance by a large factor ( i.e. @xmath78 times less than in the cirrus component ) .",
    "as a workbench we have compared the updated model with the seds of a select sample of star forming galaxies , for which both accurate mir narrow band and nir , fir and radio observations are available . this comparison probes successfully over the wide range of fir luminosities of the selected galaxies .",
    "we have then analyzed the observed trend of mir - fir and radio colors for a larger sample of galaxies , from actively star forming to obscured starbursts . to this aim",
    "we have compared a large library of model seds , spanning a wide range of physical parameters , with observed color - color plots .",
    "the data are well reproduced by the models within a limited range of values of the main physical parameters .",
    "as already suggested by helou ( 1986 ) and dale et al ( 2001 ) , the observed mir - fir trend can be interpreted as a sequence of the dominance of the mc component with respect to the cirrus component .",
    "however , contrary to previous works , that were based on mainly empirical seds , this comparison allows us to propose that the observed sequence corresponds to the evolution of the starburst phenomenon .",
    "four main phases can be highlighted , as summarized in fig .",
    "[ fig : coclu ] :    * the early starburst phase , characterized by warm fir and cold mir colors and where the few newly formed stars are still deep inside the progenitor molecular clouds . the sed is dominated by emission from mcs but the intensity of the radiation field has not reached its peak value . in our model",
    "this phase has a low ratio of @xmath47 , between 0.05 to 0.20 . * the starburst peak phase , where the majority of massive stars are produced , and the sed is dominated by the hot dust emission from the molecular cloud component . during this phase the starburst reaches the hottest fir colors and the lowest relative pah emission .",
    "it is characterized by @xmath47 between 0.30 to 2.0 , and the young stars are still mostly embedded in the parent molecular clouds . * the evolved starburst phase , where the number of newly formed stars has drastically decreased and , at the same time , most of the still hot stars are out of the progenitor mcs and heat the cirrus . the emission in this phase , which lasts between @xmath79 2.0 to 4.0 , is dominated by the cirrus component . *",
    "the post - starburst phase , @xmath80 , where the current sfr is mainly due to the quiescent disk and all the stars formed during the starburst are now outside the mc .",
    "the fir and mir colors are evolving toward those of normal spiral galaxies .",
    "the data suggest that the starburst phenomenon is characterized by a surprising homogeneity .",
    "the optical depth of the molecular clouds at 1 @xmath0 m is confined between 40 and 60 ; the escape time scale from molecular clouds is between 10 and 30 myr and it mainly affects the advanced evolution of the starburst ; the e - folding time of the star formation process can not be shorter than about 15 myr , nor larger than about 30 myr .",
    "though those figures are similar to the estimates given in silva et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , only with the advent of accurate measurements in the mid infrared it has been possible to restrict them to a very narrow range .",
    "it is also evident from the models , that pah features can not be taken as a direct measure of the dominant powering mechanism since , in those cases where the mc component dominates , there is a significant lack of emission , as observed in agns .",
    "further work is needed to reproduce the most quiescent galaxies ( occupying the region with the coldest fir colors , log(@xmath81 ) @xmath82 ) , where possibly a more complex description and modelling of the different zones of star formation , for instance the pdr zones , is required , and will be the subject of a forthcoming paper .",
    "we would like to thank the anonymous referee whose comments have helped to improve the paper .",
    "o. vega and m. chavez acknowledge the support of inaoe and the mexican conacyt project 36547 e ; o. vega also acknowledges the support of the mexican conacyt project 39714 f ; l. silva , a. bressan and g. l. granato acknowledge warm hospitality by inaoe .",
    "beintema d. a. , van den ancker m. e. , molster f. j. , waters l. b. f. m. , tielens a. g. g. m. , waelkens c. , de jong t. , de graauw t. , justtanont k. , yamamura i. , heras a. , lahuis f. , salama a. , 1996 , a&a , 315 , 369"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we analyze the evolution of actively star forming galaxies in the mid - infrared ( mir ) . </S>",
    "<S> this spectral region , characterized by continuum emission by hot dust and by the presence of strong emission features generally ascribed to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon ( pah ) molecules , is the most strongly affected by the heating processes associated with star formation and/or active galactic nuclei ( agn ) . following the detailed observational characterization of galaxies in the mir by iso </S>",
    "<S> , we have updated the modelling of this spectral region in our spectro - photometric model grasil ( silva et al . </S>",
    "<S> 1998 ) . in the diffuse component </S>",
    "<S> we have updated the treatment of pahs according to the model by li & draine ( 2001 ) . as for the dense phase of the ism associated with the star forming regions , the molecular clouds </S>",
    "<S> , we strongly decrease the abundance of pahs as compared to that in the cirrus , basing on the observational evidences of the lack or weakness of pah bands close to the newly formed stars , possibly due to the destruction of the molecules in strong uv fields . </S>",
    "<S> the robustness of the model is checked by fitting near infrared to radio broad band spectra and the corresponding detailed mir spectra of a large sample of galaxies ( lu et al . </S>",
    "<S> 2003 ) , at once . with this model </S>",
    "<S> , we have analyzed the larger sample of actively star forming galaxies by dale et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2000 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the observed trends of galaxies in the iso - iras - radio color - color plots can be interpreted in terms of different evolutionary phases of star formation activity , and the consequent different dominance in the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) of the diffuse or dense phase of the ism . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the observed colors indicate a surprising homogeneity of the starburst phenomenon , allowing only a limited variation of the most important physical parameters , such as the optical depth of the molecular clouds , the escape timescale of young stars from their formation sites , and the gas consumption timescale . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we do not attempt to reproduce the far infrared ( fir ) coolest region in the color - color plots , since we concentrate on models meant to reproduce active star forming galaxies , but we discuss possible requirements of a more complex modelling for the coldest objects .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution  galaxies : ism  galaxies : starburst  infrared : galaxies  ism : dust , extinction , pahs </S>"
  ]
}