{
  "article_text": [
    "the most influential role cepheid variables play in galactic and extragalactic astronomy is through their period - luminosity ( pl ) relation .",
    "the rather easy measurement of the period of their regular pulsation allows to estimate an absolute magnitude or luminosity and therefore to derive eventually the distance to the variable star .",
    "the high luminosities of cepheids favors them to anchor the extragalactic distance scale . due to the still debated value of the hubble constant ,",
    "a secure calibration and a solid understanding of the pl relation is of fundamental importance .",
    "references to the enormous body of literature on the pl relation and directions to historic accounts can be found e.g. in cox ( 1980 ) , madore and freedman ( 1991 ) , gieren and fouqu ( 1993 ) .",
    "theoretical pl relations of cepheids were commonly determined by referring to mass - luminosity ( ml ) relations which were derived from stellar evolution computations .",
    "thereupon separate stellar envelope models were calculated whose stability properties were eventually studied ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "the authors are not aware of any pl - relation studies in which stability properties of stellar evolution models were computed directly .    in terms of recent theoretical work on the pl relation of cepheids",
    "we should mention stothers ( 1988 ) .",
    "he used various published sources of stellar evolution computations with differing composition and different physical assumptions to derive ml and pl relations .",
    "the periods of the radial fundamental modes were already parameterized through a period - mass - radius relation which was fitted through numerical data .",
    "the aim of stother s study was to quantify the relative dependences of the pl and period - luminosity - color ( plc ) relation on chemical composition on purely theoretical grounds .",
    "later , chiosi et al . (",
    "1993 ) performed pulsation computations on envelope models which were calculated on the basis of ml relations derived from stellar evolution tracks from the literature and from a few unpublished computations .",
    "a range of chemical compositions which bracketed galactic as well as magellanic cepheids were considered .",
    "the effect of overshooting was included in the modeling ; for mild overshooting @xmath1 of the of the ml relation increased by 0.25 and it was shifted by @xmath1 by 0.5 for full overshooting .",
    "eventually , analytical fits to the numerical data were transformed into astronomical observables ( colors and magnitudes in different band - passes ) .",
    "the authors favored models with considerable overshoot over ones neglecting it as the former ones apparently solved the long - standing mass discrepancy problem for the cepheids .",
    "this particular problem was , however , considerably defused by the application of the new generation of opacity data ( @xcite ) .",
    "therefore , the question concerning a realistic overshooting length of convective elements at the edge of the convective core has to be re - addressed from a different viewpoint .",
    "due to recent high - precision observations with hst and hipparchos accuracy considerations of the distance - scale calibration relying on cepheids gained new momentum ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "however , suggestions of the pl relation being sensitive to metallicity effects ( for an extreme viewpoint see @xcite ) overshadowed the distance determination of galaxies with different mean metallicities .",
    "a solid understanding of the theoretical basis of the pl relation is indispensable ( sandage 1996 ) to prevent possible systematic misinterpretation of the data .",
    "this paper presents self - consistently derived blue - edges of radial fundamental modes of model stars which were obtained from evolution computations .",
    "heavy - element and helium abundances were varied and evolutionary tracks of stars with various masses were recomputed to find possible shifts of the location of the blue edge of the instability strip . from the data    which was found directly from the nonadiabatic pulsation computations    the blue edge could be derived .",
    "the red edge of the instability strip is an ill - defined quantity in astrophysics . to have a handle what happens pulsationally at cooler temperatures we assumed ad hoc a red line which was displaced by a fixed @xmath2 relative to the blue edge . from the self - consistently determined blue edge as well as from the intersection of the evolutionary tracks with the red line we derived the corresponding theoretical pl relations . as a side aspect",
    ", we looked into the variation of the pulsation constant @xmath0 .",
    "the numerical results and analytical fits to them are presented in section  3 .",
    "we compare our findings with other theoretical studies in section  4 and attempt to give some explanations for encountered deviations .",
    "evolutionary tracks of 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , and 10 @xmath3 stars were computed with a henyey - type stellar evolution program . for the stellar opacity we used the opal tables which were extended to the low - temperature domain    below @xmath4    using the alexander and ferguson ( 1994 ) data .",
    "convective overshooting was neglected ; this aspect will be commented on in section  4 .",
    "the computations started always with chemically homogeneous main - sequence models .",
    "the evolution of the model stars was followed through the helium burning so that the major blue loops which cross the instability strip were included . to investigate the influence of different metallicities on stellar evolution and in particular on stellar pulsations we adopted the following range of ( x , z ) values : ( 0.7,0.02 ) , ( 0.7 , 0.004 ) , and ( 0.7 , 0.001 ) .",
    "the influence of helium abundance on stellar evolution and on pulsational stability was studied by computing one set of stellar masses , as listed above , with ( x , z ) = ( 0.75 , 0.004 ) .",
    "figure  1 shows examples of the evolutionary tracks for stellar models with initial homogeneous composition ( x , z ) = ( 0.7,0.004 ) and for 4 and 10 @xmath3 with ( 0.75 , 0.004 ) , respectively .",
    "nonadiabatic radial stellar pulsation computations were _ performed directly on those evolutionary models _ which are located in the vicinity of the instability strip .",
    "this contrasts the previous approaches where envelope models of cepheids were computed based on mass - luminosity relations derived from stellar evolution calculated for other purposes .",
    "these values are kept constant throughout the instability strip .",
    "this implies constant @xmath5 across the strip .",
    "therefore , our approach is to be considered as more fundamental since it is based directly on consistently computed stellar evolution models .",
    "computationally , the pulsation code is of a finite - difference relaxation type and its basics were described in saio et al ( 1983 ) .",
    "the location of the fundamental blue edge ( fbe ) was interpolated on the hr diagram between adjacent evolutionary models for which the imaginary part of the fundamental mode changed sign from being stable to being overstable . the corresponding red edge ( fre )",
    "could not be located in our computations since the indispensable pulsation - convection interaction is not included in the code .",
    "the resulting lack of convective - flux leak causes the damping to be too weak to overcome the he@xmath6-partial ionization driving so that pulsational instability extended to much too low temperatures .",
    "therefore , this other natural limit for pulsating stars could not be used to study the mapping of the strip onto the p  ",
    "l plane and to derive lines of constant period . for these purposes , however , it is sufficient to _ define _ an arbitrary line , which we chose to lie close to the supposed fre",
    ". unfortunately , the width of the instability region is , observationally as well as theoretically , a poorly known quantity ( cf .",
    "@xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "we adopted here our red line to be shifted by @xmath7 to the red from the fbe at any luminosity .",
    "this particular choice was motivated by the theoretical analysis of buchler et al .",
    "( 1990 ) . for comparisons with observational data ,",
    "we emphasize that the blue - edge data should be considered since they depend neither on any assumptions concerning pulsation - convection interaction nor on observational or on any other kind of secondary calibration .",
    "in this section we present the results of radial fundamental modes at the blue edges , at the location of our red line , and the data that can be derived therefrom .",
    "in the figures , the blue - edge data will be referred to by open symbols whereas red - line data will be displayed by filled ones .",
    "the correspondence of the different chemical compositions with appropriate graphical symbols can be read off from the panel inserted in fig .  2 .",
    "figure  1 shows  ",
    "superposed on some evolutionary tracks    the location of the blue - edge of the instability strip for the radial fundamental mode .",
    "despite the tracks with equal masses being displaced considerably from each other for different chemical compositions , the position of the fbes is not very sensitive to abundances and evolutionary phase .",
    "a linear least - square fit to the fbe data ( including all different chemical compositions ) leads to the following parameterization @xmath8 for quite some purposes such a mean fit is sufficient",
    ". a closer look at the dependencies of the fbe position on chemical composition revealed @xmath9 the coefficients were determined at @xmath10 .",
    "the sensitivity on the helium abundance has to be taken with caution as it is based on two composition choices only : ( x , z)=(0.7,0.004 ) and ( 0.75,0.004 ) , respectively .",
    "our helium dependence is indeed considerably weaker than the ones given by iben and tuggle ( 1972 ) or chiosi et al .",
    "nevertheless , the compensating action of @xmath11 and @xmath12 remains unchanged .",
    "when the periods of the fundamental mode of the stellar models at the fbe are plotted versus their luminosity we arrive directly at the pl relation .",
    "the same procedure was applied along the red line of the instability strip .",
    "the results for the blue edge ( open symbols ) and the red line ( filled symbols ) are shown in fig .",
    "only crossings of the instability strip during the cepheid blue - loops ( cf .",
    "@xcite ) were considered .",
    "we notice no systematic difference neither in slope nor in zero - point of the pl relation on metallicity or helium abundance . with good accuracy ,",
    "the red - line data are shifted by a constant amount relative to the blue - edge data .",
    "again , no systematic dependence of the corresponding pl relation on metallicity or helium was found .    to quantify the pl relation , we performed a least - square straight - line fit through the blue - edge and the red - line data separately .",
    "again , only second and later crossings of the instability strip are included in the data .",
    "for the blue edge we found @xmath13 with a mean @xmath14 deviation from the fit of @xmath15 .",
    "the red - line data can be described by @xmath16 for which the mean @xmath14 deviation from the fit amounts to @xmath17 .",
    "the slopes of both edges deviate from each other by about 10 % .",
    "this means that the constant width in @xmath18 of the instability strip translates into a relation of only slightly variable width on the @xmath19  ",
    "@xmath1 plane .",
    "the zero - points of the pl relation shift by @xmath20 at @xmath21 .",
    "it is worth noticing that the pl relation hardly changes even if the first crossing of the instability strip ( before the onset of core helium burning ) of the stellar models is included in the fits to the pl relation .",
    "when computing the nonadiabatic fundamental modes for our stellar models we also obtained the corresponding pulsation constants @xmath22 .",
    "this quantity was frequently used in the past in qualitative semi - analytical arguments on the pl relation of cepheids in the literature , therein it was usually treated as a constant . since stellar evolution during the cepheid phase can not be mimicked by simple homology transformations between different evolutionary phases within the instability strip we quantify its variation along the instability strip and for the masses and luminosities of cepheids .",
    "figure  3a displays the nonadiabatically derived pulsation constants as a function of effective temperature of the blue - edge and the red - line , respectively .",
    "evidently , @xmath0 is not constant .",
    "connecting open and filled symbols belonging to the same branch of an evolutionary track , we find @xmath0 to increase slightly when a star of a given mass crosses the instability strip from blue to red .",
    "the largest variation of @xmath0 , by roughly 50 % , occurs upon increasing luminosity along the instability strip .",
    "as already observed in the pl relation , also the @xmath0-values do not depend on particular choices of metallicity or helium abundance . when plotting the @xmath0-values versus period the blue - edge  ",
    "red - line offset which is seen in fig .",
    "3a reduces considerably ( cf . fig .",
    ". only a slight vertical shift of at most 0.005 in @xmath0 remains at a given period between blue - edge and red - line data .",
    "the following quadratic fits the data satisfactory : @xmath23 ^ 2\\;. \\eqno ( 5)\\ ] ]    our theoretical data delineating the positions of the fbe , the red line of the strip , and the associated pl relation allow the computation of lines of constant period along the instability strip on the hr diagram .",
    "since we restricted ourselves to the computation of periods at the fbe and along the red line , our loci of constant period are straight .",
    "this must , however , not necessarily be so .",
    "we found that the slope is a function of the position  ",
    "parameterized by the period    in the instability strip .",
    "it can be approximated by the following linear relation : @xmath24 the slope changes therefore by 20 % when going from @xmath25  day to @xmath26  days .",
    "the existence of the slope change is equivalent to the fact that the strength of the temperature dependence of q - value depends on period as seen in fig .",
    "if we integrate equation ( 6 ) , we see that the coefficient of the color term in a period - luminosity - color ( plc ) relation should be a function of period .",
    "when plc relations are derived from observational data , however , it is always assumed that the coefficient of the color correction term is independent of period .",
    "this assumption is , strictly speaking , inconsistent with our theoretical results .",
    "we are not aware of any attempt to take this effect into consideration and we hypothesize that this might be the reason for the failure of establishing a plc relation for galactic cepheids ( cf .",
    "fernie 1990 ) .",
    "according to our evolution / stability computations , incorporating new opal opacity data and low - temperature extensions provided by alexander and ferguson ( 1994 ) we find _ no _ significant metallicity and no helium dependence of the @xmath27 relation of cepheids .",
    "our results apply to bolometric quantities , however .",
    "any observational realization of the pl relation such as e.g. a @xmath28 relation will depend to some degree on the the particular chemical composition of the cepheids through the metallicity sensitivity of the bolometric correction .",
    "in fact , the metallicity dependence of stothers(1988 ) @xmath29 relation ( which is weak though ) mostly comes from the bolometric correction .",
    "the magnitude of the metallicity dependence of the bolometric correction is dictated by the choice of the filter passband .",
    "the quantification of this effect is not the purpose of this paper and has to be addressed by the theory of stellar atmospheres .",
    "for the blue - edge and the red - line data , the slopes of the pl relation are 1.270 and 1.244 , respectively .",
    "our fbe slope is similar to what chiosi et al .",
    "( 1993 ) ( 1.280 ) found but larger than the 1.19 which was given as a mean value by stothers ( 1988 ) . from observational data ,",
    "cox ( 1980 ) derived a slope of the bolometric pl relation of 1.15 .",
    "this pl relation was based on bolometrically corrected @xmath30 data .",
    "stothers ( 1988 ) refers to the infrared pl relation which should be close to the bolometric one and cites slopes between 1.16 and 1.39 .",
    "we conclude from this that the slopes of our pl relations lie within the range of previous theoretical ones .",
    "therefore , the latest improvements in opacities do not influence the _ slope _ of the cepheid pl relation .",
    "compared with chiosi et al.s ( 1993 ) mild overshooting case our zero - point ( measured at @xmath31 days ) is brighter by 0.02 in @xmath32 .",
    "the particular treatment of overshooting influences mainly the ml relation . compared with the ml relation the luminosity shift",
    "due to overshooting is about a factor of five less in the pl relation .",
    "the slope of the pl relation is even more stable with regard to changes in the treatment of overshooting . in view of the experience of chiosi et al .",
    "( 1993 ) we did not further elaborate here on computing series of stellar models with different overshooting parameterizations .",
    "the present physical calibration is slightly brighter than observational ones . using galactic cepheids as calibrators gives for a ridge - line cepheid with @xmath33  d @xmath34 ( sandage and tammann 1968 ) .",
    "based on an adapted lmc modulus of ( @xmath35 ) = 18.57 , madore and freedman ( 1991 , 1997 ) find a corresponding value of @xmath36 .",
    "using stellar radii as calibrators di  benedetto ( 1997 ) finds @xmath37 . a 10-days cepheid with @xmath38",
    "has a bolometric correction of bc@xmath39 ( lang 1991 ) . with this , one obtains @xmath40 .",
    "our physical calibration gives for a corresponding cepheid on the ridge line ( half - way between the fbe and our red line ) @xmath41 .",
    "the steeper slopes of the theoretical pl relations and the shifts in the zero points , say at 10 days period , could be understood by noticing that the cepheid population of the instability strip is not uniform .",
    "fernie ( 1990 ) showed evidence that cepheids favor to populate regions close to the blue - edge at lower luminosities and close to the red line a higher luminosities . a ridge line determined from an arbitrary sample of cepheids neglecting their inhomogeneous distribution across the instability strip",
    "will lead to a pl relation with a shallower slope than what results from an instability strip with a homogeneous distribution of variable stars . if this inhomogeneity is not accounted for properly in observational data a shallower ` ridge - line ' pl relation results when compared with the theoretically predicted one .",
    "finally we quantified the variation of the pulsation constant @xmath0 across and along the instability strip as far as it is relevant for cepheid studies .",
    "the variation is considerable as a function of luminosity : going from 4 to 10 @xmath3 , @xmath0 changed by roughly 50 % .",
    "an appropriate fit was presented in sect .",
    "an important result is that the @xmath0 values change very little as helium or heavy - element abundances are changed .",
    "furthermore , we showed how the lines of constant period change their slopes ( when they are assumed to be straight lines across the instability strip ) as a function of period .",
    "the fit to the data allowed a quantification of the effect so that it could be incorporated into semi - analytical discussions of pulsation properties of cepheids .",
    "acknowledgments : we are grateful to g.a .",
    "tammann and a.r .",
    "sandage for encouraging this study .",
    "acknowledges financial support from the japanese society for promotion of science and the swiss national science foundation .",
    "was financially supported by the swiss national science foundation through a profil2 fellowship .",
    "alexander , d.r . , and ferguson , j.w .",
    "1994 , , 437 , 879 becker , s.a . , iben , i. jr . , and tuggle , r.s .",
    "1977 , , 218 , 633 benvenuti , p. , macchetto , f.d . , and schreier , e.j .",
    "1996 , science with the hubble telescope - ii , proceedings of paris workshop buchler , j.r .",
    ", moskalik , p. , and kovcs g. 1990 , , 351 , 617 cox , j.p .",
    "1980 , theory of stellar pulsation , princeton : princeton univ .",
    "press choisi , c. , wood , p.r . , and capitanio , n. 1993 , , 86 , 541 deupree , r.g .",
    "1980 , , 236 , 225 di  benedetto , g.p .",
    "1997 , , in press feast , m.w . , and catchpole , r.m .",
    "1997 , , 286 , l1 fernie j.d .",
    "1990 , , 354 , 295 gieren w.p . , and fouqu p. , 1993",
    ", in new perspectives on stellar pulsation and pulsating variable stars , iau coll .",
    "139 , eds .",
    "j.m . nemec and j.m .",
    "matthews , cambridge : university press , p.  72",
    "iben , i. jr . , and renzini , a. 1984 , phys .",
    ", 105 , 329 iben , i. jr .",
    ", and tuggle , r.s .",
    "1972 , , 178 , 445 kippenhahn , r. , and weigert a. 1990 , stellar structure and evolution , berlin : springer lang , k.r .",
    "1991 , astrophysical data : planets and stars , new york : springer , p.142 madore , b.f . , and freedman , w.l .",
    "1991 , , 103 , 933 madore , b.f . , and freedman , w.l .",
    "1997 , , in press moskalik , p. , and buchler , j.r . , marom , a. 1992 , , 385 , 685 saio h. , winget d.e . , and robinson , e.l .",
    "1983 , , 265 , 982 sandage a.r .",
    "1996 , , 28 , 52 sandage a.r . , and tammann g.a .",
    "1968 , , 151 , 531 sandage , a.r . , and tammann , g.a .",
    "1997 , , submitted sekiguchi , m. , and fukugita , m. 1997 , submitted to observatory stothers , r. 1988 , , 329 , 712"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the theoretical period - luminosity relation for cepheids was deduced from stellar evolution and pulsation computations . </S>",
    "<S> questions concerning the metallicity dependence of the relation as well as the constancy of the pulsation ` constant ' @xmath0 in the instablility strip were addressed . </S>",
    "<S> we found no significant metallicity dependence of either the slope or of the zero - point of the period - luminosity relation . </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath0-value , however , varies across the instability strip , in effective temperature as well as in luminosity ; its metallicity dependence , on the other hand , is marginal . </S>"
  ]
}