{
  "article_text": [
    "for almost as long as they have been known to be located outside the milky way , galaxies have been used to probe the geometry of the universe ( @xcite ) . fairly early in the history of relativistic cosmology",
    ", it was realized that if the number density of galaxies is known , their apparent numbers per solid angle and redshift interval depend directly on basic cosmological parameters ( @xcite ) . applying this `` d@xmath0d@xmath1 test ''",
    "requires a substantial sample of distant galaxies with measured redshifts ; it was first applied by loh and spillar ( 1986 ) using a set of 406 galaxies with estimated photometric redshifts @xmath6 between 0.15 and 0.85 . assuming that the comoving number density of galaxies is constant and that their luminosity function retains similar shape over that redshift range",
    ", they measured @xmath7 .",
    "however , it remains unclear whether the assumptions of loh and spillar hold ; no complete theory or simulation of galaxy formation and evolution as yet exists ( @xcite ) .",
    "it would thus be preferable to apply such a test to objects whose abundance can be calculated semi - analytically or via computer models , eliminating such ambiguities . in this paper , we suggest that the observed numbers of galaxies ( and thus indirectly dark halos ) as a function of linewidth and redshift provide a candidate for improving on the analysis of loh & spillar , particularly because such quantities will be measured by surveys occurring in the next decade .    in the process of studying this possibility , we have developed a semi - analytic method for determining the abundance of dark halos as a function of their circular velocity ( @xmath8 ) and redshift that can provide results similar to those of n - body simulations in considerably less computer time and without the effects of limited resolution .",
    "in essence , we begin with the abundances of galaxies as a function of mass predicted by the modified press - schechter formalism of sheth ( 1999 ) , which provides an excellent fit to dark - matter simulations .",
    "we then determine the probability that a halo of given mass has formation time such that it will virialize with the desired circular velocity using the semi - analytic method of lacey and cole ( 1994 ) , which again is very well reproduced by simulations . by integrating over the distribution in mass",
    "we may then determine the total abundance of objects with a given circular velocity at the epoch of interest .",
    "we describe this method in more detail in @xmath92 , and the prospects for our proposed test in @xmath93 .",
    "a number of semi - analytic methods for calculating the veloctity distribution of dark halos based upon the press - schechter ( @xcite ) formalism have been proposed in the past .",
    "narayan & white ( 1988 ) used the assumption that halos have just virialized at the epoch of observation to map the press - schechter distribution of halos in mass into a distribution in velocity for a @xmath10 cold dark matter ( cdm ) universe ; kochanek ( 1995 ) extended their analysis to other common cosmological models .",
    "however , the assumption that objects observed are only just virializing is clearly inappropriate in many cases , particularly for lower - mass halos ; once objects virialize and break away from the cosmological expansion , their circular velocities evolve little if at all save in major mergers ( ghigna 1999 ) . to account for this ,",
    "kitayama and suto ( 1996a ) proposed that the distribution of x - ray temperatures of clusters ( @xmath11 ) be calculated by totalling the rate at which objects of the desired temperature that survive without merging into a much more massive object through the epoch of interest form , using the results of lacey & cole ( 1993 ) .",
    "as the authors of that paper noted , there remain some ambiguities in their formulation , however .",
    "we have attempted to improve upon these prior methods for calculating the velocity distribution of dark matter halos , taking advantage of the progress made over the past few years in extending the press - schechter formalism .",
    "it has been repeatedly demonstrated that standard press - schechter calculations overpredict the abundance of low - mass halos compared to equivalent simulations ; a number of remedies have been suggested recently ( e.g. bond & myers 1996 ) .",
    "one of the simplest to implement is that of sheth ( 1999 ) , which accounts for the average ellipticities of dark matter halos by making the critical overdensity for their collapse mass - dependent .",
    "the resulting analytic expression for the number density of halos of given mass ( given by their equations 1 and 6 ) provides an excellent fit to the results of a variety of cosmological simulations .",
    "the results of sheth allow a prediction of halo abundances much improved over the standard press - schechter formula with only minimal complications to the calculation .",
    "we have therefore used their equations to determine the distribution of halos in mass at a given redshift in our work .    because the density of the universe was greater at early times , objects that virialized at high redshift are more compact than those that virialized more recently , and therefore have a higher circular velocity for their mass .",
    "furthermore , once it has collapsed , the circular velocity of a halo changes only minimally ( ghigna 1999 ) .",
    "therefore , in determining the abundance of galaxy - scale halos with a given circular velocity today , it is preferable to take into account the time of formation of those halos in addition to their mass .",
    "fortunately , this may be calculated ; lacey & cole ( 1993 ) derived a semi - analytic formula for the distribution of formation times of halos with a given mass that exist as virialized objects at a given redshift ( defining the formation time as the epoch when the object first had at least half its final mass ) .",
    "this formula provides an excellent fit to the results of simulations ( lacey & cole 1994 ) , even though it assumes spherical collapse while the simulated halos could be ellipsoidal .",
    "we therefore have used their semi - analytic formula ( equation 2.19 of lacey & cole 1994 ) to determine @xmath12 , the probability distribution of the epoch of collapse @xmath13 of halos observed to have mass @xmath14 at time @xmath15 .",
    "note that the integral defining @xmath16 must be evaluated with particular care where the integration variable @xmath17 .",
    "however , an approximate analytic solution exists in that region , and the integral may be safely performed over the remainder of its range numerically .    in practice",
    ", we are interested in calculating the abundance of halos at redshift @xmath1 that have circular velocity @xmath18 ; for each halo mass , we therefore need only evaluate @xmath16 at that formation epoch for which a halo of the given mass would virialize with the desired circular velocity .",
    "we may obtain that time from the relationship between the circular velocity and the mass @xmath14 , which is most conveniently parameterized by using the length scale @xmath19 ( @xmath20mpc ) @xmath21 , where @xmath22 is the present - day mass density of the universe . by combining the definitions of circular velocity , of @xmath19 , of @xmath23 ( the ratio of the mean density of a virialized halo to the critical density of the universe when it virialized ) , and of the dimensionless evolution of the hubble parameter @xmath24 we find ( cf .",
    "narayan & white 1988 , kochanek 1995 ) : @xmath25 where we have determined the circular velocity for a halo of mass @xmath26 , more appropriate given our definition of the formation time .",
    "the objection might be raised that we are using a formula for circular velocity that implicitly assumes spherical geometry but are applying it to potentially ellipsoidal dark matter halos ; however , lacey & cole ( 1996 ) found that the velocity dispersions of dark matter halos calculated using a singular isothermal sphere model ( for which @xmath27 ) matched the properties of n - body simulated halos quite well . in our calculations",
    "we have used the fitting formulae for @xmath23 given by bryan and norman ( 1997 ) .",
    "thus , to calculate the comoving abundance of halos with a given circular velocity at an epoch of interest , we simply calculate the distribution of halos in mass on a 500-element grid , determine the probability that those halos have the desired circular velocity , and then integrate numerically over that grid .",
    "this procedure takes @xmath28 sec on a modern workstation to calculate the abundance at a single circular velocity and epoch , far faster than simulations could be run , and has none of the limitations of resolution or sample size that affect even the largest n - body simulations today .",
    "our technique seems to be similar to one employed by kitayama and suto ( 1996b ) to check their methods , save for the use of the ellipsoidal - collapse mass function rather than a traditional press - schechter calculation ; however , details on the latter are minimal .",
    "our procedures could certainly be improved upon .",
    "for instance , the connection between circular velocity , formation time , and mass could be made using a more realistic model than a singular isothermal sphere ( @xcite , bullock 1999 ) .",
    "calculation of formation times using an ellipsoidal - halo abundance paradigm rather than the press - schechter method of cole and lacey might also yield modest improvements .",
    "finally , we must note that the mass function of sheth was based upon a fit to mass functions of halos identified in n - body simulations using the `` friends - of - friends '' algorithm with selection parameter @xmath29 ; in such a method , as in standard press - schechter calculations , smaller subhaloes within a more massive halo ( e.g. galaxies within a cluster ) are not counted separately in the mass function . unless an improved method taking this into account is used",
    ", we can only calculate the abundance of relatively * isolated * dark matter halos ( i.e. , those that are not part of a larger , virialized group or cluster ) . such objects are readily identified observationally in well - sampled redshift surveys , but this is still a significant limitation . despite these caveats , we believe that our technique for semi - analytic calculations provides a substantial advance over methods previously used ; all of them suffer from similar flaws and have fewer advantages .",
    "our methods may also be useful for a variety of cosmological calculations ; for instance , the circular velocity distribution of dark halos is required for calculations of the abundance of strong gravitational lenses , and hence for the limits placed on @xmath30 thereby .",
    "in order to study the evolution of the volume element of the universe , we require some identifiable tracer whose number density evolution is well known . the dark halos which contain galaxies are an obvious candidate ; the results of semi - analytic calculations ( e.g. , sheth 1999 ) and n - body simulations ( e.g. , @xcite ) for the behavior of dark matter are by now fairly well understood .",
    "of course , directly observing the properties of dark halos at high redshift is impossible ; however , some of their parameters may be determined by studying galaxies lying within them . in particular , it is well - known that the motion of material in the outer parts of typical galaxies is dominated by the gravitational influence of dark matter ( fischer 1999 ) ; the depth of the halo potential well may thus be directly derived from observed linewidths or velocity dispersions of galaxies . unlike mass measurements , such observations are relatively insensitive to distance from a galaxy s center ( for instance , the rotation curves of many spiral galaxies are observed to be fairly flat over a great range of radii , as would be predicted for halos which are roughly isothermal spheres ) . under modest assumptions ( e.g. about their radial profiles ) , the expected abundance of dark matter halos as a function of observable linewidth may be determined from simulations or from the semi - analytic method described in @xmath92 .",
    "results of our semi - analytic calculations for the evolution of the differential comoving abundance of isolated halos with circular velocity 200 @xmath31  in some commonly - used cosmological models are depicted in fig .",
    "a cdm - like power spectrum with shape parameter @xmath32 and normalized to match the value of @xmath33 derived by borgani ( 1999 ) from x - ray observations of galaxy clusters was employed in all cases . as it is likely that selection effects will be somewhat similar for galaxies at @xmath34 and @xmath35 , we plot the ratio of the abundance of galaxies at a given redshift to that at @xmath34 .",
    "the abundance of halos at low circular velocities is smaller now than in the recent past because of merging of smaller halos into new , larger objects and because smaller halos lose their individual identities in a press - schechter framework when they are included in a larger virialized object such as a group or cluster .",
    "qualitatively , the predictions of n - body simulations are similar ( see , e.g. , the cluster simulations of ghigna 1999 ) .",
    "our calculations demonstrate that the comoving abundance of halos with fixed linewidth at @xmath35 relative to today is very insensitive to the background cosmological model under reasonable assumptions about the matter power spectrum ; e.g. for models with a low matter density @xmath36 , the relative abundance is only @xmath37 different in a flat model from an open one .",
    "thus , observations of the apparent numbers of such objects per unit redshift per steradian in comparison to their abundance today directly yields a measurement of the cosmological volume element , and hence of fundamental cosmological parameters",
    ".    a measurement of @xmath38 will be quite feasible once the deep redshift survey ( @xcite ) is completed .",
    "this survey , to be begun in early 2001 and completed within the five years following , will obtain spectra of @xmath39 galaxies at redshift @xmath40 with a resolution of @xmath41 @xmath31  fwhm , allowing measurements of linewidths for perhaps a quarter to half of the galaxies in the sample .",
    "the number of spectra obtained will be great enough to test for selection effects in redshift or linewidth by comparison to calculations or simulations at the few percent level .",
    "for instance , smaller halos are predicted to be distributed in circular velocity according to a power - law with a slope well - determined by both n - body simulations and our techniques ; deviation from such a distribution would be a strong indicator of observational selection effects , allowing us to correct for or avoid regions of parameter space suffering from incompleteness .",
    "complementary information on the linewidth distribution of galaxies at low redshift should be available from the sloan digital sky survey ( @xcite ) , 2df ( @xcite ) , or other local surveys , allowing accurate normalization to the abundance of halos at @xmath34 .",
    "the determination of the volume element afforded by such measurements can place constraints not only on the simplest models of the universe which include only matter and a cosmological constant , but also on so - called `` quintessence '' models ( @xcite ; @xcite ) in which the equation of state of a non - material component , @xmath42 , can take arbitrary value between -1 and 1 ( @xmath43 for matter , while @xmath44 corresponds to a cosmological constant ) .",
    "the amount of comoving volume per unit redshift per steradian at @xmath35 depends strongly on @xmath3 , as illustrated in fig .",
    "2 . the test we propose in combination with a determination of @xmath5 ( e.g. from velocity statistics of galaxies ) should allow direct determination of the equation of state of any dark energy present , as illustrated in figure 3 . in comparison ,",
    "cmb measurements planned for the near future and ground - based observations of the apparent magnitudes of type ia supernovae can determine @xmath3 to @xmath45% at best ( hu 1999 ) ; similar accuracy might be achieved using the statistics of lensed sources in the sloan digital sky survey ( @xcite ) .",
    "our estimated constraints are similar in strength to those predicted for the proposed snap satellite ( perlmutter et al . 1999 ) , though less sensitive to the present - day curvature and more sensitive in the orthogonal direction ( i.e. , more complementary to cmb measurements ) .",
    "the technique we propose is at least as effective as these even without including complementary information from other tests . as fig .",
    "3 illustrates , since @xmath5 will be increasingly constrained from other experiments in the near future ( including other analyses of the deep dataset ) , the test we propose has the potential to determine @xmath3 to @xmath46 , even without other complementary measurements .",
    "if the deep survey suffers from incompleteness , there must be at least as many halos of a given linewidth as we observe ; thus , a lower limit on the volume element , and hence on @xmath47 , would be provided .",
    "the test we propose could also detect evolution of @xmath3 , if any exists and other cosmological parameters are well - determined .",
    "it has recently been proposed that in reasonable quintessence models @xmath3 may vary with the current matter density as the universe evolves ( so - called `` tracker solutions '' ; cf .",
    "steinhardt 1998 ) or even oscillate over time ; such changes would be quite difficult to measure via methods that study integrated quantities ( e.g. , the luminosity distances of sne ia ) .",
    "however , the test proposed here allows measurement of a more localized quantity , the volume element ; hence , it may be able to measure changes in that quantity even on relatively small scales . by studying the apparent abundances of the dark halos of galaxies , we may test the most recent cosmological models  or even those not yet envisioned  with techniques having their origin in the earliest days of extragalactic astronomy .",
    "we would like to thank sandy faber for her helpful suggestions and james bullock , eric gawiser , dragan huterer , james robinson , rob thacker , mike turner , martin white , and the anonymous referee for useful suggestions and discussions .",
    "we would also like to thank zoltan haiman and jay mohr for their assistance in including their results in this paper .",
    "this work was supported by nasa grant nag 5 - 7833 .",
    "benson , a.j . , pearce , f.r .",
    ", frenk , c.s . ,",
    "baugh , c.m . , & jenkins , a. 1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/9912220 ) bond , j.r . & myers , s.t .",
    "1996 , apjs , 103 , 1 borgani , s. , plionis , m. , & kolokotronis , v. 1999 , mnras , 305 , 866 bryan , g.l . & norman , m.l .",
    "1996 , apj , 495 , 80 bullock , j. s.  1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/9910301 ) caldwell , r. , dave , r. , & steinhardt , p. 1997",
    ", ap&ss , 261 , 303 colless , m. 1998 , in _ wide field surveys in cosmology _ , ed . s. colombi , y. mellier , & b. raban ( paris : editions frontieres ) , 77 cooray , a. r. & huterer , d. 1999 , apj , 513 , l95 davis , m. & faber , s. 1998 , in _ wide field surveys in cosmology _ , ed .",
    "s. colombi , y. mellier , & b. raban ( paris : editions frontieres ) , 333 fischer , p.  1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/9912119 ) ghigna , s. , moore , b. , governato , f. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , & stadel , j. 1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/991066 ) haiman , z. , mohr , j. j. , & holder , g. p. 2000 , preprint ( astro - ph/0002336 ) hu , w. , eisenstein , d. , tegmark , m. , & white , m. 1998 , preprint ( astro - ph/9806362 ) hubble , e. 1926 , apj , 64 , 321 jenkins , a.  1997 , in asp conf .",
    "117 , dark and visible matter in galaxies , ed .",
    "m. persic & p. salucci ( san francisco : asp ) , 348 kochanek , c.s . , 1995 , apj , 453 , 545 kitayama , t. & suto , y. 1996a , mnras , 280 , 638 kitayama , t. & suto , y. 1996b , apj , 469 , 480 lacey , c. & cole , s. 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 lacey , c. & cole , s. 1994 , mnras , 271 , 676 loh , e.d .",
    "& spillar , e.j .",
    "1986 , apj , 307 , l1 loveday , j. ,  1998 , in _ wide field surveys in cosmology _ , ed . s. colombi , y. mellier , & b. raban ( paris : editions frontieres ) , 317 melchiorri , a.  1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/9911445 ) narayan , r. & white , s.d.m .",
    "1988 , mnras , 231 , 97 navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , & white , s. d. m. 1995 , mnras , 275 , 720 peebles , p.j.e . 1999 , _ principles of physical cosmology _",
    "( princeton : princeton university press ) perlmutter , s.  1999 , apj , 517 , 565 press , w.h .",
    "& schechter , p. 1974 , apj , 187 , 425 sheth , r.k . , mo , h.j . , & torment , g. 1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/9907024 ) steinardt , p.j . ,",
    "wang , l. , & zlatev , i. 1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/9812313 ) tolman , r. c. 1934 , _ relativity thermodynamics and cosmology _ ( oxford : clarendon press ) turner , m. s. & white , m. 1997 , phys .",
    "d , 56 , 4439"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the classical d@xmath0d@xmath1 test allows the determination of fundamental cosmological parameters from the evolution of the cosmic volume element . </S>",
    "<S> this test is applied by measuring the redshift distribution of a tracer whose evolution in number density is known . in the past , ordinary galaxies have been used as such a tracer ; however , in the absence of a complete theory of galaxy formation , that method is fraught with difficulties . in this paper , we propose studying instead the evolution of the apparent numbers of dark matter halos as a function of their circular velocity , observable via the linewidths or rotation speeds of visible galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> upcoming redshift surveys will allow the linewidth distribution of galaxies to be determined at both @xmath2 and the present day . </S>",
    "<S> in the course of studying this test , we have devised a rapid , improved semi - analytic method for calculating the circular velocity distribution of dark halos based upon the analytic mass function of sheth ( 1999 ) and the formation time distribution of lacey & cole ( 1993 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we find that if selection effects are well - controlled and minimal external constraints are applied , the planned deep redshift survey could allow the measurement of the cosmic equation - of - state parameter @xmath3 to @xmath4 ( as little as 3% if @xmath5 has been well - determined from other observations ) . </S>",
    "<S> this type of test has the potential also to provide a constraint on any evolution of @xmath3 such as that predicted by `` tracker '' models .    </S>",
    "<S> department of astronomy , university of california , berkeley , ca 94720 - 3411 ;    -12pt </S>"
  ]
}