{
  "article_text": [
    "color - magnitude diagrams ( cmds ) of stellar clusters have long been used as tests of stellar evolution because of the way they constrain the evolution of the luminosity and surface temperature of individual stars .",
    "a number of difficulties have to be overcome to ensure the best quality comparisons with theoretical models , and one of these is obtaining a sufficient number of measurements of stellar fluxes in different filter bands . with small numbers of observations ,",
    "measurement scatter is often the most important issue since the position of a star in the cmd will not simply be dependent on its mass , chemical composition , and evolutionary state . in a cluster of stars , the ensemble of measured stars must then be used to infer where a single star would fall in the diagram .",
    "however , with a large enough number of independent observations of a group of stars , the photometric scatter can be reduced to the point where it is no longer a significant contributor to uncertainty in the position of the cluster s fiducial line .",
    "at that point , scatter introduced by unresolved binaries , variable stars , and nonmembers become the main contributors to the scatter",
    ".    with a high - precision photometric database , calibration to a standard system can require relatively little additional effort : a few nights of observations under photometric conditions with fairly large numbers of cluster star observations interspersed with standard star observations covering the color range of the cluster stars to be calibrated and covering the airmass range of the cluster observations .",
    "of course , the standard calibration can also be improved with additional data as long as the standard system is well determined .",
    "there are numerous benefits to high precision cmd studies .",
    "first , the shapes of the fiducial lines often reveal inadequacies in our understanding of the stellar physics involved in modeling the stars .",
    "an example is the turnoff region of open clusters , where observations have shown that a small amount of convective overshooting in the convective cores of stars is necessary to explain the morphology of the fiducial line .",
    "high precision measurements can also reveal the presence of peculiar stars .",
    "two examples are the poorly understood `` sub - subgiant branch '' stars s1063 and s1113 in m67 ( mathieu et al .",
    "2003 ; identifications starting with `` s '' are from sanders 1977 ) .",
    "both stars are high - probability cluster members , but fall in a region of the cmd where it is very difficult to explain their photometric properties .",
    "high - precision photometry can also open up the possibility of spectroscopic studies of the surface properties and abundances by identifying samples of probable single stars .",
    "while proper motion studies can identify cluster members , eliminating unresolved binaries from the sample generally requires large investments of time for radial velocity studies .",
    "even so , wide binaries and binaries with extreme mass ratios are unlikely to be identified except with the help of precise photometry .",
    "field star contamination of cluster cmds can often make the selection of cluster members difficult if proper motion studies have not been carried out .",
    "even when they have been , the first epoch observations were most frequently taken using photographic techniques , which most often means that faint main sequence stars are unlikely to have been included .    these issues are particularly pressing in the case of open clusters like m67 .",
    "m67 is probably the most thoroughly studied old open cluster in the galaxy , thanks to its small distance from us . typically quoted values for the cluster s age ( @xmath5 gyr ;",
    "dinescu et al .",
    "1995 ) place it between the majority of known open clusters and the much older globular clusters .",
    "there have also been a number of proper motion membership studies of the cluster @xcite and radial velocity studies @xcite that can be used to help `` clean '' the cmd of nonmembers and binary stars in order to make the single - star sequence more apparent .",
    "a number of authors have commented on the seemingly large binary star fraction in the cluster @xcite , which probably indicates a high degree of mass segregation and may also indicate that the cluster is in the late stages of its dynamical life during which it is being tidally disrupted .",
    "recent attention on clusters has come from variability studies , and in some cases a by - product of such a study can be a large number of observations of non - varying stars . the dataset we describe below is a result of studies of two particularly difficult eclipsing variables in m67 : the blue straggler s1082 ( @xmath6 1.0677978 d for the eclipsing binary ) , and the totally - eclipsing variable s986 ( @xmath6 10.33813 d ) .",
    "we gathered thousands of frames of observations of m67 in @xmath7 band , hundreds of observations in @xmath8 , and tens in @xmath9 .",
    "we will focus our attention on the @xmath10 cmd because of its high precision .",
    "@xcite has also presented wide - field photometry of m67 in nine filters .",
    "their photometry in at least three of those filters ( with bandpasses centered at 3890 , 6075 , and 9190  ) certainly qualifies as high precision .",
    "however , because their photometry was taken in a non - standard filter system , the comparison of their data with theoretical values is more complicated than ours .",
    "however , we will use their data in conjunction with ours to attempt to identify the stars that have the highest probability of being single stars .",
    "we briefly describe our photometry and its reduction and calibration in  2 . in  3 , we present our identification of the single star sequence and determination of the fiducial line . in  4 , we compare the fiducial line with theoretical isochrones .",
    "all of the photometry for this study was taken at the 1 m telescope at the mt .",
    "laguna observatory using a @xmath11 ccd on nights between december 2000 and april 2003 .",
    "the nights of observations are given in table [ obs ] .",
    "typical exposure times ranged between 10 and 60 s to optimize the counts for our eclipsing binary targets near the cluster turnoff .    .observing log for photometry at mt .",
    "laguna [ cols=\"^,<,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      the observations made by us and by fan et al .",
    "were generally long enough that stars on the upper giant branch were saturated on the ccd , and so were not measured by either study .",
    "however , janes & smith ( 1984 ) studied the upper giant branch to try and sort first - ascent giant stars from stars in later evolutionary phases and star in binaries . @xcite",
    "tabulate photometry for the brightest stars taken from other studies .",
    "because there are likely to be systematic errors resulting from differences in calibration , we do not include these stars in table [ sss ] . however , the stars that are most likely to be on the sss ( in order from rgb tip faintward ) are s1553 ( 61% ) , s488 ( 51% ) , s1135 ( 19% ) , s978 ( 99% ; 95% ) , s364 ( 82% ) , s1557 ( 77% ) , and s1016 ( 98% ; 93% ) .",
    "the percentages quoted are proper motion membership probabilities from @xcite and @xcite if available .",
    "all of these stars are high probability proper motion and radial velocity members @xcite with the exception of s1135 , which is a high - probability radial velocity member .",
    "we were able to photometer 4 stars falling in the red giant clump ( see table [ sss ] ) , and identify 3 others ( s1316 , s1479 , and s1592 ) from the @xcite listing of bright stars .",
    "all are high probability proper motion and radial velocity members of m67 .",
    "we selected giant branch members based on whether they seemed to be closest to a lower envelope of stars leading up the rgb . in many cases ,",
    "cluster members fall near , but not on the giant branch . while some of these are to the blue of the giant branch ( and thus are very likely to be binary stars )",
    ", there are several stars to the _ red _ of the giant branch . among the bluer stars",
    "are known binaries like s1040 , s1182 , s1195 , s1221 , and s1237 .",
    "we also identify s721 , s1054 , s1254 , and s1288 as probable binaries based on their colors from our data and @xcite data .",
    "we also reject s1293 as too blue in our data , although it appears to lie on the giant branch in the fan et al . data .",
    "cmds are shown in fig .",
    "[ rgbsgb ] .",
    "as mentioned earlier , systems can be created with colors _ redward _ of the giant branch if a main sequence secondary star with a color redder than the giant star is present .",
    "s1001 is one example that appears redward of the giant branch by a small but noticeable amount in all of the colors we examined , so that it was not included in the sss .",
    "the fainter the giant star is , the larger the red deviation caused by a main sequence companion can be .",
    "s794 is an example of this near the base of the red giant branch .",
    "s1463 is another high probability cluster member nearby in the cmd that deviates by an amount that _ can not _ be explained by a single main sequence companion .",
    "one can also question whether surface composition changes driven by evolutionary changes at first dredge - up on the rgb might significantly affect the cmd position of stars in this section .",
    "this is only likely to be a significant worry if different m67 giants undergo the dredge - up event at substantially different positions on the rgb or if there is scatter in the amount of material dredged up .",
    "brown ( 1987 ) examined c and n abundances along the giant branch , and found a fairly abrupt change in @xmath12 .",
    "gilroy & brown ( 1991 ) examined @xmath13c / @xmath14c ratios , and found them varying in the same range .",
    "this is partly because there are few stars in this portion of the cmd ( see fig .",
    "[ rgbsgb ] ) .",
    "in fact , we rejected only three stars in this range : s794 , s1001 , and s1463 .",
    "s794 was observed by gilroy & brown though , and seems to have abundances consistent with not yet having undergone dredge - up . s1463",
    "was also observed , but its values were inconclusive . however , balachandran ( 1995 ) detected li in the star , which is unusual because none of the other stars in similar evolutionary stages have detectable li .",
    "we believe this spectroscopic evidence strongly supports the exclusion of s794 and s1463 from the sss .",
    "s1001 remains a marginal case .",
    "we define this region to be between the base of rgb ( the local minimum in luminosity ) and the top of the main sequence ( the local maximum ) .",
    "a close examination of the ( @xmath15 ) cmd from @xcite reveals a well - defined string of stars delineating the sgb . in the ( @xmath16 )",
    "cmd , there are clearly a small number of stars that are fainter than the rest .",
    "there is one known binary ( s1242 ) that could be mistaken for a normal sgb star in the ( @xmath15 ) cmd , but falls among the more numerous and brighter subset of stars in ( @xmath17 ) cmd .",
    "since blends _ only _ fall above the sgb in this portion of either cmd , we select the fainter subset as the likely sss .",
    "the neater appearance of the sgb in ( @xmath18 ) is due to the large wavelength separation of the passbands used in the color , which can hide small deviations from the sss .",
    "this should serve as a reminder of the importance of multi - band imaging .",
    "the difference between the bright and faint subsets is a few hundredths of a magnitude in @xmath19 .",
    "an implication of this is that the majority of the stars seen near the cluster sgb may be binary stars : s591 , s781 , s961 , s1069 , s1239 , s1438 , and s1487 .",
    "we have looked at the radial velocities tabulated by @xcite for most of our selected stars and these presumed binaries .",
    "there were three stars originally in our presumed single group ( s1060 , s1323 , and s2207 ) and two stars ( s961 and s1239 ) having radial velocity dispersions labelled `` hi '' ( @xmath20 @xmath21 km s@xmath22 ) by @xcite .",
    "however , only s2207 has a large number of measurements and @xmath23 @xmath21 km s@xmath22 .",
    "we have opted to retain the other two `` single '' stars in our sample to flesh out the sgb , but this fact should be kept in mind .    at the blue end of the sgb ( the local maximum in luminosity of the sss ) , it becomes impossible to unambiguously distinguish binaries from single stars based on photometry alone because blends with faint main sequence stars move the system parallel to the sss .",
    "there are a number of stars in this portion of the diagram that could be single stars , so we resort to simply tabulating all of these and averaging the photometry so that we are not too far off in magnitude .    as for strange stars , mathieu et al .",
    "( 2003 ) have recently discussed the two `` sub - subgiant '' branch stars s1063 and s1113 . both are known binaries with period of several days , and both are high - probability proper motion members .",
    "there is not currently an accepted explanation for the positions of these two stars in the cmd .",
    "we define this region to be the portion of the sss between the gap and the local luminosity maximum ( @xmath24 ) .",
    "the number of known binaries falling in this portion of the diagram again indicates that contamination by unresolved blends of stars may be a serious problem .",
    "[ cmdto ] shows an exploded view of this part of the cmd .",
    "we can get a degree of reassurance from the fact that a number of these systems ( specifically s926 , s995 , s1310 , s1589 , and s1639 ) do have multiple radial velocity observations that are consistent both with the cluster mean and with no variation .",
    "once again , we decided to be conservative in our selection in this region , retaining stars and averaging their photometry so that the fiducial could not be far off the sss . for comparison",
    ", we plot corresponding regions of the ( @xmath25 ) cmd for the @xcite dataset in fig .",
    "[ mmjcmd ] .",
    "this figure shows the improvement in the photometric scatter near the turnoff , and illustrates the systematic differences stemming from the calibration to the standard system .",
    "many previous investigators have drawn attention to the gap at the turnoff between @xmath26 .",
    "the gap is the result of short evolutionary time - scales for single stars in this portion of the diagram .",
    "we will discuss the phase of single star evolution that is likely to produce this gap in  [ toshape ] below .",
    "however , we note that there are a number of proper motion members that do fall in this range of magnitudes",
    ". there is a possibility that these stars could be single stars , although we believe it is more likely that they should be classified as blue stragglers .",
    "only one cluster member ( s1271 ) fell in the fields we observed , but an examination of the fan et al .",
    "data reveals an additional six ( s489 , s602 , s610 , s615 , s1503 , s1575 ) , none of which has published radial velocity observations .      for the lower portion of the turnoff region ( @xmath27 ) , it is once again possible to start to apply a `` bluest star '' criterion for determining the position of the sss since the blend sequences no longer intersect the sss except near the very reddest portion .",
    "we still need to be aware of the possibility that some blue stragglers may have to be eliminated .",
    "unfortunately the faint limit of the @xcite radial velocity study falls in this range of magnitudes also , so that binaries can now only be eliminated based on photometric variations or on cmd position .",
    "the first apparent feature is formed by four stars ( s731 , s998 , s1230 , and s1302 ) that form a nearly linear feature in all of the cmds we have examined .",
    "all four are high probability cluster members and show no signs of photometric variability ( this work ; s998 , s1230 , s1302 in stassun et al .",
    "2002 ; s998 in gilliland et al .",
    "1991 ) , but unfortunately only s998 has been observed spectroscopically .",
    "s998 was observed by @xcite , who found a radial velocity consistent with the cluster mean , and a low rotational velocity ( @xmath28 @xmath21 km s@xmath22 ) consistent with those observed for other turnoff stars .",
    "li has also been detected at the surface of s998 by @xcite at a level consistent with other stars at the turnoff .",
    "( to date , there have not been any confirmed detections of lithium in m67 blue stragglers . ) while there is no reason to doubt cluster membership and no evidence of variability or of companion stars , the small number of stars involved means that this should tested further .",
    "for example , the bluest star s1230 can be questioned based on its slight fainter @xmath19 magnitude in the fan et al .",
    "we will discuss these stars more in ",
    "[ toshape ] .    while our color resolution of the turnoff region is somewhat limited , there is clear evidence that stars in this range of magnitudes have evolved to cooler surface temperatures . in this range of magnitudes we begin to tabulate two separate sequences : one based on the bluest reliable cluster member , and one based on weighted averages of groups of stars near the blue edge of the star distribution . in both cases",
    "a redward turn is noticeable .",
    "several stars in our @xmath10 cmd can be tentatively classified as blue stragglers based on their cmd positions bluer than the faint portion of the turnoff and fainter than the bright portion of the hook .",
    "s856 and s927 were only observed by @xcite , but have high membership probabilities .",
    "s1220 , s1226 , and s2219 were observed by us and all have high membership probabilities ( see table [ weird ] ) . however , in the fan et al .",
    "dataset , these stars fall closer to the presumed sss , although on the blue side of the distribution of colors .",
    "the weakest candidate is s1220 , which had the largest scatter in measurements and the fewest measurements overall .",
    "other blue stragglers have been discussed elsewhere ( e.g. , sandquist & shetrone 2003b )    finally , we have looked for cluster members that fall to the red of the two - star blend sequence since stars might be present in this portion of the cmd if they are part of a triple system .",
    "we find 4 candidates in our photometry ( s773 , s816 , s1011 , and s1292 ) , although these fall within the two - star blend sequence in the fan et al .",
    "( @xmath29 ) cmd .",
    "this may be the result of much lower surface temperature for the companion star or stars , since the color in the fan et al .",
    "data more closely resembles @xmath30 .",
    "we call attention to these stars to encourage further examination .",
    "as mentioned in the previous subsection , the sss for the main sequence can be most cleanly identified using the best measured blue stars at a given magnitude level .",
    "we can use proper motion information on the upper main sequence to eliminate potential confusion from the small numbers of field stars that fall very close to the main sequence in the cmd .",
    "however , as we have also mentioned , it is apparent that the proper motion membership information becomes less trustworthy for the faintest stars in the samples of @xcite and @xcite .    for @xmath31 , we allow stars with low proper motion membership probabilities into the sample if they clearly fell near other proper motion members on the main sequence .",
    "the faintest star selected for the sss that has high membership probabilities according to both @xcite and @xcite is s1291 at @xmath32 , so that fainter stars that we retained had low membership probabilities according to either @xcite or @xcite .",
    "the faintest star with high probability in just one of the two studies is s769 at @xmath33 . at this point",
    "the proper motion surveys begin to be seriously incomplete .",
    "we do not believe these difficulties bias our measured position for the sss because the main sequence can be clearly traced throughout .",
    "the star s1209 has a 96% membership probability according to @xcite , but is much too blue to be a main sequence star or a blend with a white dwarf star .",
    "if this star is indeed a cluster member , we do not have a good explanation for its photometry .",
    "we also note that there are several additional stars that fall significantly to the red of the blend sequence in this portion of the color magnitude diagram : s787 and s1249 according to our photometry , and s475 , s1492 , s1601 , and s1608 from @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , the proper motion information disagrees on membership for all of these stars except s1249 and s1608 .",
    "we note that the binary star s1019 @xcite also falls in this portion of the diagram .",
    "s1019 is a known x - ray source containing a short - period binary , which makes it possible that another star is present on a much larger orbit .",
    "other systems found to the red of the blend sequence have proper motions that indicate they are nonmembers .      for the faintest portions of the main sequence that we studied ,",
    "cmd position is the only criterion we can use to select stars .",
    "another well - known gap is present on the main sequence at @xmath34 , although there is no obvious explanation for this . as can be seen from fig .",
    "[ cmdms ] , the fan et al .",
    "dataset is no longer useful for selecting stars for the sss below the gap due to large photometric scatter as the faint limit of the 3890 observations is approached at @xmath35 .",
    "we terminated our tabulation of the fiducial line at @xmath36 , because the color terms in the photometric transformations can not be reliably extrapolated beyond the end of the color range of our calibrating stars @xmath37 .",
    "we have , however , tabulated approximate magnitudes and colors for fainter stars that fall on an extension of the main sequence .",
    "percival , salaris , & kilkenny ( 2003 ) have recently published a sample of local g and k dwarfs with accurate hipparcos parallaxes in a metallicity range appropriate for open cluster main sequence fitting .",
    "percival et al .",
    "also describe a method of correcting the dwarf colors for metallicity differences with the cluster that does not require theoretical isochrones . with our new photometric calibration and determination of the cluster s fiducial line ,",
    "it is worthwhile to attempt to update the distance modulus for the cluster .    in doing the fits to our fiducial points , we eliminated local dwarfs having @xmath38 from the sample in order to remove any possible effects that stellar evolution might have .",
    "[ the choice of color cutoff was based on the isochrones of girardi et al .",
    "( 2000 ) . ]",
    "a total of 27 dwarfs with @xmath39 were used in the fit .",
    "we assumed [ fe / h ] @xmath40 ( gratton 2000 ) and e@xmath41 ( corresponding to e@xmath42 ) .",
    "we find @xmath43 [ @xmath44 , where the uncertainty includes uncertainty in the fit and in the reddening .",
    "the best fit to our fiducial line is shown in fig .",
    "our derived distance modulus is significantly lower ( 0.12 mag ) than the value given by @xcite for an isochrone fit to their @xmath10 dataset ( @xmath45 , or @xmath46 ) , but in good agreement with a recent isochrone fit to the @xmath47 data of @xcite by sarajedini et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , giving @xmath48 .",
    "the difference in the distance moduli derived from the @xmath10 datasets stems from the calibration to the standard system , as can be seen in fig .",
    "[ mmjcmd ] .",
    "fiducial line to the metal - rich dwarf star sample of percival et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , corresponding to @xmath49 .",
    "[ dm],width=317 ]      a careful comparison between our best measured highest - probability single stars and theoretical isochrones reveals a number of areas of significant disagreement .",
    "we focus on recent sets of models by girardi et al .",
    "( 2000 ; hereafter , referred to as padova isochrones ) , yi et al .",
    "( 2001 ; hereafter , the yonsei - yale or y@xmath50 isochrones  we use version 2 of these isochrones ) , and baraffe et al .",
    "( 1998 ; hereafter bcah ) .      predicted colors depend critically on the choice of @xmath4-to - color transformation .",
    "the color transformations used in the padova isochrones are described in girardi et al .",
    "( 2002 ) . for most of the area of the cmd we consider",
    ", the theoretical colors are based on atlas9 synthetic stellar atmospheres ( kurucz 1993 ) recalculated by castelli , gratton , & kurucz ( 1997 ) .",
    "the y@xmath50 isochrones employ transformation tables from two different sources : lejeune , cuisinier , & buser ( 1998 ; hereafter lcb ) and green , demarque , & king al .",
    "( 1987 ; hereafter gdk ) .",
    "gdk made use of older kurucz ( 1979 ) atmosphere models to predict colors .",
    "lcb used empirical solar - abundance color - temperature relations to make corrections to their library spectra ( kurucz 1993 ) so that the spectra produce color - temperature relations in agreement with empirical solar - abundance relations . corrected theoretical spectra",
    "can then be used to extended the relations to other abundances in a differential sense ( lejeune , cuisinier , & buser 1997 ) .",
    "their computed solar - abundance relations generally agree with the empirical ones to better than 0.1 mag .",
    "since m67 is very close to solar abundance , this means that the use of lcb tables should almost be equivalent to using empirical color - temperature relations .    in a direct comparison between the models and observations ,",
    "there are differences in the color positions of the unevolved model main sequences .",
    "some error in absolute color is to be expected because the line lists and line parameters used in the theoretical atmosphere models do not accurately reproduce high - resolution spectra ( see , for example , the discussion in  3.1.2 of @xcite ) , but generally the hope is that these errors average out , particularly when wide bandpasses are used . however , the padova isochrones are noticeably redder than the y@xmath50 isochrones with lcb tables at all magnitude levels , in spite of the use of the same set of stellar atmospheres . the smallest color difference occurs near where the solar calibration requires better agreement .",
    "thus , the differences in absolute colors seem to be the result of the _ corrections _ made to the synthetic photometry .    in the following discussion , we allow for small shifts in color to accommodate the possibility of zero - point errors in the synthetic colors or photometric calibration .",
    "the most robust comparison between observations and theory appears to be using a color difference between main sequence stars below the turnoff ( where convective overshooting plays a substantial role ) and the warmest giants ( at the base of the giant branch ) .",
    "if we shift all of the isochrones so that they match m67 stars at the absolute magnitude of the sun ( fig .",
    "[ isocomp ] ) , we find that only the y@xmath50 isochrones using the lcb transformation tables roughly reproduce the giant branch color : the padova isochrones predict giants that are too red by about 0.03 mag , and the y@xmath50 isochrones with gdk tables give giants that are too blue by about 0.06 mag",
    ". this is not too surprising because of the empirical color - temperature relations used to correct the spectra used to produce the lcb tables .",
    "more surprising is the way that the y@xmath50-lcb isochrones deviate more strongly from the observed main sequence than the y@xmath50-gdk and padova isochrones .",
    "in particular , lcb found that uncorrected theoretical giant spectra deviated more strongly from empirical relations ( although mostly higher on the giant branch ) than did theoretical dwarf spectra .",
    "however , when the gdk tables are used , the theoretical main sequence better matches the observations . in fig .",
    "2 of yi et al .",
    "( 2001 ) comparing the gdk and lcb color transformations , there is also a feature centered near @xmath51 that does not appear in any of the other color transformations .",
    "we will discuss this further in  [ msshape ] below .",
    "the largest effect on the shape of the turnoff region in m67 is the algorithm used to model convective overshooting in the cores of turnoff - mass stars .",
    "overshooting can be described in terms of the distance ( in units of the pressure scale height @xmath52 ) a convective element goes beyond the classical boundary defined by the schwarzschild criterion . in examining the @xcite dataset for m67 ,",
    "@xcite find that earlier models with overshoot of at most @xmath53 seem to reproduce the observations best although they did not discuss the details of their comparison .",
    "the padova group isochrones and version 2 of the y@xmath54 isochrones use similar algorithms to describe the overshooting : no overshooting for low masses ( @xmath55 for padova ) , constant overshoot for higher mass stars ( @xmath56 for y@xmath50 , and approximately @xmath57 for @xmath58 for padova ) . between these two extremes ,",
    "the amount of overshoot is ramped linearly .",
    "the overshooting parameter in the girardi et al .",
    "models ( @xmath59 ) is described in bressan , chiosi , & bertelli ( 1991 ; labelled there as @xmath60 ) , and describes overshooting convective elements moving from _ inside _ the convective zone , across the classical boundary , and into a radiative region .",
    "this is not easily converted to the more typically quoted extent of overshooting beyond the classical edge of the convection zone because it involves the integration of a differential equation for the velocity of a convective element . however , because the acceleration of a convective element becomes negative at the classical convection zone boundary , the overshoot beyond the boundary must be less than one - half the mixing length ( maeder 1975 ) . in the @xcite models",
    ", @xmath59 varies as @xmath61 between 1.0 and @xmath62 .",
    "stars near the turnoff mass in m67 have @xmath631.25@xmath64 , so that the amount of overshoot beyond the zone boundary is less than about @xmath65 . @xcite",
    "provide isochrones calculated without convective overshooting , and version 1 of the y@xmath50 isochrones did not use overshooting for ages similar to that of m67 . in fig .",
    "[ tocomp ] , we compare these four sets of isochrones to our observed data for m67 .",
    "note that the amount of overshooting given in the figure is for the higher mass range  for stars at the turnoff , the overshooting will be less .",
    "the age of m67 makes it a particularly tricky test of the core convection because m67 is at a stage in which the morphology of the turnoff star evolutionary tracks changes rapidly as the extent of the convective core decreases with decreasing mass .",
    "in addition , the pressure scale height @xmath66 as @xmath67 , so that the use of an algorithm forcing overshooting of a constant fraction of @xmath52 is likely to break down in this regime . @xcite and",
    "@xcite have discussed ways of constraining the amount of overshooting for stars with small convective zones . in the majority of well - studied clusters",
    "this is not an important issue , since an age more than a gyr different than m67 s age is sufficient to make the typical overshoot treatment adequate or to eliminate core convection from cluster stars ( e.g. aparicio et al .",
    "in m67 , this issue appears to be critical .",
    "the morphology of the turnoff is the most easily used indicator of the amount of overshooting in the current data .",
    "the major changes in morphology from the overshooting are a more noticeable `` hook '' to the red then blue prior to the sgb , and a change from a more vertical ( luminosity change ) isochrone to a more horizontal ( temperature change ) isochrone at the beginning of the sgb ( the global @xmath4 maximum ) .",
    "woo et al .",
    "( 2003 ) also discuss the color difference between the turnoff and red giant branch as an indicator of the amount of convective core overshoot .",
    "however , based on the results of  [ msrgb ] , current uncertainties in color transformation render this method somewhat questionable at present , particularly because it relies on the _ relative _ accuracy of dwarf and giant atmosphere models .",
    "the theoretical interpretation of the features is that the reddest extent of the `` hook '' corresponds to the beginning of a rapid phase of shrinkage of the extent of convection in the core of the star . at the same time the core hydrogen content is quickly approaching exhaustion , which occurs at the bluest point on the isochrone . following this ,",
    "a hydrogen fusion shell source is established around the core .",
    "overshooting significantly affects evolutionary time - scales , most notably lengthening the star s main sequence life .",
    "it also affects the length of the beginning of the subgiant phase by allowing more of the hydrogen _ near _ the centre to be consumed , which requires a more substantial and rapid adjustment of structure when the core hydrogen is exhausted .",
    "thus , the distribution of stars in the vicinity of the turnoff on a cmd carries information about the amount of overshooting , although this can be difficult to extract in the case of a relatively star - poor cluster like m67 .",
    "there are other difficulties in interpreting m67 s cmd , however . in terms of the observational morphology of the turnoff ,",
    "we are faced with a `` hook '' that appears to require some overshooting , but with an extent less than seen in either of the theoretical isochrones with overshooting .",
    "the redward - pointing portion of the hook is well - populated and clearly at odds with all of the theoretical isochrones without overshooting .",
    "if the four stars we identified in  [ lto ] are truly single stars that are part of the blueward - pointing portion of the `` hook '' , this also can only be explained with small amounts of overshooting .",
    "for example , fig . 5 of woo et al .",
    "( 2003 ) presents synthetic cmds incorporating different amounts of overshooting for a somewhat younger cluster .",
    "only the models with overshooting of @xmath53 have a significant number of single stars on the red half of the blueward - pointing part of the hook and on the bluest parts of the sgb .",
    "in addition , higher amounts of overshooting cause the red portion of the hook to overlap the cluster s blend sequence , something which is not seen in m67 . however , the bluest portion of the subgiant branch appears to most closely resemble the no - overshoot models , particularly those of the padova group .",
    "the manner of our star selection makes it impractical to do a detailed analysis of the numbers of stars in the cmd to examine issues of evolutionary time - scales .",
    "however , the mere presence of the gap is interesting .",
    "typically turnoff gaps seen in clusters like m67 have been associated with the shrinkage of the convective core prior to hydrogen exhaustion .",
    "however , models indicate that one of the most noticeable differences when overshooting is introduced is the drastic decrease in the amount of time spent on the bluest parts of the sgb immediately after hydrogen exhaustion ( see fig .",
    "[ totheory ] ) .",
    "if the four stars are indeed on the blueward - pointing portion of the hook , they give the impression that the evolutionary tracks should evolve more in luminosity than in surface temperature at the beginning of the sgb , and that the models should be evolving more quickly at the beginning of the sgb to explain the gap .",
    "this is crudely consistent with presence of some overshooting , although the exact morphology of the isochrone is still puzzling .",
    "helium diffusion could play an interesting role for m67 turnoff stars by helping to bring additional hydrogen fuel toward the core .",
    "the models of the padova group do not include helium diffusion , while those of the y@xmath50 group do .     and @xmath68 versus age for @xmath69 ( _ heavy lines _ ) and @xmath70 ( _ thin lines _ ) evolutionary tracks from the padova group with ( _ dotted lines _ ) and without ( _ dashed lines _ ) convective core overshooting .",
    "[ totheory],width=317 ]    our best interpretation of the turnoff morphology is that a fairly small convective core including some amount of convective overshoot is necessary , but that the extent of the mixed core at hydrogen is small .",
    "because the evolutionary time - scale for the stars increases dramatically once the hydrogen fusion regions reach hydrogen rich gas outside of the regions earlier occupied by a convective core , the presence of a gap puts a lower limit on the extent of the core .",
    "if the convective core in a turnoff star is never particularly large , then after core hydrogen exhaustion the situation is similar to that of a lower mass star . if there is not a large region of hydrogen - exhausted gas near the core , then the star does not need to adjust its structure much to find a new , stable configuration . in this sense , the gap in an old cluster like m67 can be said to be the last remnant of the hertzsprung gap seen in much younger open clusters : when core hydrogen is exhausted in turnoff stars in those clusters , a greater degree of structural readjustment is necessary .",
    "our interpretation of these features does depend on a small number of stars , some of which could be blue stragglers or unresolved binaries . if all or most of them are single stars though ( as we believe ) , the morphology of the turnoff deserves a more detailed look because it can tightly constrain the behavior of gas in small convective cores .",
    "the exact amount of overshoot has only a small effect on the age inferred from m67 s turnoff .",
    "however , 4 gyr isochrones reproduce most aspects of the upper main sequence and subgiant branch well , so we regard this as the preferred age , and estimate that the uncertainty is less than about 0.5 gyr .",
    "this is in agreement with the value derived by @xcite , although they used an earlier set of models and different photometry .      using @xmath71 color",
    ", the y@xmath50-gdk and padova isochrones agree with each other and satisfactorily match the shape of the main sequence nearly to @xmath72 .",
    "the y@xmath50-lcb isochrone diverges rather substantially from the m67 sss by @xmath73 . in all three cases",
    "though , the main sequence models become far too blue .",
    "we find that the solar - metallicity models of bcah provide a much better fit to the shape of the main sequence down to the limit of our calibration at @xmath74 . in @xmath30 color ,",
    "the padova and y@xmath50-gdk isochrones still agree , but the y@xmath50-lcb isochrones is a much closer fit to the actual data to @xmath75 ( see fig .",
    "[ isocomp ] ) .",
    "this is a clear indication that the color-@xmath4 relations are responsible for much of the disagreement when it comes to fitting the main sequence .",
    "one of the reasons the main sequence color calibration is so difficult is the lack of a good , independently - determined @xmath4 scale for faint dwarfs .",
    "houdashelt , bell , & sweigart ( 2000 ) examined data for cool ( 4000 k @xmath76 6500 k ) field stars and found indications that the color-@xmath4 relations for dwarfs and giants diverge for @xmath77 k in @xmath78 and @xmath79 colors . according to their data ,",
    "the dwarf stars become redder than the giants at a given @xmath4 , which is in the correct direction to explain the discrepancies between models and observations of m67 .",
    "this could be the result of gravity - sensitive molecular features like tio and cn that fall in @xmath7 , @xmath80 , and @xmath8 bands ( houdashelt et al . 2000 ) .",
    "the empirical color-@xmath4 relations used to correct the models of lcb ( bessell 1979 , 1995 ) are systematically bluer than the houdashelt et al .",
    "field dwarf values ( see their fig .",
    "12 ) , and bessell ( 1979 ) actually used field giant data to set the relation for cool dwarfs , assuming the two are equivalent .",
    "but as houdashelt et al",
    ". state , systematic errors in @xmath4 measurements for the coolest dwarfs could also be responsible for the differences between field dwarf and field giant color-@xmath4 relations .    according to empirical relations",
    ", @xmath81 corresponds to @xmath82 . in our m67 data",
    ", this roughly corresponds to the color at which the padova and y@xmath50-gdk isochrones begin diverging from the bluest stars on the m67 main sequence .",
    "the y@xmath50-lcb models diverge closer to @xmath83 , which appears to be due to a lack of empirical data to calibrate the @xmath84 relation ( p. westera , private communication ) .    the primary differences in input physics between the best - fitting models of bcah and those of the y@xmath50 and padova groups are in the equation of state and in the surface boundary conditions .",
    "bcah use recent non - grey stellar atmosphere models as boundary conditions for their stellar models and the equation of state of saumon , chabrier , & van horn ( 1995 ; hereafter scvh ) .",
    "the padova isochrones make use of the mhd equation of state @xcite and opacities from alexander & ferguson ( 1994 ) for surface layers .",
    "the y@xmath50 isochrones also use @xcite opacities at the stellar surface . for the equation of state they use the opal @xcite tables at temperatures down to @xmath85 , and then revert to a saha equation of state with debye - hckel correction for coulomb interactions .",
    "scvh have shown that significant differences exist between their equation of state and others , and that the mhd or opal equations of state are the most accurate for stars of solar mass or above while the scvh equation of state is preferred for low mass stars due to its inclusion of non - ideal effects and molecule formation .",
    "however , @xcite indicate that comparisons of models calculated using the scvh and mhd equations of state show agreement to better than 1.3% in @xmath4 and @xmath86 for stars with @xmath87 .",
    "the y@xmath50 models used a simpler equation of state at low temperatures ( @xmath88 ) .",
    "the y@xmath50 models reach this threshold in the surface layers for stars with mass near @xmath89 ( @xmath90 ) , which appears to be at a point on the main sequence that is too faint to explain the deviations .",
    "so , our feeling is that current equation of state differences are not likely to be of high importance in the range of star masses we have observed .    at low @xmath4",
    ", studies ( e.g. chabrier & baraffe 1997 ) have forcefully shown the importance of the surface boundary condition in determining the luminosity and spectral type of the star . for fully convective stars",
    ", the temperature gradient is forced to be very close to the adiabatic temperature gradient , so that the surface conditions ( where the adiabaticity breaks down ) essentially set the entire interior structure of the star .",
    "unfortunately , stellar atmospheres at low @xmath4 are strongly non - grey ( e.g. chabrier & baraffe 1997 ) , so that to adequately determine the interior structure , detailed stellar atmospheres have to be used as surface boundary conditions .",
    "while the bcah models diverge from deep photometry of open clusters for @xmath91 k @xcite , this limit is fainter on the main sequence than either the padova or y@xmath50 have been tested .",
    "in addition , bcah use color transformation tables derived in a self - consistent way from their model atmospheres while the padova and y@xmath50 isochrones use tables derived from atmospheres that are not applied as surface boundary conditions .",
    "these are the primary reasons behind the different cmd positions of the bcah main sequence and those of the padova and y@xmath50 groups .",
    "differences between the isochrones due to the assumed equation of state , color - temperature transformations , and surface boundary conditions get severe the fainter on the main sequence the models go ( e.g. von hippel et al .",
    "2002 ) . as yet",
    ", the y@xmath50 and padova isochrones have not been rigorously tested in this regime ( see yi et al .",
    "2001 ) , so it is not entirely fair to expect agreement as yet .",
    "however , when the models are shifted to match up with the observed data at the magnitude level of the sun ( thereby differentially removing small effects of the differences in age and composition , and the larger effects of differences in color zero points ) all of the models except those of bcah are clearly too blue .",
    "@xcite found a similar discrepancy extending to fainter levels for the cluster m35 .",
    "however , m67 has a composition that is closer to that of the sun , and so _ should _ closely match the solar neighborhood stars used to calibrate color-@xmath4 relations .",
    "we have used the extensive database of observations we have gathered in our variability studies to produce a high - precision cmd for the old solar - abundance open cluster m67 .",
    "the age of m67 has created turnoff stars that are showing the effects of overshooting in their small convective cores . m67",
    "thereby provides a severe test of algorithms used to model stars with masses @xmath92 .",
    "if m67 data is calibrated to fainter magnitudes in the future , it will be possible to more strongly test the physics involved in the computation of the stellar atmospheres of main sequence dwarfs .",
    "because of the solar abundance of the cluster , m67 can be extremely valuable in constraining color transformations for main sequence stars of solar abundance . because solar abundance stars often provide the basis for determining the transformations at lower abundances , the data for m67 has wide application .",
    "the accurate determination of the lower main sequence fiducial line would also open the possibility of predicting the properties of both stars in unresolved binaries having mass ratios with @xmath93 . in this range",
    ", a binary system can be uniquely deconvolved into its components under the assumption that there are just two non - interacting stars .",
    "our photometry does not go deep enough down the main sequence to allow us to make this deconvolution without additional data . with just the addition of a reasonably good theoretical main sequence line",
    ", it would be possible to determine a photometric mass ratio distribution for a fairly large sample of stars in this cluster .",
    "because m67 appears to be a cluster that is quite relaxed dynamically , this would give us the opportunity of directly seeing how the cluster dynamics have affected the binary stars .",
    "e.l.s . would like to thank the director of mount laguna observatory ( p. etzel ) for generous allocations of telescope time that made this study possible , m. shetrone for many useful conversations , m. van den berg for very useful conversations and for thorough comments on the manuscript , p. westera for insight into @xmath4-color relations , and the anonymous referee for valuable comments about mechanisms broadening a single star sequence that resulted in  [ broad ] .",
    "this research has made use of the simbad database operated at cds , strasbourg , france , and was supported in part by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "ast-0098696 .",
    "alexander d. r. , ferguson j. w. , 1994 , apj , 437 , 879 aparicio a. , bertelli g. , chiosi c. , garcia - pelayo j. m. 1990 , a&a , 240 , 262 balachandran s. , 1995 , apj , 446 , 203 baume g. , vzquez r. a. , feinstein a. , 1999 , a&a , 137 , 233 baraffe i. , chabrier g. , allard f. , hauschildt p. , 1998 ,",
    "a&a , 337 , 403 ( bcah ) bergeron p. , wesemael f. , beauchamp a. , 1995 , pasp , 107 , 1047 belikov a. n. , kharchenko n. v. , piskunov a. e. , schilbach e. , 2000 , a&a , 358 , 886 belloni t. , verbunt f. , mathieu r. d. , 1998 , a&a , 339 , 431 bessell m. s. , 1979 , pasp , 91 , 589 bessell m. s. , 1995 , in tinney c. , ed . , eso workshop , the bottom of the main sequence and beyond .",
    "springer - verlag , berlin , p. 123 bressan a. g. , chiosi c. , bertelli g. , 1981 , a&a , 102 , 25 brown j. a. , 1987 , apj , 317 , 701 castelli f. , gratton r. , kurucz r. l. , 1997 , a&a , 318 , 841 chabrier g. , baraffe i. , 1997 , a&a , 327 , 1039 chevalier c. , ilovaisky s. a. , 1991 , a&as , 90 , 225 dinescu d. i. , demarque p. , guenther d. b. , pinsonneault m. h. , 1995 , aj , 109 , 2090 fan , x. et al . , 1996 , aj , 112 , 628 gilliland r. l. et al . , 1991 , aj , 101 , 541 gilroy k. k. , brown j. a. , 1991 , apj , 371 , 578 girard t. m. , grundy w. m. , lopez c. e. , van altena w. f. , 1989 , aj , 98 , 227 girardi l. , bressan a. , bertelli g. , chiosi c. , 2000 , a&as , 141 , 371 ( padova ) girardi l. , bertelli g. , bressan a. , chiosi c. , groenewegen m. a. t. , marigo p. , salasnich b. , weiss a. , 2002 , a&a , 391 , 195 gratton r. , 2000 , in pallavicini r. , micaela g. , sciortino s. , eds , asp conf",
    ". ser . vol .",
    "198 , stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos .",
    ", san francisco , p. 225",
    "green e. m. , demarque p. , king c. r. , 1987 , the revised yale isochrones and luminosity functions .",
    "yale univ .",
    ", new haven , cn hobbs l. m. , pilachowski c. , 1986 , apj , 311 , l37 houdashelt m. l. , bell r. a. , sweigart a. v. , 2000 , aj , 119 , 1448 honeycutt r. k. , 1992 , pasp , 104 , 435 janes k. a. , smith g. h. , 1984 , aj , 89 , 487 joner m. d. , taylor b. j. , 1990 , pasp , 102 , 1004 jones b. f. , fischer d. , soderblom d. r. , 1999 , aj , 117 , 330 kurucz r. l. , 1979 , apjs , 40 , 1 kurucz r. l. , 1993 , in barbuy b. , renzini a. , eds , iau symp .",
    "149 , the stellar populations of galaxies .",
    "kluwer , dordrecht , p. 225",
    "landolt a. u. , 1992 , aj , 104 , 340 lejeune th .",
    ", cuisinier f. , buser r. , 1997 , a&a , 125 , 229 lejeune th . , cuisinier f. , buser r. , 1998 , a&a , 130 , 65 maeder a. , 1975 , a&a , 40 , 303 mathieu r. d. , latham d. w. , griffin r. f. , gunn j. e. , 1986 , aj , 92 , 1100 mathieu r. d. , latham d. w. , griffin r. f. , 1990 , aj , 100 , 1859 mathieu r. d. , van den berg m. , torres g. , latham d. , verbunt f. , stassun k. , 2003 , aj , 125 , 246 melo c. h. f. , pasquini l. , de medeiros j. r. , 2001 , a&a , 375 , 851 mihalas d. , hummer d. g. , mihalas b. w. , dppen w. , 1990 , apj , 350 , 300 montgomery k. a. , marschall l. a. , janes k. a. , 1993 , aj , 106 , 181 percival s. m. , salaris m. , kilkenny d. , 2003 , a&a , 400 , 541 richer h. b. , fahlman g. g. , rosvick j. , ibata r. , 1998 , apj , 504 , l91 rogers f. j. , swenson f. j. , iglesias c. a. , 1996 , apj , 456 , 902 ( opal ) roxburgh i. w. , 1992 , a&a , 266 , 291 rucinski s. m. , duerbeck h. w. , 1997 , pasp , 109 , 1340 sanders w. l. , 1977 , a&as , 27 , 89 sandquist e. l. , latham d. w. , shetrone m. d. , milone a. a. e. , 2003a , aj , 125 , 810 sandquist e. l. , shetrone m. d. , 2003b , aj , 125 , 2173 sandquist e. l. , shetrone m. d. , 2003c , aj , submitted sarajedini a. , von hippel t. , kozhurina - platais v. , demarque p. , 1999",
    ", aj , 118 , 2894 shetrone m. d. , sandquist e. l. , 2000 , aj , 120 , 1913 saumon d. , chabrier g. , van horn h. m. , 1995 , apjs , 99 , 713 ( scvh ) soderblom d. r. , king j. r. , siess l. , jones b. , fischer d. , 1999 , aj , 118 , 1301 stassun k. g. , van den berg m. , mathieu r. d. , verbunt f. , 2002 , a&a , 382 , 899 stetson p. b. , 1987 , pasp , 99 , 191 stetson p. b. , 1990 , pasp , 102 , 932 stetson p. b. , 1992 , jrasc , 86 , 71 stetson p. b. , 2000 , pasp , 112 , 925 van den berg m. , orosz j. , verbunt f. , stassun k. , 2001 , a&a , 375 , 375 van den berg m. , stassun k. g. , mathieu r. d. , verbunt f. , 2002 , a&a , 382 , 888 von hippel t. , steinhauser a. , sarajedini , a. , deliyannis c. p. , 2002",
    ", aj , 124 , 1555 wilden b. s. , jones b. f. , lin d. n. c. , soderblom d. r. , 2002 , aj , 124 , 2799 woo j .- h .",
    ", demarque p. , 2001",
    ", aj , 122 , 1602 woo j .- h . , gallart c. , demarque p. , yi s. , zoccali m. , 2003 , aj , 125 , 754 yi s. , demarque p. , kim y .- c . , lee y .- w .",
    ", ree c. h. , lejeune t. , barnes s. , 2001 , apjs , 136 , 417 ( y@xmath50 ) zhao j. l. , tian k. p. , pan r. s. , he y. p. , shi h. m. , 1993 , a&as , 100 , 243"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have calibrated and combined an extensive set of @xmath0 observations of m67 to produce a color - magnitude diagram of stars measured with high relative precision . </S>",
    "<S> we have selected stars that are most likely to be single - star members of the cluster using proper motion , radial velocity , and variability information from the literature , and an examination of the most probable color - magnitude diagram locations of unresolved stellar blends . </S>",
    "<S> we have made detailed comparisons of our photometry of the selected stars with theoretical models , and discuss the most notable discrepancies . </S>",
    "<S> observations of m67 turnoff stars are a severe test of algorithms attempting to describe convective cores in the limit of small extent , and we find strong evidence of a `` hook '' just fainter than the turnoff gap . the stars in m67 support assertions that the degree of convective core overshooting decreases to zero for stars with masses in the range @xmath1 , but that the degree of overshoot is smaller than currently used in published isochrones . </S>",
    "<S> we also verify that all current theoretical models for the lower main sequence ( with the exception of baraffe et al . </S>",
    "<S> 1998 ) are too blue for @xmath2 even when the sequences are shifted to match m67 near the @xmath3 of the sun , probably due to a combination of problems with color-@xmath4 transformations and realistic surface boundary conditions for models . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we identify a subset of cluster members with unusual photometry ( candidate red giant binaries , blue straggler stars , and triple systems ) deserving of further study .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : evolution  stars : fundamental parameters  stars : distances  open clusters : individual ( ngc2682 )  convection . </S>"
  ]
}