{
  "article_text": [
    "massive stars have a strong impact on the evolution of their parental molecular clouds ( mcs ) . their fast winds and their ionizing radiation cause an important feedback of energy and momentum into the circumstellar environment .",
    "one of the most interesting effects massive stars could have on mcs is `` sequential star formation '' @xcite .",
    "when massive stars heat their environment to equilibrium temperatures @xmath0 10000  k via their ionizing uv radiation , the ionized region is divided from the surrounding molecular gas by a very thin transition layer called ionization front. due to the high pressure in the hot , ionized gas , a shock front is driven into the cooler molecular gas which sweeps up a thin , dense layer of shocked material between it and the ionization front .",
    "this layer is likely to be gravitationally unstable and thus may form a new generation of stars on timescales of several million years .",
    "molecular clouds are highly irregular , with observed structures from large scales down to even the smallest observable scales .",
    "there is ongoing debate whether the morphology of molecular clouds can be described by a fractal .",
    "broad linewidths in molecular clouds also suggest irregular supersonic motion , which indicates the presence of turbulence . in the presence of ionizing radiation",
    ", theoretical models predict that density enhancements will likely be excavated by the ionization front @xcite .",
    "they will subsequently protrude into the ionized gas , and are directly exposed to the ionizing radiation .",
    "the dynamical behaviour ( radiation driven implosion , rdi ) in such exposed globules was studied numerically by sandford , whitaker & klein   , who pointed out that the mass distribution of stars formed in a perturbed molecular cloud affected by rdi may sensitively depend on the spatial scales of the perturbations .",
    "a similar approach was followed by lefloch & lazareff  . in their models ,",
    "the time evolution can be subdivided into two stages : the implosion phase , lasting for about 100  kyrs , and , if gravitationally stable , a subsequent quiet , quasi - static cometary phase , in which the globule is slowly eroded by ionization on timescales of several myrs . through semi - analytical models , bertoldi   and bertoldi & mckee   constrained the ranges for mass and ionizing flux in which gravitational instability in the compressed globules should be expected .",
    "more recently , hollenbach & bally ( 1998 ) and lpez - martin et al .",
    "( 2001 ) investigated the photoevaporation of dense clumps of gas by an external source .",
    "the hydrodynamics of photoionized columns in the eagle nebula has been modeled by williams et al .",
    "( 2001 ) .",
    "sugitani , tamura & ogura   observed a sample of 89 bright - rimmed clouds ( brcs ) , apparently objects with properties as mentioned above , and found an excess in the luminosities and luminosity - to - cloud ratios of embedded iras sources when compared to sources in isolated globules , which is an indication for enhanced star formation in their brcs .",
    "near - ir imaging of 44 brcs revealed that young stellar objects seem to be aligned along the axis towards the ionizing cluster .",
    "there is even evidence for an age gradient with older stellar objects closer to the ob cluster and the youngest objects well inside the globules , aligned with the iras sources .",
    "this result is consistent with sequential star formation while the shock front advances further and further into the molecular cloud .",
    "the interplay between dynamics and self - gravity in exposed globules has not yet been treated in detail . using the new , fast sphi method described in kessel & burkert  , we present 3d calculations of imploding clumps including self - gravity .",
    "we find evidence that initial small - scale density perturbations can lead to a substantial stabilization against gravitational collapse during the implosion phase and the subsequent cometary phase , even if the parameters of the globules suggest them to be highly unstable according to the analytical estimations of bertoldi & mckee  .",
    "the initial conditions are static solutions to the equation of emden  , called `` bonnor - ebert spheres '' @xcite . in these spheres , which are supported by an external pressure at the truncation radius @xmath1 ,",
    "the gravitational force is everywhere balanced by the pressure gradient , which is vanishing at the center .",
    "the scale - free form of the differential equation describing this situation is @xmath2 the relation between the parameters @xmath3 and @xmath4 on the one hand and physical quantities density @xmath5 and radius @xmath6 on the other hand is given by @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the maximum density for @xmath9 and @xmath10 is the temperature of the isothermal gas . here ,",
    "@xmath11 is boltzmann s constant , @xmath12 the gravitational constant and @xmath13 the mean molecular weight .",
    "stability analysis shows that there is a critical value @xmath14 for the truncation radius of the sphere .",
    "below @xmath14 , the sphere is stable against radial density perturbations . above",
    ", it commences gravitational collapse on a few gravitational timescales if perturbed . at @xmath14 ,",
    "the sphere contains about one jeans mass of matter , and the density contrast from the center to the pressure boundary is @xmath15 .",
    "since we do nt expect such supercritical cores to survive long enough in molecular clouds to be influenced by ionizing radiation in relevant number , we instead restrict ourselves to the critical case with the truncation radius @xmath16 .",
    "this enables us to study whether compression by ionizing radiation can force one initial jeans mass into gravitational collapse . if not",
    ", we can conclude that induced collapse for cases with masses less than a jeans mass should also be highly improbable .",
    "additional simulations of initially jeans - stable clumps with @xmath17 will be studied in a subsequent paper .",
    "the maximum particle density of h atoms in the cores is assumed to be @xmath18 and the equilibrium temperature in the neutral cloud material @xmath19 to mimic the typical conditions observed in molecular clouds .",
    "the integration volume has the shape of a cube , which contains the bonnor - ebert sphere , embedded in a surrounding gas of constant density @xmath20 .",
    "this gas provides the boundary pressure for the sphere .",
    "the diameter of the sphere is @xmath21 times the size of the box .",
    "note that this configuration alone would be unstable against gravitational collapse due to the additional mass of the surrounding gas , in which pressure gradient and gravitational force are not in balance .",
    "however , the timescale of this collapse is much longer than the dynamical timescale which is imposed on the system by the large sound velocity of about @xmath22  kms@xmath23 in the hot , ionized medium .",
    "the setup chosen is not thought to provide a stable starting configuration .",
    "our intention is rather to start with a reasonable density distribution , in which the initial core contains about one jeans mass .",
    "we allow material to stream freely away from the initial integration volume , i.e. no boundary conditions are imposed .      to investigate the effects of density irregularities , we impose in some calculations gaussian random perturbations on the initial density distribution as described by klessen & burkert  .",
    "the density distribution is determined by the power spectrum @xmath24 .",
    "this is achieved by applying the zeldovich   approximation . besides the unperturbed case without and with self - gravity ( in the following cases a and b ) , we ran perturbed cases with @xmath25 ( more power on large scales , case c ) and @xmath26 ( more power on small scales , case d ) .",
    "the amplitude of the perturbations was chosen to be highly non - linear , with a mean relative variance of @xmath27 .",
    "the ionizing flux falls perpendicular onto one of the cube surfaces with a rate of photons per time and area , @xmath28 .",
    "we specify the  strength  @xmath29 of the radiation field as the ratio between the cube size and the path length @xmath30 which the radiation can penetrate into the surrounding gas via an r - type ionization front .",
    "this length is given by the balance between @xmath28 and the recombinations along @xmath30 : @xmath31 where @xmath32 denotes the recombination coefficient adopting the  on the spot ",
    "approximation  @xcite . in other words ,",
    "the parameter @xmath29 determines how much of the density enhancement is excavated by the ionization front before it turns from weak r - type into weak d - type . from that moment on the medium",
    "dynamically reacts to the pressure difference across the ionization front . for the calculations in this paper , we chose @xmath33 .",
    "the time evolution in case a ( figs .  [ fig : a1],[fig : a2 ] ) is analogous to the models of lefloch & lazareff  .",
    "one can distinguish between four different phases :    1 .",
    "immediately after the ionizing flux is switched on , a weak r - type ionization front is driven supersonically into the medium .",
    "after @xmath34  kyrs , the denser part of the cloud is excavated and surrounded by a region of ionized gas .",
    "the ionization front stalls and becomes nearly sonic .",
    "it converts into a weak d - type front",
    ". the gas can now react dynamically to the pressure imbalance between ionized and unionized gas ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a1 ] , first panels ) .",
    "2 .   in the second phase",
    ", this imbalance drives a shock front into the cloud with velocities @xmath35 .",
    "the shock accumulates a thin layer of dense shocked material ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a1 ] , second panels ) .",
    "it thereby converges towards the axis of the finger - like structure ( `` globule '' ) due to the curvature of the ionization front .",
    "3 .   after 130 myrs , the globule reaches a stage of maximum compression ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a1 ] , third panels ) .",
    "caused by the overshoot in pressure , the cloud starts reexpanding and 4 .   enters a fourth phase , in which gas is being ionized continuously away from the surface facing the ionizing source ( fig .",
    "[ fig : a2 ] ) .",
    "this leads to a mass loss of @xmath36 .",
    "gas is leaving the ionization front with velocities of @xmath37 , causing a rocket effect which accelerates the gas in the tip into the direction of photon flow . during this acceleration",
    ", gas is collected inside the globule in a lid - shaped feature facing the ionizing source .",
    "it is subject to dynamical instabilities which lead to the disintegration of the cloud after @xmath38 kyrs .",
    "the remaining fragments are then ionized completely after a few 10 kyrs .      placing our models with @xmath39 and @xmath40 into the figure  14 in bertoldi & mckee   ( reprinted here as fig .",
    "[ fig : bertoldi ] ) , they lie far in the regime where gravitational instability is expected . simulations with smooth initial conditions including self - gravity verify this conclusion . the overall evolution is indistinguishable to the one in case  a , until the point of maximum compression is reached . at that moment",
    "gravitational collapse sets in , which can be seen in the sudden rise in the maximum density of the system ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : maxdens ] ) .      in these models ,",
    "the evolution fundamentally differs from the one in model b. during the compression phase , density enhancements are amplified in the shocked layer , similar to what is observed in the simulations by elmegreen et al .",
    "fig : c1 ] , [ fig : c2 ] ) and those of williams et al . ( 2001 ) ( fig .",
    "they are reminiscent of the observed small - scale structures seen in m16 ( hester et al .",
    "1996 ; white et al . 1999 ) .",
    "contrary to case b , no collapse occurs at the moment of maximum compression .",
    "we rather observe an evolution analogous to the phases 3 and 4 of case a. after a delay of 300 kyrs , the layer starts fragmenting by gravitational instability .",
    "as already pointed out in chapter  [ chapt : inconds ] , the initial conditions were chosen such that the integration volume contains @xmath41 jeans mass .",
    "looking at the jeans mass @xmath42 and jeans length @xmath43 , @xmath44 and the freefall timescale , @xmath45 it follows that @xmath42 as well as @xmath46 drop with increasing density . at the moment of highest compression in model",
    "a , regions with densities higher than a threshold density @xmath47 contain @xmath48 . for this @xmath49",
    ", one finds @xmath50 , @xmath51 and @xmath52 .",
    "compared to these values , the compressed region in the tip of the cloud contains 2 jeans masses and is large enough , and @xmath46 is small compared to other timescales in the system .",
    "one can thus expect that the globule is unstable to gravitational collapse at this moment .",
    "this explains why we observe collapse when including gravity in model b.    one should however use the jeans masses criterion with care , as the cases c and d illustrate .",
    "it only considers the balance between internal energy and gravity and is thus a static approach , neglecting the effects of internal motion .",
    "it is as such only applicable in very few cases .",
    "since the initial conditions are chosen such that they contain @xmath41 jeans mass for all cases , the stabilization of cases c and d can not be caused by gas pressure alone .",
    "the only mechanism which differs in the simulations and which can be responsible is undirected gas motion , i.e. disordered kinetic energy .",
    "[ fig : energies ] shows the total amount of kinetic energy @xmath53 relative to the center of mass compared to the gravitational energy @xmath54 in the system for case c. during the compression phase , more and more material is collected by the post - shock layer and accelerated to velocities @xmath55  km / s . as a consequence , @xmath53 grows steadily until the shock converges along the axis of the configuration . then follows a short phase of strong dissipation caused by the colliding shocks . during reexpansion and acceleration of the globule",
    ", there is still a residual amount of @xmath53 left in the globule .",
    "the difference between cases c and d with respect to model b is that in the latter case the gas flow is strongly converging in the tip of the globule , whereas in the former the shock front is refracted by the density fluctuations and thus a substantial amount of @xmath53 is transformed into undirected motion on scales small enough to support the globule .",
    "additionally , the knots formed in the compression layer are relatively stable entities , which behave like a swarm of bullets .",
    "they tend to pass by each other without merging .",
    "both effects inhibit gravitational collapse during maximum compression for cases c and d. in 2d calculations using cylindrical symmetry , these bullets would be represented by concentric rings and their cross section for collision would be artificially enhanced .",
    "it is thus doubtful whether the delay could be observed at all in 2d calculations .    in the late phases in models",
    "c and d , all models show gravitational instability in the dense layer which was built up in the tip of the cloud facing the source , which leads to fragmentation and disruption of the cloud ( fig . [",
    "fig : c2 ] , lowest panel ) .",
    "this happens at different evolutionary times for several models we calculated , varying between 420  kyrs and 600  kyrs",
    ". we do nt show these late stages in fig .",
    "[ fig : maxdens ] , since then over 90 per cent of the gas is already ionized .",
    "this means that numerical resolution is poor due to low particle numbers in the neutral gas . a second reason why we doubt the reliability of the time when instability occurs is that it will strongly depend on the dissipation rate of the undirected kinetic energy .",
    "since our numerical scheme uses artificial viscosity , we expect numerical dissipation which can not represent the real value . however , the important result we trust in is the delay in gravitational collapse after maximum compression which we observe in all models with perturbed initial conditions .",
    "the delay in the collapse for models c and d was neither observed nor anticipated in earlier work .",
    "bertoldi & mckee   derived the conditions for which gravitational collapse can be expected by analysing the balance between the gas pressure in stratified clouds and the external pressure and recoil . in their figure  14 ,",
    "reprinted here as fig .",
    "[ fig : bertoldi ] , all the models presented here fall far into the unstable region .",
    "note that our globules are far from stratified ; the timescale for stratification is roughly given by the sound crossing time , @xmath56 where @xmath6 is the radius of the globule and @xmath57 the sound velocity in the neutral gas . in our case ,",
    "@xmath58 which is substantially longer than the timescales considered here .      in fig .  [ fig : virial_hist ]",
    ", the distribution of thermal and kinetic virial coefficients for the six most massive `` bullets '' in case d are shown after 100  kyrs evolutionary time , shortly before maximum compression .",
    "the coefficients were estimated by taking the ratio of internal or kinetic energy , respectively , compared to the gravitational energy at a radius , where the bullet is by its higher density still well separated from the embedding medium .",
    "the virial coefficients are all well above 10 , which indicates that the bullets are no gravitationally bound entities , but are pressure - confined .",
    "this assumption is even affirmed due to the fact that all of the bullets are situated in the shocked , dense layer which is formed by the overpressure in the neighbouring ionized medium and the recoil caused by gas traversing the ionization front with high velocity .",
    "the hydrodynamic lifetime of the bullets , estimated from their extent and the sound velocity in the neutral medium , are found to lie between 100 and 400  kyrs , which is comparable to the time the shock front needs to penetrate the whole globule .        in the calculations presented above",
    ", we use a very simplified equation of state .",
    "we assume that the heating and cooling timescales are short compared to the other important timescales , and that the equilibrium temperature is constant at @xmath59 in the neutral and @xmath60 in the ionized regions . for material in the ionization front , we couple the temperature to the ionization fraction by @xmath61 this ansatz is unsatisfactory in several respects .",
    "first , the temperature of recombination zones is severely underestimated , since the temperatures of recently recombined gas tend to lie in the regime of several thousand degrees kelvin .",
    "we expect that this leads to overestimated densities in the shadow region `` behind '' the main clump .",
    "we thus expect the mass reservoir to be overestimated as well , leading to longer lifetimes and increased probability for gravitational collapse in the late stages after rebounce .",
    "it would be desirable to implement a detailed heating and cooling model , which takes into account the temperatures of dust and gas separately .",
    "this implies the application of a more general method for determining the radiation field generated by the massive stars .",
    "one possibility is application of flux - limited diffusion , which was proposed by levermore & pomraning   and already successfully implemented into grid codes @xcite .",
    "this issue is currently being addressed .",
    "the model used for solving the radiation transfer of ionizing photons uses the simplification called `` on the spot assumption '' .",
    "lyman continuum photons produced by electrons falling into the ground state of protons are themselves capable of ionizing h atoms .",
    "we assume that this happens very close to the site of their production and that following the exact equations of radiation transfer for these photons can be neglected .",
    "it was shown by yorke et al .   that this assumption is not valid in special cases where the diffuse recombination radiation leads to the penetration of ionization fronts into regions which are shielded from the direct illumination by the ionizing stars .",
    "those regions can thus be heated to temperatures around @xmath62 . as in the paragraph above , this again affects the regions where ionized gas streams into the shadows and starts recombining ( see for example fig .  [",
    "fig : c1 ] , lower panels ) .",
    "we expect that the recombination of this material will be delayed , if not prevented , by the lyman continuum photons .",
    "this can also be addressed as soon as an implementation of the flux - limited diffusion approximation for sph is at hand .",
    "in this paper we demonstrate that the physics of radiation driven implosion strongly depends on the properties of the initial cloud material . in the presence of initial perturbations ,",
    "the evolution is highly nonlinear and the fate of the imploding cloud is not easy to foresee .",
    "we find that gravitational collapse need not necessarily occur in those objects , depending on the presence , size and strength of initial density perturbations .",
    "the redistribution of kinetic energy from the implosion into undirected motion can stabilize the globules for a significant amount of time .",
    "unfortunately , it is difficult to estimate this delay from the models presented here , since it depends on the decay rate of the kinetic energy , and the sph method used here can reproduce this rate only insufficiently .",
    "the delay could be relevant for star formation if the globule is stabilized for such a long time that the ionizing radiation can totally erode the globule .",
    "if gravitational collapse occurs before , we expect the collapsing regions to decouple from the gas around them",
    ". the remaining gas will then be further accelerated by the rocket effect from the ionization front , whereas the decoupled cores will lag behind and eventually be overtaken by the ionization front .",
    "this process could then repeat for several times , as long as there is still mass in the reservoir .",
    "we expect the outcome to be very similar to the observations of sugitani et al .  , where young stellar objects are aligned to the axis of the globules with an age gradient from the oldest objects far away from the globules and the youngest ones still sitting inside . by using the numerical technique called ``",
    "sink particles ''",
    "@xcite , we are confident to be able to reproduce this scenario .",
    "one of the next steps should be to take into account the measured internal motion in molecular clouds .",
    "we will present calculations with clouds initially supported by turbulent motion in a subsequent paper .",
    "this work was supported by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ( dfg ) , grants bu 842/4 - 1 and bu 842/4 - 2 .",
    "the 3d projections in figs .",
    "[ fig : a1 ]  [ fig : c2 ] were computed with the help of _ starsplatter _ by joel welling and john dubinski ( http://www.psc.edu/packages/starsplatter_home/ ) .",
    "baker j. , menzel d. , 1962 , in menzel , d. , ed .",
    ", selected papers on physical processes in ionized plasma , p. 58 bate m. , 1995 , the role of accretion in binary star formation , phd thesis , univ .",
    "cambridge bate m. , burkert a. , 1997 , mnras , 288 , 1060 benz w. , 1984 , a&a , 139 , 378 bertoldi f. , 1989 , apj , 346 , 735 bertoldi f. , mckee c.f . , 1990 , apj , 354 , 529 bonnor , w.  b. , 1956 , mnras , 116 , 351 elmegreen b.g . , kimura t. , tosa m. , 1977 , apj , 451 , 675 elmegreen b.g . , lada , c.j . , 1977 , apj , 214 , 725 emden r. , 1907 , gaskugeln , leipzig and berlin hester , j.j .",
    "et al . , 1996 ,",
    "aj , 111 , 2349 kessel - deynet o. , burkert a. , 2000 , mnras , 315 , 713 johnstone , d. , hollenbach , d. , bally , j. , 1998 , apj , 499 , 758 klessen , r. , 1997 , mnras , 292 , 11 klessen , r. , burkert , a. , 2000 , apjs , 128 , 287 lefloch b. , lazareff b. , 1994 , a&a , 289 , 559 levermore c.d . , pomraning g.c . , 1981 , apj , 248 , 321 lpez - martin , l. , raga , a.c . , mellema , g. , henney , w.j . , cant , j. , 2001 , apj , 548 , 288 sandford m.t .",
    ", whitaker r.w . ,",
    "klein r.i . , 1982 ,",
    "apj , 260 , 183 sandford m.t . , whitaker r.w . ,",
    "klein r.i . , 1984 , apj , 282 , 178 sugitani k. , tamura m. , ogura k. , 1999 , in nakamoto , t. , ed , star formation 1999 .",
    "nobeyama radio observatory , p. 358 k. , matsuo h. , nakano m. et al , 2000 , aj , 119 , 323 h.w , kaisig m. , 1995 , comp . phys . comm .",
    ", 89 , 209 yorke h.w .",
    ", welz a. , 1996 , a&a , 315 , 555 white , g.j .",
    "et al . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , 342 , 233 williams , r.j.r . , ward - thompson , d. , whitworth , a.p . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 327 , 788 zeldovich y.b . , 1970 ,",
    "a&a , 5 , 84"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the first three - dimensional calculations of radiation driven implosion of molecular clouds including self - gravity and ionization . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the effects of initial density perturbations on the dynamics of ionizing globules and show that the onset of gravitational collapse can be significantly delayed for a multiple of the implosion timescale . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that radiation driven implosion could be an efficient process for injecting disordered kinetic energy into molecular clouds in the vicinity of massive stars .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : massive  hii regions </S>"
  ]
}