{
  "article_text": [
    "the very extensive pulsar and x - ray source observations now being made require , for their interpretation , an understanding of the condensed - matter physics of neutron - star solid phases .",
    "the radiative opacity of a very thin surface layer of depth @xmath1 cm and matter density @xmath2 g @xmath3 largely determines the temperature difference between the surface and the interior of the star ( see potekhin , chabrier & yakovlev 1997 , also potekhin & yakovlev 2001 , for recent calculations and reviews of earlier work ) .",
    "atoms in the higher - density part of this layer are completely ionized but the electron fermi momentum is less than or of the order of @xmath4 mev / c .",
    "the whole layer contains no more than @xmath5 and has physical properties which are important only with respect to its radiative opacity and , possibly , in connexion with the composition of the neutron - star atmosphere . in the next layer , with matter densities up to the neutron - drip threshold @xmath6 g @xmath3 , depth @xmath7 cm and mass @xmath8 , the electrons form a relativistic fermi gas whose transport coefficients ( electrical and thermal conductivities @xmath9 and @xmath10 ) are dependent on the nuclear composition and degree of order of the solid",
    "this is also true of the neutron - drip region with densities above @xmath11 which occupies most of the crust volume ( depth @xmath12 cm and mass @xmath13 ) .",
    "the fraction of the stellar volume concerned here is so large that its electrical conductivity must be relevant to the evolution of high - multipole components of the magnetic field .",
    "pinning of superfluid neutron vortices by nuclei in this region is believed to be the origin of pulsar glitch phenomena ( anderson & itoh 1975 ; ruderman 1976 ) .",
    "the neutron - drip region contributes almost all the mechanical rigidity of the crust and its failure under maxwell or other stresses is assumed to be involved in a number of x - ray emission phenomena , for example , the soft gamma repeaters ( sgr ; thompson & duncan 1995 , 1996 ) and the persistent emission of the anomalous x - ray pulsars ( axp ; thompson et al 2000 ) .",
    "the canonical picture of the solid , both above and below @xmath11 , in a neutron star that has not been subject to a long period of accretion since formation , is of a homogeneous _ bcc _ lattice of even-@xmath14 nuclei , locally in complete weak - interaction equilibrium . certainly above , and possibly immediately below , @xmath11 , the nuclei are those with closed proton shells .",
    "the equation of state below @xmath11 has been derived by extrapolations of nuclear parameters from experimentally accessible regions of neutron excess ( see haensel & pichon 1994 who also summarize earlier work ) .",
    "pethick & ravenhall ( 1995 ) give a general review of solid phase properties and observe that , above @xmath11 , there have been two distinct approaches to the problem of deriving the equation of state .",
    "microscopic calculations of the single - particle states for neutrons and protons inside a wigner - seitz cell were described in the classic paper of negele & vautherin ( 1973 ) and give a complete description of the system apart from the superfluid energy gap .",
    "but this approach has not been followed by later workers who have adopted a compressible liquid - drop model ( cldm ) with various skyrme pseudopotentials ( lattimer et al 1985 , douchin & haensel 2001 ) .",
    "although the cldm nuclear charge is a continuous variable , the existence of shell effects and of proton pairing require that the crust be composed of successive homogeneous layers of even-@xmath14 nuclei .",
    "in fact , weak - interaction equilibrium can not be exact owing to the rapid decrease of weak transition rates as the star cools , which is caused by the potential barrier present in those transitions to odd-@xmath14 nuclei .",
    "flowers & ruderman ( 1977 ) noted that , in consequence , at least a small fractional concentration of nuclei with charge deviation @xmath15 from the homogeneous lattice must be present in metastable equilibrium as point defects .",
    "but it has been usual to assume that the value of the impurity parameter , @xmath16 defined for a distribution of nuclear charges @xmath17 with fractional concentrations @xmath18 and mean @xmath19 , is , in most contexts , negligibly small ( several orders of magnitude less than unity ) .    the extent of heterogeneity in @xmath14 at densities @xmath20 has been investigated by several authors .",
    "jog & smith ( 1982 ) and de blasio ( 2000 ) have examined the structure of the interface between successive homogeneous layers .",
    "the nature of the constraints under which equilibrium is defined was considered by jones ( 1988 ) who concluded that a distribution in @xmath14 must be a feature of the state reached as the star cools .",
    "more recently , calculations of the point defect concentration have been made by de blasio & lazzari ( 1998 ) .",
    "formation enthalpies were calculated by jones ( 1999a , 2001 ) for a number of point - defects in solid neutron - star matter at densities @xmath21 .",
    "the enthalpies obtained were small and it was argued that an amorphous heterogeneous solid phase must be formed and should persist as the star cools , the melting transition being replaced by a glass transition temperature region .    the conclusion that heterogeneity in @xmath14 exists both below and above @xmath11 does not seem to have been widely accepted . undoubtedly , the assumption of a _ bcc _ lattice , homogeneous in @xmath14 , is attractive because it can be simply stated and provides a clear basis for calculations , such as those of transport coefficients .",
    "it is also the case that arguments about the role of proton shell - structure and the approach to weak - interaction equilibrium were made only qualitatively by jones ( 2001 , hereafter paper i ) and were not supported by detailed calculation . nonetheless , even though amorphous heterogeneous structures are unattractive owing to their greater complexity , if they represent physical reality , it is necessary to consider their effect on the stress - response of the solid and to define as well as possible the consequent degree of uncertainty in calculations of transport coefficients and neutrino emissivities .",
    "the present paper contains the results of those detailed calculations which were absent from the previous papers . in section 2 ,",
    "we consider how the effects of proton shell - structure can be included , quantitatively , in the compressible liquid - drop model of nuclei by the strutinski procedure ( see ring & schuck 1980 ) to obtain formation enthalpies for nuclei in the interval @xmath22 .",
    "section 3 gives estimates of the weak - interaction transition rates between these nuclei and , from an initial temperature of @xmath23 k , which is in the vicinity of the melting temperature or glass transition region of the system , describes how the @xmath14-distribution evolves with temperature and time .",
    "it also gives estimates of the very broad range of possible neutrino emissivities associated with these transitions which have so far been neglected in all published calculations of neutron - star cooling .",
    "this paper is concerned with the nature of the crust in isolated neutron stars which lack the long period of mass - accretion of binary systems .",
    "factors such as accretion through fall - back at formation are ignored .",
    "therefore , it does not consider neutron stars in those binary systems where the rate of mass transfer is large enough to replace the whole crust , below and above @xmath11 ( see schatz et al 1999 ) . the extent to which the results obtained here may be relevant to such systems is discussed briefly in section 6 . under the physical conditions considered in the present paper , pycnonuclear reactions were examined previously ( jones 2002 ) and were found to have negligible transition rates in the solid phase .",
    "the reason for this is that the intermediate state formed in a solid by fusion of nuclei with charges @xmath24 and @xmath25 consists of a monovacancy and a point - defect of charge @xmath26 . at the highest matter density , @xmath27 g @xmath3 ,",
    "assumed in sections 2 & 3 , for example , this state has a 17 mev formation enthalpy .",
    "( this assumes that analogues of the standard lattice point - defects exist in amorphous solids , though they may be short - lived at high temperatures . )",
    "states with even higher formation enthalpy would result from successive fusion reactions , indicating that processes such as pinning - induced nuclear rod formation ( mochizuki , oyamatsu & izuyama 1997 ) are not significant . however , the direct formation of lower - dimensional nuclear structures at temperatures of the order of @xmath28 k , in a density interval between the spherical nuclear phase and the continuous liquid core of the star , is predicted for many models of nuclear matter ( lorenz , ravenhall & pethick 1993 ; oyamatsu 1993 ; but see also douchin & haensel 2000 ) .",
    "lorenz et al noted that the geometrical form of these structures would allow weak - interaction transitions but gave no estimate of the neutrino emissivity . for completeness",
    ", a brief calculation of this emissivity is given in section 4 .",
    "it is less significant than that associated with the region of spherical nuclei .",
    "the density region below @xmath11 is reconsidered in section 5 using the binding energy compilation of mller , nix & kratz ( 1997 ) , but with inconclusive results for values of @xmath29 .",
    "it is possible to state only that values @xmath30 are probable , with @xmath31 in limited regions .",
    "this is not too serious a problem for most neutron star calculations owing to the limited depth of the region below @xmath11 .",
    "values of @xmath29 computed for @xmath21 , the region which occupies most of the crust volume , are given in table 2 and their significance is considered in section 6 .",
    "formation enthalpies for point - defect structures of impurity nuclei with charge @xmath17 in an otherwise homogeneous _ bcc _ lattice of charge @xmath14 , were obtained in previous work ( paper i ) at densities above @xmath11 .",
    "the method of calculation followed that used earlier for monovacancies ( jones 1999b ) , the essence of which was application of the feynman - hellmann theorem ( slater 1963 ) to find the lattice displacements in the vicinity of the defect .",
    "nuclei were described by the compressible liquid - drop model ( cldm ) of lattimer et al ( 1985 ) with these authors skyrme pseudo - potential for bulk nuclear matter and their expression for the thermodynamic potential per unit area of nuclear surface .",
    "lattice - site displacements in the vicinity of an impurity are determined , principally , by properties of the high - density relativistic electrons at @xmath21 .",
    "the coulomb - electron stress - tensor has isotropic components which are between one and two orders of magnitude larger than the off - diagonal . also , the inverse of the electron - screening wavenumber is larger than the _ bcc _ lattice constant . consequently , lattice - site displacements are such that the electron density , averaged over a volume of the order of the wigner - seitz cell , adjusts to values almost exactly equal to the mean electron density of the undisturbed lattice .",
    "we refer to paper i for more complete discussions of these and other features of the formation enthalpy calculations .",
    "our primary assumption about the distribution of formation enthalpies is based on these considerations .",
    "it is that the formation enthalpy for a nucleus of charge @xmath17 in an amorphous heterogeneous solid of mean charge @xmath19 , or in a liquid with the same nuclear charge distribution , is satisfactorily approximated by that calculated for an impurity nucleus of charge @xmath17 in a homogeneous lattice of charge @xmath19 .",
    "the formation enthalpies were given in paper i with reference to that for the homogeneous lattice charge .",
    "with the exclusion of integral multiples of the neutron and electron chemical potentials , they were expressed as @xmath32 for charge @xmath14 .",
    "values of the constant @xmath33 are given here in table 1 at several matter densities with , for convenience , the parameters of the lattices concerned .",
    "the values of @xmath34 chosen exclude the region immediately above @xmath11 because it represents a relatively small interval of depth in the solid crust .",
    "the cldm parameters used by lattimer et al fit the ground states of laboratory even - even nuclei and so include the effects of pairing interactions .",
    "thus our expression for @xmath35 neglects shell effects , including the unpaired proton in odd-@xmath14 nuclei .",
    "the investigation by negele & vautherin ( 1973 ) revealed a proton shell structure very similar to that of laboratory nuclei .",
    "although shell energy - differences are modified in the neutron continuum , the shell ordering ( see figure 5 of their paper ) is changed only in that @xmath36 and @xmath37 respectively , precede @xmath38 and @xmath39 .",
    "we are unaware of any published sequence of single - particle energy levels for nuclei beyond the neutron - drip threshold apart from those contained in that paper .",
    "however , chabanat et al ( 1998 ) have shown by calculation of two - neutron separation energies that shell effects at neutron numbers @xmath40 remain significant immediately below the neutron - drip threshold .",
    "there is no doubt that our expression for @xmath35 ought to be modified by shell structure , but the form of these changes was considered only qualitatively in paper i.    at matter densities @xmath21 , there is a neutron continuum with chemical potential @xmath41 .",
    "it is degenerate , except for a small volume with @xmath42 , and is superfluid at temperatures @xmath43 .",
    "nuclei can be most simply viewed as bound states of protons embedded in this system , charge - neutralized by an almost uniform relativistic electron gas .",
    "the formation enthalpy differences @xmath44 can , in principle , be affected by neutron shell - structure because the change in @xmath14 will be associated with a change in nuclear radius @xmath45 and , possibly , a change in the number of neutron single - particle states at negative energy .",
    "but we shall assume that neutron transitions from the continuum just above the zero of energy to states just below do not contribute to discontinuities in the formation enthalpy differences with which this paper is concerned .",
    "thus we consider the effects of proton shell - structure only , and regard the neutrons within the nuclear volume as merely a part of the superfluid continuum , though with increased density and a locally modified superfluid energy gap .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     sets of curves similar to those of fig . 2 exist for the other densities listed in table 1 .",
    "but they are so similar that they are not shown here .",
    "our conclusion is that , even with allowance for the uncertainties inherent in the shell - effect formation enthalpy differences calculated here , solid neutron - star matter cools to a system heterogeneous in @xmath14 .",
    "other sources of error are much less significant . for example",
    ", the bessel function bound - proton states assumed in equations ( a4)-(a6 ) of paper i must overestimate the true transition rates , as would our neglect of neutrino opacity at @xmath46 k. but modest errors are not important because these transition rates determine both the cooling and change in @xmath14-distribution of the system .",
    "very broadly , we can see that a sufficient condition for maintaining @xmath14-heterogeneity during cooling is that the thermal energy per average wigner - seitz cell should be smaller than the mean energy , of the order of @xmath47 , removed by neutrinos or antineutrinos in a weak transition .",
    "the specific heat per average wigner - seitz cell is shown in fig .",
    "3 as a function of temperature .",
    "it demonstrates that the thermal energy satisfies this condition easily at @xmath48 k but not at @xmath49 k ( the neutron contribution is large at @xmath50 ) .",
    "it is also true that we have neglected other well - established sources of neutrino emissivity which , if included , would cool the system more quickly and so assist in maintaining heterogeneity .",
    "the neutrino emissivities are shown in figs .",
    "4 - 6 for the matter densities listed in table 1 . in each case",
    ", they are given both with and without the strutinsky shell corrections obtained here and for sets of values of @xmath51 and @xmath52 .",
    "the principal well - established neutrino - emissivity processes , for the inner crust , in studies of neutron - star cooling are neutrino - pair production by electron bremsstrahlung and by neutron quasiparticle annihilation in the superfluid .",
    "we emphasize that these emissivities have not been included in our cooling calculations but , for reference purposes , they are shown separately , obtained from fig . 4 of the paper by kaminker , yakovlev & gnedin ( 2002 ) . obviously , the potential barriers which separate formation enthalpy minima at closed shells are of crucial importance in determining emissivities .",
    "it is possible to say with confidence only that the emissivities shown are likely to form upper and lower bounds for the true values .",
    "as they differ by at least several orders of magnitude , this is not a very strong or practically useful statement . but",
    "given that the solid inner crust is heterogeneous in @xmath14 , the existence of this source of uncertainty must be accepted .",
    "its effect on the surface temperature of the star is difficult to estimate without complete cooling calculations .",
    "phases in which protons are confined to one or two - dimensional structures have been studied extensively and their existence in a substantial density interval between the spherical nuclear phase and the liquid core depends on the form of the skyrme pseudopotential assumed in deriving the equation of state .",
    "both lorenz et al ( 1993 ) , using the interaction of lattimer et al , and oyamatsu ( 1993 ) find such structures within a significant density interval .",
    "a survey of work on this topic has been given by pethick & ravenhall ( 1995 ) .",
    "but more recent calculations by douchin & haensel ( 2000 ) , using a different skyrme interaction , find only the phase of spherical nuclei .",
    "investigations since then ( watanabe & iida 2003 ) have shown that the inclusion of electron screening tends to increase the density interval occupied by any such phase . the paper by lorenz et al notes that these structures give rise to new weak - interaction processes but gives no further details . these are no more than a different form of the direct urca transition considered in section 3 . for completeness",
    ", the neutrino emissivity has been calculated here for one of these cases , allowing a comparison with the range of emissivities obtained for the spherical nuclear phase .",
    "the one - dimensional system considered is that in which the wigner - seitz cell is an infinite slab of thickness @xmath53 containing neutrons and relativistic electrons .",
    "protons are confined within a slab of thickness @xmath54 symmetrically positioned inside this cell .",
    "thus the component of the proton wave function in the variable perpendicular to the slab has fourier transform @xmath55 with quantum number @xmath56 and finite amplitude at the wavenumber necessary for momentum conservation .",
    "we assume that , with this limitation , neutrons and protons each form an isotropic bcs superfluid , with energy gaps @xmath57 .",
    "the neutrino emissivity per unit volume is then @xmath58 in this expression , @xmath59 is the muon decay constant , @xmath60 is the cabibbo angle , and @xmath61 is the ratio of axial vector to vector coupling constants .",
    "the wavevector @xmath62 lies in the plane of the slab .",
    "the neutrino or antineutrino energy is @xmath63 .",
    "quasiparticle or electron occupation numbers are @xmath64 and @xmath65 are the energies , referred to the chemical potential .",
    "the bogoliubov coefficients for the proton and neutron quasiparticle states are @xmath66 and @xmath67 .",
    "the terms shown in this expression are for the process of neutron quasiparticle annihilation with proton quasiparticle and electron creation .",
    "however , the unlabelled summation states that the set of 8 terms , derivable from the creation or annihilation of the electron and of the neutron and proton quasiparticles , are included",
    ".    numerical evaluation of this somewhat untidy expression gives the emissivities shown in fig .",
    "6 for a matter density of @xmath68 g @xmath3 ( @xmath69 fm , @xmath70 fm ) for several sets of values of @xmath57 .",
    "values of the emissivity do not vary greatly with matter density in this phase or with the parameter @xmath71 which is itself very much dependent on cldm details .",
    "emissivity calculations with different values of @xmath71 show that uncertainties arising here are small compared with those caused by our lack of knowledge of the energy gaps @xmath57 . in general , the emissivities are rather smaller than those found in the spherical nuclear phase , the reason being that the fourier transforms of the proton states in that phase have broader distributions of momentum .",
    "the canonical crust structure at densities @xmath20 is obtained by minimization of the gibbs free energy per nucleon .",
    "it consists of successive spherical shells , each of a _ bcc _ lattice homogeneous in the nuclear charge @xmath14 neutralized by a relativistic electron gas .",
    "the most recent calculations are those of haensel & pichon ( 1994 ) who also review earlier work .",
    "the zero - temperature structure of the interfaces between these shells was examined by jog & smith ( 1982 ) and found to consist of extremely thin layers of interpenetrating simple cubic lattices of the two nuclear charges concerned .",
    "formation , however , must be considered at the lattice melting temperature @xmath72 , or above .",
    "the reduction in free energy , derived from the melting temperature entropy of mixing for the two nuclear species , then gives interface layers of significant thickness in which one nuclear species is present as an impurity in a lattice formed by the other ( de blasio 2000 ) .",
    "consideration of the later stage of nuclear formation at finite temperature gives quite separate grounds for excluding homogeneous lattices ( jones 1988 ) . at temperatures in the vicinity of @xmath72 ,",
    "nuclei are in state of partial thermal equilibrium with the electrons and with a low - density boltzmann gas of neutrons .",
    "( weak - interaction transition rates , even at @xmath72 , are too small to guarantee equilibrium @xmath14-values , but the transition rates for the emission or absorption of neutrons are high and so maintain strong - interaction equilibrium with the boltzmann gas at any density . ) from the definition of the neutron - drip density @xmath11 , the neutron chemical potential in this region is @xmath73 , referred to the rest energy as zero .",
    "the equilibrium number density of the boltzmann gas is @xmath74 where @xmath75 and @xmath76 .",
    "thus it decreases rapidly as the star cools .",
    "but the nature of the system imposes an additional constraint on the gibbs function minimization .",
    "the neutron scattering cross - section is so large that , once nuclei have formed , diffusion over macroscopic distances of the order of the shell depth is not possible within the short time permitted by neutron condensation on to nuclei .",
    "this occurs at a temperature @xmath77 , where @xmath78 is the temperature ( not well - defined ) at which weak - interaction equilibrium fails .",
    "consequently , it is necessary to impose the further condition , at temperatures @xmath79 , that the mean nucleon number @xmath80 , per wigner - seitz cell , should be constant .",
    "we refer to jones ( 1988 ) for further details .",
    "the method of calculating equilibrium nuclear number densities differs from that of paper i which was for densities above @xmath11 .",
    "the pressure at @xmath20 is small in nuclear structure terms , being almost entirely that of the degenerate electron gas .",
    "nuclei in this region have definite @xmath81 and can be assumed to have binding energies @xmath82 identical with those of the free ( terrestrial ) state .",
    "the minimization of the gibbs function @xmath59 for a fixed number of baryons is at constant @xmath83 and hence approximately at constant pressure .",
    "it is , @xmath84 where @xmath85 is the number of nuclei with mass number @xmath86 and charge @xmath87 , and @xmath88 is a lagrange multiplier .",
    "the equilibrium condition for the nuclear chemical potential @xmath89 is , @xmath90 ( without the constant @xmath80 constraint , the nuclear chemical potential would be @xmath91 . )",
    "the neutron chemical potential is not an independent variable in equation ( 15 ) : it is a function of @xmath80 through the relation @xmath92 , in which @xmath93 is the mean nuclear mass number and @xmath94 the wigner - seitz cell volume . to a satisfactory approximation ,",
    "the nuclei are independent systems and their equilibrium number densities are given by an expression entirely analogous with equation ( 12 ) , @xmath95 where @xmath96 is the nuclear partition function ( normalized so that at @xmath97 it is @xmath98 ) , @xmath99 is the nuclear ground - state binding energy , and @xmath100 is the coulomb energy of the wigner - seitz unit cell .",
    "the presence of @xmath88 allows two finite number densities in the zero - temperature limit , as is necessary because @xmath80 is in general not an integer .",
    "evaluation of equation ( 16 ) at a standard temperature @xmath78 , close to @xmath72 , for even - even nuclei with @xmath101 and binding energies from the recent compilation of mller et al ( 1997 ) gives estimates of the mass number and charge heterogeneity expected at densities below @xmath11 .",
    "it is unfortunate that the results are inconclusive .",
    "the source of the problem is that the values of @xmath80 are determined at those temperatures @xmath77 existing at the formation of nuclei , which are high and poorly known .",
    "the bulk transport of neutrons over macroscopic distances , of the order of shell depths , is not possible in the short time which elapses before rapid cooling produces almost complete condensation through nuclear capture ( jones 1988 ) .",
    "it has to be accepted that the values of @xmath80 , constant at @xmath102 , are virtually unknown . evaluations of equation ( 16 ) for matter densities @xmath103 g @xmath3 , temperatures @xmath104 and @xmath28 k , and a wide range of values of @xmath105 give a common picture . as @xmath105 increases , the equilibrium nuclei change from a group associated with the neutron @xmath106 closed shell to a group near @xmath107 .",
    "the neutron chemical potentials at changeover vary from @xmath108 mev at @xmath109 g @xmath3 to @xmath110 mev at @xmath111 g @xmath3 , for @xmath112 k. the corresponding values at @xmath28 k are @xmath113 and @xmath114 mev , respectively .",
    "the changeover from @xmath106 to @xmath107 is similar to that found by haensel & pichon ( 1994 ) in their study of zero - temperature equilibrium .",
    "the problem is that the @xmath80 constraint which was not considered by them does not permit us to estimate where it occurs .",
    "this complexity is unfortunate , but we believe that it is real .",
    "qualitatively , the consequences for @xmath29-values are as follows .",
    "the @xmath106 region has @xmath115 , and the @xmath107 region , @xmath116 .",
    "values @xmath117 exist in the changeover region owing to the very large differences in @xmath14 which are present there , as found earlier by de blasio ( 2000 ) .",
    "detailed calculations of weak - interaction transition rates confirming the absence , at @xmath118 , of weak - interaction equilibrium have not been made for @xmath20 , but the qualitative criterion given in section 3 is satisfied . in particular ,",
    "values @xmath117 , where they exist , will certainly remain frozen in .",
    "the main conclusion of this paper is that nuclear - charge heterogeneity exists in the solid phase of isolated neutron stars .",
    "there must be many reservations about the procedures described in sections 2 & 3 which have been used to obtain this result .",
    "we attempt to summarize them here and in each case give reasons why they should not be viewed as serious .",
    "firstly , the shell - corrected formation enthalpy values , @xmath35 , are based on the negele & vautherin shell ordering and spacings .",
    "nuclei close to neutron - instability are known to be deformed , with ground states of some complexity ( see mller et al 1997 ) .",
    "it is quite possible that these features are also present above @xmath11 .",
    "therefore , the values shown in fig .",
    "1 may not give a true picture of the potential barriers which slow weak - interaction transitions .",
    "but it is the case that even quite small barriers slow weak transitions sufficiently .",
    "the transition rate calculations , following the procedure of paper i , are based on elementary single - particle proton wave functions and neglect coulomb corrections to the electron function , which are only moderate at the values of @xmath83 considered . but",
    "here , the effect of more complex ground states would inevitably be reductions in transition rates which would be largely neutral in effect because the rate of cooling by neutrino emission is also reduced .",
    "the results , of which those in fig .",
    "2 are an example , show that the failure of weak - interaction equilibrium during cooling at @xmath118 is so clear that the above uncertainties are not significant .",
    "the choice of @xmath104 k as the lowest temperature at which complete equilibrium remains is , of course , arbitrary .",
    "there is no doubt that a higher value would give more heterogeneity in @xmath14 , with larger values of @xmath29 , and that calculations made by the present methods would show a failure of weak - interaction equilibrium at temperatures below it .",
    "but at these very high temperatures , the neutrino opacity would cease to be negligible , as assumed in section 3 , so that the cooling rates shown in fig .",
    "2 would be over - estimates .",
    "obviously , the @xmath29-values given in table 2 , under different stated assumptions , for each of the matter densities listed in table 1 , should be seen as little better than order of magnitude estimates . but these satisfy @xmath117 in a way which does not depend systematically on the details of shell effects assumed .",
    "they are some orders of magnitude larger than the values @xmath115 previously assumed in the standard view of solid neutron - star matter .",
    "although the relevant calculations have not been made , we suggest there is no reason to think that this conclusion would be changed by replacing the lattimer et al cldm with that of douchin & haensel ( 2001 ) . in the latter case , the important proton closed shells would be those at @xmath119 but we anticipate that the orders of magnitude of the @xmath29-parameter obtained would be the same .",
    "the procedures of sections 2 & 3 are concerned merely with establishing @xmath14-heterogeneity .",
    "the small - scale structure of the solid is a different question .",
    "it is not obvious that diffusion at temperatures in the glass transition region , which we assume to be near the homogeneous lattice melting temperature @xmath72 , could produce localized order extending over linear dimensions much greater than @xmath120 inter - nuclear separations .",
    "the results of rudimentary formation enthalpy calculations given in paper i do not indicate that large chemical potential gradients exist to drive such diffusion .",
    "moreover , the classical entropy of disorder remains large .",
    "for these reasons , it is believed that although the structure may not be exactly that of an amorphous heterogeneous solid , any local order will be at most of small linear dimension , analogous with nanostructures in ordinary amorphous matter .",
    "these conclusions can be compared with those of recent work on neutron stars in binary systems with high mass transfer rates , @xmath121 yr@xmath122 ( schatz et al 1999 , see also brown & bildsten 1998 ) .",
    "stable burning of hydrogen and helium occurs near the surface , the most important process being rapid proton capture , and is almost complete at a depth of the order of @xmath123 g @xmath3 ( see schatz et al , fig.1 ) .",
    "the end products have charge distributions which depend on the mass - transfer rate , but are typically broad , with @xmath124 . continued mass - accretion forces these nuclei to higher matter densities , eventually to @xmath21 .",
    "schatz et al contrast this @xmath14-heterogeneous matter with the solid phase of an isolated ( primordial ) neutron star having the properties described by pethick & ravenhall ( 1995 ) .",
    "our conclusion is that the solid phases of neutron stars in these different environments are broadly similar , with impurity parameters @xmath125 .",
    "it is very unlikely that the temperatures of the burning processes will be high enough to produce weak - interaction equilibrium at matter densities above @xmath11 .",
    "the flux @xmath126 , representing the movement of nuclear charge toward a closed proton shell , is shown in fig . 2 for the case of no shell correction , apart from the proton pairing term @xmath51 .",
    "this extreme case is not realistic because there is almost certainly some shell correction , though perhaps not so large as that shown in fig .",
    "1 . the increased potential barriers introduced by the correction would reduce values of @xmath126 by many orders of magnitude , to an extent that @xmath14-heterogeneity would be largely unaffected .",
    "it is obvious that the amorphous and heterogeneous nature of the solid phase of neutron - star matter has significant consequences for its mechanical properties and , above @xmath11 , for its interaction with superfluid neutron vortices .",
    "mechanical properties will not be considered here except to note that the response to stress is not strictly that of an ordinary amorphous solid because neutron - star matter is very far from being absolutely stable and therefore can not exhibit brittle fracture ( jones 2003 ) .",
    "superfluid neutron vortices interact with nuclei through elementary pinning forces whose calculation is associated with unresolved problems ( for a brief partial review , see jones 2002 ) .",
    "it is currently not possible to say that the signs or orders of magnitude are known with any degree of certainty at a given matter density .",
    "both vortex pinning and the dissipative force acting on a moving vortex are strongly influenced by the structure of the solid phase .",
    "apart from the kind of low - dimensional structure considered in section 4 , very small dissipative forces would be possible only for motion through a system of large single crystals with very low concentrations of dislocations and point - defects . the confirmation of the amorphous and heterogeneous nature of the solid phase rules out this possibility .",
    "the neutrino emissivity from nuclear weak interactions at matter densities below @xmath11 has not been calculated owing to the difficulty in knowing the correct transition rates between nuclei which are close to being neutron - unstable .",
    "the assumption of superallowed fermi transitions gives an order of magnitude of @xmath127 erg @xmath3 s@xmath122 at @xmath128 k for matter densities @xmath129 g @xmath3 , but allowance for the forbidden nature of the transitions would probably reduce this to an emissivity not much different from that for neutrino - pair production by electron bremsstrahlung under these conditions ( @xmath130 erg @xmath3 s@xmath122 ; see , for example , gnedin et al 2001 ) .",
    "neutrino emissivity above @xmath11 is shown in figs .",
    "weak - interaction transitions in this region involve the creation or annihilation of quasiparticles in the neutron continuum .",
    "rate calculations are more straightforward in this case , but owing to the uncertainties in formation enthalpy differences considered above and in section 2 , the emissivities shown in the two sets of curves probably form upper and lower bounds for the true values . however , at temperatures @xmath131 k , they can be larger than those previously assumed .",
    "the degree of uncertainty here is unfortunate but it does seem right that its existence should be recognized in neutron star cooling calculations .",
    "neutrino emissivities for one - dimensional layer structures ( section 4 ) are also subject to some uncertainty , but are rather smaller than for the spherical nucleus phase considered in section 3 .",
    "emissivities for a two - dimensional phase have not been calculated , but are probably of a similar order of magnitude to those for one dimension .",
    "electron scattering in a @xmath14-heterogeneous system contributes electrical and thermal resistivities which are related by the wiedemann - franz law and are proportional to @xmath29 .",
    "the corresponding electrical conductivity ( for zero magnetic flux density ) is , for relativistic electrons at @xmath132 g @xmath3 , @xmath133 in which the parameter @xmath134 in the ultra - relativistic case ( see urpin & yakovlev 1980 , itoh & kohyama 1993 ) and @xmath19 is the mean nuclear charge . for the values of @xmath29 obtained here , the relaxation time underlying equation ( 17 )",
    "is so short that its product with the electron cyclotron angular frequency exceeds unity only for magnetic fields @xmath135 g. therefore , there is no need to distinguish between longitudinal and transverse components of the conductivity tensor , except at @xmath136 g. the conductivity is also classical rather than quantum in nature at densities of the order of @xmath11 or above ( see potekhin 1999 ) .",
    "the electron thermal conductivity @xmath137 is given , in terms of @xmath138 , by the wiedemann - franz law .",
    "these transport coefficients are of importance , in most cases , at very different times during neutron - star cooling .",
    "the thermal conductivity @xmath10 is usually of interest at early times before the interior of the star , defined for this purpose as matter densities @xmath139 g @xmath3 , becomes approximately isothermal .",
    "the @xmath29-dependent resistivity obtained here decreases @xmath10 , but the significance of the change is not immediately obvious and would require complete neutron - star cooling calculations for its investigation . at later times ,",
    "internal temperature gradients are very small and it is possible that the consequent changes in them would be relatively unimportant .    the electrical conductivity @xmath9 is obtained by combining @xmath138 with the phonon - scattering conductivity @xmath140 .",
    "the assumption of a homogeneous _ bcc _ lattice with a low point - defect density gives @xmath141 .",
    "useful summaries of the properties of @xmath140 for such a system has been given by urpin & muslimov ( 1992 ) and by pethick & sarling ( 1995 ) .",
    "umklapp processes are by far the more important contribution to resistivity but become energetically disallowed at temperatures @xmath142 , where @xmath143 and @xmath144 is the matter density in units of @xmath145 g @xmath3 . at temperatures @xmath146 , where @xmath147 is the debye temperature , @xmath148 whereas in the limit @xmath149 , @xmath150 in the neutron - drip region @xmath21 , the best value of the mass number @xmath151 , on which the phonon spectrum depends , is not at all obvious .",
    "pethick & sarling suggest @xmath152 but give no reasons why this choice should be suitable for superfluid neutrons at @xmath153 .",
    "this factor introduces considerable uncertainty in the form of the function @xmath154 .",
    "it is also true that the modified phonon spectrum of an amorphous solid must produce substantial changes from equations ( 18 ) to ( 20 ) .",
    "these have not been investigated here because , for the amorphous and @xmath14-heterogenous solid , the impurity resistivity is large so that @xmath155 except at temperatures @xmath156 k. for comparison with equations ( 19 ) and ( 20 ) , evaluation of equation ( 17 ) gives a conductivity @xmath157 the values of @xmath29 given in table 2 lead to high impurity resistivity which is only weakly - dependent on @xmath80 .",
    "the fact that it is also temperature - independent removes a substantial degree of uncertainty from any model calculations made with it .",
    "thus the ( zero - field ) electrical conductivity in most of the inner - crust volume is @xmath158 s@xmath122 at all times .",
    "this is particularly relevant to studies of the evolution of neutron - star magnetic fields which include both the hall effect , with the possibility of a cascade to high wavenumber field components , and ohmic dissipation ( see hollerbach & rdiger 2002 and geppert & rheinhardt 2002 , who also review earlier work on this problem ) .",
    "the hall parameter considered by hollerbach & rdiger is @xmath159 where @xmath160 is the electron density and @xmath161 the magnetic flux density in units of @xmath162 g. it exceeds unity only for @xmath163 g. the impurity resistivity found here is also relevant for any process in which the field distribution in the solid crust develops high - multipole components by mass - accretion or by flux expulsion from a superconducting neutron - star interior , or for models in which it is confined to the crust ( see page , geppert & zannias 2000 , who also give an account of previous work on distributions of this kind ) .",
    "field components of wavelength @xmath164 decay ohmically with an exponential time - constant @xmath165 which , for @xmath166 cm , is only @xmath167 yr , a time small compared with those usually considered in relation to decay of neutron - star internal or surface fields .",
    "its temperature - independence would also simplify evolutionary calculations such as those of page et al . for the reasons summarized here ,",
    "we suggest that the structure of the solid phase of neutron - star matter is not an irrelevant detail .",
    "the standard assumption of a homogeneous _ bcc _ lattice is not adequate and the consequences of an amorphous and @xmath14-heterogeneous structure should be included in very many different studies of neutron - star physics .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank dr j rikovska stone for introducing me to the strutinsky procedure .",
    "99 ainsworth t. l. , wambach j. , pines d. , 1989 , phys .",
    "b , 222 , 173 anderson p. w. , itoh n. , 1975 , nat , 256 , 25 brown e. f. , bildsten l. , 1998 , apj , 496 , 915 chabanat e. , bonche p. , haensel p. , meyer j. , schaeffer r. , 1998 , nucl .",
    "a , 635 , 231 de blasio f. v. , lazzari g. , 1998 , nucl .",
    "a , 633 , 391 de blasio f. v. , 2000 , a&a , 353 , 1129 douchin f. , haensel p. , 2000 , phys .",
    "b , 485 , 107 douchin f. , haensel p. , 2001",
    ", a&a , 380 , 151 flowers e. , ruderman m. a. , 1977 , apj , 215 , 302 geppert u. , rheinhardt m. , 2002 , a&a , 392 , 1015 gnedin o. y. , yakovlev d. g. , potekhin a. y. , 2001 , mnras , 324 , 755 haensel p. , pichon b. , 1994 , a&a , 283 , 313 heiselberg h. , hjorth - jensen m. , 2000 , phys .",
    ", 328 , 237 hollerbach r. , rdiger g. , 2002 , mnras , 337 , 216 itoh n. , kohyama y. , 1993 , apj , 404 , 268 jog c. j. , smith r. a. , 1982 , apj , 253 , 839 jones p. b. , 1988 , mnras , 233 , 875 jones p. b. , 1999a , phys . rev .",
    "lett . , 83",
    ", 3589 jones p. b. , 1999b , mnras , 306 , 327 jones p. b. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 167 ( paper i ) jones p. b. , 2002 , mnras , 335 , 733 jones p. b. , 2003 , apj , 595 , 342 kaminker a. d. , yakovlev d. g. , gnedin o.y . , 2002 , a&a , 383 , 1076 lattimer j. m. , pethick c. j. , ravenhall d. g. , lamb d. q. , 1985 , nucl .",
    "a , 432 , 646 lorenz c. p. , ravenhall d. g. , pethick c. j. , 1993 , phys .",
    ", 70 , 379 mochizuki y. s. , oyamatsu k. , izuyama t. , 1997 , apj , 489 , 848 mller p. , nix j. r. , kratz k. -l . ,",
    "1997 , atomic data and nuclear data tables , 66 , 131 negele j. w. , vautherin g. , 1973 , nucl .",
    "a , 207 , 298 oyamatsu k. , 1993 , nucl .",
    "a , 561 , 431 page d. , geppert u. , zannias t. , 2000 , a&a , 360 , 1052 pethick c. j. , ravenhall d. g. , 1995 , ann .",
    "nucl . part .",
    ", 45 , 429 pethick c. j. , sahrling m. , 1995 , apj , 453 , l29 potekhin a. y. , 1999 , a&a , 351 , 787 potekhin a. y. , chabrier g. , yakovlev d. g. , 1997 , a&a , 323 , 415 potekhin a. y. , yakovlev d. g. , 2001 , a&a , 374 , 213 rickayzen g. , 1965 , theory of superconductivity , john wiley ( interscience ) , new york ring p. , schuck p. , 1980",
    ", the nuclear many - body problem , p. 83 , springer - verlag , new york ruderman m. a. , 1976 , apj , 203 , 213 schatz h. , bildsten l. , cumming a. , wiescher m. , 1999 , apj , 524 , 1014 shen c. , lombardo u. , schuck p. , zuo w. , sandulescu n. , 2003 , phys . rev .",
    "c , 67 , 061302(r ) slater j. c. , 1963 , quantum theory of molecules and solids , vol .",
    "i , mcgraw - hill , new york thompson c. , duncan r. c. , 1995 , mnras , 275 , 255 thompson c. , duncan r. c. , 1996 , apj , 473 , 322 thompson c. , duncan r. c. , woods p. m. , kouveliotou c. , finger f. h. , van paradijs j. , 2000 , apj , 543 , 340 urpin v. a. , yakovlev d. g. , 1980 , sov .",
    ", 24 , 303 urpin v. a. , muslimov a. g. , 1992 , mnras , 256 , 261 watanabe g. , iida k. , 2003 , phys .",
    "c , 68 , 045801"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> calculations of weak - interaction transition rates and of nuclear formation enthalpies show that in isolated neutron stars , the solid phase , above the neutron - drip threshold , is amorphous and heterogeneous in nuclear charge . </S>",
    "<S> the neutrino emissivities obtained are very dependent on the effects of proton shell structure but may be several orders of magnitude larger than the electron bremsstrahlung neutrino - pair emissivity at temperatures @xmath0 k. in this phase , electrical and thermal conductivities are much smaller than for a homogeneous _ bcc _ lattice . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the reduced electrical conductivity , which is also temperature - independent , must have significant consequences for the evolution of high - multipole magnetic fields in neutron stars .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    dense matter - stars : neutron - pulsars : general . </S>"
  ]
}