{
  "article_text": [
    "since extragalactic supernovae ( sne ) are spatially unresolvable during the very early phases of their evolution , explosion geometry has been a difficult question to approach observationally . an exciting , emerging field is supernova ( sn ) spectropolarimetry , an observational technique that allows the only _ direct _ probe of early - time sn geometry . as first pointed out by @xcite , polarimetry of a young sn",
    "is a powerful tool for probing its geometry .",
    "the idea is simple : a hot , young sn atmosphere is dominated by electron scattering , which by its nature is highly polarizing . indeed , if we could resolve such an atmosphere , we would measure changes in both the position angle and strength of the polarization as a function of position in the atmosphere . for a spherical source that is unresolved , however , the directional components of the electric vectors cancel exactly , yielding zero net linear polarization . if the source is aspherical , incomplete cancellation occurs , and a net polarization results . in general , linear polarizations of @xmath0%",
    "are expected for moderate ( @xmath1% ) sn asphericity .",
    "the exact polarization amount varies with the degree of asphericity , as well as with the viewing angle and the extension and density profile of the electron - scattering atmosphere . through comparison with theoretical models , the early - time geometry of the expanding ejecta",
    "may be derived ( fig .",
    "[ fig : figa ] ) .",
    "recent interest in sn morphology has been heightened by the strong spatial and temporal association between some `` hypernovae '' ( sne with early - time spectra characterized by unusually broad line features ) and gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ; see t. matheson s contribution to these proceedings ) .",
    "these associations have fueled the proposition that some ( or , perhaps all ) core - collapse sne explode due to the action of a `` bipolar '' jet of material @xcite , as opposed to the conventional neutrino - driven mechanism ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) . under this paradigm ,",
    "a grb is only produced by those few events in which the progenitor has lost most or all of its outer envelope material ( i.e. , it is a `` bare core '' collapsing ) , and is only observed if the jet is closely aligned with our line of sight . such an explosion mechanism predicts severe distortions from spherical symmetry in the ejecta .    largely due to the difficulty of obtaining the requisite signal - to - noise ratio for all but the brightest objects , the field of sn spectropolarimetry remained in its infancy until quite recently .",
    "indeed , prior to our efforts and those of a few other groups , spectropolarimetry of core - collapse events existed only for sn 1987a in the lmc ( see * ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) and sn 1993j in m81 @xcite .",
    "the situation has changed dramatically in the last 5 years .",
    "detailed spectropolarimetric analysis now exists for nearly a dozen core - collapse events ( @xcite ; for a review of earlier broadband studies , see @xcite ) , and the basic landscape of the young field is becoming established . in this review",
    "we discuss the spectropolarimetric characteristics of core - collapse sne ; for a review of sne ia spectropolarimetry , please see the contribution by l. wang in these proceedings .",
    "it is important to first note that a difficult problem in the interpretation of all sn polarization measurements is proper removal of interstellar polarization ( isp ) , which is produced by directional extinction resulting from aspherical dust grains along the line of sight that are aligned by some mechanism such that their optic axes have a preferred direction .",
    "the isp can contribute a large polarization to the observed signal .",
    "fortunately , isp has been well studied in the galaxy and shown to be a smoothly varying function of wavelength and constant with time ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , two properties that are not characteristics of sn polarization .",
    "this has allowed us to develop a number of techniques to eliminate isp from observed sn spectropolarimetry , the simplest of which is to assume that specific emission lines or spectral regions are intrinsically unpolarized , and derive the isp from the observed polarization at these wavelengths ; a demonstration of how this is accomplished is given in fig .",
    "[ fig : figb]a .",
    "type ii - plateau supernovae ( sne ii - p ) are the classic variety of core - collapse events that result from isolated , massive stars with thick hydrogen envelopes intact at the time of explosion .",
    "the most thoroughly observed sn  ii - p is sn  1999em , for which we obtained rare , multi - epoch spectropolarimetry  three epochs during the plateau and one during the early nebular phase .",
    "we found a very low polarization , @xmath2 , at early times that increased with time to @xmath3 by the early nebular phase while maintaining a relatively fixed polarization angle in the plane of the sky throughout @xcite .",
    "this implies a substantially spherical geometry at early times that may become more aspherical at late times when the deepest layers of the ejecta are revealed .",
    "this result provides some support for the jet - induced explosion models of @xcite , in which a low but temporally increasing degree of polarization and , hence , asphericity is predicted for sne ii - p .",
    "a similar temporal polarization increase was observed for sn  1987a at early times as well @xcite .",
    "in fact , for sn  1987a , the expanding ejecta have now been resolved , and the direction of the observed asymmetry is in accord with the early - time morphology implied by the photospheric - phase polarimetry data @xcite .    after correcting for isp ,",
    "all of the sne  ii - p in our database are found to have low intrinsic polarization during the plateau ( fig .",
    "[ fig : figb]b ) .",
    "we note that sn  2001x , for which we obtained multiple spectropolarimetric epochs , does not show any substantial temporal polarization increase as was seen in sn  1987a and sn  1999em .",
    "this suggests either a constant degree of asphericity or , alternatively , a viewing angle ( nearly ) along an axis of symmetry ( e.g. , an sn shaped as a prolate ellipsoid , if viewed pole - on , will show zero polarization at all times ) .",
    "the basic result of our investigation into early - time sn  ii - p geometry is that _ no _ event has thus far been found to show large ( @xmath4 ) intrinsic polarization .",
    "however , evidence does exist in some cases for increasing polarization as one views deeper into the expanding ejecta .",
    "sne that have lost a substantial part of their envelopes prior to explosion display dramatically different polarization signatures than sne ii - p .",
    "these events tend to be highly polarized , often with significant polarization changes in magnitude and/or direction in the absorption troughs of the p - cygni line profiles .",
    "well - studied examples include sn  1993j ( iib , @xmath5 ; see @xcite ) , sn  1998s ( type iin , @xmath6 ; much of the polarization for this object may result from the interaction of the ejecta with an asymmetric csm , see @xcite ) , and sn  2002ap ( ic - peculiar , @xmath7 ; see @xcite ) .",
    "the high polarization observed for stripped - envelope sne implies rather extreme departures from spherical symmetry .",
    "two recent examples of stripped - envelope sne for which we have obtained spectropolarimetry are sn  2003gf ( type ic ) and sn  2003ed ( type iib ) ; they are shown in figures  [ fig : figf]a and [ fig : figf]b , respectively .",
    "for sn  2003gf , note the sharp polarization increases at the location of strong p - cygni absorptions . a simple explanation may be that p - cygni absorption selectively blocks photons coming from the central , more forward - scattered ( and thus less polarized ) regions , thereby enhancing the relative contribution of the more highly polarized photons from the limb regions ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : figa ] ) .",
    "clumpy ejecta , or elemental density asymmetries , probably also play a role in producing these features .",
    "the similarity seen in figure  [ fig : figf]b between the polarization characteristics of sn  2003ed and sn  1993j at similar epochs is quite remarkable , especially when coupled with the fact that the only other sn  iib for which spectropolarimetry has been obtained , sn 1996cb , also displayed spectropolarimetric characteristics astonishingly similar to those of sn  1993j @xcite .",
    "the similarity among these three events is somewhat puzzling , considering the rather wide range of envelope masses that sne  iib can be expected to possess , as well as the effect that random viewing orientations should have on the resulting spectropolarimetry .",
    "as additional data on sne  iib are obtained , it will be interesting to see if the similarities persist .",
    "the bottom line is that for core - collapse events the closer we probe to the heart of the explosion , the greater the polarization and , hence , asymmetry .",
    "the small , but temporally increasing polarization of some sne ii - p coupled with the high polarization of stripped - envelope sne implicate an explosion mechanism that is highly asymmetric .",
    "the current speculation is that the presence of a thick hydrogen envelope dampens the observed asymmetry .",
    "we propose that explosion asymmetry , or asymmetry in the collapsing chandrasekhar core , may play a dominant role in the explanation of pulsar velocities , the mixing of radioactive material seen far out into the ejecta of young sne , and even grbs ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we briefly review the young field of spectropolarimetry of core - collapse supernovae ( sne ) . </S>",
    "<S> spectropolarimetry provides the only direct known probe of early - time supernova ( sn ) geometry . </S>",
    "<S> the fundamental result is that asphericity is a ubiquitous feature of young core - collapse sne . </S>",
    "<S> however , the nature and degree of the asphericity vary considerably . </S>",
    "<S> the best predictor of core - collapse sn polarization seems to be the mass of the hydrogen envelope that is intact at the time of the explosion : those sne that arise from progenitors with large , intact envelopes ( e.g. , type ii - plateau ) have very low polarization , while those that result from progenitors that have lost part ( sn  iib , sn  iin ) or all ( sn  ib ) of their hydrogen ( or even helium ; sn  ic ) layers prior to the explosion tend to show substantial polarization . </S>",
    "<S> thus , the deeper we probe into core - collapse events , the greater the asphericity seems to be , suggesting a fundamentally asymmetric explosion with the asymmetry damped by the addition of envelope material . </S>"
  ]
}