{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxy evolution has been a rapidly changing field in the last decade due primarily to the explosion of observational information from the hubble space telescope and new generation of 8m+ class ground - based telescopes ( see ellis 1997 for a review ) .",
    "early expectations from color evolution models were that strong color evolution would only be visible in galaxies beyond @xmath2 and , thus , not within the realm of optical telescopes due to redshift effects .",
    "however , two very surprising facts arose in the mid-1980 s ; 1 ) the discovery of the butcher - oemler effect , the sharp rise in the fraction of blue cluster galaxies at intermediate redshifts ( @xmath3 to 0.4 , butcher and oemler 1984 ) , and 2 ) the excess of low luminosity blue galaxies in the field population at intermediate redshifts ( koo 1986 , tyson 1988 ) .",
    "these two discoveries indicated that galaxy evolution was more than a simple calculation of color changes from a passively evolving stellar population .",
    "there are also significant changes in the star formation history resulting in global changes to the cluster luminosity function and population .    in an earlier paper of this series ( rakos and schombert 1995 , hereafter rs95 )",
    ", we used a rest - frame , four - color photometry system ( the strmgren system ) to explore the color evolution of 17 clusters of galaxies from redshifts of 0.2 to 0.9 . in that paper ,",
    "the red population was shown to follow closely the passive evolution models for a single burst population with an epoch of galaxy formation near @xmath4 .",
    "on the other hand , the blue galaxies ( the butcher - oemler population ) showed a dramatic increase from 20% at @xmath5 to 80% at @xmath6 , an even more rapid trend than an extrapolation from intermediate redshift clusters would have predicted .",
    "rs95 interpreted this trend as the rapid change of star - forming disk galaxies into quiescent s0 s or low surface brightness ( lsb ) galaxies .",
    "the rapid rise of the blue galaxies in the butcher - oemler effect indicates that a majority of a clusters population is involved in some amount of star formation at epochs less than @xmath2 . since our results for the red population ( ellipticals ) are consistent with a formation epoch of @xmath4 , then either all the non - ellipticals in clusters ( s0 s , spirals and irregulars ) are star - forming at @xmath2 , which then slowly discontinue star formation by gas depletion or stripping , or else many of the members of the blue population simply cease to exist by the present epoch . the next stage in our research in resolving this dilemma is to determine the nature of butcher - oemler galaxies .    our previous observations focused on the brightest galaxies in our cluster sample , due to limitations set by the amount of observing time and aperture size .",
    "to explore the behavior of the red e / s0 s and blue butcher - oemler populations in more detail , we decided to return to one of the rs95 clusters with a high fraction of blue galaxies @xmath7 and image the cluster members to greater magnitude depth .",
    "to this end we have selected an intermediate redshift cluster , abell 2317 , for study .",
    "our goal is to apply our new narrow band , photometric classification system to the blue and red populations in a butcher - oemler cluster to 1 ) illuminate the types of galaxies involved in the butcher - oemler effect , 2 ) determine the dominance of the butcher - oemler galaxies to the cluster luminosity function and 3 ) examine the spatial extend of the blue and red populations .",
    "values of @xmath8 km sec@xmath9 mpc@xmath9 and @xmath10 were used throughout this paper .",
    "abell 2317 is a high declination cluster ( 19@xmath11 08.5@xmath12 @xmath1368@xmath14 59.0@xmath15 ) with a redshift of 0.211 .",
    "the cluster is coma - like in its richness ( richness class 3 , abell , corwin and olowin 1989 ) and compact with a bautz - morgan class of ii .",
    "the brightest cluster member has an apparent magnitude of 17.3 ab , and the cluster has a moderate galactic extinction of 0.32 .",
    "the observing procedure and reduction used herein is similar to that described in rs95 .",
    "the observations of a2317 were taken with the kpno 4 m pfccd te1k ( binned 2 by 2 ) in june 1991 and with the steward observatory 2.3 m in july 1995 .",
    "the scale of the 4 m telescope was 0.96 arcsec / pixel and the exposure time was 25 minutes per filter divided in 5 frames of 300s for cosmic - ray subtraction and flattening .",
    "the observations on the steward 2.3 m were restricted to the uv filter mostly , to increase the s / n for faint galaxies since the qe of the 4 m ccd was relatively poor in the blue spectral region .",
    "the total exposure time on the 2.3 m was 3 hours divided in frames of 900s .",
    "photometry using 32 kpc apertures was performed on the final , co - added frames .",
    "objects were selected based on detection in all four filters at the 3@xmath16 level .",
    "there is no evidence from the color - magnitude diagrams that this introduced a color bias to the sample .",
    "incompleteness is evident below @xmath17 , the faintest objects are @xmath18 .",
    "the @xmath19 magnitudes were calibrated to a 5500  luminosity using spectrophotometric standards ( see below ) .",
    "typical errors were 0.02 mags for the brightest cluster members to 0.08 mags for objects below @xmath17 .    according to abell , corwin and olowin ( 1989 ) ,",
    "the size of the cluster is 15.2 mm by 32.6 mm on the palomar sky survey , which corresponds to approximately 15 by 32 arcminutes .",
    "our observations cover only the inner 8 by 8 arcminutes as restricted by the ccd field of view .",
    "four - color photometry in our modified strmgren system ( @xmath20 , @xmath21 , @xmath22 , @xmath19 , see rs95 ) was obtained for 200 objects .",
    "each of these filters are approximately 200  wide and were specially designed so that they are  redshifted \" to the cluster wavelength in order to maintain a rest frame color system .",
    "this provides a photometric system of determining cluster membership without the use of redshift information due to the unique shape of any galaxy s spectra around the 4000/aa/ break .",
    "our method is fully discussed in rakos , schombert and kreidl ( 1991 ) and fiala , rakos and stockton ( 1986 ) , including the negligible effects from the cluster velocity dispersion .",
    "using our photometric selection criteria , 112 objects ( 56% ) were determined to be cluster members based on the behavior of the @xmath23 index , a measure of the sed around the 4000  break .",
    "the @xmath23 indice has the advantage of being relatively flat within @xmath243000 km sec@xmath9 of the cluster redshift with sharp falloffs outside this redshift range .",
    "this maximizes the confidence of the membership of detected objects , while minimizing the contamination from nearby field galaxies .",
    "the remaining 44% of the observed galaxies belong to the foreground or background contamination , which is in agreement with the expectations from the luminosity function of field galaxies in this magnitude range ( donnelly 1994 ) .",
    "in addition to resolving cluster membership , our four color photometry system can also be used to produce a photometric classification of galaxy type .",
    "this classification is based on the 4000  colors ( i.e. star formation / activity ) and only maps into morphology as one would expect star formation history to map into the hubble sequence . in rakos , maindl and schombert ( 1996 , hereafter rms96 ) , 140 high resolution ,",
    "high s / n spectra of galaxies were selected from the literature and reduced into synthetic colors in our @xmath20 , @xmath21 , @xmath22 , @xmath19 system . from these colors",
    ", it was demonstrated that two color and @xmath23-color diagrams could be used to classify galaxies into 4 simple types ; ellipticals / s0 s , spirals / irregulars , seyferts and starburst galaxies in a purely spectrophotometric manner ( see figure 4 of that paper ) . guided by the synthetic color results of rms96 , we have defined our photometric classifications in the following manner ( see figures 1 and 2 ) . any galaxy with a red ( @xmath25 ) color ( i.e. @xmath26 ) and @xmath23 index greater",
    "than @xmath270.16 was classified as an e / s0 ( an old stellar population object ) .",
    "the boundary between red spirals ( sa s ) and e / s0 s was clearly defined at ( @xmath28 in rms96 and is adopted herein .",
    "any galaxy with a @xmath23 index less than @xmath270.16 is classified as a starburst .",
    "a galaxy that lies within 0.05 mag of the normal star - forming galaxy sequence defined by figure 3 of rms96 was classified as a spiral / irregular ( a galaxy with a normal star formation rate ) . and , lastly",
    ", any galaxy which lies 3@xmath16 blueward of the two color sequence and has a red @xmath23 index ( indicative of the presence of strong non - star - forming emission lines typical of agn activity ) is assigned a seyfert classification .",
    "the regions with the greatest uncertainty in photometric classification are the boundaries between red spirals and ellipticals / s0 s , the upper bound of starbursts and the lower bound on seyfert classification .",
    "the overlap between red spirals and elliptical / s0 s has a minimal impact on our results since red spirals are primarily large bulge - to - disk , gas - poor objects , similar to s0 s themselves .",
    "many evolutionary scenarios depict early - type spirals as evolving to s0 s after gas depletion and subsequent reddening of the underlying stellar population .",
    "the separation between starbursts and spirals / irregulars is mostly a measure of the degree of global star formation . for the purposes of this study",
    ", the classification of starburst has been conservative  the larger the separation from the spiral / irregular mid - line the greater reddening , not the strength of the starburst .",
    "in addition to the colors , the @xmath19 filter values can be converted to @xmath29 .",
    "the strmgren system was originally designed only as a color system ; however , the @xmath19 filter is centered on 5500  and it is possible to link the @xmath19 flux to a photon magnitude ( i.e. the ab79 system of oke and gunn 1983 ) through the use of spectrophotometry standards .",
    "this procedure was described in detail in rakos , fiala and schombert ( 1988 ) and is used to determine the @xmath29 values for all the cluster members .",
    "the incompleteness of the sample is not serious until below @xmath17 , which corresponds to @xmath3020.7 ( @xmath8 ) .",
    "the number of fainter galaxies is , in reality , much larger than in our sample , but our results will only depend on the bright end of the luminosity function . in order to save space and publication charges , the data for the 112 cluster members of a2317 can be obtained from zebu.uoregon.edu/@xmath31js . this ascii file contains pixel coordinates , @xmath29 , @xmath32 colors , errors and our photometric classifications .",
    "the extragalactic meaning of the strmgren colors are described in detail in our previous papers ( see rs95 ) .",
    "briefly , the strmgren colors , centered around the 4000  break , are crude estimators of recent star formation , mean age and metallicity . in previous papers , we have used ( @xmath25 ) as a measure of global metallicity and ( @xmath33 ) as a measure of mean age of the underlying stellar population .",
    "however , precise understanding of these colors requires comparison to sed models with various assumptions ( e.g. redshift of formation , mean metallicity and imf ) , since varying star formation histories inhibit a unique interpretation of the colors .",
    "recent star formation can also strongly influence ( @xmath25 ) , and in this paper we are expanding the use of our strmgren filters to explore the star formation history of butcher - oemler galaxies .    one advantage of the strmgren colors ( or any 4000  color system ) is their strong dependence on recent star formation and their sensitivity to deviations in star formation rates that signal starburst activity .",
    "rms96 outlines the @xmath34 system sensitive to star formation with the starburst models of lehnert and heckman ( 1996 , see figure 6 of rms96 ) .",
    "as discussed in  2 , we have classified the cluster members based on their colors and @xmath23 indices by a prescription developed in rms96 .",
    "we have divided the photometric classifications into four subtypes as current colors reflect into star formation history ; 1 ) elliptical / s0 ( e / s0 ) , 2 ) spiral / irregular ( sp / irr ) , 3 ) starburst and 4 ) seyfert .",
    "operationally , this subtypes are defined as 1 ) red , non - star - forming colors , 2 ) blue star forming colors as defined by hubble types sa to irr , 3 ) having deviant colors indicative of strong star formation combined with reddening , and 4 ) peculiar fluxes in the @xmath21 filter that signal agn phenomenon .",
    "the relationships between galaxy type and color indices is shown in figures 1 and 2 , the @xmath23-color and two color diagrams .",
    "starburst galaxies cover a range of colors from blue to red , but are located on the reddened side of the two color diagram .",
    "the analysis of interacting and merging galaxies in rms96 demonstrated that the typical colors of a tidally induced starburst system lie in this portion of the two color diagram ( figure 2 ) .",
    "it is possible to differentiate between starburst galaxies shrouded in dust with strong reddening ( iras starbursts , lehnert and heckman 1996 ) and the strong ultraviolet radiation of wr galaxies simply by the distance the galaxy lies from the sp / irr sequence along the reddening line , although the exact amount of reddening is subjective .",
    "the reddening line in figure 2 indicate that a majority of the starburst galaxies have sb or later colors with significant extinction by dust .",
    "the reader is cautioned that this classification scheme is based on the integrated colors and is not a morphological system .",
    "the designation of e / s0 , sp / irr or starburst only refers to the current star formation rate and recent sf history of the galaxy and not to its morphological appearance , the existence of spiral arms or a bulge - to - disk ratio .",
    "for example , there is no discrimination between ellipticals and s0 s since their global colors are identical .",
    "many of the galaxies on the blue side of the e / s0 boundary may , in fact , be large - bulge sa s whose blue disk light is overwhelmed by the more dominant red bulge .",
    "galaxies on the red side of the sp / irr sequence may be the new class of `` e+a '' post - starburst galaxies whose smooth morphology is not measured or simply disk systems with very low star formation rates .",
    "however , there has always been a strong relationship between galaxy color and morphology such that it can be assumed that a majority of the sp / irr systems , classified by color , are disk galaxies .",
    "likewise , the starburst systems are most likely interacting or merging galaxies and seyferts are disk galaxies with agn cores .    judging from the results of the photometric classification , a2317 is similar to other butcher - oemler clusters by being deficient in e / s0 s and overabundant in late - type galaxies .",
    "the population fractions are listed in table 1 and , in particular , we find that 47 ( 42% ) of the cluster members are e / s0 s , whereas 29 ( 26% ) are sp / irr and 25 ( 22% ) are starbursts .",
    "the remaining 11 ( 10% ) are classified as seyferts .",
    "typical e : s0:sp / irr ratios for present - day clusters are 20%/40%/40% ( oemler 1992 ) , based on morphological classification of the nearby cluster galaxies .",
    "it is assumed that all the galaxies photometrically classified galaxies as sp / irr , starburst and seyfert would be contained in a late - type category and , thus , a2317 is 20% overabundant in late - type galaxies as compared to present - day clusters .    of the blue population , a majority ( 46% )",
    "are sp / irr with seyferts and starbursts equally split for the remainder .",
    "the red population is primarily e / s0 s ( 64% ) with 15% classed as sp / irr and 21% as highly reddened starburst galaxies .",
    "ignoring the low luminosity starbursts , the ratio of e / s0 s to red sp / irr s is exactly the same as present - day clusters ( i.e. 4 to 1 ) .",
    "this leads us to speculate that the current starburst population fades to develop into the faint de / di population that so dominates present - day cluster counts .",
    "the ratio of the remaining bright galaxies will then match the morphological fractions of present - day clusters .",
    "the large number of seyferts in a2317 is anomalous for a rich cluster environment .",
    "the fraction of seyferts found in local clusters is extremely low , less than 1% ( dressler and shectman 1988 ) and the fraction found in the local field is less than 2% ( huchra and burg 1992 ) compared to our observed value of 11% for a2317 .",
    "however , this value is similar to the fraction of agn galaxies in 3c 295 ( @xmath35 , @xmath36 , dressler and gunn 1983 ) and a recent study by sarajedini ( 1996 ) finds the fraction of agn s in the field to be 10% between @xmath3 and 0.6 .",
    "thus , our value of 10% is an exact match with the sharp increase of agn activity at these redshifts in both cluster and field environments .      the color - magnitude ( c - m ) diagrams for colors ( @xmath33 ) and ( @xmath25 ) are shown in figures 3 and 4 .",
    "immediately obvious are the distinct c - m relationships for ellipticals and s0 s .",
    "the c - m relation for a single burst stellar population , such as ellipticals and s0 s , is a reflection of the mass - metallicity correlation predicted by simple closed - box models of galaxy evolution ( faber 1973 , tinsley 1980 ) .",
    "the greater the mass of a galaxy the higher its luminosity and its sn rate .",
    "the higher sn rate results in a more rapid initial enrichment of the first generation of stars and , therefore , a redder red giant branch for the composite population . the @xmath21 filter is located over several strong metal lines in an old population spectrum and , thus , the ( @xmath25 ) colors are more sensitive to metallicity changes compared to ( @xmath33 ) . this can be seen in figure 3 , ( @xmath33 ) versus @xmath29 were the e / s0 sequence is effectively independent of continuum color . on the other hand ,",
    "figure 4 , the ( @xmath25 ) versus @xmath29 diagram , displays a clear trend of redder metallicity color with higher luminosity ( mass ) .",
    "the solid lines in figures 3 and 4 are the c - m relations from local populations discussed in schombert ( 1993 ) .",
    "the ( @xmath33 ) relation exactly matches the a2317 galaxies , whereas the e / s0 s appear to have a sharper slope in the ( @xmath25 ) diagram .",
    "there is no direct reason for believing that the slope of the c - m relation should change dramatically with redshift .",
    "there will certainly be changes in luminosity with the galaxy population ; for example schade ( 1996 ) finds that the surface brightness increases to 1.5 mags for an elliptical population at @xmath37 .",
    "however , changes in luminosity of up to 0.5 mag in figure 4 would be undetectable in the data since the correlation is nearly parallel to apparent magnitude .",
    "a steeper slope could suggest an age difference between low and high luminosity e / s0 s ( bender 1996 ) , however there is no evidence of changes in the c - m slope in clusters at @xmath5 ( oemler , dressler and butcher 1997 ) .",
    "the blue side of the c - m diagrams are populated with sp / irr s , seyferts and a few starburst systems .",
    "unlike other butcher - oemler clusters at this redshift , a majority of the brightest galaxies are blue ( see the next section ) .",
    "the seyferts are scattered amongst the brightest sp / irr s ; however the starburst systems tend to be lower in luminosity than the other galaxy types .",
    "the starburst systems also spread across a range of colors , as would be expected from their variable reddening .",
    "the original broadband definition of the fraction of blue to red galaxies , @xmath7 , given by butcher and oemler ( 1984 ) , is the ratio of galaxies 0.2 mag bluer than the mean color of the e / s0 sequence ( after k - corrections ) to the total number of galaxies in the cluster .",
    "as discussed in rakos , schombert and kreidl ( 1991 ) , a sample of nearby spirals and irregulars is used to determine a value of ( @xmath33 ) ( continuum color ) in our filter system that separates star - forming from quiescent galaxies . from this previous analysis , we have defined the fraction of blue galaxies , @xmath7 , as the ratio of the number of galaxies bluer than ( @xmath33)=0.22 to the total number of galaxies . since the mean ( @xmath33 ) color of a present - day elliptical is 0.37 ( schombert 1993 ) and ( @xmath33 ) maps into ( @xmath38 ) in a linear fashion with a slope of 1.33 ( matsushima 1969 ) , then a cut at ( @xmath33)=0.22 is effectively the same as butcher and oemler s 0.2 mag selection and the two values are directly comparable .",
    "in fact , we have argued that our narrow band system is superior to the broadband ( @xmath38 ) criteria due to our filters unique locations on continuum regions of a galaxy s sed .",
    "the interpretation of the butcher - oemler effect within our filter system is a comparison of the mean temperature of the composite stellar photosphere , undistorted by emission lines or foreground / background contamination .    applying this criteria to a2317",
    "produces a @xmath7 value of 0.35@xmath240.06 , which for this redshift range makes it a cluster unusually rich in blue galaxies ( note that a typographical error in rs95 lists a2317 with a @xmath7 value of 0.51 ; the correct value is 0.31 for that study , well within the errors of this current , deeper dataset ) .",
    "figure 3 shows a dashed line for the ( @xmath33 ) cutoff for red / blue classification .",
    "note that all the e / s0 type galaxies from the photometric classification are within the red boundary .",
    "this does not imply that the post - starburst `` e+a '' type galaxies are missing from a2317 .",
    "this type of galaxy is a mismatch of morphology with color ( a smooth morphology with a blue underlying stellar population suggestive of recent star formation ) and would have been classed as an sp / irr in our system .",
    "nine sp / irr s also lie within the red population region demonstrating that a simple color division of a cluster population can overlook a more subtle variation in multicolor space .",
    "these objects are most likely early - type spirals with large bulges that dominate the colors , but with small star forming disks that are still detectable in our multicolor space .",
    "there is also the possibility that these galaxies are young s0 s with post - starburst disks ( bothun and gregg 1990 ) .",
    "numerous starburst class galaxies also lie within the red region , however inspection of figure 2 shows that these are all simply very reddened systems .",
    "figures 3 and 4 also show that the brightest galaxies have bluest colors .",
    "in fact , the measured @xmath7 value for the cluster is strongly dependent on the cut - off magnitude of the sample .",
    "this can be seen in figure 5 which displays @xmath7 as a function of @xmath29 .",
    "the fraction of blue galaxies is over 75% in the highest magnitude bin dropping to only 10% for galaxies with luminosities between @xmath39 and 1/2 @xmath39 and then rising again for galaxies with luminosities below 1/2 @xmath39 .",
    "the change in @xmath7 is significant and implies that the scatter in the butcher - oemler effect with redshift ( see figure 4 of rs95 ) , particularly at low redshifts , may be due to limiting magnitude effects combined with evolutionary changes in the luminosity function with redshift .",
    "for example , the brightest blue galaxies may have very short lifetimes , not in terms of existence as self - gravitating entities , but in terms of visibility . in rs95 ,",
    "a scenario was proposed were butcher - oemler galaxies fade into lsb galaxies or low luminosity dwarf galaxies after their initial burst of star formation .",
    "there is some evidence of this effect in other cluster studies ( see schade 1996 ) in that blue galaxies in distant clusters display a measured increase of 1 to 1.5 mags in mean surface brightness .",
    "the rise in @xmath7 at the lowest luminosities in a2317 is suggestive of an increasing contribution from a dwarf galaxy population .",
    "although this luminosity range is not completely sampled by our study , the minimum in @xmath7 at 19.5 ( see figure 5 ) is also at the same absolute luminosity where in the virgo cluster there is a shift in the luminosity function from giant galaxies to a high fraction of dwarf irr , i m and sm s .",
    "the class of de galaxies dominate the luminosity function at very low luminosities ( sandage , binggeli and tammann 1985 ) , but blue late - type systems at just below @xmath39 are sufficiently numerous to produce a rise in the blue galaxy fraction .",
    "we note that most of the galaxies classified as starburst are in the lower luminosity bins .",
    "although many of the starburst galaxies are not blue galaxies due to reddening effects , the larger fraction below @xmath39 would lend support to the proposal of koo ( 1997 ) that a majority of the starburst systems in clusters at intermediate redshifts are dwarf galaxies undergoing a phase of star formation .",
    "these bursting dwarfs would have a relatively high luminosity for a short timescale , then fade to normal dwarf luminosities by the present epoch .",
    "although the morphological type of the brightest blue galaxies is not known ( our photometric classification does not distinguish between early and late - type spirals ) , results from recent hst imaging of distant clusters suggests that these systems are structurally late - type spirals ( i.e. small b / d ratios ) with slightly increased levels of star formation activity ( oemler , dressler and butcher 1997 ) . along the same lines , the galaxies photometrically classified as starburst",
    "can linked with the merging / interacting systems found by the oemler ( 1997 ) study .",
    "the average merging / interacting systems in the four clusters from oemler is 17% , compared to the 22% fraction of starburst galaxies in a2317 , in agreement with our expectation that the strongest star formation in this butcher - oemler cluster is tidally induced ( see below ) .",
    "regardless of the appearance of either the sp / irr or the starburst galaxies , the main conclusion from figure 4 is in agreement with the morphological studies , that the blue butcher - oemler population is primarily composed of galaxies with normal star formation rates typical of present - day spirals and irregulars .",
    "the spatial distribution of blue and red galaxies is shown in figure 6 , a histogram of number density ( normalized by projected area ) as a function of radius from the cluster core . in this figure",
    ", the cluster core is calculated from the geometric mean of the photometrically determined cluster members .",
    "the results below were insensitive to changes in the center at the level of 20 arcsecs . immediately obvious from figure 6",
    "is that the red galaxies have the highest densities at the cluster center with a smooth density dropoff toward the outer part of the cluster .",
    "in contrast , the blue galaxies have a marked drop in their density for the inner third of the cluster with a roughly uniform spatial density in the outer part of the cluster .",
    "there is no obvious trend between sp / irr , seyfert or starburst types .",
    "the blue population has long been suspected of avoiding the densest regions of a cluster core ( see dressler 1993 ) , and a recent study by abraham ( 1996 ) has shown a distinct drop in @xmath7 towards the core of a2390 , another butcher - oemler cluster .",
    "carlberg ( 1997 ) , in a study of the cnoc cluster sample , demonstrate that not only is there a drop in the blue galaxy fraction at cluster cores , but that the red population has a smaller velocity dispersion by a factor of 1.3 compared to the blue population .    the difference in the red and blue population dynamics has led the abraham group to propose that the butcher - oemler effect is due to an infalling field population .",
    "the subsequent dying out of the blue population is due to truncation of star formation from stripping by the intracluster medium .",
    "the infalling spirals then evolve into red s0 s , which is in agreement with the large fraction of s0 s found in present - day clusters .",
    "unfortunately , the hst morphological data does not agree with this scenario in the sense that the blue population is shown to be composed of small bulge , late - type spirals which will not fade into large bulge s0 s .",
    "the argument made in abraham is that the relevant parameter is the ratio of the bulge to disk luminosity , which will change dramatically with the cessation of star formation in the disk .",
    "of course , bulge to disk ratio is only one component of the morphological classification of spirals ( the other two components are tightness of spiral arms and degree of resolution of the arms into stars ) , so the question of whether the butcher - oemler population evolves from late - type to early - type will remain unresolved until a detailed surface photometric decomposition of the blue galaxies is made .",
    "if oemler ( 1997 ) have correctly classified the blue galaxy population as late - type spirals with small bulges , then the origin and destiny of the butcher - oemler galaxies remains unclear .",
    "the high fraction of mergers / interactions is suggestive of tidally induced star formation , yet this does not resolve the fate of the blue galaxies , since even the abrupt cessation of star formation would still leave a population of red , late - type spirals in present - day clusters , which is not seen .",
    "tidal interactions may well explain the high fraction of starburst galaxies ; these would have their origin in gas - rich dwarf galaxies undergoing a short , but intense , tidally induced starburst ( koo 1997 ) .",
    "it should be noted however , that the cluster environment is the most surprising arena for the type of interactions that can lead to star formation bursts .",
    "the orbits of cluster galaxies are primarily radial and the typical velocities are high .",
    "this makes any encounter with another galaxy shortlived , with little impulse being transferred as required to shock the incumbent molecular clouds into a nuclear starburst .",
    "recently , a new mechanism for cluster induced star formation has been proposed .",
    "this method , called galaxy harassment ( moore 1996 ) , emphasizes the influence of the cluster tidal field and rapid , impulse encounters with massive galaxies .",
    "these two processes conspire to not only raise the luminosity of cluster spirals , but to increase their visibility , hence detectability .",
    "one of the predictions of galaxy harassment is that galaxies in the cores of clusters will be older than galaxies at the edges . in terms of star formation history , this is exactly what figure 6 has demonstrated in a2317 . the blue population ( i.e. the harassed population ) is primarily located in the outer 2/3 s of the cluster .",
    "other explanations of the blue population , such as ram pressure stripping or infall of blue galaxy rich subclusters , would have the blue population primarily confined to the cluster edges .",
    "regardless of the origin of the blue population , its fate is obvious .",
    "these galaxies do not exist in present - day clusters and , therefore , must either be destroyed or reduced to the luminosity of dwarf galaxies .",
    "two points concerning a2317 make this fate difficult to reconcile with our current understanding of galaxy evolution .",
    "the first is that the butcher - oemler population is numerous and the second is that this population contains many bright members . despite any changes in total luminosity or surface brightness , the blue population makes up a significant fraction of a cluster numerically , and this value increases with redshift . since our survey of present - day clusters is complete to extremely low luminosity and surface brightness , this implies that the blue population must eventually be eliminated as recognizable units or transformed in to objects with much smaller luminosity .",
    "this conclusion is supported by the observation in table 1 that the red population already contains the correct morphological mix found in local clusters .",
    "a conversion of blue to red galaxies is not needed to resolve morphological distributions .",
    "one point to remember is that the destruction of the butcher - oemler population is only a radical proposition if these galaxies contain a significant fraction of the mass of the cluster rather than luminosity .",
    "for example , the blue population may be a specific population of objects with very low @xmath40 s or extremely short lifetimes .",
    "some of the blue population may be bursting dwarf galaxies , as proposed by koo ( 1997 ) , and as is suggested by the population of low luminosity starbursts in this study ; however , the hst imaging results indicate that most of the blue population , particularly the bright objects , are normal late - type spirals by their morphological appearance .    interestingly enough , there already exists a class of galaxies which combines late - type morphological appearance with a particular frailty to tidal forces .",
    "these are the lsb galaxies of recent attention in field surveys and dark matter investigations ( see impey and bothun 1997 for a review ) .",
    "recent work has shown that lsb galaxies , which are by definition low in luminosity density , are gas - rich and low in mass density ( de blok and mcgaugh 1996 ) .",
    "thus , lsb galaxies would be particularly susceptible to tidally induced star formation ( mihos , mcgaugh and de blok 1997 ) .",
    "lsb galaxies also have an unusually high incidence of low luminosity agn activity ( impey and bothun 1997 ) , which may account for the large number of seyferts in our sample as starburst gas is also dumped onto a central engine .",
    "the scenario proposed here is similar to the one we proposed in rs95 , that the butcher - oemler population is an evolved set of lsb galaxies .",
    "the mechanism of galaxy harassment or ram pressure induces highly efficient star formation in these dark matter systems that increases their visibility and actual luminosity .",
    "later encounters with the cluster core destroys this low mass density system by tidal forces .",
    "thus , we believe that the butcher - oemler cluster will evolve into future cd clusters from the released stellar material of the disrupted lsb population .",
    "this paper has presented deep multi - color photometry of the intermediate redshift cluster a2317 .",
    "the color system used herein is a specific form of the strmgren color system , matched to the rest frame of a2317 , in order to understand the components of the blue , butcher - oemler population known to inhabit this cluster .",
    "our primary results are summarized as :    \\(1 ) 112 cluster members were identified and classified by our photometric system with four subtypes ; 1 ) e / s0 , 2 ) sp / irr , 3 ) seyfert or 4 ) starburst . the fractional population is listed in table 1 and color diagrams are shown in figures 1 and 2 . the fraction of blue galaxies is @xmath7=0.35 .",
    "\\(2 ) the c - m diagrams in figures 3 and 4 show that the blue population dominates the top and bottom of the luminosity function .",
    "that is to say , the brightest galaxies are blue , with a decrease at intermediate magnitudes , then a rise at low luminosities ( see figure 5 ) .",
    "there is a steepening of the c - m relation for e / s0 s as compared to the locally determined relation , but the difference is not statistically significant within the context of only one cluster determination .",
    "\\(3 ) the butcher - oemler population is , based on our photometric classification system , primarily a population of galaxies with normal star formation rates .",
    "although there are anomalously high fractions of seyferts and starburst galaxies in a2317 , most of the blue galaxies are classified as sp / irr .",
    "the starburst systems tend to be of low luminosity suggesting they may be bursting dwarfs ( koo 1997 ) .",
    "the above photometric classification of the butcher - oemler population , based on their star formation history , is in agreement with their hst image classifications as late - type spirals ( oemler 1997 ) .",
    "\\(4 ) the spatial location of the blue population ( see figure 6 ) indicates that the butcher - oemler effect is confined to the outer cluster regions with the red population dominating the cluster core .",
    "this result is in agreement with the prediction of galaxy harassment models , where the cluster tidal field and impulse encounters with more massive galaxies results in tidally induced star formation or infall models of spiral - rich , merging subclusters .",
    "the fate of the butcher - oemler population is still undetermined since they are too numerous and too recent to simply fade from view by the present epoch .",
    "we renew our arguments that the most plausible fate for the blue population is destruction , and that the butcher - oemler population is composed of low density lsb galaxies that are particularly susceptible to disruption in the dense cluster cores .",
    "the authors wish to thank the director and staff of kpno and steward observatory for granting time for this project .",
    "financial support from the austrian fonds zur foerderung der wissenschaftlichen forschung is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "abell , g. , corwin , h. and olowin , r. 1989 , , 70 , 1 .",
    "abraham , r. , smecker - hane , t. , hutchings , j. , carlberg , r. , yee , h. , ellingson , e. , morris , s. , oke , j. and rigler , m. 1996 , , 471 , 694 .",
    "bender , r. , saglia , r. and ziegler , b. 1996 , in the eso workshop `` the early universe with the vlt '' , eds . j. bergeron , ( springer verlag : berlin ) , 1 .",
    "de blok , e. and mcgaugh , s. 1996 , , 469 , 89 .",
    "bothun , g. and gregg , m. 1990 , , 350 , 73 .",
    "bothun , g. and dressler , a. 1986 , , 301 , 57 .",
    "butcher , h. and oemler , a. 1984 , , 285 , 426 .",
    "carlberg , r. , yee , h. , ellingson , e. , morris , s. , abraham , r. , gravel , p. , pritchet , c. , smecker - hane , t. , hartwick , f. , hesser , j. , hutchings , j. , and oke , j. 1997 , , 476 , l7 .",
    "donnelly , h. 1994 in clusters of galaxies , ed .",
    "f.durret , a. mazure and j. tran thanh van ( editions frontieres ) , 39 .",
    "dressler , a. 1993 , a.s.p .",
    "conference series , 51 , 225 .",
    "dressler , a. and shectman , s. 1988 , , 95 , 985 .",
    "dressler , a. and gunn , j. 1983 , , 270 , 7 .",
    "ellis , r. 1997 , ann .",
    "astrophys . , 35 , 345 .",
    "faber , s. 1973 , , 179 , 731 .",
    "fiala , n. , rakos , k. and stockton , a. 1986 , , 98 , 70 .",
    "huchra , j. and burg , r. 1992 , , 393 , 90 .",
    "impey , c. and bothun , g. 1997 , ann .",
    ", in press .",
    "koo , d. , guzman , r. , gallego , j. and wirth , g. 1997 , preprint , astro - ph/9701119 .",
    "koo , d. 1986 , , 311 , 651 .",
    "koo , d. 1981 , , 251 , l75 .",
    "lehnert , m. and heckman , t. 1996 , , 472 , 546 .",
    "matsushima , s. 1969 , , 158 , 1137 .",
    "mihos , j. , mcgaugh , s. and de blok , e. 1997 , , 477 , 79 .",
    "moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. and oemler , a. 1996 , , 379 , 613 .",
    "oemler , a. , dressler , a. and butcher , h. 1997 , , 474 , 561 .",
    "oemler , a. 1992 in clusters and superclusters of galaxies , ed .",
    "a. fabian ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 666 .",
    "oke , j. and gunn , j. 1983 , , 266 , 713 .",
    "rakos , k. , maindl , t. and schombert , j. 1996 , , 466 , 122 ( rms96 ) .",
    "rakos , k. and schombert , j. 1995 , , 439 .",
    "47 ( rs95 ) .",
    "rakos , k. , schombert , j. and kreidel , t. 1990 , , 377 , 382 .",
    "rakos , k. , fiala , n. and schombert , j. 1988 , , 328 , 463 .",
    "sarajedini , v. , green , r. , griffiths , r. and ratnatunga , k. 1996 , , 471 , l15 .",
    "sandage , a. , binggeli , b. and tammann , g. 1985 , , 90 , 1759 .",
    "schade , d. 1996 , preprint , astro - ph/9612170 .",
    "schombert , j. , hanlan , p. , barsony , m. and rakos , k. 1993 , , 106 , 923 .",
    "tinsley , b. 1980 , fund .",
    "of cosmic physics , 5 , 287 .",
    "tyson , j. 1988 , , 96 , 1 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper presents deep narrow band photometry of the cluster a2317 ( @xmath0 ) carried out using kpno 4 m and steward 2.3 m telescopes . using rest frame strmgren photometry </S>",
    "<S> , it is determined that a2317 has an unusually high fraction of blue galaxies ( the butcher - oemler effect ) for its redshift ( @xmath1 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate that the ratio of blue to red galaxies has a strong dependence on absolute magnitude such that blue galaxies dominate the top of the luminosity function . </S>",
    "<S> spectrophotometric classification shows that a majority of the red galaxies are e / s0 s , with a small number of reddened starburst galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> butcher - oemler galaxies are shown to be galaxies with star formation rates typical of late - type spirals and irregular . </S>",
    "<S> starburst systems were typically found to be on the lower end of the cluster luminosity function . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , blue galaxies are preferentially found in the outer edges of the cluster , whereas the red galaxies are concentrated in the cluster core . </S>"
  ]
}