{
  "article_text": [
    "cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) are close , interacting binary systems , comprising a white dwarf receiving mass from a roche  lobe  filling late  type star . in absence of strong magnetic fields ,",
    "the mass transfer takes place via an accretion disc .",
    "rr pic belongs to the subclass of cvs known as classical novae , which have displayed a thermonuclear runaway outburst .",
    "the system has been discovered by @xcite at maximum light in 1925 and , although it was of slow type , it is supposed to be in its quiescence state by now .",
    "the orbital period of 0.145025 days @xcite places it just above the period gap of cvs .",
    "vogt found the lightcurve dominated by a very broad hump , often interrupted by superimposed minima .",
    "he explained this behaviour by an extended hot spot region with an inhomogeneous structure .",
    "@xcite however , explained their own time",
    " resolved photometric and polarimetric observations together with radial velocity variations of the heii ( 4686 ) emission line @xcite by suggesting the presence of an additional source of radiation opposite the hot spot . from high speed photometry",
    ", @xcite concluded that during the 1970s ( about 50yr after outburst ) structural changes have taken place in the system , resulting in a more isotropic distribution of the emitted radiation .",
    "in addition , he has found evidence for a shallow , irregular eclipse , showing rrpic to be a high inclination system .",
    "@xcite confirmed the general change in the lightcurve of rrpic as well as the presence of the eclipse , which they found to be very stable over several orbits .",
    "however , they point out that the additional emission source on the trailing side is still necessary to understand the phase relation between the radial velocity curve and the photometric lightcurve .    apart from this , the question arose whether rrpic is an intermediate polar .",
    "additional to the orbital period , @xcite found a periodic modulation in the optical with a 15min period .",
    "he interpreted this as the rotation of the white dwarf and concluded that rrpic is an intermediate polar .",
    "@xcite however , repeated the high time",
    " resolved photometry on a longer time  scale and could not find any sign of this short period .",
    "since no 15min period variation is found in x  ray measurements @xcite either , they concluded that kubiak s variation was more likely a transient event in the disc rather than a rotating white dwarf .",
    "also warner s high - speed photometry does not reveal any period other than the orbital one .",
    "hence no evidence remains that rrpic is an intermediate polar .    with a quiescence magnitude @xmath3 = 12mag , rrpic is a comparatively bright cv .",
    "although it has been well observed photometrically , spectroscopic studies of the binary are sparse . in particular",
    ", no systematic investigation of the line profile has been undertaken so far , which could provide information on the accretion process in this system . in this paper",
    "we present new time  resolved spectroscopic data on rrpic and compare it with photometric data from the literature .",
    "we establish a doppler map of the h@xmath0 emission , study the isolated emission sources in the disc , and discuss the models of rrpic s accretion disc .",
    "finally , we analyse the high velocity wings of the h@xmath0 line and discuss possible interpretations .",
    "the time  resolved optical spectroscopy was obtained on 2002 february 23 with the boller & chivens at the 1.52 m eso telescope on la silla .",
    "grating # 20 together with a 1.5 arcsec slit has been used to cover the wavelength range from 5800 to 7500  with a spectral resolution of 2.45  fwhm .",
    "19 spectra were obtained , each with an exposure time of 600s . in total , we cover 3.8h , which is slightly more than a complete orbit .",
    "iraf has been used for the basic data reduction including bias subtraction , flat  fielding , and wavelength calibration .",
    "no flux calibration has been performed .",
    "two emission lines ( h@xmath0 and hei ) are present in the observed part of the spectrum .",
    "both lines show a double peak profile in the average spectrum of all exposures ( fig . [ add ] ) and",
    "strong variability in time ( fig .",
    "[ spec_all ] ) .",
    "h@xmath0 has been used for further analysis in order to map the emission distribution in the system , thus gaining insight in the accretion structure and additional components . for this we used the tomography code by @xcite , with a midas interface replacing the original idl routines @xcite .",
    "note , that this technique makes use of the variability of the line due to the binary rotation .",
    "we also expect a contribution to the line of the extended remnant shell of rrpic which expands with a velocity around 400kms@xmath4 @xcite .",
    "however , since the shell is a circumbinary object , it is not effected by the binary rotation and any contribution to the line profile is a stable one .",
    "it does therefore not effect the here presented study .",
    "the radial velocities have been determined by applying the double gaussian method as described in @xcite . to evaluate the orbital period ,",
    "two broad gaussians have been fitted to each h@xmath0 line .",
    "the scargle algorithm @xcite as implemented in midas has been used to find the period in the radial velocities .",
    "as expected for data that covers one orbit only , the periodogram shows a broad maximum at @xmath5d .",
    "this maximum also includes the value of @xmath6d , which @xcite has found from time  resolved photometry .",
    "we hence use this much more precise value for the further analysis .    to compare the observed spectral features with the photometric lightcurves in the literature , it is essential to synchronise the respective phases",
    ". unfortunately , vogt s measurements are too far away in time from our observations for the accuracy of the period to yield an unambiguous zero phase .",
    "however , @xcite later showed the constancy of the period and even improved the value slightly , in addition @xcite and @xcite agree on the stability of the eclipse . bringing these information together , we finally made use of warner s lightcurve s3464 from december 1984 @xcite , determined its hjd of the eclipse as zero point , and added kubiak s period to create the ephemeris @xmath7 with e being the number of cycles .",
    "these values are of sufficiently high accuracy to be extrapolated and compared to our observations . defining the zero phase @xmath8 as the time of the eclipse",
    "we derive the orbital phase @xmath9 for each observational point as @xmath10 our observation starts @xmath11 cycles after warner s s3464 lightcurve .",
    "for the zero phase we hence derive an uncertainty of @xmath12d or 0.02 phases . for comparison with fig .",
    "[ spec_all ] , the first observation ( hjd = 2452328.578335 ) was obtained at phase @xmath13 , the typical time between two exposures is equivalent to 0.053 phase units .      in fig .",
    "[ eqw ] , the equivalent width of the h@xmath0line has been plotted against the orbital phase as derived from equation [ phi ] . a clear sinusoidal variation with a broad minimum around 1.0 and maximum around 0.5 orbits is detected .",
    "this behaviour agrees with measurements of the equivalent width by @xcite .    a comparison with published lightcurves ( @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite ) shows that the broad maximum in the lightcurves , which is partly eclipsed , does not coincide with maximal h@xmath0 emission , but rather with the broad minimum of the equivalent width .",
    "this indicates that it is probably caused by a region with enhanced continuum radiation , which is hence more optically thick , and therefore suppresses the h@xmath0 emission from this part of the disc .",
    "the maximal h@xmath0 flux instead comes from a region situated on the opposite side of the disc and coincides with the start of the minimum at @xmath14 ( named no1 by warner ) of the lightcurve .",
    "important for the later computation of the doppler maps is the fact that , within the errors of the equivalent width , no eclipse feature is found in the line .",
    "hence , all data can be used for the doppler tomography .",
    "still , the variation of equivalent width requires a careful handling , which is discussed in more detail in the corresponding section .",
    "while broad gaussians have been sufficient to measure the orbital period , greater care must be taken to determine those radial velocities , which shall be used to study the line profile in more detail and to derive orbital parameters . as the motion of the white dwarf should be best represented by the extreme high  velocity line wings , which originate from the innermost part of the disc , one aims for a maximum separation of the two gaussians without being contaminated by the continuum noise .",
    "this is usually achieved by a diagnostic diagram @xcite as shown in fig .",
    "[ dd ] , where the parameters of the radial velocity fit , @xmath15 are plotted as a function of the separation of the two gaussians .",
    "the fwhm of each gaussian was chosen to be 2 .",
    "the amplitude @xmath16 shows an extremely steep slope to higher velocities with separation @xmath17 and reaches a maximum value of about 350 kms@xmath2 .",
    "although high values of @xmath16 might be expected from a high inclination system such as rrpic , the value derived in this case is very improbable if not impossible . with @xmath18kms@xmath2 and @xmath19d",
    "the distance for the white dwarf to the centre of mass is 0.9 solar radii .",
    "the maximum possible distance between white dwarf and secondary for a cv with this period is roughly 1.6 solar radii .",
    "hence , the centre of mass would be situated nearer to the secondary than to the primary , which would imply a mass ratio @xmath20 , and does not allow for a stable mass transfer .",
    "additionally , we point out that the maximum values of @xmath16 are reached at very high separations , which are already far away from the line centre in a region of very low s / n .",
    "we conclude that even at high separation , the line is still affected by additional emission sources , which then must be large and reach either deep into the central part of the disc or do not belong to the disc at all , as discussed in section [ outflow ] .    as a consequence of the steep increase of @xmath16 , the ordinarily plotted ratio @xmath21 stays nearly constant and",
    "can not be used to indicate maximal possible separation .",
    "we instead plot the error of the sinusoidal radial velocity fit @xmath22 to give an idea of the uncertainties .",
    "the strong variation that starts around @xmath23 might indicate the point of optimal separation and favours a semi ",
    "amplitude @xmath24kms@xmath2 . in fig .",
    "[ rv34 ] the radial velocities for @xmath25 are plotted against the orbital phase .    after the initial distortion due to the double peaked line profile @xcite the zero phase settles at a value around 0.05 between separations @xmath26 and 20 .",
    "a similar value has also been found by @xcite who combined their lightcurves with radial velocities measured by @xcite .",
    "this value for the zero phase is , however , very likely to be influenced by additional emission sources , which give a strong bias at low separations .",
    "wyckhoff & wehinger state that they derived the radial velocities with `` classical methods '' , and therefore very probably used the total line for their measurements .",
    "hence , their zero phase can be assumed to be biased in the same way as our values at small d.    for higher separations ( @xmath27 and above ) , which are usually believed to more likely reflect the motion of the white dwarf , the zero phase reaches @xmath28 and stays almost constant afterwards .",
    "it therefore very likely corresponds to the superior conjunction of the white dwarf and gives an unambiguous input value for the subsequent doppler mapping .",
    "note that , since the orbital phase was selected in such a way that @xmath29 for the eclipse ( see equation [ phi ] ) , the zero phase @xmath30 indicates the difference between the phase of the eclipse and the zero phase of radial velocities ; i.e. the eclipse appears 0.16 orbits before the superior conjunction of the white dwarf ( see also fig .",
    "[ rv34 ] ) .",
    "this can only be explained with the assumption that not the disc as a whole is eclipsed , but rather an emission region on the leading side of the disc ( fig .",
    "[ pic3 ] ) .      for the interpretation of the phase dependent line profiles , the doppler tomography method as developed by @xcite has been applied . a doppler map @xmath31 displays the flux emitted by gas moving with the velocity @xmath32 .",
    "this deprojection is achieved due to the rotation of the binary system , as the projection of the velocity @xmath32 follows a sinusoidal radial velocity curve .",
    "hence , the line profiles can be transformed into a map @xmath31 without any assumptions about the actual velocity field .    to correct for the variation of the equivalent width",
    ", the input spectra have been normalised by the h@xmath0 emission line flux .",
    "the intensity values in the doppler map are hence to be interpreted as relative flux values only .",
    "furthermore , we corrected the orbital phase of the input spectra by the zero value @xmath28 .",
    "the final doppler map is given in fig .",
    "[ dop ] and shows the distribution of h@xmath0 emission sources in velocity coordinates .",
    "apart from the disc itself , which is clearly visible , two significant additional emission sources can be seen .",
    "the orientation of the map is chosen in such a way that the phase angle @xmath33 with respect to the zero point of radial velocities , is zero towards the top and increases clockwise .",
    "the smaller of the two emission sources is situated at a phase angle @xmath34 , a place that is usually identified with emission from the hot spot .",
    "the stronger emission , however , arises on the opposite side , @xmath35 away , at @xmath36 .",
    "the quality of the doppler map can be judged in several ways . in this paper",
    "a quantitative approach is made to compare the shape of the emission line in the original and reconstructed spectrum .",
    "the asymmetry of the line profile can be measured by a v / r plot . here",
    ", the line profile is divided in two halves , and v / r defined as logarithm of the ratio of the fluxes in the blue ( iolet ) and ed half @xcite . in fig .",
    "[ vrn ] , @xmath37 of the original and reconstructed line profile is plotted against the orbital phase .",
    "the residuals given below show no sign of periodicity , hence indicating the good quality of the fit .      in fig .",
    "[ swave ] the changing line profiles of the flux normalised h@xmath0 emission line are displayed as an image with emphasis on the faint outer parts of the line .",
    "one can clearly see that the line wings reach up to velocities of 1200kms@xmath2 and vary with the orbital phase .",
    "the classical explanation for this feature is that it is caused by gas circling the white dwarf at velocities of about 1200kms@xmath2 .",
    "however , there are some problems with this picture .",
    "according to fig .",
    "[ swave ] , the gas not only has these high velocities , but also changes its velocity by the same magnitude with phase ; it is completely on the side of negative velocities at phase @xmath38 and on the side of positive velocities at @xmath39 .",
    "as the high velocity gas is supposed to be in the inner part of the disc , this indicates a semi ",
    "amplitude @xmath40kms@xmath2 , which is a very unlikely value , especially as the distance of the white dwarf from the centre of mass in the doppler map indicates a much smaller @xmath16 .",
    "similar high velocity wings have been found in the balmer lines of the swsex  type systems , e.g. lspeg @xcite .",
    "they explain the wings and their variation with a modified disc ",
    "overflow model similar to the one developed by @xcite .",
    "there are certainly similarities between rrpic and swsex  type stars , as the orbital period is between 3h and 4h and the radial velocity phase lags behind the eclipse phase ( which we have explained by an eclipse of the emission source on the leading side ) . however , the dominant absorption feature around phase 0.5 , which is typical for swsex  type stars and probably related to the disc ",
    "overflow is not present in rr pic . also , if all accreted material were deflected over the disc , no hot spot could be present . however , some swsex  type stars are known to show emission sources on the trailing side of their discs .",
    "hence the possibility of part of the accretion stream flowing over the disc can not be ruled out for rrpic .",
    "a different explanation is that the high velocity gas does not stay inside the system but is actually ejected in the form of an asymmetric outflow , with maximum projected velocity of 1200kms@xmath2 .",
    "taking into account the proposed inclination @xmath41 @xcite the real outflow velocity has to be around 1350kms@xmath2 .",
    "this would explain the variation of the high velocity component as a lighthouse effect : the outflow emerges from one part of the disc only and is swept around with the rotation of the system . in this picture , both the high velocity itself and its varying amplitude are explained in a consistent way . including the information from phase @xmath38 of maximal negative velocity ( outflow towards us ) , the origin of the outflow coincides with the position of the isolated emission source on the leading side of the accretion disc .",
    "see fig . [ model ] for an explanatory sketch .",
    "additional evidence for the presence of an outflow in rrpic comes from the mapping of its remnant shell , which shows a bipolar structure in the form of an equatorial ring with some tails orthogonal to it @xcite .",
    "although this map shows the shell far outside the binary , the ring might well be fed by the asymmetric outflow from the binary . the fact that no pcygni profiles have been found in iue spectra of rrpic",
    "@xcite has been interpreted as rrpic having no outflow and that the shell is already decoupled from the binary .",
    "the asymmetric outflow can be considered as optically thin as it is visible in emission .",
    "any pcygni absorption has hence to be weak , and can furthermore only be produced during the phase when the outflow is directed towards the observer .",
    "it would hence smear out over normal exposure times , and is therefore not in contradiction with the observations .",
    "we have shown via a doppler map that two isolated emission sources are present in the disc of rrpic . combining the radial velocities with published lightcurves we come to a rather uncommon interpretation of the photometric eclipse as an eclipse of the leading side emission source ( see fig .",
    "[ pic3 ] ) rather than an eclipse of the hot spot as suggested previously by @xcite .",
    "putting all the information together , we confirm the working model of @xcite for rrpic in preference to the one of @xcite .",
    "although , as discussed in section [ dd ] , the superior conjunction of the white dwarf takes place 0.1 earlier in phase , this does not change their basic interpretation .",
    "warner s ( 1986 ) doubts of the model were based on the fact that no isolated emission from the leading side had been found in other cvs .",
    "meanwhile many systems with this structure have been found ( see @xcite for an overview ) , and this argument is no longer valid .    although common , no convincing explanation for isolated emission sources on the leading side of the disc has so far been presented . among other possibilities ,",
    "the presence of spiral shock waves has been discussed as possible explanation for similar features in other cvs ( see e.g. @xcite ) . due to their still enhanced mass transfer , long ",
    "period old novae should possess extended hot discs , and are therefore indeed candidates for possessing spiral shocks @xcite . however , although the emission sources in the disc of rr pic have a clearly elongated structure , neither time nor spectral resolution of our data is high enough to confirm this picture for rrpic .    the analysis of the high velocity wings of the h@xmath0 line yields two possible explanations for these wings and their variability .",
    "they may originate from a partial disc ",
    "overflow , or from an asymmetric outflow from the accretion disc , i.e. from the emission source on the leading side of the disc . in this case",
    ", a connection between the outflow of the binary and the ring  like structure of rrpic s shell seems plausible .",
    "deep , high resolution h@xmath0 images as well as high resolution spectroscopy of some metal lines might help to clarify this picture .",
    "99 becker r.h . , marshall f.e . , 1981 ,",
    "apj , 244 , l93 boffin h.m.j . , 2001 , in boffin et al .",
    ", eds , astrotomography . lect .",
    "notes on phys .",
    "573 , p. 69",
    "gill c.d . ,",
    "obrien t.j . , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 221 haefner r. , metz k. , 1982 , a&a , 109 , 171 haefner r. , schoembs r. , 1985 , a&a , 150 , 325 haefner r. , betzenbichler w. , 1991 , ibvs 3665 hellier c. , robinson e.l .",
    ", 1994 , apj , 431 , l107 kubiak m. , 1984 , acta astron . ,",
    "34 , 331 marsh t.r . , horne k. , 1988 , mnras , 235 , 269 rosini l. , bianchini a. , rafanelli p. , 1982",
    ", a&a , 108 , 243 scargle j.d . , 1982 , apj , 263 , 835 spencer jones h. , 1931 , cape obs .",
    ", 10 , part 9 spruit h. , 1998 , preprint , astro ",
    "ph/9806141 shafter , a.w . , 1983 ,",
    "apj 267 , 222 steeghs , d. , 2001 , in boffin et al .",
    ", eds , astrotomography . lect",
    ". notes on phys .",
    "573 , 45 tappert c. , 1999 , phd thesis , ruhruniversitt bochum tappert c. , hanuschik r. , 2001 , in boffin et al .",
    ", eds , astrotomography . lect .",
    "notes on phys . 573 , 119 tappert c. , mennickent r. , arenas j. , matsumoto k.",
    ", hanuschik r. , 2002 , submitted to a&a taylor c.j .",
    ", thorstensen j.r . , patterson j. , 1999 , pasp , 111 , 184 vogt n. , 1975 , a&a , 41 , 15 warner b. , 1986 , mnras , 219 , 751 wyckoff s. , wehinger p.a . , 1977 , in kippenhahn r. et al .",
    ", eds , the interaction of variable stars with their environment , iau colloq . 42 , p. 201"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present time  resolved optical spectroscopy of the old nova rrpic . </S>",
    "<S> two emission lines ( h@xmath0 and he i ) are present in the observed part of the spectrum and both show strong variability . </S>",
    "<S> h@xmath0 has been used for doppler tomography in order to map the emission distribution in this system for the first time . </S>",
    "<S> the resulting map shows the emission from the disc as well as two additional emission sources on the leading and trailing side of the disc . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore we find evidence for the presence of either a disc  overflow or an asymmetric outflow from the binary with velocities up to @xmath1kms@xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> the origin of the outflow would be the emission source on the leading side of the accretion disc .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    physical data and processes : accretion , accretion discs  stars : novae , cataclysmic variables  individual : rr pic . </S>"
  ]
}