{
  "article_text": [
    "boxy isophotes are a typical feature at the end of the bars of early type ( sb0 , sba ) barred galaxies seen not far from face - on .",
    "typical examples can be found in athanassoula , morin , wozniak et al .",
    "( 1990 ) ( ngc  936 , ngc  4314 , ngc  4596 ) , in buta ( 1986 ) ( ngc  1433 ) , in ohta , hamabe and wakamatsu ( 1990 ) ( ngc  2217 , ngc  4440 , ngc  4643 , ngc  4665 ) and in many other papers . loosely speaking ,",
    "the shape of these isophotes is rectangular - like .",
    "their main characteristic is that their small sides , at the largest distance of the isophotes from the galactic center , are roughly parallel to the bar minor axis ( athanassoula 1984 , athanassoula et al .",
    "1990 , elmegreen 1996 ) . in particular , athanassoula et al . ( 1990 ) use generalized ellipses to fit the isophotes of the bars in a sample of early - type strongly barred galaxies , thus describing quantitatively the result that the shapes of the isophotes are rectangular - like rather than elliptical - like .",
    "[ dss4314 ] is a dss image of ngc  4314 in @xmath1 and demonstrates a typical case of a galaxy with boxy isophotes at the end of its bar .",
    "we observe that the last isophotes of the bar are indeed rectangular - like . beyond the area of the boxy isophotes",
    "starts the spiral structure of this galaxy .",
    "there is a correspondence between the morphology of the boxy isophotes of the early type barred galaxies and the isodensities encountered in snapshots of several @xmath2-body models of bars .",
    "this was shown for the first time in a simulation that was run specifically for this purpose ( athanassoula et al .",
    "1990 , fig .  7 )",
    "in that paper this correspondence was underlined by measuring the rectangularity in the same way as in the observations .",
    "since then there have been several snapshots in @xmath2-body simulations reproducing this morphological feature ( see e.g. shaw , combes , axon et al .",
    "1993 ; friedli & benz 1993 ; debattista & sellwood 2000 ) .",
    "recently athanassoula & misiriotis ( 2002 ) in their @xmath2-body models describe this feature also quantitatively .",
    "we can thus conclude that both observations and numerical models clearly show that boxiness close to the end of the bars is a very frequently encountered phenomenon , and thus it should be related to the standard dynamical behaviour in such systems .",
    "early calculations of orbits in 2d static potentials have underlined the presence of rectangular - like periodic orbits at the 4:1 resonance region ( athanassoula , bienayme , martinet et al .",
    "1983 ; contopoulos 1988 ; athanassoula 1992a ) .",
    "they are either orbits of the x1 family on the decreasing part of the characteristic  towards lower @xmath3 values  in type-2 4:1 resonance gaps , or orbits at the ` 4:1 branch ' beyond the type-1 gap @xcite .",
    "these orbits , whenever they exist , support outer boxiness on the face - on views of the models .",
    "their mere presence , however , is not sufficient to explain the observed morphology . explanations based on the presence of rectangular - like planar 2d x1 orbits suffer from the following problems :    * the range of the jacobi integral over which one finds _",
    "stable _ rectangular - like x1 orbits ( in type-2 gaps ) or 4:1 orbits ( in type-1 gaps ) is in general narrow ( contopoulos and grosbl 1989 ) .",
    "furthermore , these orbits develop loops at the four corners , whose size increases considerably with energy , while the near - horizontal sections of the orbit approach the minor axis ( as in fig .",
    "3d in athanassoula 1992a ) .",
    "this happens for energies only a little larger than the energy at which the orbits become rectangular - like .",
    "orbits with loops can not easily reproduce the observed boxiness .",
    "thus , we have only a very small energy interval with useful orbits ( see fig .  8 in athanassoula et al .",
    "* poincar sections for an energy value within the small energy interval where rectangular - like orbits are stable , show that the size of the stability area is very small ( see e.g. fig .  21 in patsis et al .",
    "this renders the trapping of many non - periodic orbits around stable boxy periodic orbits rather difficult .",
    "it is characteristic that patsis , efthymiopoulos , contopoulos et al .",
    "( 1997b ) used dynamical spectra in order to trace tiny stability islands of rectangular - like orbits in a 2d ferrers bar potential .",
    "* in many models the orbital rectangles are not sufficiently elongated .",
    "they frequently are rather square - like , even in cases of strong bars ( as in fig .",
    "3c in athanassoula 1992a ) .",
    "besides the papers of contopoulos on non - linear phenomena at the 4:1 resonance region in 2d bars in the 80s , and the work of athanassoula and collaborators on the morphology of bar orbits in the early 90s , where the problem is explicitely stated , not much work has been done on this issue .",
    "nevertheless , from figures of orbits in models of 3d bars ( pfenniger 1984 ; 1985 ) one can infer that problems like the squareness of the rectangular - like orbits persist even if one considers also the third dimension of the bars .",
    "the morphology of single orbits , however , does not determine the boxiness of the isodensities of a model .",
    "the goal of the present paper is to reconsider the problem of rectangular - like isodensities in the framework of 3d orbital structure models , and , more specifically , to examine the contribution of the third dimension to the face - on orbital profiles .",
    "based on the models presented in skokos , patsis & athanassoula ( 2002a , b ; papers i and ii respectively ) , we investigate the parameters which favour the presence of boxy outer isophotes in the face - on profiles of 3d bars . as in most orbital structure studies , the models we present are not self - consistent .",
    "as underlined in papers i and ii , our goal is to study the orbital behaviour , and therefore the morphological changes , as a function of the model parameters . for this",
    "we consider even extreme cases , in order to make the effects clearest .",
    "we thus determine the main parameters that influence the boxiness of a model .",
    "we base our results not on the morphology of single orbits , but on collective appearance when orbits of more than one family are taken into account simultaneously . in parallel to this we study , as counterexamples , cases where the appearance of rectangular - like orbits close to the end of the bar is excluded .",
    "finally , we discuss the correspondence between boxiness observed in edge - on profiles and boxiness observed in the middle of the bars when viewed face - on .",
    "in this series of papers ( papers i , ii , and patsis , skokos & athanassoula 2002 , hereafter paper iii ) we study the basic families in a general model composed of a miyamoto disc of length scales a=3 and b=1 , a plummer sphere bulge of scale length 0.4 and a ferrers bar of index 2 and axial ratio @xmath4 . the masses of the three components satisfy @xmath5 and are given in table  [ tab : models ] .",
    "the length unit is 1  kpc , the time unit is 1  myr and the mass unit is @xmath6 . in the present paper",
    "we examine two additional models .",
    "one of them , model b2 , is characterized by a very strong bar , whose mass is 40% of the total , and whose remaining parameters are as in model b ( paper ii ) .",
    "the other additional model has different axial ratios than the rest of our model bars .",
    "it has @xmath7 , instead of @xmath8 , as all others .",
    "it is used to study the contribution of families related to the radial 3:1 resonance to the appearance of boxy isophotes at the end of bars .",
    "the rest of its parameters are as in model a1 , and we thus call it a1b",
    ". the basic properties of the models we present in this paper are summarized in table  [ tab : models ] .",
    "a fundamental conclusion of papers i and ii is that essentially the backbone for building 3d bars is the x1 tree of families of periodic orbits .",
    "the tree consists of the x1 planar orbits and of its 3d bifurcations at the vertical resonances . only in one case ( family z3.1s in model b )",
    "did we find a family which supports the bar without being introduced in the system after a x1 bifurcation . in the present paper",
    ", we use these families in order to present the face - on views of the skeletons of the models .",
    "we use for this purpose sets of weighted orbits as in paper iii . as we explained in paper iii , in order to build a profile of weighted orbits for a model , we first calculate a set of periodic orbits and pick points along each orbit at equal time steps . we keep only stable representatives of a family . the ` mean density ' of each orbit ( see  2.2 of paper iii ) is considered as a first approximation of the orbit s importance and is used to weight the orbit .",
    "we construct an image ( normalized by its total intensity ) for each calculated and weighted orbit , and then , by combining sets of such orbits , we construct a weighted profile .",
    "the selected stable orbits are equally spaced in their mean radius .",
    "the step in mean radius is the same for all families in a model .",
    "we underline the fact that the orbital profiles we present throughout the paper comprise only stable periodic orbits .",
    "as we have seen , the edge - on orbital profiles ( paper iii ) are of stair - type , which means that the families building the outer parts of the bars have the lowest @xmath9 .",
    "we are thus here mainly interested in orbits remaining close to the equatorial plane , since these orbits will contribute more to the surface density at the end of the bars .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     ratios for the models we studied in the present paper .",
    "a second quantity we can compare with galaxies and snapshots of @xmath2-body models is the ratio @xmath10 for the rectangular - like orbits .",
    "eye estimates show that the boxy outer isophotes at the end of the bar of strongly barred galaxies have a ratio @xmath10 typically larger than 2 ( e.g. ngc  936 , ngc  4314 , ngc  4596 ) .",
    "exceptional cases can be found in the literature but are not many ( see e.g. the not - rectified images of ngc  1415 in garcia - barreto & moreno ( 2000 ) ) .",
    "a more quantitative study has been made by athanassoula et al ( 1990 ) .",
    "they find that the axial ratios of the isophotes near the end of the bar are , for all the galaxies in their early - type strongly - barred galaxy sample , considerably larger than 2 . on the other hand , in",
    "most of our models the boxy orbits are quite square - like",
    ". ratios of boxy isophotes larger than 2 have been mainly found in the fast rotating bar case , where @xmath11 .",
    "the strong bar model d has @xmath12 , while in model b2 , where the mass of the bar is 40% of the total mass , we attained a @xmath10 ratio close to 2 . in the rest of the models the ratio was less than 1.4 .",
    "let us underline that , for studying the elongation of the rectangular - like isophotes observed in barred galaxies , one needs to combine orbits of several families instead of evaluating the properties of a single orbit or a single family .",
    "this is a result of the three dimensional character of our models and of the fact that we have bars built by orbits belonging mainly to the x1-tree .",
    "this effect is indicated by isodensities we plotted on some blurred images of our models .",
    "such a typical case is given in fig .",
    "[ isobl ] , for model b.    the small sides of the rectangular - like structure outlined by the isophotes reflect mainly the contribution of the rectangular - like orbits . however , the two large sides , parallel to the major axis of the bar , are due to the overlapping of orbits of the x1 , and z3.1s families .",
    "our models show that it is the pattern speed that mainly determines the elongation of the outer boxy orbits , .",
    "the orbits building the bar of model a3 are rectangular - like and could make a bar with the geometry encountered in the early - type bars with outer boxy isophotes .",
    "it is just the increase of @xmath13 that brought in the system the 2d family q0 and the 3d , stable x1v8 orbits .",
    "we note the morphological similarity of the q0 orbits with the outer boxy isophotes of ngc  4314 ( quillen , frogel & gonzalez 1994 ) , which have the form of a non - rectangular parallelogram ( cf .",
    "[ a3all]b with fig .",
    "[ dss4314 ] ) .",
    "we note that in model a3 the rectangular - like bar ends closer to corotation than the bars of the models for which the longest orbits are the x1 with loops along the major axis .",
    "this is consistent with the result found in patsis et al .",
    "( 1997a ) for the pattern speed of ngc  4314 , in which the boxy isophotes are very close to the corotation radius indeed .",
    "it is also obvious that , apart from the increase of the pattern speed , the increase of the strength of the bar favoured the elongation of the rectangular - like orbits .    model a2 , which is the slowest rotating case , is the other extreme of the face - on morphologies we encounter in our models . in this model , planar boxy orbits and projections of orbits on the equatorial plane",
    "are square - like , and very little elongated along the major axis of the bar ( fig .",
    "[ a2xy]c of the present paper , and fig.5 in paper ii ) .",
    "the development of loops at the apocentra of the x1 elliptical - like orbits , as well as in the projections on the equatorial plane of the x1v3 and x1v4 families , together with the almost circular x1@xmath14 orbits and the projections of the x1@xmath14v4 and x1@xmath14v5 families , give to model a2 a characteristic face - on morphology with the circular - like orbits surrounding all other orbits in the face - on projection .",
    "such a morphology could be linked to the existence of inner rings in barred galaxies .",
    "inner boxiness of the face - on profiles , much closer to the center than the corotation region , is associated mainly with the x1v1 orbits , i.e. with the 3d family born at the vertical 2:1 resonance . as we have seen in paper iii , in several models this family is responsible for peanut - shaped orbital structures in the edge - on views of the models .",
    "the face - on orbital skeletons of the models we present here show in another clear way what we noticed in paper iii , namely that the x1v1 family builds boxy- or peanut - shaped features which do not approach corotation .",
    "inner boxiness is not rare in galactic bars .",
    "typical examples of boxy isophotes in the middle of the stellar bars are ngc  3992 and ngc  7479 ( wilke , mllenhoff & matthias 2000 ) .",
    "the x1v1 orbits , or at least their representatives with the largest energy values ( see fig .  [",
    "a1xy]c , fig .",
    "[ a3xy]c and fig .  [ hxy]b ) , are boxy in their face - on views , but they also have a characteristic ` bow - tie ' morphology .",
    "inner boxiness is also supported by the z3.1s orbits , at large values of the energy , in model b.    a ` bow - tie ' morphology in models of the kind we study here can also be introduced by rectangular - like orbits at high energies .",
    "these orbits ( or more precisely their face - on projections ) develop loops , which , in some cases , stay close to the orbits that build the bulk of the bar .",
    "this is e.g. the case of the x1v5@xmath14 family in model b ( fig .",
    "[ mxy]b ) .",
    "when the rectangular - like orbits develop loops they also become of ` bow - tie ' shape . since their deviations from the equatorial plane increase with energy , their projections occupy almost the same area as the rectangular - like orbits of the same family , for lower energies , do . in model b , for @xmath15 , integrating even chaotic orbits for a _ small _ number of dynamical times ( of the order of 30 ) we get a bow tie morphology .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "[ bowtie ] .",
    "non - periodic elliptical - like orbits trapped around the x1 family not far from the center of the bar , as well as the projection of orbits trapped around the three - dimensional x1 bifurcations would fill more densely the area between the regions a and b ( and symmetrically between c and d ) , than between the regions a and c ( and b and d ) .",
    "this results from the elliptical - like shape of the projections of these orbits on the equatorial plane and the fact that they have their apocentra between the regions a and b ( and c and d ) .",
    "we note also the contribution of the x1v1 orbits to a ` bow - tie ' morphology of face - on profiles , as mentioned previously .    due to the presence of these families a bow - tie morphology , like the one found by barnes & tohline ( 2001 ) ,",
    "is not excluded from the usual barred morphology .",
    "nevertheless , we did not find orbits of a single family that can both enhance a rectangular - like structure at the end of the bar without loops at its four corners , and simultaneously enhance a bow - tie morphology .",
    "single families with bow - tie profiles in their face - on projections do not extend to the end of the bar ( x1v1 in figs .",
    "2c , 6c , 10b and x1v3 in fig .",
    "in this paper we discussed boxiness in the face - on views of 3d models , and , in general , their face - on orbital structure .",
    "we examined a large variety of possible 3d orbital behaviour , that could contribute to the boxiness in face - on views of barred galaxies .",
    "our main conclusions are :    1 .",
    "boxiness in the face - on views of 3d barred models is an effect caused by the co - existence of several families , each contributing appropriate stable orbits .",
    "the morphology of boxy isodensities / isophotes is not necessarily similar to the morphology of individual stable , rectangular - like orbits . in some cases ( fig .",
    "[ isobl ] ) the iso - contours can be narrower than the orbits .",
    "2 .   in models with the right morphological parameters ,",
    "we find appropriate building blocks to account for the rectangular - like isophotes or isodensities seen in early type barred galaxies and in some @xmath2-body simulations .",
    "3 .   in 3d models",
    "the family of the planar x1 orbits is subject to vertical instabilities , and thus in several cases it has considerable instability strips at the 4:1 resonance region .",
    "this should be an obstacle for x1 planar orbits to account for the rectangular - like shape of bars , since unstable periodic orbits can not trap regular orbits around them .",
    "however , at the instability regions of the x1 we find other stable families , whose ( @xmath3,@xmath16)-projected orbital shapes are , at least near their bifurcations , very similar to those of the x1 .",
    "they have orbits which are stable over large energy intervals and also have ( @xmath3,@xmath16)-projected shapes that can enhance a rectangular - like bar outline .",
    "thus the inclusion of the third dimension in the models enhances the possibility of rectangular - like isodensities .",
    "4 .   there are families of periodic orbits that support boxiness in the outer bar regions , as well as families that support boxiness in somewhat more inner parts .",
    "the standard families belonging to the former category are the stable representatives of the x1 orbits ( close to the radial 4:1 resonance ) , and of the families x1v5 , x1v7 and x1v9 .",
    "the families q0 and x1v8 play a major role in model a3 and thus could be essential for fast rotating bars . nevertheless , the geometry of a boxy feature becomes evident mainly in weighted profiles , where orbits from one or more families are considered .",
    "inner boxiness is associated mainly with the x1v1 family and , in model b , with family z3.1s .",
    "orbits of the families related to the 3:1 resonance ( t1 and t2 ) may contribute in some cases to the boxiness of the profiles .",
    "the t1 family can do this by supporting motion parallel to the minor axis of the bar in intermediate distances between the galaxy center and corotation , and the t2 family by enhancing the sides of the boxes parallel to the major axis .",
    "the consideration of several families of orbits for building a profile may lead to boxy features close to the end of bars , with @xmath10 ratios different from the corresponding ratios of individual orbits or families of orbits .",
    ".   an essential conclusion of our investigation is that outer boxiness is favoured by fast bar pattern speeds , while in the slow - rotating model the bar is surrounded by almost circular orbits .",
    "these are the two extremes of an orbital behaviour that changes as the pattern speed varies from one model to the other .",
    "the near - circular orbits could be building blocks for inner rings .",
    "the fast rotating bar has a length 0.95 of its corotation radius , while the slow one only 0.68 .",
    "this indicates that boxy bars end close to their corotation , while the end in slow rotating bars might be associated with @xmath17 resonances of lower @xmath18 values .",
    "the rectangular - like orbits in models with faster bars are more elongated than the corresponding orbits in models with slower bars . when modeling individual barred galaxies , for which we know a priori that in general @xmath19 , the elongation of the orbits can be used to give estimates of , or at least set limits to , the bar pattern speed , without the use of kinematics , which is not always available . 10 .",
    "the second most efficient way of stretching rectangular - like orbits is to increase the mass of the bar .",
    "this mechanism , however , is restricted by the fact that in very strong bars the families of periodic orbits which support the boxy face - on profiles are unstable over large energy intervals .",
    "outer boxy , ` bow tie ' morphology is possible in some models by combining orbits of several families .",
    "a necessary condition for this is to have 4:1 type orbits with loops close to the main bar .",
    "inner ` bow tie ' morphology can be due to the presence of x1v1 orbits ( fig .",
    "[ a1xy]c , fig .  [ a3xy]c , fig .  [ hxy]b ) .    athanassoula e. , 1984 , phys",
    "114 , 319    athanassoula e. , 1992a , mnras 259 , 328    athanassoula e. , 1992b , mnras 259 , 354    athanassoula e. , bienaym o. , martinet l. , pfenniger d. , 1983 , a&a 127 , 349    athanassoula e. , morin s. , wozniak h. , puy d. , pierce m.p .",
    ", lombard j. , bosma a. , 1990 , mnras , 245 , 130    athanassoula e. , misiriotis a. , 2002 mnras 330 , 35    barnes e.j . , tohline j.e . , 2001 ,",
    "apj 551 , 80    buta r. , 1986 , apjss 61,631    contopoulos g. , 1980 , a&a 81 , 198    contopoulos g. , 1988 , a&a 201 , 44    contopoulos g. , grosbl p. , 1989 ,",
    "a&ar , 1,261    debattista v.p .",
    ", sellwood j.a . , 2000 ,",
    "apj 543 , 704    elmegreen d. , 1996 , in barred galaxies , buta r. , crocker d. , elmegreen b. ( eds ) , asp 91 , p.23    friedli d. , benz w. , 1993 , a&a 268 , 65    garcia - barreto j.a . ,",
    "moreno e. , 2000 , apj 529 , 832    gerssen j. , 2002 in `` disks of galaxies : kinematics , dynamics and perturbations '' , e. athanassoula , a. bosma and r. mujica ( eds ) , asp 275 , 197    ohta k. , hamabe m. , wakamatsu k. , 1990 , apj 357 , 71    patsis p.a . ,",
    "athanassoula e. , quillen a.c .",
    ", 1997a , apj 483 , 731    patsis p.a . , efthymiopoulos c. , contopoulos g. , voglis n. , 1997b , a&a 326 , 493    patsis p.a .",
    ", skokos ch .",
    ", athanassoula e. , 2002 - _ paper iii _",
    "mnras , 337 , 578    pfenniger d. , 1984 , a&a 134 , 373    pfenniger d. , 1985 , a&a 150 , 112    shaw m. , combes f. , axon d.j . , wright g.s . , 1993 ,",
    "a&a 273 , 31    quillen a.c . , frogel j.a .",
    ", gonzalez r.a . , 1994 , apj 437 , 162    skokos ch . , patsis p.a .",
    ", athanassoula e. , 2002a - _ paper i _ , mnras 333 , 847    skokos ch .",
    ", patsis p.a .",
    ", athanassoula e. , 2002b - _ paper ii _ , mnras 333 , 861    wilke k. , mllenhoff c. , matthias m. , 2000 , a&a 361 , 507",
    "we acknowledge fruitful discussions and very useful comments by g.  contopoulos and a.  bosma .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for valuable remarks , which improved the paper .",
    "this work has been supported by e@xmath20et ii and k@xmath21 1994 - 1999 ; and by the research committee of the academy of athens .",
    "chs and pap thank the laboratoire dastrophysique de marseille , for an invitation during which , essential parts of this work have been completed .",
    "chs was partially supported by the `` karatheodory '' post - doctoral fellowship no 2794 of the university of patras .",
    "all image processing work has been done with eso - midas .",
    "dss was produced at stsi under u.s .",
    "government grant nag w-2166 .",
    "the images of these surveys are based on photographic data obtained using the oschin schmidt telescope on palomar mountain and the uk schmidt telescope ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the conditions that favour boxiness of isodensities in the face - on views of orbital 3d models for barred galaxies . using orbital weighted profiles </S>",
    "<S> we show that boxiness is in general a composite effect that appears when one considers stable orbits belonging to several families of periodic orbits . </S>",
    "<S> 3d orbits that are introduced due to vertical instabilities , play a crucial role in the face - on profiles and enhance their rectangularity . </S>",
    "<S> this happens because at the 4:1 radial resonance region we have several orbits with boxy face - on projections , instead of few rectangular - like x1 orbits , which , in a fair fraction of the models studied so far , are unstable at this region . </S>",
    "<S> massive bars are characterized by rectangular - like orbits . </S>",
    "<S> however , we find that it is the pattern speed that affects most the elongation of the boxy feature , in the sense that fast bars are more elongated than slow ones . </S>",
    "<S> boxiness in intermediate distances between the center of the model and the end of the bar can be attributed to x1v1 orbits , or to a combination of families related to the radial 3:1 resonance .    </S>",
    "<S> @xmath0 wasyfont    = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupeurmn @mathgroup@bold@groupeurbn @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupmsamn @mathgroup@bold@groupmsamn = `` 019 = ' ' 016 = `` 040 = ' ' 336 = \" 33e = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 = = = = = = = =    [ firstpage ]    galaxies : evolution  kinematics and dynamics  structure </S>"
  ]
}