{
  "article_text": [
    "asca observations have revealed that iron k emission lines in the x - ray spectra of many seyfert 1 galaxies are broad ( kunieda 1995 ; mushotzky et al .",
    "1995 ; tanaka et al . 1995 ; iwasawa et al . 1996 ; yaqoob et al . 1995 ; fabian et al . 1995 and references therein ) .",
    "the presence of a fluorescent iron k@xmath1 line and a high energy hump above 10 kev in the ginga spectra ( e.g. pounds et al .",
    "1990 ; nandra & pounds 1994 ) has been explained by reflection from cold thick material subtending a large solid angle ( @xmath2 sr ) at the x - ray source .",
    "an accretion disk can realize such a geometry and velocities implied from the resolved linewidths , which greatly exceed those in the optical broad line region , support it .",
    "a recent long ( @xmath3 d ) asca observation of the bright seyfert 1 galaxy mcg6 - 30 - 15 has provided the best - resolved line profile so far ( tanaka et al .",
    "the iron k@xmath1 emission line is broad and skewed to low energies , with little emission above the rest energy of 6.4 kev , close to the line peak , and considerable emission down to 5 kev .",
    "the immediate interpretation of the line is that it originates by fluorescence in the very inner part of an accretion disk ( e.g. within 20 ) about a massive black hole , illuminated by a primary x - ray source .",
    "the line shape and skewness are due to the combined effects of doppler shifts and gravitational redshift from matter in a deep gravitational potential well , moving in directions within 30@xmath4 from perpendicular to the line of sight . since no other plausible broadening mechanism appears to work ( fabian et al .",
    "1995 ) , we will discuss the line properties in the framework of the ` diskline ' model .",
    "mcg6 - 30 - 15 is a nearby seyfert 1 galaxy ( @xmath5 ) , and one of the best - studied active galaxies in x - ray wavebands ( nandra , pounds & stewart 1990 ; nandra & pounds 1994 ; fabian et al . 1994 ; reynolds et al . 1995 ) .",
    "this galaxy usually shows large amplitude x - ray flux changes on time scales of hours and days .",
    "this makes it a good target for studying the response of the line to continuum changes .",
    "however , the line flux is too low to study short timescales and we can only sensibly comment on changes , or lack of changes , on timescales of longer than @xmath6  s. the count rate attributable to the line is @xmath7 , meaning that each detector accumulates about 100 ct per line component per @xmath8 s which is a large fraction of an operational day . in a simple illumination model",
    "we could expect the line to follow the continuum , with lags for the light crossing time ( see e.g. , stella 1990 ) .",
    "since this time is much shorter than a day ( it is @xmath9 s at @xmath10 gravitational radii for a black hole of mass @xmath11 ) , we do not expect to detect any lag . as we shall demonstrate , changes are still observed , the explanation for which is less straightforward .",
    "we detect significant line profile changes during the observation in which the continuum varied with a maximum amplitude by a factor of 7 .",
    "the importance of transverse doppler and gravitational redshift increase as the region where the line originates comes closer to the central hole . if the line arises from an accretion disk about a black hole , the line shape ( fabian et al .",
    "1989 ; laor 1991 ) and its variations therefore provide information about the location and movement of the line emitting regions .",
    "the changes imply that the spatial distribution of the emission is not constant with time .",
    "this is the first step in mapping the inner accretion flow of an active galactic nucleus .",
    "mcg6 - 30 - 15 was observed by asca ( tanaka et al .",
    "1994 ) from 1994 july 23 to 1994 july 27 , with the solid - state imaging spectrometer ( sis ) in faint/1ccd mode and the gas imaging spectrometer ( gis ) in ph mode .",
    "the most well - calibrated chip was chosen for the observation in each sis .",
    "data reduction was performed using the asca standard software , ftools and xselect .",
    "the presence of a spectral feature due to partially ionized gas in the line of sight , the so - called  warm absorber \" , established in this source ( nandra & pounds 1992 ; fabian et al .",
    "1994 ; reynolds et al . 1995 ) , has been studied in detail for the same observation ( otani et al .",
    "the spectral distortion of the incident power - law due to this is known to affect changes below 2 kev ( fig . 1 ; also e.g. , fabian et al . 1994 ) . to avoid this complexity",
    ", we use the 310 kev data for spectral analysis .",
    "a detailed description of the sis data selection is given by otani et al .",
    "the data taken when the source elevation is between 5 and 25 degree above the bright earth are also used here , although contrary to standard practice , since our restriction to hard x - ray data renders these data usable .",
    "about 200 ks data are left for spectral analysis , and the x - ray light curve from a single sis detector in the 0.510 kev band is given in fig .",
    "2 . for gis spectra",
    ", we applied the standard data selection criteria ; source elevation higher than 5 degree above the earth rim , cut - off rigidity larger than 6 gev c@xmath12 , and the spacecraft not in the south atlantic anormaly ( saa ) .",
    "the gis is relatively insensitive to the line shape , because it has worse spectral resolution than the sis . on the other hand , the gis has better efficiency over the higher energy band above 5 kev . due to these complementary characteristics of the two detectors ,",
    "we mainly use the sis data to characterize the line shape , and the gis data to help determine continuum slopes .",
    "the background data are taken from a nearby blank field in the same detector field of view for each dataset with the same time coverage .",
    "the underlying continuum is fitted by a single power - law absorbed by the galactic column density ( @xmath13 ) . even though a strong high - energy hump in the ginga spectrum above 10 kev is known in this source ( e.g. , nandra & pounds 1994 ) , this reflection component affects the line flux by only @xmath145 per cent in observed asca spectra . in the following study , spectra from shorter intervals",
    "have fewer counts than in the total spectrum so the statistical error dominates the uncertainties on the line intensity .",
    "modelling of the characteristic shape of the line is basically carried out in two ways ; a double gaussian or a diskline model . in fits with two gaussians ,",
    "we assume line energies and dispersions for the narrow and broad components to be the same as for the total spectrum ( tanaka et al .",
    "1995 ) , unless noted otherwise ; @xmath15 kev , @xmath16 kev for the broad component , and @xmath17 kev , @xmath18 kev for the narrow component , respectively .",
    "the line flux of each component is derived from the sis spectra , because the separation of the two components is not appropriate for the gis energy resolution .    the diskline model for a schwarzschild geometry by fabian et al .",
    "( 1989 ) is used in most cases , assuming a cold accretion disk inclined at 30 degree ( tanaka et al .",
    "1995 ) . among the parameters of the diskline , the rest line energy , @xmath19  kev appropriate for k - shell emission from iron less ionized than fexvii , and disk inclination , @xmath20 degree , are used .",
    "the other parameters are the radial emissivity index , @xmath1 , assuming a power - law type radial emissivity function ( @xmath21 ) of the line , inner radius of the disk , , whose innermost radius of stable orbit for schwarzshild geometry is 6 , disk outer radius , , and normalization of the line .",
    "the inner and outer radii are in unit of gravitational radius ,  = @xmath22 .",
    "errors quoted to best - fit values are at the 90 per cent confidence level for one interesting parameter while data points in plots have 1@xmath23 error bars .",
    ".the seven datasets .",
    "count rates in the 310 kev band from s0 and s1 are given .",
    "the time range for each dataset is shown in fig .",
    "2 . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]      finally , light curves of selected energy bands for the broad red wing ( b ; 4.66.2 kev ) , the narrow core ( n ; 6.26.7 kev ) and the neighbouring continuum ( c ; 2.44.6 kev ) are studied with data binned every 4048 s. from these light curves , we made ratio plots : 1 ) the narrow core band to the continuum band ( n / c ) ; 2 ) the red wing band to the continuum band ( b / c ) ; and 3 ) the narrow core band to the red wing band ( n / b ) , averaging the s0 and s1 detectors .    the hypothesis that the data are constant was assesed by the chi - squared test .",
    "chi - squared values for the best - fit constant model are 77.52 for n / c = @xmath24 , 182.9 for b / c = @xmath25 , and 71.87 for n / b = @xmath26 , for 84 degrees of freedom , respectively .",
    "significant variation is found only in the b / c light curve ( fig .",
    "increases of b / c in the last part of the observation are partly due to the warm absorber ( 1020 per cent ; 0.030.07 in the b / c ) . nevertheless there is also a decrease during the bright flare .",
    "the lack of any significant result from n / b is mostly due to poor statistics .",
    "mcg6 - 30 - 15 continues to show significant continuum variability ( i.e. , factor of @xmath14 2 changes ) over a wide range of timescale from about 100 s ( reynolds et al 1995 ) to days .",
    "if we assume that the iron line is at 6.4 kev and thus that the disk is not ionized , then the accretion must be at most a few per cent of the eddington rate ( ross & fabian 1993 ) . the observed x - ray luminosity ( 0.510 kev ) is @xmath27  so it is likely that the mass of the black hole , @xmath28 , is @xmath29 . for a typical emission radius of 10@xmath30 , with @xmath31 , the light - crossing time ( of that radius ) is then 500@xmath32 s and the orbital period is @xmath33 s. unless @xmath34 is 0.2 or less , the occasional variation on a timescale of 100 s means that the emission region is smaller than the radius , and is probably a few hot spots above the accretion disk .",
    "relatively small radii ( @xmath35 20 ) for the line emitting region implied by the diskline fit ( tanaka et al .",
    "1995 ) suggests that the x - ray continuum source should be just above the disk surface , and orbits around the cental hole with the disk ( fabian et al .",
    "1995 ) .",
    "we detect significant change not only in line flux but also in line profile ( fig . 4 , 5 , 6 , and 7 ) .",
    "a clear result comes from spectral fits to time - ordered data . characterizing the iron line as a narrow plus broad component",
    ", the intensity of the narrow component correlates with the continuum flux whereas the intensity of the broad component possibly anti - correlates .",
    "these line variations are evident in the two time intervals , the bright flare ( _ i-3 _ ) and the deep minimum ( _ i-7 _ ) .",
    "as the ew of the narrow component can be a constant , the broad component is plausibly responsible for the line shape changes found in this study .",
    "this is consistent with the study of the light curves of the broad line / continuum bands and the narrow line / continuum bands ( section 3.4 and fig .",
    "since the light - crossing time of the line - emitting radius is shorter than each interval , we do not expect to detect any lag of the line . the correlated variability of the narrow line component is then reasonable , although the behaviour of the broad component is difficult to understand .",
    "however , results from the intensity - sorted data suggests that this behaviour of the line components is no longer true , on taking shorter time scales .",
    "the first attempt using the whole dataset ( section 3.3.1 ) is largely affected by the extreme lines during the above two time intervals . discarding the bright flare and the deep minimum , the intensity - sorted spectra provides clues to line variability accompanying continuum change on shorter time scales of less than @xmath6 s ( section 3.3.2 ) .",
    "the correlation between the narrow component and the continuum disappears and a clear increase in the broad component during the in high continuum flux data in which many brief flares are seen .    summarizing the results of the line variability ;",
    "1 ) the narrow component followed the continuum if its variation is averaged over a few @xmath6 s , 2 ) typical continuum changes on short time scale ( from @xmath36 s to @xmath6 s ) appear to be followed by an immediate response of the broad component but not of the narrow component , and 3 ) the broad component changes in a different manner when the source changes its flux over long timescales ( a few @xmath6 s ) such as seen in the bright flare and the deep minimum , which makes the line profile special during those time intervals .",
    "implications from this behaviour are discussed below .",
    "the huge red tail observed in the deep minimum suggests that the line should be produced at very small radii ( e.g. , 1.2410 ) requiring the kerr geometry of a spinning black hole in which an accretion disk is dragged into inner radii closer to the black hole than in a schwarzschild geometry . since enourmous gravitational effects are operating at such small radii , the line from the blue side is also gravitationally shifted into the red wing . as a result",
    ", almost all line emission goes to the broad red wing ( fig .",
    "the observed ew of this line ( @xmath37 kev ) is much larger than normally expected value even if a reasonable overabundance of iron is taken into account ( e.g. , george & fabian 1991 ; resynolds , fabian & inoue 1995 )",
    ". considerable radiation from very small radii of the disk can however be expected to return to the disk surface by light bending for a rapidly spinning black hole ( returning radiation ; cunningham 1976 ) .",
    "it is therefore possible that reflection will be enhanced by a factor of 2 ( see table 5 in cunningham 1976 ) so that a large equivalent width of the iron line is produced .",
    "strong reflection is also consistent with the result of the warm absorber , reflection and the broad line fit ( fig . 8 and table 4 ) .",
    "another possible reason is an ionized disk .",
    "a factor of @xmath38 larger ew for fexxv than cold iron could occur ( matt , fabian & ross 1991 ; ycki & czerny 1992 ) , combined with the returning radiation .",
    "a fit with the diskline model from laor ( 1991 ) for the line energy 6.7 kev appropriate for fexxv gives a slightly better fit that the case of 6.4 kev ( @xmath39 ) with a steeper @xmath40 ( see table 3 ) .      on the other hand ,",
    "the line shape is dominated by the narrow core around 6.4 kev during the bright flare ( _ i-3 _ ) . here",
    "the narrow component follows the continuum whilst the broad component does not ( section 3.2.3 ) .",
    "the unusually high narrow - core / red - wing ratio does not fit the diskline model .",
    "a possible explanation for this is given here .",
    "the brightening of the continuum in this interval is of rather a longer time scale ( @xmath41 ks ) than the other many brief flares in which x - ray flux increases / decreases on time scales typically less than 10 ks .",
    "suppose that during this interval most of the activity is from a large flare at say 7occurs above the blue ( approaching ) side of the disk .",
    "( a ring at this radius still has a large blue horn . )",
    "the line then comes mostly from the blue side of the disk where the blue peak dominates and the red wing of the line is depressed . as noted by fabian et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , the effects of beaming from orbital motion of the disk on the line and continuum could help slightly here .",
    "the beaming factor for the photon rate @xmath42 where @xmath43 is the redshift , is about @xmath44 per cent at a radius of 7  for a disk inclined by 30 degree .",
    "the expected slightly larger ew of the narrow component is compatible with the observed ew ( fig .",
    "4 ) . in this case",
    ", the duration of the bright flare ( @xmath41 ks ) should be about half an orbit of the accretion disk or less , which implies @xmath45 . given a continuum flaring radius of @xmath46(@xmath47 ) , the mass of the black hole is then about @xmath48or more .",
    "( if the mass is less than this , the result could be due to a succession of flares on the approaching side of the disk . )      the variability of the both broad and narrow components of the line is found to be separated into long and short timescales ( section 4.2 ) .",
    "this suggests we are seeing different features of line production .",
    "especially , the behaviour of the broad component in the bright flare and the deep minimum are remarkably distinct from the others as discussed above .",
    "the anticorrelation between the broad component and continuum seen in the time - ordered data might be a chance occurrence and requires confirmation by future observations .",
    "the different line response depending on timescale can be related to where the continuum and the line are produced .",
    "rapid continuum changes such as due to many distinct brief flares could occur mainly at small radii ( @xmath49 ) where only a broad component is produced so that the broad component follows the flares .",
    "the constancy of the narrow component on short timescales may then be due to a constant background of emission from larger radii ( say @xmath50 ) , which changes only on longer timescales .",
    "( if instead the lack of instant response of the narrow line is due to the time lag effect , the black hole mass can be constrained as a function of @xmath51 and a typical time scale of the continuum changes , e.g. if a typical time scale of each brief flare is about 5000@xmath52 s , then the light crossing time of the line emitting radii 500@xmath32 is larger than that giving @xmath53 . ) in this picture the bright flare is due to a flare or succession of flares on the blue side of the disk at @xmath54 and the deep minimum is due to a simultaneous reduction in the background of outer emission ( @xmath55 ) and an increase of inner emission ( @xmath49 ) .",
    "the net result on line variability is that the line is variable but complicated and we have found no simpler single explanation other than a moving pattern of emission from a highly relativistic disk . complicated line variability may result from multiple x - ray sources flaring at different radii on the disk and involve orbital motion of the disk .",
    "a larger detector ( or a much brighter source ) is required in order to make firm progress .",
    "we note that a similar relationship between equivalent width of iron - k line and continuum flux has been found in another broad skewed line object iras  183255926 ( iwasawa et al .",
    "the ew is 500800 ev during the asca observation , higher than the @xmath56 ev during the ginga observation ( iwasawa et al .",
    "the larger value of equivalent width of the asca data was obtained at an averaged flux level a factor of 3 lower than in the ginga observation .",
    "it generally appears that a large ew tends to be observed when a source is faint ( e.g. , iwasawa & taniguchi 1993 ) .",
    "we now comment on reflection from the putative molecular torus .",
    "since the torus is thought to be outside the broad line region , @xmath14 1 pc away from the central source , the torus emission basically remains constant at a certain averaged intensity level , whereas the reflection from the disk is supposed to follow the continuum source immediately . if there is a torus , when the source is faint such as in the deep minimum , then the torus emission should be pronounced .",
    "such a reflection spectrum is inevitably accompanied by a sharp 6.4 kev emission line ( e.g. , george & fabian 1991 ) , as observed in the asca spectrum of ngc  2992 ( weaver et al .",
    "1996 ) , and incompatible with the observed spectrum of the deep minimum .",
    "an upper limit of the narrow line equivalent width is @xmath57 ev , of which @xmath58 ev must be taken by the diskline if the narrow core keeps a constant ew . taking account that the average flux level is greater by a factor of @xmath38 than that in the deep minimum",
    ", any line from a torus imposed on the average continuum of mcg6 - 30 - 15 has @xmath59 ev .",
    "this value is much smaller than @xmath60 ev observed in ngc2992 ( weaver et al .",
    "1996 ) , and implies that the reflection from the torus has little effect on the continuum of the deep minimum , and that its solid angle is small ( @xmath61 ) , or the column density is less than @xmath62 .",
    "the iron k line in mcg6 - 30 - 15 shows significant variability both in intensity and profile when the continuum source changes . selecting the two extreme time - intervals corresponding to a bright flare and a deep minimum",
    ", we find a clear difference from the profile at other , intermediate , flux levels . at these two times",
    "the narrow core clearly correlates with the continuum flux whereas the broad wing possibly anti - correlates .",
    "particularly , the line profile of the deep minimum shows a huge red tail for which the kerr metric is appropriate .",
    "these changes in line profile are understandable in terms of a relativistic accretion disk around a spinning black hole .",
    "contrarily , on short timescales of less than @xmath6 s , we find evidence that the broad wing increases as the continuum flares , whereas this time the narrow core remains unchanged .",
    "this suggests that different regions produce the line at different times .",
    "we thank all the member of the asca team who made this long observation possible .",
    "ki thanks the pparc , jsps and the british council for support .",
    "acf thanks the royal society for support .",
    "csr thanks pparc for support .",
    "co is supported by special postdoctoral researchers program of riken .",
    "wnb thanks the usa national science foundation for support ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report on the variability of the iron k emission line in the seyfert 1 galaxy mcg6 - 30 - 15 during a four - day asca observation . </S>",
    "<S> the line consists of a narrow core at an energy of about 6.4 kev , and a broad red wing extending to below 5 kev , which are interpreted as line emission arising from the inner parts of an accretion disk . </S>",
    "<S> the narrow core correlates well with the continuum flux whereas the broad wing weakly anti - correlates . </S>",
    "<S> when the source is brightest , the line is dominated by the narrow core , whilst during a deep minimum , the narrow core is very weak and a huge red tail appears . </S>",
    "<S> however , at other times when the continuum shows rather rapid changes , the broad wing is more variable than the narrow core , and shows evidence for correlated changes contrary to its long time scale behaviour . </S>",
    "<S> the peculiar line profile during the deep minimum spectrum suggests that the line emitting region is very close to a central spinning ( kerr ) black hole where enormous gravitational effects operate .    0_h_@xmath0 0_q_@xmath0 </S>"
  ]
}