{
  "article_text": [
    "among the many aspects of the impact history of the terrestrial planets related to asteroids , the crater record on the moon and the intense collisional event collectively called the late heavy bombardment ( lhb ) or the terminal lunar cataclysm around 4 ga ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) is particularly interesting .",
    "evidence of lhb began to accumulate when ar ",
    "ar isotopic analyses of apollo and luna samples suggested several impact basins of the nearside of the moon had been produced during the 3.884.05 ga interval @xcite .",
    "recent results on the impact ages of lunar meteorites also suggest that an intense period of bombardment on the moon occurred about 3.9 ga , i.e. 0.50.6 billion years after the formation of the earth ",
    "moon system @xcite .",
    "the discussion on the existence or non - existence of the lunar cataclysm is still somewhat controversial .",
    "meanwhile the search for the possible dynamical cause of lhb is as important as the geological and geochemical research of the event itself . at present",
    ", there is no good consensus on the nature or the source(s ) of the impactors .",
    "recent papers have suggested that lhb may have been due to a large flux of asteroids and comets ( kuiper belt objects ) in the inner solar system caused by the orbital migration of the outer planets @xcite .",
    "another possible cause of the lhb that has been suggested previously  and one that we examine in the present work  is a temporary and heavy asteroid shower created by a large collisional event in the main asteroid belt @xcite .",
    "@xcite evaluated the number of impactors produced in different size ranges by disruption events that might have created some of the existing asteroid families .",
    "their estimates show that an impact flux from such an asteroid - disruption event , lasting 230 million years in the form of asteroid showers , could be responsible for the lunar cataclysm .",
    "previous studies , including @xcite , @xcite and @xcite , have estimated the collision probability of asteroid fragments and the timescale of its flux on the terrestrial planets .",
    "however , all these studies have been obliged to use somewhat simplified dynamical models , and were limited to simulations with a relatively small number of particles ( a few hundreds to a few thousands ) , mainly because of computer resource limitations .",
    "also , no previous study has included the orbital dynamics of the earth  moon system when estimating the collisional probability of the asteroid fragments on the earth or on the moon . because the typical collision probabilities with the planets are a few percent or less ,",
    "previous simulations have typically yielded only a few colliders , and consequently their quantitative estimates of collisional probabilities have significant uncertainties .",
    "as we move closer towards the goal of accurately calculating the collision frequency and probability of asteroid fragments on terrestrial planets , we would like to improve the statistics by simulating much larger numbers of particles and also assessing the effects of the modeling simplifications in previous studies .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to provide a better statistical result on the collision probability of asteroid fragments with the terrestrial planets .",
    "we consider asteroid fragments coming from low inclination orbits at the @xmath0 secular resonance in the main asteroid belt .",
    "we choose this resonance because it is presently one of the strongest resonances for the transport of asteroids and meteorites to the inner solar system . for our study",
    ", we numerically analyze the orbital evolution of more than 20000 test particles , with initial conditions that simulate hypothetical asteroid disruption events in the vicinity of the @xmath0 .",
    "we also performed an additional set of orbital simulations of a large number of test particles as they evolve within the earth s activity sphere , including the dynamical effects of the earth - moon orbit .",
    "( the initial conditions for the latter simulations are derived from the orbital distribution function of those particles originating from the vicinity of the @xmath0 that manage to enter the earth s activity sphere . ) for the range of initial source locations that we consider in this study ( low inclination orbits near the @xmath0 ) , our results provide the best estimates currently available for asteroid collision probabilities on each of the terrestrial planets , as well as for the distributions of impact velocity , impact angle and spatial distribution of impacts on the moon .",
    "we start with test particles near / in the @xmath0 resonance and numerically integrate their orbital evolution under the gravitational effect of eight major planets , from mercury to neptune .",
    "the major planets are assumed to have their present masses and orbital elements .",
    "all celestial bodies are treated as point masses dynamically , although planetary and solar physical radii matter when we calculate collisions between a test particle ( i.e. an asteroid fragment ) and a large body .",
    "no consideration is given to post - newtonian gravity , tidal force , gas drag , solar equatorial bulge , and other non - gravitational or dissipative effects such as the yarkovsky effect .",
    "to emulate disruption events that create a swarm of asteroid fragments , we assume isotropic and equal - velocity disruptions ; all fragments have the same and isotropic initial ejection velocity , @xmath2 .",
    "we chose @xmath3 or 0.2 km / s , and we also tested @xmath4 km / s for comparison .",
    "we selected seven initial positions of asteroid fragments to sample a range of locations in the vicinity of @xmath0 in orbital element space ( @xmath5 , @xmath6 , @xmath7 ) as in fig .",
    "[ fig : init - eia ] .",
    "the detailed initial conditions are shown in the upper part of table [ tbl : initial ] .",
    "we created sets of orbital elements of asteroid fragments as follows : ( 1 ) select an appropriate point in the osculating orbital element space as a disruption center .",
    "this fixes six orbital elements of the disruption center ; equivalently , six variables of three dimensional position and velocity of the disruption center @xmath8 in cartesian coordinate .",
    "( 2 ) give an ejection velocity , @xmath9 , as in table [ tbl : initial ] to each of the hypothetical asteroid fragments so that a fragment s velocity becomes @xmath10 in cartesian coordinates .",
    "for each fragment , we add @xmath9 with the same magnitude @xmath11 with different directions using random numbers so that the disruption becomes `` isotropic '' .",
    "( 3 ) finally , convert the coordinates and velocities of the fragments , @xmath12 , into six osculating orbital elements ; the resulting @xmath13 distributions are shown in fig .  [ fig : init - eia ] .",
    "for the currently existing asteroid families , estimates of the initial ejection velocity of asteroid fragments are in the range of @xmath30.2 km / s @xcite . however , this is an overestimate , because account must be taken of the yarkovsky thermal force which works effectively on asteroid families to increase their velocity dispersion over time @xcite .",
    "thus , our adopted values of @xmath2 , are actually somewhat larger than those of the disruptions that created the observed asteroid families , but are appropriate for the putative breakup of a parent body as large as 10001500 km in diameter , which , as we show later , would be necessary to cause the lhb in this scenario .    for each of the seven initial disruption locations , we placed about 3000 test particles ( 20756 particles in total ) , and numerically integrated their orbital evolution for up to 100 million years .",
    "when a test particle goes within the physical radius of the sun or that of planets , we consider the particle to have collided with that body , and remove it from the computation .",
    "also , when the heliocentric distance of a test particle gets larger than 100 au , the particle s integration is stopped .",
    "the `` survivors '' are particles that remain within 100 au heliocentric distance without colliding with the sun or any planet for 100 myr .",
    "for the numerical integration we used the regularized mixed - variable symplectic method ( swift_rmvs3 by @xcite ) .",
    "we should explain here the reasons why we have selected initial conditions that are very close to the @xmath0 resonance .",
    "we do not necessarily think that these are realistic initial conditions of actual asteroid disruptions in the main belt .",
    "large asteroids are not likely to remain close to a strong resonance , such as the @xmath0 , for hundreds of million years ( which is the time interval between the planet formation era and the lhb ) . thus , large collisional disruptions , if they occur , would be expected to be centered away from strong resonances .",
    "however , the fragments that eventually collide with the inner planets are delivered into planet crossing orbits by entering strongly unstable resonance zones . in this manuscript",
    "our focus is on obtaining the collision probability of asteroid fragments that are delivered to the inner solar system via the @xmath0 .",
    "we use as many test particles as computationally feasible in order to obtain the basic orbital statistics data for relevant research . in this sense , we think our choice of initial conditions of test particles close / in the @xmath0 resonance is justified and useful for our purpose .",
    ".the number of test particles @xmath14 , osculating orbital elements @xmath15 of each disruption center , ejection velocity @xmath2 , and the collision probability of asteroids that hit the sun and planets in our numerical integrations . the fraction of particles that went beyond 100  au and that of the particles that have survived over 100 million years are also shown .",
    "no collisions with neptune or uranus were observed in our simulations .",
    "[ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the resulting collision statistics is summarized in table [ tbl : stat - clones ] .",
    "now we have about @xmath16 collisions on the earth @xmath17 and a few thousand on the moon @xmath18 .",
    "overall collision probability of the asteroid fragments on the moon @xmath19 is about 0.1% , and the number ratio between the collisions on the earth and on the moon @xmath20 is about 2224 , which is similar to an analytical estimate @xcite .    =    =    not surprisingly , the time - evolution of the impact flux of clones strongly depends on the initial location of asteroid fragments ( fig .",
    "[ fig : col_m ] ) .",
    "different initial conditions produce a variety of impact decay rates .",
    "however , the time - integrated statistics of the impact velocity , the impact angles , and spatial distribution of impacts on the earth or the moon are very similar for all initial condition sets ; we show the results for one initial condition set ( case 2 ) in fig  [ fig : vrth ] .",
    "this result indicates that the time - integrated characteristics of the impacts on earth or moon are not strongly sensitive to the initial velocity dispersion of the asteroid fragments or their distance from the resonance .",
    "however , we can not rule out a dependence of these distributions on initial inclination , since all our initial condition sets had similar low inclinations .    the variety of impact decay rates and the distribution of impact velocity and angles obtained here can be used in future work to create a synthetic crater record of the moon to compare with the actual lunar craters .",
    "we have also calculated the spatial distribution of the impacts on the lunar surface .",
    "( note the leading / trailing asymmetry evident in fig  [ fig : rvi ] . )",
    "this can be used for comparison with the geographical data of the lunar crater distribution which exhibits global asymmetries @xcite .",
    "detailed comparison will appear in future publications .",
    "we have explored the dynamical evolution of test particles with initial conditions near the @xmath0 resonance in order to simulate the orbital evolution of fragments from hypothetical asteroid break - up events . compared with previous studies such as @xcite or @xcite ,",
    "our simulations follow nearly two orders of magnitude larger number of particles .",
    "we calculated the collision probabilities on each of the terrestrial planets and on the sun , and the dynamical lifetimes of asteroid fragments .",
    "our improved statistics shows that the collision probability of asteroid fragments on the earth is about 3% and on venus is about 46% , not strongly sensitive to initial conditions in the vicinity of the @xmath0 resonance in the low inclination part of the inner asteroid belt ( table [ tbl : initial ] ) .",
    "these numbers are slightly different from the numerical results presented in @xcite that had yielded the collision probability of test particles from the @xmath0 region on the earth as 5.5% and that on venus as 1.8% .",
    "we also performed a set of orbital simulations of billions of cloned asteroid fragments inside of earth s activity sphere , including the dynamical motion of the moon using the orbital distribution function of the particles calculated by the long - term orbital integration described above . from these simulations , we have obtained the collision probability , impact velocity , impact positions and impact angles of asteroid fragments on the moon",
    ". these will be useful in a future study to compare with the observed lunar crater record .",
    "so far our simulations have only tested the particle dynamics with the current lunar orbit .",
    "but at 4 ga the moon could have been closer to the earth ( cf . * ? ? ?",
    ". the higher lunar orbital velocity and the greater gravitational focusing effect due to the lunar proximity to the earth could both produce a dynamical effect on the collision probability of asteroids .",
    "models of lunar evolution suggest that the moon would experience a large increase in its orbital semimajor axis very early in its history and then gradually move away from the earth over its remaining history ; the distance and orbital velocity of the moon with respect to earth at the time of the lhb depend upon model parameters ( tidal dissipation functions ) .",
    "this problem will be explored in a future study , as it might help to test models of lunar evolution .",
    "regarding the collision probability of the asteroid fragments on the moon , we obtained a small value , @xmath1% .",
    "the total mass of the lhb impactors on the moon is estimated as @xmath21% lunar mass @xcite .",
    "hence , if we ascribe lhb to a single asteroid disruption in the vicinity of the @xmath0 resonance , we would need a very large parent body , as large as 10001500 km in diameter .",
    "( moreover , the parent body would be required to be very close to the @xmath0 resonance and to disrupt while it was in this short - lived orbit ) .",
    "this size should be considered a lower limit , because the collision probabilities would generally be lower for asteroid fragments from initial orbits of higher inclination or further from the @xmath0 or from weaker resonances than the initial condition sets that we have simulated .",
    "considering the fact that in the present main belt there is no asteroid larger than 1000 km diameter , the required size might seem rather improbable . we might need to consider the possibility that two or more asteroid disruptions happened at the time of lhb .",
    "another argument against the likelihood of the large asteroid breakup hypothesis was recently presented @xcite that showed that the lhb crater size distribution is quite consistent with the size distribution of asteroidal projectiles from the main asteroid belt .",
    "the main belt asteroids have a complex and distinct size distribution ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) probably as a result of a collisional cascade @xcite , and it is quite different from what would be expected for the fragments in a single collisional disruption ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "both arguments above suggest that we should reject the large - asteroid - disruption hypothesis as a mechanism for the lhb .",
    "the more likely cause of lhb may lie in the sweeping of strong resonances through the asteroid belt due to the orbital migration of giant planets @xcite .",
    "in such a mechanism , the @xmath0 secular resonance would be amongst the most powerful for causing asteroids to be excited into terrestrial planet - crossing orbits .",
    "the results presented here on the dynamics of asteroid impactors emerging from the vicinity of the @xmath0 could be useful for the further study of this possible mechanism of the lhb .",
    "we note that in the present paper we have investigated only the dynamical effects of a stationary resonance , not a migrating resonance .",
    "collision probabilities and impact velocities of asteroids might be different , depending on whether the resonance region is fixed ( stationary ) or migrating ( sweeping ) .",
    "this is because in the vicinity of a resonance , there is a large range of timescales for the excitation of eccentricity , and there are differing amounts of phase space volume with the short versus long timescales .",
    "the short timescale zone enhances particle eccentricities quickly , so the impact velocity of an asteroid ( with the planets and the moon ) will be higher , but the impact probability will be smaller . on the other hand , long timescale zone around a resonance is a source of asteroids that hit the planets with smaller impact velocity but with a higher probability because the gravitational focusing is more effective at lower velocity encounters . when resonances migrate due to planetary migration , the relative importance of the short timescale and the long timescale resonance zones would depend upon the speed of planetary migration .",
    "future modeling of this mechanism is needed , especially the comparison of collision probabilities and impact velocities of asteroids of these two cases .",
    "it would also be important to obtain improved direct estimates the time duration of the lhb because it is directly related to the speed of resonance migration . for this purpose ,",
    "more accurate chronology of lunar impact craters would help to constrain the dynamical mechanisms .",
    "this requires further lunar exploration , including sample - return missions .",
    "the authors are grateful to the two referees of this paper , alessandro morbidelli and bill bottke , who suggestions substantially improved the quality of the manuscript .",
    "this study is supported by the grant - in - aid of the ministry of education of japan ( 16740259/20042005 ) and by nasa research grants nng05gi97 g ( nasa - origins of solar systems research program ) and nng05gh44 g ( nasa - outer planets research program ) .",
    "gladman ,  b. , migliorini ,  f. , morbidelli ,  a. , zappal ,  v. , michel ,  p. , cellino ,  a. , froeschl ,  c. , levison ,  . , bailey ,  m. , and duncan ,  m. dynamical lifetimes of objects injected into asteroid belt resonances .",
    "science 277 , 197201 , 1997 .",
    "hartmann ,  . ,",
    "ryder ,  g. , dones ,  l. , and grinspoon ,  d. the time - dependent intense bombardment of the primordial earth / moon system . in : canup ,",
    "r. and righter ,  k. ( eds . ) , origin of the earth and moon , the university of arizona press , tucson , arizona , pp .  493512 , 2000 .",
    "ivezi ,  . , tabachnik ,  s. , rafikov ,  r. , lupton ,  . , quinn ,  t. , hammergren ,  m. , eyer ,  l. , chu ,  j. , armstrong ,  . , fan ,  x. , finlator ,  k. , geballe ,  . , gunn ,  . , hennessy ,  . , knapp ,  . , leggett ,  . , munn ,  . , pier ,  . , rockosi ,  . , schneider ,  . , strauss ,  . , yanny ,  b. , brinkmann ,  j. , csabai ,  i. , hindsley ,  . ,",
    "kent ,  s. , lamb ,  . ,",
    "margon ,  b. , mckay ,  . , smith ,  . , waddel ,  p. , and york ,  .",
    "solar system objects observed in the sloan digital sky survey commissioning data .",
    "j. 122 , 27492784 , 2001 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a large disruption in the main asteroid belt can cause a large flux , an `` asteroid shower '' , on the terrestrial planets . </S>",
    "<S> we quantitatively examine the hypothesis that such an event was the cause of the lunar late heavy bombardment ( lhb ) . </S>",
    "<S> we performed numerical integrations of about 20000 test particles starting in the vicinity of the @xmath0 secular resonance in the main asteroid belt . </S>",
    "<S> the purpose of these integrations is to calculate , for each of the terrestrial planets , the collision probability of asteroids coming from an asteroid break - up event in the inner part of the main belt . </S>",
    "<S> compared with previous studies , we simulate nearly two orders of magnitude larger number of particles , and we include the orbital effects of the eight planets , mercury to neptune . </S>",
    "<S> we also examined in detail the orbital evolution of asteroid fragments once they enter the earth s activity sphere , including the effect of the earth  moon orbit . </S>",
    "<S> we obtained the collision probability , the distributions of impact velocities , impact positions , and impact angles of asteroid fragments on the moon . </S>",
    "<S> the collision probability with the moon ( @xmath1% ) suggests that a fairly large parent body , 10001500 km in diameter , is required if the lhb event is to be ascribed to a single asteroid disruption . </S>",
    "<S> an even larger parent body is required for less favorable initial conditions than we investigated here . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that an asteroid disruption event is not a viable explanation for the lhb .    </S>",
    "<S> asteroid , celestial mechanics , resonance , collision , crater </S>"
  ]
}