{
  "article_text": [
    "the vast majority of spiral galaxy rotation curves are flatter than newtonian predictions at large distances from galactic centers @xcite .",
    "galaxies that do not show this behavior often show peculiar morphologies or perturbing interactions .",
    "this asymptotic flatness of rotation curves , which is not perfect ( for a more in - depth discussion of this point see , _",
    "e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , disagrees with the newtonian prediction in which the circular orbital speed due to the gravity from a galaxy s luminous material should decrease at distances which enclose substantial fractions of a galaxy s visible mass .",
    "this type of discrepancy is usually viewed as evidence for a non - luminous mass component , known as a dark matter halo .",
    "this picture of luminous matter embedded in dark matter halos has become the paradigm of galactic structure , and recent work involving galaxy clusters @xcite has presented strong evidence that this accurately reflects astrophysical reality . since a precise mass distribution of the visible matter is difficult to determine directly , the dark matter distribution is also not known .",
    "previous studies ( _ e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter bsk ) have found that the choice of dark matter distribution significantly impacts the derived mass of the luminous material .",
    "a different phenomenological approach to rotation curve fitting is provided by the fitting formula originally proposed by milgrom @xcite which he termed mond , for `` modified newtonian dynamics . ''",
    "the original goal of mond was to use only the luminous matter to explain two widely observed properties of spiral galaxies ; asymptotic flatness of galactic rotation curves and the well - known tully ",
    "fisher relation @xmath1 @xcite . a tight relation between a galaxy s luminosity @xmath2 and the asymptotic value of the galaxy s circular speed @xmath3 appears to be valid for all varieties of spirals , high and low surface brightness as well as barred and unbarred galaxies @xcite .",
    "@xcite has convincingly argued that luminosity is actually a stand - in for total baryonic mass ; _ i.e. _ , the same tully  fisher relation holds for both low and high surface brightness spirals if baryonic mass ( stars and gas ) is used in place of luminosity . when this baryonic tully - fisher relation is examined , @xmath4 @xcite .",
    "these observations are built into the mond formalism as follows .",
    "the total acceleration due to a gravitating object is given by the expression @xmath5 which relates the total acceleration @xmath6 to the newtonian acceleration @xmath7 through a function @xmath8 satisfying the limiting forms @xmath9 when @xmath10 and @xmath11 when @xmath12 @xcite .",
    "the new universal constant @xmath13 km / s@xmath14 is obtained from fits to measured rotation curves and is the same for all galaxies .",
    "the exact form of the interpolating function is essentially unconstrained by rotation curve data ; throughout this paper we use @xmath15 @xcite .",
    "it has long been realized that equation  ( [ mondeq ] ) violates conservation of linear momentum ; a more acceptable gravitational modification alters the poisson equation for the gravitational potential @xmath16 @xcite , @xmath17.\\ ] ] this modification of the gravitational field explicitly conserves energy and momentum , as it is based on a lagrangian formulation .",
    "however , in the limited case of spiral galaxies like those considered here , the force law modification of equation  ( [ mondeq ] ) is a sufficiently accurate approximation .    in the inner regions of typical spiral galaxies , the characteristic acceleration scale @xmath18 and the gravitational force reduces to the usual newtonian force . in the outer regions of spiral galaxies , @xmath12 ( the so - called mond regime ) leading to the acceleration having a 1/@xmath19 dependence , asymptotically flat rotation curves , and an enclosed mass varying like the flat rotation speed to the fourth power . assuming a constant mass - to - light ratio @xmath20  results in the tully  fisher relation .",
    "a number of previous studies have utilized equation  ( [ mondeq ] ) to describe rotation curves @xcite .",
    "their success in accurately modeling rotation curves with one free parameter ( two if a bulge is present ) rivals dark matter halo models that require at least two additional parameters .",
    "the empirical accomplishments suggest that regardless of the veracity of the hypothesis that newtonian dynamics is modified , equation  [ mondeq ] ( the milgrom relation ) is a powerful and compact method for characterizing the rotational kinematics of spiral galaxies .    in this work , we regard the milgrom relation as an empirical fitting formula for rotation curve data .",
    "in particular , we make no assumptions about properties of dark matter halos , or modifications to gravitation , from which the milgrom relation might arise . but as emphasized in @xcite , equation  ( [ mondeq ] ) is _ the _ effective force law for the visible matter in spiral galaxies , regardless of whether the force comes from a distribution of dark matter or from mond , which seems increasingly unlikely in the face of evidence like that presented in @xcite ( but see also * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this paper remains agnostic about the ontological status of the milgrom force law .",
    "however , we note that if galactic dark matter is taken as a certainty , then the success of the milgrom relation in predicting spiral galaxy rotation curves reflects an underlying dynamical process in galaxy formation which is not well understood and is deserving of further scrutiny . in this work",
    ", we are interested in determining i ) the extent to which this dynamical relation holds and ii ) specific situations in which the relation might not hold .",
    "this paper performs milgrom fits to the same sample of spiral galaxies considered in bsk , and provides a statistical comparison with the dark matter halo fits .",
    "the halo profiles considered in bsk are the familiar ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter nfw ) @xmath21 where @xmath22 is a characteristic density and @xmath23 is a scale length ; pseudo - isothermal ( pi ) @xmath24 with central density @xmath25 and core radius @xmath26 ; and a simple power law @xmath27 along with a newtonian stars - only fit which is useful for comparing with both milgrom and dark halo fits .",
    "sample selection , photometric and kinematic data , and modeling procedures are discussed in   [ data ] .",
    "along with the results of milgrom fits to this data (   [ parvals ] ) , we obtain the @xmath20-color relation for these models (   [ colors ] ) .",
    "this sample of galaxies contains 8 hydra cluster galaxies , and we focus on these galaxies to investigate the claim that milgrom models produce @xmath20  values that closely agree with population synthesis predictions and therefore provide likely estimates of luminous mass .",
    "we also compare the milgrom model fits to the dark halo fits from bsk , utilizing a bayesian technique that quantitatively compares models with different numbers of free parameters .",
    "a description of this technique along with model comparisons is given in section [ modcomp ] .",
    "section [ system ] discusses the impact of systematic distance uncertainties . finally , we discuss two anomalous galaxies in   [ gals ] , and consider the validity of these statistical goodness - of - fit measures in the presence of known systematic errors in our underlying assumptions .",
    "color gradients within individual galaxies and unobserved gas point to small variations in their mass - light ratios , at a level which naturally explains milgrom fit discrepancies .",
    "bsk contains a detailed discussion of the data and fitting methods used in this analysis , and the interested reader is pointed there for a detailed description . briefly",
    ", we use a sample of 40 high surface brightness galaxies with @xmath0-band images and fabry - perot two - dimensional velocity maps .",
    "these data have been provided by povilas palunas and ted williams and a thorough description of the acquistion and reduction of the data can be found in @xcite .",
    "we decompose the @xmath0-band images into disk and bulge components when necessary .",
    "the disk is assumed to be radially symmetric and infinitesimally thin and the bulge is assumed to be spheroidal .",
    "a mass model is determined once the mass - light ratios for the disk ( @xmath28 ) and the bulge ( @xmath29 ) are specified . despite evidence for gradients in @xmath20  factors (",
    "_ e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we first consider @xmath20  values to be spatially constant ; we relax this assumption in   [ varyml ] . the @xmath0 subscript indicates mass - light ratios determined from @xmath0-band photometry .",
    "we neglect any contribution from gas , as we have no information about the radial distribution of gas in the galaxies in our sample ; however , the gas in late - type galaxies like those in our sample is likely to contribute @xmath30 of the circular speed at any radius @xcite . neglecting it will cause a slight systematic overestimate of @xmath28  and can lead to models mildly underpredicting circular speeds in the outer parts of galaxies .",
    "it could be argued that omitting the gas contribution will cause our stars - only milgrom models to describe the data worse than other models simply because we are not including all relevant information ; _ i.e. _ , our milgrom models are born at a disadvantage .",
    "however , our milgrom models do not show any systematic trends indicating that large amounts of gas would improve the models ; the milgrom models do not systematically underpredict the rotation speeds at the edge of the kinematic data .",
    "we discuss the impact of this omission in more detail for two interesting galaxies in   [ gals ] .",
    "the disk - bulge mass model determines the newtonian circular speed @xmath31 as a function of angular separation from the center of the galaxy .",
    "this is converted to a circular speed @xmath32 as a function of distance from the center of the galaxy , using the angular diameter distance to the galaxy given by the hubble distance ( systematic errors associated with this simple distance assumption are discussed in sec .  [ distances ] ) .",
    "equation  [ mondeq ] converts this newtonian circular velocity to a milgrom - relation circular velocity .",
    "the newtonian disk - bulge mass model is also combined with the standard dark matter halo models ( eqs .",
    "[ nfwrho ] [ isorho ] , and [ plrho ] ) to give the total rotation curves in these cases .",
    "the rotation curve inferred from the model mass distribution is compared with the actual galaxy rotation as measured by the fabry - perot maps . throughout this paper",
    ", we fix the position angle @xmath33 , inclination angle @xmath34 , and systemic velocity @xmath35 of each galaxy at the values deduced from earlier fits of axisymmetric flow patterns to our kinematic data @xcite .",
    "we have found the values of these parameters that minimize @xmath36 between the two - dimensional velocity map and a planar axisymmetric flow pattern .",
    "the fit therefore yields a set of mean orbital speeds , and their uncertainties , at equally - spaced radii which we show as the `` data '' in subsequent figures illustrating rotation curves .",
    "since we fit axisymmetric mass models , we could , in principle , fit only this one - dimentional rotation curve , which represents the speed averaged in annular bins , provided the weights are computed correctly .",
    "however , the full two - dimensional maps have several important advantages , including clear identification of outlying pixels and identification of non - axisymmetric velocity patterns ( usually bars or spirals ) which cause systematic errors in rotation curves obtained from one - dimensional velocity measurements . of course",
    ", identifying non - axisymmetric patterns is only half the battle .",
    "we are looking towards collecting data for a sample chosen with minimal spiral and/or bar structures that will involve fewer systematic effects and will allow better model discrimination .",
    "the mass model incorporating disk and bulge components gives a newtonian circular velocity @xmath32 and acceleration @xmath37 .",
    "equation  [ mondeq ] then gives a total acceleration @xmath38 ; equating these accelerations with centripetal accelerations give us the milgrom circular speeds .",
    "note that for the galaxies considered here , the simple acceleration approximation in eq .  [ mondeq ] gives essentially the same answer as the physically more realistic poisson - like eq .",
    "[ poisson ] which is numerically more challenging to solve .",
    "using previously determined projection angles and systemic velocities @xcite , which are held fixed , we project a one - dimensional speed profile into a two - dimensional velocity map .",
    "this model velocity map is compared to the data velocity map , pixel by pixel .",
    "a small number of pixels exhibit what are clearly anomalous inferred velocities ; these are almost all isolated pixels in outer regions of galaxies , where the velocity is much different than the smooth velocity field defined by the surrounding pixels .",
    "these points are due to imperfect filtering of cosmic rays and unmodelled line emission in the data analysis pipeline , which spuriously fits the pixels as having high velocity and low dispersion .",
    "to reduce the influence of these non - normal errors , we find the best - fit values for @xmath28  and @xmath29  by minimizing the tukey biweight parameter @xcite , @xmath39 where @xmath40 , @xmath41 and @xmath42 are the respective measured and mass - model velocities in pixel @xmath34 , @xmath43 is the measurement standard error on @xmath41 , @xmath44 is a constant , and @xmath45 is the number of data points .",
    "note that in the limit @xmath46 , this reduces to the usual expression for reduced chi - squared @xmath47 .",
    "while data values that differ from the model prediction by @xmath48 contribute to @xmath49  almost exactly as for the conventional @xmath50 , the contribution from data values that are farther from the model prediction by @xmath51 does not change as the parameters are adjusted , and outlying data therefore do not influence the resulting parameter values . @xcite",
    "recommend @xmath52 , but non - circular flow patterns in our galaxies suggest that a larger value would be more appropriate ; after some experimentation we find @xmath53 eliminates the influence of the extreme outlying velocities while allowing the great majority of the pixels to contribute to the fit with almost full weight .",
    "only a handful of pixels per galaxy image are ignored using this procedure .",
    "the best - fit @xmath49 , @xmath28  and @xmath29  parameters , statistical uncertainties ( @xmath54 ) , and systematic uncertainties ( @xmath55 ) for the milgrom mass models are given in table  [ mltab ] .",
    "we also include the ratio of the distance to the edge of the kinematic data @xmath56 to the disk scalelength @xmath57 for each galaxy . on average , the kinematic data extends to @xmath58 and covers the visible disk .",
    "the uncertainty calculations are discussed in the next paragraph .",
    "the average @xmath28  is 1.9 and the average @xmath29  is 2.9 , with wide variation in both values . generally , the milgrom model values are lower than the newtonian stars - only values ; the ratio of @xmath20  between the milgrom models described here and the newtonian stars - only models of bsk are 0.6 and 0.5 for the disk and bulge components , respectively .",
    "statistical uncertainties have been calculated using markov chain monte carlo ( mcmc ) techniques ( _ e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) to map out allowed regions of parameter space .",
    "projections of the boundary which encloses the most likely 68% of the models then provide the statistical uncertainties .",
    "the average statistical uncertainties are 0.08 for @xmath28  and 0.3 for @xmath29 .",
    "the quoted systematic uncertainties in the fitted @xmath59  values are due to the uncertainties in the galaxy s inclination and position angle .",
    "a previous paper @xcite estimated systematic uncertainties in inclination and position angles caused by spirals and other nonaxisymmetric structure in the galaxies .",
    "the best - fit value plus the estimated high and low limits for each of the two projection angles yield nine different combinations of inclination and position angle which give nine separate estimates for @xmath59  values .",
    "we take the systematic uncertainty in a @xmath59  value to be half the range of these nine @xmath59values . as in bsk ,",
    "the systematic uncertainties dwarf the statistical ones with an average @xmath60 of 0.5 and an average @xmath61 of 0.8 .",
    "figure  [ rcs ] illustrates the rotation curves of six galaxies ( assuming fixed hubble distances ) .",
    "the best - fit milgrom models ( solid lines ) are shown along with the data points derived from velocity maps .",
    "for comparison , we also show the pi halo models ( dot - dashed lines ) from bsk .",
    "the top two panels are for galaxies in which the milgrom fit is favored over the various bsk halo models .",
    "the middle set of panels show fits to galaxies with nonaxisymmetric structure in which the milgrom fit is less favored than the other bsk models .",
    "the bottom panels show curves for axisymmetric galaxies in which the milgrom fit is less favored than the bsk models .",
    "these galaxies will be discussed in more detail in ",
    "one of the most striking things about this figure is the close similarity bewteen the milgrom and halo curves ; the differences in circular speeds between the models shown are rarely much larger than 10 km / s .",
    "large differences in likelihoods between the models are due to small variations in model velocities over very large numbers of pixels in the two - dimensional velocity maps .",
    "stellar population synthesis models predict correlations between galaxy color and @xmath28  value , with red galaxies having larger @xmath28values than blue galaxies ( _ e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "as in bsk , we have created galaxy colors obtained from the eso - lv aperture magnitudes , as recorded in the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) . in principle , we should compare the @xmath28  with the color of the disk alone , but ned gives magnitudes of the disk and bulge combined .",
    "the bulge light in our mostly late - type galaxies is a small fraction , typically @xmath62 , of the total in the @xmath0-band , so any correction for the bulge to the total color is likely to be small .",
    "we have corrected the ned magnitudes for galactic extinction using values from @xcite and for internal extinction using the prescriptions of @xcite .",
    "we estimate errors in our colors to be around @xmath63mag .    in bsk",
    ", we found that the model @xmath20  values for the galaxies in this sample did not have any trend , and instead follow a flat distribution , albeit with large scatter .",
    "we present here the color-@xmath28  relation for the milgrom models for these same galaxies . figure  [ lincomp ] shows the @xmath28  value of each galaxy plotted versus its dereddened color for newtonian stars - only models ( top frame ) and milgrom models ( bottom frame ) .",
    "the error bars reflect the statistical and systematic uncertainties added in quadrature .",
    "galaxies marked by squares have no bulge components .",
    "the solid lines in each frame represent the correlation given in @xcite .",
    "the dashed lines are the best - fit linear fits to the data .",
    "contrary to the findings of bsk , we see a trend in the milgrom color-@xmath20  plane similar to that expected by stellar population models .",
    "the slopes of these lines show some discrepancy but there is still a large scatter in our points .",
    "this sample of 40 galaxies contains 8 which belong to the hydra cluster .",
    "the color-@xmath28  plot of these galaxies is shown in figure  [ cluster ] .",
    "as before , the @xcite correlation is shown as a solid line , while the best linear fit to the data ( marked by diamonds ) is the dashed line .",
    "this linear fit appears to accurately describe the correlation present in the data with little scatter .",
    "the large offset between the two lines is surprising since @xcite found that mond @xmath64 values matched the @xcite line remarkably well .",
    "there are a number of possible explanations of the discrepancy between the hydra galaxies and the @xcite correlation .",
    "one possibility is that the offset is due to errors in the adopted distances to these galaxies ( see   [ system ] for a detailed discussion of the impact of distance on mond @xmath20  values ) .",
    "however , @xcite give a fundamental plane - based , malmquist bias corrected distance to the hydra cluster of @xmath65 mpc and the galaxies in this plot have adopted distances that average to @xmath66 mpc . metallicities and initial mass functions of galaxies have also been shown to strongly impact the slope and intercept of the color-@xmath28  correlation @xcite ; these possibilities would require further observations to explore in more detail .",
    "previous studies have rarely attempted direct comparisons between milgrom fits and halo model fits .",
    "here we compare the bayesian probabilities of halo models to milgrom models , taking into account the differing number of free parameters in the models .",
    "a brief summary of the necessary bayesian probability theory is given in the appendix .",
    "the model comparisons here are based on statistical fits only .",
    "evaluation of some systematic sources of error and their potential impact on straightforward statistical model comparison are considered in the following sections .",
    "we are considering several different models with different numbers of parameters and we would like to know which provides the most economical description of the data .",
    "specifically , we have compared our milgrom fits to various halo fits ( pi , nfw , and power law halos ) , along with newtonian stars - only fits for illustration ( for a full discussion of the various halo models , see bsk ) .",
    "we have used the following parameter ranges for ( uniform ) prior probability values : ( pi ) @xmath67 m@xmath68 , @xmath69 kpc ; ( nfw ) @xmath70 , @xmath71 km / s ; ( power law ) @xmath72 km / s , @xmath73 . altering the priors will change a given model s probability , but other sensible choices do not change our basic results .",
    "table [ probtab ] lists the logarithms of the probability ratios @xmath74 of the bsk models to milgrom fits .",
    "@xmath74 values @xmath75 indicate that the milgrom model is preferred .",
    "the large ratios between some halo and milgrom models are due to the large numbers of data points in the two - dimensional velocity data , resulting in very small statistical error bars and large likelihood ratios between models with similar rotation curves . a simpler model comparison test based on bayesian information criteria ( bic )",
    "@xcite agrees with the results we present here .",
    "surprisingly , the newtonian stars - only model is strongly favored over milgrom for nine galaxies , and the models are comparable for two others ( eso 317g41 and 445g39 ) . in fact , the newtonian stars - only model is preferred over all other models for eso 438g08 and 382g06 .",
    "of these 11 galaxies , 5 have substantial bars , 3 have noticeable spirals , and 1 has a close , possibly interacting , companion ( eso 438g08 ) .",
    "since it is possible that these circumstances introduce a bias into the model comparison , we do not focus our attention on these galaxies .",
    "the two remaining galaxies ( eso 323g42 and 382g06 ) appear axisymmetric ( no large bars or strong spiral structure ) .",
    "these galaxies are discussed in detail in   [ gals ] .    for three galaxies ,",
    "milgrom models are preferred or are comparable to all other models : eso 322g76 , eso 445g15 , and eso 501g68 .",
    "eso 445g15 and eso 501g68 have bars while eso 322g76 has moderately strong spiral structure .",
    "all 3 have velocity maps that extend at least 2.5 disk scalelengths and their rotation curves have flattened by the last data point . of the 40 galaxies analyzed , these are the only galaxies for which milgrom is preferred over the pi halos .",
    "milgrom models are preferred over nfw halos in 7 cases .",
    "these results suggest that , in general , the simplicity ( fewer free parameters ) of milgrom models does not statistically outweigh the ability of halo models to provide better fits .    due to its poor performance relative to the halo models",
    ", it is tempting to conclude immediately that the milgrom relation describes galaxy rotation curves only by accident , undermining the strongest reason for considering mond as a modification of gravity .",
    "however , this conclusion would be premature without detailed consideration of systematic uncertainties .",
    "it is dfficult to find cases where the poorer fit of the milgrom model can not be accounted for by reasonable known systematic errors .",
    "milgrom models are highly constrained , and we have made several implicit assumptions which have substantial effects on the rotation curves : 1 ) all stellar motions are circular ; 2 ) the visible stellar light accounts for all of the mass in the galactic disk ( neglecting , in particular , any gas , which is known to be non - negligible in some galaxies ) ; 3 ) the mass - light ratio is constant throughout the galaxy ; 4 ) the adopted inclination angle is correct ; and 5 ) the galaxy distance is given by the hubble distance .",
    "not one of these assumptions are exactly true , and in many galaxies these assumptions are known to be incorrect at levels which would change the rotation curve by an amount significantly larger than the statistical errors .",
    "the sample considered here , in particular , was chosen to probe large - scale velocities in the local universe , not because of its particular suitability for galaxy dynamics ; we have analyzed it because of its large sample of high - quality two - dimensional velocity measurements .",
    "milgrom models have essentially no ability to compensate for any failure of these assumptions as they are determined completely by the distribution of visible matter . halo models , by contrast , have two degrees of freedom which are _ unconnected _ to the distribution of visible matter and otherwise unconstrained by direct observation , and can therefore compensate to some degree for any incorrect assumptions about the visible matter .",
    "in other words , beyond the fact that halo models will generically provide better fits because they have more parameters , they are also more flexible in compensating for systematic errors , which is not reflected in purely statistical comparisons .    in the remainder of this paper , we consider in more detail some of the important systematic errors which might affect the analysis presented here .",
    "we then focus on two sample cases for which newtonian fits are statistically superior to either milgrom or dark halo fits , and discuss which possible explanations for the discrepancy are reasonable .",
    "a substantial source of uncertainty is the adopted distance to a galaxy . @xmath20",
    "values are inversely proportional to distance in both newtonian and milgrom mass models .",
    "unfortunately , a significant fraction ( @xmath76 ) of the galaxies in this sample were originally observed to study peculiar velocities in the region toward the `` great attractor '' and may therefore have larger - than - usual peculiar velocities and distance uncertainties .",
    "@xcite used the tully  fisher relation to estimate distances to this subsample of galaxies , finding differences between redshift distance and tully  fisher distance of typically about 25% .",
    "while for newtonian ( stars - only and halo ) fits this simply introduces a scale uncertainty in @xmath20  values , milgrom fits are subject to a further distance dependence , since they depend on the dimensional parameter @xmath77 . changing the distance to a galaxy changes the acceleration scale at a given angular separation from the galaxy center , and thus changes the inferred radius at which the non - newtonian behavior sets in .",
    "for example , suppose the distance to a galaxy has been adopted at half its actual distance .",
    "given angular separations now correspond to physical distances that are half the actual values .",
    "since the accelerations are inversely related to physical distances , the accelerations increase .",
    "these increases then push the location where acceleration becomes comparable to @xmath77 farther out in the disk . moving a galaxy",
    "closer forces the milgrom fit to be closer to newtonian , while adopting a distance larger than the actual value increases the discrepancy between milgrom and newtonian fits .    while milgrom fits are fairly sensitive to the adopted distance scale , this fact can be exploited as a method for determining distances .",
    "as related in @xcite , changing the adopted distance to a galaxy until a satisfactory milgrom fit is obtained gives an independent distance measurement that is often in accordance with tully  fisher distances ( which is not surprising , as the tully  fisher relation is implied by the milgrom relation ) .",
    "we have investigated this possibility by including the distance to galaxies as another free parameter in milgrom fits . for our data set , most fits of this kind are unstable , leading to models with galaxies unreasonably nearby or far away .",
    "part of the reason for this behavior is due to bars and spirals .",
    "nonaxisymmetric features tend to lower rotational velocities , making axisymmetric models overshoot the data , especially in central regions .",
    "in such a case , the fitting routine can better match the data by moving the galaxy farther away , thereby lowering the @xmath20  values , making the baryonic component insignificant , and allowing the non - newtonian mond behavior to dominate .",
    "this is similar to the behavior of some galaxies that are best fit with a halo alone , as noted in bsk .",
    "one of our galaxies ( eso 438g08 ) has a declining rotation curve that is best fit by the newtonian stars - only model and returns a terrible fixed - distance mond fit .",
    "once the distance is allowed to change , the galaxy is moved unbelieveably closer so that the fit can become more newtonian .",
    "if this galaxy s kinematics can be shown to be due only to the matter within the galaxy , it would pose quite a problem for mond , as well as for any commonly considered dark matter halo .",
    "however , the galaxy has a nearby , possibly interacting , companion ; while we can not definitively say that tidal interaction is causing the declining rotation curve , neither can we rule it out .    in an attempt to remove the effects of aggravating central asymmetries , we have excised pixels from the centers of the galaxy images and re - fit the remaining data with a milgrom model that has the distance as an additional free parameter .",
    "if the free parameter distance varies by more than a factor of 3 from the hubble distance we used in the fixed distance fitting , we consider the distance fit unstable .",
    "we fit each galaxy 10 times , each time increasing the number of excised pixels .",
    "the first attempt utilizes all the pixels and each successive trial removes an additional 5% of the total radial data range from the central regions .",
    "fifteen galaxies can not find acceptable distance fits for any amount of excised pixels .",
    "fourteen galaxies have acceptable fits using all the data .",
    "twenty - two galaxies have at least three consecutive fits with acceptable distances ; however , the distances that these fits return never agree with each other to better than 30% of the hubble distance .",
    "so while the adopted hubble distance necessarily introduces a systematic uncertainty that predominantly affects the milgrom fits , we have not been able to devise a stable method of determining more accurate values directly from the dynamics of the galaxies .",
    "rotation curve data extending further into the flat portion of the rotation curve force a stable distance determination from milgrom fits ; this is clearly an important limitation of the data set considered here .",
    "systematic uncertainties in projection angles substantially affect derived @xmath20  values ( see the discussion in   [ parvals ] ) . however , the estimates of systematic uncertainties in the projection angles appear to be reasonably behaved .",
    "our sample contains 14 galaxies for which the uncertainty in @xmath20  from the estimated systematic uncertainty in projection angles is less than twice the statistical uncertainty ( see table 1 ) ; in most of these cases the systematic error is less than the statistical error .",
    "a cursory examination of the model fits for these 14 galaxies shows that the various halo models or the milgrom model are preferred as the best - fitting model in roughly the same fractions as for the full set of galaxies .",
    "more importantly , the galaxies of this subsample tend to have @xmath78 , while the full sample contains several cases with @xmath79 .",
    "these large values are likely a signal that the straightforward statistical comparison may be suspect , and that systematic errors arising from projection angles or other sources are contributing to the strong rejection of the milgrom model .",
    "many of the galaxies in the sample have bar and/or spiral features or lopsided shapes . in these cases ,",
    "the assumption of axisymmetry is manifestly violated , although if the irregularities are weak ( as is generally the case ) the effect on the rotation curve will be small .",
    "departures from regular elliptical ( projected ) isophotal shapes can indicate recent merging or tidal interactions which substantially distort the velocity field .",
    "these distortions are evident in maps of the differences between circular orbit models and kinematic data ( _ e.g. _ , see figure 5 in * ? ? ?",
    "the effect of departures from axisymmetry requires painstaking modelling ( _ e.g. _ , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but incisive comparisons of halo models with milgrom fits should be limited to galaxies with no gross departures from axisymmetry .",
    "our sample contains roughly equal numbers of galaxies with strong ( 18 ) and weak ( 22 ) spiral structure .",
    "seven galaxies have some evidence for a bar ; 5 are strong bars in galaxies with strong spiral structure , and 2 are short / weak bars in galaxies with weak spiral structure .",
    "the specific galaxies discussed in the following section have only weak spiral structure .",
    "mond is vastly more falsifiable than dark matter hypotheses .",
    "since the fitting parameters are few and understood more easily than the usual halo parameters , any one galaxy that can not be fit by the milgrom relation could , in principle , refute the idea .",
    "most galaxies in our sample have better halo fits than milgrom fits ; however , as discussed in   [ distances ] , these relative likelihoods may be the result of systematic errors .    a better way to rule out mond",
    "is simply to find galaxies with poor milgrom fits in an absolute sense .",
    "this criterion also is hard to define as measures of fit quality are also affected by systematic errors .",
    "one simple way to judge the quality of a milgrom fit is in a relative sense , by comparing with the newtonian stars - only model .",
    "if the milgrom relation provides an accurate description of galaxies , then newtonian fits should _ never _ be better than milgrom fits ( they will be comparable if all of the measured velocities are close enough to the galaxy center that they are still in the newtonian gravitational limit of the milgrom force law ) . many of the systematic effects that the halo fits can compensate for will affect both milgrom fits and newtonian fits equally , since both have little model freedom to compensate for systematic errors .",
    "it is difficult to see , for example , how an unaccounted - for distribution of gas could improve the fit of a newtonian model relative to a milgrom model ; it should affect both equally and in the same direction relative to the measured velocities .",
    "finding galaxies whose newtonian fits are clearly superior to milgrom fits can kill mond as a fundamental theory .",
    "( note that galaxies whose newtonian fits are superior to dark halo fits also pose severe problems for dark matter models . ) here we focus on two galaxies , eso 323g42 and eso 382g06 , whose milgrom fits are worse than their newtonian stars - only fits .",
    "their rotation curves and several model curves are shown in fig .",
    "[ rcs2](a ) and ( b ) , respectively .    in practice , the path to ruling out mond is not so clear as systematic uncertainties complicate the situation .",
    "for these two galaxies , the residuals from our kinematic fitting do not show organized patterns associated with strong bars and/or spirals , and we believe these galaxies are quite axisymmetric . any spiral structure present likely perturbs circular speeds by @xmath80 km / s , and the resulting small rotation curve features would be similar in both newtonian and milgrom fits . without detailed information about the gas distribution , it is certainly possible that these milgrom models are performing poorly simply because they have incorrect input .",
    "further , the observed discrepancies between the milgrom models and the data have magnitudes ( @xmath30 ) that could possibly be lifted by including the gas @xcite",
    ". we note that this is a question that can be addressed with further observations .",
    "figure  [ rcs2](a ) shows that the milgrom relation fit ( solid line ) is clearly a poorer approximation to the data than either the newtonian stars - only fit ( dotted line ) or the pi fit ( dot - dashed line and the best halo fit ) over the entire radial range of the data , @xmath81 disk scalelengths @xmath82 ( the nfw curve has been omitted for clarity but is very similar to the pi curve ) .",
    "the systematic projection angle uncertainties for this disk are quite small ( @xmath83 ) and likely do not impact the fit strongly .",
    "unfortunately , this galaxy is also one of the cases where no stable fit could be found when the galaxy distance is left as a free parameter",
    ". the hubble distance may not be the correct value , but there is no reliable evidence to change it .",
    "the discrepancy between the milgrom curve and the data is most evident where the model underpredicts @xmath84 near 5 kpc and overpredicts @xmath84 beyond 12 kpc .",
    "a reasonable gas distribution could rectify these discrepancies .",
    "however , one problem with adding significant amounts of gas to the model is that the model @xmath28  value necessarily has to decrease .",
    "the @xmath28  value in table  [ mltab ] is 0.78 , already somewhat lower than the average value .",
    "looking at the pi model curve , it is apparent that departures from axisymmetry are quite small , @xmath85 km / s .",
    "any mild spiral structure that may be present is not greatly influencing the model .",
    "unlike the case of eso 323g42 , the milgrom fit for eso 382g06 basically agrees with the both pi and newtonian stars - only fits everywhere ( out to the last point at @xmath86 ) , except in the very central region of the galaxy . in that region",
    ", no model explains the data well .",
    "one possible explanation is that , despite lacking a clear signature in either the photometric or kinematic residuals , the center of eso 382g06 harbors some kind of non - axisymmetric structure .",
    "the rotation curve of eso 382g06 decreases slightly towards the edge of the optical disk , which is not so uncommon for late type spirals @xcite .",
    "such behavior in the low - acceleration regime causes the milgrom relation fit to underperform the halo models , since it unavoidably gives asymptotically flat rotation curves .",
    "note that this discrepancy is directly tied to the shape of the rotation curve , and will persist even including an undetected gas component .",
    "the projection angle uncertainties for this galaxy are about average for this sample ( as determined in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , @xmath87 .",
    "however , it is unlikely that changing the projection angles will change the slope of the outer part of the rotation curve . following the procedure described in   [ system ] , differing amounts of central pixels have been removed from the fit , and in three trials stable distance values have been found . unfortunately",
    ", these values do not agree with each other very well and the fits give unphysically small amounts of mass to the disk .",
    "consequently , we again find that changing the adopted distance to the galaxy will not improve the milgrom fit .      in section  [ system ] , we have discussed some of the observational systematic uncertainties that could adversely influence the milgrom fits . here",
    "we consider the impact of a systematic modeling error due to the fundamental assumption of a constant mass - light ratio @xmath20 .",
    "milgrom fits will be particularly susceptible to this type of error because of the deterministic dependence of the rotation curve on the baryonic mass .",
    "halo models of any kind generally have sufficient freedom to contort themselves so that mild @xmath20  gradients leave the quality of a halo fit unchanged .",
    "we have performed milgrom fits for three galaxies ( eso 322g76 , eso 323g42 , and eso 382g06 ) allowing the @xmath28  values to vary radially ; @xmath29  values continue to be treated as spatially constant .",
    "specifically , we assume a linear relation , @xmath88 where @xmath89 is the central disk @xmath20  value and @xmath90 is the slope of the relation in @xmath91/kpc .",
    "the rotation curves for the variable @xmath28  mass models are compared to the data points , the constant @xmath20  curves , and the pi halo curves in figure  [ varycomp ] .",
    "the solid lines correspond to the variable @xmath28  fits , the dot - dashed lines are the pi halo fits , and the dotted lines are the constant @xmath20fits .",
    "the fit for eso 322g76 ( figure  [ varycomp]a ) serves as a test case since the constant @xmath20  milgrom fit is comparable or preferred to all the other models .",
    "we find @xmath92 , @xmath93 , and @xmath94 .",
    "since the slope is small and the @xmath20  values are nearly unchanged from their original values ( @xmath95 , @xmath96 ) , it is not surprising that the fits are equally good ( for both fits , @xmath97 ) . for this galaxy , with an acceptable milgrom model with constant @xmath20 , the additional freedom does little to change the previous fit .",
    "this is not the case for the two galaxies that appear to have problematic milgrom fits .",
    "allowing for @xmath28  gradients , eso 323g42 ( figure  [ varycomp]b ) is best fit with the parameters @xmath98 , @xmath99 .",
    "the resulting @xmath49  value is 1.54 , roughly 90% of the constant @xmath28  value , making it comparable to the constant @xmath20  halo and newtonian fits . the change in @xmath28  value from the center to the edge of the kinematic data is 0.29 , much larger than either uncertainty given in table  [ mltab ] .",
    "this suggests that including the @xmath20  gradient is truly improving the fit for this galaxy .",
    "the best - fit parameters for eso 382g06 ( figure  [ varycomp]c ) are @xmath100 and @xmath101 .",
    "this case has a slight decrease in @xmath49value , from 2.48 with constant @xmath28  values to 2.46 . in this case , the @xmath28  value changes from center to edge by 1.2 , smaller than just the statistical uncertainty alone in table  [ mltab ] . while the quality of the fit has definitely improved , it is not as clear in this case that allowing a @xmath20  gradient has significantly changed the model .",
    "qualitatively , the @xmath28  slopes for these two galaxies act in the direction expected from observations of color gradients , with the outermost regions having lower @xmath28  values than the centers @xcite .",
    "multi - band photometry would allow determination of the actual color gradient , and whether this gradient is consistent with the best fit value .",
    "eso 323g42 and eso 382g06 exemplify the difficulties associated with falsifying the milgrom relation .",
    "while there are certainly hints of problems with the zeroth - order models , plausible systematic effects ( distance , gas mass , @xmath20  gradients ) must be exhausted before a definitive judgement can be handed down . for milgrom",
    "fits with non - constant mass - light ratios , further observations can provide consistency checks , unlike halo models where all of our ignorance is folded into halo parameters and independent direct measurements of individual halo shapes are generally not possible .",
    "we have investigated mond mass models of 40 high surface surface brightness spiral galaxies . using two - dimensional fabry - perot velocity maps and @xmath0-band photometric images , best - fit bulge and disk @xmath20  values",
    "have been determined using the milgrom relation ( equation  [ mondeq ] ) . as in our previous work using dark matter halo models ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bsk ) , we find that the systematic uncertainties due to projection angle uncertainties are typically much larger than the statistical uncertainties .",
    "it should be kept in mind that large systematic uncertainties could mask differences between various models and make any statistical comparison questionable .",
    "we find that milgrom model @xmath28  values correlate with @xmath102 galaxy color ( figure  [ lincomp]b ) , in line with population synthesis models @xcite .",
    "while the correlation does not exactly match the synthesis model trend and contains much scatter , it sharply contrasts with the results of bsk where no trend was found ( figure  [ lincomp]a ) . for a subsample of 8 galaxies that lie in the hydra cluster",
    ", we find that they define a fairly tight @xmath28color correlation ( figure  [ cluster ] ) .",
    "again , the correlation does not agree with the trends from population synthesis models in either slope or intercept .",
    "this contrasts with the findings in @xcite which show excellent agreement between milgrom model and population synthesis @xmath20color relations .",
    "we note that the galaxies used in @xcite are the same galaxies used to calibrate the population synthesis prediction in @xcite .",
    "we feel confident that the disagreement we see can not stem from distance errors , since the mean of the distances to these galaxies is the same as an independent determination using the fundamental plane @xcite . it could be argued that bulge contamination skews our results , but these are all late - type spirals with very little bulge .",
    "it is difficult to imagine that these bulges could cause such a radical shift in the correlation . recognizing that the common view is that imfs are universal",
    ", one possible explanation made plain by the model calculations of @xcite is that there are different imfs for these two sets of galaxies . with only 8 galaxies ,",
    "the evidence is weak to challenge the standard view .    utilizing a bayesian model comparison technique (   [ modcomp ] and   [ app ] ) ,",
    "we have compared milgrom models to newtonian stars - only , pseudo - isothermal halo , navarro - frenk - white halo , and power law halo models .",
    "the results are presented in table  [ probtab ] .",
    "overall , halo models are statistically favored over milgrom models . at the same time , milgrom models are generally preferred to newtonian stars - only models .",
    "unfortunately , this kind of analysis takes statistical uncertainties only into account .",
    "the quality of the model fits is also influenced by systematic observational uncertainties ( distance , inclination , etc . ;",
    "see   [ system ] ) .",
    "the milgrom models are also subject to systematic modeling effects ( like assuming constant mass - to - light ratios ) that are more easily absorbed in halo models .",
    "we have also discussed two specific galaxies which appear to present a problem for the milgrom relation (   [ gals ] ) .",
    "our investigation suggests that nonaxisymmetry , projection angle uncertainties , or distance errors are not responsible for the newtonian stars - only fits being better than the milgrom fits .",
    "these galaxies provide excellent tests of the milgrom relation since in this picture no galaxy should show newtonian behavior in the low - acceleration ( large radius ) regime .    with an eye towards explaining away the seemingly newtonian behavior in these two galaxies , we have performed additional fits allowing the @xmath20  of the disk to vary linearly with radius .",
    "we find that for the galaxy eso 322g76 , which is statistically well explained by the milgrom relation , the best - fit parameters of a constant @xmath28  are virtually unchanged by allowing @xmath28  to vary .",
    "however , for the two problem galaxies eso 323g42 and eso 382g06 we find that 1 ) the best - fit parameters of the varying @xmath28  model are quite different than the constant @xmath28  model ; 2 ) the quality of the fits improve to the point of be comparable to halo fits ; and 3 ) the predicted @xmath28variations agree qualitatively with observed variations .",
    "it is possible that a more quantitative match could be recovered with the proper observations .    in conclusion , while we find little statistical evidence to support the claim that milgrom models explain the behavior of this sample of galaxies more economically than do dark matter models , there are several sources of systematic uncertainty that complicate the situation . given these systematic uncertainties ( distance , gas content , @xmath20  gradients ) , it is difficult to see how milgrom mass models are of lower quality than dark matter halo models .",
    "however , if one believes that stellar population models accurately describe galaxies , then correct models of the stellar components of real galaxies should reveal trends expected from such models .",
    "this is one piece of evidence in favor of milgrom over dark matter models ; milgrom model @xmath20  values show more of a trend with color than do dark matter model @xmath20  values for the same galaxies .",
    "dynamical analyses which purport to rule out the milgrom relation must be done on carefully selected galaxies for which systematic errors in dynamical assumptions are minimized .",
    "it is easy to demonstrate superior dynamical fits by dark matter halos than by the milgrom relation , but on closer examination it is clear that in the majority of cases , the discrepancy can be explained by reasonable assumptions about particular known systematic errors .",
    "the authors gratefully acknowledge the assistance and advice of povilas palunas , ted williams , stacy mcgaugh , and an anonymous referee .",
    "ted williams provided the imaging and fabry - perot data on which this paper is based .",
    "we also thank tad pryor , eric peng , pat ct , and laura ferrarese for several helpful discussions .",
    "this work was supported by nasa grant nag5 - 10110 , and ak has been partly supported by nsf grant ast-0546035 while finishing this work .",
    "we have used the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the application of bayesian reasoning to statistical problems in astronomy has become much more widespread in recent years , and numerous textbook treatments exist .",
    "here we give only a brief summary of bayesian model comparison used in this paper , and point the interested reader to @xcite .",
    "bayesian statistics is based on bayes theorem , @xmath103 @xmath104 is read as `` the probability that @xmath105 is true given @xmath106 and @xmath0 '' .",
    "let us make this concrete .",
    "say that proposition @xmath105 is a given model , proposition @xmath106 is the data fit by the model , and proposition @xmath0 is any initial information we have about the system .",
    "the left hand side of equation  [ bayes ] is then the probability that a model is true given the data and prior information .",
    "if we have one data set , two models , and the same prior information , we can write equation  [ bayes ] for each model @xmath107 and @xmath108 .",
    "since @xmath106 and @xmath0 are the same in both equations , we can divide the two to cancel @xmath109 .",
    "we now have a ratio of the probabilities of the models being correct , @xmath110 following @xcite we have that , @xmath111 where @xmath112 are the @xmath113 free parameters , @xmath2 is the likelihood of a model , and @xmath114 is the prior probability . if we normalize the likelihood by its maximum value @xmath115 , we have that @xmath116 , where @xmath117 is the ockham factor , @xmath118    in order to calculate the ockham factor we need to decide what to use for the prior parameter probability . in the absence of any specific knowledge of the parameters",
    ", we choose a top - hat prior , _",
    "i.e. _ , a constant value @xmath119 in a specified range .",
    "since the prior probability must be normalized , we can easily calculate what @xmath119 is .",
    "@xmath120 implies that @xmath121 , where @xmath122 is the range of a given free parameter . with this prior we can write , @xmath123 where @xmath124 is just the integral of the normalized likelihood over all parameter space and",
    "is related to the volume of allowed parameter space .",
    "we are now ready to rewrite the right - hand side of equation  [ probrat ] , @xmath125 assuming our prior information leaves us equally ignorant about both models , the first term on the right - hand side of equation  [ mcomp ] is 1 .",
    "we are left with an expression that is simple and sensible . if @xmath107 provides a better fit ( _ i.e. _ , has a smaller @xmath49 ) than @xmath108 , then the likelihood ratio ( the second term ) is large , thus pushing the ratio in favor of @xmath107 , as one would expect .",
    "if the two models have the same free parameters , then the third ratio relating the parameter ranges is 1 and the last ratio is @xmath126 . we are left with the obvious answer that the model with the highest likelihood is the more probable model .",
    "however , the real power of this approach emerges when you compare models with different numbers of parameters . for concreteness ,",
    "let us say that @xmath107 has two free parameters @xmath127 and @xmath128 and model @xmath108 has two additional parameters @xmath129 and @xmath130 .",
    "we know @xmath115 for each model , and we assume that @xmath131 .",
    "we also know that , @xmath132 and @xmath133 , so the @xmath119 ratio term is @xmath134 . since @xmath108 has the larger number of parameters , let us suppose that @xmath135 .",
    "the likelihood ratio is @xmath136 , the @xmath137 ratio is @xmath138 , and the @xmath119 ratio is dependent on the ranges that we believe two of the parameters fall in .",
    "the bayesian model probability ratio does not necessarily choose the model with the highest likelihood : it determines if the benefit of adding more fitting parameters balances the cost of making the model more complicated .",
    "anderson , k. s. j. , baggett , s. m. , & baggett , w. e. 2004 , , 127,2085 angus , g. w. , shan , h. , zhao , h. , famaey , b. astro - ph/0609125 barnes , e. i. , sellwood , j. a. 2003 , , 125 , 1164 barnes , e. i. , sellwood , j. a. , kosowsky , a. 2004 , , 128 , 2724 beauvais , c. , bothun , g. 2001 , , 136 , 41 begeman , k. g. , broeils , a. h. , sanders , r. h. 1991 , , 249 , 523 bekenstein , j. , milgrom , m. 1984 , , 286 , 7 bekenstein , j. d. 2004 , astro - ph/0403694 bell , e. f. , de jong , r. s. 2001 , , 550 , 212 bell , e. f. , mcintosh , d. h. , katz , n. , weinberg , m. d. 2003 , , 149,289 blais - ouellette , s. , amram , p. & carignan , c. 2001 , , 121 , 1952 bothun , g. d. , schommer , r. a. , williams , t. b. , mould , j. r. , huchra , j. p. 1992",
    ", , 388 , 253 bradac , m. , clowe , d. , gonzalez , a. h. , marshall , p. , forman , w. , jones , c. , markevitch , m. , randall , s. w. , schrabback , t. , zaritsky , d. 2006 , astro - ph/0608408 bretthorst , g. l. 1990 , in maximum entropy and bayesian methods , ed .",
    "p. f. fougere ( dordrect : kluwer ) , 53 broeils , a. h. 1992 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , groningen university catinella , b. , giovanelli , r. , haynes , m. 2006 , , 640 , 751 christensen , n. , meyer , r. , knox , l. , luey , b. 2001 , classical and quantum gravity , 18 , 2677 clowe , d. , bradac , m. , gonzalez , a. h. , markevitch , m. , randall , s. w. , jones , c. , zaritsky , d. 2006 , astro - ph/0608407 courteau , s. , rix , h .- w .",
    "1999 , , 513 , 561 courteau , s. 2003 , rev .",
    "mexicana astron .",
    ", 17 , 171 de blok , w. j. g. , mcgaugh , s. s. 1998 , , 508 , 132 de jong , r. s. 1996 , , 313 , 377 gentile , g. , salucci , p. , klein , u. , vergani , d. , kalberla , p. 2004",
    ", , 351 , 903 hudson , m. j. , lucey , j. r. , smith , r. j. , steel , j. 1997 , , 291 488 jaynes , e. , ed .",
    "bretthorst , g. l. 2003 , probability theory : the logic of science , cambridge univ . press , cambridge kent , s. m. 1987 , , 93 , 816 kosowsky , a. , milosavljevi , m. & jimenez , r. 2002 , , 66 , 063007 krumm , n. , salpeter , e. e. 1979 , , 84 , 1138 lake , g. & feinswog , l. 1989 , , 98 , 166 liddle , a. r. 2004 , , 351 , 49 mcgaugh , s. s. , schombert , j. m. , bothun , g. d. , de blok , w. j. g. 2000 , , 533l , 99 mcgaugh , s. s. 2004 , , 609 , 652 mcgaugh , s. s. 2005 , , 632 , 859 milgrom , m. 1983 , , 270 , 365 milgrom , m. 1983 , , 270 , 371 milgrom , m. 1983 , , 270 , 384 navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. , white , s. d. m. 1996 , , 462 , 563 palunas , p. , williams , t. b. 2000 , , 120 , 2884 ( pw ) persic , m. , salucci , p. , stel , f. 1996 , , 281 , 27 press , w. h. , flannery , b. p. , teukolsky , s. a. , vetterling , t. a. 1992 , numerical recipes ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) rohlfs , k. , boehme , r. , chini , r.k wink , j. e. 1986 , , 158 , 181 rubin , v. c. 1979 , comments on astrophysics , 8 , 79 salpeter , e. e. 1978 , iaus , 77 , 23 sancisi , r. , allen , r. j. 1979 , , 74 , 73 sancisi , r. , allen , r. j. , sullivan , w. t. , iii 1979 , , 78 , 217 sanders , r. h. 1996 , , 473 , 117 sanders , r. h. , verheijen , m. a. w. 1998 , , 503 , 97 sanders , r. h. , mcgaugh , s. s. 2002 , , 40 , 263 schlegel , d. j. , finkbeiner , d. p. , davis , m. 1998 , , 500,525 sprayberry , d. , bernstein , g. m. , impey , c. d. , bothun , g. d. 1995 , , 438 , 72 tully , r. b. , fisher , j. r. 1977 , , 54 , 661 tully , r. b. , pierce , m. j. , huang , j. , saunders , w. , verheijen , m. a. w. , witchalls , p. l. 1998 , , 115 , 2264 van albada , t. s. , bahcall , j. n. , begeman , k. , sancisi , r. 1985 , , 295 , 305 van moorsel , g. a. 1982 , , 107 , 66 verheijen , m. a. w. 1997 , phd thesis , university of groningen weiner , b.j . , sellwood , j.a . , and williams , t.b .",
    "2001 , , 546 , 931 zwaan , m. a. , van der hulst , j. m. , de blok , w. j. g. , mcgaugh , s. s. 1995 , , 273 , 35    lcccccc eso 215g39 & 1.48 & 1.28 @xmath139 & 0.63 & 2.79 @xmath140 & 0.57 & 3.35 + eso 216g20 & 4.16 & 2.08 @xmath141 & 0.14 & 1.31 @xmath142 & 0.37 & 5.20 + eso 263g14 & 1.93 & 0.81 @xmath143 & 0.08 & @xmath144 & & 4.64 + eso 267g29 & 5.42 & 2.14 @xmath145 & 1.77 & 2.14 @xmath145 & 1.90 & 3.81 + eso 268g37 & 4.11 & 1.40 @xmath146 & 0.64 & @xmath144 & & 3.78 + eso 268g44 & 2.05 & 1.20 @xmath147 & 0.08 & 3.09 @xmath148 & 0.15 & 4.45 + eso 317g41 & 4.58 & 2.08 @xmath149 & 0.04 & 1.43 @xmath150 & 0.04 & 5.09 + eso 322g36 & 4.53 & 0.94 @xmath151 & 0.47 & 1.09 @xmath152 & 0.38 & 3.71 + eso 322g42 & 3.67 & 0.48 @xmath153 & 0.02 & @xmath144 & & 3.66 + eso 322g44 & 1.61 & 0.71 @xmath154 & 0.06 & 0.72 @xmath155 & 2.33 & 4.05 + eso 322g45 & 2.16 & 1.43 @xmath156 & 0.02 & 1.43 @xmath156 & 0.02 & 2.11 + eso 322g76 & 2.05 & 1.33 @xmath157 & 0.27 & 1.73 @xmath158 & 0.19 & 4.47 + eso 322g77 & 3.25 & 3.11 @xmath159 & 0.13 & 2.08 @xmath160 & 0.23 & 6.33 + eso 322g82 & 4.53 & 1.34 @xmath161 & 0.17 & 7.99 @xmath162 & 1.72 & 4.12 + eso 323g25 & 2.81 & 2.41 @xmath146 & 0.83 & 15.56 @xmath163 & 8.63 & 4.75 + eso 323g27 & 2.83 & 1.44 @xmath147 & 0.13 & 5.10 @xmath164 & 0.05 & 4.25 + eso 323g39 & 4.55 & 0.51 @xmath154 & 0.84 & @xmath144 & & 3.09 + eso 323g42 & 1.66 & 0.78 @xmath146 & 0.01 & 1.60 @xmath165 & 0.08 & 4.50 + eso 323g73 & 3.10 & 1.29 @xmath153 & 0.29 & @xmath144 & & 5.11 + eso 374g03 & 3.29 & 0.69 @xmath143 & 0.04 & @xmath144 & & 3.84 + eso 375g02 & 2.08 & 1.60 @xmath157 & 0.24 & 1.64 @xmath166 & 0.43 & 5.35 + eso 381g05 & 2.75 & 5.46 @xmath139 & 2.86 & @xmath144 & & 3.73 + eso 382g06 & 2.48 & 3.07 @xmath167 & 1.11 & 3.42 @xmath168 & 0.72 & 4.03 + eso 435g26 & 11.98 & 1.79 @xmath146 & 1.05 & 3.20 @xmath169 & 1.38 & 6.04 + eso 437g04 & 2.91 & 2.42 @xmath170 & 0.23 & 2.42 @xmath170 & 0.23 & 4.51 + eso 437g31 & 1.07 & 2.07 @xmath149 & 1.49 & 2.07 @xmath149 & 1.65 & 3.74 + eso 438g08 & 2.32 & 0.52 @xmath171 & 0.29 & 3.66 @xmath172 & 1.53 & 4.71 + eso 438g15 & 2.60 & 0.92 @xmath146 & 0.10 & 1.66 @xmath141 & 0.09 & 6.62 + eso 439g18 & 4.14 & 2.20 @xmath151 & 0.37 & 2.20 @xmath151 & 0.37 & 4.46 + eso 439g20 & 1.86 & 2.90 @xmath151 & 0.17 & 2.90 @xmath151 & 0.42 & 3.98 + eso 444g47 & 1.69 & 2.00 @xmath173 & 0.15 & 2.00 @xmath173 & 0.15 & 4.95 + eso 445g15 & 3.03 & 2.91 @xmath174 & 0.17 & 1.58 @xmath175 & 0.13 & 5.17 + eso 445g19 & 2.31 & 1.85 @xmath173 & 0.03 & 1.12 @xmath176 & 0.08 & 3.69 + eso 445g39 & 4.22 & 5.44 @xmath177 & 0.63 & 2.89 @xmath178 & 0.76 & 4.11 + eso 446g01 & 2.23 & 1.50 @xmath153 & 0.50 & @xmath144 & & 3.97 + eso 501g01 & 2.33 & 1.32 @xmath154 & 0.44 & 1.32 @xmath154 & 0.44 & 2.76 + eso 501g68 & 2.13 & 2.60 @xmath179 & 0.31 & 4.76 @xmath180 & 0.15 & 3.84 + eso 502g02 & 1.74 & 2.08 @xmath153 & 0.02 & 2.08 @xmath153 & 0.02 & 4.50 + eso 509g80 & 3.75 & 2.76 @xmath181 & 0.19 & 3.17 @xmath182 & 0.14 & 4.83 + eso 569g17 & 1.67 & 2.20 @xmath146 & 1.83 & @xmath144 & & 5.72 +    lcccc eso 215g39 & -44.66 & 40.26 & 32.27 & 23.78 + eso 216g20 & -32.43 & 9.06 & 3.92 & 5.61 + eso 263g14 & -49.46 & 7.16 & 4.38 & 0.29 + eso 267g29 & -47.16 & 27.47 & 24.76 & 25.42 + eso 268g37 & -170.16 & 33.57 & 17.81 & 1.97 + eso 268g44 & 3.21 & 8.95 & 6.34 & 0.45 + eso 317g41 & 0.05 & 4.24 & -15.56 & -17.21 + eso 322g36 & -144.46 & 16.31 & 15.70 & 14.20 + eso 322g42 & -81.50 & 49.17 & 11.56 & 12.90 + eso 322g44 & -153.87 & 7.76 & 3.93 & 5.06 + eso 322g45 & -39.33 & 14.59 & 11.65 & 13.18 + eso 322g76 & -17.42 & 0.13 & -4.39 & -1.50 + eso 322g77 & -3.96 & 8.18 & 7.07 & 8.02 + eso 322g82 & 158.84 & 162.29 & 163.86 & 158.06 + eso 323g25 & 59.15 & 177.19 & 195.25 & 113.44 + eso 323g27 & -4.76 & 21.32 & 17.77 & 12.86 + eso 323g39 & -55.35 & 20.97 & 12.84 & 11.75 + eso 323g42 & 36.22 & 79.43 & 64.07 &",
    "61.33 + eso 323g73 & -94.97 & 53.64 & 51.04 & 52.33 + eso 374g03 & -78.04 & 71.89 & 30.20 & 0.59 + eso 375g02 & -84.92 & 21.97 & 21.95 & 20.80",
    "+ eso 381g05 & -128.24 & 215.20 & 216.79 & 212.01 + eso 382g06 & 10.70 & 9.89 & 6.46 & 7.60 + eso 435g26 & 126.10 & 182.98 & 192.48 & 126.17 + eso 437g04 & -153.84 & 207.50 & 171.75 & 158.56 + eso 437g31 & -67.01 & 13.52 & -3.45 & -2.09 + eso 438g08 & 77.78 & 76.00 & 73.35 & 74.73 + eso 438g15 & -92.73 & 43.05 & 39.63 & 41.19 + eso 439g18 & -114.20 & 73.18 & 63.88 & 35.15 + eso 439g20 & -65.38 & 35.96 & 24.74 & 3.19 + eso 444g47 & -96.68 & 14.98 & 2.95 & 5.09 + eso 445g15 & -79.48 & -9.18 & -13.31 & -13.43 + eso 445g19 & -67.36 & 7.28 & 13.19 & 13.93 + eso 445g39 & -0.26 & 7.52 & 0.03 & 1.37 + eso 446g01 & -219.48 & 4.36 & 0.25 & 1.24 + eso 501g01 & -66.08 & 31.50 & 8.88 & -11.19 + eso 501g68 & -4.56 & -1.74 & -4.70 & -2.35 + eso 502g02 & -80.73 & 16.47 & 12.31 & 5.60 + eso 509g80 & 56.56 & 169.81 & 166.45 & 90.89",
    "+ eso 569g17 & 5.67 & 43.13 & 46.70 & 9.39 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using two - dimensional velocity maps and @xmath0-band photometry , we have created mass models of 40 spiral galaxies using the milgrom relation ( the basis of modified newtonian dynamics , or mond ) to complement previous work . </S>",
    "<S> a bayesian technique is employed to compare several different dark matter halo models to milgrom and newtonian models . </S>",
    "<S> pseudo - isothermal dark matter halos provide the best statistical fits to the data in a majority of cases , while the milgrom relation generally provides good fits as well . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that milgrom models give mass - to - light ratios that roughly correlate with galaxy color , as predicted by stellar population models . </S>",
    "<S> a subsample of galaxies in the hydra cluster follow a tight relation between mass - to - light and color , but one that is significantly different from relations found in previous studies . </S>",
    "<S> ruling out the milgrom relation with rotational kinematics is difficult due to systematic uncertainties in the observations as well as underlying model assumptions . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss in detail two galaxies for which the milgrom relation appears to fail and find that relaxing the assumption of constant stellar mass - to - light ratio can maintain milgrom models viability . </S>"
  ]
}