{
  "article_text": [
    "the stellar imf at high redshift is of great importance for a wide range of astrophysical problems , such as the ionization and enrichment of the intergalactic medium , the extragalactic background light , the visibility of galaxies and the rate at which baryons are locked - up into stars and stellar remnants .",
    "there are two complementary approaches to the determination of the imf long ago and far away : one is to observe directly high redshift objects , and attempt inferences on the stellar imf from the integrated spectrum and photometry , while the second approach analyses the fossil record in old stars at low redshift . the characterization of the stellar imf in external galaxies , compared to that in the milky way , is a crucial step in deciphering the important physical processes that determine the distribution of stellar masses under a range of different physical conditions .",
    "the low mass stellar imf at the high redshifts at which these stars formed is directly accessible through star counts , plus a mass - luminosity relation .",
    "the high mass imf at these high redshifts is constrained by the chemical signatures in the low mass stars that were enriched by the supernovae from the high mass stars .",
    "i will discuss both ends of the imf at high redshift , in an external galaxy .",
    "simulations of galaxy formation within the framework of the ` concordance ' ( @xmath1)cdm cosmology agree that the first stars form within structures that are less massive than a typical l@xmath2 galaxy today ( e.g.  kauffmann , white & guiderdoni 1993 ; cole et al .",
    "large galaxies form hierarchically , through the merging and assimilation of such smaller systems .",
    "satellite galaxies of the milky way are survivors of this merging ( e.g.  bullock , kravtsov & weinberg  2000 ) .",
    "the stars that formed at early times are found , at the present day , throughout large galaxies , and also in satellite galaxies .",
    "environments with little subsequent star formation are the best places to find and study old stars  the stellar halo of the milky way , and a few of the dwarf spheroidal satellite galaxies .",
    "the dwarf spheroidal galaxy in ursa minor ( umi dsph ) , like all members of its morphological class ( gallagher & wyse 1994 ) , has extremely low surface brightness , with a central value of only @xmath3  v  mag / sq .",
    "arcsec , or @xmath4/pc@xmath5 .",
    "the total luminosity is in the range @xmath6 ( kleyna et al .  1998 ;",
    "palma et al .",
    "2003 ) , equal to that of a luminous galactic globular cluster .",
    "again similar to a globular cluster , the ursa minor dsph contains little or no gas and has apparently not formed a significant number of stars for @xmath7  gyr ( e.g.  hernandez et al .",
    "2000 ; carrera et al .  2002 ) , or since a redshift @xmath8 .",
    "the metallicity distribution of the stars is narrow , with a mean of [ fe / h ] @xmath9  dex and a dispersion of @xmath10  dex ( e.g.  bellazzini et al .",
    "the stellar line - of - sight velocity dispersion is @xmath11  km / s ( e.g.  wilkinson et al .",
    "2004 ) , sufficiently large that , unlike globular clusters , equilibrium models have a large mass - to - light ratio , @xmath12 perhaps as high as several hundred in solar units if the mass is @xmath13 ( wilkinson et al .",
    "2004 ) , indicating a non - baryonic dark halo .",
    "non - equilibrium models are rather contrived and themselves fail to explain the data ( e.g.  wilkinson et al .",
    "models of the evolution of dwarf spheroidals are by no means well developed , but very likely the stars formed in an environment rather different than that of globular cluster stars , or of current star - forming regions in the disk of the milky way .",
    "the distance of the ursa minor dsph is only @xmath14  kpc , close enough that a determination of the luminosity function of low - mass main sequence stars through star counts is feasible , particularly using the hubble space telescope .",
    "the ( unusually ) simple stellar population of this dwarf spheroidal  essentially of single age , single metallicity  makes the derivation of the luminosity function from star counts a robust procedure .",
    "this determines the low - mass stellar imf at redshifts of @xmath15 .",
    "high - resolution spectroscopy of the luminous evolved stars is also possible , yielding elemental abundances which constrain the high - mass stellar imf that enriched the low - mass stars we observe .",
    "the ( very ) dominant stellar population in the umi dsph is very similar to that of a classical galactic halo globular cluster . the most robust constraint on the low - mass stellar imf is then obtained by a direct comparison between the faint stellar luminosity functions of the umi dsph and of representative globular clusters of the same age and metallicity , such as m15 and m92 , observed in the same bandpasses , same telescope and detector . with the same stellar populations ,",
    "this is a comparison between _ mass _ functions , and differences may be ascribed to variations in the low - mass imf .",
    "we therefore obtained deep images with the hubble space telescope in a field close to the center of the umi dsph , using stis as the primary instrument ( optical long pass filter ) , with wfpc2 ( v@xmath16 and i@xmath17 filters ) and nicmos ( nic2/h - band ) in parallel .",
    "the wfpc2 filters matched those of extant data for m15 and m92 ; we obtained our own stis / lp and nic2/h - band data for m15 . similarly exposed data for an off field , at 23 tidal radii from the centre of umi dsph , were also acquired .",
    "the detailed paper presenting the results from the full dataset is wyse et al .",
    "( 2002 ) ; preliminary results from a partial wfpc2 dataset were presented in feltzing , wyse & gilmore ( 1999 ) .",
    "the images are not crowded and standard photometric techniques were used to derive the luminosity functions . for the wfpc2 data ,",
    "the luminosity functions were based only upon stars ( unresolved objects ) that lie close to the well - defined umi dsph main sequence locus in the colour - magnitude diagram ( cmd ; see figure  1 ) .",
    "the off field cmd confirmed little contamination from galactic stars .",
    "the stis luminosity function was based on one band only , and we employed various approaches to background subtraction .",
    "the nicmos data served only to exclude a hypothetical population of very red stars and will not be discussed further here . the extant wfpc2 data for the globular clusters ( piotto et al .",
    "1997 ) are from fields at intermediate radii within the clusters , where effects of dynamical evolution on the mass function should be minimal .",
    "-0.25 cm -7.cm    -1 cm      the comparisons with the wfpc2 colour - magnitude based v - band and i - band luminosity functions are shown in figure  2 .",
    "we adopted 0.5  mag bins to have reasonable numbers in each bin , and to minimize effects of e.g.  reddening and distance moduli uncertainties .",
    "the 50% completeness limits for the umi dsph data are equivalent to absolute magnitudes of @xmath18 and @xmath19 , which using the baraffe et al .",
    "( 1997 ) models _ both _ correspond to masses of @xmath20 .",
    "the stis / lp data provide an independent check , by both a direct lp - luminosity function comparison between m15 and umi dsph , and a derived stis - based i - band luminosity function .",
    "all show that the globular cluster stars and the umi stars have indistinguishable faint luminosity functions , down to an equivalent mass limit of @xmath21 ( see wyse et al .",
    "2002 for details ) .",
    "-4.51 cm 2.32 in    -0.25truecm    -0.5",
    "cm    we employed various statistical tests to quantify the agreement of the various datasets  e.g.  stis - derived i - band _ vs. _",
    "wfpc2 i - band etc :    @xmath22 linear , least - square fits to the ( log ) counts as a function of apparent magnitude , using various ranges of magnitude and differing bin choices , consistently found agreement to better than 2@xmath23 .",
    "@xmath22 kolmogorov - smirnov tests on the unbinned data for a variety of magnitude ranges ; the results depend on systematics such as the relative distance moduli , but again there is general agreement to better than 5% significance level .",
    "@xmath22 @xmath24square tests were carried out on the binned data , using a variety of bin centers ( maintaining 0.5  mag bin widths ) and magnitude ranges and again agreement to better than 5% significance level .",
    "the main result is that the underlying mass functions of low - mass stars in galactic halo globular clusters and in the external galaxy the umi dsph are indistinguishable .",
    "this is a comparison between two different galaxies , and systems of very different baryonic densities and dark matter content .",
    "adopting the baraffe et al .",
    "( 1997 ) models , the 50% completeness limits for the luminosity functions of the stars in the umi dsph correspond to @xmath21 , and the mass function may be fit by a power law , with slope somewhat flatter than the salpeter ( 1955 ) value , over the range we test , of @xmath25 .",
    "this is consistent with the solar neighbourhood mass function over this mass range , and indeed the universal mass function that appears to be the conclusion of this meeting .",
    "however , the light - to - mass transformation is not robustly defined for k / m dwarfs , especially as a function of age and metallicity .",
    "calibration of this is best achieved by analysis of low - mass stars in detached eclipsing binary systems , and we have recently undertaken a photometric survey of open clusters to identify candidate low - mass binary systems to be followed up with spectroscopy for radial velocity curves ; this forms the phd thesis of leslie hebb at johns hopkins university .",
    "our sample consists of six open clusters of known age and metallicity ( from the brighter turn - off stars ) , old enough to have low - mass stars on the main sequence , age @xmath26  yr , with the oldest being @xmath27  gyr .",
    "we used both the wide field camera on the 2.5 m isaac newton telescope and the mosaic camera on the kitt peak 4 m telescope , each of which provide a field of view of @xmath28 .",
    "the observing strategy we adopted was designed to enable the detection of a 0.05  mag amplitude eclipse in a target 0.3  @xmath29 star , monitored on timescales of fraction of an hour , hours and days .",
    "the low probability of eclipse means that populous clusters must be observed for many days .",
    "we expect our survey to find 35 low - mass eclipsing systems .",
    "the details of the survey are presented in hebb , wyse & gilmore ( 2004 ) .",
    "the imaging data has all been acquired , differential photometry obtained and we are now analyzing the derived light curves .",
    "an example of the light curve of a candidate eclipsing low - mass system is shown in figure  3 ; the candidate was identified by applying a box - fitting algorithm to the photometric time series .",
    "our photometry , plus infrared data from 2mass , is consistent with this being an m - dwarf system .",
    "we have applied for follow - up spectroscopic data , together with higher time - sampling photometric data , for this system and for our other candidates .",
    "the high - mass stellar mass function long ago can be constrained by the elemental abundances in the long - lived low - mass stars that formed from gas that was enriched by the type  ii supernovae from the massive stars of a previous generation ( see e.g.  review of wyse 1998 ) .",
    "interpretation of the pattern of elemental abundances is easiest for low - mass stars that formed early in a star - formation event , and were enriched by _ only _ massive stars .",
    "most of the dwarf spheroidal companions to the milky way have had extended star formation , and so are expected to show evidence in the elemental abundances for the incorporation of iron from long - lived type  ia supernovae .",
    "the ursa minor dsph is the best candidate for having had a sufficiently short duration of star formation that a significant fraction of its low - mass stars formed prior to the onset of type  ia supernovae in sufficient numbers to be noticed in the chemical elemental abundances ; this timescale is uncertain , but likely to be of the order of 12  gyr .",
    "the elemental mix produced by a generation of massive stars depends on the massive - star mass function , because the yields of a given type ii supernova depends on its mass .",
    "in particular , the @xmath30-element yields ( nuclei formed by successive addition of a helium nucleus ) vary more strongly with progenitor mass than does the iron yield ( e.g.  figure  1 of gibson 1998 )",
    ". there appears to have been surprisingly good mixing at early times , at least in the stellar halo of the milky way ( see the remarkably low scatter in the ratio of [ @xmath30/fe ] at [ fe / h ] @xmath31 in the sample analysed by cayrel et al .",
    "2004 ) , so that a well - defined value of [ @xmath30/fe ] is produced by a generation of massive stars of given imf .",
    "this is seen as the ` type  ii plateau ' in [ @xmath30/fe ] for metal - poor galactic stars .",
    "the available elemental abundance data for a handful of individual stars in the umi dsph are consistent with the same value for the type  ii plateau as seen in stars of the milky way ( shetrone et al .",
    "2001 ) , with some downturn for more metal - rich stars , as expected if there is an age spread of 12  gyr and an age - metallicity relationship .",
    "the simplest interpretation is that the high mass imf was the same in the umi dsph as in the galaxy  and that imf is a power - law with salpeter ( 1955 ) slope .",
    "most of the stars in the other dwarf spheroidals have low values of [ @xmath30/fe ] , consistent with a standard  salpeter ",
    "imf for massive stars and an extended star formation history , as implied by their colour - magnitude diagram ( see e.g.  venn et al .",
    "the fossil record in low - mass stars at the present time allows the derivation of the stellar imf at high redshift .",
    "the low - mass luminosity function is accessible through star counts , most robustly in a system with a simple stellar population .",
    "we have found that the low - mass imf is invariant between globular clusters in the halo of the milky way and an external galaxy , the dwarf spheroidal in ursa minor .",
    "the underlying mass function is apparently the same as that for present - day star formation in the local disk of the milky way .",
    "the low - mass imf is remarkably invariant , over a broad range of metallicities , age , star - formation rate , baryonic density , dark matter content  indeed most of the parameters that _ a priori _ one might have expected to be important in determining the masses of stars .",
    "the high - mass imf is also apparently independent of these parameters .",
    "this invariance is particularly surprising if the jeans mass plays an important role .",
    "i thank my colleagues and collaborators sofia feltzing , jay gallagher , gerry gilmore , leslie hebb , mark houdashelt and tammy smecker - hane for their contributions to the results described here .",
    "i would also like to thank the tireless organizers of this stimulating meeting for inviting me .",
    "carrera , r. , aparicio , a. , martinez - delgado , d. & alonso - garcia , j. 2002 , aj , 123 , 3199 cayrel , r. et al .",
    "2004 , a&a , 416 , 1117 cole , s. , lacey , c. , baugh , c. & frenk , c. 2000 , mnras , 319 , 168 feltzing , s. , wyse , r.f.g . & gilmore , g. 1999 , apjl , 516 , 17 gallagher , j.s . & wyse , r.f.g .",
    "1994 , pasp , 106 , 1225 gibson , b. 1998 , apj , 501 , 675    hebb , l. , wyse , r.f.g . & gilmore , g. 2004 , aj , december issue ( astro - ph/0409289 ) hernandez , x. , gilmore , g. & valls - gabaud , d. 2000 , mnras , 317 , 831 kauffmann , g. , white , s.d.m .",
    "& guiderdoni , b. 1993 , mnras , 264 , 201 kleyna , j. , geller , m. , kenyon , s. , kurtz , m. & thorstensen , j. 1998 , aj , 115 , 2359 palma , c. , majewski , s. , et al .",
    "2003 , aj , 125 , 1352 piotto , g. , cool , a. & king , i. 1997 , aj , 113 , 1345 salpeter , e.e .",
    "1955 , apj , 121 , 161 shetrone , m. , ct , p. & sargent , w. 2001 , apj , 548 , 592 venn , k. et al .",
    "2004 , aj , 128 , 1177 wilkinson , m. , kleyna , j. , evans , w. , gilmore , g. , irwin , m. & grebel , e. 2004 , apjl , 611 , 21 wyse , r.f.g .",
    "1998 , in the stellar imf , asp conf series 142 , eds gilmore & howell , p89 wyse , r.f.g .",
    "et al .  2002 , new ast , 7 , 395"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the dwarf spheroidal galaxy in ursa minor is apparently dark - matter dominated , and is of very low surface brightness , with total luminosity only equal to that of a globular cluster . </S>",
    "<S> indeed its dominant stellar population is old and metal - poor , very similar to that of a classical halo globular cluster in the milky way galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> however , the environment in which its stars formed was clearly different from that in the globular clusters in the milky way galaxy  what was the stellar imf in this external galaxy a long time ago ? </S>",
    "<S> the fossil record of long - lived , low - mass stars contains the luminosity function , derivable from simple star counts . </S>",
    "<S> this is presented here . </S>",
    "<S> the mass function requires a robust mass - luminosity relation , and we describe the initial results to determine this , from our survey for eclipsing low - mass binaries in old open clusters . </S>",
    "<S> the massive star imf at early times is constrained by elemental abundances in low - mass stars , and we discuss the available data . </S>",
    "<S> all data are consistent with an invariant imf , most probably of salpeter slope at the massive end , with a turnover at lower masses .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1#1@xmath0 # 1 </S>"
  ]
}