{
  "article_text": [
    "it has now been several decades since two important observations revolutionized our understanding of the structure and ionization of the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "the first was the discovery @xcite and subsequent investigation @xcite of the 0.25 kev soft x - ray diffuse background , which implied that a substantial fraction of the galactic disk in the solar neighborhood was occupied by low density , hot ( @xmath12  k ) gas .",
    "the second was the discovery of oviabsorption lines arising in the ism @xcite . with an ionization potential of 114 ev ,",
    "ovi  is very difficult to produce by photoionization .",
    "in addition , the observed ovi  line profiles are broader than interstellar lines of lower ionization potential . consequently , the ovi  ionization was most naturally explained by collisional ionization in a hot gas ( @xmath13  k ) .",
    "the ovi  line profiles have widths consistent with thermal broadening from such a hot gas .    on the theoretical side , @xcite studied the role of supernova explosions in creating large , low - density cavities of hot gas in the ism .",
    "@xcite provided a self - consistent theory of the ism in which warm ( @xmath14  k ) ionized clouds exist in this hot gas .",
    "the @xcite model attempted to explain the pressure of interstellar clouds , the soft x - ray background , the ovi  absorption , and the ionization and velocities of the clouds .",
    "although numerous theoretical models have since been proposed which emphasize the roles of magnetic fields , or different values for the filling factor of the hot gas @xcite , the general picture of a turbulent , three - phase ism which is churned up by supernovae has endured .",
    "much recent progress has been made in developing multi - dimensional magneto - hydrodynamic simulations of the ism @xcite , which show the growth of structures both large and small due to shocks , radiative cooling , and thermal instabilities .",
    "the origin of the ovi  absorption has been the subject of much debate and modeling .",
    "the most widely held view is that the ovi  is formed in conductive interfaces between the hot , @xmath15  k gas and cool embedded clouds @xcite .",
    "this explanation is consistent with a number of characteristics of the ovi  absorption , such as their line widths and kinematics .",
    "@xcite has shown that the rms dispersion in ovi  components is only @xmath16 km  s@xmath17 .",
    "this narrow velocity spread seems incompatible with formation in turbulent , expanding supernova remnants .",
    "furthermore , @xcite have shown that there is a correlation between the kinematics of the oviabsorption and uv lines from lower ionization lines , implying a physical correlation between the hot and cool gas . finally ,",
    "models of the conductive interfaces predict column densities of ovi  which are in general agreement with observations @xcite .    despite these successes ,",
    "alternative models have received a lot of attention . @xcite , @xcite and @xcite have investigated the production of ovi  in the interior of bubbles carved out in the ism by supernova explosions .",
    "@xcite have modeled the evolution of supernova remnants , including non - equilibrium effects and magnetic fields .",
    "they find that hot gas inside the bubble condenses onto the interior shell wall , and will have significant column densities of ovi . at later times in the remnant evolution",
    "( @xmath18 yr ) , there is considerable cooling inside the bubble , and large amounts of ovi  are produced in the middle of the bubble . in these later phases of the bubble evolution",
    ", expansion has ceased and consequently the ovi  line widths would be much narrower than in the turbulent expanding phase @xcite .",
    "averaged over the bubble lifetime , @xcite predict the most probable value of the ovicolumn density from one crossing of the bubble wall to be @xmath19 @xmath4 , which is higher than observed .",
    "comparisons of models with observation have been hampered by the necessarily complicated sight lines observed with _",
    "copernicus _ , the only far - ultraviolet spectrograph prior to the _ far ultraviolet spectroscopic explorer ( fuse ) _ with high enough spectral resolution to study ovi absorption . due to its low effective area , however , _ copernicus _",
    "could only observe bright , early - type stars that are , with a few exceptions , at distances exceeding 100 pc from the sun .",
    "@xcite reanalyzed the _ copernicus _ data and showed that a significant fraction of the ovi  column density along most distant lines of sight was contributed by a region of hot gas surrounding the sun called the local bubble ( lb ) .",
    "however , the _ copernicus _ data did not allow the determination of where in the lb the ovi  was formed ; i.e. on conductive interfaces or in condensation regions at the bubble wall .",
    "the much higher sensitivity of _ fuse _ permits observation of nearby white dwarfs , where the problem of averaging and blending of many different physical conditions along the line of sight are minimized , allowing the study of the distribution of ovi  in the lb .",
    "a separate study of low - ionization species in the lism has been carried out by @xcite using many of the same lines of sight as the present study .",
    "the sun lies inside a low density , warm cloud ( @xmath20 @xmath9 , @xmath21  k ) which extends @xmath22 pc from the sun @xcite .",
    "the sun is located near the edge of this local interstellar cloud ( lic ) @xcite , which is immersed inside a hot ( @xmath23  k ) , very low density ( @xmath24 @xmath9 ) cavity called the local bubble @xcite .",
    "although it is unclear how representative the lb is of other regions within our galaxy , it provides a unique local laboratory for studying the formation of ovi  in either diffuse hot gas or in conductive interfaces to cool clouds . within the lb ,",
    "there are numerous clouds of low column density , although the volume filling factor of clouds is quite small .",
    "in addition to the lic , @xcite have identified the g cloud , and @xcite have provided evidence for two additional clouds that they dub the north and south galactic pole clouds . @xcite",
    "have identified six clouds along the line of sight to @xmath25 cma , which is 132 pc distant .",
    "@xcite has estimated that the lb could contain more than 2000 diffuse clouds .",
    "therefore , lines of sight to nearby ( @xmath26 pc ) white dwarfs should pass through a minimum of one cloud interface ( the lic ) , and will likely intercept several clouds .",
    "@xcite notes that most stars within only 20 pc of the sun exhibit two or three absorption components in caii .",
    "it has been assumed that the lb is full of million degree gas because of the observed emission of soft x - rays @xcite .",
    "the exact origin of the lb is not known , although it is presumably due to one or more supernova explosions . @xcite and @xcite have presented kinematical evidence that subgroups of stars in the sco - cen ob assocation passed through the current boundary of the lb about 5 million years ago , and ob stars in these subgroups provided the supernovae that created the lb .",
    "@xcite arrive at similar conclusions from a study of the trajectories of moving stellar groups in the solar neighborhood , concluding that the local bubble was created by up to 20 supernovae in the past @xmath27 myr .",
    "@xcite also suggested that supernova explosions in the sco - cen region could have resulted in runaway ob stars that passed close to our sun . a sequence of about 3 supernovae over a few million year period from these runaway stars could provide the energetics to power the lb .",
    "@xcite suggested that a substantial amount of the soft x - ray background might be due to charge transfer of heavy solar wind ions with interstellar neutrals in the heliosphere ( in a process analogous to the proposed explanation of x - ray emission from comets by @xcite ) .",
    "this process would lead to time - dependent x - ray emission due to fluctuations in the solar wind .",
    "indeed , @xcite has reported time - variable `` long - term enhancements '' of order 30% in the two lowest energy bins in the rosat / pspc x - ray background .",
    "current estimates of the contribution of this process to the soft x - ray background range from @xmath28% @xcite to @xmath29% @xcite .",
    "@xcite used euve data to show that he is more ionized than h in the lism . in subsequent work",
    ", @xcite argued that stellar euv sources are not capable of providing the observed he ionization level . @xcite",
    "have modeled the soft x - ray radiation field within the lb near the sun as a combination of three sources : ( 1 ) radiation from nearby b stars and white dwarfs , ( 2 ) emission from a @xmath15 k gas in collisional ionization equilibrium , and ( 3 ) radiation from an evaporative interface at the boundary of the lic .",
    "this model successfully explains a number of observations , such as the ionization of he and h , and the ionization ratios of mgi  to mgii  and cii * to cii towards @xmath25 cma .",
    "furthermore , in order to match the observations toward @xmath25 cma , an euv radiation field larger than that from nearby stars plus diffuse emission from the hot gas in the lb was required , providing indirect evidence for an evaportive boundary around the lic .",
    "the existence of this evaporative boundary could be tested through observations of ovi towards nearby stars .",
    "@xcite proposed an innovative model for the soft x - ray background in which supernovae drive an adiabatic expansion of hot gas .",
    "the gas cools quickly as it expands , and highly ionized stages are `` frozen in '' to the gas .",
    "the soft x - ray emission is due to delayed recombination at low kinetic temperatures ( @xmath30  k ) . in this model , a significant amount of ovi  is also produced in wide - spread , highly excited gas within the supernova remnant .",
    "one of the successes of this model is its natural explanation of how cool clouds can survive inside the lb . if the lb contained million degree gas , then conduction at cloud surfaces would evaporate the clouds in a relatively short time .",
    "the existence of cool clouds in the lb implies that either the ambient medium is cool , that conduction is inoperative , or cool clouds are being replenished .",
    "we note that @xcite has recently shown that the @xmath31 upper limit on the intensity of observed ovi  emission from a null detection along one line of sight in the lb is about twice the intensity expected from this model .",
    "@xcite report that a spectrum of the lb obtained with the cosmic hot interstellar plasma spectrometer ( chips ) indicates that the diffuse euv emission is much fainter than that predicted from a @xmath15  k gas in collisional ionization equilibrium , as predicted by the soft - xray observations .",
    "the emission measure of the feix  171  line is an order of magnitude less than predicted , and the emission lines of fex   fexii  were not detected at all , even though they would be expected to have similar intensities .",
    "depletion of iron in the lism and/or foreground absorption could explain the low intensity of the feix  emission , but not the absence of the fex  line .",
    "other possible explanations for unexpectedly low euv emission include non - equilibrium ionization and solar wind charge exchange effects .",
    "@xcite have proposed a model for the origin of the diffuse clouds in the local bubble , in which a magnetic flux tube anchored at two points on opposite sides of the lb pulls free of the boundary wall and , through its own tension , is pulled to the center of the bubble .",
    "the authors have investigated the dynamics of this flux tube , and they conclude that a converging flow of matter occurs in the tube , and leads to the formation of one or more clouds near the center of the bubble .",
    "a thorough review of the lism is not possible in this paper , and we have just touched on subjects relevant to our survey of ovi  absorption .",
    "the interested reader is referred to a recent review article on local bubble research by @xcite for a more extensive discussion .    in the next section ,",
    "we describe our survey of oviabsorption toward white dwarf stars within and near the lb , report the measurements and their uncertainties . in the following sections , we discuss the implications of these results in terms of the models discussed above .",
    "in this paper , we report observations of 29 nearby white dwarfs obtained with the _",
    "fuse_. observations used in this survey were obtained for a variety of purposes ( photometric calibration , deuterium snapshot survey , etc ) , and hence the survey data are not homogeneous in terms of signal - to - noise . in the second year of _ fuse _ observations , we added white dwarfs to the guaranteed time observer s target list ( program p204 ) in order to provide even sky coverage . da white dwarfs with surface temperatures less than 40,000  k are the preferred targets , since most of them have essentially pure hydrogen atmospheres , although it should be noted that some percentage of da white dwarfs with effective temperatures less than 50,000  k contain detectable metals @xcite . da white dwarfs hotter than 40,000  k can contain elements heavier than h or he , such as c , n , o , si , p , s , fe , and ni in their photospheres , giving rise to stellar absorption lines @xcite . unlike rapidly rotating , early - type stars that are typically used as background sources to study interstellar absorption lines , the photospheric lines of white dwarfs are not significantly rotationally broadened and can be easily confused with interstellar or circumstellar features , especially if the radial velocity of the star is unknown or is the same as the interstellar velocity .",
    "nevertheless , white dwarf spectra generally have fairly smooth continua making them excellent background sources for studying the interstellar medium .",
    "the 29 white dwarfs observed in this survey of the lism are listed in table 1 , along with their distances , hi  column densities , galactic coordinates , spectral types , effective temperatures , and _ fuse _ dataset names .",
    "the positions of the survey stars in table 1 are plotted in figures 1 and 2 , projected onto the galactic and meridional planes , respectively . in these figures , we have plotted only the 25 stars without strong stellar ovi  contamination , as described in section 2.2 below . in figure 1 , only the subset of these 25 stars with @xmath32 are displayed , to avoid misleading projection effects .",
    "overlayed in figures 1 and 2 are the main boundaries of the 20 m  nai  d2 equivalent width contours from @xcite , which define the local cavity .",
    "a na d2 line equivalent width of 20 m  corresponds to an hi  column density of @xmath33(hi)@xmath34 .",
    "this contour level marks the beginning of a steep rise in density ; essentially defining an hi  `` wall '' surrounding the local cavity . also shown in both figures is the contour map of the hot lb , as defined by the 0.25 kev soft x - ray emission @xcite .",
    "considerable uncertainty exists in the distances to the white dwarfs and in the location of the hot lb contour from the soft x - ray emission .",
    "only two stars in our survey have parallaxes listed in the hipparcos catalog @xcite  wd  0501@xmath35527 and wd  1314@xmath35293 . however , even in these cases , the uncertainties are not small  the parallax error is 21% for wd  0501@xmath35527 and 27% for wd  1314@xmath35293 .",
    "even more worrisome is the fact that the hipparcos - determined distance of 32 pc to wd  1314@xmath35293 disagrees with numerous other determinations that all indicate a distance of about 65 pc .",
    "@xcite have discussed this in detail , and we have adopted their assumed distance of @xmath36 pc .",
    "the distances to the remaining stars in table 1 are taken from @xcite and @xcite , who employ photometric techniques to derive distances .",
    "the star s spectral energy distribution is used to determine the effective temperature and gravity of the star , and these atmospheric parameters are used in conjunction with theoretical evolutionary sequences to determine the star s radius , and hence its absolute magnitude .",
    "the distance is then determined from the star s apparent magnitude . even though white dwarfs have well understood spectra ,",
    "the resultant uncertainty in distance is still @xmath37% .",
    "there is also significant uncertainty in the radial extent of the hot lb as determined from soft x - ray emission . in order to determine the scaling relation between soft x - ray emission and distance , @xcite used a distance of @xmath38 pc to the molecular cloud complex",
    "mbm 12 as determined from ism absorption line measurements @xcite together with x - ray shadowing measurements @xcite .",
    "this distance determination is a matter of some dispute , and the true distance may be considerably larger than this @xcite .",
    "we conclude that the lb may extend all the way out to the boundary of the cavity demarked by the nai  contours .",
    "@xcite points out that in the face of distance uncertainties , it is also useful to consider the hi  column densities along the lines of sight to the target stars .",
    "objects with column densities @xmath39 dex are within the lb , while objects with @xmath40 logn(hi ) @xmath41 are probably very near the bubble wall , and stars with logn(hi ) @xmath42 are beyond the lb wall .",
    "in our sample of 25 white dwarfs , 8 objects have logn(hi ) @xmath43 ( see table 1 ) .",
    "@xcite and @xcite have provided an overview of the _ fuse _ spectrograph and its on - orbit performance . in brief ,",
    "the _ fuse _ instrument consists of two telescopes , each of which has two channels optimized for specific wavelength ranges .",
    "the sic channels cover the wavelength range 905 - 1104  , while the lif channels cover the 990 - 1185   region .",
    "hence , the ovi  @xmath01032 line is covered by both the sic and lif channels on sides 1 and 2 of the instrument .",
    "spectra of ovi  are obtained in channels lif1 , lif2 , sic1 and sic2 .",
    "the sic channels have only about one - third the sensitivity of the lif1 channel , and the lif2 channel is @xmath44% as sensitive as lif1 at 1032  . since the ovi  line is weak , the best data is usually obtained in the lif1 channel .",
    "furthermore , in many of the observations obtained early in the _ fuse _ mission , the channels were not properly aligned , and hence for some datasets , the target was not in the aperture of the sic channels .",
    "the target was always in the lif1 channel , since this channel contains the guide camera .",
    "neverthless , we have used data from all channels if the signal - to - noise is adequate .",
    "some of the observations were taken in the mdrs ( 4 arcsec ) and hirs ( 1.5 arcsec ) spectrograph apertures , although most of the data were obtained in the lwrs ( 30 arcsec ) aperture . a typical observation consisted of @xmath27 exposures , each of which was @xmath45 minutes in duration , yielding total integration times of @xmath46 ksec per target .",
    "all data for these stars were reprocessed with version 1.8.7 of the calfuse data reduction pipeline .    the spectra produced by the _ fuse _ concave gratings are astigmatic , with significant curvature present in the two - dimensional point spread functions .",
    "however , the ovi  lines lie near one of two astigmatic correction points , where the curvature can not be easily removed . hence , spectral extractions were performed by simply collapsing the two - dimensional spectra to one - dimension .",
    "the resulting spectral resolution is @xmath47 ( fwhm ) with no appreciable difference between the mdrs and lwrs aperture data ( the point spread function is much smaller than the width of either aperture ) .",
    "there are two sources of spectral motion in the _ fuse _ instrument that can degrade spectral resolution : motions of the primary mirrors , and rotation of the gratings in each spectrograph channel .",
    "shifts during an exposure are typically only @xmath48  .",
    "consequently , prior to coadding all the exposures in a given observation , the spectra were registered using the cii  @xmath01036 line as a reference .    at the present time",
    ", no correction for fixed pattern noise in the detectors is available . a typical resolution element at 1032  covers @xmath49 detector pixels ( 10 pixels in the dispersion direction and 10 pixels of astigmatic height ) , which smooths out some of the pixel - to - pixel flat field irregularities . for those spectra whose exposures had some movement , the shift - and - add coaddition process serves to further wash out some of the fixed pattern noise in the spectra from each channel . whenever possible , we combined spectra for a given star from all channels and all observations with weights inversely proportional to the noise variances .",
    "since the different channels are recorded on different regions of the detector , this further mitigated the effect of fixed pattern noise .",
    "beginning in the second year of _ fuse _ observations , we began to take data in a special mode in an attempt to mitigate fixed pattern noise .",
    "when observing in the lwrs aperture , the target was observed at several different locations within @xmath50 arcsec of the aperture center , resulting in spectra at different locations on the detector .",
    "many , but not all , of the observations with program i d p204 ( see table 1 ) were obtained in this manner .",
    "typical signal - to - noise ratios in the final coadded spectra are @xmath51 to 50 per resolution element at 1032  .",
    "nevertheless , some fixed pattern noise remains in the data , and this serves to limit our ability to measure weak absorption features .",
    "@xcite and @xcite have reported detection of stellar ovi  lines in the fuse spectra of the hot ( t@xmath52 60,000 k ) white dwarfs pg  1342@xmath35444 , re  j0558@xmath53371 and feige 55 .",
    "one surprising discovery from this survey was the existence of strong photospheric ovi  lines in the spectra of two white dwarfs with effective temperatures below 50,000 k : wd  0131@xmath53163 and wd  2156@xmath53546 ( see fig 3 ) .",
    "stellar ovi  lines are also evident in the spectra of the white dwarf in the close binary wd  2013@xmath35400 and the hot helium - rich white dwarf wd  0501@xmath53289 .",
    "these stars all display a strong ovi  1038 line , with a 1032/1038 doublet ratio of approximately unity , indicating that the lines are optically thick .",
    "the photospheric nature of the strong ovi  lines in these stars is confirmed by comparing the ovi  radial velocities to those of other photospheric lines .",
    "we have eliminated these stars from further consideration in this survey , since an accurate measurement of interstellar ovi  is not possible .",
    "there are several other features to note in figure 3 that are the same for all the white dwarf spectra .",
    "first , interstellar cii  @xmath01036 and oi  @xmath01039 absorption lines are present . in most of the spectra in our survey , the cii  @xmath01036 line is lightly saturated with a full width half maximum ( fwhm ) of @xmath49 m . in low column density lines of sight , such as hz 43 ,",
    "the cii  @xmath01036 and oi  @xmath01039 fwhm are @xmath54 km  s@xmath17 , representing the limiting resolution of the instrument at these wavelengths .",
    "cii *  @xmath01037 interstellar absorption is also present if the electron density is high enough somewhere along the line of sight .",
    "finally , we note the absence of h@xmath55 absorption , which is a ubiquitous feature in far - uv spectra along more distant galactic sightlines , in all but 3 of our survey stars .",
    "@xcite reports total column densities of @xmath56 n(h@xmath55 ) @xmath57 towards wd  0004@xmath35330 , wd  1636@xmath35351 , and wd  1800@xmath35685 . simply assuming an hd / h@xmath55 ratio equal to the observed local d / h ratio of @xmath58 @xcite ,",
    "would then imply an hd column density of @xmath59 @xmath4 .",
    "however , @xcite has pointed out that ion molecule , isotope exchange reactions in the ism can form hd preferentially in comparison to h@xmath55 , with enhancements of order of @xmath49 .",
    "even if one assumes such a large enhancement of hd , we predict that the resulting equivalent width of the 6 - 0 r(0 ) lyman transition of hd at 1031.909  would be @xmath60 m .",
    "hence , this hd line is not expected to contaminate the @xmath01032 line of ovi in the lism .",
    "the zero point of the wavelength scale for calibrated _ fuse _ spectra taken in the lwrs aperture is uncertain by @xmath61 km  s@xmath17 , due to uncertainty in the location of the star in the aperture , arising from relative uncertainties of celestial coordinates of the target stars with respect to guide stars ( especially due to proper motion ) .",
    "consequently , we have used the cii  @xmath01036.336 line to set the zero point for the interstellar cloud velocity along each line of sight .",
    "an additional check of the cii  @xmath01036 line was provided by the interstellar oi@xmath01039.23 line .",
    "a number of the white dwarfs in our survey also displayed photospheric piv  absorption lines at 1030.515 and 1035.516  , which were used in conjunction with published stellar velocities @xcite to check the dispersion solution in the region 1030 - 1039  .",
    "based on these interstellar and stellar lines , we are confident that our corrected wavelength scale at 1032   is accurate to @xmath62 km  s@xmath17 .",
    "spectra of the 25 white dwarfs , after excluding the ones noted above as having strong stellar ovi  contamination , are shown in figure 4 .",
    "these spectra have been normalized to the continuum , and only the region near the ovi  @xmath01032 line is shown . _",
    "the _ ovi since the ovi  @xmath01031.93 line has an _",
    "f_-value twice as large as the 1037.62   member of the doublet , we have measured only the 1032 line equivalent widths . after some experimentation , a velocity integration range of @xmath63 km  s@xmath17  was chosen in order to be large enough to fully cover the expected thermal width of an ovi  line at @xmath64  k , plus some margin for wavelength calibration uncertainties and real velocity offsets , but also narrow enough to exclude nearby stellar features .",
    "the measured equivalent widths and column densities are given in table 2 .",
    "the column densities are derived from the measured equivalent widths , assuming a linear curve of growth .",
    "the uncertainties in the measured equivalent widths were determined empirically from the following considerations .",
    "in addition to fixed pattern noise , there is also the likelihood that weak photospheric absorption lines from various metals could be present in the spectra .",
    "we have decided to treat these lines as just another source of noise .",
    "hence , we measured the equivalent width in numerous regions of the spectra near the ovi  line where we did not expect to find any stellar or interstellar lines ; i.e. , where the expected equivalent width would be zero . the standard deviation in the measured equivalent widths",
    "was then used as our empirically determined uncertainty .",
    "consequently , the uncertainties in the equivalent widths in table 2 combine systematic and random errors .",
    "no ovi  absorption was detected with significance greater than 2 @xmath1 for 12 of the 25 stars . as can be seen from table 2 ,",
    "a typical 1 @xmath1 uncertainty is @xmath2 m  ( equivalent to an ovi  column density of @xmath65 @xmath4 ) . of the remaining stars , most have column densities n(ovi)@xmath5 @xmath4 and no column densities exceed @xmath6 @xmath4 .",
    "we now return to the issue of photospheric contamination of the oviinterstellar lines .",
    "as mentioned above , ovi lines can be formed in the atmospheres of hot white dwarfs , even if they have relatively low metallicity .",
    "it was easy to reject the obvious cases where the photospheric ovi  was strong and present in both members of the ovi1032/1038 doublet .",
    "but , what , might we ask , is the potential for contamination by weak stellar ovi  lines ?",
    "we have computed nlte photospheric models of white dwarfs for a grid of effective temperatures and atmospheric abundances assuming @xmath66 and a homogeneous h@xmath35o chemical composition .",
    "the results are illustrated in figure 5 .",
    "the models indicate that stars with t@xmath67  k should not have any appreciable absorption by ovi .",
    "hence , the cool stars wd  0050@xmath53332 , wd  0549@xmath35158 , wd  1017@xmath53138 , wd  1254@xmath35223 , wd  1615@xmath53154 , wd  1636@xmath35351 , wd  1845@xmath35019 , wd  1847@xmath53223 , and wd  2111@xmath35498 should not show photospheric ovilines . above this temperature , stars with low abundances can have weak stellar absorption lines with strengths of a few m  rising to @xmath68 m  for t@xmath69  k and log(o / h)@xmath70 . in figure 6 , we show the data for 5 of our survey stars , overlayed with photospheric models . in these models , the abundances of o ,",
    "p and fe were adjusted to give the best fits to the data . in the cases of p and fe ,",
    "there were multiple lines with different strengths available for the fit ; however , in the case of oxygen , there is only the 1032/1038 doublet .",
    "typically , the best fitting models have log(o / h)@xmath71 . in the case where the stellar radial velocity and the interstellar velocity are quite different , there is no ambiguity as to whether a line is stellar or interstellar .",
    "for instance , as shown in the top panel of figure 6 , the stellar ovi  line in wd  0455@xmath53282 is distinctly offset from the broad , presumably interstellar ovi  line .",
    "however , in cases where the stellar radial velocity is unknown ( which , sadly , is the majority of the cases ) , there is a general uncertainty as to the level of contamination of the observed ovi  line by the star s photosphere for stars hotter than 40,000  k.    consequently , for the hotter stars , our ovi   measurements can be viewed as providing upper limits to the interstellar absorption , since some photospheric contribution may be present depending on the abundance of oxygen in the star . for the models shown in figure 6 , the equivalent width of ovi  reported for wd  0455@xmath53282 appears to not be contaminated .",
    "also , for wd  2111@xmath35498 , the feiii  @xmath01032.12 line does not affect our measurement of ovi , since it is outside our 40 km  s@xmath17  measurement window .",
    "note also that this star has an effective temperature well below 40,000  k , so no photospheric ovi  is predicted . for the other three stars in figure 6 , it is possible to produce photospheric models that can explain a significant part of the observed ovi  absorption .",
    "we find that after subtracting our best fitting photospheric model , that the interstellar ovi   equivalent widths for wd  0501@xmath35527 , wd  2211@xmath53495 and wd  2331@xmath53475 are 1.3 , 5.6 and 5.4 m , significantly lower than the measured values of 4.4 , 16.4 , and 13.1 m , respectively .",
    "these model - dependent corrected values are noted in the footnotes to table 2 . at this point",
    "there is no satisfying model for explaining why the photospheric ovi  abundances that we have measured are much smaller than the oiv  and ov  abundances measured by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "@xcite suggested that this difference may be the result of a steep oxygen abundance gradient that increases with decreasing optical depths .",
    "consequently , we have assumed throughout the rest of this paper that the measured column densities toward these stars are formed in the ism .",
    "the ovi  line velocities reported in table 2 are measured with respect to the cii  @xmath01036 line , which we use as the low ionization ism cloud velocity . in this frame of reference ,",
    "the ovi  line velocity is @xmath72 km  s@xmath17  for most lines of sight .",
    "the ovi  absorption along the line of sight to wd0455@xmath53282 , at @xmath73 km  s@xmath17 , is a notable exception .",
    "the line of sight to this star appears more complicated than others in the lism .",
    "the cii  @xmath01036 interstellar line has multiple components ; the strong central one at 0 km  s@xmath17  ( by definition ) and another reasonably strong line at @xmath74 km  s@xmath17 .",
    "the stellar lines in the _ fuse _ spectrum are at @xmath75 km  s@xmath17  relative to the central cii  ism line , in good agreement with the velocities of stellar and interstellar lines reported by @xcite from iue observations .",
    "@xcite also report the presence of siiv  and civabsorption lines blueshifted by @xmath76 km  s@xmath17  with respect to the stellar photosphere , which they cite as evidence for mass loss from this hot , da white dwarf .",
    "we do not observe ovi  at this velocity .",
    "we will thus assume that the ovi  line , which appears to have multiple unresolved components , is interstellar in nature .      in order to quantify the widths of the ovi  absorption lines ,",
    "we have computed their mean absolute deviations in order to avoid the effects of noise in the wings of the line profile .",
    "the average absolute deviation about the mean is defined as @xmath77 , where @xmath78 is the residual intensity and @xmath79 is the line velocity centroid .",
    "the results are given in table 2 for those lines of sight having sufficient ovi  line strengths and signal - to - noise to permit a measurement .",
    "the average value of @xmath80 is @xmath81 km  s@xmath17 . for a normal distribution ,",
    "the standard deviation is @xmath82 , or 20 km  s@xmath17 .",
    "this observed line width should be compared with the expected width , @xmath83 , of an oxygen line formed in a @xmath84  k gas , having a thermal width of @xmath85 convolved with the _ fuse _ line spread function , @xmath86 km  s@xmath17 .",
    "the expected line width is then @xmath87 km  s@xmath17 , which is less than our observed linewidths in the lism .",
    "this should be compared with the results of @xcite , who found @xmath88 km  s@xmath17  over much longer pathlengths in the galactic disk .",
    "the weakness of ovi  absorption , not to mention its total absence along many sightlines , in the lism has important implications for models of the local bubble , as well as our overall understanding of the interstellar medium .",
    "first , let us consider the implications of the observed results for the conductive interface model .",
    "@xcite has modeled the evaporation of the lic inside the lb , assuming a temperature of @xmath15  k and density of @xmath89 @xmath9 in the lb , as implied by the soft x - ray results .",
    "the model includes the effects of radiative cooling , non - equilibrium ionization , and magnetic fields .",
    "column densities of ovi  through one cloud interface were computed as a function of the parameter @xmath90 , where @xmath91 is the tangential component of the magnetic field , and @xmath92 is the angle of the magnetic field relative to radial",
    ". if the magnetic field in a cloud is largely tangential , then electrons , which travel along field lines , are ineffective in transporting heat across the interface .",
    "this `` magnetic shielding '' prevents evaporation of the cool cloud , and results in low ovi  column densities .",
    "the column densities predicted by slavin s model for one interface range from @xmath93 to @xmath94 @xmath4 for @xmath95 to @xmath96 , respectively . about half of the stars in our survey within the lb have ovi  column densities less than the model prediction even assuming significant inhibition of thermal conduction by magnetic fields ( the @xmath97 case ) for a _ single _ cloud interface .",
    "since we expect that our lines of sight will intersect at least one cloud interface ( the lic ) and quite possibly one or more cloud interfaces , the observations place severe constraints on the effectiveness of thermal conduction in forming ovi  in cloud interfaces .",
    "assuming that an ordered magnetic field is inhibiting conduction , then the field vector must be @xmath98  to the normal in order for ovi  column densities to be as low as @xmath99 @xmath4 .",
    "a tangled magnetic field would also be very efficient at halting conduction .",
    "if the magnetic field becomes more radial over a small region of the cloud surface and connects to the magnetic field in the hot , intercloud medium , then conduction across the interface would occur and create `` patches '' of ovi  on the cloud surface .",
    "a line of sight through the lb would encounter little ovi  absorption unless it passed through one of these ovi  `` patches '' on a cloud surface .",
    "this picture seems qualitatively consistent with the observations .",
    "@xcite have computed models of plane - parallel magnetized thermal conduction fronts and followed the evolution of the front to predict column densities of selected uv absorption lines as a function of time . based on these models ( see their figure 6 ) ,",
    "our detections of ovi  along some lism sightlines with column densities exceeding @xmath100 @xmath4 are consistent with a lifetime of @xmath101 years for the local bubble .",
    "it could be argued then that this result does not support the idea that the local bubble was re - heated and re - ionized by a recent ( @xmath102 yrs ) supernova explosion @xcite .",
    "alternatively , the overall weakness of ovi  absorption along many sight lines would be consistent with recent reheating , with detectable ovi  absorption being due to lines of sight crossing multiple interfaces .    in figure 7",
    ", we have plotted the column densities of ovi  versus hi .",
    "there is no obvious dependence .",
    "the hi  column is proportional to the path length through cool clouds , and would therefore be expected to correlate at least weakly with the number of cloud interfaces intercepted along the line of sight .",
    "the lack of a correlation between ovi  and hi  column density is consistent with the `` patchy '' ovi  interface model .",
    "understanding pressure balance within the lb has been a long - standing problem . in the lic ,",
    "the observed pressure is @xmath103 @xmath9  k @xcite , while in the hot , intercloud medium the value is @xmath104 @xmath9  k based on temperatures and densities derived from the soft x - ray data . by invoking a magnetic field of @xmath105 g , a magnetic pressure of @xmath106 @xmath9  k provides the additional pressure needed to keep the cool clouds in the lb from being crushed .",
    "the unexpectedly weak ovi  absorption observed in the lism , if such weakness is attributed to the quenching of conduction , provides some evidence for the existence of magnetic fields within the local clouds , although we can not derive an absolute measure of the magnetic pressure .",
    "the severity of this pressure balance problem is ameliorated if the observed soft x - ray emission is significantly contaminated by a local heliospheric contribution @xcite .",
    "a lower x - ray flux from the lb would translate directly to a lower density , and hence a lower value of @xmath107 in the hot medium .",
    "our observations are also consistent with the recent model for the origin of cool clouds inside the lb by @xcite .",
    "these authors propose that magnetic flux tubes separate from the inner wall of the bubble except at their anchored ends , and through their tension , spring into the interior of the bubble . in doing so , the flux tubes drag material into the cavity . in this scenario ,",
    "the magnetic field is not tangled , but is ordered parallel to the cloud surfaces , and will be effective in preventing conduction over a substantial portion of the surface .",
    "@xcite has shown that the spectrum of the euv flux from local stellar sources ( b stars and white dwarfs ) is too soft to explain the overionization of helium with respect to hydrogen in the lism @xcite . as discussed earlier , @xcite",
    "have shown that radiation from an evaporative interface is required in order to correctly predict the level of ionization in the lism . the observed weak ovi absorption , and the interpretation that this is due to the inhibition of thermal conduction , then leaves the he ionization problem without an obvious solution .      in figure 8",
    ", we show the distribution of ovi  absorption on the sky . in this plot ,",
    "the size of the circle around each survey star is inversely proportional to its distance .",
    "each circle has a gray - scale shading proportional to the column density along that line of sight , with darker shades representing higher column densities .",
    "the lines of sight with galactic longitudes @xmath108 and negative latitudes appear to have higher ovi  column densities than elsewhere , although this trend is somewhat weakened by the likelihood that the ovi  column densities towards wd  2211@xmath53495 and wd  2331@xmath53475 , which are both at approximately galactic coordinates ( @xmath109 , @xmath110 ) , are contaminated by photospheric absorption ( see  2.4 ) .",
    "armed with column densities and distances , we can compute the space density of ovi , @xmath111ovi@xmath112 ( in @xmath9 ) .",
    "there are several different methods that can be employed to do this .",
    "@xcite computed the value of @xmath113 ; the total column density of ovi  for all lines of sight divided by the total effective path length to all stars ( the effective path length is the equivalent distance of the star if it were in the galactic plane , taking into account the decrease in density of oviaway from the plane ) . using this definition ,",
    "@xcite found an ovi  density in the galactic plane of @xmath114 @xmath9 , or @xmath115 @xmath9 after discarding several lines of sight with `` anomalous '' column densities .",
    "another method is just to compute the mean of all values of @xmath116ovi@xmath117 .",
    "however , this method tends to overweight lines of sight with anomalous densities .",
    "this can be alleviated by using an inverse variance weighting , @xmath118 where @xmath119 is the variance of @xmath111ovi@xmath112 , @xmath120 is the uncertainty in @xmath121 , @xmath122 is the column density of ovi  and @xmath123 the effective distance , respectively , for the @xmath124th star . using all 25 stars in the sample , we find an inverse variance weighted mean density of @xmath125 @xmath9 , and an unweighted mean density is @xmath126 @xmath9 . the value computed from @xmath127 is approximately the same at @xmath128 @xmath9 , and is comparable to the value found by @xcite over much larger distances in the galactic disk . a more recent determination of the galactic disk ovi  density has been made from a fuse survey of 150 stars @xcite .",
    "they find a median value of @xmath116ovi@xmath117 ( measured for each sightline @xmath124 ) of @xmath129 @xmath9 .",
    "we find a median value of the ovi  density from our lism survey of @xmath130 @xmath9 . in summary ,",
    "the space density of ovi  that we observe locally is about the same , or somewhat larger than , the average for the galactic disk over kpc scales .",
    "@xcite reanalyzed the _ copernicus _ data and included a contribution to the ovi  column density from the local bubble along all lines of sight .",
    "based on the copernicus data alone , which had few stars at distances of less than 100 pc , they concluded that the lb contributed an ovi  column density of @xmath131 @xmath4 , and hence the mean space density in the galactic plane outside the lb was lower than found by @xcite .",
    "however , our survey indicates that the average ovi  column density out to a distance of 100 pc from the sun ( the approximate distance to the edge of the lb in the galactic plane ) is @xmath132 @xmath4 , based on our measured unweighted mean space density of @xmath133 @xmath9 .",
    "we have performed some numerical simulations which show that our lism survey is consistent with a scenario in which @xmath134 oviproducing clouds or interfaces per kpc are randomly distributed in space , each with a column density of @xmath135 @xmath4 .",
    "this distribution of clouds predicts a dispersion in the ovi  space densities that is consistent with that measured for the 25 lines of sight in the lism survey .",
    "hence , oviabsorption in the lism appears to have a distribution quite similar to , or slightly larger than , much longer lines of sight in the galactic disk .",
    "we find this to be a somewhat remarkable result , since we know that the sun sits roughly in the middle of a supernova cavity  the lb .",
    "if hot bubbles only make up @xmath51% by volume of the galactic disk , then the distance between bubbles should be fairly large .",
    "if ovi  is formed in these hot regions of space , either at the interfaces with cool clouds or in condensation regions inside the bubbles , then the volume density of ovi   producing regions in the disk should be lower than it is locally .",
    "possibly the discrepancy is due to the quenching of conduction by magnetic fields on local cloud surfaces ( i.e. without such quenching , the local space density of ovi  would be higher ) , and/or that the conditions under which ovi  is formed locally is not representative of the galactic disk in general .    in the @xcite theory of the ism ,",
    "cool clouds reside in a pervasive , hot ( @xmath23  k ) interstellar medium which is thermally stabilized by cloud evaporation .",
    "however , if conduction at cloud interfaces is largely quenched , then there will be little or no cloud evaporation .",
    "if magnetic shielding of conduction is common throughout the disk ( as proposed here for the lism ) , then the structure of the general ism must be quite unlike that proposed by @xcite .",
    "@xcite have proposed a `` delayed recombination '' model for the local bubble in which an adiabatic expansion of hot gas is powered by supernovae .",
    "the gas cools quickly as it expands , and highly ionized stages are `` frozen in '' to the gas .",
    "the observed soft x - ray emission is then due to delayed recombination at low kinetic temperatures . in this model",
    ", the intercloud medium has a kinetic temperature of @xmath11  k and an electron density of @xmath136 @xmath9 , yielding @xmath137 @xmath9 k. this ameliorates the pressure balance problem , which is a strong selling point of this model .",
    "let us now consider the expected ovi  production within the lb from this model .",
    "the column density of ovi  along a path of length @xmath138 is @xmath139ovi@xmath140ovi@xmath141o@xmath142o@xmath143 @xmath4 , where @xmath144(ovi ) is the ionization fraction of ovi , @xmath145(o ) is the linear depletion of oxygen onto dust grains , @xmath146(o ) is the abundance of oxygen relative to hydrogen , and @xmath147 for a fully ionized gas that is 10% helium . @xcite",
    "have computed models for the non - equilibrium radiative cooling of an optically thin gas which has been shock heated to @xmath15  k and allowed to cool to @xmath148  k , which is less extreme than the adiabatic cooling in the @xcite model . even after the gas has cooled to @xmath149  k",
    ", there is still significant fractions of o@xmath150 and o@xmath151 in the gas  in particular , @xmath144(ovi)@xmath152 ( see figure @xmath153 in @xcite ) . adopting a solar abundance of oxygen of @xmath154o@xmath155 @xcite , a path length of 100 pc , and virtually no depletion ( @xmath156o@xmath157 ) @xcite",
    ", we then arrive at an expected column density of ovi  of @xmath139ovi@xmath158 @xmath4 .",
    "this column density is ruled out by the observations reported here .",
    "@xcite , @xcite , @xcite and @xcite have investigated the formation of ovi  in the cavities carved out in the ism by supernova explosions . in these models ,",
    "the ovi  resides in two distinct regions , the hot interior and the cooler periphery .",
    "each has different characteristics and will be discussed separately . here",
    ", we will concentrate on the recent computations by @xcite of a multiple explosion scenario for the formation of the lb .",
    "their models b and g , in which 3 explosions occur during a 2 million year period , give results that are in relatively good agreement with soft x - ray and ovi   absorption line results .    in these models , after @xmath134 myr , the interior of the 100 pc radius cavity is still highly ionized . assuming a density of @xmath24 @xmath9 , @xmath23  k , an ionization fraction of ovi  of @xmath144(ovi ) @xmath159 @xcite , a path length of 75 pc , and no depletion",
    ", we expect an ovi  column density of @xmath160(ovi)@xmath161 @xmath4 .",
    "a column density of this level thermally broadening in a million degree gas is too difficult to detect with the signal - to - noise in the current dataset .",
    "ovii  is the dominant ion in the outer parts of the cavity , where the gas density is higher and recombination is more effective .",
    "ovi  is abundant only near the edge of the cavity .",
    "@xcite indicate that the model most appropriate for the lb is intermediate between their models b and g , for which they predict average column densities for ovi  of 0.8 and @xmath162 @xmath4 , respectively , for a line of sight from the center to edge of the bubble .",
    "this estimate is for the diffuse medium only , and does not include any contribution from interfaces of cool clouds embedded in the lb .",
    "let us restrict our attention to the stars in our lism survey for which the galactic latitude , @xmath32 , so that the star s distance is more closely related to the distance to the bubble wall ( e.g. it can be seen from figure 2 that the lb has a `` chimney '' appearance , so that stars at high galactic latitude are far from the wall of the local cavity ) .",
    "thirteen stars in our survey satisfy this constraint on galactic latitude . in figure 9 , we have plotted ovi  column density versus distance of the star from the sun for these 13 stars , plus the data for stars at distances of @xmath163 pc with @xmath32 from the earlier _ copernicus _ study by @xcite .",
    "there does not appear to be any convincing evidence for a sharp rise in ovi  column density at a distance corresponding to the edge of the cavity from this plot .",
    "in figures 1 and 2 we also show the location of the stars in the lism survey relative to the cavity wall ( as defined by @xcite ) , and we find that there is no correlation between the strength of ovi  absorption and closeness to the wall .",
    "these conclusions , however , are based on a relatively small sample of lines of sight .",
    "finally , we also point out that the ovi  column density intermediate between models b and g @xcite of @xmath164 @xmath4 is substantially larger than the observed mean column density of @xmath165 @xmath4 within the lb ( assuming a path length of 100 pc ) .",
    "the eight stars in our survey having large hi  column densities , logn(hi)@xmath166 , implying that they are near the wall of the cavity , have an average ovi  column density of @xmath167 @xmath4 , which is also substantially less than the column density predicted by models b and g.",
    "we have carried out a survey of interstellar ovi  absorption along the lines of sight to 25 white dwarfs in the lism , after excluding 4 stars that display strong photospheric ovi .",
    "ovi  absorption is weak or absent in most lines of sight , and has a somewhat `` patchy '' distribution ( a scatter that is much larger than the measurement uncertainties ) .",
    "the ovi  absorption in several stars may be due in part to photospheric or circumstellar absorption , which would imply even smaller column densities in the ism for these lines of sight .",
    "we find a mean line width , based on computing mean absolute deviations for the ovi  line profiles , of @xmath81 km  s@xmath17 , corresponding to a standard deviation of 20 km  s@xmath17 .",
    "this line width is about 30% larger than expected for a single component absorption line formed at 300,000  k and convolved with the _ fuse _ instrumental resolution .",
    "the general picture that emerges from these observations is one in which the observed ovi  absorption is produced over limited regions on the surfaces of clouds within the local bubble .",
    "conduction must be quenched over much of the surface area of each cloud , presumably by magnetic fields .",
    "indeed , we know that the sun is located within a cool cloud inside the hot lb , and all lines of sight should penetrate at least one cloud interface , if not several .",
    "quite sophisticated theoretical models on the other hand indicate that an unshielded interface should produce an ovi  column density of @xmath168 @xmath9 , yet many of our lines of sight indicate columns significantly below this value . the mean ovi  space density in our lism survey is @xmath169 @xmath9 , and is comparable to , or slightly larger than , the value over much larger path lengths ( 400 - 1000 pc ) in the galactic plane determined by the _ copernicus _",
    "survey @xcite .",
    "out to a distance of @xmath49 pc from the sun , corresponding roughly to the size of the local bubble in the galactic plane , the average column density of oviis @xmath165 @xmath4 , or about half that estimated earlier @xcite .",
    "this picture , however , implies that there should be little euv radiation from the evaporative interface between the lic and the presumably hot interior of the local bubble , at odds with the models of @xcite , which have successfully explained a number of observations of the ionization in the lism .",
    "this work is based on data obtained for the guaranteed time team by the nasa - cnes - csa _ fuse _ mission operated by the johns hopkins university .",
    "financial support to u. s. participants has been provided by nasa contract nas5 - 32985 .",
    "we thank jeff kruk for informative discussions of white dwarf spectra , john vallerga for insightful comments on an earlier version of the paper , and barry welsh for keeping us informed of his studies of the lism .",
    "the authors would like to especially thank the _ fuse _ mission operations team at johns hopkins university , and in particular , alice berman , bill blair , humberto calvani , bryce roberts and martin england , who made these observations possible through their hard work and dedication .",
    "andersson , b - g . , idzi , r. uomoto , a. , wannier , p. , chen , b. & jorgensen , a. 2002 , , 124 , 2164 asplund , m. , grevesse , n. , sauval , a. j. , prieto , c. a. & kiselman , d. 2004 , , 417 , 751 avillez , m. a. 2000 , , 315 , 479 avillez , m. a. & breitschwerdt , d. 2004 , , 289 , 479 barstow , m. et  al .",
    "2001 , in 12th european conf . on white dwarfs , asp conf .",
    "j. l. provencal , h. l. shipman , j. mcdonald & s. goodchild , san francisco : astron .",
    "soc . of the pacific , 94 barstow , m. et  al .",
    "2002 , , 330 , 425 barstow , m.a . ,",
    "good , s.a .",
    ", holberg , j.b . ,",
    "hubeny , i. , bannister , n.p . , bruhweiler , f.c . , burleigh , m.r . , & napiwotzki , r. 2003 , , 341 , 870 berghfer , t. & breitschwerdt , d. 2002 , , 390 , 299 borkowski , k. , balbus , s. & fristrom , c. 1990 , , 355 , 501 bowen , d. , jenkins , e. , tripp , t. , sembach , k. , & savage , b. 2004 , in astrophysics in the far ultraviolet , asp conf series , ed .",
    "sonneborn , g. , moos , h. , & andersson , b - g , in press ( astro - ph/0410008 ) bowyer , s. , field , g. & mack , j. 1968 , , 217 , 32 breitschwerdt , d. & schmutzler , t. 1994 , , 371 , 774 breitschwerdt , d. & cox , d. p. 2004 , confer .",
    "`` how the galaxy works - galactic tertulia : a tribute to don cox and ron reynolds '' , granada , spain , june 2003 , kluwer ( in press ) , astro / ph0401428 chayer , p. , oliveira , c. , dupuis , j , moos , h. w. & welsh , b. , 2003 , proc .",
    "of _ white dwarfs _ , ed .",
    "d. de martino , r. silvotti , j .- e .",
    "solheim , and r. kalytis , kluwer academic pub , nato science series ii  mathematics , physics and chemistry , 105 , 127 .",
    "cowie , l. , jenkins , e. b. , songaila , a. & york , d. g. 1979 , , 232 , 467 cox , d. p. 1998 , in `` the local bubble and beyond '' , proceedings of iau colloquium 166 , garching 1997 , ed .",
    "d. breitschwerdt , m. j. freyberg & j. trmper ( berlin : springer ) , 121 cox , d. p. & helenius , l. 2003 , apj , 583 , 205 cox , d. p. & reynolds , r. 1987 , , 25 , 303 .",
    "cox , d. p. & smith , b. w. 1974 , , 189 , 105 cravens , t. e. 1997 , , 24 , 105 cravens , thomas e. , 2000 , , 532 , 153 dupuis , j. , vennes , s. , bowyer , s. , pradhan , a. & thejll , p. 1995",
    ", , 455 , 574 dupuis , j. & vennes , s. , 1996 , in `` astrophysics in the extreme ultraviolet '' , ed .",
    "s. bowyer & r. malina , kluwer academic , 217 ferlet , r. 1999 , , 9 , 153 .",
    "frisch , p. c. 1998 , in `` the local bubble and beyond '' , proceedings of iau colloquium 166 , garching 1997 , ( breitschwerdt , d. , freyberg , m. & trumper , j , eds ) springer , berlin , 269 gry , c. , lemonon , l. , vidal - madjar , a. , lemoine , m. & ferlet , r. 1995 , , 302 , 497 hobbs , l. , blitz , l. , & magnani , l. 1986 , apj , 306 , l109 .",
    "holberg , j. , barstow , m. & sion , e. 1998 , , 119 , 207 hurwitz , m. , sasseen , t. & sirk , m. 2004 , , in press jenkins , e. b. & meloy , d. a. 1974 , , 193 , 121 jenkins , e. b. 1978a , , 219 , 845 jenkins , e. b. 1978b , , 220 , 107 jenkins , e. , bowen , d. , sembach , k. & fuse science team 2001 , in gaseous matter in galaxies and the intergalactic medium , iap collq 17 , ed . , ferlet , r. , lemoine , m. , desert , j - m , raban , b. , frontier group , _ s.l . _ , 99 jenkins , e. b. 2002 , , 580 , 938 kruk , j. , et  al .",
    "2002 , , 140 , 19 lallement , r. & bertin , p. 1992",
    ", , 266 , 479 lallement , r. , ferlet , r. , lagrange , a. , lemoine , m. & vidal - madjar , a. 1995 , , 304 , 461 lallement , r. , welsh , b. y. , vergely , j. l. , crifo , f. & sfeir , d. , 2003 , , 411 , 447 lehner , n. , jenkins , e. , gry , c. , moos , h. w. , chayer , p. , lacour , s. 2003 , , 595 , 858 linsky , j. 1998 , space sci rev , 84 , 285 linsky , j. , redfield , s. , wood , b. & piskunov , n. 2000 , , 528 , 756 luhman , k. 2001 , , 560 , 287 maiz - apellaniz , j. 2001 , , 560 , 83 marsh , m. c. 1997 , , 287 , 705 mccammon , d. , burrows , d. , sanders , w. & kraushaar , w. 1983 , , 269 , 107 mckee , c. f. & ostriker , j. p. 1977",
    ", , 218 , 148 moos , h. w. et  al .",
    "2000 , , 538 , 1 moos . h. w. et  al .",
    "2002 , , 140 , 3 morton , d. c. 1991 , , 77 , 119 perryman , m. , et  al . , 1997 , , 323 , 49 redfield , s. & linsky , j. 2000 , , 534 , 825 robertson , i. e. , cravens , t. e. , snowden , s. , & linde , t. 2001 , space sci rev , 97 , 401 rogerson , j. b. , york , d. g. , drake , j. f. , jenkins , e. b. , morton , d. c. & spitzer , l. 1973 , , 181 , 110 sahnow , d. s. et  al .",
    "2000 , , 538 , 7 sembach , k. r. & savage , b. d. 1992 , , 83 , 147 shelton , r. 2003 , , 589 , 261 sfeir , d. , lallement , r. , crifo , f. & welsh , b. 1999 , , 346 , 785 shapiro , p. & moore , r. 1976 , , 207 , 460 shelton , r. & cox , d. 1994 , , 434 , 599 shelton , r. 1998 , , 504 , 785 shelton , r. 1999 , , 521 , 217 slavin , j. d. 1989 , , 346 , 718 slavin , j. d. & cox , d. p. 1992",
    ", , 392 , 131 slavin , j. d. & frisch , p. c. 2002 , , 565 , 364 smith , r. k. & cox , d. p. 2001",
    ", , 134 , 283 snowden , s. , mccammon , d. & verter , f. 1993 , apj , 409 , l21 snowden , s. l. , mccammon , d. , burrows , d. n. , & mendenhall , j. a. , 1994 , , 424 , 714 snowden , s. , egger , r. , finkbeiner , d. , freyberg .",
    "m. & plucinsky , p. 1998",
    ", , 493 , 715 snowden , s. , 2004 , private communication sofia , u. j. , & jenkins , e. b. 1998 , , 499 , 951 sofia , u. j. , & meyer , d. m. 2001 , , 554 , 221 vallerga , j. 1996 , space sci .",
    ", 78 , 277 vallerga , j. 1998 , , 497 , 921 vennes , s. , thejll , p. , galvan , r. , dupuis , j. 1997 , , 480 , 714 vennes , s. , & lanz , t. , 2001 , , 553 , 399 watson , w. d. 1973 , , 182 , l73 wolff , b. 1999 , , 346 , 969 wolff , b. , jordan , s. & koester , d. 1996 , , 307 , 149 wolff , b. , et  al . , 2001 , , 373 , 674 york , d. g. 1974 , , 193 , 127    llccrrlrl 0004@xmath35330 & gd 2 & 108 & 19.80 & 111 & @xmath170 & da1 & 49,360 & p2041101 + 0050@xmath53332 & gd 659 & 58 & 18.40 & 299 & @xmath171 & da1.5 & 36,000 & p2042001 + 0131@xmath53163 & gd 984 & 104 & ... & 167 & @xmath172 & da1+dm ? & 48,700 & p2041201 + 0455@xmath53282 & re  j0457@xmath53281 & 102 & 18.06 & 222 & @xmath173 & da1 & 57,200 & p1041101 + & & & & & & & & p1041102 + & & & & & & & & p1041103 + 0501@xmath35527 & g191@xmath53b2b & 69 & 18.30 & 156 & @xmath174 & da1 & 56,000 & s3070101 + & & & & & & & & p1041201 + & & & & & & & & p1041202 + 0501@xmath53289 & re  j0503@xmath53289 & 90 & ... & 230 & @xmath175 & do & 70,000 & p2041601 + 0549@xmath35158 & gd 71 & 49 & 17.92 & 192 & @xmath176 & da1.5 & 32,750 & p2041701 + 0715@xmath53704 & ... & 94 & 19.32 & 282 & @xmath177 & da & 43,600 & p2042101 + 1017@xmath53138 & ... & 90 & 18.68 & 256 & @xmath178 & da & 32,000 & p2041501 + 1211@xmath35332 & hz 21 & 115 & ... & 175 & @xmath179 & do2 & 53,000 & p2040801 + & & & & & & & & p2040802 + 1234@xmath35481 & hs1234@xmath35481 & 129 & 19.13 & 130 & @xmath180 & da1 & 56,400 & p2040901 + 1254@xmath35223 & gd 153 & 73 & 17.92 & 317 & @xmath181 & da1.5 & 38,686 & m1010401 + & & & & & & & & m1010402 + & & & & & & & & m1010403 + & & & & & & & & p2041801 + 1314@xmath35293 & hz 43 & 68 & 17.94 & 54 & @xmath181 & da1 & 50,560 & p1042301 + 1529@xmath35486 & re  j1529@xmath35483 & 184 & 18.30 & 79 & @xmath182 & da1 & 47,600 & p2040101 + 1615@xmath53154 & eg 118 & 55 & ... & 359 & @xmath183 & da1.5 & 29,732 & p2041901 + 1631@xmath35781 & re  j1629@xmath35780 & 67 & 19.30 & 111 & @xmath184 & da1+dme & 44,560 & p1042901 + & & & & & & & & p1042902 + 1634@xmath53573 & hd149499b & 34 & 18.80 & 330 & @xmath185 & do+kov & 49,500 & m1031103 + & & & & & & & & m1031105 + & & & & & & & & s5140201 + 1636@xmath35351 & kuv 16366@xmath353506 & 113 & 19.57 & 57 & @xmath186 & da & 37,200 & p2040201 + 1800@xmath35685 & kuv 1800@xmath35685 & 134 & 18.86 & 99 & @xmath187 & da1 & 46,000 & p2041001 + 1845@xmath35019 & lanning 18 & 44 & 18.45 & 34 & @xmath188 & da1.5 & 30,000 & p2040301 + 1847@xmath53223 & ... & 62 & 19.55 & 13 & @xmath189 & da & 31,600 & p2040501 + 2004@xmath53605 & re  j2009@xmath53602 & 62 & 19.32 & 337 & @xmath190 & da1 & 44,200 & p2042201 + 2013@xmath35400 & re  j2013@xmath35400 & 143 & ... & 78 & @xmath191 & dao+dm & 53,600 & p2040401 + 2111@xmath35498 & gd 394 & 50 & 18.60 & 91 & @xmath192 & da1.5 & 37,360 & m1010704 + & & & & & & & & m1010706 + & & & & & & & & p1043601 + 2127@xmath53222 & ... & 224 & 18.43 & 27 & @xmath193 & da & 49,800 & p2040601 + 2156@xmath53546 & re  j2156@xmath53543 & 109 & ... & 340 & @xmath194 & da & 45,800 & p2042301 + 2211@xmath53495 & re  j2214@xmath53491 & 55 & 18.30 & 346 & @xmath76 & da1 & 63,500 & m1030305 + & & & & & & & & p1043801 + 2309@xmath35105 & gd 246 & 72 & 19.12 & 87 & @xmath195 & da1 & 58,700 & p2042401 + 2331@xmath53475 & re  j2334@xmath53471 & 82 & 17.90 & 335 & @xmath196 & da1 & 55,800 & p1044201 +      0004@xmath35330 & @xmath197 & @xmath198 & @xmath174 & ... & + 0050@xmath53332 & @xmath199 & @xmath200 & @xmath201 & @xmath202 & + 0455@xmath53282 & @xmath203 & @xmath204 & @xmath175 & @xmath202 & 1 + 0501@xmath35527 & @xmath205 & @xmath206 & @xmath207 & ... & 2 + 0549@xmath35158 & @xmath208 & @xmath209 & ... & ... & + 0715@xmath53704 & @xmath210 & @xmath211 & @xmath212 & @xmath213 & + 1017@xmath53138 & @xmath214 & @xmath215 & ... & ... & + 1211@xmath35332 & @xmath216 & @xmath217 & ... & ... & + 1234@xmath35481 & @xmath218 & @xmath219 & ... & ... & + 1254@xmath35223 & @xmath220 & @xmath221 & @xmath222 & @xmath223 & + 1314@xmath35293 & @xmath224 & @xmath225 & @xmath201 & @xmath226 & + 1529@xmath35486 & @xmath227 & @xmath228 & @xmath229 & @xmath230 & + 1615@xmath53154 & @xmath231 & @xmath232 & ... & ... & + 1631@xmath35781 & @xmath233 & @xmath234 & ... & ... & + 1634@xmath53573 & @xmath235 & @xmath236 & @xmath237 & @xmath238 & + 1636@xmath35351 & @xmath239 & @xmath240 & @xmath241 & ... & + 1800@xmath35685 & @xmath242 & @xmath243 & @xmath244 & ... & + 1845@xmath35019 & @xmath245 & @xmath246 & ... & ... & + 1847@xmath53223 & @xmath247 & @xmath248 & ... & ... & + 2004@xmath53605 & @xmath249 & @xmath250 & @xmath188 & @xmath230 & + 2111@xmath35498 & @xmath251 & @xmath252 & ... & ... & + 2127@xmath53222 & @xmath253 & @xmath254 & @xmath237 & ... & + 2211@xmath53495 & @xmath255 & @xmath256 & @xmath257 & @xmath223 & 2 + 2309@xmath35105 & @xmath258 & @xmath259 & ... & ... & + 2331@xmath53475 & @xmath260 & @xmath261 & @xmath241 & @xmath226 & 2 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the results of a survey of ovi  @xmath01032 absorption along the lines of sight to 25 white dwarfs in the local interstellar medium ( lism ) obtained with the _ far ultraviolet spectroscopic explorer ( fuse)_. we find that interstellar ovi  absorption along all sightlines is generally weak , and in a number of cases , completely absent . </S>",
    "<S> no ovi  absorption was detected with significance greater than 2 @xmath1 for 12 of the 25 stars , where the 1 @xmath1 uncertainty is @xmath2 m , equivalent to an ovi  column density of @xmath3 @xmath4 . of the remaining stars , </S>",
    "<S> most have column densities n(ovi)@xmath5 @xmath4 and no column densities exceed @xmath6 @xmath4 . for lines of sight to hot ( t@xmath7  k ) white dwarfs , there is some evidence that the ovi  absorption may be at least partially photospheric or circumstellar in origin . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret the `` patchy '' distribution of ovi  absorption in terms of a model where ovi  is formed in evaporative interfaces between cool clouds and the hot , diffuse gas in the local bubble ( lb ) . </S>",
    "<S> if the clouds contain tangled or tangential magnetic fields , then thermal conduction will be quenched over most of the cloud surface , and ovi  will be formed only in local `` patches '' where conduction is allowed to operate . </S>",
    "<S> we find an average ovi  space density in the lism of @xmath8 @xmath9 , which is similar to , or slightly larger than , the value in the galactic disk over kpc scales . </S>",
    "<S> this local density implies an average ovi  column density of @xmath10 @xmath4 over a path length of 100 pc within the lb . </S>",
    "<S> the ovidata presented here appears to be inconsistent with the model proposed by @xcite , in which highly ionized gas at low kinetic temperature ( @xmath11  k ) permeates the lb . </S>",
    "<S> our survey results are consistent with the supernova - driven cavity picture of @xcite for the lb , and in particular , the recent model by @xcite for the creation of cool clouds in the lb by magnetic flux tubes , and their subsequent magnetic shielding from conduction . </S>"
  ]
}