{
  "article_text": [
    "since their discovery in the late 1960s , gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) have remained enigmatic despite the fact that thousands of bursts have been detected by various instruments over the last @xmath3 years .",
    "the recent x - ray , optical and radio afterglow observations of bursts detected by the bepposax satellite have enabled significant advances in our understanding of these objects .",
    "redshift measurements associated with the afterglows of bursts grb  970508 ( metzger et al .",
    "1997 ) , grb  971214 ( kulkarni et al .  1998 ) , and grb  980425 ( tinney et al .  1998 ) provide convincing evidence that grbs are extragalactic and may be as distant as @xmath4 or as nearby as @xmath5 .",
    "the temporal decay of the afterglow emission is roughly consistent with the simplest fireball / blast - wave interpretations ( wijers , rees & mszros 1997 ; waxman 1997 ) , and these models provide a specific theoretical context in which to understand the wealth of burst data which existed prior to bepposax and which is still largely unexplained .",
    "it has been argued that the spectral shapes of a substantial number of bursts , particularly those which have detailed spectra from the burst and transient source experiment ( batse ) and the other _ compton observatory _  instruments , are due to synchrotron emission from a shock accelerated distribution of non - thermal electrons ( e.g. , tavani 1996 ) .",
    "furthermore , the spectra of x - ray , optical and radio afterglow emission also appear to be due to synchrotron radiation and exhibit characteristic signatures such as power - law behavior consistent with optically thin synchrotron emission in the optical and x - ray bands ( djorgovski et al .  1997 ; frontera et al .  1998 ; galama et al .",
    "1998 ) , self - absorption in the radio band ( katz & piran 1997 ; frail et al.1997 ) , and spectral index changes of @xmath6 in the optical , indicative of synchrotron cooling ( galama et al .  1998 ) .",
    "however , even in the context of a specific dynamical and emission model , the varied complexity of the spectral and temporal properties of prompt grb light curves remains an outstanding problem . in this work ,",
    "we address one aspect of this problem : the tendency , for a given grb , for longer burst peak durations at lower observed energy bands .",
    "we examine this issue in terms of the blast wave model and demonstrate how a similar tendency arises due to blast wave deceleration and how different degrees of synchrotron cooling can modify the basic effect to produce a range of behavior . in the remainder of this paper , we give a brief summary of the relevant aspects of the observed energy dependence of burst light curves (   2 ) , describe the dynamics and emission properties of the basic blast - wave model and how they relate to this effect (   3 ) , and finally , discuss some of the strengths and weaknesses of this interpretation and suggest some avenues for further investigation (   4 ) .",
    "the general behavior of burst light curve shapes was noted by fishman et al .",
    "the individual pulses tend to be sharper at higher energies and are often characterized by fast rise times and slow decays , the so - called freds ( fast rise , exponential decay ) .",
    "link , epstein & priedhorsky ( 1993 ) put these descriptions on a quantitative basis by applying autocorrelation functions and skewness analyses to individual burst light curves .",
    "the average properties of burst peak durations as a function of energy were studied by fenimore et al.(1995 ) for a collection of 45 bright batse bursts .",
    "they found that the average peak width can be described by @xmath7 .",
    "furthermore , they found that the energy - dependent autocorrelation function possesses a nearly universal shape with the width of the autocorrelation function having this energy scaling .    from studying ginga bursts , fenimore ( 1998 )",
    "also notes that there is a tendency for precursor emission or `` pre - activity '' in the lower energy x - ray bands prior to the main peak at higher energies .",
    "he suggests that the physical processes responsible for the longer burst durations at lower energies also account for this pre - activity .",
    "furthermore , fenimore finds that the location of the light curve peaks are not substantially delayed at lower energies versus high .",
    "fenimore claims that these phenomena appear to be inconsistent with models which only consider synchrotron cooling of injected electrons since they predict longer time scales at lower energies only for the decaying part of the light curve and also that the light curve peaks at the lowest x - ray energies should occur only after the high energy emission has died away ( e.g. , kazanas , titarchuk & hua 1998 ) .",
    "however , dermer ( 1998 ) shows that if the electrons are injected at a constant rate over a finite period of time , then over that time period , the pulse widths will indeed vary with energy due to synchrotron cooling , but the initial rise of each of the pulses will essentially line up . in this paper",
    ", we consider the somewhat more complex situation in which the electron injection is governed by the deceleration of the blast wave and the conversion of its bulk kinetic energy to non - thermal particle energy and magnetic fields .",
    "several descriptions of the physics of the blast wave model already exist in the literature and we refer the reader to panaitescu & mszros ( 1998 ) and chiang & dermer ( 1998 ) and the references therein for further details .",
    "the model consists of an expanding shell of material with a large initial bulk lorentz factor , @xmath8@xmath9 .",
    "this shell decelerates as it interacts with an external medium .",
    "a shock forms , and in the shocked material , magnetic fields are generated , and particles are accelerated .",
    "an initial phase of nearly free expansion ends when the expanding blast wave shell begins to sweep up ambient matter at a rate sufficient to decelerate it significantly . during this deceleration phase , the bulk lorentz factor obeys @xmath10 where @xmath11 is the radius of the shell with @xmath12 for non - radiative ( or adiabatic ) expansion and @xmath13 for radiative expansion .",
    "the rate at which the bulk kinetic energy of the blast wave shell is converted to internal energy is given by @xmath14 where @xmath15 is the area of the blast wave shell as a function of radius and equals @xmath16 for a spherically expanding shell , @xmath17 is the ambient particle number density , and @xmath18 ( blandford & mckee 1976 ) . in order to perform concrete calculations ,",
    "it is conventionally assumed that the magnetic field energy density and non - thermal electron energies can be described by parameters @xmath19 and @xmath20 which measure the degree to which these components are in equipartition with the swept - up protons . in the co - moving frame of the shell , these protons have energies @xmath21 .    at the early stages of the deceleration ,",
    "when the bulk lorentz factor is @xmath22 , most of the emission seen by an observer comes from the nearest part of the blast wave shell within a narrow cone with opening angle @xmath23 .",
    "hence , the emission properties during these stages are reasonably well accounted for by the state of the material along the line - of - sight connecting the observer to the center of the explosion .",
    "we model the injected non - thermal electrons as a power - law distribution with a sharp lower - energy cut - off , @xmath24 for @xmath25 , all radiating from within a region of uniform magnetic field energy density . fits to burst spectra indicate that the power - law index is typically very steep with @xmath26 ( tavani 1996 ) . the minimum electron lorentz factor ( and hence the characteristic electron energy )",
    "is related to the equipartition parameter by @xmath27 .",
    "it follows then that the peak energy of the @xmath28 synchrotron spectrum of this injected electron distribution is given by ( katz & piran 1997 ; chiang & dermer 1998 ) @xmath29 where @xmath30 is the elapsed time as seen by the observer , and we have assumed that the burst is nearby ( i.e. , @xmath31 ) . we also have used the relation @xmath32 which holds during the deceleration phase of the blast wave when @xmath10 . for the discussion which follows",
    ", we will further assume that @xmath19 , @xmath20 , and @xmath17 are constants unless otherwise indicated .",
    "if synchrotron cooling and other energy loss mechanisms are not important , then the instantaneous @xmath28 synchrotron spectrum near @xmath33 during the prompt burst phase can be described approximately by a broken power - law ( chiang & dermer 1998 ) : @xmath34 where @xmath35 for @xmath36 , @xmath37 for @xmath38 ( rybicki & lightman 1979 ; katz 1994 ) , and in eq .",
    "[ nulnu_t_dependence ] , we explicitly write out the @xmath30-dependence of @xmath28 at a given energy . we note that this time dependence only holds during the deceleration phase of the blast wave and only for energies less than the initial value of @xmath39 ( @xmath40 where @xmath41 is the initial blast wave bulk lorentz factor ) .",
    "the remarkably sharp peaks seen in the @xmath42 spectra of a number of bursts are consistent with this spectrum ( tavani 1996 ; schaefer et al .",
    "if synchrotron cooling is important , then the resulting spectrum will be somewhat more complex . in this case ,",
    "@xmath43 , describing the softer spectrum of a cooled power - law electron distribution , and the @xmath28 peak will be much broader and flatter , and at energies below the peak , the index will be @xmath44 rolling over to @xmath45 at still lower energies ( sari , piran & narayan 1998 ; chiang & dermer 1998 ) .",
    "tavani ( 1996 ) and schaefer et al .",
    "( 1998 ) have examined the spectra of a number of individual bursts and find them to be consistent with an uncooled distribution of electrons ( i.e. , @xmath37 ) .",
    "however , schaefer et al .  also analyze the composite burst spectrum constructed from a sample of 19 bright batse bursts , including those bursts which they also examined individually .",
    "they find an `` average '' lower energy spectral index of @xmath46 .",
    "although some of the features of the composite spectrum can be attributed to the range of values for the peak energy among the different bursts , it seems likely that this softer index is due to some of the co - added burst spectra having been significantly affected by synchrotron cooling .    in order to demonstrate the effect of blast wave deceleration",
    ", we consider the case of uncooled electron distributions .",
    "using values @xmath12 and @xmath47 , we have from eq .",
    "[ nulnu_t_dependence ] @xmath48 and we see that the declining portion of a blast wave pulse will only occur after @xmath33 has passed through the energy band at which the observations are taking place .",
    "thus , there will be an energy - dependent delay for the light curve decline given by inverting the expression for the energy of the synchrotron peak ( eq .  [ epeak ] ) : @xmath49 although this analysis predicts that the timing of the pulse peaks at lower energies will also be displaced , in practice the intrinsic curvature of the synchrotron spectrum at @xmath33 will ameliorate this discrepancy ( cf .",
    "fig .  1 ) .    of course",
    ", synchrotron cooling will always be present in this model , though perhaps to varying degrees .",
    "using our blast wave code ( chiang & dermer 1998 ) , we now present detailed calculations for cases of relatively weak ( @xmath50 , @xmath51 ) and strong ( @xmath52 , @xmath53 ) magnetic fields .",
    "the initial bulk lorentz factor , @xmath41 , has been adjusted in each case so that the initial value of @xmath33 is approximately the same , and the fraction of the total kinetic energy ( eq .  [ dedt ] ) made available in the form of non - thermal electrons for both cases is @xmath54% .",
    "this latter condition ensures that the bulk motion of the blast wave shell in both calculations is well described by non - radiative deceleration ( @xmath55 ) and that any relevant differences will be solely due to the effects of the different magnetic fields .",
    "figure  1 shows the results for the weak magnetic field case . in the upper panel ,",
    "we plot the @xmath28 spectra at times @xmath56 seconds after the initial fireball event .",
    "the vertical dotted lines indicate energies @xmath57  kev  the lower bounds of the four standard batse lad channels ( cf .",
    "fenimore et al .",
    "1995 ) . in the lower panel ,",
    "the light curves at these four energies are shown , each normalized to unity at their respective maxima .",
    "we see that this simple model reproduces a single fred - like pulse quite naturally .",
    "in addition , the light curve decline is delayed at lower energies and the energy dependence of the half - maximum pulse widths is @xmath58 consistent with eq .",
    "[ tobs_eqn ] for a non - radiative blast wave with no cooling .",
    "the lower energy peaks are also delayed , but not excessively so .",
    "we note , however , that the pulses are less sharply peaked at these lower energies . in figure  2 , we show the results for a strong magnetic field . as we noted above ,",
    "the spectral peaks are much flatter and broader , and the lower energy index is close to @xmath59 .",
    "the effect on the light curves is also substantial .",
    "the light curve peaks are broader , but in addition , the energy dependence of the half - maximum pulse widths is significantly weaker with @xmath60 .",
    "these shorter delays for the onset of the light curve declines are due to the combination of the blast wave deceleration and synchrotron cooling both pushing the @xmath28 peak down in energy faster than either process would do so individually .",
    "given our assumptions , the effect of pulse broadening at lower energies will obtain for any blast wave deceleration model , whether the prompt burst emission is due to internal shocks or external shocks , as we have described here .",
    "furthermore , the energy dependence of the pulse widths will vary depending on the degree of synchrotron cooling , and we find that the range of this energy dependence ( @xmath61@xmath62 ) is suggestively close to the results found by fenimore et al .",
    "( 1995 ) . this simple picture",
    ", however , can not explain the pre - activity or precursor behavior described by fenimore ( 1998 ) .",
    "in addition , especially for strong cooling , the pulse shapes will be less sharply peaked at lower energies , which implies that the autocorrelation function may not have the universal shape described by fenimore et al .",
    "( 1995 ) .    a substantially more complex blast wave model than the one we have presented here",
    "is certainly required to describe grbs , and any additional complexities may either mitigate or worsen the above discrepancies with the observations . at a minimum ,",
    "the electron and magnetic field equipartition parameters are not constant throughout the blast wave evolution as we have assumed .",
    "as the blast wave evolves , the expansion time scale also grows with increasing radius .",
    "there would then be more time for equipartition to obtain , and one might expect the electron and magnetic field components to come closer to true equipartition with the swept - up protons at later times .",
    "such an effect may account for the softer pre - activity phase since @xmath33 will increase as @xmath20 and @xmath19 increase until the temporal dependence implied by the deceleration and synchrotron losses begin to dominate and the effects we have described will then control the light curve evolution .",
    "the effects of evolving equipartition parameters in more complex blast wave model calculations can certainly be studied , but one may suspect that only rather contrived electron energy and magnetic field evolution will reproduce the behavior described by fenimore ( 1998 ) . in this case , the ultimate answers may lie in doing the microphysics : magnetic field generation and particle acceleration , in other words , turbulent relativistic magneto - hydrodynamics .    on the observational side ,",
    "at least three additional investigations should be conducted in order to help guide the theoretical modeling .",
    "first , a cross - correlation or similar analysis of the prompt burst light curves in the various energy bands should be performed in order to quantify the energy - dependent delay of the pulse peaks .",
    "second , in addition to computing properties averaged over an ensemble of bursts , the _ distributions _ of the energy dependences of the pulse widths and peak delays should also be computed .",
    "this information will determine the range of parameter space for which any given model must account .",
    "finally , insofar as signal - to - noise limitations prevent time - resolved spectra , the spectral properties integrated over the prompt burst phase should be analyzed for each individual burst .",
    "specifically , if there is evidence for synchrotron cooling in the spectrum , which will be signified by a @xmath63-dependence in the energy bands of interest below the @xmath64 peak , then synchrotron cooling may well be important , and in the context of the blast wave model , such spectral features should be correlated with the energy dependence of the pulse durations .",
    "999 blandford , r. d. , & mckee , c. f. 1976 , phys .",
    "fluids , 19 , 1130 chiang , j. , & dermer , c. d. 1998 , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/9803339 ) dermer , c. d. 1998 , apj lett .",
    ", in press djorgovski , s. g. , et al .",
    "1997 , nature , 387 , 876 fenimore , e. e. , et al .",
    "1995 , apj , 448 , l101 fenimore , e. e. 1998 , to appear in nuclear physics b proceedings , eds . l. scarsi , et al .",
    "( astro - ph/9802154 ) fishman , g. j. , et al .",
    "1992 , in gamma - ray bursts : huntsville , 1991 , ed .",
    "w. s. paciesas & g. j. fishman ( new york : aip ) , 13 frail , d. a. , et al .",
    "1997 , nature , 389 , 261 frontera , f. , et al .",
    "1998 , apj , 493 , l67 galama , t. j. , et al .",
    "1998 , astro - ph/9804191 katz , j. i. 1994 , apj , 432 , l107 katz , j. i. , & piran , t. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 772 kazanas , d. , titarchuk , l. g. , & hua , x .- m .",
    "1998 , apj , 493 , 708 kulkarni , s. r. , et al .",
    "1998 , nature , 393 , 35 link , b. , epstein , r. i. , & priedhorsky , w. c. 1993 , apj , 408 , l81 metzger , m. r. , et al .",
    "1997 , nature , 387 , 878 panaitescu , a. & mszros , p. 1998",
    ", apj , 492 , 683 rybicki , g. b. , & lightman , a. p. 1979",
    ", radiative processes in astrophysics ( new york : wiley - interscience ) , 179 sari , r. , piran , t. , & narayan , r. 1998 , apj , 497 , l17 schaefer , b. e. , et al .",
    "1998 , apj , 492 , 696 tavani , m. 1996 , apj , 466 , 768 tinney , c. , stathakis , r. , cannon , r. , & galama , t. 1998 , iauc  6896 waxman , e. 1997 , apj , 485 , l5 wijers , r. a. m. j. , rees , m. j. , & mszros , p. 1997 ,",
    "mnras , 288l , 51"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> temporal analyses of the prompt gamma - ray and x - ray light curves of gamma - ray bursts reveal a tendency for the burst pulse time scales to increase with decreasing energy . for an ensemble of batse bursts , fenimore et al .  </S>",
    "<S> ( 1995 ) show that the energy dependence of burst peak durations can be represented by @xmath0 with @xmath1@xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> this power - law dependence has led to the suggestion that this effect is due to radiative processes , most notably synchrotron cooling of the non - thermal particles which produce the radiation . here </S>",
    "<S> we show that a similar power - law dependence occurs , under certain assumptions , in the context of the blast - wave model and is a consequence of the deceleration of the blast - wave . </S>",
    "<S> this effect will obtain whether or not synchrotron cooling is important , but different degrees of cooling will cause variations in the energy dependence of the peak durations . </S>"
  ]
}