{
  "article_text": [
    "stars frequently form in small , gravitationally - bound groups of three or more @xcite , usually situated so that each perturbs the motion of the others significantly",
    ". in such systems the stellar orbits develop chaotically . over time",
    ", gravitational interactions among the members and with the residue of the disks from which they formed , result in large orbital changes and even ejection , especially for the lighter components ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) . as main - sequence stars are always seen in configurations that are quite different from those of young multiple stars , direct observation of orbital evolution in young multiple - star systems has long been sought .",
    "thus the report by @xcite was greeted with wide interest : one of the components of t tauri has , in the last few years , undergone a dramatic change in orbital velocity , possibly resulting in ejection from the system .",
    "t tau has long been the archetype of young solar - analog stars , and more recently has become an archetype of young multiple star systems . since the discovery two decades ago that t tau is not single , but has a companion 07 to the south @xcite , high - resolution infrared observations using speckle interferometry or adaptive optics have been used to resolve the system into three stars and to measure accurately the motions arising from their orbits : the visible , classic t tau n , and two heavily - extinguished companions , t tau sa and t tau sb , separated by about 01 @xcite .",
    "meanwhile , radio astronomers used the vla at 2 cm wavelength to resolve the system also into two compact components , one coincident with t tau n and a brighter one close to t tau s @xcite .",
    "the southern radio component exhibited motion that until recently was consistent with orbital motion around t tau sa ( which does not appear in the radio images ) and has been identified with t tau sb @xcite .",
    "the radio source is unresolved in vlbi images ( diameter @xmath0 0.5 mas ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , variable in brightness , and exhibits strong and variable polarization in its radio emission @xcite .",
    "this is the object that has apparently been ejected .    here",
    "we present new near - infrared observations which we use to show that the southern radio component can not be the same as the star t tau sb .",
    "we suggest that t tau has been a quadruple stellar system , with the lowest - mass member probably ejected during the past few years .",
    "we observed t tau under good observing conditions on 2002 december 24 with the palomar observatory hale 200-inch telescope , the palomar adaptive optics ( palao ) high - order image - correction system @xcite , and the palomar high - angular - resolution observer ( pharo ) near - infrared camera / spectrometer @xcite .",
    "the brightest visible component of the system , t tau n ( v = 9.6 ) , served as the phase reference for the ao system .",
    "we also observed sao 76481 as flux calibrator and point - spread - function ( psf ) standard immediately after taking our images of the t tau system .",
    "we chose the image scale to be 25 mas per pixel .    in order to calibrate the plate scale and orientation of the array",
    ", we used our observations of the multiple systems rw aur ( two components ) and ux tau ( four components ) and compared the measured separations and position angles with the corresponding measurements in @xcite .",
    "we chose multiple systems whose components have separations wide enough that orbital motion should be negligible in the time period between the observations by @xcite ( 1996 - 1997 ) and ours ( 2002.98 ) .",
    "the plate scale of our images comes out to 24.7 @xmath1 0.4 mas per pixel , and the orientation of the detector array is such that north is up and east is to the left with @xmath1 1@xmath2 accuracy .",
    "thus position angles inferred from our data have uncertainty @xmath1 1@xmath2 .    figure [ fig1 ] is the image of t tau which we took in a narrow - band filter ( @xmath3 = 0.06 @xmath4 m ) in the infrared k band centered at 2.26 @xmath4 m .",
    "( the components of t tau are bright enough at near - infrared wavelengths that the use of the usual broadband filters is inconvenient , as will be seen below ) .",
    "a total of 20 frames , each with exposure time 1.8 seconds , were added to create this image .",
    "the resulting psf is close to diffraction - limited , 102 mas in diameter ( fwhm ) .",
    "the limiting 2.26 @xmath4 m magnitude for parts of the image well separated from the brighter stars is 14.7 ( 5 @xmath5 per pixel ) . within 200 mas ( two psf widths ) of the stars",
    "t tau sa and sb , diffraction rings reduce the limiting magnitude to a range from 10.2 to 11.2 .",
    "all three of the previously - identified stellar components of t tau appear in figure 1 , well resolved from one another .",
    "table [ tbl1 ] is a list of their positions and magnitudes .",
    "t tau sb lies 0107 , at position angle 289@xmath2 , from t tau sa , and the magnitudes of the two southern components are about the same , with t tau sb brighter by a factor of 1.05 . since in late 2000",
    "the corresponding separation and position angles amounted to 0092 and 267@xmath2 , respectively @xcite , we probably see orbital motion of t tau sb around sa ( see also figure [ fig3 ] )",
    ".    the positions and fluxes of the three observed infrared components of the t tau system were determined by applying a psf fit to the data .",
    "standard idl procedures were used to perform a gaussian fit to the given psf , the one of sao 76481 , and to apply it to the target stars . the position uncertainty resulting from this method",
    "is estimated to be 0.2 pixels , which corresponds to 5 mas .",
    "the flux calibration was carried out by using the 2mass k - band flux density of sao 76481 ; we estimate the uncertainty of the absolute photometry to be @xmath1 20 % , and that of the relative photometry to be a few percent .",
    "figure [ fig2 ] is our k@xmath6 image ( @xmath7 = 2.145 @xmath4 m , @xmath3 = 0.31 @xmath4 m ) of t tau sa and sb , taken 5 minutes before our narrow - band k data .",
    "it is also a sum of 20 frames of 1.8 seconds exposure time each . since t tau n and our calibrator , sao 76481 , saturated even with this short integration time , we used the image of sao 76481 observed with the 2.26 @xmath4 m filter to perform psf - fitting on this image .",
    "the position difference between sa and sb is nearly the same in this image and the one taken in the 2.26 @xmath4 m filter ; the offsets listed in table [ tbl1 ] are averages of the two .",
    "no absolute flux calibration was possible , but relative photometry was : t tau sb is brighter than t tau sa by the factor 1.36 , somewhat higher than we obtained with the narrow - band data .",
    "in another image taken about 30 minutes later with the k@xmath6 filter and an occulting mask over t tau n , the flux ratio of t tau sa and sb was the same as in the previous k@xmath6 image .",
    "the difference between this result and the flux ratio seen in the narrow - band k filter ( sb / sa = 1.05 ) could be the result of differences in spectral features and degree of extinction between the two components .    comparing our narrow - band k data to the results from late 2000 by @xcite , t",
    "tau sa is fainter and t tau sb is brighter , each by about a magnitude at k. that t tau sb can be as bright as t tau sa in the k band means that the orbital motion of t tau sa relative to t tau n is confused in all pre-1997 measurements because of the presence of t tau sb .",
    "figure [ fig3 ] is a plot of the radio / infrared positions of the southern components of t tau between 1983 and 2003 , in a frame of reference in which t tau sa is at rest .",
    "the radio positions in this plot differ very slightly from those determined by @xcite .",
    "they are based on the radio / infrared registration of t tau n and include the ( very small ) orbital motion of t tau sa with respect to t tau n ; the uncertainty in the distance between origins of the radio and infrared reference frames is about 15 mas ( radial , rms ) .",
    "the relative positions of t tau sa and sb were measured directly in the infrared images . our new position for t",
    "tau sb is quite inconsistent with anything along the track of the radio source between 1998 and 2001 : it misses by 50 - 100 mas , much larger than the combined uncertainty of about 16 mas .",
    "for example , the linear extrapolation of the two most recent radio - source positions , the point indicated by a empty diamond in figure [ fig3 ] , lies 78 mas from the 2002.98 observed position of the infrared star t tau sb . if a single object were to have followed the path described by both the radio and infrared positions , its velocity in the plane of the sky would have had to undergo major changes twice , once between 1995 and 1998 , and once after 2001 .",
    "moreover , in at least one of the cases , the single object would have had no obvious partner with which to interact .",
    "thus the probability is much greater that the radio and infrared observations of the southern components of t tau detect different objects . in anticipation of its detection in future infrared observations , we will refer to the radio source as t tau sc henceforth .    also appearing in figure [ fig3 ]",
    "is a model orbit , resulting from a minimum-@xmath8 fit to the projected trajectory and transverse velocities of t tau sc measured at the vla between 1983 and 1996 @xcite . in this exercise",
    ", we assumed t tau sa to be at one focus of the orbit .",
    "the fit to both trajectory and velocity improved after shifting all the vla positions of t tau sc with respect to t tau sa by 4.5 mas to the east , an amount small compared to the uncertainty of the radio - infrared coordinate - system correlation .",
    "this small shift is present in the positions plotted in figure [ fig3 ] .",
    "the agreement between model and observations is excellent ; we suggest that the 4.5 mas shift is an improvement upon the previous determination of the infrared - radio reference - frame alignment .",
    "the parameters of the model orbit are as follows : period 19.1 years , semimajor axis 9.1 au , assuming a distance of 140 pc ( leading to a total mass of @xmath9 for t tau sa and t tau sc ) , axis inclination 59 degrees from the line of sight , eccentricity 0.57 , argument of periastron 168.5 degrees , position angle 0.5 degrees for the line of nodes , and periastron epoch 1997.39 .",
    "t tau sb is a young m1@xmath11 star @xcite , for which the mass is much smaller than @xmath9 ; thus we have neglected it in this model .",
    "what is the nature of t tau sc ?",
    "its small size and large ( kilogauss ) magnetic field , indicated by the vlbi observations @xcite , are consistent with a star - like object .",
    "we did not detect any other object besides t tau n , sa , and sb in our near - infrared images . at the position extrapolated for t tau sc at epoch 2002.98 ( see figure [ fig3 ] ) , our upper limit for the detection of a point source is about 10.2 magnitudes at 2.26 @xmath4 m .",
    "thus it is either lighter than the eighth - magnitude t tau sb , or more heavily - extinguished , or both .",
    "the velocities of t tau sb and sc within the t tau system are larger than those of t tau sa , which , if they have been gravitationally bound , indicates that both objects are less massive than t tau sa . therefore t tau sc is probably an ordinary young star or brown dwarf , similar in mass or lighter than t tau sb , though quite different from this star in its magnetic field strength .",
    "the presence of two distinct objects , t tau sb and the radio source t tau sc , could provide a natural explanation for changes in each other s state of motion .",
    "as @xcite point out , the path of t tau sc obeys kepler s laws for an orbit around t tau sa from discovery through 1995 , but departs strongly thereafter .",
    "the path of the infrared star t tau sb with respect to sa shows a wide variation in area per unit time ; between february 2000 and november 2000 the rate of area swept out is more than a factor of two greater than from late 1997 to early 2000 , or from november 2000 to december 2002 .",
    "the curvature and orientation of this path probably indicate that t tau sb has been , and is still , bound to t tau sa , but longer - term observations will be necessary to demonstrate this . in any case , both t tau sb and sc experienced large orbital - motion changes in the 1998 - 2001 period , when they were closest together in projection . we suggest that their mutual gravitational interaction at this time has resulted in these orbit changes .",
    "this would amend the suggestion by @xcite that t tau sa has a close companion ( separation @xmath0 2 au ) whose interaction with the radio source t tau sc ( which they identify as t tau sb ) has resulted in the ejection of the latter ; instead , t tau sb is a somewhat more distant companion that has probably caused the ejection of t tau sc , which is a fourth stellar or sub - stellar member in the t tau system .",
    "we are grateful to our telescope operator , karl dunscombe , and the instrument engineers , rick burruss and jeff hickey , for their outstanding support and help .",
    "this work is supported in part by nasa , through grants for the development and operation of the space infrared telescope facility infrared spectrograph : jet propulsion laboratory ( jpl ) contract 960803 to cornell university , and cornell subcontracts 31419 - 5714 and 31419 - 5715 to the university of rochester .",
    "l. d. k. and t. l. h. acknowledge support from the university space research foundation under grant usra 8500 - 98 - 014 .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa/ ipac infrared science archive operated by jpl , california institute of technology ( caltech ) , under contract with nasa .",
    "it has also made use of the simbad and vizier databases , operated at cds ( strasbourg , france ) , nasa s astrophysics data system abstract service , and of data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and ipac / caltech , funded by nasa and the national science foundation .",
    "duchne , g. , ghez , a. m. , and mccabe , c. 2002 , , 568 , 771 dyck , h.m . , simon , t. , and zuckerman , b. 1982 , , 255 , l103 ghez , a.m. , neugebauer , g. , and matthews , k. 1993 , , 105 , 951 hayward , t.l . , brandl , b. , pirger , b. , blacken , c. , gull , g. e. , schoenwald , j. , and houck , j. r. 2001 , , 113 , 105 johnston , k. j. , gaume , r. a. , fey , a. l. , de vegt , c. , and claussen , m. j. 2003 , , 125 , 858 khler , r. , kasper , m. , and herbst , t. 2000 . in birth and evolution of binary stars ,",
    "poster proceedings of iau symposium no .",
    "200 on the formation of binary stars , ed .",
    "bo reipurth and hans zinnecker ( potsdam : astrophys .",
    "koresko , c. d. 2000 , , 531 , l147 loinard , l. , rodrguez , l.f . , and rodrguez , m.i .",
    "2003 , , 587 , l47 marchal , c. 1990 , the three - body problem ( amsterdam : elsevier ) mathieu , r.d .",
    "1994 , , 32 , 465 smith , k. , pestalozzi , m. , gdel , m. , conway , j , and benz , a.o .",
    "2003 , submitted to , ( astro - ph/0305543 ) schwartz , p. r. , simon , t. , and campbell , r. 1986 , , 303 , 233 troy , m. , dekany , r. , brack , g. , oppenheimer , b. , bloemhof , e. , trinh , t. , dekens , f. , shi , f. , hayward , t. , and brandl , b. 2000 , proc .",
    "spie , 4007 , 31 - 40 white , r. j. , and ghez , a. m. 2001 , , 556 , 265"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> with high - angular - resolution , near - infrared observations of the young stellar object t tauri at the end of 2002 , we show that , contrary to previous reports , none of the three infrared components of t tau coincide with the compact radio source that has apparently been ejected recently from the system @xcite . the compact radio source and </S>",
    "<S> one of the three infrared objects , t tau sb , have distinct paths that depart from orbital or uniform motion between 1997 and 2000 , perhaps indicating that their interaction led to the ejection of the radio source . </S>",
    "<S> the path that t tau sb took between 1997 and 2003 may indicate that this star is still bound to the presumably more massive southern component , t tau sa . </S>",
    "<S> the radio source is absent from our near - infrared images and must therefore be fainter than k = 10.2 ( if located within 100 mas of t tau sb , as the radio data would imply ) , still consistent with an identity as a low - mass star or substellar object . </S>"
  ]
}