{
  "article_text": [
    "the study of the x  ray background ( xrb ) , originally discovered 35 years ago ( giacconi et al . , 1962 )",
    ", with imaging x  ray telescopes has progressed rapidly in the last few years . after a pioneering start with deep einstein exposures ( giacconi et al . , 1979 , griffiths et al . , 1983 , hamilton et al . , 1991 ) , rosat deep survey observations were able to resolve the majority of the soft xrb into discrete sources ( hasinger et al . , 1993 , hereafter h93 ) .",
    "first deep imaging exposures with asca have extended these studies into the hard x  ray band ( inoue et al .",
    "1996 , cagnoni et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "the x  ray band is one of the few regions of the electromagnetic spectrum , where the integrated emission of discrete sources , summed over all cosmic epochs , is dominating the celestial emission .",
    "the xrb therefore provides a strong constraint for cosmological evolution models ( see e.g. comastri et al . , 1995 ; zdziarski 1996 ) .",
    "in order to understand the populations contributing to the x  ray background and their cosmological evolution it is necessary to obtain complete optical identification of the sources detected in x  ray deep surveys .",
    "the majority of optically identified x  ray sources at faint fluxes are active galactic nuclei ( agn ) , i.e. qsos and seyfert galaxies with broad emission lines ( shanks et al . , 1991 ; boyle et al . , 1993 ; bower et al . , 1996 ; page et al . , 1996",
    ") . using the large samples of x  ray selected agn now becoming available",
    ", their luminosity function and its evolution with redshift can be studied in detail ( boyle et al .",
    ", 1995 ; page et al . , 1996 ; jones et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "the current models , which are based on pure luminosity evolution , predict that the broad  line agn contribute only 3050% to the soft x ",
    "ray background and much less to the hard x  ray background .",
    "postulating a large population of faint , intrinsically absorbed agn , some models predict a much larger fraction of the soft xrb , and possibly all of the hard xrb as due to agn ( see e.g. comastri et al .",
    ", 1995 ; zdziarski 1996 ) .",
    "there are , however , reports that at the faintest x  ray fluxes a new population of x  ray active , but optically relatively normal narrow  emission line galaxies ( nelg ) start to dominate the x  ray counts , and could ultimately contribute the majority of the xrb ( georgantopoulos et al .",
    "1996 , griffiths et al .",
    "1996 , mchardy et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "these claims are based on deep rosat pspc surveys which  as we will show  start to be severely confusion limited at the faintest fluxes .",
    "care has therefore to be taken to assess the systematic position errors and misidentifiction likelihood at faint fluxes . in our own deep survey identification work",
    "we have therefore taken measures to minimize confusion and to increase the reliability of the x  ray catalogue .",
    "we restricted the sample to x  ray fluxes well above the detection threshold at a reliable flux level derived from detailed simulations .",
    "secondly , we invested massive amounts of rosat hri time to cover our deepest survey field in the lockman hole , this way minimizing position errors and confusion . in this paper ( paper i )",
    "we describe the derivation of the x  ray source catalogue in the lockman hole .",
    "section 2 gives a summary of the observations , sect .",
    "3 describes the new maximum likelihood ( ml ) crowded ",
    "field detection algorithm developed for deep x - ray survey work , sect .",
    "4 discusses the necessary astrometric corrections for rosat pspc and hri images and sect .",
    "5 gives the final source catalogue .",
    "the verification of the analysis procedure through simulations and the derivation of a final log(n)log(s ) function are discussed in sect .",
    "6 and a discussion of the results is given in sect .",
    "the complete optical identification of the x  ray source catalogue is described in _ paper ii _ ( schmidt et al . ,",
    "1997 ) and deep vla radio observations of the field are discussed by deruiter et al .",
    "the data presented here consists of all observations of the rosat deep survey accumulated in the period 19901997 in the direction of the lockman hole , which is one of the areas on the sky with a minimum of the galactic hydrogen column density ; @xmath4 is roughly @xmath5 in this field ( lockman et al . , 1986 ) .",
    "table 1 gives a summary of these observations .",
    "specifically , a total exposure time of 207.41 ksec was accumulated with pspc ( pfeffermann and briel 1992 ) pointings centered at the direction @xmath6 , @xmath7 .",
    "these data have been partially presented in h93 . for the pspc data all good time intervals selected by the rosat standard analysis ( sass ; voges 1992 )",
    "have been analysed .",
    "the individual datasets obtained in different semesters , which are affected by residual erratic aspect errors of order 10 arcsec , were all shifted to a common celestial reference system using preliminary optical identifications .",
    "a pspc image with a pixel size of 5 arcsec , covering the most sensitive area of the field of view ( fov ) , with a radius of @xmath8 arcmin , has been accumulated in the standard pspc `` hard '' energy band 0.52 kev ( pulseheight channel 52201 ) .",
    "this choice optimizes the angular resolution of the pspc and the signal to noise ratio for the detection of faint extragalactic sources .",
    "it is also relatively insensitive to neutral hydrogen absorption column densities below @xmath9 . for the calculation of hardness ratios we additionally analysed the pspc data in the `` soft '' band and",
    "further subdivided the hard band into two : h1 and h2 .",
    "details about the energy bands are given in table 2 .",
    "[ ima]a shows a contour plot of the pspc image in the hard band .",
    "the same area has also been covered by a set of raster scan observations with the rosat hri ( david et al . , 1996 ) .",
    "a total of @xmath10 pointings of roughly 2 ksec exposure each , has been placed on a regular grid with a step size of @xmath11 arcmin .",
    "the hri fov has a size of roughly @xmath12 arcmin .",
    "the inner , most sensitive part of the field , where the off  axis blur of the telescope can be neglected , has a radius of roughly 8 arcmin .",
    "the raster scan step size is much smaller than the hri fov , thus the resulting exposure covers the survey area smoothly , with a rather homogeneous point spread function ( psf ) across the field .",
    "the total exposure time accumulated for the raster scan is 205.50 ksec , comparable to the pspc pointing . the individual hri pointing data provided by the rosat standard analysis system sass ( voges 1992 ) have been merged into a single mosaique , after separate astrometrical solutions have been applied to each dataset , in order to correct for residual boresight and scale factor errors in the hri data ( see below ) .",
    "the hri raster image has been accumulated in the restricted pulseheight channel range 19 , which significantly reduces the detector background with a minimum loss ( @xmath13 ) of cosmic x ",
    "( david et al . , 1996 ) . using this channel selection ,",
    "the hri is sensitive to cosmic x ",
    "ray photons in the full rosat energy range 0.12.4 kev .",
    "[ ima]b shows the resulting hri raster scan image on the same scale as the pspc data .",
    ".observation summary [ cols=\"<,<,<,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     @xmath14 fraction of confused sources in percent according to different confusion measures ( see text ) : fc is the percentage of contaminated sources , having an output flux significantly larger than their input flux ( @xmath15 ) .",
    "fl is the percentage of lost sources , having no detected source within 15 `` from the input position .",
    "fu is the fraction of unidentifiable detected sources , having no input source within 15 '' from the detected position .",
    "@xmath16 detected flux for fc and fu , input flux for fl    ( 8.0,8.0 )    ( 8.0,8.0 )    -0.2 truecm      while it is obviously possible to correct for confusion effects on the source counts in a statistical way , the optical identification process relies on the position of individual sources .",
    "an independent measure of confusion is the fraction of sources with significant positional deviation from their respective counterparts .",
    "[ err ] shows for each simulated source the distance to the nearest output source as a function of simulated input flux .",
    "as expected , bright sources have relatively small positional errors and therefore small deviations of a few arcsec between simulated and output position . for fainter sources",
    "there is an incompleteness limit .",
    "more and more input sources are not detected at all and therefore are matched to the nearest ( but wrong ) detected x  ray source .",
    "for the hri simulation this yields a well  defined cloud of spuriously matched sources below a flux of @xmath17 . for the pspc this incompleteness limit sets in below @xmath18 and",
    "the spurious match cloud is not disjunct of the detected source correlation track .",
    "confusion leads to a halo of pspc sources with significantly larger positional deviation than the bulk of detected sources at the same flux . a practical limiting radius for the optical identification of faint rosat x  ray sources is 15 `` , which is used by several authors ( see e.g. bower et al .",
    ", 1996 , georgantopoulos et al . , 1996 ) . in table 5",
    "we give the _ fraction of lost sources _",
    "@xmath19 which have no detected source within a distance of 15 '' from the input position .",
    "the quantity fl is a good tool to define a reliable flux limit for a survey , because it combines both the confusion and incompleteness effects . for practical applications we need , however , a quantity that can be applied to existing surveys , i.e. to detected sources . to do this",
    ", we invert the question that led to the quantity fl and ask : how many of the detected sources appear at a detected position further away from any `` reasonable '' input position than e.g. 15 \" . for this purpose",
    "we exclude as reasonable input positions sources with input fluxes more than a factor 3 below the detected flux .",
    "this gives us an estimate of the _ fraction of unidentifiable sources _ in a survey , which we denote with the quantity fu .",
    "the quantities fc , fl and fu are compared in table 5 for different surveys and flux ranges .",
    "this table shows that , as expected , confusion effects increase dramatically towards fainter fluxes . for fluxes above the incompleteness",
    "limit the different confusion measures , fc , fl and fu lead to similar estimates for the number of confused sources .",
    "below this limit , fl increases dramatically , indicating severe incompleteness of the survey in addition to confusion . using this table",
    "we have chosen the relatively conservative limits in flux and off - axis angles employed in the current survey , i.e. a flux limit of @xmath20 for off - axis angles smaller than 12.5 arcmin and a flux limit of @xmath21 for off - axis angles between 12.5 and 18.5 arcmin . in the discussion section",
    "we compare these simulations to shallower pspc surveys in the literature .",
    "with a limiting flux of @xmath22 , the x - ray survey in the _ lockman hole _ represents the deepest x - ray survey ever performed .",
    "the total observing time invested is quite comparable to that of other major astronomical projects , like e.g. the hubble deep field ( williams et al . , 1996 ) . because of the expected confusion in the pspc it was clear from the beginning , that hri data would be necessary to augment the pspc identification process . because of the smaller field - of - view of the hri and because of its lower quantum efficiency , it was necessary to invest about a factor five more hri time than pspc time .",
    "both the hri raster scan , which provides excellent positions for all brighter objects in the pspc field , and the hri ultradeep survey in the ( slightly offset ) central part of the field allow almost complete optical identifications of sources down to @xmath23 ( see paper ii ) . apart from this",
    ", the ultradeep hri data provides a survey in its own right , which is not yet fully exploited .",
    "it will ultimately lead to reliable optical identifications a factor of 3 - 4 deeper than the current survey . on the other hand , the lockman hole data are also of fundamental importance for other observations with the rosat hri since they provided for the first time a significant determination of the hri scale factor correction which is important for all high - quality astrometry with the hri .      the new pspc and hri data shown in fig .",
    "[ lns ] carry the resolved source counts a factor of 2.5 deeper than the most sensitive previous determinations ( h93 , branduardi - raymont et al . ,",
    "it is very reassuring to see that the source counts are still consistent with the previous fluctuation analyses ( h93 , barcons et al . , 1994 ) .",
    "there are , however , some problems at the bright end of the source counts . in our previous paper we used the source counts from the emss ( gioia et al . , 1990 ) to constrain the bright end ( @xmath24 ) of the log(n)log(s ) relation .",
    "the first study to note a discrepancy between the emss and rosat counts was the rixos survey .",
    "page et al . ( 1996 ) found , that the emss log(n)log(s ) for agn is significantly lower than the one from rixos .",
    "the source counts from the rosat all - sky - survey bright source catalogue ( voges et al . , 1996 )",
    "confirm this trend and extend it to fluxes well above @xmath25 ( hasinger et al .",
    ", 1997 , in prep . ) .",
    "it appears that the log(n)-log(s ) function at fluxes brighter than @xmath26 has a slope of @xmath27 and a normalization of @xmath28 and is therefore significantly flatter than what we assumed in h93 from a fit to the emss total source counts .",
    "the flatter log(n)log(s ) slope at bright fluxes has some consequences for the calculation of the resolved fraction .",
    "as in h93 we restrict the analysis of the resolved fraction to the energy band 12 kev in order to minimize galactic contamination in the x - ray background spectrum . the absolute level and the spectrum of the x - ray background in this energy range is still a matter of debate ( see the discussion in hasinger 1996 ) .",
    "in h93 we assumed a 12 kev background flux of @xmath29 . from asca data in the energy range 1 - 7 kev , gendreau et al .",
    "( 1995 ) have derived a flat spectrum with photon index 1.4 and a normalization of @xmath30 at 1 kev . integrating this spectrum we derive a lower limit to the 12 kev xrb flux of @xmath31 .",
    "this can be contrasted to the earlier rosat pspc determination of a steep spectrum in the 0.52 kev band , with photon index around 2 and a normalization around 13 ( see hasinger 1996 ) .",
    "integrating this over the 12 kev band yields a flux of @xmath32 , which is consistent with the background flux derived by chen et al .",
    ", 1997 from a joint rosat / asca fit ( 1.46 in the same units ) .",
    "in h93 we integrated the analytic log(n)log(s ) function ( eq .",
    "3 ) for fluxes brighter than @xmath33 , including a fit to the emss at fluxes brighter than @xmath34 .",
    "we obtained a resolved 12 kev flux of @xmath35 . if we follow the same prescription , but now integrating the h93 source counts above our limiting flux of @xmath2 , we arrive at a resolved flux of 0.89 in the same units . if we , however , correct for the flatter slope of the bright end log(n)log(s ) ( see above ) , we arrive at a resolved flux value of 0.99 ( same units ) .",
    "we use this resolved flux in comparing with the total diffuse background in the 12 kev band .",
    "lccclrcrrr survey@xmath36 & area@xmath37 & t@xmath38 & @xmath39 & off@xmath40 & err@xmath41 & @xmath42 & fc@xmath43 & fl@xmath44 & fu@xmath45 + rixos & @xmath46 & @xmath478 & 3.0 + crss & 3.9 & @xmath476 & 2.0 + drs & 1.4 & 21 - 49 & 0.3 & 15 & 15 & 0.3 - 0.6 & 13 & 62 & 23 + mara & 0.2 & 55 & 0.5 & 15 & 15 & 0.5 - 1 & 11 & 33 & 19 + nep & 0.2 & 79 & 1.0 & 15.5 & 15 & 1 - 2 & 6 & 6 & 7 + ukds & 0.2 & 110 & 0.2 & 15 & 10 & 0.2 - 0.4 & 10 & 76 & 42 + rds & 0.3 & 207 & 0.5 & 12.5 & 15 & 0.5 - 1 & 7 & 10 & 5 + hri & 0.1 & 1000 & 0.2 & 12.5 & 5 & 0.2 - 0.4 & 2 & 7 & 5 +    cf . text for explanation of acronyms    approximate , in square degrees    pspc exposure time , in ksec    quoted limiting flux @xmath48 in units of @xmath49 erg @xmath50 s@xmath51    maximum off - axis angle in survey in arcmin    radius of error circle searched in survey in arcsec    flux range for which fc , fl and fu have been estimated    percentage fc of contaminated objects    percentage fl of lost objects    percentage fu of unidentifiable objects    if we adopt a 12 kev background flux of @xmath52 , we have resolved 68% of the 12 kev x ",
    "ray background at a flux of @xmath2 .",
    "if , however , the lower asca spectrum with a flux of @xmath31 holds , we have already resolved 81% of the background .",
    "we see , that the uncertainty in the resolved fraction is now dominated by the systematic error in the absolute background flux and not by the source counts . as a best guess for the resolved fraction we take @xmath53 .",
    "the optical identifications in the _ lockman hole _ and the detailed comparison with other work is described in paper ii ( schmidt et al . , 1997 ) . here",
    "we want to draw global comparisons with other pspc surveys , in particular applying the simulation results described above .",
    "quite a number of groups are involved in optical identifications of deep and medium - deep survey fields observed with rosat ( see table 6 ) and already many papers have been written about the interpretation of rosat survey results . among the most debated findings",
    "is the claimed detection of a possible new class of x  ray active , optically relatively normal emission line galaxies at faint flux levels ( griffiths et al . , 1996 , mchardy et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "unfortunately , however , only very few surveys so far have been published formally ( i.e. including a catalogue of detected sources and a detailed description of the detection and identification procedure ) , so that quantitative comparisons can be made . among those published",
    "are the cambridge - cambridge rosat serendipity survey ( crss , boyle et al . , 1995 ) ,",
    "a small part of the deep rosat survey ( drs , shanks et al .",
    ", 1991 , see also georgantopoulos et al . , 1996 ) and the north ecliptic pole survey ( nep , bower et al . , 1996 ) . among those waiting",
    "to be fully published are the rosat international x  ray optical survey ( rixos , mason et al . , in prep .",
    ", see also page et al . ,",
    "1996 ) , the uk rosat deep field survey ( ukds , mchardy et al . , 1997 ) , the full drs , the survey in the marano field ( mara , zamorani et al .",
    ", in prep . ) , and finally our own rosat deep survey ( rds , this paper ; schmidt et al . , 1997 )",
    "nevertheless , the global properties of these surveys are known and some details can be obtained from the existing literature .",
    "see table 6 for a summary of the surveys in question .",
    "the table also includes a prediction for the hri ultradeep survey .    using the experience gained from the rosat deep survey and applying the simulation tools to the shallower surveys we can now make some statements about the expected quality of the other surveys , in particular with respect to possible confusion and the corresponding optical misidentification . as we have seen in table 5 , various confusion problems , as indicated by the fl , fc and fu percentages , become severe roughly within a factor of 2 from the formal detection threshold of a pspc exposure longer than 50 ksec .",
    "it is interesting to note that this behaviour is not a strong function of the exposure time . in order to obtain",
    "a more quantitative assessment of the different surveys , we use our pspc simulations of 50 ksec ( drs , mara ) , 110 ksec ( ukds ) and 200 ksec ( rds ) exposures applying as far as possible the detailed information about exposure times , quoted flux limit , off - axis angles and assumed error circle radii in the individual surveys ( see table 6 ) .",
    "for the 80 ksec nep survey we use quantities interpolated between the 50 ksec and the 110 ksec simulations . for lack of even shallower simulations we do not make statements about the rixos and crss surveys .",
    "for each of the deep and medium - deep surveys in table 6 we calculate the quantities fc , fl and fu , for a flux range within a factor of two from the sensitivity limit quoted by the authors .",
    "this way we can predict for each survey the fraction of misidentified sources among the faint source population , where presumably the new discoveries would be expected .    it is not surprising to see , that those surveys that employ a relatively conservative limiting sensitivity ( as judged from the ratio between exposure time and flux limit ) have very small fractions of unidentifiable sources .",
    "this is confirmed by the high rate of identifications e.g for the nep survey ( bower et al . , 1996 ) and the rds ( schmidt et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "the rds is additionally helped by the hri data in the field .",
    "larger fractions of unidentifiable sources on the order of 10% are expected for the drs and the marano survey .",
    "indeed , in the marano field , which unfortunately does not have hri coverage , we see a significant number of empty error boxes ( zamorani et al .",
    ", in preparation )",
    ". unidentified source fractions of order 20% are no major problem as long as one is studying majority populations of x  ray sources ( e.g. agn ) .",
    "they are , however , already a substantial problem if one tries to identify new classes of objects which necessarily are minority classes .",
    "there the error can easily approach 100% . for the ukds , which tried to push deepest in the optical identification , unfortunately the largest unidentifiable fraction ( 42% )",
    "is expected .",
    "indeed , about 26% out of a total of 34 ukds sources fainter than @xmath54 are unidentified ( as derived from fig .",
    "5 in mchardy et al . , 1997 ) , either because the error boxes are empty or contain too faint objects .",
    "judging from our simulations we also expect some of the ukds sources with proposed optical counterparts to be misidentified .",
    "we have presented the complete catalogue of 50 x  ray sources with 0.52 kev fluxes above @xmath0 from the rosat deep survey pointing of exposure time 207 ksec in the lockman hole .",
    "the x  ray positions are largely defined by additional rosat hri observations of more than 1msec total exposure time . using the hri data we have derived a new log(n)log(s ) function reaching a source density of @xmath1 at a limiting flux of about @xmath2 . at this level 70 - 80% of the 0.52 kev",
    "x  ray background is resolved into discrete sources . the observations and",
    "the analysis procedure specifically developed to cope with confused x  ray observations have greatly profited from detailed simulations of pspc and hri fields . based on these simulations",
    "we have defined conservative limits on flux and on off - axis angles , which guarantee a high reliability of the catalogue .",
    "the fraction of confused or unidentifiable sources in the catalogue is expected at only a few percent , but is probably even lower due to the existence of the deep hri data .",
    "we also discussed simulations of shallower fields and show that surveys , which are only based on pspc exposures larger than 50 ksec , become severely confusion limited typically a factor of 2 above their @xmath3 detection threshold .",
    "sizeable fractions of confused and unidentifiable sources are expected for some of the published surveys .",
    "this may have consequences for some recent claims of a possible new source population emerging at the faintest x  ray fluxes .",
    "the rosat project is supported by the bundesministerium fr forschung und technologie ( bmft ) , by the national aeronautics and space administration ( nasa ) , and the science and engineering research council ( serc ) .",
    "this work was supported in part by nasa grants nag51531 ( m.s . ) , nag8794 , nag51649 , and nagw2508 ( r.b . and r.g . ) .",
    "g.h . acknowledges the grant fkz 50 or 9403 5 by the deutsche agentur fr raumfahrtangelegenheiten ( dara ) .",
    "g.z . acknowledges partial support by the italian space agency ( asi ) under contract asi 95rs152 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the rosat deep survey in the _ lockman hole _ is the most sensitive x  ray survey performed to date , encompassing an exposure time of 207 ksec with the pspc and a total of 1.32 msec with the hri aboard rosat . here </S>",
    "<S> we present the complete catalogue of 50 x - ray sources with pspc fluxes ( 0.52 kev ) above @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> the optical identifications are discussed in an accompanying paper ( schmidt et al . , 1997 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we also derive a new log(n)log(s ) function reaching a source density of @xmath1 at a limiting flux of @xmath2 . at this level 70 - 80% of the 0.52 kev x - ray background </S>",
    "<S> is resolved into discrete sources . utilizing extensive simulations of artificial pspc and hri fields we discuss in detail the effects of source confusion and incompleteness both on source counts and on optical identifications . </S>",
    "<S> based on these simulations we set conservative limits on flux and on off - axis angles , which guarantee a high reliability of the catalogue . </S>",
    "<S> we also present simulations of shallower fields and show that surveys , which are based on pspc exposures longer than 50 ksec , become severely confusion limited typically a factor of 2 above their @xmath3 detection threshold . </S>",
    "<S> this has consequences for recent claims of a possible new source population emerging at the faintest x - ray fluxes . </S>"
  ]
}