{
  "article_text": [
    "compact dark masses , probably massive ( mbhs ) , have been detected in the cores of many normal galaxies ( kormendy and richstone 1995 ) .",
    "the mass seems to correlate with the host galactic bulge , although with a significant scatter , with the mbh being about 0.006 of the mass of the spheroidal bulge ( magorrian 1998 ) .",
    "recent research using higher quality hst data and a 3-integral model give lower masses and an average to bulge mass ratio of 0.002 ( ho 1999 ) .",
    "in addition to the mbhs detected by techniques of stellar and gas kinematics , recently the masses of mbhs in agns has been estimated by reverberation mapping of the broad emission - line region and the virial assumption .",
    "high quality reverberation data and virial masses are presently available for 20 seyfert 1 nuclei ( wandel , peterson and malkan 1999 , hereafter wpm ) and 17 pg quasars ( kaspi 2000 ) .",
    "it is interesting to find whether agns follow a similar -bulge relation as normal galaxies .",
    "this could test of the generality of this relation as well as reveal new facts bout the nature of agns , in particular about the relation between the host galaxy and the central source .",
    "evidence that the is related with the virial mass on an intermediate scale , the narrow line region , comes from the correlation between the mass and the velocity dispersion of the narrow emission - line gas , as measured by the oiii lines in seyfert 1 nuclei ( wandel and mushotzky 1986 ; nelson 2000 ) .    for seyfert 1 galaxies",
    "the measurement of the mass and the host bulge is easier than in more luminous agns : because of their lower nuclear brightness , the bulges of seyfert galaxies can be observed more easily and closer to the center than in quasars . in addition , the blr in the less luminous seyferts is smaller and hence reverberation mapping requires a shorter time sequence .    using the wpm sample wandel ( 1999 )",
    "found that the ratio of mass to bulge magnitude for seyfert 1s is significantly lower ( by a factor of 20 , on average ) than the ratio found by magorrian ( 1998 ) for mbhs in normal galaxies . comparing",
    "the reverberation masses with the more careful analyses of stellar dynamics , ho ( 1999 ) found lower masses in normal galaxies , reducing the discrepancy with the -mapped seyferts , but a factor of @xmath0 remained .",
    "recently it has been found that the correlation of the mass with the stellar velocity dispersion ( rather than the bulge luminosity ) is significantly tighter than with the bulge luminosity ( ferarrese and merrit 2000 , gebhardt 2000a ) .",
    "furthermore , in the mass - stellar velocity dispersion plane , the discrepancy between normal galaxies and seyferts seems to disappear ( gebhardt 2000b ) . in this work",
    "we suggest some possible explanations to these observations .",
    "the best resolution of hst in relatively nearby galxies translates into a distance of a few tens of parsecs from the mbh .",
    "reverberation mapping of the broad emission line region in agns gives a much closer view - a few light days from the center .",
    "assuming the line - emitting matter is gravitationally bound , having a keplerian velocity dispersion , it is possible to estimate the virial mass : @xmath1 this expression may be approximately valid also in the case the line emitting gas is not bound , such as radiation - driven motions and disk - wind models ( e.g. murray 1998 ) . the main problem in estimating",
    "the virial mass from the   data is to obtain a reliable estimate of the size of the blr , and to correctly identify the line width with the velocity dispersion in the gas .",
    "wpm used the continuum / emission - line cross - correlation function to measure the responsivity - weighted radius @xmath2 of the blr ( koratkar & gaskell 1991 ) , and the variable ( rms ) component of the spectrum to measure the velocity dispersion in the same part of the gas which is used to calculate the blr size , automatically excluding constant features such as narrow emission lines and galactic absorption . the case for a central mbh dominating the kinematics in the broad emission - line region is supported by the keplerian velocity profile ( @xmath3 ) detected in ngc 5548 ( peterson & wandel 1999 ) .",
    "the virial masses derived from different emission lines at several different epochs are all consistent with a single value ( @xmath4 ) which demonstrates the case for a keplerian velocity dispersion in the line - width / time - delay data .",
    "a similar result holds for three other agns ( peterson & wandel 2000 ) .",
    "the -bulge relation has been derived for the seyfert 1 galaxies in the wpm sample with the virial mass derived from the h@xmath5 line by the reverberation - rms method .",
    "the bulge magnitudes were taken from the compilation of whittle ( 1992 ) , who calculate the bulge magnitude from the total blue magnitude , using the empirical formula of simien & devaucolours ( 1986 ) , relating the galaxy type to the bulge / total fraction .",
    "the bulge magnitudes are corrected for the nonstellar emission using the correlation between h@xmath5 and the nonstellar continuum luminosity ( shuder 1981 ) .",
    "1 shows the   mass as a function of the bulge luminosity for all the objects in wandel ( 1999 ) plus ngc3516 and ngc 4593 .",
    "the best fit is @xmath6 where the mass and bulge luminosity are in solar units .",
    "this is by a factor of @xmath7 lower compared to the equivalent relation for mbhs in normal galaxies ( fig 2 of gebhardt 2000a , represented by the dashed line in fig .",
    "1 ) . this difference is significant even when the uncertainties in the bulge luminosity and mass are considered .    translating the bulge luminosity to mass ( using the mass - to - light relation for normal galaxies , @xmath8 , faber 1997 ) the seyfert sample average is @xmath9 , significantly lower than 0.002 , the value for mbhs in normal galaxies ( ho 1999 ) .",
    "laor ( 1998 ) studied the -host bulge relation for a sample of 15 bright quasars .",
    "the bulge luminosity is estimated from bahcall ( 1997 ) is rather uncertain as the host galaxy is dominated by the much brighter nonstellar source . also the   mass is estimated using the empirical radius - luminosity relation @xmath10 where @xmath11 in units of @xmath12 . as this relation has been derived for less than a dozen low- and medium luminosity objects ( mainly seyferts ) with measured reverberation sizes ,",
    "it is not obvious that it may be extrapolated to more luminous quasars .",
    "one could test the empirical approximation by comparing the masses to the reverberation masses measured by kaspi ( 2000 ) , who find a different @xmath13 relation .",
    "unfortunately there are only four common quasars in the two samples . for three of them",
    "the reverberation masses are lower ( by factors of 1.5 - 3 ) than the masses estimated by laor .",
    "2 shows the three groups in the plane of  mass vs. bulge luminosity .",
    "the best fits to the data in the three groups are ( @xmath14 and @xmath15 ) :    1 .   galaxies ( gebhardt 2000a )",
    "- @xmath16 , @xmath17 2 .",
    "quasars ( laor 1998 ) - @xmath18 , @xmath19 3",
    ".   seyferts ( wpm ) - @xmath20 , @xmath21    we see that the three slopes are quite similar ( and , within the uncertainty of the fit , consistent with unity ) ; quasars are consistent with normal galaxies ( if the masses are decreased by 0.3 dex , as may be concluded by the comparison with the reverberation values , the two fits almost overlap ) .",
    "seyfert galaxies are by a factor of 5 lower .    as a group seyfert 1",
    "galaxies have a significantly lower to bulge luminosity ratios than normal galaxies and quasars .",
    "this lower value agrees with the remnant   density derived from integrating the emission from quasars ( the dashed line denoted q in fig 2 ) .",
    "compared to the density of starlight in galaxies ( @xmath22 ) it gives ( chokshi and turner 1992 ) @xmath23 where @xmath24 is the efficiency .",
    "the masses of seyfert galaxies seem to be significantly smaller , when compared to the host bulge luminosity , than mbhs in normal galaxies .",
    "however , compared to the stellar velocity dispersion the difference is much smaller or nonexisting ( gebhardt 2000b ; merritt & ferrarese 2000 ) .",
    "the agreement between seyferts and normal galaxies in the mass - velocity dispersion relation suggests that the masses are essentially correct .",
    "nevertheles , this relation remains to be confirmed for a larger number of agns ( at present only seven of the seyfert galaxies with mapping have reliable determinations of stellar velocity dispersion .",
    "in particular , the seyfert galaxy ngc5548 has not been included in the sample of gebhardt ( 2000b ) because it had a poor velocity dispersion ( nelson and whittle 1995 ) .",
    "if it were included , it would violate the -velocity dispersion relation by a large factor , requiring a _ 3 times larger _ velocity dispersion than measured , in order to fit .",
    "another complication could be that the is influencing the stellar velocity dispersion measured for the more massive .",
    "the influence of the mbh on the stellar velocity dispersion can be estimated by comparing the expected velocity field @xmath25 ) due to the mbh and the velocity dispersion of the bulge of the host galaxy .",
    "the enhances the velocity dispersion in an observed region if its mass is comparable to the stellar mass within the radius corresponding to the projected angular size .",
    "this can be measured by the dimensionless quantity @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the mass of the mbh , @xmath28 is the `` background '' stellar velocity dispersion in the bulge of the host galaxy , @xmath29 is the angular size ( e.g. the width of the slit ) and @xmath30 is the distance to the galaxy . in other words",
    ", @xmath31 is roughly the ratio of the mass of the mbh to the stellar bulge mass inside the radius corresponding to the angular size being sampled . the nuclear velocity dispersion in normal galaxies",
    "is typically sampled with a slit of order 1 - 2 . since the measured velocity dispersion is line - of sight brightness - weighted , and since the brightness - density increases steeply at the center , the effective value of @xmath29 is probably even smaller .",
    "quantitatively , the influence parameter can be written as @xmath32 , where @xmath29 has been assumed to be @xmath33 .",
    "typically @xmath34 , @xmath35 and @xmath36 , hence @xmath31 for the galaxies with measured velocity dispersion and mass ( the samples of gebhardt 2000a and ferrarese & merrit 2000 ) is of order 0.01 - 1 , with the more massive having larger values .",
    "if @xmath31 is larger than 0.2 - 0.3 , the observed nuclear velocity dispersion is noticably enhanced .",
    "this effect is weaker in agn , because the contribution from the inner part must be blocked out or subtracted , hence the effective @xmath29 is larger than in normal galaxies , the velocity dispersion is smaller relatively to the bulge luminosity , hence `` shifting '' agns to lower velocity dispersions ( relatively to e.g. the bulge luminosity ) making them appear to agree better with the @xmath37 relation of `` normal galaxies '' than with their @xmath38 relation .",
    "figures 1 and 2 show that in spite of the scatter there is a significant difference in the mass- bulge luminosity ( or mass ) relationship of seyferts and ordinary galaxies , the former showing systematically lower @xmath39 values .",
    "this may be an apparent effect , due to one of several reasons : ( i ) masses in seyferts are systematically too low , ( ii ) the measured bulge luminosity in syeferts is systematically too large , ( iii ) masses measured by kinematical methods are systematically too large .",
    "these possibilities are considered in the following sections",
    ". there could be a forth cause , that the difference between the two groups is real : either seyfert galaxies have systematically larger ( or brighter ) bulges , or they have systematically smaller .",
    "the latter case is discussed in the last section .",
    "there are a number of observational errors or uncertainties that may cause an apparent difference in the - bulge luminosity relation between agn and normal galaxies :      the discrepancy between seyferts and normal galaxies mbh - bulge relation could be accounted for if the bulge luminosities of the seyfert galaxies are systematically over estimated .",
    "the recent result that seyfert nuclei are in good agreement with normal galaxies mbhs when the velocity dispersion , rather than the bulge luminosity is being considered ( gebhardt 2000b , merritt and ferrarese 2000 ) suggests that the problem may be in the bulge magnitude determination for seyferts .",
    "however , this explanation requires that the bulge magnitude of seyferts be _ systematically _ over - estimated by a factor of 3 - 10 for most seyfert galaxies in the sample . as the uncertainty in the determination of the bulge magnitude and in the deduction of the non - stellar component is significantly less ( whittle 1992 ) , such a large and systematic over - estimation is not likely .",
    "it has been shown that the masses in magorrian ( 1998 ) , especially at the high - mass end of the distribution are overestimated . while the difference between the bh - bulge luminosity relations of magorrian and the seyfert reverberation sample was a factor of 20 ( wandel 1999 ) , with the corrected sample it decreases to 5 ( fig 2 ) .",
    "considering the careful determination of the corrected mass in normal galaxies , a further significant decrease in unlikely .",
    "is it possible that the seyfert -masses are systematically underestimated by the remaining factor ?",
    "this is unlikely as the masses seem to be more or less correct , in light of the good agreement in the case of the - velocity dispersion relation .",
    "the uncertainty in the virial method is not well known . while for individual objects a factor of 2 is probably representative , the sample average error is probably much smaller .",
    "note that if the virial assumption is incorrect and the blr is unbound , the gas velocity is actually larger than keplerian , the mass would have been _ overestimated _ , which increases the discrepancy between the -bulge relation in seyfert galaxies and normal galaxies .",
    "is it possible that the seyfert galaxies in the wpm sample represent a larger population of galaxies with low -to bulge luminosity ratios , which is under - represented in the presently available mbh sample",
    "? this could be the case for mbhs detected using stellar dynamics , because in this method can not detect small , and the detection - limit increases with distance . in a resolution - limited method ,",
    "this would infer a detection lower limit which increases with luminosity .",
    "this hypothesis is supported by the distribution of masses in fig .",
    "2 : there are only few mbhs with masses under  @xmath40 detected by stellar dynamical methods .",
    "these are the milky way m31 and its satellite m32 , and ngc 3377 .",
    "these galaxies do have low -to bulge luminosity ratios , comparable to the seyfert average relation . in angular - resolution limited methods , the mbh detection limit is correlated with bulge luminosity : for more luminous bulges the detection limit is higher , because the stellar velocity dispersion is higher ( the faber - jackson relation ) . in order to detect the dynamic effect of a mbh",
    "it is necessary to observe closer to the center , while the most luminous galaxies tend to be at larger distances , so for a given angular resolution , the mbh detection limit is higher .",
    "this may imply that the sample is biased towards larger mbhs , as present stellar - dynamical methods are ineffective for detecting mbhs below @xmath41 ( except in the nearest galaxies ) .",
    "the blr method is not subject to this constraint , hence seyfert galaxies may be revealing the relatively low - mass mbh population .",
    "if the broad emission - line region ( blr ) has a flattened geometry , the velocity inferred from the observed line width may smaller than the 3d velocity dispersion , depending on the inclination and the amount of flattening . for example , for a flat blr configuration viewed at an inclination angle @xmath42 ( where @xmath43 would be pole - on ) , the line - of - sight velocity is smaller than the 3-d velocity by a factor of sin(@xmath42 ) .",
    "the inferred mass would be smaller than the actual mass by a factor of @xmath44 . for a random distribution of inclination angles ,",
    "the average inferred mass would be decreased by this factor weighted by the distribution , @xmath45 .",
    "actually , the distribution is probably not random . according to the unified scheme , seyfert",
    "1 nuclei are viewed more pole - on , within an openning angle of @xmath46 so that the weighted average mass - reduction factor is @xmath47 .",
    "if the blr distribution is not flat but with an angular distribution of orbits spanning an angle @xmath48 , the effect would be less - between sin(@xmath42 ) and sin@xmath49 , depending on the distribution of orbits , @xmath50 .",
    "this can easily explain the factor @xmath515 discrepancy between the mass - bulge luminosity relation in normal galaxies and reverberation agns , even for mildly flattened blr geometry .",
    "the orientation effect also explains the significantly larger scatter of the seyferts , compared with normal galaxies - due to the distribution of inclination angles .",
    "the arguments above could explain the discrepancy between mbhs in normal galxies and seyferts .",
    "since they can all be applied also to quasars , one could expect quasars to show a similar discrepancy compared to mbhs in normal galaxies .",
    "however , this is not the case , as quasars appear to have a similar -to bulge luminosity relation as normal galaxies .",
    "hence , there is a discrepancy between quasars and seyferts , which can not be explained by the arguments in the previous sections .",
    "one possibility to `` reconcile '' the -bulge relation of the quasar sample with the seyferts one would be that the bulge luminosity in laor s work is systematically _",
    "under_estimated by a factor of @xmath5110 .",
    "laor ( 1998 ) admits the difficulty in estimating the bulge component , but estimates the uncertainty to be modest and not systematic .",
    "as noted , three of the four pg quasars in laor s sample which have reverberation data have masses lower ( by factors of 1.5 - 3 ) than the masses estimated by laor .",
    "this factor is however not enough to explain the quasar - seyfert difference .",
    "another explanation is that the difference between the -bulge relation in seyferts and quasars is intrinsic .",
    "wandel ( 1999 ) suggested that during their very luminous phase agn approach the eddington luminosity and the central accretes within a relatively short timescale a significant fraction of the available matter , reaching higher masses ( compared to the bulge mass ) .",
    "while seyferts have presumably not yet reached that very luminous phase , mbhs in normal galaxies may be the remnants of a luminous agn phase .",
    "this scenario could explain both : the discrepancy between seyferts and quasars , and the matching bh - bulge relations of quasars and mbhs in normal galaxies .",
    "this has been followed by a simple model calculation by wang , biermann and wandel ( 2000 ) who examined the relative contribution of mergers to the bulge and mbh masses . for reasonable parameters",
    "they find that the bulge to mass ratio of @xmath52 could be the limit of evolution by eddington - limited accretion enhanced due tomergers .",
    "we examine the discrepancy between the - bulge luminosity relation of mbhs in normal galaxies ( found by kinematic methods ) and -mapped seyfert nuclei ( wandel 1999 ) for updated data and find that the difference is smaller than first estimated but still significant .",
    "we point out that although for the correlation between mass and bulge velocity dispersion seyferts and kinematicly detected mbhs seem to agree , the agn case in this correlation needs further study .",
    "we suggest three classes of explanations for the apparent discrapency between the mass - bulge luminosity relation of seyfert galaxies and mbhs in normal galaxies : observational or method - related errors or bias , orientation - related effets for seyferts and evolution . in reality , several of these causes may be present and contribute to the difference between the mass - bulge luminosity relations of seyferts , quasars and mbhs in non - active galaxies .",
    "bahcall , j.n .",
    ", kirhakos , s.,saxe , d.h . & schneider , d.p .",
    "1997 , , 479 , 642 chokshi , a. & turner , e.l .",
    "1992 , , 259 , 421 faber , s.m .",
    "1997 , , 114 , 1771 ferarrese , l. and merritt , d. 2000 , 539 , l9 gebhardt , k. 2000a , 539 l13 gebhardt , k. 2000b , in press ( astro - ph/0007123 ) ho , l.c .",
    "1999 in observational evidence for black holes in the universe , ed .",
    "s.k.chakrabatri ( dordrecht : kluwer ) 153 kaspi , s. 2000 , 533 631 koratkar , a.p . , & gaskell , c.m .",
    "1991 , , 75 , 719 kormendy , j. , & richstone , d. 1995 , , 33 , 581 edelson , r.a . , & kriss , g.a .",
    "1991 , , 371 , 541 laor , a. 1998 , 505 , l83 magorrian , j. 1998 , , 115 , 2285 merritt , d. and ferarrese , l. 2000 , in press ( astro - ph/0008310 ) murray , n. 1998 , , 494 , 125 nelson , c.h . & whittle , m. 1995 , 99 67 nelson , c.h .",
    "2000 , , in press ( astro - ph/0009188 ) peterson , b. & wandel , a. 1999 , , 521 l95 peterson , b. & wandel , a. 2000 , 540 , l13 simien , f. & de vaucouleurs , g 1986 , , 302 , 564 richstone , d. 1998 , nature , 395 , a14 shuder , j. m. 1981 , , 244 , 12 wandel , a. & mushotzky , r.f . 1986 , , 306 , l61 wandel , a. , peterson , b. and malkan , m 1999 ( wpm ) , , 526 579 whittle , m. 1992 , , 79 , 49 y.p.wang , p. biermann and a. wandel 2000 ,  , in press ( astro - ph/0008105 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the masses of the central black holes of active galactic nuclei estimated by the reverberation virial technique seem to be significantly smaller than predicted from the black hole mass - bulge luminosity relation for massive black holes detected by kinematic methods in less active and normal galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we reexamine the relation for updated data and suggest a few reasons that may cause this discrepancy .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1#2#3#4    = # 1 cm # 2 cm .3 cm    # 1#2#3#4 # 1 cm = # 1 cm # 2 cm figure  # 4 .3 cm # 1#2#3#4    # 1#2#3#4    _astronomy and astrophysics _ </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}