{
  "article_text": [
    "recent observations indicate that the color function of galaxies at low redshift is characterized by a bimodal distribution ( strateva et al .",
    "2001 ; baldry et al . 2004 ) , which defines two classes of galaxies ; a red population , largely contributed by non - star forming galaxies which have formed most of their stellar mass at high redshifts @xmath4 , and a blue population consisting of galaxies actively forming stars .",
    "the fraction of galaxies belonging to the red population grows with the luminosity @xmath5 , being smaller than the blue fraction for @xmath6 and dominating the distribution for @xmath7 .",
    "there is also a clear dependence on the galaxy environment , since red galaxies typically populate the overdense regions ( balogh et al .",
    "the bimodal galaxy distribution is present at least up to @xmath8 ( bell et al .",
    "2004 , giallongo et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "such a sharp , distinctive feature of the galactic population must constitute a powerful constraint to the galaxy formation models aiming at deriving the galactic properties  ab initio  .",
    "these connect the formation of stars in progenitor dark matter ( dm ) haloes ( formed from the collapse of overdense regions in the primordial density field ) with the assemblage of galaxies through repeated merging events involving the dm haloes .    such semi - analytic models ( sams ) , introduced by kauffman , white & guiderdoni ( 1993 ) and cole et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , have been largely improved ( cole et al .",
    "2000 ; somerville , & primack 1999 ) also through the inclusion of starbursts driven by merging ( somerville , primack & faber 2001 ; menci et al . 2002 ) and by fly - by events ( menci et al .",
    "2004 ) between satellite galaxies ( see also okamoto & nagashima 2003 ) .",
    "recently , hydrodynamical simulations have also been able to provide independent insight on galaxy evolution on cosmological scale ( nagamine et al .",
    "2004 , 2005 ; dave et al 2004 ) .",
    "although differences exist among these models , they are now in overall agreement not only with the local properties of galaxies but also with their statistical properties at high redshifts both in the k - band ( probing the total stellar mass assembled in galaxies ) and in the b- and uv- bands ( probing the star formation rate ) .",
    "according to these models , the tendency of massive galaxies to be red and old , and of the low mass ones to be bluer and star - forming , is a natural outcome of the hierarchical scenarios .",
    "indeed , the progenitors of present - day massive galaxies formed in biased , high - density regions that collapsed at higher @xmath4 and contained denser gas .",
    "conversely , feedback effects are mostly effective at prolonging the active phase of star formation at low masses ( typically below @xmath9 ) .",
    "however , the existence of a clear bimodality in the galaxy color distribution constitutes a finer probe for the physical processes included in the models , since it suggests a dychotomy in the star ",
    "formation histories of galaxies that should be originated by deep , fundamental properties of the galaxy formation process .    here",
    "we investigate in detail whether the above qualitative trend of the hierarchical models may provide a bimodal color distribution in _ quantitative _ agreement with the observations . to this aim",
    ", we derive in sect .",
    "2 the color distribution of galaxies as a function of their luminosity from a monte carlo version of the sam model of menci et al . ( 2004 ) , and compare in sect.3 the results with the observed distributions . in sect .",
    "4 we discuss the physical origin of the bimodal distribution in hierarchical scenarios , as it emerge from our results . sect .",
    "5 is devoted to summary and conclusions .",
    "as a baseline , we adopt the sam described in menci et al .",
    "( 2002 , 2004 ) ; this connects the baryonic processes ( gas cooling , star formation , supernovae feedback ) to the merging histories of the dm haloes and of the galactic sub - haloes there contained following the canonical recipes adopted by sams .",
    "starbursts triggered by galaxy interactions ( fly - by and merging events ) in common dm haloes are also included as described in menci et al .",
    "however , several changes have been made in both the dm and the baryonic sector of our model with respect to our previous papers .",
    "we describe such changes in turn .      to derive the whole color distribution we run a monte carlo version of our sam , where many realizations of the merging histories of present - day dm haloes ( with different final masses ) are drawn by extracting merging probabilities according to the extended press & schechter theory ( bond et al .",
    "1991 ; lacey & cole 1993 ) . to generate the merging trees we adopt the same algorithm described in cole et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , with a grid of 25 final dm masses ranging from @xmath10 to @xmath11 with equally spaced logarithmic values , and a mass resolution of @xmath12 ; a total of 100 realizations are drawn for each final dm mass .",
    "the evolution of dm haloes described above is connected to the processes involving the baryons as described below .",
    "the mass @xmath13 of cooled gas in a disk with radius @xmath14 and rotation velocity @xmath15 is derived ( menci et al .",
    "2002 , and somerville & primack 1999 ) by computing , for each time - step , the increment in the cooling radius @xmath16 of the central galaxy in all the dm haloes .",
    "the corresponding increment of mass of the cooled gas is @xmath17 , assuming a simple isothermal gas density profile @xmath18 .",
    "the normalization is set as to recover the hot gas mass when the density profile is integrated over the volume . after merging events we determine whether the mass of the largest progenitor @xmath19 comprises less than a fraction @xmath20 of the post - merger mass ( as in somerville & primack 1999 ) ; if this is the case ( i.e. , the merging partners have comparable masses ) we reset the cooling time and cooling radius to zero ( as suggested by recent , aimed hydrodynamical simulation of major galaxy merging , see cox et al .",
    "2004 ) , and the gas is reheated to the virial temperature of the dm halo .",
    "the introduction of such a process suppresses the cooling in the massive haloes , which undergo a larger number of such major merging events compared to low - mass haloes . in addition , the steepness of the faint - end slope of the luminosity function ( lf hereafter , see sect .",
    "2.5 and fig .",
    "1 ) may contribute to account for the nonexistence of extremely bright (  monster  ) galaxies ( see benson et al .",
    "see also sect . 4 for a discussion on this point .",
    "as for the star formation , we assume the canonical schmidt form @xmath21 , where @xmath22 and @xmath23 is left as a free parameter . at each time step , the mass @xmath24 returned from the cold gas content of the disk to the hot gas phase due to supernovae ( sne ) activity is estimated from canonical energy balance arguments ( kauffman 1996 , kauffmann & charlot 1998 ; see also dekel & birnboin 2005 ) as @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the mass of stars formed in the timestep , @xmath27 is the number of sne per unit solar mass ( depending on the assumed imf ) , @xmath28 is the energy of ejecta of each sn , and @xmath29 is the circular velocity of the galactic halo ; @xmath30 is the efficiency of the energy transfer to the cold interstellar gas .",
    "the above mass @xmath31 is made available for cooling at the next timestep .",
    "the model free parameters @xmath32 and @xmath33 are chosen as to match the local b - band lf and the tully - fisher relation adopting a salpeter imf .",
    "the above star formation law depends strongly on @xmath14 entering the timescale @xmath34 .",
    "the disk radius @xmath35 is related to the dm virial radius @xmath36 by the function @xmath37 accounting for the properties of the disk ; we shall adopt as our fiducial choice the model by mo , mao & white ( 1998 ) which yields @xmath38f_c(v_c)^{- 1/2}\\,f_r(v)$ ] , where we take for the dm spin parameter the average value @xmath39 , while the ratio of the gas to dm angular momentum is kept to @xmath40 as in mo , mao & white ( 1998 ) .",
    "the slowly varying functions @xmath41 and @xmath42 account for the gas density profile and for the self - gravity of the disk ; the former is assumed to have the form given by navarro , freenk & white ( 1996 ) ; the concentration parameter entering their profile depends on the mass , and is computed following the procedure given in the appendix of the above paper .    note that our form of @xmath43 yields a star formation timescale @xmath44 , and hence appreciably affects the star formation in the most massive haloe where @xmath45 is not effectively balanced by supernovae feedback .",
    "in particular , such haloes are caracterized by a larger @xmath45 at high redshifts ( where rapid cooling yields larger @xmath46 ratios ) , which implies faster consumption of cold gas ; at low-@xmath4 , conversely , the longer star formation timescales due to the low @xmath46 ratio inhibits the formation of stars in galaxies within massive dm haloes .",
    "we summarize in fig .",
    "1 some results of the model obtained for our fiducial choice of cosmological parameters : @xmath47 , @xmath48 , @xmath49 and @xmath50 ; the metallicity and the dust extinction are computed as in menci et al . (",
    "2002 ) , as well as the evolution of the stellar populations , with emission derived from synthetic spectral energy distributions ( bruzual & charlot 1993 ) , adopting a salpeter imf .    to test the consistency of our set of cooling , star formation and feedback laws with the available observations , we first compare with the local observed distribution of cold gas , stars and of disk sizes measured at low-@xmath4 ( panels a , b , c ) , and with the tully - fisher relation in the i - band shown in panel d ) .",
    "then we compare with the b - band ( at low @xmath4 ) and the uv ( at high @xmath4 ) luminosity functions ( panels e and f ) , to show that the instantaneous star formation implemented in the model is consistent with observations over a wide range of cosmic times .",
    "[ 0.55 ]    fig .",
    "1 . - panel a : the mass distribution of cold gas is compared with the observed @xmath51 mass function , taken from zwaan et al .",
    "the arrows show upper limits from the arecibo surveys ( see schneider 1997 ) .",
    "note that the observed mass in @xmath51 constitutes a lower limit for @xmath13 , since a part of the cold gas is not in the form of @xmath51 .",
    "panel b : we compare the local stellar mass distribution with the data from the 2df survey ( cole et al .",
    "2001 , filled squares ) and from the 2mass survey ( bell et al .",
    "2003 , open circles ) .",
    "panel c : the distribution of disk sizes ( exponential scalelengths ) from our model is compared with the data obtained by giallongo et al .",
    "( 2000 , histogram ) for @xmath52 galaxies in the hubble and the ntt deep fields at @xmath53 .",
    "panel d : the tully - fisher relation from our model ( squares ) with the @xmath54 variance ( errorbar ) ; the shaded region represent the region of the @xmath55 plane spanned by the observations ( mathewson et al . 1992 ; willick et al . 1996 ; giovanelli et al .",
    "panel e : the local b - band luminosity function from our model ( solid line ) , assuming a galaxy dust extiction curve .",
    "the shaded area corresponds to the lf measured by the sloan digital sky survey ( blanton et al .",
    "2000 ) , and the circles to the data from the 2dfgrs survey ( madgwick et al .",
    "we also show as solid squares the data from zucca et al .",
    "panel f : the uv luminosity function from our model : the shaded area represent the uncertainty in the model results due to assuming different extinction curves ( small magellanic cloud , galaxy and calzetti 1997 ) . the spectroscopic ( solid squares ) and the photometric ( open squares ) data are from steidel et al .",
    "( 1999 ) .",
    "note that the luminosity functions tend to overestimate the number of faint galaxies , a long - standing problem of hierarchical models ; although this could be alleviated by increasing the @xmath56-dependence of the supernovae feedback , we prefer to keep the scaling of @xmath31 to the relation @xmath57 derived from the energy balance argument ( see sect .",
    "2.3 ) in order to keep the number of free parameters as low as possible ; in addition , increasing the exponent of the above relation would worsen the agreement with the tully- fisher relation . however ,",
    "we will focus on the color distribution of relatively bright galaxies where the predicted and the observed luminosity function are still in good agreement .",
    "the agreement of our model with the stellar mass functions up to @xmath3 and with the k - band luminosity functions and counts up to the @xmath58 is unchanged with respect to menci et al .",
    "here we present the color distributions of galaxies resulting from our model , and compare them with the most distinctive observational results ; these concern the dependence of the local color distributions on the galaxy luminosity and on the environment , and the persistence of the bimodal shape at higher @xmath4 .    as for the former , we compare in fig .",
    "2 the color distribution resulting from our model for different luminosity bins with the gaussian fit to the observational points from the sloan survey ( sdss ) , given in baldry et al .",
    "( 2004 ) for the @xmath59 colors ; details on the sdss @xmath60 and @xmath61 bands are given by the above authors .",
    "we show our results for three kinds of dust extiction laws ( smc , galaxy , and calzetti 1997 ) ; the corresponding color distributions are almost identical .",
    "[ 0.65 ]    the plot shows that hierarchical galaxy formation may indeed produce a bimodal color distribution , with the fraction of red galaxies growing with increasing luminosities as observed . the color ( @xmath62 ) which marks the transition between the two populations is in good agreement with the observed distributions .",
    "in addition , the model naturally yields the correct behaviour of the spread , the latter being @xmath63 times larger for the blue population .",
    "note however that the model predicts the existence of a residual fraction of blue bright ( @xmath64 ) objects .",
    "such an excess could be alleviated by including the feedback from active galactic nuclei ( agns ) in the sams ; indeed , in our model , no feedback of this kind has been implemented .",
    "this shows that , although agns might appreciably contribute to suppress star formation in part of the massive galaxy population , they are not the origin of the observed bimodality in the color distribution , whose essential features are captured by our sam .",
    "we checked the robustness of our predictions against changes in the free parameters of our model , within the limits allowed by the simultaneous matching of the tully - fisher relation and of the b- and uv -band luminosity functions .",
    "we find that the main features of our models remain stable against most of these variations , although the quantitative details are sensitive to the parameter choice .",
    "for instance , increasing the feedback paremeter @xmath65 leads to a reddening of @xmath66 of the transition color that marks the partition between the red and the blue population . increasing the star formation timescale within the limit @xmath67 results into a progressively less pronounced bimodality and in more concentrated distributions around the same average colour .",
    "we have tested that changing the normalization of the dust absorption or of the stellar yield ( and hence of metallicity , implemeted as described in menci et al .",
    "2002 ) does not affect appreciabely our color distributions if such normalizations are chosen as to match the b- and uv- band luminosity functions from @xmath68 to @xmath69 .",
    "the only significant exception to this rule is the critical dependence on the prescriptions for the star formation laws : we shall come back on this issue later in the next section .    the environmental dependence of our color distributions is shown in fig .",
    "3 , where we compare with the sdss data from balogh et al . ( 2004 ) ; for a given luminosity range , these have been binned according to different environmental densities defined inside a given region around the fifth brightest galaxy .",
    "[ 0.72 ]    fig .",
    "3 . - the dependence of the @xmath59 color distribution on the environment is plotted for galaxies in the bin @xmath70 to allow a comparison with the sdss distribution ( dots , from balogh et al .",
    "2004 ) in lower density ( upper panel ) and highest density ( lower ) environments where the considered galaxies are found ( see text ) .",
    "the distributions have been normalized to yield unity when integrated over color .",
    "since our sam does not include any spatial information , we can not perform a fully consistent comparison , so we proceed as follows .",
    "we focus on the less luminous bin @xmath70 considered by balogh et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , since the environmental effects produce the most dramatic changes in the color distribution at low luminosities .",
    "then we selet the less massive and the most massive parent dm halos in our monte carlo run , and compare the color distributions of the galaxies contained in such environments with the less and the most dense environment considered in balogh et al .",
    "the highest density environment considered by balogh et al .",
    "( 2004 ) corresponds to the core of rich clusters of galaxies , roughly consistent with our most massive dm parent halo at @xmath68 which has a mass @xmath71 ; as for the underdense regions , we select from our monte carlo the less dense environment ( the less massive parent halo at @xmath68 ) containing a galaxy with magnitude in the considered range ; the corresponding lower density environment in balogh et al .",
    "( 2004 ) has a projected surface density of 0.1 mpc@xmath72 .    within the limits of our comparison",
    ", the model correctly reproduces the observed shift of the distribution toward redder colors when denser environments are considered . indeed , the environmental dependence appearing in fig .",
    "3 is stronger than the luminosity dependence ; in fact , in the densest environments ( originated from the most biased regions of the primordial field ) the distribution is entirely skewed toward red ( @xmath73 ) colors , even when low luminosities ( @xmath70 ) are considered .",
    "a similar agreement holds for other luminosity ranges ; in particular , the high - luminosity range ( @xmath74 ) is dominated by red galaxies in all environments .",
    "finally , we show in fig .",
    "4 the model predictions at higher redshifts .",
    "at @xmath75 we compare with data from giallongo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) ; their composite sample ( see caption ) covers a range spanning from uv down to the optical / ir wavelengths , with different depths reaching @xmath76 in the deepest field .",
    "the bimodal distribution computed from the model persists at @xmath77 , in agreement with observations ( see also bell et al .",
    "2004 ) ; indeed , our model predicts the bimodality to be clearly present up to @xmath3 ( see dashed lines in the figure ) .    [",
    "0.49 ]     fig .",
    "the @xmath78 color distribution at @xmath79 of @xmath80 galaxies in our model is compared with the data by giallongo et al .",
    "( 2005 ) derived from a composite sample of galaxies including a portion of the k20 field ( cimatti et al .",
    "2002 ) , and the hdfn , hdfs and chandra fields ; the poisson error in each color bin was computed adopting the recipe by geherels ( 1986 ) valid also for small numbers .",
    "we also show as a dashed curve the predicted color distribution at @xmath81 for the same magnitude limit .      the individual star ",
    "formation histories of the galaxies produced in our model provide a clear visualization of the evolutionary paths that led to the present- day red and blue populations .",
    "we show in fig .",
    "5 a selection of individual star formation histories in our model , as obtained by summing over all the progenitor clumps which have merged to form galaxies of @xmath82 at @xmath68 . as expected , the histories of the blue galaxies extend to much lower redshift than the red one , resulting in their bluer colors .",
    "we also remark the large variety of histories corresponding the blue population that is at the origin of the larger scatter observed in their color distributions at @xmath83 . on the other hand ,",
    "the star formation histories of red galaxies are more similar ( resulting in smaller scatter of the color function at @xmath83 , see fig .",
    "2 ) , with large values of @xmath45 at @xmath84 ; note that such histories are broadly peaked at @xmath85 and sharply decline at @xmath86 , while the histories leading to blue local galaxies typically reach their maximum at @xmath87 , since at high-@xmath4 the star formation is effectively suppressed by supernovae feedback ( see sect . 5 ) .    note that bursts do not seem to constitute the physical origin of the bimodality in the color distribution at @xmath83 .",
    "indeed , the red side of the population is mostly contributed by galaxies with smoothly evolving @xmath45 ( like that represented by the heavy dashed line in the bottom panel of fig .",
    "5 ) , although several histories are characterized by major bursts , like the extreme star formation history ( marked by the heavy solid line in the bottom panel ) which has udergone a major bursts at @xmath88 . on the other hand , bursts seem to be crucial in providing extremely red objects ( eros ) already at high @xmath89 , as shown again by the history marked by the heavy solid line ; see also the other history characterized by a major burst at @xmath58 and by a drop of @xmath45 at @xmath90 .",
    "we checked that switching off starbursts triggered by encounters does not affect appreciably the bimodality of our color distribution at @xmath83 ; this is consistent with our previous results ( menci et al .",
    "2004 ) which showed such events to alter mainly the properties of large - mass galaxies at @xmath91 without affecting the local distributions .",
    "the above conclusion is confirmed by the observation that galaxies residing in dense environments are characterized by red colors at @xmath68 even if their luminosity / mass is moderate ( see fig .",
    "4 ) ; such a property is difficult to explain only in terms of starbursts triggered by major mergings , since the merging probability of small - mass galaxies in high - density environments is strongly suppressed not only by their small cross section , but also by the large velocity dispersion charcteristic of galaxy clusters .    [ 0.56 ]    fig . 5 . - star formation histories drawn from monte carlo realizations of galaxies which , at @xmath68 , have luminosities in the range @xmath92 .",
    "each curve represents the sum of the @xmath45 in all the progenitor clumps ( at any given @xmath4 ) of galaxies belonging ( at @xmath68 ) to the blue ( @xmath93 , top panel ) and to the red ( @xmath94 , bottom panel ) populations .",
    "two star formation histories relevant to our discussion ( see text ) are highlightened by heavy curves ( solid and dashed ) and evidenced by the insets in the lower part of the plot .",
    "we now proceed to discuss the fundamental processes which are at the basis of the dichotomy between the star formation histories shown in the top and in the bottom panels of fig . 5 , leading to the bimodal color distribution at low @xmath4 .",
    "in hierarchical models , the scatter in the colors of galaxies with given final dm mass is due to the different realizations of the merging histories which lead to the considered mass ; these ultimately trace back to the properties of the primordial density perturbations field where the galaxy progenitors first formed .    in such a context , a correlation between the galaxy mass and the color is naturally predicted ; in fact , the star formation in progenitor clumps later included into massive galaxies is peaked at higher redshift compared to that taking place in progenitors of small - mass galaxies , since the former form in the biased , high -density regions of the density field , collapsing at higher @xmath4 and containing denser gas .",
    "however , the absence of a typical mass scale in the progenitor distribution would not produce by itself a sharp transition in the star formation rate like that needed to originate the bimodal color distribution .",
    "a non - gravitational mass scale is naturally introduced in the star formation properties of different merging histories by the sne feedback ( as suggested by dekel & silk 1986 ; see dekel & birnboim 2005 and references therein ) . in low -mass galactic haloes",
    "such feedback rapidly reheats the cold gas not converted into stars , resulting into a self - regulated regime with @xmath95 , where @xmath96 is the mass of gas cooled in the time step .",
    "the upper mass limit for such a regime to be effective can thus be estimated from @xmath97 km / s ( see sect . 1 ; for a more detailed derivation see dekel & birnboim 2005 ) , which , at high @xmath85 corresponds to dm masses as low as @xmath98 .",
    "thus in progenitor haloes with @xmath99 the star formation at high @xmath4 is self -regulated and is forced to remain below the limit set by the equilibrium between the feedback and the star formation ( white & frenk 1991 ) ; on the other hand , in progenitors with @xmath100 the cold gas reservoir may grow ( up to the maximal value @xmath101 ) at high @xmath4 , and the star formation rate is limited only by the efficiency of cold gas conversion into stars ( determined by the timescale @xmath34 ) .",
    "thus , hierarchical clustering naturally predicts : 1 ) the star formation in progenitor clumps later included into massive galaxies to peaked at higher redshift compared to that taking place in progenitors of small - mass galaxies ; and 2 ) the existence of a mass threshold @xmath102 below which the cold gas content of the dm clumps at high @xmath4 is effectively reheated an the star formation is self - regulated .",
    "such generic features are in qualitative agreement with the observation that bright galaxies are typically redder ( de vaucouleurs 1961 ; bower , 1992 ) .    in our model ,",
    "the above two points combine with 3 ) a star formation efficiency that enforces the partition between gas rich and gas poor systems , above and below the threshold @xmath102 .",
    "spcifically , we adopt @xmath44 derived from the disk model developed by mo , mao & white ( 1998 ) ( as described in sect .",
    "2 ) .    [ 0.62 ]    fig . 6 . - the color distribution of our fiducial model ( solid line )  i.e. , star formation timescale @xmath103 derived from the disk model developed by mo , mao & white ( 1998 )  is compared with that obtained by the model on assuming a constant ratio @xmath104 ( dashed lines ) .",
    "the shaded area represents the uncertainty in the gaussian fits to the sdss data ( baldry et al .",
    "2004 ) .",
    "in fact , at high-@xmath4 , the cold gas reservoir of progenitors clumps with @xmath99 is continuously depleted by effective feedback , as discussed above ; this increases the timescale @xmath44 , thus suppressing star formation and avoiding the sudden conversion of cold gas into stars . at",
    "later cosmic times , as the progenitor masses grow above the threshold @xmath102 , cold gas begins to accumulate in the progenitor clumps and is made available for star formation , which continues down to low redshifts .",
    "such smooth star formation histories ( the upper panel of fig .",
    "5 ) lead to the local faint blue population .    on the other hand , in progenitor clumps with @xmath100 at high-@xmath4",
    "the cold gas is not effectively reheated ; thus , the rapid cooling taking place at high-@xmath4 leads to large @xmath46 ratios , which shorten the star formation timescale .",
    "the cold gas is rapidly converted into stars , and begins to exhaust at @xmath86 ( see fig .",
    "5 ) ; at later times the star formation is further suppressed since now such galaxies have low @xmath46 ratios . thereafter",
    ", such galaxies undergo an almost quiescent phase characterized by a fast drop of @xmath45 ; such histories are typical of massive galaxies and of galaxies forming in biased regions of the primordial density field ( which later become the galaxy environment ) , and originate the red population at @xmath83 .",
    "the more effective is the star formation in high-@xmath4 , gas rich haloes , the sharper is the transition between the feedback - regulated regime and the supply - limited regime .",
    "in fact , when we adopt a star formation timescale not explicitly depending on @xmath46 ( like in most current sams ) , we obtain a smooth ( non - bimodal ) color distribution ; this is shown in fig .",
    "6 , where the color distribution from our model is compared with that obtained on adopting a fixed value for the ratio @xmath104 ( the average value in mo , mao & white 1998 ) in the expression for the function @xmath43 defined in sect .",
    "2 . note that this model still predictes a correlation between the color and the luminosity of present - day galaxies : as we discussed above , this is indeed a generic feature of hierarchical scenarios . in our fiducial model , we achieve redder color in an appreciable fraction of galaxies compared to the model with fixed @xmath46 .",
    "summarizing , in our model the star formation in massive haloes at low redshift is suppressed by three concurring processes : i ) at high -@xmath4 , the rapid conversion of gas into stars , enhanced by our star formation timescale @xmath44 , leads to a fast exhaustion of the cold gas reservoir ; ii ) at @xmath86 , the cold gas reservoir of massive galaxies is depleted by major merging events ( see sect.2 ) ; iii ) as a consequence of i ) and ii ) , the ratio @xmath46 in such galaxies is particularly low , leading to a longer star formation timescale @xmath44 , which further supresses star formation .",
    "it must be emphasized that results similar to our model might be obtained by any mechanism enforcing the dependence of @xmath45 on the cold gas accretion ( like the cold streams discussed by dekel & birnboim 2005 ) .",
    "thus , the origin of bimodality is connected to the interplay between the properties of the merging histories involving the progenitors of local galaxies and the feedback / star formation process .",
    "to further test such a picture we proceed as follows : we focus on the merging histories of galaxies with luminosity ( at @xmath68 ) in the bin centered at @xmath105 ( so that the considered galaxies have similar total mass @xmath106 ) , and we select the galaxies belonging to the blue and to the red local population .",
    "we then compute the mass distribution of the progenitors of the ( locally ) red and blue galaxies , separately , which are shown at different redshifts in fig .",
    "[ 0.57 ]    fig .",
    "- the distribution @xmath107 of progenitors of local galaxies with luminosity @xmath108 as a function of the progenitor mass @xmath109 ( normalized to the final mass of the galaxy @xmath110 ) and of the cosmic time .",
    "top panel refers to local galaxies with blue ( @xmath93 ) color , bottom panel to the red ones ( @xmath111 ) .",
    "time is in units of @xmath112 ; in such units , @xmath113 corresponds to @xmath114 , and @xmath115 to @xmath116 .    as expected in our picture , the two classes of merging histories are qualitatively different . at the highest redshifts the mass distribution of the progenitors of the ( present  day ) red galaxies",
    "is skewed toward larger masses compared with the the blue ones , and they rapidly reach their final mass .",
    "conversely , the merging histories of present  day blue galaxies are characterized by the infall of low - mass progenitors well below @xmath75 , leading to a refueling of gas over a longer cosmic time . moreover , the existence of a low - mass threshold for the progenitors of the red objects ( corresponding to the mass scale @xmath102 ) is clearly shown by the plot ; the numerical value of @xmath102 obtained from the bottom panel in fig .",
    "7 corresponds to the critical velocity of 100 km / s derived above by requiring the reheating from feedback to regulate the star formation rate .",
    "this confirms our picture , and enlightens that the low-@xmath4 colors of galaxies are the final result of a partition in the star formation histories of the progenitors occurring at high @xmath85 .",
    "such a partition is originated by the properties of the dm density field , the existence of a mass threshold for self - regulating star formation , and a star formation efficiency that enforces the partition between gas rich and gas poor systems , above and below the threshold @xmath102 .",
    "we quantitatively showed how the observed properties of the bimodal color distribution of galaxies arises , in the framework of the hierarchical clustering picture , from the interplay between the properties of the merging histories involving the progenitors of local galaxies and the feedback / star formation process .",
    "our sam successfully matches several fundamental properties of the galaxy color distribution : its bimodal shape at @xmath83 defining two classes of objects whose partition occurs at @xmath62 , with a small spread in the distribution of red objects compared to the blue ones ( fig .",
    "2 ) ; the luminosity dependence of the bimodal distribution , characterized by the red population growing with increasing @xmath5 and dominating the distribution for @xmath74 ( fig .",
    "2 ) ; its environmental dependence ( characterized by redder galaxies in denser environments ) which overrides the luminosity dependence in the sense that even the color distribution of local faint galaxies ( @xmath70 ) is skewed toward red ( @xmath117 ) colors ( fig .",
    "3 ) when only dense environments are considered ; the persistence of the bimodal distribution up to @xmath3 ( fig .",
    "4 ) . as we showed in a previous paper ,",
    "the abundances of the red and blue galaxies are consistent with the observations up to @xmath118 ( giallongo et al . 2005 ) .",
    "we have also shown that the two color populations result from two classes of star formation ( fig .",
    "5 ) and merging histories : i ) merging histories leading to the local red population are characterized by a progenitor distribution skewed toward larger masses at high @xmath85 ( fig .",
    "7 , bottom ) . in such progenitors",
    ", feedback is ineffective in rehating / expelling the cold gas content and , if the latter is rapidly converted into stars at @xmath85 , the main progenitors exhaust their cold gas reservoir at @xmath58 ( see fig . 5 ) and thereafter undergo an almost quiescent phase characterized by a fast drop of @xmath45 .",
    "massive galaxies and galaxies formed in a biased region of the primordial density field ( which later become the galaxy environment ) are preferentially assembled through the former kind of merging history .",
    "this straightforwardly explains the luminosity and environmental dependence of the color distribution .",
    "ii ) merging histories leading to the local blue population are characterized by a progenitor distribution dominated by small- mass progenitors ( fig .",
    "7 , top ) . there",
    "the star formation is self - regulated by feedback , which limits the cold gas content and is effective in prolonging the active phase of star formation .",
    "in addition , such merging histories are characterized by the infall of low - mass progenitors down to @xmath75 , resulting into a refueling of gas extended over a longer cosmic time .",
    "the corresponding star formation histories are illustrated in the top panel of fig .",
    "5 . small - mass galaxies are generally built - up through this evolutionary path .",
    "hierarchical clustering provides a framework for the rising of bimodality because of two natural features : 1 ) star formation histories of massive galaxies and of galaxies formed in biased , high density regions are peaked ( on average ) at higher @xmath4 compared to lower mass galaxies ; 2 ) the existence of a non- gravitational mass scale @xmath102 ( whose value corresponding to @xmath119 km / s is set by the supernovae feedback ) such that for @xmath99 the star formation is self - regulated and the cold gas content is continuously depleted by effective feedback .",
    "these features are generic to most hierarchical clustering models and typically contribute to yield to a global color - magnitude relation where brighter galaxies tend to be redder .",
    "within such a framework , star formation laws which enhance the gas consumption effects described above are necessary to yield a bimodality in the color distribution of present - day galaxies .",
    "in particular , we have shown that enforcing the dependence of @xmath45 on the cold gas accretion above the scaling @xmath120 lead to a sharper partition in the star formation histories of clumps with progenitor masses above and below @xmath102 .",
    "thus , the bimodal color distribution of galaxies originates at high redshifts @xmath85 during the formation and the merging of their progenitors .",
    "this naturally explains the observed appearence of a bimodal distribution already at @xmath3 .",
    "baldry , i.k . ,",
    "glazebrook , k. , brinkmann , j. , zeljko , i. , lupton , r.h . ,",
    "nichol , r.c . ,",
    "szalay , a.s .",
    "2004 , apj , 600 , 681 balogh , m.l . ,",
    "baldry , i.k .",
    ", nichol , r.c . , miller , c. , bower , r. , glazebrook , k. 2004 , apj , 615 , l101 bell , e. , wolf , c. , meisenheimer , k. , rix , h .- w . ,",
    "borch , a. , dye , s. , kleineinrich , m. , mcintosh , d. 2004 , apj , 608 , 752 benson , a.j . , bower , r.g . ,",
    "frenk , c.s . , lacey , c.g . , baugh , c.m . , cole , s. 2003 , apj , 599 , 38 blanton , m.r .",
    "2001 , apj , 121 , 2358 bond , j.r . ,",
    "cole , s. , efstathiou , g. , & kaiser , n. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 440 bower , r.j .",
    ", lucey , j.r . , ellis , r.s .",
    "1992 , mnras , 254 , 601 bruzual , a.g . , &",
    "charlot , s. , 1993 , apj , 105 , 538 calzetti , d. , 1997 , in proc . of `` the ultraviolet universe at low and high redshift : probing the progress of galaxy evolution '' , aip conference proceedings , 408 , p.403 cimatti , a. et al .",
    "2002 , , 392 , 395 cole , s. , aragon - salamanca , a. , frenk , c.s . ,",
    "navarro , j.f . ,",
    "zepf , s.e . , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 781 cole , s. , lacey , c.g . ,",
    "baugh , c.m .",
    ", frenk , c.s . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 319 , 168 cole , s. et al .",
    "2001 , mnras , 326 , 255 cox , t.j . , primack , j. , jonsson , p. , somerville , r.s .",
    "2004 , apj , 607 , l87 de vaucouleurs , g. 1961 , apjs , 5 , 223 dekel , a. , & birnboim , y. 2005 , apj , in press [ astro - ph/0412300 ] gehrels , n. 1986 , apj , 303 , 336 giallongo , e. , salimbeni , s. , menci , n. , zamorani , g. , fontana , a. , dickinson , m. , cristiani , s. , pozzetti , l. 2005 , apj , 622 , 116 giallongo , e. , menci , n. , poli , f. , dodorico , s. , fontana , a. 2000 , apj , 530 , l73 giovanelli , r. , haynes , m. p. , da costa , l. n. , freudling , w. , salzer , j. j. , & wegner g. , 1997 , aj , 113 , 22 kauffmann , g. , white , s.d.m .",
    ", & guiderdoni , b. , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 201 kauffmann , g. 1996 , mnras , 281 , 475 kauffmann , g. , charlot , s. 1998 , mnras , 294 , 705 lacey , c. , & cole , s. , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 madgwick , d.s . ,",
    "et al . , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 133 mathewson , d.s . , ford , v.l .",
    ", & buchhorn , 1992 , apjs , 81 , 413 menci , n. , cavaliere , a. , fontana , a. , giallongo , e. , poli , f. , 2002 , apj , 578 , 18 menci , n. , cavaliere , a. , fontana , a. , giallongo , e. , poli , f. , vittorini , v. 2004 , apj , 604 , 12 mo , h.j , mao s. , & white , s.d.m . , 1998 , mnras , 295 , 319 nagamine , k. , springel , v. , hernquist , l. , machacek , m. 2004 , mnras , 350 , 385 nagamine , k. , cen , r. , hernquist , l. , ostriker , j.p . , springel , v. , 2005 , apj , submitted [ astro - ph/0502001 ] navarro , j.f . ,",
    "frenk , c.s .",
    ", & white , s.d.m .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 493 okamoto , t. , nagashima , m. 2003 , apj , 587 , 500 press , w.h . , & schechter , p. , 1974",
    ", , 187 , 425 schneider , s.e .",
    ", 1997 , pasa , 14 , 99 somerville , r.s . , & primack , j.r . , 1999 ,",
    "mnras , 310 , 1087 somerville , r.s . , primack , j.r . , & faber , s.m . , 2001 ,",
    "mnras , 320 , 504 strateva , i. et al .",
    "2001 , aj , 122 , 1861 steidel , c.c . ,",
    "adelberger , k.l .",
    ", giavalisco , m. , dickinson , m. , pettini , m. , 1999 , apj , 519 , 1 white , s.d.m . , & frenk , c.s . 1991 , apj , 379 , 52 willick , j.a . , courteau , s. , faber , s.m . ,",
    "burstein , d. , dekel , a. , & kolatt , t. , 1996 , apj , 457 , 460 zwaan , m.a . ,",
    "briggs , f.h . ,",
    "sprayberry , d. , sorar , e. 1997 , apj , 490 , 173"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show how the observed bimodality in the color distribution of galaxies can be explained in the framework of the hierarchical clustering picture in terms of the interplay between the properties of the merging histories and the feedback / star - formation processes in the progenitors of local galaxies . using a semi - analytic model of hierarchical galaxy formation , we compute the color distributions of galaxies with different luminosities and compare them with the observations . </S>",
    "<S> our fiducial model matches the fundamental properties of the observed distributions , namely : 1 ) the distribution of objects brighter than @xmath0 is clearly bimodal , with a fraction of red objects increasing with luminosity ; 2 ) for objects brighter than @xmath1 the color distribution is dominated by red objects with color @xmath2 ; 3 ) the spread on the distribution of the red population is smaller than that of the blue population ; 4 ) the fraction of red galaxies is larger in denser environments , even for low - luminosity objects ; 5 ) the bimodality in the distribution persists up to @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the role of the different physical processes included in the model in producing the above results . </S>"
  ]
}