{
  "article_text": [
    "the disrupting sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy ( sgr ) was discovered by ibata , gilmore & irwin in 1994 .",
    "it was soon realized that the sgr provided a powerful tool for the study of the galaxy  @xcite .",
    "the nucleus of the sgr has survived for many orbits around the galaxy , whilst its tidal tails have now been detected over a full @xmath2 on the sky ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the disrupted fragments of the sgr diffuse in the galactic potential .",
    "as the pericenter of the sgr s orbit is @xmath3 kpc , whilst its apocenter is @xmath4 kpc , the debris provides a strong constraint on the galaxy s halo .",
    "the morphology of the sgr stream is known in detail in the galactic southern hemisphere thanks to 2mass @xcite .",
    "@xcite made early detections of sgr tidal debris in data from the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss , see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". then , @xcite used a color cut to pick out the upper main sequence and turn - off stars in sdss data release 5 ( dr5 , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) belonging to the stream . in the galactic northern hemisphere , they found a prominent bifurcation or branching in the stream , beginning at a right ascension @xmath5 ( see the upper right panel of figure  [ fig : xz ] ) .",
    "the lower and upper declination branches of the stream , labelled a and b , can be traced until right ascensions of at least @xmath6 . using the location of the subgiant branch as an estimator , the a and b branches",
    "are reckoned to be at similar distances .",
    "there is also evidence in the data of a fainter , still more distant stream ( c ) directly behind the a branch .",
    "belokurov et al.s ( 2006 ) dataset is important for two reasons .",
    "first , it traces the sgr stream around the north galactic cap , the very spot at which oblate and prolate dark halos give different predictions  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "second , the debris in 2mass is dynamically younger than that found in sdss , so the sdss data should give stronger constraints , as the stars have had longer to move in the galactic potential .",
    "early explorations of the evolution of the sgr suggested that the galactic halo may be close to spherical  @xcite .",
    "for example , @xcite showed that the precession apparent in sgr debris in the 2mass dataset strongly favored mildly oblate halos .",
    "however , @xcite pointed out that many of the earlier datasets are restricted to stars that have only recently been torn off the sgr and so have not diffused in the galactic potential .",
    "in fact , @xcite argued that the velocity measurements of 2mass m giants in the leading arm favor strongly prolate halos and this was subsequently confirmed by @xcite .",
    "hence , present studies of the disruption of the sgr have reached an impasse , with different datasets pointing to dramatically different flattenings .    here",
    ", our aim is to show how the newly discovered bifurcation arises . using numerical simulations",
    ", we argue that the complex morphology of the sgr stream uncovered by belokurov et al .",
    "( 2006 ) can only be reproduced if the galaxy s halo is close to spherical .",
    "although our models do not resolve the contradiction between the precession rate and the velocities in the leading arm , they do provide a new and powerful argument in favor of an almost spherical galaxy halo .        [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     the existence of the bifurcation also constrains the mass of the sgr .",
    "for example , figure  [ fig : moremass ] shows a simulation identical to that of figure  [ fig : xz ] , but with the initial mass of the sgr increased to @xmath7 .",
    "the more massive the sgr , the greater its internal velocity dispersion .",
    "this has two consequences  the tidal arms are broader and they diffuse away from the sgr s orbital path more quickly .",
    "the overall effect is that debris is scattered over a wider range of locations . as the subpanels on the right hand side show , the bifurcation persists but is less dramatic than in the data , whilst the a and b streams are no longer as collimated as in the data .",
    "the run of heliocentric distances with right ascensions , however , is a somewhat better match .",
    "figure  [ fig : masssequence ] shows a sequence of simulations with sgr masses between @xmath8 and @xmath9 , while the galactic potential is kept fixed as a miyamoto - nagai disk and logarithmic halo with @xmath10 .",
    "the bifurcation blurs with increasing mass .",
    "quantitively , the strength of the bifurcation @xmath11 falls from 2.4 when the sgr s mass is @xmath8 to 1.9 at @xmath12 and to 1.2 at @xmath13 .",
    "once the sgr mass rises much above @xmath13 , there is no visible bifurcation .",
    "high mass models are disfavored until it has been demonstrated that the tidal streams of stars can remain as highly collimated as in the data . in table",
    "[ tab : sagdata ] , we give the properties of the sgr remnant at the end of our simulations .",
    "of course , our simulations show both dark matter particles and stars , whereas the observable today is the luminous matter left in the sgr dsph .",
    "the mass loss of the sgr is mainly affected by its orbit and hence the choice of proper motion together with the choice of galactic potential .",
    "since these are uncertain , we also give in table  [ tab : sagdata ] the internal crossing times at the virial radius and the three dimensional velocity dispersion , which governs the broadening of the tails .",
    "our overall picture gives three predictions .",
    "first , a second wrap of branch d may be detectable in the 2mass data , closer than that already reported by @xcite . secondly , the dynamically older b stream should have a larger velocity dispersion than the younger a stream .",
    "the mean velocities of branches a and b probably differ by @xmath14 kms@xmath15 , though this may be hard to measure as it may be less than the stream s internal dispersions .",
    "thirdly , if our current ideas on the star formation history of the sgr are correct  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , then there may be a difference in the stellar populations of the streams .",
    "stream a may contain evidence for a younger population that is not present in stream b.",
    "the sgr stream , as seen by the sloan digital sky survey ( belokurov et al .",
    "2006 ) , is composed of two branches ( a and b ) at about the same heliocentric distance visibly diverging at right ascensions @xmath16 to give a bifurcation , together with a third stream ( c ) aligned with the a branch , but well behind it .",
    "this complex and intricate morphology throws down an enormous challenge to modellers .    here",
    ", we have given a physical picture of how this structure may arise .",
    "the bifurcation is caused by a projection of the young leading ( a ) and the old trailing ( b ) tidal arms of the sgr , while the old leading arm ( c ) lies well behind a. the bifurcation between a and b , and the positioning of c behind a , can only be reproduced in simulations of the disruption of the sgr if the halo is nearly spherical .",
    "simulations in either moderately or strongly oblate or prolate haloes fail these tests by a wide margin . in particular",
    ", the bifurcation only exists if the axis ratio of the potential @xmath17 at the radii sampled by the sgr s orbit lies in the range @xmath18 .",
    "the physical explanation of this is easy to provide .",
    "the material in the a and b branches is about two revolutions apart in orbital phase .",
    "the angular difference on the sky between the a and b branches is therefore a direct measure of the precession of the orbital plane of the sgr over two revolutions .",
    "as the angular difference is small , so the precession of the orbital plane is small , and so the potential muss to be close to spherical .",
    "if the potential is moderately prolate or oblate , debris is scattered over a much wider range of locations .",
    "the path from observation to theoretical conclusion is surprisingly direct and independent of detailed modelling .",
    "the bifurcation also provides a strong constraint on the mass of the sgr and its debris .",
    "if this is much larger than @xmath13 , then the tidal streams are too diffuse to give a clear bifurcation .",
    "this also is easy to understand . as the internal velocity dispersion increases with progenitor mass ,",
    "so the streams become broader and diffuse more quickly in the galactic potential .",
    "the a and b branches do not then have the highly collimated appearance seen in the data .",
    "our simulations  like all other simulations of the disruption of the sgr in the literature  do not agree with all the data .",
    "in particular , the detailed distances to the a , b and c streams given in belokurov et al .",
    "( 2006 ) are not reproduced over the full range of right ascension .",
    "although this is a defect , the limitations of the commonly - used methodology for sgr disruption simulations also need to be acknowledged .",
    "the underlying assumption is that the galactic potential is static and unevolving over up to 10 gyr timescales .",
    "this is clearly incorrect  the milky way is believed to have accreted @xmath19 of its mass over the last 5 gyr  ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    ". simulations typically show that the last major merger take place at about a redshift @xmath20 , roughly 8 gyrs ago  @xcite .",
    "although most of the mass will have accreted in the outer parts of the galaxy , the sgr s orbit extends out to @xmath4 kpc and will surely been affected by this rearrangement .",
    "the formation of the galactic bar has been dated to between 5 and 8 gyr ago  ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and so bar - driven evolution of the inner galaxy will also have caused substantial changes .",
    "the effects of time evolution are of much greater importance for the sdss dataset than for the 2mass dataset , which is restricted to dynamically younger material .",
    "the strength of the argument presented in this paper is that it relies on the gross morphological features of the sgr stream . to reproduce the detailed positions and velocities of stars in the a",
    ", b and c branches may well require a clearer understand of galactic evolution .",
    "however , the existence of a bifurcation in nearly spherical potentials is a robust result . to challenge the main conclusion of this paper",
    "requires the devising of an alternative explanation of the existence of two streams that are closely matched in distance over a @xmath21 arc . in this respect ,",
    "our argument compares favourably with other methods of determination of halo shape using methods such as the flaring of the neutral gas layer  ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) or the stellar kinematics of halo stars  ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "these are afflicted by systematic uncertainties regarding the contribution of the cosmic ray pressure or the orientation of the stellar velocity ellipsoid , for example .",
    "in contrast , the bifurcation in the sgr stream is a clean , simple and direct test .",
    "mf , vb , miw and dz thank the particle physics and astronomy research council of the united kingdom for financial support , and walter dehnen for providing software .",
    "we thank eric bell , heidi - jo newberg , connie rockosi , brain yanny and kathryn johnston ( the referee ) for constructive comments on the draft version .",
    "funding for the sdss and sdss - ii has been provided by the alfred p. sloan foundation , the participating institutions , the national science foundation , the u.s .",
    "department of energy , the national aeronautics and space administration , the japanese monbukagakusho , the max planck society , and the higher education funding council for england .",
    "the sdss web site is http://www.sdss.org/.    the sdss is managed by the astrophysical research consortium for the participating institutions .",
    "the participating institutions are the american museum of natural history , astrophysical institute potsdam , university of basel , cambridge university , case western reserve university , university of chicago , drexel university , fermilab , the institute for advanced study , the japan participation group , johns hopkins university , the joint institute for nuclear astrophysics , the kavli institute for particle astrophysics and cosmology , the korean scientist group , the chinese academy of sciences ( lamost ) , los alamos national laboratory , the max - planck - institute for astronomy ( mpia ) , the max - planck - institute for astrophysics ( mpa ) , new mexico state university , ohio state university , university of pittsburgh , university of portsmouth , princeton university , the united states naval observatory , and the university of washington ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the latest sloan digital sky survey data reveal a prominent bifurcation in the distribution of debris of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal ( sgr ) beginning at a right ascension of @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> two branches of the stream ( a and b ) persist at roughly the same heliocentric distance over at least @xmath1 of arc . </S>",
    "<S> there is also evidence for a more distant structure ( c ) well behind the a branch . </S>",
    "<S> this paper provides the first explanation for the bifurcation . </S>",
    "<S> it is caused by the projection of the young leading ( a ) and old trailing ( b ) tidal arms of the sgr , whilst the old leading arm ( c ) lies well behind a. this explanation is only possible if the halo is close to spherical , as the angular difference between the branches is a measure of the precession of the orbital plane . </S>"
  ]
}