{
  "article_text": [
    "the study of open clusters naturally introduces many advances , because they are physically related groups of stars held together by mutual gravitational attraction that were formed at roughly the same time from one large cosmic gas and dust cloud .",
    "their evolutionary stages range from clouds where star formation still takes place at this moment to very old aggregates with turn - off points as late as solar type stars .",
    "therefore , they represent samples of population i stars of constant age and comparable intrinsic chemical composition , best suited to study processes related to stellar evolution and formation , and to fix lines or loci in several most important astrophysical diagrams .",
    "these procedures are statistical methods , for example fitting isochrones to determine the age , reddening , and distance of an open cluster , independent of individual peculiarities of members .    as the open clusters drift along their orbits , they are excellent tracers for the global kinematics and dynamical characteristics of the milky way itself . however , some of their members escape the cluster , due to velocity changes in mutual close encounters or tidal forces in the galactic gravitational field .",
    "the escaped stars continue to orbit on their own as field stars .",
    "= 80 mm    as a summary it can be concluded that open clusters allow the study of a significant number of astrophysical parameters and models from the global scale of the milky way down to processes in individual stars from the pre - main - sequence to post - agb evolution .",
    "but what about the accuracy of the presently known open - cluster parameters ?",
    "surprisingly enough , there is , to our knowledge , no work within the last ten years which deals with this question in detail .",
    "although there are several new catalogues ( dias et al . 2002 and kharchenko et al .",
    "2005 ) published and a flood of new parameter estimates , mainly because the common use of ccds permits the observation of fainter and more distant clusters , there is no published statistical analysis describing if and how the accuracy has improved .    if we look at recent statistical papers dealing with open - cluster parameters ( e.g. chen , hou & wang 2003 , dias & lpine 2005 ) , none of them have any detailed error treatment included .",
    "although apparent `` mean values '' for the age , distance and metallicity are used , the level of accuracy is completely ignored in the final conclusions .    in this work",
    "we try to fill this gap by presenting a detailed analysis of the current available open - cluster parameters and the corresponding errors . for this purpose",
    "we have searched the literature up to november 2005 for individual cluster parameter estimates .",
    "the primary goal is to establish a list of `` standard '' open clusters covering a wide range of ages , reddenings and distances from the sun selected on the basis of the smallest errors from the available parameters in the literature .",
    "these clusters should serve as a standard set for future investigations .",
    "we also compare the derived mean values with those of the most recent catalogue by dias et al .",
    "( 2002 ) resulting in an overall satisfactory agreement .",
    "for the determination of mean values for the age , reddening and distance , we have used the following data sources : janes , tilley & lyng , ( 1988 ) , malysheva ( 1997 ) , dambis ( 1999 ) dutra & bica ( 2000 ) , loktin et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , tadross ( 2001 ) , lata et al .",
    "( 2002 , and references therein ) , kharchenko et al .",
    "( 2005 ) and an updated list of individual publications as listed in webda ( http://www.univie.ac.at/webda/recent_data.html ) which includes more than 300 different papers .",
    "the latter was mainly performed within the framework of ads ( http://cdsads.u-strasbg.fr/ ) .",
    "the individual references were further checked for sources from the literature to guarantee a maximum of available estimates accessible to the community .",
    "all selected publications list @xmath0 , log@xmath1 and the distance from the sun .",
    "the only exception is malysheva ( 1997 ) who lists @xmath2 which was converted by a factor of 1.43 to @xmath0 . for the further analysis we have used @xmath3=3.1@xmath0 which is the best mean value for most regions in the milky way ( winkler 1997 ) .",
    "we have carefully checked whether the listed parameters for each open cluster in the individual references are independent of each other and not used by two authors twice .",
    "kharchenko et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , for example , used data by loktin et al .",
    "such duplicated data were not used in the subsequent analysis .",
    "janes et al .",
    "( 1988 ) studied all photometric measurements available at that time to them and introduced weights to derive the cluster parameters .",
    "they summarize the knowledge and results for the given time and supersede the catalogue by lyng ( 1987 ) .    the catalogue of dias et al .",
    "( 2002 ) was not used at this stage because it already lists averaged values from the literature .",
    "furthermore we made a comprehensive comparison with the results of this work ( sect .",
    "[ compd ] ) .",
    "the metallicity is also a free parameter when fitting isochrones to photometric data .",
    "chen et al . ( 2003 ) compiled a catalogue of metallicities and analysed this sample .",
    "they derived a radial iron gradient of @xmath40.063(8)dexkpc@xmath5 for the milky way with an intrinsic spread of the overall open cluster metallicities of @xmath60.2dex .",
    "this is in excellent agreement with the scatter of the metallicity found for f and g type stars in the solar neighbourhood ( karatas , bilir & schuster 2005 ) .",
    "the effect of different metallicities to the isochrone fitting procedure is extensively discussed by pinsonneault et al .",
    "the @xmath7 values range from + 0.1 to @xmath40.3mag for [ fe / h]=@xmath60.2dex and constant effective temperature sensitive color indices . taking a difference of 0.3mag for the distance modulus introduced by an incorrect treatment of the metallicity ,",
    "the error for 1kpc is 150pc or 15% .",
    "however , these discrepancies are only valid for effective temperatures cooler than 8000k . for hotter temperatures , the difference in the metallicities result mainly in a shift of the temperature sensitive color indices ( schaerer et al .",
    "lebreton ( 2000 ) presented a comparison of galactic field stars with known metallicities as well as accurate parallax measurements and appropriate isochrones ( see figure 6 therein ) .",
    "there is an apparent mismatch at any level of metallicity .",
    "however , the most significant differences are at large underabundances ( @xmath8@xmath42.5dex ) which are normally not found in open clusters of the milky way",
    ". there are only a few independent estimates of the metallicity in the literature .",
    "twarog , ashman & anthony - twarog ( 1997 ) , gratton ( 2000 ) and chen et al .",
    "( 2003 ) give a summary of the current knowledge with an error estimate of the individual values . since then very few new estimates have been published .",
    "we have therefore not made a new and redundant error analysis of the metallicities for open clusters .",
    "all individual data were considered as completely equal and no weights were attributed .",
    "no assessment of the corresponding reference for the used methods , isochrones and so on was done . this should guarantee that no unknown bias is introduced in the data set .",
    "we have rejected ngc  2451 , which recent studies have shown that is formed by the superposition of two clusters at different distances , and basel  11 , which was wrongly assigned in the original survey . therefore the former parameters determined for the joined data are no longer significant .",
    "furthermore , pena & peniche ( 1994 ) reported significant inconsistencies for the analysis of ngc  7209 which we also neglected .",
    "we have also not included the given `` intrinsic '' errors of individual references .",
    "the simple reason is that most authors list only an overall error ( if any ) for all measurements which is highly unrealistic and would introduce an unknown bias .    for the final list",
    ", we have averaged the data of open clusters for which at least three independent estimates of the age , reddening and distance are available .",
    "it contains 6437 individual estimates for 395 open clusters . as the last step",
    ", the standard deviations were calculated .",
    "= 82 mm    = 82 mm",
    "fitting isochrones to photometric data is not straightforward .",
    "the goodness of the fit depends on the following characteristics of the colour - magnitude diagram of an open cluster :    * number of members * percentage of contamination by non - members * age , i.e. visibility of the turn - off point , an important source of errors for young open clusters * presence of spectroscopic binaries which shifts the main sequence by a maximum of 0.754mag * presence of a red giant clump which makes an isochrone fitting much more significant * differential reddening * available photometric indices , @xmath9 is , for example , an excellent indicator for the reddening and membership * quality of the data * metallicity    in addition , there is also a `` human factor '' which enters the estimate of the best fit to observational data .",
    "andersen & nordstrm ( 1999 ) show how different research groups interpret the same data set quite differently , using the excellent example of ngc 3680 ( figure 3 therein ) .",
    "this is not because one set of parameters is better than the other but the technique of isochrone fitting itself is not unambiguous .",
    "for this reason , very sophisticated computer algorithms were developed to overcome this problem ( jrgensen & lindegren 2005 ) .",
    "the method is rather simple : the locations of the color - magnitude diagrams are divided into boxes and the incidence of members within each box is counted .",
    "those numbers are compared with the same parameterization of standard isochrones .",
    "loktin et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and kharchenko et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , for example , used such a black box to derive cluster parameters .",
    "however , jrgensen & lindegren ( 2005 ) concluded that the systematic errors of computer algorithms are at least on the same level as those introduced by the human factor .",
    "another error source is the choice of appropriate isochrones .",
    "grocholski & sarajedini ( 2003 ) discussed the apparent differences of the five most commonly used sets of isochrones .",
    "they concluded that none of the theoretical isochrones reproduce the observational data in a consistent manner over the magnitude and colour range of the zero age main sequence .",
    "in particular , there are significant zero point and shape differences between the models and the observations .",
    "there are three reasons for these discrepancies : 1 ) the input physics has to be improved ; 2 ) the transformation between theoretical and observational parameters ; and 3 ) more standard open clusters have to be established for testing new models .    for our statistical analysis",
    "we have chosen the following parameters :    * @xmath10 : the absolute error of the mean distances * @xmath11 : the standard deviation of the mean reddening values * @xmath12 : the absolute error of the mean ages ( in units of myrs and not in the logarithmic scale )    the parameters themselves are , in general , _ not _ independent from each other .",
    "for example , the distance depends on the total absorption .",
    "figure [ means ] shows the errors of the mean for the distance , reddening and age versus the number of available estimates in the literature for the complete sample of 395 open clusters .",
    "the errors of the means for the distance and reddening decrease with more available observations while the mean errors for the age estimate are more or less constant over the whole range .",
    "note that there are also a few parameters which are estimated more than ten times , but these few data are not shown to avoid any poor number statistics .",
    "the distribution of the different error estimates ( fig .",
    "[ means_d ] ) gives an idea of the current accuracy for the open - cluster parameters .",
    "the reddening is best known mainly because the main sequence can be fitted more easily for almost all open clusters . for about 90% of all clusters , the error is below 0.1mag .",
    "the distances are also rather well determined : for about 80% of all aggregates , the absolute error is less than 20% .",
    "as expected , the estimate of the age of open clusters is the most difficult and introduces large uncertainties .",
    "only 11% of the investigated open clusters have errors less than 20% .",
    "even more than 30% exhibit an absolute error larger than 50% with extreme values of more than 200% .",
    "these characteristics are most certainly not due to wrong estimates or typographical errors in the reference but an intrinsic problem of the method itself",
    ".    how should one overcome the problem of a proper age estimate for open clusters ?",
    "we have shown that the knowledge of the reddening and determining distances is satisfactory .",
    "if we look at the metallicity , the situation is rather poor .",
    "most authors use solar abundances ( e.g. dutra & bica 2000 , loktin et al .",
    "2001 and kharchenko et al .",
    "2005 ) throughout the isochrone fitting process , this procedure is in most cases justified , but normally photometric data will not allow us do it any better .",
    "we believe that the only way out of the dilemma is to establish `` standard '' open clusters covering a wide range of distances , ages and reddening values which should allow , for example the testing of isochrones .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,>,>,>,>,>,^,^ , > , > , > , > \" , ]",
    "the current best approximation , many authors use is the list of parameters published by dias et al .",
    "we have used the open - cluster parameters of the october 2005 version of the catalogue available at http://www.astro.iag.usp.br/@xmath13wilton/ for comparison with our results .",
    "the motivation for this comparison is to have an estimate of the statistical error introduced when using `` mean '' catalogue parameters instead of performing an independent analysis of its own .",
    "we are aware that the catalogue of dias et al .",
    "is a kind of compendium of different sources from the literature .",
    "they do not perform any weighting or averaging in the tradition of lyng .",
    "our analysis , on the other hand , is based on averaged values from widely different methods and authors .",
    "it is therefore very interesting to examine if an independent check of this catalogue can confirm its validity .",
    "for the analysis we have calculated the differences of the open - cluster parameters of the catalogue by dias et al .",
    "( 2002 ) and our mean estimate for the sample of 395 open clusters . for the reddening",
    "we have just used the differences as they were calculated . otherwise , those difference were normalized in units of the standard deviation of the mean for the distance and age .",
    "the interpretation of those parameters is the following : for values between @xmath41 and + 1 , the error of averaging the literature parameter is statistically at the same level as the uncertainty introduced by using those catalogued ones . fitting a gaussian distribution to the complete sample of values should result in a width of less than 2@xmath14 if both `` error sources '' have the same statistical significance and can therefore not be disentangled ( rees 1987 ) .",
    "figure [ dias ] shows the distribution of the differences of the distance , reddening and age as well as the basic parameters of a gaussian fit to these distributions .",
    "the widths of all three distributions are in the expected range taking into account the overall statistical errors on the cluster parameters ( fig .",
    "[ means_d ] ) .",
    "we therefore conclude that if one uses the parameters of the catalogue by dias et al .",
    "( 2002 ) the expected errors are comparable to those which we derived for averaging the independent values from the literature , a result which is in favor of the parameters from the mentioned catalogue from a statistical point of view .",
    "if one aims at a statistical study of a group of clusters , a standard set for comparison is necessary .",
    "mermilliod ( 1981 ) , for example used the following clusters to establish empirical isochronous curves : alpha  persei , hyades , ic  4665 , ngc  457 , ngc  884 , ngc  2281 , ngc  2287 , ngc  2362 , ngc  2516 , ngc  3532 , ngc  3766 , ngc  6231 , ngc  6475 and the pleiades .",
    "those clusters still serve as references when studying red giants ( eigenbrod et al .",
    "another interesting work in this respect is the one by piatti , claria & bica ( 1998 ) who presented composite @xmath15 versus @xmath16 diagrams for the following `` standard '' open clusters : ic  4651 , ngc  3680 , ngc  3766 , ngc  6025 , ngc  6067 , ngc  6231 , ngc  6242 , ngc  6259 , ngc  6451 and ngc  6633 .",
    "they selected these clusters because of accurately determined fundamental parameters .",
    "the final diagrams are used as a homogeneous set of empirical isochrones in the age range between 5myr and 4gyr for the study of faint reddened open clusters .",
    "the lists of mermilliod ( 1981 ) and piatti et al .",
    "( 1998 ) only coincide in three cases : ngc  3766 , ngc  6231 and ngc  6475 .",
    "this already indicates that a common set of standard open clusters is very much needed .",
    "the lists of standard clusters given in the above mentioned references have been chosen based on the available photometric , spectroscopic and kinematical data . however , as an example , paunzen & maitzen ( 2002 ) have shown that the photometric data of ngc  6451 are not intrinsically consistent and suffer from an offset of one magnitude in johnson @xmath17 .",
    "our approach is different and not based on the current available data for individual open clusters . on the contrary , our list should trigger new observations to further improve the knowledge of the listed cluster parameters .",
    "we present a list of open clusters with a significant number of independent investigations and parameters with small errors .",
    "we have chosen the rather strict criteria ( especially for the age estimate ) for the errors of the parameters :    * @xmath10@xmath1825% * @xmath11@xmath180.1mag * @xmath12@xmath1830%    in total , 72 open clusters , listed in table [ st_ocls ] , fulfill these criteria .",
    "figure [ st_ocls_p ] shows the distribution of the distances , reddenings and ages for these proposed standard clusters .",
    "they cover the complete range of known cluster parameters within the milky way .",
    "these open clusters should serve as observational test cases for further theoretical developments .",
    "a closer inspection of these open clusters in webda reveals that , for example , the data of ngc  6208 and ngc  6811 are still very unsatisfactory which calls for further high precision observational investigations .",
    "using open clusters for studying global and local phenomena is very much dependent on the accuracy of the used cluster parameters such as the age , reddening and distance .",
    "this is also vital for testing theoretical models .",
    "we have made a statistical study of the published cluster parameters summarizing the results for 395 open clusters . while the reddening seems to be quite accurate ,",
    "the ages and distances suffer from severe uncertainties . for about 90% of all studied clusters , the error of the reddening is below 0.1mag . for the distance we find absolute errors of less than 20% for about 80% of the aggregates .",
    "however , only 11% of the investigated open clusters have errors of the ages which are less than 20% ; there are extreme discrepancies of more than 200% .",
    "this calls for a homogeneous set of isochrones together with a solid fitting technique .",
    "we have compared the errors of the mean cluster parameters with the differences of those listed in the open cluster catalogue by dias et al .",
    "( 2002 ) which is widely used .",
    "both error distributions have the same statistical significance .",
    "using the parameters from the mentioned catalogue , therefore , introduces the same error level as using averaged values from the literature , an important result when using this catalogue .    as last step , a set of 72 open clusters with the most accurate ( in a statistical sense ) parameters were established .",
    "those clusters cover a wide range of reddenings , ages as well as distances and should serve in the future as a standard set for further observational efforts and for testing theoretical models .",
    "+   +   we thank our referee , jean - claude mermilliod , for very useful comments which helped to improve this manuscript significantly .",
    "this research was performed within the projects _",
    "p17580 _ and _ p17920 _ of the austrian fonds zur frderung der wissenschaftlichen forschung ( fwf ) .",
    "m.  netopil acknowledges the support by a `` forschungsstipendium '' of the university of vienna .",
    "use was made of the simbad database , operated at the cds , strasbourg , the webda database , operated at the university of vienna and the nasa astrophysics data system .",
    "999 andersen j. , nordstrm b. , 1999 , in gimnez a. , guinan e.f .",
    ", montesinos b. , eds , asp conf .",
    "173 , theory and tests of convection in stellar structure , san francisco , p. 31",
    "chen l. , hou j.l .",
    ", wang j.j . , 2003 ,",
    "aj , 125 , 1397 dambis a.k",
    ". , 1999 , astronomy letters , 25 , 7 dias w.s . ,",
    "lpine j.r.d .",
    ", 2005 , apj , 629 , 825 dias w.s .",
    ", alessi b.s .",
    ", moitinho a. , lpine j.r.d . , 2002 ,",
    "a&a , 389 , 871 dutra c.m . , bica e. , 2000 , a&a , 359 , 347 eigenbrod a. , mermilliod j .- c .",
    ", clara j.j . , andersen j. , mayor m. , 2004 , a&a , 423 , 189 gratton r. , 2000 , in pallavicini r. , micela g. , sciortino s. , eds , asp conf .",
    "198 , stellar clusters and associations : convection , rotation , and dynamos , san francisco , p. 225",
    "grocholski a.j .",
    ", sarajedini a. , 2003 , mnras , 345 , 1015 janes k.a . , tilley c. , lyng , g. , 1988 , aj , 95 , 771 jrgensen b.r . , lindegren l. , 2005 , a&a , 436 , 127 karatas y. , bilir s. , schuster w.j . , 2005 , mnras , 360 , 1345 kharchenko n.v . , piskunov a.e .",
    ", rser s. , schilbach e. , scholz r .- d . , 2005 , a&a , 438 , 1163 lata s. , pandey a.k . , sagar r. , mohan v. , 2002 , a&a , 388 , 158 lebreton y. , 2000 , ara&a , 38 , 35 loktin a.v . , gerasimenko t.p . , malisheva l.k . , 2001 ,",
    ", 20 , 607 lyngg . , 1987 , catalogue of open cluster data , 5@xmath19 edition , cds , strasbourg malysheva l.k . , 1997 , astronomy letters , 23 , 585 mermilliod j .- c . , 1981 , a&a , 97 , 235 paunzen e. , maitzen h.m . , 2002 , a&a , 385 , 867 pena j.h . , peniche r. , 1994 , rmxaa , 28 , 139 piatti a.e . , clara j.j",
    ", bica e. , 1998 , apjs , 116 , 263 pinsonneault m.h . ,",
    "terndrup d.m . ,",
    "hanson r.b .",
    ", stauffer j.r . , 2004 , apj , 600 , 946 rees d.g . , 1987 , foundations of statistics , chapman & hall , london schaerer d. , meynet g. , maeder a. , schaller g. , 1993 , a&as , 98 , 523 tadross a.l . , 2001 , new astronomy , 6 , 293 twarog b.a . , ashman k.m . , anthony - twarog b.j . , 1997 ,",
    "aj , 114 , 2556 winkler h. , 1997 , mnras , 287 , 481"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we aim to characterize the current status of knowledge on the accuracy of open - cluster parameters such as the age , reddening and distance . </S>",
    "<S> these astrophysical quantities are often used to study the global characteristics of the milky way down to very local stellar phenomena . in general , the errors of these quantities are neglected or set to some kind of heuristic standard value . </S>",
    "<S> we attempt to give some realistic estimates for the accuracy of available cluster parameters by using the independent derived values published in the literature . in total , </S>",
    "<S> 6437 individual estimates for 395 open clusters were used in our statistical analysis . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the error sources depending on theoretical as well as observational methods and compare our results with those parameters listed in the widely used catalogue by dias et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 2002 ) . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we establish a list of 72 open clusters with the most accurate known parameters which should serve as a standard table in the future for testing isochrones and stellar models .    </S>",
    "<S> open clusters and associations : general </S>"
  ]
}