{
  "article_text": [
    "for the study of the structure of the present day universe on very large scales ( @xmath3 mpc ) the use of galaxy clusters constitutes a very interesting alternative to the conventional galaxy redshift surveys for several reasons .",
    "one can study a larger volume with a smaller number of objects .",
    "the spatial correlation in the cluster distribution is strongly magnified with respect to the galaxy and to the mass distribution ( kaiser 1984 ) .",
    "the biasing factor relating the cluster distribution power spectrum to the mass density fluctuations can be calculated _ ab - initio _ ( e.g. bardeen et al .",
    "1986 , mo & white , 1996 ) .",
    "x - ray astronomy offers a unique tool to efficiently detect and characterize galaxy clusters out to large distances . originating in the hot intracluster plasma that fills the gravitational potential well of the clusters , the x - ray emission is an equally robust parameter for a mass estimate of a clusters as the galaxy velocity dispersion . with the survey described here , named rosat eso flux limited x - ray ( reflex ) cluster survey",
    ", we exploit the unique opportunity provided by the rosat all - sky survey ( trmper 1993 , voges et al .",
    "1996 ) to construct a cluster sample for cosmological studies .",
    "the cluster candidates found are then optically identified and redshifts are measured in the frame of an eso key programme ( bhringer 1994 , guzzo et al .",
    "in the rosat all - sky survey atlas only the brightest and well extended x - ray cluster sources are readily identified , while the main part of the identifications has to be based on further optical information . for a first identification we use the cosmos data base ( e.g. heydon - dumbleton et al . 1989 ) , originating from the uk schmidt survey , providing star / galaxy separation down to @xmath4 mag .",
    "the price paid for a high completeness ( low detection threshold ) is a contamination of the candidate list by more than 30% non - cluster sources .",
    "this contamination is reduced by a direct inspection of the photographic plates , the detailed x - ray properties , and the available literature information . the residual contamination ( up to 10% )",
    "is generally recognized and discarded in the follow - up observations , which will be completed at the end of the year 1998 .",
    "presently we have constructed a first catalogue of bright clusters down to an x - ray flux limit of @xmath5 erg s@xmath1 @xmath2 ( in the rosat band 0.1 - 2.4 kev ) comprising 475 objects .",
    "interestingly , only 53% of these clusters are found in the aco catalogue ( abell , corwin , & olowin , 1989 ) and further 10% in the supplementary list , while most of the others were previously unknown ( e.g. fig .",
    "the following results are based on the sample of 475 x - ray bright clusters ( with 413 cluster redshifts obtained so far ) . a plot of the number counts of the population as a function of x - ray flux is shown in fig .  2 .",
    "the logarithmic graph is well described by an euclidian slope of -3/2 .",
    "this is expected for such nearby clusters with a median redshift of @xmath6 .",
    "the x - ray luminosity function is a very important characteristic of the sample , since it is most closely related to the mass function of the clusters and used as an important calibrator of the amplitude of the cosmic density fluctuation power spectrum ( e.g. white et al .",
    "1993 ) . a preliminary version of the reflex x - ray luminosity function is shown in fig .",
    "the function was computed when ( @xmath7 ) of the redshifts had been determined .",
    "but it already recovers the densities reached in previous surveys ( e.g. de grandi 1996 , ebeling et al .",
    "1997 ) as shown in fig .",
    "despite the present incompleteness in redshifts which we essentially hope to fill by scheduled observations till the end of 1998 , the high quality and completeness of the data set is already reflected in the present results . the large volume covered and the high accuracy of the sample makes the reflex survey ideal for the study of the large - scale structure .",
    "an extended reflex sample down to a flux limit of @xmath8 erg s@xmath1 @xmath2 is prepared and redshifts are available for more than 70% of the objects .",
    "this set will contain about 750 clusters .",
    "finally , a complementary rosat survey cluster identification programme is being conducted in the northern sky in a collaboration of mpe and j. huchra , r. giacconi , p. rosati and b. mclean which will soon reach a similar depth and provide an all - sky view on the x - ray cluster distribution ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> based on the rosat all - sky survey we have conducted a large redshift survey as an eso key programme to identify and secure redshifts for the x - ray brightest clusters found in the southern hemisphere . </S>",
    "<S> we present first results for a highly controlled sample for a flux limit of @xmath0 erg s@xmath1 @xmath2 ( 0.1 - 2.4 kev ) comprising 475 clusters ( 87% with redshifts ) . </S>",
    "<S> the logn - logs function of the sample shows an almost perfect euclidian slope and a preliminary x - ray luminosity function is presented . </S>"
  ]
}