{
  "article_text": [
    "in the last few years , the increasingly detailed observations of stellar populations in a wide variety of environments have provided a huge amount of high quality data , which have been used to constrain both stellar evolution theory and stellar models among many other variables .",
    "in contrast , the development of increasingly complicated evolutionary synthesis codes has , in general , focused only on the use of updated physical ingredients , but some of their underlying hypotheses ( track interpolations and isochrone computation in particular ) have remained unchanged .",
    "in addition , the study of sampling errors has received comparatively little attention ( see however buzzoni ( 1989 ) , lanon ( these proceedings ) , and cervio et al .",
    "( 2001b ) for a more complete review ) even though it seems likely that the scatter in the observed properties of systems with a relatively small number of stars can be accounted for by sampling fluctuations from a given ( and perhaps universal ) stellar initial mass function ( imf ) .",
    "the aim of this contribution is to highlight some oversimplifications used in these evolutionary synthesis models which lead inevitably to larger uncertainties in some integrated quantities .",
    "we present a short general overview of how evolutionary synthesis models work ( sec .  2 ) , the problems raised by discontinuities in stellar tracks of different masses for the isochrones of massive stars ( sec .  3 ) , and the effects of the stochastic nature of the imf in integrated quantities ( sec .",
    "irrespective of the actual technique used to obtain the _ integrated _ properties of a stellar cluster as a function of age several steps must be followed .",
    "for illustration we focus here on a fixed metallicity and an instantaneous burst of star formation , and we assume that we have a set of stellar tracks discrete both in the number of stellar masses and in the evolutionary phases provided . as an example , we take here the widely used solar metallicity tracks from schaller et al . ( 1992 ) .",
    "the _ first step _ is to interpolate the tracks in order to obtain a set of _ continuous _ distributions of stellar tracks that describe the same evolutionary sequence for a denser set of initial stellar masses .",
    "the _ second step _ is to assign the age for each mass and each evolutionary sequence in the previously computed stellar tracks . at this stage ,",
    "the isochrone can be derived from interpolations between the computed tracks at a given age .",
    "the next step is to populate the isochrone with the number of stars in a given mass interval .",
    "the total number can match the number of stars observed in a cluster , but note that the number of stars in each mass interval is given by the initial mass function ( imf ) only _ in the asymptotic limit of an infinite number of stars in the cluster_. as an example , we adopt here a power law imf in the mass range 2120 m@xmath1 with a salpeter slope .",
    "additional complications related to chemical evolution or star formation history introduce other assumptions that will not be dealt with here .",
    "it is important to note that although this study is restricted to a narrow range of possibilities ( massive stars and young clusters ) , entirely similar situations are found in older clusters with low mass stars which undergo the helium flash .",
    "over the limited region of parameter space where the opacity , @xmath2 , and the energy production rate , @xmath3 , of the star can be represented by power laws , the internal structure of stars can be assumed to be homologous .",
    "this is particularly useful to get , for example , the absolute luminosity , @xmath4 , as a function of the mass of the star :    @xmath5    where @xmath6 is the mean molecular weight . if the variations of @xmath3 , @xmath2 and @xmath6 in the tabulated tracks are small enough , interpolations in the @xmath7 plane ( where @xmath8 represents an evolutionary stage ) are valid .",
    "unfortunately , in the case of massive stars it is not always the case .",
    "first of all , the initial mass of the star and the mean molecular weight @xmath6 are not constant due to the effects of stellar winds .",
    "second , there is obviously a strong discontinuity between the evolution of stars that ultimately become wolf - rayet ( wr ) stars , and which are placed on the left side of the main sequence , and stars which become red supergiants .",
    "( note that a similar discontinuity appears for low mass stars which undergo the helium flash ) .",
    "such a discontinuity could be solved if the sets of evolutionary tracks would give additional tables corresponding to the appropriate mass range . in the case of helium flash stars ,",
    "see for example the solution adopted by brocato et al .",
    "no such extra information is currently available for this critical range in massive stars , hence there are unavoidable uncertainties associated with this discontinuity .",
    "assume however that this problem can be bypassed , somehow , and let s go to the next step : a linear interpolation in the @xmath9 plane is used .",
    "such a relation is certainly valid at the zero age main sequence , but it fails as soon as the stars evolve .",
    "this situation is particularly well illustrated by the calculation of the supernovae rate ( snr ) .",
    "if the relation between @xmath10 and the age where the star becomes a sn , @xmath11 , is a power law , and if the imf is another power law , the evolution of the snr must be another power law since it is a convolution of two power laws .",
    "we show in fig .  1 the snr using linear and parabolic interpolations in the @xmath12 plane .",
    "while the snr using the linear interpolation exhibits discontinuities corresponding to the discreteness of the stellar tracks , the parabolic interpolation scheme presents a much smoother behaviour .",
    "however , independently of the interpolation technique , there are some wiggles at the beginning of the evolution of the snr due to the particular behaviour of the lifetime of wr stars present in the set of tracks used .",
    "however , even if the parabolic interpolation seems to produce better results , a correct interpolation technique ( based on physical principles ) is still lacking , and a more careful study is required on this subject . a more detailed assessment of this problem can be found in cervio et al .",
    "( 2001a ) .",
    "besides the problems mentioned in the previous section , let s turn to the effect of sampling the imf to evaluate the dispersion due to the discreteness of actual stellar populations .",
    "let us assume that @xmath13 stars are observed , with masses distributed between @xmath14 and @xmath15 .",
    "the probability distribution function of the stellar masses is given by the imf , so that the number of stars @xmath16 of a given mass @xmath17 is a random variable with a poissonian distribution ( see cervio et al .",
    "2001b for details ) .",
    "as pointed out by the pioneering study of buzzoni ( 1989 ) , the fact that @xmath16 is a poisson variable makes it possible to apply a proper statistical formalism .",
    "let us consider for instance the integrated monochromatic luminosity @xmath18 of a stellar population of n@xmath19  stars of a given age @xmath20 .",
    "the average value of @xmath18 is given by the sum of the individual monochromatic luminosities @xmath21 of stars of age @xmath20 belonging to the @xmath22 mass , each weighted by its number as given by the imf , @xmath23 :    @xmath24    up to a constant , @xmath25 will be poisson distributed , since the sum of poisson variables is also a poisson variable , with parameter given by the sum of the individual poisson parameters . due to random fluctuations in the number of stars of each mass , the actual luminosity @xmath26 will fluctuate around this average value with a variance given by    @xmath27    and thus the dispersion due to the discreteness of the stellar population is obtained for any quantity that is derived from the integrated luminosity , such as colours or the number of ionising photons .",
    "note however that for _ derived _ quantities one has to take into account the _ covariances _ between the @xmath28 , weighted by their luminosities .",
    "this can be illustrated by the correlation coefficient of two quantities @xmath29 which is defined as :    @xmath30    it obviously varies between @xmath31 and @xmath32 , where the sign indicates the sense of the correlation .",
    "so @xmath33 if the quantities are completely correlated and @xmath34 if there is no correlation .",
    "for a given star , the luminosities in different bands are completely correlated since they are produced by the same star .",
    "but the situation changes when several stars are considered simultaneously , such as in a cluster . at some ages",
    ", the same stars will contribute to the same bands , and hence the correlation coefficient will be unity for these bands , but at some later stages different masses will contribute differently and the correlation will decrease . as an illustration ,",
    "2 show the evolution of the correlation coefficient for some optical and nir bands . neglecting this evolving coefficient may produce an underestimation of the sampling errors .",
    "similarly some bands may be more affected by the nebular continuum ( strongly correlated to the more massive stars ) than others , and hence the actual dispersion on a given magnitude or colour will depend on the precise correlation coefficient , as shown on fig .  2 .",
    "using simple rules of error propagation , and taking into account the covariance terms , we can derive _ analytically _ the dispersion in any integrated quantity derived from the luminosity .",
    "3 shows the interesting case of the @xmath35 colour as an illustration .",
    "we have performed monte carlo simulations with 1000 clusters with @xmath13=10@xmath36 stars , 500 clusters with 10@xmath37 stars and 100 clusters with 10@xmath38 stars . in each set",
    "we have obtained the dispersion @xmath39(v  k ) .",
    "the @xmath39 values have been divided by @xmath40 , to obtain a normalized effective dispersion for each set ( see cervio et al .",
    "2001b for further details ) .",
    "the top left panel shows the mean @xmath35 colour index for different simulations and the analytical one ( the idealised case of an infinite number of stars ) .",
    "the comparison shows that our analytical estimation performs very well , although there are slight deviations in the 10@xmath36 stars cluster simulations .",
    "the low left panel shows the comparison of the normalized values of @xmath41 with the analytical value .",
    "it shows that the analytical computation of the dispersion and the monte carlo results are again very similar except for the 10@xmath36 star clusters .",
    "the differences are due to an additional dispersion introduced by the relation between n@xmath19 and the total mass of the cluster .",
    "we also show the 90% confidence levels of the different simulations computed from the monte carlo simulations ( shadowed areas ) and analytically ( lines ) .",
    "it is important to stress that these confidence level bands are not _ symmetric _ with respect to the mean value , as expected for quantities derived from a poisson distribution .",
    "we refer the reader to cervio et al .",
    "( 2001b ) for more details .",
    "evolutionary synthesis models clearly have oversimplifications that must be studied in much more detail if reliable predictions are to be made . some of them can be solved , at least in part , if evolutionary tracks covering a denser grid in mass are published .",
    "the effects of the discreteness of stellar populations in small systems must also be considered before a comparison of model predictions to real data is attempted .",
    "brocato , e. , castellani , v. , raimondo , g. , & romaniello , m. 1999 , a&as , 136 , 65 buzzoni , a. 1989 , apjs , 71 , 871 + http://www.merate.mi.astro.it/@xmath42eps/home.html cervio , m. , gmez - flechoso , m.a . , castander , f.j . ,",
    "schaerer , d. , moll , m. , kndlseder , j. , & luridiana , v. 2001a , a&a , 376 , 422 cervio , m. , valls - gabaud , d. , luridiana , v. & mas - hesse , j.m .",
    "2001b , a&a , ( accepted ) http://www.laeff.esa.es/users/mcs/ lanon , a. , & mouhcine , m. 2000 , in _ massive star clusters _ ,",
    "series vol .",
    "211 , p. 34",
    "schaller , g. , schaerer , d. , meynet , g. , & maeder , a. 1992 , a&as , 96 , 269"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> ranging from track interpolation techniques through model atmospheres to the stochastic nature of the imf , there are many uncertainties which need to be taken into account when modelling hr diagrams or performing population synthesis , particularly if comparison with actual data is sought . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we highlight ( 1 ) the problem of discontinuities along evolutionary tracks of massive stars ( m@xmath0 8 m@xmath1 ) , showing that inconsistencies appear in the computation of the corresponding isochrones , and ( 2 ) the sampling fluctuations produced by the stochastic nature of the imf , presenting a statistical formalism to estimate the dispersion in any given observable of a stellar population due to sampling effects which bypasses the need of performing monte carlo simulations . </S>"
  ]
}