{
  "article_text": [
    "the most impressive and surely most studied interacting systems , such as the antennae galaxies , exhibit long optical tidal tails that may extend up to 100 kpc .",
    "hi observations of such colliding galaxies have shown that the stellar tails have a gaseous counterpart that is usually even more prominent and contain a large fraction of the total atomic gas present in the system . in a few interacting galaxies , the hi tidal tails",
    "exhibit some gas concentrations that have apparent masses of up to few @xmath0 solar masses .",
    "those are the progenitors of the tidal dwarf galaxies ( tdgs ) , at least the more massive ones .",
    "they are typically found at the tip of the optical tidal tails at distances between 30 and 100 kpc from the merging disks",
    ". they might be as massive as the magellanic clouds , and on top of being rich in atomic hydrogen gas ( duc et al .",
    "2000 ) , they contain high quantities of molecular gas ( braine et al .",
    "2001 , and his contribution in this volume ) and form stars with a rate as high as in blue compact dwarf galaxies ( duc & mirabel 1998 ) . the amount of stellar and gaseous material in several tdgs suggests that they are gravitationally bound , although we do not have yet conclusive observational evidence of such a self - gravitating tdg , kinematically independent from its host tidal tail .",
    "moreover if dark matter is made of collisionless material distributed in a large halo , it should not be ejected with tidal stellar and gaseous debris pulled out from colliding disks ( barnes & hernquist , 1992 ) . in that case",
    ", tdgs should not contain a significant amount of dm whereas ordinary dwarf galaxies seem to possess a lot of it .",
    "this can be checked by determining the dynamical masses of tdgs .",
    "however , the existence of the most massive tidal dwarf galaxies or even of their gaseous progenitors as independent entities has been challenged ( see hibbard et al .",
    ", in this volume ) .",
    "indeed , an apparent accumulation of tidal material could in reality be the result of a projection effect . in the 3d space , tidal tails are curved .",
    "seen edge - on , they appear as linear structures and may present at their tip fake mass concentrations due to the presence of projected material along the line of sight . using numerical simulations , we have shown that such projection effects have a kinematical signature ( bournaud et al .",
    "2004 ) . indeed , as shown in fig .  1",
    ", the large - scale velocity gradient corresponding to the streaming motions along the expanding tails changes its sign before their apparent extremity whenever a projection effect exists .",
    "such a study requires observations with an instrument enabling the access to both the large - scale and small - scale dynamical structures .",
    "synthesis arrays of radiotelescopes allow to probe the largest ones but do not have enough sensitivity to reach the @xmath1 spatial resolution required to sample correctly the nearby tdgs progenitors . because of their low surface brightness",
    ", a direct study of the stellar kinematics of tidal features is at the limits of today s telescopes and detectors .",
    "the internal dynamics can be more easily approached in the ionized gas component through spectroscopic observations of the emission lines .",
    "slit 1d spectroscopy already provides some information ( see weilbacher et al .",
    "2003 ) but is largely insufficient given the complex morphology of colliding galaxies .",
    "the fabry - perot technique appears as an ideal tool as it combines an integral - field capability , a high spatial and spectral resolution and a large field of view .",
    "we present here fabry - perot observations of several interacting systems where tdg candidates had been previously identified .",
    "observations were carried out at the european southern observatory 3.6 m telescope and at the canada - france - hawaii 3.6 m telescope .",
    "the pixel size on the sky varies from 0.86 to 0.91 arcsec ; the fov from 170@xmath2170  to 440@xmath3440  and the velocity sampling from 10 to 16 km.s@xmath4 . the data reduction procedure has been extensively described ( amram et al .",
    "1998 and references therein ) .",
    "we have observed systems that present hii regions located all along the tidal tails , which ensures a fair sampling of the kinematics of the tidal structures .",
    "the most active and massive hii regions generally stand at their extremities , and correspond to accumulations of hi with typical masses of @xmath5 m@xmath6 , and are thus massive tdg candidates .",
    "two kind of kinematical features are observed in the tidal debris : +  large  scale velocity gradients resulting from streaming motions and the projection of velocities along the line - of - sight +  small  scale velocity gradients , possibly related to the collapse or the rotation of decoupled objects in the tails .",
    "we present here our results for three systems ( more in bournaud et al . ,",
    "2004 ) where the presence of massive tdgs had previously been claimed : ic 1182 , a merger in the hercules cluster ( see fig .  2 and van driel et al .",
    ", in these proceedings ) , arp 105 ( ngc 3561 ,  the guitar \" ) , an interacting system between a spiral and an elliptical ( see fig .  3 ) and arp  242 ( ngc 4676 ,  the mice \" ) , an interacting system between two spirals with prominent tidal tails ( see fig .  4 , and hibbard et al . , in this volume ) .",
    "the tail of one system , ic 1182 , shows a large - scale kinematics suggesting that projection effects may play a role , even though the presence of a genuine accumulation of matter , corresponding to a tdg , can not be excluded .",
    "the shapes of the position - velocity diagrams of the two other systems , arp  105 and arp  242 rule out projection effects : the massive condensations observed at the extremity of their tidal tails seem real .",
    "this is consistent with the detection in these tdg candidates of molecular gas probably formed in the dense hi tidal clouds ( braine et al . , 2001 ) .",
    "beside providing information on the large - scale kinematics of tidal tails , our fp observations were useful to study the internal small - scale kinematics of the condensations present along the tidal tails .",
    "velocity gradients of typically 50100 km / s were observed in the tails of arp  105 , ic  1182 , and ngc  5291 .",
    "we best explained them by the local effect of gravity . because of the higher spectral resolution of the fp instrument , the gradients are generally smaller than those initially measured in earlier observations with long slit spectroscopy .",
    "the more striking object showing an inner velocity gradients is observed in the northern structures of ngc  5291 (  the seashell \" ) .",
    "this system is remarkable for the extremely large and massive hi ring surrounding a disturbed lenticular galaxy .",
    "numerous intergalactic hii regions are located towards the hi clumps in the ring ( duc & mirabel 1998 ) .",
    "the northern tdg candidate shows a velocity gradient of 100 km.s@xmath4 throughout a region of 2.4 kpc , and the isovelocity diagram is that of a rotating but disturbed system ( see fig .  5 ) .",
    "if we assume an inclination of approximatively 45 degrees ( based on the isovelocities diagram and on the shape of the outer h@xmath7 isophotes ) , the deprojected velocity gradient is 140 km.s@xmath4 . assuming that the tdg is a relaxed rotating system , we find a dynamical mass of 1.4 10@xmath8 m@xmath6 .",
    "we estimate that the contribution due to non  circular motions ( that are visible in the isovelocity diagram ) is of the same order ( braine et al . , 2001 ) .",
    "the hi mass of the tdg is 2.6 10@xmath8 m@xmath6 .",
    "taking into account the additional contribution of the molecular gas and the stars , the visible mass matches the dynamical mass",
    ". a straightforward conclusion would be that this system contains no dark matter , as already suggested by duc & mirabel ( 1998 ) .",
    "however , because of our limited spectral resolution , the measure of the dynamical mass is still uncertain and the hi mass may be an upper limit if the hi beam is larger than the clump of hii regions .",
    "it is thus not impossible that the visible mass is lower than the dynamical mass and that this tdg contains some dark matter .",
    "we have shown that the kinematics of tidal tails may be used to check whether the claimed massive tdg candidates observed at their tip are real bound entities or the result of projection effects . with their high spatial resolution , three - dimensional fabry - perot observations in the h@xmath9 line",
    "turn out to be well adapted to the problem . analyzing position - velocity diagrams derived from fp data obtained at the cfht and at the eso 3.6 m",
    ", we were able to rule our projection effects as the main contributor to the condensations seen in the northern tail of arp  242 ( ngc 4676 ) and in the southern tail of arp  105 .",
    "we can not exclude that they play a role in the merger ic  1182 .",
    "the existence of massive entities observed near the tip of several tidal tails is actually supported by the numerical simulations of interacting galaxies by bournaud , duc & masset ( 2003 ) in which tidal objects with comparable masses are formed .",
    "we have also studied the inner kinematics of a few tdg candidates .",
    "several velocity gradients were found .",
    "the kinematics of the northern mass concentration of ngc  5291 is consistent with that expected for a self - gravitating rotating object .",
    "its inferred dynamical and luminous mass compare , but higher resolution observations are required to prove that the object does not contain a certain amount of dark matter .",
    "amram , p. , mendes de oliveira , c. , boulesteix , j. and balkowski , c. , 1998 , a&a 330 , 881 barnes , j. e. and hernquist , l. , 1992 , nature 715 , 360 bournaud , f. , duc , p .- a . and masset , f. , 2003 , a&a 411 , l469 bournaud , f , duc , p .- a . , amram , p. and combes , f. , 2004 , submitted to a&a braine , j. , duc , p .- a . , lisenfeld , u. , charmandaris , v. , vallejo , o. , leon , s. and brinks , e. , 2001 , a&a 378 , 51 duc , p .- a . , &",
    "mirabel , i.f .",
    "1998 , a&a , 333 , 813 duc , p .- a . , brinks , e. , springel , v. , pichardo , b. , weilbacher , p. , and mirabel , i.f .",
    "2000 , aj 120 , 1238 weilbacher , p.  m. , duc , p .- a . and fritze - v .",
    "alvensleben , u. , 2003 , a&a 397 , 545"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> several interacting systems exhibit at the tip of their long tidal tails massive condensations of atomic hydrogen , which may be the progenitors of tidal dwarf galaxies . because , quite often , these tails are observed edge - on , projection effects have been claimed to account for the large hi column densities measured there . here </S>",
    "<S> we show that determining the velocity field all along the tidal features , one may disentangle projection effects along the line of view from real bound structures . due to its large field of view </S>",
    "<S> , high spectral and 2d spatial resolutions , fabry - perot observations of the ionized gas are well adapted to detect a kinematical signature of either streaming motions along a bent tidal tail or of infalling / rotating material associated with a forming tdg . </S>",
    "<S> spectroscopic observations also allow to measure the dynamical masses of the tdgs that are already relaxed and check their dark matter content .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}