{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding the broad - band spectral energy distributions ( seds ) of galaxies and agn and their evolutions is crucial for a complete picture of star - formation and agn activity in the universe . at present , only few local templates are used for modelling the evolution of galaxies and agn up to high redshifts and the galaxy / agn separation is based mainly on spectroscopy in the optical band , which can be strongly affected by dust absorption . thanks to the unprecedented depth reached by _",
    "spitzer _ in the crucial mid / far - infrared ( mir / fir ) wavelength range and to the extensive multiwavelength surveys available in specific fields , it is now possible to construct broad - band seds ( from uv to fir / sub - mm ) for large samples of galaxies and agn up to high redshifts and over a large range of luminosities . with the sed analysis it is possible to reveal hidden agn , escaping optical spectroscopic classification , manifesting themselves only in the mir domain and not dominating at other wavelengths .",
    "here we present two particular works aimed at a better census of galaxy and agn activity through the sed analysis of large extragalactic samples in two different areas of the sky : the hubble deep field north ( hdfn ) and the elais - swire field s1 ( es1 ) .",
    "in the first work ( see rodighiero et al . 2006 ) we exploit very deep mir and x - ray observations by @xmath0 and @xmath1 in the hdfn to identify signs of hidden agn activity in spheroidal galaxies between @xmath2 and 1 .",
    "our reference is a complete sample of 168 morphologically classified spheroidal ( elliptical / lenticular ) galaxies with @xmath3 , selected from goods acs imaging ( bundy et al . 2005 ) .",
    "nineteen of these have 24-@xmath4 m detection in the goods catalogue , 65% of which have an x - ray counterpart in the @xmath1 catalogue ( alexander et al .",
    "the nature of the observed mir emission is investigated by modelling their seds based on the available multi - wavelength photometry ( x - ray , uv , optical , nir , mir and radio ) and optical spectroscopy .",
    "the left panel in figure [ fig_sed ] provides an example of the comparison of model fits based on local templates ( including a variety of spectra of early - type , late - type and starburst galaxies , ulirgs , obscured and unobscured agn , from polletta et al.in preparation ) with the observational seds for the early - type sample galaxies . in many cases",
    "the observed 24 @xmath4 m fluxes show a significant excess compared with the expectations based on the local spectral templates matched to the optical - nir data . in all cases ,",
    "no acceptable fits with elliptical templates are found , the amount of dust derived from the ir emission appearing in excess of that expected by mass loss from evolved stars .",
    "the right panel in fig .",
    "[ fig_sed ] illustrates a two component ( old population @xmath5 dusty torus ) solution , provides excellent fits to the data in most cases .",
    "the left panel shows the comparison between the observed sed and a local starburst template spectrum ( m82 ) .",
    "the right panel shows a two - component fit ( total : solid line ) to the same sed : an evolved stellar population ( dashed ) and a dust obscured agn emission ( dotted).,width=453,height=170 ]    we have used in addition a variety of diagnostics , including the x - ray properties , to interprete the nature of the energy source in these galaxies .",
    "our multi - wavelength analysis leads us to conclude that about half of the ir - detected sources should hide an obscured agn , while the x - ray undetected sources are more likely dominated by ongoing star formation .",
    "therefore , about 15%  20% of the original sample of 168 spheroidal galaxies in hdfn are detected during phases of prominent activity ( either agn or starburst ) .",
    "in the second work ( gruppioni et al . in preparation ) we try to quantify the agn activity in a complete sample of mir selected sources , of which we analyse the broad - band seds .",
    "our reference sample consists of 200 extragalactic sources selected at 15 @xmath4 m in the es1 field ( lari et al .",
    "2001 ) with optical spectroscopy and measured redshift ( la franca et al .",
    "these sources , for which an extensive multi - wavelength data - set is available ( from x - rays to radio ) , have previously been considered for obtaining the first derivation of the galaxy and agn luminosity function ( lf ) at 15 @xmath4 m ( pozzi et al .",
    "2004 ; matute et al .",
    "we have interpreted the observed seds of our mir sources [ from far - uv ( @xmath6-dis ) to fir ( @xmath0-swire ) , including optical ( b , v , r ) , nir ( j , ks ) and mir / fir ( from 3.6 @xmath4 m to 160 @xmath4 m ) data ] by fitting them with a library of 21 template seds of local objects , the same as used in the analysis described in section [ spheroids ] ( polletta et al . in preparation ) .",
    "we first notice a clear trend from early - type ( s0 , sa ) to later - type ( sd , starburst ) seds with increasing 15 @xmath4 m luminosity , while the type-2 agn are spreaded over the entire range of l@xmath7 ( @xmath810@xmath9  @xmath10 l@xmath11 ) and the type 1 s show the higher luminosities ( @xmath12 l@xmath11 ) .",
    "the main result comes from the comparison of the sed classification with the spectroscopic classification : we find , in fact , that a significant number of previously classified galaxies on the basis of their optical spectra are now best - fitted with a seyfert 2 template sed .",
    "an example is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] , where for comparison the template seds of a starburst galaxy and of a sd galaxy are shown together with the observed data points and the best - fit template sed ( seyfert 2 ) . from the plot is also clear that the range of wavelengths covered by irac ( 3.6  8 @xmath4 m ) is crucial for disentangling agn from star - formation activity : in fact , is just in this range that some sources show a `` flat '' spectrum , incompatible with star - forming galaxy template seds ( from s0 to extreme starbursts ) .",
    "the spectroscopic type 1 agn do show seds in agreement with the spectral classification , while the spectroscopic type 2 agn are now fitted in about the same proportions by seyfert 2 s , power - law agn s and star - forming galaxy s template seds .",
    "however , the over - all trend is that , thanks to the crucial _ spitzer _",
    "data , the sed analysis allows to identify a larger fraction of agn among mir sources than optical spectroscopy .",
    "this is probably due to the fact that these `` obscured '' agn do not dominate in the optical - uv range , where their spectra show lines from the host galaxy , while the dusty torus shows up in the mir , producing a flat sed from @xmath83 to 8 @xmath4 m , too flat to be fitted by galaxy templates .",
    "although the results of our work might be affected by photometric errors in the data , not taken into account in our analysis , and by some degrees of degeneracy in the template seds , we are pretty confident that the majority of the sed - classified agn are reliable . however , due to the possible sources of uncertinty , we can consider the fraction of agn found by the sed - fitting analysis as an upper limit to the agn fraction in mir selected samples .",
    "therefore , we can compare the upper - limit to the agn fraction as derived by our sed - fitting analysis to the lower - limit coming from the spectroscopic classification ( and considered for deriving the agn lf at 15 @xmath4 m by matute et al .",
    "2006 ) and determine how the relative source counts of galaxies and agn should change according to the new values .",
    "the extragalactic source counts at 15 @xmath4 m in the es1 field ( gruppioni et al .",
    "2002 ) with the relative contribution of galaxies and agn computed according to the previous and new determination of agn fractions are shown in the left and right panels of fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] respectively . in the light of the new results obtained with the sed - fitting analysis ,",
    "the existing models of galaxy and agn evolution in the ir must be revised taking into account the higher fraction of agn dominating in the mir wave - range ( this will be addressed in a future paper by gruppioni et al . in preparation ) .",
    "alexander d.m . ,",
    "bauer f.e .",
    ", brandt w.n .",
    "2003 , , 126 , 539 bundy k. , ellis r.s . & conselice c.j .",
    "2005 , , 625 , 621 gruppioni c. , lari c. , pozzi f. et al .",
    "2002 , , 335 , 831 la franca f. , gruppioni c. , matute i. et al .",
    "2004 , , 127 , 3075 lari c. , pozzi f. , gruppioni c. et al .",
    "2001 , , 325 , 1173 matute i. , la franca f. , pozzi f. et al .",
    "2006 ,  , 451 , 443 pozzi f. , gruppioni c. , oliver s. et al .",
    "2004 , , 609 , 122 rodighiero g. , gruppioni c. , civano f. et al .",
    "2006 , , submitted"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a proper analysis of the evolution of sources emitting in the mid - infrared is strongly dependent on their broad - band spectral properties ( seds ) at different redshifts and luminosities and on a reliable classification allowing to disentangle agn from star - formation activity . </S>",
    "<S> the diagnostic diagrams based on the optical line ratios are often ambiguous and/or misleading not allowing a proper separation of the galaxy / agn populations . </S>",
    "<S> thanks to the combination of deep spitzer and x - rays data a much better census of the hidden agn activity and dust - obscured star - forming galaxies can be obtained , constraining galaxy and agn evolutionary models . </S>"
  ]
}