{
  "article_text": [
    "when we are dealing with neutral gas in elliptical galaxies we know that , on average , we will be detecting a limited number of objects and typically a small amount of gas ( knapp et al .  1985 ) .",
    "in spite of this there are good reasons for studying hi  in these objects because , when detected , it gives valuable information on a number of interesting topics",
    ".    * galaxy evolution . *",
    "the hi  gas seen in ellipticals usually has an _",
    "external origin_. there are several pieces of evidence for this ( i.e.  the lack of correlation between the galaxy s size and the amount of hi ; the frequent decoupling of stellar and kinematic axes ; and the fact that gas usually has higher specific angular momentum than the stars  for details see knapp et al .",
    "1985 and van gorkom 1992 ) . however , the story may be more complicated . in the last few years",
    "it has apparent that elliptical galaxies which show `` peculiarities '' or `` fine structures '' ( schweizer 1995 ) are also more likely to contain detectable amounts of hi  ( bregman et al .",
    "1992 , van gorkom & schiminovic 1997 , morganti et al .",
    "this finding has been explained by van gorkom & schiminovic ( 1997 ) either as an effect of _ environment _ ( i.e.  signatures of peculiarity and the presence of neutral gas are both rare in cluster environments , where most ellipticals are ) or as an effect of _ evolutionary stage_. in the latter case , the `` peculiarities '' would just represent a phase in the `` normal '' formation and evolution of ellipticals ( at least for the field objects ) .",
    "a question which still remains open is whether most of the gas comes from a series of small accretion events over time , or from major mergers .",
    "recently , there have been several studies of major mergers and on the fate of gas in these systems ( hibbard & van gorkom 1996 ; hibbard & mihos 1995 ) .",
    "all this makes the study of hi  in elliptical galaxies particularly interesting if we want to understand the formation and evolution of this class of objects and attempt to answer the questions : _ which are the ellipticals resulting from these major mergers ?",
    "can we get some clues from the hi ? _    * the dark matter problem*. studies of hi  kinematics in elliptical galaxies can give reliable measurements of the mass  to  light ratio ( @xmath4 ) at large radii .",
    "recently , bertola et al .  ( 1993 ) combined @xmath4 values derived from hi  data and estimates for the central @xmath4 ( based on optical measurements from ionized gas disks ) to show evidence for an increasing @xmath4 with radius , supporting the idea of a dark halo around ellipticals",
    ". however estimates of @xmath4 from hi  data are only available for a handful of well - studied ellipticals ( e.g.  ic  2006 franx et al .  1994 ;",
    "ngc  1052 van gorkom et al .  1986 ;",
    "ngc  4278 raimond et al .  1981 , lees 1994 ; ngc  5266 morganti et al .",
    "it would be valuable to increase the number of galaxies for which a similar analysis using hi  data can be done .",
    "this requires not only finding ellipticals with hi , but finding those in which the hi  has settled into a regular disk .",
    "* fuelling of an active nucleus * it has been suggested that a connection may exist between the gas content of an elliptical galaxy and nuclear activity ( gunn 1979 , van gorkom 1992 ) : the gas could provide fuel for an active galactic nucleus ( agn ) and hence the acquisition of gas could turn on activity in the nucleus .",
    "_ however , the relation between gas content and nuclear activity only holds in a statistical sense and many exceptions exist_. thus it appears that other factors are important in determining whether an agn in an early type galaxy is switched on by the presence of gas , and that a more subtle relationship exists between hi  content and nuclear activity .",
    "with the above issues in mind , we have started _ a long term project _ using the australia telescope compact array ( atca ) to increase the number of early  type galaxies with detailed hi  observations . with this enlarged database",
    ", the three issues mentioned above can be addressed in a more detailed and systematic way .",
    "some of this work is also described by oosterloo et al .",
    "( these proceedings ) . as part of this project",
    "we have observed seven dust  lane galaxies taken mainly from the compilation of sadler & gerhard ( 1985 ) .",
    "dust lanes are relatively common in elliptical galaxies . allowing for inclination effects ,",
    "sadler & gerhard ( 1985 ) showed that up to 40% of nearby ellipticals can contain dust ( and dust lanes ) .",
    "this is also in reasonable agreement with the fraction of ellipticals containing small amount of hi .",
    "lane ellipticals are believed to be the result of accretion from mergers . indeed in these galaxies the kinematics of dust and stars are often substantially different .",
    "however , the dust ( if settled or quasi  settled ) can indicate the position of one of the principal planes of the galaxy .",
    "this is particularly valuable if we want to determine the intrinsic shape of the galaxy and the mass  to  light ratio @xmath4 .",
    "the extended radio structure observed in some dust - lane elliptical galaxies tends to be perpendicular to the dust lane ( kotanyi & ekers 1979 , mllenhoff et al .",
    "1992 ) , implying a possible connection between the dust lane itself and the agn .    here",
    "we present the results we obtained for four dust ",
    "lane ellipticals that we have detected in hi . in the three remaining objects observed ( i.e.   eso 263g48 , ngc 7070a , ngc 7049 ) we have not detected neutral hydrogen ( @xmath5 ) .",
    "this minor  axis dust  lane elliptical galaxy contains a very large amount of hi km s@xmath6 mpc@xmath6 ] , @xmath8 , giving @xmath9 .",
    "the gas extends to @xmath2 8@xmath10 ( @xmath11 kpc ) each side of the nucleus ( see fig .  1 ) , or 8 times the optical half  light radius @xmath3 .",
    "surprisingly , most of the hiextends almost orthogonal to the optical dust lane ( morganti et al .",
    "a small fraction of the hi  is associated with the dust lane and there are some hints of a faint warp connecting the two structures .",
    "the hi  distribution is somewhat clumpy and asymmetric , but the overall velocity field in the inner 4@xmath10 can be successfully modeled by assuming that the gas lies mainly in two perpendicular planes  in the plane of the dust lane in the central parts and orthogonal to this in the outer regions . beyond the 4@xmath10 radius ,",
    "the gas has a different structure and may be in the tidal tails , or an edge - on ring .",
    "the rotation velocity is at least 250 km s@xmath6  at a radius of 4@xmath10 and this would imply a value of @xmath12 8 at @xmath24 @xmath3 .",
    "if the outermost hi  is in an edge - on ring , we estimate @xmath13 16 at @xmath28 @xmath3 .",
    "a faint continuum source is detected in the centre of ngc 5266 .",
    "this is an elliptical galaxy with a minor  axis dust lane and a disk of ionized gas in the same position angle .",
    "luminous material is also seen in the same plane as the dust lane ( caldwell 1984 ) .",
    "this galaxy is also rich in hi : we have detected @xmath14 of neutral hydrogen ( giving a value of @xmath15 ) . the gas is distributed in a very regular ring extended @xmath16 kpc each side ( see fig .  2 ) .",
    "at larger radii , the hiappears to be in a warped structure .",
    "no radio continuum emission is detected in this object .",
    "assuming circular orbits and a spherical mass distribution , we find the @xmath17 to be about 22 at 5 @xmath3 .",
    "ngc 1947 is another minor axis dust  lane elliptical galaxy , that also shows a ring of co emission ( sage & galletta 1993 ) and ionized gas ( mllenhoff 1982 ) with the same position angle as the dust lane .",
    "the stellar component is rotating around the galaxy s minor axis , perpendicular to the ionized gas rotation axis ( bertola et al .",
    "we find about @xmath18 of hi  which appears to be in a ring ( rotating in the same sense as the co and aligned with the dust band ) and extended @xmath19 kpc each side .",
    "we derive a value of @xmath20 . assuming circular orbits and a spherical mass distribution",
    ", we find the @xmath17 to be about 8 at @xmath23 @xmath3 , although this value is very uncertain .      ic  5063 ( pks",
    "2048@xmath21572 ) is an early  type galaxy hosting a seyfert 2 nucleus and with a dust lane along the major axis .",
    "its hi  content is very high : @xmath22 , so that @xmath23 = 0.18 .",
    "the total intensity image shows the hi  emission ( see fig .",
    "3 ) elongated in the direction of the dust lane ( @xmath24 kpc each side ) and the ionized gas ( morganti et al .",
    "the hi  is mainly distributed in a disk .",
    "assuming circular orbits and a spherical mass distribution , we find @xmath17 to be @xmath2 14 at about 5.4 @xmath3 .",
    "strong _ very broad _",
    "( fwhm of @xmath2700 km s@xmath6 ) and _ blue - shifted _ ( with respect to the systemic velocity ) absorption against the central radio continuum source is visible in the position - velocity diagram ( morganti et al .",
    "1998 , oosterloo et al .  1998 ) .",
    "thus , the hi  absorption represents the effect of gas outflow resulting from the interaction of the radio plasma with the ism gas .",
    "despite being elliptical galaxies , we have detected in three of the four objects presented _ very _ large amounts of neutral hydrogen with values of @xmath0 that are at the end of the distribution characteristic of ellipticals ( knapp 1985 ) and similar to those typically found in spiral galaxies . in the fourth galaxy",
    "( ngc 1947 ) we do detect hi , but the galaxy is less hydrogen rich .",
    "moreover , the hi  detected is regularly distributed in disks or rings , with the possible exception of the outer region in ngc  5266 .",
    "the neutral gas is at much larger radii than are the stars and appears to be rotationally supported . the hi  is mainly along the dust - lane with the exception of ngc  5266 .    in the case of ngc  5266",
    ", the large amount of neutral gas ( @xmath25 0.2 ) and the hi  morphology , suggest that this object could represent the result of a _ major merger _ ,",
    "i.e.  a merger of two spiral galaxies , more than 1 gyr after the interaction of the two spirals ( morganti et al.1997b ) .",
    "if so , ngc  5266 probably represents a relatively old merger remnant since most of the hi  gas appears settled .",
    "the idea that elliptical galaxies can be the result of a merger between two disk galaxies has been around for long time ( after the seminal work of toomre & toomre 1972 ) : the pre - formed pairs of disk galaxies can loose their mutual orbital energy and angular momentum by transferring them from the orbiting galaxies to the tidal features and then loose also their identities in the process and blend in an elliptical galaxy .",
    "more recent studies have shown that the tails formed during the interaction and merger will remain bound to the remnant ( barnes & hernquist 1996 and references therein ) .",
    "the gas in the tails will slowly `` fall back '' to the main body of the galaxy in a long time ( for ngc7252 hibbard & mihos ( 1995 ) predict that about @xmath26 will fall within 15 - 45 kpc in about 3 gyr ) .",
    "the high values of @xmath27 and the possible luminous counterpart of the extended neutral gas disks ( see below ) seems to indicate that other two objects in our sample ( ngc  3108 and ic  5063 ) could have a similar origin but would represent a later stage of the merger process .",
    "ngc  5266 is believed to be well past the phase of ultraluminous iras galaxy that should follow the merger of two spirals .",
    "ngc  3108 would be even more evolved phase ( by looking at the morphology and kinematics of hi  and the other ir indicators ) .",
    "these systems should be in their _ second infall _ phase because the neutral gas appears to be in a quiet phase and their star formation is low ( see below ) : the gas is falling back and slowly settling .",
    "the case of ngc  1947 is less clear and indeed the amount of gas and the @xmath0 seems to indicate that the hi  could derive just from a small accretion .",
    "the hi  appears to be mainly distributed in disk  like structures .",
    "the hidisks have a low surface density ( as shown in fig .  1 for ngc  5266 ) that falls well below the threshold needed for star formation to occur .",
    "thus we would not expect widespread star formation to occur , even though the total amount of gas is large . but is there _ any _ star formation in the hi  disks of these galaxies ? if we plot the four galaxies on the fir ",
    "radio correlation , we find that all ( except ic  5063 , where the radio continuum emission includes a strong contribution from the agn ) follow very well the correlation found for spirals by helou et al .",
    "the radio continuum is unresolved in our galaxies ( for ngc  3108 only an upper limit has been derived ) , suggesting that star formation is confined to the central regions .",
    "all four objects have ionized gas in the central region in the form of disks . from the available rotation velocity of the ionized gas ,",
    "these disks are likely to be inner counterparts of the neutral gas disks . with the exception of ic 5063",
    ", these objects do not have an agn and therefore an agn can not account for the ionization of this gas .",
    "do we see optical counterparts of the hi  disks ?",
    "in ngc  5266 there is a very faint optical counterpart of the large scale hi  disk ( see fig .",
    "1a ) . in ngc  3108 , caldwell ( 1984 ) finds evidence of an optical disk . in ic 5063 , the deep image in danziger et al .",
    "( 1981 ) shows a faint large scale structure ( although this will have to be compared with more sensitive low  resolution hi  images ) .",
    "what are these disks and what do they tell us about the structure and the formation of these objects ?",
    "the optical counterpart of the disks seen in hiis usually _ very _ faint , and so it is impossible to verify that these stars are rotating in a similar way as the gas . indeed",
    ", these very faint counterparts of the hi  disk could be formed by stars coming from the progenitors and therefore represent a strong indication that the origin of the gas in these objects is from a major merger .    in the case of ngc  1947",
    ", no extended low  surface brightness structure is seen in the optical ( malin priv .",
    "comm . ) and therefore the hiis more likely connected to the accretion of a small companion .",
    "the objects we have observed show quite a regular distribution of hi  and therefore they are ideal for studying the dark matter properties of ellipticals , contrary to other objects in our sample ( e.g.  the low  luminosity ellipticals , oosterloo et al .",
    "these proceedings ) where we are limited by resolution for a proper estimate of the @xmath17 . with the four dust  lane ellipticals presented here we find , on average , hi  extended up to 5 @xmath28 and values of @xmath17 up to 20 .",
    "these values are summarized in fig .",
    "4 ( modified from bertola et al .  1993 ) .",
    "the plot includes our objects and the other ellipticals known to have regular and extended hi .",
    "this gives already an idea about how few ellipticals have the distribution of neutral gas suitable for such a study .",
    "evidence for flat rotation curves have been found in the hi  data in some of the objects we have observed .",
    "a flat rotation curve is observed in , e.g. , ic  5063 .",
    "also in the case of ngc  3108 , the rotation curve appears to stay ( at least ) flat up to 5 @xmath3 .",
    "thus , already from the hi  data there is evidence that the dark matter contribution increases at larger radii .",
    "4 also includes ( for some objects ) the values of @xmath4 relative to the inner parts ( @xmath291 @xmath3 ) derived from optical data ( ionized gas ) . by adding these values",
    "the increasing dark matter contribution between the inner and the outer radii is even more obvious .",
    "the trend of @xmath17 for spirals as function of the radius ( scaled to the effective radius ) is also shown as a dashed line .",
    "the values derived for the ellipticals follow the trend found for luminous spirals .",
    "the values of @xmath17 obtained from the hi  data for our objects are comparable with those derived from x  ray observations ( loewenstein these proceedings ) .      the idea that clouds of neutral gas from a disk are accreted into the center and can fuel the nuclear engine was proposed by gunn 1979 . in our objects",
    "we find that , despite the large amount of neutral gas observed , only one of them contains an agn .",
    "this confirms the result of knapp ( 1987 ) , that the radio power does not appear proportional to the hi  content .",
    "the activity is likely to be more connected to the presence of nuclear dust lanes as shown by van dokkum & franx ( 1995 ) in their _ hst _ study .",
    "however , the similarity in the optical appearance of some of the systems presented here with , e.g. , centaurus  a , rises the question of why they are not radio galaxies like this object .    keeping in mind that the phase of radio activity is relatively short ( @xmath30 yr ) compared to the lifetime of a galaxy and the dynamical time of a merger , it is , therefore",
    ", likely that the agn phase either still has to come or it is already passed .",
    "mergers of disk galaxies seem to be quite efficient in driving gas to the central regions ( barnes & hernquist 1991 ) and this may favor the idea that the agn phase already passed .",
    "there is now a growing number of elliptical galaxies detected and studied in detail in hi .",
    "this should soon provide a large enough database to allow us to investigate the formation history of these systems in more detail .",
    "we have presented our results for four dust ",
    "lane ellipticals , three of which have a very large amount of neutral hydrogen with values of @xmath0 that are at the high end of the distribution characteristic of ellipticals ( knapp 1985 ) and similar to what is typically found in spiral galaxies .",
    "moreover , the hi  detected is ( often ) regularly distributed in disks or rings .    to distinguish whether the gas detected is the result of a major merger or accretion",
    "it is not easy .",
    "van gorkom & schiminovic ( 1997 ) pointed out that there can be two possible ways : from the kinematics or from the amount of hi .",
    "three of the four objects presented here appear to have a _ very faint _ optical counterpart of their hi  disks where the stars could be (",
    "although it will be very difficult to check ) coming from the progenitors . the same three objects have more than @xmath26 of hi  and values of @xmath31 similar to what typically found in spirals .",
    "it is hard to see how this could result from the accretion of just a small companion .",
    "thus , these galaxies may represent the results of major mergers as seen at a late stage of the evolution . in these objects",
    "the secondary infall of gas has produced regular low surface density disks where no star formation is happening ( with the possible exception of the very central region ) . in the remaining galaxy ,",
    "ngc 1947 , the dust lane is probably connected to the accretion of a small companion .",
    "the regular hi  distribution and kinematics allows us has to derive values of @xmath1 at distances of @xmath25 @xmath3 from the centre .",
    "evidence for an increase of the dark matter contribution at larger radii can also be derived from the flat rotation curves observed in some of the observed galaxies .",
    "oosterloo t. , morganti r. , tzioumis a. , reynolds j. 1998 , in _ radio emission from galactic and extragalactic compact sources _ , asp conference series , volume 144 , eds .",
    "zensus , g.b .",
    "taylor , j.m .",
    "wrobel , p. 197 .",
    "_ bruzual : _ do you have any information about the color of the stellar populations in the central part and the extended disks of ngc  5266",
    ". it would be very interesting to know the color difference in order to date the encounter from the stellar evolution point of view .",
    "_ morganti : _ unfortunatly we do not have information on the color of the extended optical halo and my guess is that it will also be very difficut to obtain this information because this halo is very faint ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of the hi  observations of four dust - lane ellipticals . the hi  detected is regularly distributed in disks or rings . </S>",
    "<S> moreover , in three of the four objects we have detected a very large amount of neutral hydrogen with values of @xmath0 that are at the end of the distribution characteristic of ellipticals and similar to what typically found in spiral galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> thus , these dust - lane ellipticals may represent the results of major mergers as seen at a late stage of the evolution . </S>",
    "<S> the regular hi  distribution and kinematics has allowed to derive values of @xmath1 at distances of @xmath25 @xmath3 from the centre . </S>",
    "<S> evidence for an increase of the dark matter contribution at larger radii can also be derived from the flat rotation curves observed in some of the observed galaxies .    </S>"
  ]
}