{
  "article_text": [
    "the infrared properties of luminous active galactic nuclei ( agn ) and ultraluminous infrared galaxies ( ulirgs ) hold clues for the understanding of galaxy formation , the star formation history of the universe and the connection between black hole and galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "physical insight into the co - evolution of agn and star formation can be gained by study of the low redshift members of these populations . the infrared astronomical satellite ( ) and the infrared space observatory ( )",
    "have allowed the first comprehensive far - infrared ( fir ) studies of extragalactic sources and some high quality mid - infrared ( mir ) observations on the brighter sources ( see e.g. the review of * ? ? ?",
    "issues discussed in  and  studies include the nature of ultraluminous infrared galaxies and their starburst and agn energy sources @xcite , and the seds of qsos and their evolutionary implications @xcite .",
    "a 2.5 to 45 @xmath1 m spectral inventory of starburst and agn prototypes @xcite and detailed mid - infrared spectroscopic investigations of local lower luminosity agn ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter s02 ) have addressed agn unification and the starburst - agn connection .    the _ spitzer space telescope _ ( hereafter ) has enabled us to build upon previous work with significantly improved sensitivity .",
    "this work is part of a series of papers describing the results of the quasar and ulirg evolution study ( quest ) , focussing on mid - infrared spectroscopy of a sample of 54 qsos and ulirgs at redshifts z@xmath00.3 with the infrared spectrograph  onboard .",
    "the sample was selected with the aim of investigating the possible connections between those two groups of luminous ( l@xmath3 ) objects in the nearby universe , and is closely connected to optical and near - infrared studies of the morphology and dynamical properties of these two populations ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the purpose of the present paper is to study starburst signatures in qso host galaxies and to show that most , and in some cases all , of the far - infrared luminosity in qsos showing strong pah features is due to starburst activity .",
    "a forthcoming complementary paper addresses the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) of qsos including the clear far - infrared starburst contribution to the @xmath4 continuum of qsos .    to investigate the link between agn activity and star formation and the extent to which they occur simultaneously , it is important to quantify the star formation activity in qso hosts .",
    "such measurements are made difficult , however , by the observational problems of detecting star formation tracers in the presence of extremely powerful agn emission .",
    "sed studies based on the  and  space missions have established qsos as sources of ( sometimes ) strong far - infrared emission .",
    "( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in addition to a nonthermal continuum that is detectable in the infrared only in flat spectrum radio - loud qsos ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a strong far - infrared emission component is often observed , at varying levels with respect to the strong agn mid - infrared continuum . due to its steep falloff in the submillimeter regime ,",
    "the origin of this far - infrared emission must be thermal emission of optically thin dust @xcite .",
    "while the warmer t@xmath5200k dust , which dominates the mid - infrared seds of qsos , is generally accepted to be predominantly agn heated , there is still considerable dispute about the origin of the cooler t@xmath550k emission often dominating the far - infrared .",
    "direct heating by the powerful agn , but at distances ensuring sufficently low temperatures , is one possibility ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "other models prefer an origin in vigorous star formation in the qso host ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite used radiative transfer modelling to infer an sed of agn heated dust that , in @xmath6l@xmath7 units , peaks in the mid - ir and decays towards the far - infrared , a feature shared by many other such models . in the qso seds that are often flat over a wide wavelength range including the far - infrared , the far - infrared component is then plausibly ascribed to a component with an sed similar to that of a star - forming galaxy , in accordance with evidence for coexistence of star formation and agn in spatially resolved lower luminosity agn .",
    "found a tight correlation of agn optical emission and mid - infrared continuum and a weaker correlation between optical and far - infrared emission , which is supporting the view that the far - infrared does not result directly from agn heating but that there is a connection between agn and starburst luminosities in the qsos .",
    "our goals are to quantify star formation in qso hosts and to estimate its contribution to the the far - infrared emission . in the mid - infrared , the contrast between the emission from possibly dust - obscured star formation and from the central agn",
    "is favourable , and established star formation tracers are available .",
    "we use two such tracers :    \\(1 ) the mid - infrared broad aromatic ` pah ' emission features arise in regions of the interstellar medium of a galaxy where their aromatic carriers are present , and where their transient excitation is made possible by a non - ionizing ( @xmath8ev ) soft uv radiation field .",
    "this is the case in the photodissociation regions ( pdrs ) that accompany galactic star formation regions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as well as in the diffuse interstellar medium where they are excited by the general interstellar uv radiation field that has leaked from its ob star origins to large scales ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "pahs have been used as a quantitative tracer of star formation in galaxies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "metallicity above 0.2 solar is a prerequisite for strong pah emission @xcite , a condition that is probably safely met for local qso hosts .",
    "destruction of the pah carriers in energetic environments but survival in starburst pdrs ( though not in  regions proper ) is key for the use of pah features as diagnostic .",
    "the pah features are absent from the hard radiation environment of agns according to both empirical ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and theoretical @xcite studies .",
    "the latter suggest that pah molecules hit by single energetic euv / x - ray photons can be efficiently destroyed by photo - thermo dissociation or coulomb explosion .",
    "since agn are copious emitters of hard photons , pah molecules near agn will be destroyed unless shielded by a large obscuring column .",
    "\\(2 ) the low excitation fine - structure emission lines like 212 m are among the dominant emission lines of hii regions",
    ". observations of starburst galaxies , as well as a combination of evolutionary synthesis and photoionization modelling , show 212 m  to be stronger than higher excitation mid - infrared lines ( [ nev ] , [ oiv ] , [ neiii ] ) in typical ionized regions excited by young stellar populations @xcite .",
    "use of low excitation lines as star formation tracers requires , however , the consideration of possible contributions from the agn narrow line region ( nlr ) which can be significant despite the generally higher excitation of such regions ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) compared to starburst  regions .",
    "section 2 of the paper describes the sample , observations and data reduction used to obtain the line and continuum fluxes in our sources .",
    "emission lines that are relevant to the present study are tabulated for all sources . in section 3",
    "we discuss the widespread presence of pah emission and its relation to other components of the qso spectra .",
    "finally , section 4 addresses the issue of star formation in host galaxies of qsos , shows the importance of this process and compares our results with earlier findings . in a forthcoming paper , we discuss the implications of our results for qso seds in general .",
    "we adopt @xmath9 , @xmath10 and @xmath11 kms@xmath12mpc@xmath12 .",
    "as part of the  spectroscopy project quest ( pid 3187 , pi veilleux ) we are studying qsos , ultraluminous infrared galaxies , and the possible evolutionary connection between the two using the infrared spectrograph  @xcite . the qso sample is largely drawn from that of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "it consists of palomar - green ( pg ) qsos @xcite and covers the full ranges of bolometric luminosity ( @xmath13  based on the b band absolute magnitude and the sed of * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , radio loudness , and infrared excess ( log(60 /l@xmath14)@xmath5 0.020.35 ) spanned by the local members of the pg qso sample ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "* for a recent view on selection effects in the pg sample ) .",
    "b2 2201 + 31a is not a pg qso but is in the sample because its b magnitude actually satisfies the pg qso completeness criterion of @xcite .",
    "it is one of the five radio - loud systems in our sample . at the sample s maximum redshift of 0.325 ,",
    "important emission lines like [ oiv ] 25.89@xmath1 m stay within the irs spectral range for all objects .",
    "the quest sample used in this paper includes 23 of 32 objects from the guyon sample .",
    "we exclude here two recently observed quest objects that are not yet fully processed by the  pipeline .",
    "we add two palomar - green objects from the guyon et al .",
    "sample previously observed by  ( pg0050 + 124 = izw1 ; @xcite and pg0157 + 001 = mrk1014 ; @xcite ) and two pg qsos from another project ( pid 20241 , pi lutz ) .",
    "table  [ tab : targets ] lists names and redshifts of all 27 qsos in our sample . in total",
    ", our sample covers a range from m@xmath15 -21 to -26 , with median -23.3 . in the remainder of this paper",
    ", we will compare some aspects of the pg qsos to ultraluminous infrared galaxies whose properties will be presented in more detail in an upcoming paper based on quest data ( veilleux et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .      for the quest sample",
    ", spectra were taken both at 5 - 14@xmath1 m in the low resolution ( sl short - low ) mode and at 1037@xmath1 m in the high resolution ( sh short - high and lh long - high ) modes of the  .",
    "slit widths of 3.6  to 11.1  include much of the qso hosts as well as the vicinity of the agn .",
    "our data reduction starts with the two - dimensional basic calibrated data ( bcd ) products provided by version 12 of the  pipeline reduction .",
    "we used our own idl - based tools for removing outlying values for individual pixels and for sky subtraction and smart @xcite for extraction of the final spectra .",
    "small multiplicative corrections were applied to stitch together the individual orders of the low resolution and high resolution spectra , as well as additive corrections for residual offsets still found between the low resolution spectra and the sh and lh high resolution spectra after zodiacal light correction of the latter .",
    "emission line fluxes were measured using fits of gaussian lines superposed on a local continuum .",
    "pah fluxes were mostly measured by simultaneously fitting lorentzians to the main 6.2 , 7.7 , and 8.6@xmath1 m features superposed on a 5.3 to 9.6@xmath1 m ( rest frame ) continuum approximated by a second order polynomial , and in a few cases by combined lorentzian and continum fits over smaller ranges .",
    "we use below the flux for the brightest ( 7.7@xmath1 m ) feature as pah strength indicator f@xmath16 . in pg0050 + 124 , where this feature was present but difficult to quantify in the presence of strong silicate emission , we have estimated the flux scaling from the flux of the well - detected 6.2@xmath1 m pah feature , using the 7.7/6.2 feature ratio measured in the starburst / agn ngc6240 @xcite .",
    "flux upper limits ( 3@xmath17 ) were derived adopting typical widths for the lines ( @xmath5600km / s ) and broad features ( @xmath18 m for the 7.7@xmath1 m feature ) . in one source ( pg1307 + 085 )",
    "we could only analyse the high resolution spectra since low resolution data are proprietary to another program .",
    "this limits our sample to 26 objects for analysis related to pah emission .",
    "quest data for ultraluminous infrared galaxies that are used for comparison with the qsos were processed in the same way .",
    "figure  [ fig : twospec ] shows individual example spectra of two pg qsos illustrating the broad differences between qsos with strong and weak pah emission .",
    "table  [ tab : targets ] also lists the continuum flux densities in several mid- and far - infrared bands . in the mid - infrared ,",
    "the quality of the   spectra is superior to most pre - existing  or  photometry .",
    "for that reason and to characterise the continuum at wavelengths reasonably free of emission features , we have derived average observed flux densities over narrow bands ( @xmath19 ) centered at several rest wavelengths . the shortest wavelength continuum point at 6@xmath1 m",
    "is shortward of the main pah complex ; the 15@xmath1 m point is between the two silicate emission peaks at about 10 and 18@xmath1 m @xcite , but still partly affected by silicate emission if present .",
    "the longest wavelength point at 30@xmath1 m is near the long end of the  spectra and already beyond the strongest part of the longer wavelength silicate feature .",
    "we later use continuum luminosities at these rest wavelengths : 6@xmath1 m , 15@xmath1 m , and 30@xmath1 m , defined as @xmath20 .",
    "far - infrared fluxes have been taken from the literature , usually giving preference to  based results over  based ones , because the smaller effective  beams reduced the susceptibility to cirrus contamination at 100@xmath1 m .",
    "the far ir luminosity , l(fir ) , is often obtained from @xmath21 which is defined as @xmath22 , where @xmath23 and @xmath24 are flux densities in jy ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "in order to use a consistent definition over the full z@xmath250.33 redshift range of our sample and to reduce the sensitivity to galactic cirrus contamination that is most problematic at 100@xmath1 m , we adopt a far - infrared luminosity @xmath26 which is solely based on the flux at rest wavelength 60@xmath1 m interpolated from the photometry in the literature .",
    "even nearby qsos are typically close to the far - infrared detection limits of the previous space missions . in six cases where",
    "only one of s@xmath27 or s@xmath28 was detected we estimated the other flux as the lower of the measured limit and an extrapolation using the detected flux and the ratio s@xmath28/s@xmath27 = 0.93 that is the median for the part of the sample detected in both bands .",
    "the flux at 60@xmath1 m rest wavelength was interpolated linearly between the observed 60 and 100@xmath1 m points . for seven pg qsos in our sample that are undetected in both bands , upper limits on @xmath26 at 60@xmath1 m rest wavelength",
    "were derived in an analogous way interpolating linearly between the limits at observed wavelengths of 60 and 100@xmath1 m . since qso fluxes are close to the detection limits of the original and  references and because of residual cirrus contamination , uncertainties of order 30 - 50% for the far - infrared fluxes may well occur .",
    "table [ tab : emission_lines ] lists the intensities of the three emission lines used in the present analysis , 212 m , ,  and of the emission feature .",
    "the table includes detections as well as upper limits .",
    "a more comprehensive list including more lines will be given in a forthcoming paper .",
    "as is clear from inspection of table [ tab : emission_lines ] , some of the qsos in our sample show only high excitation lines , likely originating in the nlrs of these objects .",
    "others ( 11 of 26 ) show prominent  and other pah features , indicative of significant star formation . the existence of `` composite '' sources ( see s02 for definition and references to iso - based studies ) that show both agn and starburst properties , has been known for several years .",
    "such sources contain both powerful star forming regions , giving rise to the observed pah emission through near - uv heating , and high luminosity nlrs that are excited by the central radiation source .",
    "since the star forming activity is a property of the host galaxy , and the nlr line luminosities scale with the agn continuum luminosity , the intensity of the starburst emission features relative to the continuum might be expected to be weaker in agn whose luminosities are in the qso regime . because the s02 sample included only three objects with qso - like luminosities ( i.e. l(fir)@xmath29 ) and suffered from the limited s / n achievable with , a quantitative verification of this idea was not possible up to now .",
    "our new sample includes 27 high luminosity agn and it is therefore important that the fraction of clear pah emitters in the sample is large .",
    "this is strengthened further by the detection of pah 7.7@xmath1 m and 11.3@xmath1 m peaks in the average spectrum of the 15 qsos not showing _ individual _ pah detections ( fig .",
    "[ fig : plotpgpahnonpah ] , bottom ) .",
    "since this average spectrum excludes sources with individual pah detections , the pah emission seen is unlikely to be due to a few pah - strong sources only , in an otherwise largely pah - free group .",
    "it also has the implication that typically the true pah fluxes of the pah nondetections can not be far below our limits .",
    "this high incidence of pah emission is our first major conclusion and is further discussed in the following sections .      before embarking on an analysis of the correlations of different starburst and agn tracers , we use the two average spectra of the pg qsos that are individually detected in pah emission ( 11 objects ) or individually undetected in pah emission ( 15 objects ) ( fig .",
    "[ fig : plotpgpahnonpah ] ) to identify some of the salient trends in our data .",
    "the two spectra have been obtained by averaging the individual spectra after normalizing to the same total flux in the mid - infrared 5 - 25@xmath1 m rest wavelength region .",
    "we caution that significant variations are present also within those two groups .",
    "\\(i )  is 2.5 times stronger ( relative to the total 5 - 25@xmath1 m mid - infrared flux ) in the average of the objects with individual pah detections .",
    "this is a natural consequence of the object grouping for the two average spectra .",
    "as noted , the relatively small difference argues for the presence of pah emission in most of the objects that did not have individual detections .",
    "\\(ii ) the far - infrared continuum emission is relatively stronger compared to the mid - infrared continuum in the objects with pah detections .",
    "this is apparent in several ways .",
    "firstly , all pah detections are also far - infrared ( 60@xmath1 m rest - frame ) detections while 7 of 15 pah nondetections are also not detected in the far infrared .",
    "secondly , the mean ratio @xmath30 m ) is 1.72@xmath310.54 for the 11 pah detections , 1.00@xmath310.15 for the 8 fir - detected pah nondetections , @xmath32 for the 7 objects undetected in both far - infrared and pah , and finally @xmath330.94 for all 8 + 7 pah nondetections .",
    "the values for the two upper limits assume that the far - infrared fluxes are less than or equal to the measured limits for the individual far - infrared nondetections .",
    "thirdly , inspection of the average  spectra in fig .",
    "[ fig : plotpgpahnonpah ] shows significant differences in the extrapolation to 60@xmath1 m : the average spectrum of the pah detections continues to rise beyond 25@xmath1 m , while there is an indication for a downturn in the average of the pah nondetections beyond this wavelength .",
    "regardless of uncertainties in the extrapolation that are related to the assumed intrinsic spectral shape and to technical issues like  spectral response calibration and zodiacal light subtraction , the 60@xmath1 m to 6@xmath1 m flux density ratio must be significantly larger in the average spectrum of the sources with detected pahs .",
    "we estimate that this ratio is larger for the pah detections by a factor 2 to 3 .",
    "we have also tentatively grouped the pah nondetections into two average spectra for the 8 far - infrared - detected and 7 far - infrared - nondetected sources . while the statistics and s / n are poorer in these samples , there are indications that the sources undetected in both tracers are at the end of the physical trends described in ( i ) and ( ii )  little pah , weak far - infrared , and indication for more of a downturn at @xmath34 m ; that is , they are not just fainter overall .",
    "\\(iii ) the lower excitation [ neii ] line is stronger in the qsos detected in pahs .",
    "normalized by the higher excitation lines [ siv ] and [ oiv ] , the [ neii ] line is 1.9 and 1.7 times stronger in the qsos detected in pahs compared to those undetected in pahs .",
    "\\(iv ) the broad 10@xmath1 m silicate emission peak is apparently weaker in the sources with detected pahs .",
    "we argue this is largely an artefact of having a stronger starburst component with its pah emission .",
    "this is illustrated by the dotted line in the upper panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : plotpgpahnonpah ] , which shows the average spectrum after subtracting a pah - dominated m82 spectrum @xcite roughly scaled to the pah features , and the dashed line , which shows the equivalent result using the average of 12 starburst - dominated quest ulirgs ( see  4.1 ) as a starburst template .",
    "as noted by , e.g. , @xcite , a main difference between different starburst templates is in the level of increase of the @xmath35 m very small grain continuum , even for similar shorter wavelength pah spectra .",
    "our two choices illustrate the effect of such a template variation .",
    "the two pah complexes around 7 and 12@xmath1 m and the far - infrared upturn serve to ` fill in ' the minima between and around the two silicate emission peaks .",
    "this is analogous to the well - known difficulty of quantifying silicate _",
    "absorption _ in spectra with strong pah emission .",
    "we note that subtracting a starburst spectrum from the pah - strong average qso spectrum , in addition to recovering the correct pronounced silicate emission , also indicates a flatter or decreasing extrapolation to beyond 25@xmath1 m , similar to what is seen in the pah - weak average qso spectrum .",
    "\\(v ) molecular hydrogen emission in the s(1 ) , s(2 ) and s(3 ) rotational lines has a larger equivalent width in the pah - strong average spectrum , by factors 3 - 5 comparing these detections with the detections / limits for the pah - weak average spectrum .",
    "all these trends are consistent with a starburst component ( containing strong pah and far - infrared continuum , low excitation fine - structure line , and possibly molecular hydrogen emission ) being superimposed in increasing proportion on a pure agn spectrum ( consisting of warm and hot dust continuum , silicate , and high excitation line emission ) .",
    "we use our sample to compare several agn- and starburst related quantities observed in the pg qsos , in an attempt to identify the likely origin of the far - infrared emission .",
    "we compare the starburst tracers in these qsos with those of pure starbursts from two samples : ( i ) a subset of starburst - dominated quest ulirgs observed with   ( ` sb - ulirgs ' ) . in order to restrict ourselves to the ulirgs with the highest starburst contribution to their infrared luminosity",
    ", we require these objects to have no  detection , a peak ratio of the  feature to its local continuum of at least 1 , and a 5 - 10@xmath1 m spectrum in which visual inspection shows that the absorption features like the 6@xmath1 m ice feature are not dominant , although sometimes present .",
    "the last criterion is used to avoid ambiguities concerning the internal energy sources of the most heavily obscured ulirgs @xcite .",
    "( ii ) a small sample of six -observed local starbursts ( m82 , ngc253 , ngc1808 , ic342 , ngc3256 , ngc7552 ) for which the pah emission is measured without significant aperture corrections relative to the far - infrared data from , or the kuiper airborne observatory .",
    "the ratio of pah and far - infrared emission is known to vary somewhat with physical conditions ( see e.g. discussion in  4.2 of * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , decreasing with the average intensity of the radiation field ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "because of these trends with ism conditions , we add as another group of comparison objects ( iii ) twelve ` fir quiescent ' galaxies ( with particularly low l@xmath36/l@xmath37 and low s@xmath28/s@xmath27 ) from the sample of normal galaxies of @xcite , for which we convert their pah fluxes measured in isophot - s spectra to our measurement procedure and apply aperture corrections based on their pah - dominated isocam lw2 images .",
    "we add to this group ngc 891 that has been mapped with isophot - s by @xcite , arriving at a sample of 13 fir - quiescent objects .",
    "the three comparison samples cover a range in luminosity as well as in the average intensity of their interstellar radiation fields that is reflected in their mid - to far - infrared seds .",
    "an important new result is the clear correlation between l ( ) and l(fir ) for the pah - containing qsos",
    "[ fig : pah_fir ] and [ fig : pah_fir_flux ] compare the luminosities and fluxes of  and 60@xmath1 m continuum .",
    "the qsos with pah detections and the starburst - dominated ulirgs follow the same trend .",
    "[ fig : ne2_fir ] shows the equivalent continuous trend from qsos to starburst - dominated ulirgs for the comparison of 212 m  and 60@xmath1 m continuum .",
    "these trends also imply almost identical mean ratios for the qso and starburst - dominated ulirg populations .",
    "for the 11 qsos with both pah and far - infrared emission detected we find @xmath38 while for the 12 starburst - dominated ulirgs we get @xmath39 .",
    "similarly , comparing 212 m  and far - infrared emission we get for the 18 qsos with both quantities detected @xmath40 ) / l(fir)>=(5.15 \\pm 0.73)\\times 10^{-4}$ ] and for the 12",
    "starburst - dominated ulirgs @xmath40 ) / l(fir)>=(4.22 \\pm 0.57)\\times 10^{-4 } $ ] . in both cases , the ratio of the star formation indicator and far - infrared emission is the same in qsos and in starburst - dominated ulirgs  the observations are consistent with starbursts producing all of the qso far - infrared emission if their specific properties are similar to those in starburst dominated ulirgs .",
    "this argument depends on the adopted specific properties of the comparison starforming galaxies , because of the changes of the pah to 60@xmath1 m ratio with ism properties mentioned above . for ulirg starbursts we obtained @xmath39 . for the six lower luminosity starbursts for which the ratio of pah and far - infrared can be derived from  data without significant aperture corrections , we obtain + @xmath41 .",
    "finally , for the sample of 13 fir - quiescent normal galaxies we get @xmath42 with individual objects like ngc 891 reaching up to a value 0.2 .    comparing these three ratios to the average of the qsos , we find that almost all , at least @xmath530% , and at least @xmath510% of the qso far - infrared emission would be due to non - agn sources ( that is current and recent star formation ) , adopting the values for ulirgs , starbursts and fir - quiescent galaxies as templates .",
    "irrespective of the adopted template , pah - based values are lower limits since for qsos there is the interesting possibility of additional weakening of pah emission in star - forming regions that are also exposed to agn radiation , by destruction of the pah molecules",
    ". this may be particularly relevant if some of the far - infrared emission is generated by star formation occurring in compact clusters or disks very close to the agn @xcite .",
    "this makes values towards the upper end of the range for the non - agn contribution more likely .",
    "using only pah and far - infrared evidence , a formal solution is possible which maximizes the agn fraction of the far - infrared emission by assigning the pah emission to a very fir - quiescent galaxy . the qso pah luminosities are on average larger than those of the fir quiescent galaxies , but the most luminous quiescent objects are of a similar pah luminosity as the typical qsos ( fig .",
    "[ fig : pah_fir ] ) . comparing these objects to qsos , the agn",
    "would then contribute roughly 90% of the qso far - infrared flux .",
    "these objects yield biased comparisons , however , since they are specifically selected for fir quietness .",
    "a fairer comparison would need to populate the pah / fir plane of fig .",
    "[ fig : pah_fir ] with a large and complete sample of non - agn galaxies .",
    "while such a sample is currently not available , we qualitatively indicate in fig .",
    "[ fig : pah_fir ] the expected locus of such non - agn galaxies by connecting the locations of the averages of our three small comparison samples ( dotted line ) .",
    "while the fir quiescent objects are likely more pah luminous than the average galaxy of the same fir luminosity , and thus their point placed too high , the overall trend of pah flux with fir flux is certainly robust , and the slope of this relation for non - agn galaxies less than 1 , in agreement with the photometric relation between total infrared and isocam lw2 emission studied by @xcite .",
    "applying such a luminosity - dependent ratio of pah to fir luminosity to qsos is consistent with our finding of star formation dominating the fir emission in many of our qsos . the alternate scenario , in which host galaxies are all pah luminous but fir - quiescent and the far - infrared emission of qsos is agn dominated , is both complex and inconsistent with some of the evidence presented in  3.2 .",
    "specifically , it can not explain why both the far - infrared _ and _ the pah emission rise together relative to the mid - ir continuum ( i.e. agn ) luminosity ( see also figure  [ fig : plotpgpahnonpah ] ) .",
    "moreover , this scenario does not agree with the multiwavelength evidence for active star formation mentioned in  4.3 .",
    "considering these trends and the fact that the far - infrared luminosities of the pg qsos are typically in the @xmath43 regime , we conclude that for the average qso in the sample the star formation contribution to the fir emission is at least 30% ( applying the starburst pah to 60@xmath1 m conversion ) , and that star formation may well be dominant . comparing the locus of qsos in fig .",
    "[ fig : pah_fir ] with the trend for star - forming comparison objects suggests a tendency for the star formation contribution to be largest in the most fir - luminous qsos .",
    "similar considerations can be made for the comparison of 212 m  and far - infrared emission in qsos and ulirgs ( fig.[fig : ne2_fir ] ) .",
    "here , the sources of uncertainty are the nlr contribution to 212 m  for the qsos and the possibility of different extinction in the qso starbursts and the ulirgs which show considerable mid - ir extinction @xcite .",
    "the similarity between qsos and starburst - dominated ulirgs in trends and ratios based on , 212 m , and far - infrared continuum no longer holds when we plot a clearly agn - related quantity on one axis .",
    "[ fig : pah_l6 ] shows that the ratio of pah and 6@xmath1 m continuum differs between qsos and starburst - dominated ulirgs by more than an order of magnitude , and that the two classes separate clearly in the diagram .",
    "an additional strong non - starburst component is required in the qsos which clearly is the agn - heated warm dust continuum .",
    "we note , however , a clear correlation between the luminosities of agn 6@xmath1 m continuum and starburst pah among the qsos .",
    "we will now argue on the basis of a more comprehensive comparison that this correlation is indirect , caused by a starburst - agn connection in qsos .    in a flux - limited sample selected based on an emission component that is directly due to the agn , as is the case for the pg sample ( selected by pointlike appearance , b magnitude and blue u - b color ) , we expect correlations between the luminosities of the various agn tracers to arise directly as a consequence of the sample selection .",
    "correlations are not expected when comparing agn- and starburst - related quantities unless there is a real physical correlation .",
    "a summary of correlation coefficients among the continua , pah and line fluxes measured in the qsos is given in table  [ tab : correlations ] .",
    "some of the relations are also shown in figs .",
    "[ fig : pah_fir ] to [ fig : o4_fir ] . in table",
    "[ tab : correlations ] we list spearman rank correlation coefficients for the detected objects and their significance both for luminosities and for the observed fluxes . given the selection of the pg sample over a relatively narrow flux range , the correlations in flux are generally less tight , but agree with the findings based on luminosities .",
    "our dataset includes upper limits , in particular for feature measurements and far - infrared fluxes , as well as trends between luminosity and distance caused by the flux limited selection .",
    "for these reasons , we also list in table  [ tab : correlations ] partial correlation coefficients ( explicitly excluding the effect of distance ) that have been computed using the formalism of @xcite which provides partial correlation analysis for censored data .",
    "the results from this analysis of the full censored dataset are in agreement with those from the detections only .    a first and expected finding is the significant correlations between various luminosities tracing the agn components , e.g. 6@xmath1 m continuum and the high excitation emission lines .",
    "there is a noticeable spread in the ratio of mid - infrared continuum emission and emission in the mid - infrared high excitation lines  and , however , equivalent to a spread in equivalent width of these lines .",
    "this is not uncommon in other agn narrow emission lines like   ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and has implications for the reliability of nlr lines as direct tracers of agn bolometric luminosity . @xcite discuss this large spread of  equivalent width which is likely a general property of agn and also a function of source luminosity ( the ` baldwin - effect ' ) and emission line reddening .",
    "clear correlations are also seen between quantities tracing starburst activity (  being the cleanest ) and others that in the qsos must be almost fully dominated by the agn ( like 6@xmath1 m continuum or high excitation lines ) .",
    "such correlations are not caused by the pg sample selection by b - band flux and u - b color , and must indicate a true relation of more luminous qsos on average being associated with more luminous star formation . in the presence of such a `` starburst - agn connection '' , evidence on the causal links connecting the correlated observables has to be obtained from the quality of the correlations , and in particular from comparing the absolute values of the correlated quantities with templates as done above for far - infrared and pah .",
    "while the size of the present sample is modest , table  [ tab : correlations ] shows that the correlation between  and far - infrared luminosities is one of the tighter among the combinations we investigated .",
    "consistent with this trend is the stronger correlation of 212 m  with far - infrared than is the case for far - infrared with either  or .",
    "212 m  is a line that is emitted both in the nlr of agn @xcite , with higher excitation lines usually being stronger , and as the strongest mid - infrared line in the spectra of most starbursts @xcite .",
    "the good correlation of 212 m  and far - infrared thus indicates a strong starburst contribution to both 212 m  and far - infrared emission , reinforcing the conclusion reached from the starburst - like ratios of these quantities . in a larger sample",
    ", these considerations could be expanded to a more rigorous test on the basis of the quality of the correlations . even in the presence of a starburst - agn connection , starburst tracers",
    "should usually correlate more tightly with other starburst tracers than with agn tracers .",
    "our sample is not big enough for robust conclusions of this type .",
    "looking at the probability of exceeding the partial correlation coefficients for the full censored dataset in the null hypothesis of uncorrelated data ( column 11 of table  [ tab : correlations ] ) , it is nevertheless reassuring but certainly tentative that the seven least significant of the 14 correlations discussed are 60@xmath1 m vs. 6@xmath1 m , 60@xmath1 m vs. , 60@xmath1 m vs. , pah vs. 6@xmath1 m , pah vs. , pah vs. , 6@xmath1 m vs. . with the exception of the last , these less significant correlations are all of the type starburst tracer vs. agn tracer , in the superposition scenario outlined in  3.2 , and provided that the far - infrared is counted as a star formation tracer .",
    "we conclude that , while there are also ` indirect ' correlations caused by a global correlation of agn and starburst luminosity in our pg sample , the relation between pah , [ neii ] , and far - infrared is real and reflects the starburst component .",
    "the most important support for this interpretation is the starburst - like ratios of these three quantities .",
    "starbursts contribute at least @xmath530% and likely most of the far - infrared emission in the average qso in our sample .",
    "an upper limit to the starburst contribution is imposed by the need for a realistic continuation to longer wavelengths of the agn mid - ir continuum , which can not fall off more steeply than the rayleigh - jeans like emission of optically thin dust of an appropriate temperature .",
    "the true slope is likely somewhat shallower due to variation in temperature and due to non - negligible optical depth in part of the mid - ir emitting region .",
    "we feel that the origin and interplay of silicate emission and continuum in the sed of the agn is not yet well enough measured or modelled for an accurate agn continuum extrapolation of this type .",
    "this is also due to the need for unambiguous decomposition of starburst , silicate , and agn continuum .",
    "nevertheless , we consider the minimum pure agn far - infrared continuum required by the data to be consistent with our global conclusion from the  and 212 m  emission .      extending earlier ground - based work ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , @xcite and @xcite presented the first empirical versions of the tools now used to separate agn - powered from starburst - powered infrared galaxies .",
    "the basis of these tools is that the intensity of the pah features in starburst - powered systems traces the starburst s ( far - infrared ) luminosity , while these features are easily destroyed by the strong and hard agn radiation .",
    "our present study widens the scope of the @xcite work by focusing on star formation signatures in high luminosity bona - fide agns .",
    "we have used our quest qso sample to look for three starburst signatures , strong pah features , strong [ neii ] lines and strong far - infrared continuum .",
    "although two of those ( [ neii ] and far - infrared ) can also partly originate in agn environments , we have argued in  4.1 that the three quantities scale with each other and are tracing significant star formation in most objects of our pg qsos sample .",
    "the measured far - infrared luminosity 60  ranges between @xmath44 and 2.5@xmath45 , covering a wide range of starburst luminosity up to the ulirg regime , and limits for the remaining qsos are consistent with starburst emission in the same range of luminosities .",
    "an important result is the correlation of pah ( starburst ) luminosity and agn luminosity in our sample .",
    "this extends to higher luminosity a similar result obtained by s02 on the basis of  spectroscopy of mostly lower luminosity seyferts , and of a wide range of optical and near - infrared studies suggesting elevated starburst activity in seyferts ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "such a connection between small scale agn feeding and larger scale starburst activity is plausible ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and may play a role in establishing the black hole mass to bulge velocity dispersion relation in galaxies .",
    "its details are far from trivial , however , and warrant observations with higher spatial resolution to elucidate the spatial structure of star formation in these qsos ( see for example * ? ? ?",
    "another effect of this connection relates to the interpretation of correlations between qso properties measured at different wavelengths .",
    "some observed correlations may be indirect , driven by the starburst - agn connection , as argued for example by @xcite for optical and far - infrared continua .",
    "@xcite , however , have used among other arguments the observed correlation between rest frame mid - infrared and far - infrared continuum in their qso sample to argue for an agn origin of the latter .",
    "the sensitivity of the   spectroscopic data they had available did not allow for a conclusive test on the basis of pah emission . while we confirm the mid- to far - infrared correlation for qsos for our pg sample ( e.g. , fig .  [",
    "fig : l6_fir ] ) , we use our higher sensitivity  and 212 m  data to argue for an indirect nature of this correlation for the luminosity range covered by our sample , induced by a starburst - agn connection . a similar",
    "test remains to be done for the highest luminosity members of the @xcite sample , which are not sufficiently represented in our local pg sample or in the irs spectra of radio galaxies and radio - loud qsos of @xcite .",
    "such high quality mid - infrared spectra of highest luminosity qsos should also be able to test whether a trend for decreasing fir to mir ratio at highest optical luminosity ( as suggested by fig .  4 of * ? ? ?",
    "* ) reflects an increase in relative agn intensity compared to the host and its star formation .",
    "a central question in the study of qsos and ulirgs is their possible evolutionary relation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "our finding of luminous starburst activity in many qsos is clearly consistent with such an evolutionary link between ulirgs ( which show ultraluminous star formation and frequent coexisting agn ) and qsos ( which show ultraluminous agn and frequent coexisting starbursts ) . from such basically energy - related considerations ,",
    "an evolutionary path with a clear time arrow is , however , difficult to demonstrate and distinguish from more random processes . including structural and dynamical information , e.g. from other elements of the quest program ,",
    "will better probe this link .",
    "several models have proposed a direct agn heating of the far - infrared emission of qsos ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "a basic feature of such models , needed in order to fit qso seds with moderately strong far - infrared emission , is a significant covering factor by obscuring dust at relatively large ( few kpc ) distances from the central agn that is not shadowed by matter closer in . in the model of @xcite , for example , this is accomplished by invoking a dusty galactic disk that is warped into the unshielded agn radiation on such scales .",
    "in such a scenario , the star formation activity and associated pah emission would be low .",
    "the pah to far - infrared correlation that we find would have to be due to pah excitation by the agn itself at this relatively large distance .",
    "the required emission is significant - as we argued above , the ratio of pah and far - infrared is similar to that in starburst - dominated systems , and far - infrared is a significant fraction of the bolometric luminosity for our sample ( @xmath510% mean for the systems with far - infrared detections ) .",
    "a main argument against this scenario is the likely destruction mechanism of pah by agn radiation : if this process works through destruction by individual euv and x - ray photons , then the pah carriers can not survive at even kpc distances unless shielded by a large column able to stop the deeply penetrating hard photons @xcite .",
    "such a large absorbing column ( n@xmath46 ) would , however , prevent the heating of a significant far - infrared emitting dust component at large distance , by absorbing the uv ` big blue bump ' bulk part of the agn sed .",
    "it would also absorb the near - uv ( @xmath3313.6ev ) radiation needed to actually excite infrared feature emission from the shielded pah molecules . as argued by @xcite and @xcite",
    ", pah molecules can survive even relatively close to a powerful agn if placed behind large obscuration .",
    "such high obscuring columns could be plausibly identified with the anisotropic obscuring structure postulated by unified agn models .",
    "exciting these surviving pah molecules will however require a separate near - uv source , for example by reintroducing a circumnuclear starburst .",
    "an indirect transport of agn near - uv radiation to this shielded material , for example by scattering of uv emerging into the agn ionisation cones , appears unlikely to produce the required large pah luminosities for @xmath51% scattering efficiency , as often assumed on the basis of polarimetric agn studies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite and @xcite present observations and models of radio - loud agn in which they ascribe the full infrared sed including sometimes present pah emission to the agn , without invoking additional star formation .",
    "their models ( see discussion in * ? ? ?",
    "* ) invoke a different treatment of pah destruction in the agn radiation field .",
    "while this issue certainly deserves future study , their models may underestimate pah destruction by the agn .",
    "they predict strong pah emission from optically thin dust illuminated by an agn at a typical nlr distance , as well as significant pah emission from an optically thick model for the central region of a nearby agn which has most of its mid - infrared emission arising in a compact ( @xmath510 pc ) region ( fig .",
    "20 , 21 , 22 of * ? ? ?",
    "in contrast , spatially resolved observations put very strong limits on the pah emission from such regions of some nearby agn @xcite .",
    "our interpretation is also consistent with other , partly circumstantial , evidence for star formation in qsos .",
    "@xcite find optical spectroscopic evidence for relatively recent @xmath47myr star formation in a sample that ranges from ulirgs to some of the moderately fir - bright pg qsos of our sample .",
    "@xcite find some pg qsos brighter than the h - band fundamental plane , possibly indicating circumnuclear star formation .",
    "molecular gas detections of pg qsos ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , while not directly probing star formation , suggest sufficient material to power the far - infrared emission if star formation is efficient .",
    "our finding that star formation activity is able to power the far - infrared emission is in contrast to the result of @xcite . for a pg - based sample partly overlapping with our sample , he found insufficient star formation from an analysis using the  line as a star formation tracer .",
    "large and uncertain corrections for extinction of this tracer are likely the main contributor to this discrepancy .",
    "@xcite used  fluxes for his qsos from the literature and the calibration of @xcite for _ extinction - corrected _  as a star formation indicator that is also a function of metallicity : sfr([oii],z ) .",
    "@xcite base their work on a sample of nearby field galaxies with detailed integrated optical spectroscopy , and star formation rates spanning 4 orders of magnitude centered on @xmath48yr@xmath12 .",
    "they demonstrate that  is a star formation indicator as good as h@xmath49 over this range , provided extinction can be corrected for individual objects , and individual metallicities are known .    to apply this calibration to qsos",
    "whose optical spectra are strongly dominated by agn emission , @xcite made three assumptions : ( 1 ) screen attenuation of a@xmath50=1 towards the star forming regions , ( 2 ) metallicity twice solar , ( 3 ) one third of the  emission comes from star formation .",
    "another implicit assumption is ( 4 ) aperture corrections to  can be ignored for the hosts of this qso sample with median z@xmath50.09 observed with 2 - 5  optical spectroscopic apertures . under these assumptions , @xcite infers",
    "star formation rates of at most 20 @xmath51yr@xmath12 but often much less , and typically an order of magnitude below those inferred by ascribing the far - infrared emission to star formation .",
    "while all four assumptions contribute to the uncertainties of this approach , we believe that assumption ( 1 ) about the reddening to the star forming regions is the key to the systematic difference to our  results .",
    "as noted , e.g. , by @xcite , extinction is a strong function of intrinsic  luminosity . at the short wavelength of  where a@xmath52a@xmath50",
    ", increased dust extinction can relatively easily offset much of an increase in intrinsic line luminosity . since the far - infrared luminosities of our quasars reach beyond @xmath53 , it is instructive to compare to the systematic optical spectroscopic study of a complete sample of luminous infrared galaxies by @xcite , which is addressing objects with l@xmath54 for our cosmology .",
    "more than half of their objects have so - called e(a ) optical spectra , characterized by absorption in the higher balmer lines , weak , and significant obscuration of the emission lines .",
    "e(b - v ) is @xmath51.11 even in the simplifying screen assumption , which still ignores regions in such highly dusty objects that are too obscured to contribute to the optical lines . with observed l(h@xmath49)@xmath55erg s@xmath12 and /h@xmath560.23 , they are in the regime of or below the portion ( 1/3 ) of the qso  luminosities that @xcite ascribes to star formation , already considering that  aperture corrections may be more significant for the @xcite sample which has median z=0.0324 and similar spectroscopic apertures .",
    "similar arguments apply , to a lesser degree , to the @xcite objects with spectral classifications other than e(a ) .",
    "there is a large population of dusty luminous starbursts that could fit the weak  emission of the @xcite qsos .    in summary , while the qso optical data are consistent with the low star - formation rate interpretation of @xcite , they are also consistent with much higher star formation rates .",
    "this is because the optical analysis of @xcite is based on a single line that is strongly extinction sensitive , and no extinction constraints are available for this component from the optical data .",
    "less extinction sensitive data like the  infrared spectra are needed to break this degeneracy , and suggest more substantial star formation rates . some of the qso host optical spectra may share properties of infrared galaxies with e(a ) optical spectra : little obscuration towards the stellar continuum spectra dominated by an older post - burst component , but still significant obscuration of the active star forming regions @xcite .",
    "deep submm and mm photometry has led to the detection of rest frame submm and far - infrared dust emission from radio - quiet qsos at redshifts up to 6.42 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "it has been variously argued through indirect arguments like co content that this emission is star formation powered ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , implying that these qsos coexist with extremely powerful @xmath57 starbursts .",
    "our results support a starburst origin of qso far - infrared emission , but do not extend to this luminosity and redshift regime .",
    "if the ratio of pah to far - infrared emission for these qsos is similar to the one in the local qsos and in ulirgs , detection of pah emission on top of a strong continuum may be within reach of  spectroscopy .",
    "pah emission from similar luminosity smgs is detectable at ulirg - like ratios to the far - infrared emission @xcite .",
    "luminous pah emission has also been reported in mid - infrared selected samples of z@xmath52 infrared galaxes @xcite .",
    "probing for pah emission may currently be the only way to verify the assumption of simultaneous strong star formation and qso activity in high redshift qsos .",
    "sensitive  mid - infrared spectroscopy reveals the widespread presence of aromatic ` pah ' emission features in z@xmath58 qsos from the palomar - green sample , indicating the presence of powerful ( 60 @xmath59 to 2.5@xmath45 ) star formation activity in these systems .",
    "starburst and agn activity are connected in qsos up to these high luminosities . by comparing the ratios of , 212 m , and far - infrared emission in qsos with starbursts",
    "we conclude that for the average qso in our sample at least 30% and likely most of the qso far - infrared emission is due to star formation .",
    "the data suggest a trend with the star formation contribution being the largest in the most fir - luminous qsos .      this work is based on observations carried out with the spitzer space telescope , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under nasa contract 1407 .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through contract 1263752 ( s.v . ) issued by jpl / caltech .",
    "the authors wish to recognize the very significant cultural role that theresienwiese has always had with the indigenous bavarian community .",
    "hn acknowledges a humboldt foundation prize and thanks the host institution , mpe garching , where this work has been done .",
    "ajb acknowledges support from the national radio astronomy observatory , which is operated by associated universities , inc .",
    ", under cooperative agreement with the national science foundation .",
    "akritas , m.g . , siebert , j. 1996 , , 278 , 919 alexander , t. , sturm , e. , lutz , d. , sternberg , a. , netzer , h. , genzel , r. 1999 , , 512 , 204 armus , l. , et al .",
    "2004 , , 154 , 178 armus , l. , et al .",
    "2006 , , in press ( astro - ph/0511381 ) baskin , a. , laor , a. 2005 , , 358 , 1043 bertoldi , f. , carilli , c.l . , cox , p. , fan , x. , strauss , m.a . ,",
    "beelen , a. , omont , a. , zylka , r. 2003 , , 406 , l55 boroson , t.a . , green , r.f .",
    "1992 , , 80 , 109 calzetti , d. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 633 , 871 canalizo , g. , stockton , a. , 2001 , , 555 , 719 chary , r. , elbaz , d. 2001 , , 556 , 562 chini , r. , kreysa , e. , biermann , p.l . , 1989 , , 219 , 87 clavel , j. ,  et al .",
    "2000 , a&a , 357 , 839 cresci , g. , maiolino , r. , marconi , a. , mannucci , f. , granato , g.l .",
    "423 , l13 dale , d.a . ,",
    "helou , g. , contursi , a. , silbermann , n.a . ,",
    "kolhatkar , s. 2001 , , 549 , 215 dasyra , k.m .",
    ", et al . 2006a , , 638 , 745 dasyra , k.m .",
    "2006b , , submitted davies , r.i . ,",
    "tacconi , l.j . ,",
    "genzel , r. 2001 , , 602 , 148 davies , r.i . ,",
    "tacconi , l.j . , genzel , r. 2001 , , 613 , 781 elvis , m. , et al .",
    "1994 , , 95 , 1 engelbracht , c.w . , gordon , k.d . ,",
    "rieke , g.h . ,",
    "werner , m.w .",
    ", dale , d.a . , latter , w.b .",
    "2005 , , 628 , l29 evans , a.s . ,",
    "frayer , d.t . ,",
    "surace , j.a . , sanders , d.b .",
    "2001 , , 121 , 3286 frster schreiber , n.m . , roussel , h. , sauvage , m. , charmandaris , v. 2004 , , 419 , 510 freudling , w. , siebenmorgen , r. , haas , m. 2003 , , 599 , l13 genzel , r. , et al .",
    "1998 , , 498 , 579 genzel , r. , cesarsky , c.  j.   2000 , , 38 , 761 gonzalez - delgado , r.m . , heckman , t. , leitherer , c. 2001 , , 546 , 845 guyon , o. 2002 , phd thesis , univ .",
    "paris vi guyon , o. , sanders , d.b . ,",
    "stockton , a. 2006 , , in press ( astro - ph/0605079 ) haas , m. , chini , r. , meisenheimer , k. , stickel , m. , lemke , d. , klaas , u. , kreysa , e. 1998 , , 503 , l109 haas , m. , mller , s.a.h . , chini , r. , meisenheimer , k. , klaas , u. , lemke , d. , kreysa , e. , camenzind , m. 2000 , , 354 , 452 haas , m. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 402 , 87 haas , m. , siebenmorgen , r. , schulz , b. , krgel , e. , chini , r. 2005 , , 442 , l39 hao , l. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 625 , l75 heckman , t. , gonzalez - delgado , r. , leitherer , c. , meurer , g.r . ,",
    "krolik , j. , wilson , a.s .",
    ", koratkar , a. , kinney , a. 1997 , , 482 , 114 higdon , s.j.u . , et al .",
    "2004 , , 116 , 975 ho , l. 2005 , , 629 , 680 houck , j.r . , et al .",
    "2004 , , 154 , 18 hughes , d.h . ,",
    "robson , e.i . ,",
    "dunlop , j.s . ,",
    "gear , w.k .",
    "1993 , , 263 , 607 imanishi , m. 2003 , , 599 , 918 isaak , k.g .",
    ", priddey , r.s . ,",
    "mcmahon , r.g .",
    ", omont , a. , peroux , c. , sharp , r.g . , withington , s. 2002 , , 329 , 149 jester , s. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 130 , 873 kauffmann , g. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 346 , 1055 kewley , l.j . ,",
    "geller , m.j . ,",
    "jansen , r.a .",
    "2004 , , 127 , 2002 klaas , u. , et al . , 2001 , , 379 , 823 laurent , o. , mirabel , i.f . , charmandaris , v. , gallais , p. , madden , s.c . ,",
    "sauvage , m. , vigroux , l. , cesarsky , c. 2000 , , 359 , 887 le floch , e. , mirabel , i.f . ,",
    "laurent , o. , charmandaris , v. , gallais , p. , sauvage , m. , vigroux , l. , cesarsky , c. 2001 , , 367 , 487 lu , n. , et al . , 2003 , , 588 , 199 lutz , d. , sturm , e. , genzel , r. , spoon , h.w.w .",
    ", moorwood , a.f.m . , netzer , h. , sternberg , a. 2003 , , 409 , 867 lutz , d. , valiante , e. , sturm , e. , genzel , r. , tacconi , l.j .",
    ", lehnert , m.d . , sternberg , a. , baker , a.j .",
    "2005 , , 625 , l83 maloney , p. 1999",
    ", , 266 , 207 mason , r.e . , geballe , t.r . , packham , c. , levenson , n.a .",
    ", elitzur , m. , fisher , r.s . ,",
    "perlman , e. 2006 , , in press ( astro - ph/0512202 ) mattila , k. , lemke , d. , haikala , l.k .",
    ", laureijs , r.j . ,",
    "leger , a. , lehtinen , k. , leinert , c. , mezger , p.g .",
    "1996 , , 315 , l353 mattila , k. , lehtinen , k. , lemke , d. , 1999 , , 342 , 643 netzer , h. , et al .",
    "2006 , , in press neugebauer g. , miley , g.k . , soifer , b.t . , clegg , p.e .",
    "1986 , , 308 , 815 norman , c. , scoville , n.z .",
    "1988 , , 322 , 124 oliva , e. , origlia , l. , maiolino , r. , moorwood , a.f.m .",
    ", 1999 , , 350 , 9 omont , a. , cox , p. , bertoldi , f. , mcmahon , r.g . ,",
    "carilli , c. , isaak , k.g .",
    "2001 , , 374 , 371 pier , e.a . ,",
    "antonucci , r. , hurt , t. , kriss , g. , krolik , j. 1994 , , 428 , 124 poggianti , b.m . , wu , h. 2000 , , 529 , 157 roche , p.f . ,",
    "aitken , d.k . ,",
    "smith , c.h . , ward , m.j .",
    "1991 , , 248 , 606 rowan - robinson , m. 1995 , , 272 , 737 sanders , d.b . , soifer , b.t . , elias , j.h . , madore , b.f . , matthews , k. , neugebauer , g. , scoville , n.z .",
    "1988 , , 325 , 74 sanders , d.b . ,",
    "phinney , e.s . , neugebauer , g. , soifer , b.t . ,",
    "matthews , k. 1989 , , 347 , 29 sanders , d.b .",
    ", mirabel , i.f .",
    "1996 , , 34 , 749 schmidt , m. , green , r.f . 1983 , , 269 , 353 scoville , n.z .",
    ", frayer , d.t . ,",
    "schinnerer , e. , christopher , m. 2003 , , 585 , l105 siebenmorgen , r. , krgel , e. , spoon , h.w.w .",
    "2004a , , 414 , 123 siebenmorgen , r. , freudling , w. , krgel , e. , haas , m. 2004b , , 421 , 129 siebenmorgen , r. , haas , m. , krgel , e. , schulz , b. 2005 , , 436 , l5 spinoglio , l. , malkan , m.a .",
    "1992 , , 399 , 504 spoon , h.w.w . , moorwood , a.f.m . ,",
    "lutz , d. , tielens , a.g.g.m .",
    ", siebenmorgen , r. , keane , j.v .",
    "2004a , , 414 , 873 spoon , h.w.w . , et al .",
    "2004b , , 154 , 184 sturm , e. , lutz , d. , tran , d. , feuchtgruber , h. , genzel , r. , kunze , d. , moorwood , a.f.m . ,",
    "thornley , m.d .",
    "358 , 481 sturm , e. , lutz , d. , verma , a. , netzer , h. , sternberg , a. , moorwood , a.f.m . , oliva , e. , genzel , r. 2002 , , 393 , 821 ( s02 ) sturm , e. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 629 , l21 thornley , m.d .",
    ", frster schreiber , n. , lutz , d. , genzel , r. , spoon , h.w.w . ,",
    "kunze , d. , sternberg , a. 2000 , , 539 , 641 veilleux , s. , et al .",
    "2006 , , in press ( astro - ph/0601565 ) verma , a. , lutz , d. , sturm , e. , sternberg , a. , genzel , r. , vacca , w. 2003 , , 403 , 829 verstraete , l. , puget , j.l . ,",
    "falgarone , e. , drapatz , s. , wright , c.m . , timmermann , r. 1996 , , 315 , l337 voit , g.m .",
    "1992 , , 258 , 841 walter , f. , et al .",
    "2003 , , 424 , 406 weedman , d. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 633 , 706 yan , l. , et al .",
    "2005 , , 628 , 604    llrrrrrrrr pg0026 + 129 & 0.1420 & 16.2 & 35.8 & 74&@xmath33162&@xmath33129&h00 & 672&@xmath3311.10 + pg0050 + 124 ( izw1 ) & 0.0611&178.3&515.1&1183 & 2243 & 2634&fsc & 274 & 11.45 + pg0157 + 001 ( mrk1014)&0.1630 & 32.1&217.3&1352 & 2224 & 2164&fsc & 781 & 12.39 + pg0838 + 770 & 0.1310 & 12.1 & 46.3 & 105 & 167 & 180&n86,h03 & 615&11.06 + pg0953 + 414 & 0.2341 & 21.3 & 33.0 & 34&@xmath33129&@xmath33315&n86&1170&@xmath3311.71 + pg1001 + 054 & 0.1605 & 16.8 & 34.5 & 69 & 140 & 146&h03 & 768 & 11.18 + pg1004 + 130 & 0.2400 & 17.2 & 74.8 & 164 & 191&@xmath33284&s89&1203 & 11.74 + pg1116 + 215 & 0.1765 & 54.5 & 78.4 & 113&@xmath33219&@xmath33285&h03 & 853&@xmath3311.50 + pg1126 - 041 ( mrk1298)&0.0600 & 37.2&101.9 & 311 & 669 & 1172&n86 & 269 & 10.93 + pg1229 + 204 ( mrk771 ) & 0.0630 & 28.2 & 88.3 & 183 & 241 & 317&h03 & 283 & 10.52 + pg1244 + 026 & 0.0482 & 15.8 & 66.7 & 194 & 368 & 362&h03 & 214 & 10.44 + pg1302 - 102 & 0.2784 & 21.3 & 80.4 & 201 & 343 & 343&s89,h00&1425&12.14 + pg1307 + 085 & 0.1550 & & 50.2 & 101 & 212 & 155&s89,h03 & 739&11.29 + pg1309 + 355 & 0.1840 & 22.1 & 70.9 & 106&@xmath33162&@xmath33192&h03 & 893&@xmath3311.40 + pg1411 + 442 & 0.0896 & 61.4 & 96.9 & 139 & 147 & 140&h00 & 410 & 10.62 + pg1426 + 015 & 0.0865 & 55.1&135.3 & 251 & 350 & 312&h03 & 395 & 10.96 + pg1435 - 067 & 0.1260 & 18.3 & 33.3 & 77 & 304&@xmath33333&h03 & 590 & 11.28 + pg1440 + 356 ( mrk478 ) & 0.0791 & 55.1&135.3 & 251 & 597 & 780&h03 & 359 & 11.13 + pg1448 + 273 & 0.0650 & 19.0 & 70.1 & 117 & 117&@xmath33252&s89 & 292 & 10.22 + pg1613 + 658 ( mrk876 ) & 0.1290 & 55.7&120.2 & 298 & 591 & 1002&h00 & 605 & 11.64 + pg1617 + 175 & 0.1124 & 24.4 & 41.0 & 56 & @xmath3398&@xmath33252&s89 & 522&@xmath3310.77 + pg1626 + 554 & 0.1330 & 11.7 & 14.0 & 3&@xmath33156 & 70&h03 & 626 & 10.66 + pg1700 + 518 & 0.2920 & 51.4&127.8 & & 348 & 374&h03&1505 & 12.22 + pg2214 + 139 ( mrk304 ) & 0.0658 & 56.0 & 76.8 & 80 & 337&@xmath33282&n86 & 296 & 10.68 + b2 2201 + 31a & 0.2950 & 32.2 & 58.4 & & @xmath33295&@xmath33870&sp & 1553&@xmath3312.43 + pg2251 + 113 & 0.3255 & 15.4 & 35.6 & & @xmath3367&@xmath33214&n86&1706&@xmath3311.92 + pg2349 - 014 & 0.1740 & 21.2 & 59.8 & 167 & 271 & 290&s89 & 840 & 11.55 +    lrrrr pg0026 + 129 & 2.29e-22 & 4.73e-22 & 2.14e-21&@xmath338.70e-21 + pg0050 + 124 & 1.94e-21 & 5.50e-21 & 2.75e-21 & 7.29e-20 + pg0157 + 001 & 5.52e-21 & 5.18e-21 & 1.17e-20 & 5.93e-20 + pg0838 + 770 & 4.11e-22 & 3.24e-22 & 1.30e-21 & 1.04e-20 + pg0953 + 414 & @xmath331.70e-22&@xmath331.90e-22 & 5.08e-22&@xmath332.33e-20 + pg1001 + 054 & 4.00e-22&@xmath331.20e-22 & 5.19e-22&@xmath331.32e-20 + pg1004 + 130 & @xmath332.43e-22&@xmath332.76e-22 & 2.10e-21&@xmath331.47e-20 + pg1116 + 215 & @xmath333.20e-22&@xmath332.90e-22 & 1.10e-21&@xmath333.50e-20 + pg1126 - 041 & 1.39e-21 & 4.34e-21 & 1.59e-20 & 1.49e-20 + pg1229 + 204 & 6.13e-22 & 9.06e-22 & 2.77e-21&@xmath331.40e-20 + pg1244 + 026 & 9.42e-22 & 5.31e-22 & 1.51e-21 & 6.02e-21 + pg1302 - 102 & 3.56e-22 & 4.87e-22 & 2.60e-21&@xmath338.52e-21 + pg1307 + 085 & 3.98e-22 & 5.63e-22 & 7.38e-22 & + pg1309 + 355 & 5.07e-22 & 2.69e-22&@xmath334.95e-22&@xmath333.80e-20 + pg1411 + 442 & 3.61e-22 & 9.56e-22 & 1.49e-21 & 1.02e-20 + pg1426 + 015 & 1.29e-21 & 1.25e-21 & 3.43e-21 & 2.36e-20 + pg1435 - 067 & @xmath331.05e-22 & 5.22e-22 & 3.88e-22&@xmath335.20e-21 + pg1440 + 356 & 4.11e-21 & 1.33e-21 & 6.26e-21 & 7.38e-20 + pg1448 + 273 & 5.07e-22 & 2.67e-21 & 1.01e-20 & 1.55e-20 + pg1613 + 658 & 3.88e-21 & 1.13e-21 & 4.89e-21 & 3.86e-20 + pg1617 + 175 & 2.89e-22&@xmath331.70e-22 & 3.92e-22&@xmath331.05e-20 + pg1626 + 554 & 6.91e-23&@xmath336.90e-23&@xmath331.97e-22&@xmath337.10e-21 + pg1700 + 518 & 1.21e-21&@xmath332.30e-22 & 1.68e-21&@xmath332.40e-20 + pg2214 + 139 & 2.26e-22 & 2.70e-22 & 1.27e-21&@xmath331.30e-20 + b2 2201 + 31a & 9.64e-23 & 5.31e-22 & 5.62e-22&@xmath337.89e-21 + pg2251 + 113 & 1.69e-22 & 4.90e-22 & 3.08e-21&@xmath338.00e-21 + pg2349 - 014 & 1.44e-21 & 7.05e-22 & 3.87e-21 & 1.66e-20 +    llccccccccc 60@xmath1 m & pah & 11 & 0.945 & 1.1e-5 & 0.582&6.0e-2&0.293&26&0.248&5.7e-3 + 60@xmath1 m & @xmath60 m & 19 & 0.894 & 2.4e-7 & 0.567&1.1e-2&0.303&26&0.321&1.6e-2 + 60@xmath1 m & @xmath61 m & 20 & 0.938 & 9.8e-10&0.746&1.6e-4&0.212&27&0.441&2.8e-4 + 60@xmath1 m & @xmath62 m & 19 & 0.926 & 1.3e-8 & 0.825&1.4e-5&0.384&24&0.530&4.6e-5 + 60@xmath1 m & [ neii ] & 18 & 0.899 & 4.0e-7 & 0.744&4.0e-4&0.284&27&0.329&1.1e-3 + 60@xmath1 m & [ oiv ] & 19 & 0.670 & 1.7e-3 & 0.493&3.2e-2&0.422&27&0.267&1.4e-2 + 60@xmath1 m & [ nev ] & 16 & 0.788 & 2.9e-4 & 0.456&7.6e-2&0.345&27&0.257&3.1e-2 + pah & @xmath60 m & 11 & 0.873 & 4.6e-4 & 0.473&1.4e-1&0.283&26&0.174&6.2e-2 + pah & @xmath61 m & 11 & 0.927 & 1.0e-5 & 0.800&3.1e-3&0.219&26&0.277&5.3e-3 + pah & @xmath62 m & 11 & 0.927 & 4.0e-5 & 0.636&3.5e-2&0.268&23&0.346&1.6e-3 + pah & [ neii ] & 11 & 0.936 & 2.2e-5 & 0.845&1.1e-3&0.246&26&0.287&1.1e-3 + pah & [ oiv ] & 11 & 0.600 & 5.1e-2 & 0.436&1.8e-1&0.397&26&0.186&2.6e-2 + pah & [ nev ] & 11 & 0.682 & 2.1e-2 & 0.636&3.5e-2&0.352&26&0.214&1.2e-2 + @xmath60 m & [ oiv ] & 24 & 0.657 & 4.8e-4 & 0.147&4.9e-1&0.482&26&0.264&8.4e-3 + @xmath60 m & [ nev ] & 19 & 0.770 & 1.2e-4 & 0.484&3.6e-2&0.366&26&0.256&4.0e-2 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper addresses the origin of the far - infrared ( fir ) continuum of qsos , based on the quasar and ulirg evolution study ( quest ) of nearby qsos and ulirgs using observations with the _ spitzer space telescope_. for 27 palomar - green qsos at z@xmath00.3 , we derive luminosities of diagnostic lines ( 212 m , , ) and emission features (  emission which is related to star formation ) , as well as continuum luminosities over a range of mid- to far - infrared wavelengths between 6 and 60@xmath1 m . we detect star - formation related pah emission in 11/26 qsos and fine - structure line emission in all of them , often in multiple lines . </S>",
    "<S> the detection of pahs in the average spectrum of sources which lack individual pah detections provides further evidence for the widespread presence of pahs in qsos .    </S>",
    "<S> similar pah / fir and [ neii]/fir ratios are found in qsos and in starburst - dominated ulirgs and lower luminosity starbursts . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the typical qso in our sample has at least 30% but likely most of the far - infrared luminosity ( @xmath2 ) arising from star formation , with a tendency for larger star formation contribution at the largest fir luminosities .    in the qso sample </S>",
    "<S> , we find correlations between most of the quantities studied including combinations of agn tracers and starburst tracers . </S>",
    "<S> the common scaling of agn and starburst luminosities ( and fluxes ) is evidence for a starburst - agn connection in luminous agn . </S>",
    "<S> strong correlations of far - infrared continuum and starburst related quantities ( pah , low excitation [ neii ] ) offer additional support for the starburst origin of far - infrared emission . </S>"
  ]
}