{
  "article_text": [
    "the determination of the star formation history of early - type galaxies has important implications for the still - controversial issue of their formation and evolution .",
    "are the bulk of their stars assembled at high redshift , followed by predominantly passive evolution , or are they formed from low - redshift disk - disk merging ? or , as it seems likely from the variety of detailed elliptical morphology which is being revealed via projects such as those involving integral field spectrographs such as sauron , does the class of ellipticals contain sub - classes , and are these dependent on the method of their formation , or on their local environment @xcite ?",
    "we would like to know how these sub - classes depend on local environment .",
    "in particular , we wish to know what mechanisms are responsible for the now well - known morphology - density relationship ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ? * ) , which shows that the proportion of early - type galaxies increases as the proportion of late - type galaxies decreases in regions with higher galaxy density .",
    "furthermore , the recent interest in e+a galaxies ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , in which the signature of a recent ( @xmath0  1 gyr ) starburst is seen , but no significant ongoing star formation , suggests that the relation between the evolution of these galaxies and their constituent stellar populations is not well - understood .",
    "however , until recently , only small ensembles of galaxy spectra , spanning a large useful range , were available and the analysis of a large statistical sample of stellar populations of galaxies was not possible . with the recently - completed 2df galaxy redshift survey ( 2dfgrs ) and the ongoing sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) or 6df galaxy survey ( 6dfgs ) , a few million galaxy spectra will soon be available .",
    "the detailed physical modelling of stellar populations is numerically expensive , so the timely extraction of useful knowledge , such as the characteristics of the star formation history of galaxies , from these data will largely depend on developing appropriate data analysis tools that are able to complement more specialised astrophysical studies , in particular by automating parts of the analyses .",
    "some work has already been carried out using an approach which incorporates assumptions from physical models to a greater or lesser extent ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "with the increase of data availability , significant research has recently been focusing on the use of data - driven methods of astrophysical data analysis .",
    "some of these attempt to analyse galaxy properties from spectra , independently from any physical model .",
    "the usefulness of the application of principal component analysis ( pca ) , a classical multivariate statistical analysis technique , has been exploited and demonstrated in various scenarios ( see , _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "indeed , pca is an efficient tool for data compression , and as such , suitable for providing a compressed representation for subsequent physical analysis . in a different line of research ,",
    "the automated partitioning of spectra based on their morphological shapes @xcite has also been explored with reasonable success .    here",
    ", we explore the application of a similar technique to a different problem , namely that of the data - driven identification of the spectra of distinct stellar sub - populations in the spectrum of a galaxy .",
    "our only assumption is that the galaxy spectrum can be expressed as a linear superposition of a small number of independent factors , each a spectrum of a stellar sub - population that can not be individually observed .",
    "we would like to implement an optimal feature transformation that would reveal interpretable and meaningful structural properties ( factors ) from a large sample of galaxy spectra .",
    "this would allow fast , automated extraction of some key physical properties from potentially very large data sets of the kind the virtual observatory would offer .",
    "preliminary results based on a simple non - orthogonal projection method have indicated that an identification of interpretable component spectra may be achievable in a purely data - driven manner @xcite . in this work ,",
    "we follow a more rigorous methodology , explicitly encoding the above hypothesis into appropriate probabilistic data models .",
    "we then employ a bayesian formalism to solve the inverse modelling problem , as well as to objectively assess to what extent such a hypothesis is supported by the data , in terms of both physical interpretability and the ability for predictive generalisation to previously unseen data of the same type .",
    "the bayesian framework allows us to automate several functional requirements within a single statistically sound formal framework , where all modelling assumptions may be explicitly encoded .",
    "tasks ranging from inference and prediction to inverse modelling and data explanation , data compression , as well as model comparison are all accomplished in a flexible manner , even in conditions of missing values and measurement uncertainties .    in this study",
    "we start from a set of synthetic spectra of stellar populations of known age and metallicity from the single stellar population models of @xcite .",
    "we also have assembled a set of observed ultraviolet ( uv)-optical spectra of early - type galaxies , to which we have fit two component stellar population models , and thus we have some knowledge of their star formation history ( i.e. ages , metallicities and mass fractions of the component stellar populations ) .",
    "we then perform our data - driven bayesian analysis on both synthetic and observed spectra , and compare the derived parameters with those obtained from detailed astrophysical modelling .    in  2",
    ", we describe the set of 21 observed early - type galaxy spectra that we analyse here , and describe the synthetic stellar population spectra .",
    " 3 details the bayesian modelling of the data .",
    "our results are presented in and discussed in  4 . in  5",
    "we discuss the significance of this work on characterising e+a galaxies .",
    "our conclusions are outlined in  6 .",
    "appendix a gives the detailed mathematical framework required to implement our methodology , specifically for the data model estimation of the variational bayesian rectified factor analysis  a flexible data model for the factorisation of positive data that we developed .",
    "we perform the linear independent transformation analyses on a set of two - component model stellar population spectra .",
    "we use the single stellar population models of @xcite , which have a salpeter initial mass function , across the same wavelength range ( 2500@xmath18000  ) as the observed spectra , and create a two - component model flux , @xmath2 .",
    "this is defined as @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the model flux per unit wavelength in the bin centred on wavelength @xmath5 , which is the sum of the two single - metallicity , single - age model fluxes @xmath6 and @xmath7 , which have metallicities and ages , @xmath8 and @xmath9 respectively . here",
    "@xmath10 are the fractional contributions ( by stellar mass ) of each component to the total model population .",
    "we set @xmath11 , where @xmath12 can take values 0.25 or 0.5 .",
    "ages assigned for @xmath13 are 0.03 , 1 , 3 , 7 and 12 gyr , and the metallicities are 0.004 , 0.01 , 0.02 , 0.03 and 0.05 , making a total of 50 two - component model spectra .",
    "we have also compiled a set of twenty - one early - type galaxy spectra from the archives for this study , across the wavelength range 2500@xmath18000  , although not all objects have data covering the complete range . the spectra of the galaxies in the sample are shown in fig .",
    "[ spec ] . as the galaxy sample was assembled from those nearby early - type galaxies with both uv and optical spectra , from various archives",
    ", it does not represent a statistical sample .",
    "the sources for the data are listed in table [ data ] , together with the telescopes with which the optical spectra were observed .",
    "the uv spectra were observed using the _ international ultraviolet explorer _ ( iue ) , except for ngc 3605 and ngc 5018 , which were observed with the _ faint object spectrograph _ ( fos ) on the _ hubble space telescope _ ( hst ) .    since these spectra are compiled from sources with varying spectral coverage , the resulting data matrix has some missing values .",
    "the regions of incomplete wavelength coverage are obvious in fig .",
    "it is one of the strengths of our analysis that these missing data regions can be recovered ; this is described in   [ missdat ] , [ missdat2 ] , [ missdat3 ] .",
    "another of the advantages of the probabilistic framework adopted here is that , in contrast with classic non - probabilistic methods , the observational errors on each data point can be taken into account (  [ errors ] ) .    as the data matrix on which the analysis is performed must have the same wavelength binning for all the galaxies , the spectra are de - redshifted and binned to the same wavelength resolution as the synthetic stellar population spectra ( @xmath1420  ; the observed spectra have wavelength resolution which varies from @xmath145 - 18  ) .",
    "for each galaxy , the various spectral sections , taken in turn , are normalised to unity in the overlap regions , and spliced , to create a single continuous spectrum for each object .",
    "although the different spectral pieces for any one object were observed separately , and with different telescopes , it should be noted that the apertures used were similar , and therefore each section probes a similar part of each galaxy , and the shape of the continua in the overlap regions agree well .",
    ".table of references and optical telescopes for the observed early - type galaxy spectra .",
    "[ cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     * data models : * vb - pca : variational bayesian pca ; vb - fa : variational bayesian factor analysis ; vb - pfa : variational bayesian positive factor analysis ; vb - rfa : variational bayesian rectified factor analysis .",
    "the columns summarise the assumptions for the distributional form of each variable of eq .",
    "( [ model ] ) for each of these four data models .",
    "indices have been dropped .",
    "the columns @xmath15 and @xmath16 indicate the form of the probability density assumed for the elements of @xmath17 and @xmath18 respectively .",
    "the column @xmath19 specifies the form of the function @xmath20 of eq .",
    "( [ model ] ) , and @xmath21 provides the structural form of the noise variance for the various data models ( distinct variances for all data dimensions @xmath22 except in the case of vb - pca ) .    * vb - fa * in table [ tab : priors ] , the variational bayesian factor analysis ( vb - fa ) data model @xcite relaxes the constraint of the isotropic structure of the gaussian noise imposed by pca .",
    "indeed , such a constraint may be physically unjustified @xcite .",
    "all other assumptions made are in turn identical with those of vb - pca .",
    "* vb - pfa * the above two models do not require the individual factors , which are spectra of the stellar sub - populations , to be non - negative , which they need to be in order to be physically acceptable .",
    "the remaining two models considered here do so .",
    "the third row of table [ tab : priors ] describes the variational bayesian positive factor analysis ( vb - pfa ) , a data model developed by @xcite , that , in contrast to vb - pca and vb - fa , imposes the positivity constraint .",
    "it does so by assuming that each individual spectrum @xmath15 ( factor ) of the representation follows a zero - mode rectified gaussian distribution ( essentially a gaussian restricted to its positive half and renormalised , defined in appendix a4 ) .",
    "vb - pfa also restricts the mixing coefficients @xmath16 to be positive , assumed to be standard rectified gaussians , and maintains the same structural form for the noise variance @xmath21 as vb - fa .    the positivity constraint just introduced",
    "is meant to facilitate the interpretability of the factors as component spectra .",
    "let us observe , however , that in vb - pfa , the @xmath23mode of @xmath15 would mean that the recovered components would have a low flux close to zero occupying most of the spectrum .",
    "although there has been a great deal of interest in factor models that have such sparsely distributed factors for a variety of other purposes @xcite , including image and text related applications as well as neurobiological modelling , such a sparsity assumption may be restrictive and often unjustified for the modelling of stellar population spectra .",
    "however , as shown in @xcite , modifying vb - pfa to relax the @xmath23mode assumption is technically impossible .",
    "thus we developed a different way of imposing the positivity constraint , which also permits the mode of @xmath15 to be estimated from the data in a flexible manner .",
    "we did not discard the hypothesis of vb - pfa either , since it has been applied to stellar population spectra in the literature @xcite and we do not wish to discard any existing hypotheses based on possibly subjective intuitions .",
    "* vb - rfa * the last row of table [ tab : priors ] describes the variational bayesian rectified factor analysis ( vb - rfa ) data model @xcite , where the positivity constraint over the factors is ensured through the non - differentiable function @xmath24 . with this solution ,",
    "the factors are now @xmath19 and they are guaranteed to be positive .",
    "then the variables @xmath25 become some dummy - arguments of @xmath20 , which are now safely modelled as gaussians ( column @xmath15 of 4-th row of table [ tab : priors ] ) .",
    "therefore , both the means and variances of these gaussians can now be estimated from the data .",
    "the resulting model allows more flexibility regarding the shape of the factors compared with vb - pfa , while ensuring the positivity of the factors .",
    "finally , the mixing coefficients @xmath16 are assumed to be distributed as standard rectified gaussians .",
    "note that in this context the zero - mode constraint is appropriate since the sparsity of the mixing matrix @xmath18 translates to assuming a smooth basis transformation .",
    "the technical novelty and computational advantages of the vb - rfa approach are detailed in @xcite .",
    "as it should now be clear , our scope is neither to apply any off - the - shelf data analysis method in an unjustified manner , nor to rely on subjective intuitions , as both of these approaches may easily lead to biased results .",
    "instead , we have constructed four different hypotheses which we consider equally likely _ a priori_. the bayesian framework allows us to decide which hypothesis",
    "is best supported by the data .",
    "the architecture for any of the four data models defined above can be graphically represented as in fig .",
    "[ gr_model ] .",
    "this is the joint density of the observational data and all other variables of interest .",
    "nodes denote random variables , rectangles refer to observed variables ( i.e. derived from observational data ) , and circles and hexagons refer to unobservable variables that we are hoping to infer from the data through the formulated probabilistic model .",
    "hexagons denote hidden variables on the top of the hierarchy , @xmath26 and @xmath21 , as follows : @xmath27 , with parameters common to all components of the variable , and these parameters @xmath28 and @xmath29 will then have vague priors in the form of a zero mean gaussian having a large value for variance .",
    "the definition is analogous for @xmath30 and @xmath26 .",
    "these additional variables have been omitted from the diagram on fig .",
    "[ gr_model ] for simplicity , as they are part of the relatively standard technicalities concerning a full bayesian approach @xcite rather than an essential part of the application - specific model design . ] .",
    "arrows signify generative causal dependency relations .    ,",
    "the number of components , from two to three .",
    "this shows that the spectra of early - type galaxies used here can be safely modelled as the sum of the spectra of two distinct major stellar components , and the inclusion of more components is not required by the data.,scaledwidth=45.0% ]    we now outline the variational bayesian estimation procedure associated with this architecture .",
    "each of the described four data models is estimated using the variational bayesian methodology described in this section .",
    "the specific expressions obtained for the vb - rfa data model are provided in the appendix . to make the notation concise",
    ", we will refer to the latent variables by @xmath31 and to the data by @xmath32 .",
    "since handling the posterior distribution @xmath33 is intractable , we resort to a variational scheme @xcite , where an approximative distribution @xmath34 is fitted to the true posterior .",
    "this is done by constructing a lower bound of the log evidence , based on jensen s inequality , @xmath35 where @xmath36 denotes expectation w.r.t .",
    "@xmath37 .    this inequality holds for any distribution @xmath38 due to the convexity of the logarithm .",
    "a fully - factorial approximation of the posterior @xcite will be employed here , which is also known to lead to estimation algorithms that can be implemented efficiently by using local computations only @xcite the best fully - factorial approximate posterior ( referred to as the variational posterior ) is computed by functional maximisation of ( [ evid ] ) , which can be shown @xcite to be equivalent to minimising the kullback - leibler divergence @xcite of the variational posterior from the true one . the fully - factorial variational posterior of the data model in fig .",
    "[ gr_model ] is simply of the form @xmath39 therefore , ( [ evid ] ) further decomposes into one plus twice as many terms as there are latent variables in the data model and the optimisation w.r.t .",
    "the individual variables is separately performed .",
    "the variational posteriors thus obtained , along with the statistics that are required for an implementation , are given in appendix [ updates ] for the vb - rfa model .",
    "some of these posterior computations are non - trivial .",
    "readers interested in more detailed derivations are referred to @xcite .",
    "the model estimation algorithm then consists of iteratively updating each parameter s posterior statistics in turn , while keeping all other posterior statistics fixed , until a convergence criterion is achieved . for each update ,",
    "the evidence bound ( [ evid ] ) is guaranteed not to decrease @xcite , and convergence to a local optimum is guaranteed .",
    "it can also be shown that due to the fully - factorial posterior approximation ( [ q ] ) , all updates are local , i.e. requiring posterior statistics of the so called markov blanket only .",
    "that is , for updating any of the variable nodes , the posterior statistics of only its children , parents and co - parents are needed .",
    "this has been exploited in the efficient implementation realised in @xcite , @xcite and @xcite , and has also been adopted in this work .",
    "the scaling of the resulting variational bayesian estimation algorithm is thus multilinear in the number of factors , observations and wavelength bins of the model .",
    "these can also be easily followed from the further details given in appendix  [ updates ] .",
    "the evidence bound ( [ evid ] ) can be used both for monitoring the convergence of the algorithm and , more importantly , for comparison of different solutions or models .",
    "the quantities required for computing this are given in appendix [ evidence_eq ] .",
    "we have already stressed the advantage of the probabilistic bayesian framework adopted here in terms of the ability of the resulting data models to predict and recover incomplete data .",
    "recovering missing values can be achieved by computing the posterior of the missing entries given the observed entries : @xmath40 an approximate mean value of this posterior provides the imputation for the missing entry .",
    "this is discussed in appendix  [ miss ] .      due to the fully generative nature of the adopted framework ,",
    "once the data model parameters are estimated from a training data set , inferences and predictions can be made for new , previously unseen measurements .",
    "this involves performing the inference for those terms of the variational posterior @xmath34 that are conditional on the type of new measurements ( new galaxy spectra in the same range or various sub - ranges of wavelength for the same galaxies ) . using these , as well as the remainder of terms of @xmath34 as estimated from the training set",
    ", we can then proceed to computing ( [ missing ] ) .",
    "results will be presented in section 4.3 .",
    "one of the strengths of the bayesian evidence framework employed in this study is that the selection of the best - supported hypothesis can be automatically achieved , in a quantitative manner , based on the data evidence .",
    "this is known as model selection .      here",
    "we seek a criterion to examine which data model performs the best , as well as to find the dimensionality of the representation space .",
    "we would like to have a compact model ( small number of factors ) both to avoid over - fitting the data , and also for the results to be physically interpretable . at the same time",
    ", we would like to keep an adequate number of factors to guarantee a good approximation of the data .",
    "apart from the interpretability issue , the bayesian evidence framework can be used to automatically select the optimal model and its order from those investigated .",
    "our preferences , motivated by the purpose of the application ( e.g. data interpretation , missing value prediction ) , expressed as prior belief , would then be used to weight the evidence obtained from the data , in order to make a final bayesian decision on the order of the model .",
    "[ costs ] shows the negative of the log evidence for the four data models ( strictly , the negative log evidence bound ) , versus the model order , @xmath41 ( i.e. the number of components ) , for the observed spectra ( fig .  [ spec ] ) .",
    "it can be seen that the vb - rfa model outperforms the other three models .",
    "we also see that increasing the number of factors beyond two does not significantly increase the evidence , which suggests that the bulk of spectra of an early - type galaxy can be reasonably well and compactly described by two factors or components , each interpretable as a stellar sub - population .",
    "this is useful for input into more detailed physical models of early - type galaxy spectra .",
    "we will also see in  [ physical - interp ] that the @xmath42 models produce two factors that are both physically meaningful , while increasing the model order to @xmath43 does not bring any further interpretable factors .      here",
    ", we compare the results of the data - driven method outlined so far with an entirely independent determination of the star - formation history of our 21 early - type galaxies .    in this more conventional approach ,",
    "we have fitted two - component detailed physical models , constructed from the single stellar population models of @xcite , to the observed long - baseline spectra of our sample , as shown in fig .",
    "[ spec ] . the ages , metallicities and relative mass fractions of the component stellar populations are allowed as free parameters .",
    "we construct the two - component spectra as the linear superposition of the two component spectra ( [ modflux ] ) , and allow ages 0.01 - 14.0 gyr , and metallicities @xmath44 0.01 , 0.2 , 0.5 , 1.0 , 1.5 , 2.5 and 5.0 times the solar value ( ) .",
    "again , the relative mass fractions have to be jointly constrained , @xmath45 , but @xmath12 is allowed to vary from 0 to 1 , in steps of 0.02 .",
    "a minimum-@xmath46  fit was used to determine the best - fit values of @xmath47 and @xmath48 .",
    "the whole parameter space was searched , with the best - fitting parameter values corresponding to the point on the age@xmath49-age@xmath50-z@xmath49-z@xmath50-@xmath12-@xmath51 grid with the minimum calculated @xmath46 .",
    "details of the fitting process are given in @xcite and @xcite .",
    "[ modelspecr2 ] , synthetic spectra @xcite of young ( 0.7 gyr , left ) and old ( 10 gyr , right ) stellar populations are shown , for metallicities 0.2 , 1.0 and 2.5 , in each of the upper panels , from top to bottom respectively . below these",
    "are shown the spectra of the individual components , recovered from the four analysis methods described above , for both the observed galaxy spectra ( middle panels ) , and linear superpositions of pairs of synthetic spectra ( bottom panels ) .",
    "in general , the similarity between the recovered components , and the corresponding model spectra , is striking , for all four methods . in the younger components displayed on the left hand of fig .",
    "[ corrplots - r2 ] , the 4000    break , typical of a mature ( @xmath521 gyr ) , is not seen , but strong balmer absorption line features ( h@xmath53 ( 3970  ) , h@xmath54 ( 4102  ) , h@xmath55 ( 4340  ) , h@xmath56 ( 4861  ) ) can be clearly identified .",
    "these are typical features of the a  stars which dominate the emission from young ( @xmath57 1 gyr ) stellar populations . in the second ( older ) component , however , the 4000   break is apparent , as are other features typical of mature , metal - rich stellar populations , e.g. absorption features corresponding to mgb ( 5175  ) , nad ( 5893  ) and tio ( 7126  ) . we can rule out either component being representative predominantly of either agn emission or dust absorption as the characteristic shapes and features of these spectra would be very different from those we recover .",
    "however , the vb - pca algorithm seems to `` find '' a spurious sub - component with younger features ( middle left panel ) that has some features from old , metal - rich stellar populations ( notably nad ) .    in fig .",
    "[ corrplots - r2 ] , we show results for vb - rfa method ( right panels ) , which has the the highest log evidence values , together with the vb - pca method ( left panels ) , which has the lowest , for comparison .",
    "we plot the correlation between the first ( ` younger ' ) component ( @xmath58 ) and the age of the younger stellar population ( age@xmath59 , top panels ) and the mass fraction of the secondary stellar population component ( @xmath60 ) , as determined from the two - component model - fitting described above ( bottom panels ) .",
    "the open points are those galaxies which contain a significantly young stellar population ( @xmath01  gyr ) .",
    "[ tabrs2 ] plots the results of the spearman s rank correlation test for the weight of the first component @xmath58 and the age , metallicity and mass fraction of the two fitted stellar populations for the observed spectra with @xmath61 .",
    "a value of the spearman s rank correlation coefficient @xmath62 indicates a strong correlation between the parameters .",
    "it can be seen that there is a strong correlation between @xmath58 and the ages of the younger stellar populations , and also between @xmath58 and the stellar mass fractions ( @xmath63 , @xmath60 ) of the component stellar populations .",
    "the correlation between @xmath58 and age@xmath64 is weak , and there is no correlation between @xmath58 and the metallicities of the component stellar populations .",
    "the trends of the correlations with @xmath65 follow similar , but opposite , trends to those of @xmath58 .",
    "this is not generally true for factor analysis , but arises here as a consequence of the nature of our data set .",
    "the rest - frame spectra of four of the galaxies in our sample , together with the reconstructed data model and the two constituent data model components are presented in fig .",
    "[ recon ] .",
    "the data model convincingly reproduces the observed spectra .      here",
    "we present the results of the analysis of the two - component synthetic spectra , constructed as described in ",
    "[ synthetic ] .",
    "they represent every possible combination of the assigned ages , metallicities and relative stellar mass fractions , and thus allow us to investigate a wider range of known age and metallicity combinations than the observed spectra .",
    "it should be noted that not all combinations ( for example , those with two components @xmath57 1 gyr old ) represent what we might expect to find in the total population of real early - type galaxies , although there could be local regions within these galaxies where , for example , young stars dominate the stellar population .",
    "we wanted to cover the complete range of possibilities in order to avoid making any assumptions about the stellar populations of early - types , which , as revealed even in our small sample of twenty - one spectra , can be quite varied .    in this experiment",
    ", no noise has been added to the synthetic spectra .",
    "this is because the noise from variations in the spectral shape caused by differences in the metallicity is higher than any noise contributions which represent measurement errors .",
    "the bottom panels of fig .  [ modelspecr2 ] show the spectra of the components recovered using the same four analysis methods as used for the observed spectra . again",
    ", the first component has a shape and features that are similar to those of a young stellar population , and the second component , those of a mature population .",
    "the shape of the uv part of the spectrum , together with the featureless nature of the spectrum above @xmath145000  , are typical of very young stellar populations ( @xmath14 a few x 10 myr ) .",
    "these populations are present in the synthetic data set , but not in significant quantities in the observed data set , hence the differences between the recovered data components .    in fig .",
    "[ corrplots - s2 ] , as in fig .",
    "[ corrplots - r2 ] , we see that a high value of @xmath58 ( the weight of the ` younger ' component from the bayesian data model ) corresponds to the presence of a @xmath571  gyr stellar population . fig .",
    "[ tabss2 ] plots the spearman s rank correlation test results for @xmath58 and the age , metallicity and mass fraction of the synthetic populations . here",
    ", there is an even stronger correlation between @xmath58 and the age of the younger population than in the case of the observed spectra , and also a strong correlation between @xmath58 and the age of the older population , but no significant correlation between @xmath58 and the mass fraction of the secondary population .",
    "however , in this exercise with synthetic spectra , we allowed only two values for @xmath60 ( 0.25 and 0.5 ) , which does not really allow for a meaningful determination of the correlation coefficient .",
    "these results confirm that the value of @xmath58 is a clear indicator of the presence of a significant young stellar population , and is particularly unambiguous in discovering components with very young ( @xmath571 gyr ) stellar populations , as we found in ",
    "[ r2 ] .",
    "[ costs ] shows that increasing the number of component spectra in the bayesian models from two to three does not significantly increase the evidence for any data model .",
    "indeed , for the positive factor analysis , the evidence decreases as @xmath41 increases from two to three .",
    "these results suggest that the bulk of the stellar content of early - type galaxies can be represented by two components , one which represents contributions from old , metal - rich stellar populations , the other representing contributions from young populations ( fig .",
    "[ modelspec - s3 ] ) .",
    "it is not easy to find a physical interpretation for the third component .",
    "indeed , the third component is probably a combination of residuals from the sum of the spectra of two populations , combined with correlated components of observational errors .",
    "the results of the analysis performed on the observed spectra are presented in fig .  [ tabrs3 ] .",
    "the components @xmath58 and @xmath65 correlate significantly with the age of the younger population ( age@xmath59 ) , except for the vb - rfa , where the correlation is with @xmath66 rather than @xmath58 . the relative mass fraction of the two stellar population components ( @xmath67 and @xmath68 ) also correlate with @xmath58 and @xmath65 , and , for the vb - rfa , with @xmath66 as well .",
    "for the synthetic two - population spectra , age@xmath59 correlates strongly with @xmath58 and @xmath65 , for all the analysis methods , and also with @xmath66 for the vb - rfa . however , there is no strong correlation ( @xmath69 r@xmath70 ) for any of the data models with the relative mass fraction of the two populations , although the metallicity of the younger population ( @xmath71 ) correlates strongly with @xmath66 in the case of the vb - pca and vb - fa methods .",
    "the differences between the correlation coefficients for the observed and synthetic spectra most likely reflect the different distributions of age , metallicity and mass fraction in the two spectral samples . for example , the observed spectra are all dominated by high - metallicity components ( 2.5 and 5.0 ) , with small contributions from very low - metallicity populations ( 0.01 ) .",
    "only one of the galaxies contains stellar populations with intermediate metallicities .",
    "in contrast , the synthesised spectra can take the whole range of combinations of the seven allowed metallicities .",
    "although we have managed to identify components with pca here , it is a well known property of pca that the solution it provides is rotation - invariant .",
    "that is , the eigen - components which have equal variances can be multiplied by an arbitrary orthogonal matrix to produce another equally good solution ( in terms of satisfying the same objective function ) .",
    "therefore pca is not guaranteed to achieve a successful separation of the underlying independent source signals that we are looking for .",
    "methods that take into account higher order dependencies need to be used for that purpose @xcite .",
    "the only lucky case where pca can identify components is if the underlying components have suitably different variances .",
    "this is true for the work presented here , but there is no reason why this would hold for data sets of galaxy spectra in general .",
    "therefore , even if pca has been successful here , it comes with no guarantees .    another way of looking at this problem is through the probabilistic formalism .",
    "pca s implicit assumption ( as shown in detail in @xcite ) is that the components it will find are gaussian . making this assumption explicit , by the probabilistic formalism that we adopted , highlights the lack of plausibility of this assumption : the spectra that we are looking for are not gaussian , instead they are positive valued only , and have a rather skewed distribution .",
    "this renders the use of pca very problematic in applications that require a clear interpretation of the components .    in turn , by adopting the probabilistic formalism where any assumption in the data model must be made explicit , we are able to specify the distribution that corresponds to components that we are looking for . therefore the chances that we can find what we are looking for , and not something else , are considerably increased .",
    "the ultimate conclusion is of course made based on visual inspection of the recovered components , made by human experts .      as a more objective criterion for the assessment of our data modelling compared to the results obtained by the fitting of detailed spectral models , here we investigate the predictive ability of the modelling approach when faced with missing elements of the spectra .",
    "we begin with demonstrating the recovered values for the missing elements along with their predicted uncertainties ( posterior variances ) , as obtained from vb - rfa on the small real data set , compared with those from the best - fitting physical model .",
    "this is shown on the scatter plot in fig .",
    "[ fig : realmiss ] .",
    "the correlation coefficient between the posterior mean predictions of the data model and the values imputed from the best - fitting physical model is 0.989 , the snr being 9.3 .",
    "this is a strong indication that the data - driven analysis and the physical analysis are well matched .",
    ", as obtained using vb - rfa .",
    "there are no missing values in the observed spectra in the central region of the wavelength range considered here , which accounts for the gap in the plotted data.,width=245,height=245 ]    however , in the case of the real data , the true values of the missing entries are unknown . therefore ,",
    "in the following section , we employ synthetic data to perform a more thorough and controlled objective evaluation of the predictive capabilities of our probabilistic data model model .",
    "missing entries were simulated , and the true values were used for evaluation only .",
    "the synthetic data set was more diverse than the real one , as a variety of parameter combinations that can be simulated , in this process , may not appear in real spectra . therefore , a wealth of situations were created on which the generalisation abilities of the proposed method were tested .",
    "a global and fixed noise level of @xmath72 was used in the data models in these experiments .",
    "can be used to both control the compactness of the representation and to simulate a level of measurement uncertainly similar to that encountered in real data . ]",
    "we studied the prediction performance for both two and three component models ( @xmath42 , @xmath43 ) on new , previously unseen measurements , in the two scenarios as reported below . in this",
    "setting , the evidence bound peaked at @xmath73 , as can be seen in figures [ fig : specinf ] and [ fig : waveinf ] .",
    "as the spectra of more and more galaxies become available and are added to public archives , the ability to make predictions for previously unseen spectra , that have a small percentage of missing values within the same overall wavelength range , is an important practical requirement .",
    "it is therefore desirable to be able to infer reliable estimates of missing values , based on a few measurements and the probabilistic representation already created from previously seen spectra . in this scenario ,",
    "[ fig : specinf ] shows the prediction results obtained by vb - rfa when varying the percentage of missing entries in the test set .",
    "the predictions are surprisingly accurate up to a high percentage of missing entries among the previously unseen spectra . effectively , the high redundancy across the spectra , due to the fact that mature galaxies are very similar to each other , makes this scenario relatively easy to handle .",
    "( bottom ) and @xmath43 ( top ) , plotted against the percentage of missing entries from the test - set .",
    ", width=264,height=264 ]      the second scenario investigated here is when the predictions are to be made for missing elements for previously unseen values of wavelength , albeit within the same overall wavelength range .",
    "this is a more difficult task , since the flux varies significantly across different wavelength ranges .",
    "we conducted experiments in which the overall wavelength range for each spectrum was split randomly into training sets ( regions without missing values in our case , though they need not be so ) and test sets , and each model was trained on the training set .",
    "then , to ensure that we retain the missing - at - random @xcite assumption , for randomly picked ranges in the test set , `` missing '' values were predicted based on the trained model and the prediction errors were averaged over all missing values .",
    "this procedure was repeated 10 times with 50 different combinations of training and test sets for each spectrum .",
    "the results are shown in fig .  [",
    "fig : waveinf ] .",
    "the percentage of missing values was varied between experiments as is indicated on the x axis . with a complete training set ,",
    "the predictions are still pretty accurate even when up to 60% of the bins from the test set are missing .",
    "( bottom ) and @xmath43 ( top ) .",
    "as before , the x - axis indicates the percentage of missing entries from the test - set .",
    ", width=264,height=264 ]",
    "so far we established generic data - driven procedures for finding evidence of more than one stellar sub - populations , significantly differing in age and metallicity - related characteristic features , in the integrated spectra of galaxies . here",
    "we show an application to a particular data mining project which would benefit from this method , once large sets of galaxy spectra are available for public use .",
    "the determination of the star formation history of early - type galaxies has important implications for the much - debated issue of their formation and evolution .",
    "observational evidence suggests that at least some elliptical galaxies already have the bulk of their stars at high redshift ( @xmath74 ) ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but in hierarchical structure formation models , ellipticals can form at lower redshift from late - type merging ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "a vital link in understanding how early - type evolution is driven , and under what environmental conditions , is the study of e@xmath75a galaxies .",
    "the spectra of these galaxies are characterised by strong hydrogen balmer absorption - lines together with a lack of significant [ oii]3272 emission , implying a recent ( @xmath01 gyr ) starburst , but no significant on - going star formation .",
    "the overall shape of the spectral energy distribution of these galaxies is that expected for an early - type galaxy .",
    "they may represent an intermediate stage between disc - dominated rotationally supported systems and spheroid - dominated , pressure - supported systems .",
    "the physical mechanisms responsible for the triggering and subsequent truncation of star - formation in e@xmath75a galaxies are currently unclear",
    ". they may be the result of disk - disk merging ( or galaxy interactions ) , or cluster - related phenomenon , e.g. ram - pressure stripping , tidal stripping .",
    "however , although at intermediate redshift , it has been suggested that e@xmath75a - type galaxies are prevalent in clusters ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , which argues for a cluster - related mechanism , at low - redshift ( @xmath76 ) , e@xmath75as occur in lower - density environments , which is more indicative of merging or interaction processes @xcite .",
    "statistical studies of the environments , luminosities and detailed morphologies of these galaxies , across a range of redshifts , are necessary in order to uncover the physical processes governing their star - formation history .",
    "the possible relationship between early - type evolution and e@xmath75a galaxies has not as yet been well - studied , as e@xmath75a systems are rare ( @xmath571 percent of the overall zero - redshift galaxy population , @xcite ) .",
    "however , recent and on - going large - scale surveys such as the sdss and the 2dfgrs offer the opportunity to study these galaxies in a statistically meaningful way , if they can be reliably identified .    in this paper we have developed a rapid , automated method which allows us to identify those early - type galaxies containing a significant young ( @xmath77  gyr old ) population ; these galaxies are e@xmath75a galaxies . fig .",
    "[ e+a ] shows a typical e@xmath75a galaxy spectrum , together with its constituent population spectra .",
    "unsurprisingly , given the diagnostic abilities of our components analyses , the component spectra look very similar to the spectra recovered from the components analyses .",
    "@xcite have analysed the iue uv spectra of a sample of normal galaxies using pca .",
    "one of their components was associated with a young stellar population , and another with a mature population , consistent with our results .",
    "however , they were unable to correlate the principal components with the optical morphology of the galaxies .",
    "as we have prior knowledge of the component stellar populations in our galaxy sample , we have been able to make a more quantitative interpretation of our results : if the value of @xmath58 ( the weight of the ` young ' component ) for a particular early - type galaxy is @xmath78 0.5 , there is a significant @xmath77 gyr - old stellar population present in that galaxy .",
    "hence , our components analysis is able to rapidly identify post - starburst galaxies , without the uncertainties inherent in the measurement of the equivalent widths of the balmer absorption and [ oii ] emission lines .",
    "[ oii ] emission in disk - dominated galaxies may suffer from dust obscuration , and h@xmath55 and h@xmath56 are subject to emission - filling .",
    "these , together with the high signal - to - noise requirements , introduce significant uncertainties in the measurement of these lines .",
    "in contrast , as our method utilises all the information present in the long - baseline spectra i.e. both the features present and the overall shape of the spectra , it is a more robust diagnostic of recent star - forming activity .    using the wealth of data available in the sdss and the 2dfgrs , with signal - to - noise as good or better than the data we analyse here , we may map precisely in what environments star - formation is suppressed ( e.g. in groups or clusters ) , by rapidly and robustly identifying those galaxies hosting only mature ( @xmath781 gyr ) stellar populations .",
    "this allows us to investigate whether galaxy transformation ( from star - forming to passive galaxies ) occurs via e.g. ram - pressure stripping , tidal stripping , harassment or suppression of galaxy - galaxy interactions .",
    "although the wavelength ranges of the sdss and 2df spectra are shorter than those we have used , we can use a training set of data to identify the linear components ( as suggested below ) , which can then be applied to the sdss and 2df data .    with the higher - resolution spectra of these surveys , and higher - resolution model spectra that are available ( e.g. @xcite )",
    ", we expect the accuracy of our statistical estimates to increase , as we have more independent samples ( wavelength bins ) of the mixed components .",
    "whether or not the number of components , @xmath41 , would increase would depend on the data set used .",
    "both the existence of additional components and the interpretation of any further components can only be explored by carrying out the experiment .",
    "however , we would not expect the increase in information that we obtain from higher - resolution spectra to lead to a decrease in @xmath41 .    we intend to extend our bayesian modelling technique to identify other classes of galaxies , by using appropriately selected training sets of galaxy spectra and wavelength ranges .",
    "for example , starburst galaxies may be identified by the wolf - rayet ` bump ' around @xmath1446004900  , which is a characteristic feature of the emission from the wolf - rayet stars in starburst galaxies . by first applying the bayesian analysis to an appropriate training set of spectra , which include the spectral range of this feature , identification of these galaxies in a large sample",
    "should be possible .",
    "using rigorous bayesian modelling , we have successfully developed a time - efficient method for the analysis of the spectra of early - type galaxies .",
    "at @xmath14a few seconds per galaxy for this analysis , its speed compares very well with work by other authors ( _ e.g. _ * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . by comparing the results of this analysis with the results of our unique two - component synthetic stellar population fitting to the long - baseline data , and with two - component synthetic spectra",
    ", we have shown that the independent components analysis is physically interpretable .",
    "two linear components are sufficient to describe the bulk of the stellar content of early - type galaxies .",
    "one of the components represents a young ( @xmath571 gyr ) stellar population , and the other an old , metal - rich population .",
    "the relative contribution of these two components allows us to robustly identify which early - type galaxies host significant young stellar populations i.e. which are post - starburst galaxies .",
    "of the four variational bayesian methods investigated here , we find the variational bayesian rectified factor analysis to be the most useful , since it has the greatest flexibility in the shape of the allowed distribution , whilst retaining the astronomically motivated requirement that the flux values in each component spectrum are non - negative .",
    "this method achieved the highest evidence and the highest correlation between the component weights and the population parameters determined from spectral fitting .",
    "the method allows the observational errors to be included in the formulation , and has the additional powerful attribute that it can be used to recover missing regions of spectral coverage .",
    "the strength of the correlation between the posterior mean predictions of the data model , and the values imputed from the best - fitting physical model , is a strong indication that the data - driven analysis and the physical analysis are well matched .",
    "we intend to apply our analysis to the early - type galaxies , in the 2df , 6df and sdss catalogues , as a useful tool to investigate their evolution with environment and redshift .",
    "we have shown that in addition to efficiently finding early - type galaxies with significant young stellar populations , this method would also be an efficient tool to find other distinctive sub - classes , such as e@xmath75a galaxies , which is an important missing link in current population scenarios of the formation of early - type galaxies .    in this work , we use model and observed spectra between 2500 - 8000  .",
    "however , to be useful as a data mining tool for @xmath79 galaxies in the sdss , 2df and 6df archives , the bayesian analysis has to work efficiently in the 37008000   range equally well .",
    "our next step will be to estimate data models that will learn , from the current datasets that include uv spectra , to work on much larger , solely optical datasets .",
    "in future studies , we therefore intend to :    * estimate the data models for the 3700@xmath18000   range ; * apply our technique to 2df , 6df , sdss catalogued spectra , to identify e@xmath75a galaxies and their environments ; * experiment with identifying starburst galaxies ; * consider the robustness of our data models with respect to uncertainties in the calibration and response of the 2df/6df / sdss fibres , and the effect of random continuum errors , via analyses of simulated data with additional noise factors ; * extend the models to deal with stochastic censoring , i.e. non - ignorable ( versus random ) missing data .",
    "markus harva was supported by a paul & yuanbi ramsay research award at the school of computer science of the university of birmingham",
    ".    99    attias h. , 2000 , in advances in neural information processing systems , vol . 12 , pp . 209215 , eds . s. solla , t.k .",
    "leen and k - l muller , eds , cambridge ma , mit press    bacon r. , _ et al .",
    "_ , 2001 , mnras , 326 , 23    bernardo j.m .",
    "& smith a.f . , 1994 , bayesian theory , new york : wiley    bica e. , alloin d. , 1987a , a&as , 70 , 281    bica e. & alloin d. , 1987b , a&a , 186 , 49    bishop c.m . , 1999 ,",
    "proc . international conference on artificial neural networks(icann ) , vol .  1 ,",
    "509514    bishop c.m . , spiegelhalter d. & winn j. , 2002 , in advances in neural information processing systems , volume 15 , pp .",
    "793@xmath1800 , eds .",
    "s.  becker , s.  thrun , and k.  obermeyer    blake c. , _ et al . _ , 2004 ,",
    "mnras , 355 , 713    bruzual , g. , & charlot , s.  2003 , mnras , 344 , 1000    chan k. , lee t .- w . , & sejnowski t.j .",
    ", 2003 , neural computation , 15 , 1991    connolly a.  j. , szalay a.  s. , bershady m.  a. , kinney a.  l. , calzetti d. , 1995 , aj , 110 , 1071    cover t. , & thomas j. , 1991 , elements of information theory , john wiley and sons , new york .",
    "dressler a. , 1980 , apj , 236 , 351    emsellem e. _ et al . _ , 2004 ,",
    "mnras , 352 , 721    fernandes , r.  c. , mateus , a. , sodr , l. , stasiska , g. , & gomes , j.  m.  2005 , mnras , 358 , 363    folkes s.r . ,",
    "lahav o. & maddox s.j . , 1996 , mnras , 383 , 651    formiggini l. & brosch n. , 2004 , mnras , 350 , 1067    frey b.j . &",
    "hinton g.e . , 1999 , neural computation , 11(1 ) : 193    ghahramani z. & jordan m. , 1994 , technical report cbcl paper no . 108 , massachusetts institute of technology , cambridge ma    harva m. & kabn a. , 2005 , proc",
    "neural networks , to appear , pp .",
    "185190    harva m. , 2004 , msc thesis , helsinki university of technology    heavens , a.  f. , jimenez , r. , & lahav , o.  2000 , mnras , 317 , 965    hinton g.e .",
    "& ghahramani z. , 1997 , phil . trans .",
    "b. 352 , 1177    hyvrinen a. , karhunen j. & oja e. , 2001 , in independent component analysis , pub .",
    "j. wiley    jansen r.a .",
    ", fabricant d. , franx m. , caldwell n. , 2000 , apjs , 126 , 331    jimenez r. , macdonald j. , dunlop j.s .",
    ", padoan p. & peacock j.a .",
    ", 2004 , mnras , 349 , 240    jordan m. , ghahramani z. , jaakkola t. & saul l. , 1999 , machine learning , 37 , 183    kabn a. , nolan l.a .",
    "& raychaudhury s. , 2005 , in proceedings of the siam international conference on data mining ( siam dm05 ) , eds : h. kargupta , j. srivastava , c. kamath and arnold goodman , siam press , pp 183 - 194 .",
    "( astro - ph/0505059 )    kauffmann g. , white s.  d.  m. , guiderdoni b. , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 201    kauffmann , g. , et al .",
    "2003 , mnras , 341 , 33    lappalainen h. , 1999 , in proc .",
    "workshop on independent component analysis and signal separation ( ica99 ) , pp 712    lee d. & seung s. , 2001 , advances in neural information processing systems , 13,556    mackay d.j.c . , 2003 ,",
    "information theory , inference , and learning algorithms , cambridge university press , cambridge , uk    madgwick d.s . , somerville r. , lahav o. & ellis r. , mnras , 2003a , 343 , 871    madgwick d.s . , coil a. , conselice c.j . , cooper m.c . , davis m. , ellis r.s . , faber s.m",
    ", finkbeiner d.p .",
    ", gerke b. , guhathakurta p. , kaiser n. , koo d.c .",
    ", newman j.a . , phillips a.c . ,",
    "steidel c.c . , weiner b.j .",
    ", willmer n.a . &",
    "yan r. , 2003b , apj , 599 , 997    miskin j. & mackay d.j.c . , 2001 , in independent component analysis : principles and practice , pages 209233 , eds .",
    "s. roberts and r. everson , cambridge university press    miskin j. , 2000 , phd thesis , university of cambridge    nolan l.a . , 2002 , phd thesis , university of edinburgh    nolan l.a . , dunlop j.s . , jimenez r. & heavens a.f . , 2003 , mnras , 341 , 464    ocvirk , p. , pichon , c. , lancon , a. , thiebaut , a. , 2005 , accepted for publication in mnras , astro - ph/0505209    p. ocvirk ( 1 ) , ocvirk , p. , pichon , c. , lancon , a. , thiebaut , a. , 2005 , accepted for publication in mnras , astro - ph/0507002    peebles j.e.p . , 2002 , in a new era in cosmology , asp conference proceedings , vol . 283",
    "n. metcalfe and t. shanks .",
    "ponder j. m. , burstein d. , oconnell r. w. , rose j.a .",
    ", frogel j.a . , wu c .- c . ,",
    "crenshaw d.m .",
    ", rieke m.j .",
    ", tripicco m. , 1998 , aj , 116 , 2297    raiko t. , valpola h. , harva m. & karhunen j. , 2005 , journal of machine learning research , submitted    renzini a. , 1998 , in when and how do bulges form and evolve? , ed .",
    "carollo , h.c .",
    "ferguson , r.f.g .",
    "wyse , cambridge university press    ronen s. , aragon - salamanca a. & lahav o. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , 284    slonim n. , somerville r. , tishby n. & lahav o. , 2001 , mnras , 323 , 270    socci n.d .",
    ", lee d.d . &",
    "seung h.s , 1997 , the rectified gaussian distribution , nips97    solorio , t. , fuentes , o. , terlevich , r. , & terlevich , e.  2005 , mnras , 363 , 555    storchi - bergmann t. , calzetti d. , kinney a. l. 1998 , a database of uv@xmath1optical spectra of nearby quiescent + and active galaxies , ( _ http://www.stsci.edu/ftp/catalogs/nearby_gal/_ ) .    tipping m. & bishop c. , 1999 , probabilistic principal component analysis , journal of the royal statistical society , series b , 61:3 , 611    tran k.  h. , franx m. , illingworth g. , kelson d.  d. , van dokkum p. , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 599 , 865    valpola h. , harva m. & karhunen j. , 2004 , signal processing , 84(2 ) , 267    valpola h. , honkela a. , harva m. , ilin a. , raiko t. & stman t. , 2003 , bayes blocks software library http://www.cis.hut.fi/projects/bayes/  software/    white s.  d.  m. , rees m.  j. , 1978 , mnras , 183 , 341    winn , j. , bishop c. m. , 2005 , journal of machine learning research , 6,661 - 694    zabludoff a.  i. , zaritsky d. , lin h. , tucker d. , hashimoto y. , shectman s.  a. , oemler a. , kirshner r.  p. , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 466 , 104",
    "the following simplifying notations will be used in this subsection : @xmath81 .",
    "further , the following expressions , involving variables from the markov blanket ( mackay 2003 ) of a variable @xmath25 , will be required : @xmath82 and @xmath83 . using these notations , as well as expressing @xmath84 , where @xmath85 is the step function , then the outline of the computation of the free form posterior @xmath86 and",
    "its sufficient statistics can be given as follows : @xmath87 where @xmath88 for more detailed derivation , see @xcite .",
    "the posterior statistics associated with @xmath86 that are required for updating the posterior statistics of other variables of the model are the first and second order moments , as follows . denoting @xmath89 ( which is the @xmath90-term in ( [ z ] ) )",
    ", the @xmath91-th order moments of @xmath25 and @xmath19 can be written as @xmath92 where @xmath93 and @xmath94 the notation @xmath95 introduced in ( a7 ) will be used also in ( [ qs ] ) .",
    "the remaining integral is the @xmath91-th moment of a rectified gaussian density .",
    "the exact expressions for these , are given in ",
    "[ rectg ] and more details on it can be found e.g. in @xcite , along with numerical issues concerning an efficient implementation .",
    "the posteriors @xmath97 are of a gaussian form , where @xmath98 which provide the required posterior expectation @xmath99 .",
    "note that if a ` vague prior ' was used on @xmath30 , then the posterior mean estimate @xmath100 becomes similar to a maximum likelihood estimate @xmath101 , as then @xmath102 and @xmath103 .",
    "the posteriors @xmath109 are gaussian , where @xmath110 these provide the required posterior expectation @xmath111 . here",
    ", the indicator variable @xmath112 if @xmath113 is observed and zero if it is missing .",
    "following @xcite and @xcite , in the @xmath114-parameterisation ( see  4.1.1 ) , gaussian priors are imposed on @xmath115 , where @xmath116 stands for any of the variables @xmath117 , @xmath25 or @xmath118 in fig .",
    "[ gr_model ] .",
    "this is then solved by a fixed form gaussian variational posterior , @xmath119 and this has been employed in the experiments described in this paper .    here , @xmath120 and @xmath121",
    "are computed by numerical optimisation @xcite .",
    "alternatively , a direct parameterisation may be used with gamma priors and gamma posteriors may be sufficient for this model .      computing the log of the evidence bound is useful for monitoring the convergence of the iterative estimation process , and more importantly , for comparing different modelling hypotheses .",
    "[ evidence ] as mentioned , ( [ evid ] ) decomposes into a number of terms . @xmath122",
    "the @xmath123 and @xmath37 terms for gaussians will be given only once , while those that are different will be detailed separately .",
    "the @xmath123 and @xmath37 terms in ( a10 ) , in the case of gaussian variables , can be written as : @xmath124       + \\log 2\\pi\\sigma_{nt}^2 \\zr \\\\",
    "\\langle \\log p(\\theta|m_{\\theta},e^{-v_{\\theta}})\\rangle    & = - \\frac{1}{2 }   { \\left\\ { } \\newcommand{\\lln}{\\langle } \\newcommand{\\rrn}{\\rangle } \\newcommand{\\zr}{\\right\\}}\\lln e^{v_{\\theta}}\\rrn \\left [      ( \\bar{\\theta } - \\lln m_\\theta \\rrn)^2 + \\tilde{\\theta } + { \\operatorname{var}\\{m_\\theta\\ } }    \\right ]    - \\lln v_\\theta \\rrn + \\log 2\\pi \\zr \\\\ - \\lln \\log q(\\theta ) \\rrn & = \\frac{1}{2}+\\frac{1}{2}\\log 2\\pi\\tilde{\\theta},\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath125 and @xmath126 are the posterior mean and variance of @xmath116 .",
    "if the @xmath114-parameterisation is used for the variances , then the term @xmath127  see @xcite .",
    "the @xmath123-term of variable @xmath25 is computed as in the case of other gaussian variables .",
    "the @xmath37-term gives the following : @xmath131 m_0(u )      - \\frac{\\bar{s}_u}{\\tilde{s}_u}m_1(u ) + \\frac{1}{2\\tilde{s}_u } m_2(u )    \\zr .\\ ] ] for detailed derivation see @xcite .",
    "a gaussian approximation of the predictive distribution can be obtained as follows .",
    "@xmath132 where @xmath133 denotes hidden variables above @xmath134 in the conditional dependency architecture of the model .",
    "the mean of this distribution provides a prediction for the missing entry @xmath113 .",
    "conveniently , for missing entries the mean of ( [ pred ] ) is identical to that of @xmath108 ( as @xmath135 ) , so that the imputation of missing values takes no additional computation .",
    "further , evaluating ( [ pred ] ) when @xmath136 ( i.e. no measurement of errors )  in order to test the prediction performance",
    " also happens to be identical to evaluating @xmath108 from ( a15 ) and  a1.4 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> efficient predictive models and data analysis techniques for the analysis of photometric and spectroscopic observations of galaxies are not only desirable , but required , in view of the overwhelming quantities of data becoming available . </S>",
    "<S> we present the results of a novel application of bayesian latent variable modelling techniques , where we have formulated a data - driven algorithm that allows one to explore the stellar populations of a large sample of galaxies from their spectra , without the application of detailed physical models . </S>",
    "<S> our only assumption is that the galaxy spectrum can be expressed as a linear superposition of a small number of independent factors , each a spectrum of a stellar sub - population that can not be individually observed </S>",
    "<S> . a probabilistic latent variable architecture that explicitly encodes this assumption is then formulated , and a rigorous bayesian methodology is employed for solving the inverse modelling problem from the available data . </S>",
    "<S> a powerful aspect of this method is that it formulates a density model of the spectra , based on which we can handle observational errors . </S>",
    "<S> further , we can recover missing data both from the original set of spectra which might have incomplete spectral coverage of each galaxy , or from previously unseen spectra of the same kind .    </S>",
    "<S> we apply this method to a sample of 21 ultraviolet - to - optical spectra of well - studied early - type galaxies , for which we also derive detailed physical models of star formation history ( i.e. age , metallicity and relative mass fraction of the component stellar populations ) </S>",
    "<S> . we also apply it to synthetic spectra made up of two stellar populations , spanning a large range of parameters . </S>",
    "<S> we apply four different data models , starting from a formulation of principal components analysis ( pca ) , which has been widely used . </S>",
    "<S> we explore alternative factor models , relaxing the physically unrealistic assumption of gaussian factors , as well as constraining the possibility of negative flux values that are allowed in pca , and show that other models perform equally well or better , while yielding more physically acceptable results . in particular , the more physically motivated assumptions of our rectified factor analysis enable it to perform better than pca , and to recover physically meaningful results .    </S>",
    "<S> we find that our data - driven bayesian modelling allows us to identify those early - type galaxies that contain a significant stellar population that is @xmath0  1 gyr old . </S>",
    "<S> this experiment also concludes that our sample of early - type spectra showed no evidence of more than two major stellar populations differing significantly in age and metallicity . </S>",
    "<S> this method will help us to search for such young populations in a large ensemble of spectra of early - type galaxies , without fitting detailed models , and thereby to study the underlying physical processes governing the formation and evolution of early - type galaxies , particularly those leading to the suppression of star formation in dense environments . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , this method would be a very useful tool for automatically discovering various interesting sub - classes of galaxies , for example post - starburst , or e+a galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : elliptical and lenticular , cd  galaxies : stellar content  methods : data analysis </S>"
  ]
}