{
  "article_text": [
    "i recently reported on an original method to produce accurate extinction maps of large nearby molecular clouds .",
    "this method , based on adaptive star counts and wavelet decomposition , has been successfully applied to the nearby chamaeleon i molecular cloud using massive @xmath0band star counts provided by denis ( cambrsy et al .",
    "1997 , cambrsy 1998 ) . the combination of an extinction map and multicolour photometric near  infrared data such as those provided by denis , are powerful tools to investigate the young stellar populations of a star  forming region . in this poster",
    "i present , on one side , new identifications of yso candidates in cha i and , on the other side , further applications of my method to optical data and their use to draw out extensive maps of moderate extinction .",
    "the detection of an infrared excess in a star , after removing the effect of cloud reddening , is a classical , but powerful method to discover new yso candidates within a dark cloud .",
    "every star detected in the cha i cloud by denis has been dereddened using the extinction map previously drawn out .",
    "these values of extinction must be considered as an upper limit of the extinction suffered by the stars . to select new yso candidates ,",
    "i have represented all stars in a colour  magnitude diagram ( @xmath1 versus @xmath2 ) and picked up stars which are off the main sequence by a distance corresponding to more than 8 magnitudes of visual extinction .",
    "fifty four new yso candidates have been selected in this way ( cambrsy et al 1998 ) .",
    "these new candidates are clearly concentrated in regions where the visual extinction is greater than 2 .",
    "this argues in favour of their youth .",
    "extinction could be underestimated if small size globules , not resolved in the extinction map ( i.e. smaller than approximately 2 arcminutes ) would lie on the line of sight of the object .",
    "assuming that the new candidates are mainly t tauri stars , i can trace , together with already known t tauri stars their luminosity function , and attempt to derive their basic properties such as their mass and age . applying theoretical evolutionary tracks of dantona & mazzitelli ( 1994 ) and assuming the miller and scalo initial mass function ,",
    "i can derive theoretical @xmath1 luminosity functions ( klf ) , @xmath3 , for different ages ranging from @xmath4 to @xmath5 years .",
    "i applied a singular value decomposition in order to solve the following system of equations  : @xmath6 where @xmath7 is the observed klf .",
    "figure [ klf ] represents the observed and the best fitted theoretical klfs .",
    "this best fitting method suggests that two critical ages can be derived .",
    "one , corresponding to @xmath8 years , is consistent with the end of an active star formation period in the cloud .",
    "the other , @xmath9 years , represents the maximum lifetime of the disc , since i assume that the criterion of infrared excess used to select new candidates yields only stars surrounded by massive circumstellar discs .",
    "the method that i have developed to produce maps of the extinction can be applied to optical data provided by the digitisation of schmidt plates . the usno catalogue ( monet 1996 ) provides @xmath10 and @xmath11 photometry for the all sky .",
    "these data allow large scale mapping of ( moderate ) extinction and are useful to identify the most obscured areas where near  infrared data are required to provide further information , basically when the optical extinction is greater than 5 magnitudes .",
    "figure [ cha ] and [ chabj ] represents the extinction map of the whole chamaeleon complex ( @xmath12 square degrees ) and the comparison between @xmath10 and @xmath0 extinction maps of the chamaeleon i cloud , respectively .",
    "comparison of the chamaeleon map derived from @xmath10 and @xmath0 star counts ( cambrsy et al 1997 ) shows significant differences .",
    "optical data indicate a maximum of visual extinction of about 5 magnitudes , while a maximum of 10 a@xmath13 is reached when using @xmath0 counts .",
    "moreover 4 different cores with a@xmath13 greater than 7 can be separated thanks to @xmath0 counts .",
    "since the extinction in @xmath0 band is only one third of the visual extinction , near  infrared data allow deeper investigations of the cloud . for areas with low extinction , optical data are the most useful .",
    "the large scale map of the chamaeleon complex shows the possible dust connection between the different components of the whole cloud .    [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]",
    "large scale multi ",
    "wavelengths optical and near  infrared digitised surveys provide immense databases that contain unprecedented numbers of stars with good photometry .",
    "they provide the observational material that dramatically renew the interest of the classical , but powerful _ star count _",
    "method to derive interstellar extinction .",
    "i have implemented new computer tools that allow to take maximum benefit of these huge databases to draw out arcminute resolution map of extinction and applied them to the freshly recorded denis data on the cha i cloud .",
    "these maps are very useful to identify intrinsically red objects which are likely to be ysos and t tauri stars .",
    "i have started to extend this method to most of the large molecular clouds such as the all chamaeleon complex , carina nebula , coalsack , corona australis , lupus , musca , orion , @xmath14 ophiuchus , rosetta , taurus , serpens , etc ... using the incoming denis data , and , at larger scale , the optical data for moderate absorptions .",
    "i expect that the combination of extinction maps based on b , r , i , j , k counts will strongly improve our knowledge of the distribution and physical properties of the dust within clouds and in the milky way , in general .",
    "cambresy , l. , epchtein , n. , copet , e. , de batz , b. , kimeswenger , s. , le bertre , t. , rouan , d. , & tiphne , d. 1997 , , 324 , l5 cambresy , l. 1998 , in the impact of near - infrared sky surveys on galactic and extragalactic astronomy , ed . n. epchtein , kluwer assl ser . 230 , 157 cambresy , l. , copet , e. , epchtein , n. , de batz , b. , borsenberger , j. , fouqu , p. , kimeswenger , s. & tiphne , d. 1998 , , in press dantona , f. & mazzitelli , i. 1994 , , 90 , 467 lawson , w.a . ,",
    "feigelson , e.d . ,",
    "huenemoerder , d.p .",
    "1996 , , 280,1071 monet , d. 1996 , , 188 , 5404 whittet , d.c.b . , kirrane , t.m . ,",
    "kilkenny , d. , oates , a.p .",
    ", watson , g. 1987 , , 224 , 497"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i present new results on the extinction and on the yso content of the chamaeleon i cloud using the star count method that i have implemented and applied to denis and optical data . </S>",
    "<S> application of this method to other nearby large molecular clouds is in progress and is briefly outlined . </S>"
  ]
}