{
  "article_text": [
    "galaxies responsible for gravitational lensing have typically been modeled as one - component systems in which the entire mass distribution of the galaxy lens , visible plus dark matter , is fairly well approximated by a singular isothermal sphere ( sis ) : @xmath0 ( see e.g. narayan and bartelmann 1997 ) .",
    "this is probably justified for e / so galaxies where both components have a surface density fairly independent of orientation ( a small ellipticity is required only to understand the presence of four - image systems ) and the high central density represents the high density of the visible matter .",
    "by contrast , in spiral galaxies the disk component has a very different structure from the dark matter halo and the bulge , which results in significantly different projected surface density depending on orientation .",
    "given that the projected surface density of the disk changes by a factor of radius / thickness @xmath1 between a face - on and an edge - on spiral , and that the dark and visible components are known to contribute roughly equally to the total mass within 4  5 disk scale lengths , one would expect significant effects on lensing properties for images within a couple of optical radii .",
    "the identification of the lensing galaxy in the double image system b1600 + 434 as a nearly edge on spiral by jaunsen and hjorth ( 1997 ) gives us a perfect example to demonstrate the importance of including the disk component in modeling lensing by spirals . however , an understanding of the lensing geometry of spirals is important for several reasons besides that of modeling observed systems .",
    "first , recently the gravitational lensing effects on damped lyman alpha systems ( dlas ) have been investigated ( smette , claeskens , and surdej 1997 ; bartelmann and loeb 1996 ) .",
    "at least some dlas are believed to be due to absorption in protogalactic disks or spiral galaxies ( wolfe 1988 , 1997 ) , and if the gas column density falls off exponentially , one is necessarily dealing with lensing within a few exponential scale lengths of the galaxy center , which is where we expect disk lensing to be important . secondly ,",
    "the extra parameters added by introducing a disk component are the physically interesting ones of disk surface density and scale length , so that the observational study of gravitational lensing by spirals will provide new constraints on the distribution of mass in the various components of spirals .",
    "although only a few such systems are currently known , surveys such as the sloan digital sky survey will catalog a large number of quasars , among which there should be a significant number lensed by spiral galaxies . this is why it is also important to understand the effect of disk lensing on statistical properties such as the cross section for multiple - image lensing by spirals .    in this paper we first explain our method of modeling spiral galaxy lenses as singular isothermal spheres plus infinitesimally thin disks ( sis+disk ) .",
    "we start with the simple example of a constant density disk , to show the effect of adding a disk .",
    "we show that such a model fits many of the observations on b1600 + 434 , and discuss the results of modeling , more properly , with an exponential disk .",
    "we then discuss the dependence of the lens cross section for multiple lensing of background sources on the inclination of the disk , and discuss also how it would enhance the gravitational lensing effects on dlas .",
    "we finish with the conclusions and implications from our work .",
    "we model a spiral galaxy as consisting of two mass components : a spherical halo and an infinitesimally thin disk .",
    "we assume that the halo has the density profile of a singular isothermal sphere , while the disk is treated as having surface density that is either constant , or falls off exponentially . for simplicity and clarity",
    "we start by treating the case of the constant density disk .",
    "the orientation of the disk defines the coordinate system , such that the x and y directions are along the major and minor axis , respectively , of the projected disk , and the disk center defines the origin .",
    "the model has then 6 parameters : the position of the source ( @xmath2 ) , the inclination of the disk @xmath3 , the velocity dispersion of the sis @xmath4 ( the sis can be equivalently be described by @xmath5 ) , and the central surface density @xmath6 and characteristic length of the disk . for a constant density disk this characteristic length is the radius of the disk , while in the exponential disk case this becomes the scale length , @xmath7 .",
    "thus , measuring the position of the lens , the inclination of the disk , the two image positions ( @xmath8 ) , and the magnification ratio completely determines the system .    the inclined circular disk projects onto an ellipse .",
    "we denote the axis ratio of an ellipse in general as @xmath9 , and that of our disk as @xmath3 .",
    "any point @xmath10 external to the ellipse will define a new confocal ellipse with axis ratio @xmath11 . then the reduced deflection angle , modified from schramm ( 1990 ) , is given by @xmath12 here @xmath13 is the usual critical density defined as @xmath14 and @xmath15 is the lens , source , or lens - to - source angular diameter distance .",
    "if the point @xmath10 is inside the disk , then @xmath11 is just replaced with @xmath3 .",
    "in the gravitational lens system b1600 + 434 identified by jackson et al .",
    "( 1995 ) , the lensed quasar is at a redshift @xmath16 , the image separation is 14 , and the intensity ratio is @xmath17 in the radio ( in the optical , image b suffers significant extinction ) . the lens galaxy , identified as a nearly edge on spiral by jaunsen and hjorth ( 1997 ) , has an estimated photometric redshift @xmath18 , and axis ratio @xmath19 , or @xmath20 .",
    "( it is possible that this galaxy is actually an s0 , as suggested to us by c. kochanek , private communication , jannuary 1997 , but this will not effect our analysis as there is still a disk . ) to emphasize that this paper is meant as a qualitative exploration of the sis+disk model , and because @xmath21 is still uncertain , we treat all measurements as exact and include no estimates of errors .",
    "the positions of the images in the lens - centered , axes - defined coordinate system are given in table i. note that the lensing galaxy is just 035 from image b. in all of our calculations , we assume @xmath22 , @xmath23 and @xmath24 . also we calculate angular diameter distances assuming all the matter in the universe is smoothly distributed ( see schneider , ehlers and falco 1992 ) .    treating the lens as a singular isothermal sphere requires a velocity dispersion of 200 km / s to account for the image separation .",
    "of course , in this case the lens must be collinear with the images , which is not the case observationally ( one would need to introduce some ellipticity in the dark matter distribution to avoid this ) .",
    "however , we can obtain an estimate of the implied relative magnification and the time delay by shifting the lens to the collinear position along a line perpendicular to @xmath25 .",
    "the implied time delay is @xmath26 days , and the magnification ratio is 3.8 .",
    "( the results are similar if the lens position is shifted keeping the ratio of image - lens distances : @xmath27 , magnification ratio 3.2 . )",
    "if one chooses instead to shift the lens to a position that gives the observed relative magnification , the time delay is @xmath28 days , but then the images would both be at a similar distance from the lens , which is not as observed .    if instead we model the system as a sis+constant density disk , we introduce two new parameters , surface density and disk length .",
    "the farther image s light passes through the disk only @xmath29 kpc from its center , so we can start by assuming that the disk length is greater than this and remove one parameter . the equations for a disk with radius greater than @xmath29 become @xmath30 and the lensing potential of the disk in this case is @xmath31 solving for the image positions in table i gives @xmath32 , @xmath33 km / s , and a source position of ( 0.037 , 0.12 ) .",
    "the magnification ratio is 1.3 , and the time delay is now @xmath34 days . see figure 1 .",
    "the addition of the disk component has four main effects .",
    "first it breaks the spherical symmetry , allowing the lens not to be collinear with the images .",
    "second , the velocity dispersion in the halo becomes significantly less , as the disk component contributes substantially to the deflection angle . and",
    "third , in this case the magnification ratio is reduced , though in general it depends strongly on the orientation of the images around the lens axis .",
    "also the time delay is increased , because the potential now has a term quadratic in @xmath35 , and because the geometric time delays do not cancel out as they do in the sis case .",
    "it is interesting to note that the surface density of the disk comes out as a reasonable number , although a priori it could have been anything . the deflection caused by a disk with density @xmath36 is of the same scale as that caused by a halo with @xmath37 km / s .",
    "since we observe roughly this amount of luminous matter in the disk , it is clear that the disk s contribution can not be ignored .",
    "of course a disk with constant surface density out to 9@xmath38 kpc is not a realistic model .",
    "we can realistically assume the disk s surface density falls off as an exponential with scale length @xmath7 . in figure 2",
    "the images from an exponential disk with @xmath39 kpc , @xmath40 and a halo with @xmath41 km / s are shown .",
    "the images are within the position errors for the lens center , and the magnification ratio is roughly correct at 0.97 .",
    "interestingly we find that the magnification ratio is strongly dependent on the relative orientation of the images and the lens axis .",
    "figure 3 shows the magnification ratio as a function of angle from the y - axis .",
    "a magnification ratio of 1.3 requires that the source be about @xmath42 off the y - axis , which also corresponds to the image orientation found in b1600 + 434 .    in this preliminary study",
    "we have found a surprisingly large disk - to - halo ratio in order to fit the image positions .",
    "for the exponential disk , the total disk mass is @xmath43 , compared to a halo velocity dispersion of @xmath41 km / s . in comparison , standard lore ( binney and tremaine 1987 ) gives values of @xmath44 for the disk mass and 155 km / s velocity dispersion for the milky way with a disk scale length of 3.5 kpc .",
    "while there are large uncertainties in these parameters for the milky way , our calculated disk mass does seem excessively large . without an understanding of the uncertainties , it is hard to judge how significant these results are . in particular",
    "the inclination we have used of @xmath45 ( based on the axis ratio measured by jaunsen and hjorth 1997 ) could be much higher , which tends to decrease the scale length and hence the total disk mass .",
    "a preliminary inspection of hst archival images of b1600 + 434 reveals a dust lane nearly bifurcating the disk , suggesting an inclination greater than @xmath46 .",
    "however , if the large disk mass did turn out to be significant , it may be evidence that the dark matter halo is flattened ( see for example olling 1996 ; sackett 1996 ; rix 1995 ) , and the non - spherically situated dark matter is contributing to what we have assumed is a visible matter disk .",
    "it is also possible that the dark matter halo may have a core radius , and since the lensing is mostly sensitive to the matter inside the images , the @xmath4 we are measuring is lower than the value one would use to characterize the galaxy .",
    "we are preparing to address these issues in a more detailed study to follow .",
    "the inclination of the disk can have a dramatic effect on the lens cross section for multiple lensing of background sources , as we show in figure 4 . here",
    "we model the disk with constant surface density again , but we choose parameters more representative of an @xmath47-type spiral .    in this case",
    "it is possible to obtain a simple expression for the critical inclination , @xmath48 , at which the cross section begins to exceed that of the sis halo alone .",
    "just note that this occurs when the inner caustic due to the disk touches the sis caustic .",
    "if the inclination slightly exceeds @xmath49 , then we can have a source just outside the sis caustic and just inside the disk caustic ( see the @xmath50curve in figure 4 ) .",
    "a source at this location , @xmath51 with @xmath52 , has three images . using the lens equation",
    "@xmath53 we see that , assuming the disk radius is larger than @xmath54 , one image is at @xmath55 because we know that as the source passes through the caustic the images will merge , we know that the other two images must be close to the first one .",
    "thus there are two images at @xmath56 and @xmath57 , where @xmath58 .",
    "for these two images the lens equation requires @xmath59 independently of @xmath60 .",
    "therefore , @xmath61 gives the critical inclination .    in figure 4",
    "we show two inclinations for a disk of mass @xmath62 and radius @xmath63 kpc , inside a sis halo with @xmath64 km / s . for this choice of parameters @xmath65 .",
    "thus , at an inclination of @xmath50 the cross section shows a modest increase .",
    "by contrast , at @xmath66 we find a very large increase by a factor of @xmath67 over that of the sis halo alone .",
    "the disk model is not realistic , of course , but the effect is quantitatively similar for an exponential disk . in particular",
    ", @xmath49 is still fairly well approximated by eq .",
    "( 10 ) .    whether this increase in cross section significantly increases the fraction of spiral galaxies responsible for multiple image lensing depends on the amount of mass in the disk . in figure 5",
    "one sees that for parameters like those quoted for the milky way the average ( integrated over cos@xmath68 ) increase is small , roughly @xmath69 . while , for a heavy disk like our model of b1600 + 434 , the average cross section increases by @xmath70 .",
    "but since the amplification also increases with disk inclination , the brightest quasars lensed by disk galaxies will probably have highly inclined disks , especially if the disks are massive . thus the fraction of lenses that are spirals , and their relative inclinations , will place strong constraints on the total disk mass .",
    "we shall discuss these issue in more detail in a subsequent publication .",
    "the last problem we study here is how our results would affect the gravitational lensing effects on dlas .",
    "bartelmann and loeb ( 1996 ) and smette ( 1995 ) have pointed out that gravitational lensing could significantly affect the observed properties of dlas for two reasons .",
    "first , magnification bias significantly enhances the probability of observing damped absorption in a qso spectrum .",
    "second , there is a cutoff in the observed column density due to light bending , which makes it far more likely to observe absorption that occurs at large radii .",
    "since the column density of absorbing hi falls off exponentially , this significantly affects the observed column densities .    in their studies ,",
    "smette et al . (",
    "1997 ) , bartelmann and loeb ( 1996 ) treated the spiral disk as essentially massless for lensing purposes .",
    "we find that including the disk lensing will significantly enhance both these effects , as we show in figure 6 .",
    "there we show the effects of adding disk lensing on the magnification and impact parameters of two sources .",
    "first , note that there is a significant increase in the magnification of the image that , precisely , occurs on the surface of the disk .",
    "for the example shown , the @xmath71type disk considered above , the point - source magnification increase is @xmath72 for the source at position 1 ( 2 ) .",
    "second , there is an increase in the impact parameter , which would result in further reduction of the observed column density .",
    "these results are typical of what we find at high inclinations of @xmath73 @xmath46 . note that the increased magnification by inclined disks increases the likelihood of lensing in this configuration ; this could obviate the need for rather thick disks ( e.g. , wolfe 1997 ) to account for the metal line systems seen in dlas .",
    "also one must be aware that unresolved multiple images may pass through the same disk at various places complicating the reconstruction of the absorbing system .",
    "a complete analysis is now far more involved , as one must model the disk as an exponential disk , average over the observed magnification , and average over the disk inclination .",
    "also the effects of dust in obscuring images ( as clearly demonstrated in the relative reddening of image b to a in b1600 + 434 ) must be included .",
    "we will discuss the full problem in a subsequent publication .",
    "we have shown that the inclusion of a disk component in a spiral gravitational lens model has significant effects that can not be ignored .",
    "our results imply that a host of issues ranging from the ability of spirals to lens qso s to detailed properties of lens systems should be reconsidered to properly include the lensing effects of their disks .",
    "we have shown , as an example , that a sis+disk model can account for the observations of the b1600 + 434 system with fairly reasonable parameters .",
    "the implications of our results are that a velocity dispersion @xmath4 significantly smaller than the sis prediction of 200 km / s , and a time delay greater than one month , are to be expected .    with more data and more detailed analysis",
    ", the modeling of multiply  imaged systems lensed by spiral galaxies will constrain the relative amounts of matter in the disk and halo when disk lensing is included . however , because of the dependence on new parameters , further study will be necessary before such systems can give an unambiguous measurement of the hubble parameter @xmath74 .",
    "we have also noted that the disk contribution to lensing will make the amplification and by - pass effects on the observed distribution of dlas in bright qso s even more pronounced at high column densities .",
    "after the first version of this paper was posted on the preprint archive as astro - ph/9701110 , the preprint astro - ph/9702078 was posted by wang and turner discussing critical curves and caustics of inclined , constant density disks .",
    "their equations and figures can be seen to be the same as ours if one is careful to scale appropriately by the hubble constant @xmath74 , and to notice that they have calculated angular diameter distances with all the matter in the universe in clumps while we have assumed it to be distributed smoothly .",
    "this work has been supported by nsf grant phy-9600239 at um - st .",
    "louis , and by nsf grant phy-9402455 and a nasa atp grant at ucsc .",
    "am also acknowledges gaann support .",
    "the authors are grateful for helpful suggestions from the referee , matthias bartelmann ; for help from raja guhathakurta and steve vogt in interpreting the hst archival image of b1600 + 434 ; and correspondence from a.o .",
    "jaunsen , chris kochanek , and tom schramm .",
    "bartelmann , m. & loeb , a. 1996 , apj , 457 , 529 binney , j. & tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics , ( princeton : princeton univ . press ) , 17 jackson , n. , et al .",
    "1995 , mnras , 274 , l25 jaunsen , a. o. & hjorth , j. 1997 , a&a , 317 , l39 olling , r. p. 1996 , preprint astro - ph/9612018 narayan , r. & bartelmann , m. 1997 , in formation and structure of the universe , ed . a. dekel & j. p. ostriker ( cambridge : cambridge university press ) , in press rix , h .- w .",
    "1996 , in unsolved problems of the milky way , eds .",
    "l. blitz & p. teuben ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 23 sackett , p. d. , in astrophysical applications of gravitational lensing , eds . c. s. kochanek & j. n. hewitt ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 165 schneider , p. , ehlers , .j & falco , e. e. 1992 , gravitational lenses , ( springer - verlag : new york ) , 142 schramm , t. 1990 , a&a , 231 , 19 smette , a. , claeskens , j. f. , & surdej , j. 1997 , preprint to appear in new astronomy smette , a. 1995 , in qso absorption lines , ed . g. meylan , ( new york : springer ) , 275 wolfe , a.m. 1997 , to appear in critical dialogues in cosmology , ed .",
    "neil turok ( singapore : world scientific ) .",
    "wolfe , a. m. 1988 , in qso absorption lines : probing the universe , eds .",
    "j. c. blades , d. a. turnshek , & c. a. norman ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) , 297"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> spheroidal components of spiral galaxies have been considered the only dynamically important component in gravitational lensing studies thus far . here </S>",
    "<S> we point out that including the disk component can have a significant effect , depending on the disk inclination , on a variety of lensing properties that are relevant to present studies and future surveys . as an example , we look at the multiple image system b1600 + 434 , recently identified as being lensed by a spiral galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> we find that including the disk component one can understand the fairly large image separation as being due to the inclination of a typical spiral , rather than the presence of a very massive halo . </S>",
    "<S> the fairly low magnification ratio can also be readily understood if the disk is included . </S>",
    "<S> we also discuss how such lensed systems might allow one to constrain parameters of spiral galaxies such as a disk  to  halo mass ratio , and disk mass scale length . </S>",
    "<S> another example we consider is the quasar multiple  lensing cross section , which we find can increase many  fold at high inclination for a typical spiral . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we discuss the changes in the gravitational lensing effects on damped lyman alpha systems ( dlas ) when disk lensing is included . </S>"
  ]
}