{
  "article_text": [
    "faint sub - mm galaxies were discovered with the first generation of multi - element detecting devices working at sub - mm wavelengths , most notably the scuba array ( smail , ivison & blain 1997 ) .",
    "the nature of these galaxies has however remained a mystery , despite a considerable amount of observing time spent obtaining @xmath5 detections in the field and behind lensing clusters ( blain et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "the generally accepted working idea is that these sub - mm galaxies are distant @xmath0 systems which emit in the rest - frame far infrared due to thermal emission from dust grains heated by star formation and/or active galactic nuclei ( agn ) .",
    "these objects are also thought to be analogs of nearby ultra luminous infrared galaxies ( ulirgs ) , although even in nearby ulirgs it is debated whether or not the dust is heated by the uv continuum of massive stars , or an active nucleus . as",
    "sub - mm galaxies are 400 times more common at @xmath6 than at @xmath7 , they constitute a significant fraction of the bolometric luminosity density at high redshift ( chapman et al .",
    "2003a ) , thus understanding their origin and relationship to nearby galaxies is of central importance .    answering fundamental questions concerning sub - mm galaxies by studying them at multiple wavelengths has remained very difficult due to the low - resolution of scuba and other sub - mm instruments , making identifications at other wavelengths difficult .",
    "one approach to this problem has been to identify sub - mm galaxies through their emission in the radio ( ivison et al .",
    "1998 ; chapman et al .",
    "2002a ) , utilizing the fact that sub - mm / far - infrared luminosities correlate in nearby galaxies ( helou et al .",
    "1985 ) . through these identifications ,",
    "we are able to determine sub - mm source positions to within a sub - arcsec , from which optical follow - up can be done readily .",
    "a subset of these sub - mm galaxies whose positions were located using the radio have been imaged with the hubble space telescope using stis ( see also a companion paper , chapman et al .",
    "previous studies have been largely qualitative , and often with misidentifications ( e.g. , smail et al .",
    "1998 ; ivison et al . 2001 ; chapman et al .",
    "2002b ) .",
    "based on our analysis we conclude that 40 - 80% of these sub - mm sources are consistent with undergoing a major merger , and statistically rule out at 5 @xmath3 confidence that these systems are normal galaxies at high redshift .",
    "we further demonstrate , through comparisons with artificially redshifted nearby ulirgs and normal ( non - ulirg ) galaxies , that high redshift sub - mm galaxies appear qualitatively similar to ulirgs , and are potentially forming into massive spheroids .",
    "our sample consists of 11 sub - mm sources selected in the radio .",
    "the full sample selection for these galaxies is described in chapman et al .",
    "( 2003b ) . although there are some selection issues based on using radio identifications , these objects were not selected based on optical properties , and they span a wide range of optical magnitudes ( chapman et al .",
    "each of the sub - mm sources ( figure  1 ) we study was imaging in the 50cd clear filter in one to three orbits , in two separate exposures per orbit , resulting in a total exposure time of 1 - 3 ks ( see chapman et al .",
    "2003b for further details ) .",
    "we analyzed these images using the cas ( concentration , asymmetry and clumpiness ) morphological system ( conselice 2003 ) . in the cas system",
    ", the asymmetry index ( @xmath8 ) is used to determine whether or not a galaxy is involved in a major merger ( conselice et al . 2000a ,",
    "b ; conselice 2003 ; conselice et al .",
    "the value of @xmath8 is calculated by rotating a galaxy through 180and subtracting this rotated galaxy from the original and comparing the absolute value of the residuals of this subtraction to the original galaxy flux ( conselice et al .",
    "before carrying out the cas analysis on the sub - mm galaxy images we removed any galaxies and stars close to the sub - mm sources , so as to not contaminate the measurements .",
    "we placed our initial guess for the center on the brightest portion of the sub - mm galaxy , and then ran the cas program to determine asymmetries and light concentrations .    to understand the systematics due to a lowered resolution and signal to noise we artificially redshifted 50 nearby ulirgs ( from farrah et al .",
    "2001 and conselice 2003 ) and 82 normal hubble types ( frei et al .",
    "1996 , conselice 2003 ) to how they would appear in our stis images at @xmath4 , the spectroscopic redshift range of these sources ( chapman et al . in prep ) .",
    "these simulations are done by reducing the resolution and surface brightness of a galaxy as to how it would appear at high redshifts .",
    "the amount of noise matching that expected in the stis observations are then added in .",
    "once we create these new images , based on these simulations , we remeasure the cas parameters of the simulated galaxies , in the same manner as on the original sub - mm sources .",
    "note that we are taking a very conservative approach by including these two types of nearby galaxies to account for redshift effects .",
    "the apparent morphology of the sub - mm sources is very peculiar and therefore the likewise peculiar nearby ulirgs are a better population for making this correction .",
    "normal galaxies also do not become significantly more irregular in the rest - frame ultraviolet ( windhorst et al .",
    "we use the nearby normal sample as an extreme lower limit to what these corrections could be .",
    "concentration - asymmetry diagrams for our sample of sub - mm galaxies are shown in figure  2 .",
    "the asymmetry and concentration values for these galaxies have been corrected for redshift effects assuming they have morphologies intrinsically similar to ulirgs ( figure  2a , c ) , and nearby normal galaxies ( figure  2b , d ) ( conselice et al .",
    ".    we also plot on figure  2a , b the average values and @xmath9 variations of measured concentrations and asymmetries for nearby galaxy populations , including ulirgs , as observed in the rest - frame optical ( conselice 2003 ) .",
    "although we view these sub - mm galaxies in the near to mid - uv , the morphological appearance of ulirgs and other star forming galaxies does not significantly differ between optical and near - uv wavelengths ( e.g. , conselice et al .",
    "2000c ; surace & sanders 2000 ;",
    "windhorst et al .",
    "figure  2c , d shows the location of the sub - mm galaxies in reference to the actual @xmath10 values found for nearby normal galaxies , including separately labeled ellipticals and ulirgs .",
    "figure  2 can be used to determine which population the sub - mm galaxies are most similar to morphologically . as can be seen in figure  2 ,",
    "the dominate morphological feature of the sub - mm galaxies is their high asymmetries .",
    "the distribution of the sub - mm sources in @xmath10 space is also most similar to the ulirgs , and does not overlap much with any normal galaxy type . using the major merger criteria calibrated in conselice ( 2003 ) , based on nearby ulirgs , we find that a galaxy is likely a major merger if @xmath11 . using the ulirg z @xmath2 2 correction , we find that the merger fraction for the sub - mm sources is 0.82 , which is the same fraction found when correcting by the @xmath12 simulations .",
    "the normal galaxy correction still reveals a large merger fraction of @xmath13 , which is certainly a lower limit to the actual fraction of galaxies involved in mergers .",
    "this lower limit is as high as the largest merger fractions found for any lyman - break galaxy population ( conselice et al .",
    "2003 ) (  3.2 ) .",
    "there are naturally uncertainties in this merger fraction calculation .",
    "first , the sample size is small , only 11 galaxies .",
    "second , it is based on a correction which has necessarily some uncertainty in it , since the sub - mm galaxies may be a mix of normal and merger / ulirg systems . to circumvent this problem we performed a series of monte carlo simulations using our normal and ulirg galaxy samples",
    "after they were simulated to @xmath6 .",
    "we take at random 11 of these objects and compute their asymmetry distributions , and compare this to the asymmetry distributions of the sub - mm sources . doing this",
    ", we find at a 5  @xmath3 confidence that normal galaxies at @xmath6 can not reproduce the asymmetry distribution of the sub - mm sources .",
    "the simulated ulirgs are also slightly less asymmetric than the sub - mm sources , but have asymmetry values distributions consistent to within 1.9 @xmath3 .",
    "the implied merger fraction of these sub - mm galaxies appears to be slightly larger than what is found for uv bright galaxies in the hubble deep field ( hdf ) ( conselice et al .",
    "2003 ) at similar redshifts .",
    "lyman - break galaxies at @xmath14 found in the hdf all have implied merger fractions lower than our derived sub - mm values ( conselice et al .",
    "for example uv bright galaxies at @xmath15 with magnitudes m@xmath16 and stellar masses @xmath17 have a merger fraction @xmath18 ( figure  3 ) . the brightest and most massive galaxies seen in the hdf , with m@xmath19 and m@xmath20 , have merger fractions @xmath21 , which is lower than the implied merger fractions of our sub - mm sample . from this",
    "it appears that the sub - mm galaxies are actively undergoing mergers in a greater abundance than lyman - break galaxies .",
    "this may be the result of higher mass systems undergoing more mergers at higher redshifts ( figure  3 ) .",
    "sub - mm galaxies as a population appear to be dominated by systems involved in major mergers , while the lyman - break galaxies are more likely to be in various phases of evolution , and perhaps includes starbursts not induced by major mergers . on figure  3",
    "we plot the merger fraction of the sub - mm sources at a stellar mass of 10@xmath22 .",
    "this estimate is likely roughly correct as sub - mm galaxies have dynamical and gas masses @xmath23 ( e.g. , frayer et al . 1998 ) .",
    "although we are in the regime of small number statistics , we can argue that the sub - mm galaxies are similar to nearby ulirgs in terms of their structural properties , in addition to their already well established similarities in producing rest - frame far infrared light ( e.g. , dey et al . 1999 ) .",
    "we have already argued this through the high asymmetries and implied high merger fraction for the sub - mm galaxies , and the low probability that these sub - mm sources are morphological similar to normal galaxies .",
    "this can be shown qualitatively as well .",
    "figure  4 shows nearby ulirgs at @xmath25 , and the same galaxy after it has been simulated to how it would appear at @xmath12 .",
    "these are the same simulations discussed in  2 to determine the correction to the concentration and asymmetry values for the sub - mm galaxies .",
    "these simulated ulirgs appear very similar to the sub - mm galaxies themselves ( figure  1 ) , although the separation between components in nearby ulirgs and the sub - mm sources differ ( chapman et al .",
    "nearby normal galaxies , such as disks and ellipticals do not appear in a similar manner when redshifted out to these same redshifts .",
    "we can further test how similar the ulirgs and sub - mm galaxies are in terms of their morphologies by performing a k - s test on their asymmetries and concentrations .",
    "the probability that the sub - mm source asymmetries are taken from the ulirg population asymmetries are 21% after correcting by the ulirg simulation results , and 2% when correcting by the normal galaxy simulations .",
    "the probability of association with the normal galaxies is @xmath26% when using the ulirg correction and 1% when using the normal galaxy simulation correction .",
    "the concentration index probabilities of association with ulirgs are 96% for the ulirg correction and 78% for the normal galaxy correction .",
    "the corresponding probabilities for a normal galaxy association are 12% and 32% , respectively .",
    "although these k - s tests are not conclusive they again rule out that the sub - mm asymmetry distribution is similar to the asymmetry distribution of normal galaxies .",
    "if sub - mm sources are analogs of nearby ulirgs then they are perhaps forming into modern ellipticals .",
    "ellipticals can be uniquely identified in the cas system by their high light concentrations and low asymmetries .",
    "the only galaxies that have light concentrations as high as ellipticals are ulirgs ( bershady et al .",
    "2000 ; conselice 2003 ) , suggesting a causal connection . based on figure  2",
    "it can also be seen that some of the sub - mm sources have light concentrations as high as ellipticals , suggesting that at least some of these systems are forming into spheroids .",
    "we can conclusively rule out that all of these systems are spirals , as 4 ( 36% ) have light concentrations too high to be forming into disks .",
    "sub - mm galaxies and ulirgs have comparable amounts of rest - frame far infrared luminosities , and large masses , suggesting that sub - mm sources result from a similar merger origin . however , direct quantitative evidence has been lacking .",
    "we argue in this paper that a significant fraction of sub - mm sources are galaxies actively engaged in major mergers by using the cas morphological system ( conselice 2003 ) .",
    "on - going major mergers are defined as systems with an asymmetry higher than the locally calibrated limit of @xmath27 . using this limit , and correcting for redshift effects",
    ", we find that 40 - 80% of sub - mm galaxies are consistent with undergoing major mergers .",
    "these results have important implications for the nature of massive galaxy formation .",
    "sub - mm sources constitute a significant galaxy population at high redshift , undergoing mergers , that likely later evolve into the massive galaxies seen in the nearby universe .",
    "these systems are also involved in large amounts of star formation that may be induced by the major merger , demonstrating that at least for the most massive galaxies , their stars are formed through merger induced starbursts rather than collapses .",
    "bershady , m.a . ,",
    "jagren , a. , & conselice , c.j .",
    "2000 , aj , 119 , 2645 blain , a.w . ,",
    "smail , i. , ivison , r.j . ,",
    "kneib , j - p . , & frayer , d.t .",
    "2002 , physics reports , 369 , 111 chapman , s.c . , lewis , g.f . , scott , d. , borys , c. , & richards , e. 2002a , apj , 570 , 557 chapman , s.c .",
    ", shapely , s. , steidel , c. , & windhorst , r. 2002b , apj , 572 , 1l chapman , s.c .",
    ", et al . 2003a , nature , in press chapman , s.c .",
    ", et al . 2003b , apj , submitted conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . , & jangren , a. 2000a , apj , 529 , 886 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . , & gallagher , j.s .",
    "2000b , a&a , 354 , 21l conselice , c.j . , gallagher , j.s . ,",
    "calzetti , d. , homeier , n. , kinney , a. 2000c , aj , 119 , 79 conselice , c.j .",
    "2003 , apjs , 147 , 1 conselice , c.j . ,",
    "bershady , m.a . , dickinson , m. , & papovich , c. 2003 , aj , in press , astro - ph/0306106 dey , a. , graham , j.r . ,",
    "ivison , r.j . , smail , i. , wright , g.s .",
    ", & liu , m.c .",
    "1999 , apj , 519 , 610 farrah , d. , et al .",
    "2001 , mnras , 326 , 1333 frayer , d. , et al .",
    "1998 , apj , 506 , l7 frei , z. , guhathakurta , p. , gunn , j.e . , & tyson , t.j .",
    "1996 , aj , 111 , 174 helou , g. , soifer , b.t . , &",
    "rowan - robinson , m. 1985 , apj , 298 , 7l ivison , r.j .",
    "1998 , apj , 494 , 211 ivison , r. , smail , i. , frayer , d. , kneib , j .-",
    "p . , & blain , a.w .",
    "2001 , apj , 561 , l45 papovich , c. , dickinson , m. , & ferguson , h.c .",
    "2001 , apj , 559 , 620 smail , i. , ivison , r.j . , &",
    "blain , a.w .",
    "1997 , apj , 490 , 5l surace , j. , & sanders , d.b .",
    "2000 , aj , 120 , 604 windhorst , r.a .",
    "2002 , apjs , 143 , 113"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> sub - mm detected galaxies located at redshifts @xmath0 host a major fraction of the bolometric luminosity at high redshifts due to thermal emission from heated dust grains , yet the nature of these objects remains a mystery . </S>",
    "<S> the major problem in understanding their origin is whether the dust heating mechanism is predominantly caused by star formation or active galactic nuclei , and what triggered this activity . </S>",
    "<S> we address this issue by examining the structures of a sample of 11 sub - mm galaxies imaged with stis on the hubble space telescope . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that @xmath1% of these sub - mm sources are undergoing an active major merger using the cas quantitative morphological system . </S>",
    "<S> we rule out at @xmath2 5 @xmath3 confidence that these sub - mm galaxies are normal hubble types at high redshift . </S>",
    "<S> this merger fraction appears to be higher than for lyman - break galaxies undergoing mergers at similar redshifts . using reasonable constraints on the stellar masses of lyman - break galaxies and these sub - mm sources </S>",
    "<S> , we further argue that at redshifts @xmath4 systems with high stellar masses are more likely than lower mass galaxies to be involved in major mergers . </S>"
  ]
}