{
  "article_text": [
    "infrared ( ir ) radiation , due to thermal emission from dust grains , is a key feature of star - forming regions .",
    "these grains play an important role in the chemistry , thermal balance , and evolution of these regions .",
    "this role , coupled with the ability for ir radiation to escape from areas of high optical depth , makes the determination of source parameters through the study of ir observations of great importance .",
    "the problem of obtaining source parameters from the ir observations is a difficult one . as a result ,",
    "it is important to study and evaluate the analysis methods used to judge their value and regimes of validity .",
    "in general , the analysis of ir observations can be broadly broken into two groups .",
    "the first approach relies upon the use of relatively simple , semi - analytic expressions which are derived from idealized and simplified approximations and assumptions ( see e.g. hildebrand 1983 ) .",
    "it has been shown previously that the strict use of this approach may lead to interpretations which are ambiguous or erroneous ( see e.g. , schmid - bergk & scholz 1976 ; butner et al .",
    "1991 ; doty & leung 1994 ; menshcikov & henning 1997 ; shirley , et al .",
    "the second approach involves the construction ( usually a grid ) of detailed , self - consistent radiative transfer models for the computation of model spectra and comparison with observations .",
    "while such codes are available for use by the general community ( e.g. csdust3 by egan , leung , & spagna 1983 ; dusty by ivezic , nenkova , & elitzur 1999 ) , constructing such models requires substantial time and effort . as a result ,",
    "the first approach remains a common choice .    in this paper",
    "we critically evaluate semi - analytic methods of analysis of ir observations of star - forming regions . here",
    "we consider internal and externally heated dust clouds as analogues of early - type star - forming regions .",
    "in particular , we examine the usual assumptions of homogeneities in density and temperature , as well as the neglect of opacity effects when applied to externally heated ir sources .",
    "we do this by constructing a series of realistic models of these regions , treating the model output as simulated observations .",
    "we then apply common semi - analytic methods to infer the source properties , and compare them to those used in constructing the models .",
    "the discrepancies between the input and inferred source properties yield a measure of the limitations of the semi - analytic methods used .",
    "the outline of this paper is as follows . in section 2",
    "we summarize the problem and current methods of analysis .",
    "we describe the models run and testing procedure in section 3 . in section 4",
    ", we discuss the role and determination of the dust temperature .",
    "we consider the dust mass in section 5 . in section 6",
    "we discuss the determination of the dust opacity function .",
    "we consider the determination of the dust density distribution in section 7 . finally , in section 8 , we summarize and draw conclusions from this study .",
    "for a spherically symmetric dust shell , the specific luminosity , defined to be the amount of energy emitted per unit frequency per unit time can be written as @xmath3 e^{-\\tau ( \\nu , r ) } n(r)4 \\pi r^2   ~ \\mathrm{d}r}.\\ ] ] here @xmath4 $ ] is the planck function at the dust temperature , @xmath5 , and @xmath6 , @xmath7 , and @xmath8 are the optical depth , grain absorption coefficient , and density distribution respectively as defined below .",
    "the density distribution and the grain absorption cross section are both assumed to be power laws with indices @xmath9 and @xmath10 , given by @xmath11 and @xmath12 respectively .",
    "the optical depth , @xmath6 , at a radius @xmath13 is defined as @xmath14 for convenience , we define the optical depth in the visible to be @xmath15 .    in order to evaluate the specific luminosity explicitly , the temperature distribution , @xmath5 , density distribution , and grain properties need to be known . for this reason ,",
    "it is common to assume that sources are isothermal and optically thin . in this limit ,",
    "equation ( 1 ) simplifies to @xmath16 and can then be solved analytically if the density distribution is known or assumed to be known . from equation",
    "( 5 ) we can derive semi - analytic expressions for many of the source parameters , as discussed below .      as stated above , it is common to assume that sources are isothermal ( see , e.g. , launhardt et al .",
    "1996 ) . in order to determine the temperature of such a source , wiens law denoting the peak of an unmodified blackbody spectrum ( @xmath17 )",
    "is often used ( assuming an isothermal source as in eq . [ 5 ] ) , @xmath18 it is also possible to find the temperature by fitting the flux spectrum ( see sect 2.4 ) . in practice",
    "this takes many forms , depending upon the quantity and quality of data available for a given source .",
    "these approaches range from fitting the observed flux at a single wavelength point to find a single equivalent brightness temperature ( e.g. henning et al .",
    "2000 ) , to using a two - wavelength effective color temperature ( e.g. grady et al .",
    "2001 ) to fitting the flux spectrum with a single temperature greybody ( e.g. , siebenmorgen , krgel , & chini 1999 ) , to using two temperature components ( e.g. , krgel et al . 1998 ; ward - thompson et al .",
    "2000 ) . in many cases ,",
    "the dust properties are assumed to be known _ a priori _ ( e.g. , krgel et al . 1998 ; henning et al . 2000 ) , though they are sometimes determined directly from the observations ( see e.g. , launhardt , ward - thompson , & henning 1997 ; voshchinnikov & krgel 1999 ; abraham et al .",
    "2000 ; and sect 2.4 ) .      assuming a dust grain mass @xmath19 , the total dust mass of the source is @xmath20 in the optically thin and isothermal limits , the dust mass can be expressed in terms of the specific luminosity ( see eq . [ 5 ] ) by @xmath21 by expressing the specific luminosity in terms of the observed flux , @xmath22 , and the distance to the source , @xmath23",
    ", the mass can be written as @xmath24 ( hildebrand 1983 ; in various forms by , e.g , beichman et al . 1990 , launhardt et al .",
    "1996 ; siebenmorgen , krgel , & chini 1999 ) .",
    "as can be seen , the dust mass can be determined from the observed flux and an estimate of the distance to the source .",
    "unfortunately , this requires a good estimate of both the dust temperature ( see sect .",
    "4 ) and grain opacity function ( see sect .",
    "6 ) for an accurate dust mass estimate .",
    "the mass of the dust can also be determined by the spectral energy distribution ( doty and leung 1994 ) .",
    "the energy emitted from the dust is simply a reprocessing of the energy that the dust has absorbed . as a result , in an optically thin source",
    "the total emission is related to the total amount absorbed , which varies with optical depth or dust mass .",
    "@xmath25 assuming that the temperature is not a function of the dust mass .      for an optically thin source and when the rayleigh jeans approximation ( @xmath26 ; rja ) holds , the specific luminosity becomes @xmath27 by taking the ratio of luminosities at two different frequencies , the opacity index , @xmath10 can be determined ( helou 1989 ) as @xmath28 - 2.\\ ] ]    an interesting predictor - corrector - like iteration method was utilized by siebenmorgen , krgel , & chini ( 1999 ) . in this approach ,",
    "previous greybody models of similar sources were used to guess a single dust temperature .",
    "this was used to infer a dust opacity index , @xmath10 . given this value of @xmath10 the data were fit to find @xmath29 .",
    "finally , the corrected value dust temperature was used to find a final value for @xmath10 . while each step of the iteration used methods / assumptions described elsewhere here , the iterative approach helped to break the degeneracy between temperature and dust opacity .    on the other hand ,",
    "given the power of modern computers , and the large amounts of high quality far - infrared and submillimeter data becoming available for many sources , it is possible to consider the coupled problem and determine the temperature and the opacity index by fitting the observed spectrum ( see , e.g. , krugel et .",
    "al . 1998 ; ward - thompson et al . 2000 ; abraham et al .",
    "2000 ) . for an isothermal , optically thin source ,",
    "the specific luminosity can be written as @xmath30 where @xmath31 , @xmath32 , and @xmath33 become fitting parameters . here",
    ", the density distribution is incorporated into @xmath31 , the temperature is @xmath32 , and the opacity index , @xmath10 , is @xmath33 . to compute values for the fitting parameters , the chi - squared @xmath34 ^ 2/\\sigma^2(i),\\ ] ]",
    "is minimized for a given set of frequencies .",
    "the uncertainty in the measure of luminosity ( @xmath35 ) is defined by the parameter @xmath36 .",
    "we have only considered the case where the uncertainty is equal to a small fraction of @xmath35 ( doty and leung 1994 ) .",
    "this has the effect of equally weighting each point in the spectrum .",
    "if a resolved source is assumed to be isothermal along any line of sight , the mean intensity can be written as @xmath37 adopting a power law form for the optical depth , @xmath38 , and taking the ratio at two different frequencies , equation ( 15 ) is then @xmath39 assuming that the optical index , @xmath10 , is known ( see sect .",
    "6 ) , a temperature can be found given a ratio of intensities . using this temperature in equation ( 15 )",
    "will yield the optical depth for that frequency and line of sight .",
    "the optical depth at a given impact parameter is related to the column density , @xmath40 , along that line of sight .",
    "therefore , the form of the optical depth map will be the same form as a column density map for the same source .",
    "finally , the power law form for the column density , @xmath41 , can be related to the power law form of the density distribution , @xmath42 ( tomita et al . 1979 ) where @xmath43 .",
    "as yun and clemens ( 1991 ) point out , however , this is only appropriate for an infinite source .",
    "as one probes closer to the edge of a finite source , the column density along each line of sight approaches zero .",
    "thus , when fitting these outer radii , @xmath44 is artificially increased .",
    "it is possible to relate the theoretical column density to the density power index by @xmath45 where @xmath46 is an impact parameter and @xmath47 is the distance along the line of sight . for different values of the density distribution index , a column denisty map is formed . following yun and clemens ( 1991 ) , by matching the derived column density map with the calculated map , a value of @xmath9 can be found .",
    "in order to evaluate the reliability of current semianalytic methods of analysis one must compare the derived source parameters with their true values . as the source parameters for actual observations",
    "are not known , we have created simulated observations using a modified version of the 1d radiative transfer code of egan , leung @xmath48 spagna ( 1988 ) .",
    "the output of these models are treated as observational data and analysed using current techniques to derive the source parameters .",
    "these derived results can then be compared with the original model parameters .",
    "any differences between the two sets of data can be attributed to the method of analysis .",
    "we model sources in the interstellar medium that are predominantly heated extenally by the interstellar radiation field .",
    "regions of star formation , such as many dark clouds or bok globules , are the primary motivation .",
    "the processes involved in low - mass star formation are relatively well understood ( see e.g. review by shu , adams , & lizano 1987 ) . on the other hand , while the picture is not as complete in the high - mass case ( see e.g. churchwell 1993 , 1999 ) , recent work ( van der tak et al . 2000 ; doty et al .",
    "2002a ) seems to suggest that in general similar scalings may be at least potentially reasonable . in both situations ,",
    "an understanding of the source parameters ( dust properties , material distribution , existence / nature of an embedded star ) are important ( see e.g. , andre , ward - thompson , & barsony 2000 ) .",
    "typical model parameters are given in table 1 .",
    ".model parameters [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      +    in our models , we consider both internal and external heat sources .",
    "externally we use the interstellar radiation field ( isrf ) of mathis , mezger , @xmath48 panagia ( 1983 ) as the primary source of heating of the dust grains .",
    "we have also considered the effects of an updated isrf compiled by evans ( 2001 ) for comparison .",
    "this results in no significant qualitative difference in our results . to study the effects of young stellar objects ( ysos ) , protostars , and other embedded sources , we have also considered embedded sources with luminosities ranging from @xmath49 .",
    "the distribution of material in a star forming region is a topic of continuing study .",
    "both theoretical ( e.g. , larson 1969 ; shu 1977 ) and observational ( e.g. , fuller & myers 1993 ; van der tak et al .",
    "1999 ; evans et al . 2001 )",
    "studies suggest that the density distribution can be well fit by a power law . on the other hand , recent work",
    "( e.g. , henriksen , andre , & bontemps 1997 ; alves , lada , & lada 2001 ; whitworth & ward - thompson 2001 ) predict / infer more realistic density profiles , including multiple power laws and bonner - ebert spheres .",
    "observations and detailed modeling by evans et al .",
    "( 2001 ) for a number of star - forming sources suggest that it may not always yet be possible to observationally distinguish between power - laws and bonner - ebert spheres . as a result , and as we wish to provide a simple yet somewhat realistic parameterization , we restrict our study here to power laws as given in equation ( 2 ) .",
    "based upon models for cloud collapse and observations of star - forming regions ( e.g. , shu 1977 ; whitworth & summers 1985 ; foster & chevalier 1993 ; chandler & sargent 1993 ; ward - thompson et al .",
    "1994 ; andre et al .",
    "1993 ) , we model sources with density distribution indices in the range @xmath50 , namely @xmath51 , @xmath52 , and @xmath53 .",
    "we arbitrarily take the outer shell radius to be @xmath54 pc , and the ratio of the inner and outer radii to be @xmath55 .",
    "this choice of inner radius is chosen to usually yield dust temperatures of @xmath56 .",
    "we find that the choice of outer radius has little effect on the resulting spectra .",
    "we take the grain opacity function to be a power law of frequency as given in equation ( 3 ) .",
    "laboratory experiments show that for crystalline grain material , @xmath57 and for amorphous grain material , @xmath58 ( see e.g. , tielens @xmath48 allamandola 1987 ; henning , michel , stognienko 1995 ; agladze et al .",
    "1996 ; jager , mutschke , & henning 1998 ; fabian et al .",
    "cox and mezger ( 1989 ) have shown that for @xmath59 , the general behavior of the opacity function should be covered in our models .",
    "consequently , we take a value of @xmath60 .",
    "we normalized our opacity function to draine s ( 1985 ) values at 2.2@xmath61 for the scattering component and at 190@xmath61 for the absorption component .",
    "these grain properties not only generally represent laboratory data , but they also have the advantage that they reproduce observations of at least orion quite well ( doty & neufeld 1997 ) .    typical flux spectra for sources of varying luminosity and density distributions are shown in fig .",
    "1 . in fig .",
    "2 we show typical temperature distribution for sources of varying luminosity and density distributions .",
    "upon integrating equation ( 5 ) over all frequencies , it can be seen that the thermal energy density varies as @xmath62 . as a result ,",
    "a small change in temperature translates into a large change in the emergent spectrum .",
    "therefore , it is very important to determine the temperature distribution ( doty and leung 1994 ; shirley et al .",
    "2000 ) . the effect of different temperature distributions can be seen in figs . 1 and 2 .",
    "the peak wavelength of emission as well as the width of the spectra are affected by the dust temperature distribution .",
    "for the low luminosity embedded sources , the spectrum for the @xmath63 density distribution peaks at shorter wavelengths than the spectra for models with @xmath64 and @xmath65 .",
    "this is consistent with the corresponding temperature distributions in fig .",
    "2 , where the @xmath63 models are generally warmer . on the other hand , for the low luminosity embedded sources , the more uniform sources having @xmath65 and @xmath64 have a greater range of temperatures , and in general have cooler dust .",
    "the range in temperatures results in a wider spectrum in fig . 1 .",
    "this effect is also seen when comparing the models with @xmath66 with those of lower luminosity . in this case",
    ", the central source heats the dust to 800 - 1000k on the inner edge , producing a very large range of dust temperatures in the envelope .",
    "the highest temperatures occur with increasing optical depth and density distribution index , @xmath9 , due to radiation trapping in the interior .",
    "conversely , the inner dust temperature for a source with either no or a low luminosty central source is between 5 - 15 k with the higher temperatures resulting from a lower optical depth and a higher density distribution index , @xmath9 .",
    "these temperatures are not seen in fig . 2 due to the axes chosen for the plot .",
    "the corresponding emission spectra of the high luminosity cases both peak at a higher flux and have emission over a broader range of wavelengths .      as the intensity along a ray depends upon the temperature - dependent emissivity integrated along the line of sight , it is difficult to determine the temperature distribution in regions of star formation . as a result ,",
    "it is easiest to assume the source is isothermal .",
    "this assumption is best suited for sources which have either no embedded source , or only a very low luminoity central source . as seen in fig .",
    "2 , the temperature distribution is about constant for more than @xmath67 per cent of the source for such cases . when the distribution is not constant , it only changes by 2 - 5 k. on the other hand , for higher luminosity central sources the range of temperatures is 800 - 1000 k.    in order to determine the appropriate isothermal temperature to assign to a given source , it is often easiest to consider the peak of the spectrum .",
    "we accomplish this using a wiens law modified to account for the wavelength dependance of the absorption coefficient , @xmath68 .    in general",
    ", the peak of the emergent spectrum ( @xmath69 ) for an opacity index @xmath10 can be given by @xmath70 here @xmath71 is determined numerically , with results shown in fig .",
    "3 . as can be seen , the results are well - fit by @xmath72 with a correlation coefficient of @xmath73 for the range @xmath74 . in the case that @xmath75 ( see sect . 6 below ) , we find that @xmath76 .",
    "this temperature can then be compared to other physical temperatures associated with the source . in this way it is possible to know what meaning ,",
    "if any , can be assigned to this forced isothermal temperature .",
    "one temperature used for comparison is the number - weighted grain average temperature defined as @xmath77 this temperature is the average grain temperature .",
    "another comparison may be made with the energy - weighted temperature defined as @xmath78^{4+\\beta}n(r)4 \\pi r^2 ~ \\mathrm{d}r } } { \\int{n(r)4 \\pi r^2 ~\\mathrm{d}r}}\\right)^{1/(4+\\beta)}.\\ ] ] physically , this temperature represents the average energy emitted by a grain .    in all models tested , except @xmath63 , @xmath66 as discussed below , the peak temperature inferred from equation ( 18 ) does not vary more than 0.5 k from @xmath79 .",
    "this can be understood as due to the fact that most of the energy is radiated at a wavelength corresponding to the peak emission and so the corresponding temperature should be about the energy - weighted temperature . also , the temperature agrees well with @xmath80 . in fig .",
    "4 , we plot @xmath81 as a function of the optical depth of the model for cases of different central luminosity .",
    "the one outlying result is the @xmath63 case with a highly luminous embedded source having @xmath82 . in this case , the average difference between the inferred and number - weighted dust temperature is about 50k .",
    "this difference can be understood by the fact that in a centrally condensed source more dust will be affected by a central heat source .",
    "consequently , the peak of the spectrum is shifted to shorter wavelengths , and is due to the central source rather than by the isrf . as a result ,",
    "the inferred temperature from the peak of the flux spectrum is considerably too high and inapplicable to the problem at hand . in all other cases in fig .",
    "4 , the isrf dominates the majority of the dust heating , and a few trends are immediately obvious . as optical depth increases , so does @xmath83 , although the largest difference is 1 k. for @xmath84 the difference is at most 0.6 k. in conclusion , deriving the dust temperature using a modified wiens law will give a temperature that closely relates both the average energy and the average grain temperature .    in order to see the effect of using an isothermal temperature on the emergent spectra , in fig .",
    "5 we plot both the output spectra and a blackbody modified by the absorption coefficient , normalized at the peak in the left panels . in the right panels we plot the fractional difference between the blackbody spectrum and the actual emergent spectrum . for the longer wavelength portion of the spectrum ,",
    "the derived blackbody spectrum is at most about @xmath85 per cent in error , with larger discrepancies occuring at a smaller density distribution index , @xmath9 .",
    "the @xmath86 case is within @xmath87 per cent , and the @xmath88 case is within @xmath89 per cent . for wavelengths shorter than the peak ,",
    "the errors tend to get worse . in the @xmath63 case ,",
    "the errors reach only about @xmath90 per cent , while for the @xmath88 and @xmath65 cases , the errors can reach over @xmath91 per cent . as the luminosity of an embedded source increases",
    ", stellar emission makes it difficult to fit the spectrum with a single temperature blackbody .",
    "it should be noted that fig .",
    "5 shows the most favorable case for a single temperature fit , since the lack of any internal heat source makes this the most isothermal of all the models . as a result",
    "the other ( @xmath92 ) cases will be even more poorly fit by a single temperature .",
    "although the peak of the output spectrum is a reasonable estimate for either the number- or energy - weighted average dust temperature for regions without strong internal sources , these single temperatures do not represent the actual temperature distribution in the region . as a result ,",
    "isothermal fits do not generally duplicate the output spectra to better than @xmath87 per cent .",
    "consequently , probes that may be sensitive to the range of dust temperatures in a region may require self - consistent radiative transfer modeling .",
    "if the mass of a single grain is @xmath93 , then the total dust mass is given by @xmath94 knowledge of the density distribution , @xmath8 , is necessary to determine the dust mass exactly , without assumptions .",
    "although the form can be approximated by a power law , its evaluation requires knowledge of both @xmath95 and @xmath96 , which are the inner radius and the amount of dust at the inner radius respectively .",
    "these quantities are unknown , suggesting the use of more approximate methods based upon dust emission",
    ".      the total integrated luminosity measures the total energy emitted per unit time and is given by @xmath97 since dust grains can only emit what they absorb , the total energy emitted should be proportional to the optical depth , or dust mass , of the source . a relative mass can therefore be determined by taking the ratio of luminosities of two different sources .",
    "the two basic underlying assumptions here is that the sources are optically thin to the radiation of interest and that the two sources being compared share the same temperature distribution .",
    "only then will the dust mass be proportional to the total emitted energy .",
    "we test this method by calculating the dust mass for a series of models of increasing optical depth and different central luminosities .",
    "we normalize the models to the value at @xmath98 . in fig .",
    "6 , we plot the normalized fractional difference in mass , @xmath99 , defined as @xmath100 for varying optical depths .",
    "the dust masses inferred by this method are consistenly lower than the actual dust masses for the same sources .",
    "the median error is about @xmath67 per cent with errors as great as @xmath101 per cent ( i.e. a factor of @xmath102 ) .",
    "the discrepancy increases with the optical depth , and plateaus at higher optical depths regardless of the luminosity .",
    "the plateau for @xmath103 is due to the fact that the sources are no longer transparent to most ir radiation . as the optical depth increases a greater percentage of incident energy from the isrf",
    "is absorbed .",
    "eventually , at high enough optical depths , all of the possible radiation will be absorbed leading to a constant total luminosity and hence an inferred mass independent of @xmath104 .",
    "this effect is less dramatic in the @xmath86 case because most of the mass is centrally condensed , and therefore only radiation that penetrates to the center of the source will be absorbed .",
    "the consistently lower results can be understood in the following way .",
    "the luminosity is proportional to the density distribution times the energy emitted per grain , which is the blackbody function modified by the absorption coefficient . in order for the luminosity to be truly proportional to the optical depth",
    "the energy emitted per grain needs to be the same for the two sources being ratioed . however , as the optical depth increases , the ability for radiation to heat the inside of the source attenuates as @xmath105 , and so the temperature distribution between sources of different optical depths are no longer going to be the same .",
    "therefore , the actual luminosity does not increase as quickly as the luminosities predicted using this method and hence , the results are consistently lower .    for the @xmath63 case , the differences in the cases with different luminosities can be explained as follows .",
    "most of the mass is located to the inside , and therefore most of the optical depth is located there as well .",
    "therefore , a majority of the source will be optically thin and so the same majority of the source will be heated to a constant temperature .",
    "this helps explain why the results for these cases are better than for the @xmath64 and @xmath65 cases .",
    "hildebrand ( 1983 ) proposed that the dust mass of an optically thin and isothermal source can be related to the observed flux of a given frequency and distance to the source via equation ( 9 ) . in order to calculate the total dust mass ,",
    "the mass of a grain , isothermal temperature , and @xmath106 need to be calculated or estimated . to alleviate this problem",
    ", we take the ratio of dust mass for similar sources . in this way , the only parameter that needs to be estimated is the temperature , which we calculate using the modified wiens law in equation ( 18 ) .",
    "we use the wavelength of peak emission as the wavelength in equation ( 9 ) . to evaluate this method",
    "we calculate the dust mass for a series of models of increasing optical depths and different central luminosities , and compare them to the actual values .",
    "we plot the fractional difference as a function of optical depth in fig . 7 .",
    "the results are quite good .",
    "a median error of about @xmath107 per cent is found for @xmath65 , with errors between @xmath108 per cent depending on the central luminosity for @xmath64 , and approximately @xmath87 per cent errors for @xmath63 . as the optical depth increases",
    ", the differences also tend to increase .",
    "as was the case for calculating temperature , the mass inferred in the @xmath63 , @xmath109 @xmath110 model is a factor of 50 times higher than the actual mass .",
    "the error is due to the inability to determine accurately an average temperature of the source .    in most cases , as the luminosity increases",
    ", the error increases as well .",
    "however , in the case of @xmath64 , @xmath111 we find that the errors are less than without an embedded star . with a constant density distribution , a larger proportion of the mass",
    "is found to the outside of the source and so there is a larger change in temperature to the outside of the source ( see fig .",
    "however , when there is an embedded star with a high luminosity , the rest of the source is heated and it causes a smaller change in temperature to the outside of the source , giving the appearance of a more isothermal source ( see figs 2 and 4 ) .",
    "the grain opacity index , @xmath10 , defines the form of the opacity function .",
    "the effects are also evident in the flux spectrum . a lower @xmath10 has the effect of increasing the amount of emission at wavelengths longer than the visible range relative to the emission in the visible .",
    "therefore , a lower optical index will broaden the spectrum .",
    "conversely , a higher @xmath10 has the effect of narrowing the spectrum .",
    "a more common , and potentially easier method for determining @xmath10 is to use the ratios of luminosities from two different wavelengths , as shown in equation ( 12 ) .",
    "this method relies on two assumptions : that the rja holds , and that the source is optically thin .",
    "again , we have evaluated this technique for models of increasing optical depths and different luminosities .",
    "8 shows the opacity index derived between a reference wavelength , denoted by the various symbols , and a variety of longer wavelengths .",
    "our results are consistently lower that the actual value but asymptotically approach it for longer wavelengths .",
    "the source is still optically thin over the wavelength range we are looking ( at @xmath112 , @xmath113 ) and so the deviations are due to the rja .",
    "the presence of a temperature distribution has the effect of adding up multiple blackbodies .",
    "the rja will only hold true if we are on the long wavelength end of a blackbody corresponding to the coolest dust .",
    "for the coolest dust in our models ( @xmath114 k ) , the shortest wavelength that satisfies the rja is @xmath115 .    as can be clearly seen in fig .",
    "8 , there is some wavelength short of which the inferred opacity indicies are inapplicable .",
    "we call this wavelength the cutoff wavelength , and define it to be the shortest wavelength in the pair used in equation ( 12 ) for which @xmath10 is determined to within @xmath85 per cent . in fig . 9 , we plot @xmath116 as a function of optical depth for the models considered .",
    "we see that in general , wavelengths greater than @xmath117 should be used in determining @xmath10 from the slope of the fir spectrum , so long as the dust continuum dominates the free - free emission  a significant problem in some sources .",
    "these results can be considered a means of inferring the validity of the rja .",
    "the opacity index may also be determined by treating it as a fitting parameter while fitting the spectrum .",
    "it is easiest and somewhat common ( see e.g. , mccarthy , forrest , & houck 1978 ; sopka et al . 1985 ) to assume an isothermal source in making these fits .",
    "while this makes the fitting easier , it also removes the effect that the temperature distribution has on the width of the spectrum .",
    "consequently , the derived opacity indices are artificially raised to compensate . to try and alleviate this problem",
    ", we have only fit the longer wavelength end of the spectrum as it should be more optically thin , as well as sample the cooler ( and hence more isothermal ) dust .",
    "this can be seen in fig . 1 where we see that a star does not have a significant effect on the presence of the spectrum at longer wavelengths .    based upon this reasoning , and with the advent of recent and upcoming far ir / submm observational data ( e.g. scuba , sirtf , herschel , etc . )",
    "we fit the wavelength range @xmath118 for models of different density distributions and increasing optical depth shown in table 1 .",
    "our results are shown in fig . 10 .",
    "the errors in this method range from @xmath119 to @xmath120 per cent . in the case of @xmath88 and @xmath53 ,",
    "the derived indices are too high , with slightly better results as the optical depth increases . for the @xmath65 case ,",
    "the derived indices are too high by about @xmath121 per cent for optical depths @xmath84 , and at an optical depth of @xmath122 the derived indices are too low by @xmath89 per cent .    for luminosities @xmath123 ,",
    "the derived opacities follow the same trend as the starless core models .",
    "but for luminosities @xmath124 , the derived opacity indices tend to be lower , and more accurate by an average of @xmath67 per cent . even at @xmath125 ,",
    "the star affects the spectrum noticeably ( see fig .",
    "1 ) . the spectrum is artificially broadened by the star , and thus the derived opacities are lowered . in effect , the errors caused by the isothermal assumption are counteracted by the extra luminosity from an embedded star .    in order to account for the non - isothermal nature of the sources , we also fit the spectrum with two blackbodies .",
    "this simulates a two - temperature core - halo model , with a warm exterior shell heated by the isrf , and a cool interior shell .",
    "these fits reduced our error to a maximum of @xmath121 per cent .",
    "however , the five fitting parameters make it more difficult to obtain reasonable results due to the presence of local minima , with the accuracy of the fitting depending more significantly on the initial guess for the parameters . in this case",
    ", the fits have a maximum error of 0.1 in @xmath10 , with most having errors of 0.05 or less , representing a median error of @xmath126 per cent .",
    "we also considered the use of different wavelength ranges on the derived opacity indices .",
    "we did not test the use of shorter wavelengths , due to contamination of the spectrum by the embedded sources . using the range from @xmath127 to the end of the spectrum ( about @xmath128 ) ,",
    "the derived indices are uniformly low for a single blackbody fit , with an average @xmath129 .",
    "this effect is due to the addition of emission from the coolest dust , which causes the spectrum to broaden past @xmath130 .",
    "therefore , even when longer wavelengths are chosen , the results are not appreciably better , as multiple tempertures are still sampled .",
    "the density distribution is crucial to our understanding of the processes and regions of star formation .",
    "both observations and theory indicate that typical distributions can be well - described by a power law . as a result",
    "we assume a power law distribution in all of our models .",
    "the density index , @xmath9 , helps to determine the emergent radiation of a source .",
    "a centrally condensed source ( @xmath86 ) is less affected by the isrf and more affected by embedded sources .",
    "in contrast , a constant distribution ( @xmath65 ) is affected by the isrf more than by an embedded star ( see fig .",
    "1 ) .      yun and clemens ( 1991 ) extended a note by tomita et al .",
    "( 1979 ) regarding the relationship of the column density power index to the density distribution power index . using equation ( 17 ) , a column density map can be formed from the density distribution index . by matching the derived and calculated column density profiles",
    "@xmath9 can be constrained .    to test the reliability of this method we have calculated the density distribution index for a series of models with different density distributions , optical depths , and central luminosities .",
    "we consider the wavelengths of @xmath131 and @xmath132 , as they should be near the peak of emission . as the effects of beamsize",
    "are instrument - dependent , and may potentially confuse the analysis , we consider an infinitely small pencil beam for most of this work in order to keep the possible sources of uncertainty to a minimum .    based upon the difficulty in determining an edge to the source , and based upon our experience in these fits , we find that choosing impact parameters in the range @xmath133 provide the optimal fits over a wide range of source parameters .",
    "we also tested different impact parameters , both closer to the center , and out towards the edge .",
    "we found that both of these cases gave poor results .",
    "as the beam probes closer to the edge , part of the beam is off the source . as a result",
    "there is an artificial lowering in the calculation of the column density . as the beam probes toward the center , the contamination of the spectrum by the embedded source yields poor results .    in fig .",
    "11 , we plot @xmath134 for the conditions discussed above .",
    "we find that the results are moderate at best .",
    "we find a median @xmath135 of @xmath136 , which corresponds to a difference from as low as @xmath90 per cent to over @xmath91 per cent .",
    "the maximum deviations range between 0.5 and 0.8 , corresponding to fractional differences between @xmath107 per cent to over @xmath91 per cent .    in the @xmath86 case",
    ", we see that the results are good for the low luminosities and optical depths .",
    "this is due to the fact that the source is fairly isothermal in these cases . as the optical depth increases",
    ", the inferred density distribution index also tends to worsen .",
    "this is because at higher optical depths , the temperature gradient is larger .",
    "the problem is not due to the optical depth because the source is transparent at these wavelengths . for the high luminosity case ,",
    "we find that the values are not as good as the low luminosity cases at low optical depths , but tend to be slightly better as optical depth increases .",
    "we find that generally @xmath137 , meaning that the inferred index is greater than the actual index .",
    "this is because we see a slight increase in temperature towards the center and so we get more emission at smaller radii . as a result , we infer more mass towards the center , giving us a larger distribution index .",
    "we find that the @xmath88 case is harder to understand .",
    "we find that for no embedded star that there is a monatomic decrease in temperature . as a result",
    "we have more inferred mass towards the outside , artificially lowering the index .    in the @xmath65 case ,",
    "the results are uniformly too high with a median difference of 0.4 .",
    "the high luminosity case did not produce any results .    for comparison",
    ", we have also tested the effects of using longer wavelengths of @xmath138 and @xmath139 , for comparison with general wavelength ranges probed by scuba and other recent observations .",
    "we find that using these wavelengths results in somewhat worse results .",
    "in particular , the resulting mean differences between the density distribution indicies inferred at these longer wavelengths and those inferred near the peak of the spectrum are @xmath140 , @xmath89 , and @xmath85 per cent for @xmath141 respectively . in all cases ,",
    "the indicies inferred near the peak of the flux spectrum provide more accurate results .",
    "we also tested the effects of different beam sizes by varying the beam size from 15 arcsec to 4 arcmin ( roughly from scuba to iras beam sizes ) , corresponding to roughly 60 and 4 beams across the source respectively at an assumed distance of 500 pc .",
    "we find that the effect of beam size is relatively small for smaller beams .",
    "in particular , for beams approximately appropriate for sofia ( @xmath142 arcsec ) and scuba ( @xmath143 arcsec ) , the inferred density distribution has a median variation from the infinitesimal beamsize of only @xmath114 per cent .",
    "larger beams , such as @xmath144 similar to iras produce results with at least a @xmath145 per cent difference . in both cases , these results are due to the ability to resolve the source , and the effect of the source only partially filling the beam for pointings near the edge . as a result , it appears that for regions with small temperature gradients , relatively well - resolved observations provide results that are rather insensitive to the beam size .",
    "another approach to try and help determine the density distribution is to model the flux spectrum . in order to test this method we produced artificial observations for a base model similar to that described in sect . 3 , but having @xmath146 to simulate a more intermediate value .",
    "in order to more closely resemble actual observations , we randomly added noise to the simulated spectra .",
    "the noise amplitude was as large as @xmath107 per cent of the simulated observations , with a median noise of @xmath147 per cent over the entire spectrum .",
    "we then ran over 2000 models that bracketed this base model in two parameters , optical depth and density distribution index .",
    "based upon the results of sect .",
    "6 , we assume that the grain properties could be determined relatively accurately , and thus treat @xmath10 as known .",
    "we evaluated the models by calculating the chi - squared difference between the flux spectrum of the test models with the simulated observations . in fig .",
    "12 , we plot the @xmath148 per cent confidence interval for this result .",
    "we can see that for any reasonably constrained optical depth , the density distribution index , @xmath9 , is constrained to the range @xmath149 , which is a difference of @xmath85 per cent from the value of @xmath146 adopted in the model . however , if the optical depth can be determined to within @xmath87 per cent , the error in determining the density index , @xmath9 , becomes @xmath150 per cent .",
    "uncertainties of a similar magnitude in @xmath9 ( i.e. @xmath151 ) can also result from uncertainties in the isrf ( young & evans 2002 ) , the source geometry ( doty et al .",
    "2002b ) , and the assumed value of @xmath10 .",
    "however , it may be possible to constrain these parameters by other data ( e.g. , bolometric luminosity for pre - protostellar cores , source morphology , and the results of sect . 6 ) .",
    "it is interesting to note that even when these parameters are not well constrained , the uncertainties in @xmath9 are on the order of the uncertainties implied by the optical depth alone , and smaller otherwise .      finally , as the smaller beamsizes of recent and upcoming instruments make it increasingly possible to spatially resolve star - forming regions ( see e.g. , evans et al .",
    "2001 ) it is interesting to consider the implications of the expected surface brightness across the source .",
    "shirley et al . (",
    "2000 ) presented models of the normalized intensity profile as a function of impact parameter for semi - analytic cases similar to equation ( 17 ) with various assumptions regarding the temperature profile in the dust envelope .",
    "they found that the assumptions of isothermality and the rja could be important .    for comparison , in fig .",
    "13 we plot the expected surface brightness at @xmath152 as a function of impact parameter for @xmath153 , and @xmath154 . this wavelength is chosen as it should be near the peak of the source spectrum , and is observable by scuba .",
    "these results are based upon detailed modeling as decribed earlier . in this case",
    "the dust temperature distribution is determined self - consistently , and the rja is not applied .    from these results ,",
    "some conclusions may be drawn .",
    "first , for well- resolved sources , it appears that it is possible to infer the dust density distribution index , @xmath9 .",
    "this is especially true if the source luminosity is somewhat constrained , and more importantly if good signal - to - noise data exist near the source edge without contamination from beam dilution , etc .",
    "second , it may be possible to infer the existence of an internal heat source from the surface brightness distribution .",
    "this is a problem which is the subject of an upcoming paper ( doty & moore 2002 ) .",
    "finally , these results show an apparently wider variation in surface brightness across the source than those from approximate methods ( see e.g. , fig .",
    "13 of shirley et al . 2000 ) .",
    "the differences are due to the discrepancies between the assumed dust temperature distribution in the approximate methods , and the self - consistent distribution determined through the modeling .",
    "this underscores the importance of detailed modeling of emergent radiation for these and any other but the most simple star - forming regions .",
    "we have critically evaluated current semi - analytical methods in analysing regions of low - mass star - formation . in particular , we have investigated the validity of the underlying assumptions for the methods and determined the conditions under which these methods are reliable . based upon this work , we find that :    \\1 .",
    "the temperature distribution plays a significant role in determining the spectrum of a source . as there are no current semi - analytic methods for determining the temperature distribution explicitly ,",
    "a common assumption is that these sources are isothermal .",
    "although an isothermal temperature with some physical basis can be found using a modified wiens law ( fig . 3 and equation [ 18 ] ) ,",
    "using this temperature does not accurately determine the other source parameters ( see sections 4 , 5 , and 6 ) .",
    "it is difficult to reliably determine the total dust mass without an accurate estimate of grain properties , density distribution , and the distance to the source ( section 5 ) .",
    "however , a ratio of mass from two similar sources can be determined using the observed flux at a given frequency .",
    "the dust masses determined by this method are accurate to within @xmath67 per cent for all cases where the estimated temperature is in reasonable agreement ( 5 k ) with the average grain temperature  namely for regions with no or weak internal sources .",
    "it is also possible to determine a ratio of dust masses using the integrated luminosity .",
    "this method is only applicable for low optical depths , as errors approach @xmath91 per cent for @xmath155 .",
    "\\3 . for an optically thin source and in a region of frequencies where the rayleigh jeans approximation holds",
    ", the opacity index , @xmath10 , can be determined using the ratio of two different frequencies as in equation ( 12 ) . in order to determine the opacity index to within @xmath85 per cent for all optical depths , the pair of wavelengths used need to be longer than about @xmath156 , due to the failure of the rja and the lack of isothermality of the source .",
    "this may be problematic due to the existence of free - free emission which may dominate the thermal dust continuum for some sources .",
    "another method for determining the opacity index is by fitting the spectrum . with a single blackbody fit",
    ", @xmath10 can be determined to within @xmath120 per cent for all cases . if , instead , a two temperature fit is used , the results for @xmath10 are improved considerably , with a maximum error of only @xmath121 per cent .    \\4 .",
    "the density distribution index , @xmath9 , can be determined for a resolved source that is isothermal along any line of sight by using the ratio of intensities at two different wavelengths . for a theoretically small pencil beam ,",
    "the results have an error of up to @xmath91 per cent .",
    "errors increase as the beam size gets larger , growing dramatically for pointings in which the source does not fill the beam .",
    "the errors also increase somewhat as the wavelengths used decrease . finally , due to the isothermal assumption , it is important to probe impact parameters that are neither too close to the edge of the source nor too close to the core .",
    "we find @xmath157 works well in the cases studied here .",
    "it should be possible to infer the dust density distribution , @xmath9 , from the surface brightness distribution across the source .",
    "this , however , requires good signal - to - noise data toward the source edge .",
    "the range in surface brightness distributions is due to the differences in the actual temperature distributions in the sources , highlighting the need for self - consistent modeling to ensure proper interpretation of observational data .",
    "we are grateful to the referee , derek ward - thompson , for helpful suggestions , and to neal evans for discussions and useful comments .",
    "we thank ewine van dishoeck for hospitality at leiden university where the work was initially begun .",
    "this work was partially supported under a grant from the research corporation , a bezoekerbeurs from the netherlands organization for scientific research ( nwo ) , and supplementary support from the battelle corporation through denison university ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present an evaluative study of some current methods utilized in the analysis of infrared ( ir ) observations of star - forming regions . </S>",
    "<S> a series of self - consistent radiative transfer models are constructed , with the outputs analysed using these methods to infer source properties such as dust tempertaure , mass , opacity function , and density distribution . </S>",
    "<S> any discrepancies between the inferred and model quantities can be attributed to the analysis methods . </S>",
    "<S> the range of validity of most methods is smaller than expected , due to two effects : ( 1 ) limited applicability of the rayleigh - jeans limit except to very long wavelengths , and ( 2 ) significant errors in the isothermal approximation , even when @xmath0 over 90 per cent of a region . </S>",
    "<S> still , an accurate mean @xmath1 can be found using a modified wiens law . </S>",
    "<S> this temperature can yield dust masses to within 10 - 25 per cent  much better than masses inferred from the integrated luminosity . using long wavelengths ( @xmath2 ) , </S>",
    "<S> the opacity index can be determined from the far - ir spectrum to within 20 per cent . </S>",
    "<S> fitting the spectrum yields better results . </S>",
    "<S> the density distribution can be somewhat constrained by fitting the surface brightness , for well - resolved sources . </S>",
    "<S> better results are found by fitting the flux spectrum with detailed models .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : formation  infrared : stars  ism : clouds . </S>"
  ]
}