{
  "article_text": [
    "the term _ quiet sun _ is commonly used to refer to the solar atmosphere away from sunspots , faculae and other large - scale concentrations of magnetic flux .",
    "the adjective `` quiet '' , however , seems now less of a synonym of `` unintersting '' than it did only a few years ago .",
    "this is due to both recent numerical simulations ( e.g. , @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) and new spectro - polarimetric observations of high sensitivity and resolution ( e.g. , @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) . from the point of view of the magnetic energy balance",
    "it is worth mentioning that , according to these works , there is probably more ( unsigned ) magnetic flux in the quiet sun than in all the active regions during solar maximum .",
    "the small - scale structure of the magnetic elements is also a hot topic of debate ( e.g. , @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "the present work adds to this more exciting view of the quiet photosphere by reporting on the detection of supersonic upflows , which seem to be a relatively frequent event .",
    "we argue that these flows are likely the last stages of the process observed by @xcite ( @xcite ) ( hereafter brckr ) in the infrared . according to their scenario ,",
    "the upflows are the signature of an aborted convective collapse and subsequent disintegration of the magnetic structure .",
    "our observations support this picture to some extent and remove any caveats that might have existed on their observation ( e.g. , structures moving in or out of the slit ) .",
    "the observations used in this paper were taken with the advanced stokes polarimeter ( asp , @xcite @xcite ) and first analyzed by @xcite ( @xcite ) .",
    "the strong upflows that we report here have gone unnoticed until now because their associated polarization signals are very weak .",
    "the amplitudes of stokes  @xmath0 are at most of the order of 5@xmath110@xmath2 , and even weaker in some of the interesting points ( at the 10@xmath2 level ) .",
    "this value is close to the noise level of the observations ( 5@xmath110@xmath3 ) , but fortunately it is high enough that it allows for a few evident detections .    figure  [ fig : maps ] shows a map of the continuum intensity in the observed region ( left ) and the degree of circular polarization ( right ) .",
    "the four spatial locations of regions where we have found clear detections are marked with a , b , c and d , respectively .",
    "we have found some other pixels where the profiles seem to exhibit a similar structure , but the signal - to - noise ratio is not good enough to be sure .",
    "three of the detections have the same polarity ( regions a , b and c ) , whereas the forth one ( d ) has the opposite .",
    "the stokes  @xmath4 and  @xmath0 profiles corresponding to the best two detections are plotted in fig  [ fig : profs ] .",
    "the intensity profiles do not show any distinctive features . however , the stokes  @xmath0 spectra show a double - peaked structure in the blue side of the line .",
    "observational studies of stokes  @xmath0 asymmetries in the quiet sun show that the red lobe is typically broader and shallower than the blue one ( e.g. , @xcite @xcite ) , which explains why the double peak is not visible in the red lobe of the lines .",
    "the zero - crossing wavelength of the overall profile is practically at the same position as the intensity minimum .",
    "the difference between the two blue peaks in both lines corresponds approximately to 7.5  km  s@xmath5 .",
    "these two profiles were the first that we identified in the map by visual inspection .",
    "we developed an automated search algorithm to try to find other similar occurrences in the map .",
    "the algorithm looks for extended blue wings in both lines .",
    "the candidates detected in this manner have been identified in fig  [ fig : maps ] .",
    "the upflow in region  a spans an area large enough that we can improve the signal - to - noise ratio considerably by binning the profiles spatially . using a 4@xmath14 box average",
    "we were able to detect some linear polarization signal in stokes  @xmath6 ( stokes  @xmath7 is still within the noise after binning ) . figure  [ fig : avprofs ] shows the binned stokes  @xmath0 and  @xmath6 .",
    "it is interesting to note that the upflowing component does not have any linear polarization associated to it in either line",
    ".    we also looked for profiles similar to these in other high - resolution quiet sun observations .",
    "for this purpose we analyzed the three maps observed by @xcite ( @xcite ) with the diffraction - limited stokes polarimeter ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "although those maps have very good spatial resolution ( @xmath80.6  ) , we could not find any obvious occurrence .",
    "we believe the reason is the lower signal - to - noise ratio in the dlsp data ( about a factor 3 worse ) .",
    "the most natural explanation for the double - peaked structure in stokes  @xmath0 is the presence of two atmospheric components with very different velocities along the line of sight ( i.e. , in the vertical direction , since these observations were taken at disk center ) .",
    "inspection of the stokes  @xmath0 spectra along the slit shows that the red component of the double peak is nearly at rest with respect to the other magnetic signals .",
    "we shall refer to this as the `` normal '' component .",
    "the blue component is shifted in wavelengths by at least 157  m ( the separation between the peaks ) , or approximately 7.5  km  s@xmath5 .",
    "this will be referred to as the `` upflowing '' component .    for a more detailed study",
    ", we carried out inversions of the average profiles in region  a. we used a modified version of the lte code lilia ( @xcite @xcite ; see also @xcite @xcite ) that considers two magnetic atmospheres embedded in an unmagnetized background .",
    "in addition to the usual magnetic filling factor @xmath9 , we now have the individual filling factors of the two magnetic components .",
    "the non - magnetic component is assumed to produce an average unpolarized quiet sun profile .",
    "the two magnetic components are allowed to have different temperature , density , line of sight velocity , magnetic field vector ( strength and orientation ) and microturbulence .",
    "these parameters are recovered independently by the inversion code as a function of height .",
    "the models obtained from the inversion , as well as the fits to stokes  @xmath4 and  @xmath0 , are presented in fig  [ fig : inv ] .",
    "while the normal component exhibits a rather smooth behavior with more or less constant properties , the upflowing component shows some interesting properties .",
    "the temperature stops decreasing with height and even increases considerably above @xmath10  km , approximately . the magnetic field , which has a more or less constant value of 500  g in the normal component , has a sharp discontinuity going from zero to 1  kg between @xmath11 and @xmath10  km .",
    "finally , the line of sight velocity goes from a moderate upflow the bottom of the photosphere to reach values of @xmath810  km  s@xmath5 at @xmath10  km .",
    "remarkably , the relative velocity between the two atmospheres turns from subsonic to supersonic precisely at @xmath10  km .",
    "all the properties mentioned above indicate the presence of a shock front propagating upwards in the photosphere .",
    "the coincidence between the three curves in the middle right panel of fig  [ fig : inv ] ( within a few km ) is remarkable .",
    "this means that the point where the upflowing atmosphere is heated by the shock and its temperature starts to increase is also the point where the upflow reaches the sound speed in the medium .",
    "since the three curves are derived independently of each other , this is a good consistency test for the reliability of the inversion .",
    "the strong gradients in the magnetic field and velicity ( present only in the upflowing component ) are also consistent with the shock scenario .",
    "we find that the observations described here bear a striking resemblance to the infrared ones of brckr near 1.6  @xmath12 m .",
    "their analysis of fixed - slit time - series of a quiet sun region lead them to conclude that they had observed an instance of aborted convective collapse . after an initial stage of field concentration with moderate downflows , the magnetic structure quickly",
    "disintegrated presumably destroyed by an upwards - propagating shockwave .",
    "we propose that the double - peaked blue lobes of the profiles that we have detected are the visible counterparts of the last stages of evolution in the brckr observations . in principle",
    "there is no reason why the process they observed would be more easily detectable in the infrared than in the visible .",
    "one might argue that the doppler shift increases linearly with wavelength , but on the other hand so does the thermal width of spectral lines .",
    "therefore , the relative velocity needed to produce a double - peaked stokes  @xmath0 lobe would be approximately the same in the visible and the infrared , especially considering that the spectral lines observed are from the same ion .",
    "the area fraction occupied by pixels harboring shocks in our map is @xmath137@xmath110@xmath3 .",
    "let us assume , for the sake of argument , that the convective collapse observed by brckr is `` typical '' and take the duration of the entire process to be 15  minutes and the upflowing phase 3  minutes ( as reported by them ) . with these parameters we can estimate that the probability of these authors to observe an aborted convective collapse in their 60  minute time - series of a 30@xmath10.5  arc - seconds area is approximately 0.45 .",
    "this figure supports the idea that we have observed the same phenomenon .",
    "the absence of linear polarization in the upflowing component ( fig  [ fig : avprofs ] ) , while the quiet component exhibits some signal , is surprising . in principle",
    "there are two possible explanations for this .",
    "the most obvious would be that the upflow disrupts the initial organization of the field in the horizontal direction .",
    "a second possibility is that the field may be weaker in the upflowing component , reducing the linear polarization below the detection threshold .",
    "notice that stokes  @xmath0 can still have a similar amplitude in both components because it would be compensated by a hypothetical temperature ( and thus also source function ) increase in the upflow .",
    "this explanation is plausible because , while stokes  @xmath0 has a first - order dependence on the field strength , the dependence of stokes  @xmath7 and  @xmath6 is of second order .",
    "the response to temperature ( through the source function ) is the same in all stokes parameters .",
    "since temperature and field strength affect linear and circular polarization differently , it is possible to find a suitable combination that preserves one and destroys the other .",
    "the observations presented in this paper reveal supersonic upflows in the quiet solar photosphere and indicate that this is a rather common occurrence .",
    "the upflows are probably the signature of an exploding magnetic element after an aborted convective collapse proposed by brckr .",
    "it is important to point out that we do not observe the flux destruction directly .",
    "however , the assumption that we are observing the same process seems appropriate based on the following facts :    * the only observations reported in the literature with upflows inside photospheric magnetic elements is the aborted convective collapse of brckr . *",
    "the magnitude of the upflows is the same , very close to the sound speed of the photosphere at the heights where the lines form .",
    "this is what one would expect from a shockwave propagating inside the magnetic element .",
    "* if one assumes that we are observing the same process and that their collapse time scales are typical , it is possible to estimate the probability that brckr observed an aborted convective collapse in their time - series .",
    "we find that this probability is of the order of 1 , which would be an unlikely coincidence if our assumption were incorrect .    from a 2-component inversion of the double - peaked profiles we obtain a model atmosphere that is consistent with a shockwave propagating in one of the components .",
    "the inversion even retrieves a zero field below the front shock , which would also be in agreement with the destruction of the magnetic element reported by brckr .",
    "interestingly , we only observe instances in which the two atmospheric components have similar stokes  @xmath0 amplitudes",
    ". a possible explanation to this could be the following .",
    "the upflowing component can not have a larger amplitude because , if it is indeed an exploding magnetic element , the field must be weaker in this component .",
    "if , on the other hand , it had a significantly lower amplitude then its stokes  @xmath0 profile would be buried in the blue lobe of the quiet component and we would not be able to see it .",
    "therefore , it is likely that we are only observing a small fraction of all exploding elements .",
    "because of the selection effect mentioned above and the fact that we are close to the sensitivity limit of the data , the frequency of occurrence reported here should be taken as a ( perhaps severley underestimated ) lower limit .",
    "finally , we find that the spatial extent of the upflows are quite puzzling , especially region  a. the upflows span here a significantly large area of more than 2 by 2 arc - seconds .",
    "considering that the magnetic filling factor is very small in this area ( @xmath1410% ) , this is most certainly not a single magnetic structure disintegrating .",
    "however , if this area is composed of a collection of small magnetic elements ( as is generally thought that network elements are ) , then what physical mechanism would syncrhonize the exploding elements as far as 2 arc - seconds apart ?    it is important to continue investigating these upflows in more detail , given the potential implications of this work on the generation and destruction of small - scale magnetic elements in the quiet sun .",
    "as mentioned earlier , these fields may be carrying most of the solar magnetic flux .",
    "it is fundamental to determine whether convective collapse is an efficient mechanism for concentrating field and these aborted instances constitute only a small fraction of the cases , or if on the contrary most ( or perhaps even all ) of the collapsing elements are ultimately doomed to disintegrate sending shockwaves into the photosphere .",
    "the amount of energy deposited in the photosphere , and also in the upper atmosphere , by the shocks might be important if a large number of these events are taking place continuously in the quiet sun .",
    "clearly , further study is required with both new simulations and observations to shed some light into these issues .                            , k. , elmore , d.  f. , lites , b.  w. , sigwarth , m. , rimmele , t.  r. , hegwer , s.  l. , gregory , s. , streander , k.  v. , wilkins , l.  m. , richards , k. , & berst , c. 2003 , in polarimetry in astronomy . edited by silvano fineschi .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4843 , pp . 414 - 424 ( 2003 ) . , 414424"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present observations of the quiet solar photosphere in the lines at 6302  where at least four different spatial locations exhibit upwards - directed supersonic flows . </S>",
    "<S> these upflows can only be detected in the circular polarization profiles as a double - peaked structure in the blue lobe of both lines . </S>",
    "<S> we have detected cases of either magnetic polarity in the data . </S>",
    "<S> the polarization signals associated with the upflows are very weak , which is probably why they had not been seen before in this type of observations . </S>",
    "<S> we propose that the observed flows are the signature of aborted convective collapse , similar to the case reported by @xcite ( @xcite ) . </S>",
    "<S> our data indicates that this phenomenon occurs frequently in the quiet sun , which means that many magnetic elements ( although the fraction is still unknown ) are destroyed even before they are formed completely . </S>",
    "<S> the spectral signatures of supersonic upflows reported here are probably present in most spectro - polarimetric observations of sufficient signal - to - noise and spatial resolution . </S>"
  ]
}