{
  "article_text": [
    "it is widely recognized that accretion disks play principal roles in various objects , including protostars , cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) , x - ray binaries ( xbs ) , and active galactic nuclei . among them , cvs are the most ideal objects for accretion - disk research for the following reasons .",
    "they are composed of a mass - losing , roche - lobe - filling late - type star and an accreting white dwarf , and their orbital periods typically range between 1.5 and 10 hr .",
    "such timescales are very convenient for ground - based observations .",
    "they are numerous ; in other words , there are many cvs in our neighborhood . also , cvs are bright in optical bands and exhibit a variety of time variations , some of which are closely related to various accretion - disk processes . unlike xbs ,",
    "moreover , the irradiation flux from the central parts of the disk and from the central objects is not very large , which makes accretion physics much simpler than otherwise . hence , cvs are useful laboratories to investigate accretion - disk physics .",
    "however , the size of the accretion disks in cvs is typically @xmath5 , which is too small to resolve with ordinary telescopes ; that is , we always collect all of the photons emitted from the entire disk surface ( except for some special cases of young stellar objects ) . to test the disk theory with observations , therefore ,",
    "we are obliged to compare the results only in terms of the integrated values , which can not uniquely constrain the spatial structure of accretion disks .",
    "there exists , however , a novel method to indirectly ` resolve ' the surface brightness distribution over the disk plane .",
    "that is eclipse mapping ( horne , ) , which makes use of the eclipse of high - inclination binary systems .",
    "since a part of the disk is successively obscured by the secondary star during an eclipse , the eclipsing light curves contain information regarding the brightness distribution over the disk plane .",
    "we can reconstruct a two - dimensional ( 2d ) brightness distribution from one - dimensional eclipse light curves based on the concept of the maximum entropy .",
    "[ as for the case of quasars , one may use microlens events by stars in intervening galaxies ( e.g. , yonehara et al . ) , but this method is irrelevant here . ] similarly important is the technique of doppler tomography ( marsh , horne ) .",
    "since the line profiles reflect velocity fields within the binary systems , including those of the secondary star and the gas stream to the disk , we can map the line - emissivity distribution in two - dimensional velocity space by analyzing the line - profile variations during the course of the orbital motions .",
    "this method , however , provides no definite information regarding the velocity fields in position ( real ) space .",
    "we , here , consider a third method , by combining the above two methods , to map _ the velocity fields in position space over the disk plane .",
    "_ the goal is to verify whether the disk rotation velocity ( @xmath6 ) simply obeys the kepler s law , @xmath7 ( with @xmath8 and @xmath1 being the mass of a compact object and the distance from the central object , respectively ) .",
    "moreover , we may be able to detect deviations from keplerian rotation due to spiral shock patterns ( sawada et al . a , b ) and/or non - negligible magnetic fields .",
    "thus , we can say that mapping the disk velocity fields in position space is one of the most fundamental tests of the basic disk models .",
    "nevertheless , nobody has yet completed such a method , to our best knowledge , partly because for that purpose we need to detect changes of emission - line profiles during eclipse ( lasting only several tens of minutes ) , which requires an enormous amount of photons , too much to collect with 4-m class telescopes .",
    "recently built 8-m class telescopes can do this job , however . in this paper",
    ", we describe the basic methodology and a simple test to probe the disk velocity fields by using the eclipse of emission - line profiles during the quiescence of dwarf novae .",
    "note that an apparently similar method has been proposed by vrielmann et al .",
    "( ) ; however , no detailed description is available and here we present an independent , slightly different method of our own . in section 2 ,",
    "we give basic considerations and then present the adopted model assumptions and procedures .",
    "next , we explain our calculations of model light curves , assuming keplerian rotation velocity fields , and present the resultant one - dimensional velocity profile obtained by the proposed method in section 3 .",
    "the final section is devoted to discussion .",
    "dwarf novae ( dne ) are a subclass of cvs and are unique in showing repetitive outbursts . during the quiescent states between outbursts , dne usually exhibit strong , double - peaked emission lines due to doppler effects caused by disk rotation .",
    "therefore , each line profile contains information about the disk velocity fields , although we can not spatially resolve them . in eclipsing systems ,",
    "however , a part of the disk , which has a different line - of - sight velocity , is successively obscured by a companion star , giving rise to time variations of the emission line profiles .",
    "we then apply the usual eclipse mapping technique to the radiation flux at each of multiple wavelengths across the line center to obtain the emissivity distribution of the region moving with the corresponding line - of - sight velocity on the 2d disk plane . with the radial emissivity distribution",
    "being specified , we are able to obtain the rotational velocity as a function of radius on the assumption of circular motion .    according to horne and marsh ( ) and marsh and horne ( ) , who calculated and displayed the contours of the constant line - of - sight velocity ( @xmath9 ) on the disk plane and the corresponding wavelengths ( @xmath10 with @xmath11 being the line center wavelength ) , the shapes of the contours are distinct for high and low line - of - sight velocities : the large-@xmath9 contours exhibit ` two - eye ' patterns and their separation increases with a decreasing line - of - sight velocity .",
    "the small-@xmath9 contours , on the other hand , show more complex patterns similar to the shape of a dipole field . for a reference , we display the contours of the constant line - of - sight velocity in keplerian rotation viewed at the binary phase 0.0 for the case of an inclination angle of @xmath12 in figure [ fig : kepconst ] .",
    "the critical velocity discriminating these two different patterns is given by @xmath13 , with @xmath14 being the radius of the outer edge of the disk , which corresponds to the wavelengths of the two ( blue and red ) peaks in the line profile .",
    "since the large-@xmath9 parts are much easier to deal with , we , here , aim to map the emissivity distribution of those parts . in other words , we focus on an analysis of the wing parts of the double - horned line profiles .",
    "then , as mentioned above , the relation between the line - of - sight velocity and the separation between the two ` eyes ' ( referred to as @xmath4 ) provides information regarding the disk rotational velocity fields on the axisymmetric assumption . since @xmath15 , @xmath8 , and other binary parameters",
    "are not usually precisely determined , we do not pay much attention to the absolute values of @xmath9 but are concerned with the relative relationship ( e.g. , a power - law index , if represented as a power - law ) between @xmath9 and @xmath4 .",
    "( 75mm,75mm)fig1.eps      we calculated the line - profile variations during an eclipse for a simple case and tested our method to see to what extent we can derive information regarding velocity fields .",
    "we considered a semi - detached binary system composed of a primary star with a mass of @xmath8 and a secondary star with a mass of @xmath16 .",
    "we assumed : ( 1 ) a geometrically thin accretion disk is formed around the primary , ( 2 ) disk materials are orbiting on the circular orbits around the primary with the keplerian velocity , and ( 3 ) the secondary star fills its roche lobe . in calculations , we set the binary separation , @xmath17 , to be a unit of the length scale .",
    "we further assumed a line emissivity of @xmath18 ( see horne , saar ; horne ) between the radius of the inner edge of the disk , @xmath19 , and that of the outer edge , @xmath20 in units of binary separation , @xmath17 .",
    "( if we perform doppler tomography at the same time , it is not necessary to assume @xmath21 , since we can derive it on the assumption of the axisymmetric disk . )    as for the binary system parameters , we adopted a mass ratio of @xmath22 , a binary separation of @xmath23 , and an inclination angle of @xmath24 . in physical units , the keplerian rotation velocity is @xmath25 that is , we needed to cover velocity ranges of @xmath26 ( 10003000 ) @xmath27 km  s@xmath28 for the radius range of @xmath29@xmath30 cm and @xmath31 .",
    "corresponding doppler shifts are @xmath32@xmath33 ( with @xmath34 being the speed of light ) .",
    "we divided the emission line profile into @xmath3512 or 24 sections with a constant wavelength interval , @xmath36 .",
    "we calculated the continuum flux with an equivalent width ( ew ) of 100 , and each line flux was normalized with this continuum flux . in the following , @xmath37 and @xmath38 refers to the normalized line flux with respect to @xmath39 .    for each section ,",
    "an eclipse light curve was constructed from the binary phase @xmath40 to @xmath41 with 51 phase bins .",
    "we summed up the emission of the two sections ( i.e. on the blue and red sides ) , which have the same absolute line - of - sight velocity , to increase the number of photons and normalized it with its maximum value . in some model , we only used either side of the emission profile , since that would be better when the line profile is highly asymmetric . then , we made an eclipse map using the prida code ( baptista , steiner , ) for each of @xmath42 calculated light curves with different wavelengths .",
    "as for the default map , we , here , simply used an axisymmetric map ( discussed later ) .",
    "we fixed the inclination angle to be @xmath12 .",
    "( 40mm,35mm)fig2 - 1l.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 1c.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 1r.eps + ( 40mm,35mm)fig2 - 2l.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 2c.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 2r.eps + ( 40mm,35mm)fig2 - 3l.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 3c.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 3r.eps + ( 40mm,35mm)fig2 - 4l.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 4c.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 4r.eps + ( 40mm,35mm)fig2 - 5l.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 5c.eps ( 40mm,45mm)fig2 - 5r.eps    we first calculated the expected light curves based on the line - profile changes for the simple cases of @xmath43 and 24 ; i.e. , we supposed that 12 ( or 24 ) light curves at 12 ( 24 ) different wavelengths are available .",
    "figure [ figeclphase ] show the images of the eclipsed disk ( left ) and the calculated emission line profiles for the cases of @xmath43 ( middle ) and for those of @xmath44 ( right ) , respectively , for five different binary phases ; from the top , @xmath45 , and 0.12 , respectively . here",
    ", the binary phase of @xmath46 corresponds to the mid - eclipse phase .",
    "note that the binary rotates counterclockwise .",
    "there are several features which deserve attention .",
    "first , most of the line profiles exhibit double peaks , and the wavelengths of the two peaks do not vary significantly ( see , e.g. , those in the first , third , and fifth rows ) .",
    "in contrast , the line wings are mostly missing in the third row because of the eclipse of the innermost part of the disk , which has large rotation velocities .",
    "second , the line profiles before and after the eclipse of the central region ( i.e. , in the second and fourth rows ) still show two peaks at the same wavelengths as those in the other panels . in addition",
    ", one more weak peak is found in the right panel with finer wavelength bins ( @xmath44 ) .",
    "such subtle spectral - line changes are important for successful emission - line mapping , thus a huge number of photons are required .",
    "obviously , double - horned line profiles are smoother in @xmath44 than those in @xmath43 .",
    "finally , line profiles at one phase ( say , @xmath47 ) and those at another phase with opposite sign ( @xmath48 ) are exactly symmetric with respect to the line center .",
    "thus , the light curves at one wavelength ( say , at @xmath49 ) are exactly symmetric in time with respect to the minimum with those at another wavelength at @xmath50",
    ". this may not be the case in realistic situations because of the finite thickness effects and possible warps in the disk .",
    "( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 1l.eps ( 38mm,45mm)fig3 - 1c.eps ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 1r.eps + ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 2l.eps",
    "( 38mm,45mm)fig3 - 2c.eps ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 2r.eps + ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 3l.eps ( 38mm,45mm)fig3 - 3c1.eps ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 3c2.eps ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 3r.eps + ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 4l.eps ( 38mm,45mm)fig3 - 4c1.eps ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 4c2.eps",
    "( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 4r.eps + ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 5l.eps ( 38mm,45mm)fig3 - 5c1.eps ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 5c2.eps ( 38mm,35mm)fig3 - 5r.eps +    we next display in figure [ figlem1 ] the original maps ( left ) , synthetic light curves ( middle left ) , and the reconstructed maps obtained by using both of the red and blue sides of the line profiles ( middle right ) , and those reconstructed by using only the red side ( right ) , respectively .",
    "we used @xmath43 wavelength bins for these mappings .",
    "since the light variations of the red and blue sides are symmetric , as mentioned above , we simply summed up the two contributions in the light curves to acquire good photon statistics .",
    "the middle panels show a diversity of light curves at different wavelengths .",
    "the upper two panels representing the cases of high velocities show similar variations to those of the continuum , but with a shorter duration , since they have no complicated shape of the emission region .",
    "as we look downward , the corresponding velocities decrease and the images start to show a complex pattern . accordingly , the light curves are changed in a complex fashion . especially , the light curves at the minimum is nearly flat in the upper three rows ( although the duration of the minimum decreases downward ) , which contrasts rather complex variations in other two rows .",
    "this feature suggests that the high - velocity parts of the line - profile variations seem to be easier to derive any concrete information .",
    "eclipse maps are constructed with @xmath51 grids .",
    "the constructed maps displayed in the middle right panels of the upper two rows show the characteristic two - eye patterns , which recover the qualitative features of the original maps . in the lower three rows representing the cases of low line - of - sight velocities , in contrast",
    ", the constructed images ( depicted in the middle right panels ) hardly recover the original map .",
    "this is because we used an axisymmetric default image in the reconstruction , whereas the line emission profile of the original map is far from being axisymmetric .",
    "to fix such a problem , we only use the red side of the line profile and show the results in the right panels of the lower three rows in figure [ figlem1 ] .",
    "interestingly , the right panels can recover a part of the eclipsed region on one side more clearly . in the third row ,",
    "especially , the right panel shows a clear eye - shaped pattern , which is not seen in the middle right one .",
    "this , therefore , suggests that we are able to obtain the information of velocity for the case of @xmath52 7001050 km s@xmath28 even in @xmath43 .",
    "( 75mm,75mm)fig4l.eps ( 75mm,75mm)fig4r.eps    to see line - emissivity distributions more quantitatively , we illustrate in figure [ figmedam ] cross - sectional views of the emissivity profile along the @xmath53-axis .",
    "the emissivity profiles of the original map are illustrated by the dotted lines , while those of the reconstructed map are by the solid lines .",
    "although the reconstructed one shows a broader distribution , the peak wavelengths do not differ much in both panels .",
    "this figure confirms that the spatial positions of the two eyes in the reconstructed images are to good accuracy equal to those of the original ones .",
    "that is , the reconstruction is quite successful at least as long as data of @xmath54 observational runs over one eclipse are available with good photon statistics .",
    "( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 1l.eps ( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 1r.eps + ( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 2l.eps",
    "( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 2r.eps + ( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 3l.eps ( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 3r.eps + ( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 4l.eps ( 45mm,45mm)fig5 - 4r.eps +    in figure [ fig24mem ] , we present only the eclipse maps which show the characteristic two - eye pattern for the case of @xmath44 .",
    "the left panels are for @xmath51 grids , as in figure [ figlem1 ] , while the right panels show finer maps with @xmath55 grids .",
    "the data for @xmath56 15751750 km s@xmath28 are not shown , since no convergence is reached in the latter case . comparing the left panels with the right ones , we notice that finer maps represent more circular images .",
    "however , the positions of two ` eyes ' do not differ significantly .",
    "( 85mm,85mm)fig6.eps    finally , we calculated , for each line - of - sight velocity , the distance from the primary star in the real space based on the separation between the two ` eyes ' on the reconstructed image ; the result is plotted in figure [ figkep ] . as is clear , the reconstructed line - of - sight velocities are roughly on the straight , dotted line with a slope in proportion to @xmath57 .",
    "that is , our proposed method is feasible to reconstruct keplerian velocity fields , as long as good photon statistics is achieved .    to see how observational errors affect our results",
    ", we repeated the same procedure , but added random errors in calculating the light curves at each wavelength .",
    "namely , we calculate the observable line flux , @xmath58 , from the theoretically modeled flux , @xmath59 according to the following steps : +    1 .",
    "@xmath60 , 2 .",
    "@xmath61 , 3 .",
    "@xmath62 .    here",
    ", @xmath63 represents the gaussian noise ( with the mean being zero and the standard deviation being unity ) ; the amount of random variations is given by the signal - to - noise ratio ( s / n ) .",
    "note that we set @xmath37 , and @xmath59 was calculated so as to give an equivalent width of 100 ( see subsection 2.3 ) .",
    "we calculated the cases of s / n = 10 , 20 , and 50 as representative examples .",
    "we found that in some cases convergence is not always guaranteed in the eclipse mapping process , because the light curve is not symmetric when random errors are added .",
    "nevertheless , we expected good results , even if we solely consider the cases with successful reconstruction .",
    "figure [ fignoi ] presents the results of the relatively noisy cases of s / n = 10 .",
    "the number of wavelength bins is @xmath64 .",
    "it is impressive to see that the keplerian relation is roughly reproduced , although we used only those results which have the clear eye pattern .",
    "these results demostrate that our proposed method is powerful even for the case of s / n = 10 , as long as the reconstructed eclipse map displays the eye pattern .",
    "( 70mm,70mm)fig7l.eps ( 70mm,70mm)fig7r.eps",
    "we propose _ emission - line eclipse mapping _ to map the velocity fields in an accretion disk .",
    "we studied the feasibility of emission - line eclipse mapping using model simulations .",
    "our results show that those regions having high line - of - sight velocities can be precisely reconstructed , while the low line - of - sight regions are not , as long as an axisymmetric default image is used .",
    "these reconstructed maps of high line - of - sight velocities show the characteristic two - eye pattern .",
    "the corresponding line - of - sight velocity recovers the originally adopted relation , which is proportional to @xmath65 .",
    "it means that this method is a potentially useful tool to probe the keplerian disk rotation from observations of the line - profile variations .",
    "although the keplerian rotation is a fundamental assumption in constructing the so - called standard disk model , it is not always trivial from a theoretical point of view .",
    "for example , a rather hot accretion flow , called adaf ( advection - dominated accretion flow ) , predicts sub - keplerian rotation ( kato et al . ) ; i.e. , @xmath66 .",
    "in addition , the velocity fields are affected by the presence of large - scale magnetic fields and/or spiral patterns , which will produce deviations from the exact keplerian velocity of the order of @xmath67 ( where @xmath68 and @xmath69 are the alfv@xmath70n velocity and the sound velocity , respectively , and @xmath71 is the aspect ratio of the disk ) .",
    "to detect such small effects we need to collect an enormous number of photons , which are unavailable at the present .",
    "thus , we should await innovations of the observation technique .    for successful reconstructions ,",
    "we need rather frequent observations over the eclipse periods .",
    "only 8-m class telescopes , such as subaru , can meet this requirement , which is underway .",
    "the next issues are to improve the current method so as to minimize the total observing times by modifying the default images and to perform observations studies ( e.g. , vrielmann et al . ) .",
    "we are grateful to taichi kato and raymundo baptista for useful discussion and helpful comments .",
    "the author ( m. m. ) also thanks makoto uemura for his advice on using prida code .",
    "this work was supported in part by the grants - in aid of the ministry of education , culture , sports , science and technology ( 13640238 , sm ) .",
    "baptista ,  r. , & steiner ,  j.  e. 1991 , , 249 , 284 baptista ,  r. , & steiner ,  j.  e. 1993 , , 277 , 331 horne ,  k. 1985 , , 213 , 129 horne ,  k. 1993 , in accretion disks in compact stellar systems , ed .",
    "j.  c.  wheeler ( singapore : world scientific ) , 117 horne ,  k. 1994 , in theory of accretion disks  2 .",
    "w.  j. duschl , j. frank , f. meyer , e. meyer - hofmeister , & w. m. tscharnuter ( dordrecht : kluwer academic publishers ) , 77 horne ,  k. , & marsh ,  t.  r. 1986 , , 218 , 761 horne ,  k. , & saar ,  s.  h. 1991 , , 374 , l55 kato ,  s. , fukue ,  j. , & mineshige ,  s. 1998 , black - hole accretion disks ( kyoto : kyoto univ . press ) marsh ,  t.  r. , & horne ,  k. 1988 , , 235 , 269 sawada ,  k. , matsuda ,  t. , & hachisu ,  i. 1986 , , 219 , 75 sawada ,  k. , matsuda ,  t. , & hachisu ,  i. 1986 , , 221 , 679 yonehara ,  a. , mineshige ,  s. , manmoto ,  t. , fukue ,  j. , umemura ,  m. , & turner ,  e.  l. 1998 , 501 , l41 ( erratum 511 , l65 ) vrielmann ,  s. , horne ,  k. , & baptista ,  r. 1995 , in cataclysmic variables , ed .",
    "a.  bianchini ,  m.  della  valle , & m.  orio ( dordrecht : kluwer academic publishers ) , 376"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we propose a new method , _ emission - line eclipse mapping _ , to map the velocity fields of an accretion disk in position space . </S>",
    "<S> quiescent dwarf novae usually exhibit double - peaked emission line profiles because of disk rotation . since a part of a disk having a different line - of - sight velocity is successively obscured by a companion in eclipsing systems , they show time - varying line profiles . </S>",
    "<S> we calculated the time changes of the emission - line profiles , assuming keplerian rotation fields ( @xmath0 with @xmath1 being the distance from the disk center ) and an emissivity distribution of @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> we , then , applied the usual eclipse mapping technique to the light curves at each of 1224 wavelengths across the line center to map the region with the same line - of - sight velocity . </S>",
    "<S> the reconstructed images typically exhibit a ` two - eye ' pattern for high line - of - sight velocities , and we can recover the relation , @xmath3 , on the assumption of an axisymmetric disk , where @xmath4 is the separation between the two eyes </S>",
    "<S> . we will be able to probe the keplerian rotation law , the most fundamental assumption adopted in many disk models , by high - speed spectroscopic observations with 8-m class telescopes . </S>"
  ]
}