{
  "article_text": [
    "the successful concordance of predictions and observations of large scale structure and microwave anisotropy vindicates many assumptions of standard cosmology , in particular the hypothesis that the dark matter is composed of primordial particles which are cold and collisionless@xcite . at the same time , there are hints of discrepancies observed in the small - scale structure within galaxy haloes , which we explore as two related but separate issues , namely the predictions of excessive substructure and sharp central cusps in dark matter halos .",
    "the first `` substructure problem '' is that cdm predicts excessive relic substructure@xcite : much of the mass of a cdm halo is not smoothly distributed but is concentrated in many massive sublumps , like galaxies in galaxy clusters .",
    "the model predicts that galaxy halos should contain many dwarf galaxies which are not seen , and which would disrupt disks even if they are invisible .",
    "the substructure problem appears to be caused by the `` bottom - up '' hierarchical clustering predicted by cdm power spectra ; fluctuations on small scales collapse early and survive as dense condensations .",
    "its absence hints that the small scale power spectrum is filtered to suppress early collapse on subgalactic scales .",
    "the second `` cusp problem '' is that cdm also predicts@xcite a universal , monotonic increase of density towards the center of halos which is not seen in close studies of dark - matter - dominated galaxies@xcite ( although the observational issue is far from settled@xcite ) .",
    "the formation of central cusps has been observed for many years in simulations of collapse of cold matter in a wide variety of circumstances ; it may be thought of as low - entropy material sinking to the center during halo formation .",
    "simulations suggest that dynamical `` pre - heating '' of cdm by hierarchical clustering is not enough to prevent a cusp from forming that some material is always left with a low entropy and sinks to the center .",
    "if this is right , the central structure of halos might provide clues to the primordial entropy which are insensitive to complicated details of nonlinear collapse .",
    "it may be possible to explain these discrepancies in a cdm framework@xcite , for example by using various baryonic contrivances .",
    "it is also possible that the observations can be interpreted more sympathetically for cdm ; we explore this possibility in more detail in a separate paper@xcite .",
    "however it is also possible that the problems with halo structure are giving specific quantitative clues about new properties of the dark matter particles . by examining halo structure and stability , in this paper",
    "we make a quantitative assessment of the effects of modifications of the two main properties of cdm the addition of primordial velocity dispersion , and/or the addition of particle self - interactions .",
    "in particular we focus on aspects of halo structure which provide the cleanest `` laboratories '' for studying dark matter properties .",
    "the ultimate goal of this exercise is to measure and constrain particle properties from halo structure .    endowing the particles with non - zero primordial velocity dispersion produces two separate effects : a filter in the primordial power spectrum which limits small - scale substructure , and a phase packing or liouville limit which produces halo cores .",
    "both effects depend on the same quantity , the `` phase density '' which we choose to define using the most observationally accessible units , @xmath2 , where @xmath3 is the density and @xmath4 is the velocity dispersion .",
    "the definitions of these quantities depend on whether we are discussing fine - grained or coarse - grained @xmath1 .",
    "is related in a straightforward way to the usual thermodynamic entropy ; for @xmath5 particles , @xmath6.$ ] ] for collisionless particles , the fine - grained @xmath1 does not change but the coarse - grained @xmath1 can decrease as the sheet occupied by particles folds up in phase space .",
    "the coarse - grained @xmath1 can be estimated directly from astronomical observations , while the fine - grained @xmath1 relates directly to microphysics of dark matter particles . for particles which decouple when still relativistic",
    ", the initial microscopic phase density @xmath7 , which for nondissipationless collisionless particles is the maximum value for all time , can be related to the particle mass and type , with little reference to the cosmology .",
    "the most familiar examples are the standard neutrinos , but we include in our discussion the more general case which yields different numerical factors for bosons and for particles with a significant chemical potential .",
    "the physics of both the filtering and the phase packing in the collisionless case closely parallels that of massive neutrinos@xcite , the standard form of `` hot '' dark matter .",
    "dominant hot dark matter overdoes both of these effects the filtering scale is too large to agree with observations of galaxy formation ( both in emission and quasar absorption ) and the phase density is too low to agree with observations of giant - galaxy halos@xcite .",
    "however one can introduce new particles with a lower velocity dispersion ( `` warm '' dark matter , @xcite ) , which is the option we consider here .",
    "although warm dark matter has most often been invoked as a solution to fixing apparent ( and no longer problematic@xcite ) difficulties with predictions of the cdm power spectrum for matching galaxy clustering data , a spectrum filtered on smaller scales may also solve several other classic problems of cdm on galactic and subgalactic scales@xcite which are sometimes attributed to baryonic effects . the main effect in warm models",
    "is that the first nonlinear objects are larger and form later , suppressing substructure and increasing the angular momentum of galaxies@xcite .",
    "this improves the predictions for dwarf galaxy populations@xcite , baryon - to - dark - matter ratio , disk size and angular momentum , and quiet flows on the scale of galaxy groups . if the filtering is confined to small scales the predictions are likely to remain acceptable for lyman-@xmath8 absorption during the epoch of galaxy formation at @xmath9@xcite .",
    "liouville s theorem tells us that dissipationless , collisionless particles can only decrease their coarse - grained phase density , and we conjecture that halo cores on small scales approximately preserve the primordial phase density .",
    "the universal character of the phase density allows us to make definite predictions for the scaling of core density and core radius with halo velocity dispersion .",
    "these relations are analogous to those governing nonrelativistic degenerate - dwarf stars : more tightly bound ( i.e. massive ) halos should have smaller , denser cores .",
    "a survey@xcite of available evidence on the phase density of dark matter cores on scales from dwarf spheroidal galaxies to galaxy clusters shows that the phase density needed to create the cores of rotating dwarf galaxies is much lower than that apparently present in dwarf spheroidal galaxies@xcite so at least one of these populations is not probing primordial phase density . translating into masses of neutrino - like relics ,",
    "the spheroidals prefer masses of about 1 kev ( unless the observed stars occupy only a small central portion of an implausibly large , massive and high - dispersion halo ) , and the disks prefer about 200 ev .    the larger phase density is also preferred from the point of view of filtering .",
    "if we take @xmath10 ( instead of 1 as in most of the original warm scenarios which reduces the scale for a given mass , because it lowers the temperature and therefore the number of the particles ) , the filtering scale for 1 kev particles is at about @xmath11 small enough to preserve the successful large - scale predictions of cdm but also large enough to impact the substructure problem .",
    "galaxy halo substructure therefore favors a primordial phase density corresponding to collisionless thermal relics with a mass of around 1 kev . in this scenario the densest dwarf spheroidals",
    "might well preserve the primordial phase density and in principle could allow a measurement of the particle mass .",
    "( conversely , a mass as large as 1 kev can only solve the core problem in disks with additional nonlinear dynamical heating , so that the central matter no longer remains on the lowest adiabat , or with the aid of baryonic effects@xcite . )    to have the right mean density and phase density today , relativistically - decoupling particles of this phase density must have separated out at least as early as the qcd era , when the number of degrees of freedom was much larger than at classical weak decoupling .",
    "their interactions with normal standard model particles must therefore be `` weaker than weak , '' ruling out not only standard neutrinos but many other particle candidates .",
    "the leading cdm particle candidates , such as wimps and axions , form in standard scenarios with much higher phase densities , although more elaborate mechanisms are possible to endow these particles with the velocities to dilute @xmath1 .",
    "we review briefly some of the available options for making low-@xmath1 candidates , such as particles decaying out of equilibrium .",
    "a new wrinkle on this story comes if we endow the particles with self - interactions@xcite .",
    "we consider a simple parametrized model of particle self - interactions based on massive intermediate particles of adjustable mass and coupling , and explore the constraints on these parameters from halo structure .",
    "self - interactions change the filtering of the power spectrum early on , and if they are strong enough they qualititatively change the global structure and stability of halos .    in the interacting case ,",
    "linear perturbations below the jeans scale oscillate as sound waves instead of damping by free streaming analogous to a baryon plasma rather than a neutrino gas .",
    "this effect introduces a filter which is sharper in @xmath12 than that from streaming , and also on a scale about ten times smaller than the streaming for the same rms particle velocity about right to reconcile the appropriate filtering scale with the @xmath1 needed for phase - density - limited disk cores .",
    "these self - interactions could be so weak that the particles are effectively collisionless today as in standard cdm .",
    "on the other hand stronger self - interactions have major effects during the nonlinear stages of structure formation and on the structure of galaxy halos@xcite .",
    "we consider this possibility in some detail , using lane - emden polytropes as fiducial models for collisional halos .",
    "their structures are close analogs of degenerate dwarf stars and we call them `` giant dwarfs '' .",
    "we find that these structures are subject to an instability caused by heat conduction by particle diffusion .",
    "although a little of this might be interesting ( e.g. leading to the formation of central black holes@xcite or to high - density , dwarf spheroidal galaxies ) , typical halos can only be significantly collisional if they last for a hubble time ; for this to be the case , the particle interactions must be so strong that diffusion is suppressed , which in turn requires a fluid behavior for all bound dark matter structures .",
    "this option is not very attractive from a phenomenological point of view@xcite ; for example , dwarf galaxies or galaxies in clusters tend to sink like rocks instead of orbiting like satellites , and the collapse of cores occurs most easily in those low - dispersion halos where we seek to stabilize them .",
    "we adopt the hypothesis that some dark matter cores are real and due to dark matter rather than baryonic physics or observational artifacts . at present this interpretation is suggested rather than proven by observations .",
    "we also conjecture that the heating which sets the finite central phase density is primordial , part of the physics of the particle creation rather than some byproduct of hierarchical clustering . at present",
    "this is a conjecture suggested rather than proven by simulations .    in the clustering hierarchy ,",
    "more higher - entropy material is created as time goes on , but numerical experiments indicate that this heated material tends to end up in the outer halo .",
    "this is the basic reason why cdm halos always have central cusps : there is always a little bit of material which remembers the low primordial entropy and sinks to the center .",
    "the halo center contains the lowest - entropy material , which we conjecture is a relic of the original entropy of the particles or equivalently , their original phase density , which is most directly related to measurable properties of halo dynamics .",
    "we begin by relating the phase density to particle properties in some simple models .",
    "consider particles of mass @xmath13 originating in equilibrium and decoupling at a temperature @xmath14 or chemical potential @xmath15 .",
    "the original distribution function is@xcite @xmath16 with @xmath17 and @xmath18 applies to fermions and bosons respectively . the number density and pressure of the particles are@xcite @xmath19 @xmath20 where @xmath21 is the number of spin degrees of freedom . unless stated otherwise , we adopt units with @xmath22 .    with adiabatic expansion this distribution",
    "is preserved with momenta of particles varying as @xmath23 , so the density and pressure can be calculated at any subsequent time@xcite . for thermal relics @xmath24 , we can derive the density and pressure in the limit when the particles have cooled to be nonrelativistic : @xmath25 @xmath26 where the pseudo - temperature @xmath27 records the expansion of any fluid element relative to its initial size and temperature at decoupling @xmath28 .",
    "it is useful to define a `` phase density '' @xmath2 proportional to the inverse specific entropy for nonrelativistic matter , which is preserved under adiabatic expansion and contraction . for nondissipative particles @xmath1 can not increase , although it can decrease due to shocks ( in the collisional case ) or coarse - graining ( in the collisionless case , e.g. in `` violent relaxation '' and other forms of dynamical heating . ) combining the above expressions for density and pressure and using @xmath29 , we find @xmath30 the dimensionless coefficient for the thermal case is @xmath31^{5/2 }     \\over [ \\int dp ( p^4/e^p\\pm 1)]^{3/2 }      } = 0.0019625,\\ ] ] where the last equality holds for thermal fermions .",
    "an analogous calculation for the degenerate fermion case ( @xmath32 ) yields the same expression for @xmath33 but with a different coefficient , @xmath34^{5/2 }     \\over [ \\int_0 ^ 1p^4 dp ] ^{3/2 }      } = 0.036335.\\ ] ] to translate from @xmath22 into more conventional astronomers units , @xmath35 the phase density in this situation depends on the particle properties but not at all on the cosmology ; the decoupling temperature , the current temperature and density do not enter .",
    "the numerical factors just depend on whether the particles are thermal or degenerate , bosons or fermions , which makes the quantity @xmath1 a potentially precise tool for measuring particle properties .",
    "many scenarios envision thermal relics so we adopt this as a fiducial reference in quoting phase densities in @xmath36 units  bearing in mind that the actual mass may be different in cases such as degnerate sterile neutrinos@xcite , and that for the astrophysical effects discussed below , it is the phase density that matters . for",
    "a neutrino - like ( @xmath37 ) , thermal relic , @xmath38      for a standard , relativistically - decoupled thermal relic , the mean density of the particles can be estimated@xcite from the number of particle degrees of freedom at the epoch @xmath39 of decoupling , @xmath40 ; the ratio to the critical density is @xmath41 ( m_x/{\\rm 1 kev } ) = 2.4 h_{70}^{-2 } ( m_x/{\\rm 1 kev } ) ( g_{eff}/1.5)(g_{*d}/100)^{-1}\\ ] ] where @xmath42 is the number of effective photon degrees of freedom of the particle ( @xmath43 for a two - component fermion ) . for standard neutrinos which decouple at around 1mev , @xmath44 .",
    "current observations suggest that the dark matter density @xmath45 to @xmath46 , hence the mass density for a warm relic with @xmath47 200 ev clearly requires a much larger @xmath40 than the standard value for neutrino decoupling . above about 200 mev ,",
    "the activation of the extra gluon and quark degrees of freedom ( 24 and 15.75 respectively including @xmath48 quarks ) give @xmath49 ; activation of heavier modes of the standard model above @xmath50gev produces @xmath51 ; this gives a reasonable match for @xmath52 ev and @xmath53 , as suggested by current evidence .",
    "masses of the order of 1 kev can be accomodated by somewhat earlier decoupling ( @xmath54 tev ) and including many extra ( e.g. , supersymmetric or extra - dimensional ) degrees of freedom . alternatively",
    "a degenerate particle can be introduced via mixing of a sterile neutrino , combined with a primordial chemical potential adjusted to give the right density@xcite . in any of these cases ,",
    "the particle must interact with standard model particles much more weakly than normal weak interactions , which decouple at @xmath55 mev .",
    "note that warm dark matter particles have low densities compared with photons and other species at 1 mev so they do not strongly affect nucleosynthesis .",
    "however , their effect is not entirely negligible since they are relativistic at early times and add considerably more to the mean total density in the radiation era than standard cdm particles .",
    "they add the equivalent of @xmath56 of an effective extra neutrino species , which leads to a small increase in the predicted primordial helium abundance for a given @xmath57 .",
    "because the phase density fixes the mean density at which the particles become relativistic , it also fixes this effect on nucleosynthesis ( independent of the other particle properties , thermal or degenerate etc . )",
    "this effect might eventually become detectable with increasingly precise measurements of cosmic abundances .",
    "thermally decoupled relics are the simplest way to obtain the required finite phase density , but they are not the only way .",
    "heavier particles can be produced with a kinetic temperature higher than the radiation , accelerated by some nonthermal process . weakly interacting massive particles , including the favored lightest supersymmetric particles ,",
    "can reduce their phase density if they form via out - of - equilibrium particle decay .",
    "a small density of heavy unstable particles ( x1 ) can separate out in the standard way , then later decay into the present - day ( truly stable ) dark matter particles ( x2 ) . in a supersymmetric scheme one can imagine for example a gravitino separating out and decaying into neutralino dark matter .    in the normal lee - weinberg scenario for wimp generation ,",
    "the particle density is in approximate thermal equilibrium until @xmath58 .",
    "the particles thin out by annihilation until their relic density freezes out when the the annihilation rate matches the hubble rate , @xmath59 .",
    "the density today is then @xmath60 where we have used the typical weak annihilation cross section @xmath61 determined by the mass of the @xmath62 .",
    "the kinetic temperature of the wimps freezes out at about the same time as the abundance , so they are very cold today , with typical velocities @xmath63 .",
    "this of course endows them with small velocities and an enormous phase density .",
    "a smaller phase density can be produced if these particles decay at some point into the particles present today .",
    "if the secondary particles are much lighter than the first , they can be generated with relativistic velocities at relatively late times as we require .",
    "suppose the primary @xmath64 particles decay into secondary @xmath65 particles at a temperature @xmath66 . to produce particles with the velocity @xmath67 km / sec today ( characteristic of a fiducial 200 ev thermal relic phase density ) , or @xmath68 at @xmath69 , @xmath70 we also want to get the right density of @xmath65 particles .",
    "suppose the density of @xmath64 is determined by a lee - weinberg freezeout , such that @xmath71 . in order to have @xmath72 at @xmath73 , @xmath74 at @xmath75 , and then @xmath76 thus we obtain @xmath77 a simple example would be a more or less standard 50 gev wimp primary which decays at @xmath78kev into marginally relativistic 20 gev secondaries . alternatively the primary could be heavier than this and the secondary lighter .",
    "such scenarios have to be crafted to be consistent with various constraints , such as the long required lifetime for @xmath64 ( in the example just given , a week or so ) and the decay width of the @xmath79 ( which must not notice the existence of @xmath65 ) ; although not compelling , they are not all ruled out .",
    "the other perennial favorite dark matter candidate is the axion .",
    "the usual scenario is to produce these by condensation , which if homogeneous produces dark matter even colder than the wimps indeed , as bosons in a macroscopic coherent state .",
    "however , it is natural to contemplate modifications to this picture where the condensing fields are not uniform but have topological defects or goldstone excitations , produced by the usual kibble mechanism during symmetry breaking ( e.g. @xcite ) . in this case",
    "the axions are produced with relativistic velocities and could in principle lead to the desired velocity dispersion .",
    "we have shown several examples of how particle properties determine primordial phase density . here",
    "we explore how the phase density affects the central structure of dark matter halos .",
    "consider the evolution of classical dissipationless , collisionless particles in phase space .",
    "truly cold dark matter is formed with zero velocity dispersion occupying a three dimensional subspace ( determined by the hubble flow @xmath80 ) of six dimensional phase space .",
    "subsequent nonlinear evolution wraps up the phase sheet so that a coarse - grained average gives a higher entropy and a lower phase density . in general a small amount of cold material remains which naturally sinks to the center of a system .",
    "there is in principle no limit to the central density ; the phase sheet can pack an arbitrary number of phase wraps into a small volume .",
    "by contrast , with warm dark matter the initial phase sheet has a finite thickness .",
    "the particles do not radiate so the phase density can never exceed this initial value . in the nonlinear formation of a halo",
    ", the phase sheet evolves as an incompressible fluid in phase space .",
    "the outer parts of a halo form in the same way as cdm by wraps of the sheet whose thickness is negligible , but in the central parts the finite thickness of the sheet prevents arbitrarily close packing it reaches a `` phase packing '' limit . for a given velocity dispersion at any point in space , the primordial phase density of particles imposes an upper limit on their density @xmath3 , corresponding to adiabatic compression .",
    "thus warm dark matter halos can not form the singular central cusps predicted by cold dark matter but instead form cores with a maximum limiting density at small radius , determined by the velocity dispersion .",
    "we estimate the structure of the halo core by conjecturing that the matter in the central parts of the halo lies close to the primordial adiabat defined by @xmath1 . this will be a good assumption for cores which form quietly without too much dynamical heating .",
    "simulations indicate this to be the case in essentially all cdm halos , although in principle it could be that warm matter typically experiences more additional dynamical heating than cold matter , in which case the core could be larger .",
    "this question can be resolved with warm simulations , including a reasonable sampling of the particle distribution function during nonlinear clustering@xcite ; for the present we derive a rigorous upper limit to the core density for a given velocity dispersion , and conjecture that this will be close the actual central structure .",
    "a useful model for illustration and fitting is a standard isothermal sphere model for the halo .",
    "the spherical case with an isotropic distribution of velocities maximizes the central density compatible with the phase density limit .",
    "the conventional definition of core size in an isothermal sphere@xcite is the `` king radius '' @xmath81 where @xmath82 denotes the one - dimensional velocity dispersion , and @xmath3 denotes the central density . making the adiabatic assumption , @xmath83 , we find @xmath84 where @xmath85 denotes the asymptotic circular velocity of the halo s flat rotation curve .",
    "( note that aside from numerical factors this is the same mass - radius relation as a degenerate dwarf star ; the galaxy core is bigger than a chandrasekhar dwarf of the same specific binding energy by a factor @xmath86 .",
    "the collisional case treated below is even closer to a scaled version of a degenerate dwarf star . )    for the thermal and degenerate phase densities derived above , @xmath87 @xmath88 where we have set @xmath37 .",
    "the circular velocity in the central core displays the harmonic behavior @xmath89 ; it reaches half of its asymptotic value at a radius @xmath90 .    instead of fitting an isothermal sphere to an entire rotation curve , in some situations we might opt to measure the central density directly by fitting the linear inner portion of a rotation curve",
    "if it is well - resolved in the core : @xmath91      in a separate paper@xcite we review the current relevant data in more detail , including a consideration of interpretive ambiguities . here",
    "we offer a summary of the situation .",
    "the relationship of core radius or central density with halo velocity dispersion is a simple prediction of the primordial phase density hypothesis , which can be in principle be tested on a cosmic population of halos . in particular if phase packing is the explanation of dwarf galaxy cores , the dark matter cores of giant galaxies and galaxy clusters are predicted to be much smaller than for dwarfs , unobservably hidden in a central region dominated by baryons .",
    "there is currently at least one well - documented case of a galaxy cluster with a large core ( @xmath92kpc ) as measured by a lensing fit@xcite , which can not be explained at all by phase packing with primordial phase density . on the other hand",
    "more representative samples of relaxed clusters do not show evidence of cores@xcite .",
    "the favorite laboratories for finding evidence of dark matter cores are dwarf disk galaxies which display a central core even at radii where the baryonic contribution is negligible@xcite .",
    "rotation curves allow a direct estimate of the enclosed density as a function of radius , right out to a fairly flat portion which allows an estimate of the dark matter velocity dispersion all the information we need to estimate a phase density for a core .",
    "three of the best - resolved cases@xcite yield estimates of @xmath93",
    ". the sensitive dependence of @xmath1 on particle mass means that @xmath94 is reasonably well bounded even from just from a handful of such cases ; a thermal value of @xmath47300 ev does not produce large enough cores to help at all ( that is , one must seek unrelated explanations of the data ) , while values @xmath95100 ev produce such large cores that they conflict with observed rotation curves of normal giant galaxies@xcite and lsb galaxies@xcite .",
    "this is why we adopt a fiducial reference value of 200 ev for dwarf disk cores .",
    "dwarf spheroidal galaxies do not have gas on circular orbits so their dynamics is studied with stellar velocity dispersions@xcite .",
    "here we have an estimate of the mean density in the volume encompassed by the stellar test particles , but we do not know the velocity dispersion of the dark matter halo particles ( which may larger than that of the stars if the latter occupy only the harmonic central portion of a large dark matter core ) so estimates of the phase density are subject to other assumptions and modeling constraints@xcite .",
    "if we assume that the stars are not much more concentrated than the dark matter , we get the largest estimate of the phase density , which in the largest case@xcite is about @xmath96 corresponding to a thermal relic of mass @xmath97ev .",
    "the apparent phase densities estimated for dwarf spheroidals are thus much larger than for dwarf disks , even at the same radius .",
    "the mass - to - light ratio in the most extreme of these systems is about 100 in solar units , an order of magnitude more than that found for purely baryonic , old stellar populations in elliptical galaxies@xcite , so there is little doubt that they are dominated by dark matter .",
    "the cdm prediction is that there are other , more weakly bound halos in which gas was unable to cool and form stars , and which therefore have an even higher mass - to - light ratio .",
    "the non - zero primordial velocity dispersion naturally leads to a filtering of the primordial power spectrum .",
    "the transfer function of warm dark matter is almost the same as cold dark matter on large scales , but is filtered by free - streaming on small scales .",
    "the characteristic wavenumber for filtering at any time is given by @xmath98 , the inverse distance travelled by a particle at the rms velocity in a hubble time .",
    "the detailed shape of the transfer function depends on the detailed evolution of the boltzmann equation , and in particular whether the particles are free - streaming or collisional .    in the current application , we are concerned with @xmath99 during the radiation - dominated era ( @xmath100 ) , so that @xmath101 , where @xmath102 includes all relativistic degrees of freedom . for constant @xmath1 , @xmath103 as long as the @xmath104 particles are nonrelativistic . for particles with a small velocity dispersion today , the comoving filtering scale@xcite is thus approximately independent of redshift over a considerable interval of redshift ( see figure 1 ) .",
    "the `` plateau '' scale is independent of @xmath105 : @xmath106 where @xmath107 is the density in relativistic species and @xmath108 is the rms velocity of the particles at their present mean cosmic density @xmath109 . for the thermal case , in terms of particle mass",
    ", we have @xmath110 and hence @xmath111    in the case of free - streaming , relativistically - decoupled thermal particles , the transfer function has been computed precisely@xcite ; the characteristic wavenumber where the square of the transfer function falls to half the cdm value is about @xmath112 .",
    "the simple streaming case only works for high phase densities @xmath113kev , that is , comparable to that observed in dwarf spheroidals .",
    "for example , to produce an acceptable number of galaxies at a dwarf galaxy scale without invoking disruption , press - schechter theory@xcite implies a spectral cutoff at about @xmath114 , requiring a thermal relic mass of about 1100 ev .",
    "hydrodynamic simulations show that the same cutoff scale preserves the large scale success of cdm and probably improves the cdm situation on galaxy scales in ways mentioned previously@xcite .",
    "although the typical uncertainty on the phenomenologically best filtering scale is at least a factor of two , it is clear that the smallest phase density compatible with standard streaming filtering is too large to have a direct impact on the core problem in dwarf disk galaxies .    on the other hand",
    "the discrepancy is only a factor of a few in mass , less than an order of magnitude in linear damping scale .",
    "we have already mentioned two modifications which could reconcile these scales .",
    "it could be that warm models turn out to be sometimes more effective at producing smooth cores than we have guessed from the minimal phase - packing constraint , due to more efficient dynamical heating than cdm ; this would produce a nonlinear amplifier of the primordial velocities , probably with a large variation depending on dynamical history ( an especially good option if cores turn out to be common in galaxy clusters . )",
    "another possibility is that the primordial velocities are introduced relatively late ( nonrelativistically ) by particle decay .",
    "still another possibility is a different relationship of @xmath115 and @xmath116 from the standard collisionless streaming behavior .",
    "for example , if the particles are self - interacting , then the free streaming is suppressed and the relevant scale is the standard jeans scale dividing growing behavior from acoustic oscillations , @xmath117 .",
    "this comes out to @xmath118 , 13 times shorter than @xmath119 at a fixed phase density .",
    "( an intuitive view of the this numerical factor is that during the long period when @xmath116 is flat , streaming particles continue to move and damp on larger scales , whereas the comoving jeans scale just remains fixed , sharply dividing oscillating from growing behavior . )",
    "the acoustic case is similar to the behavior of fluctuations in high - density , baryon - dominated models , which have a sharp cutoff at the jeans scale@xcite .",
    "we conclude that some particle self - interactions may be desirable to reconcile the scale of the transfer function of primordial perturbations with the phase packing effect on disk cores .",
    "we now turn to the case where the dark matter particles are not collisionless , but scatter off of each other via a new intermediate force .",
    "self - interactions of dark matter have been motivated from both an astrophysical and a particle physics point of view@xcite .",
    "our goal here is again to relate the properties of the new particles to the potentially observable properties of dark matter halos .",
    "in addition to the single parameter @xmath1 considered for the collisionless case , we can use halo properties to constrain fundamental parameters of the particles the masses of the dark matter particles and intermediate bosons carrying the interactions , as well as a coupling constant .",
    "such self - interactions lead to modifications in several of the previous arguments .",
    "as we have seen , self - interactions can have observable effects via the transfer function even if they are negligible today .",
    "stronger self - interactions also affect the structure and stability of halos ; collisional matter has a fluid character leading to equilibrium states of self - gravitating halos much like those of stars .",
    "these systems are quite different from collisionless systems .",
    "although entropy must increase outwards for stability against convection ( which naturally happens due to shocks in the hierarchy ) , it can not increase too rapidly and remain hydrostatically stable ; in particular , stable solutions have a minimum nonneglible temperature gradient , and the isothermal case is no longer a stable static solution as it is for collisionless matter . since collisional matter conducts heat between fluid elements , these solutions are all unstable on some timescale .",
    "we now apply several simple physical arguments to constrain properties of the dark matter candidate and its interactions . some of these have been considered previously@xcite .",
    "the most important constraints are summarized in figure 2 .",
    "suppose that the dark matter @xmath104 particles with mass @xmath94 , which may be either fermions or bosons , interact via massive bosons @xmath120 whose mass @xmath121 determines the range of the interactions , and a coupling constant @xmath122 .",
    "these may be considered analogous to strong interaction scatterings where we regard pions as yukawa scalar intermediates , or electroweak interactions with @xmath123 as vector intermediates .",
    "the interactions must be elastic scatterings to avoid a net energy loss , although `` dissipative '' three - body encounters are permitted as long as the energy does not leave the @xmath124 subsystem nor travel far in space .",
    "for most purposes even the sign of the interaction does not matter it may be attractive or repulsive , as happens with vectors and like charges .",
    "the @xmath120 particles at tree level interact only with @xmath104 , although the @xmath104 may ( as is usual with dark matter candidates ) be allowed some much weaker interactions with ordinary matter . in this model",
    "the collision cross section for strong scattering is about @xmath125\\ ] ] where the first case is coupling - limited ( and depends on the particle velocity and coupling strength , like electromagnetic scattering of electrons ) , the second case holds for @xmath126 ( like neutrino neutral - current interactions ) and the third is the range - limited , strong interaction limit ( like neutron scattering ) .",
    "there are several simple constraints on the particle masses .",
    "if the dark matter is collisional , the rate of net annihilations of @xmath104 must be highly suppressed compared to the scattering rate , or the mass of the halo would quickly radiate away as @xmath120 particles . either there is a primordial asymmetry ( so the number of @xmath127 is negligible ) , or @xmath128 suppressing what would otherwise be a rapid channel for @xmath104 to annihilate and radiate @xmath120 .",
    "( recall that in this model , there is no direct route to annihilate into anything else ) . in any case",
    "the @xmath120 must not be too light or the typical inelastic collisions will radiate them ; for particles with relative velocities @xmath129 typical of dark matter in galaxies , we must have @xmath130 so that the energy of collisions is typically insufficient to create a real @xmath120 .",
    "in addition , if attractive , the range of the interactions must be less than the `` bohr radius '' for these interactions , requiring @xmath131 in order not to form bound `` atoms '' .",
    "the close analogy with @xmath120 is the pion , which is just light enough to allow a bound state of deuterium .",
    "bound states would be a disaster since they would behave like nuclear reactions in stars .",
    "such states would add an internal source of energy in the halos , creating winds or other energy flows which would unbind large amounts of matter .",
    "all of these constraints eliminate the upper left region of figure 2 , with details depending on the coupling strength and halo velocity .",
    "the properties of interacting particles define a characteristic column density , @xmath132 ; a slab of @xmath104 at this column is one mean free path thick .",
    "this is the quantity that specifies the degree of collisional or collisionless behavior of a system . in order to connect the halo astrophysics with dark matter properties we convert from units with @xmath22 : @xmath133 for comparison ,",
    "the average mass column density within radius @xmath134 for a halo with a circular velocity @xmath135 is @xmath136 a halo therefore enters the strongly - collisional regime qualitatively different from classical cdm if @xmath137.\\ ] ] this criterion is shown in figure 2 as the right boundary of the `` unstable cores '' region ; indeed this marginally - collisional case maximizes the rate of thermal conduction instability , as discussed below .",
    "we also compute the criterion for non - streaming behavior in the early universe the amount of self - interaction needed to affect the transfer function as discussed above .",
    "it is significantly less than that required for collisional behavior today : @xmath138 where @xmath139 refers to the epoch of equal densities in dark matter and relativistic species , and @xmath140 is the characteristic cosmic column density today .",
    "using the units conversion above we have @xmath141 corresponding to a mass column for one expected scattering of @xmath142 .",
    "particles scattering off of each other more strongly than this no longer have streaming behavior at high redshift but support acoustic oscillations , much like baryons but with only their own pressure ( that is , without the interaction with radiation pressure and without decoupling from it ) .",
    "we should bear in mind that a somewhat larger cross section is needed to avoid diffusive ( `` silk '' ) damping , but even at this level of interaction the scale of damping is is significantly reduced from the streaming case .",
    "this criterion is shown in figure 2 as the right boundary of the `` jeans '' region ( although some acoustic behavior before @xmath143 occurs even to the right of this ) .",
    "the equilibrium configurations of collisional dark matter correspond to those of classical self - gravitating fluids .",
    "the simplest cases to consider and general enough for our level of precision are classical polytrope solutions stable configurations of a classical , self - gravitating , ideal gas with a polytropic equation of state.@xcite in the absence of shocks or conduction , the pressure and density of a fluid element obey an equation of state @xmath144 . for an adiabatic , classical , nonrelativistic , monatomic gas , or for nonrelativistic degenerate particles ,",
    "the adiabatic index @xmath145 and different values of @xmath146 correspond to different entropy .",
    "if the entropy varies radially as a power - law , equilibrium self - gravitating configurations are given by classical lane - emden polytrope solutions .",
    "the radial variation of pressure and density obey @xmath147 ; the second index @xmath148 tracks the radial variation between different fluid elements in some particular configuration ( that is , including variations in entropy ) . for gas on the same adiabat everywhere , @xmath149 ; for the case of nonrelativistic degenerate or adiabatic matter , @xmath150 applies and is a good model of degenerate dwarfs . if the entropy is increasing with radius , as would be expected if assembled in a cosmological hierarchy , then @xmath151 , conferring stability against convection .",
    "the character of the solutions is well known@xcite .",
    "as long as @xmath152 the halo structure is like a star , with a flat - density core in the center , falling off in the outer parts to vanishing density at a boundary .",
    "if it is rotating , the structure is similar but rotationally flattened .",
    "these solutions describe approximately the structure of stars , especially degenerate dwarfs , and halos of highly collisional dark matter . if @xmath153 ( and in particular for the isothermal case @xmath154 ) there is a dynamical instability and no stable solution ; the system runs away on a gravitational timescale , with the center collapsing and the outer layers blowing off .      at zero entropy",
    "the equilibrium configuration is the exactly soluble @xmath155 polytrope , which we adopt as an illustrative example .",
    "that is , we model a dwarf galaxy core as a degenerate dwarf star , the only difference being a particle mass much smaller than a proton allowing a halo mass much bigger than a star . for total mass @xmath156 and radius @xmath157",
    ", the lane - emden solution gives a central pressure @xmath158 and a central density @xmath159 . using the above relation for the equation of state",
    "we obtain the standard degenerate dwarf solution , which has @xmath160 where @xmath161 and @xmath162 .",
    "this `` giant dwarf '' configuration is stable even at zero temperature up to the chandrasekhar limit for @xmath104 particles . because there is just one kind of particle providing both mass and pressure , similar to a neutron star ) , @xmath163 ]    since the mass is not directly observable , it is more useful to consider the velocity of a circular orbit at the surface , @xmath164 .",
    "we then obtain the relation for a degenerate system , @xmath165 or in more conventional astrophysical units , @xmath166 note that as in the collisionless case , no cosmological assumptions or parameters have entered into this expression .    for any adiabatic nonrelativistic matter",
    "the solution is similar .",
    "the absolute scale of the giant dwarf , determined by @xmath167 , is fixed by the phase density @xmath1 .",
    "in general there is a range of entropy but once again the the lowest - entropy material ( which is densest at a given pressure ) sinks to the center of a halo and forms an approximately adiabatic core .",
    "the rest of the halo forms a thermally - supported atmosphere above it .",
    "once again cores are the places to look for signs of a primordial ceiling to phase density . however , as we see below the behavior changes if conduction or radiation are not negligible . as we know , a thermally supported star which conducts heat and has no nuclear or other source of energy is unstable .      if the collision rates are not very high we must consider heat and momentum transport between fluid elements by particle diffusion . the most serious consideration for radial stability is the transport of heat . in",
    "all stable thermally supported solutions the dense inner parts are hotter ; if conduction is allowed , heat is transported outwards .",
    "the entropy of the central material decreases , the interior is compressed to higher density and the outer layers spread to infinity , a manifestation of the gravothermal catastrophe . with conduction",
    "the inner gas falls in and the outer gas drifts out on a diffusion timescale , attempting to approach a singular isothermal sphere .",
    "consider the scenario@xcite where the dark matter cross section is small enough to remain essentially noninteracting on large scales , preserving the successes of cdm structure formation simulations , but large enough to become collisional in the dense central regions of galaxies .",
    "although this scenario was introduced to help solve the cusp problem , we will see that the conductive instability makes matters worse .",
    "if stable cores are to last for a hubble time , the dark matter halos must either be effectively collisionless ( standard dark matter ) , or very strongly interacting , so that the inevitable conduction is slow ( or made of degenerate fermions so there is no temperature gradient . )",
    "elementary kinetic theory@xcite yields an estimate for the the conduction of heat by particle diffusion ; the ratio of energy flux to temperature gradient is the classical conduction coefficient @xmath168 . assuming a halo in approximate virial equilibrium and profile @xmath169 , this yields a timescale for heat conduction , @xmath170 where @xmath171 is the typical particle velocity ( which is about the virial velocity of the halo independent of the mass of the particles @xmath94 ) .",
    "the first factor is essentially the time it takes a particle to random walk a distance @xmath172 , @xmath173 .",
    "the last factor characterizes the temperature and entropy gradient ; dynamical stability prevents it from being very large , and in most of the matter it typically takes a value not much larger than unity .",
    "a halo with conduction therefore forms a kind of cooling flow , with the core collapsing and the envelope expanding .",
    "if it is hydrostatically quasi - stable ( that is , if the core collapse is slow and regulated by the particle diffusion ) , we can use the lane - emden solutions to set bounds on the numerical factor @xmath174 governing the instability . the equation of state tells us that @xmath175 where @xmath176 .",
    "the largest value of @xmath177 which corresponds to a quasi - stable solution is @xmath178 .",
    "the density profile is steeper than isothermal ( @xmath179 ) , @xmath180 ; therefore @xmath181 . in the rough estimates",
    "here we set these factors to unity .",
    "conduction can be suppressed if the scattering is very frequent . for nondegenerate @xmath104",
    ", stable cores require that the conduction time exceeds the hubble time @xmath182 .",
    "for stability over a hubble time , the column density of a halo with velocity @xmath171 must exceed @xmath183 ; therefore the particles must satisfy @xmath184 where @xmath185 denotes the velocity in the lowest - velocity stable halo .",
    "perhaps surprisingly , the mass and radius of the halo do not enter explicitly .",
    "this condition constrains the particles to be highly interactive .",
    "galaxy halos have slow conduction compared to @xmath99 only above a critical velocity dispersion @xmath186 .",
    "halos below this threshold should have collapsed cores , and above the threshold the core radius / mass relation is determined as before by the giant dwarf sequence for the the particle s phase density .",
    "the existence of stable bound 30 km / s halos of highly - collisional dark matter requires @xmath187 shown in figure 2 as the right boundary of the `` fluid '' region .",
    "the `` thickness '' of a halo with velocity @xmath188 , in units of particle pathlengths , is @xmath189 so it is clear that all dark - matter - dominated structures , from small galaxies to galaxy clusters ( @xmath190 , @xmath191 ) , are highly collisional and their dark matter behaves as a fluid . even for",
    "very diffuse matter at the mean cosmic density ( @xmath192 ) , the particle mean free path is at most @xmath193mpc , about the same as the scale of nonlinear clustering , so all bound dark matter structures act like fluids .",
    "are other data consistent with the idea that essentially all dark matter acts like a fluid ?",
    "this option has been considered previously@xcite and while it is perhaps not definitively ruled out , it is not phenomenogically compelling .",
    "serious problems arise for example from satellite galaxies which are thought@xcite to have had several orbits without stopping and sinking as they would in a fluid , or from galaxies in clusters , at least some of which appear ( from lens reconstruction mass maps ) to have retained some of their dark matter halos .",
    "an intriguing possibility is that a small collision rate might contribute to enough instability to feed the formation of black holes@xcite .",
    "however the rate of the instability is greatest in the lowest mass , lowest density galaxy cores , a trend not conspicuous in the demography of central black holes of galaxies@xcite .",
    "we conclude that dark matter self - interactions are likely to be negligible in galaxy halos , and that this places significant constraints on the particles .",
    "figure 2 summarizes the constraints on the parameters @xmath194 of this interacting - particle model from the various constraints considered here .",
    "we have found that some halos might preserve in their inner structure observable clues to new dark matter physics , and that indeed some current observations already hint that the dark matter might be warm rather than cold .",
    "we conclude with a summary :        \\3 .",
    "rotation curves in a few dwarf disk galaxies indicate cores with a phase density corresponding to that of a 200 ev thermal relic or an rms velocity of about 0.4 km / sec at the current cosmic mean density .",
    "velocity dispersions in dwarf spheroidal galaxies indicate a higher phase density , corresponding to a thermal relic mass of about 1 kev . at most one of these populations",
    "can be tracing the primordial phase density .",
    "other very different particles are consistent with the halo data , provided they have the about the same mean density and phase density .",
    "examples include wimps from particle decay and axions from defect decay .",
    "cores due to phase packing limited by primoridial @xmath7 predict a universal relation between core radius and halo velocity dispersion .",
    "the relation is not found in a straightforward interpretation of the data .",
    "primordial velocity dispersion also suppresses halo substructure ( and solves some other difficulties with cdm ) by filtering primordial adiabatic perturbations .",
    "estimates based on luminosity functions prefer filtering on a scale of about @xmath195 ; for collisionless particles , this scale corresponds to a filter caused by streaming of about a 1kev thermal relic .",
    "stronger self - interactions destabilize halos by thermal conduction , making the cusp problem worse ( unless they are very strong too strong for satellite - galaxy kinematics or particles are degenerate , eliminating the central temperature gradient ) .",
    "\\10 . a simulation which samples a warm distribution function reasonably well",
    "is strongly motivated , to determine whether primordial @xmath1 is preserved in the centers of halos , or whether nonlinear effects can amplify dynamical heating in such models to explain cores on all scales .",
    "we are grateful for useful discussions of these issues with f. van den bosch , a. dolgov , g. fuller , b. moore , j. navarro , t. quinn , j. stadel , j. wadsley , and s. white .",
    "jd gratefully acknowledges the hospitality of the institute for theoretical physics at uc santa barbara , which is supported in part by the national science foundation under grant no .",
    "phy94 - 07194 .",
    "jd was partially supported by nsf grant ast-990862 .",
    "cjh thanks the max - planck - institute fr astrophysik , the isaac newton institute for mathematical sciences and the ettore majorana centre for scientific culture for hospitality .",
    "his work was supported at the university of washington by nsf and nasa , and at the max - planck - institute fr astrophysik by a humboldt research award .",
    "aaronson , m. 1983 , apj 266 , l11 atrio - barandela , f. , and davidson , s. 1997 , phys . rev .",
    "d 55 , 5886 bardeen , j. et al .",
    "1986 , astrophys .",
    "j. 304 , 15 battye , r. a. and shellard , e. p.s .",
    "1994 , nucl .",
    "b423 , 260 binney , j. and tremaine , s. 1987 , _ galactic dynamics _ , ( princeton : princeton university press ) blumenthal , g. pagels , h. and primack , j. r. 1982 , nature , 299 , 37 bond , j. r. , efstathiou , g. , and silk , j. 1980 , phys . rev .",
    "lett . 45 , 1980 van den bosch , f. et al . 1999 , astron . j. , submitted ( astro - ph/9911372 ) bullock , j. s. et al . 2000 , mnras in press , astro - ph/9908159 carignan , c. 1985 , astrophys .",
    "j.s 58 , 107 carlson , e. d. , machacek , m. e. and hall , l. j. 1992 , astrophys . j. 398 , 43 colin , p. , avila - reese , v. , and valenzuela , o. 2000 , submitted to the astrophysical journal , astro- ph/ 0004115 colombi , s. , dodelson , s. , and widrow , l. m.1996 , ap .",
    "j. 458 , 1 cowsik , r. , and mcclelland , j. 1972 , phys .",
    "29 , 669 croft , r. a. c. et al .",
    "1999 , astrophys .",
    "j. 520 , 1 dalcanton , j. and hogan , c. j. 2000 , submitted to astrophys .",
    "j. , astro - ph/0004381 dave , r. , hernquist , l , katz , n. , weinberg , d. h. 1999 , astrophys .",
    "j. 511 , 521 de laix , a. , scherrer , r. j. , and schaefer , astrophys . j. 452 , 495 dodelson , s. and widrow , l. m. 1994 , phys . rev .",
    "72 , 17 dubinski , j. and carlberg , r. 1991 , astrophys . j. 378 , 496 faber , s. and lin , d. 1983 , astrophys . j. 266 , l21 fukugita , m. , hogan , c. j. , and peebles , p. j. e. 1998 , astrophys .",
    "j. 503 , 518 fuller , g. , 1999 , preprint gerhard , o. e. and spergel , d. n. 1992 , astrophys .",
    "j. 389 , l9 gerstein , s. s. and zeldovich , ya .",
    "b. 1966 , zhetf pisma red .",
    "4,174 ghigna , s. , moore , b. , governato , f. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , and stadel , j. 1999 , astrophys .",
    "j. submitted ( astro - ph/9910166 ) hannestad , s. , 1999 , astro - ph/9912558 hogan , c. j. and rees , m. j. 1988 , phys .",
    "b205 , 28 hogan , c. j. 1995 , phys .",
    "74 , 3105 johnston , k. v. , majewski , s. r. , siegel , m. h. , reid , i. n. , and kunkel , w. e. 1999 , astron . j. 118 , 1719 kamionkowski , m. and liddle , a. r. 1999 , astro - ph/9911103 klypin , a. , kravtsov , a. v. , valenzuela , o. , and prada , f. 1999 , astrophys . j. , 523 , 32 kolb , e. w. and turner , m. s. 1990 , _ the early universe _ , ( redwood city : addison - wesley ) lake , g. 1990 , astrophys .",
    "j. 356 , l43 landau , l. d. and lifschitz , e. m. 1958 , _ statistical physics _ , ( reading : addison - wesley ) magorrian , j. et al .",
    "1998 , astron .",
    "j. 115 , 2285 mateo , m. 1998 , ann .",
    "astr . astrophys .",
    "36 , 435 melott , a. and schramm , d. n. 1985 astrophys . j. 298 , 1 mohapatra , r. n. and teplitz , v. l. 2000 , astro - ph/0001362 moore , b. , governato , f. , quinn , t. , stadel , j. , and lake , g. 1998 , astrophys .",
    "j. 499 , l5 moore , b. , ghigna , s. , governato , f. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , stadel , j. , and tozzi , p. 1999",
    ", astrophys .",
    "j. 524 , l19 moore , b. , quinn , t. , governato , f. , stadel , j. , and lake , g. 1999 , mnras , submitted ( astro - ph/9903164 ) navarro , j. f. and steinmetz , m. 1999 , astrophys .",
    "j. , in press ( astro - ph/9908114 ) navarro , j. f. , frenk , c. s. and white , s. d. m. 1996 , mnras 462 , 563 olszewski , e. and aaronson , m. 1987 , astron .",
    "j. 94 , 657 ostriker , j. p. , astro - ph/9912548 , phys .",
    ", submitted h. pagels and j.r .",
    "primack 1982 , phys .",
    "lett . , 48 , 223 peacock , j. a. 1999 , _ cosmological physics _ , ( cambridge : cambridge university press ) peebles , p. j. e. 1993 , _ principles of physical cosmology _ , ( princeton : princeton university press ) pickering , t. e. , van gorkom , j. h. , impey , c. d. , and quillen , a. c. 1999 , astron .",
    "j. 118,765 - 776 primack , j. r. 1997 , in formation of structure in the universe , ed .",
    "a. dekel and j. p. ostriker , astro - ph/9707285 primack , j. r. and blumenthal , g. in formation and evolution of galaxies and large structures in the universe , j. audouze and j. tran thanh van , eds .",
    "( reidel , dordrecht , 1983 ) pp . 163 - 183 ; reprinted in beyond the standard model , j.tran thanh van , ed .",
    "( editions frontieres , 1983 ) pp .",
    "ralston , j. p. and smith , l. l. 1991 , astrophys .",
    "j. 367 , 54 shi , x. , and fuller , g. m. 1999 , phys .",
    "82 , 2832 sommer - larsen , j. , and dolgov , a. 1999 , astro - ph/9912166 spergel , d. n. and steinhardt , p. j. 1999 , astro - ph/9909386 swaters , r. 1999 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , groningen swaters , r. a. , madore , b. a. , and trewhella , m. 2000 , astrophys .",
    "j. in press , astro - ph/0001277 tremaine , s. and gunn , j. e. 1979 , phys .",
    "42 , 407 tyson , j. a. , kochanski , g. p. , and dellantonio , i. p. 1998 , astrophys .",
    "j. 498,l107 van den bosch , f. c. , robertson , b. e. , dalcanton , j. j. , & de blok , w. j. g. 2000 , astron .",
    "j. 119 , 1579 .",
    "wadsley , j. et al .",
    "1999 , in preparation white , s. d. m. , and rees , m. j. 1978 , mnras 183 , 341 white , m. and croft , r. a. c. 2000 , astro - ph/0001247 williams , l. l. r. , navarro , j. f. , bartelmann , m. 1999 , astrophys",
    ". j. 527,535 zeldovich , ya .",
    "b. and novikov , i.d .",
    "1971 , _ relativistic astrophysics _ , vol . 1 ( chicago : university of chicago press )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine the effect of primordial dark matter velocity dispersion and/or particle self - interactions on the structure and stability of galaxy halos , especially with respect to the formation of substructure and central density cusps . </S>",
    "<S> primordial velocity dispersion is characterised by a `` phase density '' @xmath0 , which for relativistically - decoupled relics is determined by particle mass and spin and is insensitive to cosmological parameters . </S>",
    "<S> finite @xmath1 leads to small - scale filtering of the primordial power spectrum , which reduces substructure , and limits the maximum central density of halos , which eliminates central cusps . </S>",
    "<S> the relationship between @xmath1 and halo observables is estimated . </S>",
    "<S> the primordial @xmath1 may be preserved in the cores of halos and if so leads to a predicted relation , closely analogous to that in degenerate dwarf stars , between the central density and velocity dispersion . </S>",
    "<S> classical polytrope solutions are used to model the structure of halos of collisional dark matter , and to show that self - interactions in halos today are probably not significant because they destabilize halo cores via heat conduction . </S>",
    "<S> constraints on masses and self - interactions of dark matter particles are estimated from halo stability and other considerations . </S>"
  ]
}