{
  "article_text": [
    "the nearby galactic globular cluster ngc  6397 hosts an eclipsing binary millisecond pulsar (;",
    "damico et al .",
    "2001a ) , whose companion ( ) has been optically identified ( ferraro et al . 2001 ) with a bright ( v@xmath116.6 ) variable star which has completely filled its roche lobe ( ferraro et al .",
    "radio ( damico et al . 2001b ) and x - ray observations ( grindlay et al . 2001 , 2002 ) show evidence of interaction between the millisecond pulsar ( msp ) and mass released from the companion .",
    "interestingly , despite the large pulsar rotational energy loss , no photometric signature of heating can be found in the light curves ( kaluzny et al .",
    "2003 , orosz & van  kerkwijk 2003 ) , which are instead dominated by ellipsoidal variations ( orosz & van  kerkwijk 2003 ) . the combination of these observational facts represents a fascinating mosaic that has triggered a wealth of hypotheses about the origin and evolution of this binary system ( see possenti 2002 ; orosz & van kerkwijk 2003 ; grindlay et al .",
    "2002 for a review ) .    in the framework of a coordinated spectro - photometric project devoted to investigate the nature of this peculiar object , we recently reported on preliminary results from very large telescope uves high resolution observations : we measured the mass ratio of the system ( @xmath2 ) with unprecedented precision for a non - relativistic binary pulsar system and confirmed the cool effective temperature ( @xmath15,500 k ) of  ( ferraro et al .",
    "a radial velocity @xmath3 km s@xmath4 was also derived for the binary barycenter , fully compatible with the systemic radial motion of the cluster ( harris 1996 ) .",
    "here we focus on a detailed analysis of the h@xmath0 and he  i lines : the complex structure of the former is used to investigate the distribution of matter lost by , whereas the study of the he  i feature aims at confirming the hypothesis that a narrow , hot strip ( t@xmath510,000  k ) is located on the pulsar companion surface ( ferraro et al .",
    "2003 ) , and at estimating the area of the heated region .",
    "at radio wavelengths ,  displays eclipses for more than 40% of its orbital period , and evident irregularities of the signal at all orbital phases .",
    "the latter characteristic was ascribed by damico et al .",
    "( 2001b ) to the motion of the msp within a large envelope of matter released by the secondary .",
    "this hypothesis finds additional support in the modulated x - ray emission detected by _",
    "( grindlay et al . 2001 , 2002 ) , which may be due to the interaction between the msp wind and the stellar matter .",
    "furthermore , the anomalous position of  in the ( v , h@xmath6r ) color - magnitude diagram ( see fig .  1 of ferraro et al .",
    "2001 and taylor et al .",
    "2001 ) suggests a h@xmath0 excess : this is a unique feature for a msp companion and could suggests either rs  cvn  like activity in the companion atmosphere ( orosz & van kerwijk 2003 ) or the presence of significant interactions between the energetic pulsar flux and the matter lost by .    motivated by these observations ,",
    "we have exploited high quality , phase resolved spectroscopic data to carefully look at the h@xmath0 line region .",
    "a set of 8 high resolution spectra of  was obtained with the _ ultraviolet - visual echelle spectrograph _ ( uves ) mounted on the eso very large telescope on cerro paranal ( chile ) in 2002 june  july . the observational strategy and",
    "the data are described in ferraro et al .",
    "( 2003 ; see their table  1 ) .",
    "the system hosting  is located in a crowded region of the cluster ; thus , in order to avoid possible contamination from nearby stars , we have here used only spectra acquired in the best seeing conditions , which correspond to orbital phases @xmath7 0.02 , 0.56 , 0.78 , and 0.36 , close to quadratures , opposition and conjunction , respectively ( @xmath8 when  is at the minimum distance from the observer ) .    as can be seen in figure 1 ( right panel ) ,",
    "spectra clearly show h@xmath0 absorption lines , but the line profiles appear complex and require a detailed analysis . to perform this , the  spectra must be compared with a reference template .",
    "we took advantage of the availability of spectra observed with a similar uves configuration in a project devoted to study the chemical abundance in ngc  6397 ( gratton et al .",
    "in particular the high quality spectra of three subgiants ( namely # 669 , 793 and 206810 in gratton et al . ) were averaged and convolved with a rotation profile of @xmath9 km s@xmath4 in order to account for the inferred rotation velocity of  ( ferraro et al .",
    "the resulting spectrum was then normalized to the  continuum at each orbital phase and used as a template .",
    "the temperatures of the three subgiants are fully comparable with that derived for  ( @xmath1 5,500 k , ferraro et al .",
    "2003 ; orosz & van kerkwijk 2003 ) and their overall chemical composition is found compatible with that observed in  ( although with a few notable exceptions , as will be discussed in sabbi et al .",
    "2003 , in preparation ) .",
    "in fact , the agreement between the template and the  spectra in the h@xmath10 region is excellent ( see the left panel of fig .  1 ) , supporting the similarity of  with respect to a normal subgiant branch star of ngc  6397 and hinting at the power of the differential analysis .    by using this method , we can easily pinpoint the anomalies of the  spectra in the h@xmath0 region ( right panel of fig .",
    "1 ) : _ ( i ) _ the line shallowness , which suggests a certain amount of h@xmath0 emission , and _",
    "( ii ) _ the complex structures in the line wings . in order to better analyze these features",
    ", we subtracted the template spectrum from the  one .",
    "the result for the spectrum taken at @xmath11 is presented in figure  2 , whereas figure  3 displays the changing structure of the h@xmath0 emission line along the orbit .",
    "at least two different h@xmath0 emission components can be distinguished .",
    "the first one appears as a bright , narrow and symmetric line , clearly visible as the main peak at @xmath12  in figure  2 . at all orbital phases the narrow peak is always easily recognizable ( see fig .  3 ) .",
    "the second component is much fainter , broader and asymmetric , characterized by a large bump at @xmath13 and a long tail at @xmath14 in figure  2 .",
    "it covers a large velocity range : in the highest quality available spectra ( taken at phase @xmath11 ) , its peak displays a slow radial velocity of @xmath15 km@xmath4 ( in the observer frame , see fig .",
    "2 ) , while the terminal velocity of the tail @xmath16 is about 20 times higher .",
    "the overall shape of this broad second component appears ( specularly reflected with respect to the shape observed at @xmath11 ) also at the opposite quadrature ( panels @xmath17 and @xmath18 of fig .",
    "3 ) , whereas near opposition and conjunction only the weakest tail is distinguishable ( panels @xmath19 , @xmath20 , @xmath21 and @xmath22 of fig .  3 ) .    since the differential analysis clearly reveals h@xmath0 emission while excluding any significant h@xmath10 emission ( fig .  1 , left panel ) , we can conclude that there is a large decrement in balmer line intensity and hence that the gas emitting the h@xmath0 photons must be optically thin .",
    "as first reported by ferraro et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , strong he  i absorption lines are present in most of the observed spectra , implying that a region of the  surface has a high temperature , t@xmath510,000 k. this feature was unexpected since the other temperature indicators ( e.g. , photometric colors and h@xmath0 wings ) suggest that the surface temperature is @xmath1 5,500 k ( ferraro et al . 2001 ; orosz & van kerkwijk 2003 ) . on the basis of a qualitative inspection of the he  i line widths , ferraro et al .",
    "( 2003 ) proposed the existence of a hot strip along the  surface .    in the aim of better investigating this hypothesis ,",
    "we carefully compared the shape and the broadening profile of the he  i lines with those of other  spectral lines .",
    "in particular we have built 4 empirical rotation line profiles based on many lines in the blue part of the spectrum , and convolved these profiles with that of the he  i lines .",
    "the comparison with the observed spectrum ( fig .",
    "4 ) shows that the empirical profiles can nicely reproduce both the doppler shift and the rotational profiles of the observed he  i lines at all the orbital phases . as a consequence , the hot region",
    "must be longitudinally extended across the stellar surface . moreover , at phase @xmath23=0.36 ( i.e. when the surface of the companion facing the pulsar is almost invisible to the observer ) the he  i line appears much fainter than at the other orbital phases .",
    "we can conclude that the hot region does not encircle the entire star , but is primarily located on the companion hemisphere visible from the pulsar .",
    "one can estimate the projected area of such a heated region .",
    "for this purpose , we assumed a simple model where the atmosphere of the star is composed of two ( horizontal ) regions : one hot , with temperature roughly similar to that of a b star ; and one cool , with the temperature of a g8 star .",
    "the ratio between the fluxes emitted by these two regions can be estimated by comparing the residual emission at the center of the ca  i  k line at 3933   ( ew = 4.1 ) where only light from the cool region is seen and at the center of the he  i line at 5878   ( ew = 0.19 ) where we assume to be observing only light from the hot region .",
    "the flux ratios emitted at these two wavelengths by stars of spectral type b7 ( t@xmath24 k ) and g8 ( t@xmath25 k ) were taken from gunn & stryker ( 1983 ) . comparing these ratios with the  spectrum , suggests that the heated region should cover less than 1% of the stellar surface .",
    "figure  3 ( left panel ) shows the subtracted spectra corrected for the doppler shift due to the orbital motion of  around the msp : since at each orbital phase the main peak has always the same radial velocity as , we can safely conclude that the brightest peak is due to gas emitted by a hot and optically thin ( i.e. rarefied ) gaseous region close to the star surface , as often observed in the atmospherically active binaries ( e.g. montes et al .",
    "1997,2000 for a review ) .    the evident asymmetric shape ( fig .",
    "2 ) of the secondary broad component of the h@xmath0 emission precludes an origin in a keplerian disk surrounding . instead , the synchronous rotation  modulated by the radial orbital velocity around the center of mass of the system  of the broad and the narrow components ( particularly evident when comparing panels _",
    "b _ and _ d _ of fig .",
    "3 ) is suggestive of a lump of matter protruding from  and roughly orbiting as a rigid body with the companion star . in this picture",
    ", the broad peak of the fainter component ( corresponding in quadrature to a radial velocity @xmath26 with respect to the center of mass of the binary ) would represent hydrogen gas flowing from the roche lobe of  toward the center of mass of the system ( located at @xmath27 from the pulsar ) , where it is stopped and then swept away by the pulsar energetic flux of radiation and/or accelerated particles ( a similar _ radio - ejection _ mechanism has been postulated for this binary system by burderi , dantona & burgay 2002 ) . the swept material could form a wide ( cometary - like ? ) tail possibly winding around the binary . the portion of the gaseous tail which is closest to  should follow almost rigidly the orbital motion of the companion star , always pointing roughly in the opposite direction ( with respect to ) of the msp . if it produces the declining end of the broad line component ( see fig .",
    "2 ) , the terminal radial velocity seen at quadratures ( @xmath28 km s@xmath4 ) would imply that the swept gas maintains a high enough temperature for emitting h@xmath0 photons up to @xmath29 outside the orbit of , where @xmath30 and @xmath31 are the orbital period and the projected semimajor axis of the pulsar orbit ( damico et al .",
    "2001b ) , whereas @xmath32 and @xmath33 ; ferraro et al .",
    "2003 ) are the mass ratio and the orbital inclination .",
    "interestingly , @xmath34 is of the same order of the radius of the region ( concentric with the companion star ) causing the long eclipses of  at 1.4 ghz ( damico et al .",
    "thus the gas from which the h@xmath0 broad emission originates may be responsible also for the radio eclipses of  ( at 1.4 ghz ) between orbital phases 0.05 and 0.45 .",
    "the matter blown away from the binary at larger distances than @xmath34 is probably cooler and not completely ionized",
    ". it would be undetectable at optical wavelengths , but could cause the striking irregularities displayed by the radio signal of   at nearly all orbital phases , even far from the nominal eclipse region ( damico et al .",
    "2001b ) .",
    "in order to understand the origin of the he  i lines , we looked for other systems that show physical and/or spectral similarities .",
    "am  her binaries are a possibility , since they contain a wd and a ms star , and do not have an accreting disc , since the magnetic field stops its formation ; but the spectra of these stars are dominated by high excitation emission lines such as he  ii ( e.g. , schwope et al .",
    "1997 ) , while we do not find these features in our spectra .",
    "the herbig  ae / be stars , young intermediate mass stars , have similar spectra which show h@xmath0 emission and he i absorption lines ( see waters & waelkens 1998 for a review ) . but even if the origin of the h@xmath0 lines is similar , the t@xmath35 of   is too low to justify the helium .",
    "we have to consider other mechanisms to justify the helium presence in our spectra .",
    "the detailed inspection of the rotation profile and of the orbital modulation of the he  i absorption lines strongly supports the existence of a hot `` barbecue - like '' strip elongated across the stellar photosphere facing the pulsar . assuming for simplicity that a rectangular ribbon encircles @xmath175% of the star ( in order to accomplish the observed weakening of the he  i absorption line near only one of the four orbital epochs ) and has an area @xmath36 % of the star photosphere ( as estimated in  [ he ] ) , the ribbon s length would be @xmath37 and its width @xmath38    what can cause such a `` stretched feature '' ?",
    "the high temperatures required for producing the he  i absorption line could be due to a shocked filament standing , e.g. , at the boundary between the companion surface and the gas swept back toward the companion by the pulsar flux .",
    "however it seems difficult to maintain a hot filament of gas confined within a few hundredths of @xmath39 another intriguing possibility is that the heated strip is due to the effects of the pulsar irradiation on the companion surface . in this case",
    ", the shape of the heated region can be accounted for only by a highly anisotropic pulsar emission pattern confined ( at least in the direction orthogonal to the binary orbital plane ) within a surprisingly small angle of @xmath40 degrees .",
    "since such a narrow pencil ( or highly flattened fan ) beam would probably illuminate the   surface only for a portion of the orbit , the tiny width of the heated region would be preserved if the cooling time of the irradiated gas is much shorter than the orbital timescale @xmath41 day . under basic assumptions ( as supposing a perfect gas and an atmospheric density of @xmath42 g @xmath43 ) , we estimate that only a few hundreds seconds are necessary to cool the gas from 10,000 k to 5,500 k.    finally we note that the occurrence of highly anisotropic pulsar emission would explain why irradiation does not leave any detectable imprint on the photometric curves of  presented by orosz & van kerkwijk ( 2003 ) and by kaluzny et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , without the need for invoking any reduction of the intrinsic spin period derivative @xmath44 of  with respect to the value calculated using radio timing data ( damico et al ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a detailed study of the h@xmath0 and he  i spectral features of  ( the companion to  in the galactic globular cluster ngc  6397 ) , exploiting a series of high resolution spectra obtained at different orbital phases . </S>",
    "<S> the h@xmath0 absorption line shows a complex two - component structure , revealing that optically thin hydrogen gas resides outside the roche lobe of . </S>",
    "<S> the line morphology precludes the existence of any residual disk around the millisecond pulsar , and suggests the presence of a stream of material going from the companion toward the neutron star . </S>",
    "<S> this material never reaches the neutron star surface , being driven back by the pulsar radiation far beyond . by analyzing the he  i absorption lines as a function of orbital phase </S>",
    "<S> , we infer the presence of an overheated longitudinal strip ( about 150 times narrower than it is long ) on the  surface facing the radio pulsar . </S>"
  ]
}