{
  "article_text": [
    "the annihilation line of positrons at 511 kev is the brightest gamma - ray line in the galaxy .",
    "first observed with a nai scintillator as a @xmath4 476 kev line coming from the galactic center ( gc ) region ( johnson , harnden & haymes , 1972 ; johnston & haymes , 1973 ) , it was subsequently unambiguously identified with a narrow ( @xmath8 kev )   @xmath9 annihilation line using germanium detectors ( leventhal , maccallum , stang , 1978 ) . since",
    "then many balloon flights and several space missions have measured the spatial distribution and spectral properties of the line .",
    "a summary of the high energy resolution observations of the 511 kev line prior to integral and the first spi / integral results can be found in jean et al .",
    "( 2003 ) and teegarden et al .",
    "( 2004 ) .",
    "positrons in the galaxy can be generated by a number of processes , including e.g. radioactive @xmath10 decay of unstable isotopes produced by stars and supernovae , jets and outflows from the compact objects , cosmic rays interaction with the interstellar medium ( ism ) , and annihilation or decay of dark matter particles .",
    "an important problem is to determine the total @xmath9 annihilation rate in the galaxy and to accurately measure the spatial distribution of the annihilation radiation .",
    "this is a key step in determining the nature of the positron sources in the galaxy .",
    "another problem is to measure the annihilation spectrum including the 511 kev line itself and the @xmath11 continuum arising from the decay of ortho - positronium .",
    "this information reveals the properties of the ism where positrons are annihilating .",
    "here we concentrate on the latter problem and report below the measurements of the @xmath9 annihilation spectrum ( including @xmath11 continuum ) based on spi / integral observations of the gc region over the period from feb . , 2003 through nov .",
    "the core of the data set is a deep 2 msec gc observation , carried out as part of the russian academy of sciences share in the integral data .",
    "previously reported results on the 511 kev line shape ( jean et al .",
    "2003 ) are based on a significantly shorter data set .",
    "we use here a completely independent package of spi data analysis and for the first time report the results on the ortho - positronium continuum measurements based on the spi data ( fig.[fig : spraw ] ) .",
    "the imaging results will be reported elsewhere .",
    "the structure of the paper is as follows . in section 2",
    "we describe the data set and basic calibration procedures .",
    "section 3 deals with the spectra extraction . in section 4",
    "we present the basic results of spectral fitting . in section 5",
    "we discuss constraints on the annihilation medium .",
    "the last section summarizes our findings .",
    "spi is a coded mask germanium spectrometer on board integral ( winkler et al . , 2003 ) , launched in october 2002 aboard a proton rocket .",
    "the instrument consists of 19 individual ge detectors , has a field of view of @xmath416(fully - coded ) , an effective area of @xmath12 and the energy resolution of @xmath42 kev at 511 kev ( vedrenne et al . , 2003 , attie et al . , 2003 ) .",
    "good energy resolution makes spi an appropriate instrument for studying the @xmath9 annihilation line .",
    "a typical integral observation consists of a series of pointings , during which the main axis of the telescope steps through a 5x5 grid on the sky around the position of the source . each individual pointing usually lasts s few ksec .",
    "a detailed description of the dithering patterns is given by winkler et al .",
    "for our analysis we use all data available to us , including public data , some proprietary data ( in particular , proposals 0120213 , 0120134 ) and the data available to us through the integral science working team .",
    "all data were taken by spi during the period from feb . , 2003 through nov .",
    "the choice of this time window was motivated by the desire to have as uniform a data set as possible .",
    "the first data used are taken immediately after the first spi annealing , while the last data used were taken prior to the failure of one of the 19 detectors of spi . while analysis of the gc data taken after nov .",
    "2003 is possible , the amount of data ( in public access ) which can be used for background modeling is at present limited .",
    "prior to actual data analysis all individual observations were screened for periods of very high particle background .",
    "we use the spi anticoincidence ( acs ) shield rate as a main indicator of high background and dropped all observations with an acs rate in excess of 3800 cnts / s .",
    "several additional observations were also omitted from the analysis , e.g. those taken during cooling of spi after the annealing procedure .    for our analysis we used only single and psd events and when available we used consolidated data provided by the integral science data center ( isdc , courvoisier et al , 2003 ) .",
    "as a first step all observations have been reduced to the same gain . trying to keep the procedure as robust as possible we assume a linear relation between detector channels and energies and use four prominent background lines ( ge@xmath13 at 198.4 kev ; zn@xmath14 at 438.6 ; ge@xmath14 at 584.5 kev and ge@xmath14 at 882.5 kev , see weidenspointner et al . , 2003 for the comprehensive list of spi background lines ) to determine the gain and shift for each revolution .",
    "while the linear relation may not be sufficient to provide the absolute energy calibration to an accuracy much higher than 0.1 kev over the spi broad energy band , the relative accuracy is high ( see fig.[fig : ecal ] ) . shown in the top panel is the energy of the background 511 kev line as a function of the revolution number .",
    "while the deviation from the true energy of the @xmath9 line is @xmath4 0.07 kev , the rms deviation from the mean energy is only 0.0078 kev .",
    "the best fit energy of the background line for the combined spectrum of all spi observations within 30of gc is 510.938 kev , compared to the electron rest energy of 510.999 kev .",
    "the energies quoted below were corrected for this systematic shift .    in the bottom panel of fig.[fig",
    ": ecal ] we show the instrument resolution at 511 kev as a function of the revolution number .",
    "since the background ( internal ) 511 kev line is kinematically broadened we used two bracketing lines ( at 438 and 584 kev ) to calculate the resolution at 511 kev .",
    "the sawtooth pattern clearly seen in the plot is caused by the gradual degradation of the spi resolution due to the detector exposure to cosmic rays and due to the annealing procedure ( around revolution 90 ) which restores the resolution .",
    "the net result is that the mean resolution near 511 kev is @xmath4 2.1 kev ( fwhm ) and over the whole data set the resolution changes from @xmath4 2.05 kev to @xmath4 2.15 kev .    all the data , reduced to the same energy gain ,",
    "were then stored as individual spectra ( one per pointing and per detector ) with 0.5 kev wide energy bins .",
    "these spectra are used for subsequent analysis .",
    "once obvious spikes and flares are removed from the spi data , the background in the remaining `` clean '' data is rather stable and it typically does not vary by more than @xmath410% . however the 511 kev line observed from the gc region produces an excess signal at the level of 1 - 2 per cent of the background line and therefore variations of the background have to be taken into account .",
    "ideally one would prefer to have a background model which is based on some accurately measurable quantities ( like charged particles count rate ) so that the background subtraction does not introduce extra noise to the data .",
    "since no such model has been provided so far , we use the same data set to build a provisional background model .",
    "when doing so one has to bear in mind that the statistical significance of the accumulated data is limited ( when narrow energy bins are considered ) and the model has to be kept as simple as possible to provide a robust result .",
    "the simplest background model , which we found acceptable at the present stage of spi analysis , assumes that the background is linearly proportional to the ge detectors saturated event rate and time .",
    "an example of observed and predicted background for the 900 - 1200 kev range is shown in fig.[fig : back ] .",
    "such a broad band was selected to show variations of the background more clearly .",
    "the points in fig.[fig : back ] show actual measurements ( averaged over all 19 spi detectors ) , while the line connects predicted background values .",
    "one can see that most of the prominent background variations are well reproduced by the adopted model .",
    "however , for some revolutions further improvement of the model is possible once more data , especially blank - field observations , become publicly available .    for the purpose of the gc data reduction",
    "we then regenerated a background model using all data excluding the central 30(radius ) region centered at gc .",
    "the total ( dead time corrected ) exposure of the background fields used is 3.7 msec .    to verify the quality of the background model in the energy range of interest ( i.e. around 511 kev ) we used 0.5 msec spi observations of the coma region . while these particular observations were also part of the data set used for the generation of the background model ,",
    "they contribute only @xmath410% to the total background exposure . applying exactly the same procedure ( described below ) used for the galactic center observations we extracted the spectrum assuming that the spatial distribution of the line flux has a shape of a gaussian with fwhm=6centered at the coma cluster ( fig.[fig : blank ] left panel ) . as for the galactic center observations we used an additional model consisting of a gaussian plus constant ( fig.[fig : blank ] right panel ) . by construction",
    "the left plot is basically the difference between the spectrum coming from the coma region and the mean spectrum over the entire background data set which contains many galactic plane pointings with bright sources .",
    "therefore , a small negative bias , seen in the left panel of fig.[fig : blank ] , is a natural result .",
    "for the right panel ( allowing for an additional free background component constant over all detectors ) this negative bias is not present .",
    "for both panels no significant spectral features are present near the 511 kev line . for comparison",
    "we show in fig.[fig : blank ] a line at 511 kev with parameters similar to those observed in the gc region .",
    "no evidence for spectral features near 511 kev is seen in the coma field , suggesting that the background is removed with a sufficient accuracy .      for the gc spectra",
    "we use the data obtained when the main axis of the instrument was within 30of the gc direction with an overall exposure time of @xmath43.9 msec ( dead time corrected ) .",
    "the spatial model used is a simple gaussian with fwhm ranging from 2 to 26 .",
    "using available response files ( results of monte - carlo modeling , described by sturner et al . , 2003 )",
    "the count rate was predicted for every pointing and every spi detector .",
    "two models are used to extract the spectra . in the first model the normalization of the model ( in a given energy band ) was then obtained from a simple linear @xmath15 fit to the data : @xmath16 where the summation is over the data set , @xmath17 is the normalization of the model ( free parameter ) , @xmath18 is the model predicted rate , @xmath19 is the observed rate in a single detector during a given pointing , @xmath20 predicted background rate , and @xmath21 is the standard deviation for the observed rate . in order to avoid bias due to",
    "the correlation of the observed rates @xmath19 and the errors @xmath21 ( see churazov et al . , 1996 ) we evaluate @xmath21 using the exposure time of the @xmath22th observation and the mean count rate ( in a given detector and given energy band ) averaged over a large number of observations .",
    "since the absolute values of the variations of the count rate are small this procedure provides an unbiased estimate of @xmath17 with statistical uncertainty very close to the theoretical limit .",
    "the first model is essentially the difference between the flux measured from the gc region ( weighted with a spatial gaussian of a given width ) and the mean spectrum over the data set used for the generation of the background model . for the second model we allow an additional background component ( constant in time and space , but variable in energy ) with a free normalization .",
    "i.e. in the second model the predicted count rate in the @xmath22th observation is @xmath23 , where both @xmath17 and @xmath24 are free parameters . while the second model has an obvious advantage compared to the first model ( see e.g. fig.[fig : blank ] ) , especially when trying to detect weak continuum radiation on top of the strong background line , the addition of the second free parameter increases ( for the present data set ) the statistical error in @xmath17 by a factor of 1.6 and 2.6 for the 2and 26gaussian , respectively .",
    "we therefore extracted spectra using both models ( hereafter model i and ii ) and checked the results for consistency .",
    "the choice of these simple models ( with the minimal number of free parameters ) is primarily driven by a desire to get maximum significance in the resulting spectra .",
    "observations during balloon flights ( e.g. harris et al . , 1998 ) and with osse / cgro ( kinzer et al . , 2001 ) and",
    "earlier spi imaging analysis ( kndlseder et al . , 2003 ) indicate that a gaussian is a reasonable first approximation for a 511 kev flux excess near gc even though the distribution might be more complicated than a simple gaussian . in principle",
    "the assumed spatial distribution mainly affects the absolute normalization of the flux and to a lesser degree the spectral shape ( unless the spectrum shape varies strongly across the studied area of the sky ) .",
    "the total flux in the 508 - 514 kev band obtained using both models is shown in fig.[fig : flux ] as a function of the gaussian width .",
    "one can see that the flux changes from @xmath25 to @xmath26 as fwhm changes from 2 to 26 .",
    "the dotted line shows the behavior of @xmath15 in the model with a free constant ( model ii ) as a function of the gaussian width . within this model",
    "the minimum @xmath15 is reached for the fwhm@xmath27 .",
    "the absolute value of the @xmath15 for 6gaussian is 0.9992 per degree of freedom ( for 38969 d.o.f . ) . given that the s / n for individual observation is very small , the absolute value of @xmath15 is not a very useful indicator of the acceptability of the model .",
    "however its closeness to unity shows that observed variations of count rates are very close to those expected from a pure statistical noise .",
    "the width of the distribution suggested by the above analysis ( @xmath46 ) is rather close to the value derived for the central bulge from osse observations ( kinzer et al . , 2001 ) , while the earlier analysis of a shorter spi data set suggested a somewhat broader distribution @xmath49(kndlseder et al . ,",
    "2003 ) although consistent with 6within the quoted uncertainties .",
    "the behavior of the curves in fig.5 indicates that the 6gaussian does not account for the total flux of 511 kev photons coming from the gc region and an extra component ( broader than 6gaussian ) is needed .",
    "this result is robust against various assumptions on the spi internal background . since the topic of this paper is the shape of the annihilation spectrum we will not elaborate on particular spatial models .",
    "subsequently we use only the spectra extracted using a 6gaussian .",
    "however , we verified that all the major spectral parameters ( except for the overall normalization ) are insensitive to the width of the spatial model .",
    "the spectra extracted with a 6gaussian , using two background models ( fixed and free background ) , are shown in fig.[fig : spraw ] and fig.[fig : spback ] .",
    "the significance of the narrow line detection is 54.1 and 23.8 @xmath28 respectively ( based on the 508 - 514 energy band ) . when fitting the spectra over the energy range near 511 kev it was assumed that the spi energy resolution is equivalent to the convolution of photon spectra with a gaussian having fwhm @xmath4 2.1 kev . for fitting spectral lines and the weak continuum on the red side of a line one has to verify the normalization and shape of the low energy tail in the spi spectral response .",
    "at present a monte - carlo simulated spi energy response matrix ( ` spi_rmf_grp_0003.fits ` , sturner et al . , 2003 ) is available , which is constructed for broad continuum channels .",
    "according to this matrix the total off - diagonal tail of the spi response for @xmath4511 kev photons amounts to @xmath430% of the flux .",
    "the tail however is very extended ( few hundred kev ) and between 450 kev ( lower energy boundary used for spectral fitting below ) and 511 kev only about 3 - 4% of the line flux are due to off - diagonal response . shown in fig.[fig : lowrsp ] is a typical situation one can expect for the gc spectra .",
    "the thin solid line shows a gaussian line with a total intensity of unity .",
    "the dashed line is an ortho - positronium continuum with the total flux 4.5 times larger than the line flux ( i.e. the case of annihilation through positronium formation ) . for comparison",
    "the dotted line shows the low energy tail of the narrow line estimated from the available response matrices .",
    "one can see that indeed the contribution of the tail is very minor ( few per cent relative to the positronium continuum above 400 kev ) .",
    "we however routinely included this component in the subsequent spectral fitting , linking its flux to the normalization of the narrow 511 kev line .",
    "the impact of the off - diagonal tail on the continuum is even smaller and we neglected the tail in the continuum modeling .",
    "e.g. for the positroniuum continuum ( the hardest continuum component used in the model ) an account for the tail contribution above 450 kev can change the normalization by less than 2% .",
    "the flux ratio of the positronium continuum and the narrow 511 kev line determines the positronium fraction @xmath29 , where @xmath30 and @xmath31 are the line and continuum flux , respectively . for large flux ratios ( see table 1 )",
    "the positronium fraction is a weak function of the ratio and unless the monte - carlo simulated off - diagonal response is underestimated by a large factor ( larger than @xmath45 ) we do not expect any drastic changes in spectral parameters .    for the ortho - positronium continuum we use the spectrum of ore & powell ( 1949 )",
    ". to allow for broadening of the ortho - positronium continuum edge at 511 kev ( spi energy resolution and intrinsic broadening of the edge ) we convolved the continuum with a gaussian having a width from 2.1 to 7 .",
    "the fits were found to be fairly insensitive to the exact value of the edge broadening ( unless it is very large ) and instead of introducing an extra free parameter we fixed the width of the ortho - positronium edge at 4 kev .",
    "the best fit parameters to the spectra are shown in table [ tab : fit ] .",
    "for comparison we show in table [ tab : res ] the spectral parameters derived by various missions in the past .",
    "it is clear that the results are in broad agreement .",
    "deep integral observations provide the most stringent constraints on the line centroid and on the width of the 511 kev line .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < \" , ]     [ tab:2gau ]    using 2-gaussian models one can conclude that the best fit fraction of the broad gaussian in the total line flux is @xmath430% . one can compare this value with the expected contributions of the broad ( in flight ) and narrow ( thermalized ) components in the warm medium as a function of the ionization degree as shown in fig.[fig : ion ] .",
    "one can see that for 8000 k plasma one needs ionization degrees in the range of 0.07 - 0.17 to have an appropriate relation between the broad and narrow components .",
    "as is mentioned above the curves shown in fig.[fig : ion ] essentially reflect the changes of the positrons thermalized fraction as a function of the ionization state .",
    "the same 2-gaussian models can be used to get more quantitative constraints on the contribution of the cold neutral phase to the annihilation budget .",
    "the 90% confidence limit on the contribution of the broad ( 5.5 kev wide ) gaussian is @xmath4 39% .",
    "let us assume that this component is due to in - flight positronium formation in a cold neutral gas . about 6% of positrons in the cold gas fall below the positronium formation threshold and annihilate with bound electrons , thus contributing to the narrower component of the line .",
    "the conservative assumption that the rest of the positrons are thermalized in a warm ( @xmath32 k ) strongly ionized ( @xmath3350% ) medium and annihilate through the positronium formation implies an upper limit on the fraction of annihilations in the cold phase of 45% .",
    "thus an approximately 1:1 mixture of cold neutral and warm ionized phases would produce a spectrum resembling the one observed with integral .",
    "if instead a mixture of cold neutral and warm weakly ionized phases is considered , then the limits on the cold component contribution are stronger . if , for instance , the ionization degree of the warm phase is less than 10% then the cold component could not provide more than 10% of the annihilations . for warm phase with an ionization degree of 15% the limit on the cold component",
    "is @xmath430% . given the uncertainties in the determination of the mass fractions of various ism phases ( e.g. heiles , 2000 ) the `` natural '' mixture of annihilations in proportion to the phase masses could also be consistent with the data .    a more detailed analysis of the integral data ( with an accurate separation of phases contributions and stringent constraints on the line components ) will become possible once more data are accumulated and the knowledge of the instrument background and calibration is improved .",
    "more deep observations of the gc region are already planned and it should be possible to achieve at least a factor of 2 - 4 longer exposure of the gc during the next few years .      for completeness",
    "we estimate the limits imposed by observations on the motions of the medium where positrons are annihilating .",
    "first of all - a small statistical error on the line centroid achieved by spi ( @xmath40.075 kev ) corresponds to the uncertainty in velocity of @xmath4 44 km / s .",
    "the measured line energy coincides ( within the uncertainties ) with the unshifted line and therefore there is no evidence of bulk motion of the annihilating medium with velocities larger than @xmath440 km / s . note that further improvement in the line statistics will require an accurate account for the earth and solar system motion relative to the gc since the magnitude of the velocities is of the same order .",
    "the limits on the gas differential motions are not as strict .",
    "consider e.g. the envelope of a star or supernova isotropically expanding with the velocity @xmath34 .",
    "the intrinsically monochromatic line will then be observed as a boxy spectral feature with the full width of @xmath35 kev .",
    "one can then estimate the effective full width as @xmath36 kev .",
    "given that the observed width is @xmath42.4 kev and for some ism phases the intrinsic line can be relatively narrow @xmath41 - 1.5 kev , velocities larger than @xmath37 can be excluded .",
    "deep observations of the galactic center region by spi / integral have yielded the most precise parameters of the annihilation line to date .",
    "the energy of the line is consistent with the laboratory energy with an uncertainty of 0.075 kev .",
    "the width of the annihilation line is constrained to @xmath42.37@xmath00.25 kev ( fwhm ) and the positronium fraction to 94@xmath06% . under a single phase annihilation medium assumption",
    "the most appropriate conditions are : the temperature in the range 7000 - 40000 k and the degree of ionization ranging from a few @xmath2 for low temperatures to almost complete ionization for high temperatures .",
    "e.g. annihilation of positrons in one of the canonical ism phases - 8000 k gas with an ionization fraction of @xmath410% - would produce an annihilation spectrum very similar to the one observed by integral . under the assumption of annihilation in a multi - phase medium , the contribution of a very hot phase ( @xmath5 k )",
    "is constrained to be less than @xmath48% .",
    "neither moderately hot ( @xmath6 k ) ionized medium nor very cold ( @xmath7 k ) neutral medium can make a dominant contribution to the observed annihilation spectrum .",
    "further accumulation of the galactic center exposure with integral and improvements in the background knowledge and calibration should make possible detailed fits of the data with the composite annihilation spectrum .",
    "accurate separation of various components will place tight constraints on the width and the relative amplitude of annihilation features formed in flight and after thermalization .",
    "it will therefore be possible to make an accurate census of the distribution of annihilating positrons over ism phases .",
    "simultaneously accurate information on the spatial distribution of the annihilation flux ( especially in the latitudal direction ) can be efficiently combined with the data on the spatial distribution of various ism phases thus constraining the distribution of positron sources and the transport of positrons in the galaxy .",
    "we would like to thank spi pis v. schoenfelder , g. vedrenne , j .-",
    "roques and v.l .",
    "ginzburg , v.v .",
    "zheleznyakov , a.m. cherepashchuk , s.a .",
    "grebenev and c. winkler for their support .",
    "we are grateful to j.berakdar , a.lutovinov and l.vainshtein for useful discussions and the referee , b.  j. teegarden , for a very helpful report .",
    "this work is based on observations with integral , an esa project with instruments and science data center funded by esa member states ( especially the pi countries : denmark , france , germany , italy , switzerland , spain ) , czech republic and poland , and with the participation of russia and the usa .",
    "dermer c.  d. , murphy r.  j. , 2001 , in : exploring the gamma - ray universe .",
    "proceedings of the fourth integral workshop , 4 - 8 september 2000 , alicante , spain .",
    "editor : b. battrick , scientific editors : a. gimenez , v. reglero & c. winkler .",
    "esa sp-459 , noordwijk : esa publications division , isbn 92 - 9092 - 677 - 5 , 115          guessoum n. , skibo j.  g. , ramaty r. , 1997 , the transparent universe , proceedings of the 2nd integral workshop held 16 - 20",
    "september 1996 , st .",
    "malo , france . edited by c. winkler , t. j .-",
    "courvoisier , and ph .",
    "durouchoux , european space agency , 113        heiles c. , 2001 , tetons 4 : galactic structure , stars and the interstellar medium , asp conference series , vol . 231 . edited by charles e. woodward , michael d. bicay , and j. michael shull .",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , 294"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the electron - positron annihilation spectrum observed by spi / integral during deep galactic center region exposure is reported . </S>",
    "<S> the line energy ( 510.954@xmath00.075 kev ) is consistent with the unshifted annihilation line . </S>",
    "<S> the width of the annihilation line is 2.37@xmath00.25 kev ( fwhm ) , while the strength of the ortho - positronium continuum suggests that the dominant fraction of positrons ( 94@xmath06% ) form positronium before annihilation . </S>",
    "<S> compared to the previous missions these deep integral observations provide the most stringent constraints on the line energy and width .    under the assumption of an annihilation in a single - phase medium </S>",
    "<S> these spectral parameters can be explained by a warm @xmath1 k gas with the degree of ionization larger than a few @xmath2 . </S>",
    "<S> one of the wide - spread ism phases - warm ( @xmath3 k ) and weakly ionized ( degree of ionization @xmath4 0.1 ) medium satisfies these criteria . </S>",
    "<S> other single - phase solutions are also formally allowed by the data ( e.g. cold , but substantially ionized ism ) , but such solutions are believed to be astrophysically unimportant .    </S>",
    "<S> the observed spectrum can also be explained by the annihilation in a multi - phase ism . </S>",
    "<S> the fraction of positrons annihilating in a very hot ( @xmath5 k ) phase is constrained to be less than @xmath48% . </S>",
    "<S> neither a moderately hot ( @xmath6 k ) ionized medium nor a very cold ( @xmath7 k ) neutral medium can make a dominant contribution to the observed annihilation spectrum . </S>",
    "<S> however , a combination of cold / neutral , warm / neutral and warm / ionized phases in comparable proportions could also be consistent with the data .    </S>",
    "<S> epsf # 1= # 1=1.98 # 1#2=.99 = .99 # 1#2#3=.31 = .31 = .31    [ firstpage ]    galaxy : center  gamma rays : observations  ism : general </S>"
  ]
}