{
  "article_text": [
    "clusters of galaxies are the largest gravitationally bound structures known in the universe , constituting a collection of galaxies embedded in a hot ( t @xmath2-@xmath3 k ) and thin ( @xmath4 @xmath5 ) gas in the gravitational potential created by the cluster dark matter ( dm ) halo .",
    "the velocity dispersion of galaxies in clusters is typically @xmath6 800 - 1000 km s@xmath7 .",
    "the scale of a cluster of galaxies is of the order of a few mpc , and its mass can vary between @xmath8 and @xmath9 .",
    "clusters of galaxies are fundamental objects in modern cosmology .",
    "they represent regions where mass overdensities have reached maximum amplitudes ; consequently , the study of their correlation in space can be used to estimate the power spectrum of density fluctuations in the universe .",
    "the mass function of distant galaxy clusters is sensitive to the cosmological parameters defining the geometry and dynamics of the universe@xcite , therefore galaxy clusters can be used to probe the cosmological model .",
    "moreover , galaxy clusters are ideal laboratories to study the effects of environment on the formation and evolution of galaxies , in particular of early - type galaxies , the most massive galaxies known .",
    "predictions of the spectro - photometric properties of early - type galaxies in clusters based on hierarchical models of galaxy formation@xcite differ significantly at redshifts @xmath0 from models in which ellipticals formed at high redshift in a monolithic collapse.@xcite a detailed analysis of the internal structure and dynamics of galaxy clusters is thus essential to understand their formation and evolution as well as the formation and evolution of their baryon content ( galaxies and gas ) .    in this context , we have undertaken an ambitious observational program to obtain high angular resolution imaging with the advanced camera for surveys ( acs)@xcite on the hst of 7 clusters of galaxies@xcite with redshift in the range @xmath10 .",
    "the aim of this program is to study the formation and evolution of clusters and their galaxy populations .",
    "these data are supported by other space and ground based observations covering a wide range in wavelength , from x - rays to near - ir . as an example of our program , in this paper we review our panchromatic study of two of these clusters , which are among the most distant ( @xmath0 ) massive clusters of galaxies known today : rx j0152.7 - 1357 ( @xmath11 ;",
    "hereafter rx j0152 for brevity ) and rdcs1252.9 - 2927 ( @xmath12 ; hereafter rdcs j1252 for brevity ) .",
    "multi - wavelength imaging data and optical spectroscopy are combined to provide detailed information about the structure of these clusters and the spectrophotometrical properties of their galaxy populations . throughout this paper ,",
    "unless otherwise indicated , we assume a @xmath13cdm cosmology with @xmath14 = 70 @xmath15 , @xmath16=0.3 and @xmath17 = 0.7 .",
    "multi - wavelength observations of galaxy clusters are fundamental tools to examine the physical properties of their components : dm and baryons ( gas and galaxies ) .",
    "dm contributes @xmath18 85% of the cluster mass while the remaining mass comes mostly from the gas .",
    "galaxies represent a tiny fraction ( @xmath181% ) of the cluster mass .",
    "optical and near - ir observations allow us to study the physics of cluster galaxies and x - ray observations show us the physical properties of the intracluster medium ( icm ) gas .",
    "clusters of galaxies are among the strongest sources of x - rays with typical x - ray luminosities of @xmath19 ergs s@xmath7 , which makes them detectable at redshifts beyond unity .",
    "this emission is due to thermal bremsstrahlung from the interaction between the electrons and ions of the hot icm . in a local thermodynamical equilibrium state at temperature @xmath20 ,",
    "the x - ray emissivity of the icm , in units of @xmath21 , is @xcite :    @xmath22    where @xmath23 is the electron number density , @xmath24 is the ion number density and @xmath25 is the mean - square atomic charge on the ions .",
    "the coefficient @xmath26 is a correcting factor , called the gaunt factor.@xcite this equation can be fit to the observed x - ray spectrum to estimate the icm temperature and metallicity and , since eq .",
    "( [ brems ] ) depends on the square of the gas density ( @xmath27 ) , a model for @xmath28 can be used to fit the cluster x - ray surface brightness and obtain the gas distribution .",
    "a popular description for the density profile of an iso - thermal gas in hydrostatic equilibrium is the @xmath29-model@xcite :    @xmath30    the parameter @xmath29 is the ratio between kinetic galaxy energy and thermal gas energy : @xmath31 , where @xmath32 is the galaxy velocity dispersion along the line of sight . once the temperature is known and assuming that the cluster gas is in hydrostatic equilibrium , then the cluster mass distribution is given by :    @xmath33    this mass , obtained from x - ray observations , can be compared with other mass estimates , such as the virial mass and the gravitational lensing mass .",
    "spectroscopic observations in the optical of cluster galaxies allow us to measure the galaxy velocity dispersion along the line of sight , @xmath32 .",
    "once the projected cluster galaxy positions are obtained from the imaging data , the virial mass of the cluster can be computed as@xcite :    @xmath34    where @xmath35 is the number of galaxies and @xmath36 is the distance between any pair of galaxies . since the velocity dispersion @xmath32 is dependent on the dynamical state of the cluster , eq .",
    "( [ virmass ] ) provides a true estimate of the cluster mass only if the structure is relaxed . in cases where the cluster structure is not in virial equilibrium , eq .",
    "( [ virmass ] ) represents an upper limit to the cluster mass .",
    "in contrast , the weak lensing analysis@xcite offers a way of estimating masses which is independent of the cluster dynamical state .",
    "however , weak lensing turns out to be sensitive to the distribution of matter along the line of sight as well as to the distribution of background sources .",
    "therefore , a good knowledge of these distributions is required to obtain reliable mass estimates .",
    "the strong lensing technique@xcite is a more robust mass tracer ; however , it requires the existence of gravitational arcs in the cluster field , which are not always present or detectable , and a knowledge of their redshifts .    assuming that clusters of galaxies are in a relaxed state and that gravity is the only dominant driver of evolution , theory shows that these objects are self - similar structures described by scaling relations relating mass , temperature and luminosity .",
    "in particular , if the gas fraction in clusters is independent of temperature , then a relation @xmath37 is expected .",
    "observational evidence shows , however , that local clusters follow a relation @xmath38 , with @xmath39 .",
    "although some analyses indicate a value of @xmath40 independent of temperature@xcite , there is observational evidence that points toward larger values of @xmath40 on group scales making the @xmath41 relation even steeper at lower temperatures ( @xmath42).@xcite a departure from theoretical predictions is also shown by the observed @xmath43 and @xmath44 relations.@xcite the departure from self - similarity of the @xmath45 relation suggests that energy injection from non - gravitational processes@xcite or a temperature dependent gas fraction may be the cause of the departure from theory , although the latter is likely not the case.@xcite when observing clusters or groups of galaxies at higher redshifts ( up to @xmath46 ) , the behavior of the @xmath41 relation shows no major change.@xcite this together with a non evolving icm metallicity of about 0.3 @xmath47@xcite , since @xmath46 down to the local universe , suggest an early formation epoch for the icm with the major episode of metal enrichment and gas preheating occurring at @xmath48 . with",
    "the development of more advanced techniques , detailed hydrodynamical simulations@xcite of cluster formation including galaxy feedback are being performed in order to reproduce the observations , casting more light on the above issues and deepening our understanding of cluster formation .    in the optical range ,",
    "spectroscopic and imaging observations of cluster galaxies provide us with valuable information about the dynamics of the cluster itself and the properties of the member galaxies .",
    "spectrophotometric surveys are essential in determining the overall galaxy luminosity function ( lf ) of clusters , a powerful tool for constraining models of galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "the lf is commonly modeled with a schechter function@xcite :    @xmath49    where @xmath50 is the characteristic luminosity of the population of galaxies and corresponds to the luminosity over which the exponential term dominates , i.e. , the bright end of the lf . the index",
    "@xmath40 gives the slope of the power law behavior of the lf at low luminosities , and the normalization @xmath51 determines the volume density of sources @xmath52 as @xmath53 .",
    "observations of the galaxy lf in clusters over a wide range in redshift ( @xmath54)@xcite show compelling evidence for the evolution of bright ( massive ) galaxies in clusters that is consistent with pure passive evolution models with @xmath55 .",
    "if merging plays a role in the formation of these galaxies , these results suggest that any merging activity should take place at higher redshift .",
    "the same conclusion is obtained from the lf of field galaxies@xcite , showing that massive elliptical galaxies were already in place at @xmath56 , forming their stars and assembling their mass at higher redshift .",
    "passive evolution models of early - type galaxies in clusters also show a good agreement with photometric observations of cluster galaxies .",
    "the color - magnitude ( cm ) diagram of clusters shows a well defined red sequence , the locus formed by the majority of red early - type cluster galaxies .",
    "the tight cm relation observed in local@xcite and distant@xcite cluster early - type galaxies indicates that in clusters these galaxies are formed at redshifts @xmath57 , after an initial burst of star formation followed by pure luminosity evolution , posing difficulties for hierarchical models that have `` late '' ( @xmath58 ) formation of the brightest galaxies .",
    "in addition , spectroscopic observations of cluster galaxies allow us to explore their stellar content , thus providing essential information to better constrain galaxy evolution models of galaxies and understand the galaxy - icm connection during the cluster evolution .",
    "as an example of our cluster program , in this paper we present a summary of results obtained so far from our multi - wavelength study of two distant clusters rx j0152 at @xmath59@xcite and rdcs j1252 at @xmath60@xcite , both selected from the rosat deep cluster survey ( rdcs)@xcite .",
    "in addition to the acs data , they have also been targeted for x - ray ( chandra and xmm - newton satellites ) and optical and near - ir ( eso ntt and eso vlt ) observations as well as for optical spectroscopy ( eso vlt ) .",
    "the ground based optical and near - ir imaging as well as the vlt spectroscopic survey of rx j0152 are presented in demarco et al .",
    "( 2005).@xcite acs observations of the same cluster are discussed and analysed in blakeslee et al .",
    "( in preparation ) , homeier et al .",
    "( 2005)@xcite , and jee et al .",
    "( 2005)@xcite and the x - ray observations are presented in maughan et al .",
    "( 2003).@xcite in the case of rdcs j1252 , very deep near - ir imaging with vlt / isaac@xcite was obtained in very good seeing ( @xmath610.5 ) conditions allowing us to reach a limiting magnitude ( 5@xmath62 detection threshold over a @xmath63 diameter aperture ) in the vega system of 25.6 and 24.1 in the j- and k@xmath64 -bands respectively .",
    "x - ray observations of rdcs j1252 are described in rosati et al .",
    "( 2004)@xcite and the acs observations of this cluster are presented in blakeslee et al .",
    "( 2003)@xcite and holden et al . ( 2005).@xcite    [ properties ]",
    "rx j0152 is a massive dynamically young system at @xmath59 where two clusters of galaxies are likely merging . since its discovery with rosat@xcite , a number of observations in the x - ray domain as well in the optical",
    "have been carried out , confirming its complex structure and unvirialized state.@xcite      fig .",
    "[ c0152 ] shows the distribution of baryons and dm in rx j0152 .",
    "the x - ray data from chandra ( fig .",
    "[ c0152]-left ) clearly shows that rx j0152 is composed of two extended central substructures ; the centroids of these two substructures ( subclusters ) are separated by @xmath65 ( 730 kpc at the cluster redshift ) on the sky .",
    "the main physical characteristic of these two subclusters called rx j0152 n and rx j0152 s are given in table [ properties ] .",
    "a third extended substructure is also observed at about 1 mpc to the east of the two central ones , associated with a galaxy overdensity .",
    "the x - ray analysis@xcite provides evidence of a possible merger in progress between the two main subclusters .",
    "vlt / fors spectroscopic observations@xcite have allowed us to confirm the complex structure observed in the x - rays and giving further support to the merger hypothesis .",
    "the distribution of spectroscopically confirmed cluster members presents galaxy overdensities which coincide with the location of the three main x - ray extended regions .",
    "the velocity dispersion of spectroscopic members belonging to rx j0152 n and rx j0152 s are given in table [ properties ] .",
    "these values , when compared to the corresponding temperatures of the same substructures , are in good agreement with the observed @xmath62-t relation , indicating that rx j0152 n and s are likely two clusters in a dynamical state close to virialized .",
    "their masses are estimated to be @xmath66 and @xmath67 for rx j0152 n and s respectively.@xcite    the main substructures detected in the icm and galaxy distribution are also recovered by weak lensing analyses of the cluster,@xcite as shown in fig .",
    "[ c0152]-right , which confirm that most of the baryon ( icm and galaxies ) content is in the potential well created by the dm distribution .",
    "the observed offsets between the centroids of the gas , galaxy and dm distributions of the three main substructures are consistent with the picture in which rx j0152 is still in the process of assembling its mass through the accretion / merging of substructures.@xcite assuming that the two main sub - clusters are coming together for the first time and considering their projected separation and relative velocity , the required time to first crossing is estimated to be @xmath68 gyr .",
    "this time implies that the virialization of the cluster as a whole will begin at a redshift @xmath69 .    because of the non - uniform distribution of the baryons and dm , the overall structure of the cluster is likely not to be in virial equilibrium .",
    "indeed , the overall velocity dispersion of the cluster turns out to be too high to be consistent with the observed @xmath62-t relation.@xcite therefore , an accurate estimate of the virial mass of the whole cluster , based on the velocity distribution of spectroscopic cluster members , is not possible .",
    "the spectroscopic survey carried out with the vlt allowed us to obtain spectra for 102 cluster members.@xcite we use these spectra to separate cluster members in two groups : galaxies with emission lines ( star - forming galaxies ) and galaxies without emission line features ( passive galaxies ) .",
    "passive galaxies and star - forming galaxies are indicated by small circles and triangles respectively in fig .",
    "[ c0152]-left .",
    "one striking feature is that all the star - forming galaxies are distributed in the outskirts of the cluster , avoiding the high density regions traced by the x - ray emission@xcite ( see fig .",
    "[ c0152]-left ) . the derived star - formation rate ( sfr ) of these galaxies@xcite turns out to be smaller than that of galaxies in the field environment .",
    "a simple interpretation for this is that galaxies at large radii from the cluster center are falling into the cluster potential , suppressing their star - forming activity as they interact with the icm ( see homeier et al .",
    "2005).@xcite    an anlysis of the ground based@xcite and acs ( blakeslee et al . , in prep .",
    ") photometry of this cluster shows a clear cm relation in the corresponding cm diagram .",
    "the locus of the cm relation is mainly defined by passive galaxies , although a few emission line galaxies are also observed in this region of the diagram . by comparing these data to models@xcite we find that passive cluster galaxies have colors consistent with passive evolution of early - type galaxies formed at @xmath70 .",
    "the few emission line galaxies observed within 1@xmath62 from the best fit of the locus of the cm relation have colors as red as passive early - type ( elliptical ) galaxies .",
    "this suggests the existence of an old stellar population inhabiting these galaxies , although intrinsic dust extinction may also be the cause of the observed reddening .",
    "the acs images reveal that most of these galaxies indeed have a red bulge structure in the center surrounded by a bluer disk , where the star - forming activity should be taking place .",
    "a more detailed analysis of the spectroscopic data shows that some of these red star - forming galaxies are also hosts of a young ( @xmath18 1 gyr old ) stellar population ( see demarco et al .",
    "[ 2005]@xcite for a more detailed discussion ) .",
    "the fact that these galaxies harbor stellar population of different ages raises the interesting possibility that these objects may be undergoing a transition stage between late - type field galaxies falling into the cluster and early - type passive galaxies located in the cluster core .",
    "galaxy - icm interactions may play a considerable role in this transition phase .",
    "rdcs j1252 is one of the most x - ray luminous cluster discovered to date at @xmath71.@xcite its main physical properties are summarized in table [ properties ] .",
    "extensive spectroscopy with the vlt has confirmed its redshift to be @xmath60 .",
    "this cluster is among the three clusters at @xmath72 observed with the acs@xcite and is providing fundamental information to understand cluster formation and galaxy evolution .",
    "the main results to date are reviewed in the following sections .",
    "the x - ray extended emission of rdcs j1252 is in clear contrast , in terms of spatial distribution , to that of rx j0152 .",
    "the x - ray iso - contours shown in fig .",
    "[ c1252]-b are those from chandra .",
    "the more uniform distribution of the cluster x - ray emission , compared to that of rx j0152 , suggests that the icm is in a more advanced state of relaxation , implying that it had to be assembled at higher redshift . however , when looking at it in more detail , a coma - like asymmetry in the east - west direction on the sky of the x - ray isophotes ( fig .",
    "[ c1252]-b ) suggests the possibility that the icm has been affected by a recent merging episode .",
    "interestingly , the spatial distribution of the cluster k - band ( 2.2 @xmath73 m ) luminosity weighted light distribution ( fig . [ c1252]-c ) from photometric members ( including spectroscopic ones ) shows a similar elongated structure.@xcite the elongation of the cluster is confirmed by the weak lensing analysis of the cluster that finds a similar east - west elongation in the dm distribution@xcite ( fig .",
    "[ c1252]-a ) .",
    "the cluster core , as seen by the acs , is shown in fig .",
    "[ c1252]-d .",
    "we derived the cluster luminosity , icm temperature and metallicity from the x - ray data@xcite , while the spectroscopic data allowed us to securely identify cluster galaxies and thus determine the cluster velocity dispersion ( see table [ properties ] ) .",
    "the comparison of these measurements with those of clusters at lower redshift allow us to study the evolution of scaling relations from @xmath12 down to the local universe .",
    "the icm temperature and velocity dispersion of rdcs j1252 are in good agreement with the observed @xmath74 relation while the x - ray luminosity , entropy ( @xmath75 ) and temperature values suggest only a mild positive evolution of the @xmath45 and @xmath76 relations.@xcite rdcs j1252 appears thus well thermalized with thermodynamical properties similar to those of clusters at low redshift .",
    "the value of the metallicity obtained from the xmm spectroscopic data@xcite turns out to be consistent with the mean icm metallicity value for lower redshift clusters.@xcite this result thus provides further support for the lack of evolution of the amount of metals in galaxy clusters up to @xmath77 and is consistent with the major episode of metal enrichment occurring at @xmath78 .",
    "the total mass of the cluster is estimated to be @xmath79 within a radius of 536 kpc,@xcite consistent with the @xmath80 relation predicted by bryan & norman ( 1998).@xcite in general , the structure and physical properties of rdcs j1252 s icm show that this cluster is a massive system in an advanced thermodynamical state , with scale properties similar to those of clusters at low redshift , that we are observing at a lookback time of 8.5 gyrs ( when the universe was about 36% of its present age ) .",
    "so far a total of 38 cluster members have been spectroscopically confirmed with vlt / fors ( demarco et al .",
    ", in prep . ) . like rx j0152",
    ", star - forming galaxies are preferentially located in the outer ( infalling ) regions of the cluster , with passive early - type galaxies to dominate the cluster center .",
    "the high angular resolution of the acs allows us to examine in detail the morphology of cluster galaxies even at such a large lookback time ( rosati et al .",
    ", in preparation ) .",
    "one interesting feature is that , while all the passive member galaxies are well characterized by an early - type appearance ( bulge - like structure ) , only one of the star - forming cluster members shows a well defined morphology with grand design spiral arms or a disk structure surrounding a central bulge .",
    "most of these galaxies look quite irregular , suggesting that they may be still forming .",
    "this is in contrast to rx j0152 , where many star - forming galaxies can be clearly classified as spiral galaxies .",
    "more generally speaking , and excluding passive galaxies , the comparison of galaxy morphologies between rx  j0152 and rdcs j1252 suggests that galaxy formation is still on - going at @xmath81 and that hubble - type spirals may not be established until @xmath82 . however , more observations of high - z galaxies are needed to strengthen this conclusion .    the combination of ground based spectroscopy with near - ir imaging from vlt has allowed us to compute the k - band galaxy lf of the cluster@xcite which , at the redshift of @xmath12 , allows us to probe the rest - frame @xmath83-band light from the cluster . when comparing the derived lf with the @xmath83-band lf of galaxy clusters in the local universe a non evolution of the shape of the bright end of the lf is observed , indicating that massive elliptical galaxies which dominate the bright end of the galaxy lf were already in place at @xmath12 .",
    "another important observation is the brightening of @xmath84 ( the characteristic magnitude associated with @xmath50 ) compared to lower redshift clusters .",
    "this finding is in agreement with the result from previous work@xcite indicating that galaxies in clusters become brighter at higher redshifts .",
    "the same ground based near - ir data@xcite and acs optical data@xcite have been used to study the distribution of the cluster galaxy populations in color - magnitude space .",
    "these studies , both independent , arrive at similar conclusions .",
    "a clear and tight cm relation for early - type ( passive ) galaxies is observed in rdcs j1252 at @xmath12 with a slope and scatter similar to lower redshift values.@xcite these results thus confirm that the cm relation of cluster early - type is a metallicity - mass relation instead of an age - mass relation , i.e. , more massive ( luminous ) early - type galaxies are able to better retain metals and thus to produce redder colors.@xcite although the scatter in colors of the early type galaxies permits considerable variation in the ages , their mean luminosity weighted age is quite old , corresponding to @xmath85 .    both cm studies and the k - band galaxy lf of rdcs j1252 also indicate that massive early - type galaxies evolved passively in luminosity since their epoch of formation .",
    "the above results for early - type galaxies in rdcs j1252 are in agreement with studies of early - type galaxies in the field@xcite and pose challenging problems to hierarchical models of galaxy formation . however , despite the fact that early - type galaxies in rdcs j1252 are home for stars with a mean age of approximately 2.7 gyrs,@xcite the spectroscopic data available suggest an interesting new result .",
    "when combining the spectra of the 10 brightest spectroscopic members , a prominent h@xmath86 feature emerges.@xcite this balmer absorption line indicates the presence of young a- and f - type stars , born about 1 gyr previous to the epoch of observation . although a quantitative analysis is needed to confirm this result , this observation would indicate that most luminous early - type galaxies in rdcs j1252 host young ( post - starburst ) stellar populations produced in recent episodes of star formation at @xmath87 .",
    "we would be thus approaching the formation epoch of these galaxies as we observe traces of their latest star - forming episode .",
    "the unprecedented panchromatic study carried out so far on two of the most distant clusters of galaxies known to date is providing us with crucial information to better understand cluster evolution and the formation and evolution of luminous early - type galaxies , the most massive galaxies known .",
    "the main conclusions can be summarized as follows . scaling relations such as the @xmath88-t relation and icm metallicity",
    "do not significantly evolve up to @xmath12 pushing energy injection processes and metal production in galaxy clusters to @xmath89 .",
    "the analysis of the cm relation in rdcs j1252 at @xmath12 provides valuable information to understand the formation and evolution of massive elliptical galaxies .",
    "these galaxies would have formed the bulk of their stars at @xmath90 ( when the universe was @xmath1815% of its present age ) evolving passively in luminosity since then .",
    "the large lookback time of formation of massive ( luminous ) early type galaxies and their passive evolution are consistent with the results from galaxy lf studies in cluster and field environments .",
    "furthermore , these studies support the simple model of monolithic collapse for the formation of elliptical galaxies .",
    "in particular , the lf of galaxies in the field@xcite suggests that most of the merging which form elliptical galaxies in the hierarchical models should occur at redshift @xmath91 .",
    "this study poses difficulties for hierarchical models which underpredict the density of luminous galaxies at @xmath92 and overpredict significantly the density of low luminosity galaxies at @xmath93 .",
    "in addition to all the above , the joint analysis of the available data on all the clusters observed with the acs is providing more robust and statistically significant information about the structure and evolution of clusters and cluster galaxies .",
    "in particular , the morphology - density relation@xcite is well established at @xmath94 , an epoch when the universe was @xmath1840 % its present age .",
    "late - type star - forming galaxies are observed to prefer the outer low density regions of clusters , while early - type passive galaxies populate the high density regions of the cluster cores .",
    "interesting evolutionary trends are observed in the morphology - density relation as a function of density and redshift@xcite .",
    "the available data suggest that this evolution is primarily driven by evolution in the fraction of s0 and spiral+irregular galaxies : a deficit of s0s and an excess of spiral+irregular galaxies are observed at @xmath46 relative to the local galaxy population.@xcite moreover , mild correlations of the cluster early - type fraction and cluster star - formation rate with cluster x - ray luminosity have been detected.@xcite    in the future , the integration of the spitzer / irac data available on the clusters in the acs cluster program will provide new information about the bulk of the stellar mass in galaxies ( whose light peaks at about 2 @xmath73 m rest frame ) at redshifts @xmath0 .",
    "also , the strong lensing analysis of some of the clusters observed with the acs will allow us to accurately model the mass distribution in the central regions of distant clusters , thus providing important tests of the cold dark matter ( cdm ) paradigm .",
    "in addition to the recent discovery of an x - ray luminous cluster at @xmath95,@xcite more clusters at similar and higher redshift need to be discovered in order to bridge the evolutionary gap between our most distant clusters and their likely progenitors , the so called proto - clusters which have been discovered at redshifts @xmath96.@xcite",
    "acs was developed under nasa contract nas5 - 32865 .",
    "we thank our fellow acs team members for their important contributions to this research and we also thank the support from eso staff in chile and germany .",
    "we are grateful to ken anderson , john mccann , sharon bushing , alex framarini , sharon barkhouser , and terry allen for their invaluable contributions to the acs project at jhu .",
    "this investigation has been partially supported by nasa grant nag5 - 7697 .",
    "bahcall , n.  a.  & cen , r.  1993 , apjl , 407 , l49 bahcall , n.  a. , fan , x. , & cen , r.  1997 , apjl , 485 , l53 fan , x. , bahcall , n.  a. , & cen , r.  1997 , apjl , 490 , l123 kauffmann , g.  1996 , mnras , 281 , 487 kauffmann , g.  & charlot , s.  1998a , mnras , 294 , 705 kauffmann , g.  & charlot , s.  1998b , mnras , 297 , l23 eggen , o.  j. , lynden - bell , d. , & sandage , a.  r.  1962 , apj , 136 , 748 ford , h. c. , et al .",
    "2002 , proc .",
    "spie , 4854 , 81 ford , h. , et al .",
    "2004 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , astro - ph/0408165 binney , j.  & merrifield , m.  1998 , galactic astronomy .",
    "princeton , nj : princeton university press ( princeton series in astrophysics ) karzas , w.  j.  & latter , r.  1961 , apjs , 6 , 167 kellogg , e. , baldwin , j.  r. , & koch , d.  1975 , apj , 199 , 299 cavaliere , a.  & fusco - femiano , r.  1976 , a&a , 49 , 137 girardi , m. , giuricin , g. , mardirossian , f. , mezzetti , m. , & boschin , w.  1998 , apj , 505 , 74 mellier , y.  1999 , ara&a , 37 , 127 mulchaey , j.  s.  & zabludoff , a.  i.  1998 , apj , 496 , 73 osmond , j.  p.  f.  & ponman , t.  j.  2004 , mnras , 350 , 1511 helsdon , s.  f.  & ponman , t.  j.  2000 , mnras , 315 , 356 sanderson , a.  j.  r. , ponman , t.  j. , finoguenov , a. , lloyd - davies , e.  j. , & markevitch , m.  2003 , mnras , 340 , 989 finoguenov , a. , reiprich , t.  h. , & b \" ohringer , h.  2001 , a&a , 368 , 749 lloyd - davies , e.  j. , ponman , t.  j. , & cannon , d.  b.  2000 , mnras , 315 , 689 balogh , m.  l. , babul , a. , & patton , d.  r.  1999 , mnras , 307 , 463 tozzi , p.  & norman , c.  2001 , apj , 546 , 63 borgani , s. , governato , f. , wadsley , j. , menci , n. , tozzi , p. , lake , g. , quinn , t. , & stadel , j.  2001 , apjl , 559 , l71 ettori , s. , tozzi , p. , borgani , s. , & rosati , p.  2004 , a&a , 417 , 13 rosati , p. , et al .",
    "2004 , aj , 127 , 230 renzini , a.  1997 , apj , 488 , 35 tozzi , p. , rosati , p. , ettori , s. , borgani , s. , mainieri , v. , & norman , c.  2003 , apj , 593 , 705 borgani , s. , et al .",
    "2004 , mnras , 348 , 1078 schechter , p.  1976 , apj , 203 , 297 de propris , r. , stanford , s.  a. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , dickinson , m. , & elston , r.  1999 , aj , 118 , 719 ellis , s.  c.  & jones , l.  r.  2004 , mnras , 348 , 165 pozzetti , l. , et al .  2003 , a&a , 402 , 837 bower , r.  g. , lucey , j.  r. , & ellis , r.  s.  1992 , mnras , 254 , 601 terlevich , a.  i. , caldwell , n. , & bower , r.  g.  2001 , mnras , 326 , 1547 stanford , s.  a. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , & dickinson , m.  1998 , apj , 492 , 461 rosati , p. , stanford , s.  a. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , elston , r. , spinrad , h. , stern , d. , & dey , a.  1999 , aj , 118 , 76 van dokkum , p.  g. , stanford , s.  a. , holden , b.  p. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , dickinson , m. , & elston , r.  2001 , apjl , 552 , l101 stanford , s.  a. , holden , b. , rosati , p. , eisenhardt , p.  r. , stern , d. , squires , g. , & spinrad , h.  2002 , aj , 123 , 619 blakeslee , j.  p. , et al .",
    "2003 , apjl , 596 , l143 holden , b.  p. , et al .",
    "2005 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints , arxiv : astro - ph/0503365 della ceca , r. , scaramella , r. , gioia , i.  m. , rosati , p. , fiore , f. , & squires , g.  2000 , a&a , 353 , 498 rosati , p. , della ceca , r. , norman , c. , & giacconi , r.  1998 , apjl , 492 , l21 demarco , r. , et al .  2005 , a&a , 432 , 381 homeier , n.  l. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 621 , 651 jee , m.  j. , white , r.  l. , bentez , n. , ford , h.  c. , blakeslee , j.  p. , rosati , p. , demarco , r. , & illingworth , g.  d.  2005 , apj , 618 , 46 maughan , b.  j. , jones , l.  r. , ebeling , h. , perlman , e. , rosati , p. , frye , c. , & mullis , c.  r.  2003 , apj , 587 , 589 lidman , c. , rosati , p. , demarco , r. , nonino , m. , mainieri , v. , stanford , s.  a. , & toft , s.  2004 , a&a , 416 , 829 huo , z. , xue , s. , xu , h. , squires , g. , & rosati , p.  2004 , aj , 127 , 1263 kodama , t.  & arimoto , n.  1997 , a&a , 320 , 41 bruzual a. , g.  & charlot , s.  1993 , apj , 405 , 538 demarco , r. , rosati , p. , lidman , c. , nonino , m. , mainieri , v. , stanford , a. , holden , b. , & eisenhardt , p.  2004 , clusters of galaxies : probes of cosmological structure and galaxy evolution , from the carnegie observatories centennial symposia .",
    "carnegie observatories astrophysics series . edited by j.s .",
    "mulchaey , a. dressler , and a. oemler , 2004 .",
    "pasadena : carnegie observatories , http://.www.ociw.edu / ociw / symposia / series / symposium3/proceedings3.html toft , s. , mainieri , v. , rosati , p. , lidman , c. , demarco , r. , nonino , m. , & stanford , s.  a.  2004 , a&a , 422 , 29 lombardi , m. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 623 , 42 bryan , g.  l.  & norman , m.  l.  1998 , apj , 495 , 80 rosati , p.  2004 , clusters of galaxies : probes of cosmological structure and galaxy evolution , from the carnegie observatories centennial symposia . published by cambridge university press , as part of the carnegie observatories astrophysics series .",
    "edited by j.s .",
    "mulchaey , a. dressler , and a. oemler , 2004 , p. 72 .",
    "dressler , a.  1980 , apj , 236 , 351 goto , t. , yamauchi , c. , fujita , y. , okamura , s. , sekiguchi , m. , smail , i. , bernardi , m. , & gomez , p.  l.  2003 , mnras , 346 , 601 postman , m. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 623 , 721 mullis , c.  r. , rosati , p. , lamer , g. , b \" ohringer , h. , schwope , a. , schuecker , p. , & fassbender , r.  2005 , apjl , 623 , l85 venemans , b.  p. , et al .",
    "2002 , apjl , 569 , l11 miley , g.  k. , et al .",
    "2004 , nature , 427 , 47"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> high redshift ( @xmath0 ) clusters are ideal probes to study the formation and evolution of large scale structures and galaxies in the universe . a 10-m class ground based telescope , x - ray observatories ( chandra , xmm - newton ) and hst / acs are allowing us to perform an unprecedented study of distant massive clusters of galaxies in the redshift range @xmath1 , selected from x - rays surveys . </S>",
    "<S> in this paper we summarize our results on the structure and dynamics of two of these clusters derived from imaging and spectroscopic data as well as our results on the evolution of early - type galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}