{
  "article_text": [
    "the past two decades has seen remarkable progress in the measurement of the distance scale of the universe . in the early and mid-1980 s , values of the hubble constant ranged over a factor of two , from @xmath7  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 @xcite to @xmath8  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 @xcite , with the results depending strongly on the the author and the technique .",
    "however , in the early 1990 s , measurements of @xmath9 began to converge @xcite , and it became increasingly difficult to argue for values much different than @xmath10  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 . today",
    ", due in large part to the _ hubble space telescope _ distance scale key project , a value of @xmath9 between 65 and 75 km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 is generally accepted @xcite .    nevertheless , there are still two lingering problems with the current distance scale .",
    "the first concerns the zero point of the cepheid period - luminosity relation .",
    "there are two galaxies whose distances are known from direct geometric techniques : the large magellanic cloud ( via the light echo of sn  1987a ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and ngc  4258 ( through the observed motions of its nuclear maser ; * ? ? ?",
    "the former sets the zero point for the cepheid scale ; the latter provides an independent test of the technique .",
    "unfortunately , the cepheid distance to ngc  4258 given by @xcite is @xmath11 larger than the galaxy s geometric distance @xcite .",
    "this marginally significant discrepancy may indicate a problem for the zero point of the system .",
    "the second limitation of the cepheid distance scale is its limited applicability to population  ii distance techniques .",
    "for example , the calibration of the elliptical galaxy fundamental plane @xcite rests largely on the assumption that the early - type galaxies of leo  i , fornax , and virgo are at the same distance as the clusters spirals . in the case of virgo",
    "at least , this is likely not the case @xcite .",
    "similarly , the zero point of the surface brightness fluctuation ( sbf ) technique @xcite is set by just six cepheid calibrators . given the susceptibility of the sbf method to the effects of interstellar extinction ,",
    "this situation is not ideal .",
    "clearly , additional calibrators are needed to secure the pop  ii side of the distance ladder .",
    "the planetary nebula luminosity function ( pnlf ) has the potential to provide these calibrations . as the only general purpose standard candle that is applicable to both spiral and elliptical galaxies",
    ", the pnlf provides a critical link between the pop  i and pop  ii distance scales .",
    "moreover , since the precision of the pnlf method is comparable to that of cepheids @xcite , the technique can also be used to check for anomalous measurements in the distance ladder .",
    "in fact at present , the pnlf is the only method capable of confirming the results obtained from cepheid variables .",
    "finally , the pnlf can provide distances to some intermediate objects that are too dusty or irregular for pop  ii techniques , but not suitable for cepheid observations .    in this paper , we present the pnlfs of six galaxies , ngc  2403 , 3115 , 3351 , 3627 , 4258 , and 5866 , and use these data to search for systematic errors in the extragalactic distance ladder .",
    "in section 2 , we describe our observations , detail our reduction procedures , and present the coordinates and [ o  iii ] @xmath0 magnitudes of our planetary nebula candidates .",
    "we also present new [ o  iii ] and observations of pne in the inner bulge of m31 ; these data are used in section  3 to create a quantitative criterion for discriminating pne from compact h  ii regions . in section  4 , we derive pnlf distances to our six galaxies , and comment on the properties of these systems . included in this section",
    "is a discussion of the distance to ngc  4258 ; our value , combined with that obtained from the cepheids , argues for a hubble constant that is @xmath3 larger than that given by the _",
    "_ key project @xcite . in section  5 ,",
    "we combine our distances to ngc  2403 , 3351 , 3627 , and 4258 with data from nine other cepheid galaxies to re - define the zero point of pnlf distance scale .",
    "we show that the absolute magnitude of the pnlf bright - end cutoff does shift to fainter magnitudes at extremely low metallicity ; this is in agreement agreement with the theoretical predictions of @xcite .",
    "however , we show that in metal - rich galaxies , the pnlf - cepheid residuals show no statistically significant trend . in section  6",
    ", we compare the pnlf distance scale with that of the sbf method , and show that there is a significant scale error between the two techniques .",
    "specifically , we show that , although the pnlf - sbf residuals do not correlate with any galaxy property , the overall pnlf scale is @xmath2  mag shorter than the sbf scale .",
    "finally , we conclude by considering the possible causes of this discrepancy , and discussing the implications it has for tip of the red giant branch ( trgb ) distance measurements and the extragalactic distance scale in general .",
    "several different telescope / detector configurations were used in this program .",
    "four galaxies were observed with the kitt peak 4-m telescope : ngc  3115 , with a @xmath12 rca ccd ( 43  e@xmath13 readnoise ) , ngc  5866 with an @xmath14 ti ccd ( binned @xmath15 , 4  e@xmath13 readnoise ) , and ngc  2403 and ngc  3627 with the t2 kb @xmath16  ccd ( 4  e@xmath13 readnoise ) .",
    "two other galaxies , ngc  3351 and ngc  4258 , were observed with the mini - mosaic camera of wiyn ; this instrument employs two 4k @xmath17 2k ccds covering a field - of - view of @xmath18 , with a @xmath19 gap between detectors .",
    "finally , in order to define a quantitative criterion for discriminating planetary nebulae from compact h  ii regions , the inner bulge of m31 was observed with the kitt peak 2.1-m telescope and a tektronix @xmath20 detector .",
    "this setup allowed us to survey the central @xmath21 region of the galaxy and measure monochromatic fluxes for pne @xmath22  mag down the [ o  iii ] @xmath0 luminosity function .",
    "a log of our observations and the details of the ccds are given in table  1 .",
    "our survey technique was similar to that described in previous papers of the series @xcite .",
    "first , a narrow - band filter was selected which passed the [ o  iii ] @xmath0 emission line at the redshift of the target galaxy .",
    "for m31 , 2403 , and 4258 , the filters used were the standard narrow - band [ o  iii ] filters available at noao ; for the remaining galaxies , custom - made filters were used .",
    "the filter names or bandpasses ( central wavelength and full - width - half - maximum ( fwhm ) at ambient temperature in the converging beam of the telescope ) are given in table  1 .",
    "note that for ngc  3351 , our filter vignetted roughly half of the wiyn camera s field - of - view .",
    "this did not compromise our survey , however , since the unvignetted field - of - view ( @xmath23 ) was reasonably well matched to the @xmath24 diameter of the galaxy .    for each galaxy",
    ", a series of exposures was taken through the on - band [ o  iii ] @xmath0 and a wider off - band filter ( @xmath25 , fwhm @xmath26   ) .",
    "in addition , in order to discriminate pne from h  ii regions , the late - type spirals were also imaged through a 75    wide filter centered on h@xmath1 .",
    "the total on - band and exposure times are listed in table 1 . in general , the off - band exposures were scaled to go @xmath27  mag deeper than their on - band counterparts and were therefore four to seven times shorter .",
    "all frames were reduced using standard iraf routines : the images were bias - subtracted and flat - fielded using ccdproc , aligned to a common astrometric system with geomap and geotran , and then combined using imcombine .",
    "the result was a set of summed on - band , off - band , and images of each galaxy .",
    "planetary nebulae were identified on our frames in two complementary ways : by `` blinking '' the summed [ o  iii ] image against the off - band image , and by looking for emission - line objects on a `` difference '' image , formed by subtracting a scaled off - band image from the on - band frame . in order to be considered a planetary nebula candidate , an object had to have a point - spread - function consistent with that of a point source , and be present on the on - band image , but completely invisible on the off - band frame .",
    "pn candidates in star - forming galaxies also had to be at least 1.6 times brighter in [ o  iii ] than in ( see section 3 ) .",
    "the pn candidates were measured photometrically using the iraf version of daophot @xcite , and flux calibrated using large - aperture measurements of @xcite and @xcite standard stars and the procedures outlined by @xcite .",
    "our 4-m and wiyn observations were taken under photometric conditions , so this straightforward calibration produced fluxes with a zero - point accurate to @xmath28  mag .",
    "the m31 data , however , were obtained through light cirrus .",
    "the pne in this galaxy were therefore calibrated by scaling the data to the [ o  iii ] @xmath0 and observations of m31 s bulge taken by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "once calibrated , the resulting [ o  iii ] monochromatic fluxes ( in ergs  @xmath29",
    "s@xmath6 ) were converted to @xmath30 magnitudes using @xmath31    tables  2 through 8 list the pne of each galaxy . for m31 ,",
    "the equatorial positions are based on the j2000 system of the guide star catalog @xcite and a set of secondary standards defined by @xcite .",
    "for the remaining galaxies , the plate solutions were created using the usno - a2.0 catalog @xcite .",
    "the errors associated with our positions are @xmath32 .",
    "note that the pn identifications in table  2 are an extension of the numbering scheme of @xcite .",
    "figure  1 displays our [ o  iii ] @xmath0 images of the six galaxies , with the positions of the pn candidates marked with crosses .",
    "pnlf measurements in elliptical and s0 galaxies , such as ngc  3115 and ngc  5866 , are relatively straightforward : since these systems have no current star formation , virtually all bright emission - line sources are planetary nebulae .",
    "pn observations in late - type galaxies , however , are not so simple .",
    "only a very small percentage of the emission - lines sources in these systems are planetary nebulae ; most [ o  iii ] line - emission comes from h  ii regions and supernova remnants .",
    "therefore , in order to derive pn distances to these star - forming systems , an algorithm is needed to discriminate pne from other sources of line emission .",
    "as stated above , we used three criteria to perform this discrimination . in order",
    "to be classified as a planetary nebula , an object had to be spatially unresolved , invisible on the off - band frame , and have an [ o  iii ] to ratio greater than 1.6 .",
    "the first of these conditions is obvious .",
    "all bright pne in the galaxy are less than @xmath33  pc across @xcite ; in m31 , this corresponds to an angular size of @xmath34 .",
    "the true pne in our program galaxies must therefore be stellar ; objects that are even marginally resolved must be either h  ii regions or supernova remnants .",
    "our second criterion is also quite simple .",
    "although the central stars of pne can have luminosities @xmath35 , their effective temperatures are such that very little of this energy comes out in the optical . at the distances considered here ,",
    "central star continuum emission at 5300    is well below the threshold of detectability .",
    "on the other hand , h  ii regions usually have ob associations at their center .",
    "depending on how many stars are present , the ob stars combined optical emission may be detectable in the continuum .",
    "thus , all valid pn candidates must be completely invisible on the off - band frame .    the third criterion , that of @xmath36 requires some elaboration",
    ". the central stars of [ o  iii ] bright pne are typically much hotter than the ob stars that excite h  ii regions . as a result ,",
    "much of the oxygen in a planetary nebula is doubly ionized ( rather than singly ionized as is common in most h  ii regions ) .",
    "this fact , combined with the higher electron temperatures produced by the harder radiation field , causes a typical bright pn to have [ o  iii ] @xmath0 much brighter than h@xmath1 .",
    "conversely , as the survey of @xcite illustrates , most h  ii regions ( @xmath37 ) have h@xmath1+[n  ii ] brighter than [ o  iii ] @xmath0 .",
    "we can be quantitative about this condition by defining @xmath38 as the [ o  iii ] to h@xmath1+[n  ii ] line ratio and examining the behavior of @xmath38 as a function of [ o  iii ] @xmath0 absolute magnitude .",
    "[ o  iii ] @xmath0 , h@xmath1 , and [ n  ii ] line strengths now exist for large samples of pne in three local group galaxies : m33 , through the [ o  iii ] and h@xmath1+[n  ii ] photometry of @xcite , the large magellanic cloud , through the [ o  iii ] photometry of @xcite and the spectrophotometric line ratios of @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite , and m31 ( this paper ) .",
    "the data are plotted in figure  2 .",
    "as the figure shows , the distribution of line ratios for [ o  iii ] bright planetary nebulae is remarkably independent of stellar population .",
    "pne that are several magnitudes down the [ o  iii ] @xmath0 luminosity function have values of @xmath38 that are anywhere from @xmath39 to @xmath22 .",
    "objects in the top @xmath33  mag of the pnlf , however , all have @xmath40 .",
    "this result holds for all populations , from the old , metal - rich bulge stars of m31 , to the young , metal - poor planetaries of the lmc .",
    "conversely , h  ii regions with @xmath40 are rare : of the 42 objects studied by @xcite , only four have this ratio greater than 1.5 , and only one has @xmath41 .",
    "since the [ o  iii ] @xmath0 surveys presented in this paper extend less than @xmath33  mag down the pnlf , an efficient criterion for the removal of contaminating h  ii regions is to consider only those objects with [ o  iii ] @xmath0 to h@xmath1+[n  ii ] line ratios greater than 2 .",
    "note that this is a more stringent requirement than the @xmath42 criterion imposed by @xcite and @xcite in their pn surveys of m33 and m81 .",
    "however , magrini  derived their value by considering the excitations of all pne , regardless of absolute [ o  iii ] @xmath0 magnitude . as figure  2 demonstrates ,",
    "a criterion that uses absolute magnitude in addition to excitation is a much more powerful discriminator .",
    "unfortunately , due to time constraints and variable seeing at the telescope , our images did not go deep enough to record objects with @xmath43 .",
    "instead , for the faintest pne in our sample , our limiting magnitude corresponded to @xmath44 .",
    "we therefore used this number as our pn / h  ii region discriminator .",
    "this criterion is not perfect : if just 1% of bright h  ii regions are high excitation objects , then a substantial number of interlopers may survive this cut .",
    "however , by using our excitation rule in combination with the other two conditions , and limiting our pn search to regions away from the galaxies spiral arms and obvious star - forming regions , we are confident that we have reduced the fraction of contaminants to a negligible level .",
    "figure  3 displays the [ o  iii ] @xmath0 pnlfs for the six galaxies in our sample .",
    "each shows an abrupt rise , and a flattening that is characteristic of the pnlf of other galaxies ( see * ? ? ?",
    "however , before these data can be used to derive distances , we need to define statistically complete samples for analysis .    for ngc  3115 and ngc  5866 ,",
    "this task was relatively straightforward : we used the fact that , on smooth backgrounds , a @xmath45 detection rate occurs at a signal - to - noise of @xmath46 @xcite .",
    "the pn limiting magnitude is therefore a unique function of the background surface brightness : by noting the background at each position in the galaxies , we could define photometrically complete samples of objects ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "unfortunately , in the spiral galaxies , variable internal extinction , as well as the complexity of the underlying background makes this type of analysis impossible .",
    "thus , statistical sub - samples of pne had to be derived empirically from the frames",
    ".    to create the pn samples for the later - type galaxies , we began by noting the median sky background associated with each pn measurement .",
    "after excluding those few objects superposed on bright regions of the galaxy , we picked the worst ( most uncertain ) background remaining in the sample , and computed the signal - to - noise each pn would have had , if it had been projected on that background .",
    "we then defined our statistical pn sample as those objects with a hypothetical signal - to - noise above some threshold value . in the case of ngc  3351 , 3627 , and 4258 , a threshold signal - to - noise of 10 served to define our limiting pn magnitude .",
    "for ngc  2403 , however , our ability to blink was restricted by the complexity of the galaxy s emission regions .",
    "simply put , our pn identifications in ngc  2403 were confusion limited , rather than detection limited . as a result",
    ", we chose an extremely high value for the detection threshold for this galaxy  only objects with a hypothetical signal - to - noise greater than 25 made it into our complete sample .",
    "those pne that are part of our statistical samples are identified in tables 3 - 8 with an `` s '' .    in order to derive pnlf distances and their formal uncertainties",
    ", we followed the procedure of @xcite .",
    "we took the analytical form of the pnlf @xmath47 convolved it with the photometric error vs.  magnitude relation derived from the daophot output , and fit the resultant curve to the statistical samples of pne via the method of maximum likelihood . to correct for foreground extinction",
    ", we used the @xmath48 dirbe / iras all - sky map of @xcite , and the reddening curve of @xcite .",
    "finally , to estimate the total uncertainties in our measurements , we convolved the formal errors of the maximum - likelihood fits with the errors associated with the photometric zero points of the ccd frames ( 0.04  mag ) , the filter response curves ( 0.03  mag ) , and the galactic foreground extinction ( @xmath49 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . for consistency with previous papers of the series",
    ", we used a pnlf zero point of @xmath50 , which is based on an m31 distance of 710  kpc @xcite and foreground reddening of @xmath51 @xcite .",
    "we will revisit the question of the pnlf zero point in section  5 .",
    "ngc  2403 , the medium - sized scd spiral in the m81 group , has historically been the limit for ground - based cepheid observations , and its cepheid measurements date back over half a century @xcite .",
    "the galaxy s revised cepheid distance modulus of @xmath52 @xcite is based on the @xmath53-band photometry of 10 cepheids with the canada - france - hawaii telescope @xcite and the assumption that the galaxy s internal extinction is similar to that of other spirals .    at a distance of @xmath54  mpc , it is extremely easy to detect ngc  2403 s planetaries and resolve out the galaxy s h  ii regions , even in @xmath55 seeing .",
    "consequently , most of our pne are extremely well detected , with signal - to - noise values over 100 .",
    "nevertheless , the pnlf of ngc  2403 turns over just @xmath33  mag down the luminosity function , as if the data past @xmath56 were severely incomplete .",
    "part of the reason for this behavior may be due to the fact that in many regions of the galaxy , pn detections were confusion limited . however , this peculiar feature of the luminosity function may also be intrinsic to the galaxy s stellar population .",
    "@xcite have shown that the luminosity function of pne in the smc is non - monotonic with a pronounced dip @xmath54  mag down the luminosity function .",
    "the luminosity function of @xcite suggests that m33 has a similar feature @xmath33  mag down the pnlf .",
    "like the smc and m33 , ngc  2403 is undergoing strong star formation .",
    "it is therefore possible that the turnover in the luminosity function at @xmath56 real .",
    "if so , the position and strength of the dip may serve as an age or metallicity indicator for the stellar population @xcite .    even if ngc  2403 s pnlf declines past @xmath56 , this behavior does not affect the precision of the pnlf method , since pnlf distances depend only on the brightest objects .",
    "a fit to the top @xmath33  mag of the observed pnlf yields a distance modulus for the galaxy of @xmath57 ( @xmath58  mpc ) .",
    "this is @xmath59 larger than that derived from the cepheids .",
    "due to the small size of the rca ccd , this prototypical field s0 galaxy was observed in two parts , with the fields positioned @xmath60 north and south of the galaxy s nucleus .",
    "the inner regions of the galaxy were excluded from our analysis , since pn detections in these high surface brightness regions ( @xmath61  mag  arcsec@xmath62 ) are difficult . despite this limitation",
    ", we were still able to identify a statistical sample of 29  pne that extends @xmath33  mag down the luminosity function . if we fit these data to the empirical curve , then the galaxy s most likely distance modulus is @xmath63 ( @xmath64  mpc ) .    because ngc  3115 has a smooth luminosity profile with little , if any , internal extinction , it is possible to normalize our pn counts to the bolometric luminosity of the sampled population .",
    "this quantity , defined as @xmath65 by @xcite , is potentially useful , since it has been observed to vary by almost an order of magnitude in different stellar populations @xcite .    to perform our normalization",
    ", we adopted the surface photometry measurements of @xcite , and summed the @xmath66-band flux contained in our survey regions .",
    "we then converted this total @xmath66 magnitude to a bolometric magnitude by integrating the galaxy s spectral energy distribution , as defined by the multicolor optical and ir photometry of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "we then used this bolometric magnitude to compute @xmath65 using the maximum - likelihood technique described in @xcite .",
    "the resulting value , @xmath67  pn  yr@xmath68 , is similar to that found for the bulge of m31 , and is typical of that for an old , metal - rich stellar population @xcite .",
    "the importance of the leo  i group to extragalactic distance measurements has been recognized for almost half a century @xcite .",
    "the group is compact , well - defined , and contains both early and late - type galaxies ; it is thus the ideal location for linking the pop  i and pop  ii distance scales . as a medium - sized sbb galaxy in the core of leo  i ,",
    "ngc  3351 is especially valuable . the galaxy is late enough to contain a large number of cepheids @xcite and be useful as a tully - fisher calibrator @xcite , yet early enough to have a bulge that can be analyzed using the surface brightness fluctuation method @xcite .    because our [ o  iii ] @xmath0 filter vignetted part of the field , our pn survey of ngc  3351 was limited to the inner @xmath69 of the galaxy",
    "nevertheless , we detected 20  pne ; 12 of these were bright enough to be part of a complete sample .",
    "our derived distance modulus of @xmath70 ( @xmath71  mpc ) agrees with the @xmath72 value derived from the _ hst _ photometry of 49 cepheids @xcite .",
    "more importantly , as demonstrated in figure  4 , our pnlf distance to ngc  3351 is also in excellent agreement with the pnlf distances to four other members of the group .",
    "this consistency provides further evidence that the absolute magnitude of the pnlf does not depend strongly on galaxy type or stellar population .",
    "ngc 3627 , a large sb spiral in the leo triplet , became important for distance scale research in 1989 , when it produced the well - observed type  ia supernova 1989b @xcite .",
    "the galaxy has also hosted two other supernova - like events , the type ii sn 1973r @xcite and the unusual object sn 1997bs @xcite , and is a zero - point calibrator for the tully - fisher relation .",
    "the body of ngc 3627 is quite dusty , so pn identifications in the bulge and interarm region of the galaxy are difficult .",
    "however , ngc  3627 has recently undergone an interaction with ngc  3628 ; this is evidenced by the galaxy s asymmetric spiral arms , the plumes of extragalactic h  i and optical material extending from ngc  3628 @xcite , and the large faint halo surrounding ngc  3627 @xcite .",
    "it is , in fact , this low surface brightness stellar halo that allows us to determine the galaxy s distance ; the region contains many bright planetary nebulae and very few h  ii regions .",
    "our survey of ngc  3627 s halo produced 73 planetary nebula candidates ; 40 of these constituted our statistically complete sample .",
    "a maximum likelihood fit to these data yields a distance modulus of @xmath73 ( @xmath74  mpc ) , in excellent agreement with the value of @xmath75 obtained from _",
    "hst _ observations of 68 cepheids @xcite .      in the mid-1990 s",
    ", nuclear masers were discovered moving in a keplerian orbit around the central black hole of ngc  4258 @xcite . by resolving these masers",
    "@xcite , measuring their acceleration @xcite , and monitoring their proper motions , @xcite were able to derive a geometric distance to the galaxy , @xmath76  mpc .",
    "this makes ngc  4258 one of only two galaxies with a direct geometric distance , and an important crosscheck for extragalactic distance techniques .",
    "our [ o  iii ] @xmath0 survey in ngc  4258 resulted in the identification of 58  pn candidates .",
    "of these , 29 were above our signal - to - noise cutoff of 10 , and had magnitudes in the top @xmath77  mag of the pnlf .",
    "the distance implied by these pne , @xmath78 ( @xmath79  mpc ) , is @xmath80 larger than the system s geometric distance .",
    "the fact that our pnlf distance is slightly higher than the galaxy s geometric distance may be due to chance .",
    "however , it also may be indicative of a more substantial problem with the extragalactic distance scale",
    ". _ hst _ measurements of 15 cepheids in the disk of ngc  4258 yield a distance modulus of @xmath81 ( random + systematic error ) or @xmath82  mpc @xcite . like the pnlf distance",
    ", the cepheid value is also slightly high ( by @xmath11 ) .    is this a serious problem ?",
    "aside from ngc  4258 , there is only one other galaxy with a geometrical distance estimate .",
    "that galaxy , the large magellanic cloud , has a measurement based on the light echo of sn  1987a @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , the light - echo distance is still somewhat controversial , with recent estimates differing by @xmath27  mag , from @xmath83  kpc @xcite to less than @xmath84  kpc @xcite .",
    "the former distance is close to that derived from the galactic calibration of cepheids @xcite and the hipparcos calibration of rr lyrae variables @xcite ; the latter value is in line with distances inferred from the statistical parallax calibration of rr lyrae stars @xcite and the hipparcos calibration of red clump stars @xcite .",
    "the cepheid distance scale of @xcite is based on an lmc distance modulus of @xmath85 . however , the most comprehensive analysis of sn 1987 s light - echo is probably that of @xcite , and their distance modulus is @xmath86 ( where the upper limit reflects the possible time lag between the arrival of the euv - light and line fluorescence ) .",
    "if we adopt this shorter value , then the geometric distance ratio between the lmc and ngc  4258 becomes @xmath87 .",
    "this is in perfect agreement with the distance ratios derived from both the cepheids ( @xmath88 ) , _ and _ the pnlf ( @xmath89 ) .",
    "our pnlf distance to ngc  4258 , when combined with that from the cepheids , provides independent evidence in support of the `` short '' distance to the lmc . _",
    "if this result holds , then the entire extragalactic distance scale is affected .",
    "_ specifically , if we work backward from the @xcite distance for ngc  4258 , and apply the observed pnlf and cepheid lmc / ngc  4258 distance ratios , then the lmc distance modulus becomes @xmath90 .",
    "this increases the @xcite hubble constant by 8% , from @xmath91  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 to @xmath92  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 .",
    "moreover , if we further constrain the lmc distance using the @xcite measurement of sn  1987a s light echo , then the error on the lmc distance is reduced to @xmath93  mag , and the @xcite hubble constant becomes @xmath94  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 .",
    "the edge - on s0 galaxy ngc  5866 is the most distant galaxy in our sample , and it has the poorest data quality . as a result , pn identification could only be made in the galaxy s halo , where the galactic surface brightness is well below that of the sky .",
    "even then , our limiting magnitude for completeness reached only @xmath95  mag down the pn luminosity function .",
    "still , the 11  pne in our statistical sample yield a relatively well - constrained distance modulus of @xmath96 ( @xmath97  mpc ) .    for galaxies such as ngc  5866 with distances",
    "greater than @xmath98  mpc , pn samples can suffer contamination due to the redshifted emission lines of distant galaxies .",
    "it is therefore reasonable to consider the possibility that some of the pn candidates listed in table  8 are , in reality , ly@xmath1 galaxies at @xmath99 . in the case of ngc  5866 , however , this source of contamination should be negligible .",
    "@xcite have shown that the surface density of emission - line contaminants brighter than our limiting magnitude of @xmath100 is @xmath33  object per 66  arcmin@xmath62 .",
    "since ngc  5866 was surveyed with a small chip ( 16  arcmin@xmath62 ) , the likelihood of finding a background galaxy in the field is low .",
    "thus our pnlf distance should not be affected by this source of error .",
    "the pnlf is a secondary standard candle .",
    "although there have been a few attempts to measure the absolute magnitude of the pnlf cutoff in the milky way @xcite , @xmath101 must still be defined via observations in galaxies with known distances .",
    "the original value of the zero point , @xmath50 , was based on an m31 cepheid distance of 710  kpc @xcite and a foreground extinction of @xmath51 @xcite . since then the cepheid distance to m31",
    "has increased ( 750  kpc ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and estimates of the foreground extinction have decreased ( @xmath102 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "formally , this brightens @xmath101 to @xmath103 and increases all the pnlf distances by 2.5% .    rather than rely on a single galaxy for the pnlf zero point , it is better to derive @xmath101 by combining the pnlf measurements of many different systems .",
    "with the addition of ngc  2403 , ngc  3351 , ngc  3627 , and ngc  4258 , there are now 13 galaxies with both cepheid and pnlf photometry .",
    "if we adopt the final _ hst key project _ cepheid distances ( uncorrected for metallicity ) given by @xcite and use the dirbe / iras estimates for foreground extinction @xcite , we can obtain a measure of @xmath101 in each system .",
    "these are listed in table  9 and plotted as a function of galactic metallicity in figure  5 .",
    "note that @xmath101 is not measured with the same precision in each galaxy .",
    "this is a limitation intrinsic to the pnlf method : low - luminosity systems simply do not have as many pne populating the bright - end of the luminosity function as large , luminous galaxies @xcite .    as figure  5 illustrates , at low - metallicity , our derived values of @xmath101 appear to be sensitive to oxygen abundance . in particular , in the three most metal - poor galaxies in the sample ( smc , ngc  5253 , and ngc  300 ) the pnlf zero point is substantially ( @xmath104 ) fainter than that seen in the metal - rich systems .",
    "this behavior is not unexpected : a decrease in the [ o  iii ] @xmath0 emission of metal - poor planetary nebulae has been seen by @xcite and @xcite in local group surveys and the trend has been successfully modeled by @xcite . according to the @xcite models , @xmath101 is brightest when the pn oxygen abundance is near solar ; in more metal - poor and metal - rich populations , @xmath101 fades .",
    "this dependence , which is plotted in figure  5 , can be expressed via the quadratic @xmath105}^2 + 0.225 { \\rm [ o / h ] } + 0.014\\ ] ] where the solar abundance of oxygen is assumed to be @xmath106 @xcite . in reality , the weakening of [ o  iii ] @xmath0 in high - z galaxies will not be observed , since in these systems , solar - metallicity stars are available to define the systems pnlf cutoff .",
    "however , the dimming of @xmath101 in low metallicity galaxies can be observed , and , as figure  5 indicates , the observed trend is in excellent agreement with theory .    to search for further systematic errors in the pnlf",
    ", we applied the @xcite metallicity correction to the galaxies on the low - metallicity side of the relation s inflection point , and replotted the data against several galactic parameters .",
    "the results , displayed in figure  6 , are impressive . except for one object ( m33 )",
    ", the scatter in the data is perfectly consistent with the internal uncertainties associated with the pnlf and cepheid distance measurements .",
    "this implies that the quoted errors of the two techniques are reasonable , and that any additional sources of error are small .",
    "moreover , the one discrepant point may have an explanation .",
    "the @xmath107  mag ( @xmath108 ) offset between m33 s expected and observed pnlf zero point is essentially the same as the offset found between the galaxy s cepheid distance and its distance derived from rgb tip and red clump stars @xcite . in both cases ,",
    "the discrepancy can be traced to a difference in the adopted reddening .",
    "m33 s cepheid distance uses an extinction that is derived from multicolor photometry of the cepheids themselves @xcite .",
    "our measurement of @xmath101 , and the measurement of the galaxy s rgb stars , use the dirbe / iras galactic extinction .",
    "the difference between these values , @xmath109 , is one of the largest observed for any cepheid galaxy , and may be responsible for the anomalous value of @xmath101 .",
    "if the cepheid reddening were reduced to one typical of other cepheid galaxies , m33 s pnlf cutoff ( and the red star distance indicators ) would be in much better agreement .",
    "further evidence of the consistency of the pnlf technique comes from the lack of correlation between the metallicity - corrected value of the pnlf zero point , @xmath110 , and the various galaxy properties .",
    "for example , if the assumed shape of the pnlf ( equation  2 ) were incorrect , as hypothesized by @xcite , we would expect to see a correlation between @xmath111 and galaxy absolute magnitude ; such a correlation does not exist .",
    "similarly , if compact h  ii regions were a problem for pn surveys , then pnlf measurements in distant galaxies would be preferentially affected , and @xmath111 would correlate with distance .",
    "this trend is not seen , either .    the third panel of figure  6 plots @xmath111 against galaxy inclination for the 11 spiral galaxies in our sample .",
    "internal extinction can affect pnlf measurements , and indeed , the m33 point moves into perfect agreement with the rest of the sample if we assume that the cepheid reddening also applies to the planetaries @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , the evidence of figure  6 suggests that internal extinction is _ not _ a major source of error : if it were , then we would expect @xmath111 to correlate strongly with galaxy inclination .",
    "no correlation is seen , and this constancy supports the claim of @xcite that the relatively large scale - height of planetary nebulae limits the effect of internal extinction to @xmath112  mag .    perhaps the most interesting part of figure  6 concerns the lack of any residual correlation between the metallicity - corrected value for the pnlf zero point and galaxy metallicity , as determined from the oxygen abundance of h  ii regions @xcite .",
    "the dependence of cepheid distances on galaxy metallicity is controversial .",
    "theoretical and empirical analyses by numerous groups disagree on both the amplitude and sign of the relation ( see * ? ? ?",
    "? * and references therein ) .",
    "for example , while @xcite and @xcite point out that metallicity corrections to the cepheid period - luminosity relation might change the extragalactic distance scale by more than 10% , other studies , such as those by @xcite , @xcite , and @xcite argue for a much weaker dependence .",
    "since our measurements of @xmath111 assume that the raw cepheid distances ( with no metallicity correction ) are accurate , the constancy seen in figure  6 supports the latter conclusion .    to quantify this result",
    ", we performed a monte carlo simulation on the data displayed in the fourth panel of figure  6 .",
    "we treated each galaxy s asymmetrical error bars as probability distributions , and regressed @xmath111 against metallicity for 1,000,000 realizations of the data .",
    "the simulations confirmed what is apparent to the eye : once the pnlf zero point is corrected for metallicity via the relation of @xcite , no other term is needed .",
    "formally , the best - fitting slope to the relation is @xmath113  mag  per  dex .",
    "either the metallicity dependence of cepheids exactly cancels that of an additional unknown pnlf variation , or abundance changes have little effect on the distances derived from cepheids .",
    "since @xmath111 does not appear to correlate with any galaxy property , we can combine the probability distributions of figure  6 and re - determine the pnlf zero point .",
    "once again , we did this via a monte carlo simulation in which we drew randomly from the probability distributions associated with each galaxy .",
    "if we exclude the outlying galaxy m33 from the analysis , then our procedure yields a most probable value of @xmath114 with 68.2% of the probability lying between @xmath115 and @xmath116 .",
    "( if m33 is included , this value drops slightly to @xmath117 . ) alternatively , if we restrict our analysis to galaxies as large or larger than the lmc ( @xmath118 ) , then the @xcite metallicity correction is not needed and the most probable value of the zero point becomes @xmath119 ( or @xmath120 if m33 is included in the sample ) .",
    "since emission - line abundances for most elliptical galaxies are unobtainable , we will use @xmath121 in the analysis that follows and exclude low - luminosity galaxies from the analysis .",
    "pnlf distances provide a bridge between the pop  i distance indicators , such as cepheids , and the techniques on the pop  ii side of the distance ladder .",
    "chief among these pop  ii techniques is the surface brightness fluctuation method : sbf distances have a precision comparable to that of cepheids and the pnlf , and the technique has been applied to over 300 elliptical , lenticular , and early - type spiral galaxies @xcite .",
    "presently , the sbf scale is calibrated via cepheid measurements to six intermediate - type spirals : m31 , m81 , ngc  3368 , ngc  4258 , ngc  4725 , and ngc  7331 @xcite .",
    "our pnlf measurements provide an independent test of this calibration .    with the addition of ngc  3115 ,",
    "ngc  4258 , and ngc  5866 , there are now 28 large galaxies with both sbf and pnlf distance measurements .",
    "these galaxies are identified in table  10 , along with the differences between the sbf and pnlf distance moduli . for consistency with section  5 , and to explicitly include the effects of cosmic scatter in the distance indicators , the zero - point of the sbf method has been re - computed in exactly the same manner as that for the pnlf .",
    "that is , the sbf and cepheid error bars for the six calibrating galaxies have been added in quadrature , and the resulting probability distributions used in a series of monte carlo simulations .",
    "this procedure produces an sbf distance scale that is @xmath122  mag smaller than that used by @xcite .",
    "figure  7 histograms the difference between the sbf distance moduli ( as calibrated directly via the six cepheid galaxies ) and the pnlf distance moduli as calibrated in section  5 .",
    "the curve displayed in the figure is the expected scatter in the data , as determined by adding ( in quadrature ) the uncertainties associated with the individual pnlf and sbf measurements , and a @xmath123 uncertainty associated with galactic reddening @xcite .",
    "the latter component is especially important . as pointed out by @xcite , the strong color dependence of the absolute fluctuation magnitude ( @xmath124 ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) means that an underestimate of foreground extinction translates into an underestimate of sbf distance .",
    "this is the exact opposite of how the pnlf ( and most other methods ) react to reddening : for the pnlf , an underestimate of extinction results in an overestimate of distance .",
    "consequently , a very small error in extinction propagates into a significant discrepancy between the pnlf and sbf moduli , with @xmath125 .    the results of table  10 and figure  7 are noteworthy .",
    "immediately obvious from the figure is the presence of three outliers .",
    "ngc  4565 , ngc  891 , and ngc  4278 have values of @xmath126 that are @xmath127 from the mean of the distribution ; this separation is too large to be explained by any random process .",
    "interestingly , two of the points , ngc  4565 ( @xmath128  mag ) and ngc  891 ( @xmath129  mag ) are edge - on spirals , the only such systems in the sample",
    ". since sbf measurements to late - type galaxies are difficult ( due to the presence of dust and color gradients ) , while photometry of halo pne is relatively easy , it is tempting to blame this discrepancy on the sbf values .",
    "however at this time , all we can say is that one ( or both ) methods have trouble measuring distances to these systems .",
    "if the outlying galaxies are excluded , then the scatter in the measurements exactly follows that predicted from the internal errors of the methods .",
    "this agreement is striking , and strongly suggests that the quoted errors of the measurements are accurate .",
    "the agreement also leaves little room for additional sources of error ; if there is some population - dependent term in the scatter , it must be small .",
    "this latter conclusion is confirmed in figure  8 .",
    "if either method were significantly affected by population age or metallicity , then @xmath126 would correlate with galactic absolute magnitude or color . as figure  8 illustrates",
    ", it does not .",
    "similarly , if the form of the pnlf ( equation  2 ) were incorrect , @xmath126 would correlate with absolute magnitude or pn population .",
    "this correlation does not exist , either .",
    "in fact , the only possible trend present in the figure occurs when the pnlf - sbf residuals are plotted against distance .",
    "if one _ only _ considers galaxies with @xmath130 , then there is a 95% chance that a correlation exists between @xmath126 and distance modulus .",
    "such a trend might be expected if the pn candidates found in these systems are contaminated by background emission - line galaxies or ( in the case of galaxies in rich clusters ) foreground intracluster stars . however",
    ", if the five most distant objects are deleted from the sample , the correlation with distance goes away .",
    "thus , the overall impression left from the figure is that in terms of relative distances , the pnlf and sbf techniques are in excellent agreement .",
    "unfortunately , the same can not be said for the methods absolute distances .",
    "as figure  7 demonstrates , there is a 0.30  mag offset between the sbf and pnlf distance scales , in the sense that sbf distances are systematically larger than their pnlf counterparts .",
    "this offset , which is reduced to @xmath131  mag if the 5 most distant galaxies are excluded , is highly significant .",
    "based on the 13 galaxies with cepheid and pnlf measurements , the uncertainty in the pnlf zero point is @xmath132  mag .",
    "similarly , the uncertainty in the sbf zero point , as defined by the six cepheid calibrators , is @xmath28  mag .",
    "finally , there is the uncertainty in the zero point of galactic extinction .",
    "this continues to be a controversial topic ( see * ? ? ? * for a review ) , and , indeed , the zero point of the @xcite extinction map is 0.02  mag smaller in @xmath133 than that of the @xcite map .",
    "however , the sense of this offset is that , if the @xcite zero point were adopted , the discrepancy between the pnlf and sbf distance scales would be worse .",
    "in fact , if one wishes to avoid negative dirbe / iras reddenings , then the extinction zero point can not be lowered by more than @xmath134  mag .",
    "this translates into a hard upper limit of 0.10  mag on the uncertainty in the mean value of @xmath126 due to dust , and a total upper limit on the uncertainty of 0.12  mag .",
    "the observed offset between the pnlf and sbf distance scales is therefore statistically significant at more than the @xmath135 level .",
    "considering the fact that both the sbf and pnlf methods are calibrated in the same way via cepheids , this is a remarkable result !",
    "logically speaking , there are only three possible ways to explain the discrepancy between the pnlf and sbf distance scales :    _ the cepheid distances of the sbf calibrators may be systematically different than those of the pnlf calibrators . _",
    "this solution is extremely unlikely , as the two samples of galaxies are nearly identical .",
    "specifically , four of the six sbf calibrators are also pnlf calibrators , the median metallicity of the pnlf calibrators is very nearly the same as that of the sbf calibrators ( o / h @xmath136 vs.  o / h @xmath137 ) , and there is no significant difference in the cepheid internal reddenings of the two samples .",
    "consequently , it is difficult to blame the pnlf - sbf discrepancy on the cepheids .",
    "_ the pnlf measurements made in cepheid galaxies may be systematically different from those made in sbf galaxies .",
    "_ pn identifications are best made in the spheroidal components of galaxies , where contamination from h  ii regions is minimal . however , in order to make direct comparisons with the pop  i distance indicators , pnlf observations must be performed in galactic disks .",
    "thus , one can attempt to explain the pnlf - sbf discrepancy via the hypothesis that the pnlf cutoff is fainter in spiral disks than in bulges and halos .",
    "such an idea is plausible since internal extinction could , in theory , dim disk planetary nebulae more than bulge objects .",
    "we can test for such an effect by dividing the pnlf calibrators into two groups : those whose pn surveys included the galaxies pop  i components ( the lmc , the smc , ngc  300 , ngc  2403 , ngc  3351 , ngc  4258 , ngc  5253 , and m101 ) , and those whose observations were confined primarily to the bulge and halo ( m31 , m81 , ngc  3368 , and ngc  3627 ) .",
    "when we do this , we find that there is no significant difference between the two samples of galaxies : the zero point found in young populations is only @xmath132  mag fainter than that observed for old systems .",
    "moreover , planetary nebula surveys in the bulge , disk , and halo of m31 @xcite and m81 @xcite have also failed to find change in the pnlf zero point with stellar population .",
    "it is therefore extremely unlikely that pnlf differences can explain the 0.3  mag offset .",
    "_ the sbf measurements made in cepheid galaxies may be systematically different than those made in pnlf galaxies .",
    "_ of the 28 galaxies with both pnlf and sbf measurements , all but eight are elliptical or lenticular .",
    "yet the sbf calibration is derived from the observation of six spiral bulges .",
    "thus , the potential exists for a systematic error between the two data samples . indeed , due to the extreme color sensitivity of the sbf method , a moderate amount of internal extinction ( @xmath138 ) in the six calibrating galaxies will shift the sbf scale by more than 10% and bring it and bring it into close agreement with the scale defined by the pnlf .    is there evidence for this amount of internal extinction ? it is true that the direct measurements of extinction in the bulges of m31 @xcite and m81 @xcite are greater than the galaxies dirbe / iras reddening values @xcite .",
    "however , in both cases the excess is less than what is needed , @xmath139 .",
    "similarly , if one breaks the sample of galaxies in two , one finds a slight difference between the pnlf - sbf distance offset for spiral bulges ( @xmath140  mag ) and for ellipticals ( @xmath141  mag ) .",
    "unfortunately , even if this result is significant , it still does not fully explain the 0.3  mag offset of figure  7 .",
    "nevertheless , internal extinction is still the most likely cause of the scale discrepancy",
    ". if the bulges of the six cepheid calibrators have as little as @xmath142 of internal extinction , then the zero point of the sbf system shifts by 0.14  mag and the sbf - based hubble constant of @xcite moves from @xmath143 to @xmath144  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 .",
    "[ note that this shift is almost as large as the formal @xmath145  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 systematic error assigned by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "] moreover , if the same extinction is applied to the pnlf measurements , then the pnlf scale is increased by a comparable amount , and the pnlf / sbf discrepancy disappears completely .",
    "this result underscores the need close study of the internal extinction of galaxies , and for more independent crosschecks at each rung of the distance ladder .",
    "note that our conclusion differs from that of @xcite , who attributed the pnlf / sbf scale discrepancy to a systematic error in the planetary nebula distances .",
    "the evidence @xcite cited in in support of this interpretation was 1 ) the similarity between the sbf distances to the ellipticals of virgo and fornax , and the cepheid distances to the clusters spirals , and 2 ) the agreement between the sbf distance scale , and the scale inferred from @xmath53-band measurements of stars at the the tip of the red giant branch ( trgb ) .",
    "the former argument is suspect , since both clusters are complex , and the elliptical galaxies are not co - mingled with the spirals @xcite . the second comment , however , deserves some attention .",
    "the trgb method is well tested inside the local group : the data from nine nearby galaxies with both trgb and cepheid measurements demonstrate that the technique can produce results that are accurate to better than @xmath27  mag @xcite . however , no cepheid galaxy more than 3  mpc away has a trgb measurement : at these distances , the only direct comparisons are with pnlf and sbf galaxies",
    ".    a galaxy - by - galaxy comparison of trgb , sbf , and pnlf distances appears in figure  9 .",
    "as the figure illustrates , the overlap between trgb , pnlf , and sbf galaxies is scant .",
    "only 7 pnlf galaxies have trgb distances : the lmc @xcite , m31 @xcite , m33 @xcite , ngc  5102 @xcite , ngc  5128 @xcite , ngc  3379 @xcite , and ngc  3115 @xcite .",
    "only five galaxies have both trgb and sbf measurements ( m31 , ngc  5102 , ngc  5128 , ngc  3379 , and ngc  3115 ) .",
    "if one just considers the mean offsets between the measurements , then the data do indicate that the sbf and trgb distance scales are in agreement , and that the pnlf scale is @xmath146  mag too small .",
    "however , figure  9 contains two other properties that should not be ignored .",
    "the first concerns the size of the sbf - trgb internal error bars relative to the observed scatter in the measurements",
    ". an important conclusion of  5 and 6 is that the scatter between the pnlf , sbf , and cepheid distance measurements is consistent with that expected from the internal errors of the methods .",
    "this agreement strongly suggests that the quoted errors for all three methods are accurate .",
    "however , the same is not true for the sbf - trgb comparison .",
    "as figure  9 demonstrates , the observed sbf - trgb distance residuals are significantly larger than the internal errors of the methods would predict .",
    "( the internal and external errors are incompatible at the @xmath147 confidence level . )",
    "since the sbf errors appear to be reasonable , the implication is that the trgb measurements possess an additional source of uncertainty .",
    "the second property displayed in figure  9 is the trend exhibited in the pnlf - trgb comparison .",
    "inside the local group , there is excellent agreement between the pnlf and trgb distance indicators ; the mean difference between the two methods is @xmath148  mag . at larger distances , however , the techniques diverge , and @xmath149 .",
    "since the cepheid and sbf comparisons demonstrate there is no problem with the relative pnlf distances ( at least for objects within @xmath150  mpc ) , the existence of the discrepancy again suggests a problem with the trgb data .    with the information currently available",
    ", we can not prove that an error exists in the trgb distance measurements .",
    "however , we can speculate on the types of errors which may be associated with the method .",
    "trgb measurements require that the red giant branch be well - populated : if the rgb is underpopulated , then the apparent magnitude of the rgb tip will be overestimated , and the distance to the parent galaxy will be overestimated @xcite .",
    "even more important is the effect of metallicity . even if the sample of rgb stars is large , the technique still will not work unless the stars at the rgb tip have [ fe / h ] @xmath151 @xcite .",
    "if the red giants are more metal - rich than this , their absolute @xmath53-band luminosities will be fainter than assumed , due to the effects of line blanketing , and the result will again be an overestimate of distance .",
    "thus , the systematic errors associated with the technique are asymmetric : if an error exists , then the distances produced by the trgb technique will be upper limits .",
    "the systematic effects of sample size and metallicity are much larger . ]    for nearby galaxies , the metallicity effect on the trgb is not of great concern .",
    "most local group galaxies are small and thus metal - poor ; the only exceptions ( m31 and m33 ) both have high quality data and measured rgb metallicity distributions .",
    "consequently , the trgb distances to these objects are well - determined , and in excellent agreement with the distances derived from cepheid @xcite , pnlf , and sbf measurements . outside the local group ,",
    "however , the data quality is generally poorer , and with one exception ( ngc  5128 ) , little or no information is available about the rgb metallicity distribution . since most of these distant galaxies are more massive ( and therefore more metal - rich ) than their local group counterparts , a systematic error in the trgb distance scale is not inconceivable .",
    "thus , the pnlf and trgb measurement may , indeed , be consistent .",
    "higher quality , multicolor trgb measurements beyond the local group are needed to resolve the problem .",
    "we have presented pnlf distances to ngc  2403 , ngc  3115 , ngc  3351 , ngc  3627 , ngc  4258 , and ngc  5866 , and have used these data to compare the cepheid , pnlf , and sbf distance scales .",
    "our observations demonstrate that , in terms of relative distance measurements , the cepheid , pnlf , and sbf methods are in excellent agreement , and the internal errors estimated for all the methods are correct .",
    "however , we also show that the pnlf and sbf distance scales are incompatible : the cepheid - calibrated sbf scale is @xmath2  mag longer than the cepheid - calibrated pnlf scale .",
    "the likely cause of the discrepancy is internal extinction in the bulges of the sbf cepheid calibrators . if this is true , then this error results in an underestimate of the sbf hubble constant .",
    "finally , we use our pnlf distance to ngc  4258 , in combination with the galaxy s geometric and cepheid distances , to argue that the short distance to the large magellanic cloud is correct , and that the @xcite hubble constant should be increased by @xmath4 .",
    "we would like to that r. mndez for the list of pn magnitudes in ngc  4697 .",
    "we would also like to thank the anonymous referee for suggesting that we revisit the trgb distance calibration .",
    "this research made use of the nasa extragalactic database and was supported in part by nsf grants ast 95 - 29270 and ast 00 - 71238 .",
    "ferrarese , l. , ford , h.c . ,",
    "huchra , j. , kennicutt , r.c .",
    ", mould , j.r . , sakai , s. , freedman , w.l . ,",
    "stetson , p.b . ,",
    "madore , b.f . ,",
    "gibson , b.k . ,",
    "graham , j.a .",
    ", hughes , s.m . , illingworth , g.d .",
    ", kelson , d.d . ,",
    "macri , l. , sebo , k. , & silbermann , n.a .",
    "2000a , , 128 , 431    ferrarese , l. , mould , j.r . ,",
    "kennicutt , r.c . ,",
    "huchra , j. , ford , h.c . , freedman , w.l . ,",
    "stetson , p.b .",
    ", madore , b.f . ,",
    "sakai , s. , gibson , b.k . , graham , j.a . ,",
    "hughes , s.m . , illingworth , g.d .",
    ", kelson , d.d . ,",
    "macri , l. , sebo , k. , & silbermann , n.a . 2000b , , 529 , 745        freedman , w.l . ,",
    "madore , b.f . ,",
    "gibson , b.k . ,",
    "ferrarese , l. , kelson , d.d . , sakai , s. , mould , j.r .",
    ", kennicutt , r.c .",
    "jr . , ford , h.c . ,",
    "graham , j.a . ,",
    "huchra , j.p . ,",
    "hughes , s.m.g . , illingworth , g.d .",
    ", macri , l.m . , & stetson , p.b .",
    "2001 , , 553 , 47      graham , j.a . ,",
    "phelps , r.l . ,",
    "freedman , w.l .",
    ", saha , a. , ferrarese , l. , stetson , p.b . ,",
    "madore , b.f . ,",
    "silbermann , n.a . , sakai , s. , kennicutt , r.c . ,",
    "harding , p. , bresolin , f . ,",
    "turner , a. , mould , j.r . ,",
    "rawson , d.m . ,",
    "ford , h.c . ,",
    "hoessel , j.g .",
    ", han , m. , huchra , j.p . , macri , l.m . ,",
    "hughes , s.m . , illingworth , g.d . , & kelson , d.d .",
    "1997 , , 477 , 535                                          kelson , d.d . ,",
    "illingworth , g.d .",
    ", tonry , j.l . , freedman , w.l .",
    ", kennicutt , r.c . , mould , j.r . , graham , j.a . , huchra , j.p . ,",
    "macri , l.m . ,",
    "madore , b.f . ,",
    "ferrarese , l. , gibson , b.k . ,",
    "sakai , s. , stetson , p.b . , ajhar , e.a . ,",
    "blakeslee , j.p . , dressler , a. , ford , h.c .",
    ", hughes , s.m.g . , sebo , k.m . ,",
    "& silbermann , n.a .",
    "2000 , , 529 , 768    kennicutt , r.c . ,",
    "stetson , p.b . ,",
    "saha , a. , kelson , d. , rawson , d.m . ,",
    "sakai , s. , madore , b.f .",
    ", mould , j.r . , freedman , w.l .",
    ", bresolin , f. , ferrarese , l. , ford , h. , gibson , b.k . , graham , j.a .",
    ", han , m. , harding , p. , hoessel , j.g . ,",
    "huchra , j.p . ,",
    "hughes , s.m.g . , illingworth , g.d .",
    ", macri , l.m . ,",
    "phelps , r.l . ,",
    "silbermann , n.a . ,",
    "turner , a.m. , & wood , p.r .",
    "1998 , , 498 , 181                                            monet , d. , bird , a. , canzian , b. , dahn , c. , guetter , h. , harris , h. , henden , a. , levine , s. , luginbuhl , c. , monet , a.k.b . , rhodes , a. , riepe , b. , sell , s. , stone , r. , vrba , f. , & walker , r. 1998 , pmm usno - a2.0 : a catalogue of astrometric standards ( washington , dc : us naval obs . )                                  sasselov , d.d . ,",
    "beaulieu , j.p . ,",
    "renault , c. , grison , p. , ferlet , r. , vidal - madjar , a. , maurice , e. , prvot , l. , aubourg , e. , bareyre , p. , brehin , s. , coutures , c. , delabrouille , n. , de kat , j. , gros , m. , laurent , b. , lachize - rey , m. , lesquoy , e. , magneville , c. , milsztajn , a. , moscoso , l. , queinnec , f. , rich , j. , spiro , m. , vigroux , l. , zylberajch , s. , ansari , r. , cavalier , f. , moniez , m. , gry , c. , guibert , j. , moreau , o. , & tajhmady , f. 1997 , , 324 , 471 .",
    "wells , l.a . , phillips , m.m . , suntzeff , n.b . ,",
    "heathcote , s.r . ,",
    "hamuy , m. , navarrete , m. , fernandez , m. , weller , w.g . ,",
    "schommer , r.a . ,",
    "kirshner , r.p .",
    ", leibundgut , b. , willner , s.p . , peletier , r.f . ,",
    "schlegel , e.m . ,",
    "wheeler , j.c . ,",
    "harkness , r.p . ,",
    "bell , d.j . ,",
    "matthews , j.m . ,",
    "filippenko , a.v . , shields , j.c . ,",
    "richmond , m.w .",
    ", jewitt , d. , luu , j. , tran , h.d . ,",
    "appleton , p.n . ,",
    "robson , e.i . ,",
    "tyson , j.a .",
    ", guhathakurta , p. , eder , j.a . , bond , h.e . ,",
    "potter , m. , veilleux , s. , porter , a.c . ,",
    "humphreys , r.m . , janes , k.a . , williams , t.b . , costa , e. , ruz , m.t . ,",
    "lee , j.t . ,",
    "lutz , j.h . , rich , r.m . , winkler , p.f . , & tyson , n.d .",
    "1994 , , 108 , 2233      lcccccccccc m31 s bulge & kpno 2.1  m & t1ka & @xmath152 & @xmath153 & kp1413 & 1994 jan & 75 & 45 & @xmath154 & 24.0 + ngc 2403 & kpno 4  m & t2 kb & @xmath155 & @xmath156 & kp1389 & 1996 nov & 135 & 45 & @xmath55 & 24.1 + ngc 3115 north & kpno 4  m & rca3 & @xmath157 & @xmath158 & 5016/28 & 1985 mar & 180 & & @xmath159 & 26.2 + ngc 3115 south & kpno 4  m & rca3 & @xmath157 & @xmath158 & 5016/28 & 1985 mar & 240 & & @xmath55 & 26.2 + ngc 3351 & wiyn & minimo & @xmath23 & @xmath160 & 5027/30 & 2001 mar & 180 & 45 & @xmath154 & 26.3 + ngc 3627 & kpno 4  m & t2 kb & @xmath155 & @xmath156 & 5027/30 & 1997 mar & 240 & 45 & @xmath55 & 26.2 + ngc 4258 & wiyn & minimo & @xmath18 & @xmath160 & kp1590 & 2001 mar & 120 & 40 & @xmath161 & 25.6 + ngc 5866 & kpno 4  m & ti2 & @xmath162 & @xmath158 & 5016/28 & 1985 apr & 180 & & @xmath163 & 26.7 +    lcccr 1 & 0 42 46.10 & 41 16 40.9 & 20.51 & 3.5 + 2 & 0 42 45.93 & 41 16 24.3 & 21.84 & 0.9 + 3 & 0 42 43.73 & 41 16 25.7 & 20.85 & 3.3 + 5 & 0 42 42.34 & 41 15 53.7 & 21.07 & 3.3 + 7 & 0 42 43.27 & 41 15 56.5 & 21.62 & 1.5 + 8 & 0 42 43.86 & 41 16 01.1 & 21.49 & 2.1 + 9 & 0 42 45.15 & 41 16 05.4 & 21.28 & 2.4 + 10 & 0 42 46.66 & 41 16 09.7 & 21.12 & 2.2 + 12 & 0 42 47.50 & 41 16 21.3 & 20.70 & 3.0 + 13 & 0 42 47.25 & 41 16 28.7 & 21.48 & 2.1 + 14 & 0 42 46.88 & 41 16 55.7 & 22.28 & 1.4 + 15 & 0 42 46.35 & 41 17 02.0 & 21.43 & 1.0 + 16 & 0 42 40.91 & 41 16 11.7 & 21.83 & 3.8 + 17 & 0 42 39.74 & 41 15 49.2 & 20.71 & 2.8 + 18 & 0 42 39.72 & 41 15 36.6 & 20.88 & 2.2 + 20 & 0 42 43.05 & 41 15 36.8 & 21.63 & 2.0 + 21 & 0 42 45.15 & 41 15 23.6 & 21.11 & 3.5 + 23 & 0 42 48.89 & 41 16 55.5 & 21.34 & 2.9 + 24 & 0 42 53.31 & 41 16 27.9 & 21.28 & 3.0 + 25 & 0 42 54.60 & 41 16 24.3 & 21.73 & 2.8 + 26 & 0 42 55.44 & 41 16 24.4 & 21.17 & 3.0 + 28 & 0 42 52.06 & 41 17 24.5 & 20.65 & 3.2 + 29 & 0 42 53.48 & 41 17 33.9 & 21.01 & 3.8 + 30 & 0 42 55.40 & 41 17 20.8 & 20.70 & 2.1 + 32 & 0 42 53.32 & 41 18 17.1 & 20.79 & 3.3 + 35 & 0 42 38.27 & 41 15 33.8 & 21.35 & 3.4 + 36 & 0 42 37.38 & 41 15 51.2 & 20.94 & 2.3 + 37 & 0 42 37.21 & 41 16 26.7 & 22.05 & 3.0 + 38 & 0 42 37.72 & 41 16 43.3 & 21.37 & 1.8 + 39 & 0 42 36.40 & 41 16 57.4 & 21.76 & 3.2 + 40 & 0 42 36.02 & 41 16 34.4 & 21.51 & 2.8 + 41 & 0 42 33.21 & 41 16 49.4 & 20.65 & 3.6 + 42 & 0 42 32.74 & 41 16 32.7 & 20.43 & 3.7 + 43 & 0 42 31.00 & 41 16 25.3 & 21.20 & 2.6 + 44 & 0 42 31.45 & 41 16 14.7 & 21.99 & 2.6 + 45 & 0 42 32.50 & 41 15 58.5 & 20.59 & 2.9 + 51 & 0 42 34.13 & 41 15 04.8 & 21.02 & 3.6 + 52 & 0 42 34.69 & 41 14 44.8 & 21.64 & 2.5 + 53 & 0 42 35.25 & 41 14 46.2 & 20.40 & 3.3 + 54 & 0 42 37.08 & 41 14 35.5 & 20.61 & 4.0 + 55 & 0 42 38.38 & 41 14 34.6 & 21.34 & 3.3 + 56 & 0 42 40.69 & 41 14 10.0 & 20.97 & 2.8 + 57 & 0 42 42.10 & 41 14 09.5 & 21.10 & 3.3 + 58 & 0 42 43.84 & 41 14 50.7 & 21.13 & 1.7 + 59 & 0 42 46.04 & 41 15 16.6 & 21.60 & 2.2 + 60 & 0 42 47.50 & 41 15 05.2 & 21.49 & 1.8 + 61 & 0 42 46.71 & 41 14 21.4 & 20.93 & 3.3 + 62 & 0 42 48.89 & 41 15 24.0 & 21.09 & 3.2 + 63 & 0 42 49.33 & 41 14 56.7 & 21.76 & 3.8 + 64 & 0 42 52.69 & 41 14 15.7 & 20.78 & 3.7 + 65 & 0 42 39.39 & 41 14 17.6 & 22.07 & 4.2 + 66 & 0 42 40.07 & 41 14 38.3 & 21.97 & 1.2 + 70 & 0 42 38.96 & 41 14 56.5 & 21.83 & 1.9 + 71 & 0 42 37.49 & 41 14 35.0 & 22.00 & 1.4 + 72 & 0 42 46.34 & 41 15 46.3 & 21.40 & 4.2 + 74 & 0 42 44.88 & 41 15 21.0 & 21.71 & 1.9 + 76 & 0 42 54.56 & 41 15 37.6 & 21.91 & 2.5 + 77 & 0 42 54.56 & 41 15 21.9 & 21.96 & 3.1 + 78 & 0 42 50.89 & 41 14 47.6 & 21.93 & 0.9 + 79 & 0 42 48.62 & 41 14 26.3 & 22.27 & 1.1 + 80 & 0 42 57.30 & 41 17 25.5 & 20.98 & 3.2 + 81 & 0 42 43.38 & 41 16 57.5 & 22.53 & 1.8 + 82 & 0 42 39.76 & 41 17 03.3 & 22.48 & 1.3 + 83 & 0 42 41.35 & 41 17 49.5 & 22.30 & 3.7 + 87 & 0 42 38.04 & 41 16 52.8 & 22.11 & 1.3 + 99 & 0 42 42.43 & 41 13 56.5 & 22.10 & 1.2 + 102 & 0 42 39.51 & 41 18 31.4 & 22.62 & 1.6 + 103 & 0 42 40.16 & 41 18 41.9 & 22.63 & 1.3 + 112 & 0 42 49.63 & 41 18 41.0 & 22.76 & 2.2 + 120 & 0 42 56.07 & 41 17 32.6 & 22.22 & 1.2 + 136 & 0 42 57.16 & 41 16 59.2 & 22.11 & 2.0 + 137 & 0 42 50.10 & 41 15 26.7 & 22.26 & 1.1 + 139 & 0 42 43.07 & 41 14 09.3 & 22.53 & 0.9 + 141 & 0 42 41.34 & 41 14 07.4 & 22.08 & 2.8 + 142 & 0 42 32.86 & 41 15 58.2 & 21.88 & 2.6 + 143 & 0 42 38.36 & 41 14 27.7 & 22.53 & 2.8 + 160 & 0 42 40.21 & 41 13 51.0 & 22.82 & 1.8 + 164 & 0 42 49.26 & 41 13 53.6 & 22.24 & 3.0 + 165 & 0 42 47.56 & 41 14 59.8 & 22.66 & 2.4 + 166 & 0 42 49.00 & 41 14 42.7 & 22.61 & 2.1 + 171 & 0 42 56.89 & 41 14 08.8 & 23.32 & 2.5 + 174 & 0 42 42.14 & 41 14 22.7 & 22.57 & 3.4 + 175 & 0 42 55.76 & 41 16 16.1 & 22.12 & 2.5 + 176 & 0 42 54.19 & 41 15 28.0 & 23.05 & 1.3 + 181 & 0 42 40.33 & 41 14 10.0 & 21.97 & 2.8 + 189 & 0 42 57.36 & 41 17 14.8 & 22.87 & 1.0 + 190 & 0 42 55.31 & 41 18 15.0 & 22.67 & 1.4 + 191 & 0 42 56.91 & 41 18 14.4 & 23.11 & 2.9 + 316 & 0 42 44.23 & 41 16 03.7 & 21.04 & 2.9 + 323 & 0 42 45.24 & 41 15 29.6 & 22.15 & 1.2 + 328 & 0 42 49.34 & 41 16 12.3 & 22.29 & 0.7 + 330 & 0 42 49.58 & 41 16 50.6 & 22.29 & 1.0 + 420 & 0 42 30.29 & 41 14 07.7 & 23.35 & 0.5 + 421 & 0 42 30.71 & 41 17 53.3 & 23.38 & 3.4 + 423 & 0 42 31.33 & 41 14 25.9 & 23.37 & 2.1 + 424 & 0 42 31.95 & 41 17 32.4 & 23.14 & 2.5 + 427 & 0 42 34.09 & 41 16 48.4 & 23.73 & 0.6 + 428 & 0 42 34.10 & 41 16 31.2 & 22.67 & 1.8 + 431 & 0 42 35.19 & 41 17 27.9 & 23.04 & 0.6 + 433 & 0 42 35.78 & 41 13 50.3 & 22.72 & 1.6 + 434 & 0 42 35.68 & 41 18 23.3 & 23.44 & 0.4 + 440 & 0 42 38.67 & 41 14 09.9 & 23.09 & 1.2 + 441 & 0 42 38.96 & 41 13 59.7 & 23.71 & 0.1 + 442 & 0 42 39.99 & 41 16 20.0 & 23.43 & 0.6 + 443 & 0 42 40.03 & 41 15 52.3 & 23.03 & 3.0 + 445 & 0 42 40.56 & 41 17 24.7 & 23.03 & 1.9 + 447 & 0 42 41.26 & 41 18 21.0 & 23.21 & 1.9 + 449 & 0 42 41.51 & 41 15 01.5 & 22.65 & 2.3 + 453 & 0 42 44.45 & 41 18 13.0 & 23.34 & 0.5 + 454 & 0 42 45.79 & 41 16 01.5 & 22.62 & 1.1 + 455 & 0 42 45.97 & 41 18 24.8 & 22.92 & 1.6 + 460 & 0 42 48.12 & 41 17 33.9 & 22.94 & 2.9 + 462 & 0 42 51.31 & 41 15 56.6 & 21.94 & 3.2 + 464 & 0 42 50.53 & 41 18 35.6 & 23.60 & 1.5 + 465 & 0 42 50.74 & 41 17 36.1 & 24.31 & 3.3 + 466 & 0 42 51.71 & 41 16 04.7 & 23.41 & 0.8 + 467 & 0 42 51.94 & 41 17 05.4 & 23.81 & 4.0 + 468 & 0 42 52.22 & 41 15 53.3 & 23.22 & 1.2 + 471 & 0 42 53.00 & 41 17 15.9 & 24.50 & 0.5 + 472 & 0 42 53.69 & 41 13 59.8 & 23.25 & 1.5 + 473 & 0 42 53.90 & 41 17 02.4 & 23.06 & 0.4 + 474 & 0 42 54.07 & 41 15 04.3 & 23.29 & 0.7 + 476 & 0 42 54.21 & 41 14 17.6 & 22.83 & 3.2 + 477 & 0 42 55.03 & 41 17 02.4 & 22.86 & 1.7 + 478 & 0 42 55.23 & 41 17 12.1 & 22.09 & 0.8 + 570 & 0 42 55.60 & 41 16 23.8 & 22.12 & 2.4 + 571 & 0 42 43.02 & 41 15 32.2 & 22.29 & 1.1 + 572 & 0 42 42.92 & 41 16 16.3 & 22.33 & 1.6 + 573 & 0 42 44.79 & 41 16 59.3 & 22.39 & 1.5 + 574 & 0 42 44.97 & 41 16 04.1 & 22.44 & 1.5 + 575 & 0 42 46.27 & 41 15 23.0 & 22.46 & 1.5 + 576 & 0 42 42.90 & 41 15 20.2 & 22.52 & 1.8 + 577 & 0 42 43.10 & 41 16 40.7 & 22.72 & 1.5 + 578 & 0 42 48.69 & 41 16 09.6 & 22.72 & 2.5 + 579 & 0 42 37.99 & 41 16 02.4 & 22.75 & 3.3 + 580 & 0 42 54.22 & 41 17 58.1 & 22.75 & 1.9 + 581 & 0 42 44.38 & 41 15 05.3 & 22.75 & 3.2 + 582 & 0 42 47.56 & 41 18 51.3 & 22.85 & 1.8 + 583 & 0 42 47.69 & 41 17 24.3 & 22.89 & 2.5 + 584 & 0 42 41.70 & 41 14 28.4 & 22.91 & 1.8 + 585 & 0 42 43.84 & 41 17 00.1 & 22.97 & 0.8 + 586 & 0 42 42.12 & 41 15 35.6 & 22.99 & 0.7 + 587 & 0 42 51.06 & 41 17 06.0 & 23.01 & 2.3 + 588 & 0 42 35.38 & 41 14 44.4 & 23.03 & 1.8 + 589 & 0 42 44.55 & 41 18 50.2 & 23.04 & 0.4 + 590 & 0 42 43.30 & 41 17 13.1 & 23.06 & 0.6 + 591 & 0 42 54.35 & 41 14 59.6 & 23.06 & 3.0 + 592 & 0 42 45.98 & 41 14 26.4 & 23.06 & 1.1 + 593 & 0 42 33.98 & 41 15 02.8 & 23.06 & 1.0 + 594 & 0 42 43.29 & 41 16 52.5 & 23.07 & 4.7 + 595 & 0 42 47.24 & 41 15 51.2 & 23.07 & 0.8 + 596 & 0 42 40.15 & 41 15 22.3 & 23.08 & 1.5 + 597 & 0 42 41.55 & 41 15 58.2 & 23.09 & 1.1 + 598 & 0 42 45.49 & 41 15 31.8 & 23.10 & 1.2 + 599 & 0 42 47.02 & 41 17 07.0 & 23.10 & 2.2 + 600 & 0 42 49.30 & 41 17 29.7 & 23.15 & @xmath164 + 601 & 0 42 43.21 & 41 14 41.2 & 23.16 & 1.3 + 602 & 0 42 49.77 & 41 16 25.0 & 23.16 & 1.2 + 603 & 0 42 54.58 & 41 17 16.1 & 23.17 & 2.2 + 604 & 0 42 31.84 & 41 16 03.3 & 23.18 & 2.6 + 605 & 0 42 35.95 & 41 14 10.7 & 23.19 & 0.5 + 606 & 0 42 49.44 & 41 16 31.9 & 23.22 & 1.4 + 607 & 0 42 44.08 & 41 15 51.3 & 23.23 & 0.4 + 608 & 0 42 48.24 & 41 18 57.8 & 23.23 & 1.8 + 609 & 0 42 39.09 & 41 16 34.4 & 23.23 & 1.8 + 610 & 0 42 42.32 & 41 16 24.7 & 23.23 & 1.0 + 611 & 0 42 43.80 & 41 15 39.3 & 23.26 & 0.7 + 612 & 0 42 46.69 & 41 14 57.2 & 23.26 & 2.3 + 613 & 0 42 38.97 & 41 15 48.1 & 23.27 & 1.8 + 614 & 0 42 47.97 & 41 14 59.0 & 23.29 & 0.5 + 615 & 0 42 42.06 & 41 15 37.5 & 23.29 & 0.8 + 616 & 0 42 46.67 & 41 18 20.4 & 23.31 & 0.7 + 617 & 0 42 41.50 & 41 16 20.0 & 23.32 & 0.8 + 618 & 0 42 45.35 & 41 18 44.0 & 23.32 & 2.2 + 619 & 0 42 54.68 & 41 18 56.0 & 23.33 & 1.8 + 620 & 0 42 40.49 & 41 15 01.5 & 23.33 & 0.7 + 621 & 0 42 40.27 & 41 15 44.3 & 23.34 & 1.9 + 622 & 0 42 42.63 & 41 16 06.0 & 23.34 & 0.3 + 623 & 0 42 40.68 & 41 16 15.9 & 23.35 & 3.8 + 624 & 0 42 35.19 & 41 15 03.2 & 23.35 & 0.5 + 625 & 0 42 55.03 & 41 17 41.4 & 23.37 & 0.4 + 626 & 0 42 39.69 & 41 15 57.6 & 23.37 & 2.7 + 627 & 0 42 47.36 & 41 15 46.1 & 23.38 & 0.5 + 628 & 0 42 52.01 & 41 18 07.9 & 23.39 & 4.0 + 629 & 0 42 44.51 & 41 18 52.0 & 23.39 & @xmath165 + 630 & 0 42 45.88 & 41 18 46.0 & 23.40 & 1.8 + 631 & 0 42 40.07 & 41 15 07.9 & 23.41 & 1.3 + 632 & 0 42 38.45 & 41 18 52.5 & 23.42 & 0.7 + 633 & 0 42 45.78 & 41 17 35.2 & 23.42 & 0.4 + 634 & 0 42 51.44 & 41 15 51.3 & 23.45 & 1.7 + 635 & 0 42 43.93 & 41 18 38.5 & 23.47 & 3.1 + 636 & 0 42 37.50 & 41 18 00.4 & 23.51 & 1.5 + 637 & 0 42 51.49 & 41 16 19.8 & 23.51 & 2.4 + 638 & 0 42 35.98 & 41 15 27.0 & 23.51 & 1.1 + 639 & 0 42 40.85 & 41 15 18.5 & 23.53 & 1.1 + 640 & 0 42 49.15 & 41 17 25.6 & 23.54 & @xmath166 + 641 & 0 42 33.00 & 41 14 34.4 & 23.55 & 1.5 + 642 & 0 42 42.12 & 41 18 46.0 & 23.55 & 1.7 + 643 & 0 42 42.07 & 41 14 40.6 & 23.56 & 1.6 + 644 & 0 42 40.16 & 41 15 32.9 & 23.57 & 0.8 + 645 & 0 42 45.65 & 41 14 21.0 & 23.58 & 2.2 + 646 & 0 42 35.42 & 41 15 45.5 & 23.60 & 1.0 + 647 & 0 42 32.24 & 41 16 44.3 & 23.60 & 1.0 + 648 & 0 42 51.43 & 41 18 39.9 & 23.60 & 0.2 + 649 & 0 42 51.76 & 41 17 45.1 & 23.65 & 0.2 + 650 & 0 42 31.73 & 41 14 41.5 & 23.65 & 2.0 + 651 & 0 42 45.07 & 41 17 10.4 & 23.68 & 0.6 + 652 & 0 42 40.06 & 41 14 05.5 & 23.68 & 0.8 + 653 & 0 42 51.83 & 41 14 25.0 & 23.71 & 3.4 + 654 & 0 42 46.56 & 41 15 32.8 & 23.74 & 0.1 + 655 & 0 42 43.67 & 41 18 07.7 & 23.75 & 1.4 + 656 & 0 42 53.32 & 41 18 27.3 & 23.75 & 0.7 + 657 & 0 42 51.87 & 41 15 16.8 & 23.75 & 1.8 + 658 & 0 42 47.82 & 41 15 41.9 & 23.77 & 1.4 + 659 & 0 42 43.89 & 41 17 32.7 & 23.77 & 1.8 + 660 & 0 42 51.72 & 41 18 15.2 & 23.78 & 5.4 + 661 & 0 42 35.22 & 41 15 52.9 & 23.79 & 0.5 + 662 & 0 42 48.44 & 41 13 57.2 & 23.79 & 1.6 + 663 & 0 42 47.93 & 41 14 42.7 & 23.79 & 1.5 + 664 & 0 42 43.46 & 41 15 08.6 & 23.80 & 0.6 + 665 & 0 42 31.10 & 41 13 50.7 & 23.80 & 1.2 + 666 & 0 42 46.13 & 41 18 40.0 & 23.80 & 1.7 + 667 & 0 42 41.77 & 41 16 38.2 & 23.81 & 1.8 + 668 & 0 42 55.11 & 41 14 29.8 & 23.82 & 0.3 + 669 & 0 42 47.04 & 41 15 22.5 & 23.83 & 1.3 + 670 & 0 42 47.79 & 41 18 50.8 & 23.84 & 1.8 + 671 & 0 42 55.00 & 41 14 27.1 & 23.85 & 1.0 + 672 & 0 42 37.29 & 41 16 55.9 & 23.90 & 1.2 + 673 & 0 42 45.51 & 41 17 37.0 & 23.92 & 1.9 + 674 & 0 42 39.01 & 41 16 36.5 & 23.93 & 0.7 + 675 & 0 42 37.85 & 41 15 24.6 & 23.93 & 0.5 + 676 & 0 42 51.77 & 41 16 31.4 & 23.94 & 3.1 + 677 & 0 42 47.44 & 41 18 38.0 & 23.94 & 1.0 + 678 & 0 42 44.47 & 41 17 14.1 & 23.95 & @xmath167 + 679 & 0 42 53.00 & 41 16 37.2 & 23.96 & 2.7 + 680 & 0 42 52.10 & 41 16 35.6 & 23.96 & 2.1 + 681 & 0 42 36.74 & 41 16 18.9 & 23.97 & 1.5 + 682 & 0 42 55.61 & 41 16 18.9 & 23.97 & @xmath168 + 683 & 0 42 51.74 & 41 15 51.6 & 23.97 & 1.9 + 684 & 0 42 36.17 & 41 15 15.4 & 23.99 & @xmath168 + 685 & 0 42 50.50 & 41 17 52.9 & 24.01 & 0.9 + 686 & 0 42 47.39 & 41 14 27.0 & 24.02 & 1.1 + 687 & 0 42 52.45 & 41 16 14.2 & 24.02 & 0.4 + 688 & 0 42 48.71 & 41 14 14.9 & 24.02 & 0.9 + 689 & 0 42 34.98 & 41 13 54.2 & 24.03 & 1.5 + 690 & 0 42 44.33 & 41 14 22.6 & 24.04 & 1.2 + 691 & 0 42 33.61 & 41 14 35.7 & 24.05 & 0.5 + 692 & 0 42 34.89 & 41 14 32.0 & 24.05 & 1.5 + 693 & 0 42 39.31 & 41 14 29.3 & 24.05 & 0.2 + 694 & 0 42 39.46 & 41 16 07.2 & 24.06 & 2.0 + 695 & 0 42 43.24 & 41 17 53.8 & 24.07 & 1.2 + 696 & 0 42 51.94 & 41 18 22.9 & 24.07 & 1.7 + 697 & 0 42 56.33 & 41 14 27.3 & 24.07 & 1.1 + 698 & 0 42 50.79 & 41 18 17.1 & 24.08 & 1.1 + 699 & 0 42 39.11 & 41 18 33.4 & 24.09 & 2.1 + 700 & 0 42 56.92 & 41 16 42.8 & 24.09 & 1.8 + 701 & 0 42 52.74 & 41 17 50.0 & 24.11 & 1.4 + 702 & 0 42 32.61 & 41 15 15.6 & 24.11 & 3.0 + 703 & 0 42 31.29 & 41 15 01.0 & 24.11 & 0.5 + 704 & 0 42 33.78 & 41 15 37.4 & 24.11 & @xmath169 + 705 & 0 42 43.85 & 41 17 47.1 & 24.12 & @xmath170 + 706 & 0 42 47.33 & 41 18 03.3 & 24.12 & 1.0 + 707 & 0 42 39.76 & 41 16 41.3 & 24.14 & 0.1 + 708 & 0 42 31.48 & 41 15 58.8 & 24.15 & 0.6 + 709 & 0 42 43.03 & 41 18 09.7 & 24.16 & 1.1 + 710 & 0 42 41.40 & 41 14 53.7 & 24.16 & 0.2 + 711 & 0 42 50.45 & 41 18 08.2 & 24.17 & 1.3 + 712 & 0 42 36.88 & 41 14 19.5 & 24.18 & 0.7 + 713 & 0 42 39.56 & 41 18 54.9 & 24.19 & 0.6 + 714 & 0 42 38.13 & 41 15 09.3 & 24.20 & 0.6 + 715 & 0 42 52.58 & 41 17 07.8 & 24.20 & 0.6 + 716 & 0 42 33.31 & 41 16 07.1 & 24.20 & 0.8 + 717 & 0 42 33.49 & 41 18 02.8 & 24.21 & 1.5 + 718 & 0 42 46.46 & 41 14 24.7 & 24.22 & 0.7 + 719 & 0 42 37.27 & 41 15 41.0 & 24.22 & 2.2 + 720 & 0 42 55.89 & 41 15 18.3 & 24.23 & 0.6 + 721 & 0 42 47.50 & 41 14 03.4 & 24.27 & 0.5 + 722 & 0 42 36.13 & 41 17 20.0 & 24.29 & 0.5 + 723 & 0 42 35.86 & 41 17 52.1 & 24.30 & 1.7 + 724 & 0 42 37.21 & 41 16 47.9 & 24.30 & 0.8 + 725 & 0 42 34.61 & 41 18 31.5 & 24.33 & 0.1 + 726 & 0 42 46.62 & 41 17 23.9 & 24.34 & 0.7 + 727 & 0 42 54.05 & 41 16 59.7 & 24.41 & 2.4 + 728 & 0 42 30.01 & 41 16 35.5 & 24.45 & 2.0 + 729 & 0 42 38.48 & 41 18 07.8 & 24.45 & 1.3 + 730 & 0 42 36.76 & 41 17 42.4 & 24.48 & 1.2 + 731 & 0 42 53.53 & 41 17 16.0 & 24.53 & 0.7 + 732 & 0 42 48.46 & 41 18 21.8 & 24.53 & 0.7 + 733 & 0 42 31.72 & 41 15 51.1 & 24.55 & 0.7 + 734 & 0 42 35.18 & 41 14 22.5 & 24.55 & 0.6 + 735 & 0 42 35.06 & 41 17 07.5 & 24.73 & 2.0 + 736 & 0 42 55.97 & 41 14 41.1 & 24.76 & 1.9 + 737 & 0 42 53.04 & 41 17 21.3 & 24.79 & 0.7 + 738 & 0 42 32.66 & 41 18 48.7 & 24.82 & 0.8 + 739 & 0 42 34.34 & 41 18 40.3 & 24.83 & 1.9 + 740 & 0 42 30.25 & 41 18 55.2 & 24.88 & 1.0 + 741 & 0 42 34.27 & 41 18 23.7 & 24.88 & 0.5 + 742 & 0 42 56.70 & 41 17 55.9 & 24.93 & 2.3 +    lcccc 1 & 7 36 20.63 & 65 39 04.2 & 23.30 & s + 2 & 7 36 37.38 & 65 36 52.0 & 23.39 & s + 3 & 7 37 12.54 & 65 33 20.6 & 23.41 & s + 4 & 7 36 51.71 & 65 35 01.1 & 23.56 & + 5 & 7 36 57.62 & 65 34 58.2 & 23.60 & s + 6 & 7 35 48.67 & 65 35 06.0 & 23.68 & s + 7 & 7 36 37.23 & 65 34 21.6 & 23.71 & s + 8 & 7 36 36.66 & 65 31 28.1 & 23.73 & s + 9 & 7 36 58.06 & 65 36 16.7 & 23.77 & s + 10 & 7 37 05.22 & 65 34 04.4 & 23.78 & s + 11 & 7 36 23.15 & 65 34 58.6 & 23.79 & s + 12 & 7 36 57.97 & 65 34 28.7 & 23.84 & s + 13 & 7 36 03.43 & 65 40 31.2 & 23.85 & s + 14 & 7 36 05.00 & 65 36 13.6 & 23.88 & s + 15 & 7 36 30.93 & 65 37 36.0 & 23.89 & s + 16 & 7 37 01.62 & 65 35 32.4 & 23.90 & s + 17 & 7 36 03.72 & 65 38 29.5 & 23.91 & s + 18 & 7 36 39.47 & 65 35 00.2 & 23.93 & s + 19 & 7 36 39.47 & 65 36 51.7 & 23.98 & s + 20 & 7 36 19.46 & 65 35 33.3 & 23.98 & s + 21 & 7 36 08.88 & 65 36 59.4 & 24.02 & s + 22 & 7 36 52.60 & 65 34 31.2 & 24.11 & + 23 & 7 36 19.32 & 65 33 05.4 & 24.15 & + 24 & 7 37 29.69 & 65 32 13.2 & 24.19 & + 25 & 7 36 49.78 & 65 37 11.0 & 24.21 & + 26 & 7 37 45.77 & 65 31 52.6 & 24.23 & + 27 & 7 37 20.06 & 65 40 26.3 & 24.42 & + 28 & 7 35 37.31 & 65 38 49.0 & 24.46 & + 29 & 7 37 29.64 & 65 31 19.2 & 24.48 & + 30 & 7 37 12.34 & 65 33 10.4 & 24.50 & + 31 & 7 36 48.42 & 65 36 58.0 & 24.51 & + 32 & 7 35 51.93 & 65 40 00.8 & 24.74 & + 33 & 7 36 17.08 & 65 37 00.8 & 24.80 & + 34 & 7 36 03.76 & 65 42 28.9 & 24.91 & + 35 & 7 36 12.87 & 65 39 21.5 & 24.93 & + 36 & 7 37 23.18 & 65 37 28.3 & 25.21 & + 37 & 7 37 43.87 & 65 35 08.2 & 25.47 & + 38 & 7 36 41.22 & 65 40 41.0 & 25.68 & + 39 & 7 36 59.74 & 65 29 37.7 & 25.68 & + 40 & 7 37 18.75 & 65 30 01.9 & 25.72 & +      1 & 10 05 09.71 & -7 44 05.0 & 25.29 & + 2 & 10 05 14.54 & -7 41 52.8 & 25.40 & s + 3 & 10 05 13.61 & -7 43 53.7 & 25.40 & + 4 & 10 05 08.09 & -7 44 03.7 & 25.58 & s + 5 & 10 05 14.49 & -7 42 34.4 & 25.68 & + 6 & 10 05 18.25 & -7 40 04.5 & 25.69 & s + 7 & 10 05 14.50 & -7 42 18.2 & 25.73 & + 8 & 10 05 10.99 & -7 43 27.2 & 25.73 & + 9 & 10 05 09.65 & -7 44 39.7 & 25.79 & s + 10 & 10 05 09.35 & -7 42 14.5 & 25.81 & s + 11 & 10 05 08.95 & -7 44 37.0 & 25.83 & s + 12 & 10 05 16.44 & -7 41 19.3 & 25.84 & s + 13 & 10 05 18.59 & -7 42 15.2 & 25.89 & + 14 & 10 05 21.25 & -7 40 38.8 & 25.93 & s + 15 & 10 05 06.88 & -7 44 44.0 & 25.94 & s + 16 & 10 05 06.41 & -7 40 47.9 & 25.96 & s + 17 & 10 05 05.04 & -7 45 39.6 & 25.97 & s + 18 & 10 05 11.59 & -7 44 20.2 & 25.99 & s + 19 & 10 05 19.56 & -7 42 25.9 & 26.00 & s + 20 & 10 05 06.28 & -7 41 57.4 & 26.03 & s + 21 & 10 05 09.19 & -7 44 14.9 & 26.04 & + 22 & 10 05 15.94 & -7 40 58.3 & 26.05 & s + 23 & 10 05 21.25 & -7 42 42.1 & 26.06 & s + 24 & 10 05 08.89 & -7 44 24.4 & 26.06 & s + 25 & 10 05 18.78 & -7 42 28.0 & 26.07 & s + 26 & 10 05 07.07 & -7 43 21.5 & 26.07 & s + 27 & 10 05 07.85 & -7 41 01.2 & 26.07 & s + 28 & 10 05 05.41 & -7 43 46.8 & 26.08 & s + 29 & 10 05 08.90 & -7 42 46.1 & 26.09 & s + 30 & 10 05 21.06 & -7 40 05.9 & 26.10 & s + 31 & 10 05 19.13 & -7 42 09.1 & 26.11 & s + 32 & 10 05 19.37 & -7 41 44.9 & 26.14 & s + 33 & 10 05 11.63 & -7 44 28.7 & 26.16 & s + 34 & 10 05 14.37 & -7 41 01.2 & 26.16 & s + 35 & 10 05 20.02 & -7 41 06.4 & 26.16 & s + 36 & 10 05 19.88 & -7 41 32.5 & 26.20 & s + 37 & 10 05 18.03 & -7 42 36.5 & 26.20 & + 38 & 10 05 18.55 & -7 45 21.5 & 26.22 & + 39 & 10 05 11.53 & -7 41 02.6 & 26.22 & + 40 & 10 05 08.50 & -7 43 26.4 & 26.27 & + 41 & 10 05 13.43 & -7 44 46.5 & 26.28 & + 42 & 10 05 05.64 & -7 40 48.8 & 26.30 & + 43 & 10 05 08.92 & -7 44 20.9 & 26.31 & + 44 & 10 05 12.27 & -7 44 37.2 & 26.32 & + 45 & 10 05 05.17 & -7 43 26.4 & 26.33 & + 46 & 10 05 19.24 & -7 42 01.4 & 26.35 & + 47 & 10 05 22.26 & -7 40 28.5 & 26.36 & + 48 & 10 05 07.92 & -7 44 58.1 & 26.40 & + 49 & 10 05 15.99 & -7 40 16.9 & 26.42 & + 50 & 10 05 18.60 & -7 41 53.0 & 26.43 & + 51 & 10 05 11.97 & -7 40 47.2 & 26.47 & + 52 & 10 05 22.59 & -7 45 20.4 & 26.53 & + 53 & 10 05 17.84 & -7 45 00.1 & 26.53 & + 54 & 10 05 05.66 & -7 45 59.1 & 26.56 & + 55 & 10 05 15.85 & -7 44 36.7 & 26.63 & + 56 & 10 05 23.05 & -7 40 14.8 & 26.63 & + 57 & 10 05 18.17 & -7 41 51.7 & 26.64 & + 58 & 10 05 07.36 & -7 45 36.2 & 26.66 & + 59 & 10 05 10.24 & -7 45 55.4 & 26.67 & + 60 & 10 05 17.05 & -7 41 21.6 & 26.68 & + 61 & 10 05 14.16 & -7 44 21.7 & 26.94 & + 62 & 10 05 18.59 & -7 44 37.8 & 27.28 & +      1 & 10 44 00.33 & 11 43 30.1 & 25.67 & s + 2 & 10 43 56.28 & 11 44 19.7 & 25.71 & s + 3 & 10 44 04.80 & 11 41 37.7 & 25.94 & s + 4 & 10 44 01.19 & 11 43 21.2 & 25.95 & s + 5 & 10 43 53.53 & 11 41 54.7 & 26.00 & s + 6 & 10 43 55.88 & 11 43 20.5 & 26.06 & s + 7 & 10 44 06.13 & 11 45 32.6 & 26.07 & s + 8 & 10 43 44.31 & 11 43 38.1 & 26.14 & s + 9 & 10 43 50.72 & 11 39 23.9 & 26.18 & s + 10 & 10 43 47.11 & 11 44 25.2 & 26.21 & s + 11 & 10 43 53.06 & 11 40 38.0 & 26.23 & s + 12 & 10 43 58.18 & 11 41 31.7 & 26.29 & s + 13 & 10 44 03.55 & 11 40 57.8 & 26.35 & + 14 & 10 43 51.56 & 11 39 22.3 & 26.35 & + 15 & 10 43 50.90 & 11 43 23.3 & 26.37 & + 16 & 10 44 04.85 & 11 40 03.5 & 26.40 & + 17 & 10 43 56.90 & 11 39 55.5 & 26.46 & + 18 & 10 43 54.20 & 11 40 39.9 & 26.48 & + 19 & 10 43 46.86 & 11 41 56.4 & 26.51 & + 20 & 10 44 06.16 & 11 40 58.6 & 26.61 & +      1 & 11 20 27.08 & 12 58 58.9 & 25.65 & s + 2 & 11 20 04.26 & 13 03 32.3 & 25.66 & s + 3 & 11 20 25.09 & 13 00 35.0 & 25.68 & s + 4 & 11 20 10.82 & 13 01 16.6 & 25.70 & s + 5 & 11 20 09.80 & 13 04 37.9 & 25.71 & s + 6 & 11 20 10.24 & 13 01 23.6 & 25.72 & s + 7 & 11 20 25.32 & 12 58 14.5 & 25.75 & s + 8 & 11 20 17.49 & 12 55 11.9 & 25.77 & s + 9 & 11 20 08.70 & 12 59 42.5 & 25.79 & s + 10 & 11 20 19.23 & 13 04 56.7 & 25.80 & s + 11 & 11 20 06.58 & 12 56 14.3 & 25.82 & s + 12 & 11 20 25.75 & 12 56 41.4 & 25.84 & s + 13 & 11 20 10.92 & 12 56 55.1 & 25.85 & s + 14 & 11 20 25.78 & 12 57 49.9 & 25.86 & s + 15 & 11 20 10.03 & 13 00 40.1 & 25.86 & s + 16 & 11 20 16.81 & 13 03 36.7 & 25.87 & s + 17 & 11 20 08.53 & 12 57 26.9 & 25.88 & s + 18 & 11 20 06.88 & 13 02 40.2 & 25.88 & s + 19 & 11 20 24.43 & 12 59 38.8 & 25.89 & s + 20 & 11 20 13.84 & 12:55 27.7 & 25.89 & s + 21 & 11 20 09.72 & 13 02 42.8 & 25.91 & s + 22 & 11 20 16.73 & 13 01 47.5 & 25.94 & + 23 & 11 20 25.92 & 12 56 27.6 & 25.96 & s + 24 & 11 20 19.05 & 13 01 52.8 & 25.98 & s + 25 & 11 20 16.88 & 12 55 14.2 & 25.99 & s + 26 & 11 20 17.01 & 13 03 33.7 & 26.00 & s + 27 & 11 20 07.55 & 12 57 30.0 & 26.01 & s + 28 & 11 20 14.58 & 12 54 43.0 & 26.03 & s + 29 & 11 20 21.14 & 12 57 27.8 & 26.03 & s + 30 & 11 20 35.41 & 12 59 35.6 & 26.04 & s + 31 & 11 20 04.35 & 13 00 27.7 & 26.05 & s + 32 & 11 20 20.65 & 13 00 23.4 & 26.05 & + 33 & 11 20 06.15 & 13 01 59.7 & 26.07 & s + 34 & 11 20 16.40 & 13 02 56.4 & 26.07 & s + 35 & 11 20 18.27 & 12 57 06.8 & 26.10 & s + 36 & 11 20 22.19 & 12 55 05.3 & 26.11 & s + 37 & 11 20 12.62 & 13 04 35.9 & 26.13 & s + 38 & 11 20 06.83 & 13 02 52.7 & 26.14 & s + 39 & 11 20 08.10 & 12 59 48.4 & 26.15 & + 40 & 11 20 08.35 & 13 02 20.0 & 26.18 & s + 41 & 11 19 57.12 & 13 03 00.6 & 26.18 & s + 42 & 11 19 51.29 & 12 57 13.2 & 26.20 & s + 43 & 11 20 22.39 & 12 56 09.4 & 26.20 & s + 44 & 11 20 20.02 & 13 05 10.4 & 26.22 & + 45 & 11 20 20.04 & 13 04 06.1 & 26.22 & + 46 & 11 20 19.72 & 13 02 34.3 & 26.22 & + 47 & 11 20 09.30 & 12 57 45.9 & 26.23 & + 48 & 11 20 14.30 & 13 02 49.7 & 26.27 & + 49 & 11 20 12.97 & 12 56 12.3 & 26.29 & + 50 & 11 20 08.13 & 13 04 00.7 & 26.30 & + 51 & 11 20 18.53 & 13 02 08.5 & 26.31 & + 52 & 11 20 10.54 & 13 02 07.5 & 26.32 & + 53 & 11 20 09.68 & 12 57 05.9 & 26.36 & + 54 & 11 19 59.11 & 12 58 36.5 & 26.37 & + 55 & 11 20 10.18 & 12 56 09.5 & 26.40 & + 56 & 11 20 19.79 & 12 55 18.3 & 26.41 & + 57 & 11 20 20.27 & 13 04 10.8 & 26.42 & + 58 & 11 20 13.86 & 12 56 39.6 & 26.43 & + 65 & 11 20 05.15 & 13 04 30.8 & 26.45 & + 60 & 11 20 20.60 & 13 01 36.6 & 26.45 & + 61 & 11 20 25.85 & 12 58 25.8 & 26.45 & + 62 & 11 20 15.08 & 12 56 09.6 & 26.50 & + 63 & 11 20 05.54 & 13 05 02.3 & 26.53 & + 64 & 11 20 09.23 & 13 04 35.6 & 26.54 & + 65 & 11 20 05.53 & 13 02 01.9 & 26.63 & + 66 & 11 20 30.61 & 12 55 47.6 & 26.66 & + 67 & 11 20 08.79 & 12 55 36.7 & 26.68 & + 68 & 11 19 58.19 & 13 03 58.8 & 26.69 & + 69 & 11 20 24.33 & 12 59 48.8 & 26.70 & + 70 & 11 20 20.56 & 13 00 57.9 & 26.73 & + 71 & 11 20 19.31 & 13 02 14.4 & 26.73 & + 72 & 11 20 20.10 & 12 54 41.2 & 26.77 & + 73 & 11 20 00.15 & 13 00 29.3 & 27.04 & +    lcccc 1 & 12 19 08.60 & 47 14 14.0 & 25.03 & s + 2 & 12 18 33.59 & 47 20 36.2 & 25.06 & s + 3 & 12 18 46.93 & 47 19 45.5 & 25.15 & s + 4 & 12 18 50.73 & 47 20 01.4 & 25.17 & s + 5 & 12 18 29.91 & 47 21 35.4 & 25.20 & s + 6 & 12 18 45.97 & 47 20 15.5 & 25.29 & s + 7 & 12 18 42.40 & 47 21 57.2 & 25.29 & s + 8 & 12 18 59.21 & 47 20 44.5 & 25.30 & s + 9 & 12 18 47.00 & 47 19 47.8 & 25.30 & s + 10 & 12 19 12.17 & 47 16 26.9 & 25.31 & s + 11 & 12 18 51.86 & 47 21 43.6 & 25.33 & s + 12 & 12 19 04.54 & 47 18 46.8 & 25.34 & s + 13 & 12 18 34.94 & 47 20 59.1 & 25.34 & s + 14 & 12 18 46.18 & 47 21 08.1 & 25.36 & s + 15 & 12 18 33.86 & 47 19 36.3 & 25.37 & s + 16 & 12 18 54.99 & 47 21 18.2 & 25.37 & s + 17 & 12 18 44.11 & 47 22 00.5 & 25.37 & s + 18 & 12 19 14.20 & 47 13 46.2 & 25.39 & s + 19 & 12 18 42.41 & 47 21 57.3 & 25.39 & s + 20 & 12 18 48.22 & 47 17 42.3 & 25.40 & s + 21 & 12 19 15.42 & 47 16 51.9 & 25.40 & s + 22 & 12 19 10.77 & 47 16 51.5 & 25.41 & s + 23 & 12 19 17.25 & 47 15 29.0 & 25.43 & s + 24 & 12 19 13.12 & 47 15 57.1 & 25.44 & s + 25 & 12 18 54.81 & 47 13 51.7 & 25.55 & s + 26 & 12 19 03.19 & 47 13 52.1 & 25.56 & s + 27 & 12 18 29.11 & 47 21 47.0 & 25.56 & s + 28 & 12 18 44.42 & 47 22 12.9 & 25.58 & s + 29 & 12 18 44.10 & 47 21 47.3 & 25.60 & + 30 & 12 18 31.22 & 47 20 23.5 & 25.60 & + 31 & 12 19 02.52 & 47 14 14.0 & 25.62 & + 32 & 12 19 17.96 & 47 14 15.6 & 25.62 & + 33 & 12 19 07.97 & 47 16 15.3 & 25.63 & + 34 & 12 19 11.66 & 47 16 58.2 & 25.65 & + 35 & 12 19 09.35 & 47 14 17.4 & 25.66 & + 36 & 12 18 51.26 & 47 16 46.3 & 25.66 & + 37 & 12 18 53.02 & 47 16 11.6 & 25.66 & + 38 & 12 19 12.95 & 47 20 15.1 & 25.68 & + 39 & 12 18 44.09 & 47 19 06.8 & 25.68 & + 40 & 12 18 48.94 & 47 21 49.2 & 25.69 & + 41 & 12 19 12.50 & 47 17 08.0 & 25.70 & + 42 & 12 18 51.61 & 47 20 03.6 & 25.72 & + 43 & 12 18 52.63 & 47 15 07.1 & 25.73 & + 44 & 12 19 01.34 & 47 20 21.4 & 25.74 & + 45 & 12 18 47.79 & 47 19 33.2 & 25.75 & + 46 & 12 18 58.47 & 47 15 02.0 & 25.75 & + 47 & 12 18 43.63 & 47 21 54.1 & 25.77 & + 48 & 12 18 50.12 & 47 15 44.8 & 25.80 & + 49 & 12 18 40.53 & 47 16 46.5 & 25.85 & + 50 & 12 19 02.91 & 47 15 04.3 & 25.86 & + 51 & 12 19 06.06 & 47 19 11.6 & 25.87 & + 52 & 12 18 45.15 & 47 19 17.9 & 25.88 & + 53 & 12 18 49.90 & 47 22 00.2 & 25.91 & + 54 & 12 18 43.63 & 47 19 00.5 & 26.01 & + 55 & 12 19 05.16 & 47 20 43.5 & 26.03 & + 56 & 12 18 54.65 & 47 21 30.5 & 26.04 & + 57 & 12 18 54.80 & 47 20 59.1 & 26.14 & + 58 & 12 19 18.80 & 47 16 20.1 & 26.16 & +    lcccc 1 & 15 06 15.87 & 55 46 18.9 & 26.35 & s + 2 & 15 06 21.38 & 55 46 36.5 & 26.39 & s + 3 & 15 06 17.88 & 55 46 09.3 & 26.54 & s + 4 & 15 06 17.94 & 55 47 04.9 & 26.56 & s + 5 & 15 06 40.23 & 55 44 07.4 & 26.56 & s + 6 & 15 06 27.54 & 55 46 46.4 & 26.60 & s + 7 & 15 06 20.40 & 55 46 24.8 & 26.64 & s + 8 & 15 06 20.19 & 55 46 16.8 & 26.65 & s + 9 & 15 06 22.68 & 55 45 48.2 & 26.68 & s + 10 & 15 06 23.10 & 55 46 50.2 & 26.70 & s + 11 & 15 06 26.07 & 55 45 21.6 & 26.89 & + 12 & 15 06 36.51 & 55 44 12.8 & 26.93 & + 13 & 15 06 16.73 & 55 44 37.9 & 26.99 & + 14 & 15 06 42.02 & 55 44 11.3 & 27.05 & + 15 & 15 06 22.97 & 55 45 17.4 & 27.07 & + 16 & 15 06 41.55 & 55 46 56.7 & 27.11 & + 17 & 15 06 32.42 & 55 44 15.7 & 26.42 & + 18 & 15 06 41.75 & 55 45 39.1 & 27.45 & + 19 & 15 06 17.43 & 55 44 50.6 & 27.60 & + 20 & 15 06 36.79 & 55 44 44.4 & 26.72 & + 21 & 15 06 35.31 & 55 43 39.0 & 26.74 & + 22 & 15 06 22.47 & 55 45 18.0 & 27.76 & + 23 & 15 06 40.72 & 55 45 34.2 & 27.88 & + 24 & 15 06 40.62 & 55 45 29.1 & 27.89 & +    lcccccl lmc & 0.075 & @xmath171 & @xmath172 & 8.50 & 0.06 & @xcite + smc & 0.037 & @xmath173 & @xmath174 & 8.03 & 0.48 & @xcite + ngc 224 & 0.062 & @xmath175 & @xmath176 & 8.98 & & @xcite + ngc 300 & 0.013 & @xmath177 & @xmath178 & 8.35 & 0.15 & @xcite + ngc 598 & 0.041 & @xmath179 & @xmath180 & 8.82 & & @xcite + ngc 2403 & 0.040 & @xmath181 & @xmath182 & 8.80 & & this paper + ngc 3031 & 0.080 & @xmath183 & @xmath184 & 8.75 & & @xcite + ngc 3351 & 0.028 & @xmath185 & @xmath186 & 9.24 & & this paper + ngc 3368 & 0.025 & @xmath187 & @xmath188 & 9.20 & & @xcite + ngc 3627 & 0.032 & @xmath189 & @xmath190 & 9.25 & & this paper + ngc 4258 & 0.016 & @xmath191 & @xmath192 & 8.85 & & this paper + ngc 5253 & 0.056 & @xmath193 & @xmath194 & 8.15 & 0.33 & @xcite + ngc 5457 & 0.009 & @xmath195 & @xmath196 & 8.50 & 0.06 & @xcite +    lccccl ngc 224 & 0.062 & @xmath197 & @xmath198 & @xmath199 & @xcite + ngc 891 & 0.065 & @xmath200 & @xmath201 & @xmath202 & @xcite + ngc 1023 & 0.061 & @xmath203 & @xmath204 & @xmath205 & @xcite + ngc 1316 & 0.021 & @xmath206 & @xmath207 & @xmath208 & @xcite + ngc 1399 & 0.012 & @xmath209 & @xmath210 & @xmath211 & @xcite + ngc 1404 & 0.011 & @xmath212 & @xmath213 & @xmath214 & @xcite + ngc 3031 & 0.080 & @xmath215 & @xmath216 & @xmath217 & @xcite + ngc 3115 & 0.047 & @xmath218 & @xmath219 & @xmath220 & this paper + ngc 3368 & 0.025 & @xmath221 & @xmath222 & @xmath223 & @xcite + ngc 3377 & 0.034 & @xmath224 & @xmath225 & @xmath226 & @xcite + ngc 3379 & 0.024 & @xmath227 & @xmath228 & @xmath229 & @xcite + ngc 3384 & 0.027 & @xmath230 & @xmath231 & @xmath232 & @xcite + ngc 4258 & 0.016 & @xmath233 & @xmath234 & @xmath235 & this paper + ngc 4278 & 0.030 & @xmath236 & @xmath237 & @xmath238 & @xcite + ngc 4374 & 0.042 & @xmath239 & @xmath240 & @xmath241 & @xcite + ngc 4382 & 0.030 & @xmath242 & @xmath243 & @xmath244 & @xcite + ngc 4406 & 0.029 & @xmath245 & @xmath246 & @xmath247 & @xcite + ngc 4472 & 0.022 & @xmath248 & @xmath249 & @xmath250 & @xcite + ngc 4486 & 0.023 & @xmath251 & @xmath252 & @xmath253 & @xcite + ngc 4494 & 0.021 & @xmath254 & @xmath255 & @xmath256 & @xcite + ngc 4565 & 0.015 & @xmath257 & @xmath258 & @xmath259 & @xcite + ngc 4594 & 0.051 & @xmath260 & @xmath261 & @xmath262 & @xcite + ngc 4649 & 0.026 & @xmath263 & @xmath264 & @xmath265 & @xcite + ngc 4697 & 0.029 & @xmath266 & @xmath267 & @xmath268 & @xcite + ngc 5102 & 0.055 & @xmath269 & @xmath270 & @xmath271 & @xcite + ngc 5128 & 0.115 & @xmath272 & @xmath273 & @xmath274 & @xcite + ngc 5194/95 & 0.036 & @xmath275 & @xmath276 & @xmath277 & @xcite + ngc 5866 & 0.013 & @xmath278 & @xmath279 & @xmath280 & this paper +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report the results of [ o  iii ] @xmath0 surveys for planetary nebulae ( pne ) in six galaxies : ngc  2403 , ngc  3115 , ngc  3351 , ngc  3627 , ngc  4258 , and ngc  5866 . using on - band / off - band [ o  iii ] @xmath0 images , as well as images taken in h@xmath1 </S>",
    "<S> , we identify samples of pne in these galaxies and derive their distances using the planetary nebula luminosity function ( pnlf ) . </S>",
    "<S> we then combine these measurements with previous data to compare the pnlf , cepheid , and surface brightness fluctuation ( sbf ) distance scales . </S>",
    "<S> we use a sample of 13 galaxies to show that the absolute magnitude of the pnlf cutoff is fainter in small , low - metallicity systems , but the trend is well modeled by the theoretical relation of @xcite . </S>",
    "<S> when this metallicity dependence is removed , the scatter between the cepheid and pnlf distances becomes consistent with the internal errors of the methods and independent of any obvious galaxy parameter . </S>",
    "<S> we then use these data to recalibrate the zero point of the pnlf distance scale . </S>",
    "<S> we use a sample of 28 galaxies to show that the scatter between the pnlf and sbf distance measurements agrees with that predicted from the techniques internal errors , and that there is no systematic trend between the distance residuals and stellar population . </S>",
    "<S> however , we also find that the pnlf and sbf methods have a significant scale offset : cepheid - calibrated pnlf distances are , on average , @xmath2  mag smaller than cepheid - calibrated sbf distances . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the possible causes of this offset , and suggest that internal extinction in the bulges of the sbf calibration galaxies is the principle cause of the discrepancy . </S>",
    "<S> if this hypothesis is correct , then the sbf - based hubble constant must be increased by @xmath3 . </S>",
    "<S> we also use our distance to ngc  4258 to argue that the short distance scale to the lmc is correct , and and that the global hubble constant inferred from the _ hst _ key project should be increased by @xmath4 to @xmath5  km  s@xmath6  mpc@xmath6 . </S>"
  ]
}