{
  "article_text": [
    "as was first observed by oso-3 ( @xcite ) , the dominant feature of the high - energy sky is the intense emission from the galactic plane .",
    "later the complete sas-2 ( @xcite ) and cos - b ( @xcite ) data gave evidence for a correlation between the emission and the spatial structures of the galaxy .",
    "the intensity distribution and the spectral form of the emission have led to the consensus that the diffuse radiation is primarily produced by interactions between galactic cosmic ray particles and the interstellar medium , and to a small extent by unresolved galactic point sources ( @xcite ) .",
    "the egret observations of the magellanic clouds have shown that cosmic ray nucleons in the energy range below 100 gev are almost certainly galactic ( @xcite ) , while the observations made with the osse and comptel instruments aboard cgro have provided strong evidence that cosmic ray electrons are galactic ( @xcite , see also @xcite ) .",
    "therefore the diffuse galactic emission tells us about the propagation of cosmic rays from their sources to the interaction regions and thus complements the direct particle measurements by balloon and satellite experiments .    the greater sensitivity and spatial and energy resolution of egret compared with sas-2 and cos - b permit a much more detailed analysis of the diffuse galactic emission than was possible with the earlier experiments .",
    "the spatial and spectral distribution of the diffuse emission within @xmath0 of the galactic plane have recently been compared with a model calculation of this emission which is based on realistic interstellar matter and photon distributions and dynamical balance ( @xcite ) , i.e. cosmic rays having the same spectrum and composition everywhere in the galaxy and having an intensity which follows the surface density of thermal gas convolved with a gaussian with dispersion @xmath1 ( @xcite ) . the distribution of the total intensity above 100 mev agrees surprisingly well with the model predictions . however , at higher energies above 1 gev the model systematically underpredicts the intensity .",
    "if the model is scaled up by a factor 1.6 , the model prediction and the observed intensity above 1 gev agree well .",
    "thus the model displays a deficit of @xmath238% of the total observed emission which depends , if at all , only weakly on location . at energies above 1 gev around 90% of the model intensity",
    "is due to @xmath3-decay , i.e. hadronic processes , and only 10% is due to interactions of electrons .",
    "there are a number of possible explanations for this deficit :     a miscalibration of egret could cause an overestimation of the intensity above 1 gev .",
    "this possibility is highly unlikely .",
    "point sources generally show power - law spectra without spectral hardening above 1 gev .",
    "it would require an extreme level of cosmic conspiracy for a calibration error to mimic a general power - law behavior in the spectra of cosmic sources .",
    " the kinematics of @xmath3 production may be poorly understood .",
    "detailed monte - carlo calculations have shown ( @xcite ) , that models based on the current knowledge of particle interactions do not give very different results for the @xmath3 spectra than do simple isobar plus scaling descriptions ( @xcite ) .",
    "it is unlikely that the cosmic ray nucleon spectrum in the solar vicinity is softer than that elsewhere in the galaxy .",
    "the local cosmic ray spectrum samples sources within a few kpc in distance and a few times 10@xmath4 years in time .",
    "since the observed deficit appears to be independent of galactic longitude , the sources of cosmic rays within a few kpc from the sun would have to be different from those in the inner galaxy and those in the outer galaxy .",
    "we have also tested and verified that the uncertainties in the local interstellar cosmic ray spectrum below a few gev are by far not sufficient to account for the deficit .",
    "the uncertainties arising from our limited knowledge of the cosmic ray nucleon spectrum and the nucleon - nucleon interaction kinematics can be estimated to be on the order of a few percent .",
    " there may be unresolved point sources which contribute strongly at higher energies .",
    "the only known class of objects with appropriate spectra is pulsars .",
    "based on the properties of the six identified pulsars it has been found that unresolved pulsars would indeed contribute mainly between 1 gev and 10 gev ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , to account for all the deficit it is required that more than 30 pulsars be detectable by egret as point sources .",
    "this can be compared with less than 10 unidentified sources which are not variable ( @xcite ) and which show pulsar - like spectra ( @xcite ) .",
    "also , the latitude distribution of the emission from unresolved pulsars is inconsistent with that of the observed emission .",
    "unresolved pulsars will contribute 6 - 10% of the observed intensity above 1 gev and around 3% in the energy band between 100 mev and 1 gev ( @xcite ) , and thus they can account only for a small fraction of the high - energy deficit .    all in all the effects described above can account only for a small fraction of the deficit , or can add only small systematic uncertainties . in this paper",
    "we will investigate whether the remaining deficit of 30 - 35% may be caused by inverse compton emission of high - energy electrons .",
    "leptonic processes contribute only around 10% of the intensity above 1 gev in the model of hunter et al .",
    "( 1997 ) , which corresponds to @xmath56% of the total observed intensity .",
    "thus the leptonic contribution would have to be increased to 35 - 40% of the total observed emission to explain all the deficit .",
    "the galactic distribution of cosmic ray electrons is intimately linked to that of their sources .",
    "the recently - found evidence of x - ray synchrotron radiation from the four supernova remnants sn1006 ( @xcite ) , rx j1713.7 - 3946 ( @xcite ) , ic443 ( @xcite ) , and cas a ( @xcite ) supports the hypothesis that galactic cosmic ray electrons are accelerated predominantly in snr .",
    "x - ray synchrotron radiation implies tev emission from the comptonization of the microwave background at a flux level which depends only on the average magnetic field strength ( @xcite ) , and indeed the detection of the remnant sn1006 at tev energies has been announced recently ( @xcite ) .",
    "interestingly , there is no clear observational proof that the nuclear component of cosmic rays is accelerated likewise in snr .",
    "the acceleration of cosmic ray nucleons in snr should lead to observable flux levels at tev energies ( @xcite ) , however with a spectrum different from that of the leptonic emission .",
    "the generally tight upper limits for tev emission from the nearest snr ( @xcite ) are in conflict with simple shock acceleration models for cosmic ray nucleons in snr .",
    "most of the radio synchrotron spectra of snr can be well represented by power - laws with indices around @xmath6 , corresponding to electron injection indices of @xmath7 ( @xcite ) .",
    "this is in accord with predictions based on models of particle acceleration ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , it is different from the electron injection spectral index of @xmath8 which has been inferred from the locally observed electron spectrum ( @xcite ) and which subsequently has been used in the model of galactic emission of hunter et al .",
    "the contribution of cosmic ray electrons to the galactic spectrum at high energies depends strongly on their injection spectral index .",
    "if the acceleration cut - off energy is high enough , the leptonic emission may even dominate at tev - pev energies ( @xcite ) .",
    "a change in the electron injection index by @xmath9 could increase the inverse compton emissivities at a few gev by an order of magnitude or more .",
    "let us suppose that for some reason the local cosmic ray electron spectrum is different from the average electron spectrum in the galaxy .",
    "then the following scenario appears viable : the bulk of cosmic ray electrons is accelerated in snr with an injection index around @xmath7 .",
    "the leptonic emission at a few gev would be much stronger than in the hunter et al .",
    "model , and it may explain a substantial fraction of the discrepancy between their model and the observed spectra .",
    "so if we would find a mechanism or an effect which would cause the local electron spectrum to be different from the galactic average , we may in a second step reassess the spectra produced by galactic cosmic rays without having to assume an electron injection index of @xmath8 .",
    "it has been noted before that the spatial distribution of cosmic ray sources affects the locally observable spectra ( @xcite ) .",
    "as far as electron acceleration in snr is concerned , there is no evidence that the star formation activity and thus the snr production rate in the solar vicinity is significantly less than the galactic average . in the next section",
    "we will show that for cosmic ray electrons , unlike nucleons , the local spectra above a certain energy can deviate from the galactic average , even if the spatial distribution of cosmic ray accelerating snr is homogeneous .",
    "this is a result of the discrete nature of snr both in space and in time .",
    "we will use this finding in the third section to model the high - energy excess as result of inverse compton emission of cosmic ray electrons , albeit with a harder injection spectrum than conventionally assumed .",
    "the spectrum of cosmic ray electrons in terms of the contributions of discrete sources like supernova remnants ( snr ) has been discussed before ( @xcite ) .",
    "these authors have investigated the case of continuously active sources and have concluded that one needs sources situated within a few hundred parsecs of the solar system , in order that the energy losses of electrons do not induce a cutoff in the energy spectrum . since the required number of active sources exceeds that of supernova remnants by an order of magnitude , snr were found unlikely to be the only source of cosmic ray electrons between 1 gev and 1 tev . in that paper",
    "the diffusion coefficient had been assumed independent of energy . with the usual energy dependence @xmath10 some of the statements in the cowsik and lee paper",
    "would have to be relaxed .    in this section",
    "we will also consider the finite lifetime of snr or other possible cosmic ray accelerators together with the random distribution of snr in space and time .",
    "the latter induces a time dependence in the local electron spectrum at higher energies , which stems from the poisson fluctuations in the number of snr within a certain distance and within a certain time interval .",
    "as we will see , the discreteness of sources does not simply cause a cutoff in the electron spectrum , but makes it time variable and thus unpredictable beyond a certain energy .",
    "since effects of the discreteness of sources show up only at higher particle energy , we may describe the propagation of cosmic ray electrons at energies of 1 gev to 1 tev by a simplified transport equation @xmath11 where we consider continous energy losses by synchrotron radiation and inverse compton scattering , an energy - dependent diffusion coefficient @xmath12 , and a source term @xmath13 .",
    "the green s function for this problem can be found in the literature ( @xcite ) .",
    "@xmath14 where @xmath15 in case of discrete sources the injection term @xmath13 is a sum over all sources . for an individual source showing up at time @xmath16 and injecting for a time period @xmath17 we can write @xmath18 without loss of generality we can set @xmath19 and obtain @xmath20 where @xmath21 and @xmath22 is the distance between source and observer .",
    "@xmath23 is the contribution to the local electron spectrum provided by a single source ( snr ) at distance @xmath22 which is ( was ) injecting electrons for a time period @xmath17 starting at @xmath16 .",
    "the local spectrum of electrons can now be obtained by summing the contributions from all individual sources . in our case",
    "the distribution of snr is , for ease of exposition and computation , assumed to be a homogeneous disk of radius @xmath24kpc and half - thickness @xmath25kpc .",
    "other choices for the spatial distribution of snr do not impose serious changes in the results , as long as the distribution is not structured on sub - kpc scales .",
    "the numerical procedure is as follows : for each volume element @xmath26 the expected number of snr injecting cosmic rays within the time interval @xmath27 is @xmath28 where @xmath29 is the total volume of the source distribution and @xmath30years is the inverse of the supernova rate ( @xcite ) .",
    "@xmath27 has to be the maximum lookback time in our model which is the sum of the snr lifetime @xmath17 and the electron energy loss time @xmath31 at 1 gev , the lowest energy considered here . at a given time",
    "the actual number of snr in that volume element is a poissonian random number with mean @xmath32 , and each of the snr has a birth date which is a random number uniformly distributed within @xmath33 $ ] .",
    "the final electron spectrum is then derived by summing over the contributions of the individual snr per volume element and summing over all relevant volume elements .",
    "we calculate 400 such ` random ' spectra and thus derive the distribution of possible spectra and their spread .    in fig.1",
    "we show the resulting range of local electron spectra compared with the observed spectra ( @xcite ) .",
    "the energy density of the ambient photon fields plus that of the perpendicular component of the magnetic field strength is in total taken to be 3.5 ev/@xmath34 .",
    "the changes in the compton cross section in the klein - nishima regime of optical and near - infrared photon fields are neglected .",
    "the diffusion coefficient is @xmath35 at 1 gev and increases with energy to the power a=0.6 , in accord with results for a two - dimensial diffusion model fit to the local spectra of 13 primary and secondary cosmic ray nuclei at rigidities between 1 gv and 10@xmath36 gv ( @xcite ) . at these energies electrons and nuclei",
    "will scatter off the same turbulence , except for the helicity , and thus their diffusion behaviour may be expected to be similar .",
    "the injection spectral index of electrons is s=2.0 , which corresponds to the mean synchrotron spectral index of individual snr ( @xcite ) .",
    "the solar modulation of electrons at a few gev energy has a strong effect on the observed spectrum .",
    "note the difference between the spectrum observed when the modulation level was high ( @xcite ) and the spectrum observed during the passage of ulysses over the solar south pole ( @xcite ) .",
    "we have crudely approximated the effect of solar modulation using the force - field approach ( @xcite ) with @xmath37 .",
    "thus we probably overestimate the modulation in case of the ulysses data and underestimate in case of the golden et al . data .",
    "the spectra at a given time are not necessarily smooth .",
    "there is no preference for the usual broken power - laws or power - laws with exponential cut - offs .",
    "in fact the individual spectra are bumpy above @xmath2 50 gev and some display step - like features . as an example we show a particular spectrum as dash - dotted line in fig.1 , which is slightly on the low side between 10 gev and 100 gev , where it suffers further softening before it abruptly hardens at 300 gev .",
    "below 10 gev the local electron spectrum is well determined . between 10 gev and 100 gev",
    "it varies with time by a factor of 2 or 3 , and above 100 gev is completely unpredictable .",
    "changes in the absolute numbers for the diffusion coefficient and the radiative energy losses do not change the basic behaviour , but can shift the transition between weak and strong variability to lower or higher energies . if the energy dependence of the diffusion coefficient is weaker , i.e. @xmath38 , the transition between weak and strong variability will be faster , and vice versa ( a slower transition for higher powers than a=0.6 ) . for comparison",
    "we have indicated the result for an energy dependence of the diffusion coefficient , @xmath39 .",
    "as shown in fig.1 , the high - energy data for the local electron flux are in accord with an injection spectral index of s=2.0 , though in a model with steady injection and a smooth source distribution these data would require an injection index of around 2.4 ( @xcite ) .",
    "concerning the distribution of high - energy electrons , the galaxy would look like swiss cheese , with holes and regions of higher density . in the line - of - sight integrals , which are relevant for comparison with the egret data",
    ", the averaging over holes and high - density regions will give the same result as a model with steady injection , however with source index of 2.0 instead of 2.4 . at higher latitudes",
    "the line - of - sight will be so short that regions of low or high electron density will be resolved .",
    "the leptonic spectra in direction of the galactic poles should be relatively soft since the line - of - sight integral of the emissivity will be dominated by the soft local spectrum .",
    "the absolute electron flux is reproduced if each snr provides an energy input of @xmath40 in the form of electrons , which is one thousandth of the canonical value of @xmath41 for the kinetic energy input per supernova .",
    "taken over a lifetime of @xmath42 the corresponding power of @xmath43 is less than the x - ray luminosity of sn1006 alone .",
    "the time variability of the high energy cosmic ray spectrum will not be related or even be synchronous to variability in the flux of low - energy cosmic ray nucleons , which can be traced by cosmogenic instable isotopes in sediments ( @xcite ) or meteorites ( @xcite ) .    a few notes should be added .",
    "we have taken supernova explosions to be completely independent of each other .",
    "one may expect some level of correlation in ob associations and snobs , which would make the basic effect of time dependence even more dramatic , since the ob associations and snobs would act as single sources with longer lifetime , but much smaller frequency of occurrence .",
    "another important point is that we have assumed that all electron sources produce the same spectrum . in reality",
    "this does nt need to be the case .",
    "some snr will produce electrons with harder spectrum , and another group of snr will provide softer spectra . it may be that the spectral form depends on the age of an snr .",
    "in fact the radio data show that snr do have different synchrotron spectra ( @xcite ) .",
    "if we take the electron injection spectral index of an individual snr not as a fixed number , but a random variable following some probability function , the time - averaged spectrum ( the dotted line in fig.[acct3 ] ) will get a positive curvature .",
    "the level of time variability on the other hand will get larger .",
    "the shaded regions in fig.1 , in which the spectrum is contained for 68% , respectively 95% , of the time , extend beyond those for fixed injection index .    a final note concerns secondary positrons and electrons .",
    "these particles are generated subsequent to interactions of cosmic ray nucleons with ambient gas , and hence the effect discussed does not apply and the local spectrum of secondary electrons will not vary . thus the observed positron fraction will also exhibit variability anticorrelated with that of the primary electron spectrum .",
    "if we are indeed living in a hole in the distribution of high - energy electrons then the positron fraction above , say , 20 gev will be above the level expected in steady injection models , if the gas density within @xmath441 kpc from the sun is not also sub - average .",
    "this may explain the observed positron fraction in that energy range , which is indeed slightly above the model predictions ( @xcite ) .",
    "we have seen that the discreteness of sources of cosmic ray electrons causes a strong variability of the local electron spectrum at higher energies .",
    "therefore the high energy electron spectrum does not prescribe our choice of electron injection spectrum in propagation models .",
    "if we consider emission in the galactic plane , the line - of - sight integral of the emissivity will correspond to an averaging over the different variability states , and hence the intensity calculated with time - dependent models will not differ significantly from the results of steady - state models .",
    "the latter are much easier to compute and thus preferrable , but they will in general not be able to reproduce the local high energy electron spectrum correctly .",
    "on the other hand , in the absence of reliable data on the position and age of all nearby snr it is also impossible to calculate the time - dependent local electron spectrum precisely , we can only infer the level of variability .",
    "therefore we feel that , if the acceleration of electrons occurs predominantly in snr , the emission in the galactic plane can be sufficiently well described with steady - state models , provided the model is * not required to fit the local electron data above @xmath4430 gev*. in the next section we will discuss a steady - state model for the diffuse leptonic emission for an injection index of 2.0 .",
    "there is a richness of literature on the topic of electron propagation in the galaxy , including analytical solutions for the one- or two - dimensional diffusion and diffusion - convection problem ( @xcite ) .",
    "these solutions can be well described in their basic behavior by the concept of the catchment sphere ( @xcite ) .",
    "the energy losses prevent electron propagation farther from their source than a critical distance @xmath45 which is defined by equality of the time scales for transport and for energy losses , so that the spatial dependence of the green s function of the problem is basically a function which is a constant for distances less than @xmath45 and which is zero beyond @xmath45 .",
    "if the transport is governed by diffusion and if the energy loss terms do not strongly depend on location , then @xmath45 will not strongly depend on direction , and thus a source of cosmic rays at the position @xmath46 would fill a sphere of radius @xmath45 with cosmic rays . hence we may separate the spatial problem and the energy problem , and approximate the solution to the spatial problem by a gaussian function for the catchment sphere .",
    "the gaussian function is exact at higher energies where radiative energy losses dominate , but is a crude approximation at very low energies , where ionization and coulomb losses are important .",
    "we will include escape as a catastrophic loss term , which limits @xmath45 to some maximum value .",
    "this approximates the effect of a sudden increase of the diffusion coefficient at a certain height above the galactic plane ( @xcite ) .",
    "we regard this a better description than a finite boundary with density and density gradient set to zero at @xmath47 , a few kpc above the galactic plane , since for a physical escape solution the density outside the diffusion region relates to that inside as @xmath48 and thus it is definitely not zero . with a diffusion coefficient @xmath49 , @xmath50 being the kinetic energy",
    ", we have @xmath51 where @xmath52 we can write the differential number density of cosmic rays at position @xmath53 coming from a source at @xmath46 as @xmath54 where @xmath55 @xmath56 is the energy loss term and @xmath57 is the source spectrum at position @xmath46 .",
    "physically @xmath58 is a propagator and it can be treated like a green s function . given the spatial distribution of sources @xmath59 we obtain the cosmic ray spectrum at any position @xmath53 as @xmath60 our method thus enables us to calculate the three - dimensional distribution of electrons resulting from an arbitrary three - dimensional distribution of sources .",
    "the individual snr may accelerate electrons with slightly different spectra .",
    "this would result in a positive curvature of the composite injection spectrum ( @xcite ) . to demonstrate the effect of a possible dispersion of the injection spectral index in the electron sources , we assume that the injection indices for individual snr follow a normal distribution @xmath61 at the energy @xmath62 .",
    "radio spectral index measurements at a few ghz , corresponding to @xmath63gev , indicate @xmath64 ( @xcite ) .",
    "then the source spectrum of primary electrons is @xmath65 for @xmath66 this reduces to the conventionally assumed single power - law .",
    "the energy losses due to ionization and coulomb interactions , bremsstrahlung and adiabatic cooling , and synchrotron and inverse compton emission are well described by @xmath67\\ ] ] where we have used the following abbreviations @xmath68 @xmath69 is the neutral gas density , @xmath70 the density of ionized gas , @xmath71 the bulk velocity of electrons , and @xmath72 the energy density of the magnetic field and the ambient radiation field in @xmath73 .",
    "we assume the magnetic field strength to be constant over the total volume of the galaxy with @xmath74 .",
    "as we shall see later , this value leads to synchrotron emission consistent with observations .",
    "the interstellar radiation field can be calculated from the respective emissivities for optical and infrared emission , and the microwave background emission ( @xcite and recent updates @xcite ) .",
    "the distribution of ionized gas has been modelled on the basis of pulsar data ( @xcite ) .",
    "the derivation of the distribution of neutral matter will be discussed below . for the propagation calculation",
    "all parameters of the interstellar medium are averaged over a scale of 1 kpc to mimic the average environmental conditions of a cosmic ray electron during its life time .",
    "a galactic wind is assumed to operate in the galactic halo , such that adiabatic cooling outside the disk provides similar energy losses as bremsstrahlung inside the disk , i.e. the energy loss terms can be written independent of the spatial location within a catchment sphere .",
    "note that the energy loss terms for neighboring catchment spheres may be different , since they are averages over different volumes .",
    "the radial extent of the galaxy is taken to be 16.5 kpc .",
    "note that the computer time consumption scales as radial extent squared .",
    "the calculation of the bremsstrahlung and inverse compton emissivities is described elsewhere ( @xcite ) .",
    "the energy loss time scale , which determines the radius of the catchment sphere @xmath45 , can be understood as an ensemble average @xmath75 where @xmath57 is the electron injection spectrum .",
    "this average age can be approximated by @xmath76 to better than @xmath77 accuracy except for the lowest energies . for @xmath78 , corresponding to @xmath79 , the average age @xmath80 is larger than the e - folding energy loss time scale . here",
    "the energy losses will also depend explicitely on @xmath45 since ioniziation and coulomb interactions occur only in the gas disk .",
    "for ease of computation we will assume @xmath81 to be constant at these low energies , as if ionization and coulomb interactions would not occur .",
    "this means we overestimate @xmath45 but underestimate @xmath82 .",
    "the two effects work in opposite directions but may not balance each other .",
    "we want to keep in mind that we are using a crude approximation at low electron energies , which for this paper however will have an impact only on the bremsstrahlung spectra at @xmath83 .",
    "we neglect secondary electrons in our model .",
    "the locally observed fraction of secondary electrons is of order 10% ( @xcite ) , but the fraction may be strongly dependent on position and on the propagation behavior of particles ( @xcite ) .",
    "there are basically two arguments which may allow us to neglect the secondaries .",
    "firstly , because of the energy dependence of the cosmic ray secondary - to - primary ratios , secondary electrons will have a production spectrum which is softer than the production spectrum of cosmic ray nucleons by @xmath84 , at least above 1 gev electron energy .",
    "thus secondary electrons will have a softer spectrum than primary electrons , so that their contribution to the diffuse galactic emission can not lead to a hardening of the spectrum , irrespective of the flux .",
    "the second argument concerns the luminosity .",
    "since the production cross sections for charged and for neutral pions are of the same order , and the electrons take only about two thirds of the pion energy , the source power supplied to secondary electrons is linked to the hadronic luminosity .",
    "only a fraction of the source power is channeled back into emission , since synchrotron radiation takes away some energy . due to the kinematical low - energy cut - off at @xmath2100 mev in the secondary production spectrum and the decrease of hadronic luminosity with energy above 1 gev , the secondary contribution to leptonic emission above 100 mev",
    "will always be limited to less than 10% of the luminosity due to @xmath3-decay ( @xcite ) and thus be negligible in this energy range .",
    "the three - dimensional distribution of thermal material in the galaxy has been determined by deconvolution of h@xmath85 surveys for atomic gas and co surveys for molecular gas with the rotation curve of @xcite .",
    "the h@xmath85 surveys include the leiden - greenbank survey ( @xcite ) , the weaver - williams survey ( @xcite ) , the maryland - parkes survey ( @xcite ) , the high - latitude parkes survey ( @xcite ) , and the heiles - habing survey ( @xcite ) .",
    "the co data are taken from the columbia survey ( @xcite ) as updated ( @xcite ) .",
    "all these data are publicly available from either the adc or the cds data bank .",
    "it should be noted that none of these surveys is stray - light corrected .",
    "the level of uncertainty in the rotation curve , the position of the sun , and non - circular motions of gas is high , so that our deconvolution should be taken as a model rather than as a datum .",
    "the general procedere in the deconvolution process is as follows : the rotation curve is used to calculate the relation between distance and line - of - sight velocity , which is then transformed into a probability distribution for distance on the basis of the actual velocity resolution of the surveys and a turbulent velocity dispersion of 10 km / sec for co and 25 km / sec for h@xmath85 .",
    "this approach tends to smear out the gas distribution along the line - of - sight , but relaxes most of the forbidden velocity problem .",
    "the near - far ambiguity towards the inner galaxy is resolved by dividing the intensity according to the amplitudes of gaussian probability functions for the distribution of gas normal to the galactic plane .",
    "these gaussian probability functions are the convolutions of the local gas distribution functions and the spatial resolution function of the particular survey .",
    "the effective scale heights of gas on the far side of the galaxy are thus systematically larger than the local values . as a result",
    "the gas tends to be more evenly distributed over the galaxy than in other derivations ( @xcite ) and the deconvolved gas distribution on the far side of the galaxy will be slightly smeared out normal to the galactic plane .",
    "this has no impact on the calculation of the emission since the column density of gas is always preserved , and it has also no impact on the cosmic ray propagation since our algorithm is based on the gas surface density , which is also preserved .",
    "the h@xmath85 data are scaled under the assumption of a constant spin temperature of @xmath86k .",
    "the obvious absorption features in the direction of the galactic center have been replaced by a linear interpolation between the neighboring velocity bins .",
    "the distribution of h@xmath85 normal to the galactic plane is assumed to be a gaussian of dispersion @xmath87 kpc , where @xmath22 is the galactocentric radius and @xmath88 is a heavyside function , with an offset according to the warping of the h@xmath85 disk ( @xcite ) .",
    "the co - data are scaled with an x - factor of 1.25 , which is the mean of the best fit values in published papers on egret data analysis ( @xcite ) . in the inner kpc of the galaxy",
    "the x - factor is reduced to 25% of its nominal value to account for the higher excitation temperature and different metallicity ( @xcite ) .",
    "the noise in the co spectra is preserved in the deconvolution process to keep the line - of - sight integral of the density unchanged .",
    "the vertical co distribution is assumed to be a gaussian of dispersion @xmath89 kpc , where @xmath22 is the galactocentric radius and @xmath88 is a heavyside function ( @xcite ) .",
    "the position of the sun is assumed to be located 8.5 kpc from the galactic center and 15 pc above the plane ( @xcite ) .    for a region of @xmath90 towards the galactic center and towards the anticenter",
    "the kinematical resolution is insufficient , and the data have been edited by hand .",
    "the distribution of gas in these two regions is basically an interpolation between the results for the adjacent regions . in the anticenter region",
    "any excess over this interpolation has been evenly distributed over all distances , while in the galactic center region any excess is attributed to the galactic center .",
    "the distribution of gas in the galactic plane is shown in fig.[gas ] .",
    "the true distribution of snr in the galaxy is not well known as a result of selection effects and the absence of a proper distance measure to the remnants . in many papers ( @xcite )",
    "the cosmic ray distribution in the galaxy has been estimated on the basis of a functional form for the snr distribution which fits the data for 116 remnants ( @xcite ) .",
    "one of the general findings in these studies is that the overall cosmic ray distribution is too steep to explain the gradual slope of the emissivity over the galactic radius ( @xcite ) .",
    "here we use a revised functional form for the snr distribution ( @xcite ) , which fits the data for 194 remnants @xmath91 where @xmath928.5 kpc denotes the distance between the sun and the galactic center .",
    "the vertical distribution of snr is taken to be box - shaped with a half thickness of 150 pc .",
    "our model allows us to use true 3d source distributions .",
    "we know that the galaxy has structure in the form of spiral arms , a bulge and so forth .",
    "we have thus folded a spiral arm model ( @xcite ) with the radial snr distribution as described above to investigate the influence of spiral arm structure . in the georgelin and georgelin model",
    "the galaxy has four symmetric arms with pitch angle of around 12@xmath93 .",
    "we have rescaled their model to @xmath928.5 kpc .",
    "each spiral arm is described by a gaussian of dispersion 500 pc , i.e. a fwhm of 1177 pc .",
    "the spiral arm model is normalized in azimuth , so that the integral @xmath94 of that model yields unity , and then folded with the radial snr distribution .",
    "the normalization is required to preserve the radial distribution of snr .",
    "a face - on view of the resultant source distribution is shown in fig.[src ] .",
    "in this section we show results for two choices of the spatial distribution of sources , the pure snr distribution and the snr distribution folded with a model of the spiral arms in the galaxy .",
    "we will also show results for two choices of injection index , at first a fixed index s=2.0 for all sources , and then a normal distribution of indices with mean 2.0 and dispersion 0.2 .",
    "we will not vary any other parameter in the propagation model , and stick to the best fit values given by webber , lee and gupta ( 1992 ) . in a forthcoming paper",
    "we will extend our model to nucleons and determine the propagation parameters self - consistently which fit the data and the local spectra of primary and secondary cosmic rays . in this paper",
    "our emphasis is to show that an injection index of around s=2.0 for cosmic ray electrons is sufficient to explain the observed spectrum of diffuse high - energy , while leaving all other parameters unchanged .",
    "we have shown in sec.2 that if electrons are accelerated in snr , their local spectra above @xmath2 30 gev will strongly depend on time , so that the direct electron measurements above this energy may deviate from the average electron spectrum . as a result",
    ", we are not required to choose the electron injection index according to the directly observed electron spectrum above @xmath2 30 gev .",
    "below a few gev , on the other hand , the locally observed spectra are strongly affected by solar modulation , for which we do not have reliable models , so that only over roughly one decade in energy does the local electron spectrum provide clear data .",
    "the data from direct electron measurements compared with the steady - state spectra of our model are shown in fig.[local_both ] .",
    "the model spectra fit the data reasonably well in the relevant energy range up to 30 gev .",
    "as an example we show in fig.[hunt_snr ] the spectra of the bremsstrahlung and inverse compton emission in the direction of the inner galaxy for the case of sources with injection indices following a normal distribution of mean s=2.0 and dispersion @xmath95=0.2 .",
    "the figure includes the results of our model , the observed spectrum , and a template of the @xmath3-decay spectrum ( @xcite ) . at around 5 gev",
    "the intensity due to leptonic processes is higher than that due to hadronic @xmath3 decay .",
    "our model assumes that the power - law behaviour of the electron injection spectra persists to @xmath220 tev .",
    "the high - energy spectrum will rather directly reflect structure in the electron source spectra .",
    "if for example the true source spectrum would deviate from a simple power - law above 1 tev , the inverse compton spectrum would show corresponding features above 50 gev .",
    "when we consider the latitude distribution of the intensity above 1 gev , which is done in fig.[plotb_both ] , we find a high level of agreement .",
    "the fraction of the total diffuse intensity , which is due to leptonic emission , is almost constant between b=0@xmath93 and b=10@xmath93 .",
    "it goes up from @xmath26% in the hunter et al .",
    "model , @xmath210% in our model for an injection index of s=2.4 , to 30% - 48% for an injection index of s=2.0 , enough to explain all the excess .",
    "we can compare the longitude distribution of the observed diffuse emission above 1 gev to that of the leptonic contribution in our model .",
    "this is done in fig.[plotl_both ] .",
    "it is obvious that the galactocentric gradient of the leptonic emission in our model is stronger than in the data .",
    "this is the case for all cosmic ray propagation models which are based on the snr distribution ( @xcite ) . while towards the inner galaxy the fraction of the total diffuse intensity , which is due to leptonic emission , is around 35% - 52% , far enough to explain all the excess , towards the outer galaxy the leptonic contribution in our model accounts only for roughly two thirds of the excess .",
    "the snr distribution of case and bhattacharya has a zero at galactocentric radius r=0 which causes the double peak structure in the model intensity towards the inner galaxy .",
    "such double peak structure is not visible in the data , so that this effect may result more from the specific choice of mathematical function in the fit of the snr distribution than astrophysical reality .",
    "we can generally say that a flatter snr distribution would beget a better harmony of the longitude distribution of observed emission and model .",
    "interestingly , one study of the snr distribution , which was not based on a specific form of the radial profile , indicates very long radial scale lengths up to 9 kpc ( @xcite ) .",
    "we have therefore investigated the impact of the fit uncertainties in the snr distribution . within 1 @xmath96 in both parameters",
    "the snr distribution may be @xmath97 here we show the results for the spiral arm model only . for similar local electron",
    "spectra the leptonic contribution to the diffuse galactic emission above 1 gev can be 33% -47% while the center / anticenter contrast in the model agrees with the observed one to better than 25% . as can be seen in fig.[plotb_flat ] , the latitude distribution of the leptonic contribution varies little .",
    "the longitude distribution of the leptonic contribution in fig.[plotl_flat ] shows that the overall gradient is reasonably well reproduced , but the double hump structure towards the inner galaxy remains as well as a general overprediction around @xmath98 .",
    "this double hump structure however is a consequence of the mathematical function chosen to fit the snr distribution and not a consequence of the snr distribution itself .",
    "a further constraint on our model is the synchrotron flux towards the north galactic pole ( ngp ) .",
    "available data at 408 mhz ( @xcite ) , at 820 mhz ( @xcite ) , and at 1420 mhz ( @xcite ) can be corrected for zero level uncertainties , the contributions of the microwave background and unresolved extragalactic sources ( @xcite ) , and contributions from the coma cluster ( @xcite ) .",
    "here we do not use data at frequencies below 100 mhz , which we expect to be affected by free - free absorption . in fig.[synngp ] we compare the synchrotron intensity predicted by our model with the data in direction of the ngp .",
    "it can be seen that for a total magnetic field strength of 10@xmath95 g there is good agreement .    in our model the fwhm of the z - distribution of synchrotron emission at 1420 mhz",
    "is @xmath21.1 kpc , which is the value typically found for edge - on galaxies ( @xcite ) .",
    "in this paper we have investigated whether cosmic ray electrons can be responsible for the recently observed high intensity of diffuse galactic emission above 1 gev .",
    "models based on the locally observed cosmic ray spectra underpredict the observed intensity by nearly 40% ( @xcite ) .",
    "one feature of these models is the relatively soft electron injection spectral index of s=2.4 ( @xcite ) , which is required to account for the local electron spectrum above 50 gev .",
    "the recent detection of non - thermal x - ray synchrotron radiation from the four supernova remnants sn1006 ( @xcite ) , rx j1713.7 - 3946 ( @xcite ) , ic443 ( @xcite ) , and cas a ( @xcite ) supports the hypothesis that galactic cosmic ray electrons are accelerated predominantly in snr .",
    "we have shown in this paper that , if this is indeed the case , the local electron spectra above 30 gev are variable on time scales of a few hundred thousand years .",
    "this variability stems from the poisson fluctuations in the number of snr in the solar vicinity within a certain time period . while the electron spectra below 10 gev are stable , the level of fluctuation increases with electron energy , and above 100 gev the local electron flux is more or less unpredictable .    with that time variability in mind",
    "we have seen that an electron injection index of s=2.0 is consistent with the data of the direct particle measurements if snr are the dominant source of cosmic ray electrons .",
    "in fact , both the radio spectra of individual snr ( @xcite ) and the hard spectrum of the inverse compton emission at high latitudes ( @xcite ) would better harmonize with an injection index of s=2.0 instead of s=2.4 .",
    "we have then presented a three - dimensional steady - state diffusion model for cosmic ray electrons , based on the propagation parameters which have been derived from similar models for cosmic ray nucleons . while being entirely consistent with the local electron electron flux up to @xmath5 30 gev energy and with the radio synchrotron spectrum towards the north galactic pole , the leptonic contribution to the diffuse galactic emission above 1 gev in the galactic plane increases from @xmath26% in the model of hunter et al . , @xmath2 , 10% in our model for an injection index s=2.4 , to 30 - 48% for an injection index s=2.0 depending on the assumed spatial distribution of snr and depending on whether some dispersion of injection spectral indices is allowed .",
    "an electron injection index s=2.0 can therefore explain the bulk of the observed excess over the predictions of the hunter et al .",
    "while the latitude distribution of the leptonic emission is fully consistent with that of the observed emission , we find that the longitude distribution deviates from the observed one . in our model",
    "the contrast between the galactic center and the anticenter is stronger than in the data .",
    "a similar effect can be found in all cosmic ray propagation models which are based on the snr distribution ( @xcite ) .",
    "note that in the hunter et al .",
    "model only the emissivity spectrum is taken according to a propagation calculation ( @xcite ) , while the spatial distribution of the emissivity is scaled according to the distribution of thermal gas .",
    "we have seen that the fit uncertainties in the snr distribution of case and batthacharya allow us to use a flatter profile , which leads to a better agreement between model and data in the longitude distribution ( see fig.[plotl_flat ] ) .",
    "thus the gradient problem may be simply the result of an inappropriate choice of radial snr distribution or lack of error propagation , respectively .",
    "this flatter profile would also harmonize better with the results of li et al .",
    "( 1991 ) , who found very large radial scale lengths of up to 9 kpc for the galactic distribution of snr .",
    "other possible sources of systematic errors are discussed below .",
    "this gradient problem is unlikely to be caused by additional thermal matter .",
    "very cold ( 3@xmath93k ) molecular gas has recently been discussed as candidate for baryonic dark matter ( @xcite ) .",
    "if organised in small clumps ( @xcite ) the probability of finding absorption features in the spectra of bright background objects would be small and the clumps would easily evade detection ( for a review see @xcite ) .",
    "however , the thermal gas mainly affects the bremsstrahlung and only indirectly the inverse compton emission , which dominates above 1 gev energy , and thus has little influence on the gradient in the total leptonic emission above 1 gev .",
    "if our model for the interstellar radiation field were wrong , then it would have only a limited influence on the gradient , since the galaxy acts as a fractional calorimeter at high electron energies ( @xcite ) , which channels the electron source power directly into synchrotron and inverse compton emission with a ratio corresponding to that of the energy densities in the magnetic field and the photon field .",
    "any radial variation of the magnetic field strength will be directly reflected in the center / anticenter contrast of the synchrotron intensity , so that the radio surveys would constrain the parameter space here .",
    "it is our personal view that the uncertainties in the radial distribution of snr are large enough so that the overly strong gradient in our model may simply be the result of an inappropriate choice of snr distribution .",
    "the artificial double peak structure towards the inner galaxy is an example of systematic effects which arise from possibly ill - defined fits to the snr distribution .",
    "our findings indicate a potential problem in the determination of the extragalactic background ( @xcite ) .",
    "the standard method uses a linear regression analysis of observed intensities and model predictions ( with the model of hunter et al . ) to extrapolate to zero galactic intensity . if at higher energies the inverse compton emission is indeed much stronger than assumed by hunter et al .",
    ", then a large fraction of it will be attributed to the extragalactic emission .",
    "our steady - state model predicts an intensity of high - latitude inverse compton emission above 1 gev at a level of @xmath99 of the extragalactic background intensity , while hunter et al .",
    "assume much smaller values .",
    "the intensity difference between the inner galaxy and the outer galaxy at medium latitudes ( @xmath100 ) would be around 10% of the extragalactic background intensity , depending on the choice of model for the electron source distribution ( snr distribution ) .",
    "on the other hand , if we are indeed living in a region of temporarily low flux of high - energy electrons , we would also expect the intensity of inverse compton emission towards the galactic poles to be less that the steady - state value , so that the true level of galactic intensity at high latitudes is difficult to assess .",
    "the spectrum of inverse compton emission , s@xmath1011.85 in our model , is somewhat harder than the s@xmath1012.1 of the extragalactic background .",
    "it has been noted before that the average spectrum of the identified agn is softer than that of the background ( @xcite ) , which indicates a problem with the idea that the background is mainly due to unresolved agn .",
    "now , since the presently determined background spectrum may be substantially contaminated with hard inverse compton emission , the true background spectrum may be softer than s=2.1 , which would probably relieve the spectral discrepancy with the average spectrum of resolved agn ( @xcite ) .",
    "anyway , the systematic uncertainty in the spectral index of the extragalactic background emission is much higher than the statistical uncertainty .    in a forthcoming paper",
    "we shall discuss the distribution of synchrotron emission in more detail .",
    "we shall also use a truly three - dimensional calculation of the interstellar photon fields based on cobe / firas data .",
    "finally we shall discuss cosmic ray nucleons in parallel with electrons to derive the propagation parameters self - consistently .",
    "the egret team gratefully acknowledges support from the following : bundesministerium fr bildung , wissenschaft , forschung und technologie ( bmbf ) , grant 50 qv 9095 ( mpe ) ; nasa cooperative agreement ncc 5 - 93 ( hsc ) ; nasa cooperative agreement ncc 5 - 95 ( su ) ; nasa contract nas5 - 96051 ( ngc ) ; and nasa contract nas5 - 32490 ( usra ) .",
    "allen g.e .",
    "et al . , 1997 , , 487 , l97 arimoto n , sofue y. , tsujimoto t. , 1996 , , 48 , 275 barwick s.w .",
    "et al . , 1997 , , 482 , l191 berkey g.b . , shen c.s . , 1969 , physical review , 188 , 1994 berkhuijsen e.m . , 1972 , , 5",
    ", 263 bertsch d.l .",
    "et al . , 1993 , , 416 , 587 blandford r. , eichler d. , 1987 , , 154 , 1 bloemen h. , 1989 , , 27 , 469 bloemen h. et al . , 1993 , , 267 , 372 bonino g. , 1996 , proc .",
    "24th icrc , il nuovo cimento vol .",
    "19c , n.6 , p.865 brecher k. , burbidge g.r . , 1972 , , 174 , 253 buckley j.h .",
    "et al . , 1998 , , 329 , 639 burton w.b . , 1985 , , 62 , 365 burton w.b",
    ", 1976 , , 14 , 275 burton w.b . ,",
    "liszt h.s . , 1983 , , 52 , 63 case g. , bhattacharya d. , 1996 , , 120 , c437 cappelaro e. et al .",
    ", 1997 , , 321 , 431 chen a. , dwyer j. , kaaret p. , 1996",
    ", , 463 , 169 cleary m.n . , heiles c. , and haslam c.g.t , 1979 , , 36 , 95 clemens d.p . , 1985 , , 295 , 422 combes f. , pfenniger d. , 1997 , , 327 , 453 cowsik r. , lee m.a . : 1979 , , 228 , 297 dame t.m .",
    "et al . , 1987 , , 322 , 706 dermer c.d . , 1986 , , 157 , 223 digel s.w . , dame t.m . , 1997 , private communication digel s.w . et al . , 1996 , , 463 , 609 digel s.w . , hunter s.d . , mukherjee r. , 1995 , , 441 , 270 dogiel v.a . , uryson a.v . , 1988 , , 197 , 335 drury l. oc . , aharonian f.a",
    ", vlk h.j . , 1994 , , 287 , 959 esposito j.a .",
    "et al . , 1998 , , submitted fazio g.g .",
    ", stecker f.w .",
    ", wright j.p . , 1966 , , 144 , 611 ferrando p. et al . , 1996 , , 316 , 528 fichtel c.e .",
    "et al . , 1975 , , 198 , 163 gleeson l.j . , axford w.i . , 1968 , , 154 , 1011 georgelin y.m . , georgelin y.p",
    ", 1976 , , 49 , 57 ginzburg v.l .",
    ", syrovatskii s.i . : 1964 , the origin of cosmic rays , pergamon press golden r.l .",
    "et al . , 1994 , , 436 , 769 golden r.l .",
    "et al . , 1984 , , 287 , 622 green d.a . , 1995 , a catalogue of galactic snr , mullard rao , cambridge , uk hammersley p.l .",
    "et al . , 1995 , , 273 , 206 haslam c.g.t .",
    "et al . , 1982 , , 47 ,",
    "1 heiles c. , habing h.j .",
    ", 1974 , , 14 , 557 hummel e. , 1991 , iau symposium 144 , ed . h. bloemen , kluwer , p.257 hunter s.d .",
    "et al . , 1997 , , 481 , 205 hunter s.d .",
    ", 1994 , , 436 , 216 keohane j.w .",
    "et al . , 1997 , , 484 , 350 kerr f.j .",
    "et al . , 1986 , , 66 , 373 kocharov g.e . , 1996 ,",
    "24th icrc , il nuovo cimento vol .",
    "19c , n.6 , p.883 kodaira k. , 1974 , , 26 , 255 koyama k. et al . , 1997 , , 49 , l7 koyama k. et al . , 1995 , , 378 , 255 kraushaar w. et al . , 1972 , , 177 , 341 lerche i. , schlickeiser r. , 1981 , , 47 , 33 lerche i. , schlickeiser r. , 1982 , , .",
    "201 , 1041 lerche i. , schlickeiser r. , 1982 , , 107 , 148 lessard r.w .",
    ", 1995 , 24th icrc , 2 , 475 li z. , wheeler j.c . , bash f.n . ,",
    "jefferys w.h . , 1991 , , 378 , 93 mayer - hasselwander h. et al . , 1982 , , 105 , 164 mchargue l.r . , damon p.e . , donahue d.j . , 1995 ,",
    "lett . , 22 , 659 mclaughlin m.a .",
    "et al . , 1996 , , 473 , 763 merck m. et al . , 1996 , , 120 , c465 mori m. , 1997 , , 478 , 225 pfenniger d. , combes f. , 1994 , , 285 , 94 pfenniger d. , combes f. , martinet l. , 1994 , , 285 , 79 pohl m. , 1996 , , 307 , l57 pohl m. , 1994 , , 287 , 453 pohl m. , schlickeiser r. , 1990 , , 234 , 147 pohl m. , kanbach g. , hunter s.d . , jones b.b . , 1997a , , 491 , 159 pohl m. , hartman r.c .",
    ", jones b.b . , sreekumar p. , 1997b",
    ", , 326 , 51 porter t.a . ,",
    "protheroe r.j . , 1997 , j. phys .",
    "g , 23 , 1765 reich p. , reich w. , 1986 , , 63 , 205 reich p. , reich w. , 1988 , , 74 , 7 schlickeiser r. , pohl m. , ramaty r. , skibo j.g .",
    ", 1997 , proc .",
    "4th compton symposium , eds . c.d .",
    "dermer and j.d .",
    "kurfess , aip conf .",
    "410 , p.449 schlickeiser r. , 1982 , , 106 , l5 schlickeiser r. , sievers a. , thiemann h. , 1987 , , 182 , 21 skibo j.g . , 1993 , phd dissertation , university of maryland sodroski t.j .",
    "et al . , 1995 , , 452 , 262 sonnett c.p .",
    "et al . , 1987 , nature , 330 , 458 sreekumar p. et al . , 1993 , , 70 , 127 sreekumar p. et al . , 1998 , , 494 , 523 stecker f.w . , jones f.c . , 1977 , , 217 , 843 strong a.w . , 1997 , private communication strong a.w .",
    ", mattox j.r . , 1996 , , 308 , l21 strong a.w . , 1995 , , 76 , 205 strong a.w .",
    "et al . , 1988 , , 207 , 1 taira t. et al . , 1993 , 23rd icrc , 2 , 128 tang k.k . , 1984 , , 278 , 881 tanimori t. et al . , 1997 ,",
    "iauc 6706 taylor j.h .",
    ", cordes j.m . , 1993 , , 411 , 674 valle j.p . , 1995 , , 454 , 119 weaver h.f . , williams d.r.w . , 1973 , , 8,1 webber w.r . , lee m.a .",
    ", gupta m. , 1992 , , 390 , 96 webster a.s . , 1970 , , 5 , 189 youssefi g. , strong a.w . , 1991 , 22nd icrc , 1 , 129"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the recently observed x - ray synchrotron emission from four supernova remnants ( snr ) has strengthened the evidence that cosmic ray electrons are accelerated in snr . </S>",
    "<S> we show , that if this is indeed the case , the local electron spectrum will be strongly time - dependent , at least above roughly 30 gev . </S>",
    "<S> the time dependence stems from the poisson fluctuations in the number of snr within a certain volume and within a certain time interval . </S>",
    "<S> as far as cosmic ray electrons are concerned , the galaxy looks like actively bubbling swiss cheese rather than a steady , homogeneously filled system .    </S>",
    "<S> our finding has important consequences for studies of the galactic diffuse gamma - ray emission , for which a strong excess over model predictions above 1 gev has been reported recently . while these models were relying on an electron injection spectrum with index 2.4  chosen to fit the local electron flux up to 1 tev  we show that an electron injection index of around 2.0 would a ) be consistent with the expected poisson fluctuations in the locally observable electron spectrum and b ) explain the above mentioned gamma - ray excess above 1 gev . </S>",
    "<S> an electron injection index around 2 would also correspond to the average radio synchrotron spectrum of individual snr . </S>",
    "<S> we use a three - dimensional propagation code to calculate the spectra of electrons throughout the galaxy and show that the longitude and latitude distribution of the leptonic gamma - ray production above 1 gev is in accord with the respective distributions for the gamma - ray excess .    </S>",
    "<S> we finally point out that our model implies a strong systematic uncertainty in the determination of the spectrum of the extragalactic gamma - ray background . </S>"
  ]
}