{
  "article_text": [
    "more than twenty candidates for extrasolar planets have been announced over the past four years ( e.g. , mayor & queloz 1995 ; noyes et al.1997 ; marcy & butler 1998 ; marcy , cochran & mayor 2000 ) . in each case , very precise stellar radial - velocity measurements , with a precision of 10  m  s@xmath2 or better , indicated the presence of a low - mass unseen companion orbiting a nearby solar - type star .",
    "these high - precision discoveries came almost a decade after the first planet candidate around hd 114762 was discovered ( latham et al .  1989 ; mazeh , latham & stefanik 1996 ) with much lower precision . in most cases ,",
    "the individual masses of the companions are not known , because the inclination angles of their orbital planes relative to our line of sight can not be derived from the spectroscopic data .",
    "the minimum masses for all candidates , attained for an inclination angle of @xmath3 , are in the range 0.5 to 10 jupiter masses ( ) .    to derive the actual mass we need additional information , like precise astrometry of the orbit , from which we can derive the inclination , and therefore the secondary mass .",
    "this can be done at least for the cases where the primary mass can be estimated from its spectral type . at present , the astronomical community has at hand the accurate astrometric hipparcos data , which have already yielded numerous orbits with small semi - major axes ( esa 1997 ; sderhjelm 1999 ) , down to a few milli - arc - sec ( mas ) .",
    "perryman et al .  ( 1996 ) indeed used the hipparcos data to constrain the orbits of some planet candidates .    the hipparcos data , which span about three years ,",
    "can be most effective for systems with periods comparable to the lifetime of the satellite mission .",
    "as the time base of the precise radial - velocity surveys is getting longer , we expect more such planets to be discovered .",
    "such an example was the outermost planet of  whose period was found to be close to 3 years .",
    "mazeh et al .",
    "( 1999 ) used the hipparcos data _ together _ with the spectroscopic data of  to get a mass of @xmath4  for the outermost known planet of that system .",
    "that work has shown the great potential of the combination of spectroscopic data and hipparcos measurements to derive masses for planet candidates .",
    "very recently vogt et al .",
    "( 1999 ) detected radial - velocity evidence of new six planet candidates .",
    "one of these stars is , with a period of @xmath5 days and a companion lower mass estimate of 6.35 .",
    "the minimum semi - major axis of the stellar orbit was found to be 0.36 mas . in this letter",
    "we follow mazeh et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and combine the spectroscopic elements with the hipparcos data to find that the unseen companion has a mass of about 40 .",
    "we therefore suggest that the secondary is probably a brown dwarf in close orbit , of about 2 au , around its parent star .",
    "( 109 psc , hip8159 ; @xmath6=01:44:55.82 , @xmath7=+20:04:59.34 [ j2000 ] ; v = 6.3 ) , is a g5iv star , whose mass is estimated by vogt et al .",
    "( 1999 ) to be 1.10 .",
    "the hipparcos data of  included 33 independent abscissa measurements , which are the results of work of fast and ndac  the two consortia involved in reduction of the raw hipparcos data .",
    "these 33 measurements represent data from 17 orbits of the satellite , analyzed separately by the two consortia and then de - correlated to produce 2 independent measurements out of each orbit ( van leeuwen 1997 ; van leeuwen & evans 1998 ; perryman et al .  1997 ) .",
    "in orbit no .",
    "614 only the ndac consortium produced a measurement of .",
    "the present analysis used the spectroscopic elements of  as given by vogt et al .",
    "these included the spectroscopic period , @xmath8 day , the periastron passage , @xmath9 , the radial - velocity amplitude , @xmath10 , the eccentricity @xmath11 , and the longitude of the periastron , @xmath12 .",
    "the orbital astrometric elements include @xmath13 and three additional elements  the semi - major axis , @xmath14 , the inclination , @xmath15 , and the longitude of the nodes , @xmath16 .",
    "in addition , the astrometric solution includes the five regular astrometric parameters  the parallax , the position ( in right ascension and declination ) and the proper motion ( in right ascension and declination ) .",
    "all together we had 12 parameter model to fit to the astrometric data , four of which are common with the spectroscopic orbit .    to find the best astrometric orbit we used the values of @xmath17 as given by the spectroscopic orbit , and solved for the other parameters .",
    "to do that we considered a dense grid on the ( @xmath18 ) plane , and found the values of the five regular astrometric parameters and @xmath16 that minimized the @xmath19 statistics for each value of ( @xmath20 ) .",
    "the result of this search is a @xmath19 _ function _ , which depends on @xmath14 and @xmath15 .",
    "the square - root normalized @xmath19 is plotted in figure  1 as a two - dimensional function .",
    "the figure shows a very pronounced `` valley '' at about @xmath21 mas and @xmath22 , indicating a detection of an astrometric motion . to derive the best semi - major axis and inclination for the system we used another spectroscopic element",
    " the radial - velocity amplitude @xmath23 , which has not been used so far in the analysis .",
    "this element induces a constraint on the product of @xmath14 and @xmath24 , which for the  case results in    @xmath25    where we have used here the hipparcos _ catalog _ parallax , @xmath26 mas .",
    "this constraint is plotted in figure 1 as a continuous line both on the ( @xmath18 ) plane and on the square - root normalized @xmath19 surface .",
    "the product was calculated assuming the best - fit value of @xmath27  30.3 mas .",
    "using the catalog value yielded very similar results . in figure 2",
    "we collapsed the two - dimensional function onto the line of eq .",
    "we can see a clear minimum at @xmath28 .",
    "this corresponds to a semi - major axis of 2.1 mas and a mass of 38 .",
    "detailed @xmath19 analysis resulted in    @xmath29    where @xmath30 is the mass of the unseen companion .",
    "all the 29 planet candidates discovered so far have  in the range of 0.510 .",
    "no report has been published yet about any precise radial - velocity detection of a secondary with minimum masses in the range of 1080 .",
    "the large radial - velocity survey of k and g stars with lower precision of mayor et al .",
    "( 1997 ) also yielded only few binaries with minimum secondary mass in the range of 1080 , most of which are actually main - sequence secondaries with low inclination ( halbwachs et al .  1999 ; udry et al .",
    "these studies attest to the paucity of secondaries in the range of 1080 , and suggest a distinction between the population of stellar secondaries and planets ( vogt et el .",
    "1999 ; mazeh 1999 ) .",
    "this distinction might also help to find the mass upper limit for planetary companions .",
    "an upper limit of the planetary mass at about 1020  is consistent with the accumulated distribution of planetary masses ( mazeh 1999 ) .",
    "it is also consistent with the mass of the outermost known companion of   @xmath31  ( mazeh et al .",
    "it therefore seems that the secondary of  mass is probably too large for a planetary mass .",
    "we therefore suggest that the secondary of  is a brown dwarf orbiting around its parent star at a distance of 2 au .    the paradigm behind the distinction between brown dwarfs and planets assumes that binaries , even with small - mass secondaries , are formed by a different mechanism than that of planets ( e.g. , boss 1996 ) .",
    "brown - dwarf secondaries are therefore at the low - mass end of the distribution of secondaries that were formed as binaries and not as planets .",
    "the study of the lower end of the mass distribution has great importance to our understanding of binary formation , specially if we compare them to the emerging population of brown - dwarf field stars ( e.g. , bjar , zapatero osorio & rebolo 1999 ; binney 1999 ; tinney 1999 and see references therein ) . until now",
    "the paucity of brown dwarf secondaries in short - period binaries could give the impression that such objects do not exist .",
    "this work suggests that there are such secondaries , even though rare , in this range of masses .    as usual , objects in binaries with short - enough periods supply the precious opportunity of dynamical mass determination .",
    "the combination of astrometry and radial - velocity work yields here a first mass determination of a brown dwarf which is model independent .",
    "the separation between the two components of  is about 70 mas ( vogt et al .",
    "ground - based interferometry might be able to resolve the two objects despite the huge brightness difference between them and supply for the first time brightness measurements of a brown dwarf with dynamical mass determination .",
    "in addition , time dependent spectroscopy might help to obtain a spectrum of the faint companion , enabling us to confront the theory of brown - dwarf evolutionary models ( e.g. , burrows & sharp 1999 ) with the observations .",
    "this work was supported by the us - israel binational science foundation through grant 97 - 00460 and the israeli science foundation .",
    "bjar , v.  j.  s. , zapatero osorio , m.  r. , & rebolo , r. 1999 , apj , 521 , 671                          mayor , m. , queloz , d. , udry , s. , & halbwachs , j .- l . 1997 , in iau coll .",
    "161 , astronomical and biochemical origins and search for life in the universe ed . c. b. cosmovici , s. boyer , & d. werthimer ( bolognia : editrice compositori ) 313"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> is a nearby main - sequence star around which a planet candidate has recently been discovered by means of radial - velocity measurements ( vogt et al </S>",
    "<S> .  1999 , submitted to apj ) . </S>",
    "<S> the stellar orbit has a period of about three years , the secondary minimum mass is 6.35 jupiter masses ( ) and the minimum semi - major axis is 0.36 milli - arc - sec ( mas ) .    using the hipparcos data of  _ together _ with the spectroscopic elements of vogt et al .  </S>",
    "<S> ( 1999 ) we found a semi - major axis of @xmath0 mas , implying a mass of @xmath1  for the unseen companion . </S>",
    "<S> we therefore suggest that the secondary of  is probably a brown dwarf , orbiting around its parent star at a distance of 2 au . </S>"
  ]
}