{
  "article_text": [
    "elliptical galaxies in a cluster show a tight colour - magnitude ( cm ) relation ; colours of more luminous ellipticals are systematically redder ( e.g. , bower , lucey , & ellis 1992 ) .",
    "it has been found that the relation still holds in distant rich clusters around @xmath9 ( e.g. , stanford , eisenhardt , & dickinson 1998 ) .",
    "based on these observational results , galaxy evolution models taking into account chemical evolution claim that elliptical galaxies in rich clusters formed at , e.g. , @xmath10 through a monolithic collapse of a gas cloud ( e.g. , kodama & arimoto 1997 ) . in this monolithic formation , a radial variation of stellar population in the sense that stellar",
    "metallicity is higher on average towards the galaxy centre ( _ metallicity gradient _",
    "hereafter ) is expected to form as a result of initial starburst and subsequent blow of galactic wind ; a more extended period of active star formation and thus more chemical enrichment is expected in the inner portions of a galaxy ( e.g. , kawata 1999 ) .",
    "indeed , many elliptical galaxies are known to have radial gradients of colours and absorption line strengths : colours are redder and metal absorption lines are stronger in the inner regions ( e.g. , peletier et al .",
    "1990 ; davies , sadler , & peletier 1993 ) , and the evolution of the colour gradients investigated by looking at distant ellipticals suggests that these gradients originate from the metallicity gradients ( tamura et al .",
    "2000 ; tamura & ohta 2000 ; saglia et al .",
    "2000 ; la barbera et al .",
    "2003 ) .    on the other hand , a bottom - up structure formation based on the cold dark matter ( cdm ) universe generally succeeds in reproducing many observational aspects of galaxies in the present day universe .",
    "in this scheme , an elliptical galaxy is considered to form via a major merger of galaxies .",
    "accordingly , even if the progenitors of an elliptical galaxy have some radial variations of stellar population , the variations are more likely to be smeared out during the merger .",
    "it is also expected that the histories of mass assembly and star formation of an elliptical galaxy can be different from galaxy to galaxy , even if elliptical galaxies having similar masses at a given redshift are considered .",
    "therefore , the radial gradient of stellar population in an elliptical galaxy would not be expected to correlate with the galaxy mass , although there is a possibility that the gradients in more massive ellipticals are less steep because they are likely to experience more merging events on average than less massive systems .",
    "these considerations show that investigating colour or absorption line strength gradients in elliptical galaxies in a statistical manner is a potentially powerful probe of galaxy formation process ( kobayashi 2004 ) .",
    "we recently performed @xmath1 and @xmath2 bands surface photometry for elliptical and s0 galaxies ( e / s0s ) in abell 2199 , which is one of nearby rich clusters , to study their colour gradients ( tamura & ohta 2003 ; hereafter paper i ) . from these optical data , it is found that ( 1 ) the average metallicity gradient in the ellipticals estimated from their colour gradients on the assumption of no age gradient is @xmath11 in @xmath12 , which can be reproduced by a recent model of the monolithic - like galaxy formation ( e.g. , kawata 1999 ) , and ( 2 ) for the galaxies brighter than @xmath13 mag ( @xmath14 at the distance of abell 2199 ) , more luminous ones tend to have steeper colour gradients ( figure [ corr ] ) . these results are consistent with the monolithic collapse scenario rather than the bottom - up scheme ( larson 1974 ; carlberg 1984 ; kawata & gibson 2003 ) . considering",
    "that almost all the other previous studies have targeted ellipticals in environments less dense than abell 2199 and no such correlations have been found in the previous studies , our data may imply an environmental dependence of formation process of elliptical galaxy .    however , it is premature to conclude that the cluster e / s0s formed through the monolithic collapse scenario , and it needs to be confirmed that the galaxy luminosities correlate with the metallicity gradients .",
    "although this requires to disentangle the age  metallicity degeneracy which is very hard in practice , one possible way to address this issue is to add another colour information including a near - infrared ( nir ) band to the optical colour and see the radial variations of both of the two colours ( e.g. , peletier , valentijn , & jameson 1990 ) .",
    "it will allow us to see whether the colour variation is consistent with a pure metallicity gradient or a significant contribution of age gradient is essential to explain it . in this paper",
    ", we present results of @xmath0 band surface photometry for the e / s0 galaxies in abell 2199 to be combined with the optical surface photometry ( paper i ) .",
    "@xmath0 band is chosen to make a baseline of wavelength longer to break the degeneracy more clearly . among the luminous ellipticals plotted in figure [ corr ] , we observed 8 galaxies .",
    "we briefly summarise optical observation and then describe nir observation and data reduction in the next section . data analysis and results are presented in ",
    "3 . after discussing the results in   4 , we summarise this paper in   5 .",
    "we started studying colour gradients in the cluster ellipticals with optical data , which is described in paper i in detail .",
    "we performed @xmath1 and @xmath2 bands surface photometry for 40 early - type ( e , e / s0 , and s0 ) galaxies in abell 2199 selected from the catalog by lucey et al .",
    "the galaxy morphology listed by lucey et al .",
    "( 1997 ) is mostly taken from butcher & oemler ( 1985 ) and rood & sastry ( 1972 ) .",
    "although studying these morphologically selected early - type galaxies could be one option , it is known that there is a variety in spheroidal - to - total luminosity ratio among galaxies in each morphological type ( simien & de vaucouleurs 1986 ) and some of them can be disk dominated galaxies . in order to securely sample galaxies dominated by spheroidal components , we made azimuthally averaged radial surface brightness profiles of the galaxies and performed decompositions of the profiles into bulge and disk components to estimate bulge - to - total luminosity ratios ( @xmath15s ) .",
    "we sampled galaxies with @xmath15s in @xmath1 band larger than 0.6 .",
    "this criterion isolates galaxies earlier than e / s0 or @xmath16 according to simien & de vaucouleurs ( 1986 ) , where @xmath15s of nearby galaxies are also derived in @xmath1 band . eventually , 31 galaxies were sampled out of the 40 galaxies observed .",
    "the galaxies plotted in figure [ corr ] are those brighter than @xmath17 mag ( @xmath18 ) and 8 of these galaxies were observed in @xmath0 band .",
    "since the details of the optical observation and data are described in paper i , we briefly summarise them here . the imaging observations in @xmath1 and @xmath2 bands",
    "were performed on 20 and 21 june 2001 with tektronix 2k@xmath192k ccd on the university of hawaii 2.2 m telescope .",
    "one pixel of the ccd subtends @xmath20 on sky and thus each frame covers a field of view of @xmath21 .",
    "a typical seeing size during the observing run was @xmath22 in fwhm .",
    "a total exposure time at each field is typically 1,800 sec in @xmath1 band and 750 sec in @xmath2 band , each of which was divided into three or four exposures with the telescope dithered .",
    "the imaging data were reduced with iraf in the standard procedure .",
    "after bias subtraction and flat - fielding by dome - flat frames , sky subtraction was carried out in each frame and the sky - subtracted frames at each field were registered by sub - pixel shifts .",
    "the fwhms of the point spread functions ( psfs ) were matched by convolutions of images with gaussian kernels and these images were combined with the 3 @xmath23 clipping algorithm .",
    "finally a psf size of the stacked image in one band was matched to that in another band by smoothing with gaussian kernels .",
    "a resulting psf size is @xmath24 in fwhm .    [",
    "cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     it has also been suggested from the other recent studies that nearby ellipticals have negative metallicity gradients while their age gradients are consistent with zero ( mehlert et al . 2003 ; wu et al . 2004 )",
    ". the presence of a metallicity gradient and the absence of an age gradient are consistent with the monolithic collapse scenario .",
    "the typical metallicity gradient estimated from gradients of colours and metal absorption line strengths in nearby ellipticals could be reproduced in a recent model of galaxy formation through a monolithic - like process ( e.g. , kawata 1999 ) . since all stars are presumed to form nearly coevally at high redshift in this scenario , no significant variation in stellar age across a galaxy",
    "would be expected . on the other hand",
    ", it is less clear what kind of radial variations of stellar populations can be formed in elliptical galaxies in the framework of hierarchical galaxy formation , while it has recently been suggested by numerical simulations that metallicity gradients estimated in nearby ellipticals assuming no age gradients can be reproduced including its variety ( kobayashi 2004 ) .",
    "it is intriguing to mention that unlike the monolithic collapse scenario , an age gradient can be acquired due to star formation associated with mergers and/or accretions .",
    "exploring what kind of age gradients elliptical galaxies could possess in the hierarchical galaxy formation may provide clues to understanding their formation processes and evolutionary histories ( benson , ellis & menanteau 2002 ) .    our data also suggest that colour distributions on the two colour diagram tend to be less scattered in less luminous cluster ellipticals . in other words , stellar populations may be spatially more uniform in less luminous cluster ellipticals .",
    "this is not because in less luminous ellipticals colours are investigated within the smaller portions of galaxies ; the outer cutoff radii scaled by effective radii are similar in all the galaxies ( table [ list1 ] ) .",
    "if the colour gradients originate from pure metallicity gradients , this trend would indicate that the metallicity gradients correlate with the galaxy luminosities and could support the monolithic collapse scenario ( larson 1974 ; carlberg 1984 ; kawata & gibson 2003 ) . however , the metallicity gradients estimated using both of the @xmath3 and @xmath4 colour gradients do not seem to well correlate with the luminosities",
    ". this may simply be due to the poor statistics and/or the individual measurements of the metallicity gradients may be too coarse .",
    "more precise estimations of age and metallicity gradients for a larger sample of galaxies will be necessary for detailed studies of the relationship between radial variation of stellar population and galaxy luminosity in the cluster ellipticals .",
    "age and metallicity gradients in nearby ellipticals have recently been investigated in a range of galaxy environment . in mehlert",
    "et al . ( 2003 ) , the age and metallicity gradients in 35 elliptical and s0 galaxies in the coma cluster were estimated from the gradients of absorption line indices ( h@xmath25 , mg@xmath26 and @xmath27fe@xmath28 ) . in wu et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , the gradients in 36 elliptical and s0 galaxies in the sloan digital sky survey early data release which are sampled not from a specific cluster but from various environments were estimated with multi band surface photometry from optical to nir . including our study of the luminous early - type galaxies in a rich cluster abell 2199",
    ", the presence of a metallicity gradient and the absence of an age gradient have been suggested in all of these studies .",
    "this may imply that there is no strong dependence on galaxy environment in radial gradient of stellar population in elliptical galaxy .",
    "finally , it should be mentioned that dust extinction may have some effects on a colour gradient in an elliptical galaxy ( e.g. , goudfrooij & de jong 1995 ) . as a matter of fact , even if an elliptical galaxy consists of a mixture of stars without any radial gradients of stellar population and diffusely distributed dust , a calculation of the radiative transfer in the galaxy suggests that the colour gradients could be reproduced only by the dust effects ( witt , thronson , & capuano 1992 ; wise & silva 1996 ) .",
    "however , many elliptical galaxies show not only colour gradients but also metal absorption line strength gradients , which are unlikely to be created by effects of dust extinction . it has also been suggested that _ on average _ , metallicity gradients in elliptical galaxies as estimated by a population synthesis model from colour gradients are consistent with those estimated from absorption line index gradients ( e.g. , peletier et al .",
    "1990 ; davies et al . 1993 ) .",
    "nevertheless there are some exceptions and it is hard to isolate the effect of dust extinction on an individual galaxy basis .",
    "future observation in the far - infrared with high spatial resolution may be able to give constraints on such a spatial variation of effects of dust extinction .",
    "we performed @xmath0 band surface photometry for luminous early - type galaxies in a nearby rich cluster abell 2199 . combining it with @xmath1 and @xmath2 band surface photometry ,",
    "radial variations of @xmath3 and @xmath4 colours in the galaxies were investigated .",
    "it is found that the inner regions of the galaxies are redder in both of @xmath3 and @xmath4 colours . comparing the radial variations of both of the colours with predictions of ssp models for a range of ages and metallicities",
    ", it is suggested that cluster ellipticals have metallicity gradients but their age gradients are consistent with zero , although the sample is small ; the typical metallicity gradient is estimated to be @xmath29 in @xmath30 , while the age gradient is estimated to be @xmath31 in @xmath32 . since similar results have also been obtained in the other recent studies by investigating ellipticals in the coma cluster and less dense environments , it seems that radial gradients of stellar populations in elliptical galaxies and thus their evolutionary histories are rather insensitive to galaxy environment .    considering the trend found in our optical study that less luminous ellipticals have less steep colour gradients",
    ", it is suggested that they have spatially more uniform distributions of both @xmath3 and @xmath4 colours and thus probably stellar population .",
    "however the metallicity gradients estimated using both of the @xmath3 and @xmath4 colours do not seem to well correlate with the galaxy luminosities .",
    "this may simply be due to the poor statistics and/or the individual measurements of the metallicity gradients may be too coarse .",
    "more precise estimations of age and metallicity gradients for a larger sample of galaxies will be necessary for detailed studies of the relationship between radial variation of stellar population and galaxy luminosity in the cluster ellipticals .",
    "we are grateful to the staff of the joint astronomy centre for its support of the ukirt observation .",
    "we appreciate the support from the members of the university of hawaii observatory .",
    "we also thank the referee , dr . francesco la barbera , for helpful comments and advice .",
    "this research made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under a contract with the national aeronautics and space administration ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we performed @xmath0 band surface photometry for luminous early - type galaxies in a nearby rich cluster abell 2199 . combining it with @xmath1 and @xmath2 band surface photometry , </S>",
    "<S> radial variations of @xmath3 and @xmath4 colours in the galaxies were investigated . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that the inner regions of the galaxies are redder in both of @xmath3 and @xmath4 colours . comparing the radial variations of both of the colours with predictions of simple stellar population ( ssp ) models for a range of ages and metallicities </S>",
    "<S> , it is suggested that the cluster ellipticals have negative metallicity gradients but their age gradients are consistent with zero , although our sample is small ; the typical metallicity gradient is estimated to be @xmath5 in @xmath6 , while the age gradient is estimated to be @xmath7 in @xmath8 . </S>",
    "<S> considering that similar results have also been derived in the other recent studies using samples of ellipticals in the coma cluster and less dense environments , it seems that there is no strong dependence on galaxy environment in radial gradient of stellar population in elliptical galaxy .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : elliptical and lenticular , cd  galaxies : evolution  galaxies : formation  galaxies : clusters : individual : abell 2199  galaxies : fundamental parameters ( colour gradient ) . </S>"
  ]
}