{
  "article_text": [
    "ttau has long been identified as one of the brightest low - mass pre - main sequence objects and , as such , has been considered as the prototype for the ttauri class of objects @xcite .",
    "its notable properties include a significant infrared continuum excess thought to be related to the presence of an accretion disk around this million year - old object @xcite , a bright nebulosity caused by photon scattering on the inner wall of a cavity emptied by a strong polar outflow @xcite , a substantial circumstellar disk resolved through interferometric imaging at radio wavelengths @xcite and a limited interstellar extinction ( @xmath1mag , * ? ? ?",
    "early near - infrared high - angular resolution observations revealed a close ( 07 , or 100au at @xmath2pc , * ? ? ? * ) companion in this system @xcite , which raised the possibility that ttau is not so prototypical of its class . from subsequent various high - angular resolution surveys",
    "@xcite however , it rapidly became clear that binarity is not a rare property , re - establishing ttau as a prototype of pre - main sequence solar - type stars once again .",
    "the companion to ttau , known as ttaus , is a very peculiar one . while it is undetected in visible images obtained first by speckle interferometry @xcite and more recently by hst / wfpc2 @xcite , implying a huge flux ratio at those wavelengths ( @xmath3 ) , its bolometric luminosity is about twice as large as that of ttaun .",
    "indeed , ttaus dominates the system flux at wavelengths @xmath4 m and its spectral energy distribution peaks around 3@xmath5 m , a significantly longer wavelength than normal for ttauri stars @xcite .",
    "near- to mid - infrared monitoring has further revealed that ttaus is strongly variable , up to 2  mag over timescales of a few months @xcite . finally , its near - infrared spectrum is featureless around 2@xmath5 m at a resolution of @xmath6 , with the exception of a large br@xmath0 emission line and a much weaker h@xmath7 line @xcite .",
    "together with a handful of other companions to ttauri stars , ttaus has been classified as an `` infrared companion '' ( irc ) .",
    "as reviewed by @xcite , the peculiar properties of these companions has generated a wide range of theories regarding their nature , which include an embedded intermediate- to high - mass protostar , a planetary object embedded in the disk surrounding their optical companion or a strongly accreting fuori - like object among others possibilities .",
    "the very nature of ttaus and other ircs is still debated as none of these explanations fit all the observational data .    increasing the complexity of the ttau system",
    ", @xcite identified a very close companion to ttaus through speckle holography . in the discovery images ,",
    "the companion was projected a mere 7au ( 005 ) away from the irc .",
    "such a small separation raised new questions about the ttaus system : are both components classifiable as ircs ?",
    "if embedded , are they inside the same cocoon of material ? can the additional companion be used to clarify the nature of ircs ? while previous high - angular resolution observations of this system never resolved the irc ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , follow - up observations by @xcite confirmed the presence of a close companion .",
    "however , they noted significant changes in the binary separation and position angle , which can not be accounted for by measurement uncertainties , but rather suggests that the two objects are bound with an orbital period on the order of 1020yrs .    in this paper , we present adaptive optics images obtained with the keck telescope as well as the first spatially resolved @xmath8-band spectra of the ttaus system .",
    "our observations and data reduction procedures are described in  [ sec : obs - red ] and our main results are presented in  [ sec : results ] .",
    "implications on the nature of the irc and its companion are presented in  [ sec : discus ] . finally , ",
    "[ sec : conclu ] summarizes our findings .",
    "the observations presented in this paper were obtained on 2000 november 19 on the 10 m keck ii telescope with the facility near - infrared spectrometer nirspec @xcite installed behind the adaptive optics system @xcite .",
    "ttaun ( @xmath9 ) was used as a natural guide star for the adaptive optics system and images of the whole ttau system , including ttaun , were obtained using scam , the slit - viewing camera , with both @xmath10 m ) and bandwith ( @xmath11 m ) are close enough to the standard broadband @xmath10 filter ( @xmath12 m , @xmath13 m ) that we do not expect magnitudes differences larger than a few hundredths . throughout our paper , we therefore refer to this filter as the @xmath10 filter . ] and @xmath8 broad - band filters at four dithered positions over the detector to correct for bad pixels and flat - field variations .",
    "total integration times were 40 seconds with both @xmath10 and @xmath8 filters and we achieved strehl ratios of 24% at @xmath10 and 30% at @xmath8 .",
    "the resolution of the images , measured as the fwhm of a gaussian fit to the radial profile of the unresolved star ttaun , are respectively 40 and 50mas at @xmath10 and @xmath8 . both components of ttaus appear unresolved at these resolutions in our images .",
    "long slit @xmath8-band medium - resolution spectra of the ttaus components were obtained by aligning the 0036-wide slit along the binary position angle ; four spectra were obtained at various locations behind the slit , amounting to a total exposure time of 8 minutes .",
    "the spectra extend from 2.0@xmath14 m to 2.4@xmath14 m with a 4.3 / pixel scale and have a spectral resolution of @xmath15 as measured from the fwhm of various unresolved arc lines .",
    "arc lamps were observed for wavelength calibration and a halogen lamp image was used for estimating the pixel - to - pixel response of the detector .",
    "a spectrum of hr1388 , an a7 dwarf , was obtained with the same set - up immediately before ttaus at a comparable airmass to correct for the numerous atmospheric absorption lines and bands . to remove the strong br@xmath0 absorption line for this a - type star , we also observed hd1520 , an f8 star , whose spectra can be compared to the well - known solar spectra ( g2 spectral type ) to isolate telluric absorption lines in the vicinity of the hydrogen line , using the method described by @xcite .",
    "we also observed a few late - type stars of known spectral type with the same set - up to be used as templates .",
    "these objects are 61cyga , gl123 and hd1326 , whose spectral types are k5 , m0 , and m2 respectively .",
    "all data reduction procedures were performed using iraf for both imaging and spectroscopic data .",
    "accurate astrometry and relative photometry were extracted by point spread function fitting , using ttaun as an unresolved source , and the standard deviations between the four dithered positions gave us an estimate of the uncertainties for both filters .",
    "the astrometry was then combined with the absolute orientation of the detector on the sky , known to @xmath16 or so , and its known plate scale ( 17.2@xmath170.1mas / pixel , d. le mignant , priv .",
    "the sharper images at shorter wavelenghs , together with the variation of flux ratio with wavelength in the ttaus system , are such that the binary is more easily resolved in the @xmath10-band images and , although both filters yielded compatible measurements , the astrometric binary parameters given in this paper were extracted from the @xmath10-band image only .",
    "the pipeline developed to reduce the spectroscopic data performs the following usual reduction steps : sky subtraction , distortion corrections , flat - fielding , bad pixels and cosmic rays removal . to extract the spectra of both components , a gaussian profile , which represents the core of the stellar profiles very well , was fit to both stars along the spatial direction for each of the 1024 spectral slices of the reduced spectrum ; the width of the gaussian was forced to be the same for both stars in that process .",
    "a lorentzian profile , which provides a better fit of the wings of the point spread function , was also used in a separate analysis of the same reduced spectra , but resulted in noiser , though similar , spectra ; this is due to the relatively high strehl ratios in our images , which ensure that most of the flux is contained in the stellar cores . in the following ,",
    "we thus adopt the spectra extracted using a gaussian profile .",
    "we estimate that contamination introduced by the wing of the primary s point spread function on the spectrum of the secondary amounts to less than 10% of the latter at any wavelength based on the observed radial profile .",
    "the dominant sources of noise in the final spectra are the gaussian fitting process and the atmospheric absorption correction .",
    "estimates for the signal - to - noise ratios can be obtained by studying line - free sections of the stellar spectra ; the signal - to - noise ratio in the final spectra is about 6080 per pixel for both stars in the spectral range 2.082.38@xmath5 m . outside this range ,",
    "the quality of the spectra drops sharply because of strong atmospheric absorption features , poor filter transmission , and detector response .",
    "our final @xmath10- and @xmath8-band images are presented in fig.[fig : images ] , while the astrometry and relative photometry extracted through point spread function fitting are summarized in table[tab : res1 ] .",
    "ttaus is clearly resolved at both wavelengths . to confirm the detection of the two components and to confirm our astrometric and photometric measurements",
    ", we applied a light deconvolution process with the richardson - lucy algorithm implemented in iraf .",
    "ttaun was used as an unresolved point spread function and we ran 10 iterations after having resampled the images by a factor of two in each direction .",
    "the deconvolved images are also shown in fig.[fig : images ] .",
    "the two components are nicely recovered and the quantitative information presented in table[tab : res1 ] agree very well with the deconvolved images .",
    "the location of ttausb with respect to ttausa , which is significantly different from previous measurements , confirms the relative motion of the two stars reported by @xcite . at the time of our observations ,",
    "the projected separation of the binary was @xmath18au .",
    "the nature of the observed motion is discussed in  [ sec : discus ] .",
    "the flux ratio between the two components of ttaus has also changed over the last few years .",
    "@xcite measured @xmath19 in december 1997 and @xcite found @xmath20 in february 2000 , which both differ from our observations by @xmath21 . in spite of the lack of absolute photometry , the variable source can be deduced from the @xmath8-band datasets .",
    "the @xmath8-band flux ratio between ttaun and ttausa is identical , to within statistical uncertainties , and the @xmath8-band flux of ttaun has been almost constant over the last ten years @xcite .",
    "therefore , we conclude that ttausb is itself variable and brightened between the two epochs while ttausa remained constant .",
    "our measurements also show that ttaus as a whole was close to its bright state at the time of our observations , since the magnitude difference between ttaun and the unresolved ttaus system appears to vary from @xmath22 to @xmath23mag @xcite . furthermore",
    ", if ttausa always dominates its companion at @xmath8 , the known variability of the unresolved ttaus system indicates that both components are variable .",
    "the spectrum of ttausa is in general featureless apart from a prominent br@xmath0 emission line which has an equivalent width of 3.8@xmath170.2  ( see fig.[fig : spectra ] and table[tab : res2 ] ) .",
    "similar equivalent widths for that line were reported by @xcite and @xcite , although we failed to detect the 2.12@xmath5 m h@xmath7 emission line that was detected with an equivalent width of 3.1@xmath171.4 by the latter group ; our @xmath24 upper limit on its equivalent width is 0.5 .",
    "a likely explanation for that discrepancy is that the emission could arise from the gas surrounding the star , as already suggested by @xcite ; their observations were performed through a 08-slit which is much wider than ours , and the surrounding nebulosity has already been detected in this h@xmath7 line @xcite .",
    "otherwise , this line could be strongly variable in ttausa or the previous detection , which is only marginally significant , is spurious .",
    "several features , including the @xmath25co ( @xmath26 ) bands at @xmath27 m and beyond and the na doublet at 2.2@xmath14 m , can be detected in the spectrum of ttausb when using hr1388 as the atmospheric calibrator .",
    "however , a slight mismatch in airmass ( by about 0.08 ) between this calibrator and ttaus and the time dependence of the atmosphere impede a perfect correction . to more accurately remove the telluric features from the spectrum of ttausb , we used the spectrum of ttausa , which was observed simultaneously and was found to be featureless with the exception of br@xmath0 ( see  [ subsec : spectta ] ) .",
    "the br@xmath0 line appears `` in emission '' in the spectrum of ttausb shown in fig.[fig : spectra ] because the equivalent width of this line is larger in the spectrum of the secondary , but its actual strength can not be directly measured from this plot .",
    "therefore , the equivalent width of the hydrogen line of ttausb was extracted from the spectrum using hr1388 as a calibrator , while the discussion of all other parts of the spectrum refers to that obtained using ttausa as a calibrator . no emission is detected at the wavelength of the 2.12@xmath5 m h@xmath7 line , with a @xmath24 upper limit of 0.5 for its equivalent width .",
    "the spectrum of ttausb contains a number of significant features that appear in all four individual spectra . among these ,",
    "sixteen atomic and molecular features are confidently identified ( and labelled in fig.[fig : spectra ] ) , whose relative strength allow us to estimate the spectral type of ttausb .",
    "this can be done by comparing the spectrum we obtained to spectral atlases found in the literature or to the standard stars observed during the same run , which is preferred since the instrumental set - up matches perfectly that used for ttaus . as can be seen from fig.[fig : spectra ]",
    ", the spectrum of ttausb seems very similar to those of the two early - m stars gl123 and hd1326 . the k5 star ( 61cyga )",
    "we also observed shows more and stronger si and ti features with comparison to the other spectral lines and does not match well the spectrum of ttausb .",
    "the latter shows stronger al and mg features at @xmath28 m than hd1326 ( m2 ) , but a much weaker mg line at 2.28@xmath14 m than gl123 ( m0 ) . on the other hand",
    ", the ratio of the two lines of the na doublet at 2.2@xmath14 m appears very similar in ttausb and gl123 while that of hd1326 is significantly different .",
    "although a very accurate estimate of the spectral type would require a higher signal - to - noise spectrum as well as more spectral type standards , we conclude that ttausb has a spectral type m1 with an uncertainty of about one subclass .",
    "a similar comparison of the spectrum of ttausb to spectral atlases in the literature @xcite suggests a spectral type later than k6 and earlier than m2m3 , consistent with the result presented above .",
    "it is interesting to note that all the features detected in the spectrum of ttausb appear much weaker than in the early - m spectral standards observed at the same resolution .",
    "the equivalent width of the strongest features ( co bands , na doublet , ca triplet at 2.26@xmath14 m , al line at 2.117@xmath14 m ) across the whole @xmath8-band are indeed @xmath29 times smaller than that of the spectral standards .",
    "this is quite unlikely to be the cause of a mismatch in luminosity class , since @xcite have shown that only the co bands are very sensitive to this parameter .",
    "furthermore , although ttauri stars are frequently thought of as subgiants , the latter have stronger , and not weaker , co bands .",
    "it thus seems that the spectrum of ttausb contains , in addition to its m1 photospheric component , a roughly flat continuum throughout the 2.12.35@xmath14 m range .",
    "this @xmath8-band excess must represent about 200% of the photospheric flux to account for the observed weakness of the various features .",
    "this is much larger than the 10% upper limit we placed on the contamination from the featureless spectrum of the primary , and we conclude that it is intrinsic to the object .",
    "the unresolved appearance and the photospheric features in the spectrum of ttausb both point to a stellar nature for this object . although it can not be definitely excluded that we are seeing scattered light off a compact , dense dust clump in the environment of ttausa",
    "whose intrinsic spectrum would then be that of a m1 dwarf , the presence of a strong emission at br@xmath0 in both components with different equivalent width , makes this scenario unlikely .",
    "overall , ttausb appears to be a regular ttauri star , showing a photospheric spectrum and , additionally , strong accretion signatures such as a large br@xmath0 emission , and significant veiling ( @xmath30 ) .",
    "although significant emission in the hydrogen line can arise from chromospheric emission in m - type dwarfs ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we note that the equivalent width of the br@xmath0 line is very strong in ttausb : only @xmath31 of the classical ttauri stars in taurus studied by @xcite show larger equivalent widths .",
    "therefore we believe that emission in this line results from the usual ttauri activity mechanisms",
    ".    the only unusual property of this object might well be its apparent faintness , which suggests that the extinction along the line of sight to ttausb is fairly large .",
    "its @xmath32 color index , obtained by combining our relative photometry with the relatively stable absolute photometry for ttaun from @xcite ( @xcite ; @xmath33 and @xmath34 ) , is about 1.9@xmath170.3mag .",
    "this is much redder than expected for a m1 dwarf ( @xmath35mag ) and probably is the result of a combination of extinction and wavelength - dependent infrared excess related to the accretion phenomenon . since its spectrum reveals photospheric features , it is possible to get a lower limit to the actual extinction towards this object by assuming that the continuum excess detected in the @xmath8-band does not extend into the @xmath10-band , where we would detect only photospheric flux . since the photospheric flux from the star at @xmath8 is only one third of the total flux , the excess - corrected color index of ttausb is @xmath36mag .",
    "the remaining color excess , @xmath37mag , corresponds to an extinction along the line of sight of @xmath38mag @xcite , which is much larger than the extinction to ttaun . combining this with the intrinsic @xmath39 color of a m1 dwarf ( @xmath40 * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we estimate that the expected visible magnitude of ttausb is @xmath41 , which explains its non - detection by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "as can be seen from fig.[fig : orbit ] , ttausb is moving very fast with respect to ttausa ( 4.2auyr@xmath42 , or 20kms@xmath42 , based on the latest two measurements ) .",
    "there are two potential explanations to this : either constant linear motion of a background star or orbital motion .",
    "we first consider the former possibility by comparing the observed motion to what is expected for a field star and show that they are unlikely to match each other .",
    "first of all , one can extrapolate the expected location of a chance alignment background star at the time of the first epoch from the last two measurements , which are the most accurate .",
    "the predicted separation and position angle for december 1997 are @xmath43 and @xmath44 .",
    "this is only 1.5@xmath45 different from the measurement of @xcite , which is not enough to exclude a constant linear motion of ttausb with respect to ttausa .",
    "if ttausb was a background star , its velocity should be the sum of the proper motion of ttaun , which was measured by @xcite , and the relative motion of the ttaun / ttaus pair , which has been estimated by @xcite .",
    "this combined motion , however , is about twice as slow as the observed motion and its direction is about forty degrees away . we thus conclude that ttausb is not a background star .",
    "this is strongly reinforced by the extremely low probability , @xmath46 based on the @xmath47 per square arcsecond surface density of objects brighter than @xmath48 estimated by the 2mass survey around ttau , of finding a star as bright as ttausb within 01 of ttausa . since ttausb appears to be a normal ttauri star , it probably belongs to the taurus star - forming region , and we should compare its observed motion to the internal velocity dispersion in the molecular cloud , which is only 2kms@xmath42 @xcite .",
    "this is ten times smaller than what is observed , and it thus seems unlikely that this binary results from the visual alignment of two unrelated ttauri stars .",
    "another serious issue for the scenario of a linear , independent motion of the two ttaus components is the result of the lunar occultation observations presented by @xcite , who failed to detect any companion to ttaus . at the time of their observations , in december 1994 , ttausb should have been located @xmath49 away from ttausa if its motion remained constant at the current observed speed .",
    "although their observations would have failed to detect a companion in the same configuration as seen by @xcite , such a large system would have been easy to detect unless it was then much fainter than it is currently ( m. simon , priv . comm . ) .",
    "together with the relative speed of ttausb , this suggests that the two stars form a bound system and that , for several years prior to its discovery , ttausb was much closer to ttausa than it is now .",
    "we now assume that the observed motion is indeed that of a bound binary system , since it is statistically unlikely that we are witnessing an unstable triple system at the very moment of its disruption .",
    "although three measurements are not enough to fit a complete orbital solution , one can still estimate the total mass of the system from an order of magnitude calculation .",
    "fig.[fig : orbit ] obviously indicates that the observed motion can not be a face - on circular orbit : the orbit must be inclined and/or eccentric . assuming a 15au - radius inclined circular orbit , which is one of the simplest possible fits , the observed velocity implies a total system mass of @xmath50 , to be compared to the @xmath51 mass of ttaun ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and an orbital period of @xmath52yrs .",
    "such a mass for the ttaus pair implies a total mass of @xmath53 for ttau , a factor of two larger than a previous estimate by @xcite on the basis of the wide pair orbital motion ( estimated orbital period @xmath54yr ) .",
    "however , this mismatch is not statistically significant , as the dependency of orbital velocities to mass is only a square root effect and the measured velocities are fairly small .",
    "independent of the details of the orbital motion within ttaus , we can reasonably assume that its orbital period is on the order of a few decades .",
    "this implies that ttau , considered as a triple system is gravitationally stable since the ratio of the orbital periods involved is at least a factor of ten @xcite .",
    "the presence of a third component in the system might bias attempts to reconstruct the orbital motion of the wide ttaun / ttaus pair , as the orbital motion of ttaus would result in a shift of its photocenter , which was used in previous studies of the system .",
    "however , using gaussian profiles to model both components of ttaus , one can show that the photocenter should not move away from ttausa by more than 0005 _ if _ ttausb does not get much brighter than it currently is . under this assumption , which is unverified in the long run",
    ", the observed motion of the unresolved ttaus pair mostly relates to its orbit with ttaun .",
    "our study confirms that ttaus is a tight binary system and further shows that ttausb is a strongly extincted early m - type ttauri star , quite different from ttausa which is now identified as the actual irc .",
    "this allows us to revisit the various explanations proposed so far about the physical nature of the later object .",
    "we start by investigating the geometry of the system , before we move on to the very nature of the irc .",
    "one of the most popular theories to account for the properties of ttaus , first suggested by @xcite , is that it lies behind the optically thick circumstellar disk surrounding ttaun .",
    "we know that this disk is likely seen close to face - on , as both the analysis of rotation properties of ttaun and velocity measurements of the collimated outflow from that star suggest that its polar axis is only inclined by about 20@xmath55 to the line of sight @xcite . to prevent disk truncation by gravitational resonances ,",
    "the actual separation of the wide pair must be much larger than the disk itself ( cf .",
    "this implies that the ttaun disk and ttaun  ttaus orbit are not coplanar , with ttaus currently lying well beyond the disk .",
    "therefore , the two components of ttaus are likely to suffer roughly from the same extinction .",
    "yet , the featureless spectrum of ttausa contrast sharply with the numerous photospheric lines identified in that of ttausb , which suggests that the disk of ttaun , even though it may lie between us and ttaus , is not the only factor responsible for the unusual characteristics of the irc , unless the disk around ttaun is very clumpy on a few au scale . we conclude that ttaus is surrounded by some optically thick material located much closer to the stars than ttaun and its disk are , as pointed out by the accretion diagnoses found in the spectrum of ttausb which are suggestive of a circumstellar disk .",
    "this analysis suggests that ttausa is deeply embedded in a substantial amount of dusty material which reprocesses photons at mid - infrared wavelengths and annihilates any near - infrared photospheric feature .",
    "alternatively , ttausa could be intrinsically featureless , either because it is an f star , but such strong hydrogen emission lines and red colors have never been found in young intermediate - mass stars , or because its spectrum is completely dominated by an accretion - induced continuum flux .",
    "even if the absence of photospheric features is not due to photon reprocessing by dust grains , the extinction towards ttausa has to be very large to account for its non - detection in the visible , probably much larger than that towards ttausbmag has been derived by @xcite on the basis of the depth of the silicate feature towards ttaus .",
    "given the flux ratio of the tight binary , this extinction applies to ttausa . ] .",
    "although the ttaus binary might be surrounded by a significant circumbinary envelope , the independent variability of both components suggests that they both have their own circumstellar obscuring material , which can be an almost edge - on disk or a more spherical thick envelope . in any case",
    ", this material must be confined to within a few aus of each star , as orbital motion of the close pair would have truncated them long ago otherwise .",
    "these structures must be fed from an envelope surrounding the whole system in order to avoid complete clearance within a few thousands years : the extinction - corrected br@xmath0 flux from ttausb only , @xmath56erg.@xmath57.s@xmath42 , implies an accretion rate of @xmath58 on that component @xcite , while the non - detection of thermal emission from ttaus by @xcite places an upper limit of about @xmath59 on the mass of the gaseous material surrounding the tight binary .",
    "the existence of such a vast envelope was suggested by @xcite to fit the mid- to far - infrared unresolved flux of the system , and it could also account for the past variability of ttaun @xcite .    overall , our study does not dramatically modify the geometry depicted by @xcite from their analysis of the two outflows known in this system , that is ttaun seen pole - on in the foreground of ttaus which is close to edge - on . however , we believe that the disk of ttaun does not heavily obscure ttaus .",
    "on the other hand , both ttausa and ttausb possess their own obscuring circumstellar material .",
    "the orientation of the jet emanating from ttaus , almost in the plane of the sky , suggests that the star responsible for its launching could be seen through an almost edge - on disk .",
    "it is even possible that both circumstellar disks are parallel and seen almost edge - on , accounting for heavy extinction towards both components . in any case",
    ", the presence of accretion diagnostics in the spectra of both components of ttaus implies that they are both actively accreting , and hence that they are very likely surrounded by circumstellar disks .",
    "whether we are looking at the stars through these disks or at higher inclination can not be solved without much higher angular resolution studies allowed by techniques such as long - baseline interferometry .",
    "finally , we emphasize that the presence of two stellar objects in the ttaus system provides a natural explanation to the non - detection of thermal flux at millimeter wavelengths @xcite , as discussed by @xcite ; most of the flux at these wavelengths normally comes from cold material located tens of au away from the central star , but such material is likely to have been swept away by the orbital motion of the binary .",
    "ttaus has long been known to be the origin of non - thermal radio emission longwards of @xmath60 cm @xcite .",
    "this is thought to be the result of free - free emission either in an active magnetosphere or in an outflow .",
    "recent high - angular resolution 2 cm observations of the ttau system reveals that ttausb is likely to be the source of this emission ( k. johnston _ et al .",
    "_ 2001 , in preparation ) .",
    "this may suggest that ttausb is the source of the outflow identified by @xcite from this system . on the other hand ,",
    "if ttausa is an accretion - dominated pre - main sequence object ( fuori - like ) , as first suggested by @xcite , it is also likely to drive a significant bipolar jet , as most of the younger , class i objects do ; in that picture ttausb could be the source of magnetopheric free - free radio emission while the optical jet would originate from ttausa .",
    "it is thus still unclear which of the two components drives the outflow known to originate in the unresolved binary .",
    "the spectrum of ttausb reveals that it is a normal ttauri star that is strongly extincted , likely due to the presence of some circumstellar / binary envelope ( see above ) . on the other hand ,",
    "the exact nature of ttausa remains unclear .",
    "the mystery surrounding the irc ttaus has just been shifted towards its brightest component in the near - infrared .",
    "this could be an intermediate - mass star ( spectral type f or so ) , an accretion - dominated object or a simple ttauri star suffering a moderate accretion rate . in any case",
    ", it is deeply embedded into some sort of circumstellar material , which is confined into a volume of a few au in radius , at most .",
    "although this material could form a passive circumstellar envelope , a significant accretion rate on ttausa is evidenced by the strong br@xmath0 emission line in its spectrum .",
    "furthermore , the variability of this object can not be simply explained by extinction changes , so that it is has to be related to some intrinsic variability @xcite .",
    "the most likely explanation is that the accretion - induced luminosity dominates the total flux of the object and varies with time , reinforcing the fuori - like model .",
    "the total mass estimated for the ttaus system from the observed orbital motion (  [ subsec : orbmotion ] ) suggests that ttausa is quite massive , as ttausb is an early m - type star , and therefore is likely to be on the order of only @xmath61 .",
    "although the mass of ttausa remains uncertain , it is likely to be at least as massive as ttaun .",
    "if it really is the most massive star in the system , the peculiarity of the irc could be a direct consequence of its mass , as already suggested by @xcite .",
    "because of its deeper potential well , the irc could both retain a much denser circumstellar envelope than its neighbours and concentrate most of the feeding material coming from the vast reservoir surrounding the whole system , thus accounting for its apparent properties .",
    "we note however that , if it is not itself a tight binary consisting of two @xmath62 objects , a mass much larger than @xmath63 for ttausa is problematic for several reasons : even though ttau is among the youngest ttauri systems ( 0.6myr , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , a @xmath64 is already an early - a or late - b star and it is already close to or on the main sequence at this age .",
    "its luminosity would then be in the range 1001000@xmath65 , which is much larger than the bolometric luminosity of ttaus @xcite .",
    "furthermore , such a hot star would create a very strong radiative pressure field and would likely blow away the surrounding dusty envelope .",
    "either the system is not coeval , with ttausa in an earlier evolutionary stage , or the mass of this star is currently overestimated .",
    "a continued follow - up of the ttausa / ttausb orbit over the next few years will help to refine the orbital parameters .",
    "we obtained new @xmath10 and @xmath8 images of the ttau triple system with the adaptive optics system at the 10 m keck telescope , as well as the first resolved medium - resolution ( @xmath15 ) @xmath8-band spectra of the two components of ttaus , identified so far as an irc to ttaun .",
    "our data reveal that ttausb is a heavily extincted , actively accreting m1 pre - main sequence object , i.e. a rather normal ttauri star . on the other hand , ttausa , which dominates the system in the near - infrared ,",
    "is indeed identified as the irc : its spectrum shows no feature except for a significant br@xmath0 emission line . unlike previous observations",
    ", we do not detect the 2.12@xmath5 m h@xmath7 emission line in either of the two components .",
    "the tight ttaus binary shows significant motion since its first detection , almost three years prior to our observations .",
    "although it is not yet inconsistent with a constant linear motion , it seems quite unlikely that this is because either one of the two objects is a background object , since they both show strong signs of ttauri - like activity . interpreting the observed motion as that of two stars orbiting each other , and assuming that the orbit is inclined and circular , we derive rough estimates for the orbital parameters .",
    "the total system mass and orbital periods are on the order of @xmath66 and @xmath67yrs , although we emphasize that the uncertainty on the actual orbit shape is not taken into account here .",
    "although ttaus might well be located behind the circumstellar disk of ttaun , we argue here that this is _ not _ the main reason for the peculiarities of ttaus , because of the strikingly different properties of ttausa , which is now identified as the irc , and ttausb as well as from an analysis of the optical depth of the circumprimary disk . both components of ttaus",
    "are likely embedded in their own circumstellar material , which could be either an almost edge - on disk or a dense spheroidal envelope .",
    "because of tidal truncation due to the tight binary s orbit , this material must be confined to within only a few au of the stars , making it too small to be resolved by current observations .",
    "furthermore , this effect also explains the non - detection of thermal flux in the radio domain , as most of the material located in the corresponding range of distance from the stars has been swept away . in any event , the subsistence of dense envelopes on a few au scale around both components of ttaus for several @xmath68yrs requires that they are being replenished by material coming from a larger scale reservoir such as a vast envelope surrounding the whole system .",
    "the presence of such a structure was already suspected from the analysis of the spectral energy distribution from the system .",
    "following the orbit of ttaus for a few more years will bring a definitive conclusion regarding the possibility that the system is simply a projected , unphysical one and provide a much better estimate of the orbit shape and parameters if the two stars are bound .",
    "furthermore , high - spectral resolution data will yield radial velocities , which are very powerful tools to better constrain the orbit , and potentially reveal for the first time some photospheric features , which would greatly help understanding the nature of this peculiar object .",
    "we also note that both components of ttaus are prime targets for the upcoming long - baseline interferometry experiments , as the environment of these stars can only be resolved through these techniques .",
    "data presented herein were obtained at the w. m. keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w. m. keck foundation .",
    "the observatory staff supported our observations very efficiently and we wish to thank them , more particularly joel aycock , david le mignant and david sprayberry .",
    "we also thank bruce macintosh for his help during the observations and franck marchis for providing us with synthetic point spread functions used to estimate strehl ratios in our images .",
    "we ackowledge our anonymous referee for his prompt and helpful report , as well as michal simon for extensive discussions about ttaus and valuable comments on an early version of this paper .",
    "this work has been supported in part by the national science foundation science and technology center for adaptive optics , managed by the university of california at santa cruz under cooperative agreement no .",
    "ast-9876783 , by nasa s origins of solar system program grant no .",
    "nag-6975 and by the packard foundation .",
    "this research makes use of the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france , and of data products from the two micron all sky survey , which is a joint project of the university of massachusetts and the infrared processing and analysis center / california institute of technology , funded by the national aeronautics and space administration and the national science foundation .",
    "the authors wish to extend special thanks to those of hawaiian ancestry on whose sacred mountains we are privileged to be guests . without their generous hospitality ,",
    "none of the observations presented herein would have been possible .",
    "roddier , f. , roddier , c. , brandner w. , charissoux , d. , vran , j .-",
    ", & courbin , f.  2000 , _ in _ `` birth and evolution of binary stars '' , poster proceedings of iau symp .",
    "200 , eds . b. reipurth & h. zinnecker , p. 60",
    "stapelfeldt , k.  r. , burrows , c.  j. , krist , j.  e. , watson , a.  m. , ballester , g.  e. , clarke , j.  t. , crisp , d. , evans , r.  w. , gallagher , j.  s.  iii , griffiths , r.  e. , hester , j.  j. , hoessel , j.  g. , holtzman , j.  a. , mould , j.  r. , scowen , p.  a. , trauger , j.  t. , westphal , j.  a.  1998 , , 508 , 736              ccccc binary & & + & sepn .",
    "& p.a . & @xmath69 ( mag ) & @xmath70 ( mag ) + sa  sb & @xmath71 & 2670@xmath1716 & @xmath72 & @xmath73 + n  sa & @xmath74 & 1797@xmath1702 & @xmath75 & @xmath76 + n  s@xmath77 & & & @xmath78 & @xmath79 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we obtained new near - infrared images of the prototypical pre - main sequence triple system ttau , as well as the first resolved medium - resolution spectra of the close pair ttaus . at the time of our observations , the tight binary had a 13au projected separation and showed significant motion since its discovery , three years before . </S>",
    "<S> the orbit can not be strongly constrained yet , but the observed motion of ttausb with respect to ttausa suggests that the system is at least as massive as ttaun itself . </S>",
    "<S> this may indicate that ttaun is not the most massive star in the system . </S>",
    "<S> the spectrum of ttausa , which is totally featureless except for a strong br@xmath0 emission line , identifies this component with the `` infrared companion '' , whose exact nature remains obscure but may be the consequence of it being the most massive component of the system . contrasting sharply with ttausa , the spectrum of ttausb shows numerous photospheric features consistent with an early - m spectral type . </S>",
    "<S> the presence of a strong br@xmath0 emission line and of a significant veiling continuum classifies this object as a deeply embedded ttauri star . from these observations , we conclude that both components of ttaus are embedded in their own dense circumstellar cocoon of material , which are probably fed by a much more extended structure . </S>"
  ]
}