{
  "article_text": [
    "after recombining at @xmath1 , the intergalactic medium ( igm ) remains neutral until the formation of the first luminous sources in the universe . these act to reionize the universe , leading to the fully ionized",
    "igm seen today ( neutral fraction @xmath2 ) .",
    "the epoch of cosmic reionization ( eor ) therefore sets a fundamental benchmark in cosmic structure formation , corresponding to the formation of the first luminous objects ( star forming galaxies and/or accreting massive black holes ) .",
    "the last few years has seen a revolution in our understanding of the eor , in particular , the first observational constraints on the redshift for the eor .",
    "the discovery of the gunn  peterson absorption trough in the spectra of the most distant quasars ( @xmath3 ) , corresponding to ly @xmath4 absorption by the neutral igm , implies that we have finally probed into the eor @xcite .",
    "these data show that the neutral fraction of the igm decreases rapidly over a short cosmic time , from @xmath5 at @xmath6 , to @xmath7 at @xmath8 .",
    "a rapid transition is supported by a number of lines of evidence , including : ( i ) studies of the thermal state of the igm at high redshift via high @xmath9 ly@xmath4 forest observations @xcite , ( ii ) observations of cosmic stromgren spheres and surfaces around the highest redshift qsos @xcite , and ( iii ) @xmath10cdm galaxy formation models normalized to known high @xmath9 galaxy populations @xcite .",
    "however , recent cmb large scale polarization measurements by wmap suggest a significantly ionized igm at @xmath11 to 20 @xcite .",
    "taken together , current observational constraints suggest that cosmic reionization had a fairly complex history , extending from @xmath12 to 20 @xcite .    while the discovery of the gp effect , and the large scale polarization of the cmb , are clearly monumental achievements in observational cosmology , both techniques have limitations . for the gp effect ,",
    "the igm becomes opaque for neutral fractions @xmath13 , such that the technique loses it s diagnostic power once the igm becomes a small fraction neutral . for the cmb ,",
    "the large scale polarized signal is an integral measure of the universal optical depth to thompson scattering , and can be fit with myriad reionization scenarios @xcite . the ska will play a pivotal role in determining the epoch , and physics , of cosmic reionization in two ways : ( 1 ) through direct observations of the neutral igm via the hi 21 cm line , and ( 2 ) through continuum and line observations of the first luminous objects  stars , galaxies and black holes .",
    "the ability of the ska to image the neutral igm in 21 cm emission is a truly unique probe of the process of reionization , and is recognized as the next necessary and fundamental step in our study of cosmic reionization .",
    "likewise , study of hi 21 cm absorption toward the first radio loud objects probes small to intermediate scale structure in the neutral cosmic web , as well as hi in the first collapsed structures ( proto - disks and mini - halos ) .",
    "observations of the hi 21 cm line are a direct probe of the evolution of the neutral igm , and provide key diagnostics on the ionization and thermal state of the igm , the formation of large and small scale structure , and the nature of the first luminous objects ( agn or stars ) .",
    "the incomparable sensitivity of the ska allows for the study of the molecular gas , dust , and star formation activity in the first galaxies , as well as the radio continuum emission from the first accreting massive black holes .",
    "it is important to keep in mind that , due to the on - set of gp absorption at @xmath14 , observations of objects within the eor are limited to wavelengths longer than 0.9 micron .",
    "hence study of the first galaxies and agn is the exclusive realm of near - ir to radio astronomy ( and x - rays ) .",
    "the study of the evolution of the neutral igm , and the first luminous objects , has been selected as one of the key science programs for the ska .",
    "details of these studies can be found in contributions by furlanetto , carilli , blain , falcke , and jarvis in this volume .",
    "we review this material herein .",
    "the study of the redshifted hi 21 cm line at meter wavelengths with the ska provides a direct probe of the pristine neutral igm within the eor . unlike studies of the ly@xmath4 forest , 21 cm tomography",
    "does not suffer from saturation when the neutral fraction is large , so it is ideal for studying the middle and early stages of reionization .",
    "moreover , because it is a spectral line observation , it provides a complete time history of reionization rather than an integral constraint , such as the optical depth to electron scattering of the cmb . the major difficulty with the technique - the weak signals - makes this an ideal project for the ska .",
    "the first consideration of detecting the 21 cm signal from the eor entailed searching for a global step in the background temperature due to the transition from a neutral to ionized igm @xcite .",
    "given this is a full - sky measurement , the sensitivity is independent of the telescope area .",
    "the most recent treatment of this problem can be found in @xcite .",
    "this is a difficult observation , requiring detecting a change in the overall background spectral index at the 0.1@xmath15 level , and the difficulty is excerbated if the eor extends over a large redshift range .",
    "a more interesting application is to map out variations in the neutral hydrogen density , either across the sky or in frequency space .",
    "such `` tomography '' studies allows one to reconstruct the time evolution of reionization in an entirely unique manner .",
    "the idea is to measure the fluctuating brightness temperature of the igm gas , which depends in turn on the local overdensity , neutral fraction , and spin temperature . in general",
    "we expect three distinct observational epochs .",
    "before the first luminous sources form , we should see weak fluctuations from the `` proto - cosmic web '' and virialized gas in dark matter `` minihalos '' @xcite .",
    "after these sources turn on , ly@xmath4 photons flood the universe and render the entire igm visible against the cmb . depending on the thermal history of the gas , this era can be seen in either absorption or emission , so this era can be used to study the first luminous sources in the universe .",
    "once the igm is heated to well above the cmb temperature ( either through radiation or shock heating ) , temperature fluctuations no longer affect the brightness temperature and we see only fluctuations in the density and ionized fraction .",
    "we expect most of the interesting phases of reionization to take place during this last era .",
    "str \" omgren spheres surrounding ionizing sources rapidly dominate the fluctuations ( see fig . [",
    "fig : sim ] ) .",
    "however , our current understanding of this process is poor and measurements of reionization are crucial for advancing our understanding of this landmark event . in particular",
    ", we would like to know how the hii regions grow around sources , and which sources are most responsible for reionization .",
    "the contribution by furlanetto ( this volume ) describes several theoretical studies of the signals expected during reionization . in all models ,",
    "we expect fluctuations of order 110 mk on scales of one to several arcminutes , with the characteristic scale increasing as reionization proceeds @xcite .",
    "the growth of these regions , as well as the mean signal , directly measures the entire ionization history , the morphology of the hii regions , and the path by which the igm is ionized ( for example , whether voids or dense regions are ionized first ) .",
    "the expected signal is thus rich in potential physical diagnostics of both the igm and the first generations of luminous sources",
    ".        the ska will be the first instrument with adequate sensitivity to _ image _ fluctuations over the entire set of angular scales relevant to these observations , especially near the beginning of reionization when the hii regions are small ( near or somewhat below an arcminute in size ) . while instruments such as past and lofar should be able to measure some of the statistical properties of neutral gas and possibly map the sky on coarse angular scales , the ska offers a unique opportunity to image the evolution of large - scale structures during the eor ( figure 1 ) .",
    "the expected frequency range of 100 mhz to 200 mhz ( @xmath16 to 13 ) is sufficient to place powerful constraints on the ionization history , though measurements of `` first light '' may require lower frequencies .",
    "one of the major challenges in recovering this signal is foreground contamination from galactic synchrotron radiation and extragalactic point sources .",
    "however , there are several promising techniques to eliminate this contamination .",
    "zaldariagga et al .",
    "@xcite showed that the smooth spectra of these foregrounds allow efficient cleaning through differencing maps closely spaced in frequency .",
    "morales & hewitt @xcite showed that symmetries in the spectral domain also allow foreground removal .",
    "while technically challenging , we expect that 21 cm tomography will revolutionize our understanding of the high - redshift universe .",
    "observing hi 21 cm emission from the eor implies studying large scale structure ( cluster scales and larger ) .",
    "a number of groups have recently considered the possibility of studying smaller scale structure in the neutral igm by looking for hi 21 cm absorption toward the first radio - loud objects ( agn , star forming galaxies , grbs ) .",
    "carilli et al .",
    "@xcite use numerical simulations to predict the hi 21 cm absorption profile of the cosmic web prior to reionization .",
    "for example , for a source at @xmath17 , they predict an average optical depth due to 21 cm absorption of about 1@xmath15 , corresponding to the radio gunn - peterson effect. they also find about five narrow ( few km / s ) absorption lines per mhz with optical depths of a few to 10@xmath15 ( figure 2 ) .",
    "these latter lines are equivalent to the ly @xmath4 forest seen after reionization , and correspond to over - densities evolving in the linear regime ( @xmath18 ) .",
    "while significant questions remain about simulating the thermal state of the igm to such detail , the simple point remains that , while the ly@xmath4 lines from such structures are highly saturated , the ( much ) lower 21 cm oscillator strength makes the igm translucent prior to reionization .",
    "= 20 mjy at @xmath17 using a spectral model based on the powerful radio galaxy cygnus a and assuming hi 21 cm absorption by the igm ( see contribution by carilli , this volume , @xcite ) .",
    "thermal noise has been added using the specifications of the ska and assuming 10 days integration with 1 khz wide spectral channels .",
    "the onset of absorption by the neutral igm is seen at 129 mhz , corresponding to the hi 21 cm line at @xmath19.,width=288 ]    it is possible that , due to the lower cosmic jean s mass prior to reionization , the majority of the hi is contained in mini - halos , ie",
    ". collapsed structures with @xmath20 and masses @xmath21 m@xmath22 .",
    "furlanetto & loeb @xcite have considered this possibility and predict a similar hi 21 cm absorption line density due to gas in mini - halos as that expected for the 21 cm forest .",
    "the predicted absorption signal depends on the excitation state of the hi .",
    "this in turn depends on igm pre - heating , including possible early reionization ( and subsequent recombination ) , resonant scattering of ly@xmath4 photons , and heating by soft x - rays .",
    "cen @xcite shows that the presence or absence of hi absorption by mini - halos , or the cosmic web , would be a telling diagnostic of early igm heating mechanisms .",
    "furlanetto & loeb @xcite also consider the expected 21 cm absorption profiles for proto - disk galaxies . while such absorption lines will be rare ( @xmath23 times less frequent than the 21 cm forest lines ) , the optical depths may be large enough that the lines could be observed toward faint radio sources , in particular , gamma ray burst radio after - glows within the host galaxy .",
    "an important caveat in these calculations is the assumption of radio loud sources during the eor .",
    "this question has been considered in detail by carilli et al .",
    "@xcite and haiman et al .",
    "they show that current models of radio - loud agn evolution predict between 0.05 and 1 radio sources per square degree at @xmath24 with @xmath25 mjy , adequate for eor hi 21 cm absorption studies with the ska ( see also section 4 ) .",
    "gunn - peterson absorption during the eor ( @xmath26 ) precludes observations of objects at wavelengths longer than 0.9 micron .",
    "hence study of the first galaxies and agn is the exclusive realm of near - ir to radio astronomy .",
    "the last few years has seen a revolution in the number of objects discovered at @xmath24 using near - ir and radio imaging and spectroscopy , including star forming galaxies @xcite and agn @xcite .",
    "the recent discovery of molecular line emission , thermal emission from warm dust , and radio syncrotron emission , from the most distant qso ( @xmath27 ; @xcite ) , implies very early enrichment of heavy elements and dust in galaxies , presumably via star formation , within 0.8 gyr of the big bang ( figure 3 ) .",
    "unfortunately , such experiments stretch current instrumentation to the extreme limit , such that only rare and pathologic objects are detectable , ie .",
    "hyperluminous ir galaxies with @xmath28 l@xmath22 .",
    "the two orders of magnitude increase in sensitivity afforded by the ska will enable study of the first normal galaxies within the eor in a number of ways .",
    "the ska operating at short cm wavelengths ( @xmath29 ghz ) allows for detailed molecular line imaging of galaxies in the high-@xmath9 universe .",
    "the high redshifts involved mean that the standard mm molecular transitions will be available for study with the ska , eg .",
    "observations at 20 ghz correspond to co 1 - 0 at @xmath30 , co 2 - 1 at @xmath31 , and hcn 1 - 0 at @xmath32 .",
    "such studies reveal the physics and chemistry of molecular gas reservoirs required for star formation , and provide a unique probe of gas dynamics and dynamical masses of the first galaxies @xcite .",
    "also , radio continuum studies with nanojy sensitivity in the frequency range 1 to 10 ghz will present a dust - unbiased view of star formation in these systems .     @xcite .",
    "the 3 - 2 line was observed with the very large array at 47 ghz , while the higher order transitions were observed with the plateau de bure interferometer .",
    "the implied molecular gas mass is @xmath33 m@xmath22.,width=288 ]    note that alma also has the potential for studying molecular emission from high redshift objects , but only in systems where very high - order transitions are excited ( eg . observations at 90 ghz correspond to co 7 - 6 at @xmath34 ) , and with less sensitivity than ska , even for thermally excited lines . in general , ska and alma",
    "will provide complementary information on the low and high order molecular emission from galaxies at intermediate redshifts ( @xmath35 to 6 ) , while at the highest redshifts , ie . into the eor ( @xmath24 ) ,",
    "the ska becomes the premier instrument for studying the molecular content of early galaxies ( see contribution by blain , this volume ) .",
    "for example , carilli & blain @xcite show that in optimal surveys at 20 ghz the ska will detect of order 15 sources per hour in co 1 - 0 emission at @xmath36 .    as a concrete example of the types of objects that might be studied , pello et al .",
    "@xcite have recently presented evidence in the near - ir for a possible strongly lensed @xmath37 galaxy . although the detection appears to be spurious @xcite , the proposed source properties",
    "may be considered characteristic of the first generation of galaxies that will be studied in deep near - ir surveys .",
    "the apparent uv luminosity is @xmath38 l@xmath22 . making the standard dust correction for typical high redshift star forming galaxies ( ie .",
    "ly - break galaxies ) then implies an apparent ( fir ) luminosity of @xmath39 l@xmath22 . assuming a line width of 300 km / s , the predicted co 2 - 1 velocity integrated flux density is 4.5 mjy km s@xmath40 at 21 ghz .",
    "this co emission line could be detected ( at 5@xmath41 ) with the ska in 10 minutes .",
    "the ( non - thermal ) radio continuum emission is about 1 @xmath42jy at 1.4 ghz , which could be detected with the ska in about 15 minutes . and",
    "to emphasize complementarity with future instrumentation , the predicted thermal emission from warm dust at 250 ghz is 0.6 mjy , which can be detected with alma in a few minutes as well . if we remove the effect of strong lensing the required integration times increase by about two orders of magnitude , but that still means only about 20 hours integration to detect the first galaxies in the universe .",
    "indeed , hopkins @xcite predicts that , in an 8 hr integration with the ska at 1.4 ghz , one would detect of order 7000 star forming galaxies at @xmath43 in the 1 deg@xmath44 fov of the ska ( see van der hulst et al this volume , although cf .",
    "jackson , this volume ) .",
    "figure 4 shows the spectrum of the active star forming galaxy arp 220 at a number of redshifts , compared to the sensitivity of future instruments .",
    "the ska is well matched to future instruments such as alma and the jwst in terms of studying the first luminous objects in the universe , allowing for a panchromatic view of the earliest stages of galaxy formation .",
    "such a broad view will reveal the complete suite of physical processes in these systems , including stars , star formation , the interstellar medium ( dust and gas ) , and the galaxy dynamics ( dark matter ) , in objects forming within 0.5 gyr of the big bang .",
    "lastly , an important aspect of the molecular line observations of galaxies within the eor is that they give the most accurate redshifts ( by far ) for the host galaxies .",
    "typical high ionization broad metal emission lines from qsos are notoriously uncertain in terms of the host galaxy redshifts , with offsets typically on the order of 10@xmath45 km s@xmath40 @xcite , while ly @xmath4 emission lines are affected severely by absorption .",
    "accurate host galaxy redshifts are crucial in the calculation of the size of cosmic stromgren spheres around objects within the eor , since these sizes are derived from the redshift difference between the host galaxy and the on - set of gp absorption @xcite",
    ". the sizes of these ionized regions have been used to constrain the igm neutral fraction @xcite , setting a lower limit to the neutral fraction of 0.1 at @xmath46 , two orders of magnitude more stringent than the lower limit set by the gp effect .",
    "within the eor , hierarchical clustering will begin to yield the first dark - matter halos massive enough to host supermassive black holes ( smbh ) . during the major growth phases of these objects",
    ", they will shine as qsos , although much of the radiation may be absorbed locally by dense neutral material in the dark - matter halo , or in the more diffuse neutral igm .",
    "the mass - doubling timescale for an eddington - rate - limited smbh is @xmath47 , which is not much smaller than the time interval between the epoch at which a suitably massive smbh could first have formed and the end of the eor ( figure 6 ; @xcite ) .",
    "it is therefore reasonable to assume that most smbhs within the eor will be observed accreting at some high fraction of the eddington - limited rate , although the possibility that an important proportion of black hole growth occurs in short - lived super - eddington - accreting bursts @xcite can never be easily discounted . since the ska can penetrate the huge optical depths common in the eor , and since its will have unparalleled sensitivity to quasar activity over wide fields of view ( fov )",
    ", it will become the premier instrument for understanding quasar ( i.e.  smbh ) feedback within the eor .",
    "some small fraction ( @xmath48 ) of these accreting smbh will generate powerful radio jets ( radio - loud quasars ) .",
    "their radio luminosities are immense so a significant fraction of those observable in the eor have probably already been detected in surveys like first and nvss , and even shallow ska surveys will trivially find them all .",
    "however , @xcite have shown that high signal - to - noise ratio spectroscopic observations are needed to measure reliable redshifts for these objects ( from the forest of hi 21 cm absorption lines ",
    "the radio analogue of the gunn - peterson effect ) and since they will be rare , and very hard to find in other ways , they will perhaps be both found and studied using an ` all - hemisphere ' ska survey ( figure 5 ) .     of ` radio - loud ' quasars ( dashed line ) and ` radio - quiet ' qsos ( solid line ) in an all - hemisphere ( @xmath49 ) , 1-year ska survey at @xmath50 ghz ( assuming a @xmath51 continuum detection limit of @xmath52 njy , a @xmath53 at @xmath54 ghz , scaling as @xmath55 ) .",
    "the prediction follows from the methods outlined in jarvis & rawlings ( this volume ) and are consistent with the cosmic evolution in agn trigger rates inferred from fig .",
    "all radio - loud quasars [ defined here as all objects , including optically - obscured ` radio galaxies ' ] , in the sub - population dominating the radio luminosity function ( rlf ) at and above its characteristic break @xcite will be detected at @xmath56mjy levels and will therefore have high signal - to - noise ska spectra , allowing studies of the igm during the eor using hi absorption @xcite .",
    "the ska sensitivity is also sufficient to detect all the radio - quiet quasars in the eor [ defined here as all quasars , including optically - obscured ` type - ii ' objects ] , at or above the characteristic break in the x - ray luminosity function @xcite .",
    ", width=288 ]     for various halo velocity dispersions @xmath41 ( in units of @xmath57 ) from rawlings & jarvis @xcite . adopting the feedback model ( for powerful jets ) of rawlings & jarvis , the halos capable of hosting these ` radio - loud ' objects lie in the range @xmath58 , which correspond to @xmath59 ( where @xmath60 , marked by circles , is the density threshold for collapse in units of the r.m.s .",
    "density fluctuations ) at @xmath61 . adopting the feedback model ( for weak jets ) of silk & rees ( 1998 ) , the halos capable of hosting these",
    "` radio - quiet ' objects reach down to @xmath62 , and hence can form from a @xmath59 fluctuation at @xmath63 . ,",
    "width=288 ]    carilli et al .",
    "@xcite have argued that studies of the igm within the eor are made possible by hi 21 cm absorption against distant radio - loud sources .",
    "such objects are also important in themselves as they probably contribute significantly to the heating of the igm , its magnetization and the distribution of heavy elements during the eor .",
    "their influence on the ionized component of the cosmic web is likely to be profound , e.g. @xcite , and their jets carry enough kinetic power that they dominate the mechanical output of all accreting black holes .",
    "a single radio - loud outburst can , for example , shut - down star - formation and black - hole activity in @xmath64 surrounding protogalaxies in a protocluster @xcite .",
    "radio - quiet quasars are the dominant source of photoionizing ( if not kinetic ) power associated with accreting smbh .",
    "they always have some radio emission , e.g.  from star formation and weak jets .",
    "the ska has sufficient sensitivity to detect essentially all this population within the eor ( figure 6 ) .",
    "although finding these objects represents a challenging sifting problem , large fov ( c.f .",
    "present and future x - ray and mid - ir satellites ) and ( via deep ska exposures ) redshift measurement using associated hi 21 cm ( rather than metal ) lines , may prove crucial in finding the first ( i.e. highest - redshift ) smbhs in the universe .      in order to find the first smbhs , besides its sensitivity and powerful surveying capability , the ska can make additional use of its resolving power for identifying agn .",
    "almost every agn , be it radio - loud or radio - quiet , is associated with a high brightness temperature radio core ( this is discussed in more detail by falcke , krding , & nagar in this volume ) .",
    "the radio core is typically the inner part of a moderately relativistic plasma jet . at flux density levels of several mjy these radio cores",
    "are almost exclusively found to be associated with the smbh in a galaxy .",
    "they stand out when using a spatial filter concentrating on the longest baselines of the telescope array .",
    "radio cores have been used effectively to identify agn in wide field vlbi images of deep fields and for other agn surveys .",
    "they are even more pronounced for low - power sources . surveying the palomar sample of nearby galaxies at a shallow level with the vla , nagar et al .",
    "@xcite showed that @xmath65 of nearby agn host a compact radio core that is easily detected and which reliably identifies agn activity . at lower resolution , including extended emission , the detection rate even approaches @xmath66 @xcite .",
    "compact radio core emission seems to be a function of accretion power and is related to the x - ray emission and the black hole mass .",
    "black holes  stellar and supermassive  form a loosely defined fundamental plane in the parameter space opened up by radio flux , x - ray flux , and black hole mass @xcite .",
    "this relation implies that supermassive black holes are most effectively detected in the radio while x - rays are more effective for stellar mass black holes .",
    "figure [ figrlf ] shows the local radio core luminosity function of agn ( most of which are traditionally classified as radio - quiet ) from seyferts galaxies , via low - luminosity agn down to our own milky way .",
    "the scale on the top shows the typical redshift range detectable for such agn with the ska in one hour .",
    "it shows that the ska will allow the study of a very wide range of agn activity with low - luminosity agn being easily visibly out to z=1 and more luminous ones even further .",
    "besides studying agn evolution , the ska will thus also penetrate deep into the eor . even without beaming ,",
    "radio cores are expected to be visible at @xmath67 from @xmath68 black holes shining at their eddington limit or from @xmath69 black holes shining at 0.1% of the eddington limit .",
    "this allows one to detect the very first smbhs already in the process of their formation  if this happens through baryonic accretion .",
    "the compact radio emission may , however , be further amplified if one does not only consider the inner , fairly dissipationless part of the jet .",
    "one could argue that the terminus of jets , i.e. , their hot spots , from the first black holes will be confined to the host galaxy due to large ambient densities and pressures in the violent formation process of the early galaxies . since the hot spots are working surfaces of the jet , their emission can dominate the overall radio emission easily and the compactness of the emission makes them appear as high - brightness temperatures sources .",
    "the radio cores will then have a very characteristic , peaked broad band spectrum ( called gigahertz - peaked spectrum / gps sources@xcite ) caused by synchrotron absorption with a double - lobed spatial structure on a scale of some tens of milli - arcsecond .",
    "this characteristic peak allows for designing very effective large survey capabilities as the physical size and the peak frequency are related : the smaller the source the higher the frequency .",
    "fortuitously frequency and angular size show a very different behaviour as one goes to large redshifts : frequency will decrease while angular sizes become larger again for a standard ruler at @xmath70 .",
    "hence in the parameter space of angular size , peak frequency , and flux density , ultra - high redshift gps sources should occupy a unique region ( lower left corner in fig .",
    "[ sizeandnu ] ) .",
    "they will have peak frequencies in the 0.1 - 0.3 ghz regime , sizes of some 10 - 100 milli - arcsecond , and flux densities in the mjy regime .",
    "an all - sky broad - band survey with high - resolution follow - up observations should therefore very effectively produce candidates for the first smbhs in the universe",
    ". some of them may even be bright enough to do hi absorption spectroscopy in deep integrations to confirm their high - z nature .",
    "the crucial and qualitatively new features of the ska to make this succeed are its huge instantaneous band - width to measure spectral curvature and its multi - beaming capability to facilitate large surveys .    in summary",
    ", the ska seems to be an ideal instrument to study agn evolution at all luminosity levels and all redshifts largely unaffected by dust obscuration .",
    "it even provides a number of angles on how to identify and study in detail the very first generation of smbhs .",
    "as such the ska will be an invaluable tool for cosmology and black hole physics alike .    9 bertoldi , f. , cox , p. , neri , r. et al .",
    "2003 , a&a , 409 , l47 bertoldi , f. , carilli , c. , cox , p. et al .",
    "2003 , a&a , 406 , l15 carilli , c. & blain , a. 2002 , apj , 569 , 605 carilli , c. , walter , f. , bertoldi , f. et al .",
    "2004a , aj , submitted carilli , c. , bertoldi , f. , walter , f. et al .",
    "2004b , in multiwavelength agn surveys , eds .",
    "maiolino and mujica ( world scientific ) , in press ( astroph/0402573 ) carilli , c. , gnedin , n. , owen , f. 2002 , apj , 577 , 22 cen , r. 2003 , apj , 591 , 12 collin , s. , boisson , c. , mouchet , m. , dumont , a .- m . , coupe , s. , porquet , d. , rokaki , e. , 2002 , a&a , 388 , 771 falcke , h. , nagar , n.  m. , wilson , a.  s. , & ulvestad , j.  s.  2000 , apj , 542 , 197 falcke , h. , k \" ording , e. , & markoff , s.  2004 , a & a. , 414 , 895 fan , x. , strauss , m. , schneider , d. et al.2003 , aj , 125 , 1649 furlanetto , s. & loeb , a. 2003 , apj , 588 , 18 furlanetto , s. , zaldarriaga , m. , hernquist , l. 2004 , apj , submitted ( astroph/0403697 ) gnedin , n. 2004 , apj , in press ( astroph/0403699 ) gnedin , n. & shaver , p. 2003 , apj , in press ( astroph/03012005 ) gopal - krishna , wiita , p. j. , 2001 , apj , 560l , 115 haiman , z. , quatert , e. , bower , g. 2004 , apj , in press ( astroph/0403104 ) harford , a. , & gnedin , n. 2003 , apj , 597 , 74 ho , l.  c.  & ulvestad , j.  s.  2001 , apj ( supp ) , 133 , 77 hopkins , a. , windhorst , r. , cram , l. , ekers , r. 2000 , experimental astronomy , 10 , 419 hu , e. , cowie , l. , mcmahon , r. et al . 2002 ,",
    "apj , 568 , l75 hui , l. & haiman , z. 2003 , apj , 596 , 9 iliev , i. , scannapieco , e. , martel , h. , shapiro , p. 2003 , mnras , 341 , 81 iliev , i. , shapiro , p. , ferrara , a. , martel , h. 2002 , apj , 572 , l123 kodaira , k. , taniguchi , y. , kashikawa , n. 2003 , pasj , 55 , l17 kogut , a. , spergel , d. , barnes , c. et al .",
    "2003 , apjs , 148 , 161 merloni , a. , heinz , s. , & di matteo , t.  2003 , mnras , 345 , 1057 mesinger , a. & haiman , z. 2004 , apj ( letters ) , in press ( astroph/0406188 ) morales , m. & hewitt , j. 2004 , apj , in press ( astroph/0312437 ) nagar , n.  m. , falcke , h. , wilson , a.  s. , & ho , l.  c.  2000 , apj , 542 , 186 nagar , n.  m. , falcke , h. , wilson , a.  s. , & ulvestad , j.  s.  2002 , a & a , 392 , 53 nagar , n.  m. , et al , 2004 , submitted to a&a c.  p. , 1998 ,",
    "asp , 110 , 493 pello , r. , schaerer , d. , richard , j. et al .",
    "2004 , a&a , 416 , l35 rawlings , s. & jarvis , m.j .",
    ", 2004 , mnras , in press richards , g.t .",
    ", vanden berk , d. , reichard , t. 2002 , aj , 124 , 1 shaver , p. , windhorst , r. , madau , p. , de bruyn , g. 1999 , a & a , 345 , 380 silk , j. & rees , m.j . , 1998 , a&a , 331 , l1 stanway , e. , glazebrook , k. , bunker , a. et al .",
    "2004 , apj 604 , l13 ueda et al . , 2003 , apj , 598 , 886 walter , f. , bertoldi , f. , carilli , c. et al .",
    "2003 , nature , 424 , 406 weatherley , s. , warren , s. , babbedge , t. 2004 , mnras , submitted ( astroph 0407150 ) white , r. , becker , r. , fan , x. , strauss , m. 2003 , aj , 126 , 1 willott , c.j . , rawlings , s. , blundell k.m . , lacy m. , & eales , s.a . , 2001 , mnras , 322 , 536 willott , c.j . , mcclure , r. , & jarvis , m. 2003 , apj , 587 , l15 withe , a. & loeb , l. 2004 , nature , 427 , 815 zaldarriaga , m. , furlanetto , s. , hernquist , l. 2004 , apj , in press ( astroph/0311514 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the epoch of reionization ( eor ) sets a fundamental benchmark in cosmic structure formation , corresponding to the formation of the first luminous objects that act to ionize the neutral intergalactic medium ( igm ) . </S>",
    "<S> recent observations at near - ir and radio wavelengths imply that we are finally probing into this key epoch of galaxy formation at @xmath0 . the square kilometer array ( ska ) </S>",
    "<S> will provide critical insight into the eor in a number of ways . </S>",
    "<S> first , the ability of the ska to image the neutral igm in 21 cm emission is a truly unique probe of the process of reionization , and is recognized as the next necessary and fundamental step in our study of the evolution of large scale structure and cosmic reionization . </S>",
    "<S> second , study of hi 21 cm absorption toward the first radio loud objects probes small to intermediate scale structure in the neutral cosmic web , as well as hi in the first collapsed structures ( proto - disks and mini - halos ) . and </S>",
    "<S> third , the incomparable sensitivity of the ska allows for the study of the molecular gas , dust , and star formation activity in the first galaxies , as well as the radio continuum emission from the first accreting massive black holes . </S>",
    "<S> such objects will be obscured at optical wavelengths due to absorption by the neutral igm . </S>"
  ]
}