{
  "article_text": [
    "the time structure of grbs is usually complex and it often displays several short pulses separated by time intervals lasting from fractions of second to several ten of seconds",
    ". the analysis of the light curves can provide hints on the activity of the inner engine although the relation between the observed signal and the physics of the inner engine is not yet completely understood .    a previous statistical analysis",
    "@xcite has shown that there are three time - scales in the grb light curves : the shortest one is the variability scale determining the pulses durations and the intervals between pulses ; the largest one describes the total duration of the bursts and , finally , an intermediate time scale is associated with long periods within the bursts having no activity , the so called _ quiescent times_. the origin of these periods of quiescence is still unclear .    here",
    "we show , through a statistical analysis , that if a quiescent time longer than a few ten of seconds is present in the light curve then the pre - quiescence and the post - quiescence emissions ( preqe , postqe ) have similar variability scales but , on the average , the postqe is longer and only marginally softer than the preqe .",
    "the similarities between the first and the second emission periods strongly suggest that both emissions are produced by the same mechanism .",
    "moreover we will show that the average durations of preqe and of postqe , separately , are compatible with the theoretical durations predicted by various inner enngine models .",
    "we have performed a statistical analysis of the time intervals @xmath0 between adjacent peaks using the peak finding algorithm of @xcite and borrowing from @xcite the definition of active periods separated by quiescent times ( qts ) . in fig .",
    "[ grb ] we show an example of burst where the previous quantities are illustrated .",
    "we have applied this analysis to all the light curves of the batse catalogue .    in a first investigation",
    "we have merged all the bursts of the catalogue into one sample from which we compute the cumulative probability @xmath1 of finding time intervals @xmath2 which are not qts i.e. we compute the distribution of the time intervals within each active period . in fig .",
    "[ rit]a , we show that @xmath1 is well described by a log - normal distribution . in fig .",
    "[ rit]b , the histogram of qts is displayed together with a log - normal distribution . as already observed by previous authors",
    "@xcite , there is an evident deviation of the data points respect to the log - normal distribution for time intervals longer than a few seconds , indicating an excess of long @xmath2 . in fig .",
    "[ rit]c we show a power law fit of the tail of the qts distribution which displays a very good agreement with the data , as already observed by @xcite . the physical interpretation of this distribution will be discussed later . finally , in fig .",
    "[ rit]d we show a correlation function , indicating the probability of finding at least 2 qts longer than @xmath3 in a same grb .",
    "as shown in the figure this probability rapidly decreases and it essentially vanishes for @xmath4 s.    a technical remark . in our analysis",
    "we have considered two possible values for @xmath5 , the parameter used to discriminate signal from noise .",
    "a standard choice is @xmath6 . using that definition",
    "we can reproduce the results of @xcite on the cumulative distribution of @xmath2 . instead",
    ", the results presented in our figures have been obtained using another definition : @xmath7 , where max is the maximum number of counts in the light curve .",
    "the reason for this choice is that we want to study the main events of a grb light curve ( the ones having a large luminosity ) and not the faint micro - structures ( as for instance precursors , which we would exclude from our sample ) .",
    "it is important to remark that , using this larger value of @xmath5 we can recover the main results of nakar and piran , but the distinction between a ) time intervals which are not qts and b ) qts is now even more clear on a statistical basis : the firsts are perfectly interpreted by a lognormal distribution , while long qts are very well fitted by a power - law , as discussed before .",
    "we can now define a subsample of the batse catalogue composed of all the bursts having a qt longer than @xmath8 s. in fig .",
    "[ rit]a we also show the distribution of @xmath2 within the subsample .",
    "the distributions of the full batse catalogue and of the subsample are essentially equal .",
    "this indicates that the subsample is not composed of bursts having an anomalously large redshift because instead all time scales within the subsample would be homogeneously dilated .",
    "in our analysis we will now concentrate on the subsample . from the result of fig .",
    "[ rit]d , the bursts of the subsample contain only one long qt and it is therefore possible to divide each burst into a preqe and a postqe of which we will compare the temporal and spectral structure .    in fig .",
    "[ twoemission ] we display the cumulative distributions @xmath9 and @xmath10 within each of the two emission periods . in panel",
    "a we display only @xmath2 which are not qts ( same as in fig .",
    "[ rit]a ) , while in panel b qts are included . in both cases the two distributions are very similar .",
    "the @xmath11-test provides a significance of @xmath12 for panel a and of @xmath13 for panel b that the two data sets are drawn from the same distribution function .- test has been performed on the set of @xmath2 after a binning and not on the cumulative distribution .",
    "we have checked that using binnings in the range 28 s the result of the test remains stable .",
    "] let us remind that within the internal - external - shocks model @xcite , external shocks produce emissions lacking the short time scale variability produced by internal shocks @xcite .",
    "the result of fig .",
    "[ twoemission ] rules out a scenario in which postqe is dominated by external shocks and preqe by internal shocks .",
    "this in turn excludes the possibility of associating the qts with the time needed to the jet to reach and interact with the interstellar medium .",
    "clearly enough , the statistical analysis we are presenting does not rule out the existence of specific grbs in which the second episode is indeed associated with external shocks .",
    "for instance grb960530 and grb980125 are examples of bursts in which postqe has a smoother morphology and a softer spectral evolution than preqe @xcite .",
    "we perform now a statistical analysis of the durations @xmath14 and @xmath15 of the two emission periods .",
    "as shown in fig .",
    "[ durations]a , the two data sets are well fitted by two log - normal distributions ( the kolmogorov - smirnov test provides a significance of @xmath16 ) .",
    "the two distributions have different mean values ( @xmath17 , @xmath18 ) and almost identical standard deviations ( @xmath19 , @xmath20 ) .",
    "we address now the following question : is the longer duration of postqe a manifestation of a progressive increase in the active periods durations during the burst ? to answer this question we have repeated the previous analysis by dividing preqe and postqe each in two parts , using the longest qt within each emission as a divider .",
    "the distributions of the duration of all parts are shown in fig .",
    "[ durations]b .",
    "the durations of the two parts within each emission period share the same distribution ( the @xmath11-test provides significances larger than @xmath21 in both cases ) but , in agreement with the previous findings , the average durations of the two parts of postqe are longer than the two parts of preqe .",
    "therefore , the longer duration of postqe can not be attributed to a continuous modification of the emission but is a specific feature of the second part of the grb .    to estimate the emitted energy during preqe and postqe we have analyzed the hardness ratios , defined as the ratios between the photon counts in two batse channels ( the second and the third in our case ) .",
    "the average hardness of postqe turns out to be only marginally smaller ( @xmath22 ) than the average hardness of preqe .",
    "since , as shown above , the average durations of preqe and of postqe are in the relation @xmath23 , the total energy emitted during postqe is also about a factor of 2 larger than the one emitted during preqe .",
    "this is also evident from the result of fig .",
    "[ power ] , where the distributions of the powers emitted during preqe and postqe are displayed , showing that the average powers of the two emissions are essentially the same .",
    "it is interesting to compare our result on the durations with the correlation between duration of qt and of postqe found by @xcite . by computing the average duration of qt and of postqe in our subsample ( which is not the same analyzed by those authors )",
    "we obtain the following result : postqe @xmath24 41 s and qt @xmath24 80 s. therefore , in our sample and using the nakar and piran algorithm we can not confirm the correlation found by @xcite .",
    "indeed , if that correlation was present the average durations of qt and of postqe should be comparable , since the correlation law suggested by those authors is a straight line with a slope of order one .",
    "actually , in our sample the statistical correlation between the durations of qt and of postqe is very small , @xmath25 0.13 .",
    "as observed by @xcite , within the internal shocks model it is possible to explain the qts either as a turn - off of the ie or as a modulation of a continuous relativistic wind emitted by the ie ( wind modulation model wmm ) .",
    "both hypothesis are consistent with the result of fig .",
    "[ twoemission ] .",
    "the main difference between the wmm and the dormant engine scenario is that in the wmm the inner engine has to provide a constant power during the whole duration of the burst . in our subsample",
    ", we have several bursts whose total duration ( including the qt ) approaches 300 s. these durations have to be corrected taking into account the average redshift of the batse catalogue , @xmath26 @xcite , but even after this renormalization , durations of a hundred seconds or more are not too rare .",
    "this time scale has to be compared with the typical duration of the emission period of the inner engine , as estimated in various models . for instance",
    ", in all numerical investigations of the collapsar model @xcite the ie remains switched - on during some 20s .",
    "there is at the moment no indication that a `` steady state disk '' , characterized by a mass infall rate large enough to power the grb , can last hundreds of seconds instead of tens of seconds . also in the quark deconfinement model @xcite the inner engine remains active during periods of the order of a few ten seconds corresponding to the cooling time of the compact stellar object .    to better clarify our argument concerning both",
    "the duration of an emission period and the energy injected by the inner engine , let us first discuss an example of a bright and long burst , grb # 7301 of the batse catalogue ( see fig .",
    "[ b2 ] ) . in",
    "that burst a large qt is present lasting @xmath24 100 s followed by a postqe of @xmath24 70 s and with a preqe of @xmath24 40 s. to compare these time - scales to the typical durations provided by the models for the inner engine we have first to divide all the observed durations by a factor of 3 , due to the average redshift of the batse catalogue . while the resulting durations of preqe and of postqe are then in agreement with the typical time duration of an emission period in the collapsar model or in the quark deconfinement model ( @xmath24 20 s ) , the total duration of the burst ( @xmath24 73 s , including the qt lasting @xmath24 35 s ) , is roughly a factor of three larger than the duration in the theoretical models .",
    "it is therefore difficult to explain the long duration of the total burst within the current inner engine models if the wmm is adopted .",
    "obviously , the previous remark would be meaningless if the example we are providing is not typical of the time structure of long grbs . instead , by checking all the grbs of the `` current catalogue '' of batse , having t@xmath27 100 s and peak photon flux in the 256 ms channel",
    "@xmath28 5 photons@xmath29@xmath30 , we can come to the following conclusion : all the lightcurves of this subsample can be interpreted within the dormant engine model by rescaling the total duration by a factor 1/(z+1 ) = 1/3 and by splitting the burst in two emission episodes , separated by a dormancy period corresponding to a chosen qt . in figs .",
    "[ b1],[b2 ] we show all the grbs of this sample and we indicate the longest qt . clearly enough",
    ", there are bursts in which it is not unambiguous to decide which qt has to be interpreted as the dormancy period , because more than one long qt is present . in the figure",
    "we indicate the only two cases ( out of 15 grbs analyzed ) in which we suggest a dormancy period which is different from the longest qt . in both those cases the suggested dormancy period corresponds to the second longest qt present in the burst .",
    "this rather small ambiguity can easily be explained by noticing that a small fraction of long qts can be generated by stochastic fluctuations ( described by the tail of the log - normal distribution ) and not by a dormancy period . as discussed above , the association of a qt with a dormancy period is totally unambiguous for bursts in which a qt longer than @xmath24 40 s is present .",
    "the last light curve presented in fig .  [ b2 ] ( grb @xmath31 6454 ) corresponds to a faint burst which does not belong to the subsample discussed in this section ( grbs of high luminosity ) .",
    "it is interesting to notice that in this burst preqe and postqe are so long that also after dividing their durations by a redshift factor of three , the durations are not compatible with the existing ie models .",
    "anyway , the faintness of this burst is probably due to the extreme distance of the source and a larger red - shift correction should then be applied .",
    "similar considerations are also valid for other superlong bursts presented in @xcite ( grb @xmath31 6454 is one of the burst discussed in that paper ) . and",
    "therefore they can not be considered as active periods .",
    "this reflects on the estimated duration of the bursts .",
    "in particular there are bursts whose @xmath32 durations exceed 100 s , while their durations based on the active periods are shorter and therefore these bursts are excluded from our sample .",
    "this selection criteria clearly depends on the value of @xmath5 .",
    "we have performed our analysis using for @xmath5 both choices described in sec .  2 .",
    "in figs . 6 - 7 we show the results obtained using @xmath6 , which is the most conservative choice ( in this case the excluded grbs are @xmath31 1157 , @xmath31 1886 , @xmath31 3458 , @xmath31 3930 , @xmath31 7527 ) . using instead the larger value for @xmath5 , further components of the lightcurves would be excluded , and our conclusions would be even stronger . ]",
    "another problem with the wmm is due to the prevision , within that model , that the emitted power during postqe is larger than during preqe .",
    "this prevision is based again on the existence of a continuous emission of shells also during the qt @xcite .",
    "the analysis displayed in fig .",
    "[ power ] does not support this prevision .",
    "it is also worth recalling that , on the average , postqe lasts roughly twice preqe . while it is probably possible to fix the parameters of the wmm so to satisfy that constraint , no reason is provided within the wmm model to explain that feature in terms of the activity of the inner engine or of the dynamics of the jet formation . at the contrary , models for a dormant inner engine can associate the durations of the emission periods with the durations of physical phenomena taking place within the ie .",
    "this point will be discussed in the next section .",
    "we conclude that long qts most probably correspond to periods of inactivity of the ie . on the other hand , it is possible that the wmm is responsible for short qts occurring within the two emission periods , as suggested by fig .",
    "[ durations]b where it is shown that the durations of the two parts of a single emission period have the same distribution . finally ,",
    "while our subsample is composed of grbs having qts longer than 40 s , it is surely possible that in many cases the ie switches - off for a much shorter time .",
    "unfortunately , in those cases it is not trivial to distinguish between qts generated by the switch - off and qts generated by the wmm , as it also results from the discussion of figs .",
    "[ b1],[b2 ] .",
    "let us now discuss how to generate dormancy periods using various models of the ie .",
    "within the most popular model , the collapsar model @xcite , there are two possible scenarios : a temporary interruption of the jet produced by kelvin - helmhotz instabilities @xcite or the fragmentation of the collapsing stellar core before its merging with the black hole @xcite . in both scenarios",
    "it can be possible to produce long qts .",
    "for instance , in the scenario proposed by @xcite the durations of the emission periods are related to the durations of the accretion disks generated by each fragment .",
    "our result on the durations of preqe and of postqe can be explained if , e.g. , the average mass of the second fragment is larger than that of the first fragment .",
    "a discussion of the mass distribution of the fragments can be found in @xcite .",
    "another model for the ie is based on the conversion of a metastable hadronic star into a star containing quark matter @xcite . in the last years",
    "the possibility of forming a diquark condensate at the center of a compact star has been widely discussed in the literature @xcite .",
    "the formation of a color superconducting quark core can increase the energy released by a significant amount @xcite .",
    "it has also been shown that the conversion from normal to gapped quark matter goes through a first order transition @xcite .",
    "it is therefore tempting to associate preqe with the transition from hadronic to normal quark matter and postqe with the formation of the superconducting phase @xcite . in this scenario",
    "the two dimensional scales regulating the durations of preqe and postqe are the energies released in the two transitions . finally , let us remark that the power - law fitting the long qts distribution can originate from a superposition of exponential distributions with different decay times @xcite .",
    "in the quark deconfinement model , the different decay times are associated with slightly different masses of the metastable compact star . if the interpretation based on the quark deconfinement model",
    "is correct then the grbs data analysis provides very stringent bounds on the physics of high density matter",
    ".    a possible signature of the models in which the ie goes dormant would be the detection of external shock emissions at the end of both preqe and postqe , indicating that the two emissions are physically disconnected .",
    "in this paper we have studied the problem of quiescent times in long grbs borrowing the technique developed by nakar and piran .",
    "the main results obtained in our analysis are the following :     the cumulative distribution of time intervals between peaks within a same active period is well fitted by a lognormal distribution , while long quiescent times are well fitted by a powerlaw distribution .",
    "this strengthens @xcite conclusion about the different origin of long quiescent times respect to shorter time intervals ;     the two components of the emission , preceding and following the quiescent time are statistically similar from the viewpoint of their temporal microstructure , their hardness ratio and emitted power .",
    "these results suggest a unique mechanism at the origin of both the pre - quiescence and the post - quiescence emission .",
    "interestingly , the second emission lasts on the average twice the first , what provides an important constraint to the inner engine models ;     the durations of the activity periods of the inner engine , computed within the existing theoretical models do not exceed few ten seconds .",
    "these theoretical estimates compare favorably with the durations of the pre - quiescent and of the post - quiescent emissions , separately . on the other hand , in several bursts the total duration including the quiescent time ,",
    "is roughly three times longer .",
    "this is an indication in favor of a dormant inner engine respect to wind modulation models .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank filippo frontera , enrico montanari and rosalba perna for many useful suggestions and for help in the data analysis .                                                               in the energy range @xmath33 . for each light curve",
    ", the background is first determined using a linear fit and then subtracted from the data .",
    "the signal is extracted taking as initial and final bins the ones with counts above @xmath34 .",
    "the active periods are defined as periods in which bins with counts exceeding 4@xmath5 are present .",
    "active periods begin ( dark - gray dots ) and end ( light - gray dots ) when the signal drops below 2@xmath5 . within each active period",
    "we search for peaks using the peak finding algorithm of @xcite : indicating with @xmath35 the counts of a candidate peak and with @xmath36 and @xmath37 the counts in the bins to the left and to the right of the candidate , a `` true '' peak must satisfy the relations @xmath38 , where @xmath39 in our analysis .",
    "the true peaks are indicated by the black points .",
    "[ grb ] ]         of the two emission periods * * a * cumulative distributions of durations of preqe ( filled triangles ) and of postqe ( filled boxes ) and their best - fit log - normal distributions ( dotted lines ) . *",
    "b * cumulative distributions of durations of the first and second part of preqe ( empty triangles and boxes ) and of postqe ( filled triangles and boxes ) . [ durations ] ]       100 s and peak photon flux in the 256 ms channel @xmath28 5 photons@xmath29@xmath30 .",
    "the dashed lines indicate the fit of the background and the 2@xmath5 and 5@xmath5 levels used to define the active periods .",
    "dark - gray dots and light - gray dots mark the initial and the end point of each active period , respectively .",
    "black arrows indicate the longest qt .",
    "gray arrows indicate the suggested dormancy period when it does not coincide with the longest qt ( two cases only ) . [ b1 ] ]    . here",
    "the suggested dormancy period always coincide with the longest qt .",
    "we also display a faint burst @xmath31 6454 ( it does not satisfy the limit on the peak photon flux ) whose very long duration could be due to a large red - shift ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we perform a statistical analysis of the temporal structure of long gamma - ray - bursts ( grbs ) . </S>",
    "<S> first we consider a sample of bursts in which a long quiescent time is present . </S>",
    "<S> comparing the pre - quiescence with the post - quiescence emission we show that they display similar temporal structures , hardness ratios and emitted powers , but , on the average , the post - quiescence emission is roughly twice as long as the pre - quiescence emission . </S>",
    "<S> we then consider a sample of long and bright grbs . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the duration of each emission period is compatible with the duration of an active period computed in various inner engine models . at the contrary , if the inner engine is assumed to be always active , i.e. also during the quiescent times , in several cases the total duration of the burst largely exceeds the theoretical durations . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis therefore does not support the interpretation of long quiescent times in terms of stochastic modulation of a continuous wind . </S>",
    "<S> instead the quiescent times can be interpreted as dormancy periods of the inner engine . before and after a dormancy period the inner engine produces similar emissions . </S>"
  ]
}