{
  "article_text": [
    "the accretion shock near the surface of a white dwarf in a magnetic cataclysmic variable ( mcv ) will consist of a highly ionized 10 plasma cooling by bremsstrahlung emission .",
    "most elements will be fully ionized , leaving iron as the dominant cause of line emission . while model fits to the x - ray spectra of mcvs",
    "have traditionally included an iron  line ( e.g.  norton , watson &  king 1991 ) , it is only with the  satellite that the data have sufficient spectral resolution to investigate the structure of the line .",
    "an analysis of the  data on ao  psc ( hellier  1996 ) showed that the thermal components of the iron  line were broadened by 150 .",
    "however , reports on two other mcvs with the same detectors [ kallman  ( 1996 ) on by  cam and fujimoto &  ishida ( 1997 ) on ex  hya ] found a  complex compatible with narrow emission lines .",
    "we have therefore investigated the line widths in the class as a whole . in this paper",
    "we present a systematic analysis of lines in 15 mcvs , and discuss the mechanisms responsible for line broadening . of our sample ,",
    "am  her is a phase - locked system ( i.e.  a polar ; see cropper 1990 for a review ) , by  cam is nearly phase - locked , and the remaining 13 are non - phase - locked systems ( i.e.  intermediate polars ; reviewed by patterson 1994 ) .",
    "the temperature of the highly - ionized plasma in an accretion shock will typically range from 0.130 . at the hottest temperatures iron",
    "will be completely ionized or hydrogen - like ( fe xxvii or xxvi ) , and give rise to a  line at 6.97  ( e.g.  makishima 1986 ) . at temperatures of a few  iron",
    "will be helium - like ( xxv ) , producing a  line at 6.70 .",
    "cold iron can produce a fluorescent line at 6.41 .",
    "the gap between 6.41 and 6.70  could be filled by fluorescence from iron in intermediate states , but no iron species emits between 6.70 and 6.97 .",
    "we have used data from the  sis0 and sis1 instruments only ( see tanaka , inoue &  holt 1994 ) , since the gis instruments have insufficient resolution to separate the lines .",
    "a list of observations analysed is given in table  1 .",
    "for all cases we used the same , fairly lax , screening parameters , in order to maximise the available photons .",
    "we analysed the data in bright2 mode where that was available for an entire observation ( xy  ari , v1223  sgr , tx  col , ex  hya , by  cam , rx123838 ) and in bright mode otherwise .",
    "the resolution of the sis instruments has declined through the mission owing to radiation damage , so we computed calibration matrices appropriate for each observation using ftools v4.0 .",
    ".the  observations of mcvs .",
    "the time is the amount of good data after screening . [",
    "cols=\"<,<,^ \" , ]     the resulting line widths and equivalent widths are given in table  2 .",
    "we find that 8 of the stars have thermal lines consistent with zero width , but the remaining 7 stars have broad thermal lines at @xmath3 per cent confidence .",
    "we should caution that this analysis is near the limit of the current data .",
    "for instance the result for bg  cmi , no detection at 6.70  but strong emission at 6.97 , is physically unlikely and implies an insecure result .",
    "note also that while the results for ao  psc are qualitatively similar to those from the same data presented in hellier  ( 1996 ) , in that both require broad thermal lines , the fitted parameters are formally inconsistent .",
    "this can be explained by different screening parameters , updated calibration files , and different constraints on the iron line model , but still indicates the uncertainties in the analysis .",
    "a further effect is the progressive radiation damage to the sis detectors , complicating the comparison of different observations .",
    "however , this is included in the response matrices , and as can be seen from the values in table  2 , the detected line broadening is in many cases large compared to the resolution .",
    "thus , while an individual result is uncertain , the finding of broad lines in roughly half the systems studied suggests that they are a reality in mcvs . to illustrate the findings , fig .  1 shows the data and fitted model for two of the systems with narrow lines and two of those with broad lines .",
    "we have also attempted to find limits on the width of the 6.41 fluorescent line ( which was fixed at zero in the above analysis ) . as a free parameter we found it to be consistent with zero width in all cases",
    ". the interesting case would be if we could prove the fluorescent line to be narrower than the thermal lines . because of the limited data quality this was possible only in the case of ao  psc , where the upper limit on the fluorescent line width was 98  ( 1 @xmath4 ) or 129  ( 90 per cent confidence ) , compared to a 1 @xmath4 lower limit of 180  for the thermal lines ( table  2 ) .",
    "this difference is consistent with a separate origin for the fluorescent line ( reflection from the white dwarf ) compared to the thermal lines ( see below ) .",
    "of the possible line broadening mechanisms , only two are likely to be significant at the level of @xmath5 seen in our data",
    ". these are doppler broadening and compton scattering .",
    "doppler broadening through the thermal motion of the ions in the plasma will be of order @xmath6 , which for our values is typically 4  and so not significant .",
    "however , the infalling material will hit the accretion shock at a speed near the white dwarf escape velocity , which is 400016000  for white dwarfs of 0.51.4 .",
    "the speed decreases by a factor of 4 in the shock ( e.g.  frank , king &  raine 1992 ) so that the x - ray emitting plasma will have a bulk motion of 10004000 .",
    "this would produce a doppler shift of 2090 .",
    "the projection of this onto the line of sight would depend on the geometry and would also vary with the white dwarf spin phase , so the observed values would be lower still .",
    "further , we would not see emission with large blueshifts , since approaching material which was close to the surface would be hidden by the white dwarf .",
    "we might see blueshifted photons reflected towards us by the white dwarf , but these would be compton down - scattered by an amount comparable to their blueshift ( see next section ) .",
    "thus , we expect doppler broadening to have a significant effect , but overall it appears insufficient to explain the results of table  2",
    ".      roughly half of the x - rays from the accretion column will be directed towards the white dwarf surface , and some will be reflected back towards us",
    ". done , osborne &  beardmore ( 1995 ) and beardmore  ( 1995 ) find evidence for a reflection component in the x - ray continua of mcvs , and propose reflection from the white dwarf as the most likely cause of the 6.4  fluorescent emission seen in their data and in the tabulation of table  2 .",
    "the reflected  photons will be compton down - scattered by up to 2 compton wavelengths , depending on the scattering angle ( e.g.  rybicki & lightman 1979 ; done  1995 ) .",
    "thus the 6.70 and 6.97  lines will develop wings extending for 170  to lower energies .",
    "these will have equivalent widths of 10 per cent of the incident line ( e.g.  done  1995 ) .",
    "thus , although the broadening is of the right magnitude to explain our results , and the 6.4  emission shows that it must be occurring , the inefficiency of reflection suggests that it would have a relatively small effect on the overall line profile .",
    "further , if the line broadening were dominated by the reflection effect we might expect that systems with broad lines had stronger 6.41  emission , however table  2 shows no such effect .",
    "note , though , that the equivalent widths of the  lines are poorly understood , with smaller than expected fluxes indicating either an underabundance of iron or optically thick lines ( done  1995 ) .",
    "we thus consider compton scattering of the line photons within the accretion column . for photons from a point source",
    "scattered once by electrons in a surrounding 5  cloud the profile is broadened to @xmath7 or 0.1 ( e.g.  sunyaev 1980 ; pozdnyakov , sobol &  sunyaev 1983 ) .",
    "thus the broad lines could be explained if the column has an optical depth sufficient to scatter most of the photons once , but not so great that the lines are destroyed by multiple scattering .",
    "resonant line trapping enables this , since the cross - section to resonant scattering of  photons is 450 times that of thomson scattering at 5 ( e.g.  pozdnyakov  1983 ; matt , brandt &  fabian 1996 ) .",
    "thus if the continuum is optically thin , the k@xmath8 photons in the line core can be resonantly trapped , but will escape immediately once they are compton scattered out of the core . for continuum optical depths of 0.050.2 @xmath9 1 almost all photons will be compton scattered once and only once ( illarionov  1979 ; pozdnyakov  1983 ) .    for comparison",
    "we expect an accretion column to have a dense , optically - thick base at a temperature @xmath101 .",
    "it decreases in density and optical depth while increasing in temperature as one moves up the column to an optically thin 20  accretion shock ( e.g.  aizu 1973 ; frank 1992 ) .",
    "we can therefore envisage several regimes in the column : the optically thick base produces no line emission ; at continuum optical depths of 0.11 the line photons emerge with a singly - scattered profile characteristic of the local temperature ; higher up the column the compton - scattered component drops to insignificance once the column becomes optically thin in the line core , and from here upwards the line emission is narrow .",
    "the temperatures at which these transitions occur are poorly known , but could account for the difference in line widths in different systems . if the @xmath11 regime occurs where the plasma is sufficiently hot to emit  photons ( 3 ) we would expect the broadened lines from this region to dominate the  profile .",
    "superimposed on it would be weaker , narrow emission from the less dense , optically thin region , which would reduce the overall width of the observed profile . if , in contrast , the transition from optical thickness occurs at a lower temperature ( 3 ) , so that regions hot enough to emit  are all optically thin in the continuum , we would expect to see narrow lines .",
    "in principle one could use the measured line widths to deduce the temperatures of these transitions in each object .",
    "however , apart from the limitations of the data , this requires simulations of compton - scattered profiles summing over the range of temperatures , densities and optical depths in an accretion column model ( e.g.  aizu 1973 ) , rather than the current single - temperature simulations ( e.g.  pozdnyakov  1983 ) .",
    "further , published simulations concentrate the source photons into a point , rather than distributing them through the column , a difference shown to be substantial by sunyaev &  titarchuk ( 1980 ) .",
    "the addition of optically thinner regions in the outer parts and higher up the column would help to reduce the theoretical broadening of @xmath12 at 5 ( e.g.  sunyaev 1980 ) to the observed @xmath5 in our data .",
    "a last complication is the shape of the accretion column , expected to have an arc - shaped footprint and to extend vertically , and its varying projection onto the line of sight .",
    "the line photons will escape preferentially in the direction of least scattering depth ( e.g.  swank , fabian &  ross 1984 ) causing line flux changes as the white dwarf spins .",
    "further , changes in the line - of - sight optical depth round the spin cycle could cause the temperature which corresponds to an optical depth of 1 to vary , and so produce phase - dependent changes in the observed line widths",
    ". these would be undetectable in current data , through lack of photons , but are worth looking for with future missions .",
    "from the above discussion we conclude that the broad  iron lines found in roughly half of the mcvs studied are caused by a mixture of doppler broadening due to radial infall , compton down - shifted line emission from a reflected component , and , probably most importantly , compton scattering of the line emission in the accretion column . a significant optical depth to scattering in the column",
    "may also be required to explain the line fluxes ( e.g.  swank  1984 ; done  1995 ) .",
    "we have suggested that the broadening originates in the transition region between optical thickness and optical thinness ; that systems in which this transition occurs at a temperature too low for significant   emission have narrow lines ; and that systems with broad lines must have regions of column which are still optically thick at a higher temperature ( 3 ) .",
    "we can test this by comparison with other work , taking the well studied stars ex  hya , as an example of a system with narrow lines , and ao  psc , the system with the clearest line broadening . in ex  hya",
    "the presence of lines of elements with a lower ionization than iron implies a transition to optical thickness at @xmath101  ( fujimoto &  ishida 1997 ) . in ao",
    "psc the line ratios imply a higher temperature transition [ fujimoto & ishida ( 1995 ) quote @xmath10 3 , although this estimate is less certain due to the weaker lines ] in agreement with the above reasoning .",
    "further , we can detect optical thickness in the accretion column by looking at changes in the x - ray continuum as the white dwarf spins . from spin - resolved  spectroscopy of ao  psc ,",
    "hellier  ( 1996 ) found that the column contained several phases of absorption .",
    "the densest , affecting regions of the column emitting at energies of at least 8 , requires an electron scattering column which changes by 6 cm  over the spin cycle , suggesting an actual column of 2 cm , and thus an optical depth of 1 .",
    "this column is compatible with an accretion rate of 10  g s  and an accretion area covering @xmath13 of the white dwarf surface ( hellier  1996 ) , values which are in line with current estimates for intermediate polars ( e.g.  patterson 1994 ; hellier 1997 ) .",
    "in contrast , ex  hya shows much less absorption , and in  data has no spin modulation above 6  ( ishida , mukai &  osborne 1994 ; allan , hellier &  beardmore 1998 ) , implying that it is optically thin throughout the hard x - ray emitting regions .",
    "we can extend this difference into a test of our explanation , and predict that the other systems with clearly narrow lines , such as v1223  sgr , will also be optically thin in the hard x - ray emitting regions .",
    "thus spin - resolved spectroscopy with  would not show a counterpart of the very dense absorber revealed in ao  psc .",
    "unfortunately the test is nt clear cut since we need to distinguish between a flux reduction caused by an optically thick accretion column , and a flux reduction caused by emitting regions passing over the limb of the white dwarf .",
    "however , at any one pole , occultation effects and absorption effects are likely to occur in anti - phase in mcvs ( e.g.  hellier , cropper &  mason 1991 ) allowing the test to be performed given -quality spectroscopy and an understanding of the spin pulse in each system .",
    "analysis of x - ray spectroscopy of other mcvs is thus needed to confirm these ideas .",
    "we thank andrew beardmore and chris done for comments on the manuscript .",
    "aizu k. , 1973 , prog .",
    "phys . , 49 , 1184 allan a. , hellier c. , beardmore a.p . ,",
    "1998 , mnras , in press beardmore a.p . , done c. , osborne j.p . ,",
    "ishida m. , 1995 , mnras , 272 , 749 cropper m. , 1990 , sp .  sci .",
    ", 54 , 195 done c. , osborne j.p . ,",
    "beardmore a.p . , 1995 , mnras , 276 , 483 frank j. , king a.r . ,",
    "raine d.j . , 1992 ,",
    "accretion power in astrophysics , cambridge university press , cambridge .",
    "fujimoto r. , ishida m. , 1995 , in buckley d.a.h . , warner b. , eds , asp conf .",
    "85 , cape workshop on magnetic cataclysmic variables .",
    "soc .  psc .",
    ", san francisco , p.  136",
    "fujimoto r. , ishida m. , 1997 , apj , 474 , 774 hellier c. , 1997 , mnras , 291 , 71 hellier c. , cropper m. , mason k.o .",
    ", 1991 , 248 , 233 hellier c. , mukai k. , ishida m. , fujimoto r. , 1996 , mnras , 280 , 877 illarionov a. , kallman t. , mccray r. , ross r. , 1979 , apj , 228 , 279 ishida m. , mukai k. , osborne j.p .",
    ", 1994 , pasj , 46 , l81 kallman t.r .",
    ", mukai k. , schlegel e.m .",
    ", paerels f.b . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 466 , 973 makishima k. , 1986 , in mason k.o . ,",
    "watson m.g . ,",
    "white n.e .",
    ", eds , the physics of accretion onto compact objects . springer - verlag , berlin , p.  249",
    "matt g. , brandt w.n .",
    ", fabian a.c . , 1996 , mnras , 280 , 823 mewe r. , kaastra j.s . ,",
    "liedahl d.a . , 1995 , legacy , 6 , 16 norton a.j . , watson m.g . , king a.r . , 1991 , in treves a. , perola g.c . , stella l. , eds , iron line diagnostics in x - ray sources .",
    "springer - verlag , berlin , p.  155 patterson j. , 1994 , pasp , 106 , 209 pozdnyakov l.a .",
    ", sobol i.m . , sunyaev r.a",
    ". , 1983 , astrophys .",
    "space phys .",
    ", 2 , 189 rybiki g.b . ,",
    "lightman a.p . , 1979 , radiative processes in astrophysics , wiley , new york sunyaev r.a . , 1980 , soviet astronomy letters , 6 , 214 sunyaev r.a",
    ", titarchuk l.g . , 1980 ,",
    "a&a , 86 , 121 swank j.h . , fabian a.c . , ross r.r . , 1984 ,",
    "apj , 280 , 734 tanaka y. , inoue h. , holt s.s . , 1994 , pasj , 46 , l37"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> following a recent report that ao  psc has broad iron  emission lines we have looked at the  spectra of 15 magnetic cataclysmic variables . </S>",
    "<S> we find that half of the systems have  lines broadened by 200 , while the remainder have narrow lines . </S>",
    "<S> we argue that the doppler effect is insufficient to explain the finding and propose that the lines originate in accretion columns on the verge of optical thickness , where compton scattering of resonantly - trapped line photons broadens the profile . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that the broadening is a valuable diagnostic of conditions in the accretion column .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1@xmath0 # 1@xmath1 # 1@xmath2    accretion , accretion discs  novae , cataclysmic variables  binaries : close  x - rays : stars . </S>"
  ]
}