{
  "article_text": [
    "the non  magnetic cataclysmic variable stars are systems where a white dwarf accretes via a disk from a roche lobe filling , low mass , companion star .",
    "dwarf novae ( dn ) are a subclass of these systems which show optical / uv outbursts of 26 magnitudes which are thought to be triggered by a disk instability giving a transient increase in the accretion rate ( see e.g. the reviews by cordova 1995 , warner 1995 and osaki 1996 ) .",
    "as the accreting material falls inwards , the transition from the the disk velocity field to that of the white dwarf will lead to up to half of the accretion energy being dissipated ( pringle 1977 , kluzniak 1987 ) .",
    "detailed theoretical models of the boundary layer emission are not well developed due to the inherent complexity of modelling the strongly shearing , probably turbulent transition region between the disk and white dwarf surface .",
    "however , general characteristics of the emission can be derived .",
    "material leaves the inner edge of the disk with a temperature @xmath1 k , and then is heated ( presumably by shocks ) as it joins the boundary layer .",
    "if the boundary layer is optically thick then the gas cools efficiently and so collapses quickly onto the white dwarf surface , forming a geometrically thin equatorial belt around the white dwarf .",
    "the luminosity emerges at the local blackbody temperature , which is of order @xmath2 ev for the case where all the remaining accretion luminosity is radiated ( pringle 1977 ; see also frank king and raine 1992 ) .",
    "conversely , if the gas is optically thin then radiative cooling is much less efficient , the gas can be heated up to much higher temperatures before reaching equilibrium with radiative cooling and/or adiabatic expansion , giving temperatures of order @xmath3 kev . since the optical depth of the accreting gas is strongly linked to the mass accretion rate this predicts that mainly euve / soft x ",
    "rays are expected from dn in outburst , while hard x  rays can be produced by dn in quiescence ( pringle and savonije 1979 ; tylenda 1981 ; king and shaviv 1985 , narayan and popham 1993 ; popham and narayan 1995 ) .",
    "a logical extension of this model is that the vertical density gradients in the disk could ensure that some fraction of the accreting material remains optically thin even in outburst , producing some hard x  ray emission , as observed ( patterson and raymond 1985a ; 1985b ) .    the resulting hard x  ray spectrum in both quiescence and outburst should certainly consist of multi  temperature components as the accreting gas must cool in order to settle onto the white dwarf photosphere",
    ". thus the continuum should be characterised by continuous temperature distribution , with the contribution from each temperature component being weighted by its emissivity . however , in addition to this intrinsic hard x ",
    "ray continuum , there should also be a component formed from reflection of this spectrum from the illuminated white dwarf surface and/or accretion disk .",
    "the reflection albedo is energy dependent , as at low energies the scattering probability is decreased by photo ",
    "electric absorption , whereas at higher energies compton downscattering and the reduction of the scattering cross ",
    "section deplete the number of photons reflected .",
    "this results in a broad spectral `` bump '' , centered around 20 kev , while the dependence on photo  electric absorption at low energies gives a pronounced feature at the iron k edge energy in the reflected spectrum and an associated fe @xmath4 fluorescence line , both of which are a function of the ionization state and elemental abundances of the reflecting gas ( e.g. lightman & white 1988 ; george & fabian 1991 ; matt , perola & piro 1991 ) .",
    "such models have been applied to magnetic cv systems ( beardmore et al 1995 ; done , osborne and beardmore 1995 ; cropper , ramsey and wu 1996 ; van teeseling , kaastra and heise 1996 ) , but have not yet been extended to the non  magnetic systems .",
    "a further possible distortion of the hard x  ray spectrum in dn is from complex absorption .",
    "p cygni line profiles are seen in these systems in the uv siiv , civ and nv resonance lines , but only in outburst , when the accretion rate is high ( see e.g. the recent review by drew 1993 ) .",
    "the mass loss rate and ionization structure in this wind is poorly known , but the models which have most success in matching the blueshifted uv absorption features are optically thick at soft x  ray energies ( e.g. mauche and raymond 1987 ; hoare and drew 1991 ; 1993 ) .",
    "thus partially ionized absorption may play an important role in determining the observed soft x ",
    "ray spectrum in outbursting dn spectra , though the wind declines rapidly after the outburst peak ( verbunt et al 1984 ) , so this is unlikely to be important for the quiescent emission .",
    "these spectral distortions will bias the results from simple thermal model fits to the data .",
    "this is important as recent exciting developments in accretion disk structure have attempted to include a self consistent description of the boundary layer emission . in the quiescent state",
    "the disk density is low , so local cooling may be inefficient enough that _ radial _ energy transport is also important .",
    "numerical solutions by narayan and popham ( 1993 ) including these advected energy terms give predictions of the temperature  emissivity structure of the boundary layer",
    ". however , as both reflection and ionized absorption give an observed spectrum that is flatter than the intrinsic continuum , their neglect can give an overestimate of the amount of high temperature material .",
    "ss cyg is the brightest dn at in hard x ",
    "rays , so is the obvious candidate for detailed spectral studies .",
    "here we analyse the available archival data from ginga ( 2 spectra ) and asca ( 1 spectrum ) .",
    "these show the system in three different states , quiescence , decline from a normal ( fast rise ) outburst , and in anomalous ( slow rise ) outburst , respectively .",
    "we evaluate the importance of reflection and partially ionized absorption , and so obtain the underlying intrinsic continuum temperature  emissivity distribution of the hot plasma .",
    "these data have been previously reported by yoshida et al ( 1992 ) , ponman et al ( 1995 ) and nousek et al ( 1994 ) but these authors only fit the spectra with simple thermal models . here",
    "we include reflection and ionized absorption , and explicitally fit continuous temperature distribution models to the underlying intrinsic spectral shape .",
    "we clearly detect the signatures of reflection in all the spectra . in outburst",
    "this is consistent with the hard x  ray emitting plasma forming a corona over the white dwarf , forming a reflection spectrum from both the white dwarf surface and inner disk .",
    "however , in quiescence there is significantly less reflection , which we interpret as indicating that the inner disk is disrupted or optically thin during quiescence .",
    "the asca data also show partially ionized absorption , as expected from the outflowing wind .",
    "the abundances of the elements can be constrained , especially in the asca data .",
    "the line emission is significantly weaker than expected from solar abundances .",
    "we examine possible deviations from coronal equilibrium , but conclude that none of these can cause the observed line deficit . the high iron abundance relative to the other elements in the anders & grevasse ( 1989 ) solar compilation",
    "is inconsistent with the data .",
    "newer solar abundance determinations ( grevasse , noels & sauval 1996 ) give a relative iron abundance much closer to the morrison & mccammon ( 1983 ) values , which are similar to the elemental abundance ratios in the asca data presented here .",
    "the underlying continuum is well described by a continuous ( power law ) temperature  emissivity distribution of hot material . in quiescence",
    "this is strongly weighted towards high temperatures , so that it is indistinguishable from a single temperature component .",
    "this is inconsistent with the expected cooling of hot gas .",
    "either there is some reheating process or the cool components are masked by partial absorption , perhaps by an inner disk which is optically thin to electron scattering which photoelectrically absorbs the soft x  ray emission from the boundary layer below the disk .",
    "by contrast , the outburst spectrum is dominated by cool components , and can not be described by a single temperature plasma . while the emission is significantly softer , the total luminosity is similar to that in quiescence , assuming that the material cools down onto the photosphere .",
    "if gas is heated up to some temperature @xmath5 and then allowed to cool down to the photospheric temperature @xmath6 at constant pressure in a constant gravitational potential so that the luminosity is solely driven by the temperature drop then the resulting spectrum can be described by a sum of thermal spectra from @xmath5 to @xmath6 such that @xmath7 where @xmath8 is the bremsstrahlung spectral emissivity and @xmath9 is the total ( integrated over @xmath10 ) bremsstrahlung emissivity .",
    "more general _ cooling flow _ models include a weighting factor factor @xmath11 in the integrand ( see e.g. johnson et al 1992 ; done et al 1995 ) .",
    "explicit calculations of the emission from the boundary layer are extremely difficult due to the strongly shearing and probably turbulent nature of the flow .",
    "any accretion disk problem is inherently two dimensional ( at least ) as the matter flow is radial while the energy is transported vertically ( through radiation ) as well as radially ( through advection ) .",
    "reducing the problem to 1 dimension by vertical averaging of the accretion disk structure ( the standard shakura ",
    "sunyaev approach ) makes the equations far more tractable .",
    "this is the approach used by narayan & popham ( 1993 ) and popham & narayan ( 1995 ) to calculate the temperature structure of the boundary layer .",
    "their models then give the predicted temperature  emissivity distribution in the boundary layer .",
    "figures 1a and b show spectra calculated from the models of narayan & popham ( 1993 ) for the quiescent emission for a white dwarf of mass @xmath12 and radius @xmath13 cm for a mass accretion rate of @xmath14 and @xmath15 @xmath16 yr@xmath17 , respectively",
    ". the dotted lines in these figures show a comparison with an @xmath18 cooling flow model of maximum temperature equal to that of the highest temperature emission present in the advective boundary layer model , which is @xmath19 and @xmath20 kev , respectively .",
    "the two models are remarkably similar at low @xmath21 , but begin to diverge at higher mass accretion rates . in outburst however , their models give no hot optically thin component to the emission ( popham & narayan 1995 ) , probably because of the limitations of the 1 dimensional approach whereas the hard x  ray emission is thought to be from material escaping from the boundary layer to form a corona over the white dwarf / disk .",
    "calculations in ( at least ) 2 dimensions are required in order to follow coronal structure .",
    "kley ( 1989 ) and hujeirat ( 1995 ) solve numerically a fully 2 dimensional set of ( simplified ) equations describing the hydrodynamic and thermal properties of the gas .",
    "the results of kley ( 1989 ) are especially relevant as these include most of the white dwarf surface in the calculation , and so can follow any hot , optically thin gas which expands to form a corona around the white dwarf , while the grid used by hujeirat ( 1995 ) only covers the equatorial belt of the white dwarf .",
    "kley ( 1989 ) does indeed show that an optically thin , hot ( @xmath22 kev for his assumed system parameters ) corona forms around the white dwarf and inner disk during outburst .",
    "the temperature and density contours can in principle be combined to give the temperature  emissivity distribution ( which is the observed quantity ) but in practice the published data plots are too complex to convert into this form so we can not directly compare these calculations with the data .    however , even a two dimensional approach is probably not adequate , as this can not describe oblique shocks in the plane of the disk which are perhaps the most likely outcome of the disk / star interaction .",
    "even more seriously , all these models ( both 1 and 2 dimensional ) assume that the viscosity in the boundary layer and the disk is produced the same mechanism ( generally assumed to be turbulent convective motions ) and so use the same parameterisation to describe the viscosity in both regions .",
    "this is at odds with recent results which show that convective turbulence transports angular momentum _",
    "inwards _ not outwards as is required for accretion ( balbus , hawley & stone 1996 ) , and that the magnetic dynamo models ( tout & pringle 1992 ) based on the magnetohydrodynamic instabilities ( balbus & hawley 1991 ) are the most likely source of the strong viscosity inferred for accretion disks . the viscosity in the boundary layer may then be very different from that in the disk since it is not at all obvious that the mhd dynamo can work outside of the ordered velocity field in the disk ( since it uses keplarian shear velocities to transform radial magnetic field to azimuthal , the parker instability to transform azimuthal field into vertical , and the balbus  hawley instability to regenerate radial field from vertical .",
    "the dissipation required for viscosity then comes from magnetic field reconnection from opposing vertical field lines : armitage , livio & pringle 1996 ) .",
    "the intrinsic continuum can be reflected by any optically thick material .",
    "the reflection models calculated to date have generally assumed the specific geometry of a ( pointlike or extended ) source illuminating a flat slab ( lightman and white 1988 ; matt , perola and piro 1991 ; george and fabian 1991 ; zycki et al 1994 ; magdiarziz and zdziarski 1995 ; van teesling et al 1996 ) . here",
    "the geometry of the boundary layer emission is more complex , as we expect that the x  ray emission will be produced in an equatorial belt around the white dwarf .",
    "the vertical extent of this belt is model dependent .",
    "the advective boundary layer models of narayan and popham ( 1993 ) have @xmath23 ( r. popham , private communication ) , while king and shaviv ( 1984 ) and pringle and savonije ( 1979 ) envisage the quiescent boundary layer as extending as a corona over the whole of the white dwarf surface . in outburst",
    "all the models agree that the optically thick boundary layer should be extremely compact both in height and in radial extent . however , the structure of the residual optically thin hard x  ray emission that can be seen in outburst is less clear , and such high temperature gas is again likely to expand adiabatically out of the equatorial plane before it cools ( pringle and savonije 1979 ; king and shaviv 1984 ) .",
    "thus we use the vertical extent of the boundary layer as a free parameter .",
    "the radial extent of the boundary layer is observed to be very small , @xmath24 , from eclipse mapping of the x  ray emission in the quiescent dwarf novae ht cas ( mukai et al 1996 ) .",
    "interestingly , the width of the radiative boundary layer in the models of narayan and popham ( 1993 ) is @xmath25 for mass accretion rates of @xmath26 yr@xmath17 , and _ increases _ for smaller mass accretion rates .",
    "this is in potential conflict with the data as the hard x  ray flux from ht cas only requires an accretion rate of @xmath27 yr@xmath17 ( mukai et al 1996 ) , but the fractional contribution of the hard x  rays to the bolometric luminosity is highly uncertain and could be very small ( van teeseling , beuermann and verbunt 1996 ) . here",
    "we follow the observations and assume that the boundary layer is thin in the radial direction .",
    "the boundary layer emission will clearly illuminate the white dwarf surface , but the extent to which this can be seen depends on the accretion disk geometry . in outburst",
    "it is generally supposed that the disk is optically thick and has an inner radius which is very close to the white dwarf surface ( e.g. popham and narayan 1995 ) . however , there is considerable debate on the structure of the accretion disk during quiescence .",
    "several models have suggested that there is no inner disk in quiescence , in order to explain the delay in the onset of the uv flux rise during outburst with respect to the optical ( as seen by e.g. mauche et al 1995 ) .",
    "meyer and meyer  hofmeister ( 1994 ) proposed that the inner disk could be evaporated by a coronal siphon flow ; livio and pringle ( 1992 ) proposed that the inner disk formation during periods of low mass accretion rates was inhibited by low level ( @xmath28 g ) magnetic fields , while armitage et al .",
    "( 1996 ) proposed that the inner disk is depleted by a magnetic wind .",
    "alternatively , the inner disk may be present in quiescence , but not be optically thick .",
    "this is suggested by mukai et al ( 1996 ) to explain the marginally narrower x  ray than optical eclipse ingress / egress width in ht cas .",
    "if the accretion disk has a column of @xmath29 @xmath30 then it is optically thick to photoelectric absorption of the 23 kev flux ( which dominates the asca countrate ) emitted by the boundary layer below the disk but is optically thin to the optical emission from the white dwarf photosphere as long as the disk density is less than @xmath31 @xmath32 so that the free  free opacity is small .",
    "thus we assume that an optically thick disk extends down to the boundary layer in outburst , but that in quiescence the inner disk _ may _ be disrupted or optically thin .",
    "the proposed geometries are shown in figure 2a and b. the boundary layer half thickness subtends an angle @xmath33 at the center of the white dwarf , and the system is viewed at some inclination angle @xmath34 ( measured from the normal to the disk plane ) .",
    "the appendix shows that the reflection component from the white dwarf surface in ss cyg , where @xmath35 ( cowley et al 1980 ) , can be approximated by that from an isotropically illuminated slab viewed at @xmath36 , irrespective of @xmath33 .",
    "there should be an additional reflection spectrum from the optically thick disk if it does extend down to the inner boundary layer ( see figure 2a ) .",
    "this is not so simple to quantify , firstly as the geometry is complex ( the reflection spectrum from the region of the disk shadowed by the white dwarf can not be seen by the observer ) and secondly because the amount of reflection depends also on the distribution of incident photon angles , and is larger for large incident angles such as are predominantly expected here .",
    "photons which skim along the surface of the disk have a large path length through the material .",
    "they are are then absorbed / reflected in the upper layers of the disk , so it is very easy for any reflected photons to escape ( e.g. george and fabian 1991 ) .",
    "there is also the problem that the reflector intercepts not just the intrinsic spectrum but also the reflection spectrum from the white dwarf surface .",
    "thus we will just treat the limiting cases of an infinitely thin disk illuminated by a boundary layer with @xmath37 and @xmath38 .",
    "the former case is similar to that of a point source above a disk , as for each point on the boundary layer near the equator the emission is limited to a hemisphere pointing away from the white dwarf surface , and half of this will intercept the disk while the other half will not .",
    "thus the effective solid angle subtended by the disk is @xmath39 . in the latter case , where the emission extends all the way up to the poles ,",
    "the reflection spectrum normalisation is smaller .",
    "radiation emitted at the poles is again confined to a hemisphere pointing away from the white dwarf surface but this does not intersect the disk at all , and so contributes only to the continuum emission rather than to the disk reflection .",
    "in fact the solid angle subtended by the disk to an optically thick x  ray emitting sphere is @xmath40 ( chen and halpern 1989 ) , so as @xmath41 the additional reflection component is then @xmath42 that expected from an isotropically illuminated disk viewed at inclination @xmath34 . for ss cyg",
    "the angles are such that an @xmath40 disk reflection component viewed at @xmath43 is almost identical ( in shape and normalisation ) to that from the white dwarf surface ( @xmath39 ) viewed at the mean angle of @xmath36 , so the additional reflection spectrum expected from the inner disk ( if it exists ) is @xmath44 that expected from a slab viewed at @xmath36 .",
    "ss cyg was observed twice with ginga ( 220 kev ) , once in quiescence ( 2527 nov 1987 ) and once during decline of a normal outburst ( 25 dec 1990 ) .",
    "the data were extracted in 64 second binning using standard selection criteria ( maximum pointing offset from the source of @xmath45 , soft electron rates of sol @xmath46 , magnetic rigidity between @xmath47 cor@xmath48 , surplus count rate above the upper discriminator of sud@xmath46 , and earth elevation angle between @xmath49 yelev@xmath50 ) .",
    "the ginga proportional counters are split into two separate layers , top and mid , where the mid layer is more sensitive above 15 kev , but has very little effective area below 8 kev ( turner et al 1989 ) .",
    "the data mode chosen for the majority of both ss cyg observations was mpc2 , in which the top and mid layer are combined , rather than the usual faint source data mode of mpc1 where the mid layer spectra can be discarded to increase signal  to  noise .",
    "the standard universal background subtraction technique , in which blank sky observations over a period of several months around the date of the observation are used to calculate the contribution from the diffuse cosmic x  ray background , particle background and the induced satellite radioactive decay components ( hayashida et al 1989 ; williams et al 1992 ) is optimised for mpc1 mode data , so is not necessarily appropriate here . also , ss cyg is in the galactic plane ( @xmath51 ) so the spectrum at the lowest energies can also be contaminated by the diffuse galactic background .",
    "instead we use a local background ( williams et al 1992 ) , where data from a nearby ( in both time and galactic coordinates ) were also extracted , using the same selection criteria as the source except that a larger range in geomagnetic parameters ( sud@xmath52 ) and offset angle ( @xmath53 ) is allowed .",
    "this blank sky data is then used to model the background components in the source data . for the 1987 data",
    "the background observation is not sufficiently long to sample all the same background levels as seen during the source observation so we exclude parts of the ss cyg observation with sud@xmath54 .",
    "two nearby backgrounds were used to model the 1990 data as the background taken between the two main blocks of source data was noisy .",
    "systematic errors induced by using only a short segment of background data are included by increasing the error bar on the background by a factor 1.5 .",
    "this is a conservative procedure and probably results in the overly small values of @xmath55 derived in sections 4.1 and 4.2 .",
    "the background subtracted data is then attitude corrected in order to produce the final dataset , and a systematic error of 0.5 per cent is added to take account of residual uncertainties in the determination of the instrument response .",
    "the default ( rev 1 ) screened asca ( 0.610 kev ) data for each instrument were taken from the archive .",
    "these were extracted with elevation angle @xmath56 , geomagnetic rigidity @xmath57 gev / c , pointing within @xmath58 of the target position , not in the south atlantic anomaly or in fine guidance mode . for the sis data",
    "there is the further criteria that the bright earth angle is @xmath59 , and all faint mode data are converted to bright mode , and combined with the original bright mode data .",
    "source spectra for the sis and gis were extracted over a circle of radius 4 and 6 arcminutes , respectively , and background was taken from the same image as the source data .",
    "the effective area curve for each instrument was derived from the source position data and this , together with the the standard response matrices ( s0c1g0234p40e1_512v0_8i.rmf , s1c3g0234p40e1_512v0_8i.rmf , gis2v4_0.rmf , gis3v4_0.rmf ) give the instrument response .",
    "the source data were then grouped to a minimum of 20 counts per bin so that @xmath55 fitting is appropriate .",
    "the data were fitted using the xspec spectral fitting package version 9.00 ( arnaud 1996 ) . all error bars or upper limits quoted are @xmath60 ( 90 % confidence level for 1 free parameter ) .",
    "we caution that some parameters are strongly coupled ( especially in the low spectral resolution ginga data ) , so the allowed strengths of e.g. the gaussian line and reflection continuum are strongly ( anti)correlated .",
    "the equivalent widths of any additional gaussian line components are quoted by re  evaluating the model on a dummy response matrix with 1000 energy grid points between 0.2 and 20 kev .",
    "this means that the 6.4 kev line is calculated with respect to the line ",
    "free continuum at 6.4 kev , whereas with the instrumental energy binning the continuum can be contaminated by the hot plasma line emission .",
    "the interstellar column density to ss cyg is fixed at @xmath61 @xmath30 , as determined from the depth of narrow uv absorption lines seen against the bright outburst spectrum ( mauche , raymond and cordova 1988 ) .",
    "for single temperature hot plasma spectra we use the mekal model in xspec ( see the xspec users manual for a complete description of the supported models ) , while for a power law emissivity  temperature distribution plasma",
    "we use a modification of the cemekl code in xspec , where the luminosity of each temperature component is weighted by a factor @xmath62 .",
    "the code as released calculates the integral over temperature logarithmically , without modifying the step size from @xmath63 to @xmath64 .",
    "thus the @xmath65 produced by the code is 1 larger than the true weighting factor . in all that follows",
    "the @xmath65 quoted is the xspec weighting factor .",
    "numerically the code also had to be modified by changing the order of integration ( starting with the highest temperature component rather than the lowest ) so that the spectrum changes smoothly with changing @xmath66 .",
    "the density in both plasma codes is fixed at @xmath67 @xmath32 .",
    "reflection of the continuum spectrum is calculated from the code of magdziarz and zdziarski ( 1995 ) , with the inclination angle fixed at @xmath36 as appropriate for ss cyg ( see section 2 ) , but with the fractional contribution left as a free parameter .",
    "all these models assume that the abundances with respect to h of all the elements scale together , and that this fractional abundance relative to the solar determination of anders and gervasse ( 1989 ) is a free parameter .",
    "the iron fluorescence line that should accompany the reflection continuum is included as a separate narrow gaussian , with line energy of 6.4 kev being appropriate for a mainly neutral reflector .",
    "these four model components ( single temperature plasma , power law temperature  emissivity distribution plasma , reflection continuum and gaussian emission line ) are denoted by t , plt , r and g respectively in all the tables .",
    "there is also the possibility of complex absorption . in quiescence",
    "the inner disk may be present but be optically thin to electron scattering ( section 2.2 ) . this may give rise to partial absorption of the x  ray emission .",
    "the fraction of the emission that is occulted by the inner disk can be derived from the difference in the emitting area observed with and without a disk ( i.e. the difference in normalisation factors in equations 1 and 2 of the appendix ) . for ss cyg at an inclination of @xmath43",
    "this gives rise to a maximum expected covering fraction of 0.5 if the boundary layer is concentrated in the equatorial plane ( @xmath68 ) or a minimum covering fraction of 0.2 for @xmath69 .",
    "we assume that the optically thin disk is neutral and model this by the pcf code in xspec .",
    "the partially ionized absorption expected in outburst from transmission of the x  ray spectrum through the outflowing wind is modeled by the absori code in xspec .",
    "the ion populations are found by balancing the temperature dependent dielectronic and radiative recombination rates against photoionization as in done et al ( 1992 ) .",
    "the thermal balance equations are not calculated self consistently .",
    "instead the temperature of the material is fixed at @xmath70 k , as appropriate for the derived low ionization states ( see section 4.3 and e.g. kallman and mccray 1982 figures 21 and 22 ) .",
    "the code assumes that the ionization balance is determined by a power law x  ray spectrum .",
    "the continuum from ss cyg can be roughly characterised by a power law of photon index @xmath71 in outburst and @xmath72 in quiescence , so we fix the index at the relevant value for each spectrum .",
    "model calculations of the ionization state of the wind have tended to concentrate on photoionization by the putative boundary layer blackbody emission but the harder x  ray emission will also contribute to the ionization balance .",
    "this especially important in determining the abundances of the ions which absorb in the x  ray bandpass , such as ovii .",
    "both absorption models use the fixed abundances of morrison & mccammon ( 1983 ) and are denoted by pcf and pia respectively in all the tables .",
    "results from all the spectral fits in this section are detailed in table 1 .",
    "since these data are the same as those used by yoshida et al ( 1992 ) we first check for consistency by using their model of a bremsstrahlung spectrum with narrow gaussian emission line .",
    "this gives a good fit to the data ( @xmath73 ) , with derived continuum and line parameters which are consistent with those quoted by yoshida et al ( 1992 ) .",
    "however , a bremsstrahlung spectrum is physically unlikely as there will be elements other than just pure hydrogen in the accreting material .",
    "thus we replace this _",
    "ad hoc _ continuum and line with a hot plasma spectrum in which the line emission is calculated self consistently , and fix the absorption at the interstellar value .",
    "this gives a poor fit to the spectrum , with @xmath74 for a temperature of @xmath75 kev and abundance of @xmath76 . including a second temperature component , as has often been suggested ( yoshida et al 1992 ; nousek et al 1994 ) does not give a significantly better fit ( @xmath77 for @xmath78 kev and @xmath79 kev ) .",
    "adding further separate temperature components does not result in any significant improvement in the fit .",
    "such _ ad hoc _ multi  temperature models can approximate the spectrum of a continuous temperature distribution .",
    "a power law temperature  emissivity distribution hot plasma model gives a fit which is not significantly different ( @xmath80 ) from the single temperature description , with the data requiring that the most weight is given to the higher temperature components ( @xmath81 ) .    as the theoretical continuum spectral shape",
    "is not known _ a priori _ we are justified in trying an arbitrary emissivity / temperature relation .",
    "one such model describes the differential emission measure , @xmath82 , as an exponential function of an @xmath83th order chebyshev polynomial , @xmath84 , such that @xmath85 ( lemen et al .",
    "1989 ) , where the exponential function ensures positivity .",
    "we modified the cp6mkl model in xspec so that the maximum temperature was a free parameter rather than being fixed at 10 kev , redefined the chebyshev polynomial coefficients to a more standard form ( e.g. press et al 1988 ) , and again reversed the order of integration .",
    "fitting with this model resulted in a @xmath86 , similar to that from the two temperature plasma description .",
    "the derived emissivity distribution has two peaks at similar temperatures to those found in the two temperature model so we do not tabulate the results of this fit .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      we fit a power law temperature  emissivity plasma model with morrison & mccammon ( 1983 ) abundances , together with its reflection spectrum ( also assuming these abundances ) and a separate gaussian line to all the data simultaneously , with the abundances tied across all the datasets .",
    "an ionized absorber is included for the asca data , and the plasma emission and gaussian line normalisations , the maximum temperature and temperature weighting index are free to vary between the spectra .",
    "this gives an excellent @xmath87 , showing that the elemental abundances are consistent across all the datasets , with @xmath88 and @xmath89 .",
    "the two outburst spectra are consistent with having the same amount of reflection , with no increase in @xmath90 when the two parameters are tied together , so that @xmath91 for @xmath92 in outburst and @xmath93 in quiescence .",
    "this difference between the amount of reflection in outburst and quiescent is highly significant : tieing all the reflected fractions together leads to an increase in @xmath55 of 6.6 .",
    "the best fit model spectra for the quiescent , ginga decline from outburst and asca outburst data fit simultaneously are shown in figures 4 , 5 and 6 , respectively .",
    "the plasma parameters are @xmath94 , and @xmath95 , respectively , again showing that most of the gas is hotter in quiescence than in outburst .",
    "all the data strongly require that the line emission is substantially weaker than expected from a coronal plasma with solar abundances . while this could simply indicate that the elements are subsolar , we first examine alternative possibilities .",
    "the data have been fit with coronal plasma models , which assume that radiative ( and dielectronic ) transitions are the dominant recombination processes balancing collisional ionization .",
    "all these processes involve only one electron in a free  bound ( or bound ",
    "free ) transition , so the resultant ion populations are independent of the electron density to first order .",
    "most of the ions are in the ground state as the recombination rates are generally very much larger than the collisional ionization rates . however ,",
    "at high densities collisional excitation becomes important enough to rival radiative recombination , so that the ions are generally in excited rather than ground states .",
    "collisional ionization out of the _ excited states _ , a process neglected in the assumption of a coronal plasma , can then modify the ionization balance .",
    "it also leads to suppression of the dielectronic recombination rate but this is not an important process at the temperatures considered here ( e.g. mewe 1990 ) . for hydrogen  like ions with atomic number @xmath96 in a plasma of temperature @xmath97 ( k ) , deviations from coronal ionization balance are less than a factor 2 when the density @xmath98 @xmath32 ( e.g. mewe 1990 ) .",
    "typical temperatures where the hydrogen  like state dominates for oxygen and iron are @xmath99 and @xmath100 k , respectively , so these elements are out of coronal equilibrium for densities @xmath101 and @xmath102 @xmath32 .",
    "the _ lower _ limit on the density inferred for the boundary layer in the eclipse observations of ht cas is @xmath103 @xmath32 ( mukai et al 1996 ) .",
    "thus there is no direct evidence against coronal equilibrium approximations for the ionization balance in the boundary layer in ht cas in quiescence .",
    "however , the mass accretion rate in ss cyg in quiescence is nearly two orders of magnitude larger than that in ht cas , so its boundary layer density may well be substantially higher",
    ". the models of popham and narayan ( 1993 ) suggest a density of @xmath104 @xmath32 for conditions appropriate to the quiescent ginga spectrum . again , in outburst the boundary layer density is presumably higher still , but the complexity of the flow makes it difficult to estimate the density of the hard x  ray emitting material .",
    "thus it seems unlikely that the material is as dense as required for coronal ionization balance to become invalid .",
    "a generally more restrictive assumption in the coronal models is that the material is optically thin . in ht",
    "cas the eclipse measure can be used to set constraints on the quiescent emission properties . assuming that the emission forms a corona of with outer radius @xmath105 then the column density through the boundary layer is @xmath106 @xmath30 for the maximum value of @xmath107 .",
    "this is optically thin to electron scattering and is also likely to be thin to all the h and he  like ly@xmath65 transitions ( matt 1994 ; mewe 1990 ) .",
    "even if these lines were optically thick , there is no viable line destruction mechanism for these transitions ( see e.g. the discussion in done et al 1995 ) so the multiple scatterings have little effect .",
    "the plasma is possibly optically thick at iron l ( band et al 1990 ) , but the fact that the iron abundance as measured from the l lines agrees with that derived from the k lines ( see section 4.3 ) argues against this strongly affecting the line emission .",
    "self photo ",
    "ionization of the plasma is potentially important , since there is an intense x  ray flux .",
    "the effective ionization parameter for a diffuse source is @xmath108 where @xmath109 , and @xmath110 is the bremsstrahlung emissivity ( see e.g. done et al 1995 ) .",
    "thus @xmath111 for a density of @xmath104 and @xmath107 .",
    "this is not high enough to disturb the ionization balance set by the collisional processes , as the ionization states , even for oxygen for a pure photoionized plasma are much less than those produced in a collisionally ionized plasma at @xmath112 kev ( kallman & mccray 1982 ) .",
    "another process that is neglected in the coronal models is three body recombination ( the inverse process of collisional ionization ) . here",
    "a free electron recombines with the ion , but the recombination energy is given to another free electron rather than being radiated as a free  bound transition . since this involves two thermal electrons , the rate depends on @xmath113 rather than @xmath114 as for the processes discussed above , so it becomes important only at high densities .",
    "again it efficiently populates the upper excited levels of the ions , so that collisional ionization from excited states can become important and collisional excitation / de  excitation can change the expected line strengths .",
    "cota ( 1987 ) , quoted by rees , netzer and ferland ( 1989 ) , states that 3 body processes should be considered for all densities @xmath115 @xmath32 , which is clearly within the range of densities which are important here .",
    "however , it is unclear whether this can have an appreciable effect on the 21 line transitions , and keady et al ( 1990 ) show that the coronal approximation for iron ion fractions in a 2 kev plasma holds up to densities @xmath116 @xmath32 .",
    "coronal models also assume that the plasma is in equilibrium , and so do not apply where the physical conditions vary on timescales which are fast compared to the ionization / recombination timescales e.g. in young supernovae remnants ( see e.g. shull 1982 ) .",
    "the collisional ionization timescale , @xmath117 , where @xmath118 is the collisional ionization rate coefficient , is slowest for h  like iron ( shull and van steenberg 1982 ) , where @xmath119 at @xmath120 k , i.e. 0.1 sec at @xmath121 @xmath32 .",
    "this is much faster than the bremsstrahlung cooling timescale @xmath122 sec for plasma at @xmath100 k , and is even rapid compared to the observed x  ray variability ( yoshida et al 1992 ) .",
    "this it seems likely that the plasma is hot and dense enough to be in ionization equilibrium .",
    "one density dependent process that will clearly affect the 21 line flux is collisional mixing of the 2s and 2p states .",
    "for an initially bare nucleus , a recombination cascade can end with an electron transition to the 1s ( @xmath123 ) level from either the 2s or 2p state ( @xmath124 or @xmath125 ) .",
    "the @xmath124 level can not decay down to ground via a permitted electric dipole transition as it violates the selection rule of @xmath126 .",
    "its only decay path is a 2 photon electric dipole decay , leading to a continuum rather than an observable line . for recombining initially h  like ions",
    "the situation is somewhat more complex , as the cascading electron can have spin either aligned or misaligned with that of the electron in the 1s state .",
    "thus an excited 2s1s he  like ion can be either @xmath127 , @xmath128 , @xmath129 or @xmath130 , of which the @xmath129 state decays via 2 photons .",
    "thus the k@xmath65 line from h and he  like ions can be increased by collisional mixing out of the @xmath124 and @xmath131 level , respectively , and this can strengthen the line by up to @xmath132% , becoming effective for h  like ions of atomic number @xmath96 at densities greater than @xmath133 ( e.g. netzer 1996 ) .",
    "thus it should be important for o at densities @xmath134 @xmath32 , and all elements up to si and perhaps s for densities of @xmath104 @xmath32 .",
    "however , it is unlikely to affect iron as this requires densities @xmath135 @xmath32 .",
    "thus in comparison to the plasma codes calculated with @xmath67 @xmath32 we expect the observed ly@xmath65 lines from iron in the hot plasma to be representative of the true abundance of iron , while those from the lower @xmath96 elements can be enhanced by this process , leading to an overestimate of their abundance by a factor of @xmath136 .    in short , while true coronal equilibrium conditions are not fulfilled in the boundary layer , none of the density , photo  ionization or optical depth effects discussed above are likely to cause the observed sub",
    " solar abundance line intensities from the plasma .",
    "the one process that should be important is _ enhancement _ of the ly@xmath65 lines from h and he  like ions of low @xmath96 elements by a factor @xmath137 by collisional mixing transforming states that decay via 2 photons into k@xmath65 line .",
    "since coronal models seem to give a good indication of the x  ray line equivalent widths , we can use these to estimate the abundances in ss cyg .",
    "if collisional mixing affects everything other than iron , then all the elements are a factor @xmath138 sub  solar except si and s , which are probably more like a factor @xmath139 sub  solar .",
    "however , this is _ not _ consistent with the intensity of the observed 6.4 kev fluorescent line from the reflector in the asca data , which is weaker in comparison to the reflection continuum than is expected from material in which all the elements are subsolar by a factor 3 .",
    "this strongly suggests that the relative abundance of iron with respect to the lighter elements is smaller than the solar definition used here . a recent abundance compilation by grevasse et al .",
    ", ( 1996 ) gives fe / h of @xmath140 compared to @xmath141 in anders & grevasse ( 1989 ) , while most of the lighter elements have abundances within 10% of the anders & grevasse ( 1989 ) values .",
    "ironically , these newest abundances are very similar to those of morrison & mccammon ( 1983 ) for all the given elements . without collisional",
    "mixing , the plasma in ss cyg is then uniformly a factor @xmath142 below the solar values of morrison & mccammon ( 1983 ) except for si and s , which are @xmath143 solar.      the determination of the amount of reflection is dependent on the assumed abundances . from the above discussion",
    "it seems that the abundance ratios in the plasma and reflector are closer to those of morrison & mccammon ( 1983 ) . using these abundances for the reflector as well as",
    "the plasma gives the result for ss cyg that @xmath93 in quiescence , @xmath92 in outburst ( see section 4.4 ) .",
    "the amount of reflection in quiescence is _ not _ consistent with the presence of an optically thick inner disk ( see section 2.2 and 2.3 ) .",
    "either the inner disk is disrupted , or is optically thin .",
    "by contrast , the larger amount of reflection in outburst requires that there is additional reflecting material present compared to that in quiescence .",
    "this is consistent with a geometry in which the boundary layer extends over the whole white dwarf surface , illuminating both it and an inner disk .",
    "a partially ionized absorber is seen in the asca outburst spectrum .",
    "the derived ionization state for @xmath144 ( tables 4 and 5 ) from the absori code ( see section 4.0 ) is such that the civ ionization fraction is at its maximum , with @xmath145 .",
    "this is the upper end of the range found for the blackbody boundary layer or disk illumination models of hoare and drew ( 1993 ) , where @xmath146 is typically @xmath147 .",
    "the x  ray column density in the warm material in ss cyg of @xmath148 @xmath30 gives @xmath149 yr@xmath17 using the spherical wind velocity law of hoare and drew ( 1993 ) .",
    "thus @xmath150 yr@xmath17 , much smaller than that inferred from the uv resonance line modelling ( e.g. hoare and drew 1993 ) , perhaps because the asca data are taken towards the end of an outburst ( nousek et al 1993 ) , where the wind may be declining rapidly .",
    "we stress that the hard x  ray illumination does have important effects on the ionization structure of the wind , and that the x  ray absorption can give new constraints on the outflowing material which has hitherto only been extensively studied in the uv .",
    "the lack of robust theoretical models for the hard x  ray spectrum is a severe problem in interpreting the data .",
    "the calculations of narayan and popham ( 1993 ) are the only numerical results for the quiescent spectra that can be rigorously tested .",
    "however , these are restricted by the 1 dimensional approximations which imply vertical averaging of what is most likely to be a plasma with a stratified temperature structure . in these models",
    "the expected spectrum is very like that produced from material that is impulsively heated which then cools via bremsstrahlung alone in a constant pressure / gravitational field .",
    "this spectrum is _ incompatible _ with the ginga quiescent spectrum , in which the expected cooling gas is not present .",
    "either these models for the quiescent spectrum are wrong , and there is some additional process heating of the gas , or the cooler components are masked by absorption .",
    "the ionized wind is is unlikely to be important in quiescence , so the only potential absorber is an optically thin inner disk , which could attenuate the emission from the observable part of the hard x  ray boundary layer below the equatorial plane .",
    "however , this absorption is not _ required _ by the data  an equally acceptable description of the spectrum is an x  ray source where the temperature  emissivity relation is weighted towards higher temperatures than expected from simple cooling models .    in outburst",
    "there are no detailed models for the temperature  emissivity structure that can currently be compared with the data . however , the integrated luminosity from the hot gas is similar in both outburst and quiescence , although its fractional contribution to the bolometric luminosity is much lower in outburst .",
    "the maximum temperature component of the emission is similar in both quiescence and outburst at @xmath151 kev ( see section 4.4 ) .",
    "as expected , these are always less than the maximum temperature of @xmath152 kev produced by a strong shock from material accreting onto a white dwarf mass of @xmath153 and radius of @xmath154 cm ( frank et al 1992 ) .",
    "we find a significant reflection signature in all the ss cyg spectra .",
    "this is stronger relative to the illuminating plasma emission in outburst than in quiescence , consistent with models in which the inner disk is optically thick in outburst but optically thin or non  existent in quiescence .",
    "the amount of reflection in both quiescence and outburst also supports the idea that the hard x  ray plasma forms a corona over the white dwarf surface , rather than being confined to an equatorial band where the disk / star interaction takes place .",
    "the asca outburst spectrum shows significant absorption from partially ionized material , which is probably the outflowing wind inferred from the uv resonance line profiles .",
    "the x  ray absorption gives an additional diagnostic window on the wind properties , and suggests rather low mass loss rates of @xmath155 yr@xmath17 .",
    "the hard x  ray emission strongly affects the ionization structure of the wind , giving much larger civ ion fractions than previous blackbody boundary layer photoionisation models .",
    "the asca data also give a good determination of the amount of line emission from the plasma , which are a factor @xmath156 weaker than expected for solar abundances .",
    "we critically examine the assumptions of coronal equilibrium but conclude that the line strengths are representative of the abundances .",
    "the intrinsic plasma emission , when separated from the effects of reflection and ( in outburst ) ionized absorption , can then be described by hot plasma with a continuous ( power law ) temperature  emissivity distribution . in quiescence",
    "this distribution is strongly weighted towards the highest temperatures , with very little cooler material present , so that the emission can in practice be modeled by a single temperature plasma .",
    "the lack of cool components is in conflict with the predictions of the advective boundary layer models of narayan & popham ( 1993 ) , and with simple models of cooling gas !",
    "one possible way to reinstate these models is for the quiescent spectrum to be distorted by partial absorption , such as would be produced if the inner disk is optically thin to electron scattering but optically thick to photoelectric absorption . the flux from the boundary layer below the disk",
    "is then absorbed , while that from above the disk is not .",
    "the outburst spectrum by contrast is much softer .",
    "it is dominated by the cool components and can not be modeled as single temperature emission , but the total luminosity of the x  ray emitting gas is very similar to that in quiescence .",
    "we review current theoretical models for the hard x ",
    "rays in outburst , but none of these address the probable difference in the physical nature of the viscosity between the disk and the boundary layer , or the inherently 3 dimensional nature of the problem .",
    "we urge further theoretical modelling , giving the predicted , spatially integrated temperature  emissivity distribution , so that a better understanding of the spectra of dwarf novae can be developed .",
    "we thank dave smith for his help with the ginga data extraction , bob popham for discussions about the advective boundary layer models , and john parker for spatial perception in the reflection calculations .",
    "cd acknowledges support from a pparc advanced fellowship . this research has made use of data obtained through the high energy astrophysics science archive research center online service , provided by the nasa / goddard space flight center , and from the leicester database and archive service at the department of physics and astronomy , leicester university , uk .",
    "armitage p.j . , livio m. , pringle j.e . , 1996 ,",
    "apj . , 457 , 332    arnaud k.a . , 1996 , in jacoby g. , barnes j. , astronomical data analysis software and systems , asp conf .",
    "series volume 101 , p17 ,    anders e. , grevesse n. , 1989 , geochimica et cosmochimica acta 53 , 197    bailey j. , 1981 , mnras , 197 , 31 .",
    "balbus s.a . , hawley j.f . , 1991 , apj . , 376 , 214    balbus s.a . , hawley j.f",
    "stone j.m . , 1996 ,",
    "apj . , 467 , 76    beardmore a p , done c , osborne j p & ishida m 1995 , mnras , 276 , 483    chen k. , halpern j.p . , 1989 , apj . , 344 , 115    cordova f. , 1995 , in lewin c.h.g . , van paradijs j. , van den heuvel e.p.j . , x  ray binaries , cup , cambridge , p331    cota s.a .",
    ", 1987 , phd thesis , ohio state university .",
    "cowley a.p . ,",
    "crampton d. , hutchings j.b . , 1980 , apj . , 241 , 269    cropper m. , ramsey g. , wu k. , 1996 , mnras , submitted    done c. , mulchaey j.s .",
    ", mushotzky r.f . ,",
    "arnaud k.a . , 1992 ,",
    "apj . , 395 ,",
    "275    done c. , osborne j.p .",
    ", beardmore a.p . ,",
    "1995 , mnras , 276 , 483    drew j.e .",
    ", 1993 , in regev o. , shaviv j. , eds , proc 2nd technion haifa conf",
    "israel phys .",
    ", p128    frank j. , king a.r .",
    ", raine d. , 1992 , in accretion power in astrophysics , 2nd edn .",
    "cup , cambridge    george i. fabian a.c .",
    ", 1991 , mnras , 249 , 352    grevasse n. , noels a. , sauval a.j . , 1996 , in holt s.s .",
    ", sonneborn g. , eds , cosmic abundances , asp conference series 99 , p117 .",
    "hayashida k. , et al .",
    ", 1989 , pasj , 41 , 373    hoare m.g .",
    ", drew j.e . , 1991 , mnras , 249 , 452    hoare m.g .",
    ", drew j.e . , 1993 , mnras , 260 , 647    hujeirat a. , 1995 , a&a , 295 , 268    johnson r.m .",
    ", fabian a.c . ,",
    "edge a.c . ,",
    "thomas p.a . , 1992 , mnras , 255 , 431    kallman t.r . , mccray r. , 1982 , apj",
    "50 , 263    keady j.j . , huebner w.f . ,",
    "abdallah j. , magee n.h . , 1990 , in brinkmann w. , ed . , physical processes in hot cosmic plasmas , kulwer acad .",
    "publ . , dordrecht , p181    king a.r .",
    ", shaviv g. , 1985 , nature , 308 , 519    kley w. , 1989 , a&a , 222 , 141    kluzniak w. , 1987 , phd thesis , stanford university .    lemen j.r . , mewe r. , schrijver c.j . , fludra a. , 1989 , apj . , 341 , 474    lightman a.p . ,",
    "white t.r .",
    ", 1988 , apj .",
    ", 335 , 57    livio m. , pringle j.e . , 1992 , mnras , 259 , 23p    magdziarz p. , zdziarski a.a . , 1995 , mnras , 273 , 837    matt g. , 1994 , mnras , 267 , l17    matt g. , perola g.c . , piro l. , 1991 , a&a , 247 , 25    mauche c.w . , raymond j.c . , 1987 , apj . , 323 , 690    mauche c.w . ,",
    "raymond j.c . ,",
    "cordova f.a .",
    ", 1988 , apj . , 335 , 829    mauche c.w . , raymond j.c .",
    ", mattei j.a . , 1995 , apj . ,",
    "446 , 842    mewe r. , 1990 , in brinkmann w. , ed . , physical processes in hot cosmic plasmas , kulwer acad .",
    "dordrecht , p39    meyer f. , meyer ",
    "hofmeister e. , 1994 , a&a .",
    "288 , 175    morrison r. , mccammon d. , 1983 , apj . , 270 , 119    mukai k. , wood j.h . , naylor t. , schlegel e.m . , swank j.h . , 1996 ,",
    ", in press    narayan r. , popham r. , 1993 , nature , 362 , 820    nauenberg m. , 1972 , apj .",
    ", 175 , 417    netzer h. , 1996 , apj , in press    nousek j.a .",
    ", baluta c.j . ,",
    "corbet r.h.d . , mukai k. , osborne j.p . , ishida m. , 1994 , apj . , 436 , l19    osaki y. , 1996 , pasp , 108 , 39    patterson j. , raymond j.c . , 1985a , apj , 292 , 535    patterson j. , raymond j.c . , 1985b , apj , 292 , 550    ponman t.r , belloni t. , duck s.r . , verbunt f. , watson m.g . , wheatley p.j . , pfeffermann e. , 1995 , mnras , 276 , 495    popham r. , narayan r. , 1995 , apj . , 442 , 337    press w.h . ,",
    "teukolsky s.a .",
    ", vetterling w.t . ,",
    "flannery b.p . , 1993 , numerical recipes , 2nd edn , cup , cambridge    pringle j.e . , 1977 , mnras , 178 , 195    pringle j.e .",
    ", savonije g.j . , 1979 , mnras , 187 , 777    rees m.j . , netzer h. , ferland g.j . , 1989 , apj . , 347 , 640    reynolds c.s . , fabian a.c . ,",
    "inoue h. , 1995 , mnras , 276 , 1311    shull j.m . , 1982 ,",
    "apj . , 262 , 308    shull j.m .",
    ", van steenberg m. , 1982 , apj .",
    ", 48 , 95    tout c.a .",
    ", pringle j.e . , 1992 , 259 , 604    turner m.j.l . , et al . , 1989 ,",
    "pasj , 41 , 345    tylenda r. , 1981 , acta astr . , 31 , 127    van teeseling a. , beuermann k. , verbunt f. , 1996 , a&a , 315 , 467    van teeseling a. , kaastra j.s . , heise j. , 1996 , a&a , 312 , 186    verbunt f. , et al . , 1984 , mnras , 210 197    warner b. , 1995 , in cataclysmic varible stars , cup , cambridge    williams o.r . , et al . , 1992 ,",
    "apj . , 389 , 157    yoshida k. , inoue h. , osaki y. , 1992 , pasj , 44 , 537    zycki p.t .",
    ", krolik j.h .",
    ", zdziarski a.a . ,",
    "kallman t.r . , 1994 ,",
    ", 437 , 597",
    "the angle @xmath157 between the x  ray emitting source and the line of sight is then given by @xmath158 .",
    "the reflection spectrum from each small segment of the white dwarf underlying the boundary layer can be approximated by an isotropically illuminated slab viewed at inclination @xmath157 .",
    "thus the average inclination between the reflector and the observer is given by averaging @xmath157 over all angles at which the boundary layer emission can be seen .",
    "if the disk is opticaly thick and extends down to the white dwarf surface ( figure 2a ) then this is given by          this needs to be integrated numerically .",
    "the inclination angle of ss cyg is thought to be @xmath35 ( cowley et al 1980 ) .",
    "for the two limiting values of @xmath163 and @xmath69 the angle of the emission to the line of sight is @xmath164 and @xmath165 , respectively .",
    "again , the limiting case for @xmath169 is a mean inclination of @xmath165 ( the presence or absence of a disk makes no difference if the boundary layer is limited to the equatorial plane ) , while that for @xmath69 is @xmath170 .    given that all these limits are very close to each other , the mean angle at which we see the boundary layer in ss cyg is approximately @xmath36 , irrespective of whether or not there is an inner disk or the extent of the boundary layer .",
    "thus the reflection component from the white dwarf surface in ss cyg is approximately that expected from an isotropically illuminated slab viewed at @xmath36 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we reanalyse archival ginga and asca x  ray data from ss cyg in both quiescence and outburst , using multi  temperature plasma models for the continuum and line emission , together with their reflection from the x  ray illuminated white dwarf and accretion disk . </S>",
    "<S> reflection is clearly detected in all the spectra , but its contribution is larger in the softer x  ray spectra seen in outburst than in quiescence . </S>",
    "<S> this supports models in which the quiescent inner disk is not present or not optically thick , so that the only reflector is the white dwarf surface rather than the white dwarf plus the disk . </S>",
    "<S> the amount of reflection in outburst is also more consistent with the hard x  </S>",
    "<S> rays forming a corona over the white dwarf surface rather than just an equatorial band . </S>",
    "<S> we detect partially ionized absorption in the asca outburst spectrum , which is probably the x  ray signature of the outflowing wind . </S>",
    "<S> the asca data also allow a detailed measure of the elemental abundances . </S>",
    "<S> we find that all detectable lines from the hot plasma ( except perhaps si and s ) are a factor @xmath0 weaker than expected from solar abundances . </S>",
    "<S> we examine possible deviations from coronal equilibrium , but conclude that the heavy elements are truly underabundant in ss cyg .    in quiescence </S>",
    "<S> the underlying intrinsic spectrum is consistent with a single temperature plasma . </S>",
    "<S> this conflicts with the expected cooling of the material , and requires that either the plasma is reheated or that the cooler emission is masked by absorption in an optically thin inner disk which affects only that part of the boundary layer emission below the disk . </S>",
    "<S> such absorption is also required if the data are to match the theoretical models ( narayan & popham 1993 ) for the quiescent hard x  ray emission . by contrast , the outburst spectrum is much softer and is dominated by the cooling components , so that it can not be fit by a single temperature model . </S>",
    "<S> there are no readily available ( or believable ) theoretical models for the hard x  ray emission in outburst , but the emission observed can be described by material with a continuous temperature distribution . </S>",
    "<S> although the outburst spectrum is much softer than the quiescent spectrum , the total luminosity of the x  ray component in both cases is similar , showing that the optically thin plasma emission is important even in outburst .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1=9.0truecm # 1#2=8.5truecm = 8.5truecm    stars : individual : ss cyg  cataclysmic variables  binaries : close  x - rays : accretion  x - rays : accretion </S>"
  ]
}