{
  "article_text": [
    "comet hale - bopp is undoubtedly the best studied long period comet in the solar system .",
    "the unusual brightness of this comet allowed for its discovery when it was still at 7au distance from the earth , and a long term monitoring of the dust activity after perihelion up to almost 13au .",
    "the infrared spectrum taken by the infrared space observatory ( iso ) provided a unique opportunity to study the composition of cometary dust .",
    "the strong resonances visible in this spectrum were attributed to the presence of crystalline silicates . the relatively sharp @xmath4 m feature in the iso spectrum together with observations of an extremely high degree of linear polarization lead to the conclusion that the dust in the coma of hale - bopp has an overabundance of submicron sized grains .",
    "the composition of the dust in hale - bopp has been modeled frequently in the literature applying various approaches .",
    "the interpretation of the results obtained from the observations lead to discussions in the literature on the origin and evolution of cometary dust .",
    "cometary dust is believed to be the most primitive material present in the solar system .",
    "the high crystallinity found by most studies of the infrared emission spectrum presents a problem for this scenario .",
    "since the dust that entered the proto - solar nebula from the interstellar medium is almost completely amorphous @xcite , the crystalline silicates in hale - bopp have to be products of processing in the early solar system .",
    "crystalline silicates can only be produced in high temperature environments ( @xmath5k ) , so close to the sun , while comets form in regions where the temperatures are low enough for water ice to exist ( @xmath6k ) .",
    "thus , the crystalline silicates have to be transported outwards to the regions where the comets form , or the dust temperature must be locally increased due to for example lightning or shock annealing .",
    "it is clear that in order to constrain the models explaining the crystalline silicates in cometary material , accurate knowledge of the abundances of the various components in the dust is required .",
    "however , the large differences in the derived crystalline silicate abundances published in the literature so far make progress in this area difficult .",
    "all studies agree that the abundance of sub - micron sized crystalline silicates is very high ( although again with considerable spread ) , but the question remains open what the crystallinity of the larger grain population is , where most of the mass resides .",
    "this is because modeling the optical properties of large , irregularly shaped particles composed of material with high refractive index is difficult .    in this study , we combine for the first time both the available observations of the thermal emission as obtained by iso and the degree of linear polarization taken from and @xcite , with a single dust model .",
    "in contrast with previous studies we calculate the optical properties of the dust grains using a method where we can take into account both size and shape effects . with this method , we obtain _ information on the composition and mass of the large grain component_. also we constrain the chemical abundances as known from studies of meteorites .",
    "thus , we are able to better constrain the dust composition and size distribution in the model than previous studies . as we will show , the size distributions of crystalline and amorphous silicates are very different , and we are able to rule out the presence of substantial amounts of large ( 1 - 10 @xmath0 m ) crystalline silicates .",
    "this results in a much lower overall crystallinity than most other studies found .    in section [ sec : method ] we explain the fitting procedure and the dust model we employ .",
    "the results of the best fit model are presented in section [ sec : results ] .",
    "the implications of these results are discussed in section [ sec : discussion ] .",
    "in this section we will outline the method used to interpret the observations of the thermal infrared emission and the degree of linear polarization of comet hale - bopp in terms of the properties of the particles in the coma .",
    "the method we use has a few important characteristics :    * both size and shape effects of the dust grains are taken into account when calculating the optical properties , i.e. the absorption ( emission ) cross sections and the degree of linear polarization of scattered light .",
    "in contrast with previous studies , our shape distribution enables us to use the same particle shapes for all dust components and grain sizes .",
    "this implies that we can , for the first time , include the effects of grain size on the optical properties of crystalline silicate grains . * the parameters of the size distributions and the abundances of the various components",
    "are determined using an objective least squares fitting routine .",
    "* we require the best fit model to fulfill the constraint that the dust in comet hale - bopp has the same abundances of the chemical elements of the major solid state materials as observed in interplanetary dust particles and meteorites .      the optical properties at a particular wavelength , i.e. the absorption and scattering cross sections as well as the scattering matrix , of a dust grain are determined by its size , shape , orientation , structure and chemical composition .",
    "throughout this paper the size of a dust grain is defined as the radius of a volume equivalent sphere , @xmath7 .",
    "we use for the size distribution a powerlaw given by @xmath8 here @xmath9 is the number of dust particles of an ensemble with sizes between @xmath7 and @xmath10 ; @xmath11 and @xmath12 are the minimum and maximum grain size , respectively , in the size distribution ; @xmath13 is the index of the powerlaw , and @xmath14 is a normalization constant .",
    "we choose @xmath14 so that @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the density of the material considered",
    ". hence , @xmath9 is the number of dust particles with sizes between @xmath7 and @xmath10 per unit mass . the effective radius , @xmath17 , and the effective variance , @xmath18 , are often used to characterize a size distribution .",
    "they are defined by @xcite @xmath19 where @xmath20 is the average geometrical shadow of the dust grains .",
    "the @xmath17 is simply the surface - area weighted mean whereas @xmath18 is the surface - area weighted variance of the distribution .",
    "the shape of the dust grains is an important parameter determining their optical properties .",
    "pictures of interplanetary dust particles ( idps ) show very complex shapes and structures @xcite .",
    "to model these complex shapes in detail requires much computing time , which limits the number of other particle parameters that can be studied . in it",
    "is shown that when the absorption cross sections of small particles are considered their shapes can be roughly divided into two categories .",
    "the first category contains homogeneous spherical particles , whereas the second category contains all other particle shapes .",
    "effects of the specific particle shape distribution on the absorption properties in the second category are present , but small compared to the differences with homogeneous spheres .",
    "this implies that the exact shape of the particles is , in a first approximation , not important as long as we brake the homogeneity or perfect spherical symmetry of a homogeneous sphere .",
    "this approach is an example of the statistical approach ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . in this approach",
    "the absorption properties of an ensemble of irregular particles are simulated by the average absorption properties of an ensemble of particles with simple shapes .",
    "in this paper we use a distribution of hollow spherical particles ( dhs ) . in this distribution a uniform average is taken over the fraction , @xmath21 , of the total volume occupied by the central vacuum inclusion in the range @xmath22 , where @xmath23 .",
    "all particles in this distribution have the same material volume , so that the particles with higher values of @xmath21 have larger outer radii . for details regarding this distribution",
    "we refer to . in order to reproduce the wavelength positions of the spectral features of crystalline silicate grains",
    ", we have to choose @xmath24 .",
    "numerical computations for particles with @xmath25 are not possible since these would have an infinitely large outer radius . for particles much smaller than the wavelength , integrating the optical properties up to @xmath25 can be done analytically . for larger particles numerical computations",
    "are necessary .",
    "we then choose @xmath26 large enough to reach convergence to the values for @xmath24 .",
    "for most cases we considered , it suffices to integrate up to @xmath27 .",
    "the optical properties of hollow spherical particles are calculated using a simple extension of mie theory @xcite .",
    "the calculations were done using the layered sphere code for which the basic ideas are explained in @xcite .",
    "we would like to stress that we do not allege that hollow spheres are a good approximation for the real shape of cometary dust grains .",
    "rather , the properties of the particles in the dhs determining the absorption and polarization behavior of the entire ensemble represent in a statistical way those of an ensemble of realistically shaped dust grains .",
    "one of the advantages of the dhs is that the scattering and absorption properties can be calculated easily for almost all grain sizes and wavelengths .",
    "this means that we can calculate the absorption cross sections as well as the degree of linear polarization for incident unpolarized light as a function of scattering angle , which enables us to fit simultaneously the observed infrared emission spectrum and the degree of linear polarization using the same dust parameters . in it",
    "is shown that good agreement between calculations for the distribution of hollow spheres and measurements of the mass absorption coefficients of small forsterite grains as a function of wavelength can be obtained . also , as is shown by @xcite ,",
    "the degree of linear polarization as calculated using the dhs is in good agreement with laboratory measurements of irregularly shaped quartz particles .",
    "a cometary dust grain consists most likely of a mixture of various components such as , for example , olivine , carbon and ironsulfide . in using the model described above",
    "we assume that the optical properties of such a mixed particle can be represented by the average properties of homogeneous particles for each of the separate components .",
    "the validity of this approach for core - mantle grains is studied by @xcite and shown to be dependent on the shape of the dust grains . in general , whether it is a valid assumption depends on the compactness of the composite particle . when the grains are very fluffy aggregates composed of homogeneous monomers , the grain components will approximately interact with the incoming light as if they were separate . however , in a more compact structure , the effects of interaction between the separate components can become visible .    throughout the paper we will first average over particle shape ( @xmath21 ) which will be denoted by @xmath28 .",
    "the averaging over particle shape and size will be denoted by @xmath29 .      to compute the radiation emitted by an ensemble of monodisperse dust grains in random orientation as a function of wavelength we need two ingredients , _",
    "i ) _ the orientation averaged absorption cross section as a function of wavelength , and _",
    "ii ) _ the temperature of the dust grains . when both are known we can calculate the observed thermal radiation of a dust grain averaged over all orientations as follows @xmath30 here @xmath31 is the flux density at distance @xmath32 , @xmath33 is the wavelength of radiation , @xmath34 is the temperature of the dust grain , @xmath35 is the planck function , and @xmath36 is the orientation averaged absorption cross section of the dust grains at wavelength @xmath33 . the thermal radiation of grains with the temperatures we consider is mainly emitted in the infrared part of the spectrum . at these wavelengths",
    "the effect of scattering of solar radiation on the total observed flux is negligible .",
    "the temperature of the dust grains is calculated by assuming thermal equilibrium , i.e. the energy absorbed is equal to the energy emitted .",
    "note that dust grains with equal size @xmath7 and composition but different shapes and/or orientations can have different equilibrium temperatures .",
    "however , we assume that all dust grains with the same volume and composition have the same temperature determined by the shape and orientation averaged absorption properties ( as is usually done ) .    the coma of hale - bopp is optically thin",
    "therefore , we only need to consider direct illumination of the coma grains by the sun and we may ignore the diffuse radiation field caused by , e.g. , scattering of solar light by the coma material .",
    "we assume the sun to radiate like a black body with a temperature of @xmath37k .",
    "since the absorption cross section , and , therefore , the temperature , depends on the size and chemical composition of the particles we determine the temperature for each different dust particle size and material separately . using the size distribution given by eq .",
    "( [ eq : power distr ] ) the flux per unit mass from dust component @xmath38 is given by @xmath39 in this equation @xmath40 is the size distribution of component @xmath38 with minimum and maximum radii @xmath41 and @xmath42 ; @xmath43 is the orientation and shape averaged absorption cross section of an ensemble of dust grains of material @xmath38 with size @xmath7 , and @xmath44 is the temperature of the dust grains in this ensemble . since the coma of comet hale - bopp is optically thin , the total flux averaged over particle size , shape , orientation and composition is simply the sum over the various components @xmath45 where @xmath46 is the total mass of dust component @xmath38 .",
    "in the visible part of the spectrum the radiation from the cometary halo is dominated by sunlight scattered once by dust grains .",
    "the intensity and polarization of the scattered light depend on the angle of scattering and the wavelength .",
    "for a comet it is possible to obtain measurements of the degree of linear polarization for various scattering angles by observing the comet at various moments during its orbit around the sun .",
    "all information on the angular dependence of the scattering behavior of an optically thin ensemble of dust grains is contained in its @xmath47 scattering matrix .",
    "when the size and shape distributions and the abundances of all dust species are known , we can calculate the average @xmath47 scattering matrix of the ensemble if enough data of the refractive index is available . from this matrix",
    "we can obtain the degree of linear polarization for incident unpolarized light of dust component @xmath38 @xmath48 where @xmath49 is the phase angle and @xmath50 is the @xmath51th element of the scattering matrix averaged over size and shape of the dust grains ( for details see * ? ? ?",
    "it should be noted that for calculations and measurements presented in the literature often the scattering angle , @xmath52 , is used instead of the phase angle , @xmath49 . for comets",
    "it is more convenient to use the phase angle .",
    "since multiple scattering can be neglected for comets we have @xmath53 .    in order to calculate the degree of linear polarization of an ensemble of particles",
    "not only averaged over particle size and shape distributions but also over dust materials , we have to average the matrix elements @xmath50 .",
    "thus the average polarization is given by @xmath54      to make a fit to the observations of hale - bopp we need to fine - tune the free parameters in the model in such a way that we minimize the differences between the results of the model computations and the observations in a well defined way .",
    "the model we constructed has @xmath55 free parameters , where @xmath56 is the number of dust species we include in the fitting procedure . by choosing the index of the powerlaw , @xmath13 , the same for all dust species this reduces to @xmath57 free parameters , namely @xmath58 .",
    "the error on the infrared emission spectrum is defined as @xmath59 in this equation @xmath60 ( @xmath61 ) is a chosen wavelength grid ; @xmath62 is the observational value of the flux at wavelength @xmath60 , and @xmath63 is the error of the observed flux at wavelength @xmath60 . in order to estimate @xmath63",
    "we assume that the error in the spectral observations is proportional to the square root of the observed flux .",
    "the position of the minimum value of @xmath64 is independent of the absolute value of the error .",
    "note that , since we do not have the values of the absolute errors of the spectral measurements , the @xmath64 is not equal to the reduced @xmath64 and can not be interpreted as the statistical goodness of fit .",
    "the error of the degree of linear polarization is defined as @xmath65 in this equation @xmath66 is the degree of linear polarization observed at phase angle @xmath67 ( @xmath68 ) and wavelength @xmath69 ( @xmath70 ) , while @xmath71 is the error in the observed polarization at phase angle @xmath67 and wavelength @xmath69 .",
    "note that the number of phase angles at which observations are available may vary with wavelength .",
    "the most straightforward way to define the total @xmath72 is to take the sum of @xmath64 and @xmath73 .",
    "however , since we have many more measurements of the infrared flux than we have observations of the degree of linear polarization and we are unable to compute the reduced @xmath64 , this would lead to a stronger weight of the spectral measurements than the polarization observations . therefore , we chose to minimize @xmath74    the minimization of @xmath72 as defined by eq .",
    "( [ eq : chisquare ] ) is done using a combination of two methods . since the total spectrum is a linear combination of the separate spectra for the different components ( see eq .  [ eq : total flux ] ) , we are able to separate the fitting problem into a non - linear and a linear part .",
    "the non - linear part consists of minimizing for all @xmath41 , @xmath42 and @xmath13 , and the linear part does the minimization for all @xmath46 .    for the non - linear part of the minimization we use a genetic optimization algorithm called pikaia @xcite .",
    "this algorithm tries to find a global maximum of an arbitrary function in a large parameter space by using concepts from evolution theory .",
    "every set of parameters @xmath75 is called an individual , the parameters are the genes. the procedure starts with a randomly initialized population of @xmath76 individuals and calculates the @xmath72 for each individual .",
    "the individuals with the highest values of @xmath77 ( lowest values of @xmath72 ) are then given the best chance to reproduce into the next generation of individuals .",
    "this reproduction is done by mixing the genes of two individuals into a new individual .",
    "when this procedure is repeated through several generations , the individuals with low values of @xmath77 will die out and only individuals with high values of @xmath77 will survive . in the end ( after @xmath78 generations ) the best individual , which represents the best fit parameters , will survive . to ensure convergence also mutations ",
    "random variations on the parameters  are included in the algorithm .",
    "an extensive description can be found in @xcite . although the algorithm is not very fast  many models need to be calculated  it is very robust in the sense that it will ( almost ) always find the global maximum , whereas other optimization codes frequently end up with a local maximum .    for every individual in the genetic algorithm",
    "we determine the best values for the @xmath46 by minimizing the @xmath64 using a linear least squares fitting procedure .",
    "linear least squares fitting amounts to solving an overdetermined matrix equation in a least squares sense . to ensure that all @xmath46 are positive we need a robust linear least squares fitting procedure with extra linear equality and inequality constraints .",
    "we use the subroutine dlsei from the slatec library .",
    "the inequality constraints are used to ensure that @xmath79 .",
    "the equality constraints are used to constrain the chemical abundances as will be explained in section [ sec : abun constraints ] . using the @xmath46",
    "thus derived , we calculate @xmath73 and @xmath72 .",
    "although in this way we might miss the absolute minimum , we can use this approach since the infrared spectrum is more sensitive to the exact dust composition than the degree of linear polarization is , which is more sensitive to the size distribution .    in order to estimate the errors on the derived abundances of the dust species we consider all individuals from all generations with a value of @xmath72 smaller than @xmath80 times the minimum value of @xmath72 .",
    "the value @xmath80 was chosen such that all fits within this range are still in reasonable agreement with the observations .",
    "the entire fit procedure is schematically outlined in fig .",
    "[ fig : diagram ] .      in this section",
    "we will discuss the dust components we chose for our model computations .",
    "based on previous studies and on the composition of idps we make the following selection of components .",
    "@xmath81 amorphous carbon : :    ( c ) .",
    "we assume that most of the carbon atoms that are in the solid    state phase will be present as amorphous carbon .",
    "the emission spectrum    of amorphous carbon gives a smooth continuum contribution without    clear spectral structure . from the _ in situ _",
    "measurements by the vega    spacecraft when it encountered the coma of comet halley , we know that    approximately half of the total available c is present in the solid    state phase .",
    "carbon probably acts as a matrix in which the other    materials are embedded . the refractive index as a function of    wavelength",
    "is taken from .",
    "@xmath81 amorphous olivine : :    ( mg@xmath82fe@xmath83sio@xmath84 ) .",
    "amorphous olivine is one of the most abundant dust species in    circumstellar and interstellar material . the silicate dust in the    diffuse interstellar medium is dominated by amorphous olivine @xcite .",
    "the emission by small amorphous olivine grains shows broad spectral    features at @xmath85 and @xmath86 m .",
    "both are    detected in the spectrum of hale - bopp .",
    "t he data for the refractive    indices are taken from .",
    "@xmath81 amorphous pyroxene : :    ( mg@xmath87fe@xmath88sio@xmath89 ) .",
    "amorphous pyroxene is spectroscopically hard to distinguish from    amorphous olivine .",
    "pyroxene is often found in idps .",
    "the emission by    small amorphous pyroxene grains shows a spectral structure which is    similar to that of amorphous olivine grains .",
    "however , the maximum of    the @xmath90 m feature is shifted towards slightly shorter    wavelengths and the shape of the @xmath86 m feature is    slightly different .",
    "the refractive indices for amorphous pyroxene are    taken from . @xmath81",
    "crystalline forsterite : :    ( mg@xmath91sio@xmath84 ) .",
    "crystalline forsterite is the    magnesium rich end member of the crystalline olivine family .",
    "experiments indicate that when amorphous olivine is annealed under    certain conditions , the iron is removed from the lattice structure and    crystalline forsterite is formed .",
    "the most important resonances in the    emission spectrum of small crystalline forsterite grains are located    at wavelengths @xmath92 , @xmath93 ,    @xmath94 and @xmath95 m . these features are    observed in the spectra of , for example , agb stars and protoplanetary    disks and are clearly visible in the spectrum of hale - bopp @xcite .    for the refractive indices of forsterite we use the data of @xcite .",
    "@xmath81 crystalline enstatite : :    ( mgsio@xmath89 ) .",
    "crystalline enstatite is the magnesium rich    end member of the crystalline pyroxene family . under the right    conditions",
    ", enstatite can form from a reaction between forsterite and    silica .",
    "also , from idps there are indications that some enstatite    grains formed directly from gas phase condensation @xcite .",
    "the    spectrum of small enstatite grains shows prominent features at    @xmath96 , @xmath97 , @xmath93 ,    @xmath98 and @xmath99 m .",
    "although we have no    direct evidence for the presence of most of these features , we include    enstatite in the fitting procedure because enstatite features have    been reported in the ground based spectrum of hale - bopp when it was at    @xmath100au @xcite .",
    "the data for the refractive indices are    taken from .",
    "@xmath81 amorphous silica : :    ( sio@xmath91 ) .",
    "laboratory measurements show that when    amorphous silicates are annealed to form crystalline silicates , a    certain amount of silica is also produced .",
    "the emission spectrum of    small amorphous silica grains shows features at @xmath101 ,    @xmath102 and @xmath103 m . we take the refractive    indices as a function of wavelength measured by @xcite . @xmath81 metallic iron : :    ( fe ) .",
    "when amorphous silicates are annealed to form magnesium rich    crystalline silicates , the iron is removed from the lattice .",
    "the    spectral signature of metallic iron grains is very smooth but slightly    different than that of amorphous carbon .",
    "although it is not crucial in    obtaining a reasonable fit , we include the possibility of metallic    iron grains in the fitting procedure for completeness .",
    "the refractive    indices of metallic iron are taken from .",
    "@xmath81 iron sulfide : :    ( fes ) . in",
    "idps all available sulfur is present as iron sulfide .",
    "the    spectral structure of emission from iron sulfide grains shows a broad    feature around @xmath104 m . the fact that this feature is    not prominent in the spectrum of hale - bopp is probably due to the fact    that the iron sulfide grains are relatively large , which reduces the    spectral structure significantly .",
    "we use the refractive indices    measured by @xcite .    to decrease the number of free parameters , we have chosen equal size distributions for both amorphous silicate species ( amorphous olivine and amorphous pyroxene ) and equal size distributions for both crystalline silicate species ( forsterite and enstatite ) .",
    "furthermore @xmath13 , the index of the powerlaw , is the same for all materials .",
    "the number of free parameters in the method as described above is very large .",
    "when we apply no extra constraints we encounter a large set of solutions that all have a more or less equal @xmath72 , but with totally different size distributions and material abundances .",
    "we also run the risk of obtaining a best fit solution with very implausible values for the fit parameters . to avoid these problems we constrain the solution by requiring that the major elements for solid state materials ( si , mg , fe and s ) are all in the solid phase and that their chemical abundances are the same as those found in meteorites .",
    "furthermore , we take the abundance of carbon in the solid phase to be half the solar abundance , consistent with _ in situ _ measurements of the dust in the coma of comet halley .",
    "this gives us four extra constraints on the model .",
    "these extra constraints prove to be sufficient to obtain consistent results with the fitting procedure .",
    "we constrain the abundances of c , mg , fe and s relative to si . for the carbon abundance",
    "we take half of the total solar abundance to be in the solid phase , the remaining carbon is in the the gas phase .",
    "magnesium , iron , sulfur and silicon are assumed to be completely in the solid phase .",
    "the abundances we use are taken from @xcite and are summarized in table  [ tab : chemical abundances ] .",
    "note that the sulfur abundance measured in meteorites is lower than the solar abundance .",
    "thus by taking the constraints from meteorites for the solid state particles we assume there is also sulfur in the gas phase .",
    "this is consistent with observations .",
    "all abundance constraints are incorporated as linear equality constraints to the linear least squares fitting part of the minimization procedure .",
    ".abundance constraints as applied in the fitting procedure .",
    "these values are taken from @xcite .",
    "for carbon we take half of the solar abundance , consistent with _ in situ _ measurements of dust in the coma of comet halley . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     figs .",
    "[ fig : spectral fit ] and [ fig : polarize model ] show that the observations of both the infrared spectrum and the degree of linear polarization can be reproduced remarkably well using the same dust model .",
    "in other words , we do not need quite different models for the infrared and optical parts of the spectrum .",
    "the differences between the observed and predicted infrared spectrum are most probably mainly caused by uncertainties in the refractive index data , and the assumptions on which the model is based . for the degree of linear polarization we notice that the negative polarization branch at @xmath105 nm ( and to a smaller extend at @xmath106 and @xmath107 nm ) at small phase angles is not reproduced satisfactorily by the model .",
    "this is most likely due to the spherical symmetry of the shapes we employed .",
    "in addition a discrepancy between the model and the observations occurs at @xmath108 and @xmath109 nm , which is possibly also connected to the adopted spherical particle shapes .",
    "the scattered light is dominated by the contributions from the silicate ( olivine and pyroxene ) and ironsulfide grains .",
    "the contribution to the scattered light from carbon grains is negligible .",
    "although the abundance of silicates is much higher than that of ironsulfide , the scattering caused by ironsulfide grains is comparable to that of the silicates due to its high scattering efficiency . especially at near infrared wavelengths ( the @xmath110 and @xmath111 nm measurements )",
    "the scattering is dominated by ironsulfide grains .",
    "the best fit model we present combines for the first time observations of the sws infrared spectrum ( @xmath112 m ) , the lws infrared spectrum ( @xmath113 m ) and the degree of linear polarization at several wavelengths in the optical to near infrared .",
    "this results in a better constrained dust model .",
    "the spectral structure of the thermal emission in the sws part of the spectrum provides crucial information on the composition of the dust .",
    "the lws part of the spectrum combined with the degree of linear polarization provides information on the size of the dust grains .",
    "we also constructed fits excluding some of the observations from the model . an attempt to fit only the sws part of",
    "the spectrum resulted in an underestimate of the fraction of large grains , which in turn resulted in a higher fraction of crystalline silicates , more comparable to that found in , for example , .",
    "fitting both the sws and the lws part of the spectrum without the linear polarization resulted in a dust composition only slightly different ( i.e. within the given error bars ) from that presented in table  [ tab : fit ] .",
    "the size distribution is affected more significantly . also , using observations of the linear polarization at less wavelength points changed the parameters of the best fit model .",
    "for example , the best fit model when the observation of the degree of linear polarization at @xmath110 and @xmath111 nm are removed from the model contains no amorphous pyroxene and @xmath114% amorphous silica",
    ". this can be explained in part by the interchangeability of olivine and pyroxene grains ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "the size distribution of this best fit model is changed such that the upper size limit of the amorphous olivine component is only @xmath115 m but the slope of the size distribution is more weigthed towards the larger grains , @xmath116 .",
    "the other parameters are only affected mildly .",
    "the total dust mass in the sws beam derived from the best fit model is @xmath117 kg .",
    "this dust mass is comparable to that estimated by which is @xmath118 kg .",
    "note that the dust mass derived in this way is a lower limit on the real mass of the solid state material in the coma of hale - bopp since the mass most likely resides predominantly in the very large grains .",
    "using data obtained at submillimeter wavelengths , which provides information on millimeter sized dust grains , @xcite derive a total dust mass of @xmath2@xmath119 kg within a beam size comparable to that of the iso sws .    in our model the temperature of all dust species",
    "is determined self - consistently .",
    "however , from the ratio of the strengths of the forsterite features it can be seen that the temperature of the forsterite grains is higher than would be determined from thermal equilibrium calculations using pure forsterite grains @xcite .",
    "pure forsterite grains are not very efficient absorbers in the uv and the optical part of the spectrum where a large part of the solar energy is emitted .",
    "they are very efficient emitters in the infrared",
    ". therefore , pure forsterite grains will be cold compared to other dust species .",
    "the fact that they are observed to be relatively warm is probably an effect of thermal contact between the various dust species .",
    "an aggregated structure where all dust species are in thermal contact is also consistent with pictures of interplanetary dust particles . to calculate the optical properties of an aggregated structure in a completely consistent way",
    "is very computationally intensive which makes it extremely difficult to examine the entire parameter space of dust abundances and grains sizes .",
    "some work on this has been done by @xcite considering fixed values of the material abundances . to simulate thermal contact we polluted the forsterite and enstatite grains with 3% of small metallic iron inclusions .",
    "we calculated an effective refractive index using the maxwell - garnet effective medium theory ( see e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "when we pollute the crystalline silicates in this way , the equilibrium temperature is in agreement with the observations .",
    "when discussing the size distribution of the dust we have to consider the grain sizes that our analysis is sensitive to . for grains smaller than a few micron",
    "( @xmath120 m ) we have a strong spectroscopic diagnostic . at relatively short wavelengths ( around @xmath210@xmath0 m )",
    "we are mainly sensitive to the composition of these small grains .",
    "if we go to longer wavelengths , we are also sensitive to the composition of larger grains . using the sws and lws range from @xmath121 m",
    ", we have a spectroscopic diagnostic for the composition of grains with a volume equivalent radius up to @xmath210 - 15@xmath0 m .",
    "although larger grains do show spectral structure , their emission efficiency is too low to be detected .",
    "when we compare our best fit parameters with those obtained by others there are a few differences .",
    "first of all the amount of crystalline silicates is much smaller than that found in most of these studies .",
    "this is caused by the fact that previous studies mainly considered the small ( submicron sized ) grain component . in our model",
    ", we find that in order to reproduce the spectral features , the crystalline silicate grains have to be very small and thus they have a high emission efficiency . from , i.e. the lws spectrum , we find that the amorphous grains are relatively large , and thus emit less efficiently .",
    "thus , if one only considers the small grain component , the crystallinity is increased with respect to our findings .",
    "the crystalline grains have to be small in order to reproduce the ratios of the strengths of the different emission features .",
    "however , these ratios are also influenced by the temperature of the dust grains .",
    "fortunately , we can distinguish temperature effects from grain size effects in the following way . in determining the absorption cross sections of dust particles",
    "the most important parameter is @xmath122 where @xmath123 is the complex refractive index and @xmath124 is the size parameter of the dust grain . when @xmath125 the grains are in the rayleigh domain and strong spectral emission resonances occur .",
    "when @xmath122 increases , the spectral features decrease in strength .",
    "for very large grains ( @xmath126 ) the emission features will change into emission dips .",
    "when the grain size is increased , first the features caused by resonances with high values of @xmath127 become weaker and then the features with smaller values of @xmath127 .",
    "this means that this effect depends on the wavelength but also on the refractive index ; the strongest features ( with the highest values of @xmath128 ) will go down first .",
    "however , when going from high temperatures to low temperatures , the effect on the strength of the features shifts with the maximum of the underlying planck function , so this effect only depends on the wavelength position of the features .",
    "this difference allows us to distinguish between size and temperature effects by carefully looking at the feature strength ratios .    to test if the ratios of the forsterite resonances can be explained using temperature effects instead of a difference in grain size between amorphous and crystalline silicates , we calculated the strengths of the @xmath129 and @xmath95 m features above the local continuum using the dhs for different grain sizes and temperatures .",
    "these strengths are denoted by @xmath130 and @xmath131 respectively .",
    "the strength ratios are plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : peak ratios ] for various grain sizes and temperatures .",
    "the temperatures were varied from @xmath132k . also plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig : peak ratios ] is the peak ratio measured in the spectrum of hale - bopp .",
    "we see that there is no corresponding set of temperature and grain size in fig .",
    "[ fig : peak ratios ] that reproduces the ratios measured in hale - bopp . to get the best fit",
    "we need to go to very small and relatively warm forsterite grains .",
    "the fact that the forsterite has to be warm also indicates that the grains must be small and most probably are in thermal contact with ( at least ) a strong absorbing material like carbon or iron .    the fact that we can not find a set of temperature and grain size with peak ratios in fig .",
    "[ fig : peak ratios ] corresponding to those observed in the infrared spectrum could be caused by the effect that in the spectrum of hale - bopp the @xmath95 m feature is partly blended with an enstatite feature resulting in a weaker feature .",
    "if we would take this effect into account , the point would shift downward in fig .",
    "[ fig : peak ratios ] .",
    "another explanation could be that the forsterite in hale - bopp is slightly contaminated with iron , which results in a slightly weaker @xmath95 m feature @xcite .    as a test we made a fit to the sws and lws spectra fixing the upper size of the crystalline silicate grains .",
    "we have tried to make a fit to the spectrum using @xmath133 and @xmath90 m , respectively , and varying all other parameters .",
    "the resulting model spectra did not satisfactorily reproduce the measured iso spectra . in order to obtain a reasonable fit to the observed forsterite features",
    ", we had to employ a power law for the size distribution more biased towards small grains , @xmath134 . however , in all these model fits the strength ratios of the forsterite features were poorly reproduced . in fig .",
    "[ fig : spectral fit fix 5 ] we plot the resulting best fit model for the case when @xmath135 m . we note that the emission spectrum is not sensitive to the very large forsterite grains .",
    "although these grains still display significant spectral structure , their emission efficiency is small .",
    "therefore , it is possible to have a bimodal size distribution of crystalline silicates , in which only very small and very large crystals are present while the intermediate sized grains are absent , and still reproduce the infrared spectrum of hale - bopp .",
    "however , such a size distribution is very unlikely .",
    "when comparing our results to those obtained by other studies , we have to be careful with the definition of crystallinity . here , we mean by crystallinity the mass fraction of crystalline silicates compared to the total dust mass . in previous studies ,",
    "sometimes the crystallinity is defined as the mass fraction of crystalline silicates compared to the total mass in the silicate component . in our fit , approximately @xmath136% of the dust mass is contained in non silicate materials like carbon and ironsulfide . when comparing with other studies we have to correct for this .",
    "since previous studies of the mineralogy of the dust in the coma of hale - bopp focused on the sws part of the spectrum , little information was available on the large grain component .",
    "as can be seen from fig .",
    "[ fig : fit ] the lws spectrum ( longward of @xmath244@xmath0 m ) displays a long wavelength slope that can only be explained using large grains at approximately blackbody temperature .",
    "we have just shown that this large grain component can not be crystalline .",
    "since the large grains contain most of the mass , the resulting abundance of crystalline silicates is small , @xmath137% ( table  [ tab : fit ] ) .",
    "we should note here that part of the crystalline silicates are probably not spectroscopically detectable since these are hidden inside large amorphous silicate or carbon grains .",
    "therefore the @xmath137% crystallinity we derive is a lower limit .",
    "we can make a quantitative estimate of the true fraction of crystalline grains by only considering grains smaller than a certain size , for which we assume that we observe the properties of the entire grain . in order to assure that the resulting mixture still has solar abundances , we fix the total abundance of silicates ( crystalline and amorphous olivine and pyroxene ) .",
    "considering only the silicate component , we compute the crystalline over amorphous ratio excluding the larger silicate grains .",
    "we then use this crystalline over amorphous ratio to compute the fraction of crystalline silicates in the total mixture .",
    "we choose a volume equivalent radius of @xmath90 m as the maximum grain size , which represents approximately half of the total dust mass .",
    "the crystallinity derived in this way depends on the assumption of this grain size , and detailed calculations are required to obtain a better estimate of the appropriate size .",
    "we thus derive a crystallinity of @xmath27.5% ( @xmath25% of crystalline forsterite and @xmath22.5% of crystalline enstatite ) .",
    "note that most previous studies on the sws spectrum of hale - bopp only included forsterite , no enstatite .",
    "in contrast with our findings , these studies typically find forsterite fractions of @xmath220 - 30% .",
    "the fraction of crystalline silicates in our best fit model increases when we consider only smaller grains .",
    "the submicron grain component contains approximately @xmath138% forsterite and @xmath139% enstatite .",
    "this fraction of forsterite is consistent with the results from previous studies that focused on the submicron grain component .",
    "it can be noted from table  [ tab : fit ] that the dust components with a high abundance reside in relatively large grains . although the large grains contribute much to the total dust mass , they contribute only little to the infrared emission at short wavelengths .",
    "therefore , we conclude that the long wavelength part of the spectrum and the degree of linear polarization contain crucial information on the large dust grains , and , therefore , on a large fraction of the total dust mass .    we can calculate the effective radius and variance , @xmath17 and @xmath18 , of the dust grains in our model using eqs .",
    "( [ eq : reff ] ) and ( [ eq : veff ] ) . for our best fit model @xmath140 m and @xmath141 .",
    "typical values for the effective volume equivalent radii computed from the size distributions found in other studies are @xmath142 m and @xmath143 m @xcite .",
    "the larger @xmath17 that we find is most likely due to the additional information contained in the long wavelength slope . employing a simple model for porous dust grains ,",
    "@xcite argue that the average grain size in hale - bopp might be much larger ( @xmath28 - 25@xmath0 m ) and that the fraction of submicron grains might be negligible .",
    "perhaps cometary dust grains are indeed very fluffy aggregates of small particles .",
    "however , it is probably difficult to discriminate between a large fluffy grain and a large number of small separate grains using spectroscopy or observations of the degree of linear polarization .",
    "the fact that the most abundant dust species reside in the largest grains is a natural consequence of the formation mechanism of the larger dust grains .",
    "larger dust grains are believed to form by coagulation of smaller grains .",
    "the materials that are more abundant , can form large clusters of this material , whereas the less abundant species may be distributed in the aggregate as separate monomers .",
    "if the aggregate is very fluffy , the low abundance of the latter species causes the distance between the inclusions to be on average relatively large .",
    "thus , one could argue that these inclusions will not interact very strongly with each other , and their resulting optical properties will be those of small particles . on the other hand , the larger clusters formed by the more abundant dust species will produce optical properties more like those of large grains",
    ". this hypothesis may be tested by simulations of the optical properties of fluffy composite particles with extreme abundance differences .",
    "we conclude that the crystalline silicates in the coma of comet hale - bopp are submicron sized .",
    "this is much smaller than the typical grain size found for the other dust components . in agreement with these findings ,",
    "the crystalline silicates found in idps are predominantly submicron sized @xcite .",
    "this difference in grain size between the amorphous and crystalline components results in a relatively low overall abundance of crystalline silicates .",
    "the abundance of crystalline silicates and the difference in grain size are important constraints when considering models of the processing and dynamical history of dust in the early solar system .",
    "since comets are small bodies that have been frozen all of their lifetime , the comet material is expected to have undergone little processing since the comet s formation . in larger bodies , like planets ,",
    "the material has experienced severe parent body processing erasing the information on the original dust grains .",
    "therefore , comets contain a unique diagnostic of the mineralogy of the dust in the protoplanetary disk at times when the planets and comets were formed .",
    "the fraction of crystalline silicates in the diffuse interstellar medium ( ism ) is very low . @xcite",
    "derive an upper limit for the crystallinity of the dust in the ism of @xmath144% , while @xcite even derive an upper limit of @xmath145% .",
    "in addition , the crystallinity of the ism dust derived by @xcite is @xmath21% .",
    "this implies that the dust in hale - bopp has undergone at least some processing in the solar nebula , before it got incorporated into the comet . in order to form crystalline silicates ,",
    "the amorphous silicates have to be heated above the glass temperature of @xmath21000k .",
    "comets form in the outer regions of the disk where the temperatures are low enough for water ice to exist @xmath146k .",
    "there are two possible ways to explain the presence of crystalline silicates in cometary dust grains .",
    "the first is that the amorphous silicates are crystallized by thermal annealing in the hot inner regions of the protoplanetary disk .",
    "the crystalline silicates are then mixed out to the regions where the comets form .",
    "another possibility is that the crystalline silicates are produced locally .",
    "processes that have been proposed for this are , for example , shock annealing @xcite and lightning .",
    "recent evidence for radial mixing in protoplanetary disks is presented in @xcite on the basis of interferometric measurements of the dust in the inner disk regions . in that paper",
    "it is found that the crystallinity in the inner disk regions is higher than that in the outer disk regions .",
    "this difference , along with a varying forsterite over enstatite ratio , is consistent with predictions from radial mixing models .",
    "several studies have tried to explain the presence of crystalline silicates in comets by considering radial mixing . in these studies",
    "only the evolution of the silicate component is computed . for comparison with our computations",
    ", we therefore have to correct for the additional components included in the fit .",
    "the fraction of crystalline silicates in the silicate component ( amorphous and crystalline olivine and pyroxene ) is approximately @xmath102% . in a detailed model for the protosolar disk",
    "is presented in which dust chemistry , thermal annealing and radial mixing are incorporated .",
    "the computations in this paper are for a stationary model , so an equilibrium situation is calculated .",
    "the crystallinity that follows from this detailed model depends strongly on the distance to the star .",
    "close to the star , the crystallinity is very high ( @xmath270% at @xmath147au ) , while in the comet forming region ( @xmath220au ) the crystalline fraction equals approximately @xmath148% ( @xmath149% crystalline olivine and @xmath150% crystalline pyroxene ) .",
    "the author concludes that the results from the stationary model can not be extrapolated to distances beyond @xmath151au , and can only be considered an approximation for the mineral composition of the inner @xmath151au at several times @xmath152 years .",
    "present a time depend model of radial mixing . from the results of this paper ,",
    "it is apparent that the equilibrium situation as computed in is already attained after @xmath2@xmath152 years .",
    "this is slightly shorter than the anticipated typical timescale for comet formation ( which is a few times @xmath152 years , see * ? ? ?",
    "the crystallinity computed by at a distance of @xmath138au is approximately @xmath153% after @xmath154 years .",
    "also present a model describing time - dependent radial mixing in a protoplanetary disk . in this paper ,",
    "three different solar nebula models are presented , a warm , a nominal , and a cold model referring to the temperature structure in the solar nebula .",
    "this temperature structure is set by the viscosity parameter @xmath49 ; the higher the values of @xmath49 the lower the temperature .",
    "they derive an extremely well mixed nebula , in which , after @xmath2@xmath154 years , the crystallinity at distances @xmath155au is independent of the distance .",
    "they arrive at a final crystallinity in the outer solar system ( @xmath155au ) of approximately @xmath156 , @xmath1 and @xmath157% according to the warm , nominal , and cold solar nebula model .",
    "note that the parameters chosen by and correspond to the warm to nominal solar nebula model of .",
    "the predicted crystallinity in the comet forming region from both and shows that thermal annealing and radial mixing are more than sufficiently efficient mechanisms to explain the crystalline silicates in hale - bopp .",
    "the most important free parameter in the above models is the viscosity parameter .",
    "the crystallinity of cometary dust can be used to constrain this parameter , providing a better insight in the dynamics of protoplanetary disks . while the crystallinity derived for hale - bopp in previous studies",
    "could only be explained employing a viscosity parameter that is representative for a warm solar nebula model , the crystallinity we derive for hale - bopp is consistent with a viscosity parameter that is typical for an approximately nominal solar nebula and a formation distance of some @xmath138au from the central star .",
    "the crystalline silicates we find are all submicron sized , consistent with studies of idps , in which the crystalline inclusions are predominantly submicron sized @xcite .",
    "there are two possible explanations for this .",
    "the first explanation is that the crystalline silicates are formed before efficient grain growth sets in . due to the low crystallinity",
    "this would result in a dust grain that has the crystalline silicates scattered in the aggregate as small separate inclusions .",
    "however , this possibility can likely be excluded on the basis of the results presented by @xcite . from the analysis of a large sample of protoplanetary disks , it is concluded that grain growth occurs before efficient crystallization sets in .",
    "another explanation might be that the mechanism that produces the crystalline silicates in the comet forming region is more efficient for small grains than for large grains .",
    "both local flash heating events ( like shock annealing and lightning ) as well as radial mixing are more efficient for small grains . for the local production mechanisms this is due to the fact that small grains are more easily heated than large grains . in the radial mixing models",
    "this is due to the fact that small grains more easily couple to the gas , and are thus more easily mixed outwards by , for example , turbulent radial mixing .",
    "it is , however , unclear if the size dependencies of the various models are strong enough to explain the absence of large crystalline silicate grains in the coma of hale - bopp .",
    "we have successfully modeled the thermal emission and the degree of linear polarization of radiation scattered by grains in the coma of comet hale - bopp .",
    "our method has the following important characteristics relative to previous studies .    *",
    "both grain size and grain shape effects are taken into account in the calculations of the optical properties . * the parameters of the best fit model",
    "are determined using an objective least squares fitting routine . *",
    "the abundances of the chemical elements observed in interplanetary dust particles and meteorites could be used as constraints for the model . *",
    "the resulting model is consistent with the infrared emission spectrum observed in the wavelength range @xmath158 m and with observations of the degree of linear polarization at various phase angles and twelve different wavelengths in the optical to near infrared part of the spectrum .    to model the effects of grain shape on the optical properties , we employed the distribution of hollow spheres . in this distribution",
    "we average over the volume fraction occupied by the central vacuum inclusion while preserving the material volume of the particles .",
    "we showed that this shape distribution is successful in reproducing the observed properties of cometary grains .",
    "we deduced from the ratios of the strengths of various forsterite features in the observed spectrum of hale - bopp that the crystalline silicate grains have a volume equivalent radius @xmath159 m .",
    "this is much smaller than the typical grain size of the other dust components and is in agreement with the sizes of the crystalline silicate inclusions found in fluffy interplanetary dust particles .",
    "the crystalline inclusions in these grains are predominantly submicron sized @xcite",
    ".    the long wavelength observations showed that most of the mass resides in relatively large grains .",
    "the lack of large crystalline silicate grains in our model thus implies that the amount of mass in this component is small .",
    "our best fit model has a relative amount of crystalline silicates that is significantly lower than found in previous studies of the infrared spectrum .",
    "if we consider only the grains with a volume equivalent radius smaller than @xmath90 m , the fraction of the total dust mass contained in crystalline silicates is only @xmath27.5% .",
    "the fraction of crystalline silicates in the silicate component ( both amorphous and crystalline olivine and pyroxene ) is @xmath212.5% .",
    "this crystallinity can easily be produced by models in which the crystalline silicates are formed close to the sun by thermal annealing and then mixed outwards to the comet forming region ( @xmath220 - 30au ) .",
    "the crystallinity derived by us for comet hale - bopp is in agreement with these models assuming an approximately nominal model of the protosolar nebula and a formation of the comet at a distance of @xmath230au from the sun .",
    "this crystallinity is also in agreement with that found in interplanetary dust particles .",
    "it is a pleasure to express our gratitude to m.  s.  hanner , c.  dijkstra and l.  kolokolova for enlightening discussions .",
    "we are grateful to j.  crovisier for providing us with the reduced data of the lws spectrum of hale - bopp .            ,",
    "d. , lis , d.  c. , wink , j.  e. , despois , d. , crovisier , j. , bachiller , r. , benford , d.  j. , biver , n. , colom , p. , davies , j.  k. , g ' erard , e. , germain , b. , houde , m. , mehringer , d. , moreno , r. , paubert , g. , phillips , t.  g. , rauer , h. , jan . 2000 .",
    "new molecules found in comet c/1995 o1 ( hale - bopp ) . investigating the link between cometary and interstellar material .",
    "353 , 11011114 .",
    ", j. , leech , k. , bockelee - morvan , d. , brooke , t.  y. , hanner , m.  s. , altieri , b. , keller , h.  u. , lellouch , e. , 1997 .",
    "the spectrum of comet hale - bopp ( c/1995 01 ) observed with the infrared space observatory at 2.9 au from the sun .",
    "science 275 , 19041907 .",
    ", w.  j. , sargent , b. , furlan , e. , dalessio , p. , calvet , n. , hartmann , l. , uchida , k.  i. , green , j.  d. , watson , d.  m. , chen , c.  h. , kemper , f. , keller , l.  d. , sloan , g.  c. , herter , t.  l. , brandl , b.  r. , houck , j.  r. , barry , d.  j. , hall , p. , morris , p.  w. , najita , j. , myers , p.  c. , sep . 2004 .",
    "mid - infrared spectroscopy of disks around classical t tauri stars .",
    "154 , 443447 .",
    ", m.  s. , gehrz , r.  d. , harker , d.  e. , hayward , t.  l. , lynch , d.  k. , mason , c.  c. , russell , r.  w. , williams , d.  m. , wooden , d.  h. , woodward , c.  e. , 1999 .",
    "thermal emission from the dust coma of comet hale - bopp and the composition of the silicate grains . earth moon and planets 79 , 247264 .                        , f.  m. , stamnes , j.  j. , stamnes , k. , jul .",
    "2002 . using simple",
    "particle shapes to model the stokes scattering matrix of ensembles of wavelength - sized particles with complex shapes : possibilities and limitations .",
    "journal of quantitative spectroscopy and radiative transfer 74 , 167182 .            ,",
    "e. , crovisier , j. , lim , t. , bockelee - morvan , d. , leech , k. , hanner , m.  s. , altieri , b. , schmitt , b. , trotta , f. , keller , h.  u. , nov .",
    "evidence for water ice and estimate of dust production rate in comet hale - bopp at 2.9 au from the sun .",
    "339 , l9l12 .                      , f.  j. , waters , l.  b.  f.  m. , trams , n.  r. , van winckel , h. , decin , l. , van loon , j.  t. , j \" ager , c. , henning , t. , k \" aufl , h .- u . ,",
    "de koter , a. , bouwman , j. , oct .",
    "the composition and nature of the dust shell surrounding the binary afgl 4106 .",
    "350 , 163180 .                ,",
    "r. , min , m. , leinert , c. , waters , l.  b.  f.  m. , richichi , a. , chesneau , o. , dominik , c. , jaffe , w. , dutrey , a. , graser , u. , henning , t. , de jong , j. , k \" ohler , r. , de koter , a. , lopez , b. , malbet , f. , morel , s. , paresce , f. , perrin , g. , preibisch , t. , przygodda , f. , sch \" oller , m. , wittkowski , m. , nov .",
    "the building blocks of planets within the ` terrestrial ' region of protoplanetary disks .",
    "432 , 479482 .    ,",
    "r. , min , m. , waters , l.  b.  f.  m. , de koter , a. , dominik , c. , van den ancker , m.  e. , bouwman , j. , 2005 . a 10@xmath160 m spectroscopic survey of herbig ae star disks : grain growth and crystallization .",
    ", _ in press_.        , l.  b.  f.  m. , molster , f.  j. , de jong , t. , beintema , d.  a. , waelkens , c. , boogert , a.  c.  a. , boxhoorn , d.  r. , de graauw , t. , drapatz , s. , feuchtgruber , h. , genzel , r. , helmich , f.  p. , heras , a.  m. , huygen , r. , izumiura , h. , justtanont , k. , kester , d.  j.  m. , kunze , d. , lahuis , f. , lamers , h.  j.  g.  l.  m. , leech , k.  j. , loup , c. , lutz , d. , morris , p.  w. , price , s.  d. , roelfsema , p.  r. , salama , a. , schaeidt , s.  g. , tielens , a.  g.  g.  m. , trams , n.  r. , valentijn , e.  a. , vandenbussche , b. , van den ancker , m.  e. , van dishoeck , e.  f. , van winckel , h. , wesselius , p.  r. , young , e.  t. , nov .",
    "mineralogy of oxygen - rich dust shells .",
    "315 , l361l364 .",
    ", d.  h. , harker , d.  e. , woodward , c.  e. , butner , h.  m. , koike , c. , witteborn , f.  c. , mcmurtry , c.  w. , jun .",
    "silicate mineralogy of the dust in the inner coma of comet c/1995 01 ( hale - bopp ) pre- and postperihelion .",
    "517 , 10341058 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the composition and size distribution of the dust in the coma of comet hale - bopp . </S>",
    "<S> we do this using a model fit for the infrared emission measured by the infrared space observatory ( iso ) and the measured degree of linear polarization of scattered light at various phase angles and wavelengths . </S>",
    "<S> the effects of particle shape on the modeled optical properties of the dust grains are taken into account . </S>",
    "<S> both the short wavelength ( 7 - 44@xmath0 m ) and the long wavelength ( 44 - 120@xmath0 m ) infrared spectrum are fitted using the same dust parameters , as well as the degree of linear polarization at @xmath1 different wavelengths in the optical to near infrared domains . </S>",
    "<S> we constrain our fit by forcing the abundances of the major rock forming chemical elements to be equal to those observed in meteorites . </S>",
    "<S> the infrared spectrum at long wavelengths reveals that large grains are needed in order to fit the spectral slope . </S>",
    "<S> the size and shape distribution we employ allows us to estimate the sizes of the crystalline silicates </S>",
    "<S> . the ratios of the strength of various forsterite features show that the crystalline silicate grains in hale - bopp must be submicron sized . on the basis of our analysis </S>",
    "<S> the presence of large crystalline silicate grains in the coma can be excluded . </S>",
    "<S> because of this lack of large crystalline grains combined with the fact that we do need large amorphous grains to fit the emission spectrum at long wavelengths , we need only approximately 4% of crystalline silicates by mass ( forsterite and enstatite ) to reproduce the observed spectral features . after correcting for possible hidden crystalline material included in large amorphous grains , our best estimate of the total mass fraction of crystalline material is @xmath27.5% , which is significantly lower than deduced in previous studies in which the typical derived crystallinity is @xmath2@xmath3% . </S>",
    "<S> the implications of this low abundance of crystalline material on the possible origin and evolution of the comet are discussed . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the crystallinity we observe in hale - bopp is consistent with the production of crystalline silicates in the inner solar system by thermal annealing and subsequent radial mixing to the comet forming region ( @xmath230au ) .    </S>",
    "<S> = = = =    comets , composition , comets , hale - bopp , infrared observations , polarimetry </S>"
  ]
}