{
  "article_text": [
    "the formation of stars in giant molecular clouds appears to be a very inefficient process .",
    "global estimates of the star formation efficiency , based on the mass in molecular clouds and the galactic star formation rate(scalo 1986 ; evans 1999 ) , are of order a few percent while small - scale estimates for stellar clusters approach 50% ( lada 1992 ; lada & lada 2003 ) .",
    "the dispersion in estimates can , to some extent , be decreased under the assumption that molecular clouds are long - lived entities that exist for many dynamical times , although this necessitates a supporting mechanism to balance gravity ( mckee 1993 ) .",
    "as star formation from molecular gas involves the gravitational contraction through many orders in magnitude in size , it is commonly assumed that the largest scale objects associated with star formation , molecular clouds , are themselves bound . in this case , the problem is how does a large bound region ( @xmath1 ) only permit a small fraction of its mass to undergo gravitational collapse .",
    "various mechanisms , such as magnetic fields and feedback from young stars , have been evoked over the years in order to support molecular clouds and explain the low efficiency of star formation ( shu , adams & lizano 1987 ; franco , shore & tenorio - tagle 1994 ) . in this letter",
    ", we explore an alternative scenario whereby molecular clouds are not bound on the large scale , circumventing the need for any additional supporting mechanisms .    in a recent paper , elmegreen ( 2000 )",
    "has collected observational evidence implying that gmcs are short - lived objects , with dispersal times comparable to their crossing times ( @xmath2years ) . the formation of stars would then have to occur in a short burst ( @xmath3 ) , as has been suggested from recent observations ( hartmann , ballesteros - paredes , & bergin 2001 ; hartmann 2002 ) , rather than an ongoing process .",
    "this implies that molecular cloud formation is dynamical , and self - gravity need not play a dominant role .",
    "such a scenario has recently been advanced by pringle , allen & lubow ( 2001 ) where the passage of a spiral arm triggers the agglomeration of unbound molecular gas and the ensuing shock dissipates sufficient kinetic energy to allow self - gravity to ( locally ) form stars .",
    "the observed molecular clouds could then be transient structures with lifetimes comparable to their dynamical times ( elmegreen 2000 ; pringle et al 2001 ; larson 2003 ) . in this picture",
    "it would seem likely that these regions are globally unbound and highly dynamic , with only a small fraction achieving gravitational instability before the cloud dissipates .",
    "this is possible if the internal bulk motions of the cloud are stronger than the self - gravity of the region .",
    "the supersonic nature of the motions produces shocks which dissipate kinetic energy , eventually leading to regions becoming gravitationally unstable .",
    "the efficiency of the star formation would then be governed by the strength of the internal kinetic energy at the point of the cloud s formation , along with how much support can be removed in shocks .",
    "this would naturally lead to different clouds having different star formation efficiency and potentially explain the variance in the observed estimates .",
    "observational estimates of the mass , and therefore the energies , of the molecular gas is inherently difficult and uncertain .",
    "heyer , carpenter & snell ( 2001 ) have investigated the dynamic stability of molecular regions in the outer galaxy .",
    "results suggest that the molecular material is unbound until the mass of the region approaches @xmath4 .",
    "it is however noted in the paper that obtaining a value for the hydrogen mass via measurements of co flux involves the assumption that the gas is virialised .",
    "if the region in question is then unbound , the subsequently derived value for the mass of molecular hydrogen is an over - estimate of the region s true mass . as a result",
    ", regions will appear more bound than they actually are .",
    "this places serious doubt on the generally accepted idea of globally bound gmcs .    the ability of turbulence to character the interstellar medium ( ism ) along with its role in star formation in gmcs has been extensively studied by a number of authors . for a complete review we point the reader to the article by mac low & klessen ( 2003 ) .",
    "it is now well established that large scale turbulent motions can produce the filamentary structure that is commonly observed in star forming regions ( vzquez - semadeni , ballesteros - paredes & rodriguez 1997 ; ostriker , gammie & stone 1998 ; ballesteros - paredes , hartmann & vzquez - semadeni 1999 ; padoan & nordlund 1999 ) and that even mhd turbulence decays on a dynamical timescale ( mac low et al 1998 ; stone , ostriker & gammie 1998 ) such that a driving mechanism is required if the clouds are to exist for many dynamical times .",
    "these studies highlight that transient objects can form from large scale flows in the ism , supporting the work of elmegreen ( 2000 ) that star forming regions are short lived in nature .",
    "recent work on subregions within gmcs has also shown that driven turbulence , and more importantly the scale of the driving , can effect the local efficiency of the star formation ( klessen , heitsch & mac low 2000 ; klessen 2001 ) .",
    "the periodic boundary conditions in this last study make it difficult to find estimates of the global star formation efficiency of transient molecular regions , since the mean mass density can not decrease .",
    "any newly formed stars can thus continue to accrete mass indefinitely .",
    "global calculations have tended to study clouds that are only marginally unbound and hence do not provide information on transient gmcs ( bate , bonnell & bromm 2003 ; bonnell , bate & vine 2003 )    it is the picture of gmc formation presented by pringle et al ( 2001 ) that we use as the motivation for this letter .",
    "they suggest that molecular clouds are formed via the accumulation of small parcles of material . in this manner",
    ", we interpret the internal motions of the cloud as a result of the original random motions of the constituent parcles of gas .",
    "the internal motions therefore need not be turbulent in the strict definition and so we use the notion of `` turbulence '' loosely in this paper .",
    "the formation mechanism for molecular regions supported here is distinctly different from that proposed by ballesteros - paredes et al ( 1999 ) . since we",
    "are concerned with a transient object and one which is not part of some large scale flow , we do not require boundary conditions on our model .",
    "futhermore , since the object in study is transient , we do not include any feedback effects into the internal motions as is consistent with the ideas presented by elmegreen ( 2000 ) .",
    "we present here the first numerical simulation in which the turbulent gas is both initially unbound and free to expand , showing that this does result in star formation but with a relatively low efficiency . in section 2 we describe the details of the simulation technique with a discussion of the evolution and efficiency of the star formation given in section 3 .",
    "we summarise and discuss the implications of this result in section 4 .",
    "the simulation starts from a uniform sphere of mass 31.6@xmath5at 10k with a radius of 0.13pc .",
    "the material is modelled as an ideal gas of molecular hydrogen and the equation of state is isothermal . with these properties ,",
    "the jeans mass of the cloud is 1@xmath5and the jeans number , @xmath6 .",
    "these conditions give an initial density of @xmath7 and hence the free - fall time , @xmath8 , is @xmath9 years .",
    "the gas is given turbulent support modelled by a gaussian random field with a power spectrum @xmath10 , where @xmath11 is the wavenumber of the velocity perturbations and corresponds to a larson type law of @xmath12 ( larson 1981 ; ostriker , stone & gammie 2001 ) .",
    "the turbulent kinetic energy of this study is characterised by the parameter @xmath13 and it is the unbound case of @xmath14 which is presented here , resulting in a turbulent mach number ( as calculated from the kinetic energy ) of @xmath15 .",
    "the fluid was modelled using the lagrangian method of smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) .",
    "gravitational forces are calculated using a tree structure ( benz et at 1990 ) .",
    "the code includes the modification by bate et al ( 1995 ) which replaces dense bound regions of the gas with point masses , or ` sink particles ' .",
    "these sinks allow the code to model the dynamical evolution of accreting protostars , without integration times becoming prohibitively small .",
    "sink - particle creation occurs when the densest gas particle ( at a given time ) and its 50 - 100 neighbours are self - gravitating , subvirial and occupy a region smaller than the sink - radius . in this calculation",
    "we used a sink radius of 48au with the sinks being formed at a density of  @xmath16 . to minimise computational expense , we smooth the gravitational forces between stars at a distance of 33au .",
    "we use 204800 sph particles to model the gas and are hence able to resolve self - gravitating objects as small as 0.015@xmath5(bate & burkert 1997 ) .    at the end of the simulation",
    "4 protostars were formed containing roughly 17% of the mass of the original cloud .",
    "the formation of a tight binary with a separation of 134au , considerably reduced the time step of the integration making it computationally expensive to run the simulation for longer than @xmath17 .",
    "unfortunately , this prevented satisfactory examination of the outer regions in the cloud , which evolve on much longer time - scales than the material near the stellar system . replacing the binary with a point mass , we were able to run the simulation much further , allowing a better examination of the evolution of the outer regions .",
    "the results of this part of the simulation are represented by the dashed radii curves in figure [ lagradii ] .",
    "it must be noted here that for a radius of less that @xmath18 cm from the protostars the results for the accretion are not as accurate as the original simulation due to the large accretion radius of the point mass , but this does not affect the results outside this region .",
    "all calculations of kinetic energies and radii in this letter are obtained from the centre of mass of material that will eventually end up in the stars , rather than the centre of mass of the entire cloud .",
    "the lagrangian particle nature of sph makes this possible .",
    "this gives a picture of the star formation process as seen by the material that is actually involved and allows for a better estimate of the star formation efficiency .",
    "the evolution of this cloud can be split roughly into three phases : turbulent compression , general expansion of the gas , and a final gravitational collapse for a subset of the material .",
    "column density snapshots from the simulation can be seen in figure [ evolpics ] , showing the effect of the turbulent motions and how the gas eventually evolves to form a small stellar system .",
    "the simulation starts with a uniform sphere of gas with a turbulent energy field .",
    "the large random motions quickly dominate with shocks producing the filamentary structure typical of turbulent regions .",
    "densities at the centre of these filaments reach @xmath19 times the initial density of the cloud . despite this increase in density , they are not self - gravitating structures .",
    "in fact they are highly transitory , existing for only a few tenths of a free - fall time .",
    "the turbulent motions lead to essentially one dimensional compression which does not produce a decrease in the local jeans mass ( doroshkevich 1980 ; lubow & pringle 1993 ; clarke 1999 ) and hence the gas is generally unbound .",
    "a 1-d compression does not decrease the effective gravitational radius of an unbound parcel of gas .",
    "thus , it can not alter the boundness of a clump unless it decreases its thermal energy content .",
    "significantly , these transitory structures provide the seeds for the fragmentation that occurs during the later collapse phase .",
    "figure [ lagradii ] shows the lagrangian radii that contain fixed fractions of the cloud s mass , and how these change with time .",
    "the global expansion is readily apparent from the figure , as is the extent of the expansion by the onset of star formation .",
    "the initial turbulence decreases during the first free - fall time , leading to a general expansion of the cloud .",
    "after the random motions have been damped out in the shocks , expansion is the main component of the velocities . during this phase ,",
    "most of the detailed filamentary structure is erased , with only one large elongated body of gas remaining .",
    "around @xmath20 , the expansion for a small fraction of the material , up to roughly 5% , stops and this gas starts to fall back in . as the lagrangian radii show , this is an inside out process .",
    "the inner 5% starts contracting before the outer layers and in - fall occurs progressively later as we move away from the centre .",
    "it does differ however from the classic inside - out process described by shu ( 1977 ) , since the system is not collapsing from a static starting point , but rather from the re - contraction of an initially expanding medium .",
    "the inner 5% corresponds roughly to a thermal jeans mass and is able to collapse once the kinetic energy has been dissipated .",
    "gravitational contraction forms a small dense core which becomes the natal site for a stellar system .",
    "the highly aspherical form of the core allows fragmentation to occur , preventing the formation of a single star .",
    "the gas splits into four protostars , arranging themselves in two tight binaries .",
    "this system then decays with one star being ejected and the remaining 3 left in a hierarchical triple system . at the end of the initial simulation ,",
    "the protostars contain roughly 17% of the original mass of the system , and a further 5% is incorporated into the various circumbinary / stellar discs .",
    "the inner binary is composed of protostars of mass 0.95 and 1.79 .",
    "the third protostar that makes up the bound triple system is 2.13@xmath5and the escaper is the lightest member at 0.37 .",
    "the most significant feature of this simulation is that a large fraction of the gas is expelled from the cloud , resulting in a naturally low star formation efficiency . escaping gas arises due to excess and undamped energy in the cloud .",
    "the mass that is bound therefore represents an upper limit to the possible final system mass . in principle , the most reliable method of determining the star forming efficiency of the cloud is to let the simulation run until all gas has either escaped or been accreted .",
    "obviously this is unpractical with current computational methods , so we must look to other methods to obtain our results .",
    "unfortunately , simply calculating the energy of each sph particle at the end of simulation does not unambiguously yield a value for the efficiency .",
    "the long - range nature of gravity is such that unbound material contributes to the potential energy of the entire cloud .",
    "consequently , material that appears to be bound might actually become unbound once the escaping regions have blown away .",
    "fortunately , the fraction of unbound material , and thus escaping mass , yields an accurate upper limit to the amount of material available for star formation .",
    "the evolution of the unbound fraction is followed in figure [ massfrac ] .",
    "we see a sharp fall in this fraction during the first free - fall time .",
    "this is simply a result of the decaying turbulent energy field , as kinetic energy is dissipated in shocks .",
    "after @xmath21 , the unbound fraction remains roughly constant for the remainder of the simulation . at the point of star formation ,",
    "at least  40% of the cloud is unbound , thereby placing an upper limit of the star formation efficiency at 60% .",
    "the lagrangian radii in figure [ lagradii ] give another estimate for the star formation efficiency .",
    "the dashed lines , obtained from the period in the simulation where the close binary is merged into a single protostar , reveal that radius containing 50% of the mass appears to have reached a constant value .",
    "this indicates that the 50% fraction is the boundary between in - falling and expanding matter .",
    "this suggests a slightly lower value for the efficiency than we obtained by looking at the energy .",
    "in fact the lagrangian radii containing 60% of the cloud shows no sign of recontracting .",
    "although turbulence does not directly induce fragmentation in the cloud for the reasons given in the previous section , it does play an important role in determining the mass that gets converted into stars .",
    "the fraction of mass with a decreasing potential energy represents the material that is actively involved in compression . from figure [ massfrac ]",
    "we see that this fraction undergoes a sharp initial rise and a gentler fall during the first free - fall time .",
    "again this is just a consequence of the turbulent compression and creation of transient filamentary structure . during this phase ,",
    "just over 40% of the mass is involved in these shocks and as a result loses kinetic energy .",
    "having lost this energy , the gas is able to contribute to star formation . at the end of the simulation all",
    "the mass contained in the protostars and the circumbinary disc had originally been involved in shocks during the turbulent phase . the turbulent compression in this simulation is therefore linked to the fraction of the mass which is involved in the star formation process .",
    "it must be noted here that in reality the tenuous outer layers of the cloud , are unlikely to be able to find their way onto the stellar system .",
    "clouds like the one presented here , or cores as they are known at this scale , do not exist in isolation but commonly in crowded regions ( motte , andr , neri , 1998 ; testi & sargent 1998 ) .",
    "in such an environment , tidal forces can have an important effect on the dynamics of gas , stripping away loosely bound material .",
    "as well as contending with tidal effects the low density regions outside dense cores are associated with high velocity flows ( larson 1981 ; padoan et al 2001 ) , providing a hostile environment for quiescent , tenuous gas .",
    "the results presented here follow the evolution of a molecular cloud containing a supersonic turbulent velocity field which has greater energy than that of the cloud s self - gravity . despite the globally unbound nature of the cloud , the freely decaying turbulence ( from shocks ) results in dynamically quiescent regions where gravity is able evoke collapse and subsequent star formation . since not all of the cloud is involved in the shocks , less than half the mass is able to undergo star formation , with the remaining material escaping the self - gravity of the system .",
    "four protostars are produced by the gravitational fragmentation , three of which are in a triple system which is formed by the ejection of the fourth body .",
    "the fact that bound structure formed from a dynamically unbound cloud , has important implications for the star formation process .",
    "this illustrates that gmcs need not be globally bound in order to produce their observed stellar populations , although more detailed calculations at the correct scale are needed to confirm this .",
    "internal turbulent motions are able to dissipate enough kinetic energy in supersonic shocks to leave coherent regions where gravitational forces can dominate .",
    "the rest of the cloud can then escape , allowing gmcs to dissolve of their own accord instead of requiring some unbinding mechanism .",
    "the end result is a gmc that is naturally inefficient at forming stars .",
    "this supports a large scale picture of star formation in which gmcs are formed dynamically from the accumulation of molecular gas ( pringle et al 2001 ; elmegreen 2001 ) .",
    "self - gravity need play no role in the formation and evolution of gmcs upto the point of star formation .",
    "star formation from globally unbound giant molecular clouds is able to provide a simple and interesting alternative to the efficiency problem that is normally attributed to a combination of magnetic fields and feedback processes .",
    "all gas which is able to dissipate enough kinetic energy to become bound will be involved in the star forming process .",
    "the ruling factor on the efficiency is therefore the amount of gas that is involved in shocks , which is in turn linked to the strength and power spectrum of the turbulent field ( klessen et al 2000 ) .",
    "more simulations will be needed to investigate how the efficiency is linked to both the initial jeans number and the mach number of the turbulence .",
    "we would like to thank jim pringle , bruce elmegreen , richard larson , ken rice and steve vine for helpful discussion and comments which greatly improved the paper .",
    "ballesteros - paredes j. , hartmann l. , vzqeuz - semadeni e. , 1999 apj , 527 , 285 bate m.r .",
    ", bonnell i.a . ,",
    "price n.m . , 1995 , , 277 , 362 .",
    ", burkert a. , 1997 , mnras , 288 , 1060 bate m.r . , bonnell i.a . , bromm v. , 2003 , , 339 , 577 benz w. , bowers r.l . , cameron a.g.w . , press w. , 1990 , apj , 348 , 647 bonnell i.a . , bate m.r . , vine s.g . , 2003 ,",
    "mnras 343 , 413 clarke c.j .",
    ", 1999 mnras 307 , 328 doroshkevich a.g . , 1980 , soviet - astronomy 24 152 elmegreen b.g .",
    ", 2000 ap.j .",
    "530 , 277 evan n.j . , 1999 , ara&a , 37 , 311 franco j. , shore s.n . , tenorio - tagle g. , 1994 , apj , 436 , 795 hartmann l. , ballesteros - paredes j. , bergin e.a . , 2001 , apj , 562 , 852 hartmann l. , 2002 , apj , 578 , 914 heyer m.h . , carpenter j.m .",
    ", & snell r.l",
    ". , 2001 , ap.j .",
    "551 , 852 klessen r.s . ,",
    "heitsch f. & mac low m - m .",
    ", 2000 ap.j .",
    "535 , 887 klessen r.s .",
    ", 2001 ap.j .",
    "556 , 837 lada e.a . , 1992 ,",
    "ap.j.l . , 393 , l25 lada c.j . , lada e.a . , 2003 ,",
    "ara&a , in press larson r.b . , 1981 , mnras , 194 , 809 larson r.b . , 2003 ,",
    "66 , 1651 lubow s.h .",
    ", pringle j.e . , 1993 , mnras , 263 , 701 mac low m - m .",
    ", klessen r.s .",
    ", burkert a. , smith m.d .",
    "1998 phys .",
    "l. 80 , 2754 mac low",
    ", klessen r.s . , submitted to reviews of modern physics , astro - ph/0301093 mckee c.f .",
    ", zweibel e.g. , goodman a.a . , heiles c. , 1993 , in protostars & planets iii , 327 motte f. , andr p. , neri r. , 1998 , a&a , 336 , 150 ostriker e.c . , gammie c.f . ,",
    "stone j.m . ,",
    "1998 apj , 513 , 259 ostriker e.c . ,",
    "stone j.m . ,",
    "gammie c.f . , 2001 apj , 546 , 980 padoan p. , nordlund @xmath22ke , 1999 , apj , 526 , 279 padoan p. , juvela m. , goodman a.a . , nordlund @xmath22ke , 2001 apj , 553 , 227 pringle j.e . ,",
    "allen r.j . ,",
    "lubow s.h .",
    ", 2001 mnras 327 , 663 scalo j. , 1986 , fundam .",
    "phys . , 11 , 1 shu f.h . , 1977 ap.j .",
    "214 , 488 shu f.h .",
    ", adams f.c .",
    ", lizano s. , 1987 ara&a , 25 , 23 stone j.m .",
    ", ostriker e.c .",
    ", gammie c.f . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 508 , l99 testi l. , sargent a. i. , 1998 , apj , 508 , 91 vzqeuz - semadeni e. , ballesteros - paredes j. , rodriguez l.f . , 1997 apj , 474 , 292"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of a numerical simulation in which star formation proceeds from an initially unbound molecular cloud core . </S>",
    "<S> the turbulent motions , which dominate the dynamics , dissipate in shocks leaving a quiescent region which becomes gravitationally bound and collapses to form a small multiple system . meanwhile , the bulk of the cloud escapes due to its initial supersonic velocities . in this simulation </S>",
    "<S> , the process naturally results in a star formation efficiency of @xmath0% . </S>",
    "<S> the mass involved in star formation depends on the gas fraction that dissipates sufficient kinetic energy in shocks . </S>",
    "<S> thus , clouds with larger turbulent motions will result in lower star formation efficiencies . </S>",
    "<S> this implies that globally unbound , and therefore transient giant molecular clouds ( gmcs ) , can account for the low efficiency of star formation observed in our galaxy without recourse to magnetic fields or feedback processes . </S>",
    "<S> observations of the dynamic stability in molecular regions suggest that gmcs may not be self - gravitating , supporting the ideas presented in this letter .    </S>",
    "<S> psfig.sty    @mtlplain@loaded    @mtlplain@loaded    latexl-.36em.3ex-.15em t-.1667em.7ex-.125emx    =    [ section ]    stars : formation - ism : clouds - ism : kinematics and dynamics - ism : structure </S>"
  ]
}