{
  "article_text": [
    "black holes in the universe have either masses less than about 20 m@xmath2 ( orosz 2003 ) , or masses exceeding about @xmath3 ( see kormendy & richstone , 1995 , for some exceptions see fillipenko & ho 2003 ; greene & ho 2004 ) .",
    "the first category of black holes are typically the member of a binary system in a normal galactic environment , the other type of supermassive black holes can be very bright in x , but always live in the nuclei of galaxies .",
    "the discovery of bright x - ray sources which are not in the nuclei of galaxies has led to the suggestion that these sources may hide black holes , with a mass intermediate between 20 and @xmath3 ; we call them intermediate mass black holes ( imbh ) .",
    "bright non - nuclear x - ray sources have been known to exist since the 1980s ( watson , stanger & griffiths 1984 ) , recently with the advent of chandra and xmm these sources have attracted considerably more attention . the conventional definiton of an ultraluminous x - ray source is @xmath4 ergs / s , but for the purpose of this paper we consider only luminosities of @xmath5 ergs / s as true ulx .",
    "this definition corresponds to the eddington luminosity of an accreting compact object of about 80 times the chandrasekhar mass .    the brightest galactic x - ray binary , grs 1915 + 105 , occasionally reaches @xmath6 ergs / s , and should then , according to the earlier definition be classified as a ulx .",
    "grs  1915 + 105 , however , contains a rather ordinary @xmath7 black hole ( harlaftis & greiner 2004 ) , which has an eddington limit of 3.5@xmath8 ergs / s if it accretes helium , and a factor of two lower if it accretes hydrogen rich material .",
    "we therefore argue that the term ultraluminous is inflationary , and opt for a more stringent definition ( see also irwin , bregman & athey 2004 ; irwin et al .",
    "2004 ) . the definition with @xmath9erg / s is thus chosen because it is difficult to explain these sources with conventional x - ray binaries containing stellar mass black holes ( see also kalogera et al . 2004 ) .",
    "just the x - ray luminosity is not sufficient to identify a ulx as an imbh .",
    "a few studies have claimed spectral evidence for intermediate mass black holes , in the form of relatively low temperature accretion disks ( i.e. @xmath10@xmath11 kev ) which can not produce the observed high x - ray luminosities unless the accretion radius is quite large , and hence flowing into massive black holes ( miller et al .",
    "2003a , b ) . on the other hand , such spectral results are generally based on fitting the disk emission ( shakura & sunayev 1973 ) using the models of mistuda et al . ( 1984 ) and gierlinski et al . ( 1999 ) including a power law , which presumably fits the compton up - scattered emission at high energies ( thorne & price 1975 ; shapiro , lightman & eardley 1976 ; sunyaev & trmper 1979 ) . inferring the black hole mass from the inner disk radius measured by spectral fits typically works well for sources whose",
    "x - ray fluxes are dominated by a quasi - thermal component , but less well for sources dominated by the power law component ( see e.g. sobczak et al .",
    "as the ulxs for the spectral mass measurement technique has been applied have spectra dominated by the power law component , these results should be taken with some caution .    a small subset of extragalactic ulxs show properties that are unlike x - ray sources in the milky way .",
    "these objects provide some indication for the existence of either intermediate mass black holes or for unusual modes of accretion .",
    "many of these bright x - ray sources are variable , which helps provide confidence that the emission comes from a single accreting object , and some also show evidence of associations with counterparts in other wavelengths , such as star clusters ( zezas & fabbiano 2002 ; smith & wilson 2003 ) or optical emission nebulae ( shih , iwasawa & fabian 2003 ) or even bright stars ( liu , bregman , seitzer 2004 ) , which makes them unlikely to be background objects .",
    "there are a number of theoretical models for these sources which do not require an intermediate mass black hole , but rather use the fact that the eddington limit applies strictly to spherical accretion .",
    "the non - imbh explanations include mechanical beaming ( king et al .",
    "2001 ) , relativistic beaming from a jet ( krding , falcke & markoff 2002 ) or photon bubble instabilities ( begelman 2002 ) ; many of these configurations can be obtained from a rather ordinary 10 black hole accreting from a donor during case b or c mass transfer ( podsiadlowski et al .",
    "a review of the theory of ulxs can be found in king ( 2003 ) .",
    "one particular source , m  82  x-1 , represents an especially compelling candidate for hosting an intermediate mass black hole ( ebisuzaki et al 2001 ; portegies zwart et al .",
    "it is located sufficiently close to a massive young star cluster that a chance superposition is unlikely , so it can be claimed to truly reside in m  82 with considerable confidence .",
    "it has an x - ray luminosity of about 5@xmath12 ergs / s ( i.e. well in excess of the luminosity of any galactic x - ray binary ) , and shows a 54 mhz quasi - periodic oscillation ( qpo ) as well as a broad iron line ( strohmayer & mushotzky 2003 ) .",
    "they argue that in a mechanical beaming scenario , the qpo should be broadened by scatterings which increase the photons light travel times , while the iron line should be narrow , since lines are typically broadened due to projected rotation effects . in a relativistic beaming scenario , neither qpos nor iron lines",
    "are expected .",
    "furthermore , they note that the observed qpo and noise spectrum are reminiscent of the galactic x - ray binaries in their very high state ( see van der klis 1995 for a review ) , except that the qpo frequency is a factor of about 10 - 100 lower than those seen in the galactic x - ray binaries . applying a simple linear mass scaling to the qpo frequency implies then a mass of about 100 - 1000 @xmath13 for the black hole .    for a characterization of the bright x - ray sources it is important to identify models for their origin and evolution .",
    "for the remainder of the paper we adopt the intermediate mass black hole hypothesis and study the characteristics of an x - ray binary in which such a black hole accretes from a stellar companion .",
    "our assumptions are motivated by the compelling case of m  82  x-1 .",
    "the configuration in mind can be compared to low - mass x - ray binaries in which a main - sequence star or giant fills its roche - lobe to a black hole , in this case , however , the accreting object is a black hole o(1000 ) .    in this paper",
    "we discuss the consequence of a @xmath14 black hole that accretes from a stellar companion .",
    "we envision that such systems may form in the dense cores for young star clusters .",
    "we discuss the formation of such systems in sect.[sect : fande ] .",
    "we further evolve the binary system through several phases of roche - lobe overflow ( rlof ) .",
    "for this purpose we perform detailed binary evolution calculations for such systems and demonstrate that if the binary can form with sufficiently small orbital period a stable low - mass x - ray binary forms in which the donor is slowly consumed by the black hole . the x - ray emission while the @xmath15 donor is on the main - sequence reaches luminosities above the eddington limit for a 1 accreting compact object . in the shorter post main - sequence phase",
    "less massive donors also exhibit super - eddington luminosities , while the higher mass donors may become ultraluminous for a few million years . for larger orbital periods , rlof starts while the donor is on the giant branch , which can lead to very high x - ray luminosities for a short while .",
    "intermediate mass black holes with a lower mass donor may contribute to the emission of gravitational waves in the lisa band and simultaneously be visible as bright x - ray sources .",
    "several theoretical models exist for producing black holes of intermediate mass , ( between @xmath16 ; portegies zwart & mcmillian 2002 ; miller & hamilton 2002 ; madau & rees 2001 ) .",
    "young and dense star clusters may experience an evolutionary phase in which the stellar density in the core becomes so high that physical collisions between stars become frequent ( quinland & shapiro 1987 ; portegies zwart et al 1999 ; rasio , freitag & grkan , 2003 ) .",
    "portegies zwart & mcmillan ( 2002 ) derive a mass accumulation rate due to collisions of @xmath17 , with @xmath18 the mass of the star cluster and its half - mass relaxation time .",
    "the requirement for this mass coagulation is that the initial relaxation time of the cluster is less than @xmath19myr , otherwise the most massive stars which drive the collision runaway experience supernovae before the star cluster experiences core collapse .",
    "if the cluster is born with sufficiently concentrated , a longer relaxation time up to about 100myr can still lead to a phase of collision runaway ( portegies zwart et al 2004 ) .",
    "the final mass of such a episode of coagulation is about 0.1 percent of the initial cluster mass portegies zwart & mcmillan ( 2002 , see also grkan et al 2004 ) .    following this scenario , intermediate mass black holes populate the central regions of massive and dense star clusters . but the presence of an intermediate mass black hole is no guarantee for x - ray emission .",
    "the ambient gas density in such clusters is generally rather low and is insufficient to power an ultraluminous x - ray source",
    ".    another possibility would be the tidal disruption of a main sequence star that smashes into the black hole or grazes it near the tidal radius . as a result",
    ", the star may be completely destroyed and accreted by the black hole .",
    "tidal disruption with a supermassive black hole leads to short flares ( lasting about a year , rees , 1988 ; ulmer , 1999 ; ayal , livio & piran , 2000 ) . for lower mass black holes the duration of accretion will longer inversely proportional with the mass of the compact object . from this point of view",
    ", such a scenario is consistent with the properties of ulx , but the event rate must be impractically high to explain the number of ultraluminous x - ray sources which have been observed , like m82-x1 .",
    "a more attractive model was recently proposed by hopman , portegies zwart & alexander ( 2004 ) .",
    "they argue that in a young and dense cluster a star may be captured by the intermediate mass black hole in a tidal event .",
    "further tidal interaction between the black hole and the captured star then circularize the orbit .",
    "they further assume that the captured star is on the main - sequence , but the same argumentation can be made for evolved stars . as a orbit has been fully circularized the captured star under - fills its roche - lobe only slightly ( hopman et al 2004 ) . during the remainder of the main - sequence lifetime of the captured star it grows in size by about a factor of two and",
    "gravitational wave radiation reduces the orbital separation .",
    "ultimately the star fills its roche lobe and mass transfer to the intermediate mass black hole starts .",
    "an alternative scenario for the formation of a binary is by the dynamical capture of a main - sequence star by the intermediate mass black hole .",
    "such events will typically result in rather wide ( 100 1000 day ) binaries ( baumgardt et al . 2004 ) .",
    "the companion to the intermediate mass black hole is then be among the most massive stars in the cluster . at young age ( @xmath20myr ) the companion and may well be a massive ( @xmath21 ) main - sequence star , but for older cluster the companion is more likely to be another black hole .",
    "the star clusters in which either tidal or dynamical capture can take place are very young ( @xmath22myr ) , extremely dense @xmath23pc@xmath24 and rich @xmath25 stars ( portegies zwart et al .",
    "the relatively recently identified class of young dense clusters ( sometimes pronounced as yodec ) tend to populate active star forming regions in interacting galaxies , like m82 and the antennae ( zezas & fabbiano 2002 ) .",
    "hopman et at .",
    "( 2004 ) argue that in about half of the star clusters with are able to produce an intermediate mass black hole via collision runaway , the back hole is able to capture a companion star in a sufficiently short orbital period binary that roche - lobe overflow starts some time on the main sequence .",
    "together with the possibility of dynamical capture , wide binaries with an intermediate mass black hole may be comparatively common as short period binaries .",
    "we do not further consider the details of dynamical or tidal capture , nor do we assess the probability of forming the type of binary systems discussed in this paper , as we mainly concentrate on the phase in the lifetime of the intermediate mass black hole at which it is visible in x - rays or as a gravitational wave source .",
    "here we assume that an intermedate mass black hole was formed and has acquired a stellar companion via one of the mechanisms discussed above .",
    "mass transfer from a lower mass ( secondary ) star to a much more massive ( primary ) star is driven by the expansion of the donor and the loss of angular momentum from the binary system . in our evolutionary model ,",
    "we initialize the binary systems with a black hole mass ( typically 1000 ) and a stellar mass secondary of 2 5 , 10 or 15with some selected orbital period at birth ( @xmath26 ) . apart from the previous model description in ",
    "[ sect : formation ] we do not further discuss how such parameters are obtained .",
    "the evolution of each selected secondary mass is calculated with an initial orbital period such that roche - lobe overflow starts at zero - age , which could be representative if the system was formed via tidal caputre .",
    "this choice seems somewhat arbitrary , as it leaves no time for the imbh to form and to acquire roche - lobe contact ; to first order however , this is a good assumption as it takes less than about three million years to form the imbh ( portegies zwart et al 2004 ) , and the capture of a companion star followed by tidal secularization takes only a few million years ( hopman et al , 2004 ) . for our 2 donors this time lag is negligible , while for the 15 donor it is roughly half the main - sequence lifetime .",
    "we still argue , however , that the exact moment of rlof has little effect for the further evolution of the binary system , as long as it starts somewhere on the main - sequence .",
    "some binaries start roche - lobe overflow at a later evolutionary stage , on the giant or super giant branches",
    ". such larger initial orbital period could be representative in the case that the binary was formed by a dynamical capture .",
    "an overview of the selected initial conditions is presented in tab.[tab : models ] .",
    "once initialized , we evolve the binary through various stages using the binary evolution code of eggleton ( see pols et al .",
    "1995 and references therein for a description ) , assuming a population i chemical composition ( y = 0.98 , z = 0.02 ) and mixing - length parameter of @xmath27 .",
    "convective overshooting is taken into account using an overshooting constant @xmath28 ( pols et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "the orbital evolution of the system is affected by the emission of gravitational waves ( landau & lifshitz 1958 ) , roche - lobe overflow by non - conservative mass transfer or mass loss via a wind ( soberman et al .",
    "the evolution of the orbital separation , @xmath29 , can then be computed by the sum of three terms @xmath30}{1 + q }             \\frac{\\dot{m}_{{\\rm d}}}{m_{{\\rm d } } } \\nonumber \\\\                               &    & - 2 \\frac{\\dot{m}_{{\\rm bh}}}{m_{{\\rm bh } } } +             \\frac{\\dot{m}_{{\\rm t}}}{m_{{\\rm t}}}.            \\label{doublens : eq : orbit }          \\end{aligned}\\ ] ] here @xmath31 is the constant of gravity , @xmath32 is the speed of light in vacuum , @xmath33 and @xmath34 are the masses of the donor star and the black hole , respectively , @xmath35 and @xmath36 .",
    "the parameter @xmath37 gives the fraction of mass lost from the donor star in the form of fast isotropic wind ( de jager et al .",
    "1988 ) and @xmath38 is the fraction of the wind mass accreted by the black hole . during the detached phase , we assume that @xmath39 and that the black hole does not accrete mass from the stellar wind ( @xmath40 ) .",
    "matter leaves the system carrying the specific angular momentum of the donor . during mass - transfer",
    "we assume that the black hole accretes matter up to its eddington limit ( see e.g. king 2000 ) as @xmath41 the remaining mass is lost from the system with the specific angular momentum of the black hole .",
    "a more sophisticated eddington mass accretion is given by podsiadlowski et al .",
    "( 2003 , see their eq.9 ) , which depends on the hydrogen abundance of the donor and the initial and present mass of the black hole .",
    "because in our calculations @xmath42 , throughout the evolution the present mass of the black hole does not differ much from its initial mass , and therefore our adopted eddington limit is about a factor @xmath43 4.3 lower than that of podsiadlowski et al .",
    "as the consequence , the black holes in our case accrete less mass and the orbital period expands more strongly .",
    "table[tab : models ] gives an overview of the initial conditions and results of our calculations . in fig .",
    "[ fig : tmdotedd_zams ] we present the evolution of mass - transfer rate for our calculations where mass transfer started at the zero - age main sequence .      binaries which start roche - lobe contact at the zams undergo case a mass transfer .",
    "this prolongs their main - sequence lifetime considerably .",
    "the most peculiar evolution in our sample is arguably that of the 2 donor . after transferring about 1",
    "the star starts to develop a convective envelope which initiates chemical mixing , which again leads to magnetic activity . as a result orbital evolution",
    "will become dominated by magnetic braking .",
    "this mechanism ceases when the whole star becomes convective with a homogeneous composition of @xmath44 .",
    "some time later , the central temperature drops below the hydrogen burning limit and thermonuclear fusion stops : this happens at about @xmath45myr . at that point",
    "the system remains detached for about 8myr before it undergoes another phase of mass transfer . at @xmath46gyr",
    "the code breaks while the donor still fills its roche lobe ; at this point @xmath47  840  k and @xmath48 0.011 ( about 10 @xmath49 ) , which can be considered a brown dwarf . under the influence of gravitational - wave radiation alone",
    ", the donor spirals in toward the black hole until they merge after about 74 myr ( peters 1964 ) .    for the more massive stars ,",
    "case a mass transfer is followed by mass transfer when the star ascends the giant branch during hydrogen shell burning ( case ab ) , lasting for 8.3 myr ( for @xmath50 ) , 0.26myr ( for 10 ) and 0.05myr ( for @xmath51 ) .",
    "the mass - transfer rate increases dramatically in this phase to 5.2 @xmath52 , @xmath53 and 2.3 @xmath54 /yr for the 5 , 10 and 15 donor , respectively ; as shown by the first spike in the evolution in fig.[fig : tmdotedd_zams ] .",
    "these mass transfer rates result in x - ray luminosities in excess of @xmath55 erg / s .",
    "the 10  donor experiencing case a mass transfer ends as a helium star . this star experiences helium shell burning , lasting for about 40000 years , during which mass transfer starts again at a rate of @xmath56 /yr , regardless of the black - hole mass .",
    "these phases of mass transfer are shown by the second spikes in figs.[fig : tmdotedd_zams ] for 5 and 10 donors .",
    "though seemingly unresolved , some of these spikes last for several million years and are well resolved in our simulations ( see also tab.[tab : models ] ) .",
    "binaries initialized with a larger orbital period experience mass transfer when the donor is evolved to a giant ( case b ) or supergiant ( case c ) .",
    "the case b systems remain detached for only 0.29myr ( 5 ) ",
    "0.05myr ( 10 ) at mass - transfer rate of 2.4 @xmath57 ( 5 )  7 @xmath54 /yr ( 10 ) .",
    "the 10  donors which experience case b mass transfer ascends the super giant branch at a later instant , leading to case bc mass transfer .",
    "the mass - transfer rate during this stage is of the same order as in the preceding phase .",
    "the evolution of the 10  donor in a @xmath58 day orbit around a 1000  black hole is quite peculiar ; mass transfer , in this system , ensues in a relatively advanced stage ( late case b ) such that only about 0.5  is transferred before the hydrogen shell burning is terminated , causing the star to shrinks inside its roche lobe .",
    "another 2  is transferred during case bc mass transfer before the donor turns into a helium star , which experiences helium shell burning , during which it expands quickly to overfill its roche lobe , initiating a short phases of high ( @xmath59 /yr ) mass transfer .",
    "also the 5 donor ultimately turns in a degenerate co core and experiences several carbon flashes during its remaining lifetime during which the mass transfer rate varies between @xmath60 /yr and @xmath59 /yr .    only one of our simulations experienced case c mass transfer , which occurred for the 5  donor with a 600 day orbital period .",
    "this resulted in a short phase of mass - transfer at a rates of 1.4 @xmath57 /yr .    only the binaries with a 10  donor for case b , and 15 for case a ,",
    "leave neutron stars at the end of their evolution ; all other evolutions leave carbon - oxygen white dwarfs .    [",
    "cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<,>,>,>,>,>,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab : models ]    the durations of mass transfer are presented in columns 710 of tab.[tab : models ] . only if roche - lobe overflow occurs at an early stage , near the zams , can mass transfer be sustained at high rates for a long time .",
    "high accretion rates , however are only achieved on the giant ( case b ) and supergiant ( case c ) branches .",
    "we also find that mass transfer caused by helium shell burning can result in mass transfer rates as high as @xmath59 /yr , which is sufficient to power an @xmath9 erg / s x - ray source , but only for a short while .",
    "in this section we apply and discuss an empirical observational model based on our understanding of low - mass x - ray binaries in the galaxy , but then applied to a system where the donor is a 215 star and the accretor is an intermediate mass black hole .",
    "we then use the results of our binary evolution calculations as input for the empirical model . in appendix[sect : appendix ] we present the empirical evidence on which this model is based .",
    "the binary evolution simulations provide us with the donor mass , accretor mass , orbital period and a secular mass accretion rate , all as a function of time .",
    "we use these information to calculate the x - ray luminosity of the simulated binaries ( below ) ; the gravitational wave signatures are discussed in  [ sect : gwr ] .",
    "our binary evolution calculations provide secular accretion rates , rather than instantaneously observable ones .",
    "this difference can be quite important , considering that a large fraction of the stallar mass accreting black holes are transients .",
    "since the theoretical understanding of disk instabilities is not presently well enough established to make quantitative predictions , we develop an _ ad hoc _ model based on phenomenology ( discussed in appendix[sect : appendix ] ) .",
    "the parameters we require in order to compare our simulations with observations are the recurrence time ( @xmath61 ) and the decay time ( @xmath62 ) , via which we calculate the time @xmath63 that the source is brighter than a certain limiting x - ray luminosity @xmath64 .",
    "we then compute the duty cycle ( @xmath65 ) .    after applying the empirical model for x - ray emission , we study the observational characteristics of these sources .",
    "we require that to recognize the source as a ulx it has to be brighter than @xmath64 , for which we adopt @xmath66 erg / s .",
    "this is done in the following way : first we calculate the total energy from a fit to the empirical data in fig.[fig : porb_e ] and the decay time from fig.[fig : ltr ] .",
    "the recurrence time is subsequently a function of the total energy @xmath67 and the rate of mass transfer via , @xmath68 . the bright time is subsequently calculated by integrating the luminosity curve , for which we assume an exponential decaying function ( see appendix[sect : appendix ] ) from the start to the moment it drops below @xmath64 .",
    "this results in @xmath69 , where we adopt the factor two in the denominator as seems reasonable from fig.[fig : ltr ] .",
    "the duty cycle is subsequently determined as @xmath70 .    in figures[fig",
    ": bright_time ] and[fig : duty_cycle ] we present the resulting bright time ( @xmath63 ) and duty cycle ( @xmath71 ) for a selection of binaries with 2 , 5and 10 donors which start rlof at the zams . the binaries which start at wider orbits and the simulations for a 15 donor which starts rlof at the zams are all persistent x - ray source with luminosities well above @xmath64 .",
    "the binaries with a relatively wide initial orbit , however , remain bright for only a short while .",
    "our empirical prescription is supported by the qualitative similarities with the proposed limit for transient and persistent sources of dubus et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , which yields that binaries with accretion rates exceeding @xmath72 are persistent x - ray emitters . with this prescription ,",
    "lower mass donors ( @xmath73 ) show transient behavior .",
    "we have analyzed the results of evolutionary calculations in which a donor star of 2  15 transfers mass to a 100  2000 black hole . in this section",
    "we discuss our simulation results with respect to the observed bright x - ray source m82-x1 in the starburst galaxy m82 .",
    "this source is one of the best candidate intermediate mass black holes , and we argue that such a black hole may produce x - rays as it receives mass from a companions star .    binaries which start rlof at the zams remain bright only for a few weeks continuously . near the end of the main sequence",
    "the bright time increases to several years only for the 5 and 10 donors .",
    "our calculation for a 2 donor only experiences a short ( few days ) bright ( @xmath74 ) flash every few months .",
    "since the ultraluminous x - ray source m82-x1 was observed for an extended period ( over 20 years ) we conclude that it is unlikely to host a low mass ( @xmath75 ) donor . of course",
    ", it could be that the x - ray source was caught near peak luminosity each time it was observed , in which case a lower mass donor would prove satisfactory , but this is unlikely .",
    "our simulations for the 5 and 10 donor on the main - sequence exhibit similar episodes of bright time but with shorter duty cycle , making these sources still rather unlikely candidates for the ulx in m82 .",
    "however , near the end of the main sequence , @xmath63 increases considerable to several years .",
    "the binaries with a 10 donor then become steady sources , making these suitable candidates for the ulx in m82 .",
    "the 15 donor which starts rlof at the zams is also persistently bright .    strictly speaking , the systems with an evolved donor are transients , but for as long as rlof is sustained the bright time and recurrence time become so long that these sources could rather easily be identified as persistent ultraluminous x - ray emitters . and",
    "though these sources are rather short lived they should not be excluded as suitable candidates ( see also kalogera et al 2004 ) .",
    "based on the above analysis and the figures[fig : bright_time ] and [ fig : duty_cycle ] we conclude that within the limitations of our model the most likely configuration for the bright x - ray source m82-x1 is a 1000 with a 10 - 15 donor , probably near the end of its main - sequence lifetime .",
    "note that for the star cluster mgg-11 this would also be consistent with the observed age of the cluster , being 7 - 12myr .",
    "the turn - off age of a 15 star is about 11.5myr . in a phase of mass transfer",
    "the stellar lifetime can be extended considerably possibly allowing even more massive donors ( see section[sect : binev ] ) .",
    "a binary emits gravitational waves , and as long as the stars are far apart we can assume that they behave as point masses .",
    "in the case we consider here , the donor star fills its roche - lobe and can hardly be described as a point mass .",
    "the amplitude of the gravitational wave signal is given by ( evens et al .",
    "1987 ) @xmath76 here @xmath77 is the chirp mass .",
    "the gravitational wave frequency is twice the orbital frequency .",
    "the resulting gravitational wave signal is presented in fig.[fig : tmdotedd_gwr ] , for binaries which started roche - lobe overflow on the zero - age main - sequence .",
    "binaries which do not start rlof during the main - sequence phase of the donor will not become detectable gravitational wave sources .",
    "figure[fig : tmdotedd_gwr ] presents the evolution of the gravitational wave signal for several systems which start rlof at the zams .",
    "the last column of tab.[tab : models ] presents the time that the binary is visible above the noise curve of the lisa gravitational wave detector .    assuming a standard distance of 10kpc , the binaries which start mass transfer at birth emit gravitational waves at a strain of about @xmath78 ( almost independent of the donor mass ) .",
    "the frequency of the gravitational waves is barely detectable for the _ lisa _ space based antennae ( see figure[fig : tmdotedd_gwr ] ) . during mass transfer the binary moves out of the detectable frequency band , as the orbital period increases . once the donors has turned into a white dwarf , as happens for the 5 and 10 donors , the emission of gravitational waves brings the two stars black into the relatively high frequency regime and it becomes detectable again for the _ lisa _ antennae .",
    "this process , however takes far longer than a hubble time , unless the orbit has an eccentricity @xmath79 .",
    "such high eccentricities , after the phase of mass transfer , can only be achieved in the cases where the initial donor collapses to a compact object in a supernova explosion , or if the binary is perturbed by external influences .",
    "we conclude that the here discussed class of binaries with relatively massive donors @xmath15 are probably not important sources of gravitational waves .",
    "the binary in which a 2 main - sequence star starts to transfer to a 1000 black hole , however , remains visible as a bright source of gravitational waves for its entire lifetime ( see figure[fig : tmdotedd_gwr ] ) .",
    "the reason for this striking result is the curious evolution of the donor ( see sect.[sect : binev ] ) .",
    "mass transfer in this evolutionary stage is rather slow causing the x - ray source to be transient .",
    "we argue that such a transient could result in an interesting synchronous detection of x - rays and gravitational waves .",
    "the known ulxs are at mpc distance and unlikely to be seen with lisa .",
    "we performed detailed simulations of the evolution of close binaries with an intermediate mass ( 1001000 ) black hole and a stellar companion .",
    "if the initial orbital period is of the order of a day , the main - sequence star starts filling its roche lobe before the terminal age . in this case",
    "the binary remains in contact for it s remaining main - sequence lifetime , which is considerably extended compared to the main - sequence lifetime of an isolated star of the same mass .    relatively low mass ( @xmath80 ) donors which start mass transfer at zero age are likely to be transient , with high ( @xmath81erg / s ) peak luminosity .",
    "the recurrence time for these sources , however , is generally rather long ( several weeks ) and the duration of the bright phase is short ( few days ) .",
    "more massive donors are bright for a longer time and have shorter recurrence time .",
    "the sources become persistent for donor stars of about 10 .",
    "our simulation with a 15 zams donor resulted in a persistent bright x - ray source for its entire main - sequence lifetime .",
    "the duty cycle also increases near the end of the main - sequence .",
    "stars which start roche - lobe overflow after the main - sequence phase remain persistent for their mass transferring episode , which , for a 5 donor lasts for @xmath82 million years .    based on these findings , and within the limitations of our analysis and assumptions",
    ", we argue that low mass ( @xmath80 ) donors and donors near the zero - age main - sequence are unlikely candidates for the ultraluminous x - ray source m82-x1 . a 1015 donor near the terminal - age main sequence or on the early giant branch produces recurrence times and luminosities consistent with the observed ultra luminous x - ray source in m82 .    an interesting possibility is provided by a @xmath83 donor which starts to transfer mass to an intermediate mass black hole at birth .",
    "such a binary is likely to be visible as a bright transient x - ray source and simultaneously as gravitational wave source in the _ lisa _ band to a distance of several mpc .",
    "we are grateful to chris belczynski , clovis hopman , peter jonker , vicky kalogera , emmi meyer - hofmeister , onno pols , ed van den heuvel , lev yungelson , andrzej zdziarski , steve zepf and andreas zezas for discussions and for providing useful data .",
    "this work was supported by the royal netherlands academy of sciences ( knaw ) , netherlands research school for astronomy ( nova ) and the dutch organization for scientific research ( nwo ) for the spinoza grant 08 - 0 to e.  p.  j. van den heuvel and a talent fellowship .",
    "we are grateful to northwestern university for hospitality .",
    "in this appendix we discuss the characteristics of low - mass black hole x - ray binaries in the galaxy , in order to compare them with the x - ray binaries we have been simulating in the main body of the paper .",
    "the main reasons to use the galactic population of soft x - ray transients is because of the similarities in the geometry and composition of these systems with accreting intermediate mass black holes .",
    "most accreting black holes in the milky way are transient systems . in fact",
    ", only cygnus x-1 is a persistent emitter among the dynamically confirmed black hole candidates ( see mcclintock & remillard 2003 for a review ) , and the only other persistent emitters considered to be plausible black hole candidates are 4u  1957 + 115 , ss 433 and cygnus x-3 , along with the large magellanic cloud sources lmc x-1 and lmc x-3 .",
    "of these , only 4u  1957 + 115 has a low mass ( i.e. @xmath84 ) donor star , and the case for its being a black hole is by far the weakest ( see nowak & wilms 1999 ) . on the other hand ,",
    "there are many persistent neutron star accretors . since standard accretion disk theory suggests that disk instabilities occur due to changes in the disk s hydrogen ionization state , we expect stable disks only when the disk is hot enough for its outer edge to be above the ionization temperature of hydrogen .",
    "given that more massive accretors have lower inner disk temperatures ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 ) and larger orbital separations ( and hence bigger disks ) for the same orbital period ( kepler 1609 ) , it is then not too surprising that neutron stars can more easily be persistent accretors than black holes .",
    "it thus becomes rather likely that intermediate mass black holes will be transient accretors ( see the discussion in dubus et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "the most comprehensive study to date of the outburst properties of soft x - ray transients is that of chen , shrader & livio ( 1997 , hereafter csl97 ) .",
    "this work compiled the outburst durations , total fluencies , and peak luminosities for all the observed x - ray transient outbursts in the literature at the time of its writing , considering both optical and x - ray properties of the outbursts .",
    "we will borrow a few key results from that paper , while also making a few simplifications , to allow for a prescription for converting secular accretion rate into x - ray luminosities that is suitable for porting to accreting intermediate mass black holes .",
    "we will supplement these data with some more recent work , including that by garcia et al .",
    "( 2003 ) who tabulated the peak outbursts luminosities of several x - ray transients , and other data sets which will be specified in more detail .",
    "the frequencies of outbursts are poorly constrained both by observations and by theory . a reasonable approximation , then , is to assume that the outbursts we see are `` typical '' , and hence that roughly periodic , identical outbursts will be seen for sources , with the periodicity and the properties of the outburst varying from source to source . to estimate the recurrence timescale ( @xmath61 ) , we compare the secular mass accretion rate from our binary evolution simulations (  [ sect : binev ] ) with an estimate of the total amount of mass accreted during an outburst based on the energy emitted during the outburst , @xmath67 , plus an estimate of the radiative efficiency .",
    "we then apply the observational characteristics to our binary evolution calculations , which is done in  [ sect : observations ] .",
    "the first assumption we make is that the outburst follow a fast - rise , exponential decay ( fred ) luminosity law as a function of time .",
    "this approximation is supported by the shape of the light curves for about half the outbursts studied in chen , shrader & livio ( 1997 ) .",
    "the other half , and in particular grs  1915 + 105 the galactic system most analogous to a ulx , show rather `` flat - topped '' outburst light curves ( chen , shrader & livio 1997 ) .",
    "the next assumption is that the orbital period of a system is the key parameter in determining the properties of its outbursts .",
    "the radial size of the accretion disk is likely to be the actual driver of the outburst properties , but it is hard to measure . given simple scaling laws , though , and the assumption that the compact accretor dominates the mass of the binary system , which is here the case , it can be shown that the mass content of an accretion disk depends primarily on the orbital period , with a linear dependence on mass of the accretor . the outer radius of the disk , @xmath85 then scales with the orbital separation , @xmath29 , since @xmath86@xmath87 ; and the mass of the disc is proportional to @xmath88 ;",
    "then the mass of the accretion disk is proportional to the mass of the accretor .",
    "if we then scale all observational quantities in eddington units , the mass of the accretor has relatively weak effects on the properties of the outbursts .",
    "fig.[fig : ltr ] shows the peak luminosity at outbursts as a function of the orbital period for several black hole x - ray binaries ( data from garcia et al .",
    "there are relatively few systems , but the systems in short orbital periods ( i.e. less than about 10 hours ) fit approximately to the relation @xmath89 , with the sources above 10 hours fitting approximately to @xmath90 , which is also supported by theoretical studies , which suggests that the amount of mass accumulated in the disc in an outburst cycle is a function of the orbital period with a cutoff around 10 hours ( see meyer - hofmeister & meyer , 2000 ; meyer - hofmeister , 2004 ) .",
    "we note that the systems used to make the correlations between outburst properties and orbital periods appear to be prediminantly at most only mildly evolved , so that the applications of these results to highly evolved systems ( i.e. giant donors ) could be dangerous .",
    "the two outliers are v4641 sgr , at 67.6 hours orbital period , and @xmath91 and xte  j  1118 + 480 , with @xmath92 hours and @xmath93 .",
    "since v4641 sgr shows a radio jet with an apparent proper motion of more than 10 times the speed of light ( hjellming et al . 1999",
    "; orosz et al .",
    "2001 ) its jet must be pointed very close to the line of sight , and if its jet has a substantial x - ray spectral component , then this beamed component may be responsible for the strong x - ray emission , in contrast to what is expected for the other sources .",
    "the other outlier , xte  j  1118 + 480 , is one of the x - ray transients that never reached a high luminosity state ( see e.g. brocksopp , bandyopadhyay & fender , 2004 , for a discussion of such sources ) .",
    "since these low luminosity systems are thought to be radiatively inefficient , it may be that the instantaneous mass transfer rate did reach levels comparable to the level of the correlation ( indicating that the disk outburst physics was essentially the same for this source as the others ) .",
    "alternatively , since the outbursts of individual recurrent x - ray transients are not all identical , it may simply be that we saw a fainter than typical outburst of xte  j  1118 + 480 .",
    "given that the primary goal of this paper is to develop a model for _ bright _ x - ray binaries , this outlier is not particularly troublesome .",
    "next , we consider the outburst durations . taking the data from csl97 for black hole binaries outburst energies",
    ", we find a similar relation with orbital period , that @xmath94 , as shown in fig.[fig : porb_e ] .",
    "we note that the strong outlier is gro  j  1655 - 40 , which has shown multiple outbursts with a short recurrence time , highlighting the limitations of the `` periodic outburst '' hypothesis , which we use here as a simplification .",
    "we also note that the highest energy , longest period system , grs  1915 + 105 has been in outburst continuously since about 1992 , but the data from chen et al .",
    "( 1997 ) obviously covers only a fraction of that timespan . using the value from chen et al .",
    "( 1997 ) , it falls a factor of about 3 below the relation we propose between orbital period and outburst energy . combining the two empirical relations from the data , with the added assumption of a `` fred '' lightcurve shape",
    ", we then find that the exponential decay timescale @xmath62 for an outburst should be approximately @xmath95 we emphasize that the prescription presented here is a crude approximation to the poorly understood phenomenology of transient disks ; however , we feel it is a better approximation that the standard ones made in converting secular accretion rates into instantaneous mass accretion rates in the x - ray producing regions of the accretion flow .",
    "the theoretical model recently proposed by meyer - hofmeister ( 2004 ) for outbursts also predict a correlation between orbital period and peak output luminosity .",
    "we note especially that the fred shape may be a poor approximation for the ulxs , considering that grs  1915 + 105 , the galactic system most analogous to the ulxs , has shown a rather `` flat - topped '' outburst light curve .    based on this phenomenological analysis",
    "we conclude that the peak luminosity for a @xmath1black hole binaries easily exceed @xmath55 erg / s , but these high luminosities are generally sustained for a short while only ( see also  [ sect : observations ] ) .",
    "next , we provide a brief review of spectral states of x - ray binaries , which will be used to justify bolometric corrections to the data .",
    "between three and five distinct spectral states exist for black hole x - ray binaries , depending on the classifying author .",
    "these states are essentially accretion modes with distinct spectral and variability characteristics .",
    "the state of an object is , to first order , correlated with its mass accretion rate , with often some hysteresis ( miyamoto & kitamoto , 1995 ; nowak , wilms & dove 2002 ; smith , heindl & swank 2002 ; maccarone & coppi 2003 ) . for a more detailed review , we refer to nowak ( 1995 ) which concentrates more on the x - ray spectroscopic features and van der klis ( 1995 ) which concentrates more on the variability features .",
    "the three canonical spectral states are the low / hard state ( typically seen above below 2% of the eddington luminosity ",
    "maccarone 2003 ) , the high / soft state ( typically seen between about 2 and 30% of the eddington luminosity ) , and the very high state ( typically seen above about 30% of the eddington luminosity ",
    "nowak 1995 ) .",
    "the two additional states are the quiescent state , which may just be the low luminosity extension of the low / hard state , and the intermediate or transition state , which shows spectral and timing properties essentially the same as the very high state , but occurs at lower luminosities , most notably as the source moves between the low / hard state and the high / soft state ( see homan et al .",
    "2001 for a discussion of the intermediate state ) .",
    "active galactic nuclei seem to show similar spectral states as black hole binaries at the same fractions of the eddington luminosity ( maccarone , gallo & fender 2003 ) , so the extension of these results to intermediate mass black holes seems to be a reasonable assumption .    for illustrative purposes we present figure[fig : hardsoft ] , which shows the x - ray spectrum of cygnus x-1 in the soft state ( top solid curve for low @xmath22kev and high energies @xmath96kev ) and in the hard state ( bottom curve in the _ chandra _ band ) .",
    "the dashed curves are corrected for absorption .",
    "the two lowest luminosity states are the quiescent state and the low / hard state .",
    "no clear indications exist that there are fundamental differences in the accretion mode between these two states , and it has been suggested that the quiescent state may be merely the lowest luminosity low / hard state .",
    "the x - ray spectra of low / hard states are typically well fit by thermal comptonization models with photon indices , @xmath97 ( defined such that the number of photons per unit energy , @xmath98 of 1.52.0 and roughly exponential cutoffs at about 200 kev .",
    "the quiescent state objects are typically so faint that their spectral states can not be well constrained but they seem to have power law slopes consistent with those of the low / hard state objects ( kong et al .",
    "additionally , since their spectra have been measured only with soft x - ray imaging telescopes , no spectral cutoffs have been seen from the quiescent black holes .",
    "taking typical black hole low / hard state spectral parameters ( e.g. nowak et al .",
    "2002 ; mcclintock et al .",
    "2001 ) the bolometric corrections from the _ chandra _ band are factors of @xmath43 515 . if a x - ray source is in the low / hard state an observed luminosity of @xmath99ergs@xmath100 in the _ chandra _ bandpass indicates that the total luminosity should exceed @xmath101ergs@xmath100 ; the black hole then should exceed about 2000 in order for this luminosity to be less than 2% of the eddington luminosity .",
    "another key issue for converting mass accretion rate into observed luminosity for the low luminosity states is the radiative efficiency correction .",
    "geometrically thin accretion disks are generally believed to be radiatively efficient . defining the radiative efficiency @xmath102 , it is generally found that @xmath103 for non - rotating black holes accretion disks , and a factor of @xmath104 higher for disks around maximally rotating kerr black holes . on the other hand , thick accretion disks , such as those thought to be responsible for low / hard states ,",
    "may be quite radiatively inefficient . in the context of advection",
    "dominated accretion disks , it is found that @xmath105 ( esin , mcclintock & narayan 1997 ) , where @xmath106 is the mass accretion rate at the luminosity of the state transition between the low / hard and high / soft states .",
    "the correlation between radio and x - ray luminosity in low / hard state black hole binaries ( gallo , fender & pooley 2003 ) has been interpreted that the radio jet takes kinetic power from the accretion flow in such a manner as to also produce a @xmath107@xmath108 ( fender , gallo & jonker 2003 ) , although the coefficient of proportionality was not well constrained by the data .",
    "the other two ( or three ) states all have similar spectral properties .",
    "they show dominant strong thermal emission at low energies , consistent with a standard thermal accretion disk spectrum with a temperature of @xmath109 kev at the inner edge , and a weaker power law component with a spectral index of @xmath110 and typically no observable cutoff .",
    "the very high state and the intermediate state typically show a slightly higher fraction of their luminosity coming out in the power law component , but in reality the difference between the two states is best seen from the variability properties , as a strong @xmath111 hz qpo is seen in the very high state , while the high / soft state typically shows root - mean square fractional variability less than 5% .",
    "we take typical source parameters from miller et al .",
    "( 2001 ) who presented tabulated fits to the rxte spectra for an entire outburst of the x - ray binary xte j1748 - 288 .",
    "we then impose a low energy cutoff to the power law at 2 kev , where the flux is dominated by the thermal component , in order to keep the spectral model from diverging at low energies ( the exact location of this cutoff is unimportant so long as it is in the photon energy range where the luminosity is dominated by the thermal component ) .",
    "we then compare the bolometric luminosity from the spectral model to the bolometric luminosity in the _ chandra _ bandpass and find that about 75% of the luminosity is within the _ chandra _ bandpass for the very high state and about 90% for the high / soft state .",
    "bolometric corrections are therefore not a major source of uncertainty in converting between accretion rates and luminosity for the high luminosity sources .",
    "additionally , we wish to take the opportunity to make a few points about the spectral states of x - ray binaries that may help explain certain phenomenology of ulxs , and especially some points which seem to contradict this picture , but in fact do not .",
    "in particular , there has been discussion of low / soft and high / hard spectral state phenomenology .",
    "we note first that with the _ chandra _ bandpass , a low / hard state will usually fit to a steeper power law spectral index than will a high / soft state ( e.g. liu et al .",
    "this is because the peak of a 1 - 2 kev disk blackbody spectrum in power per decade will be at about 3 - 6 kev .",
    "the exponential cutoff of the spectrum will be in the part of the _ chandra _ bandpass where the effective area is relatively low ; with a few hundred total photons , as is typical for ulx studies , the statistical weight of the spectral fit will be dominated by the softer x - rays , where the spectrum is quite flat . with very high signal - to - noise spectra , where one can actually rule out a power law model for the high / soft states or a disk blackbody model for the low / hard states",
    "; only then is the spectral state identification useful for comparison with the black hole binaries .",
    "we note that kubota , done & makishima ( 2002 ) have also pointed out that ulx spectra should not be compared with the low / hard states of accreting black holes , but rather with the more high luminosity states .",
    "a second key related point is that in the high / soft state , the accretion disk seems to extend in to a constant inner radius ( see e.g. sobczak et al .",
    "2000 ) , which is consistent with being the marginally stable orbit around the black hole .",
    "the luminosity variations are then determined almost entirely by changes in the disk temperature . in the very high state ,",
    "the disk may change size a bit more , but still the luminosity rises are correlated primarily with increases in the temperature of the disk and increases in the ratio of the power law component to the blackbody component .",
    "that is to say , even in normal x - ray binaries , at high x - ray luminosities , the spectra frequently harden as the luminosity rises , but without the qualitative change in behavior associated with state transitions .",
    "some recent work on bright well - studied ulxs show slight deviations from the simplistic picture presented for ulxs .",
    "in particular , the hardness ratios of a bright source in the antennae galaxies are sometimes positively correlated with flux and sometimes inversely correlated with flux , with some indications that loops are traced out in a hardness versus intensity diagram ( zezas et al .",
    "this is consistent with behavior seen in the galactic microquasar grs 1915 + 105 ( fender & belloni 2004 ) , where within the very high state , such loops are quite often seen .",
    "this may be revealing some quite interesting physics , as discussed in the reference above , but is unlikely to have a major affect on the bolometric corrections we have described here .",
    "we note further that in the outbursts of bright x - ray transients , the bulk of the mass accretion will occur during the high luminosity phases of the outburst .",
    "computations of the outburst duty cycle , then can assume radiatively efficient accretion , and can assume the exponential decay continues down to arbitrarily small luminosity ( in reality , soft x - ray transients seem not to drop below about @xmath112 of the eddington limit ",
    "garcia et al .",
    "2001 ) without seriously affecting the parameter values .",
    "angelini , loewenstein & mushotzky , 2001 , apjl , 557 , l35    , s. , livio , m. , piran , t. 2000 , , 545 , 772    baumgardt , h. , portegies zwart , s.f . , mcmillan , s.l.w . ,",
    "makino , j. , ebisuzaki , t. , 2004 , to appear in the proceedings of the `` formation and evolution of masive young clusters '' conference , cancun , mexico , 17 - 21 november 2003 ( astro - ph/0403140 ) .",
    "begelman , m.c .",
    ", 2002 , apjl , 568 , 97    brocksopp , c. , bandyopadhyay , r. m. , fender , r. p. , 2004 ,",
    "newa , 9 , 249    chen , w. , shrader , c.r . ,",
    "livio , m. , 1997 , apj , 491 , 312    coppi , p.s .",
    ", 1999 , asp conf .",
    "161 , p. 375",
    "( poutanen & svenson editors )    , c. , nieuwenhuijzen , h. , van der hucht , k.  a. 1988 , , 72 , 259    dubus , g. , lasota , j - p . ,",
    "jameury , j - m . ,",
    "charles , p. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , 139    , t. , makino , j. , tsuru , t.  g. , funato , y. , portegies zwart , s. , hut , p. , mcmillan , s. , matsushita , s. , matsumoto , h. , kawabe , r. 2001 , , 562 , l19    esin , a.a . ,",
    "mcclintock , j. e. , narayan , r , 1997 , apj 489 , 865    , g. , baldi , a. , king , a.  r. , ponman , t.  j. , raymond , j. , read , a. , rots , a. , schweizer , f. , zezas , a. 2004 , , 605 , l21    fabbiano , g. , 1998 , apj , 325 , 544    fender , r.p .",
    ", gallo , e. jonker , p.g . , 2003 , mnras , 343 , l99    fender , r.p . ,",
    "belloni , t. , 2004 , araa in press ( astro - ph/0406483 )    fillipenko & ho 2003 , apjl , 588 , 13 foschini , l. et al . ,",
    "2002,a&a , 392 , 817    gallo , e. , fender , r.p . , pooley , g.g .",
    ", 2003 , mnras , 344 , 60    garcia , m. r. , mcclintock , j. e. , narayan , r. , callanan , p. , barret , d. , murray , s. s. 2001 , apj , 553 , l47    garcia , m. r. , miller , j. m. , mcclintock , j. e. , king , a. r. , orosz , j. , 2003 , apj , 591 , 388    gierlinski , m. , zdziarski , a.a . ,",
    "poutanen , j. , coppi , p.s . ,",
    "ebisawa , k. & johnson , w.n . , 1999 ,",
    "mnras , 309 , 496 green , j. , ho , l , 2004 , submitted to apj ( astro - ph/0404110 )    , m.  a. , freitag , m. , rasio , f.  a. 2003 , arxiv astrophysics e - prints    harlaftis , e.t . & greiner , j. , 2004 , a&a let . , 414 , 13    hjellming , r. m. , rupen , m. p. , mioduszewski , a. j , et al . , 1999 , apj , 514 , 383    liu , j - f , bregman , j.n . , seitzer , p. , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 602 , l249    , c. , portegies zwart , s.  f. , alexander , t. 2004 , , 604 , l101    irwin , j.a . , bregman , j.n . &",
    "athey , a. , 2004 , apjl , 601 , 143 jeltema , t.e .",
    ", canizares , c.r . , buote , d.a . & garmire , g.p . , 2003 , apj , 585 , 756    , v. , henninger , m. , ivanova , n. , king , a.  r. , 2004 , apj l41    , a.  r. 2000 , , 312 , l39 king , a.r . , 2003 , in _ compact stellar x - ray sources _    king , a.r.,davies , m. b. , ward , m. j. , fabbiano , g. , elvis , m. , 2001 , apj , 552 , l109    krding , e. , falcke , h. , markoff , s. , 2002 , a&a , 382 , l13    kormendy , j. & richstone , d. 1995 , araa 33 , 581    , l.  d. , lifshitz , m. 1958 , , pergamon press , oxford , london , new york , paris    , p. , rees , m.  j. 2001 , , 551 , l27    maccarone , t.j .",
    ", gallo , e. , fender , r.p . , 2003 , mnras , 345 , l19 maccarone , t.j . ,",
    "coppi , p.s . & taam , r. , 2000 , head , 32.2507 maccarone , t.j . , 2001 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , yale university masetti , n. , foschini , l. , ho , l.c . ,",
    "dadina , m. , di cocco , g. , malaguti , g. & palazzi , e. , 2003 , a&a let . , 406 , 27 mcclintock , j.  e. and remillard , r.  a. , 2003 astro - ph/0306213    meyer - hofmeister , e. , meyer , f. , 2000 , a&a 355 , 1073 meyer - hofmeister , e. , 2004 , submitted to a&a .",
    "mcconnell , m. et al .",
    ", 2000,apj , 543 , 928 miller , j.m . , fabbiano , g. , miller , m.c . &",
    "fabian , a.c .",
    ", 2003a , apjl , miller , j.m . , fabian , a.c . & miller , m.c . , 2003b , apj , submitted ( astro - ph/03 ... ) , m.  c. , hamilton , d.  p. 2002",
    ", , 330 , 232 mitsuda , et al . , 1984 , pasj , 36 , 741 muno , m.p . , morgan , e.h .",
    "& remillard , r.a . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 527 , 321    nowak , m.a . , 1995 , pasp , 107 , 1207 nowak , m.a . , wilms , j , 1999 , apj , 522 , 476 nowak , m.a . , wilms , j , dove , j.b . , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 856 nowak , m.a . , heinz , s. , begelman , m. , 2002 , apj , 573 , 778    miyamoto , s. , kitamoto , s. , 1999 , an , 320 , 355    orosz , j. , kuulkers , e. , van der klis , m. , mcclintock , j.e . , garcia , m.r . , callanan , p.j . , bailyn , c.d . , jain , r.k . ,",
    "remillard , r.a .",
    ", 2001 , apj , 555 , 489    pakull , m. , 2003 , iauc 194    peters , p.  c. 1964 , phys .",
    ", 136 , 1224    podsiadlowsky , ph . , rappaport , s. , han , z. , 2003 mnras 341 , 385    podsiadlowsky , ph . , rappaport , s. , pfahl , e. , 2002 , apj 565 , 1107    , o.  r. , schroder , k. , hurley , j.  r. , tout , c.  a. , eggleton , p.  p. 1998",
    ", , 298 , 525 , o.  r. , tout , c.  a. , eggleton , p.  p. , han , z. 1995 , , 274 ,    , s.  f. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s.  l.  w. , hut , p. 1999 , , 348 , 117 , s.  f. , mcmillan , s.  l.  w. 2002 , , 576 , 899 , s.  f. , baumgardt , h. , hut , p. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s.  l.  w. 2004 , nature , 428 , 724    , g.  d. , shapiro , s.  l. 1987 , , 321 , 199    , m.  j. 1988 , , 333 , 523    shakura , n.i . & sunyaev , r.a . , 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 shapiro , s.l . , lightman a.b . & eardley , d.p . , 1976 , apj , 204 , 187    shih , d.c . , iwasawa , k. , fabian a.c , 2003 , mnras , 341 , 973    smith , d.m . , heindl , w.a . , swank j.h . , 579 , 2002 , apj , l129 smith , d.m . ,",
    "wilson , 2003 , apj , 591,138    , g.  e. , phinney , e.  s. , van den heuvel , e.  p.  j. 1997 , , 327 , 620    spergel , d. et al .",
    ", 2003 , apjs , 148 , 175    strohmayer , t.e .",
    "mushotzky , r.f . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 586 , l61    sunyaev , r.a . & trmper , j. 1979 , nature , 279 , 506    thorne , k.s .",
    "& price , r.h .",
    "1975 , apjl , 195 , 101    , a. 1999 , , 514 , 180    van der klis , m. , 1995 , proceedings of the iau colloquium no .",
    "151 ; held in sonneberg ; germany ; 5 - 9 december 1994 ; xxii ; 477 pp 321    , m.  g. , stanger , v. , griffiths , r.  e. 1984 , , 286 , 144    white , n.e .",
    "& angelini , l. , 2001 , apjl , 561 , 101 , m.  g. , stanger , v. , griffiths , r.  e. 1984 , , 286 , 144    zdziarski , a.a . , grove , j.e . , poutanen , j. , rao , a.r . & vadawale , s.v . , 2001 ,",
    "apjl , 554 , 45 zdziarski , a.a . &",
    "gierlinski , m. , 2004 , astro - ph/0403683    zezas , a. , fabbiano , g. , 2002 , apj , 577 , 723    zezas , a. , fabbiano , g. , schweizer , f. , king , a. r. , baldi , a. , ponman , t. j. , raymond , j. c. , read , a. m. , rots , a. h , 2003 , baas 203 , 126.04",
    "in the paper `` intermediate mass black holes in accreting binaries : formation , evolution and observational appearance '' by simon f. portegies zwart , jasinta dewi and tom maccarone ( mnras october [ 2004 ] ) contains an error causing the frequency of the gravitational wave sources to be too large by a factor @xmath113 .",
    "this affects the discussion in  4.1 and the numbers in the right most column of tab .",
    "1 . if instead of a distance of 10kpc one assumes a distance of 1kpc the new numbers in the right most column of tab .",
    "1 become 1200myr , 0 , 10 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 2 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 0 , 1myr , from the top row to the bottom row ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the origin of the ultraluminous x - ray source m82-x1 in the nearby starburst galaxy m82 . </S>",
    "<S> this x - ray source is of particular interest as it is currently the best candidate intermediate mass black hole ; it is associated with a 54mhz quasi periodic oscillations with a relatively low ( @xmath0kev ) black - body temperature . </S>",
    "<S> we perform detailed binary evolution calculations of 215 stars which transfer mass to a 1002000 black hole and present an empirical model for the x - ray characteristics expected for such binaries . based on the binary evolution calculations and the assumption in our simulations </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the most likely candidate for the bright x - ray source m82-x1 is a 10 - 15 star near the end of its main - sequence or slightly evolved , which transfers mass to a @xmath1 black hole . </S>",
    "<S> we expect the system to be in the high / soft state . in that case </S>",
    "<S> the binary will not be visible as a source of gravitational wave radiation , but other transient x - ray binaries with lower mass donors way be rather bright sources of gravitational wave radiation .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    black hole physics  </S>",
    "<S> binaries : close  galaxies : individual : m82  x - ray : binaries  x - rays : individual m82-x1 </S>"
  ]
}