{
  "article_text": [
    "searches for co emission from cosmological objects have had some success .",
    "examples include the iras source f10214 + 4724 at @xmath4 ( solomon , downes and radford 1992 ) , the clover - leaf galaxy at @xmath5 ( barvainis et al .",
    "1994 ) , and a quasar at @xmath6 ( omont et al .",
    "these searches establish that large amounts of molecular gas are present at high redshifts .",
    "this is to be expected in the light of the recent detections of high redshift lyman break galaxies , e.g.  in the hubble deep field , which are actively forming stars at @xmath7 ( steidel et al .",
    "since star formation is ultimately driven by the collapse of cold molecular clouds , the occurrence of active star formation must be reflected by the physical structure of the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "the detection of molecular gas and dust at high redshift therefore provides an excellent probe of the stellar processes occurring in cosmological objects .",
    "in fact , the metallicity and physical state of the high redshift ism provides indirect constraints on the star formation rate and hence on models of galaxy formation .    in the next decade",
    ", instruments will come on line to explore the infrared and millimeter regions of the spectrum with the goal of detecting objects at very high redshift : ngst , first , and the mma .",
    "the latter will have the ability to detect emission lines fluxes at the millijansky level around wavelengths of a few millimeters , and will be ideal for a search for highly redshifted molecular lines , in particular for co lines . in this work",
    "the excitation of the co molecule will be investigated in the presence of a warm cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) and the subsequently altered thermal balance .",
    "the aim is to determine which molecular lines are best suited for the detection of star - forming primordial galaxies , and to assess up to which redshift such measurements are feasible with the planned next generation of observatories .",
    "cosmology does not provide robust predictions for the redshifts of the first galaxies to form .",
    "large - scale structure measurements directly constrain the power spectrum of primordial density fluctuations on scales of @xmath8 , or larger , and information on smaller scale power comes from relatively indirect constraints , such as the abundance at high redshift of damped lyman alpha absorption clouds .",
    "theory can provide sufficient power to form the first moderately massive galaxies at a redshift as high as 10 , and in rare instances at even higher redshift , although popular theories of the cold dark matter variety with nearly scale - invariant primordial power spectra would be hard - pressed to produce many massive galaxies at @xmath9 .",
    "however , observations are the ultimate arbiter of when galaxies form , and massive galaxies or protogalaxies certainly appear to be present at @xmath10",
    ".    moreover it is generally believed that spheroids are the oldest components of galaxies , and formed in an ultraluminous starburst .",
    "such single starburst models for spheroids are well established by late - time spectral modelling , and at early epochs the lack of success in optical searches for ultraluminous forming galaxies has motivated the inference that spheroids form in ultraluminous dust - shrouded starbursts at high redshift .",
    "observations of nearby ultraluminous infrared galaxies indeed reveal many features in common with the presumed properties of protospheroids .",
    "this includes the occurrence of a major merger , a de vaucouleurs profile in the near infrared light , a gas surface density and scale size that are comparable to the stellar characteristics of a spheroid , and a star formation rate of several hundreds of solar masses per year ( zepf and silk 1996 ; spaans & carollo 1997 ; and references therein ) .",
    "we note parenthetically that there is however a rival class of theories which maintains that most of the stars in spheroids formed in many smaller mergers ( kauffmann & charlot 1997 ) .",
    "our best prototype of such luminous starbursts comes from infrared observations , which demonstrate that most of the stellar luminosity is re - emitted by dust in the far infrared ( fir ) .",
    "however , forming spheroids will be extremely gas - rich , and one would expect much of the radiation to be emitted as molecular lines . the cosmic microwave background , we will now show , has a profound influence on the populations of the rotational levels responsible for the strongest lines , and leads to a signature that is potentially detectable out to very large redshift .",
    "a generic starburst galaxy will be asssumed to consist of @xmath11 orion regions with the model as described in hogerheijde et al .  ( 1995 ) and jansen et al .",
    "the strength of the illuminating ob association @xmath12 ori is @xmath13 in units of the average interstellar radiation field ( draine 1978 ) .",
    "the numerical code developed by spaans ( 1996 ) is used to solve the chemical and thermal balance equations including the effects of dust attenuation and radiative transfer in the cooling lines of o , c@xmath14 , c , si , si@xmath14 , fe , fe@xmath14 , and co. the main features of the code include 1 ) a three - dimensional inhomogeneous density distribution , 2 ) heating and cooling processes as described in tielens & hollenbach ( 1985a ) , 3 ) a chemical network consisting of 165 species and 648 reactions , and 4 ) a monte carlo treatment of the above radiative transfer effects which incorporates the self - shielding transitions of h@xmath15 and co.    the inhomogeneous density distribution includes a low density medium of @xmath16 @xmath17 with high density clumps of @xmath18 @xmath17 and is taken from the hogerheijde et al .  model .",
    "the clumps contain @xmath19% of the material , but fill only @xmath20% of the volume .",
    "this distribution provides a good fit to the extensive observations available for the orion bar region . for the co molecule ,",
    "the level populations are determined in statistical equilibrium with explicit inclusion of the redshift dependent cmb .",
    "all the features of the galactic orion region are retained , but various metallicities are considered because these strongly influence the thermal balance and chemical equilibrium .",
    "further details of cosmological applications of the code are provided in spaans & norman ( 1997 ) .",
    "the orion molecular cloud complex has about @xmath21 solar masses in orion a. only about ten percent of this mass is in the vicinity of the star - forming region , the orion nebula cluster , centered on the trapezium ( bally et al .",
    "the total fir ( 40 - 300 @xmath22 m ) luminosity of the orion star forming region is about @xmath23 solar luminosities .",
    "this results in a ratio of far - infrared luminosity to molecular gas mass of about @xmath24 .",
    "the integrated intensity of all the fir fine - structure lines is about @xmath25 at the trapezium .",
    "the integrated fir continuum intensity at this position is about @xmath26 .",
    "this yields a photo - electric heating efficiency of about @xmath27 ( tielens & hollenbach 1985b ) .",
    "the main contribution to the high - j co lines comes from the so - called orion bar region , rather than the molecular cloud , where densities reach @xmath28 @xmath17 , sufficient to excite the @xmath29 lines in terms of their critical density .",
    "this region is less than 1 pc in physical size and will remain beam diluted at any reasonable ( @xmath30 ) redshift for the mma with its beam size of 0.1@xmath31 . in estimating the observed flux , we have incorporated the well known redshift dependences of surface brightness and angular size diameter .",
    "the total molecular gas mass in orion is about @xmath32 .",
    "the star formation rate in orion is probably about @xmath33 , according to recent observations of the orion nebula cluster ( hillenbrand 1997 ) .",
    "hence our putative protogalaxy containing @xmath11 orions is forming stars at a rate of @xmath34 from a gas reservoir of about @xmath35 .",
    "these numbers are merely meant to be representative for a protospheroid of modest mass , amounting to only 10 percent or so of the characteristic stellar mass @xmath36 ( as defined by the galaxy luminosity function ) of an elliptical galaxy if the star formation efficiency of the gas is about 50 percent .",
    "our results can of course be trivially rescaled .",
    "the local ratio of fir luminosity to molecular gas mass of about @xmath24 is in the range associated with luminous starbursts ( sanders , scoville & soifer 1991 ) .",
    "this ratio will vary with location .",
    "a more typical value is about half of this , for then the fir luminosity is inferred to be about @xmath37 and scales appropriately with the global star formation rate for the milky way",
    ". hence our model of @xmath38 orions matches in luminosity , molecular mass , and star formation rate what would be expected from a luminous starburst .    the column - averaged population distribution of co is shown in figure 1a ( top panel ) as a function of redshift .",
    "line intensities averaged over the source are shown in figure 1b .",
    "the peak in the level population shifts with increasing redshift to j=5 - 6 , with critical densities @xmath39 @xmath17 and excitation energies of @xmath40 k for the corresponding transitions , at @xmath41 , before becoming thermalized by the cmb .",
    "note that the line luminosities increase as the cmb becomes hotter because the level excitation increases with increasing j until a cmb temperature @xmath42 is attained and higher j lines can not be pumped in an orion - like environment due to their high critical density .",
    "the predicted line fluxes are shown in figure 2 .",
    "because of the enhancement of line fluxes by the cmb , we find the remarkable result that beyond @xmath10 , the predicted line intensities are almost independent of redshift .",
    "solomon , radford and downes ( 1992 ) previously noted that the co(j=@xmath43 ) line is always comparable in strength to the co(j=@xmath44 ) line up to @xmath45 due to the warmer microwave background .",
    "we find that as higher rotational levels are populated at higher redshift , one can measure a starburst at @xmath41 as easily as at @xmath10 .",
    "in fact , the measurement may be even easier since the emission peaks at longer wavelengths .",
    "the upper and lower grey curves in figure 2 indicate the range in fluxes for orion - like regions with metallicities which are 4 times higher and 4 times lower than solar .",
    "the overall effect is a factor of a few , which indicates that the effect of the cmb on the co line intensities is robust .",
    "all lines of interest are in the millimeter range , and the millijansky fluxes predicted for our @xmath11 orion model are within the capability of the mma to eventually be measurable . of course",
    ", one would have to search a considerable amount of sky .",
    "if the duration of a starburst is @xmath46yr , and @xmath47 is the fraction of early - forming spheroids of mass above @xmath48 relative to present - day ellipticals , one would at most expect @xmath49 per sq .  deg .  at @xmath10 , and an order of magnitude fewer at @xmath41 .",
    "it is of interest finally to compare the fir emission with our predicted line fluxes . in figure 3 , we show the continuum fluxes estimated for the orion dust model .",
    "as one proceeds to redshifts above @xmath50 the dust emission becomes inreasingly harder to detect relative to the line emission . at 100 @xmath22 m ,",
    "the typical continuum flux is about 1 mjy for the @xmath0 model .",
    "it will be a challenge even for first to detect such a weak signal , requiring days of integration .",
    "conversely , the mma sensitivity limit for spectral lines is expected to be about 1mjy , as compared to our predicted fluxes of several mjy for our model of what is only in effect a modest starburst by ultraluminous infrared galaxy standards .",
    "we comment in closing that the main emphasis has been on the rotational lines of co because of the fortunate energy level spacing for increasing redshifts .",
    "other molecular species such as cs , hco@xmath14 and hcn will be bright emitters as well , but do not couple as favorably with the cmb .",
    "therefore , their fluxes will be strongly reduced by cosmological redshift effects and not easily detectable at high redshift .",
    "ms acknowledges with gratitude support of nasa grant nagw-3147 from the long term space astrophysics research program .",
    "the research of js has been supported in part by grants from nasa and nsf .",
    "js also acknowledges with gratitude the hospitality of the physics department at the johns hopkins university as a bearden visiting professor , and the institute of astronomy at cambridge as a sackler visiting astronomer .",
    "bally , j. , langer , w.d . , stark , a.a . and wilson , r.w .  1987 , apj , 312 , l45 barvainis , r. , tacconi , l. antonucci , r. , alloin , d. , & coleman , p.  1994 , nature , 371 , 586 draine , b.t .  1978 ,",
    "apjs , 36 , 595 hillenbrand , l.  1997 , apj , in press hogerheijde , m.r . , jansen , d.j .",
    ", & van dishoeck , e.f .",
    "1995 , a&a , 294 , 792 jansen , d.j . , spaans , m. , hogerheijde , m.r .",
    ", & van dishoeck , e.f .",
    "1995 , a&a , 303 , 541 kauffmann , g. and charlot , s.  1997 , astro - ph/9704148 , mnras , submitted omont , a. , petitjean , p. , guilloteau et al .",
    "1996 , nature , 382 , 428 sanders , d. , scoville , n. , & soifer , t.  1991 , apj , 370 , 158 solomon , p.m. , downes , d. and radford , s.j.e .",
    "1992 , apj , 398 , l29 spaans . m.  1996 , a&a , 307 , 271 spaans , m. , & carollo , c.m .  1997 ,",
    "apj , 482 , l1 spaans , m. , & norman , c.a .  1997 , apj , 483 , july 1 steidel , c.c . ,",
    "giavalisco , m. , petini , m. , dickinson , m.e . , & adelberger , k.  1996 , apj , 462 , l17 tielens , a.g.g.m .",
    ", & hollenbach , d.  1985a , apj , 291 , 722 tielens , a.g.g.m . , & hollenbach , d.  1985b , apj , 291 , 747 zepf , s.e . , & silk , j.  1996 , apj , 466 , 114"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> models are presented for co rotational line emission by high redshift starburst galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the influence of the cosmic microwave background on the thermal balance and the level populations of atomic and molecular species is explicitly included . </S>",
    "<S> predictions are made for the observability of starburst galaxies through line and continuum emission between @xmath0 and @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that the millimeter array could detect a starburst galaxy with @xmath2 orion regions , corresponding to a star formation rate of about @xmath3 , equally well at @xmath0 or @xmath1 due to the increasing cosmic microwave background temperature with redshift . </S>",
    "<S> line emission is a potentially more powerful probe than dust continuum emission of very high redshift objects .    </S>",
    "<S> psfig.tex    _ subject headings _ : cosmology : theory - galaxies : starburst - galaxies : evolution - ism : molecules </S>"
  ]
}