{
  "article_text": [
    "rapid variability is a tell - tale sign of accretion .",
    "the first coherent oscillation in a cataclysmic variable binary was reported by walker as far back as 1956 ( walker 1956 ) .",
    "the strictly periodic 71s brightness oscillations he found in dq her are now understood as being produced by a spinning magnetic white dwarf that is being fed by an accretion disc , and accretes the material along its magnetic field lines . since the dynamical time scales of matter close to the white dwarf are of the order of tens of seconds , it was not until the development of high speed photon - counting photometers in the 70s that periodic signals were discovered in other systems .",
    "the dwarf nova oscillations ( dnos ) are periodic brightness modulations discovered in dwarf nova systems during outburst ( warner & robinson 1972 ) .",
    "the short time scales ( 2 - 40s ) indicate an origin close to the white dwarf . in some systems ,",
    "different periods were found at different times , and the period stability is considerably lower than the coherent oscillations in dq her .",
    "see warner ( 1995 ) for review .",
    "whereas the amplitudes in the optical are usually so low ( @xmath2 ) that the oscillations are only revealed after period analysis , marsh & horne ( 1998 ) detected coherent oscillations at two periods in the hst light curves of oy car with an amplitude of up to 20% towards the end of a super - outburst .",
    "reminiscent of the dnos are the flood of qpos reported in x - ray observations of accreting neutron star binaries ( see van der klis 2000 for review ) .",
    "the properties of these oscillations are in many ways very similar to those of dnos , albeit on shorter time scales since these systems contain a much smaller compact object .",
    "it shows that moderately coherent oscillations appear to be a generic feature of accretion onto compact objects .",
    "v2051 ophiuchi is a short period eclipsing dwarf nova system belonging to the su uma sub - class .",
    "its status as a dwarf nova was contested ( e.g. warner & odonoghue 1987 ) until two super - outbursts were observed in 1998 and 1999 by amateur variable star networks .",
    "spectroscopy reveals double - peaked emission lines that exhibit a rotational disturbance effect during eclipse , corresponding to a pro - grade rotating accretion disc ( cook & brunt 1983 , watts et al .",
    "baptista et al . ( 1998 ) present a photometric model for the binary based on hst and ground based observations . due to the unusual low - state the system was in during their observations ,",
    "the orbital phases when bright spot and white dwarf are eclipsed by the mass donor star could be directly measured .",
    "warner & cropper ( 1983 ) concluded that most of the rapid variability ( flickering ) was produced in the inner disc regions rather than the bright spot or white dwarf .",
    "the only quasi periodic oscillation in this system was reported by warner & odonoghue ( 1987 ) , who detected a very short lived 42s oscillation during outburst .",
    "it was not classified as a dno because of its low coherence , and the absence of a corresponding spike in the power spectrum at that period .",
    "we present high time resolution spectroscopy of the dwarf nova v2051 oph shortly after a normal outburst , obtained using our own data collection hardware equipped on keck ii , and report on the discovery of emission line oscillations at the level of several percent .    in the next section we will describe the data acquisition system and novel reduction steps that were used .",
    "section 3 covers the analysis of the data and discusses the properties of the oscillations .",
    "we discuss likely models in section 4 and summarise our conclusions in section 5 .",
    "the observations were obtained as part of a 5 night campaign to study rapid variability of cataclysmic variables and x - ray binaries ( obrien 2000 ) .",
    "the optical data were taken using the low resolution imaging spectrograph ( lris ; oke et al .",
    "1995 ) on the 10-m keck ii telescope on mauna kea , hawaii between ut 7:22  and 7:57  on july 4th 1998 .",
    "the lris was used with a 5.2 arc - second slit masked with aluminized mylar tape to form a square aperture .",
    "the 300/5000 grating used has a mean dispersion of 2.55  / pixel in the range 3600- 9200 .",
    "we used a novel data acquisition system to obtain almost 28,000  2048 pixel spectra of v2051 oph , in the form of a continuous data stream .",
    "each spectrum has a mean integration time of 72.075   msecs and there was no dead - time between individual spectra .",
    "each 2048 pixel spectrum also contains a 25 pixel underscan region and a 75 pixel overscan region .",
    "the noise for a given pixel was calculated using a readout noise of 6.3 e@xmath3 and a gain of 4.7 e@xmath3/adu .",
    "cosmic rays were rejected with a threshold of 7-sigma from the de - biased frames .",
    "a master flat - field image was created by finding the median of 700 individual flat - field frames .",
    "this image showed no deviations above 0.3 % in all but 3 pixels .",
    "we decided that it was therefore not necessary to flat - field individual spectra .",
    "calibration arc spectra were taken through the same slit aperture .",
    "bacground spectra , including light from the sky but dominated by a constant electronic background , were taken at the beginning and end of target observing , so that long time scale variations could be detected .",
    "the mean and variable components of the background spectrum were found by creating a light curve for each pixel and extracting the mean and gradient of this light curve .",
    "these coefficients were then filtered in wavelength , with a running median filter of width 101 pixels .",
    "the gradient of the data was found to be almost zero .",
    "the thus derived background spectrum , which accounts for @xmath4 0.9% of the total flux , was subtracted from each target spectrum .",
    "the arc calibration was done by fitting a second order polynomial to 7 lines in a median spectra of exposures of hg and ar lamps .",
    "arc spectra from the beginning and end of the exposures were used to take into account any drifts in the wavelength scale .",
    "the interpolated wavelength calibration was applied to each target spectrum using the molly spectral analysis package .",
    "the spectrophotometric standard star , feige 67 ( oke 1990 ) was observed using the identical setup .",
    "a low order polynomial fit was found to the median of all the individual flux star spectra and the individual target spectra were flux calibrated using molly .",
    "individual time marks , accurate to 200ms , were placed after every other spectrum using the computer clock . in order to find the absolute times , secondary timestamps at known ut",
    "were placed at regular intervals throughout the observations .",
    "a calibrated ut radio clock was used for this purpose . with the help of these secondary timestamps , the times of each individual spectrum were calibrated , and we were thus able to achieve an absolute timing accuracy of close to 200ms .    to monitor seeing conditions and telescope tracking , the auto - guider ccd output was stored .",
    "we used this output to measure the position and fwhm of the guide star image every @xmath42s during our observations .",
    "gaussian fits to the stellar images reveal very stable tracking and seeing conditions throughout our observations .",
    "a conservative estimate of the seeing was derived from the mean fwhm of the guide star images .",
    "this suggests that seeing was better than 0.8 arcseconds , equivalent to a seeing limited fwhm resolution of our spectra of 3.7 ccd pixels .",
    "occasionally , not all pixels of a spectrum were successfully transferred to the acquisition pc .",
    "these incomplete spectra were rejected from the data stream . in order to increase the signal to noise of the remaining spectra and make the data - set more manageable",
    ", individual spectra were binned together in groups of 7 to give a final 3968  spectra with a time resolution of 0.5045  seconds .",
    "since the dynamical timescale close to the white dwarf is of the order of a few seconds , this time resolution is still ample for our purposes .",
    "these spectra cover 40% of the binary orbit including an eclipse .",
    "the linear ephemeris of baptista et al .",
    "( 1998 ) was used to calculate orbital phases throughout this paper .",
    "phase 0.0 corresponds to inferior conjunction of the companion star i.e. mid - eclipse .",
    "figure [ trail ] shows a trailed spectrogram plot of the extracted spectra obtained covering the orbital phases between 0.69 and 1.08 .",
    "the two gaps near phase 0.720 and 0.945 were introduced as the telescope was slewed to sky to allow robust sky subtraction as discussed above .",
    "double - peaked emission lines are clearly visible , with the blue - shifted side of the lines eclipsing first , followed by the red - shifted peak , indicating the presence of a pro - grade rotating accretion disc .    a brightening of the object to v=13.2 was reported by the vsnet network on july the 2nd ( vsnet alert # 1934 ) .",
    "the usual quiescent brightness level of this dwarf nova is around v=15.7 .",
    "this suggests a normal outburst was in progress in early july .",
    "unfortunately , no measurements were available for the preceding week that could confirm the exact start of the outburst . at the time of our observations , a v magnitude of 14.8 was reported , and 10 days after the observations the object was back to a quiescent level at v=15.7 .",
    "it appears , therefore , we were observing v2051 oph towards the later phase of decline from normal outburst .",
    "figure [ specs ] ( top ) illustrates the average out of eclipse spectrum obtained by averaging all spectra between orbital phases 0.69 and 0.92 .",
    "strong broad disc emission lines are superposed on the flat continuum .",
    "the rapid drop in the spectral efficiency of the lris setup below 4000   made it difficult to achieve robust flux calibration for bluer wavelengths .",
    "the balmer jump appears to be in emission , however care must be taken with the flux scale in this region .",
    "the balmer lines have a full width half maximum of 2145 @xmath5 20 km  s@xmath6 , and the balmer decrement from h@xmath7 to @xmath8 is 1:0.65:0.50:0.41 , suggesting a mix of optically thick and thin emission .",
    "the helium i lines are clearly double peaked and feature a slightly higher fwhm of 2245 @xmath5 30 km  s@xmath6 .",
    "the blue peak is consistently stronger during this phase interval .",
    "curiously , only h@xmath7 exhibits a slightly stronger red peak .",
    "this blue asymmetry is also present in the average spectrum of watts et al .",
    "( 1986 ) that covers h@xmath9 and h@xmath10 , but not h@xmath7 .",
    "the h@xmath7 profile in warner & odonoghue ( 1987 ) again shows a stronger red peak .",
    "this curious reversal of the double peak asymmetry seems to be a persistent feature of v2051 oph .",
    "the line wings extend out to at least 3500 @xmath5 200 km  s@xmath6 for both the balmer and helium lines .",
    "double gaussians were fitted to the 6 strongest balmer lines simultaneously .",
    "the double - peak separation was measured to be @xmath11 km  s@xmath6 , reflecting the radial velocities ( @xmath12 km  s@xmath6 ) of the gas on the outer edge of the accretion disc . if the velocity field of the disc is keplerian and taking @xmath13 for the mass and radius of the white dwarf ( baptista et al .",
    "1998 ) , then the orbital radius @xmath14 corresponding to this velocity @xmath15 is given by : @xmath16 this gives an outer disc radius of @xmath17@xmath18 .",
    "although our estimated outer disc radius strictly exceeds the distance to l1 ( @xmath19 ) , tidal interactions will make the disc velocities sub - keplerian and keep the disc within the primary roche lobe .",
    "similarly , the emission line wings indicate that disc emission extends to @xmath4 3500 km  s@xmath6 corresponding to an inner disc radius of @xmath20@xmath21 . in order to confirm that the emission lines are indeed formed in the disc , we measured the eclipse behaviour of the emission lines as a function of velocity .",
    "we extracted light curves for each pixel between @xmath5 4250 km  s@xmath6 of h@xmath9 and measured the eclipse half depth at ingress and egress ( figure [ zwave ] ) .",
    "we see the blue - shifted side of the outer disc being eclipsed first followed by progressively smaller radii at larger velocities .",
    "the red - shifted disc emission is eclipsed later , with the outer edge disappearing just before mid - eclipse .",
    "the presence of a nearby hei line at + 3800 km  s@xmath6 distorts the measurements of the far red wing .",
    "some uneclipsed light is present at low velocities .",
    "it is symmetric around zero velocity and has a fwhm of 1000 km  s@xmath6 .",
    "also , the average time of mid - eclipse occurs significantly earlier than white dwarf conjunction .",
    "this has also been reported in ip pegasi during outburst ( steeghs 1999 , morales - rueda et al .",
    "analytical models for the velocity dependent eclipse phases of symmetric keplerian discs are centered around phase 0.0 ( e.g. young , schneider & shectman 1981 ) .",
    "these models are clearly not able to reproduce the observed eclipse behaviour of v2051 oph , which suggests a strong disc asymmetry is present .",
    "the analysis demonstrates that most of the line emission is indeed produced in a pro - gradely rotating disc that extends from close to the white dwarf to the outer regions of the primary roche lobe .",
    "we isolated the mid - eclipse spectrum ( figure [ specs ] , middle ) by averaging all spectra between orbital phases 0.995 and 1.005 .",
    "as the relatively blue continuum from the inner disc is eclipsed , the cool companion star makes a larger fractional contribution , resulting in a slightly reddened continuum slope .",
    "weak emission lines with a very strong blue shifted emission component are present , indicating that the eclipse is not total and some ( outer ) disc emission is still visible around these phases . the fact that the blue - shifted side is much stronger than the red - shifted peak , points to an asymmetry in the outer disc that was already visible as a persistent asymmetry in the out - of - eclipse line profiles .",
    "either there is excess line flux produced in the blue - shifted side of the disc , or part of the red - shifted side is absorbed by a geometrically ( and optically ) thick structure .      in order to isolate the contribution from the white dwarf we subtracted the spectra from either side of white dwarf ingress and egress ( figure [ specs ] , bottom ) . to correct , to first order , for the changing contribution from the disc , we performed a linear fit to each wavelength pixel on a short section just before and after ingress .",
    "this fit was used to extrapolate the spectrum just before and after white dwarf ingress , and the white dwarf spectrum was obtained by taking the difference .",
    "the same procedure was applied at white dwarf egress , and the two derived white dwarf spectra , identical within the error bars , were averaged to derive our final white dwarf spectrum as plotted in figure [ specs ] . some emission line contribution from the disc",
    "is still present , although strong absorption cores of the balmer lines are due to the white dwarf absorption line spectrum .",
    "the blue slope reflects the continuum contribution expected from a hot white dwarf .",
    "its relative contribution to the out - of - eclipse spectrum increases from @xmath4 15% at 8000   up to @xmath4 30% at 4000 .",
    "black - body fits to the continuum shape indicates a white dwarf temperature around 15000 @xmath5 2000 k. catalan et al . ( 1998 ) also derived a white dwarf temperature of 15000k from hst fos data .    in order to measure the contact phases of the white dwarf",
    "accurately , we applied the conventional method of using the derivative of the continuum light curve ( e.g. wood et al .",
    "the light curve was first filtered with a running mean filter using a width of one third of the expected duration of the ingress and egress features .",
    "the numerical derivative was then calculated , and the ingress ( @xmath22 ) and egress ( @xmath23 ) are defined as the orbital phases of minimum and maximum derivative ( figure [ wdphases ] ) . in order to determine these extrema , the derivative light curve was fitted with a gaussian near the white dwarf features .",
    "the fitted centroids of these gaussians are marked by vertical dashed lines .    to exploit the available spectral information",
    ", we also fitted the continuum slope of each spectrum with a first order polynomial .",
    "the ingress and egress features are expected to show up prominently on the continuum slope as the blue white dwarf spectrum is eclipsed / reappears .",
    "figure [ wdphases ] plots the derived continuum slope after filtering using the same filter that was used for the continuum light curve .",
    "the slope is a fit to all continuum sections between 4000 and 6800 , with all the emission line regions masked out .",
    "a positive slope corresponds to a spectrum that increases towards red wavelengths .",
    "indeed , white dwarf ingress and egress are easily identified as continuum slope changes .",
    "we performed a similar analysis to this light curve .",
    "the numerical derivative was calculated and the extrema were fitted with gaussians .    from the ingress and egress phase we derived the duration of the white dwarf eclipse ; @xmath24 and the time of mid - eclipse @xmath25 .",
    "our values ( with a precision of @xmath26 ) as well as the values determined by baptista et al .",
    "( 1998 ) are listed in table [ wdtable ] .",
    "the two methods give compatible results , although the white dwarf ingress derived from the continuum slope is slightly later compared to the conventionally derived phase .",
    "we therefore averaged the results of the two methods to derive our final measurements .",
    "our derived phases are systematically earlier compared to baptista et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , indicating that the orbital ephemeris used is off by @xmath412 seconds at the time of our observations .",
    "our expected absolute time accuracy is better than 200ms , and this is therefore a significant difference . we did not attempt to construct a new orbital ephemeris but instead use our own measured white dwarf contact phases whenever needed as an internal calibration of the phasing . we also derive a larger value for @xmath27 , compared to baptista et al .",
    "we remark that the system was observed just after outburst in our case , whereas baptista et al .",
    "( 1998 ) observed v2051 oph during a rare low state .",
    ".wd contact phases [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,>\",options=\"header \" , ]     table [ amplitudes ] lists the oscillation amplitude ranges obtained from these sine fits to the balmer lines and the continuum .",
    "although the continuum oscillation is much weaker compared to the lines , both reach maximum relative amplitudes of a few percent .",
    "we have obtained some strong constraints to the origin and location of the continuum and emission line oscillations . in the next section",
    "we review several possible models for the observed oscillations , and see if they are able to satisfy the above constraints .",
    "before reviewing possible explanations for the observed oscillations , let us quickly summarise the main features that a model must satisfy in order to explain the observations . in the continuum",
    "we observe oscillations at 56.12s and its harmonic at 28.06s , that must originate close to the white dwarf or on the compact object itself .",
    "the emission lines oscillate mostly at 29.77s , and require a source at a distance of @xmath412@xmath28 , corresponding to an orbital period of 488s , which is also the beat period between 29.77s and 28.06s .",
    "the emission line oscillation amplitudes modulates regularly on the beat period of 488s and emission is only visible going from maximum blue - shift to red - shift , but not vice - versa .      over the years various models",
    "have been proposed that attribute the dnos to oscillations or modes in the disc itself .",
    "possible mechanisms are non - radial pulsations ( e.g. van horn , wesemael & winget 1980 ) , axisymmetric radial pulsations ( kato 1978 ) , vertical oscillations or resonant oscillations due to shock waves ( molteni et al . 1996 ) . in most cases ,",
    "the oscillation period is to first order the local keplerian period .",
    "we can then obviously connect each observed frequency to a particular radius in the disc which gives orbits between 1 and 3 white dwarf radii out for the observed oscillations . for example , @xmath29 corresponds to a kepler orbit at @xmath30 , and its harmonic is at @xmath31 .",
    "however , there is no particular reason why the disc would oscillate at these distinct radii , and not at some other , and no explanation of how it manages to do so coherently . also , the presence of the harmonic of @xmath32 but not @xmath33 is not explained , nor is the connection between @xmath33 , @xmath32 and the observed beating behaviour with a period of 488s .",
    "more seriously , we showed in section 3 that the emission line oscillation originates at @xmath34 , but oscillates with a period of 29.77s , which is not the local kepler period .",
    "although we have established that the emission line oscillation requires an origin in the disc , which is an important result in itself , a model relying on disc modes only seems unsatisfactory .",
    "the emission line oscillation can not originate from the white dwarf itself , but the continuum oscillations at @xmath29 and @xmath35 are indeed expected to be related to the white dwarf .",
    "one possible mechanism that can produce periodicities apart from a fixed structure on a rotating white dwarf , is oscillations of the white dwarf .",
    "papaloizou & pringle ( 1977 ) discussed non - radial oscillations of rotating stars and concluded that oscillations in rotating white dwarfs can indeed produce the oscillations at periods corresponding to dnos .",
    "the periods of these modes with order @xmath36 is @xmath37 , with @xmath38 the spin period of the white dwarf , and in principle any number of orders can be superposed at any given time .",
    "it is thus not obvious how one mode will stand out compared to the others and produce a single , coherent spike in the power spectrum .",
    "the detected power at @xmath29 and @xmath35 could thus , in principle , be interpreted as the incarnation of two orders of a non - radial oscillation on the white dwarf .",
    "however , two equatorial spots on a rotating white dwarf with spin period @xmath29 could explain the observations just as well .",
    "the latter would also explain the observed beating behaviour between the spinning white dwarf and orbiting disc material more naturally .",
    "one way to distinguish between these two models would be the detection of other periods , but not @xmath29 , in this system . in the case of white dwarf oscillations",
    "it is easy to produce power at different orders and modes , however the white dwarf spin period can not be changed on short time scales and should leave a persistent signature .",
    "another class of models that relies on the origin of the dnos close to the white dwarf are differentially rotating surface layers above the white dwarf ( warner 1995 ) , or interaction between the disc and the boundary layer around the white dwarf ( e.g. popham 1999 ) .",
    "the main concern with these models , when trying to understand the behaviour of v2051 oph , is that they can in principle account for the oscillations that originate close to the white dwarf ( @xmath39 ) , but not the emission lines oscillation ( @xmath33 ) .",
    "emission line oscillations have been seen so far only in the cv sub - class of intermediate polars such as dq her ( martell et al .",
    "1995 ) and rxj0558 ( harlaftis et al .",
    "1999 ) . in these systems , the magnetic white dwarf accretes via two hot spots at its magnetic poles as it spins rapidly",
    ". the disc is truncated at the radius where magnetic pressure is comparable to the gas ram pressure , and the gas flow makes a transition from keplerian motion in the plane to a motion along field lines .",
    "the observed line oscillations are produced by disc material that is illuminated by the hot spots on the white dwarf as they sweep by .",
    "however , if we try to interpret the observed oscillations in v2051 oph in terms of this model , it fails for several reasons .",
    "we have established that the emission lines are formed in the disc which extends from very close to the white dwarf out to the outer edges of the primary roche lobe .",
    "the emission line oscillation is produced in the disc at @xmath40 , but the disc is clearly not truncated there . in this model , @xmath29 is the spin period of the white dwarf , which leads to a co - rotation radius of @xmath41 .",
    "apart from the fact that the disc apparently extends down to the white dwarf , the system would be a propeller and any material threading at @xmath42 would be propelled out .",
    "finally , in the intermediate polars we observe the emission lines as they move from red - shift to blue shift and not vice versa as in the case of v2051 oph . if we would interpret the observed line oscillation kinematics ( figures [ fold],[spot ] ) in terms of material moving along magnetic field lines rather than in the disc , we would nt see the blue wing oscillations being eclipsed first followed by the red wing at mid - eclipse ( figure [ balamp ] ) .",
    "the intermediate polar scenario therefore fails in the sense that the emission line oscillations can not originate from the edge of a a truncated disc as in dq her and rxj0558 or from a magnetic curtain .",
    "however , the system may well contain a weakly magnetised white dwarf with two active magnetic poles that is responsible for the oscillations at @xmath32 and @xmath43 .",
    "however , this can not account for the emission line oscillations at 29.77s .",
    "we have reviewed some possible models that could explain the observed set of oscillations in v2051 oph .",
    "the continuum oscillations at @xmath32 and @xmath43 are most naturally explained by a spinning white dwarf with @xmath44 containing two hot spots , that produce a modulation at the spin period and its harmonic .",
    "the origin of these hot - spots may be due to a weak magnetic feld of the primary , which is low enough such that the disc can still extend to close to the white dwarf .",
    "the radiation from these two spots illuminates the disc , and is reprocessed as continuum and line emission at a radius of @xmath45 .",
    "the corresponding emission oscillates at the beat frequency between the spin of the white dwarf and the local kepler period of 488s producing line oscillations at 29.8s . we noted before that we only see line emission going from blue shift to red shift and not vice - versa .",
    "this may be caused by the presence of material close to the white dwarf above the disc plane , that absorbs the line emission when it is on the far side of the disc from the point of view of the observer , but not when it is in front .",
    "one candidate for this is the uneclipsed light .",
    "alternatively , the emission of orbiting material could be beamed an - isotropically , only producing line emission away from the white dwarf .",
    "orbiting material would then only be visible going along the front side .",
    "perhaps the inner side is blasted by the white dwarf and is too hot to produce optical line emission , whereas the outer side is at low enough temperatures to emit balmer and helium emission .",
    "what remains to be explained is why does this processing occur at this specific radius , and why does it modulate its amplitude regularly ? since the orbiting disc material at this radius is beating with the white dwarf spin , it needs to be a localised region , both in terms of radius as well as azimuth , that is mostly responding for it to produce a coherent oscillation .",
    "a localised bulge in the disc at the required radius would orbit the disc every 488s and its oscillation amplitude would modulate because of the intervening gas that prevents us from viewing the bulge when its on the far side .",
    "this obscuring material that was required to explain the blue - to - red pattern in the emission lines , thus also explains the regular modulation of the amplitude every 488s .",
    "popham ( 1999 ) also invoked a non - axisymmetric bulge in the disc to produce dnos . in his model ,",
    "the bulge is formed at the transition radius between the disc and the boundary layer surrounding the white dwarf . in our case , the bulge is clearly too far from the white dwarf to be due to such a boundary layer - disc interaction .",
    "we are now in the familiar , and unfortunate , position again that one needs to invoke some unknown mechanism in order to produce a structure in the disc at this specific radius .",
    "figure [ cartoon ] plots a schematic top view of the binary , with the site of the line oscillation marked as a circle .",
    "we calculated a few characteristic radii for v2051 oph , using the binary parameters of baptista et al .",
    "for example , we could nt connect this radius with a tidal resonance .",
    "however , the circularisation radius for this system is ( warner 1995 ) ; @xmath46 this close correspondence between the emission line source and the circularisation radius suggests that gas stream effects may be of relevance .",
    "lubow ( 1989 ) explored the possibility of stream overflow , and in the case of no disc interaction streamlines typically re - impact in the orbital plane at the radius of closest approach ; @xmath47 the exact nature of the stream - disc interaction is not well understood , but we may expect some stream - disc effects between these two radii .",
    "the attractive feature of such a stream overflow would be the natural way in which a vertically extended structure would be present at roughly the right radius to produce the reprocessed emission .",
    "we also noted in section 3.1 that near mid - eclipse the blue shifted contribution from the disc is persistently stronger compared to the red - shifted emission .",
    "stream overflow would block part of the red - shifted disc emission from view , and this asymmetry could thus be easily accommodated .",
    "the reversal of this asymmetry in the h@xmath7 remains a puzzle , however .",
    "it is clearly not trivial to produce a localised bulge in the disc at this stream impact location , that is able to orbit coherently for quite some time while stream overflow is occuring .",
    "observations of this kind spanning longer intervals , could shed some light on the coherency of such structures .",
    "a more thorough simulation of such a scenario is also required in order to test if such a geometry is a viable way of producing the observed oscillations ( and perhaps other dnos ) .",
    "this is beyond the scope of this paper , but such a scenario does appear to be able to accommodate all the features of the observed oscillations . since we observe the system towards the end of an outburst , the radial density distribution is not expected to be that of a steady - state disc .",
    "disc instability calculations usually show a broad peak in the density at roughly the circularisation radius towards the end of the outburst .",
    "such an empty disc would be in particular susceptible to stream overflow , and again the obvious region for stream - disc interaction would be near the circularisation radius where the density peaks and the stream is flowing towards the orbital plane again .",
    "we detected coherent continuum and emission line oscillations in the dwarf nova v2051 oph on decline from a normal outburst .",
    "accretion disc emission extends from very close to the white dwarf out to the outer parts of the primary roche lobe .",
    "the disc emission lines display a persistent blue to red asymmetry , with the blue peak being stronger in all the helium lines as well as the balmer lines , except h@xmath7 which has a stronger red peak . the eclipse light curves are also highly asymmetric which suggests that the blue side of the disc makes a larger contribution to the emission compared to the red - shifted side .",
    "the continuum oscillations are most likely to originate on the surface of a spinning white dwarf with spin period 56.12s and temperature around 15000k .",
    "the amplitude of the oscillation in the continuum varies between 0 and 4% , and disappears during white dwarf eclipse .",
    "the balmer and helium i emission lines oscillate strongly at a period of 29.8s .",
    "the line kinematics as well as the eclipse constraints indicate these to come from a non - axisymmetric bulge in the disc at a radius of @xmath0 .",
    "the corresponding kepler orbit has a period of 488s , and corresponds well with the observed amplitude variations ( 0 - 4% ) on this period .",
    "the oscillating line emission is observed to go from maximum blue - shift to maximum red - shift every 29.8s , but not vice versa .",
    "this , together with the regular modulation of the oscillation amplitudes can be explained by intervening gas above the orbital plane , close to the white dwarf .",
    "this is supported by an uneclipsed component in both the continuum and lines . in the balmer lines",
    "this component is centered on zero velocity and has a fwhm of 1000 km  s@xmath6 .",
    "alternatively , the emission is beamed away from the white dwarf .    the close correspondence between the location of the oscillations and the circularisation radius of the system as well as the disc asymmetry may indicate the relevance of stream overflow to the presence of vertically extended bulges in the disc .",
    "more observations of this kind as well as more detailed simulations of such a scenario are required to confirm its feasibility in the light of producing dnos .",
    "predictions of our interpretation are the persistent presence of 56.12s/28.06s oscillations from the white dwarf .",
    "this period should be detected at other epochs , most likely in the uv .",
    "the uv also provides opportunities to measure the spin of the white dwarf directly using the rotational broadening of white dwarf absorption lines ( sion 1999 ) . with a spin period of 56.12s",
    ", the expected surface velocity of the spinning white dwarf works out to be : @xmath48 secondly , we expect the period of the emission line oscillations to change across the outburst cycle as the location and extent of stream overflow and re - impact will depend on the radial density distribution of the disc . for example , if we wish to interpret the reported 42.2s oscillation ( warner & odonoghue 1987 ) in this scenario , it can be identified as the beat between the white dwarf spin and a keplerian orbit at @xmath49 .",
    "the data presented here demonstrate the potential of high speed spectroscopy of cvs using large aperture telescopes .",
    "we detected emission line oscillations in a dwarf nova for the first time , and located their origin in the accretion disc .",
    "a better understanding of the elusive dnos would benefit from a high time resolution study of ( eclipsing ) dwarf novae across their outburst cycle .",
    "data presented herein were obtained at the w.m . keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w.m .",
    "keck foundation .",
    "we thank tom marsh for the use of his molly analysis software , and for many useful discussions .",
    "lars bildsten , graham wynn , phil charles , jeno sokolovski and rob hynes are thanked for their comments and suggestions .",
    "we thank the referee for his / her usefull comments and suggestions .",
    "ds was supported by a pparc fellowship during part of this research .",
    "baptista , r. , catalan , m. s. , horne , k. , zilli , d. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 233 bruch , a. , 1992 , a&a , 266 , 237 catalan , m.s . , horne , k. , cheng , f.h . , marsh , t.r .",
    ", hubeny , i. , 1998 , asp conf .",
    "series 137 , _ wild stars in the old west _",
    ", p426 cook , m.c . , brunt , c.c . , 1983 , mnras , 205 , 465 harlaftis , e.t . , horne , k. , 1999 , mnras , 305 , 437 kato , s. , 1978 , mnras , 185 , 629 lubow , s.h . , 1989 , ap.j , 340 , 1064 marsh , t.r . , horne , k. , 1998 , mnras , 299 , 921 martell , p.j . ,",
    "horne , k. , price , c.m . , gomer , r. , 1995 , apj , 448 , 380 molteni , d. , sponholz , h. , chakrabarti , s.k .",
    ", 1996 , apj , 457 , 805 morales - rueda , l. , marsh , t.r . ,",
    "billington , i. , 2000 , mnras , 313 , 454 obrien , k. , 2000 , ph.d thesis , university of st.andrews oke , b. , 1990 , aj , 99 , 162 oke , b. , oke , cohen , j. g. , carr , m. , cromer , j. , dingizian , a. , harris , f. h. , labrecque , s. , lucinio , r. , schaal , w. , epps , h. , miller , j. , 1995 , pasp , 107 , 375 popham , r. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 979 sion , e. , 1999 , pasp , 111 , 532 steeghs , d. , 1999 , ph.d thesis , university of st.andrews van der klis , m. , 2000 , araa , 38 van horn , h.m . , wesemael , f. , winget , d.e . , 1980 , ap.j , 235 , 143 young , p.j . ,",
    "schneider , d.p . ,",
    "shectman , s.a . , 1981 ,",
    "apj , 244 , 259 walker , 1956 , ap.j , 123 , 68 warner , b. , robinson , e. , 1972 , nat.phys.sci .",
    ", 239 , 2 warner , b. , cropper , m. , 1983 , mnras , 203 , 909 warner , b. , odonoghue , d. , 1987 , mnras , 224 , 733 warner , b. , 1995 , _ cataclysmic variable stars _ , cambridge astrophysics series 28 , cambridge university press watts , d.j . ,",
    "et al . , 1986 , a&a , 154 , 197 wood , j.h . ,",
    "horne , k. , berriman , g. , wade , r. , odonoghue , d. , warner , b. , 1986 , mnras , 219 , 629"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have detected coherent oscillations , at multiple frequencies , in the line and continuum emission of the eclipsing dwarf nova v2051 ophiuchi using the 10 m keck ii telescope . </S>",
    "<S> our own novel data acquisition system allowed us to obtain very fast spectroscopy using a continuous readout of the ccd on the lris spectrograph . </S>",
    "<S> this is the first time that dwarf nova oscillations are detected and resolved in the emission lines . </S>",
    "<S> the accretion disc is highly asymmetric with a stronger contribution from the blue - shifted side of the disc during our observations . </S>",
    "<S> the disc extends from close to the white dwarf out to the outer regions of the primary roche lobe .    </S>",
    "<S> continuum oscillations at 56.12s and its first harmonic at 28.06 s are most likely to originate on the surface of a spinning white dwarf with the fundamental period corresponding to the spin period . </S>",
    "<S> balmer and helium emission lines oscillate with a period of 29.77s at a mean amplitude of 1.9% . </S>",
    "<S> the line kinematics as well as the eclipse constraints indicate an origin in the accretion disc at a radius of @xmath0 . the amplitude of the emission line oscillation modulates ( 0 - 4% ) at a period of 488s , corresponding to the kepler period at r=@xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> this modulation is due to the beating between the white dwarf spin and the orbital motion in the disc .    </S>",
    "<S> the observed emission line oscillations can not be explained by a truncated disc as in the intermediate polars . </S>",
    "<S> the observations suggest a non - axisymmetric bulge in the disc , orbiting at @xmath1 , is required . </S>",
    "<S> the close correspondence between the location of the oscillations and the circularisation radius of the system suggests that stream overflow effects may be of relevance .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion , accretion discs  novae , cataclysmic variables  stars : individual : v2051 oph  stars : oscillations </S>"
  ]
}