{
  "article_text": [
    "piro et al . ( 1999 ) and yoshida et al . ( 1999 ) report the detection of an iron emission line feature in the x  ray afterglow spectra of grb  970508 and grb  970828 , respectively .",
    "both lines are characterized by a large flux and equivalent width ( ew ) compared with the theoretical previsions made in the framework of the hypernova and compact merger grb progenitor models ( ghisellini et al .",
    "1999 , bttcher et al .",
    "the line detected in grb  970508 is consistent with an iron @xmath0 line redshifted to the rest  frame of the candidate host galaxy ( @xmath1 , metzger et al .",
    "1997 ) , while grb  970828 has no measured redshift and the identification of the feature with the same line would imply a redshift @xmath2 . the line fluxes ( equivalent widths ) are @xmath3  erg  @xmath4  s@xmath5 ( @xmath6  kev ) and @xmath7  erg  @xmath4  s@xmath5 ( @xmath8  kev ) for grb  970508 and grb  970828 , respectively .",
    "as indicated by the flux uncertainties , these line features are revealed at a statistical level of @xmath9 . a strong iron emission line unambiguously points towards the presence , in the vicinity of the burster , of a few per cent of iron solar masses concentrated in a compact region .",
    "thus the presence of such a line in the x  ray afterglow spectrum would represent the `` rosetta stone '' for unveiling the burst progenitor .    to date",
    ", three main classes of models have been proposed for the origin of gamma  ray bursts ( grb ) : neutron star  neutron star ( ns  ns ) mergers ( paczyski 1986 ; eichler et al .",
    "1989 ) , hypernovae or failed type ib supernovae ( woosley 1993 ; paczyski 1998 ) and supranovae ( vietri & stella 1998 ) . in the ns ",
    "ns model the burst is produced during the collapse of a binary system composed of two neutron stars or of a neutron star and a black hole . interacting neutrinos or the spin  down of the remnant black hole should power a relativistic outflow and , eventually , the production of @xmath10ray photons .",
    "hypernovae are the final evolutionary stage of very massive stars ( @xmath11 ) , whose core implodes in a black hole without the explosion of a classical supernova .",
    "again , the rotational energy of the remnant black hole is tapped by a huge magnetic field , powering the burst explosion . while ns ",
    "ns mergers should take place outside the original star formation site , due to the large peculiar velocities and long lifetime of the coalescing binary systems , hypernovae take place in the dense and possibly iron rich molecular cloud where the massive star was born .",
    "the supranova scenario ( vietri & stella 1998 ) assumes that , following a supernova explosion , a fast spinning neutron star is formed , with a mass that would be supercritical in the absence of rotation . as radiative energy losses spin it down in a time  scale of months to years , it inevitably collapses to a kerr black hole , whose rotational energy can then power the grb . a supernova remnant ( snr )",
    "is naturally left over around the burst location .",
    "since the detected lines are both characterized by a flux of several @xmath12  erg  s@xmath5 , we adopt as reference a line with a flux as @xmath13 and adopt cgs units . ]",
    "@xmath14 erg @xmath4 s@xmath5 .",
    "this in itself constrains both the amount of line  emitting matter and the size of the emitting region .",
    "we assume that the emitting region is a homogeneous spherical shell centered in the grb progenitor , with radius @xmath15 and width @xmath16 .",
    "a limit to the size of the emitting region can be set , _",
    "independently from the flux variability _ , imposing the flux level times the minimum duration of the emission ( @xmath17 ) to be less than the total available energy supplied by the burst fluence . allowing for an efficiency @xmath18 of the burst photon reprocessing into the line ( @xmath19 , see ghisellini et al .",
    "1999 ) we have : @xmath20 where @xmath21 is the total grb fluence . note that this result , obtained with independent arguments , agrees with the @xmath22  day variability time",
    " scales of the detected features .    to obtain a lower limit to the total amount of mass ( see lazzati et al .",
    "1999 ) we consider a parameter @xmath23 given by the ratio between the total number of iron line photons divided by the number of iron nuclei : @xmath23 is the number of photons produced by a single iron atom .",
    "this number can be constrained to be less than the total number of ionizations an ion can undergo when illuminated by the burst or x  ray afterglow photons . for a grb located at @xmath24 , we obtain  km  s@xmath5  mpc@xmath5 , @xmath25 and @xmath26 . ] : @xmath27 where @xmath28 it the total energy of the burst photons , @xmath29 the energy of an ionizing photon and @xmath30 the ionization cross  section of the iron k shell .",
    "the total mass is given by the ratio of the total number of produced photons divided by @xmath23 times the mass of the iron atom .",
    "we have : @xmath31 where @xmath32 is the time during which the line is observed in units of @xmath33 seconds and @xmath34 is the iron abundance in solar units .",
    "if such a large amount of mass were uniformly spread around the burst location , it would completely stop the fireball .",
    "in fact ( see e.g. wijers , rees & mszros 1997 ) the fireball is slowed down to sub  relativistic speeds when the swept up mass equals its initial rest mass . with a typical baryon load of @xmath35 ,",
    "the mass predicted in eq .",
    "[ minmass ] would stop the fireball after an observer time @xmath36  s , i.e. almost one day .",
    "any surviving long wavelength emission should then decay exponentially in the absence of energy supply .",
    "the only way to reconcile a monthly lasting power ",
    "law optical afterglow with iron line emission is through a particular geometry , in which the line of sight is devoid of the remnant matter .",
    "this implies ( see also fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] ) that the burst emission is only moderately ( if at all ) beamed , since the burst photons must illuminate the surrounding matter and the line of sight simultaneously .",
    "the limits on the mass discussed in the above section are very general and independent of the mechanism producing the line photons .",
    "lazzati et al .",
    "1999 give a complete analysis of three mechanisms that are able to generate such an intense line feature .",
    "in this scenario , burst ( or x  ray afterglow ) photons keep all the iron in the vicinity of the burst fully ionized .",
    "if the density of iron and free electrons is large and the plasma is cool , recombination of free electrons with iron nuclei is efficient and iron line photons are produced .",
    "however , we require that both @xmath37  @xmath38 and that @xmath39  k. during the burst inverse compton interactions of free electrons with @xmath10ray photons heat the plasma to @xmath40  k , and recombination is inefficient .",
    "this scenario may , however , be marginally consistent with grb  970508 data if the ionization flux is provided by an afterglow with an high energy tail but with typical compton temperature of @xmath41  k.      a supernova remnant of several solar masses , some months after the explosion of the supernova , has an emission integral of the same order of magnitude of the intergalactic medium of a galaxy cluster .",
    "these systems emit @xmath42  kev iron lines due to collisional excitation of hydrogenoid iron ions .",
    "in addition , the iron richness of a supernova remnant can be up to ten times larger than in a cluster of galaxies , allowing for the emission of iron line with several kev equivalent widths .",
    "in addition to the line , the heated snr produces bremsstrahlung radiation at a level @xmath43  erg  @xmath4  s@xmath5 , compatible with a standard x  ray afterglow at @xmath44 .",
    "if some dense matter ( e.g. a snr with less than a month of life ) is present in close vicinity with the burster , part of the incident radiation is reflected toward the observer .",
    "this same physical process is efficient in the disc of seyfert galaxies , and a strong iron line is produced since the cross section of the iron atom is much larger than that of free electrons . for a @xmath44 burst",
    ", lines with up to @xmath45  erg  @xmath4  s@xmath5 can be produced . in steady state ,",
    "@xmath46  ev ew lines are produced ( if the material covers half of the sky ) , but in gamma ",
    "ray bursts the reflected component is seen when the burst emission has already faded and the ew can be much higher ( even a few kev ) . given the fast variability properties of the detected lines , this model is favored with respect to recombination and thermal emission .",
    "the presence of dense matter at rest in the reference frame of the burster ( and not of the fireball ) is a discriminating parameter for the main models of burst progenitor .",
    "here we analyze the two main models , binary neutron star mergers and hypernovae , and a particular model , the supranova , that naturally accounts for the surrounding iron rich matter .",
    "the production of lines in the fireball has been discussed in mszros & rees 1998a .",
    "they find that lines ( particularly iron lines ) can be produced inside the fireball , but we should observe them at a frequency @xmath47 , where @xmath48 is the frequency of the line in the laboratory . in the case of grb  970508",
    "the observed frequency of the line is consistent with an iron line at the same redshift of the burster .",
    "an incredible fine  tuning is necessary to explain the feature as an optical  uv line blueshifted in the x  ray band due to the fireball expansion .",
    "the line must hence be produced by the interaction of the burst photons with cold matter that surrounds the burster .",
    "the lifetime of a binary system composed of a couple of compact objects ( ns  ns or bh  ns ) ranges from 100 million to 10 billion years , mainly depending on the initial separation and on the mass of the binary system components ( see e.g. lipunov et al 1995 ) . due to the kick velocity that a compact object inherits from the supernova explosion that generated it , @xmath49  km  s@xmath5 on average ( kalogera et al .",
    "1998 ) , these binary systems merge well outside their formation site and , possibly , even outside the host galaxy . assuming an hydrogen density @xmath50  @xmath38 and a solar iron abundance , a sphere of radius : @xmath51 is necessary to meet the requirements of eq .",
    "[ minmass ] . however , the radius of the above equation is five orders of magnitude larger than the maximum allowed value ( cf .",
    "[ maxrad ] ) .",
    "if we insert in eq .",
    "[ radio ] the density appropriate for a molecular cloud , in which a very massive star is thought to be located , we obtain @xmath52  cm for @xmath53  @xmath38 that , for an iron rich cloud , is marginally consistent with the limit of eq .",
    "[ maxrad ] . to firmly rule out the possibility of an intense iron line produced in the hypernova scenario , we analyze each emission mechanism discussed in sect .",
    "reflection can be immediately excluded since a radius @xmath54  cm cloud is necessary to have a thomson thick mirror .",
    "the efficiency of thermal emission is proportional to the square of the density .",
    "lazzati et al .",
    "1999 estimate that both a density @xmath55  @xmath38 and a mass of several solar masses ( see also sect .  [ emec ] ) are necessary to produce such an intense iron line . in the hypernova scenario ,",
    "the density is 5 orders of magnitude smaller , giving a flux 10 orders of magnitude fainter .",
    "the recombination time in a medium with the considered density is too long ( see bttcher et al . 1999 ) , however a fluorescence line may be emitted due to ionization of the inner shell of almost neutral iron atoms .",
    "the more optimistic estimate of the line flux produced by fluorescence in a molecular cloud is given in ghisellini et al .",
    "1999 , with an upper limit @xmath56  erg  @xmath4  s@xmath5 .",
    "even if we consider the presence of a pre  hypernova wind with @xmath57/yr , the total mass contained in a radius of @xmath58  cm would be a few percent of a solar mass , leaving the above discussion unaffected .",
    "we hence conclude that in a standard hypernova scenario it is not possible to produce an intense iron line .",
    "mszros & rees 1998b discussed the possible production of an intense iron line",
    "if a compact companion of the hypernova has left a dense torus of material ( @xmath59 ; @xmath60  @xmath38 ) at a distance @xmath61 cm from the burster .",
    "another progenitor model can account for this matter in a more natural way .",
    "in the model presented by vietri & stella 1998 the burst explosion is preceded by a supernova . the neutron star left over by the supernova explosion is supermassive , i.e. its mass exceeds the limiting mass for a neutron star , but the implosion in a black hole is prevented by the fast rotation . as the system spins down , due to radiative losses , the neutron star shrinks until a limiting state is reached and the star collapses in a black hole .",
    "the duration of this transient phase depends from the strength of the magnetic field embedded in the star and from the initial spin velocity , but should typically last between several months and a dozen of years . if we consider a supernova exploded a year before the burst , the density of its shell remnant at the burst onset is : @xmath62 where @xmath63 is the mass of the ejecta in solar units , @xmath64 is their speed in units of @xmath65  cm  s@xmath5 and the width of the shell has been assumed @xmath66 .",
    "the shell radius is @xmath67  cm , in good agreement with the constraints derived above .",
    "if we consider that a snr can have an iron richness ten times the solar value ( woosley 1988 ) , this scenario is the most natural one to explain the intense iron line observed in the afterglow of grb  970508 and grb  970828 .",
    "the recent explosion of grb  990123 has gathered the attention of the gamma ",
    "ray astronomers due to the huge fluence and large distance of this burst .",
    "the early x  ray afterglow flux was measured by the _ beppo_-sax satellite at a level of @xmath68  erg  s@xmath5 ( heise et al .",
    "1999 ) about 6 hours after the burst trigger .",
    "the first results on the spectral analysis gives a `` featureless spectrum '' ( heise et al . 1999 ) . if an iron line feature with the same ew of those of grb  970508 and grb  970828 were present in the afterglow of grb  990123 , a firm detection would have been established : since the underlying continuum flux of the latter burst is @xmath69 times larger than in the other two cases , the signal to noise ratio of the line would have been 10 times larger . moreover , due to the larger redshift of grb  990123 ( z=1.6004 , kulkarni et al .",
    "1999 ) the redshifted line energy lies in a region where the detector efficiency is the largest .",
    "this could have led to a @xmath70 line feature .",
    "there are , however , two reasons why an iron line is not expected in the afterglow of grb  990123 .",
    "first , ( lazzati et al . 1999 ) the line intensity is limited by the recombination time and not by the ionization time .",
    "this means that , even in the case of grb  970508 - a weak burst - the ionizing flux was more than enough to fully exploit the matter surrounding the progenitor .",
    "if an iron line with flux @xmath71  erg  @xmath4  s@xmath5 was present in the x  ray afterglow of the 23 january burst , its ew would be decreased to the very low value of @xmath72  ev , hence well below the detection threshold of the _ beppo_-sax . finally , the break in the power  law decrease of the optical light curve of grb  990123 afterglow has been interpreted as a sign of beaming in the burst itself ( kulkarni et al . 1999 ; fruchter et al 1999 ) .",
    "if this interpretation is correct , even if a cloud were present in close vicinity with the burster , its illumination would have been minimal , preventing the formation of an intense line .",
    "we have analyzed how the detection of an iron line redshifted to the rest frame of the burster can be used to constrain the progenitor models .",
    "indeed , due to the relativistic outflows involved in the fireball model , very poor information of the progenitor is contained in the gamma  ray burst photons , and",
    "the only mean to investigate the progenitor nature is through the interaction of the photons with the ambient medium .",
    "in particular , we have analyzed three different models predicting very different conditions of the external medium : the merging of two compact objects in a binary system , the hypernova and the supranova .",
    "we derived a ( model  independent ) lower limit to the mass required to produce the line , ruling out the ns ",
    "ns merger model and , with a careful analysis , the hypernova .",
    "the supranova , which naturally accounts for a shell remnant of iron rich material surrounding the burster seems the most promising model capable to produce an intense iron line .    due to the paucity of the statistical significance of the line detections ,",
    "more observations are needed to draw firm conclusions .",
    "we show that , despite its luminosity , grb  990123 is not the ideal test for the line detection and more observations with more efficient satellites are needed .",
    "bttcher , m. , dermer , c. d. , crider , a. w. , & liang , e. p. 1999",
    ", , 343 , 111 eichler , d. , livio , m. , piran , t. , & shramm , d. n. 1989 , nature , 340 , 126 fruchter a. s. , et al . 1999 ,",
    "apj submitted ( astro - ph/9902236 ) heise , j. , et al .",
    "1999 , iauc n. 7099 kalogera , v. , kolb , u. , & king , a. r. 1998 , , 504 , 967 kulkarni , s. , et al .",
    "1999 , nature , 398 , 389 lazzati , d. , campana , s. , & ghisellini , g. 1999 , , 304 , l31 lipunov , v. m. , postnov , k. a. , prokhorov , m. e. , & panchenlo , i. e. 1995 , , 454 , 593 mszros , p. , & rees , m. j. 1998a , , 502 , l105 mszros , p. , & rees , m. j. 1998b , , 299 , l10 metzger , m. r. , et al .",
    "1997 , nature , 387 , 878 paczyski , b. 1986 , , 308 , l43 paczyski , b. 1998 , , 494 , l45 piro , l. , et al .",
    "1999 , , 514 , l73 vietri , m. , & stella .",
    "l. 1998 , , 507 , l45 wijers , r. a. m. j. , rees , m. j. , & mszros , p. 1997",
    ", , 288 , l51 woosley , s. e. 1988 , , 330 , 218 woosley , s. e. 1993 , , 405 , 273 yoshida , a. , et al . 1999 ,  in press"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the discovery of a powerful and transient iron line feature in the x  ray afterglow spectrum of grb  970508 and grb  970828 , if confirmed , would be a major breakthrough for understanding the nature the progenitor of gamma  </S>",
    "<S> ray bursts . </S>",
    "<S> we show that a large mass of iron very close to the burster is necessary to produce the emission line . </S>",
    "<S> this in itself strongly limits the possible progenitor of the gamma  ray event , suggesting the former explosion of a supernova , as predicted in the supranova model ( vietri & stella 1998 ) . the line emission process and the line intensity depend strongly on the age , density and temperature of the remnant . </S>",
    "<S> the simultaneous observation of the iron line and of a power  law optical afterglow lasted for one year strongly suggest that the burst emission is isotropic . </S>",
    "<S> recent observations of grb  990123 are also discussed . </S>"
  ]
}