{
  "article_text": [
    "in the last 10 years or so , bars have gradually become much more than just an intriguing dynamical curiosity ( as in the pioneering studies of , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) to reveal its major role in the formation and evolution of galaxies .",
    "contributions to this change of perspective came from various different kinds of analysis , and include the realization that bars may induce the formation of spiral arms and rings ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * see also @xcite ) , an angular momentum transfer to the outer parts of the galaxy , with consequences as an accumulation of gas in the central regions ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , sweeping large scale chemical abundance gradients @xcite , possibly building a reservoir of agn fuel @xcite , and provoking central bursts of star formation ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "moreover , a number of works came to develop a new bulge building scenario in which bars play a fundamental role ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* see also the recent review by @xcite ) .    in spite of the undisputed major relevance of bars in the evolution of galaxies , and even though one of the major and basic concerns of any physical science is to measure time scales for natural phenomena , we are not aware of any directed and systematic study on the ages of bars .",
    "relevant points in which such a work may have a substantial impact include the models of @xcite , in which bars may be destroyed and rebuilt a few times in a hubble period , the polemic and long sought correlation between the presence of bars and agn in galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the debated frequency of bars at higher redshifts ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ; see also @xcite ) and obviously the formation history of galactic bulges .    essentially , to estimate for how long a bar is evolving in a certain galaxy one has to measure its vertical extent .",
    "this follows from the fact that , as was first shown by @xcite , when bars form in disks they are vertically thin , but the onset of vertical resonances rapidly makes bars grow thicker in this direction .",
    "another possibility is that the hose instability @xcite , that occurs whenever the velocity dispersion in the vertical direction is 3 times smaller than in the plane of the disk , also plays its role in this context , by raising the vertical extent of the stellar orbits in the bar region .",
    "it is now generally agreed that these processes are likely responsible for the existence of the so called boxy / peanut bulges ( see * ? ? ?",
    "the signature of bars ages may thus be acquired from studying the kinematics along their vertical axis , since it is by elevating the velocity dispersion in this direction that bars evolve and grow away from the plane of the disk .",
    "another subject that belongs to this discussion regards the difficulties encountered , by what has been until recently the standard scenario for bar formation , in trying to explain the existence of bars in galaxies as early  type as lenticulars ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "as the velocity dispersion of the stars in the disk rises , it becomes more and more stable against bar formation through the disk instability .",
    "moreover , the presence of a conspicuous bulge also inhibits this instability @xcite .",
    "however , @xcite shows that the use of an unresponsive rigid halo in the older numerical experiments induced to a wrong conclusion , namely , that a dark matter halo prevents the onset of the bar instability in the disk within . in reality , the opposite is true : the exchange of angular momentum between disk and halo particles is able to produce in fact even _ stronger _ bars , and might be a necessary ingredient to account for the existence of barred lenticulars .",
    "a few other most important details that were not considered before have been introduced by some authors and will be briefly discussed further on .    in this paper , we obtain suitable stellar kinematical parameters to develop a diagnostic tool that enables us to estimate the ages of bars in a sample of 14 face  on galaxies . in  2 , we present the sample and the observations done , while in  3 we show how the kinematical parameters were determined , and introduce our method for bar age estimates .",
    "our results are presented in  4 . to numerically assess the time scales involved in the vertical growth of bars , and in this way get a deeper understanding on their evolution , several @xmath1body simulations were performed .",
    "these results are presented in  5 , along with a brief discussion concerning bar forming scenarios . in  6 , we present a discussion on our results , also considering some of the possible implications on our present knowledge about bar formation and evolution . finally , ",
    "7 summarizes this paper by presenting our main conclusions .",
    "we used a value for the hubble constant of h@xmath2 km s@xmath3 mpc@xmath3 .",
    "relevant properties of the galaxies in our sample are shown in table 1 . while all of them are bright face  on galaxies of the local universe , one can see that our sample spans a variety of galaxy morphologies . of the 14 objects there are 10 strongly barred galaxies and 4 weakly barred ones .",
    "moreover , 7 are of types s0 or s0/a , 3 are sa and there are also 4 sb galaxies . also , our sample contains 4 galaxies with an identified companion that may be gravitationally interacting and 5 with non  stellar nuclear activity .",
    "this variety is helpful in trying to evaluate clues related , for instance , to the proeminence of the bulge , the bar strength and the gravitational perturbation of a companion .",
    "the presence of galaxies with active nuclei might also be relevant to help in understanding the role played by bars in the fueling of this phenomenon .    in fig .",
    "1 we show images of all the galaxies in our sample .",
    "lines displayed horizontally help seeing to what extent our spectra were taken along the bars major and minor axes .",
    "for instance , one can see that in the case of the sb0 galaxy ngc 4608 the spectra along the bar minor axis are all within the bar , while those from the sbb galaxy ngc 5850 reach the region outside the bar , in the disk .",
    "our spectra were taken in two different sets of observing runs .",
    "one in the north , in the nights of 1999 may 7 , and 2000 april 9 to 11 , with the 2.3 m university of arizona steward observatory bok telescope , on kitt peak ; and the other in the south , in the nights of 2002 march 13 and december 1 to 5 , with the 1.5 m european southern observatory telescope at la silla .",
    "the instrumental set ",
    "ups are , however , similar . in all runs",
    "we have used a boller & chivens spectrograph , with a spatial resolution of 0.8  per pixel , a grating with a dispersion of 1  per pixel , and an instrumental spectral resolution of 1.1  , giving a velocity resolution of 65 km / s in the spectral region of the mg i feature at 5175  , that is approximately the center of all spectra taken .",
    "the differences between the north and south spectra are the slit width ( 2.5  in the north and 2  in the south ) , the average seeing ( 1.5  in the north and 1.8  in the south ) , and the spectral range ( typically 1000  in the north and 2000  in the south ) .",
    "the north spectra are composed from four 1800 s exposures with the slit oriented along the bar major axis and two 1800 s exposures with the slit positioned along the bar minor axis .",
    "whereas in the south we have taken , respectively , four 2700 s exposures and two 2700 s exposures .",
    "the slit was always centered in the galaxy nucleus .",
    "thus , the spectra along the bars minor axis have generally a lower signal  to  noise ratio ( s / n ) than those along the bars major axis .",
    "this is also due to the fact that the surface brightness decreases more quickly along bars minor axis . due to",
    "the difference in the telescope apertures the south spectra have also a lower s / n than the north spectra , in general , even considering the larger exposure times in the south runs .",
    "we have also obtained spectra for several standard stars in every run .",
    "these are standards for spectrophotometry , velocity measurements and to obtain lick indices , spanning spectral types from m to o. in the north we observed feije 34 ( spectral type o , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , hr 3951 ( g3v ) , 6458 ( g0v ) , 6685 ( f2i ) , 6770 ( g8iii ) , 6775 ( f7v ) , 6806 ( k2v ) , and hr 6868 ( m1iii ) , hd 89449 ( f6iv ) , 90861 ( k2iii ) , 92588 ( k1iv ) , 136202 ( f8iii - iv ) , 155500 ( k0iii ) and hd 172401 ( k0iii ) . in the south",
    "the stars observed were hr 1544 ( a1v ) , 1996 ( o9.5v ) , 3454 ( b3v ) , 2429 ( k1iii ) , 2574 ( k4iii ) , 4267 ( m5.5iii ) , 4657 ( f5v ) , 4995 ( g6v ) , 5019 ( g6v ) , and hr 5568 ( k4v ) , hd 134439 ( k0v ) , 37984 ( k1iii ) , 66141 ( k2iii ) , 71597 ( k2iii ) and hd 92588 ( k1iv ) .",
    "the spectral types are from @xcite .",
    "all spectra were reduced and extracted from the spectral ccd images using the same standard procedures with the onedspec and twodspec.longslit tasks from iraf .",
    "dark current , overscan and bias were treated as in imaging ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , whereas flatfielding required some extra care , that consisted in a response correction of the dome flatfields to eliminate the continuum from the dome diffuse light , and an illumination correction with the twilight sky flatfields ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) .    to extract the spectra we used the iraf kpnoslit.apall task . to assure that there are no relevant geometric distortions in our instrumental set  up , meaning that one single tracing may be used to extract all spectra from the same spectral image",
    ", we have verified that the dispersion axis is the same along the spatial axis , i.e. , it is parallel in different positions along the slit . for this",
    "we have observed the same standard star in 6 different positions along the slit in a single frame and compared the tracing in all positions .",
    "the spectra were extracted for each galaxy along the major and minor axes of the bars in the center and in 8 other different positions along the slit length . to minimize the s / n drop in the outer spectra these",
    "were obtained from a gradually larger spatial interval .",
    "these were centered at @xmath4 , @xmath5 , @xmath6 , @xmath7 and @xmath8 at each side of the center of the galaxy along each bar axis , where @xmath9 is the galactocentric radius .",
    "the full width of these bins are , respectively , 2.4 , 4 , 7.2 , 15.2 and 21.6 arcseconds , approximately .",
    "thus , the spectra at @xmath4 , @xmath6 and @xmath8 are adjacent , i.e. , there are no pixels between each bin , but also they do nt overlap , as well as those at @xmath10 and @xmath7 . but considering the seeing effects the only two pairs of independent spectra are at @xmath4 and @xmath7 , and at @xmath10 and @xmath8 . as the s / n drops very quickly from the center it was not possible to obtain spectra farther out .    the spurious contribution from the sky was determined with the light in the outskirts of the slit ( 3 from the center in the north sample and 2 in the south ) , where the light contribution from the galaxy is much smaller , and subtracted from the data .",
    "emission sky lines that were not eliminated in this step were manually corrected by direct interpolation .",
    "this was especially necessary in the north sample due to the proximity of the city of tucson to the kitt peak ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* where relevant sky lines over kitt peak are presented ) .",
    "cosmic rays and bad pixels were also removed with statistical considerations .",
    "the extracted spectra were then continuum normalized and calibrated in wavelength .",
    "the error in the latter step was verified to be around 10 km / s in the region of interest ( i.e. , at about the mg i feature ) .",
    "the next and final step was to bring all spectra to the local standard of rest ( lsr ) .",
    "this was of course first done with the velocity standard stars [ with velocities available in @xcite and in the astronomical almanac ] , whose corrected spectra were then used to bring the other ones to the lsr .",
    "this was done with the cross correlation technique @xcite and the fact that we had spectra available from stars of many different spectral types was helpful in minimizing the errors caused by template mismatch . as the s / n per pixel is an essential parameter in calculating the errors in the derived line of sight velocity distributions ( losvds ) , they were determined for every galaxy spectrum .",
    "we found that s / n @xmath11 in the central regions of the galaxies while it drops to s / n @xmath12 in the outermost spectra .    in fig .",
    "2 we show some illustrative examples of the spectra obtained . the two upper panels refer to spectra obtained along the bar major axis of ngc 4608 and ngc 4579 , both from the north sample . the lower panel shows spectra obtained along the minor axis of the bar in ngc 1387 , from the south sample .",
    "it is worth noticing how the higher values for @xmath0 in the latter produce a larger width in , e.g. , the mg i lines , and the h@xmath13 and [ o iii ] emission lines in the liner / sey 1.9 galaxy ngc 4579 , that are particularly strong in the center , as expected .",
    "the method we have chosen to determine the losvds with our data is the line profile fitting in the pixel space through gauss  hermite series @xcite . in this case , assuming , as is generally done , that the main difference between the spectrum of a galaxy and that of a suitable template star is due to the stellar velocities in the galaxy ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , following a distribution close to a gaussian , one may write the line profile in the galaxy spectrum as a function of the line of sight stellar velocity @xmath14 , as :    @xmath15    where    @xmath16    and    @xmath17    in these equations , @xmath18 is the parameter that adjusts the line depth , @xmath19 is the stellar velocity dispersion ( in our case , @xmath20 ) , @xmath21 is the average radial velocity of the system ( in our case , @xmath22 ) , @xmath23 are numerical constants , and @xmath24 are the orthogonal hermite polynomials ( see * ? ? ?",
    ". we may rewrite eq .",
    "( 1 ) as :    @xmath25,\\ ] ]    where    @xmath26    and    @xmath27    as we have truncated the gauss ",
    "hermite series in the terms of order 4 ( higher order terms are not retrieved reliably , in general ) , and since @xmath28 e @xmath29 ( see * ? ? ?",
    "thus , to derive the kinematical parameters along the vertical axis in the major and minor axes of the bars of the galaxies in our sample , we have developed an algorithm that may use template spectra of up to 5 different stars to determine from the galaxy spectrum @xmath18 , @xmath21 , @xmath19 , @xmath30 and @xmath31 .",
    "however , to optimize efficiency we have used up to 3 different template stars , verifying that in our case adding more stars would not result in a significant improvement on the quality of the results . in this way ,",
    "errors from template mismatch are severely reduced ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , as our code is also able to determine the contribution of each stellar type to the galaxy spectrum that maximizes the quality of the fit ( i.e. , minimizes the @xmath32 value ) .",
    "as shown by @xcite this method here employed minimizes the correlation between the errors in the different kinematical parameters that determine the line profile , which makes the error evaluation safer .",
    "moreover , these authors also show that it is less sensible to template mismatch , as the line profile may fit into the small differences of the spectral properties of the template stars and the galaxy , through adjusts in the higher order moments of the gauss ",
    "hermite series .",
    "hence , the relevant kinematical parameters we have determined for each galaxy spectrum obtained are @xmath0 and the third and fourth order moments of the losvd parameterized as gauss ",
    "hermite series , @xmath30 ( the skewness of the velocity distribution ) and @xmath31 ( its kurtosis ) .",
    "this was done twice for each spectrum , since , to check the consistency of our results , we have also parameterized the losvds with pure gaussians , i.e. , with @xmath33 .",
    "figure 3 illustrates how @xmath30 and @xmath31 modify the shape of the distribution . as can be seen",
    ", @xmath30 is responsible for asymmetric deviations .",
    "a negative value for @xmath30 means that there is an excess of stars whose velocities are lower than the average system velocity , while the opposite is of course true for a positive @xmath30 .",
    "this is why an anticorrelation between @xmath30 and @xmath14 is generally found in edge - on galaxies to be a signature of a cold , rapidly rotating system @xcite . on the other hand , a non ",
    "negligible @xmath31 introduces symmetric deviations .",
    "a negative value for @xmath31 indicates a higher number of stars with line of sight velocities close to the average velocity , turning the losvd pointy , whereas a positive value is a sign that the distribution is wider near the average velocity .",
    "note also that typically @xmath30 and @xmath31 are very small and in the range @xmath34 $ ] and that to retrieve reliable values for these parameters the s / n in the spectrum must be higher than about 50 .",
    "this means that a meaningful discussion on these deviations in our work can only be done when regarding the central spectra .",
    "even so , it is evident , however , that using a generalized gaussian ( gauss  hermite series ) to parameterize the losvds maximizes the quality of the fit and the reliability on the values of the kinematical parameters .",
    "to certify that our code is able to produce reliable estimates a series of tests was performed . in these tests ,",
    "a stellar spectrum was artificially red shifted and widened by a known losvd , resulting in an artificial galaxy spectrum , having also a spectral resolution of 1  and a s / n equal to 30 , to match the typical characteristics of the spectra in our sample .",
    "for the tests we chose generally k giant stars whose spectra were taken from the elodie archive , that contains high resolution spectra for many stars ( see * ? ? ?",
    "we then used our algorithm to retrieve the losvd from the synthetic galaxy spectrum using as template the stars for which we have obtained the spectra .",
    "the results have been always excellent : the solution found by our code , i.e. , the template spectrum dislocated and widened by the determined losvd has always been very similar to the original synthetic galaxy spectrum . in any case , when determining every losvd in this work we have carefully verified that the solution found is indeed similar to the real galaxy spectrum . figure 4",
    "shows a clarifying example of the fits produced by our code to the spectrum of ngc 1302 at 2.0  from the center along its bar major axis .",
    "note , moreover , that , to avoid infinite values for @xmath14 , our code truncates it , following the relation @xmath35 , where @xmath36 is the escape velocity in virialized systems ( see * ? ? ?",
    "it is worth noticing how we have selected the template stars in the running of our code to determine the losvds .",
    "we followed a careful criterion to minimize even further errors from template mismatch .",
    "for every galaxy spectrum we first ran the code using a single stellar template spectrum .",
    "this was done with all stars observed under the same instrumental setup .",
    "the star that provides the best fit , i.e. , the lower @xmath32 , is the first star selected .",
    "after that , we ran the code again using as template spectrum a combination of the spectra from the first selected star and all of the other remaining stars separately . initially , this combination is an average of both stellar spectra but the algorithm is able to give weights to each spectra in order to achieve better results .",
    "again , the pair of stars that produces the best fit is selected .",
    "finally , the algorithm is applied once again , using the spectra of the stellar pair selected combined with the spectrum of each of the remaining stars , to determine the third suitable template star in the same fashion .",
    "generally , with three stars we have achieved the best @xmath32 but , in some cases , using only two stars produced better results .",
    "only one set of template stars was used to retrieve the losvds from all spectra of a given galaxy , since we have verified that the best set of stars does not change when running the code for spectra taken at different galactocentric distances .",
    "another cause of uncertainties from template mismatch regards the chemical abundances of the template stars .",
    "although most of the template stars we use are k giant or similar , their metallicity ( the [ fe / h ] ratio ) compared to the solar one ranges from @xmath37 ( hr 6775 ) to @xmath38 ( hr 3951 ) in the north and @xmath39 ( hd 134439 ) to @xmath40 ( hr 2429 ) in the south , considering the estimates in @xcite .",
    "although we did not find the necessary data in the literature this likely means that our template stars span also a significant range in the [ mg / fe ] abundance ratio .",
    "this obviously plays a role in studies like ours where mg and fe lines are used to calculate the kinematical parameters .",
    "this should be suitable to account for differences in the abundance of the galaxies and the stellar templates .",
    "interestingly , following our scheme to choose the most suitable template spectra , stars with [ fe / h ] values too different from solar were not considered suitable by our code .",
    "for instance , in the north sample the two most chosen stars were hr 6806 ( [ fe / h ] @xmath41 ) and hr 3951 , and in the south sample these were hd 37984 ( [ fe / h ] @xmath42 ) and hr 2574 ( [ fe / h ] @xmath43 ) , with no significant or systematic differences to galaxies that are early  type or late  type .",
    "in fact , one should expect such a result as our measurements concern mostly the central regions of galaxies whose morphological types are also mostly early .",
    "the spectral region used to measure the kinematical parameters of the galaxies in our sample is the one that contains mostly absorption lines from the photosphere of , typically , k giant stars , in the range from , approximately , the mg i triplet at @xmath44  to the na i feature at @xmath45  .",
    "this region also includes relevant lines in this respect , as the fe i + ca i lines at @xmath46  and the fe lines at @xmath47  . in a significant part of the cases studied here a narrower spectral range",
    "was used , that excludes the na i feature .",
    "the h@xmath48 and [ h@xmath13 ] lines , at , respectively @xmath50  and @xmath51  , were excluded from the analysis as to avoid spurious results from the complicated emission from gas . in the cases of galaxies with active nuclei , emission lines like ,",
    "e.g. , [ o iii ] ( @xmath52  ) were automatically excluded from the analysis by our code , that is able to ignore lines that are too discrepant in the galaxy and template spectra . nonetheless , we mention a potential source of uncertainty in the spectra of galaxies that present a strong [ n i ] emission line ( the doublet at @xmath53  ) , such as ngc 4579 ( see fig .",
    "2 ) . as shown by @xcite this feature may affect line strength measurements of the mg i triplet .",
    "three other galaxies in our sample show also this [ n i ] emission line : ngc 2665 , 4984 and ngc 5701 .",
    "although liners , the spectra of ngc 1326 and ngc 4314 present only a small feature , while in that of ngc 4394 we have not detected the line . inspecting our results we find no clear systematic trends regarding this issue .      having measured the value for @xmath0 along the major and minor axes of the bars in our galaxy sample , we are ready now to , as in a first order approach , distinguish recently formed and evolved bars .",
    "but before going on , let us discuss what one expects to find .",
    "we argue that to make this distinction one has to rely not only on the value of @xmath0 in the bar , but also on its radial behavior in both axes , since the contribution from the bulge and the disk must also be considered .",
    "being a stellar system supported by pressure , bulges will , in general , contribute to a rise in the stellar velocity dispersion in the center , irrespective of the bar age . on the other hand , since in some cases the outer spectra along the bar minor axis reach areas where we are essentially measuring the value for @xmath0 without relevant contributions from the bar and the bulge , i.e. , the vertical velocity dispersion in the disk , in these cases , a comparison between the values of @xmath0 in the bar and in the disk is most valuable .",
    "it should also be kept in mind that a significant variation in the velocity dispersion from galaxy to galaxy ( even with similar morphological types ) is expected .",
    "* see also @xcite ) estimates that @xmath54 km / s in the solar neighborhood for k giant stars . in general ,",
    "similar values are found for other spectral types .",
    "the velocity dispersion in the radial , @xmath55 , and azimuthal , @xmath56 , directions are , respectively , @xmath57 30 km / s and @xmath57 20 km / s .",
    "in fact , in the galactic disk , typically , @xmath58 and @xmath59 , and thus @xmath60 . as the bar length in the galaxy",
    "is estimated to be around 3 kpc @xcite , and also considering the study of stellar orbits in disk potentials @xcite , these values are expected to be representative for the outer disk in late ",
    "type spiral galaxies ( sb  sc ) . as the velocity dispersion in the disk rises inward @xcite , at a galactocentric distance of about the disk length scale @xmath61 , which is 3.5@xmath620.5 kpc in the galaxy , @xmath63 km / s .",
    "typical values for @xmath0 in the center of this class of galaxies are around 50 km / s @xcite . for lenticular galaxies , @xmath64 km / s in the center , including the contribution from the bulge @xcite .",
    "farther out @xmath65 km / s in lenticulars @xcite .",
    "we can also make an evaluation of the relation between @xmath0 and the height scale in the disk . in the epicycle approximation @xcite ,",
    "the vertical oscillation of the stars in the disk in cylindrical coordinates ( @xmath9,@xmath66,@xmath67 ) is given by @xmath68 , where @xmath69 is the epicycle vertical frequency , given by :    @xmath70    where @xmath71 is the disk gravitational potential .",
    "also , in a highly flattened system ,    @xmath72    and thus ,    @xmath73    this means that @xmath69 depends only on the mass density in the plane of the disk , and that in a recently formed bar , assuming that bars are a global dynamical disk instability , the stars are oscillating with this vertical frequency .",
    "for the galaxy , in the solar neighborhood , @xmath74 s@xmath3 .    on the other hand , through the reasonable assumption that @xmath69 is independent of @xmath67 , we have :    @xmath75    where @xmath76 is the disk height scale , @xmath77 is time , and @xmath78 is a phase constant .",
    "this implies in :    @xmath79    and    @xmath80    thus , considering the disk of the galaxy typical ,    @xmath81    @xcite show that for the thin disk of the galaxy @xmath82 km / s while @xmath83 km / s for the thick disk .",
    "following our eq . ( 13 ) , this means that @xmath76 is , respectively , 258 and 559 pc .",
    "hence , stars with low @xmath0 indeed belong to the disk , whereas values of @xmath0 as high as about 100 km / s , that implies in @xmath84 kpc , are certainly not related to the disk component .",
    "it is interesting to note that these results are in agreement with the quasi constancy of @xmath76 along galactic disks @xcite .",
    "but note also that the radial rise in @xmath76 is more expressive in the disks of early  type spirals .",
    "thus , as we have just shown , by measuring @xmath0 we can have a direct estimate of the vertical extent of the disk .",
    "a recently formed bar , as being part of the disk , still has the kinematical properties that characterize disks , namely a low velocity dispersion , that produces a vertically thin structure , that we can infer by observing low ( @xmath85 50 km / s ) @xmath0 values .",
    "as the bar evolves , the already mentioned processes like vertical resonances and the hose instability give the bar a higher vertical extent by raising @xmath0 .",
    "these processes , however , make no changes in the remaining of the disk .    in this way , we are able now to devise prescriptions that will make us able to distinguish between recently formed and evolved bars .",
    "the first one is possible if one has measurements of @xmath0 in the bar and in the disk outside the bar and the bulge .",
    "this was possible for a few cases in this study , where the outer spectra taken along the minor axis of the bar reach areas in the disk where the light from the bar and the bulge makes only a small contribution . by comparing the velocity dispersion in the bar and in the disk ,",
    "a recently formed bar will have yet disk kinematics , whereas an evolved bar will have a larger @xmath0 than the disk . in fig .",
    "5 we show schematically how this comparison may be done .",
    "the upper panel is an example of a recently formed bar , while the lower one shows the signature of an evolved bar .    since obtaining kinematical data for the fainter parts of the disk of galaxies is very telescope time demanding , in most of the cases the outer spectra taken along the bar axes are still within the bar or the bulge , even considering the minor axis .",
    "thus , we often may not have an estimate of @xmath0 in the pure disk to compare to the one in the bar .",
    "hence , we expect that a young bar has not only a low @xmath0 but also that its radial profile shows a steep outward fall , as the bulge in the center has a much hotter kinematics .",
    "figure 6(a ) shows schematically what would be the expected signature of such a case . on the other hand ,",
    "an old bar is dynamically hotter than the disk , and is possibly as hot as the bulge , and in such case the @xmath0 radial profile is somewhat flat [ see fig .",
    "6(d ) ] . however",
    ", we may expect to find cases in which the bulge contribution may be misleading . especially for late  type galaxies ,",
    "whose bulges may be substantially dynamically colder than average , even a young bar may display a fairly flat @xmath0 profile , as we show in fig .",
    "furthermore , for the early  type galaxies with their very hot bulges , an evolved bar may show up a steep @xmath0 profile as can be seen in fig .",
    "having set up the prescriptions to distinguish young and old bars we postpone to   5 and 6 the step further of evaluating how much older than young are evolved bars . instead , in the next section we present the results obtained with the spectra taken in this study .",
    "the @xmath0 radial profiles along the bar major and minor axes of the galaxies in our sample are shown in fig(s ) . 7 and 8 for the south and north samples , respectively .",
    "the reason for a few empty panels in these figures is that we unfortunately were not able to make measurements along the minor axis of the bars in ngc 4984 and ngc 5383 . although we do not present and discuss our results concerning @xmath30 and @xmath31 , since the errors on these number estimates render them too unreliable ,",
    "the fact that similar results are obtained from both parameterizations ( i.e. , pure gaussian and gauss  hermite series ) is encouraging . in order to properly analyse these profiles , and try to evaluate which bars are young and which are",
    "not , it is also important to know over which radial range the bulge dominates the emitted light and where the light is dominated by the bar or the disk , whose kinematics we want to measure . to determine this we used the aladin interactive sky atlas @xcite with optical images publicly available through ned . as estimates like these are somewhat subjective we did not try to establish them too precisely .",
    "nonetheless , these estimates serve indeed to our goals .",
    "also , the values referring to the bulge , in particular , mean where its light dominates over that from the bar ( and hence the measured kinematics ) rather than been its length properly 0.1 .",
    "hence this assumption seems to be fairly reasonable to our purposes . ] .",
    "the results are shown in table 2 .",
    "note that our measurements along the bar major axis are always within the bar itself and that the bulge dominates typically the inner 10 to 15 arcsec along both axes .",
    "we stress also that since the spectra are extracted from ever increasing radial bins ( from the center outward ) there is some overlap in radius that makes the transitions between bulge , bar , and sometimes disk , smoother than in reality .    following the discussion done so far and the results in fig(s ) . 7 and 8 it is possible to qualitatively assess bar ages and distinguish between young and old ones . a quantitative approach",
    ", however , is highly desirable . ideally , for this task one would like to have measurements of the stellar vertical velocity dispersion in the disk and in the bar free from _ any _ light contamination from other structural components , especially the bulge . in this case",
    ", a simple comparison between the values of @xmath0 would reveal how much the bar has vertically evolved from the original disk .",
    "although this is feasible with the slit configuration we used it is virtually impossible with 2-meter class telescopes , since this means obtaining high s / n spectra from very faint parts of galaxies . nevertheless ,",
    "with the data presented here we can pursue such endeavor if we carefully take into account the bulge contribution to the recorded light , using our estimates in table 2 . in addition , let us define a fiducial value that represents @xmath0 in the bar as the average of our farthest measurements along the bar major axis , that for the majority of our galaxies correspond to @xmath86 of the bar semi - major length , @xmath87 [ column ( 6 ) in table 2 ] .",
    "this choice comes from a compromise between minimizing bulge contamination and considering the galactocentric distances our spectra reach .",
    "similarly , we can define a fiducial @xmath0 value for the disk .",
    "since galactic disks have generally a gradient in velocity dispersion we choose to take the disk fiducial @xmath0 at the same galactocentric distance from which @xmath87 is defined . only in this way a meaningful comparison of both values can be achieved . obviously , however , the disk velocity dispersion is taken along the bar _ minor _ axis , and the galactocentric distance chosen corresponds to about 1 to 2 times the bar semi-_minor _ length .",
    "again , we took an average of our measurements at both sides of the center .",
    "column 7 in table 2 shows the difference between this and @xmath87 , defined as @xmath88 .",
    "hence , with the help of @xmath87 and @xmath88 we can make a more quantitative assessment in order to distinguish young and old bars .",
    "then , according to our line of reasoning , some clear cases can be identified .",
    "one can say with a certain degree of confidence that ngc 1326 , ngc 4394 and ngc 5383 harbor recently formed bars .",
    "their results resemble what we would expect based on fig(s ) .",
    "5(a ) and 6(a ) ( for ngc 1326 and ngc 5383 ) and 6(b ) ( for ngc 4394 ) .",
    "moreover , @xmath89 km / s and @xmath90 km / s ( although we do not have this parameter for ngc 5383 ) , that in fact point to these bars as being still a vertically thin structure , belonging to the plane of the disk .",
    "clear instances of evolved bars are the ones in ngc 1302 , ngc 1317 and ngc 5850 .",
    "their @xmath0 radial profiles resemble fig(s ) .",
    "5(b ) and 6(d ) .",
    "these galaxies have @xmath87 equal to 100 , 145 and 60 km / s .",
    "although the latter value is clearly much lower , this is a result from the fact that ngc 5850 is of a later morphological class than the former galaxies .",
    "in fact , @xmath91 km / s in the three cases , an evidence that these bars have vertically grown up from their parent disks .    with these clear instances",
    "we can identify typical values for @xmath87 and @xmath88 in old and young bars .",
    "for the recently formed ones the average of @xmath92 km / s where this climbs to @xmath93 100 km / s for the evolved ones .",
    "similarly , @xmath94 and 40 km / s for young and old bars , respectively .",
    "let us go now to the less clear cases .",
    "the behavior of @xmath0 in ngc 1387 and ngc 1440 shows a relatively steep fall from the center outward in both axes , and their @xmath88 values are low , presumably indicating young bars .",
    "however , their values for @xmath87 are too high to be the case of young bars . these are certainly vertically thick and evolved bars , resembling the schema of fig .",
    "these are typical cases where the early  type bulge presents a very high velocity dispersion .",
    "the low values of @xmath88 may likely be explained by light contamination in the bar minor axis from the bulge and the bar even at the outermost spectra .",
    "in fact , in these cases , we have no reliable data on the velocity dispersion of the disk alone .",
    "moreover , note that in the outer spectra @xmath0 is as high as @xmath57 150 km / s .",
    "it is hard to devise how the global dynamical disk instability alone could be responsible for the bar in these hot disks , even taking into account that a substantial part of this high velocity dispersion comes from the bulge and the bar .",
    "ngc 4608 and ngc 5701 are similar cases .",
    "the bulge and bar influence may be causing low values for @xmath88 , but the high values of @xmath87 clearly put these bars in the evolved bin .",
    "their bulges are , however , not as dynamically hot as those of ngc 1387 and ngc 1440 and their @xmath0 radial profiles resemble fig .",
    "the following cases are more doubtful and thus the reader should have in mind that our conclusions on these cases should be taken with care .",
    "ngc 4314 has intermediate values for both @xmath87 and @xmath88 and we do not reach far out enough along the bar major axis .",
    "however , the @xmath0 radial profiles along the bar minor axis show an estimate of @xmath0 in the disk substantially lower than those that refer to the bar . taking this single point into account",
    "it seems that the more appropriate is to consider its bar an evolved one .",
    "it can in fact be an example where bar evolution is at an intermediate stage .",
    "ngc 4579 has a @xmath87 value closer to that of an evolved bar and a @xmath88 value typical of a young one .",
    "our farthest measurements , however , clearly indicate that bar and disk have a similar @xmath0 , at least in their outer parts , which makes us consider this bar as still recently formed .",
    "contamination from bulge light may again be the cause for the high @xmath87 values .",
    "ngc 2665 is a similar case , and the very low and uncertain @xmath0 estimates in the farthest points along the bar minor axis may be occulting a young bar behind a high value for @xmath88 .",
    "in fact , the @xmath0 estimates along the bar minor axis do not agree in the outermost points from each side of the galaxy center .",
    "good spectra taken at farther galactocentric distances certainly avoid and clarify these doubtful cases .    finally , the case of ngc 4984 is the only one in that we could not arrive to a definite conclusion .",
    "the dispersion reach relatively low values but only in one side of the bar .",
    "the lack of minor axis spectra also prevents us to reach a conclusion .",
    "note also that the inner structure of this galaxy is complex ( see fig .",
    "1 ) , and that @xcite suggest that this galaxy has a secondary bar possibly almost aligned with the primary .",
    "this complexity certainly is reflected in our results .",
    "we performed three different statistical tests within the r environment ( see http://www.r-project.org ) to check if in fact the values we obtained for @xmath87 and @xmath88 to young and old bars point to different objects .",
    "an unpaired student t - test gives a 98% probability that what we defined by young and old bars are indeed different populations considering @xmath87 .",
    "support to this conclusion comes from kolmogorov - smirnov and wilcoxon ( or mann - whitney ) tests .",
    "these tests , however , do not find a significant difference between young and old bars if one considers @xmath88 . as discussed above ,",
    "the lack of @xmath0 measurements far out in the disk ( away from the bar and bulge light ) for several cases that an old bar is clearly seen from the analysis of @xmath87 is the likely cause of the latter result . on the other hand ,",
    "it is evident that the results from these tests considering @xmath87 agree with the distinction made here between recently formed and evolved bars . in a later stage",
    "it would also be interesting to try to identify intermediate cases .",
    "note that tests like these do not take into account the observational error in each single measurement of , e.g. , @xmath87 .",
    "they , however , use the standard deviation from the mean in both samples ( in this case , young and evolved bars ) to estimate the observational error and then state the statistical significance of the final result , i.e. , the difference between the two samples .    in fig(s ) .",
    "7 and 8 one can also verify that at least in ngc 4314 and ngc 5850 there is a central drop in the velocity dispersion .",
    "doubtful cases may be ngc 1317 , 4394 , 4608 , and ngc 5701 , since the drop , or the constancy , of @xmath0 is marginally significant .",
    "the remaining majority of the cases show a peak instead , that is more commonly observed .",
    "this peculiarity has been also noted by @xcite in 3 other cases .",
    "this drop may be caused by a recently formed stellar inner disk originated from the funneling of gas to the center by the bar . in this context",
    ", it is noticeable that ngc 4314 , ngc 4394 , and ngc 5850 present indeed inner disks , as we confirm it through a detailed structural analysis in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter paper ii ) using the budda code @xcite .",
    "many examples of measurements of the stellar velocity dispersion in galaxies can be found in the literature but we are not aware of a systematic measure of this physical parameter along face  on bars . nonetheless , comparisons with previous values may be instructive , even if not exactly relative to a similar study .",
    "@xcite made measurements of the stellar velocity dispersion in ngc 4984 in a manner similar to what we present here .",
    "a comparison of the results from both studies shows that the estimates are essentially the same .",
    "@xcite shows estimates for the stellar kinematics of lenticular galaxies .",
    "one can verify that his measurements are very similar to ours as his velocity dispersion estimates for , e.g. , ngc 3412 , 3941 and ngc 4754",
    "( all barred and more or less face  on ) range from @xmath93 200 km / s in the center to @xmath93 60 km / s 20 arcsec away from it .",
    "ngc 3941 is an interesting case worthy to be explored in more detail . not considering that his measurements are at an angle to the bar major axis one could use our analysis to conclude that the bar is evolved , although better estimates for the velocity dispersion in the disk would be necessary to a more clear conclusion .",
    "a similar study involving late  type galaxies can be found in @xcite . looking their results for galaxies which are reasonably face  on we again find measurements similar to ours .",
    "this is the case for ngc 210 , 3054 , 6878 and ngc 7412 , whose stellar velocity dispersion ranges from @xmath93 150 km / s in the center to @xmath93 50 km / s 25 arcsec away from it , although we would expect somewhat lower values in the disks of the two latter galaxies .",
    "similar results were found for ngc 488 and ngc 2985 @xcite and in @xcite one also finds , for the four face  on galaxies in his sample , estimates similar to ours . if one considers that @xmath95 then inspecting the recent measurements of @xcite one sees that the range in velocity dispersion they observe in the disks in a sample of edge  on late  type galaxies is in agreement with our estimates for both the late  type galaxies in our sample and the early  type ones , whose @xmath19 reaches considerably higher values , also in agreement with previous work ( see  3.2 above ) .",
    "table 2 also shows error estimates for @xmath88 .",
    "we followed two different methods to determine these errors . in the first one we propagate the error as usually done in error analysis considering the errors from the spectrum fitting , i.e.",
    ", those errors determined in  3.1 , displayed as error bars in fig(s ) . 7 and 8 . in our second method",
    "we do not consider the uncertainties in the spectrum fitting , but assume that the error in @xmath88 is the quadratic mean of the differences between the values of @xmath0 in the bar and in the disk ( that are used to calculated @xmath88 ) taken at both of sides of the galaxy center .",
    "this sometimes leads to smaller errors .",
    "this analysis shows that the relative error in @xmath88 is large , as one should expect considering it is a difference between close numbers , each one already bringing along considerable uncertainty , since they are estimated from faint light .",
    "the impact of this uncertainty in our division between young and evolved bars must not be exaggerated , however , since this was done taken also into account @xmath87 and the full @xmath0 radial profiles .",
    "it is interesting now to compare the results described in the last section with @xmath1body realizations of the evolution of barred galaxies .",
    "this is useful , for instance , to establish the time scales involved in the vertical thickening of bars .",
    "previous studies estimate the time scale for the occurrence of the boxy  peanut morphology , likely a consequence of vertical resonances and/or the hose instability , in the order of 1 gyr ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . but a systematic comparison of the vertical velocity dispersion in observations and simulations has not been done yet . in this section",
    "we perform simplistic @xmath1body experiments on the evolution of pure stellar disks to use as a first ",
    "order approach in making this evaluation .",
    "a more realistic treatment would involve adding responsive bulge and halo components , which is beyond our present scope .",
    "we note , however , that we intend to perform a more thorough and accurate analysis in a future paper .",
    "thus the results from this section must be considered with caution and tested with more realistic experiments .",
    "they are , however , useful to obtain an approximate order of magnitude of how much is the age difference between the young and evolved bars identified above , as well as , and this may be even more important , to attest that measurements of the vertical velocity dispersion along bar and disk are , at least qualitatively , useful for bar age estimates , as we propose here .",
    "the experiments were done within the nemo package @xcite , and the @xcite tree ",
    "code was used for force calculation .",
    "we used virial units , in which @xmath96 , where @xmath97 is the gravitational constant , @xmath98 is the mass and @xmath99 is the total energy of the system . in the runs",
    "a constant time step of typically @xmath100 years was employed , giving about 10@xmath101 time steps per crossing time in the systems analysed .",
    "the optimal softening parameter suggested by ( * ? ? ?",
    "* see also @xcite ) for @xmath102 , that is the number of particles we have used typically , is in the range from @xmath103 , and the latter value was used .",
    "this has the intention of minimizing spurious effects caused by the low number of particles , especially two  body relaxation that may heat and thicken the disk .",
    "finally , the aperture ( or tolerance ) angle used was always @xmath104 .",
    "the simulated disks are made of responsive particles of equal masses and are exponential and isothermal with a constant height scale @xcite :    @xmath105    where @xmath106 is the disk mass , being @xmath107 its length scale . in this case , the toomre @xmath108 parameter , establishing if the disk is unstable to the bar mode instability , is defined as it is done usually :",
    "@xmath109    where @xmath110 is the epicycle frequency of the stellar orbits in the plane of the disk , and @xmath111 is the projected mass surface density .",
    "thus , since @xmath112 ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the stability of the disk is set up in the initial conditions for @xmath76 .",
    "in some of the experiments , however , we have directly attributed a constant value to @xmath108 in the initial conditions , aiming to force the bar instability . in the latter case ,",
    "is the vertical extent of the disk that is determined as a function of the toomre parameter .",
    "a correction for the asymmetric drift was applied in the disks , assuming the milky way disk as typical ( see * ? ? ?",
    "several simulations were run as to mimic the 2 gyr evolution of stellar disks with properties similar to the milky way disk ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , i.e. , a mass @xmath113 m@xmath114 and length scale @xmath115 kpc .",
    "the height scale varies in the different experiments in the range @xmath116 pc , which , as discussed above , have fundamental influences on the disk stability against bar formation .",
    "the center of mass and energy variation were typically of the order of 0.3% .",
    "we now discuss , based on one representative experiment ( with @xmath117 pc ) , the onset of the bar instability in galaxies and the vertical thickening of bars .",
    "this fiducial calculation has a toomre parameter in the initial conditions estimated by eq .",
    "( 15 ) that decreases continuously from @xmath93 3 in the center to @xmath93 1 at the outermost radii .",
    "figure 9 displays the evolution of the pure stellar disk in that , as expected , a strong bar develops .",
    "this happens after @xmath118 yr and spiral arms also appear in the so called grand design morphology .",
    "the bar weakens after @xmath119 yr but remains for a similar period , then giving place to an oval bulge  like distortion until the end of the simulation after 2 gyr .",
    "it can be seen clearly in the edge  on projection the vertical heating of the disk and how the weakening of the bar originates a bulge  like structure , corroborating previous works ( see also * ? ? ?",
    "it is , however , still a matter of debate whether bars are robust , perennial galactic components , or may be easy to dissolve with central mass concentrations , as a result of their natural evolution ( see * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "figure 10 shows the evolution of the rotation curve in our experiment .",
    "this was derived through the simulation of long slit spectroscopy data , using parameters that match the observations we present in  2 , in what concerns the slit width and pixel size on the `` sky '' and the seeing , i.e. , spectral and spatial resolution .",
    "the same procedures were done to extract radial profiles of the stellar vertical velocity dispersion along the major and minor axes of the bar , which will be presented and discussed shortly . note that the rotation velocities reached are low due to the fact that we are not including the mass contributions of either bulge or halo .",
    "however , the global shape of the rotation curve is similar to what is generally found for real galaxies ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "interestingly , although there is no dark matter halo contribution to these curves , they are quite flat : only a hint of a fall is observed in the second row of panels .",
    "this is at least partially explained by the fact that the particle distribution in our disk models is truncated at about 10 kpc , i.e. , only @xmath93 3 length scales ( but see * ? ? ?",
    "we have also made some tests with live bulges and rigid halos as to realize more complete and realistic systems , and verified the difficulties encountered by the old bar formation scenario ( that based purely on the bar mode disk instability ) in explaining the origin of bars in galaxies with kinematically hot disks and conspicuous bulges , as observed barred lenticulars .",
    "however , we can identify five possible ways out that need to be fully exploited to salvage the bar mode instability in disks as the origin of bars in galaxies .",
    "first , as showed recently by @xcite and @xcite , the use of rigid halos is misleading , as their simulations with live halos show that the exchange of angular momentum between the disk and the halo may , contrary to expectations led by previous studies , reinforce the bar .",
    "hence , the present standard bar formation scenario adds to the bar mode disk instability the absorption of angular momentum by a responsive halo .",
    "second , as in the scenario of @xcite , the infall of gas from the halo in the disk may also create a kinematically cold structure that is bar unstable .",
    "third , as we showed in @xcite , sufficiently eccentric halos can induce bar formation in kinematically hot stellar systems .",
    "finally , we shall also note that tidal interactions may play a relevant role in this context @xcite and the approach of @xcite .    in all our experiments that do not preclude the appearance of a bar , its properties match previous studies , both in theory and observation .",
    "for example , all bars develop quickly in a few times @xmath120 yr and have a length in the range from @xmath93 4 to @xmath93 8 kpc . we have also estimated the bar pattern rotation velocity to be around 30 km s@xmath3 kpc@xmath3 , in general .    concerning the vertical extent of bars , we show in fig .",
    "11 that , as predicted , bars grow vertically thick as they evolve , producing a structure similar to a bulge seen edge  on , also presenting the characteristic boxy  peanut morphology . at the time this structure is present , the bar no longer belongs to the disk , since the growth in @xmath0 produces the vertically thick pseudo bulge .",
    "furthermore , our simulations indicate that this morphology develops quickly ( in a few dynamical times , i.e. , a few times @xmath120 yr after the formation of the bar ) and weakens after @xmath57 1 gyr .",
    "thus , the boxy  peanut morphology may be used as an indication of a young bar , i.e. , one that has been originated in less than about 1 gyr ago .",
    "note also that the presence of a pre  existent bulge would turn difficult the proper identification of the boxy  peanut morphology .",
    "however , in our simulations , @xmath0 in the bar does not exceed 50 km / s during the boxy  peanut phase and not even after 2 gyr of bar evolution .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "12 , where we present the evolution in time of the stellar vertical velocity dispersion along the bar major and minor axes of our numerical experiment .",
    "these profiles were derived using the same procedures we used to produce the rotation curves discussed above .",
    "although tentative , this is evidently in contrast to the observations we reported in the previous section , where evolved bars have @xmath121 100 km / s .",
    "thus , while the processes that create the boxy  peanut morphology are fast , the one(s ) responsible for the _ observed _ vertically thickening of the bars should happen in a longer timescale .    a qualitative analysis of fig .",
    "12 proves very useful . in the first panel ( at @xmath122 ) , corresponding to the initial conditions , the kinematics along major and minor axis of the disk should be ( nearly ) identical ( with small differences from statistical fluctuations ) , as evolution yet did not start . to produce the velocity dispersion radial profile along the minor axis",
    ", we introduce an error of 5 degrees in the slit position angle and an error within the seeing in its central position .",
    "this allows one to note that indeed the kinematics is similar in both axes , and also to evaluate how these uncertainties , which are often present in real observations , would affect the measurements . at @xmath123",
    "the bar is recently formed and , as we argued above , keeps its kinematical properties along the vertical axis similar to those of the disk . at @xmath124 and @xmath125 ,",
    "however , the signature of the evolved bar is clear : in the region dominated by the bar ( whose semi - major axis length is about 4 kpc ) @xmath0 is substantially higher than in the bar  free region of the disk .",
    "hence , our simulations give at least a qualitative support to the bar age diagnostic tool we introduced above .",
    "if bars are robust they may keep this signature and yet maybe acquire higher values for @xmath0 , as we discuss in the next section . in our simulation , however , the bar weakened , a process that starts at @xmath126 and goes until @xmath127 giving origin to an unbarred galaxy with a central morphologically bulge  like structure that also resembles bulges form the kinematical point of view .    for the typical distance of the galaxies in our sample ( cz @xmath128 km / s )",
    "10 arcsec corresponds roughly to 1 kpc , which means that our spectroscopic measurements presented in  4 go typically as far as about 2 kpc from the center , where our simulations ( fig .",
    "12 ) show that a substantial difference in @xmath0 would be observed between the evolved bar and the disk .",
    "the ages of bars diagnostic we present here allows us to distinguish between young and old bars , but a further question is to know how much is that age difference .",
    "the results from the previous sections suggest that it is not only the processes that cause the boxy  peanut morphology that produce bars as vertically thick as observed .",
    "this means that the age difference between young and old bars may be significantly in excess of 1 gyr .",
    "we suggest now that another mechanism is taking place during the evolution of the bar , and that it goes on after the vertical resonances and the hose instability end , giving the bar a vertical extent and a @xmath0 in agreement with what our observations show .",
    "as shown by @xcite , collisions with giant molecular clouds ( gmcs ) are able to make the disk gradually hotter and vertically thicker .",
    "this is a process that happens in the disk as a whole ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , but we can reasonably assume that these clouds may be more concentrated along the bar than in the remaining of the disk , given that bars are indeed able to collect and funnel the gas present in the disk to the center .",
    "if this is true , then the effect of these collisions will be stronger in the bar region of the disk .",
    "it should be mentioned also that this effect happens too with any other inhomogeneity in the stellar density distribution .",
    "the variation in the stellar velocities provoked by the impact with gmcs may be written in the impulsive approximation as :    @xmath129    where @xmath98 is the typical gmc mass , and @xmath130 is the impact parameter .",
    "the succession of several encounters gives origin to a process of diffusion in phase space @xcite in the form :    @xmath131    where @xmath132 is the diffusion coefficient ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , proportional to @xmath133 . if @xmath132 is constant , then :    @xmath134    where @xmath135 is the initial vertical velocity dispersion . through numerical simulations , @xcite showed that the equation above may be parameterized in the form :    @xmath136    with @xmath137 for a random walk diffusion , and where @xmath138 is a time scale proportional to @xmath139 .",
    "this value for @xmath140 is in agreement with the relation between the velocity dispersion and the age of stars in the solar neighborhood .",
    "following the results from @xcite , this process may elevate the velocity dispersion from @xmath141 km / s to @xmath142 km / s in about 7 gyr .",
    "assuming that gmcs are accumulated along the bar , and the fact that @xmath143 , this mechanism may explain the observed vertically thickening of bars in timescales larger than 1 gyr . if @xmath130 along the bar is half the value of @xmath130 in the remaining of the disk , resulting from a higher concentration of gmcs in the bar , then in 7 gyr @xmath0 in the bar might go from @xmath141 km / s to @xmath144 km / s , as observed .",
    "if we consider that during the vertical thickening process bars cease to be kinematically cold then we will have to take into account that the diffusion coefficient is not constant and that @xmath145 .",
    "this means that the scattering of stars by gmcs get less efficient in time when we have two kinematically distinct components : the cold disk where gmcs fall , and the vertically rising and hotter bar .",
    "this is certainly more justified from the theoretical point of view and leads to @xmath146 , although the resulting differences are small .",
    "following again the results from @xcite this means that the bar takes more @xmath147 gyr to achieve @xmath144 km / s .    the results from the simulations presented in @xcite and @xcite may",
    ", however , represent a caveat to the analysis above .",
    "this is because they show that gas concentrate in relatively narrow strips along the leading edges of bars .",
    "if gmcs behave like gas does in their simulations then the consequences on the stellar dynamics within the bar may be different from what it would be if , as we assumed above , gmcs are uniformly distributed within the bar .",
    "one should note however that , although dust lanes tend in fact to delineate strips along the leading edges of bars in real galaxies , there are also many examples of dust patches _ across _ bars ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "it is worth noticing at this point that in paper ii we have measured the optical colors of bars in a sample of galaxies similar to the one in this work , including 7 galaxies studied here .",
    "we found that the average value for b  v in the bars that our diagnostic identify as evolved is 1.1 .",
    "in contrast , the identified young bars have b  v equal to 0.7 .",
    "this color difference may be translated to an age difference of the order of 10 gyr ( see , e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , even allowing for reasonable differences in the metallicity of the stellar population .",
    "although the age of the stellar population in the bar does not necessarily represent the age of the bar , this result , in agreement of what we found above with the numerical simulations , corroborate our suggestion that the age difference between young and old bars is significantly higher than 1 gyr .",
    "although we are here neglecting reddening by dust this is justified by the fact that we defined the bar color at its ends where dust effects are minimized .",
    "there is also no reason to believe that dust attenuation should be more effective in galaxies with evolved bars rather than in those with recently formed bars .",
    "the reader is referred to paper ii to a more detailed discussion on these color comparisons .",
    "interestingly , in this paper we also find that there are no significant differences in the photometric shape of young and old bars .",
    "considering the 7 galaxies in common with the photometric analysis in paper ii , all their bars show a flat surface brightness profile along the major axis , typical of barred galaxies with morphological types earlier than @xmath93 sbc @xcite .",
    "the elliptically averaged surface brightness radial profiles of the galaxies also do not show any clear trend amongst young or old bars concerning profiles of freeman types i and ii @xcite .    within this line of reasoning the evolved bars we identified in  4 have ages not much lower than the age of the universe and",
    "hence have never dissolved nor are recurrent . obviously , this does not exclude the possibility of recurrent bars in other galaxies , but it also reinforces the results from @xcite , who suggest that bar dissolution requires much more mass concentration than observed , and thus that bars are robust .    using our diagnostic tool we showed in  4 that from the 14 galaxies in our sample , 8 have evolved bars whereas 5 have recently formed bars .",
    "this result may also be interpreted as an observational evidence of the vertical thickening of bars .",
    "evidently , a more direct way to evaluate the vertical structure of bars is by observing them in edge  on galaxies . in this case , however , the proper identification of bars is still difficult and also involves careful and detailed measurements .",
    "furthermore , in edge  on galaxies one is not able to retrieve several fundamental galactic properties and their detailed structural characteristics .",
    "our ability in estimate the ages of bars is an important step forward in the study of the formation and evolution of galaxies .",
    "we can , for instance , determine more precisely what are the time scales in the secular evolution processes related to bars , and if a given barred galaxy have already suffered from them or not .",
    "in fact , we see that from the 8 galaxies with evolved bars only two ( 25% ) have agn , whereas from the 5 galaxies with young bars three ( 60% ) show agn activity .",
    "while this is yet a small number statistics , it indicates that the time scale for the fueling of agn by bars is short . in this case , one may find a better correlation between the presence of bars and agn in galaxies if considering only young bars .",
    "this result is also corroborated by those from paper ii , that show that the average b ",
    "i color in the bars of agn galaxies is 1.7 , while it is 2.1 in galaxies without nuclear activity .",
    "one word of caution , however : the significance of these results are debatable since agn classifications are derived by different authors in different ways .",
    "it is also interesting to note that from the 8 evolved bars , 7 ( 88% ) reside in early  type galaxies ( s0sa ) while only 1 ( 12% ) is in a sb galaxy . on the contrary ,",
    "the young bars seem to preferentially inhabit later  type galaxies : from the 5 young bars , 2 ( 40% ) are found in s0sa galaxies and 3 ( 60% ) in sb .",
    "this point is further explored in paper ii .",
    "it is also important to stress again that these results must be confirmed by studies with much larger samples as the small number statistics here means their statistical significance is low .",
    "by exploring the predicted vertical thickening of bars during their evolution , through kinematical measurements in the vertical direction of bars in a sample of 14 galaxies , along their major and minor axes , we have developed and introduced a diagnostic tool that allows one to distinguish between recently formed and evolved bars . using several @xmath1body realizations of bar unstable disk galaxies",
    ", we studied the time scale involved in the vertical evolution of bars , and the conditions necessary to the onset of the bar instability .",
    "we found that bars may be broadly classified between young and old bars , by , essentially , comparing the vertical velocity dispersion in the bar and in the disk in that it formed .",
    "young bars are kinematically similar ( in the vertical direction ) to the disks they reside in , having a low vertical velocity dispersion , thus being still a vertically thin structure in the disk .",
    "old bars , however , have values for vertical velocity dispersion significantly higher than those in their disks , and hence are a vertically thick structure that does not belong to the disk anymore .",
    "we present evidences that the time scale for the vertical thickening of bars may be substantially larger than 1 gyr , and thus that another physical process in addition to the vertical resonances and the hose instability may be also playing a major role in this context .",
    "these evidences come , first , from the numerical experiments , that show that even after 2 gyr of evolution the simulated bars have a vertical velocity dispersion that does not exceed 50 km / s , whereas in our observed bars we have measured values of the order of 100 km / s .",
    "second , this result is corroborated by those we present in paper ii , showing that the average color difference between vertically thin and thick bars suggest an age difference of about 10 gyr .",
    "these results reinforce our suggestion that the spitzer ",
    "schwarzchild mechanism is responsible for the later vertical thickening of bars , since we demonstrated that it can produce the observed values for the vertical velocity dispersion in these longer time scales .",
    "furthermore , our simulations also show that the boxy  peanut morphology appears quickly , in a few dynamical times after the formation of the bar , and also dissolves relatively quickly , after about 1 gyr , being hence an indication of a recently formed bar .    to estimate the ages of bars",
    "is evidently an important goal in the study of the formation and evolution of galaxies , as it has been proved many times now the major role bars play in this matter . in this paper , we already showed and discussed how it can help us to better understand the intricate relationship between bars and the fueling of agn . in paper ii , we use this tool together with multiband imaging data to explore furthermore the impact of the formation and evolution of bars on the formation and evolution of galaxies .",
    "it is highly desirable now to obtain high quality kinematical data along bars in a growing number of galaxies , and also try to extend them to the outer bar and disk limits , especially to avoid the effects of a bulge . while we are now able to separate bars that are recently formed from the ones that have been already evolving for time scales of several gyr , the next relevant step is to develop a theoretical understanding of the processes involved in the vertical evolution of bars , in order to be able to refine these age estimates .",
    "this work was financially supported by fapesp grants 99/07492 - 7 and 00/06695 - 0 .",
    "we thank rob kennicutt for his kind hospitality during a visit to the steward observatory when part of this work was undertaken .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank lia athanassoula for her detailed reading and comments on a first version of this manuscript , in particular on its theoretical aspects , which helped to improve our work .",
    "comments and suggestions from both the observational and theoretical anonymous referees were invaluable , and helped to substantially improve the presentation of our results .",
    "we would like to thank peter teuben for help on using nemo ( http://bima.astro.umd.edu/nemo/ ) .",
    "this research has made use of aladin and of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "this research has also made use of nasa s astrophysics data system , the lyon extragalactic data archive ( leda , http://leda.univ-lyon1.fr/ ) , and of spectral data retrieved from the elodie archive at the observatoire de haute - provence ( ohp , http://atlas.obs-hp.fr/elodie ) .",
    "statistical tests were made within the r environment ( http://www.r-project.org ) .",
    "abramowitz , m. , & stegun , i. a. 1965 , handbook of mathematical functions with formulas , graphs , and mathematical tables , dover books on advanced mathematics abt , h. a. , & biggs , e. s. 1972 , bibliography of stellar radial velocities ( new york : latham ) athanassoula , e. 1992a , , 259 , 328 athanassoula , e. 1992b , , 259 , 345 athanassoula , e. 2002 , , 569 , l83 athanassoula , e. 2003 , , 341 , 1179 athanassoula , e. , & bureau , m. 1999 , , 522 , 699 athanassoula , e. , fady , e. , lambert , j. c. , & bosma , a. 2000 , , 314 , 475 athanassoula , e. , & misiriotis , a. 2002 , , 330 , 35 athanassoula , e. , & sellwood , j. a. 1986 , , 221 , 213 balcells , m. , & peletier , r. f. 1994 , , 107 , 135 barnes , e. i. , sellwood , j. a. , & kosowsky , a. 2004 , , 128 , 2724 barnes , j. , & hut , p. 1986",
    ", , 324 , 446 berentzen , i. , heller , c. h. , shlosman , i. , & fricke , k. j. 1998 , , 300 , 49 binney , j. 2001 , asp conf .",
    "s. , 230 , 63 binney , j. , & merrifield , m. 1998 , galactic astronomy , ( princeton : princeton university press ) binney , j. , & tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics , ( princeton : princeton university press ) blitz , l. , & spergel , d. n. 1991 , , 379 , 631 bonnarel , f. , fernique , p. , bienaym , o. , egret , d. , genova , f. , louys , m. , ochsenbein , f. , wenger , m. , & bartlett , j. g. 2000 , , 143 , 33 bottema , r. 1993 , , 275 , 16 bournaud , f. , & combes , f. 2002 , , 392 , 83 bureau , m. , & athanassoula , e. 1999 , , 522 , 686 bureau , m. , & athanassoula , e. 2004 , , submitted bureau , m. , & freeman , k. c. 1999 , , 118 , 126 buta , r. 1986 , , 61 , 609 buta , r. , & combes , f. 1996 , , 17 , 95 carollo , c. m. , stiavelli , m. , de zeeuw , p. t. , & mack , j. 1997 , , 114 , 2366 cayrel de strobel g. , soubiran c. , & ralite n. 2001 , , 373 , 159 chung , a , & bureau , m. 2004 , , 127 , 3192 combes , f. , & elmegreen , b. g. 1993 , , 271 , 391 combes , f. , debbasch , f. , friedli , d. , & pfenniger , d. 1990 , , 233 , 82 combes , f. , & gerin , m. 1985 , , 150 , 327 combes , f. , & sanders , r. h. 1981 , , 96 , 164 corsini , e. m. , pizzella , a. , coccato , l. , & bertola , f. 2003 , , 408 , 873 courteau , s. , de jong , r. s. , & broeils , a. h. 1996 , , 457 , 73 crenshaw , d. m. , kraemer , s. b. , & gabel , j. r. 2003 , , 126 , 1690 debattista , v. p. , carollo , c. m. , mayer , l. , & moore , b. 2004 , , 604 , l93 de grijs , r. , & peletier , r. f. 1997 , a&al , 320 , l21 dehnen , w. , & binney , j. j. 1998 , , 298 , 387 delhaye , j. 1965 , galactic structure , ed .",
    "a. blaauw & m. schmidt ( chicago : university of chicago press ) de souza , r. e. , & dos anjos , s. 1987 , , 70 , 465 de souza , r. e. , gadotti , d. a. , & dos anjos , s. 2004 , , 153 , 411 de vaucouleurs , g. , de vaucouleurs , a. , corwin , h. g. , buta , r. j. , paturel , g. , & fouque , p. 1991",
    ", third reference catalog of bright galaxies ( new york : springer - verlag * ( rc3 ) * edvardsson , b. , andersen , j. , gustafsson , b. , lambert , d. l. , nissen , p. e. , & tomkin , j. 1993 , , 275 , 101 elmegreen , b. g. , & elmegreen , d. m. 1985 , , 288 , 438 elmegreen , b. g. , elmegreen , d. m. , & hirst , a. c. 2004 , , 612 , 191 emsellem , e. , greusard , d. , combes , f. , friedli , d. , leon , s. , pcontal , e. , & wozniak , h. 2001 , , 368 , 52 fisher , d. 1997 , , 113 , 950 freeman , k. c. 1970 , , 160 , 811 freeman , k. c. 1978 , iau symp . , 77 , 3 friedli , d. , & benz , w. 1993 , , 268 , 65 friedli , d. , & benz , w. 1995 , , 301 , 649 gadotti , d. a. , & de souza , r. e. 2003 , , 583 , l75 gadotti , d. a. , & de souza , r. e. 2005 , , submitted * ( paper ii ) * gadotti , d. a. , & dos anjos , s. 2001 , , 122 , 1298 gerssen , j. , kuijken , k. , & merrifield , m. r. 1997 , , 288 , 618 gerssen , j. , kuijken , k. , & merrifield , m. r. 2000 , , 317 , 545 goudfrooij , p. , & emsellem , e. 1996 , , 306 , l45 ho , l. c. , filippenko , a. v. , & sargent , w. l. w. 1997a , , 487 , 579 ho , l. c. , filippenko , a. v. , & sargent , w. l. w. 1997b , , 487 , 591 hoffleit d. , & warren w. h. 1991 , the bright star catalogue jogee , s. et al .",
    "2004 , , submitted ( astro - ph/0408382 ) jungwiert , b. , combes , f. , & axon , d. j. 1997 , , 125 , 479 kalnajs , a. j. 1972 , , 175 , 63 kennicutt , r. c. 1992 , , 79 , 255 knapen , j. h. , shlosman , i. , & peletier , r. f. 2000 , , 529 , 93 kormendy , j. 1982 , , 257 , 75 kormendy , j. , & illingworth , g. 1983 , , 265 , 632 kormendy , j. , & kennicutt , r. c. 2004 , , in press kregel , m. , van der kruit , p. c. , & freeman , k. c. 2004 , , 351 , 1247 kuijken , k. , & merrifield , m. r. 1995 , , 443 , l13 laine , s. , shlosman , i. , knapen , j. h. , & peletier , r. f. 2002 , , 567 , 97 laurikainen , e. , salo , h. , & buta , r. 2004 , , 607 , 103 maraston , c. 1998 , , 300 , 872 martin , p. , & roy , j. r. 1994 , , 424 , 599 massey , p. 1997",
    ", a user s guide to ccd reductions with iraf massey , p. , valdes , f. , & barnes , j. 1992 , a user s guide to reducing slit spectra with iraf mcelroy , d. b. 1995 , , 100 , 105 merrifield , m. r. 2004 , asp conf .",
    "s. , 317 merrifield , m. r. , & kuijken , k. 1999 , , 345 , 47 merritt , d. 1996 , , 111 , 2462 merritt , d. , & sellwood , j. a. 1994 , , 425 , 551 mulchaey , j. s. , & regan , m. w. 1997 , , 482 , l135 noguchi , m. 2000 , , 312 , 194 norman , c. a. , sellwood , j. a. , & hasan , h. 1996 , , 462 , 114 oke , j. b. 1990 , , 99 , 1621 patsis , p. a. , & athanassoula , e. 2000 , , 358 , 45 peletier , r. f. , & balcells , m. 1996 , , 111 , 2238 pfenniger , d. , & norman , c. 1990 , , 363 , 391 pizzella , a. , corsini , e. m. , vega beltrn , j. c. , & bertola , f. 2004 , , 424 , 447 polyachenko , v. l. , & polyachenko , e. v. 2003 , al , 29 , 447 prugniel , ph . , & soubiran , c. 2001 , , 369 , 1048 rix , h - w .",
    ", & white , s. d. m. 1992 , , 254 , 389 rubin , v. c. , burstein , d. , ford , w. k. , & thonnard , n. 1985 , , 289 , 81 sakamoto , k. , okumura , s. k. , ishizuki , s. , & scoville , n. z. 1999a , , 525 , 691 sakamoto , k. , okumura , s. k. , ishizuki , s. , & scoville , n. z. 1999b , , 124 , 403 sandage , a. , & bedke , j. 1994 , the carnegie atlas of galaxies , vol .",
    "1 ( washington , dc : carnegie inst . ) schwarz , m. p. 1981",
    ", , 247 , 77 sellwood , j. a. , & moore , e. m. 1999 , , 510 , 125 sellwood , j. a. , & wilkinson , a. 1993 , rep . prog .",
    "ph . , 56 , 173 srsic , j. l. , & pastoriza , m. 1965 , , 77 , 287 srsic , j. l. , & pastoriza , m. 1967 , , 79 , 152 shen , j. , & sellwood , j. a. 2004 , , 604 , 614 sheth , k. , regan , m. w. , scoville , n. z. , & strubbe , l. e. 2003 , , 592 , l13 shlosman , i. , begelman , m. c. , & frank , j. 1990 , , 345 , 679 shlosman , i. , frank , j. , & begelman , m. c. 1989 , , 338 , 45 spitzer , l. , & schwarzschild , m. 1951 , , 114 , 385 spitzer , l. , & schwarzschild , m. 1953 , , 118 , 106 teuben , p. j. 1995 , asp conf .",
    "ser . , 77 , 398 tinsley , b. m. , & gunn , j. e. 1976 , , 203 , 52 tonry , j. , & davis , m. 1979 , , 84 , 1511 toomre , a. 1963 , , 138 , 385 toomre , a. 1964 ,",
    ", 139 , 1217 toomre , a. 1966 , notes on the 1966 summer study program in geophysical fluid dynamics at woods hole oceanographic institution , vol .",
    "1 ( woods hole : woods hole oceanographic inst . ) , 111 toomre , a. 1981 , structure and evolution of normal galaxies , ed .",
    "s. m. fall & d. lynden - bell ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) , 111 van den bergh , s. 2002 , , 124 , 782 van der kruit , p. c. 2002 , asp conf . s. , 273 , 7 van der kruit , p. c. , & searle , l. 1981 , , 95 , 105 van der marel , r. p. , & franx , m. 1993 , , 407 , 525 villumsen , j. v. 1983 , , 274 , 632 wielen , r. 1977 , , 60 , 263 zaritsky , d. , kennicutt , r. c. , & huchra , j. p. 1994",
    ", , 420 , 87    llcccccc ngc 1302 & sb0(r ) & 3.89 & 0.02 & 11.40 & 1730 &  & n + ngc 1317 & saba(r ) & 2.75 & 0.06 & 11.85 & 1941 &  & y + ngc 1326 & sb0(r ) & 3.89 & 0.13 & 11.42 & 1365 & liner & n + ngc 1387 & sab0(s ) & 2.82 & 0.00 & 11.82 & 1328 &  & y + ngc 1440 & sb0(rs ) & 2.14 & 0.12 & 12.58 & 1504 &  & n + ngc 2665 & sba(rs ) & 2.04 & 0.13 & 12.96 & 1740 &  & n + ngc 4314 & sba(rs ) & 4.17 & 0.05 & 11.22 & 963 & liner & n + ngc 4394 & sbb(r ) & 3.63 & 0.05 & 11.53 & 772 & liner & y + ngc 4579 & sabb(rs ) & 5.89 & 0.10 & 10.68 & 1627 & liner / sey1.9 & n + ngc 4608 & sb0(r ) & 3.24 & 0.08 & 11.96 & 1823 &  & n + ngc 4984 & sab0(rs ) & 2.75 & 0.10 & 11.80 & 1243 &  & n + ngc 5383 & sbb(rs ) & 3.16 & 0.07 & 12.18 & 2226 &  & y + ngc 5701 & sb0/a(rs ) & 4.26 & 0.02 & 11.82 & 1556 & liner & n + ngc 5850 & sbb(r ) & 4.26 & 0.06 & 12.04 & 2483 &  & n +    lccccccccl 1302 & 10 & 40 & 10 & 20 & 100 & 28 & 47 & 12 & old + 1317 & 15 & 35 & 15 & 25 & 145 & 57 & 71 & 70 & old + 1326 & 10 & 35 & 10 & 10 & 38 & 8 & 34 & 6 & young + 1387 & 15 & 45 & 15 & 30 & 159 & 2 & 52 & 46 & old + 1440 & 15 & 35 & 15 & 15 & 178 & 2 & 83 & 20 & old",
    "+ 2665 & 10 & 35 & 10 & 20 & 67 & 32 & 43 & 66 & young ?",
    "+ 4314 & 10 & 80 & 10 & 15 & 59@xmath148 & 20 & 21 & 32 & old ?",
    "+ 4394 & 7 & 40 & 7 & 10 & 28 & 0 & 27 & 23 & young + 4579 & 10 & 40 & 10 & 10 & 57 & 6 & 20 & 3 & young + 4608 & 15 & 45 & 15 & 10 & 62 & 9 & 38 & 35 & old + 4984 & 15 & 35 &  &  & 68 &  &  &  &  + 5383 & 10 & 52 &  &  & 23@xmath148 &  &  &  & young + 5701 & 15 & 50 & 15 & 10 & 85@xmath148 & 5 & 52 & 7 & old + 5850 & 8 & 72 & 8 & 12 & 60@xmath148 & 33 & 40 & 4 & old +               not only along the bar major axis ( solid line ) but also in the bar minor axis ( dashed line ) , reaching in the latter case regions in the galaxy dominated only by the disk , i.e. , outside the contributions from the bulge and the bar , then a simple comparison of the values of @xmath0 in the bar and in the disk will suffice to evaluate if the bar is young or old .",
    "a young bar ( a ) has a velocity dispersion yet similar to the one in the disk , whereas an evolved bar ( b ) has a much higher @xmath0 than the disk due to its dynamical evolution .",
    "note that the units for the abscissae are of course only meant to represent our study .",
    "the location of the different @xmath0 behaviors will evidently vary in different galaxies.,width=377 ]     for young and old bars in the presence of a bulge . in most cases ,",
    "the acquisition of spectra from pure disk regions is very difficult and even the outermost spectra along the minor axis may be still within the bar . in these cases",
    "the radial behavior of @xmath0 is somewhat similar along both the major and minor axes of the bar .",
    "the kinematics of the bulge basically affects the central velocity dispersion .",
    "the two leftmost panels show examples of recently formed bars , revealed by the low values for @xmath0 typical of disk stars , while in the rightmost panels the evolved bars may be recognized by values of @xmath0 that can not be ascribed to a disk . in ( a ) and ( c ) , however , the bulge is dynamically hotter than the bar , even an evolved one . in ( b ) and",
    "( d ) , on the other hand , the kinematics of the bulge and the bar are similar , and this may be true for a young or for an old bar .",
    "morphological differences may also account for this different behaviors , as bulges of earlier  type galaxies have a larger velocity dispersion .",
    "note that the units for the abscissae are of course only meant to represent our study .",
    "the location of the different @xmath0 behaviors will evidently vary in different galaxies.,width=604 ]     and @xmath31 higher order moments of the gauss ",
    "hermite series .",
    "dotted lines mark the center and the region where the emitted light is dominated by the bulge .",
    "units in the abscissae are normalized by the bar semi - major and semi - minor axes.,width=415 ]         gyr of evolution .",
    "the time interval between each panel is @xmath151 yr and its physical dimension is 16 kpc .",
    "only 10% of the particles in this simulation are shown.,title=\"fig:\",width=302 ]   gyr of evolution .",
    "the time interval between each panel is @xmath151 yr and its physical dimension is 16 kpc .",
    "only 10% of the particles in this simulation are shown.,title=\"fig:\",width=302 ]         yr ( left ) and in @xmath152 yr ( right ) .",
    "note that the peanut morphology appears when the line of sight is closer to a perpendicular orientation with respect to the bar major axis ( left ) , whereas the boxy morphology appears when the line of sight is closer to a parallel orientation with respect to the bar major axis ( right ) .",
    "dimension units are 650 pc.,title=\"fig:\",width=226 ]   yr ( left ) and in @xmath152 yr ( right ) .",
    "note that the peanut morphology appears when the line of sight is closer to a perpendicular orientation with respect to the bar major axis ( left ) , whereas the boxy morphology appears when the line of sight is closer to a parallel orientation with respect to the bar major axis ( right ) .",
    "dimension units are 650 pc.,title=\"fig:\",width=226 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in order to perform a detailed study of the stellar kinematics in the vertical axis of bars , we obtained high signal  to  noise spectra along the major and minor axes of the bars in a sample of 14 face  on galaxies , and used them to determine the line of sight stellar velocity distribution , parameterized as gauss  </S>",
    "<S> hermite series . with these data </S>",
    "<S> , we developed a diagnostic tool that allows one to distinguish between recently formed and evolved bars , as well as estimate their ages , assuming that bars form in vertically thin disks , recognizable by low values for the vertical velocity dispersion @xmath0 . through @xmath1body realizations of bar unstable disk galaxies </S>",
    "<S> we could also check the time scales involved in the processes which give bars an important vertical structure . </S>",
    "<S> we show that @xmath0 in evolved bars is roughly around 100 km / s , which translates to a height scale of about 1.4 kpc , giving support to scenarios in which bulges form through disk material . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , the bars in our numerical simulations have values for @xmath0 generally smaller than 50 km / s even after evolving for 2 gyr , suggesting that a slow process is responsible for making bars as vertically thick as we observe . </S>",
    "<S> we verify theoretically that the spitzer - schwarzschild mechanism is quantitatively able to explain these observations if we assume that giant molecular clouds are twice as much concentrated along the bar as in the remaining of the disk . </S>"
  ]
}