{
  "article_text": [
    "we are investigating the nature and extent of the relationship between gas , as probed by neutral hydrogen quasar absorption line systems , and the luminous baryonic matter traced by galaxies at cosmic epochs @xmath1 . in this paper",
    "we extend the work presented by morris & jannuzi  ( 2006 ) ( paper i ) , where we set out the motivation for the project , defined the 16 lines - of - sight ( los ) observational dataset , and established the existence of an absorber  galaxy correlation using pair count analysis .",
    "we extend the analysis of this dataset to compute the absorber - galaxy 2-point correlation function , @xmath0 , as a function of hi column density and compare the results with other measurements and simulations .",
    "as discussed and referenced extensively in paper i , the history of work in this area has been characterised by a debate between two extreme positions : ( i ) that low - redshift ly@xmath10 absorbers arise in the haloes of luminous galaxies ; or ( ii ) that they are part of a filamentary network pervading the intergalactic medium ( igm ) , and are related to galaxies only to the extent that they both trace the underlying dark matter distribution .",
    "this polarised picture is undoubtedly a simplification of a reality which now seems likely to require a mixture of the two components in proportions which vary as a function of galaxy type , absorber column density and cosmic epoch .",
    "a further complication arises from the expectation that at high redshift galaxies are expected to blow most of their star - forming material out into the igm as `` superwinds '' .",
    "such outflows are hypothesised to pollute the igm with metals ( aguirre et al .",
    "2001 ) , to prevent the formation of over - luminous galaxies at @xmath11 ( benson et al .  2003 ) and to account for the low - fraction of @xmath11 baryons locked in stars .",
    "the measurement of @xmath0 provides a method to characterise these feedback processes and to facilitate a direct comparison with simulations . at @xmath12",
    ", attempts have been made to measure the impact of superwinds on the igm by cross - correlating hi and civ absorption systems with uv selected galaxies , but the early results were ambiguous ( adelberger et al .",
    "subsequent measurements have clarified the situation ( adelberger et al .",
    "2005 ) , and reveal that strong ly@xmath10 absorption is produced in intergalactic gas within @xmath13 comoving  of @xmath14 of such galaxies , and that strong civ absorption ( @xmath15 ) extends out to impact parameters of 40  ( proper ) with a velocity range @xmath16 . whether such superwind events have imprinted a relic signature on the galaxy - igm relationship which persists to @xmath1 is not known , but the measurements presented in the present paper may provide some contraints on this issue ( see also rauch et al  2005 ) .",
    "in paper i we showed that absorbers and galaxies are correlated out to impact parameters of at least 1.5  ( physical ) but that this clustering is weaker than the galaxy - galaxy clustering in the sample .",
    "the velocity differences between absorber  galaxy pairs with detected civ absorption are typically smaller than those with hi absorption only , but variations with hi column density were not assessed .",
    "several other works have cross - correlated absorption line catalogues with various low - z galaxy samples and reached broadly similar , but not identical , conclusions .",
    "ryan - weber  ( 2006 ) cross - correlated galaxies selected in hi 21  emission with low column density ( @xmath17 ) ly@xmath10 absorbers and found the clustering to be similar in strength to the clustering of the galaxies in the sample in redshift space , but somewhat stronger in real space on scales of 110@xmath18 . at somewhat higher column density , bouch et al .",
    "( 2004 ) cross - correlated mgii absorbers with luminous red galaxies ( lrgs ) at @xmath19 , and over comoving scales of 0.0513@xmath18  found that the mgii - lrg cross - correlation amplitude is @xmath20 per cent weaker than the lrg - lrg clustering . in a series of papers",
    "prochaska and collaborators have investigated the clustering of @xmath21 galaxies around absorbers along the sightline to the quasar pks 0405 - 123 ( prochaska et al .  2004 ; chen et al .  2005 ; prochaska et al .",
    "2006 ) . to the extent that it is possible using a single sightline",
    ", they showed that emission - line galaxies and absorbers with @xmath22  cluster with a strength comparable to the galaxy - galaxy clustering , whilst the absorption - line galaxies in their sample are not correlated with absorbers .",
    "they also showed that absorbers with @xmath23  are distributed more randomly with respect to galaxies , and that the strength of @xmath0 is insensitive to @xmath5 for @xmath24 . also for this sightline , williger et al .",
    "( 2006 ) found that the absorber - galaxy correlation function is significant out to @xmath25  and grows with minimum absorber column density .",
    "some of these conclusions can be tested with our multiple los dataset and that is our aim here .    for completeness",
    ", we note that chen et al .",
    "( 2001 ) presented a sample of quasar lines of sight with hst fos observations together with galaxy redshifts .",
    "as mentioned in morris & jannuzi  ( 2006 ) , we have chosen not to fold their data into our current analysis due to significant differences in survey strategy .    throughout the paper",
    "we adopt the cosmological parameters @xmath26 , @xmath27 , and @xmath28 .",
    "the absorber galaxy cross correlation function , @xmath0 , is defined through the expression for the conditional probability @xmath29 of finding a galaxy in a volume @xmath30 at position @xmath31 , given that there is an absorber at position @xmath32 :    @xmath33,\\ ] ]    where @xmath34 is the unconditional galaxy density .    the samples of absorption lines and galaxies which we will use to compute @xmath0 are identical to those defined in paper i , where full details can be found . in brief , the dataset comprises 16 quasar fields ( from the _ hubble space telescope _",
    "quasar absorption line key project dataset ; jannuzi et al .",
    "1998 ) , whose los contain a total of 381  absorption lines and 30 civ systems ( 25 at @xmath35 ) , and a total of 685 galaxies with redshifts @xmath1 .",
    "as discussed in paper i , 49 of these galaxies have recession velocities @xmath36  and are most likely stars , but their exact identification is irrelevant for this study because 98 per cent of the hi absorbers are in any case at @xmath37 .",
    "the number of galaxies in the redshift range @xmath38 which effectively overlap with the absorption line sample is 379 .    the following estimator , introduced by davis & peebles  ( 1983 ) , is used to compute @xmath0 as a function of projected separation , @xmath39 , and line - of - sight separation , @xmath40 :    @xmath41    where ag is the number of real absorber - galaxy pairs in the region @xmath42 and ar is the suitably normalized number of absorber - random galaxy pairs at the same location . following bouch et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , the numbers of pairs in each of the quasar fields are normalized separately such that @xmath43 , where the summation is over the 16 fields and @xmath44 and @xmath45 are the numbers of real and random galaxies in field @xmath46 , respectively .",
    "all absorber - galaxy separations are computed in comoving redshift space and the absorbers are assumed to be located at the sky position of the quasar los .",
    "for the assumed flat cosmology , the comoving distance to an object at redshift @xmath47 is given by :    @xmath48    and hence for a close absorber - galaxy pair separated by @xmath49 in redshift and by an angle @xmath50 on the sky , @xmath39 and @xmath40 are given by :    @xmath51    and @xmath52    several crucial details of the computational method , namely the generation of the random galaxy catalogue , the binning and smoothing of @xmath0 , and the calculation of uncertainties , are dealt with in the next subsection .",
    "our method requires a separate random galaxy catalogue for each quasar field in order to reflect any field - to - field differences in the galaxy selection function .",
    "the latter mainly arise due to the placement of slits and not from differences in spectroscopic depth .",
    "following adelberger et al .",
    "( 2003 ) , we form such catalogues by replacing each real galaxy with 100 random galaxies , whose redshifts are drawn at random from the galaxy redshift distribution of the other fields , i.e. the real and random galaxies have the same positions on the sky , but different redshifts .",
    "this reflects the fact that galaxies in the sample must be located at the position of the slits .      to reduce the effects of shot noise due to the small numbers of absorber - galaxy pairs on the measurement of @xmath0 , some consideration",
    "must be given to the form of the numerical coordinate grid , @xmath53 , on which it is evaluated .",
    "there are two approaches .",
    "the first approach adopts a grid whose cell - size is large enough to include a sufficient number of absorber - galaxy pairs .",
    "an adaptively - sized mesh would be the best way to handle strong variations in the density of absorber - galaxy pairs , but this would have the tendency to dilute the signal in regions where the paucity of pairs arises from a genuinely strong anticorrelation signal with @xmath54 .    an alternative approach is to bin the measurements much more finely ( if at all ) and then to smooth the resulting field to remove the noise .",
    "again , an adaptively - sized smoothing kernel could be the best option .",
    "the two underlying density fields , @xmath55 and @xmath56 , must be smoothed first and then ratioed to obtain the smoothed @xmath0 , as in eqn .",
    "( 2 ) .    in this work we present results obtained using both the above approaches : ( i ) on a uniform grid sampled as @xmath57",
    ", @xmath58 referred to as the ` binned ' results ( the 2@xmath18  bin size in the @xmath40 direction reflects the @xmath59  spectral resolution ; in the @xmath39 direction , the field sizes dictate that galaxies are present out to maximum comoving impact parameters of @xmath60 , which we have arbitrarily split into 5 equally spaced bins ) ; ( ii ) on a finely - space grid with the underlying density fields smoothed by a gaussian of @xmath61 , referred to as the ` smoothed ' results .",
    "we did not experiment with any adaptively - sized grids or smoothing kernels .      using the same method as ryan - weber  ( 2006 )",
    ", we attempted to measure the uncertainties on @xmath0 using jackknife resampling in which the correlation function is computed @xmath62 times with one sightline removed each time .",
    "@xmath63    a disadvantage of this method is that at locations where there are no absorber - galaxy pairs in the full sample ( i.e. @xmath64 ) , all the individual @xmath65 and hence @xmath66 .",
    "this highlights another problem of assessing the significance of the measured @xmath0 values , namely that there is no obvious figure of merit analogous to a signal - to - noise ratio , i.e. @xmath67 is not a straightforward indication of a correlation s significance .",
    "an simpler alternative to characterise the significance of the observed correlation is to use possion statistics , i.e. to calculate the probability of observing the real number of absorber - galaxy pairs ( ag ) in a given cell , given the expected number ( ar ) .",
    "we will utilise both these approaches .",
    "in so far as the sizes of our absorber and galaxy samples permit , our goal is to measure @xmath0 as a function of both hi column density and galaxy spectral type , and to compare with other results in the literature .",
    "the absorption line sample spans a range of hi column density from @xmath68 , with the bulk of the lines being at the lower end of this range , as shown by the distribution in table  1 .",
    "as discussed in paper i , the modest resolution of the _ hst _ faint object spectrograph ( fos ) ( r=1300 ; 230 ) means that the  absorption features were typically unresolved , so column densities were inferred from the equivalent width assuming a doppler @xmath69-parameter of 30 . as shown in fig .  1 of weymann et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , the @xmath70 lower detection limit on the rest equivalent width ( rew ) of absorption features in these quasars decreases from 0.2  at @xmath71 to 0.1  at @xmath72 . considering that the overlap between the galaxy and absorber sample is skewed toward the lower end of this redshift range , the lower detection limit for the absorber sample is effectively @xmath73 , equating to @xmath74 .",
    "we note , however , that the key project absorption line sample is not strictly complete for any rew value , but has a detection limit which varies with both los and redshift ( as discussed at length in paper i ) .    in the first calculation of @xmath0 we use the entire absorption line sample ,",
    "i.e. @xmath75 . the results are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : xi13bin ] where we also display the jackknife errors @xmath76 and the distributions of absorber ",
    "galaxy real ( ag ) and random ( ar ) pairs .",
    "the vertical banding in the distribution of random pairs results from an increased volume per cell at larger projected distances and a fall - off in the galaxy density at the largest radii in our sample .",
    "observe that whilst the correlation function itself clearly peaks in the cell at the smallest separations , the peak in the absolute number of absorber - galaxy pairs is spatially offset , due to volume effects .",
    "this highlights the value of basing inferences about statistical associations on @xmath0 rather than on the raw pair counts .",
    "the peak ` signal - to - noise ' ratio , @xmath67 , is approximately 3 .",
    "the evaluation of @xmath0 for various absorber sub - samples is presented in fig .",
    "[ fig : allbin ] , with the same binning scheme as that used in fig .",
    "[ fig : xi13bin ] . as the lower threshold on the hi column density",
    "is increased from @xmath77 , the strength of the central peak in @xmath0 also increases smoothly from @xmath78 to @xmath79 . at @xmath8",
    "the peak strength jumps dramatically to @xmath80 although the formal jackknife error is substantial . for absorber samples with a lower maximum hi column density ,",
    "the peak in @xmath0 is of lower amplitude , @xmath81 . for the absorbers with @xmath82 ,",
    "the peak is spatially offset from the central position .",
    "these results are summarised in table  2 where we list the peak values of @xmath0 , their jackknife uncertainties , and statistical significance assuming poisson statistics . in fig .",
    "[ fig : allsm ] we show cross - correlation functions for the same hi column density intervals evaluated on a fine grid but with the underlying pair count fields heavily smoothed , as described in section 2.1 .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : allsm ] we also show the auto - correlation function of the galaxies in the sample .",
    "we note that whilst the peak value is comparable to other measurements of the galaxy - galaxy 2-point correlation function on scales of 12@xmath18  ( e.g. from the 2df ; hawkins et al .  2003 ) , it is formally lower than the peak in @xmath0 for the @xmath83  sample , which appears surprising .",
    "however , in view of the substantial uncertainty on the peak value of @xmath0 for the latter subsample ( see table 2 ) , any such differences in peak amplitude are not significant .",
    "we also note that other authors have compared the absorber - galaxy cross - correlation function to the galaxy - galaxy auto - correlation function to estimate the mass of the dark matter haloes in which the absorbers are embedded .",
    "whilst this procedure is acceptable for damped lyman alpha absorbers ( which are likely to be galaxies ) ( e.g. bouch et al .",
    "2004 ) , it is not appropriate for diffuse ly@xmath10 absorbers below @xmath84 .",
    "the latter are likely to arise in unbound cosmological filaments ( e.g. dav et al .",
    "1999 ) so we do not pursue such calculations here . indeed , ryan - weber ( 2006 ) used this method and found that weak ly@xmath10 absorbers should arise in @xmath85  groups ; this seems unphysical since gas in such groups would be quite hot , while the individual galaxies interstellar media do not have nearly the cross - section to reproduce the counting statistics of weaker  forest absorbers .    for civ absorbers , fig .",
    "[ fig : allbin ] shows that the peak strength of @xmath0 is comparable to that of hi absorbers with @xmath9 .",
    "this is not surprising as in our dataset the median hi column density of civ absorbers is @xmath86 , while the median of the full ly@xmath10 absorber sample is @xmath87 . the median hi column density of ly@xmath10 absorbers with @xmath9  is @xmath88 .",
    ".distribution of hi absorber column density [ cols=\"<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]      + @xmath89 number of real ( random ) absorber - galaxy pairs in cell at @xmath0 peak + @xmath90 poisson probability of observing @xmath91 peak pair counts .",
    "these are included for completeness but substantially overestimate the significance level of any signal ; the jackknife errors offer a more reliable significance measure .",
    "+ @xmath92 peak not in central bin          chen et al .",
    "( 2005 ) reported that the strength of the absorber - galaxy cross - correlation may be dependent on galaxy spectral type , in the sense that a strong correlation signal is found for emission - line galaxies but not for absorption - line galaxies . here",
    "we investigate this issue by splitting our galaxy sample into two sub - samples , according to whether the redshift assigned in paper i was obtained by identification of a strong emission line or where no such emission line could be seen .",
    "the resulting emission - line and absorption - line galaxy samples contain 406 and 225 galaxies , respectively . of the original full galaxy sample of 685",
    ", a total of 54 galaxies could not be classified and were not included in this analysis : 8 of them have spectra with an ambiguous classification , and the redshifts of 46 galaxies were obtained from the literature without associated spectral information ( see paper i for full details ) .",
    "the 225 absorption - line galaxies include most of the 49 very low redshift objects which were classified as probable stars in paper i , but this is not critical because such objects are too low in redshift to overlap with the absorption line sample .",
    "these two galaxy samples were cross - correlated with the full hi absorption line catalogue ( i.e. @xmath75 ) and the results are displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : galsplit ] . for the emission - line sample ,",
    "the form of @xmath0 is qualitatively similar to the result obtained with the full galaxy sample ( fig .",
    "[ fig : xi13bin ] ) , but the peak strength is now marginally ( but not significantly ) higher at @xmath93 , compared with @xmath94 for the full galaxy sample . with just the absorption - line galaxies , the central peak in @xmath0 is observed to be displaced from the central bin to 24  @xmath18  along the los , although we do not claim that this is necessarily a statistically significant finding , in view of the much smaller size of the absorption - line galaxy sample . a more direct comparison with the 1-d results of chen et al .",
    "is presented in the next subsection .",
    "measurements ( thick lines ) with those of chen et al .",
    "( 2005 ) ( dashed lines ) for different galaxy subsamples and absorption lines with @xmath95(upper panel : all galaxies : middle panel : emission - line galaxies ; lower panel : absorption - line galaxies ) .",
    "@xmath96 is plotted as a function of comoving line - of - sight distance for galaxies within @xmath13  of the line of sight .",
    "error bars on our data points have been displaced in the x - direction for clarity.,width=321 ]      of the @xmath0 measurements mentioned in the introduction , that by chen et al .",
    "( 2005 ) is the most similar to our work in its methodology , as it is based on an optical magnitude - limited galaxy redshift survey along the los to a single quasar ( pks 0405 - 123 at @xmath97 ) . here",
    "we make a comparison between our results and their 1-d measurements of @xmath0 as function of galaxy type .",
    "we begin with a summary of the chen et al .",
    "their galaxy sample comprises 482 galaxies with @xmath98  mag and spectroscopic redshifts over a 1600  arcmin@xmath99 area within a @xmath100  ( comoving ) impact parameter of the quasar los ; the redshift distribution has a broad peak at @xmath101 . for their @xmath0 analysis",
    "they restrict their attention to galaxies with impact parameter @xmath102  of the los , of which there are 61 ( 46 emission - line galaxies , and 15 absorption - line galaxies ; no details of the spectral classification method are given ) .",
    "the redshift distribution of this small impact parameter subsample is skewed towards lower redshifts compared with the entire sample , with a median redshift @xmath103 .",
    "they claim a galaxy redshift accuracy of @xmath104 , or @xmath105 .",
    "the chen et al .",
    "absorption line sample comprises 112 ly@xmath10 systems at redshifts @xmath106 with hi column densities @xmath107 ( 80 per cent of the lines are at @xmath108 , the regime in which our absorption line sample is most incomplete ) . the bulk of the lines were derived from observations with the _ hst _ space telescope imaging spectrograph ( stis ) with spectral resolution of @xmath109 .",
    "the latter is substantially higher than the @xmath110  resolution of the fos spectra from which our absorption line sample was derived . compared with our dataset , the chen et al .",
    "sample can thus in principle probe @xmath0 on ( i ) smaller velocity scales ; ( ii ) for weaker absorption lines ; ( iii ) with fewer complications arising from absorption line blending .",
    "the first two of these differences can be handled by comparing on appropriate @xmath111 scales and for sufficiently high @xmath5 , but the issue of line blending in the fos spectra is less straightforward and will be discussed later .",
    "mindful of the above differences between the datasets , we restrict our attention to a comparison with the chen et al .",
    "@xmath0 measurements for absorption lines with @xmath112 .",
    "chen et al . computed @xmath0 for galaxies within @xmath13  comoving of the los for the entire galaxy sample and its emission - line and absorption - line galaxy subsamples , computed out to los velocity separations of @xmath113 .",
    "converting @xmath111 to comoving distance , we plot the chen et al .",
    "measurements along with our results out to los separations of 20@xmath18  in fig .",
    "[ fig : chencomp ] . error bars on our data points were derived using jackknife resampling ; chen et al .",
    "give no details of their error bar computation .",
    "the plots in fig .",
    "[ fig : chencomp ] demonstrate that we do not reproduce the high peak in @xmath0 at the smallest separations ( comoving los separations @xmath114 ) found by chen et al .",
    "for the entire galaxy sample : our peak values are more than @xmath115 apart . possibly related to this",
    ", we also do not substantiate their finding of much stronger @xmath0 for the emission - line galaxies as compared with the absorption - line galaxies . whilst our dataset is substantially larger than that of chen et al . in terms of the numbers of galaxies",
    "( our study : 179 galaxies with impact parameters @xmath102  overlapping with the absorption - line redshift distribution ; chen et al : 61 galaxies ) and absorbers ( our study : 180 ; chen et al . : 15 ) , a much larger dataset will be needed to address more conclusively any dependence of @xmath0 on galaxy type .",
    "it should also be borne in mind that the chen et al .",
    "study is effectively at redshift @xmath116 ( in terms of maximal overlap between absorber and galaxy samples ) , whereas our study is at @xmath117 .",
    "concerning the possible impact of different degrees of absorption - line blending in quasar spectra from the fos and stis , we refer to penton , stocke & shull  ( 2004 ) : they smoothed their stis / goddard high resolution spectrograph ( ghrs ) spectra to fos resolution and found a 1525  per cent increase in the line density at rew@xmath118  ( @xmath119  for @xmath120 ) due to the blending of weaker lines .",
    "since chen et al . found that these weaker absorption lines correlate much less strongly with galaxies , this alone would suppress our peak @xmath0 values by 2535  per cent relative to their measurements , going some way to explaining the differences in fig .",
    "[ fig : chencomp ] .",
    "however , the full impact on the @xmath0 measurements of differences between our respective galaxy and absorption - line samples merits further investigation . finally we note that the 1-d @xmath0 in fig .",
    "[ fig : chencomp ] all exhibit possible minima at los separations @xmath121 , similar to the feature in the smoothed 2-d plots of fig .",
    "[ fig : allsm ] ; the physical origin of this feature is not known .",
    "ryan - weber  ( 2006 ) cross - correlated quasar absorption line systems with @xmath122 against an hi - selected galaxy catalogue from the hipass survey .",
    "as in the chen et al . absorption line sample , this absorption line sample is based on _ hst _ stis and ghrs spectra and thus provides considerably higher velocity resolution and weak line sensitivity compared with our sample .",
    "the galaxy sample is biased towards gas - rich galaxies , including gas - rich dwarf and low surface brightness galaxies often absent from magnitude - limited optical catalogues such as ours .",
    "these differences , together with the lower redshift of her measurements ( which are effectively at @xmath123 ) , might account for the extreme los elongation seen in her @xmath0 measurements  out to @xmath124  comoving  which we do not reproduce .",
    "indeed , morphological analysis of the optical counterparts to the 1000 brightest hipass sources confirms that the majority are late - type gas - rich galaxies ( zwaan et al .",
    "the origins of this los elongation are explored further in section 4.2 below with the help of sph simulations . in seeking to compare our @xmath0 results with those of ryan - weber ,",
    "an important first step is to compare the ranges of galaxy mass probed by the two surveys .",
    "ryan - weber states that the geometric mean hi mass of galaxies contributing to absorber - galaxy pairs is @xmath125 , with a corresponding dark halo mass of @xmath126 ( as inferred from modelling by mo et al .",
    "in contrast , our galaxy sample was selected by r - band imaging and follow - up spectroscopy and is thus expected to contain a higher fraction of early - type galaxies . in paper",
    "i ( section 2.3.5 ) we attempted to place bounds on the rest - frame b - band absolute magnitudes of our galaxy sample : confining our attention to galaxies at redshifts @xmath127 which overlap with the absorption line sample , we find that the vast majority of these galaxies have @xmath128  mag , with a median @xmath129  mag . with reference to models of the conditional probability distribution of halo masses ( e.g. cooray 2005 and references therein ) , we expect galaxies at this median luminosity to be hosted by dark matter haloes of mass @xmath130 .",
    "we note that not only are our galaxies hosted by more massive haloes than those of ryan - weber , but that the two samples fall either side of a critical halo mass , at which the nature of gas accretion onto galaxies is thought to change .",
    "using sph simulations , keres et al .",
    "( 2005 ) find that galaxies hosted by haloes with @xmath131  ( or , equivalently , baryonic mass @xmath132 ) acquire most of their gas via cold mode accretion in which gas at @xmath133k is efficiently drawn in from large distances along filaments . for more massive galaxies ,",
    "the dominant mechanism is quasi - spherical accretion of hot shocked gas at the virial temperature of the halo , more akin to the classical picture outlined by white & rees  ( 1978 ) .",
    "moreover , this transition in accretion mode is a strong function of halo mass over the range of interest : from @xmath134  to @xmath135 , the fraction of gas accreted by the ` cold mode ' accretion varies from @xmath136 to @xmath137 , virtually independent of redshift .",
    "similar results have been found by dekel & birnboim  ( 2006 ) . we do not wish to claim that this switch from cold mode filamentary accretion in ryan - weber s hipass galaxies to hot mode accretion in our galaxies can wholly explain the different degrees of los elongation in @xmath0 measurements using the two samples , but it may be a useful signpost to fruitful areas of future investigation .",
    "in this section we use cosmological simulations to generate synthetic 2d absorber - galaxy correlation functions to compare with the observations , and to gain insight into the physical origin of features such as the ` finger of god ' which is seen in the results of ryan - weber ( 2006 ) .",
    "we ran a simulation using gadget-2 ( springel & hernquist 2003 ) with improvements as described in oppenheimer & dav ( 2006 ) , in a cubic comoving volume of 64@xmath18mpc on a side .",
    "we employed the momentum - driven outflow model ` vzw ' as described in oppenheimer & dav , and a cosmology concordant with 3rd - year wmap results ( spergel et al .",
    "2006 ) : @xmath138 , @xmath139 , @xmath140  km / s / mpc , @xmath141 , and @xmath142 .",
    "the force resolution is @xmath100kpc , and the mass per gas particle is @xmath143 .",
    "the galaxy finding procedure is described in finlator et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , using a minimum resolved galaxy stellar mass of @xmath144 .",
    "the simulation volume was pierced by 1000 randomly - located sightlines to simulate quasar spectra , and absorption line profiles were fitted using autovp ( dav et al .",
    "absorber - galaxy pairs were measured and tabulated from these spectra for los separations @xmath145  and projected separations of @xmath146  ( physical ) . following conversion of pair separations into comoving redshift space ,",
    "these catalogues were used to create 2-d absorber - galaxy correlation functions .",
    "two such absorber - galaxy pair catalogues were created in order to compare with our observational results and those of ryan - weber , as we now describe .",
    "firstly , to compare with the observational results presented in section 3 of this paper , the simulation output was extracted at @xmath147 ( giving a total redshift pathlength of @xmath148 ) .",
    "the pixel scale of the quasar spectra was set to 70  and convolved with a gaussian of 230  fwhm , in order to match the resolution of the _ hst _ faint object spectrograph .",
    "hi absorption lines were selected with rest equivalent width rew @xmath149 , corresponding to column densities @xmath75  for @xmath150 .",
    "the strength of the ionizing background radiation was increased by a factor of 4 over the haardt & madau  ( 1996 ) value in order to normalise the @xmath151 value for @xmath152  lines to the hst absorption line key project results ( weymann et al .",
    "the entire resolved galaxy population was used for the comparison , with a galaxy density of 0.01145 per cubic @xmath18  comoving above the @xmath144 baryonic mass limit . as shown by , for example",
    ", the deep evolutionary exploratory probe 2 ( deep2 ) galaxy redshift survey ( willmer et al .",
    "2006 ) , this is comparable to the space density of galaxies at this redshift in an absolute range which matches our observed galaxy sample ( @xmath128  mag ; see section 3 ) .",
    "the second absorber - galaxy pair catalogue was extracted from the simulations at redshift @xmath11 ( giving a total redshift pathlength of @xmath153 ) to compare with the ryan - weber results .",
    "the spectral resolution of the artifical quasar sightlines was set to 8  to mimic the higher resolution _ hst _ stis and ghrs spectra , and hi absorption lines were extracted for rew=0.01260.45 , corresponding to @xmath154  for @xmath120 . mimicing the hipass selection of galaxies in hi emission by means of a simple cut in baryonic mass is a crude approximation , but it is the only tool at our disposal with the current simulation .",
    "somewhat arbitrarily , we use an upper baryonic mass cut - off for galaxies of @xmath155 . to put this figure in context ,",
    "we refer to some results from durham semi - analytic models of galaxy formation ( cedric lacey , private communication ; for the latest implementation of such models see bower et al .",
    "such models track the behaviour of gas and stars in dark matter haloes with simple physical prescriptions . at redshift @xmath11 ,",
    "dark halo masses of @xmath156 and @xmath157  contain galaxies of total baryonic mass ( hot gas , cold gas and stars ) of @xmath158 and @xmath6 , respectively .",
    "the corresponding cold gas masses are @xmath159 and @xmath160 , respectively .",
    "a baryonic mass cut off of @xmath155  corresponds to a cold gas mass of @xmath161  and a dark halo mass of @xmath162 .",
    "as stated in section 3 , the hipass galaxies contributing to ryan - weber s absorber - galaxy pairs have mean hi and dark halo masses of @xmath163 and @xmath164 , respectively .",
    "the space density of these simulated galaxies is 0.006107 per cubic @xmath18  comoving .",
    "the two - dimensional @xmath0 which result from the simulations described in section 4.1 are displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : simulated ] . plots with two types of binning / smoothing are presented , firstly binned coarsely to match our results in fig .",
    "[ fig : allbin ] ( although the simulated plots extend out to slightly smaller los distances ) , and secondly using the technique of ryan - weber .",
    "the latter evaluates @xmath0 on a fine grid ( @xmath165 ) and then smoothes the resulting @xmath0 by @xmath166 pixels .",
    "note that this differs from the smoothing procedure we used to generate fig .",
    "[ fig : allsm ] , where the underlying pair counts were smoothed before computing @xmath0 .    comparing the simulations of fig .",
    "[ fig : simulated ] with our observational results in fig .",
    "[ fig : allbin ] and with the results of ryan - weber , we notice that both sets of observed @xmath0 are much more strongly peaked at the smallest separations than the simulations , i.e. we observe much more gas at small velocity offset and/or close to the galaxies than present in the simulations .",
    "redshift measurement errors in the observations would tend to weaken such peaks , so this can not be the origin of the discrepancy .",
    "a related issue is the asymmetric elongation of the simulated @xmath0 in redshift space along the los , which is qualitatively similar to that found by ryan - weber but which appears to be absent from our measurements .",
    "such a feature is analogous to that seen in the autocorrelation function of galaxies ( see e.g. hawkins et al .",
    "2003 ) , where it arises from departures from hubble flow due to virialised motions in groups and clusters . commonly referred to as the ` finger of god ' , the effect was seen in @xmath0 in an earlier generation of cosmological simulations ( e.g. dav et al .",
    "1999 ) but its physical interpretation is not as clear as in the galaxy - galaxy case .",
    "ryan - weber  ( 2006 ) interpreted it as arising from the draining of gas from low - density regions into collapsed structures . in a subsequent paper",
    "we will address the role of galaxy outflows in causing the ` finger of god ' , and also investigate the dependence of @xmath0 on galaxy mass and absorption line column density .",
    "a more ambitious goal is to simulate the full observational dataset , including the selection of the galaxies in a somewhat more realistic manner than is possible with the existing cuts in total baryonic mass .    in closing this section",
    ", we comment on another possible explanation for the ` finger of god ' which merits further investigation .",
    "it may be a geometrical effect which leads to a bias towards observing large numbers of galaxy - absorber pairs at small projected sky separations when a los is oriented directly down an igm filament with clumpy hi absorption . at redshifts @xmath167 ,",
    "simulations show that absorbing gas with @xmath168  resides in a filamentary network ( e.g. dav et al .",
    "1999 ) , whereas at higher redshifts such gas is distributed more diffusely .",
    "this basic structure evolves little over @xmath169 but absorbing material of a given column density becomes increasingly clumpy towards lower redshifts .",
    "this might partially account for the increased los elongation measured by ryan - weber at @xmath170 compared with our measurements at @xmath171 , but further investigations are needed .",
    "if only a very small proportion of sightlines are fortuitously aligned with filaments , it is much more likely that such chance alignments occur in the simulations ( 1000 los ; @xmath172 ) which have a much higher redshift pathlength than our dataset ( 16 los ; @xmath173 ) or that of ryan - weber ( 27 los ; @xmath174 ) .",
    "in summary , our measurements show that the strength of the correlation function between hi quasar absorption systems and galaxies increases with hi column density , certainly for comoving separations @xmath175  ( projected ) and @xmath114  ( line - of - sight ) where the signal : noise of our measurements is greatest .",
    "the peak strength of the absorber - galaxy clustering increases only slowly as the lower @xmath5 limit is increased from @xmath6 to @xmath7 , but then jumps considerably ( albeit with substantial uncertainty ) above @xmath176 .",
    "if real , such a jump may reflect the transition from absorption within the filamentary igm to absorption within the haloes of individual galaxies .",
    "the peak strength of the civ absorber - galaxy cross - correlation is comparable to that of the hi absorber - galaxy signal for @xmath9 .",
    "our results are broadly consistent with the finding of chen et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , based on the sightline to the quasar pks 0405 - 123 , that the absorber - galaxy cross - correlation strength is insensitive to hi column density in the range @xmath177 , although table  2 shows evidence for a weak increase with @xmath5 .",
    "we find tentative but inconclusive evidence for differences in the 2-d absorber - galaxy cross correlation function for our subsamples of emission - line and absorption - line galaxies , but we do not substantiate the claim of chen et al . that the 1-d cross - correlation signal is much higher for emission - line galaxies than for absorption - line galaxies . this discrepancy between our results and those of chen et al . is not fully understood , but it may be partially ascribed to the effects of line blending in the fos spectra compared with the higher resolution stis quasar spectra .",
    "comparison was also made with the results of ryan - weber  ( 2006 ) on the cross - correlation of hi - selected galaxies with quasar absorbers with @xmath178 , who find a marked ` finger of god ' elongation out to @xmath124  along the sight .",
    "such a feature appears to be absent from our measurements , but we demonstrated that there are significant differences in the characteristic mass of our respective galaxy samples which may account for such differences .",
    "the dark matter halo masses of the two samples fall either side of a critical dark halo mass of @xmath179  ( with the ryan - weber sample being lower in mass ) , at which simulations show that the nature of the dominant mode of gas accretion onto galaxies changes fundamentally from cold filamentary accretion in low mass haloes to hot quasi - spherical accretion ( keres et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "we also constructed synthetic absorber - galaxy 2-point correlation functions using output from a @xmath180  box sph simulation aimed at reproducing our own observational results and those of ryan - weber  ( 2006 ) .",
    "the simulations revealed somewhat less gas at the smallest separations from galaxies than present in the observations and a strong ` finger of god ' elongation of @xmath0 along the los .",
    "these discrepancies may originate in true deficiencies in the physics of the sph simulations , or in a failure to accurately mimic the observed galaxy selection functions , or through some more subtle selection effect .    for future work",
    ", we suggest that effort be invested to understand the dominant contribution to the ` finger of god ' elongation in @xmath0 , and the nature of the apparent transition in @xmath0 between @xmath181 and @xmath176 . on the theoretical side",
    ", comparison should be made with a variety sph simulations matching the observational selection function more closely .",
    "on the observational side , it would also be valuable to conduct surveys for higher - redshift galaxies around existing hst quasar absorption line key project sightlines to ensure a better match between the redshift distributions of the absorption lines and the galaxies , and around higher - resolution hst stis quasar sightlines .",
    "it would also be valuable to survey some of these sightlines with large - format ifus to enhance sensitivity to emission - line galaxies which may be preferentially missed by our existing broad - band optical selection techniques .",
    "this work has been partially financed by a rolling grant at durham university from the uk particle physics and astronomy research council .",
    "btj acknowledges partial support from nasa through hf-1045.01 - 93a and from the national optical astronomy observatory , operated by aura , inc .",
    ", on behalf of the us national science foundation .",
    "support for rd was provided in part by nasa through grant hst - ar-10308.01-a from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "we thank bob carswell , cedric lacey and neil crighton for useful conversations , and the anonymous referee for an extensive and constructive report .",
    "rjw gratefully acknowledges the hospitality of the harvard - smithsonian center for astrophysics during the completion of this paper .",
    "adelberger k.l . ,",
    "shapley a.e . ,",
    "steidel c.c . , pettini m. , erb d.k . , reddy n.a . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 629 , 636 adelberger k.l .",
    ", steidel c.c .",
    "shapley a.e . , pettini m. , 2003 , apj , 584 , 45 bouch n. , murphy m.t . , proux c. , 2004 , mnras , 354 , l25 bower r.g . , et al . , 2006 , mnras , 370 , 645 bruscoli m. , ferrara a. , marri s. , schneider r. , maselli a. , rollinde e. , aracil b. , 2003 , mnras , 343 , l41 chen h .- w . , lanzetta k.m . , webb j.k . , barcons x. , 2001 , apj , 559 , 654 chen h .- w .",
    ", prochaska j.x . , weiner b.j . ,",
    "mulchaey j.s . ,",
    "williger g.m . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 629 , l25 cooray a. , 2005 , mnras , 364 , 303 dav r. , hernquist l. , weinberg d.h . , katz n. , 1997 , apj , 477 , 21 dav r. , hernquist l. , katz n. , weinberg d.h . , 1999 , apj , 511 , 521 dekel a. , birnboim y. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 2 davis m. , peebles p.j.e . , 1983 , apj , 267 , 465 finlator , k. , dav , r. , papovich , c. , & hernquist , l. 2006 , apj , 639 , 672 haardt f. , madau p. , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 461 , 20 hawkins e. , et al . , 2003 , mnras , 346 , 78 jannuzi b.t . , et al . , 1998 , apjs , 118 , 1 keres d. , katz n. , weinberg d.h . , dav r. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 2 mo h.j .",
    ", yang x. , van den bosch f.c . , katz n. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 1155 morris s.l . , jannuzi b.t . , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 1261 oppenheimer , b. d. & dav , r. 2006 , mnras , submitted , astro - ph/0605651 penton s.v . , stocke j.t",
    ", shull j.m . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 152 , 29 prochaska j.x . , chen h .- w .",
    ", howk j.c . , weiner b.j . , mulchaey j.s . , 2004 ,",
    "apj , 617 , 718 prochaska j.x .",
    ", weiner b.j . , chen h .- w . , mulchaey j.s . , 2006 ,",
    "apj , 643 , 680 rauch m. , becker g.d . , viel m. , sargent w.l.w . , smette a. , simcoe r.a . ,",
    "barlow t.a . ,",
    "haehnelt m.g . , 2005 ,",
    "apj , 632 , 58 ryan - weber e.v . , 2006 , mnras , 367 , 1251 spergel , d. n. , et al . , apj , submitted , astro - ph/0603449 springel , v. & hernquist , l. 2003 , mnras , 339 , 289 weymann r.j . , et al . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 506 , 1 white s.d.m .",
    ", rees m.j . , 1978 ,",
    "mnras , 183 , 341 wilman r.j .",
    ", gerssen j. , bower r.g .",
    ", morris s.l .",
    ", bacon r. , de zeeuw p.t .",
    ", davies r.l . , 2005 ,",
    "nature , 436 , 227 williger g.m . , heap s.r . , weymann r.j . , dav r. , ellingson e. , carswell r.f . , tripp t.m .",
    ", jenkins e.b . , 2006 , apj , 636 , 631 zwaan m.a . , et al . , 2003 ,",
    "aj , 125 , 2842"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we measure the 2-point correlation function , @xmath0 , between galaxies and quasar absorption line systems at @xmath1 , using the dataset of morris & jannuzi ( 2006 ) on 16 lines - of - sight ( los ) with uv spectroscopy and galaxy multi - object spectroscopy ( paper i ) . </S>",
    "<S> the measurements are made in 2d redshift space out to @xmath2  ( comoving ) along the los and out to @xmath3  projected ; as a function of hi column density in the range @xmath4 , also for civ absorption systems , and as a function of galaxy spectral type . </S>",
    "<S> this extends the absorber - galaxy pair analysis of paper i. we find that the amplitude of the peak in @xmath0 at the smallest separations increases slowly as the lower limit on @xmath5 is increased from @xmath6 to @xmath7 , and then jumps sharply ( albeit with substantial uncertainties ) for @xmath8 . for civ absorbers , the peak strength of @xmath0 is roughly comparable to that of hi absorbers with @xmath9 , consistent with the finding that the civ absorbers are associated with strong hi absorbers .    </S>",
    "<S> we do not reproduce the differences reported by chen et al . between 1d @xmath0 measurements using galaxy sub - samples of different spectral types . however , the full impact on the measurements of systematic differences in our samples is hard to quantify . </S>",
    "<S> we compare the observations with smoothed particle hydrodynamical ( sph ) simulations and discover that in the observations @xmath0 is more concentrated to the smallest separations than in the simulations . </S>",
    "<S> the latter also display a ` finger of god ' elongation of @xmath0 along the line of sight in redshift space , which is absent from our data , but similar to that found by ryan - weber for the cross - correlation of quasar absorbers and hi - emission - selected galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> the physical origin of these ` fingers of god ' is unclear and we thus highlight several possible areas for further investigation .    # </S>",
    "<S> 1to 0pt#1 # 1 # 1    to size    # 1    to size     = cmr10 scaled2 = cmbx10 scaled2 = cmti10 scaled2 ps . 2    = 6truein    galaxies  intergalactic medium , galaxies  quasars : absorption lines , galaxies  galaxies : haloes </S>"
  ]
}