{
  "article_text": [
    "in summarizing a conference in memory of yukawa nearly 10 years ago , prof .",
    "h. sato referred to the dark matter problem as made of three ` islands ' : ( i ) astronomical facts concerning galaxies and the large scale structure of the universe , ( ii ) the big bang model and ( iii ) particle physics . here",
    "we shall focus on the first ` island ' and discuss briefly implications to dark matter models and the validity of the cosmological principle .",
    "it is believed by most cosmologists that on the very large scales the universe is isotropic and homogeneous . however , on scales much smaller than the horizon the distribution of luminous matter is clumpy .",
    "surveys such as cfa , ssrs , iras , apm and las campanas have yielded useful information on local structure and on the density parameter @xmath0 from redshift distortion and from comparison with the peculiar velocity field . together with measurements of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) radiation and gravitational lensing the redshift surveys provide major probes of the world s geometry and the dark matter .    in spite of the rapid progress",
    "two gaps remain in our understanding of the density fluctuations as a function of scale : ( i ) it is still unclear how to relate the distributions of galaxies and mass ; ( ii ) little is known about fluctuations on intermediate scales between these of local galaxy surveys ( @xmath1 mpc ) and the scales probed by cobe ( @xmath2 mpc ) .",
    "another related but unresolved issue is the value of the density parameter @xmath0 .",
    "putting together different cosmological observations , the derived values seem to be inconsistent with each other . taking into account moderate biasing ,",
    "the redshift and peculiar velocity data on large scales yield @xmath3 , with a trend towards the popular value @xmath4 ( e.g. dekel 1994 ; strauss & willick 1995 for summary of results ) . on the other hand",
    ", the high fraction of baryons in clusters , combined with the baryon density from big bang nucleosynthesis suggests @xmath5 ( white et al .",
    "1993 ) . moreover , an @xmath6 universe is also in conflict with a high value of the hubble constant ( @xmath7 km / sec / mpc ) , as in this model the universe turns out to be younger than globular clusters .",
    "a way out of these problems was suggested by adding a positive cosmological constant , such that @xmath8 , to satisfy inflation .",
    "two recent observations constrain @xmath9 : the observed frequency of lensed quasars is too small , yielding an upper limit @xmath10 ( e.g. kochanek 1996 ) , and the magnitude - redshift relation for supernovae type ia ( e.g. perlmutter et al .",
    "the next decade will see several cmb experiments ( e.g. planck , map , vsa ) which promise to determine ( in a model - dependent way ) the cosmological parameters to within a few percent .",
    "we shall focus here on several issues related to clustering and cosmological parameters from new surveys .",
    "existing optical and iras redshift surveys contain @xmath11 galaxies .",
    "multifibre technology now allows us to produce redshift surveys of millions of galaxies .",
    "two major surveys have just started .",
    "the american - japanese sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) will yield images in 5 colours for 50 million galaxies , and redshifts for about 1 million galaxies over a quarter of the sky ( gunn and weinberg 1995 ) .",
    "it will be carried out using a dedicated 2.5 m telescope in new mexico .",
    "the median redshift of the survey is @xmath12 .",
    "a complementary anglo - australian survey , the 2 degree field ( 2df ) will produce redshifts for 250,000 galaxies brighter than @xmath13 ( with median redshift of @xmath12 ) , selected from the apm catalogue .",
    "the survey will utilize a new 400-fibre system on the 4 m aat , covering @xmath14 sq deg of the sky .",
    "about 10,000 redshifts have been measured so far ( as of june 1998 ) . a deeper extension down to @xmath15 for 10,000 galaxies",
    "is also planned for the 2df survey .",
    "the main goals of the 2df galaxy survey are :    1 @xmath16 accurate measurements of the power spectrum of galaxy clustering on scales @xmath17 mpc , allowing a direct comparison with cmb anisotropy measurements such as the recently approved nasa map and esa planck surveyor satellites .",
    "the power - spectrum derived from the projected apm galaxies ( see figure 2 ) gives an idea about the scales probed by the 2df redshift survey .",
    "1 @xmath16 measurement of the distortion of the clustering pattern in redshift space providing constraints on the cosmological density parameter @xmath0 and the spatial distribution of dark matter .    1 @xmath16 determination of variations in the spatial and velocity distributions of galaxies as a function of luminosity , spectral type and star - formation history , providing important constraints on models of galaxy formation .",
    "1 @xmath16 investigations of the morphology of galaxy clustering and the statistical properties of the fluctuations , _",
    "e.g. _ whether the initial fluctuations are gaussian as predicted by inflationary models of the early universe .",
    "1 @xmath16 a study of clusters and groups of galaxies in the redshift survey , in particular the measurement of infall in clusters and dynamical estimates of cluster masses at large radii .    1 @xmath16 application of novel techniques ( e.g. principal component analysis and artificial neural networks ) to classify the uniform sample of @xmath18 spectra , thereby obtaining a comprehensive inventory of galaxy types as a function of spatial position within the survey .",
    "figure 1 ( from folkes et al .",
    "1998 ) shows cone plots of redshift - space distribution for a subset of @xmath19 2df galaxies .",
    "the galaxies were classified according to their spectra by principal component analysis ( folkes , lahav & maddox 1996 ) and then divided into two groups of nearly equal numbers . the ` red ' ( early type ) galaxies do appear more clustered , with evidence for finger - of - god effects caused by the velocity dispersion of galaxy clusters , while the ` blue ' ( late - type ) galaxies show a more uniform distribution , although clustering is still evident .",
    "this is in qualitative agreement with the well - known morphology - density relation .",
    "quantifying these differences and comparing them with the predictions of models will be a major focus of the future analysis of the 2df galaxy survey . for more details on the 2df galaxy survey",
    "see    http://msowww.anu.edu.au/@xmath20colless/2df/",
    "the big new surveys ( sdss , 2df ) will only probe a median redshift @xmath12 .",
    "it remains crucial to probe the density fluctuations at higher @xmath21 , and to fill in the gap between scales probed by previous local galaxy surveys and the scales probed by cobe and other cmb experiments .",
    "here we discuss the x - ray background ( xrb ) and radio sources as probes of the density fluctuations at median redshift @xmath22 .",
    "other possible high - redshift traces are quasars and clusters of galaxies .",
    "radio sources in surveys have typical median redshift @xmath23 , and hence are useful probes of clustering at high redshift .",
    "unfortunately , it is difficult to obtain distance information from these surveys : the radio luminosity function is very broad , and it is difficult to measure optical redshifts of distant radio sources .",
    "earlier studies claimed that the distribution of radio sources supports the cosmological principle. however , the wide range in intrinsic luminosities of radio sources would dilute any clustering when projected on the sky .",
    "recent analyses of new deep radio surveys ( e.g. first ) suggest that radio sources are actually clustered at least as strongly as local optical galaxies ( e.g. cress et al .",
    "1996 ; magliocchetti et al . 1998 ) . nevertheless , on the very large scales the distribution of radio sources seems nearly isotropic .",
    "comparison of the measured quadrupole in a radio sample in the green bank and parkes - mit - nrao 4.85 ghz surveys to the theoretically predicted ones ( baleisis et al .",
    "1998 ) offers a crude estimate of the fluctuations on scales @xmath24 mpc .",
    "the derived amplitudes are shown in figure 2 for the two assumed cold dark matter ( cdm ) models .",
    "given the problems of catalogue matching and shot - noise , these points should be interpreted at best as ` upper limits ' , not as detections .      although discovered in 1962 ,",
    "the origin of the x - ray background ( xrb ) is still unknown , but is likely to be due to sources at high redshift ( for review see boldt 1987 ; fabian & barcons 1992 ) . here",
    "we shall not attempt to speculate on the nature of the xrb sources .",
    "instead , we _ utilise _ the xrb as a probe of the density fluctuations at high redshift .",
    "the xrb sources are probably located at redshift @xmath25 , making them convenient tracers of the mass distribution on scales intermediate between those in the cmb as probed by cobe , and those probed by optical and iras redshift surveys ( see figure 2 ) .",
    "the interpretation of the results depends somewhat on the nature of the x - ray sources and their evolution .",
    "the rms dipole and higher moments of spherical harmonics can be predicted ( lahav et al .",
    "1997 ) in the framework of growth of structure by gravitational instability from initial density fluctuations . by comparing the predicted multipoles to those observed by heao1 ( treyer et al .",
    "1998 ) we estimate the amplitude of fluctuations for an assumed shape of the density fluctuations ( e.g. cdm models ) .",
    "figure 2 shows the amplitude of fluctuations derived at the effective scale @xmath26 mpc probed by the xrb .",
    "the observed fluctuations in the xrb are roughly as expected from interpolating between the local galaxy surveys and the cobe cmb experiment .",
    "the rms fluctuations @xmath27 on a scale of @xmath28mpc are less than 0.2 % .",
    "the cosmological principle was first adopted when observational cosmology was in its infancy ; it was then little more than a conjecture . observations could not then probe to significant redshifts , the ` dark matter ' problem was not well - established and the cosmic microwave cmb and the xrb were still unknown .",
    "if the cosmological principle turned out to be invalid then the consequences to our understanding of cosmology would be dramatic , for example the conventional way of interpreting the age of the universe , its geometry and matter content would have to be revised .",
    "therefore it is important to revisit this underlying assumption in the light of new galaxy surveys and measurements of the background radiations .",
    "the question of whether the universe is isotropic and homogeneous on large scales can also be phrased in terms of the fractal structure of the universe .",
    "a fractal is a geometric shape that is not homogeneous , yet preserves the property that each part is a reduced - scale version of the whole .",
    "if the matter in the universe were actually distributed like a pure fractal on all scales then the cosmological principle would be invalid , and the standard model in trouble .",
    "as shown in figure 2 current data already strongly constrain any non - uniformities in the galaxy distribution ( as well as the overall mass distribution ) on scales @xmath29 .",
    "if we count , for each galaxy , the number of galaxies within a distance @xmath30 from it , and call the average number obtained @xmath31 , then the distribution is said to be a fractal of correlation dimension @xmath32 if @xmath33 .",
    "of course @xmath32 may be 3 , in which case the distribution is homogeneous rather than fractal . in the pure fractal model this power law holds for all scales of @xmath30 .",
    "the fractal proponents ( pietronero et al . 1997 ) have estimated @xmath34 for all scales up to @xmath35 , whereas other groups have obtained scale - dependent values ( for review see wu et al . and references therein ) .",
    "these measurements can be directly compared with the popular cold dark matter models of density fluctuations , which predict the increase of @xmath32 with @xmath30 for the hybrid fractal model .",
    "if we now assume homogeneity on large scales , then we have a direct mapping between correlation function @xmath36 ( or the power - spectrum ) and @xmath32 .",
    "for @xmath37 it follows that @xmath38 if @xmath39 , while if @xmath40 then @xmath41 . the predicted behaviour of @xmath32 with @xmath30 from three different cdm models is shown figure 3 . above @xmath42 @xmath32 is indistinguishably close to 3 .",
    "we also see that it is inappropriate to quote a single crossover scale to homogeneity , for the transition is gradual .",
    "direct estimates of @xmath32 are not possible for much larger scales , but we can calculate values of @xmath32 at the scales probed by the xrb and cmb by using cdm models normalised with the xrb and cmb as described above .",
    "the resulting values are consistent with @xmath41 to within @xmath43 on the very large scales ( peebles 1993 ; wu et al .",
    "isotropy does not imply homogeneity , but the near - isotropy of the cmb can be combined with the copernican principle that we are not in a preferred position .",
    "all observers would then measure the same near - isotropy , and an important result has been proven that the universe must then be very well approximated by the frw metric ( maartens et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "while we reject the pure fractal model in this review , the performance of cdm - like models of fluctuations on large scales have yet to be tested without assuming homogeneity _ a priori_. on scales below , say , @xmath44 , the fractal nature of clustering implies that one has to exercise caution when using statistical methods which assume homogeneity ( e.g. in deriving cosmological parameters ) . as a final note",
    ", we emphasize that we only considered one ` alternative ' here , which is the pure fractal model where @xmath32 is a constant on all scales .",
    "observations of anisotropies in the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) provide one of the key constraints on cosmological models and a significant quantity of experimental data already exists ( e.g. figure 2 and gawiser & silk 1998 )    on the other hand , galaxy redshift surveys , mapping large scale structure ( lss ) , provide another cosmologically important set of observations .",
    "the clustering of galaxies in redshift - space is systematically different from that in real - space ( kaiser 1987 , hamilton 1997 for review ) .",
    "the mapping between the two is a function of the underlying mass distribution , in which the galaxies are not only mass tracers , but also velocity test particles .",
    "estimates derived separately from each of the cmb and lss data sets have problems with parameter degeneracy .",
    "webster et al . ( 1998 ) combined results from a range of cmb experiments , with a likelihood analysis of the iras 1.2jy survey , performed in spherical harmonics .",
    "this method expresses the effects of the underlying mass distribution on both the cmb potential fluctuations and the iras redshift distortion .",
    "this breaks the degeneracy inherent in an isolated analysis of either data set , and places tight constraints on several cosmological parameters .",
    "the family of cdm models analysed corresponds to a spatially - flat universe with with an initially scale - invariant spectrum and a cosmological constant @xmath45 .",
    "free parameters in the joint model are the mass density due to all matter ( @xmath0 ) , hubble s parameter ( @xmath46 km / sec ) , iras light - to - mass bias ( @xmath47 ) and the variance in the mass density field measured in an @xmath48 mpc radius sphere ( @xmath49 ) . for fixed baryon density @xmath50",
    "the joint optimum lies at ( webster et al . 1998 ; bridle et al .",
    ", in preparation ) @xmath51 , @xmath52 , @xmath53 , @xmath54 ( marginalised 1-sigma error bars ) . for these values of @xmath55 and",
    "@xmath56 the age of the universe is @xmath57 gyr .",
    "we have shown some recent studies of galaxy surveys , and their cosmological implications .",
    "new measurements of galaxy clustering and background radiations can provide improved constraints on the isotropy and homogeneity of the universe on large scales .",
    "in particular , the angular distribution of radio sources and the x - ray background probe density fluctuations on scales intermediate between those explored by galaxy surveys and cmb experiments . on scales",
    "larger than @xmath58 mpc the distribution of both mass and luminous sources satisfies well the ` cosmological principle ' of isotropy and homogeneity .",
    "cosmological parameters such as @xmath0 therefore have a well defined meaning . with the dramatic increase of data",
    ", we should soon be able to map the fluctuations with scale and epoch , and to analyze jointly lss ( 2df , sdss ) and cmb ( map , planck ) data .     * acknowledgments * i thank my collaborators for their contribution to the work presented here .",
    "i also acknowledge jsps and tokyo and kyoto universities for the hospitality .",
    "baleisis , a. , lahav , o. , loan , a.j . and wall , j.v . 1998 , _ mnras _ , * 297 * , 545 .",
    "folkes , s. , ronen , s. , price , i. , lahav , o. , colless , m.c . , maddox , s.j .",
    ", bland - howthorn , j. , cannon , r. , cole , s. , collins , c. , couch , w. , driver , s.p . , dalton , g. , efstathiou , g. , ellis , r.s . , frenk , c.s . ,",
    "glazebrook , k. , kaiser , n. , lewis , i. , lumsden , s. , peacock , j.a . ,",
    "peterson , b. , sutherland , w. and taylor , k. , 1998 , _ in preparation_.      \\10 .",
    "gunn , j.e . and weinberg , d.h .",
    ", 1995 , in _ wide - field spectroscopy and the distant universe _ , eds . s.j .",
    "maddox & a. aragon - salamanca , world scientific , 11 .",
    "hamilton , a. j. s. , 1997 , in _",
    "ringberg workshop on large - scale structure _ , hamilton , d. ( ed . ) , kluwer academic , dordrecht , astro - ph/9708102 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we review cosmological inference from optical and radio galaxy surveys , the x - ray background and the cosmic microwave background . </S>",
    "<S> we focus on three topics : ( i ) first results from the 2df galaxy redshift survey ; ( ii ) estimation of cosmological parameters by joint analysis of redshift surveys and cmb data ; and ( iii ) the validity of the cosmological principle , and constraints on the fractal dimension on large scales . </S>"
  ]
}