{
  "article_text": [
    "it is a pleasure to be able to provide a review of fuse measurements in the milky way halo and high velocity cloud system .",
    "this work has been a major focus of the research efforts of many fuse team members over the past few years , and was the subject of much planning and preparation before launch . before launch",
    ", we had high expectations for the detection of absorption in the galactic halo , and these came to fruition early in the mission .",
    "however , the large number of high - velocity clouds ( hvcs ) detected in absorption came as a stunning surprise and was something that we had not expected prior to launch .",
    "if anything , it is probably fair to say that many of us believed that with the exception of a few highly ionized hvcs detected by hst / stis , most of the high velocity gas was neutral , a view that has changed significantly since the fuse observations .",
    "we have conducted an extensive study of the @xmath1 absorption in the vicinity of the milky way as measured by fuse for 100 agn / qso sight lines and two distant halo star sight lines .",
    "this study was based on @xmath2 msec of exposure time , pulling together data from many fuse observing programs .",
    "we show portions of the fuse spectra for two sight lines in figure  1 .",
    "the results of this survey have been published in a special issue of the astrophysical journal supplement series ( may 2003 , volume 146 ) .",
    "the three papers in that issue include a description of the survey ( wakker et al .",
    "2003 ) , an investigation of the distribution and kinematics of in the galactic halo ( savage et al .",
    "2003 ) , and an analysis of the highly ionized high velocity gas in the vicinity of the galaxy ( sembach et al .",
    "2003 ) . rather than reference those papers repeatedly here",
    ", we simply draw upon the results therein and refer the reader to those papers for further details and background information .",
    "highlights of several investigations of individual hvcs in the fuse survey are summarized in the papers by fox et al .",
    "and collins et al .  in this volume .",
    "brief descriptions of fuse observations of in the milky way disk and the magellanic clouds can be found in accompanying articles by bowen et al .  and",
    "howk , respectively .      with a few exceptions ,",
    "we define absorption in the survey as `` high velocity '' if it has @xmath3 kms@xmath4 , while we attribute lower velocity gas to the thick disk and halo of the milky way .",
    "( for simplicity , we will use the term `` halo '' to denote both the thick disk and halo of the milky way . ) the velocity distribution of the features is shown in figure  2 .",
    "the imprint of galactic rotation can be seen in some of the absorption profiles in low latitude ( @xmath5 ) directions . at higher latitudes ( @xmath6 ) ,",
    "outflows and inflows of gas in the halo are evident .",
    "the mean velocities of the halo gas along high galactic latitude sight lines range from 46 to + 82 kms@xmath4 with a sample average of @xmath7 kms@xmath4 .",
    "this result holds for both northern and southern galactic latitudes , suggesting that the gas in both hemispheres is moving toward and away from the galactic plane with approximately equal frequency .",
    "the high velocity features have velocity centroids ranging from @xmath8 km  s@xmath4 to @xmath9 km  s@xmath4 .",
    "there are an additional six confirmed or very likely ( @xmath10% confidence ) detections and two tentative detections of between @xmath11 and + 1200 km  s@xmath4 ; these very high velocity features probably trace intergalactic gas beyond the local group . by definition ,",
    "the high velocity features have velocities incompatible with those of galactic rotation .",
    "for the 20 sight lines in the survey where both lines of the doublet arising in the halo gas can be measured reliably , the column density inferred from direct integration of the apparent column density profiles of the two lines is in good agreement in most cases .",
    "a few exceptions exist ( see table  2b in savage et al .",
    "2003 ) , but in general the excellent agreement indicates that the more easily measured @xmath12 line provides a reliable estimate of the column density .",
    "blending with other interstellar and intergalactic features is an important consideration for all sight lines ; see wakker et al .",
    "( 2003 ) for details .",
    "the galactic halo features in the survey have logarithmic column densities ( @xmath13 ) of 13.85 to 14.78 with an average of @xmath14 .",
    "if considered separately , the column density distributions differ slightly in the northern and southern galactic skies for high galactic latitudes ( @xmath15 ) , with a northern column density enhancement of @xmath16 dex above that measured in the south .",
    "the high velocity features have logarithmic column densities of 13.06 to 14.59 , with an average of @xmath17 . typically , the high velocity accounts for 25 - 40% of the total column density along sight lines for which both have been measured",
    ". the column density distributions for the galactic halo and high velocity clouds are shown in the left panel of figure  3 .",
    "the line widths of the galactic halo features range from @xmath1830 km  s@xmath4 to @xmath1899 km  s@xmath4 , with an average of @xmath19 km  s@xmath4 .",
    "the line widths of the high velocity features range from @xmath1816 km  s@xmath4 to @xmath1881 km  s@xmath4 , with an average of @xmath20 km  s@xmath4 .",
    "the lowest values of b in the high velocity gas are close to the thermal width of 17.1 km  s@xmath4 expected for at its peak ionization fraction temperature of @xmath21k in collisional ionization equilibrium ( sutherland & dopita 1993 ) .",
    "the large b - values observed along many sight lines imply that non - thermal broadening mechanisms and multi - component velocity structure dominate the line broadening in both the halo gas and in the high velocity clouds .",
    "the distributions of b - values for both types of gas are shown in the right panel of figure  3 .",
    "strong absorption arising in the low galactic halo is measurable in 91 of the 102 sight lines in our survey . in those cases where it was not detected , the upper limits on n ( )",
    "are generally higher than the smallest column density measured in the sample .",
    "thus , the apparent absence of along some sight lines is probably an artifact of the varying data quality within the sample .",
    "fuse observations of halo stars within a few kiloparsecs of the galactic plane reveal galactic halo absorption at a column density level consistent with approximately 4050% of the halo absorption seen along complete halo paths ( zsarg et al .",
    "2003 ) .",
    "the distribution of galactic halo is patchy , which suggests that the may be distributed in filamentary or small - scale structures .",
    "the regions must have a large covering factor to account for the common occurrence of absorption in halo directions , but need not have a large volume filling factor . variations of a factor of three in n ( ) have been seen across the face of the lmc at angular scales of @xmath22 ( howk et al .",
    "these variations are comparable to those seen over much larger angular separations in the fuse survey .",
    "smaller variations have been seen toward both the lmc and smc at smaller angular separations ( howk et al .",
    "2002b ; hoopes et al .",
    "2002 ) . measurements of in the direction of the globular cluster ngc6752 ( lehner & howk 2004 ) show no variations in n ( ) or the velocity distribution on angular scales @xmath23 ( or 2.510.1 pc ) .",
    "the constancy of the absorption in this direction suggests that there may be a characteristic size of @xmath24 parsecs for the regions , but similar checks for several other directions need to be conducted before such a conclusion can be generalized to the entire galactic halo .",
    "nearby regions of hot gas do not appear to contribute significantly to the variations .",
    "there is no obvious enhancement in n ( ) in the directions of radio loops i - iv , with the possible exception of the 3c273 sight line , which passes through a region of enhanced soft x - ray emission in the north polar spur region ( see sembach et al .",
    "2001 and figure 9 of savage et al .",
    "similarly , the local bubble contains only a small amount of ( typically , log  n @xmath25 ; oegerle et al .",
    "2004 ) and contributes at most @xmath26 of the column along the extended paths probed in the agn / qso survey .",
    "it is possible to estimate the extension of the gas distribution away from the galactic plane by examining the column density perpendicular to the plane ( n sin@xmath27 ) as a function of distance of the background source from the plane ( z ) .",
    "figure  5 shows this distribution for the survey sight lines as well as sight lines toward the magellanic clouds and stars in the galactic disk .",
    "the solid curves on the plot show the predicted relation between n@xmath28 = n sin@xmath27 and z for a smooth , exponentially distributed gas layer with a mid - plane density n@xmath29(ovi)@xmath30 @xmath31 and scale heights of 1 , 2.5 , and 10 kpc .",
    "the north - south column density difference mentioned in  2.2 is evident in this plot .",
    "the simplest model for the gas is one with an exponential scale height of 2.3 kiloparsecs with log  n@xmath32 and a 0.25 dex enhancement in n@xmath28 at high positive galactic latitudes .",
    "this distribution is roughly consistent with those for other high ionization species such as , , and ( @xmath33 kpc ; savage , sembach , & lu 1997 ) . a careful comparison of the and other high ions along many individual sight lines is needed to fully assess the relative kinematics and distributions of these species ( see , e.g. , zsarg et al.2003 and indebetouw & shull 2004 ) .",
    "the distribution and total amount of generally does not correlate well with other tracers of ionized interstellar gas , such as soft x - ray emission from gas with @xmath34k or h@xmath35 emission from the warm ( @xmath36k ) ionized ism .",
    "similarly , n ( ) does not track the total intensity of 21 cm emission . however , it is common for to be found at velocities similar to those of and lower ionization species , such as and .",
    "this result suggests that the arises in distinct regions that are kinematically coupled to the lower ionization gas , such as interfaces between warm and hot gas .      in the milky way , it is difficult to convert into through photoionization .",
    "the ambient interstellar radiation field and the starlight from all but the hottest he - poor stars lack the 114ev photons necessary for this conversion .",
    "furthermore , photoionization by the extragalactic ultraviolet background is also inefficient at producing in the local universe ; path lengths of hundreds of kiloparsecs are required to reproduce the observed columns ( see figure  20 in sembach et al .",
    "2003 ) . as a result",
    ", the vast majority of the observed along extended paths through the galactic halo must be created by collisional processes .",
    "is an excellent tracer of collisionally ionized gas at temperatures of @xmath37k .",
    "a variety of processes have been suggested as possible high ion production mechanisms ( turbulent mixing , conduction , radiative cooling , shocks , etc ) .",
    "it is not possible to describe all of these here . for reviews ,",
    "see the discussions in fox et al .",
    "( 2004 ) and sembach , tripp , & savage ( 1997 ) . a combination of models involving radiatively",
    "cooling gas , turbulent mixing , and the cooling of superbubbles in the galactic halo may be necessary to explain all of the data . if the origin of the is dominated by cooling gas in a galactic fountain flow , savage et al .",
    "( 2003 ) estimate that a mass flow rate of 1.4 @xmath38 yr@xmath4 to each side of the galactic plane with an average density of @xmath39 @xmath31 is required to explain the the average value of n@xmath28 ( ) = @xmath40 @xmath13 measured for the southern galactic hemisphere .",
    "sembach et al .  (",
    "2003 ) have identified 84 individual high velocity features along 102 sight lines observed by fuse . with few exceptions ,",
    "the high velocity absorption is confined to @xmath41 km  s@xmath4 , indicating that the identified features are either associated with the milky way or are nearby clouds within the local group .",
    "we detect high velocity @xmath12 absorption with total equivalent widths @xmath42 m  ( @xmath43 ) along 59 of the 102 sight lines surveyed . for the highest quality sub - sample of the dataset , the high velocity detection frequency increases to 22 of 26 sight lines .",
    "forty of the 59 sight lines have high velocity @xmath12 absorption with @xmath44 m , and 27 have total equivalent widths @xmath45  m . converting these equivalent width detection frequencies into estimates of @xmath46(h@xmath47 ) in the hot gas",
    "indicates that @xmath48% of the sky ( and perhaps as much as @xmath49% ) is covered by hot ionized hydrogen at a level of @xmath50 where @xmath51 is the fraction of oxygen in the form of , and @xmath52 is the gas metallicity relative to the sun .",
    "this h@xmath47 detection frequency is larger than the value of @xmath53% found for warm , high velocity neutral gas with @xmath46()@xmath54 @xmath13 traced through 21 cm emission ( lockman et al .",
    "2002 ) .",
    "figure  4 shows the locations of the high velocity features on the sky , with squares indicating positive velocity features and circles indicating negative velocity features .",
    "the magnitude of the lsr velocity ( without sign ) is given inside each square or circle for the dominant high velocity feature along each sight line .",
    "for sight lines with multiple high velocity features , we have plotted the information for the feature with the greatest column density .",
    "solid dots indicate directions where no high velocity was detected .",
    "there is often good correspondence between high velocity 21 cm emission and high velocity absorption . when high velocity 21 cm emission is detectable in a particular direction , high velocity absorption is usually detected if a suitable extragalactic continuum source is bright enough for fuse to observe .",
    "is present in the magellanic stream , which passes through the south galactic pole and extends up to @xmath55 , with positive velocities for @xmath56 and negative velocities for @xmath57 . is present in high velocity cloud complex  c , which covers a large portion of the northern galactic sky between @xmath58 and @xmath59 and has velocities of roughly 100 to 170 kms@xmath4 .",
    "the segregation of positive and negative velocities in figure  4 is striking , indicating that the clouds and the underlying ( rotating ) disk of the galaxy have very different kinematics .",
    "a similar velocity pattern is seen for high velocity 21 cm emission and has sometimes been used to argue for a local group location for the high velocity clouds ( see blitz et al .",
    "the kinematics of the high velocity clouds are consistent with a distant location , but do not necessarily require an extended local group distribution as proposed by nicastro et al .",
    "the dispersion about the mean of the high velocity centroids decreases when the velocities are converted from the local standard of rest ( lsr ) into the galactic standard of rest ( gsr ) and the local group standard of rest ( lgsr ) reference frames with various assumptions about the distances of the clouds and their transverse motions .",
    "while this reduction is expected if the is associated with gas in a highly extended galactic corona , it _ does not _ provide sufficient proof by itself of an extended extragalactic distribution for the high velocity gas because the correction to the lgsr reference frame requires proper knowledge of the total space velocities of the clouds . only one component of motion - the velocity toward the sun - is observed .",
    "additional information , such as the gas metallicity , ionization state , or parallax resulting from transverse motion across the line of sight , is needed to constrain whether the clouds are located near the galaxy or are farther away in the local group .",
    "twenty - one of the sight lines in the fuse survey exhibit broad , weak absorption wings at high positive velocities .",
    "these wings extend asymmetrically from low velocities , representative of those of galactic halo gas , out to much higher velocities . in most cases ,",
    "the integrated column densities in the broad wings are much less than n ( ) in the lower velocity absorption . of the 21 sight lines with broad wings , 17 are in the northern galactic hemisphere .",
    "some of the wings may be associated with outflows of hot gas from the galactic disk , as has been suggested for the positive velocity wing in the direction of 3c273 ( sembach et al .",
    "2001 ) . toward mrk421",
    ", there is no corresponding wing of absorption in two nearby halo stars , implying that the wing arises in gas at distances of more than 3.5 kiloparsecs from the galactic plane ( savage et al .",
    "this result may hold more generally as well , since no such wings are observed toward a larger sample of halo stars spread across the sky ( zsarg et al .  2003 ) . some of the wing gas could be tidal debris from past encounters between the milky way and magellanic clouds or other dwarf galaxies .",
    "a thorough study of the wing absorption features and their relationship ( or lack thereof ) to lower ionization absorption may help to reveal their origin .",
    "one possible explanation for some of the high velocity is that transition temperature gas arises at the boundaries between cool / warm clouds of gas and a very hot ( @xmath60k ) galactic corona or local group medium .",
    "sources of the high velocity material might include infalling or tidally disturbed galaxies .",
    "a hot , highly extended ( @xmath61 kpc ) corona or local group medium might be left over from the formation of the milky way or local group , or may be the result of continuous accretion of smaller galaxies over time .",
    "hydrodynamical simulations of clouds moving through a hot , low - density medium show that weak bow shocks develop on the leading edges of the clouds as the gas is compressed and heated ( quilis & moore 2001 ) .",
    "even if the clouds are not moving at supersonic speeds relative to the ambient medium , turbulent stripping of the cooler gas should result in mixing with the hotter coronal gas .",
    "would be produced in the transition temperature gas resulting from the mixing .",
    "this mechanism for producing has been suggested for complex  c ( fox et al .",
    "2004 ) as well as smaller isolated high velocity clouds ( e.g. , ganguly et al .  2005 ) .",
    "additional evidence for a hot galactic corona through which the high velocity clouds must pass comes from the detection of x - ray absorption lines near zero velocity ( e.g. , nicastro et al .",
    "2002 ; fang , sembach , & canizares 2003 ; rasmussen et al .  2003 ; futamoto et al .  2004",
    "; mckernan , yaqoob , & reynolds 2004 ) .    alternatively , the high velocity clouds and any associated or lower ionization material may be condensations within large gas structures falling onto the galaxy .",
    "cosmological structure formation models predict large numbers of cooling fragments embedded in dark matter , and some of these structures should be observable in absorption as the gas cools through the @xmath62k temperature regime ( dav et al .",
    ".    some of the high velocity clouds may be extragalactic clouds , based on what we currently know about their ionization properties ( see , for example , sembach et al .",
    "however , claims that essentially _ all _ of the hvcs are extragalactic entities associated with an extended local group filament based on kinematical arguments alone are untenable",
    ". such arguments fail to consider the selection biases inherent in the sample , the presence of neutral ( ) and lower ionization ( , ) gas associated with some of the hvcs , and the known `` nearby '' locations for at least two of the primary high velocity complexes in the sample  the magellanic stream is circumgalactic tidal debris , and complex  c is interacting with the galactic corona ( see fox et al.2004 ; collins , shull , & giroux 2003 ) .",
    "furthermore , the ovii x - ray absorption measures used to support an extragalactic location have not yet been convincingly tied to either the hvcs or to an external local group location .",
    "the ovii absorption may well have a significant galactic component in some directions ( see fang et al .",
    "the local group filament interpretation ( nicastro et al .  2003 ) may be suitable for some of the observed high velocity features , but it clearly fails in other cases ( e.g. , the magellanic stream or the pks2155 - 304 hvcs ",
    "see sembach et al .",
    "2003 and collins , shull , & giroux 2004 ) .",
    "blitz , l. , et al .   1999 ,",
    "apj , 514 , 818 collins , j.a . , shull , j.m . ,",
    "& giroux , m.l .",
    "2003 , apj , 585 , 336 collins , j.a . ,",
    "shull , j.m . , & giroux , m.l .",
    "2004 , apj , 605 , 216 dav , r. , et al .",
    "2001 , apj , 552 , 473 fang , t. , sembach , k.r . , & canizares , c.r .",
    "2003 , apj , 586 , l49 fox , a. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 602 , 738 futamoto , k. , et al .",
    "2004 , apj , 605 , 793 ganguly , r. , sembach , k.r . ,",
    "tripp , t.m .",
    ", & savage , b.d .",
    "2005 , apj , in press [ astro - ph/0412485 ] hoopes , c.g .",
    ", et al .",
    "2002 , apj , 569 , 233 howk , j.c . ,",
    "savage , b.d . ,",
    "sembach , k.r .",
    ", & hoopes , c.g .",
    "2002a , apj , 572 , 264 howk , j.c .",
    ".  2002b , apj , 569 , 214 indebetouw , r. , & shull , j.m .",
    "2004 , apj , 607 , 309 lehner , n. , & howk , j.c .",
    "2004 , pasp , 116 , 895 lockman , f.j . , murphy , e.m . , petty - powell , s. , & urick , v. 2002 , apjs , 140 , 331 mckernan , b. , yaqoob , t. , & reynolds , c.s .",
    "2004 , apj , 617 , 232 nicastro , f. , et al .",
    "2002 , apj , 573 , 157 nicastro , f. , et al .",
    "2003 , nature , 421 , 719 oegerle , w.r .",
    ", et al .",
    "2004 , apj , submitted [ astro - ph/0411065 ] quilis , v. , & moore , b. 2001 , apj , 555 , l95 rasmussen , a. , kahn , s.m . , & paerels , f. 2003 , in the igm / galaxy connection , eds .",
    "rosenberg & m.e .",
    "putman , ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 109 [ astro - ph/0301183 ] savage , b.d . ,",
    "sembach , k.r .",
    ", & lu , l.   1997 , aj , 113 , 2158 savage , b.d .",
    ", et al .",
    "2003 , apjs , 146 , 125 savage , b.d . , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , in press [ astro - ph/0412381 ] sembach , k.r . ,",
    "savage , b.d . ,",
    "lu , l. , & murphy , e. 1999 , apj , 515 , 108 sembach , k.r .",
    ", et al .   2001 ,",
    "apj , 561 , 573 sembach , k.r . , tripp , t.m .",
    ", & savage , b.d .",
    "1997 , apj , 480 , 216 sembach , k.r .",
    ", et al .",
    "2003 , apjs , 146 , 165 sutherland , r.s . , & dopita , m.a .",
    "1993 , apjs , 88 , 253 wakker , b.p . ,",
    "2003 , apjs , 146 , 1 zsarg , j. , sembach , k.r . ,",
    "howk , j.c .",
    ", & savage , b.d .",
    "2003 , apj , 586 , 1019"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in the five years since its launch , the _ far ultraviolet spectroscopic explorer _ has given the astronomical community a marvelous glimpse into the realm of previously unexplored regions of the milky way and its surroundings . </S>",
    "<S> absorption lines produced by gas along entire paths through the nearby universe have now been recorded in the spectra of distant qsos and active galactic nuclei . of the lines recorded , </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath0 doublet is the best tracer of highly ionized regions . </S>",
    "<S> exciting discoveries include a definitive confirmation of the hot galactic halo postulated by lyman spitzer nearly 50 years ago , the discovery of a hot , highly extended galactic corona enveloping the milky way out to distances of several tens of kiloparsecs , and the discovery of an extensive network of highly ionized , high velocity clouds surrounding the galaxy . </S>"
  ]
}