{
  "article_text": [
    "over the last decades , our knowledge of the chemical properties of the universe and , in particular , of galaxies , has improved dramatically .",
    "observations of the local universe ( e.g. garnett & shields 1987 ; skillman , kennicutt & hodge 1989 ; brodie & huchra 1991 ; zaritsky , kennicutt & huchra 1994 ; mushotzky et al . 1996 ; ettori et al . 2002 ; tremonti et al . 2004 ; lamareille et al .",
    "2004 ) as well as at intermediate and high redshifts ( e.g. prochaska & wolfe 2002 ; adelberger et al . 2003 ; kobulnicky et al . 2003",
    "; lilly , carollo & stockton 2003 ; shapley et al .",
    "2004 ) have resulted in a quite detailed picture of the chemical history of the stellar populations and of the interstellar and intergalactic media .",
    "it is an important challenge for the theory of galaxy formation to explain these observational results in the context of the current cosmological paradigm .",
    "numerical simulations are an important tool to make specific predictions for galaxy formation theories and to confront them with observations , because they can accurately track the growth of structure in the dark matter and baryonic components .",
    "it is hence natural to ask what such simulations predict for the chemical properties of the universe .",
    "currently , hydrodynamic cosmological simulations including radiative cooling and star formation , at best , coarsely reproduce the observed properties of galaxies .",
    "they fail when scrutinised in detail . among the most prominent problems are `` catastrophic angular momentum loss '' ( e.g. navarro & benz 1991 ; navarro & white 1994 ) and the difficulty in finding a consistent modelling of supernova ( sn ) feedback ( e.g. navarro & white 1993 ; metzler & evrard 1994 ; yepes et al . 1997 ; marri & white 2003 ; springel & hernquist 2003 , hereafter sh03 ) .",
    "the first issue mainly affects galaxy morphology , size and kinematics , while the latter primarily influences the efficiency of star formation .",
    "both are the subject of intense research . reproducing the chemical properties of observed galaxies in detail",
    "may be viewed as an intertwined third problem .    regarding the angular momentum problem ,",
    "recent simulations have shown some promising advances .",
    "domnguez - tenreiro , tissera & siz ( 1998 ) found that the formation of compact stellar bulges can stabilize the discs and thereby prevent the angular momentum loss during violent minor merger events , such that disc systems that resemble observed galaxies are obtained .",
    "abadi et al . ( 2003 ) have also demonstrated the importance of a dense , slowly rotating spheroidal component , and pointed out its relevance for comparing simulated and observed galaxies consistently .",
    "more recently , robertson et al .",
    "( 2004 ) were able to produce large , stable disc systems in their cosmological simulations which are comparable in size to spiral galaxies . in their approach",
    ", they introduced a subresolution model for star formation and feedback which pressurizes the star - forming gas and stabilizes discs against fragmentation .",
    "we note that all these studies agree on the need for a self - consistent treatment of sn feedback as a crucial mechanism to regulate star formation and to reproduce discs similar to observational counterparts .",
    "sn explosions are thought to play a fundamental role in the evolution of galaxies since they are considered the most efficient and ubiquitous mechanism for the ejection of metals and energy into the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "both chemical and energy feedback can affect the condensation of gas and consequently the evolution of galactic systems .",
    "on one hand , the presence of metals in the ism affects gas cooling times because the radiative cooling rate depends sensitively on metallicity ( sutherland & dopita 1993 , hereafter sd93 ) . on the other hand ,",
    "the release of energy is crucial for regulating star formation through the heating and disruption of cold gas clouds , and for producing outflows which can transport enriched material into the intergalactic medium ( e.g. lehnert & heckman 1996 ; dahlem , weaver & heckman 1998 ; frye , broadhurst & bentez 2002 ; rupke , veilleux & sanders 2002 ; martin 2004 ) . as suggested by observations and theory , the largest outflows ( e.g. larson 1974 ; white & rees 1978 ; dekel & silk 1986 ; white & frenk 1991 ) should be able to develop in small systems because of their shallower potential wells . because in hierarchical galaxy formation scenarios large systems are formed by the aggregation of smaller systems , energy feedback from sne",
    "is then expected to have important effects for nearly all systems in the different stages of galaxy formation .",
    "modelling of chemical feedback has been addressed already in numerous studies , mostly with the aim to reproduce the chemical properties of certain types of galaxies , or of clusters of galaxies ( e.g. larson 1976 ; tinsley & larson 1979 ; burkert & hensler 1988 ; white & frenk 1991 ; burkert , truran & hensler 1992 ; ferrini et al . 1992 ; theis , burkert & hensler 1992 ; steinmetz & mller 1994 ; kauffmann 1996 ; chiappini , matteucci & gratton 1997 ; kauffmann & charlot 1998 ; boisser & prantzos 2000 ; valdarnini 2003 ) . as first showed by mosconi et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , in order to properly model the process of metal enrichment in galaxy formation it is necessary to consider the full cosmological growth of structure in which mergers and interactions have important effects on the star formation process and the dynamical evolution of galaxies ( see also kawata & gibson 2003 ; tornatore et al . 2004 ; okamoto et al .",
    "2005 ) .",
    "perhaps the most fundamental motivation for the relevance of metal enrichment for galaxy formation is based on the fact that the cooling rate of baryons depends on metallicity ( sd93 ) .",
    "radiative cooling in turn allows the condensation of gas into dense and cold clouds , which form the reservoir of material available for the formation of stars . as chemical enrichment",
    "is a result of star formation , a chemical feedback cycle emerges , in which metals can in principle significantly accelerate the transformation of baryons into stars . in hierarchical scenarios these processes depend significantly on the chemical prescription adopted ( kaellander & hultman 1998 ; kay et al .",
    "these affect galaxy properties such as the luminosity function ( white & frenk 1991 ) . for these reasons , a detailed analysis of the effects of metal - dependent cooling is clearly important for galaxy formation studies .",
    "substantial numerical challenges in simulations of galaxy formation come from the large dynamic range required , and from the multiphase character of the ism .",
    "gas in very different physical states coexists in the ism , but the standard formulation of smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph , e.g. gingold & monaghan 1977 ; lucy 1977 ) is not well suited to deal with this situation .",
    "a number of attempts have been made to solve this problem , ranging from an ad - hoc decoupling of phases ( e.g. pearce et al .",
    "1999 , 2001 ; marri & white 2003 ) to simple analytic sub - resolution models ( sh03 ) that work with an effective equation of state .",
    "our new model for sn feedback in sph cosmological simulations has been divided into two stages : chemical and energy feedback . in this work",
    "we address the description of the chemical feedback , which is based on the previous model of mosconi et al .",
    "( 2001 ) . in a forthcoming paper",
    ", we will present the second part of this work : the implementation of energy feedback in the framework of a multiphase scheme for the ism , which extends the approach of marri & white ( 2003 ) . while a treatment of chemical enrichment without energy feedback is an incomplete picture",
    ", we think the complexity of the problem merits a step - wise discussion of our model such that the primary physical effects can be better understood .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section  [ code ] ,",
    "we summarize the numerical implementation of the chemical model , and in section  [ isolated - spheres ] we analyse the dependence of the results on numerical resolution and input parameters , using simulations of isolated galaxies .",
    "we then study in section  [ cosmological ] the properties of galaxies formed in cosmological simulations and examine how they depend on the chemical model .",
    "finally , in section  [ conclusions ] we give our conclusions .",
    "our new model for the production and ejection of chemical elements by sne is based in part on the approach in mosconi et al .",
    "we have implemented our scheme in the treepm / sph code gadget-2 , an improved version of the public code gadget ( springel , yoshida & white 2001 ) which manifestly conserves energy and entropy where appropriate ( springel & hernquist 2002 ) .",
    "note that we do not use the multiphase treatment and the feedback model developed by sh03 for this code , but we do include their treatment of ultraviolet ( uv ) background . also , we use a different parameterisation for star formation , as described in detail below .",
    "chemical elements are synthesized in stellar interiors and ejected into the ism by sn explosions . in order to model the production and distribution of metals in the context of the simulations , there are three ingredients we have to consider : the sn rate ( i.e. number of exploding stars per time unit ) , the chemical yields ( i.e. chemical material ejected in explosions ) and the typical lifetimes of stars , which determine the characteristic time of the metal release .    in our model , we include a separate treatment of type ii and type ia sne ( snii and snia ) .",
    "these two types of sne originate from different stellar populations , and have different rates , yields and typical time - scales .",
    "we use different yields for snii and snia which , in the case of snii , are metal - dependent . hence , we will treat snii and snia separately , owing to the need to model their different characteristics . for example , snii produce most of the chemical elements , except for iron , which is mainly produced by snia .",
    "another difference between these two types of sn is that snii are the endpoint of the evolution of massive stars with short lifetimes , in contrast to snia , which result from the evolution of binary systems with lifetimes of @xmath1 1 gyr .",
    "we assume that initially gas particles have primordial abundances : @xmath2 and @xmath3 , and we consider the enrichment by the following elements , assuming production only by snii and snia : h , @xmath4he , @xmath5c , @xmath6o , @xmath7 mg , @xmath8si , @xmath9fe , @xmath10n , @xmath11ne , @xmath12s , @xmath13ca and @xmath14zn .",
    "note that we do not consider nucleosynthesis by intermediate - mass stars .",
    "consequently , we will concentrate our analysis on elements such as o or fe where restricting to sn production may be a good approximation . in the rest of this section , we describe the most important aspects of the chemical model , namely the star formation and cooling prescriptions , and our scheme for the production and ejection of metals .",
    "we assume that gas particles are eligible for star formation if they are denser than a critical value ( @xmath15 , where @xmath16 denotes gas density ) and lie in a convergent flow ( @xmath17 ) . for these particles , we assume a star formation rate ( sfr ) per unit volume equal to @xmath18 where @xmath19 is a star formation efficiency ( we adopt @xmath20 ) and @xmath21 is the dynamical time of the particle .",
    "we base the creation of new stellar particles on the stochastic approach of sh03 ( see also lia , portinari & carraro 2002 ) . to this end , each gas particle eligible for star formation in a given time - step is assigned a probability @xmath22 of forming a star particle given by @xmath23,\\ ] ] where @xmath24 is the integration time - step of the code , @xmath25 is the mass of the gas particle , and @xmath26 is defined as @xmath27 with @xmath28 being the original mass of gas particles at the beginning of the simulation and @xmath29 a parameter which determines the number of ` generations ' of stars formed from a given gas particle ( we assume @xmath30 ) . if a random number drawn from a uniform distribution in the unit interval is smaller than @xmath22 , we form a new stellar particle of mass @xmath26 and reduce the mass of the gas particle accordingly .",
    "once the gas particle mass has become smaller than @xmath31 , we instead turn it into a star particle .",
    "newly born stars are assumed to have the same element abundances as the gas mass from which they form .",
    "the main advantage of this stochastic approach is that all particles are either purely stellar or purely gas , which avoids the use of ` hybrid ' particles with both gaseous and stellar components .",
    "the latter would artificially force the stellar component to evolve dissipately like the gas .",
    "note that , as a consequence of the star formation scheme , the number of baryonic particles in the simulation does not remain constant .",
    "unlike sh03 , we also exchange the masses of heavy elements explicitly between gas and star particles . as a result ,",
    "the mass spectrum of stellar and gas particles is slightly washed out around otherwise sharp discrete values .",
    "our numerical implementation of the enrichment model has three main components : snii element production , snia element production and metal distribution .",
    "_ snii element production _    in order to estimate the snii rate we use a salpeter initial mass function ( imf ) with lower and upper mass cut - offs of 0.1 and 40 m@xmath32 , respectively , and assume that stars more massive than @xmath33m@xmath32 end their lives as snii . for the chemical production , we adopt the yields of woosley & weaver ( 1995 ) .",
    "these are metal - dependent yields and vary differently for different elements .",
    "we use half of the iron yield of ww95 , as it is often adopted ( e.g. timmes , woosley & weaver 1995 ) . for the sake of simplicity , in most of our simulations",
    "we have assumed that snii explode ( i.e. produce and eject the chemical elements ) within an integration time - step of the code ( which is typically @xmath34 yr ) , because snii originate in massive stars which have very short characteristic lifetimes of the order of @xmath35 yr .",
    "however , we have also analysed the effect of relaxing this instantaneous recycling approximation ( ira ) for snii ( see section  [ snparameters ] ) .",
    "_ snia element production _    as a progenitor model , we adopt the w7 model of thielemann , nomoto & hashimoto ( 1993 ) , which assumes that snia explosions originate from co white dwarf systems in which mass is transferred from the secondary to the primary star until the chandrasekhar mass is exceeded and an explosion is triggered .",
    "it is generally assumed that the lifetime of such a binary system is in the range @xmath36[@xmath37 gyr , depending on the age of the secondary star ( greggio 1996 ) . in our model , the material produced by a snia event",
    "is ejected when a time @xmath38 after the formation of the exploding star has elapsed .",
    "we choose this time randomly within a given range ( in most of our experiments we assume @xmath39 $ ] gyr ) . in order to estimate the number of snia",
    ", we adopt an observationally motivated range for the relative ratio of snii and snia rates ( e.g. van den bergh 1991 ) .",
    "we use the chemical yields of thieleman et al .",
    "( 1993 ) for the metal production itself .    _ metal distribution _",
    "we distribute chemical elements ejected in sn explosions within the gaseous neighbours of exploding star particles , using the usual sph kernel interpolation technique ( mosconi et al .",
    "each neighbouring gas particle receives a fraction of the ejected metals according to its kernel weight . for this purpose , gas particle neighbours of stellar particles",
    "are identified whenever metal distribution has to take place , and smoothing lengths for these stars are calculated by setting a desired number of gas neighbours that should be enclosed in the smoothing length ( we have assumed the same criterium used for the smoothing lengths of gas particles ) .",
    "this is particularly important for the enrichment by snia because of the time delay between the formation of the stars and the ejection of metals .",
    "note that after a star particle is created , it is only subject to gravitational forces , unlike the gas particles , which continue to be subject to hydrodynamical forces as well .",
    "consequently , as the system evolves , star particles can release metals associated with snia explosions in a different environment from where they were born .",
    "this , together with the different lifetimes and yields of snii explosions , can then produce non - trivial variations in abundance ratios .",
    "it is well known that the cooling rate of thin astrophysical plasmas depends sensitively on metallicity , in such a way that at a given density , the cooling rate is higher for a higher metallicity . in fig .",
    "[ figcooling ] we show the cooling function computed by sd93 from primordial ( i.e. no heavy elements ) to suprasolar abundance ( [ fe / h]=@xmath40 ) . as one can see from this figure",
    ", the cooling function can show very large variations with the metal abundance of the gas , depending on the temperature range considered .",
    "for example , the usual estimates of the cooling time ( @xmath41 ) for a gas particle at the critical density ( @xmath42 ) and at a temperature of @xmath43 k yield that @xmath41 is 50 times larger for primordial gas than for a mildly suprasolar medium ( [ fe / h]@xmath44 ) , 18 times larger than that of a solar abundance one , and still twice as large as the corresponding time for gas with [ fe / h]@xmath45 .",
    "the temperature range of [ @xmath46 k shows the largest differences , right in the temperature range relevant to the abundant population of dwarf galaxies .    including effects owing to metal line cooling",
    "is therefore crucial for realistic modelling of galaxy formation because it affects directly the relation between cooling time and dynamical time of forming galaxies .",
    "we therefore include a treatment of radiative cooling consistent with the metal content of the gas component produced by the enrichment model .",
    "we use the tables computed by sd93 for the metal - dependent cooling functions , and interpolate from them for other metallicities as needed . for particles with iron abundance",
    "larger than @xmath47 , we adopt the suprasolar cooling rate ( i.e. that for [ fe / h]@xmath48 ) . in cosmological simulations",
    ", we also include a redshift - dependent photo - heating uv background , with an intensity evolution that follows the model of haardt & madau ( 1996 ) .",
    "abundance , from suprasolar ( [ fe / h]=0.5 ) to primordial .",
    "the plot is based on data adapted from sd93.,width=317 ]",
    "as first tests of our model , we consider simulations of isolated haloes set up to form disc galaxies at their centre . this allows us to examine the dependence of the results on resolution and on different parameters of the chemical enrichment model .",
    "the initial conditions consist of a static dark matter potential corresponding to a navarro , frenk & white ( 1996 , 1997 ) profile of concentration @xmath49 , and a baryonic gas phase initially in hydrostatic equilibrium in this potential .",
    "our typical system has virial mass @xmath50 ( @xmath51 ) , @xmath52 per cent of which is in the form of baryons ( @xmath53 ) .",
    "the initial radius of the system is @xmath54 and the gas has an initial angular momentum characterized by a spin parameter @xmath55 .",
    "we have followed the evolution of this system for @xmath56 , where @xmath57 gyr is the dynamical time at @xmath58 .",
    "these idealized initial conditions yield a simple model for disc formation , which is an ideal test bench for the performance and validity of the code , and the dependence of the results on the free parameters .",
    "we stress however that these models are not meant to provide a realistic scenario for the whole galaxy formation process .",
    "results for full cosmological simulations will be discussed in section 4 , where we analyse the properties of galactic objects formed in @xmath59 cold dark matter ( cdm ) models with virial masses of @xmath60 , comparing them also to the results of the idealized tests discussed here .",
    "both the star formation process and the distribution of metals can be affected by numerical resolution . particularly important for our model is the fact that the smoothing length of the particles ( i.e. the radius which encloses @xmath61 gaseous neighbours ) determines the region where the newly released chemical elements are injected .",
    "mosconi et al .",
    "( 2001 ) found that chemical abundances could be oversmoothed in low resolution simulations because metals are distributed over a comparatively large volume and , consequently , are more efficiently mixed with surrounding gas . on the other hand , high numerical resolution could also produce spurious results if the metal mixing mechanism becomes too inefficient . provided other physical mixing mechanisms are not operating",
    ", the simulation results might show an artificially large dispersion in gas metallicities .    in order to test the effects of numerical resolution",
    ", we carried out simulations of the isolated disc system described above using three different initial numbers of gas particles : 2500 ( r1 ) , 10000 ( r2 ) and 40000 ( r3 ) , with mass resolutions of @xmath62 , @xmath35 and @xmath63 for r1 , r2 and r3 , respectively .",
    "we have set the gravitational softening to @xmath64 kpc . in these three runs",
    "we use metal - dependent cooling functions for the gas particles according to the tables by sd93 . in table",
    "[ simulations ] we summarize the main characteristics of these simulations .    in fig .",
    "[ sfr - resolution ] , we show the evolution of the sfrs obtained for r1 ( dotted line ) , r2 ( solid line ) and r3 ( dashed line ) . most of the stellar mass ( @xmath65 , @xmath66 and @xmath67 per cent in r1 , r2 and r3 , respectively ) is formed at times @xmath68 gyr ( @xmath69 per cent of the dynamical time ) in the three runs . only at later times , we find that the lowest resolution test simulation ( r1 ) yields a significantly lower result for the sfr , indicating that the number of gas particles has dropped so much by the conversion into stars that discrete effects become appreciable",
    ". however , the final stellar mass fractions ( i.e. stellar mass formed divided by the total baryonic mass ) are very similar in r1 , r2 and r3 .",
    "this can be also appreciated from fig .",
    "[ perfiles - resolution ] , where we show the mass - weighted metallicity profiles for r1 ( dotted line ) , r2 ( solid line ) and r3 ( dashed line ) , in the inner region and for the stellar ( left column ) and gaseous ( right column ) components and for three different times , @xmath70 gyr ( upper panels ) , @xmath71 gyr ( middle panels ) and @xmath72 gyr ( lower panels ) .",
    "we can see that the stellar abundance profiles are insensitive to resolution .",
    "the mean iron abundance differs by less than @xmath73 dex between the different simulations .",
    "recall that the stellar metallicity of newly forming stars is given by the local gas metallicity .",
    "this is directly visible at the beginning of the simulation where the gaseous and stellar components show a similar level of enrichment in star - forming regions ( upper panels in fig .",
    "[ perfiles - resolution ] ) , while at later stages of the evolution ( middle and lower panels ) this constraint becomes hidden as a result of the superposition of stars of different ages .",
    "however , as can be seen from the right panels of fig",
    ".  [ perfiles - resolution ] , the mass - weighted metallicity profiles for the gas components show stronger differences with resolution than their stellar counterparts . at the beginning of the evolution ,",
    "the profiles of the three test simulations are still very similar , although the enriched gas is more spread in the highest - resolution test . however , the gas profiles differ more at later times when factors such as variations in the consumption time of the gas and differences in the spatial distribution of stars begin to affect the radial distribution of metals . at the end of the simulations ( lower right panel ) ,",
    "the mean gaseous iron abundance for r1 is significantly lower than those for the other two simulations .",
    "this decrease in the metallicity is produced by the infall of less enriched gas .",
    "this gas is not becoming dense enough to trigger star formation activity at the level of r2 and r3 , and the infall tends to dilute the metal content in the ism .",
    "hence , the fact that the gas component in r1 shows a lower iron abundance is driven by its poorer gas resolution .",
    "note that as a result of the consumption of most of the gas , the final number of gas particles in r1 is very low ( @xmath74 in the inner @xmath75 kpc ) and , as a consequence , the distribution of metals in the gas component is strongly affected by numerical noise . on the other hand , the results for the tests with 10000 and 40000 particles converge quite well both in their stellar and gaseous chemical properties .",
    "note that the rms scatter of particles within each radial bin is similar for the different tests indicating that , on average , the metal mixing is not significantly affected by resolution if we consider at least an initial number of particles of @xmath76 or more .    [",
    "cols=\"<,>,^,^,^,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ glos ]    in fig .",
    "[ sfr - glos ] , we compare the star formation histories for the selected galactic objects in c1 ( dotted line ) , c2 ( solid line ) and c3 ( dashed line ) , as a function of look - back time , i.e. @xmath77^{-3/2}$ ] .",
    "note that the global features of the sfrs are preserved in the three runs , although the detailed levels of activity are different .",
    "in general , the sfrs of the galactic objects formed in c3 are systematically higher than the corresponding ones in c2 , as expected .",
    "note that because galactic objects formed in c3 have higher sfrs than those in c2 , their final stellar masses are much larger than the corresponding ones in c2 ( see table  [ glos ] ) .",
    "if we compare the sfrs obtained for c1 and c2 , although the differences are small , the sfrs in c1 are systematically lower than those in c2 .",
    "it is noteworthy that the impact of metallicity on the star formation history seems to depend on the particular evolutionary histories of the systems , as can be appreciated from fig .",
    "[ sfr - glos ] .    in fig .",
    "[ mean - perfiles - mstar - obj ] , we show the mean stellar mass fraction @xmath78 as a function of radius , estimated from the six selected galactic objects in c1 ( dotted line ) , c2 ( solid line ) and c3 ( dashed line ) . as in section  [ cooling ] , the distribution function for each galactic object was calculated by summing up the stellar mass in bins of radius normalized to the total baryonic mass within the corresponding bin . as we found for the tests of the isolated galaxies ,",
    "there are clear differences between the results for the three runs .",
    "although in the inner @xmath79 kpc the simulations yield similar stellar fractions , within @xmath80 kpc , galactic objects in c2 have transformed a larger fraction of the gas into stars compared with those in c3 , while galactic objects in c1 show the opposite behaviour . at larger radii ,",
    "the mean distribution function of stellar mass for the galactic objects in c3 is significantly larger than its counterpart for c2 , indicating that as a result of the higher cooling efficiency , the gas in c3 has been transformed into stars further away from the centre of mass of the objects .",
    "conversely , the primordial run shows fewer stars in the outer region .",
    "note that efficient energy feedback is needed to prevent excessive star formation in the outer regions , as it can be observed from fig .",
    "[ mean - perfiles - mstar - obj ] .    in order to assess how these differences affect the chemical properties of the formed galactic objects , we analysed the metal indicator @xmath81 for the gaseous and stellar components in c1 , c2 and c3 .",
    "consistent with our results for the idealized disc tests , we found that the metallicity of the stellar components is not sensitive to the cooling function adopted , in contrast to the gaseous components . in fig .",
    "[ perfiles - glos ] we compare the gaseous oxygen profiles for the galaxy samples in c1 ( dotted lines ) , c2 ( solid lines ) and c3 ( dashed lines ) .",
    "although there is a trend for systems in c3 to have a higher level of enrichment and flatter mass - weighted abundance profiles compared to their counterparts in c2 and c1 , how much metals affect these relations seems to depend on the particular history of evolution of each galaxy , as can be inferred from figs .",
    "[ sfr - glos ] and  [ perfiles - glos ] .",
    "finally , for a comparison with observational results , we performed linear regression fits to the gaseous oxygen profiles of our simulated galactic objects within the optical radius . by definition , the optical radius encloses @xmath82 per cent of the baryonic stellar mass within the virial radius . in fig .",
    "[ slope - zero ] , we show the zero - point of these fits as a function of the corresponding slopes for the galactic objects in c1 ( triangles ) , c2 ( diamonds ) and c3 ( asterisks ) .",
    "we also include observational results from zaritsky et al .",
    "( 1994 , filled circles ) .",
    "in general , the properties of the simulated galactic objects agree reasonably well with the range obtained in observational studies . however , the simulated galactic objects identified in c2 tend to have steeper profiles and higher zero - points compared with observations .",
    "conversely , galactic objects in c3 exhibit flatter profiles . a similar behaviour was also found in our tests for the isolated disc galaxies run with primordial ( pc , squared triangle ) , metal - dependent ( r2 , squared diamond ) and suprasolar ( sc , squared asterisk ) cooling functions .",
    "the fact that these simulations do not reproduce the whole observed range of gradients could be related to the lack of a treatment of energy feedback by sne .",
    "the latter , if realistically modelled , is expected to trigger mass outflows from the star - forming regions into the halo .",
    "since these regions are highly enriched , metals may be transported outwards , affecting the metallicity distributions and flattening the metallicity profiles .",
    "our simulation run with suprasolar cooling function was performed in order to assess the effects of the presence of metals in these outer regions on the gas cooling , mimicking an extreme case of metal enrichment by energy feedback .",
    "we have implemented a new model for chemical evolution within the cosmological sph code gadget-2 .",
    "we account for nucleosynthesis from snia and snii separately .",
    "radiative cooling of the gas according to self - consistent metallicity values is realized by means of precomputed look - up tables .",
    "our implementation was designed to allow a reasonably accurate treatment of the main features of stellar evolution while still not becoming computationally too expensive .    using a number of test simulations both of isolated galaxies and of cosmological structure formation",
    ", we have validated our implementation and established some first basic results for the effects of chemical enrichment .",
    "an important consequence of the presence of metals is the increase in the cooling efficiency that it can cause , leading to accelerated star formation . in our isolated galaxy simulations ,",
    "the sfr for test runs with metal - dependent cooling function can be up to a factor of @xmath83 higher than the corresponding one for a test with a primordial cooling function , and up to a factor of @xmath84 lower than the one for suprasolar cooling .",
    "we found that these differences do not originate in the gas in the central regions , because it is already cold and dense anyway .",
    "instead , the differences are caused by more diffuse gas at outer radii which has yet to cool . here",
    "the increase of the cooling efficiency allows condensation of gas and star formation to occur further away from the centre of the systems .",
    "an important implication of this result is that strong effects owing to metal - dependent cooling can only be expected when heavy elements are efficiently transported and mixed into diffuse gas that has yet to cool . in our cosmological simulations , which lacked a physical model for energy feedback",
    ", such a large - scale spreading of metals only occurs at a low level .",
    "as perhaps was to be expected , we found that simulations with metal - dependent cooling produced similar results as simulations with a primordial cooling function .",
    "we expect however that this could be very different if a model for efficient metal distribution is added to our simulations .",
    "an explicit demonstration of this has been provided by our test simulation where we assumed suprasolar cooling rate functions , resulting in substantially elevated star formation activity and different abundance profiles .",
    "note that in this paper we explored galaxy scale systems which cool very efficiently .",
    "larger effects from chemical mixing are expected in more massive haloes such as clusters of galaxies ( white & frenk 1991 ; de lucia , kauffmann & white 2003 ) .",
    "we have also tested the impact of a number of assumptions made in our model , and the relevance of numerical parameters .",
    "relaxing the ira for snii has only a negligible effect and does not change the chemical properties of the simulated systems .",
    "however , as also shown by previous work ( e.g. raiteri , villata & navarro 1996 ; chiappini et al .",
    "1997 ; mosconi et al .",
    "2001 ) , the chemical properties of both the stellar populations and the ism are sensitive to the time - delay associated with snia explosions . in agreement with previous results",
    ", we found that the latter must be included in order to be able to reproduce the observed chemical properties of galaxies .",
    "we have shown that chemical enrichment can significantly modify the chemical and dynamical properties of forming galactic systems . however , the strength of the influence of metals on galaxy formation might also depend on the physics of energy feedback .",
    "if the latter is neglected , as we have done here , metals are not mixed widely in gas that has yet to cool .",
    "effects due to metal - dependent cooling remain then moderate . in a forthcoming paper",
    ", we will complement our model for chemical enrichment with a new description of a multiphase ism and energy feedback , which is capable of reproducing strong outflows and regulating the star formation activity .",
    "this combined model should provide a powerful tool to exploit observational data on the chemical properties of galaxies to constrain galaxy formation .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for comments that helped to improve the paper .",
    "this work was partially supported by the european union s alfa - ii programme , through lenac , the latin american european network for astrophysics and cosmology .",
    "simulations have been perfomed on ingeld pc - cluster funded by fundacin antorchas .",
    "we acknowledge support from consejo nacional de investigaciones cientficas y tcnicas , agencia de promocin de ciencia y tecnologa , fundacin antorchas , secretara de ciencia y tcnica de la universidad nacional de crdoba and the daad exchange programme .",
    "c.s . thanks the alexander von humboldt foundation , the federal ministry of education and research and the programme for investment in the future ( zip ) of the german government for partial support .                                    greggio l. , 1996 , in kunth d. , guiderdoni b. , heydari - malayeri m. , thuan t. , eds , the interplay between massive star formatin , the ism and galaxy evolution .",
    "editions fronti@xmath85res , gif - sur - ivette , p.89"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss a model for treating chemical enrichment by type ii and type ia supernova ( snii and snia ) explosions in simulations of cosmological structure formation . </S>",
    "<S> our model includes metal - dependent radiative cooling and star formation in dense collapsed gas clumps . </S>",
    "<S> metals are returned into the diffuse interstellar medium by star particles using a local smoothed particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) smoothing kernel . </S>",
    "<S> a variety of chemical abundance patterns in enriched gas arise in our treatment owing to the different yields and lifetimes of snii and snia progenitor stars . </S>",
    "<S> in the case of snii chemical production , we adopt metal - dependent yields . because of the sensitive dependence of cooling rates on metallicity , enrichment of galactic haloes with metals can in principle significantly alter subsequent gas infall and the build up of the stellar components . </S>",
    "<S> indeed , in simulations of isolated galaxies we find that a consistent treatment of metal - dependent cooling produces @xmath0 per cent more stars outside the central region than simulations with a primordial cooling function . in the highly - enriched central regions , the evolution of baryons is however not affected by metal cooling , because here the gas is always dense enough to cool . </S>",
    "<S> a similar situation is found in cosmological simulations because we include no strong feedback processes which could spread metals over large distances and mix them into unenriched diffuse gas . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate this explicitly with test simulations which adopt suprasolar cooling functions leading to large changes both in the stellar mass and in the metal distributions . </S>",
    "<S> we also find that the impact of metallicity on the star formation histories of galaxies may depend on their particular evolutionary history . </S>",
    "<S> our results hence emphasise the importance of feedback processes for interpreting the cosmic metal enrichment .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    methods : numerical - galaxies : abundances - galaxies : formation - galaxies : evolution - cosmology : theory . </S>"
  ]
}