{
  "article_text": [
    "rovibrationally excited h@xmath0 molecules have been observed in many astrophysical objects ( for recent studies , see weintraub et al .",
    "1998 ; van dishoeck et al . 1998 ; shupe et al .",
    "1998 ; bujarrabal et al . 1998 ; stanke et al . 1998 ) .",
    "the rovibrational levels of the molecule may be populated by ultraviolet pumping , by x - ray pumping , by the formation mechanism , and by collisional excitation in shock - heated gas ( dalgarno 1995 ) .",
    "the excited level populations are then modified by collisions followed by quadrupole emissions .",
    "the main colliding partners apart from h@xmath0 are h and he .",
    "although he is only one tenth as abundant as h , collisions with he may have a significant influence in many astronomical environments depending on the density , temperature and the initial rotational and vibrational excitation of the molecule .",
    "collisions with he and h@xmath0 are particularly important when most of the hydrogen is in molecular form , as in dense molecular clouds . to interpret observations of the radiation emitted by the gas ,",
    "the collision cross sections and corresponding rate coefficients characterizing the collisions must be known .",
    "emissions from excited rovibrational levels of the molecule provide important clues regarding the physical state of the gas , dissociation , excitation and formation properties of h@xmath0 . here",
    "we investigate the collisional relaxation of vibrationally excited h@xmath0 by he .",
    "rovibrational transitions in h@xmath0 induced by collisions with he atoms have been the subject of a large number of theoretical calculations in the past ( alexander 1976 , 1977 ; alexander and mcguire 1976 ; dove et al .",
    "1980 ; eastes and secrest 1972 ; krauss and mies 1965 ; mcguire and kouri 1974 ; raczkowski et al .",
    "1978 ) and continue to attract experimental ( audibert et al . 1976 ; michaut et al . 1998 ) and theoretical attention ( flower et al . 1998 ; dubernet & tuckey 1999 ; balakrishnan et al . 1999 ) .",
    "recent theoretical calculations are motivated by the availability of more accurate representations of the interaction potentials and the possibility of performing quantum mechanical calculations with few approximations . the potential energy surface determined by muchnick and russek ( 1994 )",
    "was used by flower et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and by balakrishnan et al .",
    "( 1999 ) in recent quantum mechanical calculations of rovibrational transition rate coefficients for temperatures ranging from 100 to 5000k .",
    "flower et al . presented their results for vibrational levels @xmath3 and 2 of ortho- and para - h@xmath0 .",
    "balakrishnan et al . ( 1999 ) reported similar results for @xmath4 and 1 . though both authors have adopted similar close - coupling approaches for the scattering calculations , flower et al .",
    "used a harmonic oscillator approximation for h@xmath0 vibrational wave functions in evaluating the matrix elements of the potential while the calculations of balakrishnan et al .",
    "made use of the h@xmath0 potential of schwenke ( 1988 ) and the corresponding numerically determined wave functions .",
    "the results of the two calculations agreed well for pure rotational transitions but some discrepancies were seen for rovibrational transitions .",
    "we believe this may be due to the different choice of vibrational wave functions .",
    "the sensitivity of the rate coefficients to the choice of the h@xmath0 wave function was noted previously and differences could be significant for excited vibrational levels .",
    "we find this to be the case for transitions involving @xmath5 .",
    "thus , in this article , we report rate coefficients for transitions from @xmath6 to 6 initial states of h@xmath0 induced by collisions with he atoms using numerically exact quantum mechanical calculations .",
    "we also report results of quasiclassical trajectory ( qct ) calculations and examine the suitability of classical mechanical calculations in predicting rovibrational transitions in h@xmath0 .",
    "the quantum mechanical calculations were performed using the nonreactive scattering program molscat developed by hutson and green ( 1994 ) with the he - h@xmath0 interaction potential of muchnick and russek ( 1994 ) and the h@xmath0 potential of schwenke ( 1988 ) .",
    "we refer to our earlier paper ( balakrishnan , forrey & dalgarno , 1999 ) for details of the numerical implementation .",
    "different basis sets were used in the calculations for transitions from different initial vibrational levels .",
    "we use the notation [ @xmath7@xmath8(@xmath9@xmath10 ) to represent the basis set where the quantities within the square brackets give the range of vibrational levels and those in braces give the range of rotational levels coupled in each of the vibrational levels . for transitions from @xmath11 and 4 we used , respectively , the basis sets [ 03](011 ) & [ 4](03 ) , [ 03](011 ) & [ 4](09 ) and [ 35](011 ) & [ 1,6](011 ) . for @xmath12 and 6 of para h@xmath0 we used , respectively , [ 46](014 ) & [ 3,7](08 ) and [ 57](014 ) & [ 4,8](08 ) . during the calculations",
    ", we found that the @xmath13 transitions are weak with cross sections that are typically orders of magnitude smaller than for the @xmath14 transitions .",
    "thus , for @xmath12 and 6 of ortho - h@xmath0 , we have only included the @xmath14 vibrational levels with @xmath15=013 in the basis set to reduce the computational effort .",
    "the basis sets were chosen as a compromise between numerical efficiency and accuracy and could introduce some truncation errors for transitions to levels which lie at the outer edge of the basis set .",
    "our convergence tests show that truncation errors are small .",
    "rovibrational transition cross sections @xmath16 where the pairs of numbers @xmath17 and @xmath18 respectively denote the initial and final rovibrational quantum numbers , were computed for kinetic energies ranging from 10@xmath1 to 3 ev .",
    "sufficient total angular momentum partial waves were included in the calculations to secure convergence of the cross sections .",
    "the quasiclassical calculations were carried out using the standard classical trajectory method as described by lepp , buch and dalgarno ( 1995 ) in which the procedure of blais and truhlar ( 1976 ) was adopted for the final state analysis .",
    "because rovibrational transitions are rare at low velocities , useful results could be obtained only for collisions at energies above 0.1 ev .",
    "the results are averages over 10000 trajectories .",
    "the quantum mechanical calculations were performed using molscat ( hutson & green , 1994 ) suitably adapted for the present system with the potential represented by a legendre polynomial expansion in which we retained nonvanishing terms of orders 0 to 10 , inclusive .    calculation of rovibrational transition rate coefficients over a wide range of temperatures requires the determination of scattering cross sections at the energies spanned by the boltzmann distribution at each temperature .",
    "this is a computationally demanding problem especially when quantum mechanical calculations are required . for many systems ,",
    "qct calculations offer a good compromise between accuracy and computational effort .",
    "however , the validity of classical mechanics is in question especially for lighter systems and at lower temperatures where quantum mechanical effects such as tunneling are important . due to the small masses of the atoms involved ,",
    "the present system offers an excellent opportunity to test the reliability of qct calculations in predicting rovibrational transitions .",
    "though such attempts have been made in the past ( dove et al .",
    "1980 ) the classical mechanical and quantum mechanical calculations were done in different energy regimes and a one - to - one comparison was not possible .",
    "we carried out quantum mechanical and qct calculations of rovibrational transition cross sections for the present system over a wide range of energies . in figure 1",
    "we compare the results for pure rotational de - excitation transitions ( @xmath19 ) with @xmath20 in @xmath4 to 5 .",
    "there are striking similarities and differences between the quantum mechanical and qct results .",
    "they agree quite well at higher energies and have a similar energy dependence with both calculations predicting the same maximum for the cross sections before they fall off .",
    "in contrast , the agreement becomes less satisfactory at lower energies with the qct cross sections rapidly decreasing to zero as the energy is decreased .",
    "the quantum mechanical results pass through minima and subsequently increase with further decrease of the kinetic energy .",
    "this is a purely quantum mechanical effect that has important consequences for the low temperature rate coefficients ( balakrishnan et al .",
    "the quantum mechanical cross sections eventually conform to an inverse velocity dependence as the relative translational energy is decreased to zero and the corresponding rate coefficients are finite in the limit of zero temperature , in accordance with wigner s threshold law .",
    "the results illustrate that qct calculations may be used reliably to calculate rotational transitions for energies higher than 0.5 ev , but at lower energies , quantum mechanical calculation must be employed .",
    "the energy regime for the validity of qct results is more restricted for rovibrational transitions as illustrated in figure 2 in which we show cross sections for rovibrational transitions @xmath21 with @xmath22 in @xmath23 to 5 .",
    "the results indicate that the qct method is inadequate to calculate rovibrational transition cross sections at impact energies below 1 ev .",
    "the qct results exhibit a sharp fall below a threshold near an energy of 1 ev whereas the quantum mechanical results vary smoothly .",
    "similar results hold for other transitions .",
    "the higher collision energies required for the validity of the qct method for rovibrational transitions compared to pure rotational transitions is due in part to the much smaller cross sections for rovibrational transitions making the results more sensitive to the details of the dynamics .",
    "rate coefficients @xmath24 were calculated for the temperature range @xmath25 to 4000 k by averaging the cross sections over a boltzmann distribution of relative velocities .",
    "flower et al .",
    "( 1998 ) have reported rate coefficients for rovibrational transitions from @xmath26 for @xmath27 and 4500 k. a comparison of some of the de - excitation rate coefficients from the @xmath6 level calculated in this paper and those reported by flower _",
    "is given in table 1 for @xmath28 k. the agreement is good for rovibrational transitions involving @xmath29 and 4 but larger differences , by factors between 2 and 4 , are seen for transitions involving larger values of @xmath30 .",
    "our rate coefficients are generally greater than those of flower _ et al . _",
    "( 1998 ) for transitions where the discrepancy is large .",
    "our rate coefficient calculations extend those of flower _ et al . _",
    "( 1998 ) to include the @xmath31 and 6 vibrational levels .",
    "the preferential formation of h@xmath0 in these vibrational levels has been discussed by dalgarno ( 1995 ) .    in tables 2 and 3 , we present our comprehensive results for rovibrational de - excitation transitions from different rotational levels in para- and ortho - h@xmath0 from the @xmath6 level as functions of temperature .",
    "the corresponding excitation rate coefficients may be obtained from detailed balance @xmath32 } k_{vj , v'j'}(t)\\ ] ] where @xmath33 is the boltzmann constant and @xmath34 is the rovibrational energy of the molecule in the @xmath35 level .",
    "similar results for @xmath23 to 6 are presented in tables 4 - 11 .",
    "tables 2 - 11 reveal some interesting aspects of energy transfer .",
    "it can be seen that for temperatures less than 1000 k , rate coefficients for rovibrational transitions involving @xmath36 predominate over other transitions where changes in both @xmath37 and @xmath15 occur .",
    "this is clearly seen for ( @xmath38 ) transitions with @xmath39 for @xmath40 and the effect becomes stronger with increasing rotational excitation but less important as @xmath41 increases .",
    "this is an example of quasi - resonant scattering ( stewart et al .",
    "1988 ; forrey et al .",
    "a detailed study of this process in the limit of zero temperature and its correspondence with classical mechanics has been carried out recently ( forrey et al . 1999 ) .",
    "the efficient conversion of vibrational energy into rotational energy may produce a significant population of high rotational levels in environments where molecular hydrogen is subjected to an intense flux of x - rays or ultraviolet photons .",
    "this work was supported by the national science foundation ( nsf ) , division of astronomy .",
    "mv was supported by the nsf through the research experience for undergraduates program at the smithsonian astrophysical observatory .",
    "hutson , j.m .",
    ", & green , s. 1994 , molscat version 14 distributed by collaborative computational project 6 ( daresbury laboratory : uk engineering and physical sciences research council ) .",
    "krauss , m. , & mies , f.h .",
    "1965 , j. chem .",
    "phys . , 42 , 2703 .",
    "lepp , s. , buch , v. , & dalgarno , a 1995 , apjs , 98 , 345 .",
    "mcguire , p. , & kouri . , d. j. , 1974 , j. chem .",
    ", 60 , 2488 .",
    "michaut , x. , saint - loup , r. , berger , h. , dubernet , m. l. , joubert , p. , & bonamy , j. 1998 , j. chem .",
    "109 , 951 .",
    "muchnick , p. , & russek , a. 1994 , j. chem .",
    "phys . , 100 , 4336 .",
    "raczkowski , a.w . ,",
    "lester , w.a .",
    "jr . , & miller , w.h . 1978 , j. chem .",
    "phys . , 69 , 2692 .",
    "schwenke , d. w. , 1988 , j. chem .",
    "phys . , 89 , 2076 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present quantum mechanical and quasiclassical trajectory calculations of cross sections for rovibrational transitions in ortho- and para - h@xmath0 induced by collisions with he atoms . </S>",
    "<S> cross sections were obtained for kinetic energies between 10@xmath1 and 3 ev , and the corresponding rate coefficients were calculated for the temperature range 100@xmath24000 k. comparisons are made with previous calculations . </S>"
  ]
}