{
  "article_text": [
    "eses were discovered ten years ago during radio flux monitoring of a sample of compact radio quasars ( fiedler et al 1987 ) .",
    "the ese phenomenon consists of dramatic flux changes occuring over several weeks to months .",
    "it is broadly agreed that eses are not intrinsic variations but , rather , apparent flux changes which are caused by refracting elements , a few au in radius , crossing the line - of - sight . both random ( fiedler et al 1987 ) and deterministic ( romani , blandford & cordes 1987 ) lens structures have been proposed ; in all cases the refraction is attributed to free electrons .",
    "two further points of consensus are that the blobs of free electrons must be galactic , and that they represent a distinct component of the ism ( narayan 1988 ; see also rickett 1990 ) . this same component is thought to be responsible for episodes of multiple imaging of radio pulsars ( cordes & wolszczan 1986 ; rickett 1990 )  a phenomenon which manifests itself as periodic fringes in the dynamic spectra .    despite the attention which the ese phenomenon has attracted ( romani , blandford & cordes 1987 ; romani 1988 ; clegg , chernoff & cordes 1988 ; clegg , fey & lazio 1998 ) , the current state of understanding is unsatisfactory for two reasons .",
    "first the implied pressure of the electron cloud  having an inferred density @xmath1 and a temperature @xmath2  exceeds that of the diffuse interstellar medium ( ism ) by a factor of @xmath3 .",
    "such a cloud should dissipate on a time - scale comparable to the sound - crossing time , of order a year .",
    "this difficulty can be lessened by appealing to cloud geometries which are elongated along the line - of - sight , and by placing the clouds in regions of high pressure within the ism  specifically , old supernova shocks . in support of the latter idea",
    "it has been argued ( romani 1988 ) that the distribution on the sky of recorded eses reflects that of the strongest regions of non - thermal radio emission .",
    "however , with the small number of eses recorded to date , and the large area covered by the radio loops , this evidence is at best suggestive .",
    "the second main difficulty with existing models is that none has been able to reproduce the dual - frequency light - curve of the quasar 0954 + 658  the source for which the best ese data exist .    in this paper",
    "we present the essential elements of a new model for eses , wherein the free electrons comprise a ` skin ' of photo - ionized material around a cool , self - gravitating cloud .",
    "the pressure of the neutral material is balanced by the self - gravity of the cloud , while the ionized gas flows continuously from the surface ; complete evaporation occurs over a time - scale of order the hubble time .",
    "we show in  2 that this model reproduces the prototypical ese light - curves .",
    "the event rate for eses then leads to the robust conclusion (  3 ) that these clouds contribute substantially to the galactic dark matter . in ",
    "4 we note some key observational tests .",
    "the estimated cloud dimension and distance indicate that geometric optics is a good approximation .",
    "to proceed we need to know the electron density distribution , from which we can calculate the bending angle of rays , and hence the imaging properties of the cloud .",
    "the photo - ionized material at the surface of the cloud is not bound , but flows away as a feeble wind .",
    "dyson ( 1968 ) constructed an analytic solution for the density profile of a spherically symmetric photo - evaporated wind from a neutral cloud ; his solution is plotted in figure 1 . the electron density at the surface of the cloud is given ( in @xmath4 ) by @xmath5 , and in the local galactic halo , at the solar circle , the ionising photon field is @xmath6 ( dove and shull 1994 ) . for a cloud radius @xmath7 ( fiedler et al 1987 ) we obtain @xmath8 .",
    "this model thus exhibits immediate strength in that the electron density required to explain the eses is a _ prediction _ of our model , whereas it is an _ assumption _ of existing models .",
    "dyson s solution can not be used directly for our calculations , however , as it is discontinuous at the ionisation front , whereas we require the first and second derivatives of @xmath9 to be well behaved .",
    "physically the thickness of the ionisation front is just the absorption length of lyman - limit radiation in the neutral medium . in turn",
    "this is fixed by the temperature of the neutral atmosphere , via the requirement for pressure balance across the transition region .",
    "another difficulty with dyson s solution is that @xmath9 is determined implicitly , which is computationally inconvenient .",
    "we therefore employ the approximation @xmath10 , where @xmath11 is the radius expressed in units of the cloud radius , and @xmath12 is the fermi function , taken to have a width of @xmath13 ( corresponding to a temperature of 40  k in the neutral atmosphere ) .",
    "this distribution is plotted in figure 1 .",
    "making use of this electron density distribution , together with the phase - screen approximation , it is straightforward to compute light - curves for a neutral cloud traversing the line - of - sight to a distant radio source . figure 2 shows one such computation , appropriate to a cloud at a distance of 2  kpc and an impact parameter of @xmath14 , along with the data for 0954 + 658 . to simulate the non - zero size of the real source , the theoretical curves are smoothed by convolution with gaussian functions .",
    "the adopted source model corresponds to 50% of the source flux being contained within a compact ( lensed ) component , with this component having a brightness temperature of @xmath15  k.    the main qualitative features of these light curves are accounted for as follows .",
    "the phase velocity of the wave is increased by the presence of free electrons , so the cloud acts as a diverging lens . at low frequencies",
    "the lens is powerful enough that almost all rays are refracted out of the line - of - sight , and only a small flux is measured when the lens is aligned with the source ; this behavior is generic to all blobs of free electrons regardless of the details of their density distribution .",
    "consequently this regime of a very strong lens is not particularly helpful in distinguishing our model from other possible electron density distributions . at higher frequencies ,",
    "however , the refractive index of the lens is much smaller , and typically rays are no - longer refracted through sufficiently large angles that caustics form .",
    "exceptions occur for rays that pass near the edge of the cloud : here the photoionized skin creates a large phase curvature in the wavefront and can introduce caustics even at high frequencies . these caustics are evident as sharp peaks in the model light - curve , and we note that similar features appear in the data ; in our model they are intimately associated with the presence of a peak in the electron column density at the limb of the cloud .",
    "the good qualitative agreement between our model and the data suggests that surface photo - evaporation  which , of course , implies underlying _ cool _ material  is an essential feature of real ese clouds .",
    "by contrast , the gaussian electron density profile originally proposed ( romani , blandford and cordes 1987 ) for eses can not , even qualitatively , match the dual frequency light curve of 0954 + 658 .",
    "going beyond the interpretation of individual events , the principal implication of the new model is that there is much more mass present in the ese clouds than had been previously thought ( cf .",
    "fiedler et al 1987 ; but see also pfenniger & combes 1994 ) .",
    "we now derive a lower limit on the total contribution of the ese clouds to the mass of the galaxy .",
    "the sky - covering factor , @xmath16 , of the clouds is estimated from the flux monitoring data ( fiedler et al 1994 ) to be @xmath17 .",
    "we can immediately relate @xmath16 to the total surface density , @xmath18 , in clouds at the solar circle : @xmath19 , for cloud mass @xmath20 and radius @xmath21 ( eses do not preferentially occur at low galactic latitude , b , so we have set @xmath22 ) .",
    "these quantities are in turn related by the requirement of hydrostatic equilibrium within each cloud  @xmath23 at temperature t  leading to @xmath24 .",
    "the cloud radius can be inferred from the event duration , in combination with an assumed transverse speed ; a limit follows from setting the transverse speed equal to the escape speed for the galaxy ( @xmath25 ) , giving @xmath26 .",
    "we expect that the cloud temperatures are at least as large as that of the cosmic microwave background ( i.e. @xmath27  k ) , so we deduce @xmath28 this lower limit is already larger than the total surface density of observable matter , and consistent with the value ( @xmath29 ) necessary to explain the galactic rotation curve ( binney and tremaine 1987 ) . taking the dynamically determined surface density as an upper limit on the contribution from ese clouds , we estimate the individual cloud masses to be @xmath30 : highly sub - stellar .",
    "hence the ese data lead us to the conclusion that low - mass gas clouds make up a good fraction of the mass of the galaxy .",
    "we are currently reassessing the sky covering fraction , @xmath16 ( manuscript in preparation ) , based on our theoretical model and the data of fiedler et  al .",
    "it is possible that @xmath16 is as small as a few times @xmath31 , in which case the lower limit on @xmath18 would be an order of magnitude smaller .",
    "even at this level , however , the cool , low - mass cloud population implied by the model remains a substantial and poorly understood component of the galaxy .",
    "moreover , because our estimate is a lower limit on the surface density , a smaller covering fraction still admits the possibility that such clouds do indeed dominate the dynamics of the galaxy .",
    "the result we have presented might appear surprising ; can dark matter really be in this form and yet have escaped detection ? it has been noted previously ( e.g. pfenniger , combes & martinet 1994 , gerhard & silk 1996 ) that cool , dense gas clouds are not easy to detect directly and may indeed be a viable dark matter candidate .",
    "we reconsider these issues elsewhere ( manuscript in preparation ) , but some brief comments are appropriate here .    first , by virtue of their high density ( @xmath32 ) and low temperature , three body reactions are sufficient to ensure that the clouds are molecular .",
    "the constituent material must have a very low dust / gas ratio in comparison with the diffuse ism , otherwise the population would already have been revealed by optical extinction events of extragalactic stars ( notably in the data generated by the microlensing searches : paczyski 1996 ) .",
    "a low dust content might reflect either a very low metal abundance or , possibly ( b. paczyski , personal communication ) , settling of the refractory elements into a small , rocky core .",
    "thirdly , unless the clouds are dynamically unimportant ( i.e. @xmath33 ) , the measured @xmath34-ray background at high galactic latitudes ( kniffen et  al .",
    "1996 ) constrains the vertical distribution of the clouds to be much more extensive than the cosmic ray disk , implying that the clouds are a halo population .",
    "( in turn this means that they are pre - galactic objects . )",
    "the small covering fraction , @xmath16 , of the clouds means that each can make @xmath35 orbits of the galaxy before colliding with another cloud , implying a lifetime of order the hubble time .",
    "the large column density of the individual clouds ( of order @xmath36 ) means that interactions with the diffuse gas in the galactic plane involve a negligible deceleration .",
    "the lifetime against uv photo - evaporation is also of order the hubble time .",
    "while the cool - cloud model we advance for eses is compatible with a variety of existing data , some specific observations can be made which would provide strong tests of the picture .",
    "we offer three such tests ; the first of these is most intimately connected with eses , and is in some sense the easiest experiment to perform .",
    "although the clouds are predominantly molecular , a crude assessment of the relevant chemistry suggests that they should contain sufficient atomic hydrogen to make them opaque in the 21  cm line .",
    "thus , while an ese is in progress there should also be a narrow absorption line present , in addition to the normal absorption spectrum of the source .",
    "( in our model , a similar connection should also hold between 21  cm absorption and multiple imaging of pulsars . )",
    "small - scale ( tens of au ) structure has already been reported in 21  cm absorption lines ( davis , diamond & goss 1996 , frail et al 1994 ) , but the possible connection with eses has not yet been explored .",
    "the line velocities should reflect the kinematics of the cloud population , which are expected to be quite different to that of the diffuse hi in the galactic disk .",
    "we note that , because of the multiple imaging which takes place , the absorption lines may appear saturated but with a non - zero flux minimum .    secondly , because the inferred column density of neutral material is so large it is expected that the clouds are opaque to rayleigh scattering ( c.f .",
    "combes & pfenniger 1997 ) between @xmath37 and the lyman / werner bands of @xmath38 ; and opaque to thomson scattering at x - ray energies .",
    "thus one in @xmath35 extragalactic uv / x - ray sources ( of sub - milliarcsecond size ) should appear extinguished at any one time , with events lasting a month or so .",
    "finally we note that the recombination lines ( h@xmath39 etc ) from the cloud surface may be detectable if there is a sufficiently strong local source of ionising radiation ( gerhard & silk 1996 ) .",
    "that is , clouds which are within a parsec of a hot star will be luminous sources of h@xmath39 and may thus be rendered visible .",
    "it might also be possible to detect , from their h@xmath39 emission , the clouds which are closest to the sun .",
    "many clouds are expected within a parsec , and these may appear as compact h@xmath39 nebulae of large radial velocity and very high proper - motion .",
    "we have presented a new model for the cause of extreme scattering events , where radio - wave refraction by ionized material magnifies ( `` lenses '' ) a distant radio source . in our model",
    "the ionized material is generated by photo - evaporation of an underlying neutral , self - gravitating cloud , so there is no difficulty in understanding the requisite high electron pressures ; indeed the ambient uv field in the galactic halo naturally generates the necessary electron density",
    ". moreover we find it straightforward to reproduce the dual - frequency light - curve of the prototypical ese in the source 0954 + 658 .",
    "these facts argue strongly for the soundness of the model .",
    "it follows immediately that a large fraction of the mass of the galaxy is in the form of cool gas clouds of up to jovian mass , and only a few au in radius .",
    "we are unable to falsify this picture with existing data , but with new observations some straightforward tests can be made .",
    "particular thanks go to ron ekers for many helpful discussions ; we are also grateful to simon johnston , brbel koribalski , don melrose , bohdan paczyski , gordon robertson and lister staveley - smith for their input .",
    "binney , j. & tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics , princeton univ . press : princeton clegg , a. w. , chernoff , d. f. & cordes , j. m. 1988 , radio wave scattering in the interstellar medium , 174 , cordes , j. m. , rickett , b. j. & backer , d. c. , aip : new york clegg , a. w. , fey , a. l. & lazio , t. j. w. 1998 , apj ( in press ) combes , f. & pfenniger , d. 1997 , a&a 327 , 453 cordes , j.  m. & wolszczan , a. 1986 , apjl , 307 , l27 davis , r.j . ,",
    "diamond , p.j . , & goss , w.m .",
    "1996 , mnras 283 , 1105 dove , j.  b. & shull , j.  m. 1994 , apj 430 , 222 dyson , j. e. 1968 , ap&ss 1 , 388 fiedler , r.l . ,",
    "dennison , b. , johnston , k.j . , & hewish , a. 1987 , nature 326 , 675 fiedler , r. , dennison , b. , johnston , k.j . , waltman , e.b . , & simon , r.s .",
    "1994 , apj 430 , 581 frail , d.a . , weisberg , j.m . ,",
    "cordes , j.m . & mathers , c. 1994 , apj 463 , 144 gerhard , o. , & silk , j. 1996 , apj 472 , 34 kniffen , d. et al . 1996 a&as 120 , 615 narayan , r. 1988 , radio wave scattering in the interstellar medium , 17 , cordes , j.  m. , rickett , b.  j. & backer , d.  c. , aip : new york paczyski , b. 1996 , araa 34 , 419 pfenniger , d. , combes , f. , & martinet , l. 1994 , a&a 285 , 79 pfenniger , d. & combes , f. 1994 , a&a 285 , 94 rickett , b.j .",
    "1990 , araa 28 , 561 romani , r. , blandford , r.d . ,",
    "cordes , j.m .",
    "1987 , nature 328 , 324 romani , r. 1988 , radio wave scattering in the interstellar medium , 156 , cordes , j. m. , rickett , b. j. & backer , d. c. , aip : new york"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> `` extreme scattering events '' ( eses ) are attributed to radio - wave refraction by a cloud of free - electrons crossing the line - of - sight . </S>",
    "<S> we present a new model in which these electrons form the photo - ionized ` skin ' of an underlying cool , self - gravitating cloud in the galactic halo . in this way we avoid the severe over - pressure problem which afflicts other models . </S>",
    "<S> the uv flux in the galactic halo naturally generates electron densities of the right order . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate , for the first time , a good reproduction of the prototypical ese in the quasar 0954 + 658 . </S>",
    "<S> the neutral clouds are a few au in radius and have masses @xmath0 </S>",
    "<S> . the observed rate of eses implies that a large fraction of the mass of the galaxy is in this form .    # </S>",
    "<S> 1to 0pt#1 </S>"
  ]
}