{
  "article_text": [
    "the accepted theory of planetary nebula ( pn ) formation is the interacting stellar winds model ( isw ) @xcite where a fast wind ( @xmath5 ) from the hot central star of a pn blows into the slow wind ( @xmath6 ) produced during the preceding asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) phase .",
    "the inner regions of the slow wind are compressed into a dense shell and ionised by the energetic uv radiation of the central star .",
    "the familiar ring - like appearance of pne is then observed .",
    "structures in the nebula are normally attributed to asymmetries in the slow wind , related to physical properties of the central star , such as rotation or binarity .",
    "observations of pne have shown several cases where the outer shell shows the only departure from symmetry .",
    "for those cases , the cause of the asymmetries has been proposed to be an interaction with the interstellar medium ( ism ) .",
    "interaction of pne with the ism was first discussed by @xcite .",
    "an early theoretical study by @xcite assumed a thin shell approximation and the ` snowplough ' model of @xcite .",
    "@xcite used the same approximation with higher velocities and ism densities . both of these studies concluded similarly that a nebula fades away before any disruption of the nebular shell becomes noticeable .",
    "in contrast , @xcite found that many pne with large angular extent show signs of pn ",
    "ism interaction , and that all nebulae containing central stars with a proper motion greater than 0.015 arcsecyr@xmath2 do so .",
    "@xcite hydrodynamically modelled the interaction .",
    "the pn shell is first compressed in the direction of motion and then in later stages this part of the shell is significantly decelerated with respect to the central star .",
    "both conclude that the interaction with the ism becomes dominant when the density of the nebular shell drops below a certain critical limit , of typically @xmath7 for a pn in the galactic plane .",
    "@xcite ( hereafter referred to as vgm ) pointed out the pn ",
    "ism interaction had only been studied by considering the relative movement when the nebular shell had already formed .",
    "they performed 2d hydrodynamic simulations following the full agb phase followed by the pn phase @xcite , with a conservative relative velocity of the central star of 20  and conservative conditions of the surrounding ism of @xmath8 .",
    "vgm concluded that interaction provides an adequate mechanism to explain the high rate of observed asymmetries in the external shells of pne .",
    "further , they conclude that stripping of mass downstream during the agb phase provides a possible solution to the problem of missing mass in pn whereby only a small fraction of the mass ejected during the agb phase is inferred to be present during the post - agb phase .",
    "observational evidence for the effect of the ism on agb wind stuctures was found by @xcite .",
    "the pn sh2 - 188 @xcite is among the most extreme examples of ism interaction .",
    "the nebula has a one - sided ( semi - circular ) , filamentary appearance .",
    "it is a large nebula , with a reported 340 arcsec diameter @xcite ; the currrent paper shows it to be considerably larger .",
    "it is located in the galactic plane at @xmath9 , @xmath10 .",
    "new data are presented showing the faint back of the shell and an extended h@xmath0 tail .",
    "the unusual appearance suggests a high proper motion and makes sh2 - 188 an important test case for pn ",
    "ism interaction at high velocity .",
    "we have developed a ` triple - wind ' model using a initial slow agb wind , a subsequent fast post - agb ( pn ) wind , and adding a third wind reflecting the movement through the ism into the isw model .",
    "we use a hydrodynamic scheme developed by @xcite , to investigate whether this triple - wind model can reproduce the nebular shape of sh2 - 188 without requiring magnetic fields .",
    "we support the results of the model with a proper motion study of the candidate central star .",
    "sh2 - 188 ( png 128.0@xmath1104.1 , also known as simeiz 22 ) was photographed in 1965 by @xcite .",
    "spectroscopic work @xcite revealed the object to have an extremely high  /  line - ratio .",
    "further spectroscopic data on the filamentary structure @xcite indicated filament densities of a few hundred h @xmath12 and found abundances similar to peimbert type i pn , where the large over - abundances of he and n result from cno enrichment of the stellar envelope prior to shell ejection @xcite .",
    "mapping at radio wavelengths @xcite found only a weak source which appeared to have a flat ( thermal ) spectrum .",
    "this observational evidence , along with the relatively bright optical appearance and pn abundances , constituted a convincing argument to classify the object as a pn , rather than a supernova remnant where non - thermal radio emission would be expected .",
    "@xcite identified the candidate central star of the nebula with geometric , colour and apparent magnitude methods .",
    "the star is displaced from the geometric centre of the nebula .",
    "they estimate a percentage probability of finding an unrelated blue star in the nebula to be 1 - 2 per cent at most . in their spectroscopic investigation of central stars of old pne , @xcite classified the candidate central star as hydrogen - rich .",
    "@xcite suggested that the filaments are most probably thin , sheetlike layers of shock - compressed nebular gas , parallel to the line of sight .",
    "the majority of the filaments are aligned along the crescent - shaped outer rim , but they noted a few appear to be along the nebular symmetry axis , possibly indicating stellar motion in that direction , as similar filaments do in abell 35 .",
    ".estimates of the distance to , radius of and age of sh2 - 188 . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]     our simulation reproduces the observed features as described above , if the central star has a peculiar velocity of 125 . if the star is within 1 kpc as predicted by various authors ( see table [ distances ] ) and moving as we predict at 125 , it should have an appreciable angular shift on the sky over a relatively short epoch .",
    "the heliocentric radial velocity is reported as @xmath13 .",
    "corrections for the solar motion and galactic rotation approximately cancel .",
    "thus , a tangential velocity @xmath14  with respect to the local standard of rest ( lsr ) would be expected .    with this in mind",
    ", we have performed a proper motion analysis of the central star via astrometric methods .",
    "the observations used for this are detailed in table [ coords ] .",
    "initially we looked for a shift between the iphas observations discussed earlier and the observations of @xcite taken in late 1992 at the 36 inch burrell schmidt telescope on kitt peak , using unbinned iphas images with a pixel size of @xmath15 arcsec .",
    "tweedy and kwitter s observations have a pixel size of @xmath16 arcsec , which was insufficient to detect a shift in the position of the candidate central star .    following this we found that the central star was listed in the usno - b1 catalog @xcite ( star number 1484 - 0053964 ) .",
    "this catalog obtained data from scans of 7,435 schmidt plates taken for various sky surveys over the past 50 years . the candidate central star had been observed in 1976.9 to a high positional accuracy .",
    "we fitted the positions in the catalog to stars around the nebula up to a radius of @xmath17 arcmin .",
    "the rms of the fit was @xmath18 arcsec .",
    "we detected a significant shift of the candidate central star of @xmath19 arcsec .",
    "this shift equates to a proper motion of the central star of sh2 - 188 of @xmath20 masyr@xmath2 in right ascension and of @xmath21 masyr@xmath2 in declination .",
    "the 1992.8 epoch position encompasses the expected position of the central star at that time .",
    "this proper motion corresponds to a total displacement in the plane of the sky of @xmath22 masyr@xmath2 , with a position angle of @xmath23 east through north .",
    "the proper motion corrections due to galactic rotation and due to the solar motion approximately cancel in this direction .",
    "assuming the central star is moving at @xmath24 , the distance to the nebula is estimated to be @xmath4 pc .",
    "this distance range is in good agreement with the estimates of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the measured proper motion is in the direction expected from our simulation supporting the identification of the central star of sh2 - 188 .",
    "although the agreement of our simulation with observation is encouraging , this should not be overstated .",
    "we have investigated a large parameter range in velocity , but the range of possible density contrasts is very large and we do not claim the final result is unique .",
    "in fact , now the distance has been determined , we can also compare the physical size of the nebula with the simulation : this reveals that the initial solution predicts a far smaller nebula than is observed .",
    "a solution to this discrepancy is discussed in the next section .",
    "if , as the proper motion combined with the simulation predicts , the central star is at 850 pc , there is a discrepancy over the physical size of the nebula between the observations and simulation .",
    "the observations show the nebula is 2.5 pc in diameter whereas in the simulation it is only around one tenth of this size .",
    "the large difference requires a change to the assumed values of the physical parameters .",
    "since the proper - motion distance and other distance determinations agree , we keep the velocities unchanged and adjust the densities .",
    "this approach is also suggested by the fact that observed agb ( super ) wind velocities vary by not much more than a factor of 2 , whilst the mass - loss rates can vary by a factor of 100 . a similar argument",
    "can be made for the ism density versus the peculiar velocity .",
    "a simple rescaling of the simulation allows one to change the densities and radii , without changing the dimensionless model results .",
    "we wish to generalise the model holding the velocities in the simulation constant and increase the size of the nebula by a factor of ten .",
    "the size of the nebula is defined by the size of the agb wind bubble which is in turn described by a simple ram pressure balance argument . to move the physical position of the ram - pressure balance point ( reverse shock of the agb wind bow shock ) 10 times",
    "further upstream requires a factor of 100 increase from the ratio of slow - wind mass loss to ism density , when keeping velocities constant . increasing mass , length and time by a factor of ten decreases density by a factor of 100 . thus the simulation domain and nebula",
    "are ten times larger .",
    "the time scales also increase by a factor of 10 : now 500,000 years on the agb is required for a stable morphology to develop .",
    "this is in line with the 495,000 year agb evolution predicted analytically by @xcite .",
    "the surrounding ism has dropped in density from 1 @xmath12 to 0.01 @xmath12 , a value consistent with the warm ionised medium ( wim ) rather than warm neutral medium .",
    "the rescaling shows that we do not in any way predict the mass - loss rate in the slow wind , only the ratio between the mass - loss rate and ism density .",
    "the snapshots of the nebula and agb evolution presented in the results section become 10 times older and sh2 - 188 now appears most like the simulation after 20 to 30,000 years of pn evolution .",
    "thus , the distance , diameter and age are all in accordance with @xcite and @xcite .",
    "cooling times and cooling effects in the simulation are related to density and so decreasing the density by a factor of 100 alters the cooling .",
    "we have rerun the simulation with this rescaling and found that the altered cooling produces the same morphology as the initial simulation , thus the rescaling seems entirely reasonable .",
    "the triple - wind model can reproduce the appearance of the nebula sh2 - 188 . accepting the model",
    ", the nebula has a peculiar motion with respect to the local ism of @xmath25 .",
    "the peculiar motion is mostly in the plane of the sky with the radial velocity around -25 .",
    "the star is located close to the galactic plane suggesting the star belongs to the disk population .",
    "the average transverse motion of a pn - forming central star in the galactic disk is 40 - 60 @xcite .",
    "the tail of the distribution extends up to 130  @xcite .",
    "the velocity of the central star is therefore high , yet not unfeasibly high",
    ". it would be less extreme if the star were a thick disk star which have local average velocities of @xmath26  @xcite .",
    "high peculiar velocities are more likely in older stellar populations .",
    "this is in conflict to the type - i classification of the nebula : the nitrogen enrichment indicates a more massive progenitor .",
    "however , the high [ n ii]/h@xmath0 ratio may be caused by shock excitation , and does not necessarily imply an n overabundance .",
    "further evidence of shock excitation is provided by the observation that the sulphur lines are stronger than  lines at all points where they have been measured @xcite .",
    "the central star of sh2 - 188 belongs to the tail of the velocity distribution of ( older ) disk stars .",
    "its rarity is borne out in the unique filamentary , one - sided appearance of the nebula , which is without parallel among known galactic pne .",
    "the simulations presented in @xcite show that a velocity of less than @xmath27  does not result in connecting tails behind the nebula and between @xmath28 and @xmath29  vortex shedding from the head of the bow shock seems to destroy the smooth tail structure observed in the nebula .",
    "a speed in the region of @xmath25  ( using increments of 25 ) is thus the lowest speed from the simulations at which the morphology of sh2 - 188 is reproduced .",
    "the observed fragmentation of the bow shock can be understood in terms of the effect predicted by @xcite ( hereafter referred to as ds ) .",
    "they postulated that rayleigh - taylor instabilities would fragment a bow shock in the direction of motion .",
    "magnetic fields would suppress certain modes of fragmentation and accentuate others , changing the appearance .",
    "sh2 - 188 is located in the galactic plane and thus ds interpreted its fragmentation as being an effect of fluid and magnetic field instabilities .",
    "importantly , ds conclude that fragmentation of a substantial part of the halo occurs only for a proper motion of greater than @xmath29 .",
    "this provides a lower limit to the proper motion of sh2 - 188 and supports the proper motion inferred from the simulation of @xmath25 .",
    "there is no fragmentation in the simulation which could be attributable to a lack of resolution , the lack of magnetic field or a lack of a gravitational field .",
    "further , there is in reality temporal evolution of the slow wind , with thermal pulses at the end of the phase .",
    "it is possible that these pulses of high mass - loss could stratify and fragment the bow shock structure before the pn phase .",
    "as long as the lifetime of these stratifications allows them to survive late into the pn phase ( which is questionable ) , the fast wind could reveal and further fragment them in a similar manner to the observed filamentary structure .",
    "spectroscopic data of the bright filaments taken by @xcite revealed velocities between 20 and 70 .",
    "the velocities in the simulation show the same range in the high density regions at the head of the bow shock which in reality is thought to have fragmented forming the observed filamentary structure .",
    "this agreement between the simulation and observations is very encouraging , although no more velocity data on this object are available to us for a more detailed comparison at this time .",
    "it should be noted that in our model these velocities are not related to the nebular expansion , but instead to the flow of shocked material from the head of the bow shock back down the tails .",
    "the faint emission completing the bright arc is particularly important . in the simulation",
    "this structure has a transitory nature and moves quickly away from the central star : it traces the interaction between the fast post - agb wind and the slow agb wind ( elsewhere in the nebula this front has merged with the ism shock ) .",
    "one reason for the fast movement of this shock is the high ratio of post - agb / agb momentum which we use .",
    "the distance downstream of the ring from the central star compared to the distance upstream of the bright arc defines the shift of the geometric centre and provides a calibrator for the simulation presented here .",
    "the rescaling of the simulation predicts the age of the nebula between 20 and 25,000 years .",
    "@xcite suggests that the star is 22,000 years into the post - agb phase .",
    "the simulation is not entirely in agreement with the observations .",
    "the progressive displacement of a star from the geometric centre of a nebula is an indicator of evolution and in the case of large nebulae , advanced evolution @xcite .",
    "the central star of sh2 - 188 appears to be approximately 33 per cent of the geometric radius towards the bright arc from the geometric centre .",
    "the rescaled simulation indicates that after 20,000 years of pn evolution , the star should appear 10 per cent of the geometric radius upstream of the geometric centre .",
    "10,000 years later , the simulation shows the central star approaching 30 per cent of the geometric radius upstream , in better agreement with the observations .",
    "however , by this time , the simulation predicts the bright regions of emission will have begun to shift downstream to where the pn shell is interacting with the tail .",
    "a better representation of the time - dependent stellar winds may be needed to resolve this issue .",
    "@xcite locate the star near the start of the white dwarf cooling track . at this point",
    ", the wind is expected to cease .",
    "the forward ram shock will no longer be supported by internal pressure and will retreat . the nebula will be blown downstream and disintegrate , and the white dwarf will appear to move out of its nebula .",
    "this phase is not included in the simulation .",
    "however , it implies that the sh2 - 188 morphology has a limited life expectancy .",
    "interaction with the ism considerably alters the amount of mass within the circumstellar envelope during the agb and post - agb phases .",
    "the simulation reaches a point of stability during the life time of the agb evolution @xcite : a longer agb wind does not increase the mass of the shell .",
    "after 20,000 years of the pn phase , an investigation of the ( rescaled ) simulation reveals that 0.6  has been introduced into the spherical region of the nebula .",
    "this is made up of 0.5  lost by the star and 0.1  of ism material entering the cross section of the nebula .",
    "an integration of the datacube over a roughly spherical region centred on the central star with the nebular radius estimates 0.236  remaining within the pn boundary .",
    "thus , 0.364  of material has been swept downstream into the tail of the nebula .",
    "in fact , the observed tail of the nebula is far older than the nebula itself as it is made up of agb and ism material swept downstream .",
    "it is likely that most of the ism material introduced into the stellar region has been swept downstream , but still a minimum of 0.264  of stellar material has been mixed with the ism downstream providing an efficient method of returning stellar material directly to the ism .",
    "observations have revealed a missing mass problem in pne whereby only a small fraction of the mass ejected during the agb phase is inferred to be present during the post - agb phase .",
    "stellar evolution calculations predict that stars with initial masses in the range of 1 - 5  will end as pn nuclei with masses around 0.6 .",
    "most of the mass is lost during the agb phase and should be easily observable as ionised mass during the pn stage .",
    "however , observations of galactic pne have revealed on average only 0.2  of ionised gas .",
    "several pne have been shown to have embedded molecular clumps which could contain much of this missing mass and these clumps have shown to survive ablation by stellar winds and therefore could survive into the pn phase @xcite .",
    "the stripping of mass downstream of a moving pne as investigated here also provides an attractive solution to this missing mass problem ; the dumbbell nebula appears to have clumps of material surrounding the bright nebula inside what would appear to be an agb wind bow shock @xcite combining both of these solutions to the missing mass problem .",
    "observations @xcite have indicated that the central star of sh2 - 188 has a mass of 0.6 .",
    "these observations , in combination with the mass injected into our simulation and the addition of mass lost prior to the superwind phase ( a typical estimate for low - mass stars being @xmath30 ) allows us to estimate a mass of @xmath31  for the progenitor star .    @xcite discussed evolution of agb stars and the interaction of their dust shells with the ism .",
    "typically , agb stars form large shells ( up to 4 pc in diameter ) around them .",
    "evidence for such an agb ",
    "ism interaction front was found by @xcite , who found a m3 iii agb star surrounded by such a detached shell of 4 pc diameter .",
    "the ism influence is defined by the density and hence pressure in the ism , which drops off exponentially from @xmath32 @xmath12 @xcite at a scale height of 100 pc @xcite .",
    "the regular shells can be influenced strongly by the movement through the surrounding ism .",
    "the agb evolution of the central star of sh2 - 188 shows a structure extensively altered from these regular dust shells .",
    "much of the agb material has been swept downstream .    at a distance of 850 pc ,",
    "the nebula is 60 pc below the galactic plane",
    ". we would expect the ism density in the region of sh2 - 188 to be around @xmath32 @xmath12 so it would seem our rescaling choice of @xmath33 @xmath12 is at odds with this .",
    "however , large regions of the galactic plane in between spiral arms are dominated by such low - density gas , including the volume around the sun @xcite . in fact , the ne2001 model @xcite , used commonly in the pulsar community to predict the galactic distribution of free electrons , predicts an electron density in the direction of sh2 - 188 of @xmath34 at a distance of 850 pc .",
    "this is in very good agreement with our prediction , but it should be stressed that this is only one choice of agb mass - loss rate to ism density ratio . a higher mass - loss rate would increase the ism density , although this would have implications for the mass in the nebular region .",
    "the direction of motion indicates the star is moving almost entirely in galactic longitude and has travelled 64 pc during the agb and post - agb phases .",
    "therefore the assumption of constant ism properties during the agb and post - agb evolution of the central star may not be correct .",
    "we have successfully reproduced the morphology and the available kinematic data of sh2 - 188 and understood its formation in terms of the ` triple wind ' model . following the agb evolution of",
    "the central star has been crucial in fitting the whole structure , in particular the tail behind the nebula which is comprised of purely agb material . the triple - wind model of sh2 - 188 has predicted a velocity of the candidate central star of 125 .",
    "velocities from spectroscopic data on the bright filaments @xcite are in agreement with velocities measured from the simulation .",
    "a proper motion study of the central star has shown it to be moving at @xmath35 masyr@xmath2 in the direction of the head of the bright arc .",
    "the combination of these two measurements has resulted in estimates of @xmath36 pc , @xmath37 pc and @xmath38 years .",
    "these estimates are in agreement with the distance and age estimates of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the prediction of ism density in the vicinty of sh2 - 188 is also in agreement with the ne2001 model of @xcite .",
    "the triple wind model explains the geometric displacement of the central star and indicates that the faint closure of the bright arc is a transitory structure which evolves downstream of the nebula .",
    "ism interaction has caused @xmath39 of the mass expected in the region of the star to be swept downstream providing a solution to the missing mass phenomenon in pn and a valuable way of mixing ism and stellar material several pc downstream of the central star .",
    "the success of the triple - wind model to fit this extreme object gives confidence in our ability to fit objects with lower speeds .",
    "it is now clear that the outer halo structure of pne contain the effects of ism interaction and should not be modelled as stand - alone structures .",
    "further , the ism interaction is an important method of mixing stellar material back into the ism .",
    "the next generation of telescopes , particularly alma , will be able to reveal cool dust structure in the universe and shed light on circumstellar agb material .",
    "further simulations considering temporal evolution of the stellar winds , magnetic fields and/or gravity may shed light on why we have not reproduced the observed fragmentation in sh2 - 188 .",
    "cjw was supported by a pparc research studentship .",
    "the numerical computations were carried out using the jodrell bank observatory cobra supercomputer .",
    "the paper uses data obtained from the iphas survey , carried out at the isaac newton telescope ( int ) on the island of la palma .",
    "the int is operated by the isaac newton group in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofisica de canarias .",
    "the authors acknowledge the iphas collaboration , consisting of , in addition to authors of this paper : a. aungwerowijt , m. barlow , r. corradi , d. frew , b. gnsicke , p. groot , a. hales , e. hopewell , m. irwin , c. knigge , p. leisy , d. lennon , a. mampaso , m. masheder , m. matsuura , l. morales - rueda , r. morris , q. parker , s. phillips , p. rodriguez - gil , g. roelofs , i. skillen , d. steeghs , y. unruh , k. viironen , j. vink , n. walton , a. whitham and a. zurita .",
    "useful comments from sir francis graham - smith , ian browne and alan pedlar at jodrell bank led to a useful discussion with michael kramer , also at jodrell bank , over electron densities .",
    "finally , thanks to the referee , john dyson , for excellent constructive comments which led to the supportive comparisons with available spectroscopic data .",
    "acker a. , marcout j. , ochsenbein f. , stenholm b. , tylenda r. , 1992 , strasbourg - eso catalogue of galactic planetary nebulae ( garching : european southern observatory ) balick b. , 1987 , aj , 94 , 671 binney j. , merrifield m. , 1998 , in galactic astronomy ( princeton , nj : princeton university press ) , ch .",
    "10 borkowski k.j . ,",
    "sarazin c.l .",
    ", soker n. , 1990 , apj , 360 , 173 burton w.b . , 1988 , in galactic and extragalactic radio astronomy , ed . k. kellermann & g.l .",
    "verschuur ( new york : springer ) , 295 cahn j.h .",
    ", kaler j.b . , stanghellini l. , 1992 , a&as , 94 , 399 cordes j.m . , lazio t.j.w . , 2002 ,",
    "preprint ( astro - ph/0207156 ) dgani r. , soker n. , 1994 , apj , 434 , 262 dgani r. , soker n. , 1998 , apj , 495 , 337 drew j.e .",
    "et al . , 2005 ,",
    "mnras , 362 , 753 falle s.a.e.g . , 1991 , mnras , 250 , 581 feast m.w . , whitelcok p.a . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 317 , 460 frisch p.c , 1995 , space science reviews , 72 , 499 gaze v.f . , shain g.a . , 1965 ,",
    "15 , 11 gurzadyan g.a . , 1969 , planetary nebula ( new york : gordon & breach ) , p.235 isaacmann r. , 1979 , a&a , 77 , 327 israel f.p .",
    ", felli m. , 1976 , pub .",
    "a.s.p . , 87 , 89 johnson h.m . , 1975 , pub .",
    "a.s.p . , 87",
    ", 89 kwitter k.b . , 1979 , phd thesis , ucla kwitter k.b .",
    ", jacoby g.h . ,",
    "lydon t.j . , 1988 , aj , 96 , 997 kwok s. , 1982 , aj , 258 , 280 lozinskaya t.a .",
    ", esipov v.f .",
    ", 1971 , soviet astr .- aj , 15 , 353 meaburn j. et al . , 2005 , rev",
    "aa , 41 , 109 monet d.g .",
    "et al . , 2003 ,",
    "aj , 125 , 984 napiwotzki r. , schoenberner d. , 1995 , a&a , 301 , 545 napiwotzki r. , 1999 , a&a , 350 , 101 napiwotzki r. , 2001 , a&a , 367 , 973 oort j.h .",
    ", 1951 , problems of cosmical aerodynamics ( dayton : central air document office ) parker r.a.r . , 1964 ,",
    "apj , 139 , 493 peimbert m. , 1981 in physical processes in red giants , p.409 ( dordrecht : d. reidel ) pittard j.m .",
    "et al . , 2005 ,",
    "mnras , 361 , 1077 rosado m. , kwitter k.b . , 1982 , revmexaa , 5 , 217 salter c.j . , greve a. , weiler k.w . , birkle k. , dennefeld m. , 1984 , a&a , 137 , 291 saurer w. , 1995 , a&a , 297 , 261 sharpless s. , 1959 , apjs , 4 , 257 skuljan j. , hearnshaw j.b . , cottrell p.l . , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 731 smith h. , 1976 , mnras , 175 , 419 soker n. , borkowski k.j .",
    ", sarazin c.l . , 1991 , aj , 102 , 1381 spitzer l. jr , 1978 , physical processes in the interstellar medium ( new york : wiley ) , p. 234",
    "tweedy r.w .",
    ", kwitter k.b . , 1996 , apjs , 107 , 255 vassiliadis e. , wood p. , 1993",
    ", apj , 413 , 641 vassiliadis e. , wood p. , 1994 ,",
    "apjs , 92 , 125 villaver e. , garcia - segura g. , manchado a. , 2002 , apj , 571 , 880 villaver e. , garcia - segura g. , manchado a. , 2003 , apjl , 585 , l53 wareing c.j .",
    "2005 , phd thesis , univ . of manchester , 2005 zijlstra a.a . , weinberger r. , 2002 , apj , 572 , 1006"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> sh2 - 188 is an example of strong interaction between a planetary nebula ( pn ) and the interstellar medium ( ism ) . </S>",
    "<S> it shows a single arc - like structure , consisting of several filaments , which is postulated to be the result of motion through the ism . </S>",
    "<S> we present new h@xmath0 images from the isaac newton telescope photometric h@xmath0 survey of the northern galactic plane ( iphas ) which reveal structure behind the filamentary limb . a faint </S>",
    "<S> , thin arc is seen opposite the bright limb , in combination forming a closed ring . behind the faint arc </S>",
    "<S> a long wide tail is detected , doubling the size of the nebula . </S>",
    "<S> the nebula extends 15 arcmin on the sky in total . </S>",
    "<S> we have developed a ` triple - wind ' hydrodynamical model , comprising of the initial ` slow ' asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) wind and the later ` fast ' stellar wind ( the interacting stellar wind model ) , plus a third wind reflecting the motion through the ism . </S>",
    "<S> simulations at various velocities of the central star relative to the ism indicate that a high velocity of 125   is required to reproduce the observed structure . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the bright limb and the tail already formed during the agb phase , prior to the formation of the pn . </S>",
    "<S> the closure of the ring arises from the slow  fast wind interaction . </S>",
    "<S> most of the mass lost on the agb has been swept downstream , providing a potential explanation of the missing mass problem in pne . </S>",
    "<S> we report a proper motion for the central star of @xmath1 masyr@xmath2 in the direction of the bright limb . </S>",
    "<S> assuming the central star is moving at @xmath3 , the distance to the nebula is estimated to be @xmath4 pc , consistent with a spectroscopic distance to the star . </S>",
    "<S> expansion velocities measured from spectroscopic data of the bright filaments are consistent with velocities measured from the simulation . </S>",
    "<S> sh2 - 188 is one of the largest pne known , with an extent of 2.8 pc . </S>",
    "<S> the model shows that this size was already set during the agb phase .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    hydrodynamics  planetary nebulae : individual : sh 2 - 188 , s188 , simeiz 22  stars : agb and post - agb  ism : structure  stars : mass - loss . </S>"
  ]
}