{
  "article_text": [
    "the helium abundance of stars is often used to extrapolate back to obtain estimates of the primordial helium abundance which is an important test of cosmological models .",
    "the helium content of the oldest stars can not however , be measured directly  these are low mass stars , and their photospheres are not hot enough to excite helium lines that can be used to determine the helium abundance spectroscopically .",
    "thus the helium content of low - mass stars has to be derived from the evolution of heavier elements via stellar models .",
    "the evolution of stars however depend crucially on the helium content itself , making the knowledge of the helium abundance in stars very important",
    ". the estimated ages of globular clusters , which provides an important constraint on cosmological models , are known to depend sensitively on the efficiency of helium diffusion in the envelope @xcite .",
    "the helium abundance of the solar envelope has been successfully determined using helioseismic data ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these seismic determinations were based on the fact that the ionisation of hydrogen and helium causes a distinct , localised depression in the adiabatic index , @xmath1 , in the near - surface layers of the sun .",
    "the first helium ionisation zone is not very useful in making seismic inferences  it overlaps with the hydrogen ionisation zone and is located very close to the stellar surface where there are significant uncertainties in seismic inversions .",
    "the second helium ionisation zone which is located below the highly superadiabatic layer of the convection zone is not particularly sensitive to surface effects and hence is useful in determining the helium abundance .",
    "the depression of @xmath1 in this region can be directly related to the abundance of helium ; this depression increases with increase in the helium abundance ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : gam1 ] ) .",
    "the depression in @xmath1 causes a localised depression in the derivative of the sound speed in the region , and hence affects all acoustic modes that travel through that region .",
    "thus using helioseismic inversion techniques it is possible to determine the sound speed in the solar interior which in turn could be calibrated to obtain the helium abundance in the solar envelope . all studies to determine the helium abundance in the sun used intermediate degree modes to measure the sound speed in the heii ionisation zone .",
    "a number of current and proposed space based asteroseismic missions like most @xcite , corot @xcite , mons @xcite and eddington @xcite are expected to measure the oscillation frequencies of several stars with sufficient accuracy to enable a more detailed study of stellar structure than has been possible so far .",
    "ground based observations have already started measuring the frequencies of many stars despite the difficulties of such measurements @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , none of these observations can or will be able to observe the intermediate degree modes of oscillation that have been so useful in solar studies .",
    "these missions can at most , hope to determine the frequencies of modes with degree @xmath8 .",
    "therefore , it is important to devise a practical way for determining the helium content of stellar envelopes using only low degree modes .",
    "any localised feature in the sound speed inside a star , such as that caused by the change in the temperature gradient at the base of the convection zone , introduces an oscillatory term in frequencies as a function of radial order @xmath9 , that is proportional to @xmath10 ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) where @xmath11 is the acoustic depth of the localised feature , @xmath12 the speed of sound , @xmath13 the radial distance where the feature is located ; and @xmath14 the angular frequency of a mode with radial order @xmath9 and degree @xmath15 , @xmath16 is a phase .",
    "this oscillatory signature has been extensively studied for the sun in order to determine the extent of overshoot below the solar convection zone @xcite .",
    "the heii ionisation zone too gives rise to a similar oscillatory signal , which can be extracted from frequencies of low degree modes ( see for example , * ? ? ?",
    "the present work is motivated by the possibility of using this signal in low degree seismic data from distant stars to study the properties of the heii ionisation zone .",
    "the depression in @xmath1 in the heii ionisation zone is not a very sharp feature and has a finite width .",
    "however , one can show that it still gives rise to an oscillatory signal in the frequencies and that the amplitude of the oscillatory term caused by the depression in @xmath1 depends on the amount of helium present at the location of ionisation . in principle , if this amplitude is measured , it can be compared against models to estimate the helium abundance in the stellar envelope .",
    "@xcite have studied the oscillatory signal arising from the heii ionisation zone in stellar models .",
    "they have shown that because of the finite width of this zone , the amplitude of oscillatory signal in frequencies is modulated by an additional factor @xmath17 where @xmath18 is half the acoustic thickness of the dip in @xmath1 . since @xmath18 is rather small , of the order of 100  s , this factor provides a slow modulation in amplitude of the oscillatory term .",
    "@xcite have also examined the oscillatory signal due to heii ionisation zone and pointed out the possibility of using it to determine the helium abundance .",
    "@xcite examined several stellar models to study the possibility of determining helium abundance from the amplitude of the oscillatory signal .",
    "they calculated the amplitudes using the second differences of the frequencies . in this work",
    "we extend that study to a much larger sample of models to explore possible systematic errors in the measurement of helium abundance using only low degree modes .",
    "we also look at models with substantially different abundances , such as stars with population  ii abundances .",
    "we also look at stars beyond the main sequence .",
    "the rest of the paper is organised as follows : we describe the measurement method in section  [ sec : technique ] and give details of the models we have used in this study in section  [ sec : models ] ; the results ( including those for solar low degree data ) are presented in section  [ sec : results ] and we discuss our conclusions in section  [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "the amplitude of the oscillatory signal due to the depression in @xmath1 in the heii ionisation zone is very small and it may be desirable to amplify it for a proper measurement .",
    "we amplify the signal by taking the second difference of the frequencies , @xmath19 for modes with the same degree .",
    "we use modes of degrees @xmath203 .",
    "in addition to amplifying the oscillatory signal , the process of taking second differences suppresses the dominant smooth trend of the frequencies to a large extent , making it easier to fit and measure the oscillatory term .",
    "the second differences are then fitted to the form used by @xcite , but without the degree - dependent terms ( which are not relevant for low degrees ) , i.e. ; @xmath21 where the first term with coefficients @xmath22 defines the smooth part of the second difference , the second term is the oscillatory signal from the heii ionisation zone , and the last term is the oscillatory signal from the base of the convection zone . in eq .",
    "[ eq : quad ] , the terms @xmath23 and @xmath24 are the acoustic depths of the heii ionisation zone and the base of the convection zone , respectively .",
    "the terms @xmath25 and @xmath26 are the phases of the corresponding oscillatory signals .",
    "the parameters @xmath27 , @xmath28 , @xmath29 , @xmath30 , @xmath31 , @xmath32 , @xmath33 , @xmath34 , @xmath35 , @xmath36 and @xmath37 are determined by least - squares fits to the second differences of the frequencies .",
    "as mentioned earlier , the heii ionisation zone actually has a small but finite width and the first derivative of the squared sound speed ( after some scaling ) can be better approximated by a triangular function rather than a discontinuity . to account for the extra modulation in the oscillatory term due to the finite width of the ionisation zone ( see eq .",
    "[ eq : factor ] ) we have also fitted the oscillation with the modulating factor @xmath38 @xcite in the amplitude keeping @xmath18 as a free parameter : @xmath39 for most of the cases considered in this paper , @xmath18 is found to be of the order of 100  s and hence , for the range of frequencies included in the fits , the term @xmath40 can be approximated reasonably well by a quadratic term as assumed in eq .",
    "( [ eq : quad ] ) .",
    "thus although the fitting form in eq .",
    "( [ eq : quad ] ) had been empirically determined to fit the signature from the base of the solar convection zone using intermediate degree solar modes , it is expected to fit the signature from heii ionisation zone in low degree modes quite well .    to study the sensitivity of fitted amplitude and acoustic depth to the fitting form we have tried one more variation where the oscillatory term due to heii ionisation zone in eq .",
    "( [ eq : mont ] ) is modified to @xmath41 this form is obtained by approximating the factor @xmath42 in eq .",
    "( [ eq : mont ] ) by a quadratic in @xmath43 .",
    "since @xmath18 is small such an approximation is reasonably good .",
    "this form differs from eq .",
    "( [ eq : quad ] ) through the addition of a linear term in @xmath43 in amplitudes .",
    "the fits of the three forms to frequencies generated by a @xmath44 , @xmath45 model are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : diff ] .",
    "each fit is a composite function representing the smooth trend in the second differences , a dominant slow oscillation due to the second helium ionisation zone , and a higher frequency oscillation arising from the base of the convection zone .",
    "each panel in the figure shows two fits , one for each of the two extreme values of the initial helium abundance @xmath46 that we have chosen for this study .",
    "as can be seen in the figure , the amplitude of the slower oscillation clearly increases with the amount of helium present in the envelope .",
    "we aim to calibrate this increase in the amplitude of the oscillatory signal from the heii ionisation zone against the helium content .",
    "we do such fits for each of the stellar models .",
    "since the amplitude of the signal is a function of frequency , we use the fits to obtain the mean amplitude over the fitting interval .",
    "there is not much difference in the fits obtained using the three forms given by eqs .",
    "( [ eq : quad][eq : quad2 ] ) , as borne out by fig .",
    "[ fig : diff ] .",
    "this ensures that the amplitudes are not too sensitive to the particular fitting form chosen .",
    "the frequencies of stellar oscillations roughly scale as @xmath47 , where @xmath48 is the mean density of the star .",
    "since the models have different mean densities , it is convenient to scale the frequencies by the factor @xmath49 before taking the differences and fitting the signal .",
    "however , this requires a knowledge of @xmath50 for the stars to be studied , which may not be known for all stars that may be targets of asteroseismic study .",
    "this factor can actually be estimated from the seismic data using the large frequency separation , @xmath51 ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we find that the averaged large frequency separation scaled by the factor in eq .",
    "( [ eq : scale ] ) is around 135  @xmath52hz for all the main - sequence stellar models in the range of masses considered in this study .",
    "we therefore , scale the frequencies using the average frequency separation to avoid the use of the potentially unknown factor @xmath50 .",
    "we have chosen a frequency range of 1.5  mhz to 3.0  mhz after scaling by @xmath53 , where @xmath54 is the mean large frequency separation and @xmath55hz is the value for the sun .",
    "the choice of the frequency range is dictated by practical reasons . at higher frequencies",
    "the oscillatory signal due to the heii ionisation zone becomes small .",
    "furthermore , the observational error is expected to increase in higher frequency modes , as is the case for solar data . at lower frequencies",
    "there is significant departure from the fitting forms assumed in this work since the low @xmath9 modes can not be approximated well by the asymptotic formulae used in obtaining the oscillatory form @xcite .    it can be shown that the process of taking the second differences magnifies the amplitude of the oscillatory functions by a factor @xmath56 where @xmath54 is the mean large frequency separation . in order to obtain the real amplitude of the oscillatory signal , i.e. , the amplitude of the oscillations in the frequencies , we divide the amplitude obtained for the second differences by this factor .",
    "this conversion back to frequencies is found to remove some variation in the amplitude between different models @xcite .",
    "all the amplitudes presented in this work are the amplitudes of the oscillatory function in the frequencies that we obtain by converting the fitted amplitudes in the second differences using the conversion factor in eq .",
    "( [ eq : mag ] ) .",
    "we find that for the heii ionisation zone , this factor is not very different from unity and hence the amplitudes are similar for both frequencies and the second differences of frequencies .",
    "this magnification is however quite large for the signal from the base of the convection zone , making it easier to fit the two oscillatory terms simultaneously in the second differences .    by fitting the oscillatory term in the second differences ,",
    "it is possible to determine the characteristics of the heii ionisation zone , like its acoustic depth and the thickness and amplitude of the depression in @xmath1 from the fitted parameters .",
    "one would expect the amplitude of the oscillatory signature to increase with helium abundance and hence it can be calibrated using stellar models with known @xmath0 .",
    "@xcite have suggested that the area of the bump in @xmath1 should be a measure of helium abundance .",
    "the product of amplitude with half - width @xmath18 provides a measure of this area .",
    "we find that it is difficult to estimate @xmath18 reliably by fitting the oscillatory term .",
    "we find a large scatter in the results if the product of the amplitude with @xmath18 is used , which makes it difficult to determine @xmath0 and hence we do not use it in our study .",
    "instead , we try to find a relation directly between the amplitude of oscillatory term and the helium abundance .",
    "we use the technique described in the previous section to study the properties of the oscillatory signal in the frequencies of low degree modes and its relationship with helium abundance in the stellar envelope using a large number of stellar models .",
    "we restrict ourselves to stars with masses close to the mass of the sun , namely , the range 0.81.4  @xmath57 .",
    "the upper limit of the mass range is set by the fact that it is difficult to extract the oscillatory signal in more massive stars .",
    "this happens because the acoustic depths of the base of the convection zone and that of the heii ionisation zone are very similar in higher mass stars , and the two oscillatory signals , one from the convection zone base and the other from the helium ionisation zone , interfere with each other .",
    "the lower mass limit is dictated by the fact that the amplitude of the oscillatory signal reduces with mass , though there is no particular difficulty in determining the signal as we are using exact model frequencies . in actual practice",
    "the lower limit on the stellar mass that can be studied will be determined by the precision to which the frequencies can be determined from the future asteroseismic missions . since observed frequencies will have uncertainties associated with them , we have examined the effect of frequency errors on the fits in section  [ sec : results ] .",
    "we study stellar models evolved to different ages on the main sequence for masses @xmath58 , @xmath59 , @xmath60 and @xmath61 .",
    "we have also constructed a few stellar models which have evolved beyond the main sequence and are on the subgiant branch .",
    "the stellar models were constructed using yrec , the yale rotating evolution code in its non - rotating configuration @xcite .",
    "these models use the opal equation of state @xcite , opal opacities @xcite , low temperature opacities of @xcite and nuclear reaction rates as used by @xcite .",
    "the models take into account diffusion of helium and heavy elements , using the prescription of @xcite .",
    "most of the models have been constructed with population  i abundances .",
    "these models have an initial heavy element abundance @xmath62 and were constructed with a mixing length parameter @xmath63 . the initial heavy element abundance and",
    "the mixing length are the same as those used to construct calibrated standard solar models using yrec @xcite .",
    "the value of the initial helium abundance @xmath46 is varied : we use 5 values of @xmath46 for the population  i models , @xmath64 , 0.26 , 0.28 , 0.30 and 0.32 . diffusion and gravitational settling of helium causes the helium abundance in the stellar envelope to change with time .",
    "therefore , the helium content in the envelope of a star still evolving on the main sequence will decrease progressively with age from its initial ( or zero - age main sequence ) helium abundance @xmath46 . beyond the main sequence the dredge - up of helium begins to increase the helium abundance in the envelope .",
    "thus the amplitude of the heii signal will not reflect the initial abundance @xmath46 of the models ; it will depend on the abundance of helium in the stellar envelope at the stage we examine it . as a result we always use the actual , rather than the initial , helium abundance in the envelope to compare and calibrate the amplitude of oscillatory signal . to investigate systematic errors caused by model parameters",
    ", we have also constructed models with a slightly different value of the initial heavy element abundance ( @xmath65 ) and some models with a slightly different value of the mixing length parameter ( @xmath66 ) .    to test whether the method outlined in this paper also applies to stars of very different heavy element abundances , we have two other sets of models .",
    "one set with initial abundance @xmath67 of 0.007 ( the abundance of stars like @xmath68  ceti ) and another set with population  ii abundance of @xmath69 .",
    "models for these two sets were constructed with initial @xmath0 of 0.22 , 0.24 , 0.26 , 0.28 and 0.30 . for each of the stellar models we calculate the frequencies of low degree modes and attempt to extract the oscillatory term as explained in the previous section .    from our experience of working with solar data",
    ", we expect that one of the important sources of uncertainty is the equation of state ( eos ) which determines the width and the depth of the dip in @xmath1 .",
    "the role of the equation of state has been extensively studied for the solar case @xcite by looking at models constructed with opal , the mihalas , hummer & dppen ( henceforth mhd ) eos @xcite as well as other simpler eos . @xcite",
    "have studied the influence of equation of state in stellar case too and find that the half - width @xmath18 of the heii ionisation zone is determined by the eos .",
    "helioseismic studies have shown that in the helium ionisation zone , the opal eos is a better representation of stellar eos ( see e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) and hence , in this work we restrict ourselves to models with opal eos , though we do study the effect of the eos using a few @xmath59 models constructed with the mhd equation of state",
    ". this should give a reasonable estimate of the uncertainty associated with the eos .",
    "[ fig : tau ] shows the acoustic depth and the average amplitude of the oscillatory signal due to the heii ionisation zone for the standard set of main sequence models used in the study .",
    "it can be seen that the acoustic depth @xmath23 is within a factor of two for all models , while the amplitude varies over a large range .",
    "it should be noted that all values of the acoustic depth and the amplitude listed in this paper are those obtained after scaling by the frequency separation .",
    "the actual values of @xmath23 may show significant variation due to variation in @xmath50 or equivalently in @xmath54 . on average",
    ", the amplitude appears to increase with @xmath0 , the helium abundance in the stellar envelope , but for a given helium abundance , the amplitude also increases with stellar mass .",
    "this figure combines the results obtained using different fitting forms and it can be seen that there is a good agreement between different results , though for @xmath61 models the difference tends to become large as the fits are not very good for many of these models . the mean difference in amplitudes obtained using two different fitting forms is found to be about 0.02 @xmath52hz for stellar models with masses @xmath58 , while for @xmath59 and @xmath60 models it is about 0.06 @xmath52hz . as we shall see later , these differences are smaller than the errors that may be expected to arise from uncertainties in observed frequencies . for @xmath61 models",
    "the mean difference in amplitudes between two fitting forms is about 0.18 @xmath52hz , which is comparable to the errors expected to be caused by uncertainties in the observed frequencies . to show the variation of amplitude with @xmath0 more clearly , fig .",
    "[ fig : ampmass ] shows the amplitude as a function of @xmath0 for each mass separately .",
    "there is considerable scatter around the mean trend due to factors like age , and hence the evolutionary state .",
    "the dependence of the amplitude on factors other than the helium abundance complicates the determination of the helium abundance of a given star .",
    "our task is made easier if conventional observations combined with modelling give us a reasonable idea of the radius , @xmath70 and mass @xmath71 of the star .",
    "if only the radius is known , we can estimate @xmath50 from the frequency separation and combining that with the known radius will give an estimate of mass .",
    "similarly , if only the stellar mass is known independently , we can use the frequency separation to estimate the stellar radius .",
    "this would enable us to make calibration models with a given radius and mass . a plot of the mean amplitude as a function of @xmath0 for models with given masses and radii is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : radius ] . in this case",
    "all we would need to do to determine @xmath0 is to determine the mean amplitude from the observations and interpolate .",
    "models of the same mass but different initial helium abundances will have different ages when they have the same radius , as we shall see in section  [ subsec : sun ] , this does not affect the calibration process .    fig .  [",
    "fig : radius ] also shows an estimate of the uncertainties in @xmath0 expected as a result of observational errors .",
    "shown in the figure are the error bars on a few representative points , which are obtained assuming a constant relative error of 1  part in @xmath2 in the frequencies .",
    "this level of error is not unrealistic given that even ground - based observations have almost reached this level of precision ( see * ? ? ?",
    "these error bars have been calculated using a monte - carlo simulation where random errors with specified standard deviation were added to the exact frequencies before fitting the data .",
    "the results of the fits to the error - added frequencies were then used to estimate the variance in each fitted parameter to calculate the expected error . the precision to which we can use the amplitude to determine @xmath0 increases with increase in mass and age . from the error bars it appears that the expected error in @xmath0 would range from less than 0.01 for @xmath60 models to about 0.03 at @xmath58 . to get better precision for @xmath58 stars we will need to measure the frequencies to a relative accuracy of better than @xmath7 .",
    "the error in the scaled acoustic depth @xmath68 of the heii ionisation zone is about 2040  s except for @xmath58 models where it is about 100  s. the above results were obtained assuming we had modes with degrees of 0,1,2 and 3 .",
    "the uncertainty in the @xmath0 determination increases if @xmath72 modes are unavailable , though the increase is very marginal and will not affect any of the results .",
    "obviously , there would be additional errors due to uncertainties in our knowledge of stellar mass and radius .",
    "this error can be estimated by considering all models within the permitted range of mass and radius .",
    "it should be noted that the points shown in figures have been obtained using the exact model frequencies , only the extent of the error bars were obtained from the monte - carlo simulations . from simulations it is found that when random errors are added to the frequencies , the estimated amplitudes increase by an amount comparable to the estimated errors .",
    "this effect has been seen earlier for helioseismic data ( see e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "therefore for the purposes of calibration once real data are available , the calibration curve should be obtained after adding the random errors to the frequencies of the calibration models .",
    "we have not done that in this work as in that case the figures will depend somewhat on the estimated errors in frequencies .    to study the influence of the initial heavy element abundance , @xmath67 , and of the mixing length parameter , @xmath73 , on the amplitude of oscillatory signal we have constructed stellar models with different values @xmath67 and @xmath73 for stars with the same masses and radii shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : radius ] .",
    "figure  [ fig : zalp ] shows the results for @xmath59 stars that have the same radius ( @xmath74 ) but have different @xmath67 and @xmath73 .",
    "it can be seen that the variation in amplitude due to reasonable uncertainties in @xmath67 and @xmath73 are smaller than the variation due to @xmath0 , and also smaller than the error estimates for a relative error of @xmath7 in frequencies .    in the above discussion",
    "we have assumed that either the mass or the radius of the star is known independently .",
    "this is a reasonable assumption since most of the targets of asteroseismic missions are likely to be nearby stars for which at least , one of these quantities is known .",
    "however , if for some star neither the mass nor the radius is known , then from the frequency separation we can only estimate the ratio @xmath50 . to examine the implication in this case ,",
    "we show in fig .",
    "[ fig : del ] the amplitude as a function of @xmath0 for all models in a given bin of the mean large frequency separation @xmath54 .",
    "it can be seen that there is some scatter due to variation in mass and radius , but in most cases the trend of increasing amplitude with @xmath0 is very clear and can be calibrated to calculate the helium abundance . of course",
    ", the systematic errors will be larger in this case .      in order to test this technique we can try to estimate the helium abundance in the solar envelope using only the low degree modes .",
    "we use the frequencies obtained from the first 360 days of observations by the mdi instrument on board the soho spacecraft @xcite .",
    "the observed frequencies with degrees of @xmath75 and frequencies in the range @xmath76  mhz were fitted to obtain the mean amplitude of the oscillatory signal due to the heii ionisation zone , and the result is shown by the dotted horizontal line in fig .",
    "[ fig : sun ] . to infer the helium abundance in the sun we have used @xmath59 , @xmath74 models for the calibration .",
    "it should be noted that while these models have the same mass and radius as the sun , these calibration models are not solar models , the models have different ages and luminosities . to the frequencies of each model we added fifty realisations of the observed errors , and for each realisation we determined the amplitude of the oscillations . we have plotted the mean amplitude for each model as a function of the envelope helium abundance of the model in fig .",
    "[ fig : sun ] .",
    "all these fits use the same set of modes that were used to extract the oscillatory signal from the observed data . to study the sensitivity of results to uncertainties in the eos",
    ", the figure also shows the results of a set of models constructed with the mhd equation of state .",
    "the result of the observations is shown as the horizontal line and we can see that we obtain a helium abundance of @xmath77 with the mhd models and @xmath78 with the opal models .",
    "similar results have been obtained using frequencies from golf .",
    "these results agree with the results obtained using intermediate degree solar p - modes ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this exercise therefore demonstrates that it is indeed possible to determine helium abundance using only low degree modes .",
    "all the stellar models that we have considered so far are on the main sequence .",
    "we have constructed a few models which have evolved beyond the main sequence to see how we might determine the envelope helium abundance for evolved stars .",
    "for these stars , many nonradial modes show a mixed character where the same mode behaves like a gravity mode in the core and like an acoustic mode in the envelope .",
    "the analysis that leads to the calculation of the oscillatory signal in frequencies is not valid for such modes .",
    "in fact , even calculating the large frequency separation from the calculated frequencies is somewhat difficult for such stars .",
    "however , radial modes are assured to be purely acoustic in nature throughout the star , and hence , for such stars we restrict our analysis to radial modes ( @xmath20 ) only .",
    "thus the number of modes available for fitting is small and we do not expect to be able to calculate all parameters in eqs .",
    "( [ eq : quad ] ) , ( [ eq : mont ] ) or ( [ eq : quad2 ] ) reliably .",
    "since the amplitude of the oscillatory signal due to the base of the convection zone is generally much smaller than that due to the heii ionisation zone , we only fit the signal due to the heii ionisation zone .",
    "sample fits are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : subgfit ] .",
    "the fits are reasonably good , though not as good as those in fig .",
    "[ fig : diff ] , hence we expect somewhat larger systematic errors . since the amplitude of the heii signal increases with reduction in frequency , we have extended the fitting interval by including modes with frequencies 13  mhz .",
    "the enhanced range increases the number of modes available as well as the mean amplitude of the signal , thus providing better characterisation of the signal . when compared to main sequence stars , we expect larger uncertainties arising from errors in frequency because of the fewer number of modes in these stars .",
    "nevertheless , monte - carlo simulations with comparable error in frequencies show that the estimated error in mean amplitude for evolved stars is not too much larger than that for main - sequence stars .",
    "figure  [ fig : subgamp ] shows the amplitude of the signal as a function of @xmath0 for models with a fixed mass and radius .",
    "error bars corresponding to frequency errors of 1 part in @xmath2 are also shown for a few typical models . as expected the amplitude increases with @xmath0 and it is possible to determine @xmath0 from known amplitude .",
    "we find again that these amplitudes are not particularly sensitive to small variations in @xmath67 and @xmath73 .",
    "however , in this case the differences due to @xmath67 and @xmath73 are larger than those for main sequence models . as can be seen , despite the errors",
    ", we should be able to determine the helium abundance in the envelope of these stars to a precision of about 0.010.02 .",
    "stars with very low heavy element abundances evolve quite differently from stars with near - solar heavy element abundances .",
    "this is because the convection zone of low @xmath79 stars is shallower at the same effective temperature @xcite .",
    "we do not expect this to affect the helium signature ; nevertheless , we confirm this using models of low @xmath67 .",
    "we have constructed two sets of models , models with @xmath80 and models with @xmath69 .",
    "we have both main sequence and subgiant models with @xmath80 , but only subgiants with @xmath69 since population  ii models evolve very quickly compared with stars of the same mass with higher @xmath79 and hence we do not expect to see many main - sequence stars . as with the @xmath62 models , we use @xmath20,1,2 and 3 modes for the main sequence stars and only @xmath20 modes for the subgiants .",
    "[ fig : pop2 ] shows the amplitude as a function of @xmath0 for @xmath80 models .",
    "again we can see that the amplitude increases with @xmath0 .",
    "the amplitudes are however slightly different from those of @xmath62 models , and hence for such large differences in @xmath67 it will be better to make different calibration models .",
    "[ fig : pop2 ] also shows the results for population  ii models . again",
    "the amplitude increases with @xmath0 .",
    "the amplitude for these evolved models are much larger than those for main sequence models studied in sect .",
    "[ subsec : std ] . nevertheless , to get good results for @xmath0 , we would need lower errors in frequencies .",
    "we expect to be able to observe only lower mass population  ii stars , and this implies that the expected amplitude of the oscillation signal will be small , making errors larger .",
    "we have presented results of our investigation into how low degree oscillation frequencies may be used to determine the helium abundance in stars with solar - type oscillations .",
    "we have demonstrated that in principle , it is possible to use this technique to estimate the helium abundance in stellar envelopes using the frequencies of low degree modes of oscillation .",
    "we find that the oscillatory signal in the frequencies due to the helium ionisation zone can be used to determine the helium abundance of a low - mass main - sequence star , provided either the radius or the mass is known independently .",
    "the precision to which we may be able to determine the helium abundance increases with increase in mass . using reasonable error estimates it appears that a precision of 0.010.02 in @xmath0 is possible in most cases .",
    "the amplitude of the oscillatory term is not particularly sensitive to small variations of the initial heavy element abundance , @xmath67 and mixing length parameter , @xmath73 . for stars with masses of about @xmath61 and larger it is difficult to fit the oscillatory signal reliably and hence the uncertainties are larger .",
    "this difficulty is most probably due to the fact that these stars have shallow convection zones and there is not much difference in the acoustic depths of the heii ionisation zone and that of the base of the convection zone , thus leading to interference between the two terms . for low mass stars",
    "the amplitude of the oscillatory term is small leading to large errors in determining the helium abundance .",
    "thus the best results are obtained for stars with masses close to and larger than the solar mass . using solar data",
    ", we have shown that we can indeed determine the envelope helium abundance using low degree modes .",
    "even if the mass and radius for a star is not known independently , we can use the large frequency separation @xmath54 to estimate @xmath50 and in that case also a reasonably tight correlation is found between @xmath0 and amplitude of the oscillatory signal , thus allowing us to determine @xmath0 , though with larger errors .",
    "for stellar models that are evolved off the main sequence it is not possible to use nonradial modes , however by using only radial modes it is possible to fit the oscillatory term arising from the heii ionisation zone , which can then be used to measure the helium abundance . a more detailed study of stars in different post main sequence phases is required to understand the oscillatory signal from such stars .",
    "models with much lower heavy element abundances behave in a manner similar to those with near - solar heavy element abundances as far as the helium signature is concerned .",
    "although most of the present work uses exact frequencies from stellar models , we have successfully applied this method to solar low degree data .",
    "we have also estimated the expected errors assuming frequency errors of one part in @xmath2 , a level that is expected to be achieved by future space- and ground - based observations .",
    "this opens up the possibility of using asteroseismic data to obtain the helium abundance in stellar envelopes , leading to a better understanding of the evolution of stellar populations in our galaxy .",
    "this work utilises data from the solar oscillations investigation/ michelson doppler imager ( soi / mdi ) on the solar and heliospheric observatory ( soho ) .",
    "soho is a project of international cooperation between esa and nasa .",
    "mdi is supported by nasa grants nag5 - 8878 and nag5 - 10483 to stanford university .",
    "am was supported in this work by cefipra ( centre franco - indien pour la promotion de la recherche avanc ) project no .",
    "pd was supported by nasa grant nag5 - 13299 .",
    "dppen w. , gough d.o .",
    ", kosovichev a.g . ,",
    "thompson m.j . , 1991 , in challenges to theories of the structure of moderate - mass stars , eds .",
    "d. o. gough & j. toomre , lecture notes in physics , vol .",
    "388 , ( springer , heidelberg ) 111                                              schou j. , christensen - dalsgaard  j. , howe r. , larsen r.m . ,",
    "thompson m.j . ,",
    "toomre j. , 1998 , in proc .",
    "soho6/gong98 workshop , structure and dynamics of the interior of the sun and sun - like stars ( esa sp-418 ; noordwijk : esa ) , 845"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> intermediate degree modes of the solar oscillations have previously been used to determine the solar helium abundance to a high degree of precision . however </S>",
    "<S> , we can not expect to observe such modes in other stars . in this work we investigate whether low degree modes that should be available from space - based asteroseismology missions </S>",
    "<S> can be used to determine the helium abundance , @xmath0 , in stellar envelopes with sufficient precision . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the oscillatory signal in the frequencies caused by the depression in @xmath1 in the second helium ionisation zone can be used to determine the envelope helium abundance of low mass main sequence stars . for frequency errors of 1 part in @xmath2 </S>",
    "<S> , we expect errors @xmath3 in the estimated helium abundance to range from @xmath4 for 0.8m@xmath5 stars to @xmath6 for 1.2m@xmath5 stars . </S>",
    "<S> the task is more complicated in evolved stars , such as subgiants , but is still feasible if the relative errors in the frequencies are less than @xmath7 .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    stars : oscillations ; stars : abundances </S>"
  ]
}