{
  "article_text": [
    "the global picture of the formation of structures on all scales is one of the widest questions in modern cosmology .",
    "even the validity of the gravitational instability paradigm has not yet received complete confirmation and the door remains open to alternative approaches , like the topological defect models ( see for instance durrer 1999 ) .",
    "however , the gravitational instability picture is the most compelling one , primarily since it can be investigated to an unprecedented level of detail .",
    "the small perturbations necessary to seed structure formation are believed to originate in the very early universe .",
    "the obvious non - linear character of structures like clusters and galaxies has lead to the intensive use of numerical simulations which are now achieving remarkable performances . in this context , the rle of baryons has also been included in recent years by incorporating the hydrodynamics of gas in the simulations . however , analytic modeling is also essential to our understanding of the physics , even if some aspects require the validation by numerical simulation .",
    "the clearest example of this is the mass function as inferred by press and schechter : it is only since numerical simulations have confirmed its validity , at least as an efficient fit to the actual mass function arising in numerical simulations , that it has been widely used for cosmological applications .",
    "cosmological constraints that can be inferred from properties of clusters is certainly the field which has the most benefited of this approach , although it is not yet entirely clear whether we understand the physics of the gas in clusters . for instance , the relation between luminosity and temperature is not what one would expect in a simple scaling model as proposed by kaiser ( 1986 ) : the origin of the problem probably lies in the fact that the formation process of the x - ray core is not well understood ( blanchard & silk 1990 ) possibly requiring non - gravitational processes ( evrard & henry 1991 ; kaiser 1991 ) .",
    "however , the impressive agreement of the press and schechter formula with the mass function on every scale , for which some theoretical reasons exist , has lead to handle the question of structure formation on galactic and sub - galactic scales up to the question of the first structures that formed ( tegmark 1997 ) . on galactic scales",
    "it is clear that dissipative processes play a key rle , as they are necessary to allow star formation .",
    "it has been proposed that the cooling criterion is an essential requirement for galaxy formation : in order to form a galaxy it seems actually unavailable that the baryons can dissipate their thermal energy and reach a density high - enough that star formation can actually start , although the details of this process are still far from being understood : even star formation in our own galaxy or in neighboring galaxies is not well understood .",
    "the fact that first stars should form in the absence of any dust makes the situation more problematic .",
    "the inclusion of the baryonic component in ps halos was pioneered by white and rees ( 1978 ) .",
    "they tried to infer the shape of the luminosity function of galaxies , and noticed that it was expected to be steeper than the mass function at the faint end , leading to a luminosity function far too steep compared to observations .",
    "this was also noticed by peacock and heavens ( 1990 ) in the context of the peak formalism approach to the mass function .",
    "the reality of this problem has become obvious , in more recent analysis , in which several authors have tried to infer the shape of the luminosity function in the context of the cdm theory ( white & frenk 1991 ; lacey & silk 1991 ) . in their approach ,",
    "white and frenk ( 1991 ) developed a model for the formation and evolution of galaxies in which a lot of energy was injected into the gas which has felt in the dark matter potential wells , something which was achieved at the price of a metal production level which appeared unrealistically large .",
    "since , similar models have been build in order to achieve a better agreement with observations ( kauffmann 1993 ; cole 1994 ) . in the context of the cold dark matter picture in",
    "an einstein de sitter universe blanchard ( 1990 ; 1992a ) , bvm hereafter , investigated the cosmological history of the cooling of the gas .",
    "they concluded that the simple cooling argument leads to the conclusion that most of baryonic gas was likely to have been cooled at some time of its history , leading to the so called _ overcooling _ problem : the amount of gas which would be expected today to be in cold and probably dense state would represent more than 80% of the cosmological baryonic",
    "content of the universe , one order of magnitude larger than the baryonic content of galaxies .",
    "this problem was also noticed independently by cole ( 1991 ) . the overcooling problem is a great challenge to numerical simulations as spatial resolution of @xmath5 is necessary and a mass resolution of @xmath6 ( first significant cooling occurs in objects which have a virial temperature of @xmath7k at @xmath8 corresponding to mass of @xmath9 m@xmath10 with typical size of 1 kpc ) .",
    "however , the high resolution numerical simulations of navarro and steinmetz ( 1997 ) were able to see this overcooling problem , with an amount of cooled gas which agrees quite well with a simple argument based on press and schechter estimate .",
    "this gives enough confidence in the analytical approaches for further investigations of the problem , and its possible solutions .",
    "indeed , any reliable scenario for galaxy formation should solve this problem in a self - consistent way .",
    "bvm proposed that the igm is heated by the feedback of first structures to temperature high enough ( typically a few @xmath11k ) to prevent further collapse in most potential wells . in this picture",
    "most of the igm stays homogeneous . this warm igm picture",
    "was shown to potentially offer an elegant solution to the origin of the shape of the luminosity function , leading to an inverse hierarchical picture , in which large galaxies form at high redshift while at least some small galaxies form at low redshift .",
    "one of the objectives of the present work is to investigate this idea in a more quantitative way .",
    "furthermore , several new observations provide information relevant to galaxy formation : the cfrs redshift survey has illustrated the apparent increase of the star formation rate up to redshift of the order of one , while the hdf seems to reveal a decrease of the star formation rate at higher @xmath12 .",
    "dust obscuration may however occur at large redshift , masking a significant fraction of star formation .",
    "furthermore , the first field galaxies at redshift as high as 4 have been discovered ( steidel 1996 ) and the neutral gas content in dense objects has been evaluated up to redshift 4 , this gas potentially being the precursors of disks .",
    "it is therefore interesting to see if such observations can be accommodated by this model . in the first section",
    ", we examine the overcooling problem in various models and its sensitivity to the various input parameters .",
    "we then examine the possible rle of photo - ionization and show that photo - ionization implies a significantly smaller fraction of cooled gas , but is still unable to solve the overcooling problem .",
    "we then investigate in some detail the original scenario of bvm in which the igm is heated by the feedback of galaxy formation , resulting in a self regulated evolution of the temperature of the igm .",
    "this model will be called the warm igm picture hereafter .",
    "the basic conclusion of our study is that the warm igm picture possesses few parameters but can easily describe several global properties of the cosmological baryonic history that can be inferred from the observations .",
    "it may therefore represents an interesting alternative to more traditional semi - analytical scenarios .",
    "the physics of the formation of galaxies is still rather unknown .",
    "however , it is almost trivial to say that the physics of baryons should play an essential role .",
    "for instance , the origin of the characteristic size , mass and luminosity of a bright galaxy has been first looked for in the physics of the linear evolution of fluctuations before recombination or after the recombination ( see for instance gamov 1948 ) . however , the jeans masses after and before recombination were recognized as being very different from the typical galaxy mass , while the damping leads to masses too large to be identified with galaxies ( silk 1967 ) .",
    "one key criterion which has been proposed to define the scale associated with typical galaxies ( say an @xmath13 galaxy ) is based on the cooling criteria : during the gravitational collapse of an object the kinetic energy of the gas is turned into thermal energy , which is then lost by some mechanism in order for the gas to contract further up to densities where star formation has any reasonable chance to start ( of course , this is a minimal requirement , as the mechanism of star formation may require many more conditions ! ) .",
    "it has been suggested that @xmath13 galaxies are the largest objects able to cool in a time scale shorter than the typical age of the universe ( binney 1997 ; rees & ostriker 1977 ; silk 1977 ) .",
    "these kinds of considerations were already investigated by hoyle as early as 1953 ( hoyle , 1953 ) .",
    "it is in this context that the _ overcooling _ problem has been outlined , which is likely to occur in any hierarchical model of galaxy formation .",
    "the nature of the overcooling has been explicitly stated for the first time by blanchard ( 1990 ; 1992a ) and cole ( 1991 ) . in the simplest picture",
    ", one assumes that the gas which cools is turned into stars , so the total amount of cooled gas should represent the present day amount of stars , this is quite reasonable as the amount of cold gas ( hi ) at low redshift is modest . in the context of hierarchical models , it is expected that at some redshift a large fraction of the matter of the universe settles into small potential wells with circular velocity between 20 and 200 km / s , the virial temperature of the gas being then at temperature higher than @xmath7k and at rather high density . under these conditions",
    "the radiative cooling is very efficient and therefore the cooling time is extremely short .",
    "one then naturally expects a large fraction of the cosmological gas to be cooled by now .",
    "this is in contradiction with a standard result in cosmology : standard nucleosynthesis value for the baryonic density parameter of the universe is of the order of @xmath14 ( burles 1999 ) , while the present density in stars there are several considerations which are important to take into account while dealing with the overcooling problem : using the cooling criterion as a criterion for star formation reflects our poor knowledge of the realistic physical conditions required for star formation .",
    "however , the cooling criterion seems clearly to be a minimal requirement , and it is likely to be valid anyway in order to evaluate the total amount of cold gas , counting stars in this category .",
    "because the present amount of cold dense gas actually seen in the universe is rather small , it is reasonable to imagine that cold gas has been actually turned into stars .",
    "some alternatives are possible though : there might be more gas than what we see ( pfenniger & combes 1994 ) , or most of the cold gas may have been turn into stars which are not seen . in both cases , this represents a way to generate candidates for baryonic dark matter .",
    "in such a case , the overcooling question would be intimately linked to the solution of the dark matter problem !",
    "this could at least point out to a possible origin of the machos in galactic halo .",
    "machos , if they exist , may provide evidence that a substantial fraction of the baryonic density of the universe is dark , at least if the situation in our galaxy can be taken as representative of the general situation ( see alcock 1998 ) .",
    "one could also wonder if the apparent overcooling problem is not due to the fact that nucleosynthesis estimates are erroneous .",
    "however , this can not provide a satisfying answer .",
    "the reason comes from the x - ray properties of clusters : in cold dark matter picture the baryonic content is expected to be the sum of the stars in galaxies and of the x - ray gas , the latter representing at least 80%@xmath15 of the total baryonic content , meaning that the fraction of gas which is in the `` cool '' phase ( stars in this case ) is a small fraction of the total baryonic content .",
    "more precisely , the typical ratio of the baryonic mass seen in clusters to the mass in stars is of the order of 5 - 6 @xmath15 ( white 1993 ) , so assuming that this ratio is universal leads to an estimate of the baryonic content of the universe , mainly in the form of intergalactic gas : @xmath16 interestingly close to primordial nucleosynthesis value @xmath17 for a low deuterium abundance .",
    "incidentally , this has interesting consequences : this value conflicts with nucleosynthesis values corresponding to high deuterium abundance ( songaila 1997 ) and does not allow a significant contribution of machos to the cosmic baryon budget .",
    "the agreement between the inferred value of @xmath18 and nucleosynthesis reinforce the so - called baryons crisis ( white 1993 ) , which is a problem specific to @xmath19 models .",
    "finally , the ratio of mass in visible stars to gas mass in clusters is consistent with the ratio @xmath20 , the ratio between @xmath21 and @xmath22 in the universe : @xmath23 this essentially means that only a small fraction of the primordial baryons were turned into visible stars and that there is little room for an other significant dark baryonic component .",
    "there has been a lot of progress in the investigation of cosmic scenarios for structure formation since it has been realized , thanks to numerical simulations ( efstathiou 1988 ; cen , gnedin & ostriker 1993 ; navarro , frenk & white 1996 ) , that the press and schechter ( 1974 ) formula , ( ps hereafter ) , for the mass function is a good working approximation .",
    "our understanding of the behavior of the baryonic content has also been greatly improved by numerical simulations in which the fate of the cosmological gas is followed . despite possible complex behavior , it seems well established that the gas is heated during the collapse either by shocks or by adiabatic compression , until it reaches the virial temperature at which it can settle in nearly hydrostatic equilibrium : @xmath24 however , hydrostatic equilibrium is possible only as long as the gas does not loose a substantial fraction of its internal energy , i.e. during a period of time smaller than the typical cooling time .",
    "the ps mass function changes over a time scale comparable to the age of the universe , so if the typical cooling time is longer than the age of the universe , the gas will be merged in an other structure before it can cool . on the contrary , if the gas can cool on a time scale much shorter than the age of the universe , it is unlikely that gravitational shaking will re - heat the gas before it has cooled down .",
    "as soon as the gas can cool it will contract further",
    ". the gas will be re - heated during the contraction phase by adiabatic compression , however as the cooling time becomes shorter with increasing density there is a runaway catastrophe , which can apparently be stopped only when the gas has dissipated its thermal energy , probably being then rotationally supported or having been turned into stars .",
    "the instantaneous fraction of gas able to cool can be computed as a simple integral : @xmath25 where @xmath26 represents the fraction of the baryonic material present in the structure @xmath27 which is able to cool or has already cooled at an earlier epoch .",
    "bvm showed that @xmath26 can be evaluated by assuming that all the baryonic content is in a homogeneous phase inside the halo and estimating its cooling time : if this cooling time @xmath28 is shorter than some characteristic time @xmath29 , the gas will cool before undergoing any substantial re - heating .",
    "such a characteristic time scale will always be a fraction of the hubble time at the considered redshift : @xmath30 with @xmath31 smaller than 1 , and that can be taken to be independent of the mass .",
    "this may not be strictly valid : the typical time scale may depend on the power spectrum and on the amplitude of the initial fluctuations associated .",
    "however , it is doubtful that the effect is important . accordingly to bvm , we assume that the cooling fraction is either 100% or 0% i.e. @xmath32 can take only two values ( 0 or 1 ) and cooling is efficient only for masses in some range @xmath33 .",
    "the instantaneous cooling fraction can then be written as : @xmath34 the next issue is to estimate the total fraction of cooled gas integrated over redshift .",
    "as long as the integrated fraction remain small one can writes : @xmath35 where @xmath36 is a typical time scale for haloes to rearrange themselves . when the integrated fraction starts to become large this formula",
    "can not be used any more : it becomes likely that most of the baryonic content of the halos in the cooling region has already cooled in a previous generation of halos . in principle",
    ", one has to follow the detailed history at all epochs of the precursors of these haloes , which could be done for instance by using a merging history tree .",
    "however , bvm showed that the result of this computation can be evaluated more directly by taking into account the past history of the halos : large masses at low redshift are essentially built from structures which were inside the cooling region at some higher redshift .",
    "therefore , they should already contain only cooled gas .",
    "this leads to : @xmath37 avoiding to have to handle the merging tree history .",
    "numerical simulations indicate that this is a good working approximation ( navarro & steinmetz 1997 ) . in a realistic scenario however @xmath38 has to remain small and the approximation [ eq : fi0 ] can be used .",
    "let us now examine the typical amplitude one gets for the amount of cooling at various redshifts and the sensitivity to the various parameters .",
    "we have evaluated the integrated fraction @xmath39 ( eq . [ eq : fi2 ] ) for two cdm - like models with shape parameter , the shape parameter , is defined as the apparent magnitude of @xmath40 in the cdm transfer function , see e.g. peacock & dodds 1994 ] @xmath41 and @xmath42 ( henceforth referred to as @xmath43-cdm models ) with various values of the normalization .",
    "this is presented in figure [ fig : fi1 ] . here and throughout the article we adopted the cooling function with zero metallicity as given by sutherland & dopita 1993 .",
    "this figure illustrates the overcooling in a dramatic way : at redshift @xmath44 more than 80% of the primordial baryons should have been cooled .",
    "this is almost independent on the value of @xmath43 and on the the normalization @xmath45 , although the redshift history is sensitive to the specific model .",
    "because the amplitude of the overcooling problem is nearly a factor of ten and because the final value is rather insensitive to the detailed values of the parameters entering the calculation , it is not expected to be solved by adjusting one of the various parameters entering the problem .",
    "examination of the instantaneous fraction ( figures [ fig : gzomb ] reinforces the idea that the problem is real : there are epochs at which the _ instantaneous amount _ of gas able to cool is in the range 20%  50% ( the maximum value of @xmath46 gives a robust lower bound for the integrated value @xmath39 ) .",
    "this is already larger than what is implied by the observed amount of stars : the estimated present - day value is @xmath47 , varying the baryonic content of the universe or the value of @xmath43 of the power spectrum or the normalization of the models does not change significantly the maximum value of @xmath46 .",
    "this illustrates the significance of the overcooling problem .",
    "another interesting consequence is that the amount of cold gas available at high redshift is high enough that most of the models can accommodate a main galaxy formation epoch as early as @xmath48 : in fact in the context of the standard cold dark matter picture ( with @xmath49 ) , all the observed stars could have formed at @xmath50 ! the canada - france redshift survey ( cfrs ) has provided evidence that a significant amount of star formation has occurred since @xmath51 ( lilly 1995 ; 1996 ) and the hubble deep field ( hdf ) may provide evidence that the bulk of star formation occurs at low redshift , possibly as low as @xmath52 ( madau 1996 ; 1997 ) .",
    "a qualitative comparison of the instantaneous fraction @xmath53 and of the star formation rate as inferred from observations is instructive : from @xmath53 , one expects the bulk of star formation to occur at rather low redshift ( @xmath54 ) .",
    "in other words , although the amount of gas available for star formation is much too large compared to the sfr , the shapes of the redshift distributions of both quantities are not very different ( although a very late galaxy formation epoch , like @xmath55 , would not appear natural ) .",
    "this is consistent with the idea that galaxy formation has occurred in a self - regulated way by some mechanism , although this mechanism is not explicitly stated in most semi - analytic models . as argued by bvm , because such a mechanism should essentially limit the amount of star formation , it is reasonable to think that the same mechanism is responsible for the solution of the overcooling problem and might explain the shape of the luminosity function of galaxies .",
    "the scenario we investigate in the next section is an example of such a scheme .",
    "although there is little doubt that re - heating is a fundamental problem during galaxy formation , it is much harder to identify which astrophysical sources could be responsible for it , and to specify the detailed physics of the feedback mechanism .",
    "following earlier consideration by larson ( 1974 ) , dekel and silk ( 1986 ) argued that star formation was self limited in small potentials by supernova heating : in this model gas is heated and expelled from galaxies .",
    "the same mechanism was advocated by cole ( 1991 ) .",
    "this effect is expected to be significant for dwarf galaxies with masses @xmath56 ( see mac low & ferrara , 1999 ) .",
    "these authors also showed that if gas can not be expelled from larger galaxies , metals can still be expelled efficiently for masses up to @xmath57 .",
    "tegmark ( 1993 ) have reexamined such a model and concluded that the igm could be re - ionized by supernova - driven winds , solving the gunn - peterson test , but probably producing a substantial amount of metals at redshift @xmath58 or larger .",
    "a feedback mechanism has been incorporated into most recent models of galaxy formation , although it is generally implemented by assuming that galaxy formation is inefficient within small halos , while the detailed physics is not explicitly taken into account .",
    "this approach is the one used in several so - called semi - analytic models ( eg kauffmann 1993 ; cole 1994 ) . in our opinion",
    ", this procedure might hide one of the most critical aspects : it is far from obvious that the overcooling problem has been solved then , even if the global modeling seems to match observations , because the physics of the feedback mechanism is not explicitly treated .",
    "there are basically two different kinds of feedback mechanisms .",
    "the first family is the one used by white and frenk ( 1991 ) , and is local in nature .",
    "the second advocated by bvm is global .",
    "the suppression of cooling by photo - ionization enters this last category .",
    "certainly one of the central issues of galaxy formation is to understand whether the feedback mechanism which actually solves the overcooling problem is _ local _ or _ global_.    in the re - heated picture",
    ", the physical state of the igm might be quite inhomogeneous and complex . in the scenario which we will consider we simplify the general picture by assuming that there are essentially two phases : one which is the condensate phase , corresponding to the gas which has been able to cool and can eventually be turned into stars , and the igm phase , which is supposed to be essentially homogeneous . at high redshift",
    ", as soon as the igm is ionized , its cooling time is shorter than the hubble time and it lies well inside the cooling phase ( unless its temperature is very high , but then this would produce unacceptably large compton distortion in the cmb spectrum , given the constraints provided by the cobe data , see fixsen 1997 ) and some heating process is necessary to maintain it in this hot phase .      in order to solve the overcooling problem one needs to satisfy two constraints : the integrated density of stars should not be larger than what is observed in present - day visible stars and",
    "the amount of cooled gas at high redshift should not be larger than what has been estimated from damped lyman alpha systems . although there are ways to escape these constraints , in the following we will investigate which scenarios naturally satisfy these constraints . + in order to reduce the amount of cooling that might happen during the cosmological history of baryons , there are two interesting mechanisms that one can think of .",
    "the first mechanism has been advocated by bvm : if the igm is hot with a typical temperature @xmath59 then structure formation will be suppressed on scales for which the virial temperature is smaller than this : @xmath60 this is certainly a robust criterion , but it is possible that the actual suppression is much more efficient : if the igm is at some finite temperature its contraction during gravitational collapse could be adiabatic and its temperature can rise . in a strict adiabatic collapse , one might expect that the actual suppression occurs on mass scales for which the temperature satisfies the following criterion : @xmath61    it is interesting that for @xmath62 k , this leads to the suppression of structure formation for halos with @xmath63 km / s .",
    "however the existence of a cut - off for galaxy formation at a single circular velocity is not very attractive : observations do reveal the existence of small galaxies and the luminosity function does not reveal any specific feature around @xmath64 . actually , there might be an increase in the number of faint galaxies at this luminosity rather than a decrease as one would expect ( eso slice project , zucca 1998 ) .",
    "another possible mechanism for suppressing galaxy formation is through photo - ionization .",
    "not only does photo - ionization heat the gas to a temperature of the order of @xmath65 k , but it can also modify the cooling function .",
    "the implications are discussed in the next section .",
    "the existence of quasars at high redshift is enough to ensure that photo - ionization is playing a rle in the history of the cosmological baryons . whether the uv flux at high redshift is high enough to ensure the low level of hi optical thickness observed towards high redshift quasars is still a matter of debate ( giallongo 1996 ; cooke 1997 ; devriendt 1998 ) . in any case , photo - ionization by qso s can easily heat the gas at a temperature of the order of @xmath7 k at redshift as high as 5 .",
    "in addition photo - ionization suppresses collisional line cooling , by suppressing the existence of neutral atoms ( efstathiou 1992 ) .",
    "it is important to examine whether photoionization can severely limit the collapse of baryons within potentials as originally proposed by efstathiou ( 1992 ) .",
    "this has been examined in some details by mean of numerical simulations .",
    "quinn et al . ( 1996 ) demonstrated that photoionization has essentially no effect on the collapse of halos for which the virial temperature is greater than @xmath7k .",
    "we can therefore compute the amount of instantaneous cooling in a totally photo - ionized medium by using the cooling function of a fully ionized gas , assuming that only bremsstrahlung cooling is important ( see for instance thoul & weinberg 1996 ) .",
    "the resulting @xmath46 is presented in figure [ fig : gzphot ] . by comparing to figure [ fig : gzomb ]",
    ", one can see that the effect of photo - ionization is to substantially suppress the amount of cooling occurring at low redshift .",
    "the cumulative fraction of cooled gas is then reduced by a factor of the order of 2 by redshift 0 .",
    "this implies that photo - ionization substantially changes the cooling process of the gas at low redshift , but can apparently not solve the overcooling itself .",
    "this is because the bulk of the overcooling occurs at a redshift when the density of the gas is high enough that photo - ionization can not prevent most of the cooling .",
    "collin - souffrin ( 1991 ) has also examined the effect of photo - heating by the x - ray background , but this is not an efficient mechanism for raising the temperature much above few times @xmath7k .",
    "our study indicates that photoionization does not solve the overcooling problem , i.e. that a large fraction of baryons collapse in small potentials at redshift below 10 .",
    "this picture is rather different from what numerical simulations seems to indicate : when photoionization is taken into account the emerging picture is that most of the igm lies in moderately overdense region ( @xmath66 ) , and that no significant collapse occurs in small potentials .",
    "however , in order to see the collapse of baryons in the photoionized regime , great care must be taken to spatial and mass resolution ( weinberg et al , 1996 ) .",
    "let us examine this : present day high resolution numerical simulations ( see for instance machacek et al . , 1999 ) achieve typically @xmath67 cells with a box of the order 10@xmath68 mpc corresponding to a spatial scale of 40@xmath68kpc ( comoving ) . at redshift @xmath69 ,",
    "this is the typical virial radius of a halo with a virial temperature of @xmath70k , significantly higher than the temperature of photoionized gas .",
    "this artificial cut - off in the mass implies these numerical simulations can not describe properly the formation of halos with virial temperature in the range @xmath71k , in which most of the cooling take place in the redshift range @xmath72 .",
    "this suggests therefore that these numerical simulations are still significantly limited by resolution , and for this reason do not see the overcooling problem .",
    "this is a serious problem for the association of ly@xmath73 clouds to moderately overdense clouds might be an artifact due to insufficient resolution : the igm might well be actually more clumpy than what is found in numerical simulations .",
    "as photo - ionization seems not to be sufficient to solve the overcooling problem , one has to advocate other heating processes .",
    "star formation is the source of a significant amount of energy liberation .",
    "not only massive stars would radiate uv photons , but they would also end up in supernovae which could inject a significant amount of energy in the igm either through direct mechanical energy either via cosmic rays .",
    "the first possibility has been examined by tegmark ( 1993 ) . from theoretical considerations ,",
    "it is possible that a significant of energy produced by a supernova is transferred to cosmic rays ( malkov & voelk 1995 ) .",
    "this is also suggested by the observed amount of cosmic rays in the galaxy drury ( 1989 ) .",
    "prantzos & cass ( 1994 ) have discussed possible evidence that the flux of cosmic rays was higher at the beginning of galaxy formation , in connection with the star formation process itself , in order to explain the abundance of boron ( see also nath & biermann 1993 and ginzburg & ozernoi 1965 ) . both mechanisms can easily provide heating sources for the igm . furthermore , cosmic rays may propagate rather easily to large distances , and therefore heat the igm in a rather uniform way .",
    "it is therefore well possible that a substantial fraction of the energy produced by supernovae is transferred to the igm . in the following",
    "we will therefore assume that a fraction of the energy produced by supernovae is transferred to the igm .",
    "the energy from supernovae transferred to the igm will therefore be written in a parametric way : @xmath74 where @xmath75 is the star formation rate per unit mass , @xmath76 is the energy produced by supernovae per unit mass of stars formed for a standard imf and @xmath77 is the efficiency of the transfer mechanism . assuming that the cooled gas is instantaneously transformed into stars ,",
    "the heating source of the igm then is : @xmath78 assuming a uniform temperature , @xmath79 , for the igm containing all the baryons ( i.e. neglecting the few baryons which are turned into stars ) , the equilibrium temperature in the self - regulated case is given by the following equation : @xmath80 in this equation @xmath81 is the range of masses in which cooling is able to occur .",
    "the lower temperature will be determined by the mass of the smallest objects able to form in a warm igm .",
    "as we have argued , baryons will not collapse in potentials which end up with a virial temperature smaller than the temperature of the igm . on the other hand , as long as the igm is in the cooling area , the baryons will easily follow the collapse of the dark matter potentials provided that the cooling time of the gas is shorter than the dynamical time .",
    "this means that the mass @xmath82 corresponds to the mass for which the virial temperature is equal to the temperature of the igm . in the previous equation ,",
    "@xmath82 therefore is a function of @xmath83 , and the system is fully determined and hence _ self - regulated _ :",
    "if overcooling occurs a large amount of stars will form , causing a large energy injection , thereby raising the temperature of the igm , suppressing galaxy formation by inhibiting further collapse . in practice",
    ", the system will evolve toward an equilibrium situation and the temperature can be computed .",
    "such a solution may however not necessarily exist if the cooling is too efficient .",
    "this , for instance is the case at high redshift , when the number of heat sources is limited and the igm is dense , so that cooling is very efficient .",
    "we will try in the following to get some idea about the feed - back parameter @xmath77 , and about the subsequent production of metals in the igm .",
    "it is known that the progenitors of the snii are stars of mass greater than @xmath84 ( renzini 1993 ) .",
    "what we need to compute is the mechanical ( either thermal or kinetic ) energy released per unit mass of stars .",
    "this will provide @xmath85 , the energy that the sniis might release into the igm .",
    "we thus need to assume an initial mass function ( imf ) for star formation , which we will take to be the salpeter imf : @xmath86 where @xmath87 and @xmath88 is the differential number of stars of mass @xmath27 . we can then compute the ratio @xmath89 in mass of the sniis progenitors to the total mass of stars : @xmath90 for a salpeter imf . in the same way we compute the average mass of the sniis progenitors @xmath91 . taking the average mechanical energy released by an snii explosion to be @xmath92 , we can compute @xmath93 : @xmath94 only a fraction @xmath77 of this energy will actually be available for heating the igm .",
    "however , as we may consider a flatter imf ( @xmath95 ) or a bimodal one ( elbaz 1995 ) , it is possible in principle for this parameter to be greater than one .",
    "for this reason , we will consider a range of models going from @xmath96 to @xmath97 .",
    "in this section we will consider the case where only thermal energy is injected into the igm . as we already pointed out , in our scenario the only free parameter , for a given imf",
    ", is @xmath77 , the efficiency with which energy from supernovae is transferred to the igm .",
    "the temperature of the igm is then determined for each specific cosmological model .",
    "the general equilibrium solutions are presented in figure [ fig : tz1 ] for some models . due to the various `` peaks '' in the cooling function",
    "several solutions exist for the value of equilibrium temperature .",
    "some of these solutions are unstable and are therefore rejected .",
    "one can see that no continuous solution exists over the whole range in redshift . in practice",
    ", the temperature has to `` jump '' from one equilibrium solution to another , a process known as a bifurcation . in such case , the exact behavior of the temperature can be followed only by numerical integration of the non - equilibrium equations and is likely to depend sensitively on the details of the heating process , which is beyond the scope of this paper , since here we focus on the general behavior . in the following",
    ", we will assume that the temperature is always `` jumping '' to the highest temperature solution , which is the solution for minimal cooling , and is consequently the one with least heat input .",
    "the two branches exist over a limited range of redshift , so that this ambiguity has no consequences on the modeling .",
    "the temperature behavior is presented in figure [ fig : tz2 ] . as shown there , the temperature rises above @xmath7k , between redshifts 5 and 15 , depending on the parameters of the model and reaches peak values of the order of a few @xmath11 k , that are in agreement with the gunn - peterson test .",
    "interestingly enough , in the redshift range 2 to 5 , the temperature of the igm lies in a limited range of values above @xmath11 k , rather independently of the details of the models .",
    "the existence of a warm igm is therefore a generic prediction of our scenario .",
    "the instantaneous fraction of cooling gas , @xmath46 , is expected to be turned into stars after some time and therefore should more or less represent the star formation rate . in those models",
    "the cooling is spread over a wide range of redshifts and starts at rather high redshift . due to the large suppression of the sfr",
    "this scenario already possesses an interesting property : it leads to an integrated amount of stars by the present day which is in reasonably good agreement with observations as soon as the feedback mechanism is efficient at a level of 10% ( i.e. that 10% of the bulk of energy produced by supernova is injected in the igm ) .",
    "+ . in such a model",
    "the overcooling problem is therefore essentially solved .",
    "this is a considerable success , given the limited number of free parameters of the model .",
    "however , the star formation rate is found to be more or less constant with redshift , something which is not in good agreement with recent data from the cfrs and hdf , which rather indicate late star formation ( madau , 1996 ) .",
    "although we have shown that photo - ionization is clearly not a sufficient mechanism by itself to significantly limit galaxy formation ( at least in order to solve the overcooling problem in a realistic scenario ) , nevertheless photo - ionization may play a significant role in the history of cooling process ( efstathiou 1992 ) .",
    "furthermore , it is clear that photo - ionization is effective from a pure observational point of view , since the existence of quasars already provides a significant source of uv photons at high redshift , even if they might not be entirely responsible for the ionization .",
    "we have therefore examined the case of an igm which would be photo - ionized , and heated by some other mechanism ( related to star formation ) at the same time .",
    "the effect of photo - ionization is treated as in section  @xmath98 , in which we use a simple cooling curve , assuming the ionization to be efficient enough to have completely suppressed collisional line cooling .",
    "+ the temperature has been computed as in the previous case .",
    "as photo - ionization renders the cooling curve regular , essentially by suppressing the line cooling due to bound atoms , bifurcations do not appear anymore .",
    "the resulting temperature history is given in figure  [ fig : tzphot ] .",
    "the behavior of the temperature is more regular than in the previous case , essentially due to the regular shape of the cooling curve .",
    "the temperature at high redshift is similar to the pure heating case ( previous section ) , with value of the order of a few @xmath11 k , insensitive to the details of the model .",
    "however , there is one noticeable difference at low redshift : the temperature is decreasing faster , reaching values well below @xmath11k . in our model",
    ", the temperature of the igm at some epoch is directly indicative of the minimum mass of forming galaxies at this epoch .",
    "the fact that the temperature reach lower values in the present case ( see figure  [ fig : tzphot ] , compared to the pure heating case in figure  [ fig : tz2 ] ) is indicative that in a warm photoionized igm _ formation of smaller galaxies is allowed if photo - ionization is efficient _ contrary to what one could naively expect .",
    "the essence of our model is that galaxy formation is suppressed at high redshift , because the igm is pre - heated before collapse and that this warm igm is maintained hot by self - regulation with ongoing star formation in early galaxies .",
    "the most direct observational tests of this scenario would be provided by a measure of the temperature and the baryonic content of the igm at high redshift .",
    "the best measurement of the gunn - peterson depth at high redshift ( giallongo 1996 ) , suggests that a photo - ionized igm containing most of the baryons predicted by nucleosynthesis is ruled out .",
    "numerical simulations have however lead to a somewhat different picture in which most of the baryons lie in the lyman-@xmath73 systems . as we have discussed previously ,",
    "these numerical simulations are probably limited by resolution .",
    "it is likely that dense regions form at high redshift which will still exist in the photoionized regime and in the reheated area and could then well lead to the lyman-@xmath73 systems .",
    "this scenario has to be elaborated to see whether it can actually work , but this is beyond the scope of this paper and will be the subject of a future paper .",
    "limits on the compton @xmath99-parameter can also provide an interesting upper limit on the pressure of the igm , but are still not stringent enough to constrain our scenario .",
    "a firm prediction of our model is that at redshift @xmath100 galaxies with circular velocity lower than 100 km / s do just not form , although they can form at higher and lower redshift .",
    "+      the observations of quasars at high redshift have revealed the existence of damped lyman-@xmath73 systems , which are likely to be dense clouds of relatively cool gas .",
    "these clouds are believed to be the progenitors of present day disk galaxies .",
    "these clouds can be interpreted in our model as transient structures before they commence forming stars .",
    "let @xmath101 be the characteristic time of survival of the gas , if this time scale is short compared to the age of the universe @xmath102 at epoch @xmath12 , then the amount of hi gas can be related to @xmath103 via : @xmath104    in most scenarios , star formation from hi gas is triggered by gravitational encounters , this would thus mean that the characteristic time scale @xmath105 should be of the order of the hubble time .",
    "we have therefore estimated @xmath106 assuming the ratio @xmath107 to be of the order of one .",
    "the results are presented in figure  [ fig.ghi ] .",
    "our models exhibit the correct qualitative behavior for the evolution of the hi content .",
    "for the cdm picture with @xmath41 , the maximum is located at a redshift slightly higher than observed , but with @xmath42 the shape is in satisfactory agreement with the data .",
    "+ in order to build a consistent picture we select as an optimum case only models which reproduce both the correct density of stars , and the observed density of hi as a function of redshift ( lanzetta 1995 ; storrie - lombardi 1996 ; natarajan & pettini 1997 ) . models which lead to a reasonable @xmath21 are not far from reproducing correctly the amount of observed hi .",
    "this is not surprising , given the fact that the observed hi is known to be more or less of the order of what is required to explain present day stars .",
    "it is also important to notice that this therefore justifies our assumption @xmath108 : using a smaller value would lead to an overproduction of stars .",
    "the photo - ionized case with feedback succeeds particularly well to match the data for @xmath42 , while the case with @xmath41 fails to fit .",
    "this is of interest since this offers a constraint on the power spectrum on scales much smaller than usually constrained ( from clusters or cmb data for instance ) , still leading to a preferred value of @xmath42 .",
    "the pure heating case also reproduces the observations reasonably , but not in detail : the amount of hi gas at low redshift is over - produced by a factor of two , while a substantial amount of hi gas appears at high redshift ( @xmath109 ) although this might not be regarded as a real problem given the absence of information at such redshift .",
    "+ the fact that our model reproduces so naturally the observed amount of hi is probably its most successful feature : in fact , we found that a @xmath42 photo - ionized warm igm model reproduces automatically the observations as soon as the feedback parameter is tuned to reproduce the present - day observed amount of stars , a non - trivial result .      given the success of the model thus far , it is tempting to go one step further and see whether the model might reproduce other features of the cosmic baryon history .",
    "one of the most important advances in recent years has been the estimation of the cosmic star formation history based on the cfrs and hdf data .",
    "although star formation is certainly a very complex process it is possible that simple assumptions may lead to a reasonable picture .",
    "semi - analytical models have attempted a first step in this direction , but based on a rather different approach than ours .",
    "a realistic picture would need a more detailed inventory , with attention paid to various types of galaxies , merging trees , etc . in order to investigate the star formation history in our model ,",
    "we have therefore adopted a simple rule : the fraction of gas available at one epoch is assumed to lead to star formation during a fixed period of time @xmath110 .",
    "this time scale represents the typical time scale for consumption of the gas that will be turned into stars , which could be somewhat different from the survival time scale of the hi gas ( @xmath101 ) that we introduced previously .",
    "the cosmic star formation rate at an epoch is therefore : @xmath111    we have considered two values of @xmath110 , 1 and 2 gyr .",
    "the resulting cosmic star formation history is plotted in figure  [ fig.retard ] .",
    "good agreement is found in the low redshift regime .",
    "this agreement is closely connected to the inclusion of photo - ionization .",
    "the pure heating case does not match the data well . although the modeling of cosmic star formation history is likely to be much more complex than the simple ansatz we have followed , it is nevertheless interesting to see how well the prediction matches the observations .",
    "the subject of metal enrichment of the intra - cluster medium ( icm ) has been investigated by numerous authors ( e.g. see renzini 1993 ; renzini 1997 ; mushotzky 1996 ; ishimaru & arimoto 1997 ; gibson 1997 ; fukazawa 1998 ) ; and it has been advocated that the icm could be representative of the igm as far as metals are concerned ( renzini 1998 ) .",
    "self - consistent treatments of the metallicity of the igm in spectrophotometric models of galaxies are just in their infancy ( sadat 1999 ) . as the quantity of iron produced by snii is proportional to the energy released in the igm , we can estimate the abundance of iron from snii in the igm in our model : @xmath112 where @xmath113 is the present fraction of baryons turned into stars , @xmath114 is the average iron mass produced by a typical snii explosion , and the factor @xmath115 accounts for an equipartition of the iron between the stars and the igm . adding the contribution of the snias which provide 75% of the iron in the igm ( see renzini et al . ,",
    "1993):we get : @xmath116 one thus finds typical metallicities of the igm of @xmath117  solar at redshift @xmath118 , and of @xmath119  solar at redshift @xmath120 , which are compatible with recent observations in damped lyman  @xmath73 systems ( lu 1996 ; 1997 ) , these systems are assumed to be representative of the state of the igm as far as metals are concerned .",
    "this is not a strong constraint on our model however , as the metalicity of the igm essentially reflects the metal production inferred from the star formation rate .",
    "we have examined in detail the overcooling problem once again .",
    "we confirm the previous claim that in the absence of significant feed - back mechanism , cold gas , eventually in the form of stars , is over - produced in cold dark matter models .",
    "observations reveal a little amount of stars compared to standard nucleosynthesis prediction .",
    "a fundamental question is therefore : where are the primordial baryons ?",
    "there are reasonable arguments which indicate that they are in the intergalactic gas , maintained at some temperature above @xmath7k .",
    "we found that photo - ionization reduces significantly the amount of cooling , especially in the case of a low baryonic density .",
    "however , from our analysis , we found that the photo - heating is not sufficient to suppress the cooling of the gas , over - producing in a significant way the observed amount of cold gas .",
    "this strongly argues for the existence of strong feed - back mechanisms during galaxy formation . we have explored in some detail the warm igm picture in which the high redshift gas is heated preventing further galaxy formation .",
    "we found that the igm can be easily heated to temperatures of the order of @xmath121k , altering substantially the process of galaxy formation .",
    "in such models , the overcooling problem is easily solved provided that at least 10% of the energy of supernova is transferred to the igm .",
    "we found that with this hypothesis the observed amount of stars can be reproduced for very reasonable values of the feedback parameter .",
    "such scenarios reproduce quite well the observed amount of hi gas at high redshift , especially when photo - ionization is taken into account .",
    "this is a remarkable success of this model .",
    "assuming that this gas is turned into stars , we also found that the cosmic stars formation rate is well reproduced .",
    "clearly , this model seems to meet success , despite the fact that the galaxy formation history is significantly different than in more traditional scenario in which large galaxies are built from the merging of smaller entities .",
    "this certainly illustrates the fact that large galaxies may well have been formed at relatively high redshift ( say between 3 and 5 ) , in @xmath43cdm model with @xmath122 .",
    "high redshift galaxy formation of large galaxies is not therefore intimately linked to low density universes ( although very high redshift - greater than 10 - would certainly be a problem in a high @xmath123 universe ) .",
    "it is interesting to notice at that point that this scenario provides us also with a natural explanation for the @xmath124 departure from scaling law for small clusters of galaxies ( kaiser 1991 ; evrard & henry 1991 ) . indeed ,",
    "if the igm is pre - heated before the formation of the clusters , then the zero - point entropy of the gas prevents it to be very concentrated in the cores of clusters .",
    "this effect is very important when this zero - point entropy is comparable or bigger than the entropy created by shocks during the formation of the cluster , and then affects primarily small galaxies , clusters and groups .",
    "this departure from pure scaling can also be seen in the evolution of the surface brightness profiles for different gas temperature ranges ( data taken from rosat and ginga , ponman 1998 ) .",
    "these authors estimate this zero - point entropy to be of the order of @xmath125 , which can be provided by a uniform igm pre - heated to a temperature @xmath126 .",
    "the required temperature is then @xmath127 at @xmath128 , which is compatible with the results of our model ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : tzphot ] ) .",
    "+ in our scenario ,",
    "galaxy formation occurs in two clearly distinct phases . at high redshift objects which form are cooling with a cooling time much shorter than the age of the universe",
    "this could be argued as being the phase of bulges and elliptical formation . in this regime ,",
    "the formation history follows the classical hierarchical picture , small objects form first , large objects latter . at later epochs",
    ", this scheme is reverted .",
    "this might well be the epoch of disk formation , during which the gas gently falls in some potentials which already contain stars from the previous generation .",
    "this would imply that the typical epoch for disk formation is @xmath44 for the smallest to @xmath129 for the largest disks . beyond this epoch",
    "most of the forming structures would correspond to bulges and ellipticals .",
    "this scheme is certainly consistent with observations as high redshift objects seem to have characteristics of bulges in their early stages .",
    "a firm prediction of our model is that galaxy formation with circular velocity smaller than 100 km / s should be strongly suppressed at redshift in the range @xmath130 .",
    "clearly , observations of the dynamical state of high redshift galaxies would be important to test this scenario .",
    "this is probably testable in future ngst observations . of course",
    ", the most direct test of our scenario would be to measure the temperature history of the igm .",
    "however , this seems to be difficult .",
    "bartlett j. g. , blanchard a. , silk j. , turner m.s . , 1995 ,",
    "science , 267 , 980 bernardeau f. , 1994 , apj , 427 , 51 binney j. , 1977 , apj , 215 , 483 blanchard a. , valls ",
    "gabaud d. , mamon g. , 1990 , the xxvth rencontres de moriond in astrophysics , 1990 , editions frontires .",
    "blanchard a. , silk j. , 1991 , the xxvith rencontres de moriond in astrophysics , 1991 , editions frontires , p93 .",
    "blanchard a. , valls ",
    "gabaud d. , mamon g. , ( bvm ) 1992a , a&a , 264 , 365 blanchard a. , wachter k. , evrard a. e. , silk j. , 1992b , apj , 391 , 1 burles s. , nollett k. m. , truran j. n. , turner m. s. 1999 , astro - ph/9901157 cen r. , gnedin n. y. , kofman l. a. , ostriker j. p. , 1992",
    ", apj , 399 , l11 cen r. , gnedin n. y. , ostriker j. p. , 1993 ,",
    "apj , 415 , 423 cen r. , ostriker j. p. , 1993 ,",
    "apj , 414 , 407 cole s. , 1991 , apj , 367 , 45 cole s. , aragon - salamanca a. , frenk c. s. , navarro j. f. , zepf s. e. , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 781 collin - souffrin s. , 1991 , a&a , 243 , 5 cooke a. j. , espey b. , carswell r. f. , 1997 , mnras , 284 , 552 connolly a. j. , szalay a. s. , dickinson m. e. , subbarao m. u. , brunner r. j. , 1997 , apj , 486 , l11 devriendt j. e. g. , sethi s. k. , guiderdoni b. , nath b. b. , 1998 , mnras , 298 , 708 drury , l. oc . , markiewicz , w. j. , voelk , h. j. , 1989 , a&a , 225 , 179 durrer r. , kunz m. , melchiorri a. , 1999 , proceedings to the ec conference on 3k cosmology in rome , astro - ph/9901377 efstathiou g. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , davis m. , 1988 , mnras , 235 , 715 efstathiou g. , 1992 , mnras , 256 , 43 elbaz d. , arnaud m. , vangioni - flam , e. , 1995 , a&a , 303 , 345 evrard a. e. , 1989 , apj , 341 , l71 evrard a. e. , henry j. p. , 1991 ,",
    "apj , 383 , 95 evrard a. e. , metzler c. a. , navarro j. f. , 1996 , apj , 469 , 494 fukazawa y. , makishima k. , tamura t. , ezawa h. , xu h. , ikebe y. , kikuchi k. , ohashi t. , 1998 , pasj , 50 , 187 gamov g. , 1948 , phys .",
    ", 74 , 505 giallongo e. , dodorico s. , fontana a. , mcmahon r. g. , savaglio s. , cristiani s. , molaro p. , trevese d. , 1994 , apj , 425 , l1 giallongo e. , cristiani s. , dodorico s. , fontana a. , savaglio s. , 1996 , apj , 466 , 46 gibson b. k. , loewenstein m. , mushotzky r. f. , 1997 , mnras , 290 , 623 ginzburg v. l. , ozernoi l. m. , 1954 , sv a , 9 , 726 hoyle f. , 1953 , apj , 118 , 513 ishimaru y. , arimoto n. , 1997 , pasj , 49 , 1 kaiser n. , 1986 , mnras , 222 , 323 kaiser n. , 1991 , apj , 383 , 104 kauffmann g. , white s. d. m. , guiderdoni b. , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 201 lacey c. g. , silk j. , 1991 , apj , 381 , 14 lanzetta k. m. , wolfe a. m. , turnshek d. a. , 1995 , apj , 440 , 435 lematre g. , 1933 , ann . sco .",
    "sci . , bruxelles , a53 , 51 lu l. , sargent w. l. w. , barlow t. a. , 1997 , apj , 484 , 131 lu l. , sargent w. l. w. , barlow t. a. , churchill c. w. , vogt s. s. , lilly s. j. , tresse l. , hammer f. , crampton d. , le fevre o. , 1995 , apj , 455 , 108 lilly s. j. , le fevre o. , hammer f. , crampton d. , 1996 , apj , 460 , l1 mac low , m .-",
    "ferrara , a , 1999 , apj , 513 , 142 machacek , m.e . ,",
    "bryan , g.l . ,",
    "meiksin , a. , anninos , p. , thayer , d. , norman , m.l . , zhang , y. , 1999 , astro - ph/9906297 madau p. , ferguson h. c. , dickinson m. e. , giavalisco m. , steidel c. c. , fruchter a. , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 1388 madau p. , 1997",
    ", in aip conf , proc .",
    "393 , star formation near and far , ed .",
    "s. s. holt & g. l. mundy ( new york : aip ) , 481 malkov m. a. , voelk h. j. , 1995 , a&a , 300 , 605 mushotsky r. , loewenstein m. , arnaud k. a. , tamura t. , fukazawa y. , matsushita k. , kikuchi k. , hatsukade i. , 1996 , apj , 466 , 686 natarajan p. , pettini m. , 1997 , mnras , 291 , l28 nath b. b. , biermann p. l. , 1993 , mnras , 265 , 241 navarro j. f. , steinmetz m. , 1997 , apj , 478 , 13 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , peacock j. a. , heavens a. f. , 1990 , mnras , 243 , 133 peacock j. a. , dodds s. j. , 1994 , mnras , 267 , 1020 peebles p. j. e. , 1980 , _ the large scale structures of the universe _",
    ", princeton university press , princeton , n.y . , u.s.a .",
    "pfenniger d. , combes f. , 1994 , a&a , 285 , 79 ponman t. j. , cannon d. b. , navarro j. f.,1999 , nature , 397 , 135 prantzos n. , cass m. , 1994 , apjs , 92 , 575 press w. h. , schechter p. , 1974 ,",
    "apj , 187 , 425 ( ps ) quinn , t. , katz , n. & efstathiou , g. , 1996 , mnras , 278 , l49 rao s. , briggs f. , 1993 , apj , 419 , 515 rees m. j. , ostriker j. p. , 1977 ,",
    "mnras , 179 , 541 renzini a. , ciotti l. , dercole a. , pellegrini , s. , 1993 , apj , 419 , 52 renzini a. , 1997 , apj , 488 , 35 renzini a. , 1998 , in _ the young universe : galaxy formation and evolution at intermediate and high redshift _ , asp conf . ser . 146 , eds .",
    "s. dodorico , a. fontana & e. giallongo , p298 sadat r. , guiderdoni b. , silk j. , preprint . silk j. , 1967 , nature , 215 , 1155 silk j. , 1977 , apj , 211 , 638 smoot g. f. , 1992 , apj , 396 , l1 songaila a. , wampler e. j. , cowie l. l. , 1997 , nature , 385 , 137 storrie - lombardi l. j. , mcmahon r. g. , irwin m. j. , 1996 , mnras , 283 , l79 steidel c. c. , giavalisco m. , pettini m. , dickinson m. , adelberger k. l. , 1996 , apj , 462 , l17 sutherland r. s. , dopita m. a. , 1993 , apjs , 88 , 253 tegmark m. , silk j. , evrard a. , 1993 , apj , 417 , 54 thomas p. a. , couchman h. m. p. , 1992 ,",
    "mnras , 257 , 11 thoul a. a. , weinberg d. h. , 1996 , apj , 465 , 608 tresse l. , maddox s. j. , 1998 , apj , 495 , 691 treyer m. a. , ellis r. e. , milliard b. , donas j. , bridges t. j. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 303 valls - gabaud d. , alimi j .- m . , blanchard a. , 1989 , nature , 341 , 215 weinberg , d.h . , hernquist , l. , katz , n. , 1997 , apj , 477 , 8 white s. d. m. , navarro j. f. , evrard a. e. , frenk c. s. , 1993 , nature , 366 , 429 zucca e. , 1997 , a&a , 326 , 477"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we investigate the overcooling problem and propose some possible solutions . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the overcooling problem is generic to the hierarchical picture of structure formation , as long as the cooling is actually possible in small halos at high redshift . </S>",
    "<S> solutions to this problem are likely to be associated with some feedback mechanism , and probably imply the existence of a warm igm containing most of the cosmological baryons . </S>",
    "<S> we concentrate on some possible solutions , mainly photoionization and bulk - heating of the igm . </S>",
    "<S> we show photoionization can act as a significant feedback mechanism but is not strong enough to solve the entire overcooling problem . </S>",
    "<S> we therefore assume that the igm is maintained hot by some energy injection provided by supernova and galaxy formation is then limited by this feedback mechanism . </S>",
    "<S> such a self regulated scheme allows us to compute the thermal history of the igm . in the absence of any photo - ionization , we find the existence of bifurcations in the thermal history . </S>",
    "<S> however , these bifurcations are suppressed when significant photo - ionization occur in addition to the energy injection . </S>",
    "<S> the temperature of the igm is then maintained at @xmath0 few @xmath1k . </S>",
    "<S> we find that for realistic fraction of the energy produced by supernovae being re - injected into the igm , this scenario can consistently reproduce the present amount of stars . </S>",
    "<S> a @xmath2cdm model with @xmath3 can reproduce properly the observed hi gas at high redshift . </S>",
    "<S> a simple prescription for star formation also allows to reproduce the star formation rate at high redshift as inferred from recent data , while the entropy of the igm at @xmath4 is of the order of what seems necessary to explain the observed properties of x - ray clusters . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the warm self - regulated igm picture provides an interesting alternative to standard semi - analytical approach , which may elucidate the behavior of baryons in structures from small galaxies to clusters . </S>"
  ]
}