{
  "article_text": [
    "the observation of cosmic ray particles with energies well beyond the predicted greisen - zatsepin - kuzmin cutoff @xcite , enhanced by the discrepancies in the cosmic ray spectrum recently reported by hires and agasa experiment @xcite is pushing astroparticle physics into a period of fast development both theoretically and experimentally .",
    "the analysis of the extensive air showers ( eas ) produced when the high energy particle enters in the atmosphere and interacts with the air molecules is crucial to know the characteristics of the ultra high energy cosmic rays ( uhecr ) . on",
    "the other hand , studies of the high energy interaction taking place in the atmosphere could yield unique information for elementary particle physics .",
    "the interest in eas studies has been revived mainly because improvements achieved with new large arrays and the increasing statistics collected demand accurate calculations of the shower parameters .",
    "a very important shower observable is the spatial distribution of particles at a given observing level because ground array techniques use the particle density distributions of eas to estimate the energy of the primary particle , fitting a lateral distribution function ( ldf ) to the observed particle densities @xcite .",
    "there exist several ldf parameterizations well suited to describe density distributions for primary incident angles smaller than 45 degrees , which are currently used by cosmic ray experiments .",
    "high zenith angle showers induced by protons , heavy nuclei or photons have been subject of recent studies as an important tool to obtain relevant information about cr mass composition@xcite .",
    "very inclined showers are also of great importance since they are the main background for neutrino detection as expected in the pierre auger observatory @xcite although cr experiments have detected showers with large zenith angles , most of these data have not been yet analyzed due to the difficulties present in understanding the space - time structure of the inclined showers .",
    "it is worth mentioning that the event reconstruction is performed in all air shower arrays assuming that the observation depends only on perpendicular distance from the shower axis .",
    "this very strong assumption , if not satisfied , may introduce important errors in core position and energy determination ; precisely this is the case for large zenith angle showers .",
    "the main difference in analyzing inclined showers lies in the fact that the assumed circular symmetry for the observed particle densities from vertical showers is broken .",
    "besides , there is an asymmetry due to the different path traveled by particles in the upper and lower sides of the plane perpendicular to the shower axis ( attenuation effect ) .",
    "these effects which are small at @xmath1 become important at larger zenith angles , producing a significant asymmetry of the lateral distribution of particle density . on the other hand ,",
    "the charged particle trajectories through the atmosphere are distorted in the geomagnetic field , effect extensively studied @xcite",
    ". a recent analysis of the influence of the magnetic field of the earth on the shower observables for the southern site for the pierre auger observatory ( average geomagnetic field of 25000nt and site altitude at 1400 m.a.s.l . )",
    "@xcite has been performed .",
    "the study indicated that deflections alter significantly the lateral distribution of muons only at zenith angles @xmath2 .",
    "this result , however , would be different if one considers different geomagnetic fields and ground level altitudes @xcite . in all cases , for smaller angles , the asymmetry in the particle densities",
    "is dominated by both a purely geometrical effect and the effect on the longitudinal development . as a result ,",
    "the azimuthal symmetry of the spatial distribution is destroyed , changing the dependence on the distance from the shower core , directly affecting the estimate of the energy of the primary particle .",
    "much of the interpretation of eas phenomenon involves the ldf ; in addition to energy determination , the parameter characterizing the actual stage of the eas development ( the so - called age parameter ) is expected to contain information about the primary composition as well as the characteristic of high energy interaction .    in this paper",
    ", we present an approach to analyze lateral distributions of particles produced by uhecr , which is valid at all zenith angles . we tackle the problem studying , by means of monte carlo simulations , the evolution with atmospheric depth of the parameters of semi - analytical lateral structure functions for vertical showers .",
    "the results obtained are then used to calculate the corresponding ldf for inclined showers including for the first time both , geometrical and attenuation effects .",
    "we also present a comparison of the proposed ldfs with agasa and haverah park experimental data and with mc data including water erenkov detector effects .",
    "we start our analysis using the lateral structure function derived for a pure electromagnetic cascade by nishimura and kamata , and later worked out by greisen @xcite in the well - known nkg formula .",
    "this function has been much used in theoretical developments ( 3d extensive air shower simulation ) as well as in the description of experimental results @xcite .",
    "the nkg formula is given by :    @xmath3    with @xmath4 and @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the total number of electrons , @xmath7 is the critical energy , @xmath8 is the primary energy , @xmath9 is the molire radius and @xmath10 is the radiation length in air .",
    "the age parameter , @xmath11 , characterizes the actual stage of the eas development .    to obtain the lateral distribution of particles",
    "it is necessary to consider the multiple coulomb scattering , which determines the characteristic size of the shower front .",
    "the lateral development in electromagnetic cascades in different materials scales well with the molire radius @xcite given by @xmath12 , with the energy scale @xmath13 .",
    "it is straightforward to see that the molire radius varies with the inverse of the density of the medium .",
    "@xmath14    in order to study the development of the shower parameters with @xmath15 , we use monte carlo simulations of vertical proton induced showers at @xmath16 ev generated using aires . this program is a realistic air shower simulation system , which includes electromagnetic algorithms @xcite and links to different hadronic interactions models .",
    "we use in this paper qgsjet @xcite for nuclear fragmentation and inelastic collision which is consistent with experimental data @xcite . for the highest energy air showers the number of secondaries become so large ( @xmath17 ) that it is prohibitive , in computing time and disk space , to follow and store all of them .",
    "a. m. hillas @xcite introduced a non uniform statistical sampling mechanism which allows to reconstruct the whole eas from a small representative fraction of secondaries that are fully tracked .",
    "statistical weights are assigned to the sampled particles to account for the energy of the discarded particles .",
    "this technique is called `` statistical thinning '' .",
    "aires includes an extended thinning algorithm , which is explained in detail in reference @xcite .",
    "the present work has been performed using in most cases an effective thinning level @xmath18 which allows to avoid unwanted fluctuations and provide a reliable number of particles far from the shower core .",
    "all shower particles with energies above the following threshold were tracked : 90 kev for @xmath19 s , 90 kev for electrons and positrons , 10 mev for muons , 60 mev for mesons and 120 mev for nucleons and nuclei .    with the particle data recorded we have evaluated the lateral distribution of electrons and positrons not only at ground altitude , but also at different atmospheric depths @xmath15 .",
    "fits to lateral distribution functions ( ldf ) were performed using equation ( 1 ) in order to obtain the corresponding parameters as a function of @xmath15 , in a shower - to - shower analysis .",
    "we found that the molire radius @xmath9 deviates from ( 2 ) when using a value of the age parameter fixed to the theoretical prediction value , which is an approximation valid for pure electromagnetic cascades .",
    "undoubtedly , a different age parameter should somehow be used to reproduce showers initiated by hadrons .",
    "this point has already been addressed experimentally @xcite and extensively studied by several authors(see@xcite and references therein ) .",
    "our studies of vertical showers confirm , as proposed by @xcite , that a modified nkg formula should be used .",
    "modifications of the nkg formula have been presented using theoretical considerations @xcite as well as parameterizations induced by monte carlo simulations . in the first case ,",
    "the method is subject to several approximations in order to obtain an analytical expression .",
    "the second one relies on monte carlo results at ground level yielding to average values of the parameters which are then included in the parameterizations . for our purpose",
    "it is important to obtain a very general ldf which can be used to describe the behavior of lateral distributions of electrons and positrons for vertical showers , not only at ground level but at any atmospheric depth .",
    "we use a nkg function with an age parameter given by @xmath20 where @xmath21 takes into account the above mentioned deviations from the theoretical value @xmath11 .",
    "the proposed nkg formula provides a good description of the ldf at all stages of shower development only outside the hadronic core which lies close to the shower axis .",
    "it should be mentioned at this point that most uhecr experiments can only measure densities at @xmath22 m from the axis , since in the very dense region near the shower core the particle numbers are so large that array detectors would be saturated for high energy showers .",
    "fits to monte carlo data at @xmath22 m from the shower core were performed with @xmath9 fixed to ( 2 ) , leaving the overall normalization and @xmath23 as free parameters .",
    "figure 1 ( top ) shows the monte carlo @xmath24 density distributions corresponding to a single @xmath16 ev proton shower at selected atmospheric depths from the whole set of levels considered .",
    "the error bars are included in all cases in the points .",
    "solid lines are the results of the fits .",
    "the reduced @xmath25 are in the range 1 - 3 with better fits around the position of the shower maximum",
    ".    the behavior of the fitted age parameter with atmospheric depth is displayed in figure 2 .",
    "a set of 15 proton initiated showers was used to analyze the natural fluctuations . with different symbols",
    "it is shown the average fitted @xmath26 value at different distances from the shower core ; 150 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 450 m ( circles ) , 150 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 750 m ( squares ) and 150 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 1600 m ( triangles ) .",
    "the error bars , in most cases smaller than the points , represent the natural shower - to - shower fluctuations ( the rms fluctuations of the mean are always smaller than the symbols ) .",
    "a remarkable feature is the fact that the whole radial range beyond @xmath28 m can be described by a unique age parameter independent of @xmath29 .",
    "the band in the same figure shows the age parameter calculated using ( 3 ) with the assumptions that @xmath23 is given by the position of average shower maximum , @xmath30 g @xmath31 for the shower set used .",
    "it is evident that , around the shower maximum the agreement is better and the value of the age parameter is approximately 1 at @xmath32 .",
    "the total number of electrons obtained from the fit to each single shower is slightly lower than the actual one .",
    "this can be explained due to the fact that the shower size depends on extrapolation of the ldf in the region close to the core , which is not included in the fit .",
    "it is well established that at ground level and for large zenith angles the muonic component of an eas becomes dominant @xcite , reaching a maximum proportion at @xmath33 , after which it decreases slightly @xcite .",
    "consequently , the study of muon density distributions at all zenith angles is very important .",
    "several parameterizations have been presented for the muon lateral distributions produced in vertical showers ; a nkg - type ldf was empirically derive by greisen@xcite    @xmath34    fixing @xmath35 .",
    "vernov et al(@xcite and references therein ) proposed a semi - analytical form of the structure function    @xmath36    with @xmath37 and @xmath38 m .",
    "a similar approach was suggested by hillas @xcite .",
    "the slope of the two functions are in very good agreement at intermediate distance , but vernov distribution is flatter close to the shower core and decreases faster at larger distances .",
    "these ldf have been used to fit experimental data , however , neither function seems to reproduce the whole radial range of an eas .",
    "the reason for that is clearly the lack of dependence on shower stage development , using instead fixed parameters in the corresponding structure functions .",
    "very recently , the kascade experiment has used a nkg formula to fit muon density distributions .",
    "the fits were performed close to the shower core ( @xmath39 m ) with non conventional @xmath9 and @xmath26 values@xcite .",
    "a dependence of the parameters according to the shower age must be expected for the ldf although not precisely the same as the one exhibited by electromagnetic component . unlike electrons , muons in an air shower are less attenuated and little affected by coulomb scattering .",
    "its spread is determined by the direction of emission of the parent particle and hence increases while the shower propagates downwards .",
    "a shower age dependence of the muon structure function has been considered in relation with the parameter @xmath19 ( see @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "for the purpose of this paper the vernov function seems to be a better choice due to its analytical origin . in order to study the depth dependence of the parameters , we use a modified vernov distribution with a @xmath19 parameter dependence with atmospheric depth given by @xmath40 , with @xmath26 as in ( 3 ) due to the fact that in the radial region smaller than the scale radius , the slopes predicted by both the nkg - like and vernov distribution are very similar .    it has been shown @xcite that , if the parent particles are created with a @xmath41 distribution : @xmath42 , then the vernov distribution is obtained at ground level , with @xmath43 given by @xmath44 where @xmath45 is the mean transverse momentum , @xmath46 the mean energy of muons and @xmath47 the mean height of production .",
    "these approximate expressions can serve to calculate the variation with @xmath15 of the parameters characterizing the lateral spread .",
    "the ratio @xmath48 can be considered constant while the shower develops @xcite and the variation of @xmath43 with altitude is only determined by the @xmath15 dependence of the mean high of origin of muons .",
    "these particles are produced in every pion generation and their energy distribution follows that of their parents .",
    "thus , one expects the dependence of @xmath47 with @xmath15 to arise from two sources .",
    "the trivial one resulting from the fact that we consider observing levels at different altitudes , which gives a factor @xmath49 assuming an isothermal atmosphere of scale height @xmath50 ; and a dynamical one due to the pion decay process .",
    "it is well known that , at a given energy , the pion decay probability decreases with increasing air density .",
    "thus , a characteristic radius @xmath51 results ,    @xmath52    where @xmath53 is the ground level depth in @xmath54 .",
    "note that at @xmath55 equation ( 5 ) is recovered .",
    "fits using the modified vernov function to the muon density distributions obtained from the same monte carlo set of showers generated as described in the previous section , were performed with @xmath56 , @xmath43 , and @xmath23 simultaneously free .",
    "reduced @xmath25 of the fits to single showers for all predetermined observing levels are in the range 1 - 3 .",
    "figure 1 ( bottom ) displays the @xmath57 density distributions ( points ) for a single @xmath16 ev proton shower corresponding to a subset of the atmospheric levels , together with the fits ( solid lines ) where the agreement is evident .",
    "the parameter @xmath21 is approximately constant and much bigger than the shower @xmath32 .",
    "this feature is somehow consistent with the fact that muons become relatively more and more abundant as the altitude decreases with only a slight attenuation .",
    "the mean value of @xmath43 from the above mentioned set of showers is plotted in figure 3 , where error bars indicate the natural shower - to - shower fluctuations .",
    "the solid line corresponds to a fit using equation ( 6 ) which gives @xmath58 of the order of @xmath59 , the attenuation length for nucleons in air , as expected . note that @xmath43 is a flat function of @xmath15 resulting from a compensation of the two factors described above . for inclined showers , the typical slant depth of",
    "the shower increases significantly with the zenith angle and the @xmath15 dependence becomes dominated by the atmospheric density factor .",
    "figure 4 displays the obtained age parameters fitting different radial ranges : 100 - 300 m ( circles ) , 100 - 600 m ( squares ) and 100 - 1600 m ( triangles ) .",
    "the error bars indicate as in the other cases the natural shower fluctuations .",
    "the curve shows the prediction using ( 3 ) and constant value of @xmath60 g @xmath31 .",
    "the total number of muons @xmath61 from the fits agrees quite well with the corresponding values registered from the monte carlo data , in spite of the fact that the fits are performed in all cases at core distances @xmath62 m , implying an extrapolation of the ldf beyond the range considered .",
    "the main goal of the analysis done on vertical shower was to obtain the atmospheric depth dependence of the shower parameters .",
    "this result is crucial to properly take into account the effect of the attenuation in the atmosphere observed in inclined showers , as we shall show in what follows . in this section",
    "we extend the solutions obtained for vertical showers to inclined ones , considering not only the geometrical effect but also the influence of the attenuation in the atmosphere .",
    "it must be emphasized that the measured data by surface arrays are ground density of particles and the showers are analysed projecting the ground densities into the shower plane . as mentioned in the introduction",
    ", this procedure allows correction of the geometrical effects and it is a good approximation for near - vertical showers .",
    "however , it was shown in the section ii for vertical showers , that the parameters of the ldf depend on the atmospheric depth @xmath15 .",
    "this means that to explain the observed asymmetry , besides the transformation to shower front coordinates , one has to evaluate all parameters of the ldf at the new slant depth @xmath63    @xmath64    with @xmath65 along the shower axis direction , in order to include the attenuation effect in the atmosphere .",
    "actually , the structure of an air shower is quite complex but following @xcite , an inverted cone seems to be a reasonable first approximation .",
    "the intersection of an inclined cone with a plane parallel to the ground gives , @xmath66    the parameters @xmath67 , @xmath68 and @xmath69 are indicated in figure 5 .",
    "if the cone angle @xmath70 is assumed nearly independent of @xmath71 then , the slant depth @xmath63 results from : @xmath72    particle density distributions for inclined showers are given by the corresponding electron and muon ldf but evaluated at slant depth @xmath63 where the dependence on the azimuthal angle is evident .",
    "proton air showers at @xmath16 ev were generated under the same conditions of vertical showers with aires + qgsjet at zenith angles between @xmath73 and @xmath74 , where the influence of the geomagnetic field is still negligible .",
    "the geomagnetic field was then switched off in the simulation .",
    "the primary particle arrives at the corresponding zenith angle from 0@xmath75 east of the south .    for single showers , two - dimension density distributions @xmath29-@xmath76",
    "were built at all predetermined observing levels for different particles with bins 100 m and 30 deg wide .",
    "the distributions were fitted using the modified nkg formula with @xmath26 ( eq.(3 ) ) including the complete zenith angle dependence , with @xmath77 , @xmath21 and @xmath6 as free parameters .",
    "the proposed ldf fits very well @xmath78 distributions at all observing levels for @xmath79 . at zenith angles greater than @xmath80 the fits are good only up to a slant depth @xmath81 g @xmath31",
    "this can be understood at the light of the physics behind air showers induced by nucleons or nucleus .",
    "these particles , undergo nuclear collisions in the atmosphere .",
    "the cascade begins with a hadronic interaction with an increasing number of pions in each generation of particle interactions .",
    "the rapid decay of @xmath82 s into photons feeds the electromagnetic cascade , which finally dissipates @xmath83 of the primary energy while charged pion decays produce the muons and neutrinos .",
    "the development of the shower reaches a maximum at around 800 g @xmath31 for vertical @xmath16 ev proton showers .",
    "however for inclined showers , the slant depth rises dramatically from @xmath84 1000 ( @xmath85 ) to 36000 g @xmath31 ( @xmath86 ) .",
    "a detailed study of the characteristics of the muon and electromagnetic component in very inclined showers can be found in reference @xcite .",
    "a standard feature of very inclined showers is that particles at ground are dominated by the muonic component , while the electromagnetic component is almost completely absorbed due to the greatly enhanced atmospheric slant depth . beyond @xmath84 2000",
    "g @xmath31 the small electromagnetic cascade is mostly originated from muon decay and one can not expect a nkg distribution for electrons originated from muon decay .",
    "figure 6 shows a set of @xmath29 projection ( integrated contents over all @xmath69 ) and @xmath69 projections ( integrated contents over the fitted @xmath29 range ) on the shower front from the two - dimension distributions at given atmospheric depths , corresponding to @xmath87 and @xmath80 inclined showers .",
    "points with error bars stand for simulated data and curves represent the result of the fit .",
    "it is important to note the asymmetry due to atmospheric attenuation effects , higher particle density at @xmath88 azimuth angle and a depression at @xmath89 .",
    "this is evident in the plots showing @xmath76 projections , even for the case @xmath90 , becoming very important at larger zenith angles .",
    "note also the symmetry in the density at @xmath91 .",
    "it can be seen from the plots that our approach for the ldf predicts the correct dependence for the azimuthal angle distribution . in observations with large zenith angles , the position of the depth of maximum is more distant from the ground with an increasing atmospheric absorption of the electromagnetic component .",
    "however , the plots indicate that , even at @xmath92 a significant number of electrons can reach the ground level .",
    "figure 7 ( top ) displays the fitted age parameters at selected atmospheric depths for single showers at @xmath88 ( circle ) , @xmath87(square ) , @xmath93 ( triangle ) and @xmath80 ( diamond ) .",
    "when plotting together the results obtained from different showers at different levels , it is put into evidence that the fitted age parameters overlap smoothly with only small differences due to shower - to - shower fluctuations . this result implies a consistency check and confirms the validity of our approach . with the same aim ,",
    "the corresponding total number of electrons obtained from the aires output are plotted in solid lines in figure 7 ( bottom ) , along with the fitted shower size @xmath6 ( points with same convention than in figure 7 ( top ) ) at selected atmospheric depth .",
    "it is once more worth mentioning that the curves which correspond to single showers with different incident zenith angles are of course , affected by the fluctuation of the first interaction point .",
    "however , the shower size obtained from the fit agrees rather well with the values from the monte carlo results , showing the expected longitudinal shower development .",
    "the parameter @xmath94 takes values between 0.15 and 0.2 , as expected , since an eas covers a large area but subtends a small apex angle .",
    "the same set of generated showers , proton air showers at @xmath16 ev at zenith angles between @xmath95 and @xmath96 with an effective thinning level of @xmath97 , was used to analyze the muon component .    using the procedure described in the previous section for electrons , for each single shower two - dimension density distributions",
    "@xmath29-@xmath76 were built at all predetermined observing levels . in order to perform the fit to the muon densities resulting from the inclined showers , the modified vernov ldf proposed in section ii.b",
    "the azimuthal angle dependence was included following the approach described in section iii .",
    "the proposed function successfully fits the monte carlo data at all zenith angles .",
    "reduced @xmath25 are in the range @xmath98 . as in the case of electrons ,",
    "the fitted @xmath61 and @xmath26 values are compatible with the expected ones .",
    "figures 8 show the radial and azimuthal angle projections of the muon density from two - dimensional fits to the data for @xmath80 and @xmath99 zenith angles .",
    "the dots stand for the monte carlo data and the curves correspond to the fits .",
    "it seems worth noting that the asymmetry introduced by the atmospheric attenuation in the lateral distribution is small , mainly at observing levels near the ground .",
    "this feature contrasts with the observed one for electrons , even at lower zenith angles . in previous analysis of quasi - horizontal showers @xcite ,",
    "the attenuation effect was neglected .",
    "however , as mentioned in the introduction , for showers arriving at @xmath100 ( with high @xmath101 content at ground level ) the lateral asymmetry is dominated by geomagnetic effects .",
    "the complex behavior of the muon component due to magnetic field effects was studied in great detail in reference [ 7 ] .",
    "as mentioned above , to estimate the energy of the primary particle , analysis of the lateral distribution of shower particles at ground are important . depending on the particle detectors of ground array experiments , different ldf parametrizations have been used . the signal measured by plastic scintillators (",
    "volcano ranch , yakutsk and agasa ) is dominated by the electromagnetic component of the shower compared with the muon signal . in water erenkov detectors (",
    "as used in haverah park and being implemented for the pierre auger observatory ) the electromagnetic and muon components contribute to the total signal .",
    "figure 9 shows the signal produced by different particles ( top ) and the ratio of the muon to electromagnetic erenkov signal ( bottom ) measured in units of vertical equivalent muons per m@xmath102 for a @xmath16 ev vertical proton shower .",
    "it is evident from the plot that the signal changes with distance from the core , being dominated by the muon component far from the shower axis .",
    "the implementation of the method proposed in this paper to obtain the ldf for inclined showers once the appropriate parametrization for vertical showers is found , clearly implies the analysis of the parameters of the corresponding ldf to find their dependence with depth .",
    "this specific study has to be performed in all cases using simulations .    in what follows",
    ", we compare the parametrizations proposed in section ii and iii for particle densities with experimental data .",
    "it should be stressed that we do not intent to re - analyse the experimental data but rather to investigate to which extent the obtained ldf from pure shower simulations are valid to reproduce experimental data without including additional modifications . in the case that the ldf are suitable to describe experimental data , it would be possible to further check the method presented in section iii .    for scintillator detectors , generalizations of the nkg distribution",
    "have been used to parametrize the observed density with distance . in figure 10",
    "we present the experimental result of agasa for vertical @xmath16 ev showers @xcite in the form of their empirical functions for the total signal s(r ) and density of muons of threshold energy 1 gev , together with the result of the fit using the parametrizations proposed in this paper .",
    "the s(r ) signal was fitted with the modified nkg function of section ii , with the conventional assumption of @xmath103 m. this function can reproduce the agasa experimental ldf over the core distance 100 - 2500 m surprisingly well with a unique value of the age parameter @xmath104 1.05 . if one assumes a pure electromagnetic cascade , it is possible to make a very crude estimation of the primary energy from the fitted @xmath23 parameter which results to be @xmath105ev .",
    "the value of the signal density at 600 m from the core with our fit is 41 m@xmath106 to be compare with the one obtained from the agasa results @xmath10751 m@xmath106 .",
    "the average conversion relation for primary proton and iron using two different hadronic interaction models determined by the agasa experiment is @xmath108 = 2.23\\times10^{17 } s_{0}(600)^{1.02}$ ] @xcite . using this expression",
    "we can estimate the energy from our fit to be @xmath109ev .",
    "in addition , we fitted the agasa muon lateral distribution with the modified vernov function from section ii.b in the range 100 - 2500 m with all parameters left free .",
    "the result of the fit yields to @xmath110 m. it can be seen that the shape of the fitted ldf is consistent with the empirical agasa function .",
    "the value of @xmath111 from our parameterization is 3.86 m@xmath106 in perfect agreement with the value obtained using the agasa function .    due to the lack of published signal densities in the x - y plane for large zenith angle showers from agasa experiment",
    ", we present here only comparisons with vertical showers . it would be straightforward to extend the analysis to non - vertical showers using the same ldf and the method we proposed in section iii .",
    "it is worthwhile to remark that most of the experiments have only published cosmic ray showers at small zenith angles .",
    "water erenkov signal ( wcs ) due to eas particles at ground includes both electromagnetic particles and muons , and the signal produced in the detectors is the sum of both components . in figure 11",
    "we show an extremely large eas observed by the haverah park experiment and their predicted ldf in the regions @xmath112 m and @xmath113 m as described in @xcite ( solid lines ) .",
    "the result of the fit using the modified nkg formula from section ii.a is also plotted .",
    "the molire radius was fixed to the value calculated using ( 2 ) and the mean atmospheric depth of the array ; 1018 g @xmath31 .",
    "our ldf reproduces rather well the haverah park data in the whole range with age parameter @xmath114 . from the fitted function a value of @xmath115(600 )",
    "= 23.8 vem m@xmath106 was obtained to be compared with the value obtained by haverah park @xmath115(600 ) = 25.2 vem m@xmath106 .    in order to check the validity of our approach for water erenkov detectors we have also made estimations of the wcs using a direct conversion procedure that retrieves average signals for every particle hitting the detector @xcite .",
    "such averages were evaluated using the agasim program @xcite .",
    "12 ( top ) shows the obtained wcs for all the particles at ground level for a @xmath16 ev vertical shower for distances to the axis beyond 200 m ( dots ) .",
    "the muon threshold energy is 300 mev .",
    "the result of the fit using the modified nkg formula leaving all parameters free is superimposed as solid lines , providing a good description of the data ( @xmath116 ) .",
    "the scale radius determined by the fit is 1.4 times the pure theoretical molire radius .",
    "the age parameter results @xmath117 , being strongly correlated with @xmath43 . from the fitted function a value of @xmath115(600 )",
    "= 12.7 vem m@xmath106 was obtained . with this value and",
    "the energy calibration formula used to analyse the haverah park data @xcite ( @xmath118 ) , the estimated primary energy results @xmath119ev . using the parametrization for non - vertical showers derived by application of our method to include the effect of the attenuation in the atmosphere in the modified nkg function",
    ", we also fitted the lateral density of wcs at ground for a proton shower at zenith angle of @xmath120 . at this",
    "modest zenith angles the average signals estimated as described above are still the appropriate ones .",
    "the resulting ldf fits well the data ( @xmath121 ) with a fixed value of @xmath122 as for the vertical showers .",
    "the s parameter tends to decrease .",
    "it is , however , well known that the shower parameters @xmath26 and @xmath43 are highly correlated .",
    "the fitted parameter @xmath94 takes a value of 0.1 in agreement with the expected one . in figure 12 ( bottom )",
    "the radial and azimuthal wcs density projections , measured in vem m@xmath106 , are plotted together with the result of the fitted ldf .",
    "it is clear that information concerning the lateral distribution functions of particles is very important to determine the characteristics of the ultra high energy cosmic rays . in this paper",
    ", we presented a new approach to obtain appropriate parameterizations of ldf , able to reproduce particle density distributions generated for uhecr arriving from any zenith angles .",
    "we started our study with the analysis of vertical showers using modified nkg ( section ii.a ) and vernov ( section ii.b ) structure functions for electrons and muons , respectively .",
    "a detailed study of the shower parameters with atmospheric depths was performed .",
    "the results indicate that a unique age parameter can be used at radial distances greater than 150 m from the shower core , which is the region of interest for surface arrays .",
    "the knowledge of the behavior of shower parameters as the cascade of particles develops is crucial to work out the ldf for inclined showers .",
    "it is worth noticing that the method presented here it is well suitable to a shower - to - shower based analysis .",
    "we paid special attention to the fact that the ldf of particles from inclined cascades must be corrected not only due to geometrical effects but also for the longitudinal attenuation .",
    "this latest , usually neglected or considered in a very simple manner in the experimental analysis , is surprisingly large for electron distributions , even at moderate zenith angles where the amount of electrons reaching ground level dominates .",
    "thus , data analysis assuming that the lateral distributions depend only on the distance from the shower axis might yield to biased results if the atmospheric attenuation effect is not considered at all .",
    "muon distributions are also affected by attenuation effects , although to a less extent .",
    "the asymmetry at very large zenith angles in this case is dominated by geomagnetic effects .",
    "the obtained lateral distribution functions fit very well the generated data at all observing levels along the longitudinal shower paths .",
    "the very good agreement of the theoretical distributions for inclined showers obtained using our method with the radial , and more important , the azimuthal angle distributions , provides strong supporting evidence for the validity of this approach . in connection with this result",
    "we have checked our method with the signal detected by ground array detectors .",
    "we have shown that if the signal produced in water erenkov tanks is parametrized by a modified nkg function , then the application of our method is straightforward and the corresponding ldf for inclined showers reproduces the experimental density distributions rather well .",
    "a final comment on the method proposed is well worth making here : several present experiments use both nkg and vernov type ldf .",
    "the application of our method would allow them to include high zenith angle showers in their analysis , what implies a significant increase of their acceptance .",
    "future experiments will also benefit from the analysis of showers arriving from any direction      n. hasashida et al , phys .",
    "73 ( 1994 ) 3491 .",
    "lawrence , r.j.o .",
    "reid and a.a .",
    "watson , j. phys .",
    "g. 17 ( 1991 ) 733 .",
    "bird et al , astrophys .",
    "j. 441 ( 1995 ) 144 .",
    "n. sakaki et al , agasa coll .",
    "27th icrc 2001:333 .",
    "a new cosmic ray spectrum as recorded by the hires collaboration was presented during the 27th icrc , hamburg , germany ( august 2001 ) .",
    "m. nagano and a.a .",
    "watson , rev .",
    "phys . 72 ( 2000 ) 689 .",
    "m. ave , r.a .",
    "vazquez and e. zas , astropart .",
    "14 ( 2000 ) 91 .",
    "+ m. ave , j.a .",
    "hinton , r.a .",
    "vazquez , a.a .",
    "watson and e. zas , astropart .",
    "14 ( 2000 ) 109 .",
    "m. ave , j.a .",
    "hinton , r.a .",
    "vazquez , a.a .",
    "watson and e. zas , phys .",
    "85,(2000 ) 2244 .",
    "auger coll .",
    ", pierre auger project design report ( 2000 ) fermi national accelerator laboratory.(www.auger.org / admin ) k.s .",
    "capelle et al , astropart .",
    "phys . 8 ( 1998 ) 321 .",
    "x.bertou et al , astro - ph/0104452 .",
    "a.m. hillas et al , proc .",
    "11th icrc , budapest ( 1969 ) , acta physica academiae scietiarium hungariae 29 , suppl .",
    "3,(1970 ) 533 .",
    "d. andrews et al , proc .",
    "11th icrc , budapest ( 1969 ) , acta physica academiae scietiarium hungariae 29 , suppl .",
    "3,(1970 ) 337 .",
    "antonov et al , jetp letts .",
    "69 ( 1999 ) 650.,jetp lett .",
    "68 ( 1998)185 .",
    "ivanov , v.p .",
    "egorova , v.a .",
    "kolosov , a.d .",
    "krasilnikov , m.i .",
    "pravdin and i.e. sleptsov . , jetp lett.69 ( 1999 ) 288 .",
    "cillis and s.j .",
    "sciutto , astropart .",
    "k. greisen , ann . rev . nucl .",
    "( 1960 ) 63 .",
    "k. kamata and j. nishimura , progr .",
    "suppl 6 ( 1958 ) 93 .",
    "t. antoni et al , astropart .",
    "( 2001 ) 245 .",
    "m. nagano , y. hatano , t. hara , n. hayashida , k. kamata .",
    ", t. kifune , g. tanahashi , ands .",
    "kawaguchi , j. phys .",
    "53 ( 1984 ) 1667 .",
    "particle data group , eur .",
    "j. c 15 ( 2000 ) 170 .",
    "a.m. hillas , proc .",
    "16th icrc , tokyo , japan , vol.8 ( 1979 ) 7 .",
    "+ a.m. hillas , proc .",
    "17th icrc , paris , france , vol.8 ( 1981 ) 183 .",
    "kalmykov and s.s .",
    "ostapchenko , phys . atom .",
    "( 1993 ) 346 , yad .",
    "56 ( 1993 ) 105 .",
    "kalmykov , s.s .",
    "ostapchenko and a.i .",
    "pavlov , bull .",
    "( 1994 ) 1966 .",
    "d. heck ; kascade coll .",
    "27th icrc , hamburg ( 2001 ) .",
    "j. milke ; kascade coll .",
    "27th icrc , hamburg ( 2001 ) .",
    "a. m. hillas , nucl .",
    "b ( proc . suppl . ) 52b ( 1993 ) 29 .",
    "+ a. m. hillas , proc .",
    "19th icrc , la jolla , vol.1 ( 1985 ) 155 .",
    "sciutto , astroph/9911331 ( 1999 ) j. linsley , proc .",
    "13th icrc , denver , vol 5 ( 1973 ) 3212 .",
    "c. aguirre et al , proc .",
    "13th icrc , denver vol 4 ( 1973 ) 2592 .",
    "porter , proc .",
    "13th icrc , denver , vol 5 ( 1973 ) 3657 .",
    "s. kawaguchi , k. suga and h. sakuyama , proc .",
    "14th icrc , munich , vol 8 ( 1975 ) 2826 .",
    "m. nagano et al , j. phys .",
    "jap . 53 ( 1984 ) 1667 .",
    "t. hara et al , proc .",
    "16th icrc kyoto ( 1979 ) .",
    "s. yoshida et al , j. phys .",
    "( 1994 ) 651 a.v .",
    "glushkov et al , proc .",
    "25th icrc , durban , vol 6 ( 1997 ) 233 .",
    "coy et al .",
    ", astropart .",
    "phys . 6 ( 1997 ) 263 .",
    "bourdeau , j. capdevielle and j. procureur , j. phys .",
    "( 1980 ) 901 .",
    "plyasheshnikov , a.a .",
    "lagutin and v.v .",
    "uchaikin , proc .",
    "16th icrc kyoto , vol 7 ( 1979 ) 1 .",
    "s.n vernov , g.b .",
    "khristiansen , a.t .",
    "abrasimov , v.b atrashkevitch , i.f beljaeva , g.v .",
    "kulikov , k.v mandritskaya , k.b solovjeva , and b.a .",
    "khrenov , can .",
    "j. phys 46 ( 1968 ) s197 .",
    "s. alessio , h. bilokon , b. dettore piazzoli , g. mannochi , p. pichi and k. sitte , nuovo cimento 3 ( 1980 ) 573 .",
    "bosia , l. briatore and k. sitte , nuovo cimento 12 ( 1972 ) 1025 .",
    "l. bergamasco , m. castagnoli , m. dardo , b .",
    "dettore piazzoli , g .",
    "mannochi , p .",
    "pichi , r. visentin and k. sitte , nuovo cimento 34 ( 1976 ) 613 . c. pryke , auger technical note gap-98 - 034 ( 1998 ) ( www.auger.org ) m.t dova , l.n .",
    "epele and a. mariazzi , proc .",
    "26th icrc vol 1 ( 1999 ) 478 .",
    "m. nagano , d. heck , k. shinozaki , n. inoue , j. knapp , astropart.phys.13:277-294(2000 ) .",
    "n.sakaki et al , proc .",
    "27th icrc , 2001:380 .",
    "s.sciutto , private communication c. pryke , pierre auger technical note gap-97 - 005 ( 1997 ) , available elctronically at www.auger.org .",
    "m.ave et al , proc .",
    "27th icrc , 2001:381 .",
    "1 : electron ( top ) and muon ( bottom ) lateral distributions of a @xmath16 ev vertical proton shower at different atmospheric altitudes . the solid line indicates the result of the fit using the proposed ldf ( see text ) .",
    "2 : atmospheric depth dependence of the average age parameter obtained fitting electron lateral distributions of single showers at different radial distances : 150 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 450 m ( circles ) , 150 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 750 m ( squares ) and 150 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 1600 m ( triangles ) .",
    "shaded area indicates the expected dependence using a nkg formula with ( 1 ) .",
    "3 : atmospheric depth dependence of the average scale radius @xmath123 fitting single showers . the error bars correspond to the standard fluctuations .",
    "solid line is the result of the fit using equation ( 6 ) .",
    "4 : atmospheric depth dependence of the average age parameter obtained fitting muon lateral distributions of single showers at different radial distances : 100 m @xmath124r @xmath27 300 m ( circles ) , 100 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 600 m ( squares ) and 100 m @xmath27 r @xmath27 1600 m ( triangles ) the line indicates the fit as described in the text .        fig . 7 : upper plot : age parameters at selected atmospheric depth for showers entering at @xmath88 ( circle),@xmath87(square ) , @xmath93 ( triangle ) and @xmath80 ( diamond ) zenith angles .",
    "shower size obtained from the fits vs slant depth are shown in the lower plot .",
    "the actual total particle numbers for each single shower are indicated with solid lines .      fig . 9 : top : electron ( open circles ) , gamma ( squares ) ,",
    "muon(triangle ) and total ( circles ) water erenkov signal in vem m@xmath106 vs distance from the shower core for a @xmath16 proton vertical shower .",
    "bottom : ratio of muon to electromagnetic signal vs distance from the core .",
    "10 : lateral distributions of total signal ( solid line ) and muon(dotted line ) determined by agasa for vertical @xmath16ev showers , compared with fits using modified nkg ( dashed line ) and vernov ( dash - dotted line ) ldf .",
    "12 : top : lateral distribution of signal produced by electrons , muons and photons in a water cerenkov detector in units of vertical equivalent muons ( see text ) .",
    "bottom : projections of two - dimension water cerenkov signal distributions @xmath29-@xmath76 for a proton @xmath120 .",
    "solid line corresponds to the fit performed usig the modified nkg ldf ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the increasing cosmic ray statistics collected by present experiments and the future prospects with new large arrays demand accurate calculations of the extensive air shower parameters ( eas ) . </S>",
    "<S> the energy of the primary particle is estimated by ground arrays fitting a lateral distribution function ( ldf ) to the particle densities at a given observing level . </S>",
    "<S> however , the lack of appropriate parameterization for these distributions , able to reproduce the data collected from all arrival directions , makes it difficult the experimental analysis . </S>",
    "<S> we propose a method to parametrize particle density distributions of eas at any incident zenith angle . starting from analytical ldf for vertical showers we present a detailed study of the atmospheric depth dependence of the shower parameters . </S>",
    "<S> the results obtained are used to calculate the corresponding ldf for non - vertical showers including for the first time both , geometrical and atmospheric attenuation effects . </S>",
    "<S> we check the method analysing electron and muon ldf generated by monte carlo simulations from incident cosmic ray particles at different zenith angles . </S>",
    "<S> a comparison of the proposed ldf with experimental results as well as mc data including detector effects is also presented .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1@xmath0#1 </S>"
  ]
}