{
  "article_text": [
    "the periodic transits of extrasolar planets as they pass across the face of their parent star presents an important diagnostic tool for planetary detection and characterisation .",
    "the method allows a direct measurement to be made of key system parameters , including the orbital inclination and the orbital period , and provides the only way at present to directly measure the planetary radius .",
    "radius measurements constrain planetary migration history and evolution , and also allow comparison of observations to models of planetary atmosphere and composition @xcite . when coupled with radial velocity measurements , an accurate planetary mass and density",
    "can be derived @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the transit method can detect planets in regions outside the immediate solar neighbourhood and thus can be used to search for planets in distant locations of high stellar density , including globular clusters @xcite , open clusters @xcite and dense milky way starfields @xcite .",
    "the use of transits for planetary detection was first suggested by @xcite and studied in detail by @xcite , but due to technological limitations was not implemented until @xcite and @xcite , who used the method to search for planets in orbit around the m - dwarf binary cm draconis .",
    "@xcite announced the detection of a variation in eclipse minimum times in this system , which could indicate the presence of a third body of planetary mass .",
    "further observations are required for confirmation ; as yet , no transits in cm draconis have been observed .",
    "interest in planet transits received a considerable boost after the photometric detection of hd209458b @xcite , a short - period jupiter - mass planet in orbit around a solar - type star , spurring many other transit searches in recent years @xcite .",
    "transits have a certain geometrical probability ( p@xmath2 ) of occuring for any given star , depending on the stellar radius r@xmath3 and the orbital semi - major axis @xmath4 via :    @xmath5    where r@xmath6 is the planetary radius .",
    "blind transit searches are most sensitive to large planets with very small orbital radii , the so - called hot jupiter planets .",
    "typical hot jupiter transit depths are @xmath70.015 mag @xcite , with a duration of a couple of hours , and thus are challenging to detect with data taken in average ground - based conditions , for which the transit depth would be comparable to the photometric noise .    as a general rule , transit searches involve dedicated small telescopes that monitor wide fields of view , with expected transit yields of several per year ( see e.g. @xcite .",
    "an all - sky transit survey has recently been described by @xcite , which could lead to the detection of many new planets in the near future .",
    "a particularly successful search has been undertaken by the ogleiii group @xcite , who have already identified 137 transit candidates .",
    "the nature of the transit signatures is currently being determined via vigorous radial velocity follow - up campaigns ; of these ogleiii candidates , four objects have been confirmed as planets @xcite .",
    "further to these , @xcite announced the identification of tres-1 , the first planet transit to be identified with the trans - atlantic exoplanet survey .",
    "due to the precise alignment ( viewing geometry ) required , a large ensemble of stars must be sampled in order to detect the fraction of any planets that will transit their host as seen from earth . with such large datasets , in which many thousands of stars must be simultaneously sampled",
    ", it is necessary to employ a computational detection algorithm that can efficiently identify candidate detections .",
    "we present here a detection algorithm developed and tested to search a dataset of 21,950 stars in the globular cluster 47 tucanae for transiting planets , the results of which are presented in a companion paper @xcite . the code was tested extensively to maximize the detection of modeled transits of appropriate depth and duration , while keeping the false detection rate to an acceptable level .",
    "the result is an effective , fast method of transit detection that can be easily modified .",
    "section 2 presents an overview of our detection algorithm , along with details of the model creation and detection statistic .",
    "section 3 explains the detection criteria that separate real candidates from transit - like systematic effects in the presence of noise .",
    "section 4 describes the monte carlo simulations we have performed to test the transit recoverability rates in our dataset and determine the false detection rates .",
    "section 5 presents the summary and conclusions .",
    "in order to search for periodic transit signatures in our 47 tuc dataset , we employed a variation of the matched filter algorithm ( mfa ) .",
    "this method of signal detection involves comparing the data to a series of appropriate models , and was first suggested for use in transit searches by @xcite .",
    "the matched filter approach has been described in the literature as the best method for use when specifically applied to search for transits @xcite and has been used for several transit searches , for example , @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the method , as we have implemented it , assumes a simple square - well transit shape , which is a valid assumption when searching for a signal very close to the noise level , for which the shape of the short ingress / egress phase of the transit is essentially unresolved .",
    "the algorithm searches for multiple transits spanning a large range of periods and transit start - times within a parameter space determined by characteristics of the dataset . with a total observing window of @xmath8 days , the theoretical upper limit of orbital period to contain three detectable ( and hence confirmed ) transits is @xmath9 days ; we take this as the upper limit of the orbital period spanned in the search .",
    "superior results will be obtained if lightcurves containing obvious systematic effects are removed or the systematic variations reduced before they are submitted to the search algorithm .",
    "the lightcurves used in our 47 tuc dataset were produced via difference imaging analysis , originally described as an optimum point - spread function ( psf ) algorithm by @xcite and later modified by @xcite .",
    "difference imaging analysis automatically removes many of the unwanted systematic effects caused by psf variations over the observational time span , and is particularly useful in crowded stellar fields .",
    "other methods to reduce the contamination caused by systematic effects are contained within our algorithm itself and are described in section 3 . throughout , we will use results from our 47 tuc dataset @xcite , hereafter wsbfa , to illustrate the detection algorithm .",
    "we begin by producing a large number ( @xmath10 ) of model transit lightcurves with which to compare the data .",
    "each model has a transit period of @xmath11 days , a transit depth of @xmath12 magnitudes , and a transit duration of @xmath13 hours .",
    "these values are chosen within a range of hot jupiter transit depths and durations expected to be detectable in the dataset .",
    "further to these parameters , each model is characterised by @xmath14 , the time from the first data point to the beginning of the first transit .    as an example , fig.[3.15dnogaps ] shows a transit model with @xmath15 3.15d , @xmath16 0.02 mag , and @xmath17 2 hours covering the whole of a @xmath8@xmath18 30.4 day observing window .",
    "this @xmath11 is typical of the most common hot jupiter planet orbital period from the sample currently known in the solar neighbourhood , and is used as an example to illustrate the visibility of such a transit in a perfect dataset . in this illustration",
    "there are no gaps in temporal coverage , which would be obtained only in perfect weather conditions experiencing no diurnal effects .",
    "the total number of models , @xmath10 , is the product of the total number of period steps , @xmath19 , where @xmath20 and the total number of transit start time steps , @xmath21 .",
    "the net effect of having these @xmath22 steps is to slide each model ( with a particular @xmath23 ) across the data .",
    "the statistic we use to compare the model lightcurves to the data and test for the presence of transits is a cross - correlation function , @xmath24 , of the form :    @xmath25    where the obtained lightcurve consists of @xmath26 points ; @xmath27 is the value of the cross correlation function for a transit model with period @xmath23 beginning at time @xmath28 , @xmath29 is the deviation ( in @xmath30 magnitudes ) of the data from the mean value of the lightcurve at the observational time @xmath31 , @xmath32 is the deviation ( in @xmath30 magnitudes ) of the model at this same time , and @xmath30 t is taken to be @xmath33 .",
    "the output of this detection statistic is therefore a total series @xmath10 values of @xmath24 per lightcurve .",
    "note that by taking @xmath34 , we are weighting every data point equally in the cross correlation .",
    "a discussion on the inclusion of non - equal weighting shall be made in section 3 .",
    "the time series data ( @xmath35 ) are first shifted so that their mean equals zero , allowing a direct comparison between the data and each transit model ( which has out - of - transit points set to zero )",
    ". note that only data points lying inside the model transit are used for the analysis , as , by definition , points outside transit are zero in the model @xmath36 and thus do not contribute to @xmath27 , saving computational time .",
    "models with short periods have more points inside transit and hence have higher significance detections than those with longer periods . if a simulated transit is added to the actual lightcurve data , a @xmath24 will be a miximum for the model that best represents the transit .    in summary , each lightcurve is compared to a total of @xmath10 transit models , spanning a period @xmath37 range of 1 @xmath38 days , with @xmath39 steps of @xmath40 , and a @xmath28 range from 1@xmath41 .",
    "the step size @xmath33 should be chosen with regard to the temporal sampling particular dataset , and is best chosen to be 1/2 the transit duration or smaller .",
    "this total database of models and their associated @xmath27 values for each lightcurve allow us to completely search an individual lightcurve for any transit - like feature that could theoretically be contained within it , while optimising the time needed for the code to run . by calculating the root - mean - square scatter , @xmath42 , of the output",
    "@xmath27 points over all models , a measure can be made of the significance @xmath43 for a given lightcurve .",
    "namely ,    @xmath44    where @xmath24 is the value of the cross - correlation function of a given model and @xmath45 is given by :    @xmath46 ^ 2 }   { { n_{mod}}}}\\ ] ]    where @xmath47 is the mean cross - correlation value over all models for a given lightcurve .",
    "put more simply , this measure converts the raw @xmath24 values from their original units into multiples of the total rms scatter of the @xmath24 distribution , providing an output that is easier to interpret .",
    "for the 47 tuc dataset ( wsbfa ) , we adjusted the values of the code parameters discussed earlier for speed and maximum recovery . first , our total observing window @xmath8 is 30.4 days , giving an upper limit to the hot jupiter orbital period of 15.2 days for secure detection .",
    "fig.[3.15dgaps ] shows the actual 47 tuc dataset temporal coverage with the same transit model as in fig.[3.15dnogaps ] , and highlights the serious adverse effect of diurnal observing on transit visibility . to analyse the 47 tuc dataset , we used 1501 @xmath39 steps , each of 0.01 days increment , and 755 @xmath22 increments , each of 0.04 days , yielding a total @xmath10 of 1,133,255 multiple transit models to compare to each time series .",
    "fig.[3.15ddata ] shows a synthetic transit ( with the same @xmath11 , @xmath12 and @xmath13 as the model presented in figs.[3.15dnogaps ] and [ 3.15dgaps ] ) added to an actual randomly - selected lightcurve from the 47 tuc dataset with 0.015 magnitude photometric uncertainty .",
    "the transit is very easily seen in the data . when phase - wrapped at the peak detected period ( 3.15d , the actual true period ) , the result is fig.[3.15dpwrap ] .",
    "the transit is clearly seen at phase @xmath48 0 and 1 .",
    "an example of a transit added to a 47 tuc star of poor photometric quality ( 0.035 mag rms ) is shown in fig.[3.15ddata_0.03 ] and is phase - wrapped in fig.[3.15dpwrap_0.03 ] .",
    "the model has the same @xmath11 and @xmath13 but a transit depth @xmath12 of 0.03 magnitude .",
    "the code detected this transit successfully , with a high significance , which is impressive considering the noise level of the data .",
    "fig.[ccfplot ] displays the cross correlation output for the models presented in figs.[3.15ddata ] and [ 3.15ddata_0.03 ] in order to better illustrate the detection method .",
    "the detection significance , @xmath49 , is indicated for both modeled transits for the true transit period , @xmath50 , and twice the true period , 2@xmath50 .",
    "the points show the output significance of these two models with a correct @xmath50 and correct @xmath14 ( cpct ) , correct @xmath50 with incorrect @xmath14 ( cpit ) and incorrect @xmath50 with correct @xmath14 ( ipct ) .",
    "it is clear that the correct model has the highest significance , and the transit can be seen visually when phase - wrapped to this period .",
    "fig.[mfaoutput ] shows the significance values of models tested against a @xmath511.149d transit with a depth of 2@xmath0 ( 0.02 mag ) added to a ( random ) actual 0.015 magnitude uncertainty lightcurve from our 47 tuc data .",
    "an extremely strong detection with @xmath52 is found at the true @xmath50 although aliasing is apparent at integer multiples of this period .",
    "the bottom half of the figure shows the ouput for the same lightcurve but with no transit added .",
    "only three data points are found above the detection criterion @xmath53 that we have placed and describe in the next section .",
    "these three points are caused by random scatter in that lightcurve .",
    "in order to separate real detections from transit - like false detections caused by variations inherent to the data , detection criteria are required .",
    "both statistical and systematic variations can produce high significance @xmath49 that do not correspond to actual real transits .",
    "( see , for example fig.[mfaoutput ] ) .",
    "consequently , the first detection criterion is a lower limit on @xmath49 ; the higher @xmath43 , the better is the correlation between the model and the data .",
    "however , this single criterion is not sufficient , as many lightcurves have systematic effects that lead to spuriously high @xmath49 values , producing points that lie in the detection regime .",
    "a further criterion is required to reduce these spurious detections .    due to aliasing effects a real detection of multiple transits will yield a larger number of different models with @xmath43 that satisfy the first criterion .",
    "this has been verified by testing the dataset .",
    "therefore the second criterion involves measuring the actual number of models , @xmath54 , that lie above the first @xmath43 detection criterion .    as well as the @xmath43 and @xmath54 criteria ,",
    "false detection rates can be reduced by considering the uncertainty of the photometry .",
    "a very small number of strongly discrepant points in the time - series with small formal errors can account for a large portion of false detections .",
    "we have found that the majority of these spurious points are caused by bad columns and other ccd blemishes , or by suddenly differing observing conditions . as long as the deviation of these discrepant points is larger than would be expected for a transit , we reset the @xmath55 value of that point to the mean of the data .",
    "the consequences of this shall be discussed further when considering the application of these criteria to the 47 tuc dataset .",
    "the detection process is complicated by the varying observational conditions typical of long time series of photometric data .",
    "these can produce pseudo periodic signals with an associated increase in photometric measurement errors . in order to reduce these effects ,",
    "the contribution of each datapoint before it was used in the @xmath27 calculation was weighted by the size of its photometric uncertainty , with the standard weighting scheme :    @xmath56    where @xmath57 is the point weight and @xmath58 is the errorbar associated with the i@xmath59 point .",
    "the result is that points with large errorbars are given a small weight and hence do not add significantly to the final @xmath24 for that model . by incorporating both of the @xmath43 and @xmath54 detection criteria , and incorporating the outlier removal and @xmath60 weighting scheme ,",
    "the real detections and false detections in the time - series were kept to acceptable levels .",
    "we now discuss the application of these criteria to the 47 tuc dataset , and illustrate their effect on the final transit candidate lists .",
    "the data were split into two bins for separate analysis , distinguishing lightcurves with relatively low photometric scatter ( @xmath610.02 mag ) , and those with somewhat higher scatter ( 0.02@xmath61rms@xmath610.04 mag ) . we found that applying slightly different values of the detection criteria to the two bins we could keep the detection levels high and false detection levels low .",
    "we performed monte carlo tests , adding model transits of various depths and durations to actual dataset lightcurves with differing photometric uncertainties to determine the maximum photometric scatter for which the algorithm could reasonably detect transits with depths as large as @xmath62 0.03 mag .",
    "the expected depth of a transit is dependent upon stellar magnitude and this value is the expected transit depth for stars at the lower limit of our search range , as described in @xcite .",
    "stars with scatter greater than 0.04 mag were found to suffer from large false detection rates and an unacceptably low transit recoverability rate . with this lower limit ,",
    "the total number of lightcurves with rms @xmath610.04 mag in the 47 tuc dataset is 21,950 , allowing a statistically robust sample for analysis .    for the better quality lightcurves , only those models with @xmath636.5 ( marked by a dotted line in fig.[mfaoutput ] )",
    "are passed onto the second detection criteria . for poor quality stars in the second bin ,",
    "this criterion is @xmath64 7.0 .",
    "the second criterion @xmath65 was then calculated , and only those lightcurves with @xmath65@xmath6660 and @xmath6650 points , for the high and low quality bins , respectively , were considered further .",
    "these specific numbers for the detection criteria were determined via a trial and error process , where the numbers were altered and the subsequent results noted .",
    "the final choice was made by maximizing the transit detection while keeping false detection rates to a low level .",
    "we chose to remove outliers outside 3.5 times the rms lightcurve scatter .",
    "this could remove real transits with depths @xmath67 0.035 mag in our best quality main sequence lightcurves ( rms @xmath70.01 mag ) . however , this depth is too deep for a planetary transit although it could be caused by a binary star , in which case it would have already been detected by the lomb - scargle periodogram algorithm which was used to identify variable stars in the 47 tuc field @xcite .",
    "on our poor quality lightcurves , this depth is larger than an expected planetary transit .    by incorporating the @xmath60 weighting scheme into the calculation of the @xmath24 ,",
    "the number of detections caused by systematic trends was reduced by an order of magnitude .",
    "interestingly , it was found that this weighting scheme only reduces the false detection rates for lightcurves of poor photometric quality . the photometric uncertainty of poor quality lightcurves is strongly dominated by photon noise , which the photometry code can accurately estimate .",
    "the point - to - point variations in the fractional photometric uncertainty of bright stars , however , is dominated by systematic effects ( such as psf fitting ) , which are not accurately reflected in the errorbars returned by most photometry codes .",
    "the weighting scheme was used , therefore , only for stars in the lower quality bin .",
    "in order to fully understand the ability of the code to detect transit - like events , extensive monte carlo simulations involving modeled transits must be carried out . the limits",
    "to which the code can detect transits is a vital part of determining the expected number of planets that potentially could be harvested in any particular dataset , and vital information in placing robust statistical significance on results . with this recoverability knowledge",
    ", the false detection rates in the actual dataset can be estimated , which give an indication of the number of candidate detections that will need to be visually examined .",
    "for speed of subsequent examination , this false detection rate should be minimized as much as possible .",
    "we stress that using an actual dataset lightcurve instead of a simulated one to carry out the monte carlo transit recoverability tests is required .",
    "this produces an accurate estimate of the sensitivity of a given algorithm , as the exact temporal sampling and photometric accuracy of the data is reflected in the tests . in summary , many thousands of such time - series transits are produced , and added to actual lightcurves typical of the dataset .",
    "the code is then run on all these synthetic transits to see how well the algorithm recovers them with the given detection criteria , allowing a determination of the transit recoverability @xmath68 .",
    "the detection criteria can be changed slightly and is subsequently optimised for a given dataset .",
    "the monte carlo can also be used to estimate the false detection rate .",
    "a false detection is defined as a candidate lightcurve which passes all the detection criteria , yet does not contain a model transit .",
    "systematic effects account for the vast majority of these detections , specifically caused by data points at the beginning and end of a night , by cloudy weather and other spurious terrestrial effects .",
    "false detections may also be caused by the statistics of the dataset , as there will always be points that trigger a detection due to random statistics in very large datasets .",
    "a further factor to be considered is the effect of stellar crowding on photometry quality .",
    "even with difference imaging techniques , bright stellar companions can seriously degrade the ability of the photometric pipeline to fit a reasonable point spread function to the fainter stars resulting in systematic deficiencies in lightcurve photometry that can easily mimic the appearance of a transit .",
    "false detection rates were determined by running the algorithm with fixed detection criteria on the actual 47 tuc dataset , and seeing how many `` detections '' the code found .",
    "these would contain both real and false detections .",
    "the `` real '' transit occurrence rate is expected to be 1/1,250 ( from @xcite ) and by dividing the transit `` occurrence '' in the code by this number , a value can be estimated for the false detection rate .",
    "this value should be minimised in these tests so that the number of candidates for inspection is reduced , yet the number of true detections recovered is large .",
    "for the 47 tuc dataset , a large number of modeled transits were produced in order to test the transit recoverability for the two photometric bins .",
    "as the expected depths and durations of planetary transits change as the stellar radius changes along the main sequence of the cluster , a number of different models were produced and tested against the code .",
    "a database of 1,464 model transits was produced for a range of orbital periods ( 60 steps covering @xmath691.15 @xmath70 16.15 day , of 0.25d increment ) , and model transit start times ( @xmath71 24 steps of 0.5d increment ) ranging from the middle to the end of the dataset , for each chosen transit depth and duration to be tested . with four depths - durations combinations , the total database of modeled transits tested with the algorithm numbered 5,856 .    for stars in the higher photometric quality bin ,",
    "model transits were superimposed on a randomly - selected lightcurve with 1@xmath0 ( 0.01 mag ) photometric scatter .",
    "a dataset was made comprising 1464 models with @xmath72 0.01 mag and a duration @xmath73 2.5 hours , and another 1464 with a @xmath74 0.02 mag and the same duration .",
    "the code was then applied to these two model transit datasets , employing the same candidate selection criteria as described in the previous section .",
    "the resultant transit recoverability is shown in fig.[0.02_rec ] .",
    "the solid line denotes the ability of the algorithm to recover @xmath74 0.02 mag transits , and the dotted line @xmath74 0.01 mag .",
    "the mean of these two recoverabilities is plotted as a lighter shading dotted line . on this scale ,",
    "a recoverability of 0.5 indicates that half the model transits were detected by the code .",
    "a recoverability dropoff is seen as period increases , as these transits have less in - transit points to sample , and have a lower probability of displaying more than one visible transit in the data .",
    "fig.[0.02_rec ] indicates that the transit recoverability is very good for these high photometric quality lightcurves over the whole of the sampled orbital period range , with the scatter being due to effects caused by the dataset temporal sampling .",
    "fig.[0.04_rec ] shows the corresponding recoverability rate for the bin of poorer quality lightcurves , for expected transits of depth @xmath75 0.025 mag and 0.03 mag assuming a duration of @xmath73 2 hours .",
    "the solid line indicates the recoverability for a @xmath74 0.025 mag transit added to a lightcurve with rms @xmath76 0.025 mag , and the dark shaded dotted line indicates the recoverability for a @xmath74 0.03 mag transit added to a lightcurve with 0.035 mag scatter .",
    "again , for both of these simulations the recoverability is good over all sampled orbital periods , ranging from @xmath780@xmath0 at @xmath77 1 day to @xmath720@xmath0 at 16 days .",
    "fig.[weightedmeanrec ] incorporates both of the mean recoverabilities derived from all of the simulations , weighted by the numbers of stars in each bin as an indication of the total statistical recoverability in the 47 tuc dataset .",
    "this recoverability was subsequently used to calculate the expected numbers of planets , for a given assumption about planet frequency that should be detected in our data as a whole , as presented in @xcite .    in the better quality bin",
    ", it was found that , assuming a planet frequency in 47 tuc similar to that in the solar neighbourhood , a real transit detection should have been identified for every 15 ( true and false ) detections the code passed , using both the @xmath45 and @xmath65 detection criteria described earlier .",
    "that is , given the number of stars in this bin , 3 - 4 real transits should be present in a set of 60 candidates , a false detection rate of 15-to-1 .",
    "similarly , in the poorer quality bin for which the @xmath78 weighting scheme was incorporated , the false detection rate was 10-to-1 . although this could have been reduced further by tightening the detection criteria , this was found to impinge too unfavourably on the transit recoverability . given the number of stars in the second bin , the 50 returned `` detections '' should include 4 - 5 real planetary transits if 47 tuc were like the solar neighbourhood .",
    "it is important to note that the proceedure used to weed out false positive detections could conceivably include disregarding real transits .",
    "it was found by visual inspection of randomly selected model transits that the signature is clearly visible on the data and has an extremely high detection significance compared to the systematic false positives .",
    "it is not expected that the transit recoverability would be significantly impinged by this visual inspection method .",
    "the majority of false detections were caused by crowding and are immediately identified by plotting the lightcurve , which displays systematic features occuring at the same times for most false detections .",
    "the problem was less severe in the uncrowded outer regions of 47 tuc , where the false detection rates were 1/3 the values presented above .",
    "fig.[fdhist ] shows the period distribution of all lightcurves that pass the detection criteria and as such is the period distribution of the false detections that were common in the dataset .",
    "a few periods have a significant excess of detections over the general trend .",
    "in particular @xmath75 1.5 days and @xmath75 4.48 days show a large excess of `` detections '' . as it is more difficult for systematics to produce a strong detection when the number of in - transit data points is reduced , the numbers of false detections decreases as period increases .",
    "the code is quick and easy to apply .",
    "application to our whole 47 tuc dataset was accomplished in 16 steps on four 3057mhz 4096 mb ram , i86pc machines .",
    "the code completed the task in 12 hours , and is easily modifiable to run on existing datasets .",
    "we have presented and described a quick , efficient and easy to apply computational method for the detection of planetary transits in large photometric time - series datasets . using a cross correlation function",
    "the code compares each sampled lightcurve with a database of model transits of appropriate transit depth and duration .",
    "a detection is implied by a significantly high value of the correlation distribution .",
    "monte carlo simulations using the actual temporal sampling and photometric characteristics of the data superimposed on appropriately modeled transits , show an excellent weighted mean recoverability rate over the whole of the sampled period range with a relatively low false detection probability .",
    "in particular the code achieves a very good recoverability when searching for transits at or just below the photometric noise level of the data .",
    "the code is easily adaptable to run on existing datasets to search for the same photometric signals , and is capable of testing 10,000 stars in 24 hours with a single 3057mhz machine .",
    "our algorithm was exclusively developed and tested for use to search an ensemble of 21,950 stars in 47 tucanae for the presence of hot jupiter planets with orbital periods in the range of 1@xmath116 days . despite a detailed search , no transits were found @xcite , yielding a null detection with high significance when compared to the frequency of hot jupiters in the solar neighbourhood .",
    "dw wishes to thank the following people for their help in making this paper a reality : matthew coleman for answering many questions on the joys of fortran debugging , terry bridges for being available to answer questions , and the mount stromlo computer section for making sure the computers were running continuously in difficult times .",
    "finally , dw would like to thank ron gilliland for useful remarks while acting as referee .",
    "alard , c.  & lupton , r.  h.  1998 , , 503 , 325 alonso , r.  et al .",
    "2004 , , submitted , astro - ph/0408421 baraffe , i. , chabrier , g. , barman , t.  s. , allard , f. , & hauschildt , p.  h.  2003 , , 402 , 701 borucki , w.  j.  & summers , a.  l.  1984 , icarus , 58 , 121 bouchy , f.  et al .",
    "2004 , , submitted , astro - ph/0404264 brown , t.  m. , charbonneau , d. , gilliland , r.  l. , noyes , r.  w. , & burrows , a.  2001 , , 552 , 699 bruntt , h. , grundahl , f. , tingley , b. , frandsen , s. , stetson , p.  b. , & thomsen , b.  2003 , , 410 , 323 burrows , a. , guillot , t. , hubbard , w.  b. , marley , m.  s. , saumon , d. , lunine , j.  i. , & sudarsky , d.  2000 , , 534 , l97 burrows , a. , hubeny , i. , hubbard , w.  b. , sudarsky , d. , & fortney , j.  j.  2004 , , 610 , l53 charbonneau , d. , brown , t.  m. , latham , d.  w. , & mayor , m.  2000 , , 529 , l45 deeg , h.  j  et al .",
    "2004 , pasp , accepted , astro - ph/0408598 deeg , h.  j. , doyle , l.  r. , kozhevnikov , v.  p. , blue , j.  e. , martn , e.  l. , & schneider , j.   2000 , , 358 , l5 doyle , l.  r. , dunham , e.  t. , deeg , h. , blue , j.  e. , & jenkins , j.  m.  1996 , , 101 , 14823 gilliland , r.  l.  et al .",
    "2000 , , 545 , l47 henry , g.  w. , marcy , g.  w. , butler , r.  p. , & vogt , s.  s.  2000 , , 529 , l41 hidas , m.  g. , webb , j.  k. , ashley , m.  c.  b. , hunt , m. , anderson , j. , & irwin , m.  2003 , asp conf .",
    "ser .  289 : the proceedings of the iau 8th asian - pacific regional meeting , volume i , 65 horne , k.  2003 , asp conf .",
    "ser . 294 : scientific frontiers in research on extrasolar planets ed .",
    "deming , d and seager , s ( san francisco : asp ) 361 jenkins , j.  m. , doyle , l.  r. , & cullers , d.  k.  1996 , icarus , 119 , 244 konacki , m. , torres , g. , jha , s. , & sasselov , d.  d.  2003 , , 421 , 507 konacki , m.  et al .",
    "2004 , , submitted , astro - ph/0404541 kov ' acs , g. , zucker , s. , & mazeh , t.  2002 , , 391 , 369 mochejska , b.  j. et al  2004 , , 128 , 312 mochejska , b.  j. et al  2002 , , 123 , 3460 pont , f.  et al .",
    "2004 , a&al , submitted , astro - ph/0408499 schneider , j.  & doyle , l.  r.  1995 , earth moon and planets , 71 , 153 struve , o.  1952 , the observatory , 72 , 199 tingley , b.  2003a , , 403 , 329 tingley , b.  2003b , , 408 , l5 udalski , a. , et al .",
    "2002 , acta astronomica , 52 , 1 udalski , a. , pietrzynski , g. , szymanski , m. , kubiak , m. , zebrun , k. , soszynski , i. , szewczyk , o. , & wyrzykowski , l.  2003 , acta astronomica , 53 , 133 weldrake , d.  t.  f. , sackett , p.  d. , bridges , t.  j. , & freeman , k.  c.  2004 , , 128 , 736 weldrake , d.t.f . , sackett , p.  d. , bridges , t.  j. , & freeman , k.  c.  2005 , ` an absence of hot jupiter planets in 47 tucanae : results of a wide field transit search ' , astro - ph/0411233 apj accepted .",
    "wozniak , p.  r.  2000 , acta astronomica , 50 , 421"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a fast , efficient and easy to apply computational method for the detection of planetary transits in large photometric datasets . </S>",
    "<S> the code was specifically produced to analyse an ensemble of 21,950 stars in the globular cluster 47 tucanae for the photometric signature indicative of a transiting hot jupiter planet , the results of which are the subject of a separate paper . using cross correlation techniques and </S>",
    "<S> monte carlo tested detection criteria , each photometric time - series is compared with a database of transit models of appropriate depth and duration . </S>",
    "<S> the algorithm recovers transit signatures with high efficiency while maintaining a low false detection probability , even in rather noisy data . </S>",
    "<S> the code has been optimized and with a 3ghz machine is capable of analysing and producing candidate transits for 10,000 stars in 24 hours .    </S>",
    "<S> we illustrate our algorithm by describing its application to our large 47 tuc dataset , for which the algorithm produced a weighted mean transit recoverabilty spanning 85@xmath0 to 25@xmath0 for orbital periods of 1@xmath116 days ( half the temporal span of the dataset ) , despite gaps in the time series caused by weather and observing duty cycle . </S>",
    "<S> the code is easily adaptable and is currently designed to accept time - series data produced using difference imaging analysis . </S>"
  ]
}