{
  "article_text": [
    "early chandra images of galaxy clusters have shown that the x - ray emitting gas in their centers is bright and irregularly structured , and that much of this structure is associated with powerful radio sources .",
    "the radio sources in the hydra a ( mcnamara et al . 2000 ) , perseus ( fabian et al . 2000 ) , and abell 2052 ( blanton et al . 2001 ) clusters appear to have pushed aside the kev gas leaving low surface brightness cavities in the gas .",
    "the cavities in hydra a , perseus , and abell 2052 are filled with bright radio emission and are confined by the pressure of the surrounding kev gas .",
    "the cavities may be supported against collapse by pressure from relativistic particles , magnetic fields , and/or hot , thin thermal gas .",
    "since the cavities have a lower gas density than their surroundings , they should behave like bubbles in water and rise buoyantly in the intracluster medium ( icm ; mcnamara et al .",
    "2000 ; churazov et al .",
    "2001 ) .    using simulations of supersonic jets expanding into the icm , clarke , harris , & carilli ( 1997 ) and heinz , reynolds , & begelman ( 1998 ) argued that the cavities seen in _ rosat _",
    "images of the icm surrounding the perseus and cygnus a radio sources ( bhringer et al . 1992",
    "; carilli , perley , & harris 1994 ) were caused by strong shocks . in this instance",
    ", the x - ray emission from the rims surrounding the cavities should be spectrally hard , and gas in the rim should have higher entropy than the surrounding gas .",
    "the initial chandra results for the hydra a ( mcnamara et al .",
    "2000 ; nulsen et al .",
    "2001 ) , perseus ( fabian et al . 2000 ) and abell 2052 ( blanton et al .",
    "2001 ) clusters were surprising , as the emission from the rims of the cavities was among the softest in the clusters .",
    "this implies that the radio lobes expanded gently into the intracluster medium at roughly the sound speed in the kev gas ( reynolds , heinz , & begelman 2001 ; david et al .",
    "2000 ; nulsen et al .",
    "2001 ) . the rapidly growing number of cavities found in giant elliptical galaxies ( finoguenov & jones 2000 ) , groups ( e.g. vrtilek et al .",
    "2000 ) and cluster cdgs ( e.g. schindler et al .",
    "2001 ) indicates that they are persistent features of these systems .",
    "an intriguing and potentially significant chandra discovery is the existence of cavities in the kev gas that do not have a bright radio counterpart . if such `` ghost '' cavities seen in perseus ( fabian et al . 2000 ) , and in abell 2597 , discussed here and in mcnamara et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , are generated by radio sources , their properties would have significant consequences for our understanding of the life cycles of radio galaxies and the origin and dispersal of magnetic fields in clusters and galaxies . here",
    "we discuss the remarkable properties of the x - ray core of abell 2597 and its ghost cavities . throughout this paper , we assume @xmath2 , @xmath3 , @xmath4 , a luminosity distance of 374 mpc , and 1 arcsec = 1.67 kpc .",
    "abell 2597 is an @xmath5 ( @xmath6 kev ; david et al .",
    "1993 ) , richness class 0 cluster that lies at redshift @xmath7 .",
    "the cluster possesses a bright cusp of x - ray emission associated with a cooling flow and the powerful radio source pks 2322 - 122 , both centered on the cdg ( sarazin et al .",
    "1995 ) .",
    "a 40 ksec chandra exposure was taken of abell 2597 on 2000 july 28 .",
    "the nucleus of the bcg was centered on node 0 of the acis s3 back - illuminated device .",
    "the pointing was chosen to maximize the spatial resolution and soft energy response available with chandra while avoiding placing the interesting central region on a node boundary .",
    "the observations were made in faint , full - frame , timed exposure mode , with the focal plane at temperature @xmath8 c. grades 1 , 5 , and 7 were rejected in our analysis , as were data below 0.3 kev and above 8.0 kev .",
    "unfortunately , the observations were compromised by strong flares . as a consequence , only 18.54 ksec of useful data were gathered .",
    "an adaptively smoothed x - ray image of the central @xmath9 arcsec centered on the cdg is shown in figure 1 .",
    "the passband of this image is from @xmath10 kev .",
    "the image immediately reveals the gross structure in the inner arcmin or so of the cluster first seen in an earlier @xmath11 high resolution imager ( hri ) observation ( sarazin et al .",
    "however , the fine structure and particularly the surface brightness depressions located 18 arcsec to the south - west and 16 arcsec to the north - east of the center were not seen in the rosat image .",
    "the central structure was isolated by modeling and subtracting the smooth background cluster emission leaving the excess emission shown in figure 2 .",
    "this difference image was then adaptively smoothed , which revealed structure shown above the @xmath12 significance level . in the bright regions , surface brightness variations of @xmath13",
    "are present .",
    "the large surface brightness depressions to the north - east and south - west are two to three times fainter than the surrounding regions , the depression to the south - west being deeper . in order to examine the relationship between the central radio source and the structure in the gas",
    ", we have superposed radio contours of abell 2597 in figure 2 .",
    "the radio image was obtained with the vla a configuration , tuned to frequency 8.44 ghz ( sarazin et al .",
    "the radio source is relatively small and has a steep spectrum with a spectral index of @xmath14 ( odea et al .",
    "1994 ; sarazin et al .",
    "its full extent from north to south is only @xmath15 arcsec , or roughly 8 kpc .",
    "although a great deal of structure is seen surrounding the radio source , there is no evidence for cavities there in spite of its powerful nature .",
    "however , the central radio source is small compared to the bright x - ray structure in the inner 40 kpc or so .",
    "therefore , any cavities that may exist would be difficult to detect due to emission from intervening material along the line of sight .",
    "unlike the cavities in hydra a , abell 2597 s cavities are located at larger radii and are more than twice the size of the central radio source . after subtracting the background cluster ,",
    "the cavities appear to be more extensive than the impression given in figure 1 .",
    "the cavity to the north - east is roughly circular with a @xmath16 arcsec diameter , corresponding to a linear diameter of 15 kpc .",
    "the cavity to the south - west is elliptically shaped with major and minor axes @xmath17 arcsec and @xmath16 arcsec , or 23 kpc and 15 kpc linear diameters , respectively . the cavities are surrounded by shells of x - ray gas on most sides , but perhaps not at the outermost radii .",
    "we divided the data into a soft and hard band images with @xmath18 kev and @xmath19 kev passbands , respectively , and we arrived at the following conclusions . to within the accuracy of the data , 1 ) the emission immediately adjacent to each cavity is generally no harder or softer than its surroundings ; 2 ) deep surface brightness depressions are present in both bands .",
    "therefore , there is no compelling evidence for heating by the agent that inflated the cavities , nor are the depressions likely to be caused by absorption .    in order to determine whether faint radio emission is associated with the cavities , radio observations of abell 2597 were made with the very large array at 1.4 ghz on 2001 june 21 .",
    "the total observing time was 12 hours , and the array configuration was mixed between the 3 km and 10 km configurations , leading to a synthesized beam fwhm = 11 arcsec by 6 arcsec with the major axis position angle = 90@xmath20 .",
    "standard amplitude and phase calibration were applied , as well as self - calibration using sources in the field .",
    "the dominant source in the field is the nucleus of abell 2597 itself ( figure 2 ) , which has a peak surface brightness in our 1.4 ghz image of 1.49 @xmath21 0.03 jy / beam .",
    "this bright source limits the sensitivity of the final image to about 0.1 mjy / beam rms , implying a dynamic range of 15000 . the radio emission from abell 2597 is marginally resolved with these observations , with a total flux density of 1.82 jy .",
    "in the context of studying the x - ray cavities , the most interesting results from the radio observations are the extensions of the radio source in the vicinity of the cavities , as can be seen in figure 3 .",
    "these extensions are robust in the imaging process , and are highly significant with respect to the noise on the image .",
    "unfortunately , the resolution of the image is inadequate to make any firm conclusions concerning the morphology of the extended emission in the vicinity of the cavities , only that such emission exists .",
    "this detection of radio emission and a future confirmation with higher resolution are keys to understanding the nature of ghost cavities (  5 ) .",
    "the radial distribution of surface brightness , temperature , electron density , and pressure in the central region of abell 2597 is shown in figure 4 .",
    "the profiles were extracted from annular apertures centered on the weak nuclear point source coincident with the radio core ( @xmath22 , @xmath23 , j2000 ) .",
    "the aperture sizes were chosen to include roughly 1000 counts and 5000 counts for surface brightness and temperature profiles shown in figures 4a and 4c respectively .",
    "the density profile , figure 4b , was constructed by deprojecting the surface brightness profile assuming an emission measure appropriate for a 3 kev gas . the temperature in each aperture",
    "was determined by fitting an absorbed mekal single temperature model in xspec with abundances fixed at 0.4 solar , and a galactic foreground column @xmath24 .",
    "only data from the acis - s3 device were considered .",
    "the temperature drops from 3.4 kev at 100 kpc to 1.3 kev in the inner several kpc . over this same region ,",
    "the gas density and pressure rise dramatically , reaching values of @xmath25 and @xmath26 in the inner few kpc , respectively .",
    "the radiative cooling time of the kev gas in the central 10 kpc region surrounding the radio source is only @xmath27 years .",
    "similar properties are found in other cooling flow clusters , such as hydra a ( mcnamara et al . 2000 ; david et al . 2000 ) , abell 2052 ( blanton et al . 2001 ) , and perseus ( fabian et al .",
    "without internal pressure support , the cavities would collapse on the sound crossing timescale of @xmath28 yr .",
    "yet , the existence of ghost cavities in abell 2597 and in ngc 1275 ( fabian et al . 2000 ) beyond their radio lobes shows that they almost certainly persist much longer than @xmath29 yr , and therefore must have pressure support .",
    "the gas density within the ghost cavities is much less than the ambient density .",
    "therefore , they must be buoyant and have risen outward from the nucleus to their current projected radii of @xmath30 kpc .",
    "the time required for the cavities to rise to this radius is roughly @xmath31 years ( mcnamara et al .",
    "2000 ; churazov et al .",
    "this is much larger than the minimum age of the central radio source @xmath32 yr ( sarazin et al . 1995 ) , so the ghost cavities are unlikely to be related directly to the current nuclear radio episode .",
    "based on the properties of radio - bright cavities , it is reasonable to suppose that the ghost cavities were produced in a radio episode that predated the current one shown in figure 2 .",
    "their radio emission has faded presumably because they are no longer being supplied with relativistic particles from the nucleus .",
    "this hypothesis is supported by our detection of extended radio emission toward the cavities and their locations along nearly the same position angle as the central jets ( sarazin et al .",
    "a rough estimate of the minimum energy pressure in the extended 1.4 ghz emission is considerably less than the ambient pressure , as is found in other clusters .",
    "this would suggest a departure from the minimum energy condition , or a dominant pressure contribution from low energy electrons or protons .    assuming the cavities formed through the action of a radio source , the lower limit to the energy expended during their formation is given by the @xmath33 work done on the surrounding gas .",
    "the gas pressure at the radius of the cavities is @xmath34 . assuming the cavities are projected spheroids with volumes of @xmath35 and @xmath36 for the north - east and south - west cavities , respectively",
    ", the minimum energy corresponds to @xmath37 .",
    "the figure could be @xmath38 times larger if one includes the energy of thermal and relativistic gas in the cavities .",
    "this energy is more than an order of magnitude larger than the total mechanical energy of the central radio source ( sarazin et al .",
    "1995 ) . therefore ,",
    "if the ghost cavities originated in an earlier radio event , it would have been as powerful in the past as is hydra a.",
    "the existence of ghosts cavities and their likely association with radio sources implies directly that powerful radio sources occur in repeated outbursts . this is consistent with the fact that more than 70% of cdgs in clusters with bright x - ray cusps  cooling flows  harbor powerful radio sources , while less than 20% of cdgs in non cooling flow clusters are radio - bright ( burns 1990 ) .",
    "it would seem then that radio sources in cooling flow cdgs have the shortest duty cycles among the elliptical galaxies .",
    "the time required for cavities to rise to their observed locations implies radio cycling every @xmath39 myr .",
    "the alternative interpretation of the high incidence of radio emission , that radio sources persist on gyr timescales , appears to be inconsistent with the existence of ghost cavities .",
    "the cooling time of the central kev gas , @xmath27 yr , is interestingly close to the radio cycling timescale .",
    "this implies that feedback between radio heating and radiative cooling may be operating there ( tucker & david 1997 ; soker et al .",
    "the energy deposited by cavities into the icm in the form of magnetic fields , cosmic rays , and heat over the life of the cluster is @xmath40 erg , assuming the cdg produces between @xmath41 bubbles over its lifetime .",
    "this is roughly equivalent to the cooling luminosity of a @xmath42 cooling flow in the center of the cluster .",
    "while this energy could reduce and possibly quench a small cooling flow , there is scant evidence for direct heating by radio sources ( mcnamara et al .",
    "2000 ; fabian et al . 2000 ; david et al .",
    "2001 ) . however , bulk lifting of cooling material out of cluster cores where it will expand , mix with ambient gas , and cool less efficiently can assist in reducing the deposition of cooled gas without the direct introduction of heat .",
    "( david et al . 2001 ; nulsen et al . 2001 ) .",
    "finally , clusters are magnetized ( clarke , kronberg , & bhringer 2001 ; kronberg et al . 2001 ) , and cavities emerging from the cdgs and normal elliptical galaxies in clusters may be vessels that transport magnetic fields from galaxy nuclei to the intracluster medium . if a significant fraction of the @xmath43 erg of energy emerging from bcgs alone were deposited as magnetic field in the inner 100 kpc of clusters , the implied field strengths of @xmath44 g would be consistent with the field strengths observed in the cores of cooling flow clusters ( ge & owen 1993 ) .",
    "b. r. m. thanks liz blanton for stimulating discussions .",
    "this research was supported by ltsa grant nag5 - 11025 and chandra general observer award go0 - 1078a .",
    "the national radio astronomy observatory is operated by associated universities , inc .",
    ", under a cooperative agreement with the national science foundation .",
    "vrtilek , j. m. , david , l. p. , grego , l. , jerius , d. , jones , c. , forman , w. , donnelly , r. h. , & ponman , t. j. , 2000 , in constructing the universe with clusters of galaxies , ed .",
    "f. durret & d. gerbal , ( paris : iap )    figure 1 : broadband smoothed x - ray image of abell 2597 .",
    "the surface brightness is irregular in the central 40 arcsec .",
    "the surface brightness depressions associated with the cavities are seen 18 arcsec to the south - west and north - east of center .",
    "north is at top ; east is at left .",
    "figure 2 : expanded view of the central region of abell 2597 after subtracting a smooth background cluster model . the 8.44 ghz radio contours are superposed .",
    "the cavities are seen as indentations in the bright emission .",
    "north is at top ; east is left .",
    "figure 3 : the vla 1.4 ghz image of abell 2597 at 11 by 6 arcsec resolution ( oval contours ) , with the major axis position angle = 90@xmath20 .",
    "the first five contour levels are a geometric progression in the square root of two , with the first level being 0.9 mjy / beam .",
    "the higher contours are a geometric progression by factors of two .",
    "the boxes correspond roughly to the positions and sizes of the x - ray cavities .",
    "the faint contours extending south of center are data artifacts ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a chandra image of the central 100 kpc of the abell 2597 cluster of galaxies shows bright , irregular , x - ray emission within the central dominant cluster galaxy ( cdg ) , and two low surface brightness cavities located 30 kpc from the cdg s nucleus . unlike the cavities commonly seen in other clusters , abell 2597 s `` ghost '' cavities are not coincident with the bright central radio source . </S>",
    "<S> instead , they appear to be associated with faint , extended radio emission seen in a deep vla radio map . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret the ghost cavities as buoyantly - rising relics of a radio outburst that occurred between 50100 myr ago . </S>",
    "<S> the demography of cavities in the few clusters studied thus far shows that galactic radio sources experience recurrent outbursts on a @xmath0 myr timescale . over the lifetime of a cluster , ghost cavities emerging from cdgs deposit @xmath1 erg of energy into the intracluster medium . </S>",
    "<S> if a significant fraction of this energy is deposited as magnetic field , it would account for the high field strengths in the cooling flow regions of clusters . </S>",
    "<S> the similarity between the central cooling time of the kev gas and the radio cycling timescale suggests that feedback between cooling gas and the radio source may be retarding or quenching the cooling flow .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1    psfig.sty </S>"
  ]
}