{
  "article_text": [
    "intermediate - mass stars ( ims ) comprise objects with zams masses between 0.8 and 8  , corresponding to spectral types between g2 and b2 .",
    "the lower mass limit is the minimum value required for double shell ( h and he ) fusion to occur , resulting in thermal pulsations during the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) phase and eventually planetary nebula formation . above the upper mass limit stars are capable of additional core - burning stages , and it is generally assumed that these stars become supernovae .",
    "a salpeter ( 1955 ) imf can be used to show that ims represent about 4% of all stars above 0.08  , but this may be a lower limit if the imf is flat at low stellar masses ( scalo 1998 ) .",
    "ims evolution is an interesting and complex subject and the literature is extensive .",
    "a good , complete , generally accessible review of the subject is given by iben ( 1995 ) .",
    "shorter reviews focussing on the agb stage can be found in charbonnel ( 2002 ) and lattanzio ( 2002 ) .",
    "i will simply summarize here .",
    "intermediate - mass stars spend about 10 - 20% of their nuclear lives in post main sequence stages ( schaller et al .",
    "fresh off the main sequence , a star s core is replete with h - burning products such as 4 & 14 .",
    "the shrinking core s temperature rises , a h - burning shell forms outward from the core , and shortly afterwards the base of the outer convective envelope moves inward and encounters these h - burning products which are then mixed outward into the envelope during what is called the _ first dredge - up_. as a result , envelope levels of 4 , 14 , and rise .",
    "externally , the star is observed to be a red giant .    as the shrinking he core ignites , the star enters a relatively stable and quiescent time during which it synthesizes and .",
    "once core he is exhausted , the star enters the agb phase , characterized by a co core along with shells of h and he - fusing material above it .",
    "early in this phase , for masses in excess of 4  , _ second dredge - up _ occurs , during which the base of the convective envelope again extends inward , this time well into the intershell region , and dredges up h - burning products , increasing the envelope inventory of 4 , 14 , and as before .    later in the agb phase",
    ", however , the he shell becomes unstable to runaway fusion reactions , due to its thin nature and the extreme temperature sensitivity of he burning .",
    "the resulting he - shell flash drives an intershell convective pocket which mixes fresh outward toward the h - shell .",
    "but as the intershell expands , h - shell burning is momentarily quenched , and once again the outer convective envelope extends down into the intershell region and dredges up the fresh into the envelope , an event called _ third dredge - up_. subsequently , the intershell region contracts , the h shell reignites , and the cycle repeats during a succession of thermal pulses .",
    "observational consequences of thermal pulsing and third dredge - up include the formation of carbon stars , mira variables , and barium stars .",
    "now , in ims more massive than about 3 - 4  , the base of the convective envelope may reach temperatures which are high enough ( @xmath360 million k ) to cause further h - burning via the cn cycle during third dredge - up . as a result ,",
    "substantial amounts of are converted to 14 in a process referred to as hot - bottom burning ( renzini & voli 1981 ; hbb ) .",
    "hbb not only produces large amounts of 14 but also results in additional neutron production through the @xmath4c(@xmath0,n)@xmath5o reaction , where extra mixing is required to produce the necessary @xmath4c .",
    "these additional neutrons spawn the production of s - process elements which are often observed in the atmospheres of agb stars .",
    "note that carbon star formation is precluded by hbb in those stars where it occurs .",
    "other nuclei that are synthesized during thermal pulsing and hbb include @xmath6ne , @xmath7 mg , @xmath8al , @xmath9na , and @xmath10li ( karakas & lattanzio 2003 ) .",
    "the thermal pulsing phase ends when the star loses most of its outer envelope through winds and planetary nebula ( pn ) formation , and thus the main fuel source for the h shell ( and for the star ) is removed and evolution is all but over .",
    "note that the pn contains much of the new material synthesized and dredged up into the atmosphere of the progenitor star during its evolution . as this material becomes heated by photoionization",
    ", it produces numerous emission lines whose strengths can be measured and used to infer physical and chemical properties of the nebula .",
    "models of intermediate mass star evolution are typically synthetic in nature . a coarse grid of models , in which values for variable quantities are computed directly from fundamental physics , is first produced .",
    "then interpolation formulas are inferred from this grid which are subsequently used in a much larger run of models , thus reducing the computation time requirements .",
    "the models described below are of this type .    the major parameters which serve as input for ims models include : stellar mass and metallicity , the value of the mixing length parameter , the minimum core mass required for hbb , the formulation for mass loss , and third dredge - up efficiency .",
    "the first substantial study of ims surface abundances using theoretical models was carried out by iben & truran ( 1978 ) , whose calculations accounted for three dredge - up stages including thermal pulsing .",
    "renzini & voli ( 1981 ; rv ) introduced hot bottom burning and the reimers ( 1975 ) mass loss rate to their models and explicitly predicted pn composition and total stellar yields .",
    "van den hoek & groenewegen ( 1997 ; hg ) introduced a metallicity dependence , heretofore ignored , into their evolutionary algorithms along with an adjustment upwards in the mass loss rate , the latter being a change driven by constraints imposed by the carbon star luminosity function ( see below ) .",
    "finally , boothroyd & sackmann ( 1999 ) demonstrated effects of cool bottom processing on the / ratio ; marigo , bressan , & chiosi ( 1996 ) , buell ( 1997 ) , and marigo ( 2001 ; m01 ) employed the mass loss formalism of vassiliadis & wood ( 1993 ) , which links the mass loss rate to the star s pulsation period , to predict yields of important cno isotopes ; and langer et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and meynet & maeder ( 2002 ) studied the effects of stellar rotation on cno yields .",
    "table  [ t1 ] provides a representative sample of yield calculations carried out over the past two decades . to the right of the author column",
    "are columns which indicate the lower and upper limits of the mass and metallicity ranges considered , an indication of whether hot bottom burning or cold bottom processing was included in the calculations ( yes or no ) , the type of mass loss used [ r = reimers ( 1975 ) , vw = vassiliadis & wood ( 1993 ) ] , an indication of whether the calculations included stellar rotation ( yes or no ) , and some important nuclei whose abundances were followed during the calculations .",
    "values for @xmath12 in table  [ t2 ] are in turn plotted against metallicity in figure  [ p ] .",
    "the figure legend identifies the correspondence between line type and yield source , where the abbreviations are the same as those defined in the footnote to table  [ t2 ] .",
    "note that massive star integrated yields are indicated with bold lines , while thin lines signify ims integrated yields .      for 4 note that the three ims yield sets predict similar results except at low metallicity , where the m01 yields are higher . according to m01 , this difference is presumably due to the earlier activation and larger efficiency of third dredge - up in her models .",
    "it s also clear that ims contribute to the cosmic buildup of 4 at roughtly the 20 - 30% level .    the rv yields for tend to be less than those of hg , while those of m01 are greater , due to differences in onset time and average efficiency of third dredge - up .",
    "globally , the role of ims in production is therefore ambiguous , because it depends upon which set of massive star yields one uses to compare with the ims yields .",
    "for example , ims yields are comparable to the massive star yields of ww , yet significantly less than those of portinari et al .",
    "finally , there is a significant difference between the three yields sets where 14 is concerned .",
    "the lifetimes of the thermal pulses in the stars at the upper end of the mass range in m01 s calculations are largely responsible for her 14 yields being significantly less than the others. on the other hand , rv s lower mass loss rate lengthens a star s lifetime on the late agb and results in more 14 production .",
    "when compared with massive star yields , rv and hg predict that ims will produce several times more 14 , particularly at lower z , when compared to either the ww or p yields . on the other hand ,",
    "m01 s models predict less 14 . universally speaking , then",
    ", ims yield predictions indicate that these stars contribute significantly to 14 production , moderately to productions , and hardly at all to 4 production .",
    "remember , though , that these conclusions are heavily based upon model predictions .",
    "the strength of these conclusions is only as strong as the models are realistic .",
    "the respective roles of ims and massive stars in galactic chemical evolution can be further assessed by confronting observations of abundance gradients and element ratio plots with chemical evolution models which employ the various yields to make their predictions . because there is a time delay of at least 30  myr between birth and release of products by ims",
    ", these roles may be especially noticeable in young systems whose ages are roughly comparable to such delay times or in systems which experienced a burst less that 30  myr ago .",
    "henry , edmunds , & kppen ( 2000 ; hek ) explored the c / o vs. o / h and n / o vs. o / h domains in great detail , using both analytical and numerical models to test the general trends observed in a large and diverse sample of galactic and extragalactic h  ii regions located in numerous spiral and dwarf irregular galaxies . using the ims yields of hg and the massive star yields of maeder ( 1992 ) they were able to explain the broad trends in the data , and in the end they concluded that while massive stars produce nearly all of the in the universe , ims produce nearly all of the 14 .",
    "they also illustrated the impact of the star formation rate on the age - metallicity relation and the behavior of the n / o value as metallicity increases in low metallicity systems . in this conference ,",
    "moll , gaviln , & buell ( 2003 ) report on their chemical evolution models which use the buell ( 1997 ) ims yields along with the ww massive star yields , where the former employ the mass loss rate scheme of vassiliadis & wood ( 1993 ) .",
    "their model results confirm those of hek in terms of the star formation rate and the age - metallicity relation .",
    "recently pilyugin et al . ( 2003 ) reexamined the issue of the origin of nitrogen and found that presently the stellar mass range responsible for this element can not be clearly identified because of limitations in the available data .",
    "chiappini et al .",
    "( 2003 ) have explored the cno question using chemical evolution models to study the distribution of elements in the milky way disk as well as the disk of m101 and dwarf irregular galaxies using the hg and ww yields . like hek , they conclude that 14 is largely produced by ims .",
    "however , they find that by assuming that the ims mass loss rate varies directly with metallicity , production in these stars is relatively enhanced at low z. in the end , they conclude that ims , not massive stars , control the universal evolution of , in disagreement with hek . figure  [ chiappini ] is similar to fig .  10 in their paper and",
    "is shown here to graphically illustrate the effects of ims on the chemical evolution of and 14 , according to their models .",
    "each panel shows logarithmic abundance as a function of galactocentric distance in kpc for the milky way disk . besides the data points ,",
    "two model results are shown in each panel .",
    "the solid line in each case corresponds to the best - fit model in their paper , while the dashed line is for the same model but with the ims contribution to nucleosynthesis turned off . as can be seen ,",
    "ims make roughly a 0.5  dex and 1  dex difference in the case of c and n , respectively , i.e. their effects are sizeable .        finally , the question of ims production of nitrogen has become entangled in the debate over the interpretation of the apparent bimodal distribution of damped lyman-@xmath0 systems ( dlas ) in the n/@xmath0@xmath0/h plane ( prochaska et al . 2002 ; centurin et al .",
    "2003 ) . represents elements such as o , mg , si , and s , whose abundances are assumed to scale in lockstep .",
    "] most dlas fall in the region of the `` primary plateau , '' located at a [ n/@xmath0 ] value of @xmath3 - 0.7 and between metallicities of -1.5 and -2.0 on the [ @xmath0/h ] axis .",
    "however , a few objects are positioned noticeably below the plateau by roughly 0.8 dex in [ n/@xmath0 ] , although still within the same metallicity range as the plateau objects .",
    "the prochaska group proposes that these low n objects ( ln - dlas ) correspond to systems characterized by a top - heavy initial mass function with a paucity of ims , or , in the same spirit , a population of massive stars truncated below some threshold mass .",
    "either possibility works through suppressing the ims contribution to nitrogen production by reducing the proportion of these stars in a system s stellar population .",
    "the centurin group , on the other hand , suggests that ln - dlas are less evolved than the plateau objects , i.e. star formation occurred within them less than 30  myr ago , so the ln - dlas are momentarily pausing at the low - n region until their slowly evolving ims begin to release their nitrogen . the latter picture ,",
    "while not needing to invoke a non - standard imf ( an action which causes great discomfort among astronomers ) , does require that the time to evolve from the low - n ledge to the plateau region be very quick , otherwise their idea is inconsistent with the observed absence of a continuous trail of objects connecting these points .",
    "this problem is bound to be solved when the number of dlas with measured nitrogen abundances increases , but it nevertheless illustrates an important role that ims play in questions involving early chemical evolution in the universe .",
    "intermediate mass stars play an important role in the chemical evolution of , , 14 , and @xmath14li as well as s - process isotopes .",
    "stellar models have gained in sophistication over the past two decades , so that currently they include effects of three dredge - up stages , thermal pulsing and hot bottom burning on the agb , metallicity , and mass loss by winds and sudden ejection . generally speaking yield predictions from stellar evolution models",
    "indicate that yields increase as metallicity declines , as the mass loss rate is reduced , and when rotation is included .",
    "furthermore , observational evidence supports the claim that the lower mass limit for hot bottom burning is between 3 and 4 .",
    "integration of yields over a salpeter initial mass function shows clearly that ims have little impact on the evolution of 4 while at the same time playing a dominant role in the cosmic buildup of 14 .",
    "the case of is a bit more confused .",
    "the issue of 14 production is particularly important in the current discussion of the distribution of damped lyman-@xmath0 systems in the n/@xmath0@xmath0/h plane .    finally , what i believe is needed are grids of models which attempt to treat ims and massive stars in a consistent and seamless manner .",
    "the role of each stellar mass range would be easier to judge if yield sets of separate origins did not have to be patched together in chemical evolution models .",
    "otherwise , it is not clear to what extent the various assumptions which are adapted by stellar evolution theorists impact ( and therefore confuse ! ) the analyses .",
    "i d like to thank the organizing committee for inviting me to write this review and to present these ideas at the conference .",
    "i also want to thank corinne charbonnel , georges meynet , francesca matteucci , cristina chiappini , jason prochaska , john cowan , and paulo molaro for clarifying my understanding on several topics addressed in this review . finally , i am grateful to the nsf for supporting my work under grant ast 98 - 19123 .",
    "charbonnel , c. 2003 , carnegie observatories astrophysics series , vol .",
    "4 : origin and evolution of the elements , ed . a. mcwilliam and m. rauch ( pasadena : carnegie observatories , http://www.ociw.edu/ociw/symposia/series/symposium4/proceedings.html                                    karakas , a.i . , &",
    "lattanzio , j.c .",
    "2003 , carnegie observatories astrophysics series , vol .",
    "4 : origin and evolution of the elements , ed . a. mcwilliam and m. rauch ( pasadena : carnegie observatories , http://www.ociw.edu/ociw/symposia/series/symposium4/proceedings.html                    moll , m. , gaviln , m. , & buell , j.f . 2003 , carnegie observatories astrophysics series , vol .",
    "4 : origin and evolution of the elements , ed . a. mcwilliam and m. rauch ( pasadena : carnegie observatories , http://www.ociw.edu/ociw/symposia/series/symposium4/proceedings.html"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> intermediate mass stars occupy the mass range between 0.8 - 8  . in this contribution , </S>",
    "<S> evolutionary models of these stars from numerous sources are compared in terms of their input physics and predicted yields . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the results of renzini & voli , van  den  hoek & groenewegen , and marigo are discussed . generally speaking , it is shown that yields of 4 , , and 14 decrease with increasing metallicity , reduced mass loss rate , and increased rotation rate . </S>",
    "<S> integrated yields and recently published chemical evolution model studies are used to assess the relative importance of intermediate mass and massive stars in terms of their contributions to universal element buildup . </S>",
    "<S> intermediate mass stars appear to play a major role in the chemical evolution of 14 , a modest role in the case of , and a small role for 4 . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore , the time delay in their release of nuclear products appears to play an important part in explaining the apparent bimodality in the distribution of damped lyman-@xmath0 systems in the n/@xmath0@xmath0/h plane .    </S>",
    "<S> [ 1996/06/01 ]    a&a    4@xmath1he 14@xmath2n </S>"
  ]
}