{
  "article_text": [
    "unification schemes focus on the essence of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) , by separating physical properties from geometrical / orientational effects .",
    "in fact , if anisotropic emission occurs , intrinsically identical sources observed at different orientations manifest different properties .    the most promising unifying model for weak radio  loud agn identifies low luminosity fanaroff  riley ( 1974 ) , fr  i radio sources as the parent population of bl lac objects",
    ". the non  thermal continuum emission of bl lacs would be in fact dominated by beaming effects , resulting from the observation of plasma moving at relativistic speed at a small angle with respect to its direction of motion ( blandford & rees 1978 ) .",
    "fr  i radio galaxies would then represent the mis - oriented counterparts of bl lacs ( e.g. urry & padovani 1995 for a recent review ) .",
    "circumstantial evidence for this unification model includes the power and morphology of the extended ( supposedly unbeamed ) radio emission of bl lacs ( e.g. antonucci & ulvestad 1985 , murphy et al .",
    "1993 , kollgaard et al . 1992 ) and the properties of their host galaxies ( e.g. ulrich 1989 ; abraham , mchardy & crawford 1991 ; stickel et al . 1991 , 1993 ;",
    "falomo et al .",
    "1997 ) which are similar to those of fr  i. furthermore , the quantitative agreement among degrees of beaming ( angles and velocities ) required by different observational properties ( e.g. ghisellini et al . 1993 ) and the comparison of number densities and luminosity functions of the parent and beamed populations in different bands ( e.g. padovani & urry 1990 , 1991 ; urry , padovani & stickel 1991 ; celotti et al .",
    "1993 ) , are basically consistent with the proposed scheme .    in this framework",
    ", we expect non - thermal emission from the jet , although not amplified or even de - amplified , to be present also in fr  i. in the case of the nearest fr  i radio source centaurus a , the estimate of the incident continuum on highly ionized filaments ( morganti et al .",
    "1991 , 1992 ) and the detection of a polarized infrared nuclear component ( bailey et al .",
    "1986 ) , suggest that indeed highly beamed emission might be present in this radio galaxy .",
    "however these results do not appear to be conclusive , since both effects can be accounted for without requiring non  thermal collimated emission ( sutherland , bicknell & dopita 1993 , schreier et al .",
    "1996 , packham et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "thanks to hst data , it is now possible , for the first time , to usefully compare the fr  i nuclear emission with that observed in bl lacs , taking also into account their orientation . depending on the jet speed and direction with respect to the line of sight , the fr  i intensity is expected to be orders of magnitude weaker than in a corresponding bl lac object . while at ground based resolution such a weak nuclear non - thermal component would be totally swamped by the stellar emission of the host galaxy , the high spatial resolution of hst allows us to detect point sources at the center of a typical radio galaxy as faint as v @xmath5 25 mag .    at the same time , the hst observations have revealed the presence of extended nuclear discs in several radio galaxies ( jaffe et al .",
    "1993 ; de koff et al . 1995",
    "; de juan , colina & golombek 1996 ) .",
    "these structures have been naturally identified with the reservoir of material which will ultimately accrete into the central black hole ( e.g. jaffe et al .",
    "although the precise relationship between the symmetry axis of these discs and that of the sub - parsec scale accretion discs is not yet established , they can represent indicators for the orientation of the central engine . by combining the information on the relative intensity and orientations of the nuclear component of",
    "the parent and beamed objects , it is possible to test its consistency with the considered unifying scheme .    and",
    "this is the aim of this paper . as a pilot project",
    ", we selected five radio galaxies which show extended nuclear discs in the hst images and we then compare the intensity of the optical and radio nuclear emission of the sample of 5 fr  i radio galaxies with those observed in the corresponding bl lacs , where the latter ones have been selected on the basis of extended / unbeamed properties similar to their putative parent galaxy .",
    "the description of the hst data for the fr  i radio galaxies is the subject of section 2 , while in section 3 we discuss the geometrical disc properties of the extended nuclear discs and their relationship with the orientation of the central sources . in sections 4 and 5",
    "we give a detailed description of the comparison between radio galaxies and bl lacs and in section 6 we present the results .",
    "a discussion of the findings together with our conclusions and future prospects are presented in section 7 .",
    "we select five fr  i radio galaxies in which archival hst images ( available up to may 1997 ) revealed the presence of an extended nuclear disc , namely 3c  31 , 3c  264 , 3c  465 , ngc  4261 and ngc  7052 .",
    "the images for these objects were taken using the wide field and planetary camera 2 ( see table  1 for a log of the observations ) .",
    "the pixel size of the planetary camera is 0@xmath6.0455 and the 800 @xmath7 800 pixels cover a field of view of @xmath8 .",
    "observations were obtained in either a medium or broad - band filter for each source . for 3c  31 and 3c",
    "465 narrow - band images centered on the redshifted h@xmath9 emission are also available .",
    "the data were processed through the podps ( post observation data processing system ) pipeline for bias removal and flat fielding ( burrows et al .",
    "individual exposures in each filter were combined to remove cosmic rays events .",
    "the final images are presented in fig .",
    "1 .    .log of hst observations for the five fr  i radio galaxies [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     summary of the results , for each fr  i  bl lac pair : ( 1 ) radio galaxy ; ( 2 ) associated bl lacs ; ( 3 ) radio galaxy orientation , as inferred from the nuclear disc with respect to the line of sight ( in degrees ) ; estimated @xmath10 in the optical ( 4 ) and radio ( 5 ) bands ; ( 6 ) relative error on @xmath11 deriving from uncertainties on @xmath12 .",
    "the values of lorentz factors reported in the table refer to the cases @xmath13 and @xmath14 , the latter shown in parenthesis ( see section 6.1 for the definition of @xmath15 ) .",
    "it is now possible to compare , at least at the zero order , the quantitative predictions of the beaming model concerning the dependence of luminosity on the inclination angle . in the simplest scenario ,",
    "the beamed emission originates from a relativistic jet described by a single lorentz factor @xmath11 , which , by hypothesis , is the same for bl lac and fr  i. in this case the ratio @xmath16 between a bl lacs and its parent radio galaxy luminosity is given by @xmath17 where the angles @xmath18 are measured with respect to the beaming ( jet ) axis , @xmath9 is the spectral index in the considered energy band and @xmath19 the plasma velocity .",
    "the exponent @xmath15 depends on the geometrical and temporal structure of the emitting plasma , e.g. whether the emission region can be better approximated as a continuous jet or an individual blob of plasma ; plausibly in a realistic situation @xmath20 .",
    "the comparison with the observed values of @xmath16 reported in table  4 , therefore allows to estimate the _ minimum _ jet lorentz factors @xmath10 consistent with dimming the jet emission ( assumed to be produced by a bl lac observed along the jet axis ) by the observed ratio when moving from @xmath21 to @xmath12 .",
    "the resulting lower limits on the jet lorentz factor , for each fr  i  bl lac pair , in the two energy bands and for different values of @xmath15 are reported in table  5 and shown in fig .",
    "the formal estimate of a lower limit for @xmath11 corresponds to @xmath22 .",
    "however , it is unlikely that all bl lacs jets are so closely aligned with the line of sight",
    ". we therefore self - consistently estimated a less conservative @xmath23 , considering @xmath24 as the average angle within the 1/@xmath23 beaming cone .",
    "the resulting @xmath23 are 15 - 25 per cent larger than @xmath10 .",
    "several sources of error are involved in the calculation of @xmath10 , but they are all dominated by the uncertainties in the jet orientation and by any intrinsic scatter between isotropic and beamed properties .",
    "the former ones translate into an error of @xmath25 per cent on @xmath10 , increasing for smaller @xmath26 , while the values of @xmath10 obtained by using different associated bl lacs for the same radio galaxy are spread by less than @xmath27 25 per cent .",
    "photometric errors are negligible in view both of the variability of bl lacs and the weak dependence of @xmath11 on the derived ratios @xmath16 .    in fig .",
    "9 we plot the expected @xmath28 curves for different values of @xmath11 , within the estimated range . clearly , these curves completely bracket the measured luminosity ratios , and follow the general trend .",
    "the dependence of @xmath29 ( i.e. the luminosity ratio in the radio band ) on @xmath18 , presented in fig . 6 , is considerably weaker than in the optical band with an overall increase of about one order of magnitude .",
    "this might be in part expected in the beaming scenario , since the lower spectral index of radio ( @xmath30 ) with respect to optical ( @xmath31 ) emission makes the anisotropy less pronounced at these wavelengths .",
    "however , the limits on @xmath11 derived from the radio ratios are overall comparable with , although with a larger spread than , the optical ones .",
    "the main point we would like to stress is that the derived lorentz factors , both in the optical and radio bands , are completely consistent with those derived by other means ( as superluminal velocities , synchrotron self ",
    "compton model , core dominance parameters , number densities estimates , e.g. ghisellini et al . 1993 ) .",
    "note that the main constraint on the values of @xmath11 derived above is imposed by the large range spanned by @xmath32 , independently of the particular shape of the @xmath32 dependence .",
    "we conclude that our results can be well accounted for if the optical nuclear sources seen in these fr  i radio - galaxies are indeed the un - beamed counterpart of bl lac objects , in agreement with the basic features of the unifying scheme for these two classes of objects .",
    "two are the main results of this paper .",
    "we examined the relative orientation of the observed nuclear dusty disc structures observed with hst for five radio galaxies with that of their ( vla ) radio jets .",
    "we find that , though these two axis are not parallel , they are clearly related .",
    "the most probable intrinsic disalignement / warp is between 20 and 40 degrees .",
    "interestingly , this quite consistent with theoretical expectations ( natarajan & pringle 1998 ) .",
    "however , this misalignment translates into an angular difference between the directions of the line of sight with respect to the jet and disc axis of only 10 - 20@xmath33 .",
    "the nuclear discs are therefore reasonable indicators of the symmetry axis of the system .",
    "the second finding we would like to emphasize is that the optical radio - galaxies cores are between @xmath2 and @xmath34 times fainter than those seen in bl lac objects with matching extended properties and that this ratio shows a suggestive dependence on the radio galaxy orientation .",
    "although extinction might reasonably play a role , we think it is rather implausible that this is the main cause of this trend .",
    "conversely , this dependence can then be ascribed to the presence of an anisotropic nuclear component in radio galaxies , the counterpart of the beamed emission which dominates in bl lac objects .",
    "indeed , these results can be successfully accounted for if we are seeing emission from a relativistic jet with a lorentz factor @xmath35 .",
    "these values are consistent with those derived from both the ratios of the nuclear radio luminosities and the quantitative predictions of the bl lac/ fr  i unified model .    several observational tests can be performed to confirm and strengthen our findings .",
    "first of all , the prevalence of non - thermal over stellar emission in the central regions of fr  i can be confirmed through a spectral analysis , e.g. by measuring the amplitude of the 4000   calcium ii break .",
    "moreover , the central sources seen in the fr  i are expected to show the typical behavior of the bl lac cores .",
    "i.e. large polarization and fast variability .",
    "clearly , information on a much larger sample of fr  i radio sources will be very helpful to improve the statistical significance of our results since many more fr  i  bl lac pairs can then be formed .",
    "it will also be possible to compare the nuclear luminosity of radio galaxies with similar extended properties but with different orientation .",
    "this will allow a much better determination of the @xmath32 curve and provide further clues on the fr  i and bl lacs relationship .",
    "in particular the luminosity ratio dependence on angle can set upper limits to any isotropic / non  beamed emission , a critical and unknown parameter when comparing the luminosity functions of fr  i and bl lacs ( padovani & urry 1991 ; urry , padovani & stickel 1991 ; celotti et al .",
    "in fact , the presence of any isotropic emission would cause @xmath16 to saturate to a constant when this component becomes dominant at large @xmath18 .",
    "furthermore , the @xmath32 dependence would constraint the height of any obscuring torus , since it will enable us to establish the largest value of @xmath18 for which we have a direct view of the fr  i nuclei .",
    "finally , the comparison with a large enough ( and complete ) sample of fr  i can be performed statistically even without indication on the orientation of the individual objects .",
    "the distribution of the observed ratios , rather than individual values , would then be compared with that expected from a random orientation of radio galaxies in the sky .",
    "this improvement in the sample of fr  i is expected to be produced by the snapshot survey of b2 radio galaxies currently under execution with hst .",
    "we thank the referee , ian browne , for his criticisms and suggestions , which greatly helped improving the paper .",
    "both acs acknowledge the italian murst for financial support .",
    "abraham r.g . , mchardy i.m . , crawford c.s . , 1991 , mnras , 252 , 482"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> hubble space telescope ( hst ) observations provide a novel way of testing unified models for fr  i radio sources and bl lac objects . </S>",
    "<S> the detection of extended dust discs in some radio galaxies provides information on their jet orientation . </S>",
    "<S> given this , the strength of the compact nuclear sources of fr  i and bl lacs can be compared with model predictions .    as a pilot project towards using hst information in testing unified models , we selected five radio galaxies which show extended nuclear discs in the hst images . </S>",
    "<S> the relative orientation of the projected radio - jets and of the extended nuclear discs indicates that they are not perpendicular , as the simplest geometrical model would suggest , but that they form an angle of @xmath0 with the symmetry axis of the disc : a significant change of orientation occurs between the innermost agn structure and the kpc - scale . nevertheless , the discs appear to be useful indicators of the radio source s orientation since the angles formed by the disc axis and the jet with the line of sight differ by only @xmath1 .    at the center of each disc </S>",
    "<S> an unresolved nuclear source is present . </S>",
    "<S> we compared its luminosity with the optical core luminosity of bl lacs selected for having similar host galaxy magnitude and extended radio luminosity . </S>",
    "<S> the bl lac cores are between @xmath2 and @xmath3 times brighter than the corresponding radio galaxies ones .    </S>",
    "<S> the fr  i / bl lac core luminosity ratio shows a suggestive correlation with the orientation of the radio galaxies with respect to the line of sight . </S>",
    "<S> the behavior of this ratio is quantitatively consistent with a scenario in which the emission in the fr  i and bl lac is dominated by the beamed radiation from a relativistic jet with doppler factor @xmath4 , thus supporting the basic features of the proposed unification schemes .    </S>",
    "<S> several observational tests , based on the method proposed here , can strengthen our conclusions and improve the statistical significance of the findings presented .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : active - jets - nuclei - photometry - bl lacertae objects : general </S>"
  ]
}