{
  "article_text": [
    "the hypothesis of primordial statistical random gaussianity lies at the core of our understanding of the universe .",
    "the currently favoured standard cosmological model is built upon the assumption of a set of initial conditions laid down during inflation @xcite . in the most simple model of inflation ,",
    "these initial conditions produce nearly gaussian temperature fluctuations of the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) .",
    "if the cmb temperature field is indeed gaussian distributed , its two - point angular correlation function ( or power spectrum in dual space ) contains all the information needed to characterise its statistical properties fully . in the inflation paradigm and the hypothesis of statistical isotropy ( i.e. invariance under rotations of n - point correlation functions ) ,",
    "the angular power spectrum @xmath0 naturally became the standard statistical tool from which to extract all the cosmological information present in the cmb data  @xcite .",
    "if , on the contrary , the microwave background radiation is significantly non - gaussian , it would be powerful evidence against inflation with far - reaching consequences for our understanding of structure formation .    as a consequence , testing the precise statistical nature of the cmb anisotropies is of extreme importance in order to test the validity of our present theories of structure formation and of our current methods of parameter estimation .",
    "these statistical tests are complicated by the inevitable presence of foregrounds , such as the emission from our own galaxy or extra - galactic point sources and systematic and instrumental effects which may introduce spurious non - gaussianities in the measurements . at small angular scales , secondary anisotropies such as the sunyaev - zeldovich effect  @xcite , the ostriker - vishniac effect  @xcite , the rees - sciama effect  @xcite and lensing by intervening structures  @xcite as well as cross correlations between them",
    "@xcite will also leave their own non - gaussian signatures ; these a valuable source of cosmological and astrophysical information in their own right .    due to the scientific importance of measuring any non - gaussianity , but also to the difficulty of detecting it , many non - gaussianity studies have been performed at various angular scales since the first cmb measurements by the cosmic background explorer ( cobe ) satellite  @xcite .",
    "remarkably cobe provided the first non - gaussianity detection by means of the bispectrum @xcite , a detection that was later claimed to be due to undocumented systematic effects  @xcite . with the advent of higher sensitivity and higher resolution experiments , in particular the wilkinson microwave anisotropy probe ( wmap ;  @xcite ) , with its low noise and large sky coverage ,",
    "the pursuit of non - gaussianity has become one of the main objectives of the cmb field .    as non - gaussianity",
    "can take innumerable forms , it is difficult to test its presence and there is no optimal general test for detecting and quantifying it .",
    "different tests can show higher or lower sensitivity depending on the type of non - gaussianity being tested ( see e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "clearly , it is important to apply as many different estimators as possible as the eventual understanding of any deviation from gaussianity will likely come from a combination of complementary results .    a multitude of non - gaussian estimators have thus been applied to the wmap first year data such as the bispectrum , minkowski functionals , three - point angular correlation function , higher - order moments of the angular correlation function , wavelets , phase correlations , tensor modes etc .",
    "@xcite . curiously",
    ", the data consistently show a variety of anomalies .",
    "the first of them concerns the low value of the quadrupole ( multipole @xmath1 ) , previously observed in the cobe data and whose origin has been discussed in terms of super - horizon fluctuations and spatial curvature e.g. @xcite .",
    "subsequently , studies indicated an unusual low probability planarity and alignment of the quadrupole and of the octopole ( @xmath2 ) , maybe even extending to higher multipole values ( @xmath3 ) .",
    "in addition , an analysis performed with spherical mexican hat wavelets  @xcite provided the detection of a very non - gaussian structure in the data , associated to a cold spot of around @xmath4 degrees , visible in the wmap temperature maps .",
    "last but not least , the data appear to exhibit a north - south asymmetry on large scales . notoriously , all these claims indicate not only a deviation from the gaussianity hypothesis but most alarming a violation of statistical isotropy , one of the two fundamental pillars  together with statistical homogeneity of the cosmological principle .",
    "a plausible explanation for these surprising results is likely to be simply the presence of unaccounted systematics .",
    "but one can not put aside the possibility of there being of cosmological origin , in which case it would have far - reaching consequences for our perception of the universe and thus for the standard cosmological model .",
    "the peak - peak correlation function of a gaussian random field has been calculated exactly , both in the full - sky and in the flat - sky approximation , and depends , as it must , only on the power spectrum  @xcite .",
    "it has been shown to display a rich structure , in particular at small angular scales , raising the hope that it has a good sensitivity to a global non - gaussian signal .",
    "the present study uses an estimator of the 2-point correlation function of the temperature hot spots ( local maxima ) and cold spots ( local minima ) to look for any deviation from the gaussian hypothesis in the wmap first - year temperature data .",
    "following the claims of a north - south asymmetry , we also analyse both hemispheres separately .",
    "this paper is organised as follows . in section  [",
    "sec : method ] and  [ sec : gaussian_maps ] we explain in detail our methodology , including the map construction pipeline , the peak - peak correlation function estimator used and the statistical method chosen to test robustly the gaussianity of the data . in section",
    "[ sec : results ] we apply our method to the wmap first year maps and present our results . in order to test various statistical properties of the whole data",
    ", we performed a full - sky study and a north - south comparison analysis of a map resulting from combining all the different frequency assemblies maps provided by wmap .",
    "in particular we investigated how this north - south comparison changes with cuts both in harmonic and real space . to further test for the origin of any non - gaussianity",
    ", we present both a full - sky and a north - south analysis performed on single - frequency maps and on frequency - difference maps , which removes the primordial signal and tests noise and residual foregrounds .",
    "finally , in section  [ sec : conclusions ] we present our conclusions .",
    "the two - point correlation function of peaks of a gaussian random field can be calculated analytically , given only its power spectrum  @xcite .",
    "the power spectrum has been estimated from the wmap data @xcite , and we test the hypothesis that the field giving rise to this power spectrum is gaussian .",
    "we do this by taking a brute force approach and use the best - fit @xmath5cdm theoretical power spectrum to the wmap data as the starting point to generate a large number of gaussian maps at all wmap frequencies , to which we then apply sky cuts , window functions and noise so as to mimic the real data .    in this way , we estimate the hot spot and cold spot correlation functions , and their covariance , for the gaussian maps created with the same algorithm as the real data .",
    "we then use these to test the gaussian hypothesis .",
    "the wmap satellite probed the cmb at five different frequencies with two radiometers , producing ten differencing assemblies ( das ) : four on the w - band ( 94ghz ) , two on the v - band ( 61ghz ) , two on the q - band ( 41ghz ) , one on the ka - band ( 33ghz ) and one on the k - band ( 23ghz ) .",
    "each of these assemblies , after calibration and removal of the monopole and dipole , is available for download from the wmap web - site .",
    "all the maps are provided in the hierarchical equal area isolatitude pixelisation ( healpix ) scheme , which has proved to have several advantages over other methods of pixelising the surface of a sphere , in particular the fact that the pixel area is kept constant throughout the surface of the sphere . however",
    ", the pixel shapes can vary largely between the equatorial and polar regions and distance between pixel centres is not kept constant .",
    "the healpix scheme divides the sphere surface into 12 faces of 4 sides each , giving a minimum resolution of 12 pixels .",
    "each side is divided in @xmath6 pixels , giving a total number of pixels in a map of @xmath7 .",
    "the wmap maps were provided at a resolution of @xmath8 giving a total of 3,145,728 pixels separated on average by @xmath9 degrees @xmath10 arc minutes .",
    "each da map pixel @xmath11 contains the temperature field ( in mk ) and a field containing the number of observations , @xmath12 , which allows the noise per pixel to be estimated using @xmath13 where @xmath14 is the noise dispersion per map and which has been published for each of the different assemblies @xcite . also available",
    "is a foreground - cleaned map of each of the das ( for details concerning the removal of the foregrounds see @xcite ) , from which a galactic foreground template has been removed , consisting of synchrotron , free - free and dust emission .",
    "the wmap map used in this work is a linear combination of the eight foreground - cleaned assemblies in the q , v and w bands ( the qvw map ) .",
    "we follow the construction method suggested by @xcite and produce a temperature map given by @xmath15 with the weights being given by @xmath16 the index @xmath17 corresponds to the different das : @xmath18 corresponds to the v band , @xmath19 to the q band and @xmath20 to @xmath21 to the w band .",
    "this map proved to be well suited for this work .",
    "compared to other foreground - cleaned maps such as the internal linear combination ( ilc ) map published by the wmap team and the tegmark clean map @xcite ( tcm ) , the qvw map keeps all the small scale structure by not smoothing the das to a common resolution before construction ( also keeping the noise per pixel nicely uncorrelated ) and shows less noise power at high multipoles . and",
    "since all the weights are known in the qvw map , it also becomes trivial to construct gaussian simulations of this map .      to construct gaussian simulations of the cmb ,",
    "we follow the method suggested by @xcite and proceed in the following way :    * we generate one sky realisation from the best fit @xmath5cdm model power spectrum , published in the wmap web - site .",
    "* we copy this map 8 times , one for each assembly , and convolve each of the copies with the appropriate beam transfer function , again published in the wmap web - site . *",
    "we add uncorrelated noise to each of the maps according to equation ( [ eq : noise ] ) ( a more accurate noise model is used for difference maps ) .",
    "* we combine the 8 resulting maps using equations ( [ eq : qvw_map ] ) and ( [ eq : qvw_weights ] ) .",
    "we repeat this procedure to create many gaussian simulations of the cmb , each being a random gaussian realisation of the same initial power spectrum .",
    "we used different numbers of gaussian maps in different types of analysis , and we quote each number within the appropriate section .",
    "the maps are time - consuming to produce but in each case we check convergence of @xmath22 ( see figures [ fig : convergence_fs ] , [ fig : convergence ] and [ fig : convergence_qw ] for examples ) .",
    "a comparison of the power spectrum of the real and a simulated map can be seen in figure [ fig : power_spectra_comp ] .",
    "although at small angular scales the noise properties are white , fully understood and easily modelled ( see discussion in section 2.1.1 ) , at large angular scales , individual q , v and w assemblies present noise characteristics which are non - white . fortunately these are entirely dominated by the signal and one does not need to worry about them ( see fig . 1 of  @xcite ) .",
    "the wmap team have produced a set of 110 noise maps which include white noise ( dominating at small scales ) , @xmath23 noise ( dominating at large scales ) and inter - channel correlations for each of the radiometers , and ideally one would like to incorporate all known effects into the analysis .",
    "however , being limited by the relatively small number of full noise simulations and due to the high signal to noise ratio at the scales where the noise properties deviate from white , we choose to include only white noise in our gaussian qvw and single frequency maps .",
    "in addition to the masks published in the wmap web - site , a new set of masks was constructed , based on the wmap team s kp0 mask which masks the galactic plane plus all known point sources in the sky .",
    "the initial motivation came from the need to work with smoothed maps .",
    "the qvw maps ( real and gaussian ) show a large number of peaks at full resolution which creates a problem concerning the computational time taken to calculate the peak - peak correlation function .",
    "so a trade - off between resolution and computational limitations was reached and this consisted of applying an additional gaussian beam of fwhm = 12 arc minutes to the raw maps ( real and gaussian ) , as constructed in section 2.1.1 . because some of the unwanted ( masked ) signal could leak from the masked regions due to this smoothing ,",
    "the mask kp0 was also increased ( by effectively smoothing it with the same smoothing kernel applied to the data ) to create a new mask , dubbed mask 30b .",
    "regions in the smoothed mask with values greater than 0.01 were masked , where the raw mask map has values zero and one , with one meaning masked .",
    "+ in addition to this extension , the new mask was further modified to include either only the northern or the southern hemisphere and also to optionally exclude a region close the galactic plane , @xmath24 . + a summary of the properties of each of the new masks is given in table [ tab : mask ] .",
    ".the new and original masks [ cols=\"^,^,^,^ \" , ]     [ tab : summary ]",
    "in this paper we have used the peak - peak correlation function of the local extrema in the cmb temperature fluctuations to probe for non - gaussian signatures .",
    "as explained at the start of section 4 , we have constructed a series of statistics which look both at cold and hot spots in the full sky , in the northern and southern hemispheres separately and at the difference between both hemispheres .",
    "we have also looked at a variety of maps : a co - added qvw map with a standard mask applied , a co - added qvw map with an extended galactic cut applied , three co - added maps at the same frequency and three differences maps so as to remove the cosmological signal . in the case of the co - added qvw map we also investigated eight different cases with some of the low multipoles removed .",
    "our main results are summarised in table [ tab : summary ] in section [ sec : summary ] - we find strong evidence for non - gaussianity , mainly associated with the cold spots and with the southern hemisphere ; this non - gaussianity disappears completely if we filter out the harmonic modes @xmath25 and at least partially if we exclude sky within @xmath24 , so it is a large - scale effect associated with the galactic plane .",
    "recently , @xcite have also used the peak - peak correlation function of cold and hot spots in their search for non - gaussianity .",
    "direct comparison of results is not straightforward as the resolutions of the maps used in the two studies are significantly different .",
    "however , in the simplest case where both groups looked at the full sky cmb temperature field ( with equivalent masks based on the standard kp0 mask applied ) , both results are in agreement in the sense that both fail to yield a detection .",
    "we believe this lack of detection is a result of large cosmic variance in low-@xmath26 multipoles .",
    "we investigate this further by removing some of the low order multipoles from the maps , in the hope that by doing so we are increasing our sensitivity to non - gaussian features by reducing the effects of cosmic variance .",
    "once we remove all harmonic modes with @xmath27 we systematically find anomalies related to the cold spots in the wmap data and , when looking at both hemispheres separately , we not only find a striking north / south asymmetry , we repeatedly find the strongest anomalies to be in the southern hemisphere .",
    "this is not unheard of : @xcite first found an anomalous large cold spot in the southern hemisphere ( nicknamed _ the spot _ ) , detection which was followed by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite and confirmed repeatedly .",
    "however , we do find that our detections disappear when we exclude sky regions within 30 degrees of the galactic place ( we recall that _ the spot _ is localised at approximately @xmath28 , well outside our cut regions of sky ) .",
    "we therefore conclude that our detections come mainly from something other than _ the spot_.    the north / south asymmetry is also something which has been quoted time and time again in the literature : @xcite , @xcite and other work previously quoted in this paper have consistently found non - gaussian asymmetries between the two galactic hemispheres .",
    "the asymmetry we find in this study seems to be a large scale effect , once again related only to the cold spots and to be contained within 30 degrees of the galactic plane .",
    "we investigate our detections further by firstly conducting an analysis in single frequency maps .",
    "we find some evidence for a dependence of the signal with frequency when we look at different hemispheres ( peaking at 41ghz , corresponding to the q band and in agreement with @xcite ) , but this detection does not appear in a full - sky analysis .",
    "secondly we remove the cosmological signal from the analysis by subtracting different frequency maps and testing the resulting foreground / noise combination maps for non - gaussian signals .",
    "we find no signs of non - gaussianity in these subtracted maps .",
    "how do we make sense of these results ?",
    "a simple explanation seems untenable .",
    "the fact that the signal becomes insignificant when the galactic plane is removed suggests unsubtracted galactic foregrounds are responsible ; the large - scale nature of the signal is certainly consistent with this picture .",
    "one would then expect the individual frequency maps to show a significant signal , and this we do find , most strikingly in the q band .",
    "however , the difference maps do not show a significant detection ; these maps should directly test the residual foregrounds and noise , so the absence of detected non - gaussianity does not obviously support this picture .",
    "we can reconcile these observations if the residual foregrounds affect more than one frequency band , and the subtraction removes the contamination to some extent .",
    "the fact that we find non - gaussianity in all the single - frequency bands adds some support to this complex picture . in our view",
    "this is the most likely explanation for the results we find , but we can not exclude a primordial origin for at least part of the non - gaussian signal .",
    "rt is funded by the fundao para a cincia e a tecnologia under the reference praxis sfrh / bd/16973/04 .",
    "pgc is supported by the pparc through a postoctoral rolling grant .",
    "sg is supported by the pparc .",
    "sg and rt would like to thank rob crittenden for helpful discussions .",
    "rt would like to thank john peacock for helpful discussions and suggestions .",
    "we acknowledge the use of the legacy archive for microwave background data analysis ( lambda ) .",
    "support for lambda is provided by the nasa office of space science .",
    "some of the results in this paper have been derived using the healpix ( grski , hivon , and wandelt 1999 ) package .",
    "banday a.j . , zaroubi s. , grski k.m . , 2000 , apj , 533 , 575 bennett c.l .",
    "et al . , 2003 ,",
    "apjs , 148 , 1 berera a. , heavens a.f . , 2000 , phys .",
    "d62 , 123513 berera a. , fang f .- z .",
    ", hinshaw g. , 1998 , phys .",
    "d57 , 2207 blanchard a. , schneider j. , 1987 , a&a , 184 , 1    castro p.g . , 2003 ,",
    "d67 , 123001 coles p. et al . , 2004 , mnras , 350 , 983 colley w.n . , gott j.r .",
    ", 2003 mnras , 344 , 686 cooray a. , 2001a , phys .",
    "d64 , 043516 cooray a. , 2001b , phys .",
    "d64 , 063514 cooray a. , kesden m. , 2003 , new astronomy , 8 , 255 cooray a. , hu w. , 2000 , apj , 534 , 533 copi c.j .",
    ", huterer d. , starkman g.d , 2004 , phys .",
    "d70 , 043515 cruz m. et al . , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 29          hamilton a.j . , 1993 ,",
    "apj , 417 , 19 heavens a.f . , 1998 , mnras , 299 , 805 heavens a.f . , gupta s. , 2001 , mnras , 324 , 960 heavens a.f . , sheth r.k . , 1999 ,",
    "mnras , 310 , 1062 hinshaw g. et al . , 2003 , apjs , 148 , 135 hu w. , 2001 , phys .",
    "d64 , 083005        land k. , magueijo j. , 2005a , mnras , 2005 , 357 , 994 land k. , magueijo j. , 2005b , preprint ( astro - ph/0502237 ) land k. , magueijo j. , 2005c , preprint ( astro - ph/0502574 ) larson d.l .",
    ", wandelt b.d . , 2005 , preprint ( astro - ph/0505046 ) liu x. and zhang , s.n . , 2005 , preprint ( astro - ph/0504589 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a search for non - gaussianity in the wmap first - year data using the two - point correlation function of maxima and minima in the temperature map . </S>",
    "<S> we find evidence for non - gaussianity on large scales , whose origin appears to be associated with unsubstracted foregrounds , but which is not entirely clear . </S>",
    "<S> the signal appears to be associated most strongly with cold spots , and is more pronounced in the southern galactic hemisphere . </S>",
    "<S> removal of the region of sky near the galactic plane , or filtering out large - scale modes removes the signal . </S>",
    "<S> analysis of individual frequency maps shows strongest signal in the 41ghz q band . </S>",
    "<S> a study of difference maps tests the hypothesis that the non - gaussianity is due to residual foregrounds and noise , but shows no significant detection . </S>",
    "<S> we suggest that the detection is due to large - scale residual foregrounds affecting more than one frequency band , but a primordial contribution from the cosmic microwave background can not be excluded .    cosmic microwave background  early universe  </S>",
    "<S> methods : data analysis  methods : numerical  methods : statistical </S>"
  ]
}