{
  "article_text": [
    "gcs are still the best cosmological clock for measuring the age of the universe .",
    "since the dating of gcs is totally independent of the cosmological model adopted to describe the universe , gcs serve as a constraint for different cosmology scenarios .    despite the continuous effort carried out during more than 30 years to give a precise value for the age of gcs , the uncertainty in their age still remains of about 4 gyr .",
    "the problem is particularly complicated because age and distance have the same effect on the morphology of the main sequence turn off point ( msto ) .    in order to tackle this problem ,",
    "some alternative methods to avoid the influence of the distance modulus have been proposed ( jimenez et al . 1996 ) . despite of this",
    "it is still interesting to find more precise methods that give both distance modulus and age with an accuracy better than 5% in order to be able to constrain cosmological models .    until now it has been impossible to do so due to the degeneracy distance modulus - age .",
    "when the msto method is used ( both isochrone fitting and delta v ( chaboyer , demarque & sarajedini 1996 ) ) this degeneracy implies that a different distance modulus can be mimic with a different mass for the msto and therefore a different age . in general",
    "this leads to an uncertainty in the age of 3 gyr . on top of this",
    ", some other uncertainties in the stellar physics input leads to another 1 gyr ( at least ) in the uncertainty of the age .",
    "the luminosity function seems the most natural observable to try to constrain both age and distance modulus in an independent and accurate way at the same time .",
    "the luminosity function is a natural clock because the number of stars in a given luminosity bin decreases with time since more massive stars evolve more rapidly than less massive ones .",
    "the fact that small differences in stellar masses corresponds to large differences in evolutionary time explains the power of our clock , rather than being a source of uncertainty in getting gcs ages ( as it is in the msto method ) .",
    "the luminosity function is also a natural distance indicator because the number of stars in a given luminosity bin depends on the position of the bin .",
    "this dependence is different from the time dependence as it is illustrated by the fact that a time translation of an evolutionary track for a given stellar mass does not result in an evolutionary track of a star with different mass ( see fig .",
    "1 ) . in this paper",
    "we illustrate how the luminosity function can be used to determine both the distance modulus and the age of a given gc .",
    "the paper is organised as follows : in section 2 we describe the luminosity function method , we continue in section 3 with the dependence of the luminosity function on distance and age . in section 4",
    "we discuss the effect of the imf .",
    "we conclude with a general discussion and the conclusions .",
    "stars of different mass evolve along the main sequence at different speed : the more massive the faster .",
    "this means that the number of stars inside a fixed luminosity bin decreases with time .",
    "in fact the stars in the main sequence are evolving towards larger luminosities with the effect that the rate at which stars leave the fixed luminosity bin towards larger luminosities is higher than the rate at which they enter the bin coming from lower luminosities .",
    "furthermore this effect is stronger for more luminous bins ( around the main - sequence turn off ) than for less luminous ones or for the red giant branch ( rgb ) , so that the whole shape of the lf is changing with time , and not only its normalization .    in other words _ the ratio between the number of stars in two different bins in the lf can be used as a clock for gc ages_.    the lf is also sensitive to distance modulus . in fact",
    "a change in the assumed distance modulus corresponds to a translation of the luminosity bins when comparing observations with theory , and the number of stars in a luminosity bin depends not only on time , but also on the luminosity of the bin : the less luminous the richer in stars .    for a determination of both distance and age one needs at least three bins in the lf : one for the normalization , one for the age , and one for the distance .",
    "a forth bin ( the least luminous one ) is also very useful in order to check for the completeness of the stellar counts .",
    "therefore _ the lf method for determining age and distance of gcs consists in the production of 4-bin theoretical lfs for gcs , to be compared with their observational counterparts_.    the number of bins should not be larger than necessary ( four ) since it is convenient to keep each bin relatively wide in order to reduce the statistical errors in the stellar counts that are due to uncertainty in the photometry and to the stochastic nature of the stellar mass function . if the lf is sampled with many bins they are necessarily narrow and with large statistical error bars .",
    "we choose to position the normalization bin at the luminosity of the rgb , because of the rather slow time dependence of the number of stars in that region of the cm diagram ( stars of different masses evolve at different speed , but not as much as in the upper main sequence ) .",
    "the other three bins are all one magnitude wide , which is a good compromise between the necessity of keeping the fourth bin not too faint and the attempt to reduce statistical errors by using large bins .",
    "the bins , in units of @xmath2 , are : [ @xmath3 1.51 , 1.11 ] , [ 1.11 , 0.71 ] , [ 0.71 , 0.31 ] , and [ 0.31 , 0.09 ] . for a gc with @xmath4 mag",
    "these bins correspond to the following visual magnitude intervals : [ @xmath5 16.3 , 17.3 ] , [ 17.3 , 18.3 ] , [ 18.3 , 19.3 ] , and [ 19.3 , 20.3 ] .",
    "the first bin is used for the normalization . in principle it is not necessary to extend it up to the tip of the rgb , but it is convenient to keep it as wide as possible to include a large number of stars and reduce the statistical errors . the second bin is not very sensitive to time , but is very useful to determine the distance modulus ; the third bin is the most sensitive age indicator , because it is at that luminosity ( around the main sequence turn - off ) that the time evolution most strongly affects the stellar counts ; the fourth bin is finally used to check for the completeness of the stellar counts .",
    "in fact we will show below that the lf has two fixed points ( one in distance modulus evolution and one in time evolution ) that are more luminous than the fourth bin and can also be used to check for the completeness of the data",
    ".    the procedure to obtain the lf from evolutionary stellar tracks has been illustrated in jimenez and padoan ( 1996 ) .",
    "the first step is that of producing tracks for different stellar masses .",
    "some tracks are shown in fig .",
    "2 , where they are plotted as luminosity versus time .",
    "when a given time is chosen , the intersection of that time with the tracks gives the mass - luminosity ( m - l ) relation at that time .",
    "we then assume a power law stellar mass function ( imf ) that together with the m - l relation allows us to compute the lf .    in the next sections we illustrate the dependence of the lf on time , distance modulus and imf .",
    "fig . 3 illustrates how the lf changes with distance modulus .",
    "lfs are plotted for the following values of distance modulus : 15.0 , 15.1 , 15.2 , 15.3 , and 15.4 mag .",
    "the time evolution of the lf is shown in fig . 4 for 10 different ages between 10 and 20 gyr ( the distance modulus is 15.3 ) .",
    "it is apparent that the lf is sensitive to both age and distance modulus",
    ". one interesting feature of the lf is the presence of one fixed point .",
    "the fact that the fixed points in the time evolution and in the distance modulus evolution are at different magnitudes , v=20.1 and v=19.3 respectively , is a nice illustration of the fact that the two evolutions are different from each other .",
    "the fixed points are anyway very useful constraints when trying to fit the observational lf with he theory using the two kinds of plots shown in figs . 3 and 4 .    one can see that the bin most sensitive to time is the third one .",
    "the second bin is almost not affected by age but it is the most sensitive to distance modulus .",
    "in fact the choice of the lf bins focus just on the attempt of producing a second bin that is sensitive to distance , while unaffected by age .",
    "this is why the degeneracy age - distance can be broken so well with the lf method .",
    "we find that the lf is really a very sensitive clock and distance indicator .",
    "in fact the number of stars inside the second bin can change of about 20% every 0.1 mag and the number of stars in the third bin of about 10% every gyr . since at those relatively large luminosities",
    "stellar counts can be performed with uncertainties of only a few percent , it is clear that the lf method can be used to measure ages with uncertainty much less the 1 gyr and distances with uncertainty much less that 0.1 mag .",
    "this means an improvement in both distance and age determination compared with all other methods that is probably close to one order of magnitude !",
    "the procedure to find the distance modulus and the age for a given globular cluster can be summarised in the following steps :    * the metallicity as well as the helium content are assumed to be known from other methods ( e.g. spectroscopy ) . *",
    "stellar tracks are computed for a given metallicity in a large range of mass to cover the gc luminosity bins  usually from 0.6 to 0.9 @xmath6 . *",
    "the luminosity bins described in the text ( see this section ) are drawn on top of the tracks ( lum vs. time ) and the resulting luminosity function for the distance modulus and age is obtained . * an iterative process for fitting the age and the distance modulus is carried out until the best fit is obtained .",
    "one of the advantages of the isochrone fitting method is that it is independent on the imf .",
    "since our method uses the luminosity function , it should be in principle dependent on the imf .",
    "in fact we find that a reasonable uncertainty in the imf slope translates into an insignificant uncertainty in the age and distance modulus determination .",
    "the effect of the imf slope becomes significant only for a magnitude larger than 20 ( @xmath4 ) .",
    "5 shows the time evolution of a 5-bin luminosity function with slope x=1.0 ( salpeter x=2.35 ) , to be compared with fig .",
    "4 , where x=2.5 .",
    "it is evident that the fifth bin of the lf is affected by the imf , so that if observations complete down to that bin were obtained , the lf could be used to measure the imf .",
    "nevertheless , the effect of the imf on the second and third bins , used for distance and age determinations , is insignificant .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "6 , where we show those two bins for different ages in the two cases x=1.0 and x=3.0 .",
    "the age difference due to the uncertainty in the imf slope is about 1% at the age of 15 gyr .",
    "the first point to address is why the four - bin luminosity function is such a good clock and distance modulus indicator .",
    "the answer is not hard to find if we look at fig . 1 and also look at the physics .",
    "1 we have plotted two panels with two evolutionary tracks . in the right hand side panel",
    "we show two stellar evolutionary tracks for two different masses ( 0.80 @xmath6 ( dotted - dash line ) and 0.70 @xmath6 ( continuous line ) ) . if stellar evolution were a self - similar problem , it should be possible to make a translation in time and mimic one of the tracks with the other . as we show in the left hand side panel",
    "this is impossible .",
    "it is impossible to mimic the _",
    "track for a given mass with another track of different mass .",
    "the only way we can do this is by pieces , i.e. we can mimic the rgb but forgetting the rest of the track , and also we can mimic _ part _ of the ms but forgetting the rest .",
    "this is the reason why the four - bin luminosity function is able to break the age  distance modulus degeneracy .",
    "the physics behind this is also easy to understand : in different stellar evolution stages the luminosity can be express like a power law of the mass with an index that depends on the particular stage of the evolution .",
    "since the index is different for different stages ( giant branch , sub - giant branch ) it is impossible to mimic two tracks with different masses using a time translation .    a way to show how the age - distance modulus degeneracy is broken",
    "is illustrated in fig .",
    "7 , that is a plot of the uncertainty in the stellar counts ( in percent ) for different ages and distance moduli around the two values 12 gyr and @xmath7 .",
    "the contour plot is obtained by comparing theoretical lfs for different ages and distance moduli with a given theoretical lf computed for an age of 12 gyr and @xmath7 .",
    "the same could be done in a comparison with a real gc , if data were available for a cluster of 12 gyr of age and @xmath7 . in that case",
    "the contour that corresponds to the uncertainty in the observational lf would be chosen , and its extend would give the uncertainty around the best fit .    fig .",
    "7 shows that , if stellar counts are provided with uncertainty not larger than 4% in each bin ( including both the error due to the photometry and the error due to the stochastic nature of the stellar imf ) , the age of the gc could be determined with an error of about 0.5 gyr _ independently of distance modulus _ , and the distance modulus with an error of about 0.05 mag , _ independently of age_.    in the gc age game there are two cards to play : the first one is how to get the mass of the stars in the gc from the observables and the second how to assign this mass to a given age .",
    "the luminosity function method addresses the first problem .",
    "the second one lies in the field of stellar evolution physics and how well understood stellar evolution is .",
    "we now discuss what are the uncertainties in the stellar models used here and how this could affect the predicted values for the age and the distance modulus .",
    "the stellar evolutionary tracks have been computed with the latest version of james macdonald stellar evolution code ( jmstar9 ) .",
    "the code includes the latest advances in radiative opacities , a very detailed discussion of the code can be found in jimenez & macdonald ( 1996 ) .",
    "these tracks have been computed with solar scaled abundances and with no helium diffusion .",
    "it means that in case helium diffusion is important , the obtained age of the gc should be shorten in 0.5 - 1.0 gyr . on the other hand ,",
    "the use of solar scaled abundances is obviously wrong since there is large observational evidence that the @xmath8-elements are enhanced in the galactic halo to respect the solar values .",
    "nevertheless , this does not mean that our tracks are wrong .",
    "the effect of enhancing the @xmath8-elements can be very well mimic using scaled solar metallicities ( salaris , chieffi & straniero 1992 ) , or just through the effect of the oxygen in the cno cycle ( vandenberg 1992 ) . in the later case",
    "it would mean an age reduction of about 2 gyr .",
    "although it is not clear yet if helium diffusion is really taking place in low mass stars , it is demonstrated that the @xmath8-elements are not in the solar abundance .",
    "we therefore bear in mind that our tracks should include this but until a new set of tracks is computed we think that a good approximation is to follow the above approximations by salaris and collaborators and vandenberg .",
    "in this paper we have addressed the question of how to compute gc ages using the luminosity function .",
    "we have also shown how it is possible to break the age  distance modulus degeneracy .",
    "the main conclusions of our work are the following :    * a four bin luminosity function provides a new method to break the degeneracy age ",
    "distance modulus in gcs . *",
    "the same four bin lf allows the determination of age with uncertainty of about 0.5 gyr and distance modulus with uncertainty of about 0.05 mag , if observations are available such that the uncertainty in the stellar counts is not larger than 4% ( which can be obtained with modern telescopes like hst and ntt ) .",
    "we thank john peacock for helpful and constructive discussions during the elaboration of this paper .",
    "rj thanks tac for its hospitality .",
    "pp enjoyed the hospitality of the royal observatory in edinburgh were part of this work was carried out .",
    "this work has been partly supported by the danish national research foundation through its support for the establishment of the theoretical astrophysics center .",
    "chaboyer , b. , demarque , p. , & sarajedini , a. 1996 , apj , 459 , 558 jimenez , r. , & padoan , p. , in the press apj letters jimenez , r. , & macdonald , j. , submitted to mnras jimenez , r. , thejll , p. , jrgensen , u. , macdonald , j. , & pagel , b. 1996 , in press mnras .",
    "salaris , m. , chieffi a. , & straniero , o. , 1993 , apj , 414 , 580 vandenberg , d.a . , 1992 , apj , 391 , 685"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we extend our previous method to determine globular cluster ages using the luminosity function ( jimenez & padoan 1996 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the luminosity function depends on both age and distance modulus and that it is possible to distinguish between the two . </S>",
    "<S> this method provides at the same time independent determinations of distance and age of a gc by simply counting the number of stars found inside specified luminosity bins . </S>",
    "<S> the main uncertainties in other traditional methods for determining gcs ages are absent ( e.g. mixing length , color-@xmath0 calibration , morphology of the color - magnitude diagram ) .    the distance modulus is the biggest uncertainty in determining the age of gcs . here </S>",
    "<S> we show that the age can be determined with small uncertainty for any value of distance modulus using the lf and that the lf allows a determination of the distance modulus itself . </S>",
    "<S> this is explained by the fact that the luminosity function is affected by a change in distance - modulus in a way that is different from its time evolution .    </S>",
    "<S> if gc stellar counts with statistical errors not larger than @xmath1 are available , the age can be determined with an uncertainty of about 0.4 gyr ( independent of distance modulus , mixing length and color calibration ) and the distance modulus with an uncertainty of about 0.04 mag .    </S>"
  ]
}