{
  "article_text": [
    "accretion disks around supermassive black holes continue to be the generally accepted paradigm for the central engine of agn .",
    "i focus in this review on `` standard disks '' : those that are geometrically thin and optically thick .",
    "these models are , by construction , radiatively efficient . for radiatively inefficient disks , see the papers by mineshige and by yuan in these proceedings .",
    "currently all theoretical models of the photon emission of accretion disks ( radiatively efficient or otherwise ) are based on the alpha prescription for the anomalous stress introduced by @xcite .",
    "a large number of such models for standard disks have been constructed over the years , e.g. @xcite , to name just a few .",
    "the most sophisticated of these models have been developed in a series of papers by @xcite and @xcite , and are available to the community through the idl package agnspec , written by ivan hubeny .",
    "the models are constructed by first dividing the accretion disk into a set of discrete annuli , and then computing a one - dimensional vertical interior and atmosphere structure based on certain assumptions in each annulus . using the locally calculated spectrum , photon geodesics from the disk to infinity",
    "are computed to then produce a predicted model spectrum for an observer at some viewing angle .",
    "some aspects of the physics of accretion disks are treated very well by the agnspec models .",
    "they fully account for the relativistic radial structure of the disk @xcite and relativistic doppler shifts , gravitational redshifts and light bending in a kerr spacetime @xcite .",
    "the models include a detailed non - lte treatment of all abundant elements and ions in the disk , and include continuum opacities due to bound - free and free - free transitions of these ions , as well as comptonization .",
    "( no lines are included in the models , however . )",
    "there are many ad hoc assumptions that continue to plague these models , however .",
    "first there are assumptions that relate to the radial structure of the disk .",
    "the disk is assumed to be stationary , with a zero torque inner boundary condition at the innermost stable circular orbit .",
    "recent global simulations of mri turbulent flows around black holes suggest instead that substantial torques on the disk can be exerted by material in the plunging region through magnetic field lines that connect this material to the disk ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the models also adopt the @xcite alpha prescription for the anomalous stress , with the stress being proportional to the total thermal ( gas plus radiation ) pressure and the alpha parameter assumed constant with radius .",
    "this is done even though such models , if taken literally , are thermally and `` viscously '' unstable when radiation pressure dominates gas pressure @xcite .",
    "reprocessing of radiation that leaves the disk at one point and returns to a different point due , e.g. to light bending , is neglected .",
    "this can be an important effect particularly for rapidly spinning black holes @xcite .",
    "there are perhaps even more serious assumptions regarding the vertical structure at any radius .",
    "this vertical structure is first assumed to depend only on height , i.e. it is entirely one dimensional . as i discuss below , this is probably not accurate as substantial inhomogeneities probably exist .",
    "the structure is also assumed to be symmetric about the equatorial plane of the black hole : no warps or bending waves are considered , nor are time - dependent asymmetries induced by the turbulence accounted for @xcite .",
    "the disk is assumed to be in vertical hydrostatic equilbrium with gas and radiation pressure being the only means of support against the vertical tidal field of the black hole .",
    "magnetic forces are neglected . just as a model of a stellar interior",
    "requires specification of the sources of nuclear energy , a model of the vertical structure of the disk requires specification of the vertical profile of turbulent dissipation .",
    "the agnspec models assume that the dissipation per unit volume tracks the density , i.e. the dissipation per unit mass is constant .",
    "heat is also assumed to be transported vertically through radiative diffusion .",
    "these assumptions are not consistent in a radiation pressure dominated annulus : constant dissipation per unit mass plus radiative diffusion immediately leads to a density which is constant with height if the opacity is dominated by electron scattering ( a good approximation ) .",
    "this in turn is convectively unstable @xcite .",
    "it is probably for many of these reasons that the models do not do a very good job in reproducing some aspects of the observations ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "for example , they do not produce x - rays .",
    "they produce a break at the lyman limit of hydrogen but not quite like what is observed @xcite , nor do the expected trends in far ultraviolet continuum slopes agree with observation @xcite .",
    "the models can not explain the observed near simultaneous optical / ultraviolet variability @xcite because they do not include reprocessing .    in spite of the fact that the physics of these models is so uncertain",
    ", i should emphasize that exactly the same type of modeling applied to _",
    "stellar _ mass black hole accretion disks ( bhspec , @xcite ) results in very good fits to the spectra of black hole x - ray binaries in the high - soft / thermal dominant state @xcite . for lmc  x-3 , for example , where we know the distance and the black hole mass , we can fit the accretion disk spectrum very well over a range of luminosities with fixed spin and inclination",
    ". the models only fail at the very highest luminosities ( eddington ratio greater than of order 0.7 ) , where the assumption of a geometrically thin disk is almost certainly wrong .",
    "either the ad hoc physical assumptions that go into the disk models are not too wrong , or the spectra are robust to changing these assumptions .",
    "i would now like to mention three recent observational developments that are exciting because they provide us with new empirical constraints on what is going on in agn accretion disks .",
    "for good reason , the broad and narrow emission line regions in agn have attracted enormous attention from the community for years . however , to a parochial theorist like myself who is primarily interested in the accretion flow very near the black hole , emission from these regions merely contaminates our view of the innermost parts of the central engine . in particular , the numerous broad and narrow emission lines , the small blue bump , and the infrared thermal emission from dust make an accurate determination of the shape of the big blue bump ( which is supposed to originate in the accretion disk ) very difficult .",
    "fortunately , all this contaminating emission appears to be unpolarized in a subset of quasars , whereas the underlying big blue bump is polarized .",
    "the reasons for this are unclear , but it appears that there is an electron scattering medium enveloping the central accretion flow but lying entirely within the broad line region in these quasars .",
    "if one measures the polarized flux in these quasars , all the contaminating emission is removed and the shape of the underlying continuum is revealed . in particular ,",
    "an absorption feature which is almost certainly a balmer edge lies underneath the small blue bump @xcite .",
    "this is the first direct evidence that the big blue bump originates from thermal emission from an optically thick medium !",
    "this technique has also been used to measure the long wavelength , near - infrared shape of the big blue bump underneath the thermal emission from dust @xcite .",
    "kishimoto discusses these results in much more detail in his paper in these proceedings .      while it might be possible to directly image the very central part of the accretion flow around the black holes in the galactic center and m87 in the not so distant future with vlbi @xcite , the angular sizes of the radiatively efficient black hole accretion disks that we know about in both agn and x - ray binaries are hopelessly small for imaging to really be practical .",
    "fortunately , nature has provided us with a cosmic magnifying glass in the form of gravitational lensing .",
    "many examples of multiply imaged quasars are now known and are fit reasonably well by models of the foreground lensing galaxy ( the macrolens ) .",
    "depending on the source size at a particular observed wavelength , each of the quasar images can in turn be microlensed by stars that reside in the foreground macrolens galaxy .",
    "if the source ( the quasar ) has a size scale much less than the einstein radius of a typical stellar microlens , then the flux ratios of the different quasar images will typically differ markedly from the predictions of the macrolens model .",
    "they will also vary with time in a manner that has nothing to do with the intrinsic variability of the quasar . on the other hand ,",
    "if the source is extended compared to the microlens einstein radius , there will be little differential magnification and the flux ratios should agree with the macrolens model .",
    "microlensing therefore probes the size of quasar emission regions on scales comparable to the einstein radius of a stellar microlens . for cosmologically distant lenses and sources , this corresponds to angular resolutions of several microarcseconds , or linear scales in the quasar @xmath0  cm , for a solar mass microlens .",
    "@xcite were the first to use this technique .",
    "for the einstein cross , the quadruply lensed quasar where microlensing was first discovered @xcite , they found that the optical ( really near ultraviolet ) emission regions were _ smaller _ than expected for thermal emission from an accretion disk .",
    "more modern work in this system and other gravitational lenses has generally reached the opposite conclusion : the near ultraviolet emission regions are _ larger _ than predicted by simple disk models . in particular , @xcite have found that near ultraviolet half - light radii predicted by multitemperature blackbody disks are a factor 3 to 30 times too small than what is necessary to explain the observed microlensing flux ratios in ten quasars , including the einstein cross . using a different analysis of the microlensing statistics and ( hopefully better ) black hole masses based on emission line widths , @xcite and @xcite",
    "also find that the near ultraviolet emission regions are larger than would be expected for the size of the annulus with the corresponding effective temperature .",
    "however , they also find that the size of the emission region has roughly the right scaling with black hole mass between different sources .",
    "it is not yet clear what causes the discrepancies @xcite .",
    "contamination of the observed fluxes by the small blue bump is clearly a worry , as this originates from larger scales than the disk .",
    "reprocessing of inner disk radiation will also increase the size of the near ultraviolet emitting annuli .",
    "disk atmosphere models such as agnspec show significant deviations from local blackbody emission : the theoretical spectrum is harder , which would make the size of the emission region at a given wavelength larger than expected from a local blackbody disk .",
    "whatever the cause , this observation technique provides a unique probe of the size scales of the emission regions , and i strongly encourage observers to extend it across multiple wavelengths .      as discussed by kaspi and peterson in these proceedings ,",
    "reverberation mapping leveraged by the broad line region radius / continuuum luminosity correlations has given us a simple method to measure approximate black hole masses , and this can be done for huge numbers of quasars in the sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) sample . as a result",
    ", one can now look at continuum colors as a function of luminosity @xmath1 and black hole mass @xmath2 and see whether the variations match the trends predicted by accretion disk theory .",
    "@xcite have taken a first stab at this by looking at colors at three pairs of rest frame wavelengths ( 5100/4000 , 4000/2200 , and 2200/1350 ) versus a measure of the expected maximum disk effective temperature @xmath3 .",
    "they found that the 5100/4000 colors predicted by the agnspec models agreed with the sdss data at all @xmath4 .",
    "the 4000/2200 colors agree at low values of @xmath4 , but not at high , and the 2200/1350 colors agree only at the lowest values of @xmath4 .",
    "the sense of the disagreement in the discrepant regions is that the data is redder than the agnspec predictions .",
    "internal reddening by dust in the quasars is therefore a worry , but they argue that this can not explain the observed discrepancies .",
    "interestingly , they find that the value of @xmath4 which marks the point where the observed 4000/2200 colors depart from the model predictions happens to correspond to an eddington ratio of 0.3 , beyond which the standard geometrically thin disk assumption may break down .",
    "`` slim '' disk physics may therefore be playing a role ( see the paper by mineshige in these proceedings ) .",
    "as @xcite acknowledge in their paper , the combination of luminosity and mass that appears in @xmath4 actually depends empirically only on the measured width of the mg  ii line used in their analysis , and not on the measured luminosity .",
    "it would be nice to extend their work to a truly two - dimensional analysis with respect to luminosity and black hole mass .",
    "the @xcite alpha prescription that has plagued accretion disk models for decades is slowly being banished to oblivion .",
    "thanks to the discovery of the magnetorotational instability ( mri , @xcite ) and the ever increasing power of numerical simulations , the theoretical community is starting to rebuild accretion disk theory from scratch .",
    "one of the most exciting developments is that radiation magnetohydrodynamic simulations are telling us how the vertical structure might really work .",
    "such simulations are possible in a local vertical slice through a disk , including the vertical gravity and the mri turbulence , capturing the dissipation of the turbulence as heat , and allowing radiation to diffuse out of the box so that cooling can occur . both the dynamics and the thermodynamics of the turbulence",
    "are therefore captured in the simulations .",
    "three such simulations have been completed so far .",
    "the first was by @xcite , who modelled a radiation pressure dominated annulus and found that it reached a thermal equilibrium , albeit with large fluctuations .",
    "there was no evidence of a thermal instability , but there was significant vertical expansion of the disk during a heating phase which caused approximately half the mass of the annulus to leave the grid .",
    "the dissipation per unit volume inside the annulus did not track the density , and the average vertical structure was convectively stable .",
    "time step constraints on the radiation diffusion solver required the use of a rather high density floor within the simulation which meant that every zone was optically thick : there was no photosphere within the simulation domain .",
    "the results of this pioneering simulation are tantalizing , but they are not yet definitive .",
    "a number of improvements have since been made to the code used by @xcite so that it conserves energy much better and also runs more efficiently and faster , allowing the density floor to be reduced to a level where the photosphere can now be included within the simulation domain . a truly radiation pressure dominated annulus",
    "has not been successfully run yet with the new code , however , possibly because the standard @xcite vertical structure assumptions are so far from reality that using them as an initial condition leads to very large transients .",
    "a simulation of a gas pressure dominated annulus was published by @xcite . a new simulation with comparable gas and radiation pressures at the midplane",
    "has now been completed @xcite .",
    "it is probably the best simulation we have so far of the conditions that might exist in black hole accretion disks , although it is still not radiation dominated .",
    "figure 1 shows the time variation of the energy content in the box for this new simulation @xcite .",
    "the average cooling time in the annulus is only @xmath6 orbits , and clearly the energy content of the box goes through very large fluctuations on time scales much longer than this .",
    "the nominal @xcite thermal instability criterion that total radiation pressure exceed three fifths of the total thermal pressure is violated around 90 orbits and also ( slightly ) around 300 orbits .",
    "yet there is no evidence of a thermal runaway .",
    "the reason for this appears to be that the volume - integrated dissipation rate is approximately proportional to the square root of the total energy content during the hottest epochs , while the cooling rate is proportional to the total energy content .",
    "these scalings therefore lead to thermal stability .",
    "it is far from clear that this will extend to regimes of much higher radiation pressure , however .    that describes the thermal equilibrium , but the hydrostatic equilibrium is also interesting .",
    "away from the midplane , vertical magnetic forces dominate gas and radiation pressure gradients in supporting the annulus against gravity .",
    "this was also seen in the gas pressure dominated simulation by @xcite .",
    "this has immediate spectral implications as it produces a larger density scale height compared to what would exist if only gas and radiation pressure gradients were taken into account .",
    "this results in a lower density at the effective photosphere , producing increased ionization and reduced absorption opacity .",
    "this generically results in a harder emergent spectrum @xcite .    however , one - dimensional stellar atmosphere modeling does not do the simulation justice @xcite . as shown in figure 2 ,",
    "strong horizontal density fluctuations ( up to a factor 100 ) exist as deep as the effective photosphere of the horizontally averaged structure and even deeper .",
    "some of the high density regions are reminiscent of the shock train structure predicted in the nonlinear development of the photon bubble instability @xcite , but the expected correlations between radiation flux and fluid velocity do not appear to match this instability . on the other hand ,",
    "the transverse parker instability is clearly present : high ( low ) density regions at depth are strongly correlated with upward ( downward ) magnetic tension forces .",
    "at least to the extent that thermalization of photons with matter occurs through true absorption and emission processes ( as opposed , say , to compton scattering ) the large density fluctuations will tend to enhance the thermalization of photons , leading to a more blackbody - like , softer emergent spectrum @xcite .",
    "the complex photosphere will also presumably reduce the degree of polarization of the emergent radiation , as the atmosphere no longer has the plane - parallel symmetry used in simple models @xcite .",
    "this has of course been a long - standing problem with disk models : electron scattering dominated slabs generally produce too high a polarization which is also at the wrong position angle @xcite .",
    "the inhomogeneities that we see in the simulation resemble the `` rough surface '' that @xcite proposed might reduce the polarization . as first suggested by @xcite , faraday depolarization might also be significant .",
    "the faraday rotation angle at the peak of the locally emitted thermal spectrum is roughly @xmath7 , where @xmath8 is the thomson depth of the photosphere and @xmath9 is the ratio of magnetic energy density to radiation pressure at the photosphere . for the conditions observed in the simulation at times of high energy content",
    ", this angle turns out to be approximately 2 radians .    to summarize",
    ", the simulation suggests that the vertical structure of a disk annulus with comparable gas and radiation pressures is as follows .",
    "mri turbulence churns away at the midplane where the vast majority of the accretion power is being dissipated as heat .",
    "away from the midplane , but still well inside the photosphere , magnetic energy density dominates both gas and radiation pressures , and magnetic forces provide the hydrostatic support of the disk against gravity .",
    "these magnetically supported layers are parker unstable , resulting in a very complex , inhomogeneous photosphere higher up .",
    "outward vertical heat transport is completely dominated by radiative diffusion , and not by advection , convection , or poynting flux . because most of the dissipation is occurring at the midplane , no energetically significant corona is produced above the photosphere .",
    "the absence of a corona was also seen in the gas - pressure dominated simulation @xcite , and is a potential problem for models which suggest that much of the accretion power can be carried locally out of the disk by magnetic fields ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "it might be that the simulation box is too small to allow enough magnetic field to get out and dissipate to produce a corona .",
    "( it turns out that the wavelength of the fastest growing parker mode barely fits inside the box . )",
    "however , this may not change the fact that most of the dissipation occurs in the mri turbulent regions near the midplane .",
    "it is important to bear in mind , though , that this dissipation is mostly numerical in nature , being caused by losses of magnetic and kinetic energy at the grid scale .",
    "still this may be okay if mri turbulence always cascades energy down from large to small length scales .",
    "if the simulation results are correct , then where do the x - ray emitting regions in agn come from ?",
    "it may be that things change when radiation pressure dominates gas pressure at the midplane .",
    "magnetic buoyancy may be enhanced in radiation pressure dominated environments @xcite , and perhaps this would alter the vertical dissipation profile to put more power out in a corona .",
    "however , this was not observed in the preliminary simulation by @xcite .",
    "it could also be that the x - ray source has nothing at all to do with the local disk , but is instead material originating from the innermost disk and outflowing in a jet or backflowing over the rest of the disk , as is seen in global , nonradiative , general relativistic mhd simulations ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "regions of high electric current density are also seen near and inside the plunging region in such simulations @xcite , and the dissipation associated with such high currents might very well produce an x - ray emitting coronal plasma .",
    "i hope i have given the reader a taste of the progress we have made in understanding the fundamental physical processes inside accretion disks .",
    "radiation pressure dominated simulations are now in the works !",
    "i am very grateful to my collaborators ( shane davis , shigenobu hirose , ivan hubeny , julian krolik , and neal turner ) without whom the theoretical results presented here would not have been possible .",
    "i also wish to thank erin bonning , xinyu dai , david pooley , and greg shields for sharing their results with me prior to publication .",
    "this work was supported in part by the u.s .",
    "national science foundation under grant ast-0307657 .",
    "agol , e. 1997 , phd thesis , univ .",
    "california , santa barbara alloin , d. , pelat , d. , phillips , m. , & whittle , m. 1985 , apj , 288 , 205 antonucci , r. 1988 , in supermassive black holes , ed .",
    "m. kafatos ( cambridge : cambridge univ . press ) , 26 balbus , s. a. , & hawley , j. f. 1991 , apj , 376 , 214 begelman , m. c. 2001 , apj , 551 , 897 begelman , m. c. 2006 , apj , 643 , 1065 biretta , j. a. , junor , w. , & livio , m. 2002 , newar , 46 , 239 bisnovatyi - kogan , g. s. , & blinnikov , s. i. 1977 , a&a , 59 , 111 blaes , o. , hubeny , i. , agol , e. , & krolik , j. h. 2001 , apj , 563 , 560 blaes , o. m. , davis , s. w. , hirose , s. , krolik , j. h. , & stone , j. m. 2006a , apj , 645 , 1402 blaes , o. , hirose , s. , krolik , j. h. , & stone , j. m. 2006b , in preparation bonning , e. w. , cheng , l. , shields , g. a. , salviander , s. , & gebhardt , k. 2006 , apj , in press [ astro - ph/0611263 ] chandrasekhar , s. 1960 , radiative transfer ( new york : dover ) coleman , h. h. , & shields , g. a. 1990 , apj , 363 , 415 courvoisier , t. j .-",
    "l . , & clavel , j. 1991 , a&a , 248 , 389 cunningham , c. 1976 , apj , 208 , 534 dai , x. , kochanek , c. s. , chartas , g. , morgan , n. d. , & garmire , g. p. 2006",
    ", baas , 38 , 353 davis , s. , blaes , o. , turner , n. , & socrates , a. 2004 , in agn physics with the sloan digital sky survey , ed .",
    "g. t. richards & p. b. hall ( san francisco : asp ) , 135 davis , s. w. , done , c. , & blaes , o. m. 2006 , apj , 647 , 525 davis , s. w. , & hubeny , i. 2006 , apjs , 164 , 530 falcke , h. , melia , f. , & agol , e. 2000 , apj , 528 , l13 gnedin , yu .",
    "n. , & silantev , n. a. 1978 , sva , 22 , 325 haardt , f. , & maraschi , l. 1991 , apj , 380 , 51 hawley , j. f. , & balbus , s. a. 2002 , apj , 573 , 738 hirose , s. , krolik , j. h. , de villiers , j .-",
    "p . , & hawley , j. f. 2004 , apj , 606 , 1083 hirose , s. , krolik , j. h. , & stone , j. m. 2006 , apj , 640 , 901 hubeny , i. , & hubeny , v. 1997 , apj , 484 , l37 hubeny , i. , & hubeny , v. 1998 , apj , 505 , 558 hubeny , i. , agol , e. , blaes , o. , & krolik , j. h. 2000 , apj , 533 , 710 hubeny , i. , blaes , o. , krolik , j. h. , & agol , e. 2001 , apj , 559 , 680 irwin , m. j. , webster , r. l. , hewett , p. c. , corrigan , r. t. , & jedrzejewski , r. i. 1989 , aj , 98 , 1989 kishimoto , m. , antonucci , r. , & blaes , o. 2003 , mnras , 345 , 253 kishimoto , m. , antonucci , r. , boisson , c. , & blaes , o. 2004 , mnras , 354 , 1065 kishimoto , m. , antonucci , r. , & blaes , o. 2005 , mnras , 364 , 640 kochanek , c. s. , dai , x. , morgan , c. , morgan , n. , poindexter , s. , & chartas , g. 2006 , in statistical challenges in modern astronomy iv , ed . g. j. babu & e. d. feigelson ( san francisco : asp ) , in press [ astro - ph/0609112 ] koratkar , a. , & blaes , o. 1999 , pasp , 111 , 1 krolik , j. h. , hawley , j. f. , & hirose , s. 2005 , apj , 622 , 1008 krolik , j. h. , hirose , s. , blaes , o. , & stone , j. m. 2006 , in preparation laor , a. , & netzer , h. 1989 , mnras , 238 , 897 laor , a. , netzer , h. , & piran , t. 1990 , mnras , 242 , 560 malkan , m. a. 1983 , apj , 268 , 582 novikov , i. d. , & thorne , k. s. 1973 , in black holes , ed .",
    "c. dewitt & b. s. dewitt ( new york : gordon & breach ) , 343 pooley , d. , blackburne , j. a. , rappaport , s. , & schechter , p. l. 2006 , apj , submitted [ astro - ph/0607655 ] rauch , k. p. , & blandford , r. d. 1991 , apj , 381 , l39 riffert , h. , & herold , h. 1995 , apj , 450 , 508 sakimoto , p. j. , & coroniti , f. v. 1989 , apj , 342 , 49 shakura , n. i. , & sunyaev , r. a. 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 shakura , n. i. , & sunyaev , r. a. 1976 , mnras , 175 , 613 shang , z. , et al .",
    "2005 , apj , 619 , 41 stockman , h. s. , angel , j. r. p. , & miley , g. k. 1979 , apj , 227 , l55 sun , w .- h . , & malkan , m. a. 1989 , apj , 346 , 68 svensson , r. , & zdziarski , a. a. 1994 , apj , 436 , 599 turner , n. j. 2004 , apj , 605 , l45"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i briefly review the theoretical models of radiatively efficient , geometrically thin and optically thick accretion disk spectra that currently exist for agn . </S>",
    "<S> i then discuss three recent observational developments that have real potential to teach us about the physics of these flows . </S>",
    "<S> finally , i present results on the most recent , thermodynamically consistent simulations of magnetorotational turbulence and discuss what these simulations are suggesting about the vertical structure of accretion disks . </S>"
  ]
}