{
  "article_text": [
    "the warp of the outer milky way , known since 1957 @xcite , has been quantitatively determined for the first time by @xcite .",
    "it can be described as a superposition of three and only three of the lowest order vertical harmonics of a disk : a _ dish - shaped _",
    "@xmath1 , a _",
    "integral - sign - shaped _",
    "@xmath2 , and a _ saddle - shaped harmonic _ @xmath3 .",
    "the lines of nodes for each are close to coincident and nearly radial .",
    "the amplitudes of each reaches 710% of the radius of the disk . a number of possible warp producing mechanisms",
    "have been suggested including long - lived eigenmodes , forcing by halo triaxiality , persistent cold - gas accretion , and tidal excitation .",
    "we show here that the origin of this warp can be well - described as the tidal interaction of the magellanic clouds with the disk and dark matter halo of the milky way .",
    "the interaction of the dark matter halo with the disk and resonances between the orbit of the clouds and the disk account for the large amplitudes of the three harmonics and their approximate shape and orientation .",
    "@xcite found that a dynamical model for the warp must satisfy six observational constraints : 1 ) the three lowest - order harmonics : @xmath4 and @xmath5 are necessary and sufficient to describe the global shape of the warp ; higher - order global harmonics are typically an order of magnitude or more weaker ; 2 ) the @xmath6 warp has the largest amplitude everywhere in the outer disk ; 3 ) the @xmath7 and @xmath8 warps are comparable in amplitude to the m = 1 warp , but are smaller at all radii ; 4 ) the @xmath6 warp has a measurable amplitude at the galactocentric radius of the sun , @xmath9 , but the @xmath7 and @xmath8 warps begin near the edge of the stellar disk , at @xmath10 ; 5 ) all three harmonics grow approximately linearly with radius , reaching amplitudes of 12 kpc at about @xmath11 = 30 kpc ; and 6 ) the amplitudes of each of the harmonics reach 510% of the radius of the disk .",
    "the lines of maximum descent of the @xmath6 and @xmath8 warps are coincident within about 12 degrees in galactocentric azimuth @xmath12 and show little evidence of precession .",
    "the lines are located near @xmath13 .",
    "we use the procedure described by ( * ? ? ? * w98 ) to couple the halo response to the tidal excitation theory presented by ( * ? ? ?",
    "this assumes that the disk remains thin and that gas dissipation is unimportant for the dynamics .",
    "ht derived an expression for the bending of a thin disk by the magellanic clouds and concluded that the direct excitation of the disk by the clouds produces a warp of only a few hundred parsecs , an order of magnitude less than the amplitude of the observed warp . w98",
    "wedded the halo excitation presented in @xcite to the ht approach , allowing the disk to feel both the tidal field from the clouds directly as well as the force from the dark - matter halo wake excited by the clouds .",
    "the assumption of linearity limits the predictions to modest amplitudes .",
    "we use perturbation theory rather than n - body simulation because of the intrinsic difficultly and subtlety in obtaining accurate multiple time scale results from a simulation .",
    "the excitation hierarchy of satellite orbit@xmath14halo wake@xmath14disk bending modes results in multiple interleaved time scales : the orbital periods of the clouds , the pattern speeds of the halo wakes , and the pattern speeds of the bending modes .",
    "we also have multiple spatial scales .",
    "for example , a simulated n - body disk must be capable of supporting the bending modes .",
    "in addition , particle simulations can degrade the resonant dynamics as described by @xcite . with such difficulties ,",
    "one should verify the dynamics of each component of the mechanism before putting everything together in an n - body simulation , although this is rarely done .",
    "the perturbation theory includes the force from an extended satellite .",
    "however , the halo and disk excitation depend only on the lowest - order hamonics while the spatial extent changes the higher - order harmonics , and thus the extent plays little role .",
    "therefore , as long as the clouds remain bound , their masses may be added for our estimates .",
    "we use the disk profile from w98 .",
    "our halo is an nfw profile with @xmath15 @xcite and virial mass 20 times the disk mass .",
    "the orbital plane was computed as described as in w98 .",
    "we used the radial velocity and proper motion from @xcite and the distance modulus from @xcite to derive a space velocity and computed the resulting orbit in the spherical dark matter halo .",
    "we adopted the lmc mass from @xcite of @xmath16 , although there is considerable variance in the literature .",
    "the current position of the lmc is shown as is the current state of the warp .",
    "this orbit will carry it toward the ngp .",
    "although our calculation assumes a collisionless and vertically thin medium , it is more generally applicable for the following reasons .",
    "firstly , although the dispersion relations for a multicomponent and collisionless media differ at small scales ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , the large - scale warp will be governed by inertia and the gravitational restoring force , not by local pressure .",
    "in addition , the disk self gravity is dominated by the inner stellar disk ; the outer gas layer plays only a minor role in establishing the modes .",
    "our collisionless results are likely to be similar to a multicomponent calculation .",
    "secondly , the vertical restoring force depends very weakly on the thickening as long as the vertical degree of freedom does not couple to the bending ( this may be demonstrated by straightforward but tedious algebra ) .",
    "therefore , the modes will be largely unchanged by thickening over short time scales . however , the challenging problem of vertical coupling is important and remains to be investigated thoroughly .",
    "the warp is a very dynamic structure based on the temporal evolution of the model .",
    "this can be seen in the avi file of the simulations which can be found at http://www.astro.umass.edu/~weinberg/lmc .",
    "also included at this site are comparisons of the @xmath17 evolution . rather than a static structure that might be expected for a warp in response to a triaxial halo , a warp that results from the magellanic clouds is continuously changing shape because of the varying amplitudes and phases of the various modes .",
    "the image looks rather like a flag flapping in the breeze as the clouds completes an orbit of the milky way .",
    "figure [ maxdescent ] shows the shape of the warp for both the model and the data .",
    "we plot only @xmath18 from the data , ignoring the weak but significant @xmath19 terms .",
    "the overall agreement is quite good , although there are some differences .",
    "the model does not , for example , have a minimum that is as extensive in galactic azimuth as the data .",
    "lines of maximum descent for @xmath20 in both the simulations and the hi data analysis are also shown in the figure .",
    "they are separated by about 20@xmath21 in the model , a bit more than , but close to the @xmath22 in @xcite .",
    "both sets of lines are oriented in the same sense : close to @xmath13 .",
    "neither set of lines shows evidence of significant variation with galactocentric radius .",
    "figure [ amps ] shows the amplitudes of the first three harmonics , @xmath18 , in both the model and the data .",
    "we increased the clouds mass by 33% for a better fit .",
    "as in the data , the @xmath6 in the simulations is the strongest , and increases nearly linearly out to the edge of the disk . at large r , where the inertia is small , the linear theory is expected to overpredict the warp @xcite .",
    "the simulations also show a weak response of @xmath23 out to about 15 kpc , and then increasing nearly linearly , but with approximately the same amplitude for both , providing a reasonable representation of the data .",
    "the amplitude ordering of these vertical harmonics has a natural physical explanation .",
    "the force from the halo wake and the satellite may described by three - dimensional harmonics and these affect the warp height as follows .",
    "a spherically symmetric @xmath7 halo distortion does nothing to the warp .",
    "an @xmath6 halo distortion will tend to accelerate the disk in the vertical direction ; the differential acceleration of the disk results in a vertical @xmath7 `` dishing '' .",
    "an @xmath8 halo distortion will attract the disk upward and downward in a reflection - symmetric way causing the classic integral - sign warp .",
    "higher - order symmetries may be deduced by similar geometric considerations .",
    "the power in the halo excitation drops off as an inverse power of the harmonic order and only the lowest order terms have features well inside the satellite orbit .",
    "conversely , the existence of these higher - order harmonics with a power - law drop off is a natural consequence of this tidal theory and is consistent with the data .",
    "we fixed the disk and the halo mass inside of the virial radius while adjusting the satellite orbit and halo concentration and found the following trends .",
    "first , the halo wake and its pattern speed are determined by the halo concentration .",
    "the disk bending modes have a natural set of frequencies for a given halo .",
    "these will be maximally excited when forced by the halo wake at or near harmonics of this natural frequency .",
    "the ratio of @xmath3 amplitude to the @xmath2 amplitude is maximized for a halo concentration @xmath24 . for an nfw profile , this puts @xmath25 kpc .",
    "this is very close to the @xmath26cdm estimates for the milky way concentration .",
    "secondly , the orientation of the response depends on whether the nearest resonance is larger or smaller than natural frequency . therefore changing the satellite orbit , which changes the forcing frequency , affects both the amplitude of the amplitude and orientation of the warp response . in short ,",
    "the warp depends on a `` clockwork '' of frequency relationships which depends on the satellite orbit , the dark - matter halo and the disk . a pericenter larger than the current 49 kpc estimate shifts the position angle ( pa ) so that the warp peaks closer to pa=180 degrees .",
    "similarly , smaller pericenter increases the amplitude also shifts the pa .",
    "we conclude that our model `` prefers '' our current fiducial mc model .",
    "we are not claiming that our fiducial model is the most probable amongst the distributions of allowed values but that a plausible choice of parameters corresponds to many features of the observed data .",
    "the predictions of w98 were checked by several groups using n - body simulations . @xcite used a hybrid n - body particle  ring code and did not find the warp predicted in w98 .",
    "they offer the failure of the linear theory as the culprit but did not investigate a variety of models .",
    "similarly , @xcite performed a simulation including both the gaseous , stellar and dark components of the large cloud and the milky way and remark that the effect on the milky way is negligible .",
    "conversely , @xcite , using a hybrid code that includes both a potential expansion and a tree code , obtained amplitudes of @xmath18 warps in the larger halo model that show very good agreement with the observed amplitudes in the milky way .",
    "he also shows that the amplitude of the warp depends strongly on the dark halo mass model .",
    "it is difficult to reconcile these contradictory findings but three possibilities obviously occur : 1 ) the linear theory does not apply ; 2 ) the simulations do not apply due to numerical difficulties ; and 3 ) the two simulations with null warps have chosen unlucky sets of parameters .",
    "both @xcite and @xcite choose methods that explicitly treat the multiple scales .",
    "@xcite used tilted rings to represent the disk and a tree code to represent the halo .",
    "although the use of rings limits the investigation to the @xmath6 response , it should be sufficiently sensitive to the halo excitation without strong particle number issues .",
    "@xcite used an expansion algorithm to represent the halo gravitational field and a tree code to represent the disk to better represent the multiple scales ( see * ? ? ?",
    "* for additional discussion of the dynamic range problems that motivate this choice ) .",
    "we feel that the discrepancy between the results of these two groups is most like item ( 3 ) : the garca - ruiz et al .",
    "model is not particularly warp producing .",
    "the good qualitative correspondence between w98 and @xcite suggests that the linear theory captures the underlying physics although is likely to differ in detail .",
    "for example , the linear theory over - predicts the height in the edge of the disk ( fig .",
    "[ amps ] ) , and this motivates our truncation of the predictions in the outer disk .",
    "@xcite primarily emphasize the affect of the milky way tides on the large cloud and do not tailor their approach to treat the multiple scale problem per se .",
    "we suggest that their report of no disk warp results from items ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) .",
    "most warp theories depend on the bending response of the disk and this response is strongly affected by the existence of a self - gravitating dark matter halo .",
    "the theories may be roughly grouped as follows : 1 ) bending modes may be primordially excited and persistent ( e.g. * ? ?",
    "* ) ; 2 ) the response of the disk to the non - axisymmetric shape of the halo ; 3 ) tidal excitation ( as we have discussed here ) and 4 ) the warp may be produced by the response of the disk to cosmic infall ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the topic was nicely reviewed by @xcite .",
    "subsequently , @xcite argued against long - lived modes .",
    "the triaxiality of the milky way halo remains uncertain .",
    "@xcite reports a prolate halo ( q=1.25 ) while @xcite finds an oblate halo ( q=0.8 - 0.9 ) using sgr dwarf constraints .",
    "such modest triaxiality seems unlikely to produce the observed vertical @xmath3 feature .",
    "in addition , cosmic infall more naturally produces tilted rings , an @xmath2 feature ; the observed vertical @xmath3 may require a conspiracy of several inflow directions .",
    "although the success of our model favors the existence of a dark - matter halo in nature , many find it seductive to modify gravity to produce the observed rotation velocities in the galaxy without dark matter ( modified newtonian dynamics or mond * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "might the tidal theory also apply in mond ?",
    "it is beyond the scope of this letter to repeat our calculations using mond , it seems plausible that direct forcing of the galactic disk by the clouds in mond may provide warp amplitudes in excess of the original predictions without a dark halo ( ht ) .",
    "similarly , we would expect the disk modes and frequencies to be qualitively similar , the excess restoring force of the halo being produced by the mond force .",
    "however , mond would have to ( 1 ) admit bending modes with similar morphology to those in the newtonian theory and ( 2 ) these modes would have to conspire to frequencies that couple them to the direct forcing by the clouds in such a way that they assumed the same orientation as in the `` clockwork '' described in  5 . because this clockwork and the @xmath3 to @xmath2 amplitude ratio depends on the simultaneous halo and disk excitation , agreement with the observations described in  2 seems rather unlikely and",
    "thereby disfavors mond .",
    "we encourage detailed predictions .",
    "a large fraction of other warped galaxies also show warps in their hi layers and a significant fraction of these are asymmetric .",
    "warps in these systems are generally analyzed with a program such at rotcur @xcite or one of its derivatives , but invariably are forced to fit the @xmath6 warp only .",
    "this paper , and the work of @xcite show that at least three harmonics ought to be fit to the warps of external galaxies , especially those with asymmetric warps , which can be caused by a superposition of these harmonics .",
    "the degree to which various harmonics are present in a warp can produce important constraints on whether the warp is due to a satellite , a triaxial halo , cold gas inflow , or some primordial excitation .",
    "all warps may not be alike .",
    "we have demonstrated a plausible mechanism for the excitation of the warp that explains all of its general features .",
    "a number of warp producing mechanisms have been explored elsewhere in addition to tides .",
    "it is possible that different mechanisms may act in different galaxies and possibly in concert in a single galaxy .",
    "nonetheless , our simple model nicely reproduces the observed features in the milky way hi gas layer .",
    "the existence of massive companions , the magellanic clouds , and the prediction from linear perturbation theory and at least one corroborating n - body simulation suggests that a tidal explanation is viable .",
    "our model depends on the gravitational response of the halo and thereby suggests that the dark matter is not an artifact of modifying the laws of gravity .",
    "conversely , given a dark halo , we argue that the tide from the magellanic clouds must be affecting the milky way disk , and , given the quality of the agreement , it seems to be the dominant mechanism .",
    "this model then promises an additional constraint on the distribution of dark matter .",
    "although we have emphasized the gas layer response beyond the stellar disk , the effect of other satellite encounters such as the recent accretion of sagittarius dwarf may be detectable in future high - resolution surveys and may help determine the properties of the inner halo .",
    "warp observations are important because promise to reveal aspects of the dark matter distribution that are otherwise observationally inaccessible .",
    "further analysis of warps may provide more precise constraints on the profile of dark matter in the milky way and nearby external galaxies .",
    "begeman , k.  g.  1989 , , 223 , 47 bekenstein , j. , & milgrom , m.  1984 , , 286 , 7 binney , j.  1991 , dynamics of disc galaxies , 297 binney , j. , & tremaine , s.  1987 , princeton , nj , princeton university press , 1987 freedman , w.  l. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 553 , 47 garca - ruiz , i. , kuijken , k. , & dubinski , j.  2002 , , 337 , 459 helmi , a.  2004 , , 351 , 643 hunter , c. , & toomre , a. 1969 , , 155 , 747 ( ht ) jiang , i .-",
    "g . , & binney , j.  1999 , , 303 , l7 jog , c.  j.  1996 , , 278 , 209 johnston , k.  v. , law , d.  r. , & majewski , s.  r.  2005 , , 619 , 800 kallivayalil , n. , van der marel , r.  p. , alcock , c. , axelrod , t. , cook , k.  h. , drake , a.  j. , & geha , m.  2005 , astro - ph/0508457 kerr , f.  j. , hindman , j.  v. , & carpenter , m.  s.  1957 , , 180 , 677 levine , e.s . , blitz , l. , & heiles , c. , submitted mastropietro , c. , moore , b. , mayer , l. , wadsley , j. , & stadel , j.   2005 , , 363 , 521 milgrom , m.  1983 , , 270 , 365 milgrom , m.  1983 , , 270 , 371 navarro , j.  f. , frenk , c.  s. , & white , s.  d.  m.  1997 , , 490 , 493 nelson , r.  w. , & tremaine , s.  1995 , , 275 , 897 rafikov , r.  r.  2001 , , 323 , 445 sparke , l.  s. , & casertano , s.  1988 , , 234 , 873 tsuchiya , t.  2002 , new astronomy , 7 , 293 weinberg , m.  d.   1989 , , 239 , 549 weinberg , m.  d.   1998 , , 299 , 499 ( w98 ) weinberg , m.  d. , & katz , n.  2005 , astro - ph/0508166 westerlund , b. , cambridge , cambridge university press , 1997"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we show that a magellanic cloud origin for the warp of the milky way can explain most quantitative features of the outer hi layer recently identified by levine , blitz & heiles ( 2005 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we construct a model similar to that of weinberg ( 1998 ) that produces distortions in the dark matter halo , and we calculate the combined effect of these dark - halo distortions and the direct tidal forcing by the magellanic clouds on the disk warp in the linear regime . </S>",
    "<S> the interaction of the dark matter halo with the disk and resonances between the orbit of the clouds and the disk account for the large amplitudes observed for the vertical @xmath0 harmonics . </S>",
    "<S> the observations lead to six constraints on warp forcing mechanisms and our model reasonably approximates all six . the disk is shown to be very dynamic , constantly changing its shape as the clouds proceed along their orbit . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the challenges to mond placed by the observations . </S>"
  ]
}