{
  "article_text": [
    "the scientific case for a medium resolution spectrograph with high throughput , and covering both optical and near infrared , is substantial .",
    "a brief resume would include time - resolved studies of planetary transits , where spectra taken at ingress and egress provide information on the planetary atmospheres ; @xmath1-ray bursters , where the spectral evolution during the fading afterglow provides an indication of the interaction of the fireball with its surroundings , and therefore information on the progenitor ; studies of early structure and pre - galactic clouds through spectra of absorption line systems in distant quasars ; source identifications and redshifts of star - forming galaxies at high redshift detected in submillimetre surveys ; supernovae and the interaction between their ejecta and previous episodes of mass loss , leading to estimates of chemical abundances , density distributions and ejecta masses ; novae and accreting binary stars , where indirect techniques such as echo and eclipse mapping and doppler tomography provide detailed information on accretion flows onto neutron stars , black holes and white dwarfs at micro - arcsecond scales ; echo mapping of accretion in active galaxies and in microlensing studies , where detailed information can be obtained on both lensed and lensing object from the time - resolved spectra .",
    "all of these studies require only a small field of view and a spectral resolving power @xmath2 ; high time resolution is also important .",
    "the coverage of both optical and infrared bands is essential , not only in measuring the spectral energy distribution as it evolves , but also in the relationship between spectral lines at widely different wavelengths , and in the accessibility of the redshifted uv and optical lines in objects at high redshift .    consequently , one of the instruments identified for a second generation eso vlt instrument suite was a spectrograph of medium resolving power ( @xmath3 ) , with a small field of view ( arcsec ) and spectral coverage over almost a decade in wavelength from the atmospheric cutoff at 320 nm to the long wavelength end of the k band at 2400 nm .",
    "the capability to take relatively short exposures was also cited as important , and the instrument was required to deliver a factor @xmath4 improvement in throughput over current instrumentation .",
    "this study was carried out in preparation for a response to eso , but not taken further owing to changes in the manufacturing capability for the detectors .",
    "an increase in throughput by a significant factor over existing front - rank instrumentation is challenging .",
    "one improvement is to replace the cross - dispersing grating in a classical echelle with prisms , as in ucles at the aat ( walker & diego 1985 ) and bhros on gemini ( diego et al 1997 ) .",
    "this should increase the throughput of the cross - dispersing optics by a factor of perhaps 1.5 , and also reduce the polarisation effects between dispersing elements suffered in cross - dispersed spectrographs . alternatively",
    ", a non - echelle spectrograph could be feasible , with dichroics splitting the optical into two beams and three beams in the infrared , where the detector format is more problematic .",
    "this beamsplitting allows the optics and gratings to be optimised for each beam , but is inefficient , and allows spectral leakage .",
    "consequently , the overall gains are likely to be modest , and such a spectrograph would be complex .    in order to achieve the increased performance required , a radical , but optically simple design is needed .",
    "we describe such a concept here , a multi - order spectrograph that takes advantage of the intrinsic colour resolution of superconducting tunnelling junction ( stj ) detectors .",
    "stjs are the first detectors to be able to intrinsically distinguish colour in the uv - ir band ( perryman et al 1993 ) , and , in their tantalum form , have sufficient wavelength resolution to separate the spectral orders , eliminating the need for order - sorting optics .",
    "we calculate that with 5000-pixel linear arrays of stj detectors , most of the 3202400 nm range can be covered at a resolving power @xmath5 with orders 15 or 16 , using a single detector system .",
    "the simplicity of the design enables a higher throughput to be reached .",
    "stjs have a sensitivity exceeding 70% ( uncoated ) through most of the optical band .",
    "this drops to a few percent into the infrared , but the coverage of the entire band compensates for the lower quantum efficiency of the detectors .",
    "because stj detectors are photon - counting , high time resolution information is preserved .",
    "the exposure time can be constructed non - destructively _ postfacto _ , at the data analysis stage .",
    "this is particularly important for variable objects , such as @xmath1-ray bursters , where the intensity changes are not predictable beforehand .",
    "it also eliminates the overheads of readout time , which can be very large in the case of non - frame - transfer ccds for short exposure times , especially for echelle formats : this in itself can lead to factors up to 2 increase in throughput , for short exposures .",
    "a further quality of stjs is that they have no readout noise , and insignificant dark noise . despite the low readout noise of the best current - generation ccds ,",
    "this still causes a significant reduction in s / n ratio in ccd echelle spectrographs .",
    "the gain is particularly marked in the infrared , where current infrared detector technology can not hope to match the stj performance in this respect .",
    "larger format stj arrays could be envisaged for the future , but to keep within currently feasible technology we restrict this instrument concept to two linear arrays ( the second for sky subtraction ) .",
    "this means that the spectrograph will be optimised for sources of small angular extent , the effective field of view being set by the spatial extent of each pixel .",
    "it may , however , be possible to provide some spatial resolution as an upgrade path relatively simply .",
    "initial studies for an stj - based spectrograph working in the uv were presented in the hstj proposal for the hubble space telescope ( griffiths et al 1997 ) .",
    "a more detailed exposition of this concept , including a full science case , can be found in cropper et al ( 2002 ) .",
    "stj detectors were first developed for the x - ray band , but their potential for use in the uv / optical / ir band was realised by perryman et al ( 1993 ) .",
    "they are the first detectors to provide intrinsic colour discrimination at optical wavelengths .",
    "this is possible because the energy to break the cooper - pairs in the superconductor is small compared to the energy of an optical photon .",
    "the details of the operation of stjs can be found in perryman et al ( 1993 ) , but the essence is that more or fewer electrons are generated depending on whether the incident photon is blue or red . it then remains to measure this charge , to determine its wavelength .",
    "an stj consists of two metal films , separated by an aluminium oxide barrier , across which the electrons tunnel .",
    "this ` sandwich ' constitutes a pixel .",
    "it is supported on a substrate , such as sapphire , though which it is illuminated .",
    "each pixel requires its own electrical connection : generally the bottom metal film is connected in common with the other pixels , while the top metal film has a unique connection .",
    "the device requires a magnetic field bias to suppress the josephson current .",
    "a schematic is given in figure  [ fig : stj_pixel ] .",
    "current generation stjs use tantalum metal films .",
    "pixel sizes range from @xmath6 m .",
    "the stj arrays in the s - cam2 instrument in use at the 4.2 m william herschel telescope at la palma have a format of @xmath7 tantalum pixels in a staggered rectangular array ( perryman et al 2001 and references therein ) .",
    "each pixel has its own independent preamplifier and analog electronics chain .",
    "this array has now been in use for more than two years , and superseded a first generation array of the same format .",
    "s - cam2 provides a spectral resolving power of @xmath8 over the 300650 nm band .",
    "the timing accuracy for the photon events is @xmath9s , and the maximum count - rate is 5000 counts / pixel / sec .",
    "a new @xmath10 pixel array for the camera is under test , and developments using other materials to provide higher intrinsic spectral resolution are under way .",
    "scientific results from s - cam include the determination of qso redshifts ( de bruijne et al 2002 ) , studies of the accretion regions and streams in eclipsing cataclysmic variables ( perryman et al 2001 , bridge et al 2002a , b ) , and observations of the crab pulsar ( perryman et al 1999 ) .        to reach the wavelength coverage required ,",
    "the spectrograph will need the maximum array length in the dispersion direction .",
    "the limits here are set by the wafer size , which we assume nominally to be 5 cm , together with the minimum practical pixel size , @xmath11 m , giving a maximum length of 2500 pixels .",
    "this is insufficient ( see section  [ sec : concepts ] ) , so two such arrays must be butted to give 5000 pixels in the dispersion direction .",
    "while more than two arrays could be used , thus providing increased wavelength coverage , other aspects ( optics , thermal issues ) rapidly become more problematic . because in this concept we have maintained the principle that at most only modest technological developments should be required for the realisation of the concept , we reserve such enhancements for the future and limit the array lengths to 5000 pixels .",
    "yields for current stj devices are sufficiently high to give confidence that each 2500 pixel strip can be fabricated successfully , so that our concept is feasible .",
    "the join region can be made small .",
    "moreover , one of the major difficulties limiting the size of _ square _ stj arrays is the access for electrical connections to each pixel : in _ linear _ arrays this is much easier .",
    "cross - talk betwen pixels is also lower for the linear arrays since each pixel has half the number of adjacent pixels .",
    "the spectrograph concept assumes a ` small ' field of view ( arcsec ) .",
    "the most conservative approach would be to use two strips of detector pixels , one for star and one for sky subtraction , each only one pixel wide .",
    "this results in a total of @xmath12 pixels , each with easy access for electrical connections .",
    "this number of pixels is acceptable in terms of electrical connections and signal processing chains ( see section  [ sec : concepts_electronics ] ) .",
    "there is some freedom in the width ( in the spatial direction ) of the pixels .",
    "such rectangular pixels may also slightly increase the intrinsic stj wavelength resolution without a concommitant increase in array length .",
    "tantalum stj array currently in use in s - cam2 .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ] +   tantalum stj array currently in use in s - cam2 .",
    ", title=\"fig : \" ]    some spatial information along the slit could be achieved using droids .",
    "these could be introduced in our concept at a later upgrade path , as their technology matures .",
    "droids ( verhoeve et al 2000 ) consist of two stjs placed at the end of a tantalum detection strip ; the summed charge is related to the energy of the photon , while the location at which the photon was detected can be recovered from the difference in the two charges collected by the stjs .",
    "verhoeve et al ( 2000 ) find that @xmath13 m devices provide an effective 11 pixels , for just two electrical connections .",
    "the issues here are whether the droids can be laid down efficiently in such large linear arrays , their spectral resolution is sufficient for the order separation ( for the spectral formats below this appears to be the case ) , and whether it is more desirable scientifically to have the sky subtraction array further displaced from the source array than is possible over the effective 11 pixels provided by the droid .",
    "the key to the spectrograph concept is that the intrinsic wavelength resolution of the stjs is used to perform the order sorting .",
    "tantalum stjs with @xmath11 m pixels have a theoretical wavelength resolving power @xmath14 of 20 at 320 nm ( peacock et al 1998 ) , decreasing with wavelength to 8.1 at 2400 nm .",
    "the resolving power depends on the pixel size : @xmath15 m pixels have slightly better resolving power of 22 at 320 nm . in the s - cam2 array ,",
    "a practical resolving power of 12 is reached at 320 nm ( rando et al 2000b ) , limited by infrared background and electronics noise .",
    "( the spectral resolving power of droids is @xmath16% poorer depending on pixel size , worse for larger pixels . )",
    "other materials such as hafnium and molybdenum provide superior spectral resolving power ( eg verhoeve et al 2000 ) , with hafnium exceeding 100 at 320 nm .",
    "however although some junctions have been fabricated from such materials , the technology is not yet sufficiently mature to use in this concept , and the spectral resolution of tantalum is in any case sufficient .",
    "stjs are photon - counting , and intrinsically fast devices . in practise ,",
    "their time resolution is set by the pulse - counting electronics and the resolution of the time - tagging electronics . in s - cam , this accuracy is in the regime of tens of microseconds .",
    "the s - cam2 devices count up to in excess of 5000 counts / sec / pixel .",
    "the detector resolution degrades slightly with countrate ( @xmath17% at 5000 c / s / pix ) , mostly due to pileup in the currently realised pulse height analysing electronics ( rando et al 2000b ) .",
    "faster countrates would be possible , with revised electronics ; however for this concept we take the approach that the current countrates of 5000 should provide an adequate working count - rate limit for sufficient dynamic range .",
    "the quantum - efficiency of stjs exceeds 70% in the u ",
    "r bands , and drops towards longer wavelengths , reaching 20% at 1000 nm and 5% at 2400 nm ( see ( peacock et al 1998 , verhoeve et al 2000 . ) .",
    "this is the result mainly of reflection off the tantalum film .",
    "other ( less well developed ) stj materials , hafnium and molybdenum , have reflective qualities similar to tantalum in the infrared . from the point of view of infrared sensitivity , there are therefore no particular gains to be made from using them",
    ".    the infrared reflectance can potentially be improved by the deposition of an appropriate coating on the substrate , before the pixel structure is laid down .",
    "currently , little work has been done to investigate this possibility , but this would be obviously desirable for this spectrograph .",
    "the steep drop in quantum efficiency beyond @xmath9 m in the infrared aids in ensuring the greater thermal background flux at longer wavelengths does not saturate the detector countrate .        in order to sort order 2 from 1",
    ", a detector needs to have a resolving power of 2 .",
    "generalising , the highest order a detector can sort is set by the resolving power of the detector at that wavelength .",
    "the increase in order number with decreasing wavelength implies that the resolving power needs to be highest at the extreme blue end of the operating range .",
    "the resolution of the stjs increases with decreasing wavelength .",
    "this is in the right sense to match the order sorting requirement . in order to minimise the possibility of allocating a photon to the incorrect order",
    ", we need some resolution margin @xmath18 .",
    "if we use the current s - cam2 resolving power of @xmath19 at 320 nm , then for @xmath20 the maximum usable order is @xmath21 . for these low order numbers the resolving power required to sort lower orders drops more quickly than the intrinsic resolving power of the stj , so all lower orders",
    "can also be sorted ( and more easily ) .",
    "the basic constraints on multi - order spectrographs are simply derived from first principles .",
    "we start from the grating equation : @xmath22 where @xmath23 is the order number , @xmath24 is the grating spacing ( _ i.e. _ @xmath25 is the number of grooves per unit length ) , @xmath26 is the angle of the incident ray , and @xmath27 is the angle of the diffracted ray .",
    "generally @xmath26 and @xmath24 are constant .",
    "this indicates that at any position on the detector ( implying constant @xmath27 ) for all orders , @xmath28 constant .",
    "so for example , if a particular pixel in order 1 corresponds to 1000 nm , then light from 500 nm in order 2 will also fall on the pixel , 333 nm in order 3 , and so on .",
    "if in our case we allow the maximum order to be 5 , with a central wavelength of 350 nm , then order 1 will be at 1750 nm . alternatively ,",
    "if we wanted a central wavelength of 2100 nm , with coverage down to 350 nm , then the highest order will be 6 .",
    "the actual wavelength range covered in each order is determined by differentiating the grating equation with respect to wavelength : @xmath29 here @xmath30 may , for example , correspond to one pixel on the detector .",
    "thus @xmath31 corresponds to the dispersion .",
    "we can see that at a particular position on the detector ( again , a constant @xmath27 ) , the dispersion , @xmath31 , is proportional to @xmath32 .    if we calculate the resolving power @xmath33 , then at a particular position on the detector , with @xmath34 ( @xmath35 is the wavelength in first order ) , and @xmath36 ( @xmath37 a constant ) , then @xmath38 , _ i.e. _ constant , independent of order number .",
    "thus although the numerator in @xmath33 is halved , so has the step in wavelength corresponding to , say , one pixel .",
    "the consequence of this is that all orders have the same resolving power at a particular pixel on the detector .",
    "the next step is to calculate the length of the spectrum .",
    "_ within _ each order , equation  [ eq : grating_dif ] indicates that the dispersion is approximately constant if @xmath39 does not change too much ( which is generally true ) .",
    "thus , within each order , each pixel corresponds to a fixed wavelength interval .",
    "now if we need a resolving power @xmath40 corresponding to @xmath41 pixels ( for nyquist sampling of the slit ) , then the dispersion @xmath42 where @xmath43 is the centre wavelength of the first order .",
    "for example , if we require a resolving power of @xmath12 at 2000 nm , this corresponds to 0.2 nm / resolution element , or 0.1 nm / pix ( nyquist ) .",
    "the wavelength coverage in each order is then simply set by the number of pixels in the detector . for the above example",
    ", a 5000 pixel detector provides coverage in first order of @xmath44 nm centred on 2000 nm ,",
    "_ i.e. _ @xmath45 nm . in second order",
    "it provides @xmath46 nm centred on 1000 nm , so @xmath47 nm , and so on .",
    "it is evident in this example that there is a gap between 1125 and 1750 nm not covered by the detector .",
    "gaps can be fixed either by lowering the required resolution , or increasing the detector length .",
    "neither of these may be feasible , in which case the location of the gaps has to be optimised .",
    "the blaze curve of a grating is approximately unchanged with order if plotted as a function of @xmath48 , instead of @xmath49 .",
    "the efficiency falls off from the blaze , typically reaching half the peak efficiency at @xmath50 and @xmath51 ) , where @xmath52 is the blaze wavelength for order @xmath23 .",
    "if we adopt the criterion that the length of each order is defined by the wavelengths at which the efficiency drops to below that of prior or following orders , then the spectrum appears to shorten gradually as the orders ( and thus order overlap ) increase .",
    "this is familiar from the raw images taken by cross - dispersed echelle spectrographs .",
    "it is important to note , however , that some photons will arrive in a particular order beyond this wavelength , and will be there for collection if there are active detector pixels to detect them .",
    "we now apply these considerations with the following inputs : the maximum order is @xmath53 , set by the stj resolving power with factor @xmath54 ; the minimum wavelength should be the atmospheric cutoff at 320 nm ; the resolving power should be @xmath55 and the detector length should be limited to 5000 pixels , set by realistic expectations of array size .",
    "we have given an example in section  [ sec : spectral_length ] above with a resolving power of of @xmath12 .",
    "this has gaps between orders for orders up to 4 .",
    "a reduction in resolving power to 8000 closes the gap between order 3 and 4 , and leaves only those between 1 and 2 and between 2 and 3 ( only 50 nm around 700 nm in this latter case ) .",
    "further adjustments can be made in the resolving power , and in the centre wavelength of the first order , but assuming @xmath56 nm and @xmath57 then the spectral coverage in figure  [ fig : echelle_pattern](upper ) is obtained .",
    "this has the advantage of covering the u  z bands and the h band in the infrared .    for a highest order 6 ,",
    "the centre wavelength of @xmath58 is 2100 nm , in the k band , and the coverage is now u ",
    "r , z , j and k bands , missing h and z. this is shown in figure  [ fig : echelle_pattern](lower ) .",
    "the wavelengths covered in each band are shown in table  [ tab : echelle_orders ] .",
    "rrrrrrrr order & @xmath43 & @xmath59 & resolving & @xmath60 & @xmath61 & overlap & overlap + & ( nm ) & ( nm ) & power r@xmath62 & ( nm ) & ( nm ) & ( nm ) & ( pix ) + 1 & 1750 & 0.1094 & 8000 & 2023 & 1477 & -465 & -4250 + 2 & 875 & 0.0547 & 8000 & 1012 & 738 & -64 & -1167 + 3 & 583 & 0.0365 & 8000 & 674 & 492 & 14 & 375 + 4 & 438 & 0.0273 & 8000 & 506 & 369 & 36 & 1300 + 5 & 350 & 0.0219 & 8000 & 405 & 295 & 42 & 1917 +   + order & @xmath43 & @xmath59 & resolving & @xmath60 & @xmath61 & overlap & overlap + & ( nm ) & ( nm ) & power r@xmath62 & ( nm ) & ( nm ) & ( nm ) & ( pix ) + 1 & 2270 & 0.1419 & 8000 & 2625 & 1915 & -603 & -4250 + 2 & 1135 & 0.0709 & 8000 & 1312 & 958 & -83 & -1167 + 3 & 757 & 0.0473 & 8000 & 875 & 638 & 18 & 375 + 4 & 568 & 0.0355 & 8000 & 656 & 479 & 46 & 1300 + 5 & 454 & 0.0284 & 8000 & 525 & 383 & 54 & 1917 + 6 & 378 & 0.0236 & 8000 & 437 & 319 & 56 & 2357 + 7 & 324 & 0.0203 & 8000 & 375 & 274 & 54 & 2688 +    exploring further alternatives , if we place order 1 in the j band , the gap to order 2 includes r and i bands , which is clearly unsatisfactory . on the other hand , to cover j , h and k bands , the commensurability of their bandcentre wavelengths is approximately in the ratio 4:3:2 , so that order 2 should be selected to be at @xmath63 nm .",
    "unfortunately , this requires a large number of orders , @xmath64 to reach @xmath65 nm , for which an stj spectral resolving power of @xmath66 would be required .",
    "this is out of the reach of tantalum devices , while insufficient experience has been gained with other materials such as molybdenum for their use in this concept .",
    "this arrangement of orders may be of use in the future .    of the earlier two possibilities , the first , with @xmath67 in the h band , provides optimal and almost complete coverage through the optical band up to z , and complete coverage of h. in the second , where @xmath67 is in the k band , an important consideration is the thermal infrared , making this more challenging to realise as a practical design .",
    "the loss of some of the i band may also be undesirable ; on the other hand , the j band is gained .",
    "a conservative approach would place @xmath67 in the h band , but further consideration may well conclude that the larger infrared coverage provided by @xmath67 in the k band is more desirable scientifically , and also technically feasible .",
    "our optical design concept is relatively simple : a multi - order spectrograph without cross disperser , using an off - axis collimator and folded schmidt camera with an accessible focus .",
    "the main challenges here relate to the infrared baffling and long wavelength supression , together with the space required at the focus of the camera for the uniform magnetic field system to bias the stj array .    using the principles in bingham ( 1979 ) ,",
    "we have made a preliminary optical layout ( figure  [ fig : ses_optics ] ) .",
    "this is based on an off - axis collimator of diameter 261 mm feeding a grating of length 319 mm at a @xmath68 angle of incidence .",
    "the grating has a nominal 278 grooves / mm , blazed at @xmath69 .",
    "rays are diffracted at @xmath70 from the grating into a schmidt camera of 655 mm focal length ( @xmath71 ) , with a perforated flat folding mirror to provide access to the focus .",
    "the window of the cryostat would be figured to flatten the field , and may need to be achromatic .",
    "optimisation is required , particularly regarding the camera back focal distance ( currently @xmath66 mm ) to provide sufficient access to the array within the cryostat , and as regards thermal aspects ( see section  [ sec : infrared_issues ] ) .",
    "+     this preliminary design is relatively straightforward and compact , with the emphasis on being conservative",
    ". it may be possible to increase the nyquist - sampled slit width to more closely match the 0.8 arcsec median seeing typical at most front - rank observatories .",
    "this would increase the grating and optics , in particular the camera , and in order to match the fixed detector array size a faster camera would be required , which will be more difficult .",
    "the grating size increase can be limited by immersing it , as in the original hros concept for gemini s ( darrigo et al 2000 ) .",
    "other concepts are also possible . an all - reflecting camera based on a three - mirror anastigmat ( tma )",
    "design may be superior .",
    "off - axis aspheric mirror technology has made significant strides in the past few years , and such designs are now routinely being considered .",
    "due to atmospheric dispersion , the light from celestial sources is split into spectra with the blue end pointing towards the zenith .",
    "the length of the spectrum is proportional to the tangent of the zenith distance . in a traditional echelle spectrograph at nasmyth or coude ,",
    "a beam rotator is usually used to align the atmospheric dispersion along the entrance slit .",
    "the dispersion then adds to , or subtracts from , the cross dispersion .",
    "no light is therefore lost at the aperture , although the echelle orders can ` drift ' slightly on the detector during the process of an observation .",
    "while losses will be mitigated by using stj pixels that are rectangular , it will be necessary to consider the effect of atmospheric dispersion .",
    "a possible solution uses two counter - rotating fused - silica prisms ( ` risley prisms ' ) ahead of focus , perhaps with an identical but inverted set near focus .",
    "the first prism - pair compensates for the atmospheric dispersion and provides a white - light image in the vicinity of the spectrograph entrance aperture .",
    "however , if the aperture were located at this point , the pupil would be displaced in the vicinity of the spectrograph collimator , and it would also be dispersed .",
    "if this is not acceptable , a second ( inverted ) pair of prisms is included , which compensates for both the dispersion and displacement of the pupil in the spectrograph .",
    "the overall beam - offset created by the two prism - pairs , which varies with zenith distance , is compensated by a telescope offset .",
    "an atmospheric dispersion compensator of any design in the converging beam from the telescope would require an aberration - study , and may require curved surfaces on the prisms .",
    "tantalum stjs are sensitive to infrared photons at wavelengths beyond the k band .",
    "the sensitivity at wavelengths above @xmath72 m is shown in figure  8 of peacock et al ( 1998 ) ( curve labelled @xmath73 ) .",
    "it decreases to a few percent at @xmath9 m , and then drops precipitously , before recovering at wavelengths longer than @xmath74 m .",
    "infrared photons beyond the range of interest have negative consequences as follows :    1 .",
    "the photons generate only small amounts of charge , so if detected in isolation , they contribute to the electronic noise peak at low pulse heights and may advance the tail of this noise into the first order peak ; 2 .",
    "because the energy of these photons is small , for a given flux the photon number is high , and the probability of one of these arriving within the time constant of the pulse - counting electronics is high : this adds a small amount of charge which broadens the spectral peak and reduces the resolution ; 3 .",
    "the large photon flux can exceed the maximum count rate of the pulse - counting electronics , leading to saturation of the device , and 4 .",
    "the infrared photon flux can induce local heating of the detector substrate .",
    "these photons will have been emitted by the source under study , as well as the thermal environment of the instrument and cryostat , particularly the warm cryostat window . in s - cam ,",
    "stringent measures were taken to eliminate the infrared flux ( rando et al 2000a ) , firstly to baffle the field of view seen by the detector , and then to minimise the flux from the cryostat window and baffles by using two filters of successive coldness of kg2 glass .",
    "this arrangement depresses the throughput through the optical by @xmath66% , with a turnover at @xmath75 nm , depressing the 1000 nm flux by a factor of @xmath76 . nevertheless , the remaining infrared flux is still the major contributor in reducing the spectral resolving power of the stjs from @xmath64 to @xmath77 .",
    "a spectrograph has the advantage over a camera that any flux seen by the spectrograph at wavelengths longer than the red extreme of order 1 will be directed to the side of the detector in the direction of the zero order .",
    "this means that the infrared source flux will be less of a problem .",
    "however , the thermal loading from the cryostat window will remain , and , indeed , be more significant because of the large window size .",
    "in addition , because our concept has an infrared capability , the cutoff of any infrared filter will need to be at wavelengths longer than the red extreme of order 1 .    in order to keep the thermal background within acceptable limits",
    "it will be necessary to incorporate the slit and optics grating within a cold environment .",
    "this will allow rejection of all source _ and _ window - induced flux .",
    "it adds to the cost of the instrument and influences the cryogenic design significantly , depending strongly on whether @xmath67 is in the h band or in the k band .",
    "one technique for unwanted infrared flux rejection is to place the detector at the focus of a spherical or toroidal mirror , except for an aperture to accommodate the incoming beam . in this case",
    "the detector experiences a radiated thermal environment approximately appropriate to its surface temperature .",
    "this also provides an opportunity for improving the infrared sensitivity : it may be possible to refocus reflected infrared source photons back onto the detector , permitting a second chance for detection .",
    "this will require a tilted focal plane , which is not implemented in the initial optical design in section  [ sec : optical_design ] .",
    "the calibration requirements are relatively standard , involving detector flat - fielding and wavelength calibration",
    ". the infrared night sky lines may be sufficient to provide a continuous monitoring of the wavelength scale for all wavelengths through the superimposed spectral orders on the detector , but external lamps would still be required .",
    "a calibration unit would therefore be incorporated , providing an appropriate selection of arc and continuum lamps for the optical and infrared .",
    "the flat - fielding will be wavelength dependent , so filters would be required to isolate a single order for the flat - field calibrations .",
    "this would also have a blocked position for checks on the ( low levels of ) dark noise .",
    "the filter unit will be in the main beam so that it can also be used for astronomical observations , for example should very bright sources be observed in a single order with very high time resolution .",
    "tantalum stjs operate at a temperature of 0.3 k. this is just within the reach of a pumped he3 cryogenic system , but it will probably be better from the point of view of operating costs to use an unpumped he4 system , with a final sorption refrigerator stage , as in s - cam ( verveer et al 1999 ) . although the stj array will not , in itself , generate significant heat , the parasitic heat injection through the large harness would indeed be significant .",
    "nevertheless , considerable experience has been gained in the past decade in such cryogenic instrumentation on ground - based telescopes , for example the scuba submillimeter bolometer array on the james clerk maxwell telescope on mauna kea ( 0.075k ) , and s - cam2 .",
    "parasitic heat loads on the detector and its cold stage result from radiation from the surroundings , through the support structure for the cold stage and through the electrical cryoharness .",
    "the first of these imposes a requirement for nested thermal shrouds .",
    "the second requires careful selection of material and strut design .",
    "materials such as kevlar strings can be considered , but it is likely that stainless steel struts are more satisfactory mechanically , without too significant a thermal disadvantage .",
    "the mounting of the stj array to a support structure would require non - magnetic materials with low thermal expansion , in order to match the characteristics of the stj substrate .",
    "outgassing in this coldest of environments close to the stjs must also be minimised , as the contaminants will be trapped preferentially on the coldest part of the system , which includes the detector array .",
    "the material of choice will probably be a ceramic material .",
    "care will need to be exercised to interface this structure to the cryocooler coldfinger material .",
    "significant experience has been gained in the operation of the s - cam2 cryocooler , and improvements identified , for example in the inner surface emissivity optimisation , and a reduction in support strut cross - section .",
    "this would be valuable in this spectrograph concept , with the main differences being a larger focal plane assembly and magnetic bias system , a larger cryostat window and infrared blocking elements , different constraints on back focal distance from the optical design and a very much larger parasitic heat loading through the cryoharness",
    ". a particular consideration will be the cooling power of the he3 sorption refrigerator .",
    "the other general consideration for the cryosystem is the cooling of the optics , alluded to in section  [ sec : infrared_issues ] .",
    "this will entail either the incorporation of the he4 cryostat within an ln@xmath78 or other cryostat , or the interfacing of the two cryostats .      for the hstj studies we investigated different methods of providing a low thermal conductivity harness through industrial studies ( see griffiths et al 1997 ) .",
    "these included ribbon cables , fine wires , superconducting leads on a ceramic substrate and thin films on a kapton substrate .",
    "it was found that fine wires made of manganin or stainless steel , or niobium tracks laid on kapton provided acceptable solutions in terms of electrical conductivity and thermal loading .",
    "the surface area , ease of handling and routing , ease of manufacture and ease of making connections were also important considerations , and these favoured the niobium / kapton solution , which also allowed greater uniformity of the electrical characteristics of the harness ( particularly the capacitance ) .",
    "there are a small number of common return lines of lower resistance .",
    "the thermal calculations included the conduction along the tracks and through the kapton , and included radiative loading and losses .",
    "in general the conduction along the tracks exceeds that through the kapton .",
    "the effect of radiation impinging on the cable at temperatures above 20k is important , requiring the harness to be covered with a low emissivity surface such as a gold coating .",
    "the cryoharness must be temperature - clamped on the 4k he4 stage in order to limit the requirements on the sorption coolers . in practise , for the spectrograph",
    ", the more critical section is the short segment from this stage to the stj arrays .",
    "this would be bump - bonded to make the connection to the stj detector contacts .",
    "a magnet subsystem is required to produce a constant , uniform bias field in the presence of a possibly magnetically noisy environment during the operation of the stj detectors .",
    "it must also be possible to vary the magnetic field during the cooler recycling .",
    "this task must be carried out within the restricted accommodation available in the vicinity of the detectors , and operate in conjunction with the thermal infrared filtering and baffling in this locality .",
    "the design of the magnet subsystem depends on the uniformity and stability of the magnetic field required by the stj detectors .",
    "it also depends on the magnetic environment of the stjs ; in particular , the presence of motor - driven mechanisms and perhaps compressors in the vicinity of the instrument may impose a magnetically noisy environment with rapid transients .",
    "this would drive the magnetic field controller time constants to be shorter .",
    "a design adapted from the pre - proposal studies of the magnet subsystem for hstj ( griffiths et al 1997 ) should be appropriate .",
    "this consisted of a screened helmholtz coil assembly and a set of magnet power and control electronics .",
    "a scaled - down version of this is used in s - cam .",
    "the helmholtz coils are in a @xmath79-metal screening box attached to the open end of the cryostat .",
    "they operate at superconducting temperature to provide magnetic field bias and trim .",
    "magnetic field sensors are used to monitor the stability and uniformity of the magnetic field .",
    "control electronics would provide interfaces to the magnetic field sensors in the vicinity of the stj detectors , control signals for the coil power drive electronics , an interface to the instrument computer and stable and controlled power to the helmholtz coils .",
    "particular care will need to be taken with contamination .",
    "the stj detectors would be the coldest elements in the cryostat so contaminants would be deposited preferentially on them .",
    "this would require a careful selection of the materials to be used in the coils and coil assembly and also some assessment of the likely contamination paths and rates .",
    "each pixel in the stj arrays requires its own detector chain .",
    "the matrix readout approach investigated by martin et al .",
    "( 2000 ) has some performance disadvantages and is not appropriate for the linear arrays required here , so we have retained the approach of providing an independent electronic channel for each stj element .",
    "a @xmath12-pixel array therefore needs large scale integration in order to access these pixels , with analog electronics of sufficient quality to minimally degrade the detector response .",
    "such a task has been accomplished many times before , for example in high energy collider instrumentation and even in space applications ( _ swift_-bat , barthelmy 2000 ) . using asics ( application specific integrated circuits ) , each containing @xmath80 channels , a sufficiently low number of circuit cards is needed so they can be placed close to the detector arays .",
    "we show in figure  [ fig : electronics ] a block diagram for the data - flow electronics .",
    "one hundred asics each providing around 100 pre - amplifier and analogue shaping amplifiers could easily be accommodated on five printed circuit boards .",
    "the analog - to - digital converter ( adc ) performance required to convert the amplified charge packets to digital signals is not demanding due to the moderate energy resolution of the detectors .",
    "an asic providing 20 independent 6-bit flash adcs could easily be developed ; 500 of these would be needed and they could be accommodated on 10 printed circuit boards . these adcs would operate asynchronously . a small first - in - first - out buffer ( fifo ) ,",
    "only a few words deep , could be implemented as a field - programmable gate array ( fpga ) to buffer the output from a group of ( say ) 10 adcs and record the event timestamp .",
    "we calculate that the event rate in any group of 10 adcs would not exceed the fifo write rate .",
    "ten such fifo blocks could easily be contained within a low cost fpga .",
    "each fpga could also buffer the output from its own fifos to provide one output port for onward bussing to a dual port memory which would be written by the detector system described here .",
    "the values written to this memory would be the 6-bit pixel energy , the 14-bit pixel address and a 32bit timestamp which allows @xmath81sec to be resolved per 24 hours .",
    "the spectrograph would also require other ( relatively standard ) instrument electronics to control and monitor the state of the instrument and cryostat , to interface with the observatory and telescope systems and to provide a user interface .",
    "such functions include temperature and magnetic field measurements and field current control , cryogen level sensing , calibration unit activation and control , filter wheel operation and slit unit control and viewing .",
    "we envisage the spectrograph to be situated at the nasmyth focus .",
    "such an arrangement considerably simplifies the overall structural and mechanical design .",
    "since the gravity vector is constant , flexure issues are eliminated , and the cryostat design is made significantly easier . the spectrograph would be designed around an optical bench structure , on which are mounted the slit unit and viewing system , the spectrograph optics and calibration unit and cryostat .",
    "the analog data handling electronics would be located close to the detector array , with standard interfaces to an external unit containing the majority of instrument control and monitoring electronics and power supplies .",
    "interfaces for replenishment of the cryogenic consumables would also need to be considered .    the major mechanical issue would centre on the thermal performance of the structure , both within the detector he4 cryostat , and , if present , within the larger cryostat enclosing the spectrograph optics .",
    "this is aided by the almost entirely reflective optical design in our concept .",
    "standard techniques ( for example the use of invar rods ) can be used to maintain camera focus between room and cryogenic temperatures .",
    "the slit unit and slit viewing subsystem are important , but standard items , and we would not expect these to pose any problems .",
    "the same comment applies to the calibration subsystem .",
    "the spectrograph concept would include a filter wheel located between the slit and collimator , which can be used to introduce bandpass or neutral density filters or polarisation scramblers if these are required",
    ". these will be useful in commissioning and in calibration : normally the open position would be used for observations .",
    "the spectrograph would need to operate in the host observatory control and data handling system .",
    "it is of fundamental importance that the spectrograph provide real - time feedback not only on the status of the instrument from its various sensors , but also on the instrument performance directly from the data stream .",
    "outside of an observation , use of the calibration lamps should allow detector performance , stability and freedom from electrically - induced noise and also optical throughtput to be assessed immediately .",
    "stj detectors produce a photon event stream characterised by time , position and energy . as such ,",
    "their data outputs are more akin to those familiar with data from x - ray detectors , so that techniques and tools developed in that field could be the most readily adapted for this concept .",
    "the availability of energy information makes it simpler to retain the event list format until a final binning in spectral , temporal or spatial coordinates .",
    "a data reduction sequence could proceed approximately as described in perryman et al ( 2001 ) .",
    "the data volume could be large , up to 200 mbyte / sec , but typically it would be a small fraction of this .",
    "we have developed an instrument simulator to make predictions of the performance of the spectrograph .",
    "as inputs we use the standard data for paranal available from the eso etc ( exposure calculator ) website : telescope ut1 mirror reflectance , sky background brightness , extinction , seeing , infrared absorption .",
    "the oh sky line atlas is from rousselot et al ( 2000 ) , also used in etc : this extends down only to 624 nm , so misses sky lines at shorter wavelengths .",
    "the star spectra are from the atlas of pickles ( 1998 ) : these are at @xmath82 nm resolution and extend over the @xmath83 nm band of interest .",
    "the simulator interpolates between , or sums over grids of known transmission , reflectance , emissivity as a function of wavelength , depending on whether the input grid is more finely or more coarsely sampled that that required for the prediction .",
    "the throughput is calculated per order , then summed to obtain the overall throughput and s / n ratios , as well as the total count rate on the array , which is important for ascertaining bright limits .",
    "we limit here the reporting of our exposure estimates to that of the optical+h band configuration , but the optical+j+k configuration can just as easily be calculated .",
    "we provide details of the throughput of each element of the spectrograph below the slit for information in figure  [ fig : item_efficiency ] .",
    "the ut1 mirror reflectivity is for a single reflection ",
    "3 reflections are used for nasmyth .",
    "the throughputs assume the optical design in section  [ sec : optical_design ] , and use polarisation - averaged grating efficiencies for appropriate gratings in gratings catalogs .",
    "also shown is the total optical efficiency excluding and including the slit .",
    "figure  [ fig : relative_efficiency ] shows the overall throughput .",
    "the seeing profile is assumed to be gaussian .",
    "the calculations use a zenith angle of @xmath84 , seeing of 0.8 arc sec and a slit width of 0.5 arc sec in the spectral direction and 1 arcsec in the spatial direction .",
    "the slit is the major source of losses in the spectrograph : the slit transmission is only @xmath85 for the above parameters .",
    "this is one area where significant improvements may be possible with optimisations of the optical design ( see section  [ sec : optical_design ] ) .",
    "we have calculated star and sky spectra using the throughputs in section  [ sec : throughput ] above .",
    "we show in figure  [ fig : spectrum_a0v ] the resulting total count spectrum in 1000 seconds for a v=20 a0v star , and in figure  [ fig : spectrum_m0v ] that for a v=17 m0v star ( both from the pickles atlas ) . these spectra are noiseless : s / n ratio calculations are shown later .    for these calculations",
    "we assume standard zero points in the literature ( johnson 1966 , bessel 1979 ) as used in the eso etc , and the collecting area appropriate for the vlt as given on the the eso etc website .",
    "the calculations have been cross - checked against the eso instrumentation predictions , and found to be consistent within @xmath86% .",
    "+     +    the a0v star blue continuum dominates the background even for @xmath87 , while in the red , the night sky lines are a significant component .",
    "these sky lines are seen more clearly in the infrared in the expanded lower plot in figure  [ fig : spectrum_m0v ] , where they are well resolved .",
    "the s / n ratio calculations use the formulae in the eso - etc explanatory notes , with the simplification that there is no readout noise associated with the stjs .",
    "we show in figure  [ fig : sn_ratios ] that the spectrograph provides a s / n ratio reaching @xmath88 per pixel in 3600 sec for an a0v star of @xmath89 , and it reaches this ratio in the h band for @xmath90 in the same time ( assuming seeing of 0.5 arcsec ) .",
    "these figures provide a realistic indication as to the limiting performance at the faint extreme .    increasing the slit by a factor of 2",
    "increases the throughput through the slit significantly for the typical seeing conditions at paranal , at the cost of reducing the spectral resolving power to 4000 .",
    "an important aspect of any photon - counting detector system such as stjs is the limit set on the dynamic range by the maximum count rate .",
    "this is easier to achieve in a spectroscopic than in an imaging application .",
    "we show in figure  [ fig : countrate ] the overall countrate ( _ i.e. _ summed over order number ) on the array , as a function of pixel number , for a @xmath91 a0v star .",
    "the countrates reach @xmath92 cts / sec / pixel for such a brightness",
    ". the current maximum countrates on s - cam2 are @xmath93 cts / sec / pixel , set by the analog processing chains . even if we assume no increase in this capability",
    ", this indicates that the spectrograph will have a high bright limit , sufficient for good flat - fielding calibrations ( already demonstrated in the case of s - cam2 ) and access to celestial spectroscopic standards .",
    "the seeing is 0.8 arcsec with a slit of 0.5 arcsec and an array width of 1 arcsec ; the zenith angle is @xmath94 . ]",
    "we have outlined a spectrograph concept which uses the intrinsic wavelength resolution and extended wavelength response of stj detectors as the basis for a high - throughput optical - infrared spectrograph with high time resolution .",
    "the intrinsic wavelength resolution of the detectors is used to perform the order sorting . such an stj - based concept promises an elegantly simple medium resolution spectrograph .",
    "we have calculated that it should be a significant improvement on existing front - rank instrumentation , opening new regions of parameter space .",
    "the concept utilises technology which is currently available , or can be considered to be feasible with only a small level of development .",
    "nevertheless , it is a step up from existing stj - based instrumentation , in terms of array size and wavelength range .",
    "although we have argued that the technological increment in moving from existing stj arrays to those suggested for this concept is made significantly easier by the fact that the arrays in this concept are linear , and so provide for straightforward electrical connectivity , the @xmath95 pixel arrays would still be a critical development area .",
    "the main challenges are in the area of yield and pixel uniformity ( in terms of electrical characteristics ) .",
    "an additional issue is the buttability .",
    "another area closely connected with the detector performance is the subsystem providing the magnetic biasing on the stj array .",
    "the main challenge here is the uniformity of magnetic field bias , given the physically large arrays . at the same time",
    "the cryostat would provide strong constraints in terms of available accommodation for the magnets , the siting of infrared baffles and filters , and the thermal design requirements of the detector support structure .",
    "we have identified further areas where development would be required in the cryocooler and cryoharness .",
    "the issue in the former is the heat pumping capacity of the sorption cooler(s ) to provide the 0.3k temperature drop from the he4 cryostat . for the latter ,",
    "the large number of electrical connections to the detector array mean that the parasitic heat loading through these must be minimised .",
    "there is also the question of the physical routing of several such cryoharnesses into a relatively small space .",
    "the operation of a @xmath12-pixel stj array is not feasible without large - scale integration of the front - end analog electronics .",
    "this may require dedicated asics of particular design suitable for stjs .",
    "an ameliorating factor is that the asics consist of a large number of relatively simple and independent units .",
    "the infrared baffling and thermal rejection would need careful consideration at the general instrument level ( in terms of rejection of telescope thermal background ) and for the detector environment , in order to minimise the stj wavelength resolution degradation as discussed earlier .",
    "it has implications for the overall instrument thermal design , infrared responsivity , on whether the @xmath67 in the k band option can be exercised , and ultimately on costs .",
    "on the other hand , we have identified the potential for increased infrared performance by the use of coatings to reduce the reflectivity of tantalum beyond 800 nm , and the appropriate design of the thermal infrared rejection optics around the detector array .",
    "a further performance enhancement may be available through the provision of a degree of spatial resolution along the slit by the use of droids .",
    "support for the stj technological development at esa - estec is provided by peter verhoeve , nicola rando , didier martin , jacques verveer and axel van dordrecht .",
    "keith horne is supported by a pparc senior fellowship .",
    "barthelmy , s. , 2000 , spie , 4140 , 50 bessell , m. s. , 1979 , pasp , 91 , 589 bingham , r. g. , 1979 , q. jl .",
    "20 , 395 bridge , c. m. , cropper , m. , ramsay , g. , perryman , m. a. c. , de bruijne , j. h. j. , favata , f. , peacock , a. , rando , n. , reynolds , a. , 2002a , mnras in press ( astro - ph/0207162 ) bridge , c. m. , cropper , m. , ramsay , g. , de bruijne , j. h. j. , reynolds , a. p. , perryman , m. a. c. , 2002b , mnras submitted cropper , m. , et al . , 2002 , proposal submitted in response to eso ao for second generation vlt instrumentation , ses / mssl / pr/0001.01 darrigo , p. , bingham , r. , charalambous , a. , crawford , i. , diego , f. , percival , j. , savidge , t. , 2000 , spie , 4098 , 159 de bruijne , j. h. j. , reynolds , a. p. , perryman , m. a. c. , peacock , a. , favata , f. , rando , n. , martin , d. , verhoeve , p. , christlieb , n. , 2002 , a&a , 381 , l57 diego , f. , brooks , d. , charalambous , a. , crawford , i. a. , darrigo , p. , dryburgh , m. , jamshidi , h. , radley , a. s. , savidge , t. , walker , d. d. , 1997 , spie 2871 , 1126 griffiths et al . ,",
    "1997 , proposal submitted in response to nasa ao-96-oss-03 for hst instrument refurbishment johnson , h. l. , 1966 , ara&a , 4 , 193 martin , d. , verhoeve , p. , peacock , a. , goldie , d. , 2000 , spie , 4008 , 328 peacock , a. , verhoeve , p. , rando , n. , erd , c. , bavdaz .",
    "m. , taylor , b.g . ,",
    "perez , d. , 1998 , a&a suppl . , 127,497 perryman , m.a.c . , foden , c.l . , peacock , a. , 1993 , nuclear instruments and methods in physics research , a325 , 319 perryman , m.a.c . , cropper , m. , ramsay , g. , favata , f. , peacock , a. , rando , n. , reynolds , a. , 2001 , mnras , 324 , 899 pickles , a. j. , 1998 , pasp , 110 , 863 rando , n. , verhoeve , p. , gondoin , p. , collaudin , b. , verveer , j. , bavdaz , m. , peacock , a. , 2000a , _",
    "8th international conference on low temperature detectors_. rando , n. , verveer , j. , verhoeve , p. , peacock , a. , andersson , s. , reynolds , a. , favata , f. , perryman , m. a. c. , goldie , d. j. , 2000b , spie , 4008 , 646 rousellot , p. , lidman , c. , cuby , j .- g . , moreels , g. , monnet , g. , 2000 , a&a , 354 , 1134 verhoeve , p. , den hartog , r. , martin , d. , rando , n. , peacock , a. , goldie , d. , 2000 , spie 4008 , 683 verveer , j. , rando , n. , andersson , s. , gondoin , p. , peacock , a. , 1999 , _ rev .",
    "_ , 70 , 4088 walker , d. , diego , f. , 1985 , mnras , 317 , 255"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we describe a multi - order spectrograph concept suitable for 8m - class telescopes , using the intrinsic spectral resolution of superconducting tunneling junction detectors to sort the spectral orders . </S>",
    "<S> the spectrograph works at low orders , 15 or 16 , and provides spectral coverage with a resolving power of r@xmath0 from the atmospheric cutoff at 320 nm to the long wavelength end of the infrared h or k band at 1800 nm or 2400 nm . we calculate that the spectrograph would provide substantial throughput and wavelength coverage , together with high time resolution and sufficient dynamic range . </S>",
    "<S> the concept uses currently available technology , or technologies with short development horizons , restricting the spatial sampling to two linear arrays ; however an upgrade path to provide more spatial sampling is identified . </S>",
    "<S> all of the other challenging aspects of the concept  the cryogenics , thermal baffling and magnetic field biasing  are identified as being feasible .    </S>",
    "<S> instrumentation : spectrographs , detectors . </S>"
  ]
}