{
  "article_text": [
    "the new breed of spectro - polarimeters scheduled to begin operation in the next few years make the present a very exciting time for solar physics .",
    "examples of these instruments are solis ( @xcite @xcite ) , solar - b ( @xcite @xcite ) , polis ( @xcite @xcite ) , sunrise ( @xcite @xcite ) , and the dlsp ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "all these instruments , however , are highly specialized and operate under fixed conditions , either with the aim of performing synoptic observations or to optimize for spatial resolution . while these aspects are very important for the future advance of solar physics , we feel that there is also a need for an `` experiment - oriented '' type of instrument . by this",
    "we mean an instrument that provides enough flexibility to implement more or less arbitrary optical arrangements at the observer s request .",
    "such an instrument should allow researches to observe any given spectral line ( or combinations of lines ) , either at the disk or off the limb at a diverse range of wavelengths .",
    "one should be able to modify parameters like spatial resolution , spectral dispersion , integration times , etc , in order to address a broad range of scientific problems . in some sense",
    ", operating an instrument of this kind is like setting up an experiment in a laboratory .",
    "optical components and detector systems are arranged on an optical bench to investigate some specific problem .    for more than a decade",
    ", the highly successful advanced stokes polarimeter ( asp , @xcite @xcite ) has provided these capabilities at _ visible _ wavelengths .",
    "the spectro - polarimeter for infrared and optical regions ( spinor ) will replace the asp as the experiment - oriented spectro - polarimeter on the dunn solar telescope ( dst ) at the national solar observatory ( nso ) , sunspot , nm , usa .",
    "spinor is currently under deveopment by the high altitude observatory and the national solar observatory .",
    "it has been conceived with flexibility as a top priority and intends to fill this gap in the next - generation solar instrumentation .",
    "the new instrument will replace and enhance the capabilities of the asp .",
    "table  [ table1 ] below provides some specifications for spinor .",
    "the most important enhancement over the asp is the ability to observe simultaneously in the visible _ and _ the near infrared .",
    "higher spatial resolution than was available over most of the life of the asp is now possible thanks the the high - order adaptive optics ( ao ) system ( @xcite @xcite ) developed for the dst .",
    "two different detectors will be available at commissioning time ( scheduled for the end of 2005 ) : a pixelvision pluto 652x488 thinned back illuminated split frame transfer ccd , 60 frames per second readout rate ( hereafter pluto ) and a sarnoff cam1m100 , 1024x512 , thinned back illuminated split frame transfer ccd , 100 frames per second readout rate .",
    "these will be fully dedicated for observations between 400 and @xmath0900  nm . the spinor optics allows for an even broader range of wavelengths , up to 1.6  @xmath1 m .",
    "we plan to take advantage of this in future observations by using an hao rockwell infrared camera that is shared with other hao projects .",
    "the modular design of the instrument control will allow for additional detectors to be attached to spinor using nso s virtual camera interface .",
    "the present configuration of the instrument , used in the engineering run reported here , does not include the sarnoff or the rockwell cameras .",
    "for this run we used the asp control computers and detectors alongside the pluto camera . with this configuration",
    "we were able to demonstrate spinor s achromatic spectro - polarimetry up to 1083  nm .",
    "this paper is organized as follows .",
    "section  [ sec : science ] discusses the scientific motivations for the development of spinor .",
    "section  [ sec : instrument ] presents a description of the polarimeter with some details on the new achromatic optics .",
    "the polarimetric calibration of the system consisting of the telescope and the polarimeter is explained in section  [ sec : calib ] .",
    "some observations taken during an engineering run in june 2004 are presented in section  [ sec : obs ] .",
    "finally , section  [ sec : conc ] presents the main conclusions of our work and some future perspectives .",
    "the main scientific driver behind the development of spinor is to expand the present asp magnetometric capabilities into the higher solar atmosphere ( chromosphere and corona ) .",
    "however , its infrared coverage is also of great relevance for the study of problems associated with photospheric magnetism .",
    "below we summarize some of the major scientific problems for which spinor is particularly suited , which can not be pursued using the asp ( or other existing instruments ) .",
    "however , being that this an experiment - oriented instrument designed for maximum versatility , its most important applications might be some that we can not envision at this time      recent investigations of photospheric fields in the infrared often reveal a different picture from conventional visible observations .",
    "a remarkable example is the finding of supersonic flows in the penumbrae of sunspots by @xcite ( @xcite ) in data from the tenerife infrared polarimeter ( tip ) .",
    "such strong flows had never been observed in the visible , with the exception of the peculiar @xmath2-configuration sunspots ( @xcite @xcite ) , and flows near pores ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "perhaps the most puzzling observations of photospheric fields in the infrared are those of the quiet sun , particularly outside the magnetic network ( the region sometimes referred to as the photospheric internetwork ) .",
    "visible observations indicate that most of the fields in this region are strong ( @xmath01.3  kg ) , but concentrated into very small areas ( @xmath01% of the pixel ; see @xcite @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "however , recent infrared observations ( @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) suggest that most of the fields are weak ( @xmath0400  g ) and diffuse .",
    "these contradictory results have sparked a controversy on the true nature of quiet sun fields .",
    "this issue is an important one , since our current understanding indicates that most of the solar magnetic flux ( even at solar maximum ) is located in the quiet sun outside of active regions , and it is likely that the evolution of this flux plays a role in the heating of the upper atmosphere .",
    "a possible solution to the observational contradiction has been proposed by @xcite ( @xcite ) and @xcite ( @xcite ) .",
    "it turns out that the observations may be explained easily by a small - scale distribution of fields , beyond the spatial resolution of the observations , having intermixed weak and strong fields .",
    "moreover , these authors showed that the actual sub - pixel distribution of the field can be inferred from simultaneous visible and infrared observations ( like those from spinor ) .",
    "the results of @xcite ( @xcite ) may be extrapolated to other physical scenarios in which different field strengths coexist within the resolution element of the observations .",
    "another example where this strategy would be very useful is the investigation of sunspot penumbrae .",
    "it is presently believed ( see , e.g. , @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) that a penumbra is formed by a large number of thin radial filaments embedded in a magnetic environment , with the filaments having weaker and more horizontal fields and channeling the cool siphon flows traditionally observed as the evershed effect .",
    "the actual size , properties and origin of these filaments are still a subject of intense debate ( @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) , but it seems well established that they are not spatially resolved in the observations . the ability to infer spatially - unresolved distributions of the magnetic field from simultaneous visible and infrared observations would provide important clues on the structure of the penumbra .    innovative new diagnostics of solar magnetic fields are emerging as a result of parallel theoretical and observational advances . in a recent effort to understand the anomalous polarization signals observed in some spectral lines , @xcite ( @xcite ) studied the hyperfine structure induced in the atomic energy levels by the nuclear spin , and its effects on the polarization transfer process .",
    "they demonstrated that the signature imprinted by the hyperfine structure on some spectral lines has an important potential for magnetic field diagnostics .",
    "some of the most interesting lines lay in the wavelength domain between 800 and 1500  nm .",
    "examples are the rb  i  d1 line at 794  nm , which shows a combination of hyperfine structure and isotopic mix , or the mn  i lines at 870  nm , and in the infrared at 1.29 , 1.33 and 1.52  @xmath1 m .",
    "a new global picture of solar magnetism is emerging from the seemingly disparate observational domains of photospheric small - scale magnetic fields and the diffuse , voluminous magnetic structure of the solar corona .",
    "the observation and interpretation techniques used for photospheric and coronal studies are markedly different .",
    "to further the development of this global view , we identify a key missing ingredient : an in - depth investigation of the interface layer , the chromosphere .",
    "observational capability for chromospheric vector magnetic fields and the associated dynamics has been lacking because most interesting and/or useful lines lie outside the wavelength coverage range of most solar polarimeters ( it should be noted , however , that successful investigations of prominence fields have been carried out recently ; e.g. @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "observable lines either form too low in the chromosphere ( e.g. , the mg  i @xmath3-lines ) or their polarization transfer is still not well understood ( e.g. , h@xmath4 ) .    spinor would open new perspectives for chromospheric investigations with its ability to observe the full polarization state of the ca  ii infrared triplet , around 854  nm . these lines are the best candidates for chromospheric diagnostics , at least in the zeeman regime , due to their relatively simple formation physics , their long wavelengths ( which results in stronger zeeman signals ) , and the valuable information they carry on the thermal and magnetic conditions of the higher atmosphere ( @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "they are also sensitive to the hanle effect , which provides complementary diagnostics on the weaker ( @xmath01  g ) fields , and have been successfully modeled by @xcite ( @xcite ) .",
    "finally , the he  i multiplet at 1083  nm is of great interest for chromospheric and coronal studies .",
    "this line is seen in emission in prominences and in absorption in filaments , with strong polarization signals arising from both hanle and zeeman effect .",
    "spinor would be able to provide full spectro - polarimetry at 1083  nm , which implies the potential to investigate the magnetic and dynamic conditions of these structures .",
    "other interesting coronal lines that may be accessible for observations are the two fe  xiii lines at 1074  nm , although these may not be visible using a traditional solar telescope .",
    "spinor is based on the design of the asp , which uses a rotating waveplate as a modulator and a polarization beam splitter as a dual - beam analyzer .",
    "all of the polarization optical components , however , have been replaced by new achromatic ones .",
    "spinor utilizes the asp calibration / modulation unit ( cal / mod ) at the exit port of the dst , high - order ao , and the horizontal spectrograph .",
    "since spinor operates over a much wider wavelength range compared to asp , it was deemed necessary to allow spinor to use a selection of gratings .",
    "depending upon the desired spectral line and spectral resolution , different gratings may be selected .",
    "higher blaze angle gives higher spectral resolution for the same spatial sample size .",
    "since spinor will operate with ao , its design favors a higher spatial resolution than the asp .",
    "since it is a general - purpose research instrument , it can not be optimized for a single line , so the spinor spatial resolution is not as high as that attainable by the new dlsp .",
    "these spectrograph issues lead typically to a spectrograph using a 40  @xmath1 m slit and 1000  mm camera lens .",
    "the observations reported in this paper were carried out using the 308.57  lines / mm grating with a blaze angle of 52@xmath5 .",
    "spinor has been conceived keeping versatility as the highest priority in order to allow for a broad range of potential applications .",
    "the project is being developed in a way that allows the asp to remain operational until the new instrument is completed .",
    "its most important features are :    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "the observations presented in this paper were obtained during an engineering run on june 2004 with the following setup .",
    "the asp cameras were configured to record the ca  ii lines at 849.8 and 854.2  nm ( plus some other photospheric and telluric lines blended in the wings of the ca lines ) .",
    "the new pluto camera was observing at 1083.0  nm , including the he  i multiplet , two photospheric lines and a telluric line .",
    "we aligned the camera chips so that the broad ca lines would fall near the edge of the chip . in this manner",
    "we can record some wing `` continuum '' on the opposite side of the detector , which is useful for the data analysis ( polarization calibration , flat - fielding and also as a reference for the thermodynamics in the inversions ) . since most of the polarization signal is concentrated near the line core",
    ", it is not necessary to record both wings of the ca lines .",
    "an additional advantage is that we can also record a strong photospheric line in the 854.2  nm images .",
    "the old asp modulator was used because at the time of the observations we had not yet received the new achromatic modulator from the manufacturer .",
    "this resulted in less than optimum polarimetric efficiency at these long wavelengths , especially at 1083  nm .",
    "the new modulator arrived later in the observing run and is now available for use at the dst .",
    "figs  [ fig : maps ] and  [ fig : linmaps ] show several maps of active region noaa  0634 observed on june 16 at 15:16  ut .",
    "this dataset has the best seeing among our active region observations , with a granulation contrast of 3.3% ( notice that this value may not be directly comparable to that of visible observations because of the variation of the source function with wavelength ) .",
    "some features apparent in the magnetograms or the chromospheric filtegrams ( e.g. , the transversal fluctuations in the penumbral filaments near coordinates [ @xmath6,@xmath7 in the figure ) exhibit spatial scales as small as 0.7  .    the maps represented in the figures have been obtained from a spectro - polarimetric scan of the region consisting of 350 steps of 0.22each .",
    "the scanning step oversamples the resolution element .",
    "this was done so that it would be possible to bin the 10830 data in order to build up its photon count without saturating the other two detectors .",
    "unfortunately the 1083  nm data from this day was unusable due to problems with the camera .",
    "therefore we only show the 849.8 and 854.2  nm regions for this dataset .",
    "the term `` magnetogram '' is used in this work somewhat inappropriately ( but following a very widespread terminology ) to refer to the amount of stokes v signal integrated over a certain bandwidth on either the red or blue side of the line center , and normalized to the intensity integrated over the same bandwidth .",
    "we have used a 10-pixel wide square filter function .",
    "notice that this quantity is not necessarily related to the magnetic field strength in the sun . in some cases it may bear some resemblance to the longitudinal magnetic flux density ( as defined by @xcite @xcite ) , but this is not always the case ( @xcite @xcite ) especially given the complex polarization patterns exhibitted by the chromospheric lines ( see fig  [ fig : profs ] ) .",
    "for this reason , the red and blue magnetograms represented in fig  [ fig : maps ] are different .",
    "a reliable determination of the magnetic properties of the atmosphere would require the application of a realistic inversion technique , such as the one developed by socas - navarro et al ( 1998 ; 2000a ) .",
    "such detailed study , however , is beyond the scope of the present work .",
    "the observations reveal an intricate pattern of field / thermodynamic topologies , with remarkable differences between the photosphere and the chromosphere .",
    "the chromosphere itself looks different depending on whether we look at the red or the blue magnetograms .",
    "the blue side of the ca  ii line cores is often perturbed by the occurrence of strong dynamical phenomena , resulting in very asymmetric `` anomalous '' polarization profiles ( @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ; @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "the red magnetograms from both ca  ii lines reveal a `` diffuse '' pattern beyond the limb - side ( right of the images ) of both sunspots .",
    "interestingly , this pattern exhibits significant differences between the two chrosmospheric lines . in some cases",
    "it even has the opposite polarity .",
    "for instance near the top - right corner of the images 849.8 has a mixture of black and white , whereas 854.2 is all white .",
    "the neutral line is clearly visible on the limb - side penumbra in the photosphere ( top - right panel in fig  [ fig : maps ] ) , exhibiting an alternance of black and white filaments .",
    "however , the penumbral filaments in the chromosphere all have the same polarity as the umbra ( black ) .",
    "notice what appear to be two network cells on the right edge ( upper part of the image ) of the photospheric magnetogram .",
    "the 849.8 red magnetogram shows the same structure as a chain of more isolated bright knots ( some of them with opposite stokes  v polarity ) .",
    "these cells are more difficult to discern in both ( red and blue ) 854.2 magnetograms .",
    "the structure of the filaments extending out of the sunspot seems to merge , at least visually , with these network cells .",
    "the upper cell interior , which is empty in the photospheric magnetogram , is filled with a diffuse field in the 849.8 magnetogram .",
    "the 854.2 image shows isolated structures in the cell interior .    a small facula that appears as a sharp black feature at coordinates ( @xmath8,@xmath9 ) in the photospheric magnetogram shows as a diffuse black area in 849.8 surrounded by a white region .",
    "in 854.2 the black feature is even more diffuse . at the very bottom of the photospheric image , near @xmath10",
    ", there is a small positive ( white ) magnetic feature . in 849.8",
    "this is clearly visible as two bright knots , surrounded by opposite polarity field .",
    "the area to the left of the sunspots is also interesting .",
    "the predominantly negative polarity in the photosphere turns into a small - scale mixture of small black and white dots .",
    "the 854.2 line , however , shows again a concentration of predominantly negative polarity in the upper part .",
    "finally , notice how the separation between the two sunspots , which is about 5  in the photospheric magnetogram , becomes shorter in the 849.8 magnetogram and finally disappears when seen in 854.2 .",
    "the linear polarization signal , shown in fig  [ fig : linmaps ] , is only prominent in the sunspots .",
    "the photospheric and chromospheric maps are rather similar , although the chromospheric map is more diffuse and exhibits filaments extending further away from the sunspot .    a sample of the slit spectra recorded by spinor is presented in fig  [ fig : profs ] .",
    "the data in the figure are from a scan of noaa  0635 observed on june  19 at 14:08  ut .",
    "the problems with the pluto camera computer had been solved during the previous days , allowing us to record data at 1083  nm .",
    "the signal - to - noise ratio is quite poor due to 1 ) the the low polarimetric efficiency discussed above , and 2 ) especially to the low quantum efficiency of the camera at this wavelength ( @xmath113% ) .",
    "the 1083  nm data displayed in the figure have been binned in the scanning direction over a 1.5  interval .",
    "the 849.8 and 854.2  nm data are unbinned ( 0.22  ) .",
    "photospheric velocity maps of noaa  0634 were obtained by measuring the minimum position of the fe  i line at 849.7  nm .",
    "a similar strategy is not viable for the ca  ii lines , however , because of the complicated patterns of emission reversals and self - absortions found in the line cores .",
    "instead we measured the intensity difference between two points symmetrically located at various distances from the line core .",
    "this method is only an approximation but it seems to work better than taking the minimum position .",
    "fig  [ fig : velmaps ] shows the velocity maps at various optical heights .",
    "the cosine of the heliocentric angle for this region is @xmath12 .",
    "notice the two prominent dark features marked with arrows in the figure .",
    "these features are very strong plasma flows directed away from the line of sight and located on the center side of the sunspot ( but further away than the photospheric penumbra ) .",
    "detailed profiles of these features are shown in fig  [ fig : velprofs ] .",
    "both features exhibit very strong redshifts , visible in stokes  @xmath13 and  @xmath14 .",
    "point  a shows a very prominent redshift starting near 40  pm away from line center ( corresponding roughly to the high photosphere or low chromosphere ) all the way to the line core ( middle chromosphere ) .",
    "this feature is well localized ( see lower panel ) and the doppler shift is @xmath014  km  s@xmath15 .",
    "point  b exhibits somewhat weaker flows ( @xmath010  km  s@xmath15 ) flows that are more localized in height ( upper photosphere / lower chromosphere ) , but has a more extended tail along the slit ( see lower panel ) .",
    "the polarization signal indicates that these features are of magnetic nature , perhaps the result of chromospheric plasma falling down at high speed inside a magnetic filament",
    ". further observations with time resolution and detailed non - lte modeling would be desirable to understand the structure and evolution of such strong downflows .",
    "this paper presents some initial results from first - light observations with spinor , a new facility instrument for the dst .",
    "we perceive an urgent demand in the solar community for a new experiment - oriented ( as opposed to specialized ) spectro - polarimeter .",
    "we expect that spinor will fulfill this need and remain at the cutting - edge of solar research at least until the construction of the advanced technology solar telescope ( @xcite @xcite ) .",
    "its broad wavelength coverage will provide a uniquely connected view of photospheric , chromospheric and , to some extent , coronal magnetism .",
    "the observations presented in the present paper are intended to emphasize this point and to demonstrate the capabilities of the instrument in the near infrared .",
    "it is important to remark that the final configuration of the instrument will provide significant improvements for infrared observations with respect to the performance reported here .",
    "the new achromatic modulator ( already deployed ) and cameras ( larger format and more efficient ) will hopefully enhance spinor s performance at 1@xmath1 m and extend its range up to 1.6 @xmath1 m .    as with the asp , researchers from national and foreign institutions will be able to access the new instrument through the usual time allocation competition for the dunn telescope , operated by nso .",
    "the authors wish to acknowledge the enthusiastic support from the nso staff at the sac peak observatory , especially d. gilliam , m. bradford and j. elrod .",
    "thanks are also due to s. hegwer , s. gregory , r. dunbar , t. spence , s. fletcher , c. berst and w. jones .    , r. and a. l ' opez ariste : 2003 , ` ' . in : _",
    "solar polarization , asp conference series , held sep  3rd - oct  4th 2002 at puerto de la cruz , tenerife , spain . edited by j. trujillo bueno and j. s ' anchez almeida .",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , 2003 .",
    "_ in press_.                      , b.  w. , d.  f. elmore , and k.  v. streander : 2001 , `` ` the solar - b spectro - polarimeter ' '' . in : m.",
    "sigwarth ( ed . ) : _ `` advanced solar polarimetry  theory , observation , and instrumentation '' _ , vol .",
    "236 of _ asp conf .",
    "_ p.  33 .    ,",
    "r. and j. trujillo bueno : 2001 , ` modeling the scattering line polarization of the ca ii infrared triplet ' . in : _ asp conf .",
    "236 : advanced solar polarimetry  theory , observation , and instrumentation_. p. 213 .                , k. , d.  f. elmore , b.  w. lites , m. sigwarth , t.  r. rimmele , s.  l. hegwer , s. gregory , k.  v. streander , l.  m. wilkins , k. richards , and c. berst : 2003 , ` diffraction limited spectro - polarimeter - phase i ' . in : _ polarimetry in astronomy . edited by silvano fineschi .",
    "proceedings of the spie , volume 4843 , pp .",
    "414 - 424 ( 2003 ) .",
    "_ pp . 414424 .          , h. : 2002 , ` zeeman diagnostics of solar magnetic fields ' . in : _",
    "solmag 2002 .",
    "proceedings of the magnetic coupling of the solar atmosphere euroconference and iau colloquium 188 , 11 - 15 june 2002 , santorini , greece . ed . h. sawaya - lacoste .",
    "esa sp-505 .",
    "noordwijk , netherlands : esa publications division , isbn 92 - 9092 - 815 - 8 , 2002 , p. 45 - 51_.",
    "p.  45 .",
    ", h. : 2003 , ` small - scale magnetic fields in the quiet sun ' . in : _ solar polarization , asp conference series , held sep  3rd - oct  4th 2002 at puerto de la cruz , tenerife , spain . edited by j. trujillo bueno and j. s ' anchez almeida .",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , vol 307_. p. 330 .                  , s.  k. , w. curdt , a. gandorfer , m. sch \" ussler , b.  w. lites , v. martinez pillet , w. schmidt , a.  m. title , and the sunrise team : 2003 , ` sunrise : balloon - borne high - resolution observation of the sun ' . , 113+ ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> spinor is a new spectro - polarimeter that will serve as a facility instrument for the dunn solar telescope at the national solar observatory . </S>",
    "<S> this instrument is capable of achromatic operation over a very broad range of wavelengths , from @xmath0400 up to 1600  nm , allowing for the simultaneous observation of several visible and infrared spectral regions with full stokes polarimetry . </S>",
    "<S> another key feature of the design is its flexibility to observe virtually any combination of spectral lines , limited only by practical considerations ( e.g. , the number of detectors available , space on the optical bench , etc ) . </S>",
    "<S> spinor is scheduled for commissioning by the end of 2005 . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> we report on the current status of the project and present actual observations of active regions in the ca  ii infrared triplet and the he  i multiplet at 1083  nm . </S>"
  ]
}