{
  "article_text": [
    "fs aur was discovered back in 1949 @xcite as a dwarf nova .",
    "@xcite made an attempt to determine its orbital period , among several other systems , by means of ccd photometry .",
    "they cite a spectroscopic period of 85 min , but they failed to find any definite period from photometry , although they have detected 0.15 mag variations which could be consistent with 87 to 105 min periods .",
    "later , @xcite refined the orbital period from spectroscopy , and suggested a su uma classification based on the short orbital period of 0.0595 days ( 85.7 min ) .    nevertheless , long - term monitoring of the system by several groups failed to detect any superoutburst / superhumps in its light curve .",
    "the publicly available vsolj and aavso light curves show instead a steady - cyclic outburst pattern that is more similar to a ss cyg type dwarf nova lightcurve .",
    "@xcite found 12 outbursts on 180 archival photographic plates of the sternberg state astronomical institute .",
    "but he also failed to find any super - outbursts in the archival data and notes the regular character of the outbursts , similar to dwarf novae .",
    "@xcite , hereafter n02 , among others , for a long time hunted for superoutbursts and also conducted a new study of the system in quiescence . in his paper he noted several interesting spectral characteristics of the object , roughly determined the system parameters and also discovered variability with a period longer than the orbital period .    here",
    "we present the results of a new long - term photometric campaign and additional spectroscopic observations of fs aur (  2 ) .",
    "they are combined with data previously obtained by n02 , separated by a 3 year time gap .",
    "we compare the properties of fs aur with sw sex stars (  3.2 ) , and describe our discovery of the existence of a 3.42 hour photometric period in the light curve of fs aur (  3.3 ) .",
    "finally , we discuss possible causes of this unusual behavior of the system (  4 ) and possible implications on the classification of cataclysmic variables(5 ) .",
    "new observations of fs aur were obtained at the observatorio astronomico nacional ( oan spm ) in mexico . the 2.1 m telescope with the b&ch spectrograph , equipped with a site @xmath0 pixel ccd with a pixel size of 24  @xmath1 , was used for the spectroscopic observations .",
    "spectra were obtained in the second order of a 400 l / mm grating , covering the 38005200 region and reaching 2.5  fwhm spectral resolution with the used slit width of 1.5 .",
    "spectral observations were done in two consecutive nights ( 31 jan/1 feb 2001 ) with a total coverage of  12 hours , consisting of 10 min duration individual exposures .",
    "he - ar arc lamp exposures were taken before and after the object observations for wavelength calibration , and the standard spectrophotometric star g191b2b @xcite was observed each night for flux calibration .",
    "the reduction of the images and the extraction of the spectra was done using standard iraf routines customly used for long - slit spectra .",
    "photometric observations were performed with the 1.5 m telescope of oan spm , and cover a longer time span .",
    "differential photometry was obtained with the three broad band johnson - cousins filters bvr in long time - series with individual exposures ranging from 20 to 180 sec .",
    "selected comparison and check star form the field were used for differential photometry performed using the daophot package within iraf .",
    "additional photometry was acquired by members of the center of backyard astronomy ( cba ) . for details of their activity and procedures used to obtain and reduce the data we refer to @xcite .",
    "the log of all optical observations is presented in table [ tab1 ] .",
    "we also retrieved all fs aur x - ray observations from the rosat archive at mpe garching .",
    "fs aur was observed in the course of the all - sky survey in august / september 1990 for a total exposure time of 441 sec , and is listed in the rosat all - sky survey bright source catalog as 1rxs j054748.5 + 283512 .",
    "it is detected at a count rate of 0.13@xmath20.02 cts / s .",
    "fs aur was serendipitously observed again in pointed mode on 23 september 1993 with the position - sensitive proportional counter ( pspc , pfeffermann  1986 ) with a total exposure time of 9509sec . due to its off - axis angle",
    ", the effective exposure of fs aur is 6130sec .",
    "the mean count rate is 0.128@xmath20.005 cts / s , identical to that of the all - sky survey observation in 1990 .",
    "the spectrum is identical in shape and brightness during both observations .",
    "the hardness ratio of the object inferred from these observations is hr1 = 0.911@xmath20.027 and hr2 = 0.371@xmath20.034 , these hardness ratios are defined as hr1 = @xmath3 and hr2 = @xmath4 , where @xmath5 kev ) , @xmath6 kev ) , @xmath7 kev ) , and @xmath8 kev ) are the counts in the given energy range . given the galactic coordinates of fs aur of l@xmath9 = 18055 , b@xmath9 = + 023 , these hardness ratios can be interpreted as a rather hard source spectrum , with strong interstellar absorption which practically leaves no counts below 0.5 kev .    due to this strong absorption and the restricted spectral coverage ,",
    "several spectral models fit the data .",
    "the spectral fit using a thermal bremsstrahlung model is presented on figure [ xspec ] , and gives the following parameters : absorbing column @xmath10 = ( 3.0@xmath20.3)@xmath1110@xmath12 @xmath13 , temperature @xmath14 = 0.59@xmath20.30 kev , and a normalization of ( 1.3@xmath20.1)@xmath1110@xmath15 ph/@xmath16/s / kev .",
    "the absorbing column corresponds to about half the total galactic column in this direction ( dickey & lockman 1990 ) . the unabsorbed bolometric flux for this model is 1.0@xmath1110@xmath17 erg/@xmath16/s , and the luminosity is 1.2@xmath1110@xmath18 ( d/100 pc)@xmath19 erg / s .",
    "our spectroscopic data basically repeat all characteristics described by n02 . for radial velocity ( rv )",
    "measurements we simply did one gaussian fitting to the mostly single peaked h@xmath20 emission line profiles . using rv measurements from our observations and combining them with the measurements from n02 , we derived the spectroscopic ( orbital ) period of fs aur .",
    "we used the dft method to obtain the power spectrum , the spectral window corresponding to the data and the time distribution of our observations .",
    "the period analysis resulted in a strong peak confirming previous determination of the orbital period . using the clean procedure @xcite that allows to suppress alias frequency peaks caused by uneven data sampling",
    ", we obtained the strongest peak at the frequency corresponding to 85.65 ( 0059479 ) minutes .",
    "this estimate is within the range of periods and margins of error cited by previous authors @xcite .",
    "there is another peak at around 10 day@xmath21 .",
    "we will discuss this later in the text after considering our photometric data (  4 ) .",
    "the superior conjunction of the emission line source ( i.e. red - blue crossing ) corresponds to hjd t@xmath22=2450101.2656 .",
    "however , since the source of emission is not defined , it is not clear whether it is a superior conjunction of the wd or not .",
    "other emission lines show similar results with no significant phase shifts between the lines .",
    "n02 estimates the inclination angle of the system to be within 51 - 65 . while it is based on dynamical interpretation of emission lines which might be highly unreliable indicator of the motions of the underlying stars , it is in a good agreement with the velocities obtained from our new observations .",
    "it is surprising though not to see broad double peaked emission lines from this short - period system ( dwarf nova ) at this inclination .",
    "it is noteworthy , that heii @xmath23  shows up strongly .",
    "it is unusual to have heii this strong in an ordinary dwarf nova .",
    "it appears that the emission lines of higher excitation show central absorption cores at some phases while h@xmath20 remains mostly single - peaked .",
    "probably because there is no systematics behind this behaviour , we could not find any firm phase dependent pattern .",
    "we averaged the spectrum of fs aur by co - adding all spectra after correcting for the orbital radial velocity ( figure [ spectrum ] ) .",
    "individual lines are blown up in separate panels to display the abovementioned features . these and some other characteristics noted in fs aur bring us to the idea that it may belong to the class of sw sex objects .",
    "careful examination of spectra of fs aur shows that :    * inspite of the estimate of a relatively high inclination angle of the binary system of @xmath24 , emission lines of fs aur are single peaked .",
    "however , distorted wings can be seen in form of blue shifted shoulders around phase 0.8 ( n02 ) . *",
    "central small absorption can be seen in the higher balmer lines starting from h@xmath25 , and in the hei 4471 and heii lines at some phases .",
    "the absorption core of he lines could be seen even in the integrated spectrum ( see figure [ spectrum ] ) .",
    "* although there are no eclipses , high excitation lines do notably diminish at some phases ( n02 ) .",
    "these features are proper to sw sex objects @xcite .",
    "although most of the sw sex stars are eclipsing systems ( having been one of the original class identifiers ) , recently also low - inclination systems were discovered pertaining to that class . in particular , fs aur shows remarkable similarities in the line profiles to ls peg @xcite and v442 oph @xcite .",
    "the shoulder in the blue wing of h@xmath20 around phase 0.8 is similar to those observed in ls peg and v442 oph , where it is identified with the high velocity component in these systems .",
    "we were not able to separate the high velocity component , probably because of the low s / n ratio of our data . also worth mentioning",
    "is the relatively small intensity of the heii line in both these low - inclination systems .",
    "finally , there is a striking resemblance of the doppler tomograms of fs aur with those of sw sex stars .",
    "the ring in the maps , corresponding to the accretion disk , is rarely seen in sw sex systems . instead",
    ", bright spots are often detected in the lower left quadrant or below the location of the wd , and they may vary from line to line .",
    "the velocity maps , the trailed and reconstructed spectra of h@xmath20 and h@xmath25 of fs aur are presented in figure [ tomo ] .",
    "similar tomograms were obtained by neustroev ( n02 ) . since the phasing in the absence of eclipses or",
    "any other clear indication of zero phase is arbitrary , the location of the spots on velocity map is arbitrary too .",
    "nevertheless , it should be noted that other characteristics of fs aur do not fit well into the sw sex definition .",
    "the latter are mostly novalike systems exhibiting high and low states of luminosity , while fs aur undergoes @xmath26 mag dwarf nova like outbursts .",
    "another significant difference between fs aur and the sw sex stars is its short orbital period .",
    "however , the spectral ( orbital ) period , unambiguously detected in fs aur , appears to be in large contrast with the photometric period discovered by us .",
    "the extensive photometric coverage reveals a most unexpected result .",
    "the long - term variability noted in n02 in reality appears to be strictly periodic .",
    "all data that we were able to collect since then show the same period of 34 and easily can be phase - folded over the time exceeding 3 years of observations . in figure [ comblc ] we present several thousands of measurements collected from a variety of cba small telescopes , in addition to spm observations reported earlier in @xcite and folded with the photometric period .",
    "the data were normalized to each night s mean magnitude , since they were obtained with various detectors and comparison stars . in spite of the large 02 scatter the sinusoidal shape of the light curve is mostly undisturbed .",
    "neither the phase nor the amplitude of variations seem to be altered by the cyclic outbursts that the system underwent in between the different sets of observations .",
    "this demonstrates the very coherent nature of the periodic signal in the light curves .",
    "however , when we look closely at each night s data , we can see that the above mentioned periodic signal in the light curve varies in its strength and appearance .",
    "since the observed phenomenon is of unusual nature we decided to present them all for clarity . in figures",
    "[ en1 ] , [ en2 ] , [ en3 ] , [ en4 ] each night s data is presented in its corresponding panel .",
    "the overlayed solid curve represents the photometric period . at nights",
    "when the photometric period is not seen clearly or there are faster variations present , we have marked also the spectroscopic period with a dashed line .",
    "its phase was estimated by a least - square fitting of the curve to the moment of minima and maxima measured at these nights .",
    "we are not sure that these rapid variations are the result of orbital modulations and these curves are presented solely for demonstration purposes .    in the broad - band filters obtained at the 1.5 m telescope of oan spm",
    ", the system shows smooth sinusoidal light curves .",
    "the data collected from a variety of cba small telescopes is not as smooth , and additionally spontaneous wiggles are detected in the light curves of individual nights .",
    "however , the 3.4 hours periodic signal can be clearly distinguished in the light curves and unambiguously stands - up in the power spectrum . the most important characteristics of the light curves are :    * the period of variation in the light curve is 34247@xmath200005 as estimated from the combined data ( differential magnitudes of all dates and colors were mean - subtracted and combined in one large dataset ) .",
    "the power spectra of individual nights were also calculated and checked for consistency .",
    "depending on the duration and data quality they all show a similar pattern within errors between individual nights .",
    "the cleaned power spectrum of the combined data and a blowout of the most prominent peak are presented on figure [ photpower ] . *",
    "the bvr light curves from oan spm are smooth and almost perfectly sinusoidal ( see figure [ bvrlc ] ) . *",
    "the amplitude of 0.24 mag is approximately equal in all three bands ( bvr ) . *",
    "the individual light curves from the unfiltered cba observations are more `` noisy '' .",
    "by this we do not mean photon statistics or a data scatter due to the flickering which is usual for cvs .",
    "instead , the light curves just show more erratic wiggling imposed on a longer term variation due to the 34 period . however , the period is coherent over about 3 years .",
    "the phase - folded light curve of all combined data , presented in figure [ comblc ] , clearly demonstrates this coherence .",
    "* the examination of other peaks in the power spectrum of the radial velocities shows an unidentified peak at 9.88 day@xmath21 , which is very close to the side - band frequency of @xmath27    _ the photometric period exceeds the spectroscopic by 2.4 times ! _ this is an unprecedented case for a low mass binary system unambiguously identified as a cataclysmic variable . in order to show that the two periods do not match we plotted the combined photometric data folded with the spectroscopic ( orbital ) period ( figure [ rvlc ] ) , along with the radial velocity curve obtained from measurements of the h@xmath20 line from our observations",
    "the zero point for spectroscopic as well as photometric phase , the @xmath28 crossing of the radial velocity , was taken from n02 .",
    "1 .   the possibility of rotational effects in the reference frame of the secondary star as well as a triple / multiple component system can be effectively ruled out based on the canonical sinusoidal shape of the light curves , the equality of the amplitude of variation in the three bands and the absence of any spectral evidence of such kind .",
    "2 .   as a dwarf nova with an orbital period below the period gap , fs",
    "aur was expected to be a su uma type object and show superhumps due to an eccentric disc ( see the extensive discussion in the recent paper by @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "the number of superhumpers is statistically significant , theory and models of superhumps are well developed .",
    "based on our knowledge of this phenomenon one would expect to detect superhumps with periods exceeding the orbital only by a few percent . noting that permanent superhumps were detected in novalike systems with short periods , a dwarf nova of su uma type produces superhumps only during superoutbursts .",
    "fs aur in turn never showed superhumps during decades of optical monitoring .",
    "we think that it is extremely unlikely that the photometric period in fs aur is due to an eccentric disc precession because the period difference is much too large .",
    "3 .   the long period could be the precession period of a warped disc .",
    "one possible model to explain the difference between spectral ( orbital ) period and the photometric variations in fs aur is the presence of a tilted accretion disc which is rigidly precessing with the observed photometric period .",
    "similar models have been proposed to explain long - term variations in x - ray binaries .",
    "the analytical estimates of the induced precession period are given by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the ratio between the binary orbital period and the forced precession period is + @xmath29 + where @xmath30 = m@xmath31/m@xmath32 is the mass ratio , @xmath33 is the outer radius of the disc , the orbital separation is @xmath34 , and @xmath35 is the orbital inclination with respect to the disc . for mass ratios @xmath36 ,",
    "larwood found that period ratios for precessing tilted discs is in the range @xmath37 .",
    "if the mean @xcite disc truncation radius applies , then the lower value is @xmath38 .",
    "+ from the absence of superoutbursts in fs aur we are not bound to the 3:1 resonance criterium , so the mass ratio can be different to the @xmath39 requirement for the eccentric disc resonance . however , it is hard to find reasonable values of masses in order to reach a rigid precession of a gaseous keplerian disc in a system similar to fs aur .",
    "the secondary in the system should be late m dwarf according to the relation between orbital period and spectral class of the secondary .",
    "the absence of any contribution in the near infra - red spectrum from the secondary confirms that it is at least later than m0 with m@xmath40 0.5 . on the other hand , rough estimates of m@xmath41 yield values somewhere between 0.34@xmath42 ( n02 ) .",
    "thus , the mass ratio @xmath43 can reach at maximum 1.5 , if we assume an m0 secondary with 0.5 m@xmath44 and the lower limit on m@xmath41 . with these parameters",
    "@xmath45 according to @xcite and the precession period in fs aur should have been of the order of a day ( @xmath46 hours ) + radiation driven warping of accretion discs @xcite imposes additional restrictions on the parameters of binary systems in order to maintain stable precessing discs .",
    "+ thus , from a purely theoretical point of view it is very difficult to justify a disc precession model . from the observational point of view",
    "the contribution of the disc in emission is inferior to the spot , whatever the origin of the spot is .",
    "thus , the spectroscopic data do not provide strong evidence of a luminous disc , whose precession could lead to the observed photometric variations",
    "could it be due to the rotation of the magnetic poles of the white dwarf ?",
    "the colors and shapes of the optical light curve strongly support the magnetic spin version of the photometric period ; there are numerous similar light curves in the literature on intermediate polars ( ips ) .",
    "for example we refer to @xcite and references therein .",
    "the intermediate polar scenario is so far the most plausible way to immerse unrelated to the orbital period in a close binary system .",
    "+ with this interpretation , we run basically into one important issue : why is the period of rotation so slow ?",
    "none of the dozens of known intermediate polars show white dwarf spin periods less than the orbital one . yet",
    ", there are no theoretical restrictions on the velocity of rotation of the white dwarf in cvs .",
    "generally , one would expect the rotation periods of white dwarfs in binary systems not to be very different from single wds . according to @xcite , the distribution of rotational velocities of wds permits periods as the one observed in fs aur .",
    "+ however , the presence of a magnetic field anchored on a wd makes almost impossible the existance of a stable spin periods less than 0.68 p@xmath47 according to @xcite unless the magnetic field is high enough , so that the magnetosphere of the wd overfills its respective roche lobe and locks the system into synchronous rotation . @xcite considered the spin periods of magnetic cvs and show that there are very strong restrictions on the spin periods in magnetic cvs .",
    "but we should note here that there are a few examples of asyncroneous polars , that are supposed to be jolted out of synchronism by a nova explosion .",
    "the period difference is again not so big as in the case of fs aur , and any system would rapidly tend to establish synchronization , but little is known what happens during such cataclysms and how far it may take the spin period .",
    "therefore , it is difficult to directly apply the intermediate polar scenario to the case of fs aur in this pretext .",
    "+ an assumption alternative to the longer than orbital spin period might be the possibility that the real white dwarf spin period is of the order of 50100 sec and fsaur is a fast rotator as aeaqr and dqher . if we assume also that the white dwarf in fsaur freely precesses then such fast rotation will result in the wobbling of the x - ray projector together with the wd . in a certain orientation of the magnetic pole angle to the orbital plane ( colatitude @xmath48 ) , the x - ray beam may or may not sweep across the disk or its inner edge .",
    "what , or how much that fan beam perpendicular to the magnetic field lines will illuminate may explain the nature of this so far mysteriuos photometric period .",
    "the idea of free precession of wd was explored by @xcite they mention intermadiate polars as a possible laboratory to test it . according to @xcite , euler s frequency of free precession @xmath49 of a rigid and axially symmetric body will be : + @xmath50 + in case of an elastic body the chandler frequency @xmath51 is used instead : + @xmath52 + where @xmath53 and @xmath54 are coefficients that are determined by the central density @xmath55 or a mass m , radius r , and moment of inertia a of the white dwarf .",
    "the results of numerical calculations for the realistic models of a white dwarf with different central densities are presented in the table2 of @xcite . for a mass of a white dwarf between 0.55 - 0.63 m@xmath44 , @xmath53 ranges between 2.109 and 1.299 , while @xmath54 varies from 0.219 to 0.124 , correspondingly .",
    "thus , a white dwarf rotating with @xmath56 p@xmath57 sec would have a free precession period of p@xmath58 min depending on which model ( euler or chandler ) we adopt . + a good test for this intermediate polar scenario is the x - ray light curve .",
    "the spectral hardness ratio is in agreement with x - ray spectra from other known ips .",
    "we have folded the x - ray data of the rosat pointed observation with the photometric and spectroscopic period , respectively .",
    "the corresponding curves are shown in figure [ xfold ] .",
    "none of the two figures contradicts the presence of a periodic signal with the corresponding period in the light curve .",
    "fsaur was observed 5 times with 10 - 20 min each , at time intervals of 3 - 4 hrs .",
    "the periodic pattern in both panels most probably is the observing window .",
    "this is what causes the left panel in the paper to show the `` coherent '' pattern - it is just the observing window pattern .",
    "the statistics are very poor and the limit on the pulse fraction is only @xmath5980% .",
    "therefore , depending on the binning of a handful of photons one can reach misleading results .",
    "new x - ray observations may are needed and may help to sort this out .",
    "there were arguments in the literature as to whether sw sex objects owe their unusual characteristics to the phenomenon known as intermediate polars @xcite .",
    "v795 her has been proposed to be intermediate polar and sw sex object at the same time ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the newly discovered kuv 03580 + 0614 @xcite is a good candidate to qualify for both categories .",
    "there are other , less obvious examples .",
    "these objects lack the detection of a stable , clearly detectable spin period . in fs aur",
    ", we were able to observe two distinct , unrelated periods similar to the intermediate polars .",
    "there are very firm restrictions on upper limits of the spin periods of ips , and 205 min is certainly excluded for fsaur as the period of rotation of the wd .",
    "therefore , we propose that the wd in fsaur is a fast rotator with p@xmath60 around 50 to 100 sec and freely precesses with p@xmath58 min .",
    "the cause of optical modulations with spin and side - band periods in ips is still a matter of debate , but regardless of its nature the amplitude of the modulation is simply a geometrical effect of the orientation of the x - ray beam relative to the line of sight and/or orbital plane .",
    "therefore , it may also explain why the observed phenomenon is unique so far .",
    "the number of ips is still statistically small and the detection of this effect might be merely a matter of a distinct magnetic pole colatitude .",
    "we suggest that this phenomenological model can be observationally tested with fast optical photometry and/or more sensitive x - ray observations ( chandra / xmm ) .",
    "while the combination of the sw sex and intermediate polar models is appealing , there are big difficulties in squeezing fs aur into each of these .",
    "thus , fs aur may be a rare , new kind of cataclysmic variable which can be defined as a dwarf nova , which in addition to its orbital period shows a 2 - 3 times longer photometric period in its light curve .",
    "recently @xcite discoverd another similar system .",
    "gw lib is another short period cv , that apart from its 1.28 hour spectroscopic period shows well defined photometric modulation of light with 2.09 hour periodicity . as in the case with fs aur ,",
    "the reasons for such behaviour are not yet clear .",
    "however we can talk of a new phenomenon within cataclysmic variables .",
    "fsaur and gwlib can be classified as new type of cvs , which still needs explanation of its nature .",
    "norton a. , 1999 , x - ray astronomy : stellar endpoints ,",
    "agn , and the diffuse x - ray background , proceedings of a conference held in bologna , italy , 6 - 10 september 1999",
    ". published by melville , ny : american institute of physics , 2001 .",
    "xvii , 1041 p. edited by nicholas e. white , giuseppe malaguti , and giorgio g.c .",
    "aip conference proceedings , vol . 599 .",
    ", 806                  somerscales , r. v. , norton , a. j. , wynn , g. a. , & west , r. g. 2002 , the physics of cataclysmic variables and related objects , asp conference proceedings , vol . 261 . edited by b. t. gnsicke , k. beuermann , and k. reinsch . ,",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , p. 171",
    "spruit , h.c .",
    "2001 , evolution of binary and multiple star systems ; a meeting in celebration of peter eggleton s 60th birthday . asp conference series , vol . 229 . edited by ph .",
    "podsiadlowski , s. rappaport , a. r. king , f. dantona , and l. burder , 43              tovmassian , g. , zharikov , s. , neustroev , v. v. , michel , r. , & greiner , j. 2002 , the physics of cataclysmic variables and related objects , asp conference proceedings , vol . 261 . edited by b. t. gnsicke , k. beuermann , and k. reinsch . ,",
    "san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific , 557"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> fs aur is a known dwarf nova with an orbital period of about 85.7 minutes . </S>",
    "<S> it has been assumed to be a member of the su uma subclass of cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) , but previous searches for superhumps and superoutburst have been unsuccessful . </S>",
    "<S> we conducted a series of photometric and spectroscopic observations of fs aur during quiescence . </S>",
    "<S> we confirmed its short orbital period from radial velocity measurements . </S>",
    "<S> however , the long - term photometry revealed an unexpected result : the system also shows a distinct 0.24 mag modulation in the bvr photometric bands with a period of 205.5 min , which is 2.4 times longer than the orbital period . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss various possible causes for such a peculiar behavior . </S>"
  ]
}