{
  "article_text": [
    "central regions of spiral galaxies sometimes host vigorous star formation called ( circum)nuclear starbursts .",
    "this phenomenon forms stars at a higher rate and more preferentially in compact massive clusters than a non - starburst environment ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "since stars form from molecular gas , properties of the molecular gas are expected to control the starbursts .",
    "the study of such properties in nearby starbursts tells us about physical processes involved in the phenomenon , and the information serves as a basis for modeling starbursts throughout galaxy evolution .",
    "the typical extent of a ( circum)nuclear starburst in our vicinity is @xmath21 kpc , which is only 20  for a distance of 10 mpc .",
    "high angular resolution is therefore essential for starburst studies . in particular , high resolution imaging of molecular gas with millimeter interferometers has been a powerful tool in the field ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ) . until very recently",
    ", however , such arrays had been operated only at the mid - latitudes in the northern hemisphere , leaving many southern galaxies unattainable .",
    "we have now observed , a starburst - seyfert composite galaxy in the southern sky , using the submillimeter array ( sma ) .",
    "this is part of our sma survey of southern starbursts , aiming to explore molecular gas and dust in some of the most important but undeservedly less observed starburst galaxies in the southern sky .",
    "ngc 1365 is one of our targets because it has the circumnuclear starburst typical of barred spirals , and because the infrared luminosity of the starburst is among the largest in non - merging galaxies , bridging more luminous starbursts in distant mergers and less luminous ones in undisturbed spirals .",
    "other galaxies reported so far from our survey are , , and @xcite .",
    "we have observed co emission to trace the molecular gas .",
    "our resolution of 2  is a significant improvement over the best previous ones of 510 .",
    "in addition , the three isotopic lines that were simultaneously imaged , i.e. , the j=21 transitions of , , and , provide information about the physical properties of the molecular gas . among other things , we have discovered bright co spots , or co hotspots , that are associated with young massive star clusters in the starburst .",
    "we discuss their properties and relation to the starburst .",
    "the goals of this paper are ( 1 ) to report the detailed structure , kinematics , and properties of molecular gas in the central region of ngc 1365 on the basis of the new high - resolution data , ( 2 ) to search for the relation between circumnuclear starburst and the gas properties , and ( 3 ) to see if there is anything special in the molecular gas in the vicinity of the seyfert nucleus .",
    "the next section further introduces ngc 1365 , and ",
    "[ s.observations ] describes our sma observations and data reduction .",
    "the observational results are presented in ",
    "[ s.results ] , and are discussed in  [ s.bardynamics ]   [ s.starformation ] .",
    "a summary is given in ",
    "[ s.summary ] .",
    "ngc 1365 is an archetype of barred spiral galaxies and hosts a circumnuclear starburst and a seyfert nucleus .",
    "a comprehensive review of the galaxy is given in @xcite .",
    "a short summary of the properties of this galaxy is provided below and in table [ t.galparm ] .",
    "we adopt a cepheid - based distance of 17.95 mpc @xcite . at this distance",
    ", 1  corresponds to 86 pc and 1 kpc to 115 .",
    "the galaxy has a long stellar bar , spanning about 3  on the sky @xcite or 18 kpc on the galaxy plane .",
    "the bar has a pair of dust lanes in its front edge , assuming that the spiral arms are trailing in the galaxy .",
    "the assumption makes the northwest side of the galaxy near to us .",
    "the dust lanes curve inward near the galactic center to suggest an oval ring around the nucleus ( see , e.g. , the optical images in ned ) .",
    "active star formation in the circumnuclear region was first noticed as optical hotspots by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "later optical imaging using the hubble space telescope ( hst ) revealed dozens of bright compact clusters around the dust ring @xcite .",
    "the brightest of them , after extinction correction , is 300 times brighter than the most luminous globular cluster in our galaxy .",
    "mid - ir ( 1013 ) imaging by @xcite also revealed several compact sources , presumably compact clusters , in the region .",
    "these clusters have been identified as the so - called super star clusters , or young clusters as massive as @xmath3  containing thousands of ob stars .",
    "the infrared luminosity of ngc 1365 is @xmath4  @xcite , which makes it one of only four objects having @xmath5   within 30 mpc . ] . at 15 , 71% of the total flux of the galaxy originates from within the central 43  @xcite .",
    "thus most of the infrared luminosity probably comes from inside the starburst region of less than 2 kpc radius .    in the radio , where dust obscuration is minimal , a circumnuclear ring of about @xmath6 containing several compact ( @xmath7 ) peaks",
    "have been found at 220 cm @xcite .",
    "some of the radio and the mid - ir sources coincide .",
    "the brightest radio hotspots have a power of @xmath8 w  for each . in other words , they are more than 100 times as luminous as cas a , are comparable to the brightest radio sources in and ngc 253 @xcite , and are also comparable in radio power with radio supernovae @xcite . the center of the galaxy is also bright in molecular lines ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "previous observations found bar - driven twin peaks of molecular gas in the region @xcite , and higher resolution observations fully resolving the gas structure have been needed .",
    "the seyfert 1.5 nucleus of the galaxy is the driver , or at least the ionizing source , of a biconical plasma outflow @xcite , but the agn is of low - luminosity and a small contributor to the luminosity of the central region @xcite .",
    "the mid- and far - ir spectral indexes of the galaxy , @xmath9 and @xmath10 for @xmath11 and the iras fluxes in @xcite , are not those of ` warm ' agn - dominated sources but those of -type galaxies @xcite .",
    "the position of the nucleus in table [ t.galparm ] is the average of optical , near - ir , and radio positions .",
    "we use it as a coordinate reference for observations without accurate astrometry .",
    "ngc 1365 was observed using the submillimeter array on the 4100 m summit of mauna kea , hawaii .",
    "the array consists of eight 6-meter antennas , cryogenically cooled sis receivers , and digital correlators .",
    "more information on the array is presented in @xcite .",
    "parameters of our observations are summarized in table [ t.obsparm ] .",
    "two nights of observations were made in the 2003 - 2004 winter with the array in its compact and extended configurations .",
    "the sis receivers were tuned to simultaneously detect three co lines in the 1 mm band , namely ( 21 ) in the upper sideband ( usb ) and ( 21 ) and ( 21 ) in the lower sideband ( lsb ) .",
    "the digital correlators have a 2 ghz bandwidth in each sideband and were configured for a spectral resolution of 0.8125 mhz .",
    "the southern galaxy was observed between the elevations of 15  and 34under excellent weather with zenith opacity of 0.050.08 . the median double - sideband system temperature toward the galaxy was 210 k and 160 k for each night . after flagging bad scans ,",
    "the galaxy data have projected baselines in the range of 6.8  175.0 m and the total integration time of 6.5 hr .",
    "we made mosaics with a half - power field of view of about @xmath12 by observing three positions , namely the galactic center and two offset positions 25   from the center along the position angle of 70 .",
    "they were cycled every 12 minutes to give similar  coverage for each position .",
    "we also observed quasars j0132169 and j0457234 for gain calibration , jupiter , saturn , uranus , callisto , ganymede , 3c279 , and j2258279 for passband calibration , and used mars and uranus for flux calibration .",
    "a small correction , 7% in amplitude , is made to our data to compensate for the lack of automatic focus tracking at the time of the observations @xcite .",
    "the sma data were reduced in three steps .",
    "first , the standard passband and gain calibrations were made using mir , which is an idl version of mma @xcite . then mosaic images were made from the calibrated visibilities using miriad @xcite .",
    "finally , the nrao aips package @xcite was used for data analysis . in the imaging process",
    ", the spectral - line data were binned to 10   or 20   resolutions and various types of  weighting were employed . for one set of images ,",
    "each line was given a different  weighting ( i.e. , robust value ) in order to maximize spatial resolution while retaining reasonable signal - to - noise ratio .",
    "for another , we used exactly the same range of  radii and the same  weighting for different lines in order to accurately measure line intensity ratios .",
    "continuum data were made by combining channels without line emission , and the total bandwidth of the data was 0.7 ghz in each sideband .",
    "weak continuum emission was detected at about 5@xmath13 .",
    "the continuum was subtracted from the line data in the  domain .",
    "we compared our data with previous single - dish observations to check consistency .",
    "[ fig.cospectra ] shows the co spectra to be compared with 25  resolution observations at the galactic center .",
    "they are made from the data cubes used for fig .",
    "[ fig.comaps ] .",
    "the asymmetry of the line profile seen in all the lines , with stronger blue - shifted emission , is due to an intrinsic asymmetry of gas distribution .",
    "the total flux in each line is 5.5@xmath14 jy , 4.1@xmath15 jy , and 1.1@xmath15 jy  for ( 21 ) , ( 21 ) , and ( 21 ) , respectively .",
    "@xcite observed the same position in ( 21 ) with a 25  beam at the swedish - eso - submillimeter telescope ( sest ) and obtained a total flux of 4.9 @xmath14 jy . thus the sma and sest observations agree with each other considering that each probably has an uncertainty of @xmath1610% .",
    "the sest line profile has a symmetric double peak unlike sma s , and the small pointing offset implied by this may be a part of the reasons for the smaller sest flux .",
    "we conclude from the comparison that the sma observations detected most of the co flux in the galactic center .",
    "we also infer that our ( 21 ) and ( 21 ) data similarly detected most of the flux in the observed area because they have almost the same  coverage as the ( 21 ) data and because the  weighting used for them are closer to the natural weighting .    in this paper",
    ", velocities are with respect to the local standard of rest ( lsr ) and are defined in the radio convention .",
    "maps are presented without correcting for the attenuation by the mosaicked primary beam , unless otherwise noted",
    ". however , all the flux and intensity measurements are made after the correction .",
    "line spectra are also made from data cubes after the correction .",
    "the co maps in figure [ fig.comaps ] show that the emission is mostly in the central @xmath17 kpc of our @xmath18 kpc field of view and that brighter emission is on an elliptical ring .",
    "there are gas lanes on the leading sides of the bar which curve inward near the nucleus to form the incomplete circumnuclear ring .",
    "this gas morphology agrees with that of dust lanes seen in the optical ( fig .",
    "[ fig.cohst ] ) , except in its western part ( i.e. , the near side ) where only the dark lane is conspicuous .",
    "the oval ring has a major axis of about 2 kpc ( 20 ) , is made of several distinct gas clumps , and is surrounded by weaker emission . particularly in the rare co isotopes ,",
    "a pair of condensations stands out near the ring s apocenters , where the ring and leading - edge gas lanes connect .",
    "this feature , resembling the gas ` twin - peaks ' observed in the centers of many barred galaxies @xcite , is the one previously observed in co(32 ) and nh@xmath19 @xcite .",
    "the co(21 ) emission does not peak at the seyfert nucleus .",
    "the 1.3 mm continuum is detected at about 5@xmath13 near the brighter one of the twin peaks .",
    "radial distribution of the  integrated intensity , sampled in concentric circular rings in the galaxy plane and shown in figure [ fig.coradial ] , confirms the molecular ring and the compact size of the central gas concentration .",
    "the peak at the radius of about 5  is due to the ring smeared by the circular sampling .",
    "the radial profile rapidly declines outwards , falling to 1/10 of the peak at a radius of 2 kpc ( 23 ) .",
    "the extent of this molecular gas concentration is comparable to that of dust emission at 7 and 15  and that of ionized gas seen at 3 and 6 cm @xcite .",
    "the warm dust and hot gas reflect the active star formation in the region .",
    "the mass of molecular gas in the galactic center is estimated using a conversion factor from  integrated intensity to  column density , @xmath20  ( k ) @xmath21 .",
    "the adopted coefficient is a middle value of the empirical estimates for the center of our galaxy @xcite , and is about a factor of 36 smaller than the ones estimated for the disk of our galaxy ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "the tendency for a galactic center , especially a starburst nucleus , to have a lower conversion factor than the galactic disk has been suggested by a number of authors ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "we also assume that the scaling factor is constant over the region we observed , and that the ( 10 ) and ( 21 ) lines have the same brightness temperature .",
    "single - dish observations of the 21 to 10 ratio range from 0.55 to 1.1 for the galactic center @xcite .",
    "the latter approximation makes @xmath22 , and hence we omit the transition index . for brevity , @xmath23 in units of @xmath24  ( k )",
    "@xmath21 is written as @xmath25 in the following ; we adopted @xmath26 .",
    "the ( ) flux within a 1 kpc radius of the galactic center in the galaxy plane is 4.3@xmath14 jy .",
    "the mass of molecular gas in the central 2 kpc is thus estimated to be @xmath27   from the above assumptions , the ( ) flux , and a factor of 1.36 for the contribution of helium .",
    "molecular mass as a function of radius is in figure [ fig.coradial ] .",
    "an alternative way to estimate the mass of molecular gas uses the co isotope lines that are probably optically thin .",
    "the molecular mass in the central 2 kpc is estimated to be @xmath28   from the ( ) flux of @xmath29 jy  in the region .",
    "for this , we used the  abundance of @xmath30=10^{6.3}$ ] , i.e. , [ / ] @xmath31 and [ / ] @xmath32 @xcite , and @xmath33  ( k ) @xmath21 suitable for warm and moderately dense gas ( @xmath34 k , @xmath35@xmath36 , and @xmath37 : * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "this estimate uses the fact that co molecules can be excited only to a limited number of levels for the density and , in that circumstance , the level population becomes independent of temperature when the gas is warm enough .",
    "if one instead assumes the lte , then the mass is the same for 20 k gas and larger for warmer gas .",
    "the gas mass from  is about a factor of 2 smaller than the one from .",
    "this may mean that the adopted @xmath23 is too large .",
    "however , it is also possible that there is lower density gas between or in the outskirts of the molecular clouds , and that  can not reliably trace such gas because of difficulty in excitation or lower abundance of the molecule in the thin gas . for the galactic center , @xcite estimated the abundance of this type of thin , invisible , molecular gas to be as much as the -visible gas",
    ". we therefore estimate gas mass from  and the abovementioned @xmath23 through the paper . for completeness",
    ", the  flux of @xmath38 jy  in the region gives a @xmath39 of @xmath40  for [ / ] = 40 .",
    "the line is more prone to saturate than , and hence the mass is more likely an underestimate . the mass - related and other key parameters measured or estimated from our data are summarized in table [ t.parameters ] .",
    "the uncertainty in the mass estimates is dominated by that in the co flux - to - mass conversion and may be as large as a factor of a few .",
    "it is much larger than the 10% error in the co flux . though we took the center of our galaxy as a template for our mass estimate",
    ", it is quite possible that the scaling relation is offset in the starburst nucleus of ngc 1365 .",
    "the rare co isotopes give us an independent check , and the estimate of the error .",
    "note that the scaling factor can plausibly have local scatter within the galactic center , because gas properties are not expected to be uniform throughout the region .",
    "it is only the lack of observational information sufficient to locally determine the gas mass , and the scaling relation , that led us to use the constant conversion factor .",
    "bearing the abovementioned caveats in mind , we can calculate the mass and surface density of molecular gas in small regions .",
    "figure [ fig.coihisto ] shows the distribution of co integrated intensity and molecular surface density in the circumnuclear region .",
    "the maximum integrated intensity of 42 jy  translates to the mass surface density of molecular gas @xmath41  in the galaxy plane .",
    "the surface density is averaged in our beam having @xmath42  area in the plane .",
    "the peak is at a compact gas clump 7  north of the nucleus .",
    "the total mass of molecular gas in the clump is @xmath43 .",
    "we see later that the gas clump coincides with a prominent radio and mid - ir source called d / m4 .      the velocity field shown in fig .",
    "[ fig.comaps ] indicates the presence of noncircular motion , most easily seen as the curved ( s - shaped ) velocity contours around the systemic velocity .",
    "the noncircular motion is , however , rather systematic .",
    "the contours show a @xmath44 symmetry , i.e. , they can be rotated by 180  without breaking the overall pattern of the velocity field .",
    "the co velocity field was fitted with the aips task gal to derive kinematical parameters ; integrated intensity was used for data weighting .",
    "the large noncircular motion and the limited spatial coverage of the co data preclude us from determining the inclination and the position angle of the major axis .",
    "hence we adopt those parameters from observations of the entire galaxy by @xcite .",
    "we expect , however , that the systemic velocity and the dynamical center of the galaxy are little biased by the symmetric noncircular motion .",
    "the systemic velocity of the galaxy is estimated as @xmath45  from the fit , and the dynamical center of the galaxy is estimated to be @xmath46 , @xmath47 ( j2000 ) .",
    "the position coincides with the seyfert nucleus within 04 , well within the measurement errors of the dynamical center and the active nucleus .    the major - axis position - velocity ( pv ) diagram of ( 21 ) emission in figure [ fig.majpv ] shows that the molecular ring is around the turnover of the rotation velocity and that no anomalous velocity is observed at the active nucleus .",
    "the rotation velocity at the galactocentric radius of 1 kpc ( 115 ) is approximately 150 , according to the pv diagram .",
    "for the adopted inclination of 40 , the orbital period at the radius and the dynamical mass within the radius are @xmath48 yr and @xmath49 , respectively .",
    "formal errors in these values can not be properly determined without modeling noncircular motion of gas in the nonaxisymmetric potential . for a @xmath50% uncertainty in the rotation velocity , which we assume to be reasonable for our data , the fractional uncertainties in @xmath51 and @xmath52",
    "are @xmath50% and @xmath53% , respectively .",
    "the gas - to - dynamical mass ratio in the central 2 kpc is @xmath160.1 .",
    "the ratio of brightness temperatures is measured between ( 21 ) and ( 21 ) lines in data cubes of matching spatial and velocity resolutions .",
    "the line ratio should reflect physical parameters of the molecular gas such as density and column density ( e.g. , * ? ? ? * ) , and the sma enables us to accurately measure it at high spatial resolutions through simultaneous observations of the co lines .",
    "care was taken to make the reduction procedures for the two lines as close as possible .",
    "we used visibilities in the range of  radii 5128 where both lines have data .",
    "the same weighting parameter , i.e. , a robust value of 0.5 , and the same velocity binning , 20 , were used .",
    "the resulting data cubes , which had slightly different resolutions , were convolved to the same resolution of 33 @xmath54 20 .",
    "the line brightness temperatures were sampled in each velocity channel in a grid of 12 spacing , which is close to the nyquist frequency for the spatial resolution of the data .",
    "the line ratio is calculated only at the @xmath55 pixels where both lines are detected above @xmath56 .",
    "figure [ fig.12vs13 ] shows the scatter diagram of the line intensities and the histogram of the ( 21 ) to ( 21 ) intensity ratio , @xmath57 , where @xmath58 . the ratio @xmath59 is mostly in the range of 414 ; 92% of the data are in this range .",
    "the mean and the standard deviation of @xmath59 are 8.7 and 2.8 , respectively .",
    "the former is consistent with the single - dish measurement of @xmath60 in the central 21  of the galaxy @xcite .",
    "the latter is an upper limit of the intrinsic variation of the ratio because of the noise in the data .",
    "small number of pixels having extreme ratios are likely due to noise . in particular",
    ", pixels having @xmath61 , which are less than 2% of the data , are almost certainly noise judging from their mostly isolated locations in the channel maps .",
    "the spatial distribution of the ratio @xmath59 is shown in figure [ fig.ratiomap ] .",
    "for this map , line ratios are averaged at each position if there are multiple velocity channels with a valid ratio .",
    "the overall trend in the map is that the ratio is relatively high at the ridges of molecular gas .",
    "specifically , higher ratios are seen on the southern molecular ridge at the southern dust lane in the bar , on the southeastern half of the molecular ring , and on the northern molecular ridge in the bar .",
    "lower ratios are mainly observed in the northwestern half of the circumnuclear ring and inside the ring .",
    "the ( 21 ) to ( 21 ) ratio has the same trend , as seen from the comparison of figures [ fig.comaps ] ( a ) and [ fig.comaps ] ( e ) .",
    "another way to describe the spatial distribution of the line ratio is that there is a trend of the ratio being higher on the far ( se ) side than the near ( nw ) side in the circumnuclear disk of 1 kpc radius ( see figs .",
    "[ fig.12vs13 ] and [ fig.ratiomap ] ) .",
    "the mean and standard deviation of @xmath59 are ( mean @xmath62 for the near side and @xmath63 for the far side .",
    "a similar trend of higher @xmath64 in the far side has been noticed in the circumnuclear regions of ic 342 and ngc 253 @xcite , but the illumination model proposed for them may not apply to ngc 1365 .",
    "this is because the starburst ring coincident with the molecular ring can not preferentially illuminate the side of clouds facing us , nor is there a radial gradient of @xmath64 expected from agn illumination .",
    "we further discuss the ratio in  [ s.gas_properties ] .",
    "we show in figure [ fig.guidemap ] the locations and conventional names of the compact radio sources , luminous mid - ir sources , and three of the optically identified super clusters in the circumnuclear region .",
    "the radio sources have alphabet names , and the mid - ir sources are called m # , where # is a number . as seen in the figure ,",
    "some of the radio and mid - ir sources coincide with each other , and are thought to be the same objects , likely young massive clusters embedded in dust @xcite .",
    "in contrast , the mid - ir sources m2 and m3 do not have a radio counterpart but coincide with optically identified clusters called ssc 3 and ssc 6 , respectively , which @xcite found to be the brightest optical sources in the region except the nucleus .",
    "their mid - ir colors suggest less dust emission than toward other sources @xcite , consistent with their optical detection .",
    "our co data are compared with the radio and the mid - ir sources in figure [ fig.co_ssc ] .",
    "we have produced for the comparison peak brightness temperature maps in addition to the co integrated intensity maps . since the peaks in these maps often coincide , we collectively call the peaks co hotspots . in the maps ,",
    "radio sources are plotted as squares at average positions of previous observations , while mid - ir sources are marked as crosses .",
    "the comparison shows that some of the radio peaks and mid - ir sources coincide with co hotspots , i.e. , peaks of co integrated intensity or co brightness temperature or both . specifically ,",
    "the sources d / m4 , e / m5 , g / m6 , and h have a local maximum of  integrated intensity within 1 .",
    "a local peak in  integrated intensity is also seen within 1  of d , e , and g. each of the four sources also coincides with a local maximum of peak brightness temperature in  and , and the source d is at the maximum of the  brightness temperature map .",
    "though not coincident with an isolated peak , the radio source f is within 1  of a ridge of  integrated intensity , and is on a sharp ridge of   peak brightness temperature .",
    "in contrast , the sources m2/ssc6 and m3/ssc3 that are thought to be less embedded in dust are indeed in the areas of less molecular gas .",
    "the radio sources a and j do not have a nearby peak in the co maps .",
    "table [ t.co_others ] summarizes the associations of peaks in co maps to the sources in other wavelengths . in general , the correlation to the sources appears better in peak co temperature than in the line integrated intensity . the weak 1.3 mm continuum does not coincide with any of the radio and mid - ir sources .",
    "the co spectra measured at the hotspots are predominantly single - peaked , and the peaks of different isotopic lines are at the same velocity for each hotspot , as shown in figure [ fig.peakspectra ] .",
    "this suggests that each hotspot is a single subregion in each gas complex .",
    "the properties of co emission measured at the co hotspots are summarized in table [ t.clumps ] .",
    "the active nucleus is in the co deficient area inside the molecular ring , and no co peak is at the nucleus .",
    "the integrated intensity and peak brightness temperature of ( 21 ) at the agn position are 9.3 jy  and 2.0 k , respectively , in our 26 @xmath54 18 resolution data .",
    "the surface density of molecular gas in the galaxy plane is @xmath65  in the central 200 pc for the adopted .",
    "the mean total extinction in our line of sight is @xmath1612 mag ( i.e. , @xmath66 )",
    ". the column density and extinction in front of the agn would be half of these if the nucleus were at the mid - plane of a uniform gas layer .",
    "the mass of molecular gas within 100 pc of the nucleus is @xmath67 .",
    "the supposed molecular torus confining the conical plasma outflow should be in this region , considering the opening angle of the flow ( @xmath1650 ; * ? ? ? * ) and the typical scale height of the molecular gas layer ( @xmath2 100 pc ) in the centers of disk galaxies .",
    "note that these mass - related quantities inherit the uncertainty of the conversion factor , and that the factor quite possibly changes between the starburst ring and the vicinity of the agn .",
    "we detect no kinematical anomaly at the nucleus , such as high velocity gas suggestive of fast rotation around the agn or a kinematical sign of a molecular outflow that may be entrained by the plasma outflow . our spatial resolution , however , is probably insufficient to see gas motion dominated by the central object .",
    "the full - width at zero intensity of  line is 270  at the nucleus .",
    "this implies a dynamical mass of @xmath68 for gas in circular motion in the galaxy plane .",
    "this is an order of magnitude larger than the mass of the central engine inferred from the @xmath69 magnitude of the galaxy by @xcite .",
    "judging from the pv diagram ( fig .",
    "[ fig.majpv ] ) , a factor of @xmath703 higher resolution is likely needed before one starts to see the gas motion influenced by the expected black hole .",
    "the properties of molecular gas around the agn can be constrained , though weakly , from the low brightness temperature of .",
    "the physical temperature of molecular gas in the central 200 pc would be 6 k if the gas is uniformly distributed in the region and if  is optically thick and in lte .",
    "judging from the low temperature , it is more likely that one or more of these conditions is not satisfied ; i.e. , the gas has clumps , a ( 21 ) opacity @xmath71 , subthermal excitation of co , or a combination of these .",
    "the clumpy distribution of the ism could reduce the extinction toward the agn , to be more consistent with the optically visible nucleus .",
    "the central concentration of molecular gas , with an extent of a few kpc and a mass of @xmath16@xmath72 , is almost an expected feature for ngc 1365 considering the long and prominent bar in the galaxy .",
    "a stellar bar is known to drain the gas in the region it sweeps toward the galactic center ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the bar in ngc 1365 has apparently worked as a powerful gas funnel .",
    "the overall distribution of molecular gas in the central concentration can be understood in the framework of the bar - driven gas dynamics , in which the dominant pattern of gas flow changes between the so - called -type and -type in the circumnuclear region .",
    "the  and  are families of stable , prograde , and periodic orbits for stars in the nonaxisymmetric potential of a galaxy bar ( see * ? ? ?",
    "the former orbits are elongated along the bar and fill most of it , and the latter , which can exist closer to the galactic center under certain conditions , are elongated perpendicular to the bar .",
    "gas follows similar orbits or streamlines , but because gas is collisional unlike stars the angle between  and  for gas can be oblique and less than 90measured in the direction of galaxy rotation @xcite . as has been modeled specifically for this galaxy by @xcite and @xcite and for generic barred galaxies by many authors , if there exist  orbits , gas can form a circumnuclear ring or spiral pattern connected to a pair of straighter gas lanes in the bar .",
    "what we see in ngc 1365 matches the model gas morphology and what has been seen in many other barred galaxies .",
    "the leading - edge gas lanes on the bar are part of the -like orbits and the gas ring , whose major axis makes an oblique angle less than 90  with the bar , corresponds to the -like orbits .",
    "kinematically , there are two pieces of evidence that support the gas dynamical model mentioned above .",
    "first , the s shaped isovelocity contours around the systemic velocity (  [ s.kinematics ] ) are explicable by the transition of dominant orbits between -like outside the ring and -like around the ring as seen in the models with the ",
    "transition , or an inner lindblad resonance ( ilr ) , in fig . 4 of @xcite and fig . 20b",
    "of @xcite .",
    "the noncircular motion can be caused purely by the transition @xcite , but gas shocks may be also contributing . secondly , as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig.ispec_x1x2 ] , the double - peaked line profiles near an apocenter of the circumnuclear ring are consistent with oval gas motion along the ring , whose major axis makes an oblique angle to the bar .",
    "this again suggests that -like gas stream exists on or slightly inside the molecular ring .",
    "we note that these kinematical and morphological clues for the presence of a ",
    "transition are probably more robust than an analysis of the rotation curve by using the resonance condition of @xmath73 , where @xmath74 , @xmath75 , and @xmath76 are angular frequency , the pattern speed of the bar , and epicyclic frequency , respectively .",
    "the resonance condition is known to be a poor indicator for the presence of  orbits in a strong bar @xcite .",
    "the observed -to-  intensity ratio , @xmath77 , is normal for the centers of local spiral galaxies including the ones with moderate starburst ( @xmath78 ) .",
    "for example , the ratio is about 10 at the centers of our galaxy , ic342 , ngc 253 , and m82 @xcite .",
    "the ratio separates ngc 1365 from the more infrared luminous mergers ( @xmath79 ) , which are known to show higher ratios of @xmath80 @xcite .",
    "there are three basic circumstances under which the -to-  intensity ratio is about 10 , although some of their intermediate situations also produce the same ratio . the three correspond to the three parts of the formal expression of the ratio : @xmath81}{[j(t_{\\rm ex,13 } ) - j(t_{\\rm cmb } ) ] }      \\frac{f_{\\rm b , 12}}{f_{\\rm b , 13}},\\ ] ] where @xmath82 , @xmath83 , and @xmath84 are optical depth , excitation temperature , and beam filling factor , respectively , and",
    "@xmath85 is the effective radiation temperature @xmath86 $ ] for the line frequency denoted as @xmath87 .",
    "first , if the co is thermalized at least up to the j=2 level and if the two isotopic lines have almost the same beam - filling factors , then the ratio is determined by the optical depths . for example , the ratio of 8.7 corresponds to @xmath88 and  column density of @xmath89  for a 50 k gas in lte .",
    "the molecular gas needs to be turbulent , with a characteristic velocity gradient of @xmath90  , to have a hydrogen density exceeding @xmath91 to maintain the excitation .",
    "secondly , the ratio of 10 can also be observed when the   excitation is highly subthermal . in the non - lte analysis using the large velocity gradient model @xcite , the mean ratio of 8.7 requires a gas density of @xmath92  for the abundances of [ / ] @xmath93 and [ / ] = 40 and a velocity gradient in clouds of 1  .",
    "gas temperatures in the range of 10  300 k produce the same result . in these conditions ,",
    "the excitation to j=2 is subthermal with  having lower excitation temperature than , and the ( 21 ) opacity is 0.50.9 .",
    "finally , different beam filling factors of the two lines can affect the ratio if molecular clouds in the galactic center have a core - envelope structure as has been observed in the galactic center and suggested in luminous mergers @xcite . in this case ,  traces lower density envelopes while  is emitted from higher density cores .",
    "our mass estimate of molecular gas assumes the nearly thermalized excitation of the first case rather than the very subthermal one in the second . in the latter , ( 21 )",
    "excitation temperature is about a tenth of the thermal gas temperature for a 50 k gas .",
    "even though we already allowed for the contribution of thin gas , our mass estimates would need to be doubled if most of the  and  emission is from very poorly excited molecules .",
    "large turbulence in molecular gas , which separates the thermalized case from the subthermal one , has been suggested to be a characteristic feature of the galactic center @xcite .",
    "the turbulence is measured with a velocity gradient in the escape probability approximation and is larger than 10  .",
    "we expect the starburst nucleus of ngc 1365 has no less turbulence than the galactic center , and hence keep our mass estimates .",
    "the very low excitation of  and  can not be ruled out , however , without further observations .",
    "the variation of @xmath59 within the circumnuclear region , by about a factor of 3 at our resolution , allows multiple interpretations corresponding to the three cases mentioned above . in the thermalized case ,",
    "a factor of 3 lower ratio can mean a gas column density per velocity ( @xmath94 ) increased by the same factor , or a gas temperature reduced by about a factor of 2 . in the subthermal case , a higher gas density reduces the ratio .",
    "in the filling - factor model , molecular clouds in lower @xmath64 regions have smaller envelopes with respect to their cores .",
    "our data show the lack of an organized pattern in the @xmath59 ratio , except for the slight difference between the near and far sides .",
    "this makes it difficult to assess the gas properties by combining the line ratio and other information . for example , it is possible that molecular gas is relatively dense in the twin peaks owing to the convergence of gas flow @xcite .",
    "one of them , the gas complex containing radio sources d , e , and g , shows a lower ratio of 8 than other bright  complexes , which have ratios @xmath70 10 ( fig .",
    "[ fig.ratiomap ] ) .",
    "this is consistent with the higher density , which also makes @xmath94 higher for a constant turbulence ( @xmath95 ) .",
    "however , there are regions having even lower ratios without obvious dynamical reasons .",
    "quite possibly , multiple parameters change at the same time for multiple reasons , making any large - scale ratio pattern less clear .    on smaller scales",
    ", our data also show no distinctive correlation between @xmath59 and the radio , optical , and ir sources .",
    "this likely means that the effect of these sources on the surrounding molecular gas is either small in terms of the ratio or is heavily diluted in our 200 pc beam .",
    "the former is possible , for example , if higher gas temperature around a cluster , which could reduce the optical depths of the co lines for a constant column density , is offset by the gas concentration ( i.e. , larger column density ) around the clusters .",
    "the ratio @xmath64 , which traces the  optical depth in the thermalized case , would then be comparable toward the clusters and the surrounding area .",
    "finally , it is noteworthy that the high ratio of @xmath96 observed in luminous mergers in kpc beams is not observed in any part of the starburst region .",
    "the circumnuclear starburst in ngc 1365 follows the two empirical scaling relations of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hereafter k98 ) for starburst galaxies . taking 1 kpc as the radius of the starburst region , and attributing half of the far - ir luminosity of the galaxy to the starburst ( see  [ s.n1365 ] ) , the star formation rate in the region is 9   and its surface density is  = 3  for the star formation rate -to- far - ir luminosity relation of k98 .",
    "the mean surface density of  in the region is = @xmath97  ; k98 adopted @xmath98 . fig .",
    "[ fig.schmidt ] shows that ngc 1365 with these surface densities follows the correlation , or the schmidt law , seen among circumnuclear starbursts .",
    "the galaxy also follows the same correlation for a combined sample of starbursts and normal galaxy disks ( see fig . 6 in k98 ) .",
    "in addition , ngc 1365 follows another correlation between gas surface density normalized by the dynamical time and the star formation surface density .",
    "the former is /=@xmath99   for the starburst region having the  calculated in  [ s.kinematics ] .",
    "this and the abovementioned  place ngc 1365 on the tight correlation between the two quantities seen in fig .",
    "7 of k98 , with the abscissa and ordinate being 3.6 and 0.5 , respectively , in the figure s units .",
    "the fact that the circumnuclear starburst in ngc 1365 follows these empirical correlations is not affected by the choice of the conversion relations used to derive  mass and star formation rate , because we use the same conversion factors as in k98 .",
    "removing the conversion relations and stated in observed quantities , the circumnuclear starburst in the central 2 kpc of ngc 1365 follows the correlation , seen among starbursts and galactic disks , between far - ir luminosity averaged over the star forming region and co ( j=10 equivalent ) luminosity averaged in the same area .",
    "the second correlation that ngc 1365 follows can be also stated only using observed quantities .",
    "the factor of 6 difference in the co to  conversion factor between this paper and k98 only affects such quantities as gas consumption time and gas - to - dynamical mass ratio .",
    "the time in which the current amount of gas would be consumed by the star formation at the current rate is @xmath100 yr in the 2 kpc - diameter starburst region for the conversion factor we adopted , and it is 6 times longer for the disk @xmath23 used in k98 .",
    "note that @xcite used the disk conversion factor for his sample only for the sake of simplicity , being fully aware that the factor can change in starburst environment .",
    "the reasons for the starburst in ngc 1365 being one of the most luminous in non - merging galaxies while following the normal star formation laws are the high gas surface density in the starburst and the large size of the starburst region .",
    "the mean gas surface density in the starburst is among the highest observed in non - merging starburst galaxies , as seen in fig .",
    "[ fig.schmidt ] where the galaxy has the fourth highest , only after ngc 3079 , m82 , and ngc 253 , among 17 non - merging starbursts .",
    "the central gas - surface density of ngc 1365 also stands out when compared to those in the nro  ovro survey of nearby galaxies @xcite .",
    "the high - resolution survey gives gas surface densities in the central kiloparsec of 20 spirals , including some starbursts but no merger .",
    "the gas surface density in the central kpc of ngc 1365 is @xmath101  and is twice larger than the largest in the survey if the same  is used for all galaxies .",
    "meanwhile , the extent of the circumnuclear starburst in ngc 1365 , 2 kpc , is among the largest compared to those in k98 and surveys by ( * ? ?",
    "* fig . 5 ) and ( * ? ? ?",
    "1 ) . obviously , the high gas surface density in the large area needs a large amount of gas ; @xmath102   (  [ s.gas_distribution ] ) . for this accumulation , the large size of the galaxy ( @xmath103 , @xmath104 kpc ; *",
    "* ) and the long bar ( @xmath105 kpc ) were probably crucial through the bar - driven transport of disk gas . thus the combination could be regarded as a deeper cause for the luminous starburst .",
    "the luminous starburst in ngc 1365 contains subregions comparable to the entire starbursts in m82 and ngc 253 .",
    "most notably , the northeastern edge of the circumnuclear ring has @xmath106  , or the same gas surface density as in those two starbursts for the same extent of 400 pc and for the same .",
    "the radio and mid - ir sources in the region suggest enhanced  there . with a few such subregions ,",
    "it is reasonable that ngc 1365 s starburst is a factor of 24 more luminous than those in m82 and ngc 253 .",
    "although the empirical star formation laws in the previous section and the scaling observation like this leave out the physics of star formation on smaller scales , they are still useful to obtain an overview  star formation in this luminous starburst is not discrete in nature from those in less luminous starbursts .",
    "it remains to be found out why the luminous starburst is seen _ now _ even though it can last only for @xmath107 yr .",
    "@xcite suggested that the bar was young ( age 1 gyr ) and started the gas transport in the recent past on the basis of a bend in the radial gradient of o / h abundance , but the existence of the bend has been disputed by @xcite .",
    "the galaxy is a member of the fornax cluster , but lacks an obvious interacting partner for strong gravitational disturbance .",
    "imaging by @xcite does not reveal a sign of recent galaxy interaction either , though the outer disk shows a hint of interaction with the intergalactic medium .",
    "it may be that the starburst has been turning on and off without external triggers , perhaps owing to a threshold in the star formation mechanism @xcite .",
    "if so , the star formation law must switch between the one for the starburst state ( e.g. , fig .",
    "[ fig.schmidt ] ) and the other for non - starburst .",
    "we saw in  [ s.comparison.hotspot_ssc ] that the molecular ring contains several co hotspots and that three of them are spatially associated with the radio / mid - ir sources d / m4 , e / m5 , and g / m6 that are suggested to be super clusters of @xmath108 , @xmath109   and ages of 36 myr by @xcite .",
    "another source , h / m8 , also coincides with a co hotspot , but it is fainter and does not have age and mass estimates .",
    "it is possible that each of the radio / mid - ir sources is a group of clusters rather than a single cluster , since their sizes are only constrained to be @xmath110 2060 pc @xcite while super clusters have sizes of @xmath2 10 pc .",
    "we refer each source as a super cluster for simplicity , but ` a cluster ' in the following can be ` a cluster complex ' .",
    "the empirical star formation laws that we found applicable to the circumnuclear region as a whole allow the amount of star formation needed for the clusters .",
    "a star formation rate of @xmath111  is expected from the star formation laws in k98 for the typical co integrated intensity on the circumnuclear ring , @xmath112 jy  equivalent to an inclination corrected surface density of @xmath113  .",
    "thus , if the star formation laws apply to 100 pc scales , @xmath114  of stars will form every 5 myr in every 100 pc by 100 pc area in the molecular ring .",
    "the empirical laws , however , do not tell whether and where a compact and massive cluster forms .",
    "the spatial association of the putative @xmath114  clusters and the co hotspots may be a valuable observational clue to address these points .",
    "the significance of the hotspot - cluster association is that the co hotspots were very likely the sites of cluster formation in the recent past for two reasons .",
    "first , the clusters relative motion with respect to the ambient gas in their 5 myr lives would be @xmath115 pc if we assume the clusters relative velocities against the ambient gas to be 10 , which is a typical velocity dispersion of molecular clouds in galaxies . according to this estimate ,",
    "the co hotspots seen in our 200 pc resolution images are composed of gas that was in the immediate vicinity of the formation sites of the super clusters .",
    "second , given the non - trivial configuration of the three hotspot - cluster pairs , it is unlikely that the three clusters formed elsewhere and have migrated to the co hotspots , unless the clusters themselves affected their ambient gas to create the hotspots .",
    "this argument reinforces the first one , in which the drift velocity might be larger than assumed because the three clusters are in the region with two types of orbits and because only gas is subject to hydrodynamical forces . regarding the possibility that the clusters caused the hotspots rather than the gas hotspots formed the clusters",
    ", we favor the latter interpretation though our data do not rule out the former .",
    "our preference is because three hotspots are visible in  and one even in .",
    "elevation of gas temperature , the most likely effect of a young cluster on its ambient gas , does not increase the intensity of an optically thin co line per unit mass of molecular gas if the isotope co is well excited , which we favorably discussed in  [ s.gas_average_properties ] .    in our more favored model ,",
    "the co hotspots are peaks of gas surface density .",
    "the surface density is either that for the entire velocity or for a 10 or 20  range depending on whether the hotspot is in the integrated map or in the peak temperature map .",
    "gas temperature can also be higher in the hotspots seen in   because the brightness temperature of the line is the gas temperature multiplied by the beam filling factor .",
    "the gas surface densities in the hotspots are @xmath116  when averaged over 200 pc scale ( see fig .",
    "[ fig.coihisto ] ) .",
    "the co hotspot - cluster associations suggest that the super clusters formed in such a high surface - density environment .",
    "if the high surface density of molecular gas is one of the requirements for the ssc formation , then ssc formation predominantly in starbursts can be a consequence of the high gas surface densities in starburst regions .    in the alternative interpretation ,",
    "the co hotspots are largely due to higher gas temperature there , plausibly owing to the luminous super clusters .",
    "for optically thick , this straightforwardly explains the hotspots . for  and , this interpretation is possible only when the gas excitation is subthermal and the isotope lines have moderate ( 1 ) optical depths as in the second case in  [ s.gas_average_properties ] .",
    "in such a situation , a higher gas temperature can increase the excitation temperature of the subthermally - excited co without significantly reducing the line optical depth , and hence can increase the line brightness temperature .",
    "the gas surface densities at the hotspots in this case would be higher than in the thermalized case (  [ s.gas_average_properties ] ) , even though the hotspots may not be local peaks of gas surface density .",
    "there have been a small number of cases , in other galaxies , that are similar to the co hotspot - cluster associations .",
    "table [ t.othergalaxies ] compares them with those in ngc 1365 .",
    "these cases show that at least some of the most massive and youngest clusters in starbursts are accompanied by co hotspots detectable at 100 pc resolutions .",
    "one case is in the merger ( / ) .",
    "the brightest 15  source in the system , located in the overlap region of the colliding galaxies , is associated with a molecular complex called sgmc45 @xcite .",
    "their parameters are within a factor of a few from those of the co hotspot - cluster associations in ngc 1365 considering the larger co beam and hence more beam dilution in the antennae .",
    "the source has been suggested to be a young ( 4 myr ) , massive ( @xmath117 ) , and compact ( @xmath118 pc ) cluster or cluster complex with thousands of o stars and a total luminosity of @xmath72   @xcite .",
    "since the cluster is in the molecular complex but not at its co peak , the co hotspot is most likely a peak of gas surface density .",
    "statistically , @xcite showed that young clusters ( of ages 5 myr , including the one mentioned above ) in this galaxy are better associated with mid / far - ir , co , and radio sources than older clusters .",
    "another case is in the barred starburst spiral .",
    "the brightest co peak in the galaxy s circumnuclear region , in both integrated intensity and brightness temperature , coincides with a radio and mid - ir peak @xcite .",
    "the radio and mid - ir emission is due to star formation , though there may be contribution from a radio supernova to the radio peak @xcite .",
    "the co hotspot is on a circumnuclear gas ring and is where -like and -like gas streamlines converge .",
    "the hotspot location with respect to the bar and the circumnuclear gas ring is therefore identical to that in ngc 1365 .",
    "it has been proposed that gravitational collapse in an ilr gas ring , where a bar accumulates disk gas , forms gas clumps and subsequently causes intense star formation in them @xcite .",
    "the co hotspots with embedded young super clusters may be such gas clumps .",
    "if the molecular hotspots are high surface - density regions of molecular gas , possibly caused by gravitational instability , then the formation of super clusters from such giant gas concentrations of 100 pc and @xmath119@xmath117 scales is in accordance with the supergiant - cloud model for the formation of super clusters ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "the co hotspot - cluster association , however , is also compatible with another model for ssc formation where a super cluster forms from a moderate - size molecular cloud ( @xmath2@xmath108 ) by converting most of the gas into stars ( * ? ? ?",
    "* and references therein ) .",
    "such clouds quite possibly exist in the high surface - density environment of the co hotspots and could have had such triggers as cloud collision and compression by nearby regions or supernova remnants .",
    "high surface - density clouds with a few 10 pc sizes and velocity widths of the order of 10   could cause the co hotspots in the peak temperature maps .    the sscs in the hotspots are expected to disperse ambient gas as they age while blowing stellar winds and having supernovae .",
    "a super cluster may cause an expanding bubble or even an outflow of the ism from the disk ( e.g. , * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* in our sma survey ) .",
    "such features may quite possibly be hidden within the co hotspots .",
    "the optically - visible super clusters that are not associated with co hotspots , most notably m2/ssc6 and m3/ssc3 , may be older super clusters that have already dispelled their dust cocoons in which they formed .",
    "alternatively , they could have formed from isolated molecular clouds and have mostly consumed them at the time of formation .",
    "we have observed 1.3 mm co lines and continuum in the center of the barred spiral galaxy ngc 1365 at high spatial resolutions .",
    "the circumnuclear starburst in the galaxy is among the most luminous and intense in non - merging galaxies .",
    "our main findings regarding the properties of molecular gas and their relation to the starburst and to the seyfert nucleus are as follows .    1 .",
    "there is an oval ring of molecular gas around the nucleus , having a 2 kpc extent and twin - peak enhancements at its apocenters , and connected to gas lanes on the leading side of the stellar bar .",
    "the gas morphology and kinematics in the region are consistent with the model that the ring is at the transition region between - and -like gas stremlines in the bar .",
    "the structure is typical of barred galaxies . 2 .",
    "the molecular ring coincides with the starburst ring seen in radio emission , suggesting that the gas distribution largely determines the extent and the shape of the starburst .",
    "moreover , the intensity of the starburst averaged over the circumnuclear region is what is expected from the molecular gas surface density of the region and the star formation laws in @xcite .",
    "a plausible synopsis of the galaxy s starburst is as follows : the long ( 18 kpc ) stellar bar funneled a large amount of molecular gas ( @xmath72 ) toward the galactic center , and the resulting high gas surface density ( @xmath120  ) in the relatively large circumnuclear ring ( @xmath121 kpc ) resulted in the starburst ( 3  ) of large total luminosity ( @xmath122 ) following the star formation laws . ",
    "a remaining question is why the transient starburst ( gas consumption timescale @xmath107 yr ) is seen now .",
    "3 .   there are compact ( @xmath123 pc ) peaks of co integrated intensity and brightness temperature , which we call co hotspots , on the circumnuclear ring .",
    "some of the hotspots coincide with the radio and mid - ir sources that have been identified as dust - enshrouded super star clusters .",
    "the association of the co hotspots and super clusters allows two interpretations .",
    "the first one is that the most luminous and presumably massive super clusters were formed in regions with the highest gas surface densities ( @xmath120  in 200 pc scale ) .",
    "the second one is that the luminous embedded clusters heated their ambient gas to form the hotspot .",
    "the former , which is more conventional in terms of the interpretation of co intensities at @xmath124 pc scales , implies a relation between the cluster formation and gas complexes already identifiable at a 200 pc resolution .",
    "the active nucleus coincides with the dynamical center of the galaxy within 30 pc , according to the co velocity field .",
    "neither integrated intensity nor brightness temperature of co peaks at the nucleus .",
    "we found no anomaly in molecular gas that may be related to the agn .",
    "we thank the sma staff for their help prior to and during our observations , jun - ichi morino and andrew baker for stimulating discussions , raffaella morganti for kindly providing her radio data , and the anonymous referee for his / her helpful comments .",
    "this research made use of ned , ads , and the hst archive , in addition to the sma ; we are grateful to their operating , funding , and contributing people and agencies .",
    "aalto , s. , booth , r. s. , black , j. h. , and johansson , l. e. b. 1995 , , 300 , 369 barth , a. j. , ho , l. c. , filippenko , a. v. , and sargent , w. l. 1995 , , 110 , 1009 binney , j. and tremaine , s. 1987 , galactic dynamics , ( princeton : princeton univ . press ) bridle , a. h. , and greisen , e. w. 1994 , nrao aips memo 87 bryant , p. m. , and scoville , n. z. 1996 , , 457 , 678 casoli , f. , dupraz , c. , and combes , f. 1992 , , 264 , 55 contopoulos , g. , papayannopoulos , t. 1980 , , 90 , 33 curran , s. j. , polatidis , a. g. , aalto , s. , and booth , r. s. 2001 , , 368 , 824 dahmen , g. , httemeister , s. , wilson , t. l. , and mauersberger , r. 1998 , , 331 , 959 dame , t. m. , hartmann , d. , and thaddeus , p. 2001",
    ", , 547 , 792 de grijp , m. h. k. , miley , g. k. , lub , j. , and de jong , t. 1985 , , 314 , 240 de vaucouleurs , g. , de vaucouleurs , a. , corwin , h. g. , buta , r. j. , paturel , g. , & fouque , p. 1991",
    ", `` third reference catalogue of bright galaxies '' , ( springer verlag ) elmegreen , b. g. 1994 , , 425 , l73 forbes , d. a. , norris , r. p. 1998",
    ", , 300 , 757 freedman , w. l. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 553 , 47 galliano , e. , alloin , d. , pantin , e. , lagage , p. o. , and marco , o. 2005 , , 438 , 803 gilbert , a. m. et al .",
    "2000 , , 533 , l57 glenn , j. , and hunter , t. r. 2001 , , 135 , 177 goldreich , p. & kwan , j. 1974 , , 189 , 441 haas , m. , klaas , u. , coulson , i. , thommes , e. , and xu , c. 2000 , , 356 , l83 henkel , c. , and mauersberger , r. 1993 , , 274 , 730 hjelm , m. , and lindblad , p. o. 1996 , , 305 , 727 ho , p. t. p. , moran , j. m. , lo , k. y. 2004 , , 616 , l1 hunter , s. d. , et al . 1997 , , 481 , 205 httemeister , s. , wilson , t. l. , mauersberger , r. , lemme , c. , dahmen , g. , and henkel , c. 1995 , , 294 , 667 iyomoto , n. , makishima , k. , fukazawa , y. , tashiro , m. , and ishisaki , y. 1997 , , 49 , 425 jarrett , t. h. , chester , t. , cutri , r. , scheneider , s. e. , and huchra , j. p. 2003",
    ", , 125 , 525 jogee , s. , scoville , n. , and kenney , j. d. p. 2005",
    ", , 630 , 837 jrster , s. and van moorsel , g. a. 1995 , , 110 , 2037 kenney , j. d. p. , wilson , c. d. , scoville , n. z. , devereux , n. a. , and young , j. s. 1992 , , 395 , l79 kennicutt , r. c. 1998 , , 498 , 541 ( k98 ) keto , e. , ho , l. c. , and lo , k. -y .",
    "2005 , , 635 , 1063 knapen , j. h. , mazzuca , l. m. , bker , t. , shlosman , i. , colina , l. , combes , f. , and axon , d. j. 2006 , , 448 , 489 komossa , s. and schulz , h. 1998 , , 339 , 345 kristen , h. , jorsater , s. , lindblad , p. o. , and boksenberg , a. 1997 , , 328 , 483 kronberg , p. p. , biermann , p. , and schwab , f. r. 1985 , , 291 , 693 lindblad , p. a. b. , lindblad , p. o. , and athanassoula , e. 1996 , , 313 , 65 lindblad , p.  o. , and lindblad , p.  a.  b. 1994 , asp conf .  ser .   66 : physics of the gaseous and stellar disks of the galaxy , 66 , 29 lindblad , p. o. , 1999 , , 9 , 221 maloney , p. , and black j. h. 1988 , , 325 , 389 mao , r. q. et al .",
    "2000 , , 358 , 433 matsuda , t. , and nelson , a.  h. 1977 , , 266 , 607 matsushita , s. , saito , m. , sakamoto , k. , hunter , t.r . , patel , n.a . ,",
    "sridharan , t.k . , and wilson , r.w .",
    "2006 , proc .",
    "spie , 6275 , 62751w meier , d. s. , turner , j. l. , and hurt , j. l. 2000 , , 531 , 200 meier , d. s. , and turner , j. l. 2001 , , 551 , 687 meier , d. s. , and turner , j. l. 2004 , , 127 , 2069 miley , g. k. , neugebauer , g. , and soifer , b. t. 1985 , , 293 , l11 mirabel , i. f. et al .",
    "1998 , , 333 , l1 morgan , w. w. 1958 , , 70 , 364 morganti , r. , tsvetanov , z. i. , gallimore , j. , and allen , m. g. 1999 , , 137 , 457 neff , s. g. , and ulvestad , j. s. 2000 , , 120 , 670 oka , t. , hasegawa , t. , hayashi , m. , handa , t. , and sakamoto , s. 1998 , , 493 , 730 ott , j. , wei , a. , henkel , c. , and walter , f. 2005 , in aip conf .",
    "783 , the evolution of starbursts , ed .",
    "s. httemeister et al . , 141 papadopoulos , p. p. , and seaquist , e. r. 1998 , , 492 , 521 phillips , m. m. , turtle , a. j. , edmunds , m. g. , and pagel , b. e. j. 1983 , , 203 , 759 pilyugin , l. s. 2003 , , 397 , 109 regan , m. , and elmegreen , d. m. 1997 , , 114 , 965 risaliti , g. , elvis , m. , fabbiano , g. , baldi , a. , and zezas , a. 2005 , , 623 , 93 roussel , h. , et al .",
    "2001 , , 372 , 406 roy , j. -r . , and walsh , j. r. saikia , d. j. , pedler , a. , unger , s. w. , and axon , d. j. 1994 , , 270 , 46 sakamoto , k. , okumura , s.  k. , ishizuki , s. , and scoville , n.  z. 1999a , , 124 , 403 sakamoto , k. , okumura , s.  k. , ishizuki , s. , and scoville , n.  z. 1999b , , 525 , 691 sakamoto , k. , matsushita , s. , peck , a. b. , wiedner , m. c. , and iono , d. 2004 , , 616 , l59 sakamoto , k. et al .",
    "2006a , , 636 , 685 sakamoto , k. , ho , p. t. p. , and peck , a. b. 2006b , , 644 , 862 sanders , d. b. , solomon , p. m. , and scoville , n. z. 1984 , , 276 , 182 sanders , d. b. , mazzarella , j. m. , kim d. -c .",
    ", surace , j. a. , and soifer , b. t. 2003 , , 126 , 1670 sandqvist , a. , jrster , s. , and lindblad , p. o. 1982 , , 110 , 336 sandqvist , a. , elfhang , t. , and jrster , s. 1988 , , 201 , 223 sandqvist , a. , jrster , s. , and lindblad , p. o. 1995 , , 295 , 585 sandqvist , a. 1999 , , 343 , 367 sault , r. j. , teuben p. j. , and wright m. c. h. 1995 , in asp conf .",
    "77 , astronomical data analysis software and systems iv , ed .",
    "r. shaw et al .",
    "( san francisco : asp ) , 433 sawada , t. et al .",
    "2001 , , 136 , 189 scoville , n. z. , carlstrom , j. e. , chandler , c. j. , phillips , j. a. , scott , s. l. , tilanus , r. p. j. , and wang , z. 1993 , , 105 , 1482 srsic , j. l. , and pastoriza , m. 1967 , , 79 , 152 sheth , k. , vogel , s. n. , regan , m. w. , thornley , m. d. , and teuben , p. j. 2005 , , 632 , 217 sodroski , t. j. et al .",
    "1995 , , 452 , 262 stevens , i. r. , forbes , d. a. , and norris , r. p. 1999",
    ", , 306 , 479 strong , a. w. , moskalenko , i. v. , reimer , o. , digel , s. , and diehl , r. 2004 , , 422 , l47 stutzki , j. , and gsten , r. 1990 , , 356 , 513 telesco , c. m. , dressel , l. l. , and wolstencroft , r. d. 1993 , , 414 , 120 teuben , p. j. , sanders , r. h. , atherton , p. d. , and van albada , g. d. 1986 , , 221 , 1 thean , a. , pedlar , a. , kukula , m. j. , baum , s. a. , odea , c. p. 2000 , , 314 , 573 thim , f. , tammann , g. a. , saha , a. , dolphin , a. , sandage , a. , tolstoy , e. , and lbhardt , l. 2003 , , 590 , 256 turner , j. l. , and ho , p. t. p. 1994",
    ", , 421 , 122 ulvestad , j. s. , and antonucci , r. r. j. 1997 , , 488 , 621 veilleux , s. , shopbell , p. l. , rupke , d. s. , bland - hawthorn , j. , and cecil , g. 2003 , , 126 , 2185 wada , k. 1994 , , 46 , 165 wada , k. , & habe , a. 1992 , , 258 , 82 weiler , k. w. , panagia , n. , montes , m. j. , and sramek , r. a. 2002 , , 40 , 387 whitmore , b. c. , and schweizer , f. 1995 , , 109 , 960 wild , w. , et al .",
    "1992 , , 265 , 447 wilson , c. d. , scoville , n. z. , madden , s. c. , and charmandaris , v. 2000 , , 542 , 120 wilson , c. d. , scoville , n. z. , madden , s. c. , and charmandaris , v. 2003 , , 599 , 1049 wilson , t. l. , and rood , r. 1994 , , 32 , 191 zhang , q. , fall , s. m. , and whitmore , b. c. 2001 , , 561 , 727    lcc distance [ mpc ] & 17.95 & 1 + scale & 1=86 pc , @xmath125=1 kpc & + inclination [ deg . ] & 40 & 2 + major axis p.a .",
    "] & 220 & 2 + bar p.a .",
    "[ deg ] & 90 & 3,4,5 + nucleus r.a .",
    "( j2000 ) & 03333638 & 5,6,7 + & 3608257 & 5,6,7 + @xmath126 & 11.00 & 8 + hubble type & sb(s)b & 9    lcc date ( ut ) & 2003 - 12 - 23 & 2004 - 02 - 02 + array configuration & compact & extended + no .",
    "of antennas & 6 & 7 + @xmath127 & 0.08 & 0.05 + @xmath128(dsb)@xmath129 [ k ] & 210 & 160 + @xmath130(j0132169 ) [ jy ] & 1.38/1.35 & 1.28/1.20 + @xmath130(j0457234 ) [ jy ] & 1.28/1.20 & 0.77/0.75 + baseline length [ m ] & 6.864.9 & 11.4175.0 + integration time [ hr ] & 3.8 & 2.7 + center frequency , l / u [ ghz ] & + bandwidth [ ghz ] & + spectral resolution [ mhz ] & + mosaic center ( j2000 ) & + & + primary beam [ arcsec ] & + mosaic field of view [ arcsec@xmath131 & + rms noise [ mjy ] &    lll @xmath132 & @xmath133 & jy + @xmath134 & @xmath135 & jy + @xmath136 & @xmath137 & jy + @xmath138 & 42 & jy   + @xmath139 & 13 & k + @xmath140 & @xmath141 & + @xmath142 & @xmath143 &   + @xmath144 ( radio , lsr ) & 1618 & + r. a. dynamical center ( j2000 ) & @xmath145 @xmath146 @xmath147 & h , m , s + dec . dynamical center ( j2000 ) & 36 @xmath148 @xmath149 & , , + @xmath150 & @xmath151 & yr + @xmath152 & @xmath153 & + @xmath154 @xmath155 & 0.1 & + mean @xmath59 & 8.7 & + r.m.s .",
    "@xmath59 & 2.8 & + @xmath156 & @xmath157 & yr    cllccccccccccc nuc . & m1 & nucleus & & n & n & n & n & n & n & & 0.24 & @xmath158 & @xmath159 + a & & ssc 10 & & n & n & n & n & n & n & & 0.97 & & @xmath160 + & m2 & ssc 6 & & n & n & n & n & n & n & & & @xmath161 & @xmath162 + & m3 & ssc 3 & & n & n & n & n & n & n & & & @xmath163 & @xmath164 + d & m4 & & & y & y & y & y & n & y & & 1.47 & @xmath165 & + e & m5 & & & y & y & y ? & y & n & n & & 0.80 & @xmath166 & + f & & & & y ? & y ? & n & n & n & n & & 0.63 & & + g & m6 & & & y & y & y & y & n & y ? & & 1.56 & @xmath167 & + & m7 & & & n & n & n & n & n & n & & & & + h & m8 ? & & & y & y & n & y & n & n & & 0.58 & & + j & & & & n & n & n & n & n & n & & 0.37 & &    ccccccrrl 3639 & 187 & 1560 & 12.7 & 42 & 70 & @xmath168 & @xmath169 & d , m4 + 3661 & 160 & 1540 & 13.3 & 34 & 60 & @xmath170 & @xmath171 & e , m5 + 3677 & 185 & 1480 & 10.2 & 33 & 80 & @xmath172 & @xmath173 & g , m6 + 3676 & 236 & 1510 & 10.5 & 32 & 70 & @xmath174 & @xmath175 & h , m8 ? + 3664 & 280 & 1590 & 9.8 & 37 & 90 & @xmath176 & @xmath177 & f    lcccl distance & 17.9 & 21.5 & 4.5 & mpc + @xmath178 & 11.00 & 10.84 & 10.29 & + name(s ) & d / m4,e / m5,g / m6 & ws95 - 80/sgmc4 - 5 & m83 - 2 & + @xmath179 & 1.84.2 & 4.7 & 4.8 & mjy + @xmath180 & 0.71.5 & 2.6 & 0.11 & @xmath181 w + @xmath182 & 40140 & 70 & 1000 & mjy + @xmath183 & 1554 & 39 & 24 & @xmath181 w + @xmath184 & 1013 & 4 & 11 & k + @xmath185 $ ] & 911 & 3 & 7 & @xmath186 k + @xmath187 & 1.92.4 & 0.7 & 1.5 & @xmath188   + @xmath189 & 1.8 & 4.1 & 0.7 & @xmath186 pc"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have used the submillimeter array for the first interferometric co imaging toward the starburst - seyfert nucleus of the southern barred spiral galaxy ngc 1365 , which is one of the four galaxies within 30 mpc that have @xmath0 . our mosaic maps of , , and ( j=21 ) emission at up to 2  ( 200 pc ) resolutions have revealed a circumnuclear gas ring and several co clumps in the central 3 kpc . </S>",
    "<S> the molecular ring shows morphological and kinematical signs of bar - driven gas dynamics , and the region as a whole is found to follow the star formation laws of kennicutt . </S>",
    "<S> we have found that some of the gas clumps and peaks in co brightness temperature , which we collectively call co hotspots , coincide with the radio and mid - infrared sources previously identified as dust - enshrouded super star clusters . </S>",
    "<S> this hotspot - cluster association suggests that either the formation of the most massive clusters took place in large molecular gas concentrations ( of @xmath1  in 200 pc scales ) or the clusters have heated their ambient gas to cause or enhance the co hotspots . </S>",
    "<S> the active nucleus is in the region of weak co emission and is not associated with distinctive molecular gas properties . </S>"
  ]
}