{
  "article_text": [
    "to understand the properties of the environment of grbs is of great importance for at least three reasons .",
    "first , modelling the afterglow emission in a known environment would allow us to better understand the properties of collisionless shocks ; second , it is of great interest to understand how the ism reacts to the huge ionizing flux of the burst and its afterglow , that ionizes the gas and sublimates dust grains .",
    "finally , and most importantly , different progenitors are expected to be surrounded by sizably different environments , and therefore knowing the environment of grbs means identifying their progenitors .",
    "i will discuss in this paper three different classes of progenitors which , to some extent , encompass most of the dozens different varieties of progenitors proposed in the literature so far .",
    "these three will be called i ) binary mergers ; ii ) hypernov  and iii ) supranov .",
    "the first class contains all the progenitor models in which the burst is caused by the collapse of a binary system , in which one or both the components are degenerate .",
    "the familiar case is that of binary neutron stars ( eichler et al .",
    "this class predicts a uniform and low density environment , since binary systems travel far from their birth - place before merging . the burst should explode outside of the star formation cocoon where the binary system was born .",
    "sn - sn systems would collapse in the host galaxy ( @xmath0  @xmath1 , while sn - bh would explode in the igm .",
    "( @xmath2  @xmath1 ; perna & belczynski 2002 )    the second class is that of hypernov  ( macfadyen , woosley , & heger 2001 ) , now most popular . here",
    "the burst is supposed to explode at the end of the life of a massive , possibly rotating , star which has gone through a phase of heavy wind ejection , in order to get rid of its hydrogen  and possibly helium  envelope .",
    "such a progenitor , at the moment of the burst explosion , should be surrounded by a complex environment . at small",
    "radii ( up to @xmath3  pc ) the pre - explosion stellar wind dominates , with a density scaling with the radius as @xmath4 . at larger distances ,",
    "a rather sharp transition connects the wind with the more uniform density provided by the molecular cloud . a large and uniform density ( @xmath5  @xmath1 ) is then expected at large radii .",
    "the properties of the environment of supranov  are easily the most complex of the lot . in supranov ,",
    "the grb explosion takes place inside a relatively young supernova remnant ( snr ) , generated by the explosion of a supernova ( sn ) that took place several months to several years prior to the grb ( vietri & stella 1998 ) . the close environment of the burst progenitor is therefore the inside of a snr , possibly modified by the emission of a highly magnetized pulsar ( knigl & granot 2002 ) , and likely elongated along the rotational axis of the progenitor star . at the edge of the snr",
    ", a condensation of matter is expected in the form of a shell , possibly clumped similarly to the crab snr .",
    "the distance of this shell from the burst explosion site depends on the time delay between the sn and grb explosions and can influence the fireball dynamics as well as the reprocessing of the burst radiation ( see below ) .",
    "narrow emission features in the x - ray afterglow of grbs have been claimed in at least five events to date ( see , for a review , lazzati 2002 and references therein ) . similarly to the case of agns , the presence and evolution of emission features can be used to map the environment of the burst itself with the reverberation mapping technique .",
    "its application , even if in principle extremely powerful , requires however a data quality which is far beyond what we can hope to have now and in the near future in grbs . we have in fact to deal with moderately significant detections ( still under heavy debate and criticism ) , and it is not conceivable to measure the evolution of the intensity of these features .",
    "the presence of the lines is not , however , meaningless .",
    "lines with the detected properties can not in fact be produced in a low density environment .",
    "consider an iron @xmath6 line with @xmath7  erg  s@xmath8 observed for a time scale @xmath9  day . since the line emission can not be beamed ( ghisellini et al .",
    "2002 ) the total number of line photons produced is @xmath10 . in a low density environment , recombination is not effective , and this implies a total number of iron atoms @xmath11 ; since an isolated iron ion can produce up to @xmath12 @xmath6 line photons due to auger auto - ionization .",
    "considering light - travel effects , one can set a limit to the size of the emitting region by requiring that the total energy in line photons is not larger than the total energy in the burst itself : @xmath13  cm , where a total energy in line photons @xmath14  erg has been assumed .",
    "this implies @xmath15  @xmath1 .",
    "the importance of this limit is in the fact that the fireball can not be propagating in such a large density , since a non relativistic transition would take place at @xmath16  day .",
    "such an early transition has never been observed ( with the possible exception of grb990705 , lazzati et al .",
    "2001 ) . explaining this apparent contradiction is the riddle to be solved in order to explain the origin of the lines .",
    "two possible solutions have been found , to date .",
    "the two solutions to the high density problem outlined above can be identified through the way in which the duration of the line is explained . in the first case",
    "the line is thought to be produced in an extended region surrounding the burst progenitor , whose size is large enough to make the line emission observable for @xmath16  day due to light - travel effects .",
    "this solution is called `` geometry dominated '' ( gd ; see left panel of fig .  1 ) .",
    "in order to avoid the density problem , the high density material has to be asymmetrically distributed .",
    "examples of such an asymmetric distribution are an elliptical , pierced of funnel - like snr ( lazzati , campana , & ghisellini 1999 ; vietri et al .",
    "2001 ) or an extended disk or torus surrounding the progenitor ( bttcher 2000 ) .",
    "the continuum radiation that provides the ionizing photons is that of the burst and afterglow itself ( lazzati , ramirez - ruiz , & rees 2002a ) .",
    "this line mechanisms is associated to supranov , since the sn explosion naturally provides the high density material at the correct distance from the burster .",
    "an alternative solution to the density problem can be envisaged if the high density material is confined in a very small and dense region , which is left behind by the fireball at a very early stage ( rees & meszaros 2000 ; see the right panel of fig .  1 ) . in this case , however , the emitting material can not be illuminated by the grb and afterglow , and a tail of emission from the inner engine has to be postulated .",
    "for this reason , the line emission lasts as long as the engine is active and this class of models is called `` engine dominated '' ( ed ) .",
    "line production in ed scenario is associated to the hypernova progenitor class , since the dying star naturally provides the compact high density material .",
    "it is therefore clear that an indication of the progenitor nature would come by understanding which of the two scenarii for line emission is correct . without invoking extremely accurate datasets , some key observations hopefully performed in the near future",
    "should be able to clarify the matter . in the gd - supranova scenario , in fact ,",
    "the observed line properties strongly depend on the time delay between the sn and grb explosions .",
    "in particular , the detection of co lines is possible only in this case and should be at some point observed , for a grb - sn delay @xmath17  d. in addition , the duration of the line emission is in this model related to @xmath18 , and therefore , a correlation between the line variability and the line identifications should be possible . presently , the sparse evidences point to a gd scenario ( lazzati et al .",
    "2002a ) , but more accurate measurements are required in order to draw any strong conclusion .",
    "in alternative to the detection of emission features , the detection and characterization of absorption features has been proposed as a tool to investigate the burst environment .",
    "absorption by itself , however , is sensitive to the column density ( @xmath19 ) along the line of sight , and not to the local density , which is the goal of our discussion .",
    "this limitation can be overcome if the absorption process is destructive .",
    "if , in fact , the absorption of a photon causes the destruction of the absorber , the opacity of the intervening medium decreases in time , at a speed which is faster the closer is the absorber to the grb .",
    "detecting a variable absorption can therefore give us precious informations on the radial density and structure of the medium surrounding the grb .",
    "different absorption effects have been suggested as a tool : resonant optical lines ( perna & loeb 1998 ) , x - ray photoionization edges ( lazzati , perna , & ghisellini 2001 ) , x - ray continuum absorption ( lazzati & perna 2002 ) and dust extinction ( waxman & draine 2000 ; perna , lazzati , & fiore 2003 ) .",
    "let us discuss them starting from the lowest frequencies .",
    "suppose the burst progenitor , as natural in the hyper- and supranova scenario , explodes within a molecular cloud or , generally speaking , a dense region of gas and dust grains .",
    "the dust grains will absorb near uv light from the burst and afterglow , as well as x - ray photons , and will be heated to large @xmath20  k temperatures as a result .",
    "the grain will also cool by black - body radiation and , if this is not enough to keep the temperature low , by sublimation of its external layers . as a result",
    ", the grain will be completely dissolved after a certain lapse of time , which is smaller than the burst duration out to distances of the order of several parsecs .",
    "an important characteristic of this process is that the sublimation rate is sensitive to the optical flux ( and not to the fluence ) and therefore most of the dust evaporation takes place during the most luminous phase of the grb in the optical : the optical flash .",
    "for this reason , detecting a reddening evolution is extremely hard .",
    "it requires multiwavelength observations at times smaller than the peak time of the optical flash which , for the only case studied so far ( albeit with unfiltered images ) , is as short as @xmath21  s. this may explain why , even if reddening and dust destruction have been claimed for many grb afterglows , this phenomenon has never been caught `` on the act '' .",
    "an alternative dust destruction process sensitive to the x - ray fluence has been recently proposed .",
    "is is based on the coulomb explosion ( ce ) effect ( fruchter , krolik , & rhoads 2001 ) .",
    "this effect is in competition with the ion field emission ( ife ; see e.g. perna & lazzati 2002 ) , which is also based on x - ray photoionization of the grain and can quench the ce completely .",
    "it is not clear whether ce or ife dominate , but their observable consequences are different .",
    "should any reddening evolution be detected during the afterglow phase , it would certainly point to a fluence sensitive mechanism and therefore confirm the role of ce in the grain sublimation .",
    "this could give important insight in our understanding of the structure of cosmic dust at high redshift .      the other process that can influence the opacity of the intervening medium is photoionization .",
    "the evolution of the opacity due to photoionization can be observed in the optical as a reduction of the equivalent width ( ew ) of resonant lines and in the x - rays as reduction of the continuum absorption or of the opacity of a single photoionization edge . since photoionization , for any reasonable density of the intervening medium , is a destructive process",
    "( recombination times are much longer than several days or weeks ) and is sensitive to the photon fluence , its effects can be observed easily during the afterglow phase .",
    "it is extremely important to stress that in order to understand any possible observation ( or non observation ) of opacity evolution , an accurate knowledge of the spectral fluence of the whole grb+afterglow phenomenon up to the moment of the observed evolution is required .",
    "it is not possible to constrain the properties of the absorber with the mere knowledge of the afterglow flux at the moment in which the opacity evolution was detected .",
    "this is the main reason why i consider soft x - ray opacity evolution ( or @xmath19 evolution ) my best bet as a probe of the grb environment .",
    "in fact , it is much easier to know the fluence of a grb in the x - rays than it is in the optical and therefore to constrain the amount of evaporation already occurred in the x - rays than in the optical band .    in order to translate possible evidences of opacity evolution into properties of the ambient medium , time",
    "dependent simulations are required .",
    "as it has been shown by lazzati & perna ( 2003 ) such simulations must include all the processes discussed above , since their effect intertwines and the result depends on the superposition of them . in fig .  2 i show the results of two simulations from the code of perna & lazzati ( 2002 ) , for a spherical uniform absorbing cloud of radius @xmath22  cm .",
    "the average luminosity of the burst in the [ 1  ev100  kev ] range was @xmath23  erg  s@xmath8 and the cloud initial column density was @xmath24  @xmath25 , with a standard dust - to - gas ratio .",
    "what can be drawn by comparing the left and right panels of the two figures is that i ) the rate of dust sublimation depends strongly on the spectral shape of the prompt emission and ii ) the decrease rate of x - ray opacity is less sensitive to it .",
    "variable absorption techniques have been applied to a handful of grb and afterglow measurements to obtain constraints on the cloud properties . in the optical mirabal et al .",
    "( 2002 ) , using the constancy of the ew of optical lines in two spectra of grb  010222 , derived some constraints on its environment . in the x - rays ,",
    "lazzati & perna ( 2002 ) constrain the environment of two grbs by modelling the possible ( a @xmath26 effect ) evolution of soft x - ray absorption during their prompt emission , while lazzati et al .",
    "( 2001 ) derived the size , density and clumpiness of the surroundings of grb  990705 modelling the transient feature in its prompt x - ray spectrum ( amati et al . 2000 ) .",
    "all these x - ray measurements constrain the ambient medium to be compact ( a fraction of a parsec ) and fairly dense ( up to densities @xmath27  @xmath1 in the clumps ) .",
    "the variable absorption techniques discussed above yield a model independent estimate of the ambient density and profile , but are hampered by the lack of accurate measurements of variable absorptions . an alternative way of measuring densities and density profiles for afterglows is provided by the modelling of the afterglow emission itself .",
    "in fact , the intensity and position of the spectral breaks of an afterglow , coupled with their temporal evolution , provide us with enough information to constrain most of the afterglow parameters , included the density and density profiles of the ambient medium .",
    "such an estimate can be made with a sufficiently large number of data points of great quality .",
    "however , it is highly model dependent , and any numerical value is precise as long as the fireball model is considered accurate .",
    "limitation of the model are its extremely simplified treatment of the magnetic field generation and propagation ( rossi & rees 2003 ) and the constancy of the equipartition parameters .",
    "figure  3 shows a collection of measurements of densities of the environment as a function of the distance from the grb site at which the measure is applicable . to date is not possible to draw an unique conclusion from the collection of all measurements .",
    "in fact , measurement derived from the modelling of the afterglow lightcurves suggest a low density uniform medium ( panaitescu & kumar 2002 ) possibly with moderate clumping ( lazzati et al .",
    "they are applicable to large distances ( @xmath16  pc ) , but the indication of uniformity allow us to extend their validity to smaller scales .",
    "consistent measures are obtained by late measurement of the fireball evolution , such as relativistic non - relativistic transitions and radio calorimetry ( frail , waxman , & kulkarni 2000 ) .    on the other hand , all the model independent measures of density , based on emission lines and/or transient absorption features , yield environments constrained to be dense and highly clumped at small scales ( tenth of pc ) .",
    "both methods have their pros and cons .",
    "methods based on afterglow modelling are intrinsically model dependent and therefore require an independent assessment of their validity . on the other hand , methods based on variable absorption are now applied to low quality datasets , and therefore the obtained results are affected by large uncertainties , both statistical and systematic .    with the advent of future missions and the increased quality of the available data , we can foresee that the latter methods will become more and more reliable , and hopefully in the near future we will be able to constrain the grb environment with absorption measures , plug these results in the afterglow modelling and use the afterglow measurements as a formidable laboratory for the shock physics and hydrodynamics .",
    "amati , l.  et al .",
    "2000 , science , volume 290 , issue 5493 , pp .  953 - 955 ( 2000 ) . , 290 , 953 dado , s. , dar , a.  & de rujula , a. 2002 , apj in press ( astro - ph/0207015 ) eichler , d. , livio , m. , piran , t. , & schramm , d.  n.  1989 , nature , 340 , 126 frail , d.  a. , waxman , e. , & kulkarni , s.  r.  2000 , , 537 , 191 fruchter , a. , krolik , j.  h. , & rhoads , j.  e.  2001 , , 563 , 597 ghisellini , g. , lazzati , d. , rossi , e. , & rees , m.  j.  2002 , , 389 , l33",
    "k \" onigl , a.  & granot , j.  2002 , , 574 , 134 lazzati , d. , campana , s. , & ghisellini , g.  1999 , , 304 , l31 lazzati , d. , ghisellini , g. , amati , l. , frontera , f. , vietri , m. , & stella , l.  2001 , , 556 , 471 lazzati , d. , perna , r. , & ghisellini , g.  2001 , , 325 , l19 lazzati , d. , 2002 , to be published in beaming and jets in gamma ray bursts , ed .",
    "r. ouyed , j. hjorth &  .",
    "nordlund ( astro - ph/0211174 ) lazzati , d.  & perna , r.  2002 , , 330 , 383 lazzati , d. , ramirez - ruiz , e. , & rees , m.  j.  2002a , , 572 , l57 lazzati , d. , rossi , e. , covino , s. , ghisellini , g. , & malesani , d.  2002b , , 396 , l5 lazzati , d. & perna , r. , 2003 , mnras in press ( astro - ph/0212105 ) macfadyen , a.  i. , woosley , s.  e. , & heger , a.  2001 , , 550 , 410 mirabal , n.  et al .  2002 , , 578 , 818 panaitescu , a.  & kumar , p.  2002",
    ", , 571 , 779 perna , r.  & loeb , a.  1998 , , 501 , 467 perna , r.  & belczynski , k.  2002 , , 570 , 252 perna , r.  & lazzati , d.  2002 , , 580 , 261 perna , r. , lazzati , d. , & fiore , f. , 2003 , apj in press ( astro - ph/0211235 ) rees , m.  j.  & m ' esz ' aros , p.  2000 , , 545",
    ", l73 vietri , m.  & stella , l.  1998 , , 507 , l45 vietri , m. , ghisellini , g. , lazzati , d. , fiore , f. , & stella , l.  2001 , , 550 , l43 waxman , e.  & draine , b.  t.  2000 , , 537 , 796"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the properties of the ambient medium in which grbs go off are an important piece of the puzzle , not only as an issue in itself , but because of their link with the nature of the progenitor . in this review , </S>",
    "<S> i describe and critically comment the various experiments proposed to study the burst environment . </S>",
    "<S> i discuss emission and absorption features techniques and compare their results to afterglow modelling . </S>",
    "<S> a consistent picture can not be drawn , and i suggest that the evaporation of the soft x - ray absorbing column is the more promising of the tools , even though the fast reaction of swift is required in order to obtain data of sufficiently high quality </S>",
    "<S> .    # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}