{
  "article_text": [
    "gaia has an extremely broad variety of scientific goals , see e.g.  esa 2000 and many papers in the present volume .",
    "the central ones , however , are    * measuring absolute parallaxes for the radius and luminosity calibration of stars and for the cosmic distance scale . * measuring space velocities of many stars for the investigation of the structure and evolution of our galaxy , the milky way .",
    "the major limitation of gaia s ability to do reach these objectives is technical measurement noise .",
    "it is determined by the size of the optics , the mission duration , the efficiency of gaia s ccds , the data reduction procedures , etc .",
    "but in addition to this purely technical noise there are also astronomical noise sources , i.e.  genuine fluctuations of star positions .",
    "there are three major categories of known effects that may create positional noise :    * surface structure of observed objects , including spots and outer convection zones ( granulation ) in the case of stars , and asymmetric shapes and albedo structures in the case of asteroids . * gravitational lensing . *",
    "stellar multiplicity , including planetary systems .    detecting and measuring such astrometric fluctuations constitutes an important part of gaia s scientific motivation and outputs : binary motion measured by gaia is the most powerful foreseeable method to find a big unbiased sample of extrasolar giant gas planets , gravitational microlensing observed by gaia is the only known way to precisely determine the low - mass end of the stellar mass function in the solar neigbourhood ( belokurov&evans 2002 ) , etc .    but viewed from the basic goal of measuring star parallaxes and space velocities in our galaxy , such effects are just noise which may limit the ultimately attainable precision of the target quantities parallax and proper motion .",
    "thus , if we were to assign a motto to the present paper , it would be : `` one person s signal is another person s noise '' . in the following sections we try to give an assessment of the significance of the various known effects that may produce astrometric fluctuations . in some circumstances they can become really disturbing , as we will see .    before discussing the above - mentioned effects we present a few general considerations ( section  2 ) , and in closing we very briefly discuss possible other effects ( section  7 ) .",
    "all three categories of effects mentioned in the introduction produce photometric disturbances as well as astrometric ones .",
    "this paper concentrates on the astrometric effects .",
    "but it should be kept in mind that the quasi - simultaneous photometric measurements of gaia will in general give important clues to the underlying cause of any detected astrometric noise .",
    "parallax measurements are disturbed by any astrometric noise that can be interpreted as a fourier component at 1year period ( and at the correct phase and position angle aspect ratio for a parallax ellipse ) .",
    "it is not needed that the true astrometric displacement has a component at that frequency , due to the convolution of the true motion s fourier spectrum with the strange sensitivity function generated by gaia s sky scanning law .",
    "truly 1-year periodic motions will be the worst case , of course .",
    "similarly , space velocity measurements are disturbed by anything that mimics a mean motion over gaia s mission duration . in other words , anything that gives a zero - frequency component after convolution with the sensitivity function . again",
    ", truly constant motions will give the biggest effects .",
    "we stated that the goal of the present paper is to give an ` assessment ' rather than a full quantitative analysis .",
    "this is for two reasons : firstly , for some of the effects a precise quantitative estimation is presently not possible .",
    "secondly , it would be misleading to simply give a median or rms value . the size distribution of the angular disturbances does not fall off steeply at large values , unlike e.g.  a gaussian : a given linear displacement of the photocentre in space leads to an angular displacement that is inversely proportional to distance .",
    "thus , for a roughly homogeneous distribution of the observed stars in space , the size distribution of the angular displacements falls off as their fourth power . such a distribution has 0.15  percent remaining cases ( i.e.  @xmath01.5  million stars out of gaia s one billion ) beyond 5  times its rms value , while a gaussian distribution has only about 10@xmath1 cases ( i.e.  about 100 stars for gaia ) beyond 5  times its rms value .",
    "the ` tail ' of large values is caused by nearby stars .",
    "stellar convection zones reaching up to the photosphere cause the irregular and time - varying surface brightness pattern called granulation .",
    "it produces a random offset of the centre of light of a stellar disk ( which is observed by gaia ) from the centre of mass of the star ( which would define an undisturbed parallax ellipse and galactic space velocity ) .",
    "the size of the astrometric effect is easy to quantify , as shown by svensson&ludwig ( 2004 ) .",
    "its time scale is the convection cell lifetime at the surface .",
    "1 shows a simulation of the astrometric offset , derived from a radiation - hydrodynamical model of a red giant star by svensson&ludwig .",
    "the surface of a convective star is fully covered with convection cells .",
    "each individual cell produces an rms photocentre offset from the star s centre of gravity of @xmath2 times the radius @xmath3 of the star .",
    "so , for the average over @xmath4 statistically independent cells of typical size @xmath5 and brightness contrast @xmath6 we have approximately @xmath7 therefore the radius of the star cancels out : the astrometric disturbance depends on @xmath5 only ( the contrast @xmath6 in the optical range always being of the order of unity ) .",
    "the cell size is proportional to the surface pressure scale height , which in turn is inversely proportional to the surface gravity ( with a small dependence on the mean molecular weight ) .",
    "thus the rms astrometric displacement for any star with granulation can be expected to be inversely proportional to log  g. this simple analytical consideration of svensson&ludwig is fully confirmed by their numerical simulations which are summarized in fig .  2 .",
    "that figure clearly shows that the granulation noise is negligible for white dwarfs ( logg=8 ) , main - sequence stars ( logg=3 ... 5 ) and cepheids ( logg=2 ) . for a red giant star like that of fig .  1 ( t@xmath8=3676k , logg=1 ) the effect is of the order of 1mau  =  10@xmath9 astronomical units , and its timescale is of the order of a day .",
    "this is measurable for nearby giants ( since 1  mau translates into 10microarcsec ( @xmath10as ) at 100pc ) , but is still irrelevant .",
    "however , for the parallaxes of mira stars and cool supergiants ( logg around zero ) it becomes problematic : firstly , the rms displacement approaches a considerable fraction of an astronomical unit .",
    "but even worse , its typical time scale gets close to one year .",
    "so it may create significant parallax errors . for space velocity studies",
    "it is irrelevant for all types of stars because even 0.1au/5years is only 100 m/s .",
    "the astrometric effects of star spots ( and other magnetic surface features ) are hard to quantify statistically , simply because the statistics of star spots are insufficiently known .",
    "the most specific statements on the distribution of numbers , sizes etc . versus star type that we could find in the literature ( e.g.  in various papers in strassmeier et al .",
    "2002 ) :    * `` ... are common among cool stars with outer convection zones . ''",
    "* complaints : all available data are strongly biased towards very active stars .",
    "* discussions about supergiants : do we see dark spots or bright cells ?    in the absence of good statistics one can still get a semi - quantitative assessment by looking at some representative cases .    * for the sun , a spot covering @xmath11=1  percent of a hemisphere is unusually large . such a spot can produce a _ maximum _",
    "astrometric offset of 0.5@xmath12=2.510@xmath13au ; this is completely negligible . * for a solar - type star with a huge spot the maximum displacement may reach up to 0.5@xmath14=2.510@xmath9au . for the sake of parallax or space velocity measurements",
    "this is still negligible , but it is clearly measurable with gaia in some cases : 2.510@xmath9au translate into 100@xmath10as at 25pc . the periodic displacement of the centre of light of a rotating spotted star might then be mistaken as the gravitational pull of a low - mass companion . *",
    "k giants are roughly ten times as big as solar - type stars",
    ". large spots on their surface will thus be readily detectable astrometrically by gaia",
    ". they will still be quite harmless for the measurement of parallaxes and space motions .",
    "but the danger of confusion with low - mass companions will be more severe . * for supergiants and m giants ,",
    "having radii of the order of 100@xmath15 ( and more ) , the effect may reach 0.25au ( or more ) .",
    "if its time dependence should happen to mimick a parallax motion , very significant distance errors may result .",
    "the maximum possible effect will rarely occur , but a noticeable extra parallax noise can be expected for these stars if they carry large spots ( or large convection cells , see previous section ) .",
    "0.25au/5years translate into 50@xmath10as / year or 250 m/s at 1kpc .    in closing this section",
    "let us add three remarks : 1 ) big star spots are connected with brightness changes , so the possible confusion with low - mass companions or parallax motion can be ( largely ) avoided by gaia s parallel photometry .",
    "2 ) plagues tend to be larger than spots ( at least in the case of the sun ) , but have much smaller contrast ; so they should have smaller effects .",
    "3 ) the magnetically most active star types known , by dra stars and rs cvn stars , are small in size and are quickly rotating ; so their spots are astrometrically irrelevant .",
    "gravitational lensing occurs when a gravitating body ( the `` lens '' ) comes close to the line of sight between a light - emitting body ( the `` source '' ) and an observer .",
    "it generally leads to a splitting and focussing of the light path between source and observer .",
    "the observer then sees two ( or more ) images of the source , usually at higher total brightness than without the lens .",
    "the brightness increase due to gravitational lensing has been systematically searched for and detected by large specialized surveys like ogle and macho . for a point - like lens the ( two - dimensional )",
    "astrometric displacement of the centre of light @xmath16 at time @xmath17 is given by ( see e.g.  walker 1995 ) : @xmath18 ^ 2 + 2}\\ ] ] where the arrows indicate small tangential vectors on the celestial sphere , @xmath19 is the angular separation of the ( unlensed ) source from the lens at time @xmath17 , and @xmath20 its absolute value .",
    "the einstein radius @xmath21 depends on the lens mass @xmath22 by @xmath23 where @xmath24 and @xmath25 are the parallaxes of the source and lens , respectively , and ` mas ' is the abbreviation for milliarcsecond .",
    "the time dependence of @xmath26 is due to the difference of proper motion and parallactic shift between source and lens .",
    "gravitational lensing comes in three observational `` flavours '' :    * macrolensing : the effect is called macrolensing if the separation between the split images is large enough that they can be directly resolved , i.e. if it approaches the level of an arcsec . in practice",
    "this happens only if the lens is of galaxy - sized mass .",
    "it leads to the well - known multiple images of quasars behind foreground galaxy clusters , of which gaia will observe a considerable number . the opposite case , i.e. when the split images are unresolved , is called microlensing .",
    "* strong microlensing : the effect is called strong microlensing when @xmath27 is of the order of the einstein radius @xmath21 .",
    "the displacement of the centre of light then is of the order of @xmath21 as well .",
    "* weak microlensing : when @xmath27 is much larger than @xmath21 the effect is called weak microlensing . in this case",
    "the displacement of the centre of light is of the order of @xmath28 .",
    "the subject of astrometric microlensing with gaia has been thorougly investigated by belokurov&evans ( 2002 ) . from extensive simulations they find that strong microlensing will produce very significant and astrophysically extremely useful effects , but",
    "at the same time they find that it is very rare .",
    "they define a significance level by requesting that the maximum astrometric displacement be @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is gaia s ( magnitude - dependent ) measuring precision from a single field - of - view transit of a star , and that this maximum displacement occurs within gaia s mission duration of five years .    from this criterion",
    "they find that one out of every 40000 gaia stars will be significantly lensed during the mission ( in the microlensing jargon : the optical depth is 2.510@xmath13 ) .",
    "in other words : gaia will observe about 25000 highly significant events , with about 2500 of them yielding precise lens masses .",
    "the most important lenses are found to be low - mass stars within a few hundred pc from the sun .",
    "the most important sources are disk and bulge stars several  kpc away .    to give just a few specific numbers : the maximum positional shift during a microlensing event occurs when @xmath31 .",
    "its absolute value then is @xmath32 , which for a distant source amounts to about 1100  @xmath10as for an 0.12solar - mass lens at 100pc , and to 350  @xmath10as for an 0.12solar - mass lens at 1kpc .",
    "the astrometric appearance of a microlensing event is as follows ( fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] ) : over a few years the photocentre of the source moves away from the unlensed position with increasing speed , then within a few months it performs a quick `` swing '' to the opposite side , and finally it moves back towards the unlensed position with quickly decreasing speed .",
    "belokurov&evans find that strong microlensing , being so rare , is of negligible effect for the overall error budget of gaia .",
    "in the few cases where its size is significant it will rarely be mixed up with a proper motion or parallax effect .",
    "weak microlensing , on the other hand , is ubiquitous , but small .",
    "the typical angular displacement of a gaia star by weak microlensing is of the order of 1@xmath10as , with a secular change of the order of 0.010.1@xmath10as / year .",
    "quasars were once thought to be perfect inertial reference points , with zero parallaxes and proper motions .",
    "but in fact they are not .",
    "a proper - motion scatter somewhere in the range 10100@xmath10as / year must be expected for them , from a variety of causes ( quite a number of publications relevant for high - precision astrometry of quasars are cited and summarized in the gaia concept and technology study report ( esa 2000 ) , p. 109 - 119 ) :    * random proper motions due to relativistic jets , up to 500@xmath10as / year , but mostly small ( extra noise ; no bias ) * systematic proper motions of 3@xmath10as / year on average due to the galactocentric acceleration of the sun ( bias , but no problem ; will be modelled ) * image centroiding problems due to underlying galaxy ( extra noise ; no bias ) * image centroiding problems due to non - stellar spectra ( imperfect instrumental chromaticity correction , extra noise ; no bias ) * random proper motions due to weak microlensing by galactic stars ( typically 0.010.1@xmath10as / year , negligible ; no bias )    the above items are present for all quasars .",
    "those quasars which are macrolensed by intervening galaxies ( about one percent of all , i.e. several thousand out of gaia s total of 500000 or so ) suffer additional astrometric noise :    * image centroiding problems due to non - pointlike appearance ( extra noise ; no bias ) * time variability of the macrolensing due to relative tangential motion of quasar and lens , leading to changes of the relative brightness of the quasar images ( random proper motions , often one or a few @xmath10as / year , up to dozens of @xmath10as / year ; no bias ) * time variability of the macrolensing due to strong microlensing by individual stars in the lens galaxy , again leading to changes of the relative brightness of the quasar images ( character and size of the effect as in the previous item )    quasar astrometry will be the central tool to make gaia s rigid astrometric sphere kinematically non - rotating , by using the quasars as a grid of sources with `` zero '' proper motion . all the above effects ( except the galactocentric acceleration of the sun , see bastian 1995 ) will add to the measurement noise in quasar proper motions , making the quasars less favourable as might naively be expected . fortunately , the extra noise is at most as large as the measurement noise ( the latter being of the order of 100200@xmath10as / year for quasars of 18th to 20th magnitude ) , and will cause no bias .",
    "concerning parallaxes , gaia intends to produce absolute parallaxes without external reference .",
    "however , the quasars will provide a useful data set to check the success in this respect .",
    "again , the above - listed effects will cause extra noise , but essentially no bias .",
    "it should be mentioned that sazhin et al .",
    "( 2001 ) recently discovered that on parallaxes the weak microlensing effect does not create just an extra noise , but also a bias . due to this effect",
    "all quasars are expected to exhibit very small ( typically a few nano - arcsec ) negative parallaxes .",
    "sazhin et al .",
    "demonstrate that in exceptional cases ( perhaps one percent of all quasars , maybe less ) this negative pseudo - parallax may reach 1@xmath10as",
    ". however , its typical value will be irrelevant for gaia .",
    "the average value can be roughly estimated to be between 10  and 30nanoarcsec . with 500000 quasar parallaxes individually measured to 100@xmath10as precision ( optimistic for gaia )",
    ", the random error of their weighted average will be of the order of 150nanoarcsec .",
    "so the bias due to weak microlensing is negligible .",
    "orbital motion of double and multiple stars causes measurable deviations of the observed stellar positions from a pure proper motion and parallax model which , if undetected or at least unmodelled , will create errors in the measured parallaxes and space velocities . as we can safely assume binary orbits to be randomly oriented in space and randomly phased in time ,",
    "we need not fear any biases to be introduced in this way . if the binary nature of the motion is detected and correctly modelled it will not even create extra noise ( but will still weaken the determination of parallaxes and proper motions due to the increased number of unknowns to be solved for ) .",
    "the effects of stellar multiplicity are being carefully studied by the gaia double and multiple stars working group , see the paper by sderhjelm in this volume and references therein .",
    "extensive simulations of gaia measurements on double stars , and of binary detection and orbit modelling performed on those measurements , have been carried out .",
    "they resulted in the general picture summarized in figs.4 and5 .",
    "fig.4 shows the statistics of errors in the measured tangential velocities ( of the simulated stars ) created by undetected binarity as function of orbital period , for bright stars only ( magnitude  10 to  12.5 ) .",
    "the median error due to measurement noise is indicated as a thin horizontal line . at very long periods gaia",
    "can not detect the orbital motion ( but generally sees the two binary components as separate light sources ) .",
    "the extra space velocity errors are not important because the orbital velocities are very small . at successively",
    "shorter periods ( down to about one hundred years ) the orbital motion increases on a keplerian slope ( @xmath33 ) , but still can not be distinguished from rectilinear motion in space .",
    "the typical error now is much larger than the measurement noise . at periods shorter than a few dozen years",
    ", gaia quickly starts to recognize the orbital acceleration .",
    "this creates the prominent gap in the cloud of points in fig .",
    "4 . for periods around the mission lifetime of gaia",
    "there are practically no undetected binaries .    at still shorter periods",
    "the detection efficiency becomes worse again because the astrometric size of the orbits shrinks below the detectability limit .",
    "the space velocity errors introduced by the binarity are nevertheless small because gaia sees the motion averaged over many orbital revolutions .",
    "5 shows an analogous plot for faint stars ( magnitude  17.5 to  20 ) .",
    "the same mechanisms as in fig .",
    "4 are in effect , but the median measurement error ( thin horizontal line ) is about two powers of ten higher than for the bright stars .",
    "this has two independent reasons : firstly , the ( angular ) measurements of the faint stars are about an order of magnitude less precise .",
    "secondly , the faint stars are typically about an order of magnitude farther away from the sun . as a consequence",
    "the binarity - induced errors are almost negligible compared to the measurement noise .",
    "we note that figs.4 and  5 are based on a now obsolete gaia hardware configuration and on a slightly too optimistic binary detection efficiency estimate .",
    "an updated study by s. sderhjelm ( private communication ) yielded differences in the details , but no changes in the basic aspects and conclusions .",
    "updated graphics may possibly be included in the paper by sderhjelm in this volume .",
    "binary motion will likewise produce extra noise in the determination of parallaxes .",
    "this is relevant for fairly short orbital periods only .",
    "recent simulations by s. sderhjelm ( unpublished ) show that for moderately bright stars ( brighter than magnitude  15.5 ) the typical effect of undetected binarity is of the order of one or two dozen  @xmath10as , i.e.  comparable to the measurement noise . for periods close to one year ( @xmath3410percent )",
    "some parts of the orbital motion become indistiguishable from parallactic shifts . very big parallax errors ( up to hundreds of @xmath10as ) occur in such cases .",
    "the big errors occur even for _ detected _ binaries of about 1  year period , because in these cases the derived orbital parameters become strongly correlated with parallax .",
    "there are a number of other physical effects that can create fluctuations of star positions . in this section",
    "we very briefly list them and comment on them .    * asymmetric outbursts , gas jets etc .",
    ": rare , except for nearby quasars , where motions of a few hundred @xmath10as in a few months may occur .",
    "* interstellar and interplanetary scintillation : important in radio astronomy but negligible in the optical ( inversely proportional to the frequency of the observed radiation ) . * primordial gravitational radiation : predicted to have been produced by cosmic inflation , but at amplitudes many orders of magnitude too small to be observed by gaia . * local gravitational radiation , e.g. from neutron star or black - hole binaries : highly improbable ; would require such a binary to move extremely close to the line of sight of a background source .",
    "* unexpected effects ? going to entirely new realms of precision and/or numbers of measurements always bears the possibility to discover completely unexpected phenomena .",
    "if this should happen for gaia , it might  depending on the size of the unexpected effect  either be welcomed as a great scientific achievement , or regarded as a nuisance for measuring stars and the galaxy , or even both .",
    "in summary , there are a number of astronomical phenomena that produce genuine fluctuations of star positions comparable to or larger than gaia s measurement noise , at least for parts of gaia s target celestial objects .",
    "* binarity is a major problem for the astrometry of bright stars",
    ". it will significantly impair the kinematics of stellar aggregates with small velocity dispersion ( small star clusters , associations , star - forming regions ) .",
    "it will also produce a small proportion of grossly wrong parallaxes . *",
    "stellar granulation is no problem except for a small number of cool supergiants .",
    "it will be a serious problem for e.g. mira star parallaxes .",
    "* star spots are hard to assess quantitatively",
    ". they may be problematic for supergiants and very cool giants .",
    "* gravitational microlensing will not be a problem , although thousands of highly significant microlensing events will be detected by gaia . *",
    "gravitational macrolensing of quasars will add some noise to their ( otherwise `` zero '' ) proper motions and parallaxes .",
    "we would like to thank h. ludwig for providing a draft paper before its publication , s. jordan for critically reading the manuscript , and m. perryman , w. evans , s. sderhjelm , v. belokurov and l. lindegren for data and graphics .",
    "bastian , u. 1995 in : future possibilities for space astrometry , eds .",
    "m.a.c perryman and f.v .",
    "leeuwen , esa - sp 379 , 99 belokurov , v. a. , evans , n.w .",
    "2002 , mnras 331 , 649 esa 2000 , gaia concept and technology study report , esa - sci(2000)4 sazhin , m.v . ,",
    "zharov , v.e . ,",
    "kalinina , t.a .",
    "2001 , mnras , 323 , 952 sderhjelm , s. 2005 census of binaries  the big picture , this volume strassmeier , k.g .",
    "2002 , proceedings of the first potsdam thinkshop on sunspots and starspots , an 323 , no.34 svensson , f. , ludwig , h .- g .",
    "2004 , in : proceedings of the 13th cool stars workshop , hamburg , 59 july 2004 , eds .",
    "f. favata et al . , in press walker , m.a .",
    "1995 , apj , 453 , 37"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we give an assessment of the significance of various known effects which may produce genuine fluctuations of star positions comparable to or larger than gaia s measurement noise , and which thus may limit the ultimately reachable precision of the determination of parallaxes and proper motions . </S>",
    "<S> stellar granulation is found to be no problem except for a small number of cool supergiants . </S>",
    "<S> it will be a serious problem for e.g. mira star parallaxes . </S>",
    "<S> star spots are hard to assess quantitatively . </S>",
    "<S> they , too , may be problematic for supergiants and very cool giants . </S>",
    "<S> binarity is a major problem for the astrometry of bright stars . </S>",
    "<S> it will significantly impair the kinematics of stellar aggregates with small velocity dispersion . </S>",
    "<S> it will also produce a small proportion of grossly wrong parallaxes . </S>",
    "<S> gravitational microlensing will not be a problem , although thousands of highly significant microlensing events will be detected by gaia . </S>",
    "<S> gravitational macrolensing of quasars will add some noise to their ( otherwise `` zero '' ) proper motions .    </S>",
    "<S> [ 2004/06/22 1.2 ( kof ) ; 2001/04/25 1.1 ( pwd ) ] </S>"
  ]
}