{
  "article_text": [
    "the fundamental question of why some galaxies appear flattened like disks while others are spheroidal remains a major unsolved problem in galaxy formation .",
    "attempts have been made in the past to present this problem as a ` nature ' _ versus _ `",
    "nurture ' dichotomy : is the morphology of a galaxy imprinted in the initial conditions or does it result from environmental processes such as mergers and tidal interactions ?",
    "sandage ( 1970 ) postulated that the determining factor is the protogalactic angular momentum : a disk or a spheroidal configuration would result , respectively , from the collapse of a rapidly rotating or of a slowly rotating gas cloud .",
    "building upon the classic study of the kinematics of stars in our galaxy by eggen , lynden - bell and sandage ( 1962 ) , larson ( 1975 ) and gott & thaun ( 1976 ) proposed that the significant parameter is the ratio of the star formation timescale to the free - fall timescale .",
    "if the former is shorter , dissipationless collapse would lead to a spheroidal system , while disks would form from the dissipational settling of a rotating gas cloud .",
    "the ` nurture ' hypothesis was first strongly advocated by toomre ( 1977 ) who argued that galaxies form initially as disks and ellipticals form subsequently through violent mergers of disks .    a simple distinction between ` nature ' and ` nurture ' is not easy to accommodate within modern cosmological theory . in hierarchical clustering models , initial conditions and environmental effects",
    "are closely linked together .",
    "protogalactic objects are ` born ' with a range of angular momenta and characteristic timescales and these as well as their environment and merger rates depend on the initial conditions . from an observational point of view",
    ", it is also clear that galaxy morphology reflects the interplay of various phenomena .",
    "dressler s ( 1980 ) morphology - density relation indicates that dynamical processes that depend on environment are a major influence on the final configuration of a stellar system . the well known excess of blue galaxies in clusters at high redshift  the butcher - oemler effect ( butcher & oemler 1978 , 1984 ; allington - smith 1993 )  suggests that the predominance of certain morphological types depends also on cosmic time .",
    "this impression seems to be supported by the recent hst images of clusters at redshifts @xmath6 , which display an abnormally high proportion of late spiral and irregular types ( dressler 1994 , couch 1994 , moore 1995 )",
    ".    mechanisms that may transform one morphological type into another have been proposed and investigated in the past two decades .",
    "these range from ram pressure stripping of spirals by a hot intracluster medium ( gunn & gott 1972 ) , to galaxy ` harassment ' by impulsive encounters in clusters ( moore 1995 ) .",
    "galaxy mergers continue to be a favourite explanation for the origin of at least some bright ellipticals ( schweizer & seitzer 1992 ) and for the predominance of ellipticals and s0 s in rich clusters .",
    "n - body simulations of merging disk galaxies do indeed produce merger remnants with density profiles resembling those of ellipticals ( eg negroponte & white 1983 ) .",
    "nevertheless , objections have been raised against the view that the majority of ellipticals result from the merger of two or more stellar fragments .",
    "perhaps the most powerful of these is the very small scatter measured in the colour - magnitude diagram of rich cluster ellipticals and s0 s .",
    "for example , bower ( 1992 ) find that the _ rms _ scatter in the colour of elliptical galaxies in the coma cluster is only @xmath7 . on this basis",
    "they argue that the bulk of the stars in these galaxies are between 8 and 12 gyr old and that the galaxies themselves must have been assembled at that time .",
    "the origin of galaxy morphology is now beginning to be addressed with numerical simulations that model both gravitational dynamics and gas physics . some studies have concentrated on achieving a detailed understanding of mergers and interactions ( for a review see barnes & hernquist 1992 ; some of the results of numerical simulations that are relevant to this paper are discussed in section [ s : bulge ] ) while others attempt to follow the formation of galaxies in their proper cosmological context ( eg .",
    "katz , hernquist & weinberg 1992 , evrard , summers & davis 199 ? ,",
    "navarro , frenk & white 1995 and references therein . )",
    "although interesting results have emerged from these studies , these are still early days in this area and a number of difficulties , particularly regarding the behaviour of cooling gas and its transformation into stars , require further study .",
    "in addition , these simulations are expensive in computer time and so only a limited range of parameter space has been explored to date .",
    "an alternative approach to studying galaxy formation is seminanalytic modelling .",
    "this has already proved to be a powerful technique ( white & frenk 1991 , cole 1991 , kauffmann 1993 , lacey 1993 , cole 1994 ) .",
    "this approach is based upon an extension of the press - schechter formalism ( press & schechter 1974 ; bond 1991 , bower 1991 ) whereby a monte - carlo realisation of the hierarchical clustering process is used to follow the collapse and merger history of dark matter halos .",
    "the current level of understanding of the dynamics of cooling gas , star formation , feedback of energy into prestellar gas and galaxy mergers is encoded into a few simple rules that allow the process of galaxy formation within dark matter halos to be calculated .",
    "a wide range of parameters and cosmologies are accessible within such models ( eg cole 1994 , heyl 1995 ) .",
    "the semianalytic models have enjoyed a number of significant successes , providing explanations for the general features of the galaxy luminosity function , the slope and scatter of tully - fisher relation , the faint galaxy number counts , their redshift and colour distributions , etc . however , a number of details remain unresolved . for example , in the original cole ( 1994 ) model , galaxies as red as many observed ellipticals were not formed .",
    "this problem turned out to be due to approximations in the bruzual and charlot ( 1993 ) stellar population synthesis models used by cole with the revised models of charlot ( 1995 ) , the colour distributions are in much better agreement with observations ( see figure 2 of frenk 1995 ) .",
    "the strong feedback restricting star formation in low circular velocity halos assumed by cole ( 1994 ) resulted in a relatively flat faint end slope for the luminosity function , but in spite of this , the models still produce more dwarf galaxies than observed locally by loveday ( 1992 ) .",
    "more recent determinations , however , indicate that the faint end of the luminosity function is still uncertain ( mcgaugh 1994 ) and the revised model of cole in fact agrees quite well with the cfa luminosity function of marzke ( 1994 ; see figure 3 of frenk 1995 ) .",
    "the tully - fisher relation recovered by cole has a scatter and slope that matches those observed , but is offset from the data .",
    "this problem can be traced back to an overproduction of galactic size dark halos in cold dark matter ( cdm ) cosmologies ( kauffmann 1993 , heyl 1995 ) .    in this paper , we present an extension of the model of cole ( 1994 ) that allows the light of each galaxy to be split into a disk and a bulge component .",
    "the main aim of this paper is to use this model in order to test the extent to which the distinction between disk and spheroidal systems may be accounted for by the simplest scheme compatible with hierarchical clustering .",
    "we shall assume ( for the reasons given in section  2 ) that stars form initially in a disk and that bulges and spheroids are formed from violent mergers of such disks .",
    "we therefore ignore secondary dynamical processes such as dynamical friction or galaxy harassment in clusters .",
    "with such a simplified scheme , we do not seek to account for the details of the morphological sequence , but merely to understand the basis of a broad morphological classification based upon the bulge - to - disk luminosity ratio .",
    "our study extends earlier analyses by kauffman ( 1993 ) and kauffmann ( 1995b , 1995c ) who also proposed a merger driven scheme for the production of galactic bulges , with morphological classifications based on bulge - to - disk ratios .",
    "they predicted the colours and morphological mix of galaxies in clusters as a function of absolute magnitude and examined the spiral or blue fraction and the colour - magnitude relation of galaxies in high - redshift clusters .",
    "whilst the galaxy formation schemes of kauffmann ( 1993 ) and cole ( 1994 ) are similar in spirit , there are differences in detail in the way that the evolution of dark matter halos , star formation , feedback and galaxy mergers are treated . in addition , there are significant differences in our schemes for bulge formation which we discuss in section [ s : bulge ] .",
    "finally , in this paper we concentrate on somewhat different issues from those investigated by kauffman    a brief outline of the galaxy formation scheme of cole ( 1994 ) is given in section [ s : galform ] .",
    "we describe the mechanism for bulge formation in sections [ s : bulge ] and [ s : fellip ] .",
    "some representative examples of galaxies with different morphologies are given in section [ s : rep ] .",
    "we examine the systematics of bulge formation in section [ s : bulgeform ] .",
    "the predictions of our model for the colours of galaxies as a function of type and environment , the morphological mix in different environments and the evolution of the luminosity function are compared with observations in section [ s : results ] .",
    "finally , we discuss the success and failings of our model in section [ s : discuss ] .",
    "a detailed comparison of the predictions of our model with the faint galaxy counts as a function of morphological type obtained by the hubble space telescope medium deep survey , is given in a separate paper ( baugh 1996 ) .",
    "= 16.truecm = 12.truecm      in our semianalytic scheme , the complexities of galaxy formation are approximated by a set of simple rules which , wherever possible , are motivated by the results of numerical simulations .",
    "full details of the basic scheme can be found in cole ( 1994 ) .",
    "below we give a brief outline of how the various relevant physical processes are incorporated into the model .",
    "the collapse and merging of dark matter halos as a function of time are followed using the block model of cole & kaiser ( 1988 ) ( see also cole 1991 ) .",
    "this provides information about the distribution of halos as a function of mass , the redshift at which the halos collapse , the redshift at which they merge into bigger halos , and the properties of the halos into which subunits merge .",
    "each dark matter halo has baryonic material associated with it . when the halo forms , the associated gas is shock heated and attains the virial temperature of the halo . over the lifetime of the halo , defined as the time interval between the formation of the halo and its merger with a larger halo or the redshift of interest , some fraction of this hot gas can cool , according to the standard cooling function for primordial abundances of helium and hydrogen .",
    "once the gas has cooled it can form stars .",
    "the star formation rate is assumed to be proportional to the mass of cold gas present divided by a star formation timescale .",
    "the latter is independent of the dynamical time at the epoch when the halo collapses , but is a function of the circular velocity of the dark matter halo .",
    "this is because the energy liberated by stellar winds and supernovae reheats some of the gas , giving rise to a feedback loop involving cooling , star formation and heating .",
    "the details of this feedback mechanism are based upon the results of ` smooth particle hydrodynamics ' simulations by navarro & white ( 1993 ) and has a stronger dependence on halo circular velocity than is predicted by a simple binding energy argument ( white & rees 1978 , white & frenk 1991 ) . without feedback",
    ", the majority of gas in the universe would cool at high redshift and form stars in low mass halos , precluding the possibility of star formation in more massive halos later on ( white & rees 1978 , white & frenk 1991 , cole 1991 , lacey 1993 ) .",
    "our feedback prescription strongly inhibits the formation of stars in halos with low circular velocity .",
    "when a dark matter halo merges into a larger object , its hot gaseous corona is stripped and the gas becomes associated with the new halo .",
    "however , the cold gas and stars of the progenitor galaxies remain as separate entities until the galaxies themselves merge . when a new halo is formed , we compute a timescale for the merger of its galaxies , based upon a formula again motivated by numerical simulations ( navarro , frenk & white 1995 ) .",
    "this has a dependence upon the mass ratio of the participant galaxies that is weaker than that suggested analytically from pure dynamical friction considerations .",
    "if the galaxy merger timescale is shorter than the lifetime of the halo , the galaxies merge at the epoch at which the halo forms . the central galaxy in a halo accretes gas that cools from the merged corona and forms stars .",
    "the remaining satellite galaxies can only continue to form stars until their reservoirs of cold gas are exhausted .",
    "luminosities for the resulting galaxies are calculated using spectral energy distributions predicted by the stellar population synthesis models of bruzual and charlot ( 1993 , 1995 ) .",
    "we ignore the effects of chemical enrichment since only spectral energy distributions for solar metallicity are available at present . the synthesis model that we adopt is the revised bruzual - charlot model , kindly provided to us by stephane charlot .",
    "it uses different tracks for the late stages of stellar evolution than the earlier version ( see charlot 1995 ) . for a single burst of star formation with age @xmath8 gyr ,",
    "the revised models are redder by @xmath9 and @xmath10 than the earlier models .",
    "note that subtle differences in the choice of filter in a given band and in the type of star used to set the zero point of a magnitude scale can lead to differences of up to a tenth of a magnitude for a given burst age in a particular stellar population model . in this paper",
    "we use slightly different filters to those employed by cole ( 1994 ) , in order to obtain @xmath11 colours consistent with those derived by charlot ( 1995 ) from the same population models .    throughout this paper",
    ", we shall use the parameters of the `` fiducial model '' of cole ( 1994 ) .",
    "this is a cdm cosmology with @xmath0 , @xmath12 , @xmath13 , where @xmath14 denotes the hubble constant in units of 100 km s@xmath15 mpc@xmath15 .",
    "the amplitude of the power spectrum of mass fluctuations is normalised to reproduce approximately the abundance of rich galaxy clusters by setting the _ rms _ mass fluctuation in top hat spheres of radius @xmath16 mpc , @xmath17 ( white 1993 ) .",
    "this fiducial models requires strong feedback to supress star formation in dwarf galaxies and a moderate galaxy merger rate .      in our extended galaxy formation scheme ,",
    "all galaxies initially form stars in a disk as hot virialised gas cools onto a collapsed dark matter halo .",
    "thus we implicitly make the assumption that the timescale for star formation is longer than the collapse timescale of the gas .",
    "a disk configuration is the natural outcome of the dissipative collapse of gas at constant angular momentum and is indeed the configuration seen in sph simulations ( katz 1991 , summers , davis & evrard 1993 , navarro , frenk & white 1995 . )",
    "spheroidal distributions of stars and galactic bulges can only form as the outcome of merger events . in a violent merger , which we define as a merger in which the central galaxy accretes satellite galaxies with a total mass greater than some specified fraction of its own mass , any cold gas that is present is turned into stars in an instantaneous burst . after the merger and burst of star formation ,",
    "if any takes place , no further stars are added to the bulge , until the next major merger happens .",
    "galaxies orbiting in a common halo may continue to form stars quiescently in a disk until their cold gas reservoir is exhausted .",
    "the central galaxy can also form disk stars from hot gas that cools and is accreted from the hot corona .",
    "this scheme for bulge formation is similar to that adopted by kauffmann ( 1993 ) and kauffmann ( 1995b , c ) .",
    "as mentioned in section [ s : galform ] , their galaxy formation model is different in detail to ours .",
    "in particular , kauffmann consider galaxy mergers that occur over the lifetime of a halo as a series of binary mergers .",
    "hence , an individual satellite must bring in enough mass by itself in order to satisfy the criterion for bulge formation .",
    "no account is taken of the cumulative effects of disk heating or thickening caused by the prior accretion of satellites that were too small on their own to cause a significant change in the morphology of the central galaxy . in the scheme used in this paper",
    ", we simultaneously consider all satellites that will merge with the central galaxy over the lifetime of the halo .",
    "hence , we classify more merger events as ` violent ' mergers leading to the formation of a bulge . whilst neither implementation of galaxy merging is fully accurate ,",
    "the two approaches are likely to bracket what happens in reality .    to determine whether a merger is classed as ` violent ' , we list the galaxies that will actually coalesce after the merger of their respective dark matter halos .",
    "the most massive galaxy is termed the central galaxy and the others are called its satellites .",
    "we compute the ratio of the sum of the mass of cold gas and stars in the accreted satellites to the mass of cold gas and stars in the central galaxy @xmath18 if this ratio exceeds the specified value of a parameter , @xmath19 , the merger is termed a ` violent ' merger . following kauffmann , we set the value of the parameter @xmath20 by matching the morphological mix in our model to that observed locally .",
    "( note , however , that since galaxy mergers are treated differently in our scheme and in that of kauffmann , we have given the parameter that defines a violent merger a different name ; its numerical value will also be different . )    in a violent merger , the disk of the central galaxy is destroyed and all the stars present are transferred to the bulge component of the new galaxy .",
    "all the cold gas that is present , _",
    "i.e. _ the gas that had cooled in individual galaxy halos prior to the merger but had not yet been turned into stars , is then converted into bulge stars in an instantaneous burst . if the merger is not classed as violent , the disk of the central galaxy is preserved and no burst of star formation takes place .",
    "we have investigated two alternatives for the fate of the stars accreted from the satellite galaxies . in the first scheme",
    ", the stars from the satellites are added to the bulge of the central galaxy . in the second scheme",
    "they are added to the disk of the central galaxy , as would happen if the satellites are tidally disrupted and torn apart before they can reach the core of the central galaxy .",
    "simulations by walker ( 1995 ) , in which a satellite with total mass equal to @xmath21 of the primary galaxy mass merges with it , reveal an intermediate situation .",
    "roughly @xmath22 of the satellite survives and sinks to the core of the primary , whilst the rest is ripped off and added to the primary s disk .",
    "we find that there is little difference between the morphological mixes recovered in our models using these two prescriptions and we shall adopt the first one in the remainder of this paper .",
    "modern simulations of merging galaxies attempt to follow the star formation that occurs during a merger .",
    "mihos & hernquist ( 1994a ) have shown that a minor merger in which a disk galaxy accretes a satellite with @xmath21 of its own mass produce spiral arm instabilities that drive gas into the centre of the disk and cause a burst of star formation . however , if a bulge component is added to the primary , the spiral arms are suppressed and a much smaller burst results . in a major merger event , mihos & hernquist ( 1994b )",
    "find that a burst occurs independently of the presence of a bulge component in the galaxies , but the timing of the burst relative to the completion of the merger and the strength of the burst do depend upon the size of the bulge . at present numerical simulations",
    "have explored only a small part of parameter space .",
    "our model for bulge formation in which a burst of star formation only occurs after a violent merger is well motivated by the available numerical results .",
    "after a merger event in our model , star formation takes place quiescently in the disk of the central galaxy if a supply of cold gas is available .",
    "the bulge - to - disk ratio is therefore a continually changing quantity .",
    "it is quite possible for a galaxy to become a pure bulge immediately after a violent merger and to then build up a new disk by quiescent star formation .",
    "thus a galaxy can move either way on the hubble sequence , towards early types after a violent merger in which material is added to the bulge and towards late types during quiescent star formation when new stars are formed in the disk .      following kauffmann ( 1993 )",
    ", we use the local morphological mix of field galaxies to set the value of the parameter @xmath20 .",
    "our aim is to classify galaxies into three broad morphological classes : disk - dominated systems , bulge - dominated systems , and systems with intermediate bulge - to - disk ratios .",
    "we identify these broad classes with spirals ( s ) , ellipticals ( e ) and lenticulars ( so ) respectively .",
    "we assign morphological types to the model galaxies on the basis of the ratio of bulge luminosity to disk luminosity by reference to data from simien & de vaucouleurs ( 1986 ) and de jong ( 1995 ) .    in figure",
    "[ fig : bddata ] we reproduce the simien and de vaucouleurs bulge - to - disk decompositions ( as given in their table 4 ) and de jong s ( 1995 ) data derived from 2d decompositions of the light in face on spirals .",
    "a t type @xmath23 corresponds to an elliptical , @xmath24 to an s0 and @xmath25 to an early type spiral .",
    "there is considerable scatter in the relationship between bulge - to - disk ratio and t type .",
    "for example , a bulge - to - disk ratio of @xmath26 spans @xmath27 t types , whilst the class @xmath28 is assigned to objects that have a spread of @xmath29 in bulge - to - disk ratio .",
    "decompositions of the light of a galaxy into bulge and disk components are difficult to perform , and the results , for some orientations at least , depend upon the functional form adopted for the decomposition ( de jong 1995 ) .",
    "furthermore , the assignment of t - types is fairly subjective .",
    "naim ( 1995 ) find that experts can only agree on their classifications to within 2 t - type units .",
    "it is not clear , therefore , whether the scatter in figure [ fig : bddata ] is entirely observational or whether it reflects the fact that there is not a unique correspondence between bulge - to - disk ratio and t - type .",
    "several studies in the literature have examined the morphological mix of local field galaxies .",
    "there is a relatively small scatter amongst different estimates of the elliptical fraction , ranging from @xmath21 ( in the revised shapley ames catalogue , sandage & tamman 1981 ) to @xmath30 ( in a sub - sample of bright galaxies drawn from the rc3 catalogue by buta 1994 ) .",
    "the scatter in the spiral fraction is larger , around @xmath30 , reflecting the difficulty of distinguishing between spiral and s0 galaxies , particularly at fainter magnitudes on photographic plates ( dressler 1980 ) , when it becomes hard to detect the disk component in the presence of a significant bulge .",
    "a recent study , based on a large homogenous sample , assigned types to 90% of galaxies",
    "brighter than @xmath31 in the bright apm galaxy catalogue ( loveday 1995 ; table  10 ) . incorporating the irregular / peculiar galaxies into the spiral class and scaling up the fractions in each type to account for unclassified objects ,",
    "the morphological mix in this catalogue is e / s0/s+irr=13/20/67 .    to fix the value of the parameter @xmath20",
    ", we constructed mock catalogues from the output of our models , with the same magnitude limit as the bright apm galaxy catalogue , taking into account any evolution in the galaxy properties .",
    "kauffmann classified galaxies whose bulge component is less than @xmath32 of the total light as spirals , galaxies whose bulge component is @xmath33 or more of the total light as ellipticals and galaxies with intermediate bulge to total light ratios as s0 s .",
    "if we adopt these definitions , we obtain spiral fractions of 45% and 55% for @xmath34 and 0.7 respectively . alternatively , if we allow the maximum size of a spiral bulge to be @xmath35 of the total light and the minimum bulge in an elliptical to be @xmath36 of the total light , we obtain a morphological mix of e / s0/s of 23.5/22.5/54.0 for @xmath37 .",
    "we shall adopt these definitions and this value of @xmath20 throughout this paper .",
    "the corresponding cuts in bulge - to - disk ratio are plotted in figure [ fig : bddata ] as solid lines .",
    "galaxies lying below the lower solid line are classed as spirals , galaxies above the upper solid line as ellipticals and galaxies in between as s0s .",
    "although it is clear that with some fine - tunning , we could achieve a higher spiral fraction , we do not feel that this is justified given the large uncertainties surrounding morphological classification ( naim 1995 ) and the large scatter between bulge - to - disk ratio and t - type .",
    "= 20.truecm = 24.truecm    = 20.truecm = 24.truecm    in this section we follow the histories of a representative selection of galaxies in our model . at each galaxy merger event , we have recorded properties of the progenitor galaxies , such as their stellar mass , cold gas mass and luminosities in various bands .",
    "we plot the star formation history of selected galaxies in a tree - plot , analogous to the schematic merger history of a dark matter halo shown in figure  6 of lacey & cole ( 1993 ) . for this purpose",
    "we have traced the history of these galaxies back to progenitor galaxies with dark matter halos of mass @xmath38 .    [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     since no quiescent star formation takes place in a bulge between merger events , model galaxies with large bulge - to - disk ratios are redder than model galaxies with small bulge - to - disk ratios . in figure",
    "[ fig : colbd ] , we plot @xmath39 and @xmath11 colours for present - day galaxies brighter than @xmath40 , against their b - band bulge - to - disk ratios .",
    "different morphological types are represented with different symbols .",
    "also plotted is a compilation of @xmath11 colours by buta ( 1994 ) for a sample of bright galaxies taken from the third reference catalogue ( rc3 ) ( de vaucouleurs 1991 ) .",
    "buta find a good correlation between hubble t - type and colour .",
    "converting t - type into a bulge - to - disk ratio ( using the fit of equation  ( 5 ) of simien and de vaucouleurs 1986 ) , this correlation is shown as a solid line in the lower panel of figure  [ fig : colbd ] , with the @xmath41 scatter indicated by the dotted lines .",
    "there is very good agreement between our model predictions and the observations , although some of our galaxies with bulge - to - disk ratios less than 20% appear a little too red .",
    "this discrepancy , however , is just over a tenth of a magnitude in @xmath11 , comparable to the uncertainty in colour arising from the details of the filter choice and the template star used to set the zero point .",
    "figure [ fig : colb ] shows diagrams of b - v colour _ versus _ absolute b magnitude at redshifts @xmath4 and @xmath3 . as before ,",
    "triangles denote elliptical galaxies , crosses s0s and circles spiral galaxies .",
    "the ellipticals are the reddest population and show a remarkably small spread in colour , an issue to which we return below .",
    "their colour - magnitude relation is essentially flat , in apparent contradiction with the naive expectation from hierarchical clustering models in which the largest objects typically form last .",
    "as pointed out by cole ( 1994 ) , this is a remarkable success of these models .",
    "the scatter in colour amongst spirals is larger than amongst ellipticals , reflecting the more extended periods of star formation in disks .",
    "s0s have intermediate colour properties .",
    "other than a general reddening of the populations and a slightly larger scatter in the colours of spirals , there is little change in the appearance of the colour - magnitude diagrams at @xmath3 and @xmath4 .",
    "this is in spite of the fact that a large fraction of the present - day stellar populations are still to form at @xmath3 .",
    "next , we examine the colours of bright galaxies as a function of environment .",
    "figure  [ fig : bvvc ] shows the mean colours of ellipticals ( triangles ) and spirals ( squares ) found in halos of a given circular velocity , at redshifts @xmath4 and @xmath3 . the error bars give the root mean square scatter about the mean .",
    "there is no significant dependence of colour on halo circular velocity for either ellipticals or spirals at the two epochs shown . for ellipticals",
    ", this result agrees well with the data of bower ( 1992 ) , who found no evidence for colour differences between galaxies in the virgo ( @xmath42 ) and coma ( @xmath43 ) clusters . as this and",
    "the previous figure show , both ellipticals and spirals redden by @xmath44 mag between @xmath3 and @xmath4 .",
    "photometry of the reddest ellipticals in clusters at @xmath45 do indeed show that these galaxies have slightly bluer colours than their local counterparts ( aragn - salamanca 1993 ) .    in figure",
    "[ fig : uvvc ] we contrast properties of bright elliptical galaxies in clusters and in the field .",
    "this figure shows @xmath46 _ vs _ @xmath47 colour - magnitude diagrams for the entire population of ellipticals ( upper panel ) and for ellipticals found in rich clusters , which we define as halos of circular velocity @xmath48 ( lower panel ) . for comparison",
    ", the median colour and root mean square scatter for the cluster ellipticals are reproduced in both panels .",
    "ellipticals in rich clusters are predicted to be @xmath49 mag redder than the overall elliptical population , reflecting the earlier mean formation epoch of galaxies in clusters .",
    "a similar trend is seen in the observations , although the available data are relatively poor ( larson , tinsley and caldwell 1981 ) .",
    "table [ tab : col ] gives the mean colours and rms scatter in brackets for the entire population and for the subset of cluster ellipticals at redshifts @xmath4 and @xmath3 .",
    "only galaxies brighter than @xmath50 are included in this calculation , yielding a total of @xmath51 galaxies at @xmath4 and @xmath52 at @xmath3 .",
    "the cluster subsample comprises @xmath53 ellipticals at @xmath4 and @xmath54 at @xmath3 .",
    "figure  [ fig : uvvc ] reiterates the point made earlier regarding the small scatter in colour displayed by our model elliptical galaxies .",
    "this is particularly true of ellipticals in clusters , a result first obtained by kauffmann ( 1995c ) using similar models .",
    "the root mean square scatter for cluster ellipticals shown by the dotted lines in figure [ fig : uvvc ] was calculated by the median absolute difference technique used by bower ( 1992 ) .",
    "the scatter we find for cluster ellipticals is @xmath55 , compared with the observed value of @xmath56 for the virgo and coma clusters .",
    "the scatter in our model increases for @xmath57 .",
    "the observational data is taken from the cluster core , whereas our model gives the properties of all galaxies within the virial radius of the cluster .",
    "hence , a slightly bigger scatter in the colour of the cluster ellipticals in our model is to be expected .",
    "such uniformity may seem surprising in a model in which the bulk of the stars form relatively recently and galaxy mergers are the primary mechanism for the formation of ellipticals .",
    "the explanation for this lies in the fact that most of the stars that end up in bright cluster ellipticals were made in smaller fragments at higher than average redshift .",
    "when these fragments merge , residual star formation can occur but , as discussed in section  4 , this contributes only a relatively small fraction of the final light .",
    "mergers therefore mainly move galaxies along the luminosity direction , with little change in colour .",
    "the scatter in the colours of cluster ellipticals is comparable at @xmath3 and @xmath4 ( cf .",
    "figure  [ fig : bvvc ] ) .",
    "this , again , agrees surprisingly well with the observations of standford ( 1995 ) who find a similar scatter in optical - ir colour in two abell clusters at @xmath58 and @xmath59 to the scatter found by bower ( 1992 ) in coma and virgo .",
    "= 9.truecm = 9.truecm    = 8.truecm = 13.truecm    = 8.truecm = 13.truecm    the best known environmental influence on galaxy morphology is dressler s ( 1980 ) morphology - density relation . in its simplest form",
    "this is the statement that the fraction of ellipticals and s0s in clusters increases rapidly with the mean projected galaxy number density .",
    "more recently , whitmore and gilmore ( 1991 ) have argued that the fundamental relation is one between morphological mix and distance from the cluster centre .",
    "re - analysing dressler s ( 1980 ) cluster sample , they found that the elliptical fraction rises steeply within @xmath60 of the cluster centre and that the fraction of s0s actually falls within @xmath61 .",
    "this suggests that the morphological mix depends upon a global property of the cluster rather than on a local property such as substructure .",
    "since our models contain no information on the spatial distribution of galaxies within clusters , they do not address dressler s morphology - density relation directly .",
    "the do , however , predict the morphological mix within the virial radius of a cluster ( defined as the radius within which the mean density is 178 times the mean background density . ) for a @xmath62 halo that collapses at the present day , this radius is @xmath63 .",
    "examination of figure  1 of whitmore ( 1990 ) shows that the elliptical fraction at this radius is @xmath64 , compared with a peak value of @xmath65 at the centre of the cluster . in figure",
    "[ fig : bdcum ] we compare the cumulative distributions of bulge - to - disk ratios for the galaxy population as a whole ( solid line ) with that for galaxies located in high circular velocity halos ( @xmath66 ) ( dotted line ) .",
    "the cluster distribution is biased towards higher bulge - to - disk ratios , implying a morphology - density relation in the same direction as the observations . in rich clusters , @xmath67 of our model galaxies",
    "are ellipticals , compared to 12% in the population as a whole .",
    "we investigate the dependence of morphology on environment further by plotting the spiral fraction as a function of the circular velocity of the halo to which the galaxies belong .",
    "this fraction is shown in figures  [ fig : spf_18 ] and  [ fig : spf_19 ] for galaxies brighter than @xmath68 and @xmath69 respectively and spans the range of circular velocities from poor groups to rich clusters . to obtain these data",
    ", we constructed six realisations of the density fluctuation field , three sampled from a gaussian distribution in the usual way and three more constrained to be overdense , with amplitude distributed uniformly in units of the _ rms _ fluctuation on the scale of the block .",
    "the scatter in the spiral fractions displayed in figures  [ fig : spf_18 ] and  [ fig : spf_19 ] is large for poor groups and decreases for higher @xmath70 clusters . in agreement with the results of kauffmann ( 1995b ) , we find that the richest clusters are e / s0 dominated",
    ".    we can compare the model predictions of figures  [ fig : spf_18 ] and  [ fig : spf_19 ] with the data obtained by nolthenius ( 1993 ) for groups identified in the cfa1 redshift survey .",
    "we convert circular velocities to velocity dispersions assuming an isothermal potential and an isotropic velocity distribution , @xmath71 ) .",
    "considering only galaxies brighter than @xmath72 , we find a mean velocity dispersion of @xmath73 for groups with a spiral fraction greater than @xmath22 , rising to @xmath74 for groups with spiral fraction smaller than this .",
    "the corresponding numbers for the cfa1 groups are @xmath75 for spiral rich groups and @xmath76 and for spiral poor groups .",
    "thus , the scatter in our model predictions is comparable to that in the cfa1 data , but the two distributions are offset from one another .",
    "this discrepancy is not necessarily a serious one : group velocity dispersions are notoriously difficult to measure from redshift surveys and are very sensitive to the details of group assignments ( moore , frenk & white 1993 ) .",
    "the model velocity dispersions are , of course , those appropriate to the dark matter halos .",
    "figures  [ fig : spf_18 ] and  [ fig : spf_19 ] also show our model predictions for the spiral fractions at redshift @xmath3 .",
    "for both definitions of cluster richness , the spiral fractions in groups of all circular velocities are larger at @xmath3 than at the present day .",
    "this trend is particularly noticeable for the richest clusters .",
    "indeed , for @xmath77 , there are practically no clusters with a spiral fraction smaller than 40% at @xmath3 , whereas at the present day such clusters are well represented .",
    "thus our models ( like those of kauffmann 1995a ) display a strong butcher - oemler effect and are consistent with recent hst observations ( dressler 1994 ) that indicate that the large blue fraction in high-@xmath78 clusters , originally discovered by butcher & oemler ( 1978 ) , is , in fact , due largely to a higher fraction of bright spirals in these clusters .",
    "our models are also consistent with the data of allington - smith ( 1993 ) which show that the fraction of blue galaxies in poor groups changes much less with redshift than the corresponding fraction in rich clusters .",
    "kauffmann ( 1995a ) interpreted the origin of the butcher - oemler effect in her models in terms of the different dynamical ages of clusters picked out at different redshifts . at high redshift",
    ", a collapsed cluster of a given mass corresponds to a rarer fluctuation than a collapsed cluster of the same mass at low redshift . as a result",
    ", clusters seen at high redshift have undergone more merging in the period just before their formation . in our model",
    "this means that galaxy mergers are less likely in the dark matter halos that are progenitors of the cluster , because the halo lifetime will tend to be shorter than the galaxy merger timescale ; at redshift zero , the dark matter halo lifetime is longer and galaxy mergers are more likely .",
    "hence , the population of galaxies that become members of a high redshift clusters shows a higher fraction of spirals than the population that become cluster members at the present day .",
    "furthermore , when a spiral falls into a cluster , its star formation continues only as long as its reservoir of cold gas remains . during this phase ,",
    "its bulge - to - disk ratio will _",
    "decrease_. however , once the reservoir is depleted the galaxy will redden and fade ( unless it merges into the central object ) . in a cluster that forms recently , there is , on average , more time for this process to proceed than in a cluster that forms at high redshift and this results in a further suppression of bright spirals in low redshift clusters .",
    "lilly ( 1995 ) , ellis ( 1995 ) , ellis ( 1995 ) have presented observations of the luminosity function of galaxies in redshift bins up to @xmath79 .",
    "they find little evidence for change in the luminosity function of red galaxies , but find evolution of the blue galaxies or in the case of ellis galaxies that have high equivalent widths for the [ o ii ] 3727 line , indicative of recent star formation . indeed for blue galaxies , lilly ( 1995 ) report that the evolution saturates at the bright end , but the luminosity function continues to rise at fainter magnitudes .",
    "cole ( 1994 ) gave predictions for the evolution of the galaxy luminosity function with redshift ( see their figure 19 ) .",
    "in this section we compare our model specifically with the observations of the canada - france redshift survey ( cfrs ) described in lilly ( 1995 ) , because we extract information on broad band colours from the stellar population models , rather than the equivalent widths of particular lines .",
    "the cfrs sample is @xmath80 selected in the magnitude range @xmath81 .",
    "the survey consists of 730 galaxies , of which 591 have secure redshifts with a median of @xmath82 .",
    "lilly assign a spectral type to each galaxy by comparing the observed @xmath83 colours with the spectral energy distributions ( sed ) of coleman ( 1980 ) . the spectral type is then used to compute a ` colour k correction ' to obtain the rest frame @xmath84 and rest frame @xmath85 colour . the sample is then split into red and blue galaxies using the rest frame @xmath85 colour of an sbc galaxy from coleman ( 1980 ) as a reference point .",
    "we construct a mock cfrs catalogue from our model output by selecting galaxies in the appropriate @xmath80 magnitude range .",
    "note that we have no need to apply @xmath86-corrections as we know the sed of a galaxy in our model and can compute the rest frame colours and the appropriate transformation to the ab magnitude system directly from this .",
    "the colour - magnitude relation that we find in different redshift bins is shown in figure [ fig : cfrscm ] , which should be compared with figure 5 of lilly ( 1995 ) .",
    "for this plot we have used 730 galaxies to match the sample size of lilly .",
    "the different symbols indicate the morphological type of the galaxies at the redshift at which they appear in the catalogue : triangles correspond to ellipticals , crosses to so s , open circles to spirals and stars to objects in which less than @xmath87 of the total light in the b band is in the bulge component .",
    "the dashed vertical line is at @xmath88 , the rest frame colour at which we divide the model sample into red and blue galaxies .",
    "lilly used a cut of @xmath89 .",
    "the model colour - magnitude diagram is very similar to that for the cfrs data .",
    "however , the spread of colours in the models is smaller than that observed .",
    "these differences are not significant and do not affect our conclusions presented below .",
    "the sed can change rapidly in the range of wavelengths measured by the u filter , being especially sensitive to assumptions made about star formation and the choice of u filter can lead to differences in the colour .    using a larger mock catalogue , containing 10000 galaxies ,",
    "we compute the luminosity function of the red and blue galaxies in redshift bins , using the @xmath90 formalism employed by lilly ( 1995 ) .",
    "the luminosity functions are plotted in figure [ fig : cfrslf ] , which may be compared directly with figure 3 of lilly ( 1995 ) .",
    "the red galaxies are shown in the left column and the blue galaxies in the right coloumn .",
    "redshift increases down the plot .",
    "the dashed line is the schechter function fit given by loveday ( 1992 ) , with parameters scaled to @xmath91 magnitudes and @xmath92 , and is intended as a reference point .",
    "the open points with errorbars are the best fit luminosity function from lilly ( 1995 ) .",
    "the filled points show the predictions of our model .",
    "the model luminosity function of the blue galaxies does show more evolution than that of the red galaxies , with the luminosity function steepening , particularly between the @xmath93 and @xmath94 redshift bins .",
    "the luminosity function of the red galaxies remains approximately unchanged at the bright end .",
    "overall , there is remarkably good agreement between our model predictions and the data , except at the faint end of the red galaxy luminosity function in the lowest redshift bin .",
    "this discrepancy is the same one noted previously by cole ( 1994 ) , but as this plot shows , the steep faint end of the model luminosity function is restricted to the red galaxies .",
    "the agreement with the data for red galaxies at high redshift is particularly noteworthy , since in our model @xmath32 of the present day stars have still to form at @xmath95 .",
    "schade ( 1995 , 1996 ) have analysed the morphology of the galaxies in one of the cfrs fields . though the main effect responsible for the evolution of the blue luminosity function is the increase in the number or brightness of blue disk galaxies with increasing redshift , a population of cfrs objects that are bulge dominated but which have blue colours appears at high redshift . at @xmath96 , schade ( 1996 )",
    "find that @xmath97 of the sample , roughly double the fraction for @xmath98 .",
    "are `` blue - nucleated galaxies '' or bng . with correction factors ,",
    "this figure is doubled and matches the fraction of bngs in a smaller sample measured with the hst . in our mock catalogue",
    ", we can apply a similar criterion , identifying bng s as galaxies that have a rest frame colour bluer than @xmath99 and a bulge to total luminosity ratio greater than @xmath22 .",
    "we find that @xmath87 of the our mock cfrs sample would be classed as a bng at redshifts @xmath98 , and this figure rises to @xmath100 for @xmath101 .",
    "= 14.truecm = 16.truecm    = 16.truecm = 20.truecm",
    "we have presented an extension of the semianalytic galaxy formation scheme of cole ( 1994 ) that allows the light of a galaxy to be split into bulge and disk components .",
    "galaxies are assumed to form stars quiescently in a disk until a merger disrupts them into a spheroidal configuration .",
    "violent mergers are accompanied by a burst of star formation that adds further stars to the bulge .",
    "after a major merger , a spheroid may accrete gas from its hot corona and grow a new disk .",
    "thus , in this scheme , a galaxy may acquire a range of hubble types during its lifetime .",
    "we have presented tree - diagrams that illustrate the growth of galaxies of different types .    to distinguish between disks and spheroids requires adding one additional parameter to the semianalytic model : the relative mass of a satellite capable of disrupting a disk .",
    "we fix this , as well as the bulge - to - disk ratios that define different morphological types , by comparing the predicted morphological mix with that observed locally .",
    "although for reasons of clarity we have used the words spiral and elliptical to refer to different classes , our simple scheme can only distinguish between broad morphological properties based upon whether the bulge or the disk makes the dominant contribution to the total light of the galaxy .",
    "we used this scheme within the ` fiducial ' @xmath0 , standard cold dark matter model of cole in order to calculate the formation histories of galaxies with different morphologies ; the colours of galaxies of different types at low and high redshift , and in field and cluster environments ; the variation of morphological mix with environment and the evolution of the luminosity function of red and blue galaxies as a function of redshift .",
    "we find that most spirals and s0s had only one or two progenitors with luminosity greater than @xmath102 at redshift @xmath103 , whereas a significant fraction of ellipticals had five or six such progenitors .",
    "the average redshift of the last major merger undergone by present day spirals is @xmath104 and by present day ellipticals is @xmath105 .",
    "our model predicts that the bulges of spirals were assembled before the spheroids of ellipticals and the spheroids of cluster ellipticals were assembled before those of field ellipticals . about 50% of ellipticals , but only about 15 % of spirals ,",
    "have undergone a major merger during the redshift interval @xmath106 .",
    "since major mergers are accompanied by a burst of star formation , we find that about half the population of bright ellipticals has undergone a burst of star formation in the past 6 - 9 gyr .",
    "such bursts account for around @xmath107 of the stellar mass of the galaxy at @xmath4 and may be responsible for the ` intermediate age populations ' detected in ellipticals by rose & tripicco ( 1986 ) , freedman ( 1992 ) and elston & silva ( 1992 ) .",
    "they may also account for the observations of barger ( 1995 ) that suggest that @xmath108 of the ellipticals in three clusters at @xmath109 have experienced a burst of star formation in the 2 gyr preceeding observation .",
    "similarly , some of the ` e+a ' spectra measured by dressler & gunn ( 1992 ) in cluster ellipticals may be the result of these merger - induced starbursts .",
    "a striking result of our analysis , previously noted by kauffmann ( 1995c ) , is the flat slope and small scatter in the colour - magnitude diagrams of cluster elliptical galaxies ( see also cole 1994 ) .",
    "this is a counter - intuitive outcome of hierarchical clustering where we might have expected brighter galaxies to be bluer and a large scatter in colour due to the chaotic nature of mergers .",
    "in fact , the scatter we find amongst bright galaxies is comparable to the scatter in the observations of bower ( 1992 ) of ellipticals in the coma and virgo clusters , when one takes into account that the observations are of the cluster cores , whereas our models can not revolve within the virial radius . a flat colour - magnitude relation in the models results from the fact that the bulk of the stars that end up in ellipticals formed at high redshift even though the galaxies themselves were not assembled until much later .",
    "the small scatter results , in part , from the flatness of this relation .",
    "the observed colour - magnitude diagram of cluster ellipticals is , of course , not completely flat , but has a small gradient of increasing redness with increasing brightness . in the context or our models",
    "this gradient must be due to metallicity effects which , in the absence of the appropriate stellar population synthesis models , we have been forced to neglect .",
    "we plan to study these effects in a forthcoming paper using worthey s ( 1994 ) new , metallicity dependent synthesis models .",
    "whether our models will be able to reproduce the observed gradient whilst retaining a small scatter in colour remains an open question .",
    "an important prediction of our models is the similarity between the colour - magnitude diagrams at redshifts @xmath110 and at the present day .",
    "the main evolutionary effect is a blueing of the galaxies by about 0.15 mag in b - v , similar to that observed in cluster ellipticals by aragn - salamanca ( 1993 ) .",
    "this results from a combination of passive evolution of the stellar populations and evolution of the star formation rate .",
    "other than that , our models of elliptical galaxies predict almost no increase in the scatter in colour at a given luminosity out to @xmath45 . for spirals ,",
    "there is a moderate increase in the scatter at high redshift .",
    "both at @xmath3 and at the present , the mean b - v colours of ellipticals and spirals in clusters are almost independent of cluster richness .",
    "rich clusters in our model contain a different mix of morphological types if they collapse at redshift zero , compared with clusters that collapse at @xmath3 .",
    "kauffmann ( 1995a ) has demonstrated that a cluster of a given mass at high redshift is assembled more rapidly than a cluster of the same mass at the present day . in the context of our model",
    ", this means that the lifetime of a dark matter halo that is a progenitor of a cluster at high redshift will typically be much shorter than the timescale for galaxy mergers .",
    "hence the population of galaxies that become members of high redshift clusters shows a higher fraction of spirals , in agreement with hst observations of @xmath111 clusters ( dressler 1994 ) .",
    "the dark matter halo lifetime for low redshift cluster progenitors is longer , and so galaxy mergers are more likely . hence in our model rich clusters that form at low redshift are dominated by e / s0 galaxies , reproducing the morphology - density relation discovered in the real universe by dressler ( 1980 ) .    we have compared the predictions of our model with observations of the luminosity function at different redshifts .",
    "when the model galaxies are separated by colour , the luminosity function of the blue galaxies evolves in steepness and brightness between @xmath112 and @xmath113 , remaining fairly constant up to @xmath79 .",
    "the luminosity function of the red galaxies stays approximately constant with redshift . at higher redshifts",
    ", we do find objects that have blue colours and which are bulge dominated .",
    "this is expected if these galaxies have recently experienced a merger event , with the blue colours due to a burst having taken place in the case of a violent merger or because stars that had recently formed in a disk have now been incoporated into the bulge for the case of a minor merger .",
    "the calculations presented in this paper serve to demonstrate that the simplest possible prescription for the distinction between disks and spheroids that is compatible with hierarchical clustering goes a long way towards explaining many of the systematic trends observed in the galaxy population .",
    "our models are necessarily idealised and ignore processes such as internal galactic phenomena or dynamical friction in clusters , which have almost certainly helped to shape the complex morphologies of real galaxies .",
    "it is therefore quite remarkable that they are able to account , at least in an approximate way , for such fundamental properties as the morphology - density relation , the colour - magnitude diagram , the butcher - oemler effect and the evolution of the luminosity function of galaxies of different colours .",
    "a number of critical observations such as measurement of colour - magnitude diagrams of cluster galaxies at high redshift will help to test this paradigm .",
    "we would like to thank stephane charlot for providing us with a revised stellar population model .",
    "richard nolthenius kindly provided his data in electronic form .",
    "we thank richard bower for his detailed comments on an earlier version of this paper and for the loan of statistical software .",
    "we acknowledge useful conversations with guinivere kauffmann , gary mamon and julio navarro .",
    "cmb acknowledges a pparc research assistantship and smc a pparc advanced fellowship . this work was supported in part by a pparc rolling grant .",
    "allington - smith , j.r . , ellis , r.s . ,",
    "zirbel , e.l . ,",
    "oemler , a. , 1993 , 404 , 521 aragn - salamanca , a. , ellis , r.s . , couch , w.j . ,",
    "carter , d. , 1993 , 262 , 764 barger , a.j . ,",
    "aragn - salamanca , a. , ellis , r.s . , couch , w.j . ,",
    "smail , i. , sharples , r.m . , 1995 , in press barnes , j.e . ,",
    "hernquist , l. , 1992 , ann . rev",
    ". astron . astroph .",
    ", 30 , 705 bond , j.r . ,",
    "cole , s. , efstathiou , g. , kaiser , n. , 1991 , 379 , 440 bower , r.g .",
    ", 1991 , 248 , 332 bower , r.g . ,",
    "lucey , j.r . ,",
    "ellis , r.s .",
    ", 1992 , 254 , 589 bower , r.g .",
    ", 1995 astro - ph/9511058 broadhurst , t.j . ,",
    "ellis , r.s . , glazebrook , k. , 1992 , nature , 355 , 55 bruzual , g. , charlot , s. , 1993 , 405 , 538 buta , r. , mitra , s. , de vaucouleurs , g. , corwin , h.g .",
    ", 1994 , 107 , 118 butcher , h.r . , oemler , a. , 1978 , 219 , 18 butcher , h.r .",
    ", oemler , a. , 1984 , 285 , 426 charlot , s. , worthey , g. , bressan , a. , 1995 , in press cole , s. , 1991 , 367 , 45 cole , s. , kaiser , n. , 1988 , 233 , 637 cole , s. , aragn - salamanca , a. , frenk , c.s . ,",
    "navarro , j.f . ,",
    "zepf , s.e . , 1994 , 271 , 781 coleman , g.d .",
    ", wu , c.c . , weedman , d.w . , 1980 suppl . 43 , 393 colless , m. , schade , d. , broadhurst , t.j . , ellis , r.s .",
    ", 1994 , 267 , 1108 couch , w.j . ,",
    "ellis , r.s . , sharples , r.m . , smail , i. , 1994 , 430 , 121 dressler , a. , 1980 236 351 dressler , a. , gunn , 1992 , 78 , 1 dressler , a. , oemler , a. , sparks , w.b . ,",
    "lucas , r.a .",
    ", 1994 , 435 , l23 eggen , o.j . , lynden - bell , d. , sandage , a.r . , 1962 , 136 , 748 ellis , r.s . , 1995 , astro - ph/9508044 ellis , r.s . , colless , m. , broadhurst , t. , heyl , j. , glazebrook , k. , 1995 , mnras , in press elston , r. , silva , d. , 1992 , 104 , 1360 farouki , r. , shapiro , s.l .",
    ", 1981 , 243 , 32 frenk , c.s . ,",
    "baugh , c.m .",
    ", cole , s. , 1995 to appear in proccedings iau symp .",
    "171 , new light on galaxy evolution , eds .",
    "bender , r. , davies , r.l . , ( kluwer ) freedman , w. , 1992 , 104 , 1349 guiderdoni , b. , rocca - volmerange , b. , 1988 , astron .",
    "& astroph . , 205 , 369 gott , j.r . ,",
    "thaun , t.x . , 1976 , 204 , 649 gunn , j.e . ,",
    "gott , j.r .",
    ", 1972 , 176 , 1 heyl , j.s . ,",
    "cole , s. , frenk , c.s . ,",
    "navarro , j.f .",
    ", 1995 , 274 , 755 de jong , r.s .",
    ", 1995 phd thesis groningen joseph , r.d . , 1990 , in dynamics and interactions of galaxies , ed weilen , r. , ( new york : springer ) 132 katz , n. , 1991 , 368 , 325 katz , n. , hernquist , l. , weinberg , d.h . , 1992 , 399 , l109 kauffmann , g. , 1995a , 274 , 153 kauffmann , g. , 1995b , 274 , 161 kauffmann , g. , 1995c , astro - ph/9502096 kauffmann , g. , guiderdoni , b. , white , s.d.m . ,",
    "1994 267 , 981 kauffmann , g. , white , s.d.m .",
    ", guiderdoni , b. , 1993 , 264 , 201 lacey , c .. , silk , j. , 1991 , 381 14 lacey , c. , cole , s. , 1993 , 262 , 627 lacey , c .. , guiderdoni , b. , rocca - volmerange , b. , silk , j. , 1993 , 402 , 15 larsen , r.b . , 1975 , 173 , 671 larson , r.b . , tinsley , b.m . , caldwell , c.n . , 1980 , 237 , 692 lilly , s.j . , tress , l. , hammer , f. , crampton , d. , le fvre , o. , 1995 , in press loveday , j. , 1996 , mnras , 278 , 1025 loveday , j. , maddox , s.j . ,",
    "efstathiou , g. , peterson , b.a .",
    ", 1995 , 442 , 457 loveday , j. , peterson , b.a . ,",
    "efstathiou , g. , maddox , s.j .",
    ", 1992 , 390 , 338 mcgaugh , s. , 1994 , nature , 367 , 538 marzke , r.o . ,",
    "huchra , j.p . , geller , m.j .",
    ", 1994 , 428 , 43 mihos , j.c . ,",
    "hernquist , l. , 1994a , 425 , l13 mihos , j.c . , hernquist , l. , 1994b , 431 , l9 moore , b. , frenk , c.s . ,",
    "white , s.d.m .",
    ", 1993 , 261 , 827 moore , b. , katz , n. , lake , g. , dressler , a. , oemler , a. , 1995 , nature , in press naim , a. , lahav , o. , buta , r.j . , corwin , h.g . ,",
    "de vaucouleurs , g. , dressler , a. , huchra , j.p . , van den bergh , s. , raychaudhury , s. , sodre , l. , storrie - lombardi , m.c . , 1995 , 274 , 1107 navarro , j.f . ,",
    "frenk , c.s . ,",
    "white , s.d.m .",
    ", 1995 , 275 , 56 navarro , j.f . ,",
    "white , s.d.m .",
    ", 1993 , 265 , 271 negroponte , j. , white , s.d.m . , 1983 , 205 , 1009 nolthenius , r. , 1993 , 85 , 1 ostriker , j.p . , 1980 ,",
    "astrophysics , 8 , 177 press , w.h . , schechter , p.l .",
    ", 1974 , 187 , 425 rose , j.a .",
    ", tripicco , m.j . , 1986 , 92 , 610 sandage , a. , freeman , k.c . , stokes , n.r . , 1970 , 160 , 831 schade , d. , lilly , s.j . ,",
    "crampton , d. , hammer , f. , le fvre , o. , tresse , l. , 1995 , 451 , l1 schade , d. , lilly , s.j . , le fvre , o. , hammer , f. , crampton , d. , 1996 , in press schweizer , f. , seitzer , p. , 1992 , 104",
    ", 1039 simien , f. , de vaucouleurs , g. , 1986 , 302 , 564 stanford , s.a . , eisenhardt , p.r.m . , dickinson , m. , 1995 , 450 , 512 summers , f.j . , davis , m. , evrard , a. , 1995 , 454 , 1 toomre , a. , 1977 _ the evolution of galaxies and stellar populations _",
    "tinsley , r.b .",
    "larsen , new haven : yale univ .",
    "press walker , i.r . ,",
    "mihos , j.c . ,",
    "hernquist , l. , 1995 , astro - ph/9510052 white , s.d.m . , efstathiou , g. , frenk , c.s .",
    ", 1993 , 262 , 1023 white , s.d.m . ,",
    "frenk , c.s . , 1991 , 379 , 52 whitmore , b.c . , gilmore , d.m . , 1991 , , 367 , 64 whitmore , b.c .",
    ", 1990 in clusters of galaxies eds .",
    "oegerle , w.r . ,",
    "fitchett , m.j .",
    ", danly , l. , 139 worthey , g. , 1994 , 95 , 107"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a model for the broad morphological distinction between the disk and spheroidal components of galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> elaborating on the hierarchical clustering scheme of galaxy formation proposed by cole _ </S>",
    "<S> et al _ , we assume that galaxies form stars quiescently in a disk until they are disrupted into a spheroidal configuration by mergers . bulges and spheroids may continue to accrete gas from their hot coronae , and so they may grow disks again . thus , an individual galaxy may pass through various phases of disk or spheroid dominance during its lifetime . </S>",
    "<S> to distinguish between disks and spheroids we add one additional free parameter to the semianalytic model of cole which we fix by requiring that the predicted morphological mix should match that observed locally . </S>",
    "<S> assuming an @xmath0 , standard cold dark matter cosmology , we calculate formation and merging histories , and the evolution in colour , luminosity and morphology of the galaxy populations in different environments . </S>",
    "<S> our model predicts that the bulges of spirals were assembled before the spheroids of ellipticals and the spheroids of cluster ellipticals were assembled before those of field ellipticals . about 50% of ellipticals , but only about @xmath1 of spirals , </S>",
    "<S> have undergone a major merger during the redshift interval @xmath2 . in spite of their violent formation history , </S>",
    "<S> elliptical galaxies turn out to have colour - magnitude diagrams with remarkably small scatter . apart from a general blueing of the galaxy population with redshift , </S>",
    "<S> the colour - magnitude diagrams are remarkably similar at redshift @xmath3 and at the present day . the morphological mix of galaxies that become rich cluster members at high redshift is dominated by spiral galaxies , due to the long timescale for galaxy mergers compared with the timescale for cluster assembly at high redshift . </S>",
    "<S> the assembly of low redshift clusters is slower , allowing more galaxy mergers to occur in the progenitor halos . as a result @xmath4 </S>",
    "<S> rich clusters become e / s0 dominated and we find a `` butcher - oemler '' effect that becomes weaker for poorer groups at high redshift . </S>",
    "<S> the field luminosity function of red galaxies shows little evolution out to @xmath5 and the reddest galaxies at these redshifts are as bright as their local counterparts . </S>",
    "<S> the blue luminosity function , on the other hand , evolves rapidly with redshift , increasing its characteristic luminosity and becoming steeper at the faint end . </S>",
    "<S> these trends are similar to those recently observed in the canada - france redshift survey . </S>",
    "<S> our calculations serve to demonstrate that a simple prescription for the distinction between disks and spheroids that is compatible with hierarchical clustering goes a long way towards explaining many of the systematic trends observed in the galaxy population .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : evolution - galaxies : formation - galaxies . </S>"
  ]
}