{
  "article_text": [
    "up until the late 1970 s , most extragalactic spectroscopy was dependent on photographic plates , or photographic plates in contact with image intensifier tubes .",
    "vidicon tv tubes had too little dynamic range and were too unstable for reliable spectroscopy , and devices such as the robinson - wampler scanner @xcite had low efficiency and were not true photon counting detectors .",
    "needless to say , one did not undertake redshift surveys with such tools .    a breakthrough in technology",
    "was steve shectman s `` shectograph '' @xcite , which consisted of a self - scanned reticon diode array optically contacted to a chain of image intensifier tubes , with a novel analog - digital signal chain for counting arriving photon flashes once only and sending addresses to a computer interface . at the harvard - smithsonian center for astrophysics ,",
    "minicomputers such as data general nova-2 machines were for the first time being built into a new telescope , the mmt , and a group of us made use of the available engineering talent to copy a shectograph and interface it to a spare nova-2 machine with 16 kbyte of memory and a 7  diameter floppy disk with 128 kbyte capacity as a mass storage medium .",
    "everything was programmed in forth , an incredibly compact language that treated the entire computer memory as a push - down stack .",
    "it was all great fun , but forth programs had a tendency to be `` write only '' , unintelligible after they were created .",
    "open cosmology .",
    "the radial shells are spaced every 1000 km / s ]    the shectograph coupled to a rebuilt low dispersion spectrograph was immediately dubbed the `` z - machine '' , and was installed on the 1.5 m tillinghast telescope ( the one with a spherical primary mirror ) on mt .",
    "hopkins , arizona . in those days",
    "our competition for telescope time was nil , and the entire dark time for a two year period was dedicated to execution of the center for astrophysics redshift survey , whose first results were reported in 1981 @xcite . all data reduction for the project , including",
    "the cross - correlation redshift analysis @xcite was done on another nova-2 computer in forth .    once the data was collected , we saw for the first time the filamentary nature of the large - scale structure ( lss ) of the universe , which bore no resemblance whatever to the predictions of models of the time .",
    "but the cold dark matter revolution @xcite was soon to follow , and the infamous `` gang of four '' produced mock universes that were not a bad representation of what was observed in the real universe @xcite . at the _ mining the sky _ conference , i asked the audience to identify the real universe in figure 1 , and the response was random ( proving once again that nobody actually reads the literature ) .",
    "the reader will have to guess or look up the original reference to learn which of the three wedge plots of figure 1 corresponds to the actual cfa1 survey .",
    "from the cfa1 survey and the alphabet soup of those that followed , the ssrs surveys 1 and 2 , the cfa2 survey , the lcrs , apm , cfa century survey , the eso key slice survey , the ors , the eso neaby abell cluster survey , the esp , the durham ukst survey , the cfrs , ldss , cnoc1 , and cnoc2 surveys , we learned about the robustness of @xmath2 and @xmath3 in real and redshift space , we found that the first cdm models predicted too little power on large scale and had to be superceded by models with @xmath4 , we learned how sensitive the measure of the pair velocity dispersion @xmath5 was to sample size and to the presence of rich clusters of galaxies , and we gained some information on higher order correlations , especially from the largest surveys such as the lcrs project .",
    "the lcrs survey has also demonstrated the outer scale of clustering , ( or in kirshner s phrase `` the end of greatness '' ) with no structures having size comparable to the survey dimensions .",
    "dacosta @xcite provides a more detailed review of past and current surveys and tabulates redshift survey parameters .",
    "we heard at this conference the current status of the two major ongoing redshift surveys , the 2dfgrs @xcite and the sdss @xcite .",
    "these surveys are now both in high gear , each collecting more than two cfa1 surveys worth of galaxies per night .",
    "clearly , we have come a long way in the past 20 years !",
    "ccds plus increasingly powerful and inexpensive computers have made all this wonderful activity possible and have totally transformed astronomical research . with samples approaching @xmath6 galaxies , we will be able to address more detailed questions about the nature of the large scale galaxy distribution , the nature of bias in the galaxy distribution , and many other issues .",
    "indeed , these surveys are central to the approaching era of precision cosmology .",
    "optically selected catalogs of galaxies are of course biased by the extinction from dust in the milky way , and thus all optically selected redshift surveys must be limited to zones of relatively high galactic latitude . the infrared astronomy satellite ( iras ) was nasa s first cryogenic satellite , launched in 1983 . iras",
    "imaged the full sky in four channels ( @xmath7 , @xmath8 , @xmath9 , and @xmath10 ) and led to the first catalog of galaxies unaffected by extinction , including approximately 15,000 galaxies with flux @xmath11 jy , selected over roughly 85% of the sky .    even before any redshifts of iras galaxies were available , it was noted that the dipole anisotropy of iras - selected galaxies was aligned reasonably well with the direction of motion of the local group of galaxies as inferred from the dipole anisotropy of the cmbr @xcite .",
    "this is to be expected if the local group motion is caused by inhomogeneity in the local mass distribution and if the iras galaxies at least approximately trace the large scale distribution of mass .",
    "several full - sky redshift surveys were undertaken in the late 1980 s and 90 s to pursue this lead and to clarify the scale of the source of cmbr dipole anisotropy .",
    "the first two surveys qdot @xcite , and the 1.9jy survey @xcite , contained approximately 2500 objects , but the later surveys , the 1.2jy survey @xcite and the pscz survey @xcite contained 5400 and 13,000 galaxies respectively . naturally the latter surveys are superior for statistical inference , but all the iras subsamples yield quite consistent results .",
    "a number of lessons were learned from the iras surveys :    * the - full sky galaxy distribution is highly anisotropic up to a redshift of 4000 km / s , but beyond that distance it becomes increasingly isotropic , as expected in any cosmological model based on the robertson - walker metric .",
    "the cumulative gravitational dipole anisotropy ( assuming iras galaxies trace the mass ) grows steadily out to 4000 km / s , and then levels off ; approximately 2/3 of the acceleration of the local group relative to the comoving frame seems to arise from within this radius .",
    "the misalignment of the cmbr dipole direction and the iras acceleration is less than @xmath12 in the pscz @xcite , lending strong support to the notion that iras galaxies do trace the mass distribution on large scales .",
    "nonlinear velocity - field effects plus shot noise in the discrete galaxy distribution are sufficient to account for the remaining misalignment of the dipole vectors . * in the limit of linear perturbation theory , the observed peculiar velocity field of nearby galaxies , as observed by such means as tully - fisher studies , is expected to be aligned to the local gravity field , which can be traced approximately by the iras galaxy distribution .",
    "although there has been considerable historical controversy over the mismatch between the gravity and velocity fields @xcite , recent tully - fisher samples such as the shellflow project @xcite and the cornell sample @xcite show remarkable consistency with the predictions of the iras flow maps . in the local frame of reference , the peculiar velocities of a shell of galaxies at 6000 km / s",
    "exhibit a reflex dipole anisotropy of amplitude @xmath13 km / s in a direction opposite to the cmbr dipole .",
    "thus this shell s velocity relative to the comoving frame of reference is quite low , as expected from the large scale power spectrum of favored models of structure formation . *",
    "the consistency of the velocity and gravity fields allows one to solve for @xmath14 , where @xmath15 is the bias of the iras galaxies .",
    "current best estimates derived from these studies is @xmath16 @xcite consistent with @xmath17 if iras galaxies trace the mass distribution .",
    "but we know that iras galaxies are less strongly clustered than optically selected galaxies ; if the optical galaxies trace the mass distribution , the large - scale velocity field studies imply @xmath18 .",
    "given the strength of the clustering of the local galaxy distribution , one would expect the local group velocity to exceed 1000 km / s if @xmath19 , instead of the observed @xmath20 km / s derived from the cobe dmr data @xcite .",
    "* the iras galaxy distribution provides an amusing test of the statistical homogeneity of the universe . in a fractal galaxy distribution , the correlation length of the galaxy clustering , @xmath21 ,",
    "should scale linearly with the radius of the survey .",
    "a test of volume - limited subsamples of the 1.2jy iras survey @xcite instead shows that @xmath21 is unchanged as the limiting volume changes by a factor of 8 .",
    "this , plus the clear approach to isotropy at large scales in the iras galaxy distribution , would seem to rule out a fractal model , but alas , idealogues may never be convinced by data .",
    "the denis and 2mass projects have now been completed and facilitate the construction of new , nearly full - sky catalogs of galaxies flux - limited in the @xmath22 band .",
    "two surveys are in advanced stages of development and will soon begin .",
    "the 6df survey @xcite is to use a new 150-fiber spectrograph on the uk schmidt telescope in australia .",
    "the sample selection will be drawn from 2mass and denis objects limited to @xmath23 , with an expected median redshift @xmath24 .",
    "their target is to survey 90,000 galaxies in the 17,000 square degrees in the southern sky , plus an additional 35,000 targets complete to @xmath25 , and @xmath26",
    ". the total number of new redshifts will be approximately @xmath27 .",
    "this instrument should be commissioned around the end of 2000  early 2001 .",
    "huchra @xcite is leading the 2mass redshift survey , whose goal is to observe 150,000 galaxies to @xmath28 over the full sky .",
    "a second phase of this project will be observe @xmath27 galaxies to @xmath29 using 1:10 sampling .",
    "a major goal of these surveys will be to extend predictions of large - scale flow field to greater depth than has been possible with the iras - selected samples .",
    "furthermore , it is known that iras galaxies are mostly dusty spirals undergoing star formation , and therefore undercount dense regions in which early type galaxies predominate .",
    "@xmath22 band flux , on the other hand , is a fair measure of the stellar mass of a galaxy , and if the mass - to - light ratios of galaxies are reasonably constant , it should be possible to construct a more precise gravity field map than with the iras samples , for which one must give each source equal weight .",
    "all the surveys described thus far are designed to characterize the properties of galaxies and their distribution at the current epoch , @xmath30 . even the 2dfgrs and sdss will be limited to @xmath31 , and so are not intended to describe the _ evolution _ of galaxies and their clustering properties .",
    "the evolutionary aspects of galaxies and lss can only be studied by analysis of faint , distant samples with large telescopes .",
    "as these facilities are expensive and in high demand , redshift surveys of the distant universe have to date been quite limited in extent .",
    "the best constraints thus far on the evolution of lss derive from angular clustering studies of faint galaxy samples @xcite , but this should change in the next few years .",
    "the cfrs @xcite was the path breaking redshift survey to probe both the properties of distant galaxies and their large - scale clustering statistics .",
    "the survey studied 591 galaxies to a limit @xmath32 over an area of 0.14 square degrees , with a median redshift @xmath33 .",
    "the survey was undertaken on the cfh telescope , with @xmath34 resolution and allowing multiple galaxies per row on the ccd to increase multiplexing .",
    "the cfrs provided unprecedented constraints on the evolution of the luminosity distribution function and suggested that the clustering length of galaxies diminishes quite rapidly with redshift . however , the survey volume was very small , and clustering analyses within less than fair sample volumes have a tendency to be biased low .",
    "the cnoc2 survey @xcite was a somewhat shallower field galaxy survey of 6500 galaxies to a limiting magnitude of @xmath35 or @xmath36 over 1.5 square degrees of sky .",
    "the median redshift of this sample was @xmath37 , and galaxies ranged from @xmath38 .",
    "this project was also executed on the cfh telescope with resolution and methods similar to cfrs .",
    "the survey was executed in four separate fields , each of which was elongated on the sky to increase the cross - scan dimensions of the survey .",
    "this survey design lends itself to more reliable measurements of the galaxy clustering , with results summarized by carlberg @xcite .",
    "one of their key results is that the comoving correlation length of galaxies decreases extremely slowly in the interval @xmath39 , more slowly than the mass correlation length even in low density cosmologies .",
    "this supports the notion that the bias of the galaxy distribution is increasing with redshift , as expected in hierarchical models @xcite    the caltech faint galaxy survey @xcite includes 1200 galaxies with @xmath40 .",
    "this survey was executed with the lris spectrograph on the keck telescope , with @xmath41 resolution .",
    "the median redshift of this sample is @xmath42 , with a tail extending beyond @xmath43 .",
    "the sample contains prominent sheets of galaxies at selected redshifts , and is probably too small for definitive constraints on the evolution of structure , but the sample has been a goldmine for study of the evolution of properties of galaxies , including merger rates , star formation rates , and luminosity functions .",
    "a recent summary is given by cohen @xcite .",
    "two large projects to study the distant galaxy distribution are now in their final construction phase . the vlt / virmos project @xcite is on track to begin observations in june , 2001 , while our team using the keck telescope and deimos spectrograph plans to begin observations in early 2002 @xcite .",
    "each of these massive machines build on past experience and contain multiple ccd detectors for more extensive multiplexing .",
    "each project plans an observing campaign in excess of 100 nights on the world s largest telescopes .",
    "the vlt / virmos project @xcite is a complex , multi - thrust survey with several components .",
    "vimos is a 4-barreled instrument that is capable of simultaneous spectroscopy of 800 galaxies with resolution 200 . as with the cfh surveys ,",
    "the slitmasks will be milled to place the spectra of multiple galaxies on one row of the ccd detectors .",
    "higher resolution spectroscopy will be possible with lower multiplexing .",
    "the wide - field component of vimos will gather spectra of @xmath27 galaxies to a limiting magnitude of @xmath44 , the same as for the cfrs , but now over 9 square degrees .",
    "the medium deep survey will reach to @xmath45 for 50,000 galaxies in a field of 1.2 square degrees .",
    "both of these surveys will be undertaken at low resolution .",
    "higher resolution spectra will be obtained for @xmath46 galaxies .",
    "the deimos spectrograph is nearing completion in the uc lick shops and will be delivered to the keck observatory in 2001 .",
    "the instrument is the most complex ever built for the keck observatory and as such has presented numerous challenges . to get a feel for the scale of the beast",
    ", deimos has a 1.5 m parabolic collimator mirror , the same diameter as the primary mirror in the telescope used for the original cfa redshift survey ! instead of the 8kbyte data files of the z - machine ,",
    "each output from deimos will be 140mbytes in size .",
    "the most remarkable statement of the progress in technology is that the current computing challenge is not particularly more difficult than that faced 20 years ago .",
    "once deimos is operational , a team of astronomers will initiate a major redshift survey of galaxies that will consume approximately 120 keck nights over a three year period .",
    "the goal is to gather high quality spectra on @xmath47 galaxies with @xmath48 in order to study the evolution of the properties and large scale clustering of galaxies at @xmath49 .",
    "the survey will be done at high spectral resolution , @xmath50 , to work between the bright oh sky emission lines and to infer linewidths for many of the target galaxies .",
    "many of the science projects planned for this survey depend on linewidth information , which can not be derived with low resolution spectra .",
    "thus the keck / deimos survey and the vlt / vimos project will be complementary rather than simply competitive .    the keck / deimos survey is a collaborative project between astronomers at uc , caltech , and the univ of hawaii , in addition to outside collaborators .",
    "team members with keck access are m. davis , s. faber , d. koo , r. guhathakurta , c. steidel , r. ellis , j. luppino , and n. kaiser .",
    "we anticipate that the workhorse grating for the keck / deimos survey will be the 900 lines / mm grating , which will provide a spectral coverage of 3500 @xmath51 in one setting . if we use slits of width 0.75 \" , they will project to a size of 4.6 pixels , or a wavelength interval of 2 @xmath51 .",
    "thus the resolving power of the observations will be quite high , @xmath52 .",
    "the spectrum of each galaxy will be dispersed across two ccds , for a total of 8k pixels .",
    "the spatial direction of deimos covers 16 of sky , 8k pixels long over 4 ccds .",
    "the mit - ll ccds used in deimos have exceptionally low readout noise , 1 - 2 @xmath53 , and the time to become sky - noise limited is less than 10 minutes , even when using a 1200 l / mm grating .",
    "the large number of pixels in the dispersion direction allows high resolution with substantial spectral range , so that we can work between the bright oh sky emission lines while remaining sky - noise limited .",
    "we will set the grating tilt so that the region 6300 - 9300 @xmath51 is centered on the detector , thus assuring that the 3727 @xmath51 [ oii ] doublet is in range for galaxies with @xmath54 . at the planned spectral resolution",
    ", the velocity resolution will be 80 km / s .",
    "the [ oii ] doublet will thus be resolved for all luminous galaxies , giving confidence to the redshift determination even if no other features are observed . with sufficient flux",
    "it should be possible to measure the velocity broadening of the lines , which will hopefully lead to an estimate of the gravitational potential - well depth of a substantial fraction of the galaxies within the survey .",
    ".fields selected for the keck / deimos redshift survey [ cols=\"^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     the keck / deimos survey will be undertaken in four fields , as listed in table 1 .",
    "the fields were chosen as low extinction zones that each are continuously observable at favorable zenith angle from hawaii over a six month interval .",
    "one field includes the groth survey strip , which has good hst imaging and which will be the target of very deep ir imaging by sirtf , and two of the fields are on the equatorial strip that will be deeply surveyed by the sdss project .",
    "each of these fields is the target of a cfht imaging survey by luppino and kaiser , whose primary goal is very deep imaging for weak lensing studies . they are using the new uh camera ( 8k by 12k pixels ) with a field of view of 30 by 40 , in the b , r , and i bands .",
    "the imaging will be obtained in random pointings over a field of @xmath55 by @xmath55 , but with continuous coverage of a strip of length @xmath56 by @xmath57 in the center of each field .    given this enormous photometric database ,",
    "we shall use the color information to exclude galaxies with @xmath58 .",
    "deimos will be used to undertake a spectroscopic survey of the remaining galaxies which have @xmath59 . at this relatively bright flux limit",
    ", 60% of the galaxies should be at @xmath58 @xcite ; the photometric redshift preselection eliminates this foreground subsample , allowing us project to focus our effort on the high - redshift universe . although the depth of the keck / deimos sample will be comparable to the deep vlt / vimos survey , it will contain a somewhat larger number of high redshift objects .",
    "in each of the four selected fields of table 1 , we plan to densely target a region of 120 by 16 or 120 by 30 for deimos spectroscopy .",
    "we intend to produce 120 separate masks per field ; each mask will each contain slitlets selected from a region of size 16 by 4 , with the slitlets mostly aligned along the long axis , but with some tilted as much as @xmath60 to track extended galaxies .",
    "our goal is to select an average of 130 slitlets per mask , selected from the list of galaxies meeting our flux and color cuts .",
    "the mean surface density of candidate galaxies exceeds the number of objects we can select by approximately 30% , and spectra of selected targets can not be allowed to overlap . however , this will not cause problems with the subsequent analysis if we take account of the positions of those galaxies for which we did not obtain spectroscopy . in the groth strip region , because of the interests of other collaborative scientific projects such as sirtf , the plan is to construct 120 masks each covering a sky patch offset from its neighbors by 1 , and to select targets without regard to color .",
    "thus any spot on the sky will be found within 4 masks , giving every galaxy 4 chances to appear on a mask without conflict . in the other three survey fields",
    ", we plan to to use the color preselection , halving the source density of targets , and to step 2 between masks , giving a galaxy two chances to be selected without conflict . in these fields",
    "the masks will form a pattern of 60 by 2 , covering a field of 120 by 30. at @xmath49 , this field subtends a comoving interval of @xmath61 mpc@xmath62 , and our redshift range translates to a comoving interval of @xmath63 mpc ( in a flat universe with @xmath64 ) .",
    "our team s project is actually subdivided into two surveys , the 1hs ( one hour integration survey ) and the 3hs ( three hour integrations ) .",
    "the 1hs is the backbone project and will require 90 nights on keck for execution .",
    "the planned large scale structure studies are the main drivers of the 1hs design .",
    "the 3hs will require 30 nights of keck time to obtain spectra of @xmath65 targets .",
    "the major scientific focus of the 3hs is to study the properties of galaxies , but it will also provide a critical check on the quality of linewidths and other properties derived from 1hs spectra .",
    "3hs targets will be selected to a flux limit up to one magnitude fainter than the 1hs .",
    "the 3hs survey fields will be limited to a few 16 by 4 regions , plus one field 16 by 16 in the center of the groth survey zone , which will have very deep sirtf imaging .",
    "we intend to acquire hst imaging in all 3hs fields , as well as chandra and xmm images",
    ".      the data rate from deimos will be in excess of 1 gbyte / hour , so automated reduction and analysis tools are absolutely imperative .",
    "we have been working closely with the sdss team and intend to adapt the idl code of schlegel and burles for our pipeline reduction .",
    "the photometric and spectroscopic databases for the project are currently planned to be idl structures , stored on disk as fits binary tables .",
    "although the total raw data will exceed one tbyte , the reduced data will be modest in size by today s standards , @xmath66 gbytes .",
    "the keck / deimos team intends to share all results with the public and to put the spectra online in a timely manner .",
    "details of the project can be found at the url http://astro.berkeley.edu / deep/.",
    "the 1hs survey is designed to provide a fair sample volume for analysis of lss statistical behavior , particularly for clustering studies on scales @xmath67 mpc .",
    "the comoving volume surveyed in the 1hs program will exceed that of the lcrs survey @xcite , a survey which has proven to be an outstanding resource for low redshift studies of lss ; the comoving density of galaxies studied will also be comparable to the lcrs . when the data is in hand , we plan a number of scientific analyses , with major programs listed below .",
    "* characterize the linewidths and spectral properties of galaxies versus color , luminosity , redshift , and other observables .",
    "the 3hs is designed to reach a depth allowing more detailed analyses of the internal properties of galaxies at high redshift , including their rotation curves , linewidths from absorption spectra , and stellar populations .",
    "* precisely measure the two  point and three  point correlation functions of galaxies at @xmath43 as a function of other observables , such as color , luminosity , or linewidth . for the higher  order correlations ,",
    "dense sampling is essential .",
    "observations of lyman - break galaxies at @xmath68 @xcite show that the bias in the galaxy distribution was considerably higher in the past .",
    "higher order correlations in the galaxy distribution are one way to estimate the presence of bias in the galaxy distribution @xcite . furthermore ,",
    "if the galaxy bias is larger at @xmath43 than at present , the correlation strength of different subsamples of galaxies should show more systematic variation than is observed for galaxies at @xmath69 .",
    "the design of the 1hs is driven by the goal of obtaining a fair sample measure of the two and three point correlation functions at @xmath70 in a volume larger than that of the lcrs . * measure redshift space distortions in the galaxy clustering at @xmath43 using the @xmath71 diagram and other measures .",
    "the evolution of the thermal velocity dispersion provides another way of separating the evolution of the galaxy bias from evolution in the underlying matter distribution .",
    "the high precision of the redshifts provided by deimos will make this measurement possible . * count galaxies as a function of redshift and linewidth , in order to execute the classical redshift - volume cosmological test .",
    "details are given by newman & davis @xcite , who show that this test can provide a precision measurement of the cosmological parameters @xmath72 and @xmath73 .",
    "if instead one assumes the universe to be flat , the test can set a strong constraint on the equation of state parameter @xmath74 of the dark energy component ( for which @xmath75 ) @xcite .",
    "examples of the constraints possible from this test are given in figure 2 .",
    "note the substantial degeneracy between @xmath74 and @xmath72 ; both parameters change the volume element in a similar fashion .",
    "additional constraints in this parameter space can be used to reduce this degeneracy .",
    "an example results from analysis of the strength of clustering within the keck / deimos survey , as shown in figure 3 , where we plot contours of the ratio of the correlation integral j3 measured at @xmath43 to that determined locally .",
    "this ratio is a readily measured quantity which is dependent on the growth rate of structure and thus sensitive to a different combination of parameters than the volume constraints .",
    "the distance between contours equals the estimated 2@xmath76 error in the measurement of the j3 ratio .",
    "thus , for certain regions of parameter space the two tests together can precisely constrain _ both _ @xmath74 and @xmath72 . * separate the alcock - paczynski effect @xcite,@xcite from the redshift space distortions of the @xmath71 diagram . this effect",
    "relates intervals of angular separation to intervals of redshift separation as a function of redshift .",
    "an object that appears spherical at low redshift would appear elongated in redshift at @xmath77 , but the degree of elongation is a function of @xmath78 .",
    "this effect is 10 times smaller in amplitude than the redshift - volume effect and will be challenging to measure , but it is conceivable that the keck / deimos project will provide data that can measure this effect and separate it from the other expected redshift space distortions .",
    ", @xmath73 or @xmath72 , @xmath74 ( bottom ) planes for a variety of proposed cosmological tests .",
    "( top ) the solid curve depicts the 95% confidence constraint resulting from determining the number counts @xmath79 using 10,000 galaxies in the interval @xmath80 with measured linewidths , as we have proposed for the keck / deimos survey .",
    "the black dashed curve is the 68% error contour for the recent type ia observations of perlmutter et al . , while the dot - dashed curve is the 95% statistical error contour expected from the proposed snap satellite @xcite .",
    "the dotted contours emulate constraints resulting from near - term measurements of the position of the first doppler peak in the cmbr .",
    "the contours for future measurements all presume a @xmath81 , @xmath82 model .",
    "the @xmath79 test can provide constraints comparable in strength to those from snap , with more complementarity to cmb measurements . ( bottom ) contours are depicted as above .",
    "the constraints from our proposed measurement of @xmath79 are shown for two sample cosmologies , with @xmath72=0.3 and @xmath83 or -1 .",
    "the shaded region depicts the constraint which would result from proposed surveys for clusters extending to @xmath84 @xcite . ]    , @xmath72 plane resulting from the j3 ratio test .",
    "the dashed curves are contours of constant j3 ratio ; other curves are as in the bottom panel of the preceding figure .",
    "the distance between contours is equivalent to the estimated @xmath85 error in measuring the j3 ratio from the keck / deimos survey .",
    "the intersection of this constraint with the redshift - volume constraint has the potential to lift the degeneracy between the parameters , independent of other measurements . ]",
    "over the past two decades , redshift surveys have been central to progress in the study of large - scale structure .",
    "different types of surveys have served diverse scientific goals , and this enterprise is larger now than ever .",
    "three distinct classes of survey will be revolutionized in this decade :    * the 2dfgrs and sdss are massive surveys at high galactic latitude which will provide definitive measures of lss and galaxy properties in the nearby universe . * the 6df and 2mass redshift surveys will provide the best estimate of the full - sky galaxy distribution in the local universe . *",
    "the vlt / virmos and keck / deimos redshift surveys will provide samples of galaxies at @xmath70 with the fidelity of the local lcrs sample , which will greatly advance our knowledge of the evolution of the properties of galaxies and of large - scale structure .",
    "all of these activities will greatly advance our understanding of the large - scale universe and provide major clues on questions of fundamental physics .",
    "astrophysics has never been so flooded with data , but this conference has demonstrated that we can build the tools needed to mine these exquisite resources .      this work was supported in part by nsf grants ast00 - 71048 .",
    "the deimos spectrograph is funded by a grant from cara ( keck observatory ) , by an nsf facilities and infrastructure grant ( ast92 - 2540 ) , and by gifts from sun microsystems and the quantum corporation .",
    "da costa , l. ( 1999 ) , evolution of large scale structure : from recombination to garching , edited by a. j. banday , r. k. sheth , l. n. da costa . ,",
    "`` proceedings of the mpa- eso cosmology conference , garching , germany , 2 - 7 august 1998 '' . ) , p.87    colless , m. , et al , , ( 1997 ) the 2df galaxy redshift survey , looking deep in the southern sky , proceedings of the eso / australia workshop , ed .",
    "faffaella morganti and warrick j. couch .",
    ", berlin : springer - verlag , 1999 .",
    "colless , m. ( 2000 ) , cosmological parameters from the 2df 0 galaxy redshift survey , new cosmological data and the values of the fundamental parameters , international astronomical union .",
    "symposium no .",
    "manchester , england , august 2000          rowan - robinson , m. , lawrence , a. , saunders , w. , crawford , j. , ellis , r. , frenk , c. s. , parry , i. , xiaoyang , x. , allington - smith , j. , efstathiou , g. , & kaiser , n. ( 1990 ) , a sparse - sampled redshift survey of iras galaxies - part one - the convergence of the iras dipole and the origin of our motion with respect to the microwave background , mnras , 247 , 1 .",
    "saunders , w. , taylor , a. , ballinger , w. , heavens , a. , oliver , s. , keeble , o. , rowan - robinson , m. , maddox , s. , sutherland , w. , efstathiou , g. , mcmahon , r. , springel , v. , white , s. , tadros , h. , & frenk , c. ( 1997 ) , first results from the psc - z survey , in extragalactic astronomy in the infrared , ed .",
    "g .. a. mamon , t. x. thuan , & j. t. t. van .",
    "paris : editions frontieres , 1997 .",
    ", p.431 .",
    "schmoldt , i. , branchini , e. , teodoro , l. , efstathiou , g. , frenk , c. s. , keeble , o , mcmahon , r. , maddox , s. , oliver , s. , rowan - robinson , m. , saunders , w. , sutherland , w. , tadros , h. , & white , s. d. m. ( 1999 ) , likelihood analysis of the local group acceleration , mnras , 304 , 893 - 905 .          dale , d. a. , giovanelli , r. , haynes , m. p. , campusano , l. e. , & hardy , e. ( 1999 ) , seeking the local convergence depth . v. tully - fisher peculiar velocities for 52 abell clusters , astronom . j. , 118 , 1489 - 1505 .",
    "branchini , e. , teodoro , l. , frenk , c. s. , schmoldt , i. , efstathiou , g. , white , s. d. m. , saunders , w. , sutherland , w. , rowan - robinson , m. , keeble , o. , tadros , h. , maddox , s. , & oliver , s. ( 1999 ) , a non - parametric model for the cosmic velocity field , mnras , 308 , 1 - 28 .",
    "kogut , a. , lineweaver , c. , smoot , g. f. , bennett , c. l. , banday , a. , boggess , n. w. , cheng , e. s. ; de amici , g. , fixsen , d. j. ; hinshaw , g. , jackson , p. d. , janssen , m. , keegstra , p. , loewenstein , k. , lubin , p. , mather , j. c. , tenorio , l. , weiss , r. , wilkinson , d. t. , wright , e. l. ( 1993 ) , dipole anisotropy in the cobe differential microwave radiometers first - year sky maps , astrophys . j. , 419 , 1 - 10 .",
    "fisher , k. b. , davis , m. , strauss , m. a. , yahil , a. , & huchra , j. ( 1994 ) , clustering in the 1.2-jy iras galaxy redshift survey .",
    "i - the redshift and real space correlation functions , mnras , 266 , 50 - 62 .            hammer , f. , flores , h. , lilly , s. j. , crampton , d. , le fevre , o. , rola , c. , mallen - ornelas , g. , schade , d. , & tresse , l. ( 1997 ) canada - france redshift survey .",
    "spectral properties of field galaxies up to z=1 , astrophys .",
    "j. , 481 , 49 - 60 .",
    "yee , h. k. c. , morris , s. l. , lin , h. , carlberg , r. g. , hall , p. b. , sawicki , m. , patton , d. r. , wirth , g. d. , ellingson , e. , & shepherd , c. w. ( 2000 ) the cnoc2 field galaxy redshift survey .",
    "i. the survey and the catalog for the patch cnoc 0223 + 00 , ap .",
    "j. supp . , 129 , 475 - 492 .    carlberg , r. g. , yee , h. k. c. , morris , s. l. , lin , h. , hall , p. b. , patton , d. , sawicki , m. , & shepherd , c. w. ( 2000 ) , astrophys .",
    "j. ( 2000 ) , galaxy clustering evolution in the cnoc2 high - luminosity sample , astrophys .",
    "j. , 542 , 57 - 67 .",
    "steinhardt , p , and caldwell , r. r. ( 1998 ) , introduction to quintessence , in cosmic microwave background and large scale structure of the universe .",
    "asp conference series , vol .",
    "151 , 1998 , ed .",
    "y. i. byun and k. w. ng ( 1998 ) , isbn 1 - 886733 - 71 - 6 , p.13"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> since the late 1970 s , redshift surveys have been vital for progress in understanding large - scale structure in the universe . </S>",
    "<S> the original cfa redshift survey collected spectra of 20 - 30 galaxies per clear night on a 1.5 meter telescope ; over a two year period the project added @xmath0 new redshifts to the literature . </S>",
    "<S> subsequent low-@xmath1 redshift surveys have been up to an order of magnitude larger , and ongoing surveys will yield a similar improvement over the generation preceding them . </S>",
    "<S> full sky redshift surveys have a special role to play as predictors of cosmological flows , and deep pencil beam surveys have provided fundamental constraints on the evolution of properties of galaxies . with the 2df redshift survey and the sdss survey </S>",
    "<S> , our knowledge of the statistical clustering of low - redshift galaxies will achieve unprecedented precision . </S>",
    "<S> measurements of clustering in the distant universe are more limited at present , but will become much better in this decade as the vlt / virmos and keck / deimos projects produce results . as in so many other fields , progress in large scale structure studies , </S>",
    "<S> both observational and theoretical , has been made possible by improvements in technologies , especially computing . </S>",
    "<S> this review briefly highlights twenty years of progress in this evolving discipline and describes a few novel cosmological tests that will be attempted with the keck / deimos survey . </S>"
  ]
}