{
  "article_text": [
    "in this paper we use photometry of about 500,000 stars , measured in the standard johnson @xmath0 and cousins @xmath1 over a @xmath7 field within baade s window by the optical gravitational lensing experiment ( ogle , cf .",
    "udalski et al . 1992 ; 1993 ) .",
    "all the observations were made with the 1meter swope telescope at the las campanas observatory , operated by the carnegie institution of washington .",
    "a catalog of 33,196 stars in the magnitude range @xmath8 in the ogle field bwc has recently been published by szymaski et al .",
    "the j2000 coordinates of the bwc field are : @xmath9 , and the field is @xmath10 on a side .",
    "the catalog gives the @xmath11 coordinates and the @xmath1 and @xmath0 magnitudes .",
    "it will be extended in the near future to brighter and fainter stars , as well as to much larger area .",
    "the database of ogle photometry ( szymaski & udalski 1993 ) was used to analyze the distribution of disk stars ( paczyski et al .",
    "1994 ) , to demonstrate the presence of the galactic bar ( stanek et al . 1994 ; 1996 ) , and to obtain the map of total interstellar extinction ( woniak & stanek 1996 ; stanek 1996 ) .",
    "the purpose of this paper is to verify some of these results .",
    "the color magnitude diagram of the stars in baade s window shows two distinct groups of stars , as presented in fig.1 .",
    "the dominant population is in the bulge ( or bar ) , with a very prominent `` red clump '' ( or red horizontal branch ) centered at @xmath12 .",
    "the red giant branch is extended towards higher luminosities and to the red .",
    "the red subgiant branch is clearly visible below the `` red clump '' , and it is traceable all the way to the main sequence turn  off point ( top ) , somewhere near @xmath13 .",
    "in addition there is a well defined and narrow band of stars extending from @xmath14 to @xmath15 , and traceable to higher luminosities .",
    "this band has almost the same slope as the pleiades main sequence moved to a distance of @xmath16 kiloparsecs and subject to the interstellar extinction of @xmath17 .",
    "this coincidence led paczyski et al .",
    "( 1994 ) to the incorrect conclusion that there is evidence for a large number of disk stars out to the distance @xmath16 kpc , and a hole in the disk at larger distances .",
    "the mistake caused by the slope coincidence of the `` main sequence '' was pointed out by bertelli et al .",
    "( 1995 ) who used their so called hrd  gst , the hertzsprung ",
    "russel diagram galactic software telescope , to identify the band with the stars located at the disk main sequence turn  off point",
    "( top ) at various distances along the line of sight .",
    "the slope of the apparent sequence in the color  magnitude diagram was determined by the variation of interstellar extinction with distance .",
    "initially we did not appreciate their result because we were overwhelmed by the complexity of hrd  gst .",
    "rucinski ( 1996 ) demonstrated that contact binaries found in the ogle variable star catalogs ( udalski et al . 1994 ; 1995a , b ; 1996 ) have a uniform distribution for distances up to @xmath18 kpc , i.e. all the way to the galactic bulge , with no evidence of a major hole in the inner galactic disk .",
    "the distribution of contact binaries in the color  magnitude diagram was consistent with the bertelli et al .",
    "( 1995 ) interpretation of the diagram .",
    "recently , ng & bertelli ( 1996 ) used the shape of the sequence made by the disk top stars to study the distribution of interstellar extinction with distance .    a simple demonstration of the bertelli et al . ( 1995 ) interpretation",
    "is provided by figs.2 and 3 , in which the color  magnitude diagrams are shown for two subsets of stars in baade s window .",
    "the two subsets correspond to the regions in which the total interstellar extinction towards the galactic bulge is in the range @xmath19 and @xmath20 , respectively .",
    "these two regions have a very complicated structure , as determined by the extinction map provided by stanek ( 1996 ) .",
    "it is clear that the slope of the `` main sequence '' is shallower in the areas of larger interstellar reddening ( fig.3 ) .",
    "there is also more scatter of stars in fig.3 than in fig.2 because of a larger range of interstellar extinction : 0.83 mag versus 0.17 mag .",
    "the apparent sharpness of the sequence in fig.1 arises because most stars in baade s window have a small range of extinction , with @xmath21 ( cf .",
    "fig.4 of stanek 1996 ) .    in the following",
    "we present a simple demonstration why the color  magnitude diagram in baade s window features the disk top stars forming an apparently narrow sequence , while in the many directions farther away from the galactic plane similar stars form only a distinct blue edge to their distribution , with @xmath22 , and @xmath23 , but no narrow sequence is apparent in those fields ( e.g. kauny & udalski 1992 , reid & majewski 1993 , caldwell & schechter 1996 ) .",
    "a standard double  exponential disk model implies that the number density of stars is approximately constant with distance in the direction of baade s window ( paczyski 1991 ) . at any particular apparent magnitude",
    "the stars at the main sequence turn  off point ( top ) can be seen out to some distance @xmath24 .",
    "fainter and redder main sequence ( ms ) stars some 2 magnitudes below the top can be seen to a smaller distance @xmath25 , i.e. over a volume 16 times smaller than the volume over which the top stars can be seen .",
    "the number density of the ms stars is higher than the number density of the top stars , but a much larger volume over which the top stars are visible more than compensates for that .",
    "the net result is that the top stars dominate the color  magnitude diagram .",
    "as the color and absolute magnitude ranges of the top stars are small they form a narrow sequence in the color magnitude diagram . in the absence of interstellar extinction that sequence is vertical .",
    "the increase of extinction with the distance makes the more distant top stars appear not only fainter , but also redder , and the narrow sequence has a distinct slope in the color  magnitude diagram , as is the case in baade s window",
    ".    a sharp sequence of stars in the color  magnitude diagram is not observed in the fields far from the galactic plane because of rapid decline in the number density of disk stars with the distance , which reduces the advantage of a larger volume over which the top stars are detectable . while the top stars are still responsible for the sharpness of the blue edge in those fields , the more numerous and redder ms stars are responsible for a broad and diffuse distribution to the red .",
    "a simple visualization of the effect is presented in figs . 4 and 5 . following reid & majewski ( 1993 ) we took the stars in the globular cluster 47  tuc ( kauny et al . 1996 ) as an approximate representation for the thick disk color",
    " luminosity function .",
    "we considered two forms of number density variation with distance .",
    "first , the number density was assumed to vary as @xmath26 where @xmath27 is the local number density near us .",
    "we also assumed there was no interstellar extinction . as a result we obtained a color  magnitude diagram presented in fig.4 . the sharp blue edge is clearly apparent , but there is no striking red edge .",
    "this simulation provides a similar visual impression as the observed color  magnitude diagrams of kauny & udalski ( 1992 ) , reid & majewski ( 1993 ) and caldwell & schechter ( 1996 ) .    in order to simulate the conditions in baade s window we adopted the same 47  tuc color  luminosity function , but we assumed that the number density of disk stars is constant between us and 5.6 kpc , and that it follows the number density of stars given by the e2 model for the galactic bar , proposed by dwek et al .",
    "( 1995 ) and modified by stanek et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , at distances larger than 5.6 kpc .",
    "the interstellar extinction as a function of distance @xmath28 was adopted to be : @xmath29 , \\ ] ] i.e. somewhat different than recommended by arp ( 1965 ) .",
    "the corresponding color  magnitude diagram is shown in fig.5 .",
    "the sequence of stars from @xmath30 to @xmath31 has a resemblance to the observed sequence ( cf .",
    "fig.1 ) , and to the model results presented by bertelli et al . ( 1995 ) .",
    "this sequence is made of the disk top stars .",
    "note that the sequence becomes vertical for @xmath32 , as there is almost no additional extinction ( and reddening ) beyond @xmath33 in the model .",
    "the sequence remains narrow along its full length in fig.5 , for @xmath34 , with the lowest part dominated by the galactic bulge / bar stars .",
    "a comparison between figures 1 and 5 makes it clear that our single population model can not provide a quantitative explanation for the many details of the observed color  magnitude diagram . however , our goal was to provide a simple explanation of the origin of the sharp sequence of disk stars in baade s window , and the reason for its absence in the other directions .",
    "we have shown that the sharp sequence appears because the number density of disk stars remains roughly constant with distance in baade s window , while it declines rapidly in the other direction .",
    "the many details of the observed color  magnitude diagram as presented in fig.1 depend on the mix of many stellar populations , each with its own range of chemical compositions , its range of ages , its geometrical distribution , its own mass function , and therefore its specific luminosity function .",
    "in addition , there is a complicated variation of the interstellar extinction with distance . according to bertelli et al .",
    "( 1995 ) and ng et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , their multi  component hrd  gst can explain most of the observed details , but this is at present beyond our ability to asses .",
    "the ogle data cover only two photometric bands and it should not be over  interpreted .",
    "it is necessary to take into account the incompleteness as described by szymaski et al .",
    "( 1996 ) before making quantitative inferences .",
    "also , there seems to be a systematic error in the colors of stars fainter than v @xmath35 , as discussed in the following section of this paper .",
    "that error will be corrected with a new data set to be obtained shortly with a new instrument .",
    "the line of sight through baade s window reaches the distance of 8 kpc at @xmath36 pc below the galactic plane .",
    "it is most likely that there is no significant extinction so far out .",
    "according to arp ( 1965 ) the extinction ends at a distance @xmath37 kpc away from us , while according to ng & bertelli ( 1996 ) it may extend out to @xmath38 kpc . in any case",
    "it is safe to assume that the inner disk , as seen through baade s window , and the stars in the galactic bulge / bar farther out , are subject to the same total extinction map ( stanek 1996 ) .",
    "therefore , in order to study the inner parts of the galaxy we can make a correction following stanek s prescription .",
    "we applied the extinction corrections to all stars , which means we have over  corrected the disk stars which are closer to us than @xmath39 kpc .",
    "the corresponding color  magnitude diagram is shown in fig.6 , where only 10% of bright stars and 0.7% of the faint stars were plotted , to avoid excessive crowding .",
    "the outlines of stellar sequences observed in the globular cluster 47  tuc , and in the very old , and metal rich open cluster ngc  6791 , are shown with solid lines in fig.6 .",
    "the cluster sequences were corrected for reddening .",
    "we adopted @xmath40 for 47  tuc following kauny et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , and @xmath41 for ngc  6791 following kauny & udalski ( 1992 ) .",
    "both sequences were shifted in magnitude as if moved to the distance of 8 kpc , adopting @xmath42 and @xmath43 for 47  tuc and ngc  6791 , respectively ( i.e. @xmath44 and @xmath45 , respectively ) .",
    "the area surrounded with a dashed line at @xmath46 and @xmath47 is a schematic representation of the star sequence observed with the hst ( holtzman et al .",
    "1993 ) and corrected for extinction following stanek ( 1996 ) : @xmath48 , which is almost identical to @xmath49 adopted by holtzman et al .",
    "a series of open circles at @xmath50 and @xmath51 corresponds to average colors of faint ogle stars as a function of magnitude .",
    "the adopted relative distances to 47  tuc , ngc  6791 , and the galactic bulge may be somewhat incorrect , and the same is true about the reddening .",
    "the ages and metallicities of all three groups of stars : 47  tuc , ngc  6791 , and the galactic bulge , are subject to some uncertainty too . according to stellar model calculations ( cf .",
    "bertelli et al .",
    "1994 ) the luminosity of red clump ( horizontal branch ) stars varies with age and metallicity .",
    "therefore , we make no attempt to refine the relative positions of the three red clumps in fig.6 , but instead we consider the implications of some features of the star sequences which are distance independent .",
    "one of the reddening and distance independent properties is the slope of the red subgiant sequence for @xmath52 .",
    "the observed ogle sequence is almost vertical , while the subgiant branches of 47  tuc and ngc  6791 have a distinct slope , with the brighter stars being redder .",
    "this suggests that there may be a magnitude dependent color error in the ogle photometry .",
    "the colors of top stars in both clusters are similar , and they are not very different from the colors of bulge top stars obtained with the hst ( holtzman et al .",
    "1993 ) , but they are all much bluer than the average colors of ogle stars at the same magnitude , @xmath53 .",
    "this indicates that there is some systematic error in the ogle photometry , as the faint ogle stars appear too red .",
    "in fact there was some evidence of a non  linearity of the ccd camera system used by the ogle ( udalski et al .",
    "the case seems to be strengthened with a comparison between the ogle photometry of the tp8 field ( at @xmath54 ) with the recent photometry done on the 2.5meter du pont telescope by kauny & thompson ( 1996 ) .",
    "it indicates a systematic color shift of @xmath55 , in the sense that faint ogle stars are too red .",
    "note , that for the faintest ogle stars the systematic effects of stellar image blending is significant .",
    "most stars below the bulge top are the bulge ms stars , which are redder .",
    "therefore , the measured colors of the unresolved blended images may be systematically too red , adding to the systematic effect caused by a non  linear response of the ccd detector and the camera electronic .",
    "a much better photometry with the new ogle2 telescope is expected to be available soon .",
    "therefore , we think it is not useful to investigate the systematic error in the old ogle photometry .",
    "it had no effect on the microlensing searches or the search for stellar variability .",
    "however , the presence of a systematic error limits the use of the old ogle color  magnitude diagrams for a quantitative analysis of stars with @xmath56 , or @xmath57 .",
    "there is an intriguing difference between the ogle color  magnitude diagram for the galactic bulge / bar stars , and the diagrams for 47  tuc and ngc  6791 at @xmath58 16.7  17.7 , @xmath59 0.8  1.0 ( cf .",
    "fig.6 ) . there is a short , almost horizontal segment joining the top region with the red subgiant branch . in the two clusters",
    "the magnitude difference between this segment and the red clump at @xmath60 is @xmath61 , while the ogle data indicate the difference to be only @xmath62 .",
    "this difference , just like the better known ( but more difficult to measure ) magnitude difference between the horizontal branch stars and the top stars , is a good age indicator ( cf .",
    "bertelli et al .",
    "taken at the face value it implies that the dominant bulge / bar population is substantially younger than the clusters 47  tuc and ngc  6791 .",
    "however , considering the problems with the systematic color errors and blending for faint ogle stars , and only marginal evidence for the presence of the `` horizontal segment '' in the ogle data as presented in fig.6 , the evidence for the age of the bulge is marginal at best .",
    "the same `` horizontal segment '' in the directly observed @xmath4@xmath1 diagram is marginally apparent in fig.1 at @xmath63 , @xmath64 .",
    "the hst data presented in fig.2 of holtzman et al .",
    "( 1993 ) has too few stars at @xmath65 to make any claim about the presence or absence of the segment at @xmath66 .",
    "however , with the center of the red clump at @xmath67 , the `` horizontal segment '' would be expected to be at @xmath68 if the bulge was like 47  tuc or ngc  6791 , but there is no such thing apparent in the hst data at @xmath69 .",
    "unfortunately , the number of stars in the hst color  magnitude diagram is too small to be confident .",
    "therefore , rather inconclusive hst data seem to point the same way as the inconclusive ogle data : the shape of the bulge / bar color  magnitude diagram between the top and the red subgiant branch seems to imply a substantially lower age for the dominant bulge population than the age of old globular or open clusters .",
    "the unusually rich red clump ( red horizontal branch ) of the bulge / bar provides yet another indication of a relatively young population ( paczyski et al .",
    "1994 ) .",
    "the issue of the bulge age is vigorously discussed in the literature , and it is not settled yet . it could be resolved with the hst color  magnitude diagram extending to bright enough stars , and over large enough area , to cover the star sequence joining the top with the red subgiant branch .",
    "even more definite resolution of the age problem could be provided by the determination of masses of detached eclipsing binaries in that part of the diagram ( paczyski 1996 ) .",
    "such binaries can be found in the ogle catalogs ( udalski et al .",
    "1994 , 1995a , b , 1996 ) .",
    "the main practical problem is the faintness of those stars ; the radial velocity curves may have to wait until the 6.5 meter and 8 meter telescopes become operational .",
    "stanek ( 1996 ) has used the method developed by woniak & stanek ( 1996 ) to construct the extinction map for baade s window .",
    "the method took advantage of red clump stars as tracers . in this section",
    "we verify the map using two other groups of stars : the red subgiants and the far disk and bulge top stars .",
    "the regions of the color  magnitude diagram covered by the three groups is shown in fig.7 with the three parallelograms , which have the slope of the upper and lower boundaries fixed by the relation that holds for interstellar extinction : @xmath70 .",
    "all stars in the ogle database for baade s window were ordered according to the value of their extinction using stanek s ( 1996 ) software , and divided into 20 groups with equal number of stars in each group .",
    "next , the stars in the three regions as shown in fig.7 were selected for each of the 20 groups . finally , the stellar @xmath71 and @xmath72 values were shifted for each group along the extinction lines so as to achieve the best match between all the groups . this way",
    "residual corrections were found to the average values of interstellar extinction for each reddening group , and for each type of star : the red clump stars , the red subgiants , and the top stars .",
    "if these were perfect methods to measuring interstellar extinction then all the corrections should be close to zero , and there should be no systematic trend between them .",
    "the comparison between the extinction values obtained for each of the 20 reddening groups for all three types of stars is shown in fig.8 , together with the dashed line which indicates the perfect relation .",
    "the overall agreement is reasonable , but a small but systematic trend is disturbing .",
    "it is most disturbing for the red clump stars which are shown with the small filled circles .",
    "the range of reddening values as determined in this paper ( kps ) is larger than the range obtained from the stanek s map .",
    "it turns out that a significant fraction of the systematic trend apparent in fig.8 is caused by the interpolation , as described by stanek ( 1996 ) .",
    "this is demonstrated in fig.9 , where the estimate of the reddening for all stars in the ogle database in the field bw3 is shown for 20 groups ordered according to the value of their extinction ( the field bw3 was selected because it has the largest range of extinction ) .",
    "the value of @xmath73 was obtained with the stanek s extinction map , and it involved the interpolation between the original subframes for which the values of @xmath74 were estimated by woniak & stanek ( 1996 ) . the data on which the extinction map was based had the resolution limited by these subframes , which were @xmath75 on a side .",
    "the difference between the perfect system ( dashed line in fig.9 ) and the real world ( solid line ) is in the same sense and about the same magnitude as the systematic trend present in fig.8 .",
    "however , some part of the trend may be caused by the systematic errors in the ogle photometry , as discussed in section 3 .",
    "the fact that the values of interstellar reddening estimated with three different types of galactic bulge stars are all in a fair agreement , as shown in fig.8 , demonstrates that stanek s ( 1996 ) reddening map can be used with some confidence . on the other hand",
    "the differences apparent in fig.8 indicate how large the differential errors of the map are .",
    "of course , there is a separate issue of the reddening zero point , as discussed by stanek ( 1996 ) .",
    "this paper addresses two errors we have found in the previous analysis of the ogle data , and in the data itself : the incorrect interpretation of the disk star sequence in the color  magnitude diagram by paczyski et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , and a systematic photometric error of @xmath76 for the faint stars . the correct interpretation of the disk sequence as made of stars at the main sequence turn ",
    "off points at various distances , and suffering interstellar reddening increasing with the distance , was first proposed by bertelli et al .",
    "( 1995 ) . in this paper",
    "we explained the sharpness of the sequence as caused by the fact that the number density of stars seen through baade s window remains roughly constant as a function of distance .",
    "this is approximately the same population which dominates the color  magnitude diagrams far from the galactic plane , and creates the characteristic blue edge at @xmath22 , and @xmath77 ( e.g. kauny & udalski 1992 , reid & majewski 1993 , caldwell & schechter 1996 ) .",
    "the photometric error is most likely caused by a non  linearity of the detector system , as mentioned by udalski et al .",
    "( 1993 ) , and confirmed by kauny & thompson ( 1996 ) , with some additional contribution due to crowding and blending of the faint stars with the bulge main sequence stars which are below the detection threshold , and which are systematically redder than the stars just above the detection threshold .",
    "we expect that photometry from the new ogle2 system will not be subject to such systematic errors .",
    "we verified the extinction map based on the red clump stars , obtained by stanek ( 1996 ) , using the bulge red subgiant stars and the bulge top stars .",
    "we found reasonable agreement between these groups of stars , but we have also found a small systematic error caused by the interpolation process which is used by the map software . at this time fig.8 can be used to estimate the map accuracy .",
    "we found some evidence in the ogle data , and in the hst data as presented by holtzman et al .",
    "( 1993 ) , that the dominant bulge population is considerably younger than either moderately metal weak globular cluster 47  tuc , or the the metal rich open cluster ngc  6791 .",
    "this relatively young age as indicated by the location of stars between the top and the red subgiant branch , barely detectable in fig.6 .",
    "a definite confirmation of the effect can be obtained with new hst data which must cover a larger area and extend to brighter stars than those analyzed by holtzman et al .",
    "( 1993 ) , so that the location of the star sequence connecting the bulge top with its red subgiant branch can be clearly established .",
    "stanek , k. z. , 1996 , apj , 460 , l37 stanek , k.  z. , mateo , m. , udalski , a. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , & kubiak , m. , 1994 , apj , 429 , l73 stanek , k.  z. , udalski , a. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , kubiak , m. , mateo , m. , & krzemiski , w. , 1996 , apj , in press szymaski , m. , & udalski , a. , 1993 , acta astron , 43 , 91 szymaski , m. , udalski , a. , kubiak , m. , kauny , j. , mateo , m. , & krzemiski , w. , 1996 , acta astron , 46 , 1    udalski , a. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , kubiak , m. , & mateo , m. , 1992 , acta astron , 42 , 253 udalski , a. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , kubiak , m. , & mateo , m. , 1993 , acta astron , 43 , 69 udalski , a. , kubiak , m. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , mateo , m. , & krzemiski , w. , 1994 , acta astron , 44 , 317 udalski , a. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , kubiak , m. , mateo , m. , & krzemiski , w , 1995a , acta astron , 45 , 1 udalski , a. , olech , a. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , kubiak , m. , mateo , m. , & krzemiski , w. , 1995b , acta astron , 45 , 433 udalski , a. , olech , a. , szymaski , m. , kauny , j. , kubiak , m. , mateo , m. , krzemiski , w. , & stanek , k. z. , 1996 , acta astron , 46 , 51 woniak , p. r. & stanek , k. z. , 1996 , apj , 464 , 233"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have reanalyzed the ogle @xmath0 and @xmath1 photometry of @xmath2 stars in baade s window , and we confirm the extinction map published by stanek ( 1996 ) . </S>",
    "<S> however , we find that the interpretation of the ogle color  magnitude diagram for the disk stars proposed by paczyski et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 1994 ) was incorrect : the dominant disk population in baade s window is old , and we find no evidence for a large hole in the inner galactic disk . </S>",
    "<S> we find evidence for a small systematic error in the ogle photometry for stars below the `` red clump '' : the faint stars with @xmath3 have their @xmath4 color indices too red by @xmath5 . </S>",
    "<S> we find tentative evidence from the ogle and hst photometry that the the bulge main sequence turn  off point is brighter by @xmath6 than it is in either 47  tuc or ngc  6791 , indicating that the dominant population of the galactic bulge is considerably younger than those clusters . </S>"
  ]
}