{
  "article_text": [
    "the correlation function is one of the most frequently used statistics in cosmology .",
    "conventionally the correlation function and the power spectrum are considered together to characterise the basic clustering properties of galaxies or of clusters of galaxies .",
    "they complement each other in the sense that the power spectrum describes the structure in fourier space and the correlation function in real space .",
    "intuitively , it is clear that , on small scales comparable to the size of systems of galaxies , the galaxy correlation function should characterise the distribution of galaxies in systems of galaxies . on these scales",
    "the galaxy correlation function is large  this is the manifestation of the clustering of galaxies . with increasing scale",
    "the clustering gets weaker and at some scale the correlation function approaches zero . traditionally the correlation function is expressed in log  log units and is calculated only up to the zero crossing separation .",
    "this separation is sometimes used as a parameter characterising the transition from clustering to homogeneity .",
    "the correlation function of clusters of galaxies has a similar behaviour , only it is shifted towards larger scales .",
    "the clustering scale is here about a factor of 4 times larger than that for galaxies .    on large scales",
    "the correlation function of galaxies depends primarily on the distribution of systems of galaxies .",
    "thus , properties of the distribution of these systems influence the behaviour of the correlation function on large scales .",
    "similarly , the correlation function of clusters of galaxies on large scales depends on the distribution of systems of clusters , i.e. superclusters of galaxies .",
    "einasto et al .",
    "( 1997a , b , hereafter e97 and paper ii ) determined the correlation function of clusters belonging to rich superclusters using data in a distance interval @xmath0 @xmath1  mpc .",
    "the main finding of this study was the detection of a series of almost regularly spaced maxima and minima .",
    "this property of the correlation function was called _",
    "oscillations_. the period of oscillations was found to be @xmath2  @xmath1  mpc .",
    "this behaviour of the correlation function emphasises the presence of certain regularities in the distribution of clusters of galaxies .",
    "a regular network of clusters of approximately the same scale was actually noticed by tully et al .",
    "( 1992 ) and einasto et al .",
    "( 1994 , 1997c , hereafter paper i ) .",
    "these considerations have motivated us to perform an analysis of the correlation function as a geometrical statistic . such analysis helps us to understand the relation between the geometry of the distribution of clusters and superclusters and the correlation function . we shall use simple geometrical models of the particle distribution and calculate the correlation function for these models with the aim to find the relation between the correlation function and the geometry of the cluster distribution .",
    "geometric information contained in the correlation function has been studied so far only for relatively small separations .",
    "bahcall , henriksen , & smith ( 1989 ) used a model in which galaxies were located on the surfaces of spherical shells and clusters of galaxies resided at the intersections of the shells .",
    "several models are discussed by einasto ( 1992 ) with the aim of giving a geometrical interpretation for the galaxy correlation function on small scales .",
    "it was also noted that if the systems of galaxies are located in a regular grid then the correlation function has a secondary maximum at a scale which corresponds to the grid length ( step ) .",
    "in contrast to previous studies we focus our attention in the present paper on large scales . on these scales the errors of the correlation function are of the same order as the function itself , thus a careful error analysis is crucial",
    ". additionally we found for our models the power spectrum and the distribution of void radii in order to compare the relationship of these statistics to sample distribution geometry .",
    "the paper is organised as follows .",
    "we start the paper with a short description of the basic formulae and methods we use in calculations ( section 2 )",
    ". then we use analytic models for the spectra and calculate respective correlation functions to get a general picture of the behaviour of the correlation function on large scales ( section 3 ) . thereafter we describe geometrical models of the distribution of clusters used to investigate properties of the correlation function ( section 4 ) .",
    "the discussion of the correlation function for these models , the comparison of this function with the power spectrum and void radius statistics , and the discussion of the influence of the sample shape follow ( section 5 ) .",
    "next we discuss errors of the correlation function ( section 6 ) .",
    "finally we discuss geometric properties of the correlation function on small scales ( section 7 ) .",
    "the paper ends with the main conclusions .",
    "the two - point correlation function @xmath3 is defined as the excess over poisson of the joint probability of finding objects in two volume elements separated by @xmath4 and averaged over a very large volume ( peebles 1980 ) .",
    "it is possible , in practice , to determine this function only for a limited volume , which is called the estimate of the correlation function .",
    "we shall use the term `` correlation function '' for its estimate , and calculate it using the classical formula : @xmath5 where @xmath6 is the number of pairs of galaxies ( or clusters of galaxies ) in the range of distances @xmath7 , @xmath8 is the bin size , @xmath9 is the respective number of pairs in a poisson sample of points , @xmath10 and @xmath11 are the mean number densities of clusters in respective samples , and brackets @xmath12 mean ensemble average .",
    "the summation is over the whole volume under study , and it is assumed that the galaxy and poisson samples have identical shape , volume and selection function .",
    "we define our model samples in cubic volumes of side - length @xmath13 , and calculate the correlation function for the whole distance interval from @xmath14 to @xmath15 , dividing this interval linearly into 100 equal bins . for a given sample shape and selection function",
    "we calculate @xmath16 as a mean value of ten realizations of random samples of 2000 clusters with the same selection function as the model sample . in this paper",
    "we use only simple selection functions : in addition to cubical samples we consider double - conical samples ( see below ) .    to suppress random noise we smooth the correlation function with a gaussian window . after smoothing",
    "the poisson error is virtually absent and the residual error is determined by the cosmic variance of the geometry of the particle distribution , i.e. by the variation of the correlation function found for different volumes of space .",
    "we calculate also the power spectrum , @xmath17 , for our models . for this purpose we can use the relation between the power spectrum and the correlation function , as they form a pair of fourier transformations : @xmath18 @xmath19 here the wavenumber @xmath20 is measured in units of @xmath21 , and is related to the wavelength , @xmath22 . to find the power spectrum from the correlation function we could use the eq .",
    "however , it is more convenient to use direct methods which are similar to the calculation of the spectrum of @xmath23-body models of structure evolution , calculating first the distribution of clusters in the fourier space and then averaging over various wavenumber directions .",
    "the distribution of clusters in @xmath20-space is found with the fast fourier transform using @xmath24 cells , which allows us to find 32 modes in the spectrum .",
    "this method assumes that the whole space is filled with similar periodic cubes .",
    "in addition to geometric models where the distribution of clusters in real space is given initially , we also find for comparison the relation between the correlation function and power spectrum analytically for some simple power spectrum models . in this case",
    "we use the eq .",
    "following eq . ( 2 ) we have calculated the correlation function for several power spectra . in general , for any given power spectrum the correlation function can not be calculated analytically . however , we can determine @xmath3 using a simple ansatz for @xmath17 : @xmath25 where @xmath26 is the power index on large wavelengths ( harrison - zeldovich spectrum ) , the negative @xmath27 is the index on small wavelengths , @xmath28 is the transition wavenumber , and @xmath29 is the normalisation amplitude . from observations @xmath27",
    "is expected to be about @xmath30 .",
    "thus , we have to integrate @xmath31 where @xmath32 , and @xmath33 depends on the place @xmath28 of the maximum of the power spectrum . the solution of the integral yields @xmath34 \\bigr . \\nonumber\\\\            & \\bigl .",
    "+ y^{-3/2 } [ \\sqrt{\\pi/2 }            - \\sqrt{2\\pi } \\hbox{s } ( \\sqrt{2y/\\pi } ) ] \\bigr\\ } , \\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where s denotes fresnel s sine - integral . obviously , the correlation function @xmath3 is oscillating",
    ". the amplitude scales with @xmath35 and the radial dependence with @xmath36 .",
    "the integrals in eq.(5 ) ( the power spectrum left and right of the maximum ) lead to approximately the same contribution in @xmath37 , however with opposite signs .",
    "the resulting oscillations are rapidly damped ( @xmath38 ) .    as a second model we consider a smooth transition between positive and negative spectral indices ( peacock & west 1992 , einasto & gramann 1993 ) @xmath39",
    "the third model is the standard cold dark matter model ( scdm ) with the transfer function of bond and efstathiou ( 1984 ) , where @xmath40 .",
    "the transition between positive and negative spectral indices is slower than in the second model .",
    "the maximum of the first two models is chosen to be at @xmath41  mpc in accordance with the scdm model .",
    "the amplitude is taken in accordance with cobe data by adopting @xmath42 ( white , scott & silk 1994 ) .",
    "= 10.5 cm    a rapid and precise method to calculate numerically the integral ( 2 ) is given by press et al .",
    "the dispersion of density fluctuations is equal to the value of the correlation function at zero separation , @xmath43 in all cases of practical interest the spectral index is @xmath44 ; i.e. the integral ( 8) is not convergent .",
    "since the dispersion of density fluctuations has a finite value , we conclude that on small scales the real spectral index must decrease so that the spectrum becomes steeper .",
    "the physical reason for this behaviour is galaxy formation ; i.e. the power spectrum arises from objects of finite size .",
    "this effect can be formally described by an exponential cutoff of the spectrum with an effective wavenumber @xmath45 @xmath46 mpc@xmath47 corresponding to a scale @xmath48 @xmath1  mpc .",
    "this parameter does not change the correlation function on scales of interest for the present study .",
    "the spectra and respective correlation functions are shown in figure  1 .    a smooth transition between positive and negative spectral indices",
    "can be approximated by a number of sections with constant spectral index @xmath49 .",
    "the index changes at wave - numbers @xmath50 .",
    "then the correlation function is a superposition of given analytic periodic functions with different periods @xmath51 , so the resulting correlation function does not oscillate ( gottlber 1996 ) .",
    "it is evident that the amplitude of the correlation function is proportional to the amplitude of the power spectrum .",
    "furthermore , in the first example with an analytical solution , the scaling of the correlation function with @xmath28 is obvious . in general",
    "the power spectrum can be written as @xmath52 where @xmath29 is the normalisation constant , @xmath53 defines the place of the maximum ( @xmath54 in the ansatz ( 4 ) and @xmath55 for the cdm model , and @xmath56 is the transfer function .",
    "thus the correlation function is a function of @xmath57 , @xmath58 where @xmath59 all correlation functions scale in the same manner as the analytic solution ( 6 ) .",
    "let us finally consider a correction @xmath60 to the power spectrum @xmath61 which leads to @xmath62 .",
    "obviously , this correction leads to superimposed oscillations of the correlation function if it has the form of the power spectrum eq .",
    "( 4 ) ( see section 4.3 ) .",
    "the addition of such a correction with a relative power of about 25 % leads already to significant oscillations in the correlation function .",
    "in this section we describe and analyse the correlation functions and the power spectra for a number of geometrical toy models of the distribution of clusters of galaxies .",
    "models are geometrical in nature ; i.e. in these models not the power spectrum is given initially but the distribution of clusters .",
    "models can be divided into three basic types : random models , regular models , and mixed models . in all models",
    "we explicitly generate clusters that in most models are clustered into superclusters , and designate the models correspondingly by capital letters cl or sc .",
    "the following small letters in the model designation indicate the character of distribution ; there follow two digits which indicate the dispersion of the location of superclusters around the mean position .",
    "these designations shall be described in detail below .    for each model",
    "we generate ten random realisations , calculate the mean smoothed correlation function , and estimate the parameters of the correlation function as described below .",
    "we find also the local rms deviations of individual correlation functions from the mean value .",
    "these deviations define the error corridor for the correlation function .",
    "= 10.5 cm      random models are designated by `` ran '' in the tables and figures .",
    "we have generated random cluster , supercluster , and void models .",
    "_ random cluster _",
    "samples are generated with the goal of checking the formulae for the calculation of errors .",
    "the number of clusters was taken to be from several hundred to several thousand .",
    "_ random superclusters . _ in this model supercluster centres are positioned randomly in rectangular coordinates .",
    "the multiplicity of the supercluster ( the number of clusters in supercluster @xmath63 ) was chosen randomly in agreement with the multiplicity distribution of real superclusters , as derived in paper i. the multiplicity distribution of real superclusters is from 1 ( isolated clusters like the virgo cluster ) to 32 ( the shapley supercluster ) .",
    "for simplicity only superclusters of richness @xmath64 and 32 are generated .",
    "member clusters of superclusters of richness 2 and higher are located around the centre of the supercluster randomly with an isothermal radial distribution .",
    "actual superclusters are elongated and we have checked the influence of the elongation on the correlation function . in a model with elongated superclusters",
    "negative sections of the correlation function have smaller amplitudes . positions of maxima and minima are not influenced .",
    "the radius of superclusters was chosen as a slow function of the supercluster richness , @xmath65 .",
    "the parameter @xmath66 determines the cluster correlation radius ; we used a value 15 @xmath1  mpc .",
    "these parameters determine the cluster correlation function and the power spectrum on small scales ; values chosen yield good approximations to observed functions . in a cubic volume of size 700 @xmath1  mpc  1200 superclusters are generated , the total number of clusters being a random number around 3000 . in a sample of randomly located superclusters",
    "some .superclusters are located closely together and merge . to find the actual multiplicity distribution of superclusters",
    "a clustering algorithm was applied , as for real cluster samples using a neighbourhood radius 24 @xmath1  mpc . for details of supercluster definition",
    "see paper i.    _ random voids _ of diameter 100 @xmath1  mpc  are distributed randomly and clusters of galaxies are located randomly outside voids , i.e. no superclusters are generated .",
    "this diameter is equal to the mean diameter of voids in samples of rich clusters of galaxies ( einasto et al .",
    "1994 , paper i ) .",
    "_ the voronoi tessellation _ model is a variant of the random void model . in this case",
    "centres of voids have also been located randomly , but in contrast to the previous model clusters are not distributed randomly outside voids . instead ,",
    "void centres are considered as seeds , and clusters of galaxies are located in corners of a structure which is formed by expanding volumes of seeds .",
    "superclusters in this model form by clustering of clusters if their mutual distances are smaller than the neighbourhood radius 24 @xmath1  mpc  used in the definition of superclusters .",
    "the voronoi model has been investigated by a number of authors ( van de weygaert & icke 1989 ; ikeuchi & turner 1991 ; williams , peacock & heavens 1991 ; subbarao & szalay 1992 ; van de weygaert 1994 ) .",
    "we designate the model by `` vor '' .",
    "it has one free parameter , the number density of void centres .",
    "this determines the mean separation of superclusters across voids which is taken as the characteristic length of the model .",
    "we generated ten models of box size 700 @xmath1  mpc  with 431 void centres , in which case the characteristic scale is 115 @xmath1  mpc , a value observed in our study of superclusters and voids in paper i , and in the study of the cluster correlation function in paper ii .",
    "results for the correlation functions and power spectra of random models are shown in figure  2 .",
    "all random models have a correlation function with no sign of oscillations . the correlation function of the random supercluster model approaches zero on large scales immediately after the initial maximum .",
    "the correlation function of the voronoi model is different .",
    "it has a minimum at a separation between @xmath67 and @xmath68 @xmath1  mpc  and one secondary maximum at @xmath69 @xmath1  mpc .",
    "we discuss differences between the random supercluster and voronoi models later .",
    "the analysis of the correlation function of real cluster samples has shown that it depends strongly on the richness of superclusters ( see paper ii ) .",
    "we have thus made separate analyses of the correlation function for our random models for clusters located in rich and poor superclusters .",
    "we shall discuss this problem in more detail below ( section 7 ) .      in these models clusters or superclusters",
    "are located , with a certain degree of fuzziness , on the corners or on the edges between corners ( rods ) of a regular rectangular three - dimensional grid .",
    "the fuzziness of the model was realized by adding to positions of clusters or superclusters random shifts around the exact position on the corner or the edge of the grid .",
    "depending on the degree of the fuzziness we can speak of strictly regular models with no fuzziness or of quasi - regular models with variable fuzziness ( see also einasto 1992 ) .",
    "_ clusters on regular rods .",
    "_ in this model clusters of galaxies are located randomly along rods , regularly spaced in a rectangular grid with a step @xmath70 @xmath1  mpc .",
    "rods are randomly positioned around the exact values defined by the regular grid with a scatter @xmath71 @xmath1  mpc , which is equal to the scatter of mean diameters of voids defined by rich clusters of galaxies ( einasto et al .",
    "1994 , paper i ) . in our naming convention ,",
    "the model is designated by `` rod '' .",
    "rods are cylindrical , and the diameter of cylinders was taken equal to be the mean minor diameter of superclusters , @xmath72 @xmath1  mpc  ( einasto et al .  1994 , jaaniste et al .",
    "rods cross at the corners of the grid , and at these points density enhancements form which can be considered as superclusters .    _",
    "superclusters on regular rods .",
    "_ in this model instead of clusters , superclusters are located randomly along regularly spaced rods with step @xmath73 @xmath1  mpc .    _ superclusters in corners of a regular grid .",
    "_ in this case superclusters are located only in corners of a cubic lattice with constant grid step . in our naming convention , this model is designated as `` cor '' .",
    "clusters of galaxies in superclusters are generated as in the random supercluster model .",
    "random shifts to supercluster positions around corners are added with different values of the mean shift .    _",
    "superclusters in a regular net .",
    "_ this model is a superposition of the model with superclusters located in corners of the net , and additional random clusters located along regular rods ; this model is designated as `` net '' .",
    "clusters in rods represent isolated clusters and cluster filaments which are concentrated mostly between superclusters . here , too",
    ", variable random shifts to mean positions in the regular net can be added .",
    "the correlation functions and power spectra for regular models are shown in figure  3 .",
    "the extreme case of regularity is a model with superclusters of equal multiplicity which are positioned exactly in corners of the regular grid .",
    "the only free parameter it has is the step size of the grid .",
    "the correlation function and the spectrum consist of a number of isolated peaks corresponding to mutual distances of all possible pairs of distances of corners of the grid .",
    "the first peak of the correlation function is located in a separation equal to grid step , the next one to the shortest diagonal , and so on .",
    "there exists no regular oscillations of the correlation function of the type observed in analytical models with sharp maximum in the spectrum .",
    "_ this example shows that a strictly regular structure can not produce regular oscillations in the correlation function_.",
    "= 10.5 cm    if we add some flexibility to the regular corner model by adding random shifts to supercluster positions then neighbouring peaks of the correlation function join to form broader maxima .",
    "adding clusters on rods makes the correlation function even more smooth .",
    "one such example is shown in upper panels of figure  3 .",
    "if we make the geometry of the model even more random and allow a random position of superclusters on rods we get a correlation with even more regular oscillations , as seen in the lower panels of figure  3 .",
    "this example shows that in order to get a correlation function with regular oscillations there must be a lot of freedom in the supercluster positions .",
    "these models are regular only in a restricted sense ( approximately equal step between rods ) .",
    "with changing random shifts the amplitude of oscillations also changes .",
    "it is larger the more accurately superclusters are positioned in corners or rods of the regular net .",
    "the scatter of superclusters around the mean position used in our toy models is approximately equal to the scatter of diameters of voids between real superclusters .",
    "thus our models should have correlation functions with an amplitude of oscillations which is close to the amplitude of oscillations of a population of real clusters , if clusters form a regular network of superclusters and voids with this scatter .",
    "the analysis made in paper ii shows that this is indeed the case .",
    "the analysis of the correlation function of real cluster samples has shown that clusters in high- and low - density environment have rather different correlation functions .",
    "clusters in high - density environment ( the members of very rich superclusters ) have an oscillating correlation function whereas clusters in low - density regions ( members of poor superclusters and isolated clusters ) have an almost zero correlation at large separations ( paper ii ) . to model this behaviour of the correlation function we have constructed a mixed model .",
    "the model has two populations of clusters : rich superclusters are located randomly in regular rods and form the quasi - regular population , poor superclusters are located randomly throughout the whole volume of the model .",
    "for simplicity we use here randomly located superclusters as a low - density cluster population , taking into account the fact that the correlation function is not sensitive to details of the distribution of clusters in low density environments ( real clusters of the low density population lie near void walls , and void interiors are empty of rich clusters , see paper i ) .",
    "one third of all clusters belong to the quasi - regular population , two thirds to the random one .",
    "the correlation function and spectrum for this model is presented in figure  4 .",
    "the correlation function is oscillating but with a very low amplitude .",
    "the whole observed cluster sample has a similar correlation function , and the amplitudes of oscillations are also similar ( paper ii ) .",
    "this example shows that our mixed model is a good approximation to the real cluster sample .",
    "the mixed model is compared with a @xmath23-body model of structure evolution based on the double power - law spectrum with a sharp transition between short and long wavelength spectral indexes , eq .",
    "the model was calculated similarly to the cdm model and was also used to estimate the cosmic variance of the correlation function ( see section 6 ) .",
    "the model is designated as dps.6 .",
    "the oscillatory behaviour of the double power - law model is less regular ; the first minimum of the correlation function has much larger amplitude .",
    "amplitudes of maxima are approximately as high as in the case of the mixed model , the mean period of oscillations is also similar , but the scatter of individual periods is larger .    to      we shall use the following parameters to characterise oscillations of the correlation function : the mean separation of the first minimum from zero , @xmath74 ; the position and amplitude of the first secondary maximum , @xmath75 and @xmath76 ; differences between the subsequent maxima , @xmath77 ; and the mean value of differences , derived from the first 4 differences between maxima and from the first 4 differences between minima , @xmath78 .",
    "scaling parameters can be used to derive the value of the true period of oscillations , @xmath79 , which we take to be equal to the grid step of the net of the quasi - regular model , and to the wavelength of the maximum of the spectrum , @xmath80 .",
    "values of these parameters for models with at least one secondary minimum and maximum are given in table  1 .",
    "they are derived from the mean smoothed correlation function of the particular model , calculated from ten realizations . to avoid",
    "the decrease by smoothing the amplitude has been estimated from unsmoothed data .",
    "this table shows that these parameters vary only within rather narrow limits .",
    "the position of the first secondary maximum is almost the same for all geometrical models with identical grid step ( and period @xmath79 ) .",
    "differences between maxima and minima are larger , but not much .",
    "these differences are rather systematic : in all our geometric toy models @xmath81 , and @xmath82 .",
    "the characteristic scale of the supercluster - void network , @xmath79 , can be calculated from the above parameters using the mean values of the following parameters : @xmath83 @xmath84 @xmath85 and @xmath86 as we see the most accurate determination of @xmath79 comes from the last equation .",
    "in this section we continue the analysis of the correlation function and the power spectrum for different cluster distributions .",
    "our main goal is to find which geometric properties of the distribution of superclusters can be detected on the basis of the correlation function and the power spectrum alone .",
    "we investigate the influence of the shape of the volume occupied with clusters .",
    "the available observed samples are generally not cubical in shape , and the shape of sample can , in principle , influence statistical properties of the samples .",
    "the correlation functions with their error corridors and the respective power spectra with their error corridors are plotted for several models in figs  2  4 . on small scales",
    "all correlation functions have a large maximum which reflects the fact that our models have clustering properties . on large scales",
    "the correlation functions are different .",
    "they have one of three principal forms : they become flat on large scales directly from the maximum on small scales ( random supercluster model ) ; have a minimum on intermediate scales followed by one secondary maximum , and then smoothly become flat ( voronoi model ) ; or obey an oscillatory behaviour with alternating secondary maxima and minima of decreasing amplitude ( models with a built - in regular structure of the type of a rectangular lattice )",
    ".    geometric interpretation of the correlation function of the first type is simple : here superclusters are distributed randomly and peaks from numbers of objects at various separations cancel each other out .",
    "superclusters separated by large voids produce a correlation function with a minimum , whose location corresponds to the mean separation between superclusters and voids .",
    "the minimum is followed by a secondary maximum corresponding to the distance between superclusters across voids . on still larger scales",
    "there are no regularities in the supercluster - void network ( voids are spaced randomly ) , and the correlation function on very large scales is close to zero since superclusters at various separations cancel each other out as in the previous case .",
    "this distribution is realized in the voronoi model .",
    "the interpretation of the oscillating correlation function is also straightforward . in all models which produce an oscillating correlation function",
    "the distribution of clusters on large scales is quasi - regular in the sense that high - density regions form a fairly regular network with an approximately constant grid length . in order to get regular oscillations",
    "the geometric structure must not be too regular .",
    "an example of very regular structure with superclusters located only in corners of the grid shows that the correlation function has a number of small maxima and minima without any regular oscillations .",
    "quasi - regular oscillations are generated in all models with certain regularity and certain irregularity : the supercluster - void network must have a constant overall scale but individual superclusters must be located flexibly within this network .",
    "the scale of the model is determined by the period of oscillations . to check the correspondence of the model to reality one can use small deviations of the correlation function from strict regularity expressed through parameters @xmath87 and @xmath88 . as we see ( paper ii ) , deviations of the observed correlation function from strict regularity are what is expected for models with constant scale and a certain scatter in individual superclusters positions .",
    "this coincidence can not be accidental , since a visual inspection of the distribution of real superclusters also shows the presence of such a network of superclusters and voids ( paper i ) .",
    "the basic difference between the regular and voronoi models lies in the correlation of positions of high - density regions on large scales : in the regular model positions are correlated and in the voronoi model not .",
    "real cluster samples are limited to a certain maximal distance , and clusters in the galactic equatorial zone are not seen due to obscuration .",
    "thus real observational samples generally have a double conical shape . to investigate the influence of such a sample shape we selected from cubical cluster samples double conical subsamples .",
    "these subsamples have a conical height equal to half the size of the total sample , and the equatorial belt ( galactic latitudes less than @xmath89 ) is excluded .",
    "the volume of these subsamples is about one - quarter the volume of the whole cube , and they contain about one - quarter the number of clusters than is in the original sample .    in figure  5",
    "we compare correlation functions of two models  the regular net model and the random supercluster model  calculated for the whole cubical volume , and for a double conical volume .",
    "the first model is regular and the corresponding correlation function is oscillating ; the second model is not .",
    "this figure shows that the oscillating properties of the sample are preserved in the smaller double conical sample .",
    "only the error corridor is larger in the smaller samples , as expected .",
    "this similarity of the oscillating properties is due to the fact that the small samples are large enough to contain in sufficient quantity the structural elements responsible for oscillations .",
    "= 5.5 cm      spectra for models are plotted in figures  2  4 .",
    "power spectra have three regions , corresponding to inhomogeneities with high , medium , and low spatial frequency ( or small , medium , and long wavelengths ) .",
    "this division is given by the maximum of the spectrum .",
    "our calculations show that on small wavelengths ( large wavenumber @xmath20 ) spectra are rather similar .",
    "this result is expected as perturbations on these wavelengths are determined by the internal distribution of clusters within superclusters , and superclusters in our models are generated in a similar way .",
    "calculations by frisch et al .",
    "( 1995 ) show that inhomogeneities on very large wavelengths do not influence the distribution of clusters in models , instead superclusters are modulated , i.e. in some regions they are very massive and in others poor .",
    "regularity of the structure is given by power on intermediate wavelength .",
    "analytic calculations confirm this result that models with only slightly different power spectra in the medium wavelength region may have very different correlation functions .",
    "the mixed model with quasi - regular network of rich superclusters and voids has a spectrum which differs from the spectrum of the random supercluster model only by about 25 % near the maximum .",
    "differences between power spectra of the voronoi and regular rod models are also small whereas correlation functions are very different .",
    "such small differences can result from different geometries of the supercluster population .",
    "these examples show that the correlation function is much more sensitive to the presence of a small regularity in the distribution of clusters than it is to the spectrum itself .",
    "one feature of the correlation function is not yet explained .",
    "why does the voronoi model show a minimum and maximum in the correlation function and the random supercluster model does not ?",
    "one possible reason could be a difference in the distribution of voids . in the random supercluster model voids",
    "can be very small , which is not the case for the voronoi model . to check this possibility we extracted voids from our model cluster samples and calculated the integrated distribution of void radii .",
    "here we used procedures described by einasto , einasto & gramann ( 1989 ) and einasto et al .",
    "results for the void radii are shown in figure  6 .",
    "our calculations show that for most of our models the distribution of void radii is very similar .",
    "a factor which influences the distribution of void radii is the presence of weak filaments between superclusters .",
    "if clusters in high - density regions are distributed similarly in different models then their correlation functions also are similar , as they are , for instance , for models sc.cor.25 and sc.net.20 .",
    "void diameters in these models are , however , completely different , as seen in figure  6 . in models with no filaments between superclusters ( sc.cor.25 )",
    "voids are much larger  their mean diameter corresponds to the diagonal of the net  whereas in all models where rods between corners are also populated , void diameters are determined by distances between these rods , i.e. by the scale of the net .",
    "we conclude that voids are determined by properties of small filaments and the correlation function by the distribution of clusters in high - density regions ( see also paper i ) .",
    "-2 mm = 6.5 cm",
    "the errors in the two- and three - point correlations are discussed by mo , jing & brner ( 1992 ) .",
    "errors in the correlation function depend on high - order correlations , which are different for different geometrical distributions of clusters .",
    "the difficulty of the determination of errors lies in the fact that they depend on the distribution of clusters in the ensemble , and there is no unique comparison ensemble of samples available .",
    "thus parameters describing the errors of the correlation function must be determined for all different geometrical distributions of clusters .    in the calculation of the correlation function",
    "the number of particles in the poisson sample is taken as very large . in this case",
    "we can ignore errors of the poisson sample and calculate the error of the correlation function from the error of the number of pairs @xmath90 .",
    "mo et al .  give a formula to calculate the error of @xmath90 through moments of the two - point and three - point correlation function .",
    "the first terms have the form : @xmath91 here @xmath23 is the total number of clusters in the sample , and @xmath92 is a constant which depends on the high - order correlation functions . the first term of the eq .",
    "( 16 ) is the poisson error , due to random errors in sampling of galaxies ; the second term is the cosmic error or variance , due to variations in the distribution of clusters in different parts of the universe .    for our models",
    "we have calculated errors in the correlation function from the scatter of different realizations of a particular model , and the eq .",
    "( 16 ) was used only as a convenient parametrisation to determine the value of the parameter @xmath92 . as we see below this formula",
    "is quite accurate and gives results in good agreement with direct estimates . to see better the dependence of errors on the number of clusters in the sample we find approximate formulae for random and cosmic errors of the correlation function on large scales . on these scales the correlation function @xmath93 , and thus @xmath94 .",
    "we get for the random error in the correlation function : @xmath95 and for the cosmic variance : @xmath96    the number of object pairs at separation @xmath4 is proportional to the number of clusters squared , @xmath97 , thus @xmath98 .",
    "random errors depend on the bin length @xmath8 and on the separation @xmath4 . to reduce random errors",
    "we have smoothed the correlation function with a gaussian kernel of dispersion @xmath99 , which can be varied within certain limits .    to    the cosmic variance is independent of the bin size and scale .",
    "it depends only on the geometry of the distribution of systems of clusters in the sample .",
    "the constant @xmath92 increases with the size of the irregularities in this distribution .",
    "the influence of random and cosmic errors is illustrated in figure  7 . in the left panel",
    "we compare the effect of random and cosmic errors for samples of random clusters .",
    "the scatter of individual values in the unsmoothed correlation function ( circles ) shows the effect of random errors , the overall deviation of open and filled circles from the mean correlation function ( solid curve ) is a visual demonstration of the effect of the cosmic variance .",
    "the influence of the smoothing length is studied in more detail in the accompanying paper devoted to the analysis of real cluster samples ( section 4.4 in paper ii ) .",
    "the number of clusters in observed samples is in some cases only several hundreds , thus random errors are larger . for observed samples a smoothing length about 15 @xmath1  mpc  reduces the random noise in practice but does not influence parameters of the correlation function .",
    "our models are designed for comparison with observations , thus we use a smoothing length 15 @xmath1  mpc  in most model samples too .    in the right panel of figure  7",
    "we compare the error corridors found from the scatter of individual realizations of the random supercluster model and calculated from the eq .",
    "( 16 ) or ( 18 ) ( both formula give practically identical results on large scales ) .",
    "we see that the widths of both error corridors are approximately the same .",
    "this shows that the eq . ( 18 ) is a good approximation of the cosmic variance .    to derive the possible cosmic variance we have used not only geometrical toy models but also several @xmath23-body simulations of structure formation and evolution .",
    "these simulations were performed with @xmath100 particles and @xmath101 grid cells using a particle - mesh code .",
    "the size of the computational cube was taken to be @xmath102  @xmath1  mpc  @xmath103 , where @xmath104 is the characteristic scale of the supercluster - void network .",
    "clusters of galaxies were selected by a procedure similar to the `` friends - of - friends '' algorithm .",
    "the lower limit of the cluster masses in the simulations is determined by the number of clusters in the sample .",
    "the cube was divided into 8 subcubes of half the size of the original cube ; perturbations within subcubes can be considered as independent of each other .",
    "the correlation function of clusters of galaxies was calculated for all subcubes , and the cosmic variance was found from the scatter of results of individual subcubes .",
    "the power spectrum for the sample of clusters of galaxies was calculated as for all other cluster samples separately for all subcubes , and then the mean value and its scatter were found .    in simulations we used a cdm spectrum with the standard transfer function ( bond & efstathiou 1984 ) .",
    "this model is cobe normalized in amplitude at long wavelengths , and it has one free parameter , @xmath105 , depending on the total density of the model @xmath106 and the hubble constant @xmath46 . the model is designated as `` cdm.61 '' , where 6 designates the size of the computational box in units of the scale of the supercluster - void network , and 1 is for the standard high - density model ( @xmath107 ) .    to estimate the value of the parameter @xmath92 from the cosmic variance eq .",
    "( 16 ) we found the mean @xmath108 rms deviations of individual values from different realizations of the correlation function for the scale range @xmath109 to @xmath110 .",
    "( here @xmath13 is the size of the computational box . ) in this scale range rms deviations are approximately constant .",
    "the parameter @xmath92 is given in table  2 .",
    "the parameter @xmath92 depends primarily on the regularity of the distribution on large scales . if there are no superclusters present ( random cluster and clusters in rods models ) , the parameter is less than 1 . in the voronoi model and regular net model without shifts",
    "the error parameter has a value @xmath111 . in models with superclusters which have more freedom in their position ( say , to move along rods ) the parameter",
    "has a larger value @xmath112 .",
    "the cdm.61 model also has a value of the parameter @xmath92 close to this . in this case , however , the amplitude of oscillations is smaller than for the sample of clusters in high - density regions .",
    "a net model ( superclusters in corners with additional clusters on rods ) with scatter 15 @xmath1  mpc  around the mean position is probably closest to the real case .    to determine from a sample of objects the presence of oscillations of the correlation function",
    ", the cosmic error must be smaller than the amplitude of oscillations .",
    "if we adopt @xmath113 and assume that oscillations have an amplitude 0.28 ( paper ii ) , then the sample must have at least 30 clusters .",
    "if we have a mixed population with an expected amplitude of oscillation 0.05 , then such oscillations can be detected with confidence if the sample has at least @xmath114 clusters .",
    "we see that to detect oscillating properties it is useful first to isolate the population with highest level of oscillating nature .",
    "our main emphasis was the study of properties of the correlation function on large scales .",
    "our models contain , however , information also on the correlation function on small scales .",
    "thus it is of interest to have a look on small scales , too .",
    "as it is well known , on small scales the correlation function can be approximated by a power law .",
    "this law can be interpreted in terms of the fractal distribution of galaxies .",
    "the fractal dimension is related to the power index ( szalay and schramm 1985 ) .",
    "the fractal description is the principal geometric interpretation of the correlation function on small scales , and describes the shape of systems of galaxies . on small scales spheroidal systems of galaxies",
    "dominate , whereas on larger scales the main structural elements are filaments of galaxies ( einasto 1992 ) .",
    "it is well known that clusters of galaxies have much larger value of @xmath115 than galaxies ( bahcall & soneira 1983 , klypin & kopylov 1983 ) .",
    "this result is usually interpreted as an indication of the _ stronger clustering _ of clusters of galaxies . however , einasto et al .",
    "( 1994 ) and jaaniste et al .",
    "( 1997 ) showed that the mean minor diameter of superclusters is 20 @xmath1  mpc .",
    "we have calculated the correlation length separately for clusters located in rich and poor superclusters , both in geometrical models and cdm simulations . as in the real case , supercluster richness was determined by the clustering analysis .",
    "our calculations show that the correlation length is very different for these populations , about 17 @xmath1  mpc  for clusters in poor superclusters and about 45 @xmath1  mpc  for clusters in rich superclusters .",
    "similar results come from the analysis of real clusters in paper ii .",
    "thus , a correct geometric interpretation of the correlation length of clusters of galaxies is to say that systems of clusters of galaxies ( superclusters ) are _ larger _ than systems of galaxies ( clusters ) since the parameter @xmath115 depends primarily on the size of the respective systems .",
    "our study shows that the correlation function has the following basic properties .    on large scales",
    "the correlation function of clusters of galaxies depends on the geometry of the distribution of superclusters .",
    "if superclusters are located in a quasiregular net ( supercluster - void network ) then the correlation function has an oscillatory behaviour .",
    "the period of oscillations is equal to the length of the step size of the net .",
    "the amplitude of oscillations depends on the scatter of distances between superclusters in the net and on the presence of a more smoothly distributed population of clusters .",
    "parameters of oscillation and the scale of the net can be determined from observations if the number of clusters is sufficient to get an error corridor of the correlation function which is smaller than the amplitude of oscillations . for a quasiregular population",
    "this minimal number of objects is about 30 , and for a heterogeneous population it is about 1000 , depending on the fraction of the quasiregular component in the whole population of clusters .",
    "if superclusters are located in the corners of a random cellular void network ( voronoi model ) then the correlation function has a minimum , and its location corresponds to the mean separation between superclusters and voids .",
    "there follows a secondary maximum corresponding to the clustering of clusters on opposite sides of voids .",
    "if the distribution of superclusters is random then the correlation function is featureless and becomes flat after the initial highly positive value .",
    "oscillating properties of the correlation function are related to the shape of the power spectrum near the maximum of the spectrum .",
    "oscillations occur only in the case when the spectrum has a sharp maximum and sudden transition of the spectral index from a positive value on large wavelengths and a negative one on short wavelengths .",
    "thus we see that the correlation function is indeed a useful statistic of the geometry of large scale structures .",
    "observationally , we have employed the large scale correlation function of a sample of abell clusters ( e97 , paper ii ) ; we have exploited these results in a study of the correlation function of las campanas redshift survey galaxies ( tucker et al .",
    "1995 , 1997 ) .",
    "this work was supported by estonian science foundation grant 182 and international science foundation grant llf100 .",
    "je and as were supported in potsdam by the deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft ; as was supported by the russian foundation for basic research grant 96 - 02 - 17591 .",
    "we thank r. van de weygaert for his voronoi tessellation model program , and k .- h .",
    "bhning for his help to prepare figures .",
    "bahcall , n.a .",
    ", & soneira , r.m . , 1983 , apj 270 , 20 bahcall , n.a . , henriksen , m.j . , & smith , t.e , 1989 , apj 346 , l45 bond , j.r . , & efstathiou , g. , 1984 , apj 285 , l45 einasto , j. , einasto , m. , gottlber , s. , mller , saar , v. , starobinsky , a.a . , tago , e. , tucker , d. , andernach , h. , & frisch , p. , 1997a",
    ", nature 385 , 139 ( e97 ) einasto , j. , einasto , m. , frisch , p. , gottlber , s. , mller , saar , v. , starobinsky , a.a .",
    ", tago , e. , tucker , d. , & andernach , h.,1997b , mnras ( paper ii ) einasto , j. , einasto , m. , & gramann , m. , 1989 .",
    "mnras 238 , 155 einasto , j. , einasto , m. , gramann , m. , & saar , e. , 1991 .",
    "mnras 248 , 593 einasto , j. , & gramann , m. 1993 , apj 407 , 443 einasto , m. , 1992 , mnras 258 , 571 einasto , m. , einasto , j. , tago , e. , dalton , g. , & andernach , h. , 1994 , mnras 269 , 301 einasto , m. , tago , e. , jaaniste , j. , einasto , j. , & andernach , h. , 1997c , a&a ( in press , paper i , astro - ph/9610088 ) frisch , p. , einasto , j. , einasto , m. , freudling , w. , fricke , k.j . , gramann , m. , saar , v. , & toomet , o. , 1995 , a&a 296 , 611 gottlber s. , 1996 , mapping , measuring and , modelling the universe , eds .",
    "coles p. , martinez v.j .",
    ", pons - borderia m .- j . , astr . soc . of the pacific conference",
    "series vol.94 , 301 ikeuchi , s. , & turner , e. l. , 1991 , mnras 250 , 519 jaaniste , j. , tago , e. , einasto , m. , einasto , j. , & andernach , h. , 1997 , ( in preparation ) klypin , a.a . , & kopylov , a.i . , 1983 ,",
    "astron . lett . 9 , 41 mo , h.j . ,",
    "jing , y.p . , & brner , g. , 1992 , apj 392 , 452 peacock , j.a . , & west , m.j . , 1992 .",
    "mnras 259 , 494 peebles , p.j.e . , 1980 , the large scale structure of the universe , princeton univ . press press , w. h. , teukolsky , s. a. , vetterling , w. t. & flannery , b. p. , 1992",
    ", numerical recipes , cambridge univ .",
    "press subbarao , m. u. , & szalay , a. s. , 1992 , apj 391 , 483 szalay , a.s . , & schramm , d.n .",
    ", 1985 , nature 314 , 718 tucker , d.l . , mller , v. , gottlber , s. , oemler , a. jr . ,",
    "kirshner , r.p . ,",
    "lin , h. , shectman , s.a . , landy , s.d . , & schechter , p.l . , 1995 ,",
    "27 , 1365 tucker , d.l . , oemler , a. jr . , kirschner , r.p . ,",
    "lin , h. , shectman , s.a . , landy , s.d . ,",
    "schechter , p.l .",
    ", mller , v. , gottlber , s. , & einasto , j. , 1997 , mnras ( in press ) tully , r. b. , scaramella , r. , vettolani , g. , & zamorani , g. 1992 , apj 388 , 9 van de weygaert , r. 1994 , a&a 283 , 361 van de weygaert , r. , & icke , v. 1989 , a&a 213 , 1 white , m. , scott , d. , & silk , j. 1994 , ara&a 32 , 319 williams , b. g. , peacock , j. a. & heavens , a. f. , 1991 , mnras 252 , 43p"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate properties of the correlation function of clusters of galaxies using geometrical models . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the correlation function contains useful information on the geometry of the distribution of clusters . on small scales </S>",
    "<S> the correlation function depends on the shape and the size of superclusters . on large scales </S>",
    "<S> it describes the geometry of the distribution of superclusters . </S>",
    "<S> if superclusters are distributed randomly then the correlation function on large scales is featureless . </S>",
    "<S> if superclusters have a quasi - regular distribution then this regularity can be detected and measured by the correlation function . </S>",
    "<S> superclusters of galaxies separated by large voids produce a correlation function with a minimum which corresponds to the mean separation between centres of superclusters and voids , followed by a secondary maximum corresponding to the distance between superclusters across voids . </S>",
    "<S> if superclusters and voids have a tendency to form a regular lattice then the correlation function on large scales has quasi - regularly spaced maxima and minima of decaying amplitude ; i.e. , it is oscillating . </S>",
    "<S> the period of oscillations is equal to the step size of the grid of the lattice .    </S>",
    "<S> we also calculate the power spectrum and the void diameter distribution for our models and compare the geometrical information of the correlation function with other statistics . </S>",
    "<S> we find that geometric properties ( the regularity of the distribution of clusters on large scales ) are better quantified by the correlation function .    </S>",
    "<S> we also analyse errors in the correlation function and the power spectrum by generating random realizations of models and finding the scatter of these realizations .    </S>",
    "<S> cosmology ; clustering  </S>",
    "<S> large - scale structure of the universe  methods ; numerical </S>"
  ]
}