{
  "article_text": [
    "a common characteristic in active galactic nuclei ( agn ) and x - ray binary systems ( xrbs ) is their strongly variable x - ray emission .",
    "most of the variability power is in the form of aperiodic fluctuations that span several orders of magnitude in temporal frequency ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "rapid , large amplitude x - ray variations , on time - scales down to milliseconds in xrbs and minutes in agn , are commonly observed ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , supporting the expectation from accretion theory that the bulk of the emission must originate close to the central black hole .",
    "however , in many sources ( in both agn and xrbs ) , large - amplitude x - ray variations , of tens of per cent fractional rms , are observed over several decades of time - scales ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , including values orders of magnitude longer than the viscous time - scale of the inner disc , suggesting that these fluctuations must originate at large radii .",
    "this discrepancy motivated the appearance of propagating - fluctuation models , as proposed by @xcite , who noted that while the _ emission _ might be produced only in the innermost regions , the _ variability _ can originate throughout the accretion flow . in this model ,",
    "accretion rate fluctuations arise over a wide range of radii and , correspondingly , a wide range of time - scales , and propagate inwards to modulate the central x - ray emission .    as noted by @xcite the model of @xcite",
    "is consistent with the observed linear relation between rms - variability amplitude and mean count rate in xrb and agn x - ray light curves , which implies a coupling between fluctuations on different time - scales , ruling out models where the variability arises from strictly independent flares or active regions @xcite .",
    "fluctuating accretion models , on the other hand , are consistent with this relation : the fluctuations couple together as they propagate down to the centre , so low frequency fluctuations produced at large radii modulate higher frequency fluctuations produced further in . a linear rms - flux relation is also observed in neutron star xrb systems , where the emission mechanism is most likely different to the one operating in black - hole systems @xcite .",
    "this result provides additional evidence for fluctuating - accretion scenarios because it suggests that the variability originates in the accretion flow and not just locally via the mechanism producing the emission @xcite .",
    "besides explaining the broad range of variability time - scales and the rms - flux relation , the fluctuating accretion model can also explain the spectral - timing properties of the variability , as noted by @xcite . for example , it has long been known ( e.g. * ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) that x - ray variations in black hole x - ray binaries ( bhxrbs ) often show hard lags , i.e. a delay in hard x - ray variations with respect to soft x - rays , which is larger for variations on longer time - scales , and at higher energies",
    ". the magnitudes of the lags are typically of order one per cent of the variability time - scale .",
    "similar time - scale - dependent , hard lags have recently been discovered in agn , albeit on much longer time - scales , commensurate with their higher black hole masses ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "? * ; * ? ? ?",
    "in their analytical extension to lyubarskii s model , @xcite explain these lags by invoking a radially extended x - ray emitting region with an energy - dependent profile . in this scenario ,",
    "the response of the emission to a fluctuation in the accretion flow is a function of the inward propagation time - scale , and hence radius of origin , of the fluctuation , combined with the emissivity profile .",
    "hence , if the emissivity profile is more centrally concentrated at higher energies , hard - band lags are produced such that the lags are larger for longer time - scale variations .",
    "@xcite show that the same basic picture can also explain the energy dependence of the psd of bhxrbs and agn , where there is relatively more high - frequency power observed at higher energies than at lower energies ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "this is because the emitting region acts as a low - pass filter and , as the emitting region of the soft band is more extended , the higher frequency variations are filtered more strongly in the soft band .    due to its success in explaining many aspects of the x - ray variability data , the fluctuating accretion model of @xcite and @xcite warrants a deeper investigation , which is the aim of this paper .",
    "as shown by the brief analytical treatment of @xcite , in principle , the model produces time - scale - dependent lags of approximately the same amplitude as observed in the data , and energy - dependent psds .",
    "however it is not clear exactly how the lag spectrum ( lag as a function of fourier frequency ) and energy dependence of the psd varies as a function of emissivity profile , or the parameters of the accretion flow ( assuming the standard disc model of @xcite e.g. the viscosity parameter @xmath1 or the scale - height of the flow ) , or due to the effects of radial damping of variations in the accretion flow .",
    "furthermore , since @xcite analytically determined spectral - timing properties by making the simplifying assumption that the perturbation introduced into the accretion flow at each radius is a delta - function in time and radius , it is important to determine the effects on spectral - timing properties of a more realistic model , where stochastic variations over a broader range of time - scales are introduced at each radius . finally , the fluctuating accretion model should , in principle , produce light curves which are highly correlated in different bands ( i.e. spectrally coherent , see @xcite and appendix  b of this paper ) , but this aspect of the model has not yet been studied . to study these various effects in more detail , in section  [ model ]",
    "we introduce a computational toy model for a fluctuating accretion flow , based on the work of @xcite and @xcite , and explore the dependence of the psd , time lags and coherence on the model parameters in section  [ properties ] .",
    "we show how the model predictions fit x - ray data from agn and the bhxrb cyg  x-1 in sections  [ agn ] and [ xrb ] .",
    "specifically , we will concentrate on explaining the spectral - timing properties of the bhxrb cyg  x-1 in its high / soft state , and agn which show similar variability properties , since these states show rather simple @xmath2-type psd shapes , without complex quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) .",
    "we discuss the implications of our results in section  [ discussion ] and summarise our results in section  [ conclusions ] .",
    "the model is based on the scenario proposed by @xcite , where fluctuations propagate inward through the accretion flow , modulating the emission of the inner regions .",
    "the fluctuations are produced on time - scales related to the viscous time - scale at the radius of origin and are uncorrelated for different radial scales .",
    "@xcite noted that , in this class of models , the accretion rate fluctuations can be carried efficiently , and be produced up to high fourier frequencies , by a geometrically thick accretion flow , identifying it with an extended corona over the thin disc .",
    "we use standard accretion disc @xcite considerations to relate the fluctuation time - scales and propagation speeds to the radial position in the disc , since the same relations are applicable to geometrically thick and optically thin accretion flows , as well as the standard geometrically thin disc .",
    "following @xcite , we assume that each independent annulus produces a pattern of fluctuations @xmath3 , having most of the variability power at the local viscous frequency @xmath4 ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , where @xmath5 is the disc scale height to radius ratio , @xmath1 is the viscosity parameter , the radial position @xmath6 is in units of gravitational radii @xmath7 and the frequency is given in terms of @xmath8 . the local accretion rate at any radius in the disc is allowed to fluctuate around a value @xmath9 , as @xmath10 , where @xmath11 . as this new value of the accretion rate propagates inward , it serves as the @xmath12 for the fluctuations produced further in , modulating the higher frequency fluctuations .",
    "the propagation speed is assumed to equal the local radial drift velocity @xmath13 .",
    "a key feature of this model is that the absolute amplitude of accretion rate variations is proportional to the local accretion rate , @xmath9 , at every radius .",
    "considering that the characteristic frequencies of the input fluctuation @xmath14 decrease with radius , this implies that the amplitude of high frequency fluctuations is proportional to the actual value of the accretion rate , given by fluctuations on longer time - scales , and this produces the rms - flux relation .    to generate light curves , following @xcite",
    ", we assume that the x - rays are emitted by a radially ( but not necessarily vertically ) extended region .",
    "this emitting region might correspond to an accreting corona , possibly sandwiching an optically thick , geometrically thin disc , or be another type of optically thin accretion flow ( e.g. adaf , @xcite ) . having no pre - defined emission mechanism",
    "we simply assume that the emitted flux per unit area is proportional to the local accretion rate , which introduces the variability , and to a stable radial emissivity profile . the emissivity profile , @xmath15 ,",
    "is taken to follow the radial rate of gravitational energy loss in the accretion disc , @xmath16 , where @xmath17 is the inner radius of the disc ( and of the emission ) , which we will fix at @xmath18 in our simulations .",
    "this profile describes the _ total _ energy loss .",
    "however , as the emitted spectrum might be radially dependent , a given energy band can have a different emissivity profile and so we will use @xmath19 , where the emissivity index @xmath20 is a model parameter .      for the calculation of the variability patterns , we discretize the models of @xcite and @xcite by assuming that a finite number of annuli produce independent fluctuations . these annuli are spaced keeping a constant ratio between consecutive radii , to mimic the behaviour of a continuous accretion flow that produces equal variability power at each radial scale .",
    "this geometric spacing of the radii introduces equal power per decade in time - scale , reproducing the @xmath2 psd shape , as predicted by @xcite .",
    "all these independent annuli are assumed to produce a pattern of small accretion rate fluctuations , @xmath3 . to meet the requirement of producing most of the variability power at the viscous frequency",
    ", these signals are modelled as random fluctuations with a lorentzian - shaped psd of variable width , with peak frequency @xmath21 . as @xmath22 ( e.g. see @xcite ) .",
    "set to equal @xmath23 the width of the lorentzian is governed by the quality factor @xmath0 , equal to the ratio of lorentzian peak frequency to the full width at half maximum .",
    "we used broad input psds , with @xmath24 , a value similar to the four - lorentzian decomposition of the psd of cyg  x-1 in the low / hard state @xcite and also much narrower psds with @xmath25 , to study the influence of this parameters on the final psds and cross spectra .",
    "the normalisation of these signal psds was chosen to produce a final fractional variability of the output light curves @xmath26 , by assigning each of the signals an rms @xmath27 , where @xmath28 is the number of independent annuli .",
    "we used the method described by @xcite to generate the signal time series @xmath3 , i.e. by generating periodograms with the underlying signal psd and the correct statistical properties of a noise process and obtaining @xmath29 through their inverse fourier transform .",
    "the resulting @xmath29 have zero mean and rms amplitude @xmath30",
    ".    the accretion rate at a given annulus , @xmath31 , is then calculated iteratively as the product of the accretion rate at that position , including its contribution to the fluctuation , @xmath32 , by the accretion rate at the annulus lying directly outside , which includes the fluctuations from all outer annuli ,    @xmath33    so that each @xmath34 is a flicker noise time series with power law psd of slope @xmath35 up to @xmath36 , and shows a linear rms - flux relation .",
    "the effect of the extended emitting region is accounted for when calculating the _",
    "light curves_. first , an emissivity index @xmath20 is assumed for each energy band .",
    "then , the light curves are constructed by adding the variability patterns @xmath31 from all annuli , which are weighted by the flux originating from each annulus ( i.e. @xmath37 , where @xmath38 is the width of the annulus ) , and time - shifted by the propagation time of fluctuations from the outermost annulus to the present annulus .",
    "the disc parameters are either kept constant or allowed to vary radially as @xmath39 , where c is a scaling constant and @xmath40 is an index which governs the radial variation ( e.g. constant @xmath41 and @xmath1 correspond to @xmath42 ) .",
    "we will normally use @xmath43 , to produce thick disc parameters @xmath44 and @xmath45 at the innermost radius .",
    "radially - varying disc parameters change the radial separation of independent annuli but preserve the separation of independent characteristic frequencies .",
    "therefore , we fix the geometrically spaced frequencies and use @xmath46 to calculate the corresponding radii and propagation speeds .    fig .",
    "[ fig0 ] shows a light curve realisation with emissivity index @xmath47 ( a ) , together with its psd , plotted as frequency @xmath48 power ( b ) , and its rms variability amplitude plotted vs the average count rate of short sections of the light curve ( c ) .",
    "finally , damping of the fluctuations as they propagate through the accretion flow affects the power spectra of the transmitted signals .",
    "the magnitude of the damping effect depends on the nature of the fluctuations and their propagation mechanism , which are not specified in our phenomenological model . in their analytical model ,",
    "@xcite include this damping effect by using a green function for diffusion in the geometrically thin disc approximation . here , for simplicity and generality , we use a simple prescription for damping by assuming that fluctuations of frequency @xmath49 are significantly damped after travelling a distance @xmath50 , so that fluctuations on frequencies much higher than the local viscous frequency are strongly suppressed ( see e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* but notice that in that case damping was specifically derived for diffusive propagation of a delta - function shaped impulse in mass accretion rate ) .",
    "the damping prescription is implemented by first taking the fourier transform of @xmath51 at each radial step @xmath52 , then multiplying the real and imaginary coefficients of the fourier transform at each frequency @xmath49 by a frequency - dependent factor @xmath53 ( where the damping coefficient d is a free parameter ) and inverse fourier - transforming the result to get the new , damped @xmath54 .    throughout this paper",
    "we will use @xmath7 as units of distance and @xmath55 as units of time . for a quick check of frequencies and time - scales",
    "note that @xmath56 where @xmath57 , so the frequencies quoted would be in units of hz for a @xmath58 black hole and units of @xmath59 hz for a @xmath60 black hole .",
    "the extended emitting region acts as a low - pass filter on the psd .",
    "this effect can be understood by considering that the signals at low temporal frequencies are imprinted in the flux from most of the emitting region , while higher frequencies are only imprinted in the emission from smaller , inner , areas .",
    "as the light curve has additive components from all these regions , this produces comparatively less variability power at high frequencies , creating a bend in the psd .",
    "the ` filtered ' psd can be approximated by multiplying the original psd(@xmath49 ) by the squared fraction of the total flux that is produced within the characteristic radius @xmath61 of each frequency @xmath49 as    @xmath62    the filter factor tends to 1 as @xmath61 tends to @xmath63 , i.e. for low temporal frequencies the original variability power is preserved , and decreases monotonically as @xmath61 reaches @xmath17 , reducing the variability power at the high frequency end .",
    "obviously , as the emissivity profiles @xmath64 used are steep , it makes little difference to the filtered psd if the emission region is truncated at a large radius rather than extending to infinity .",
    "the filtering effect due to the origin of the signals within the emitting region could be easily calculated once the emissivity profile is defined , and its effect is simply to reduce the overall _ normalisation _ of the contribution to the psd from each signal ( in a frequency - dependent way ) , without distorting the signal psd shape .",
    "however , the finite travel time of the fluctuations through the emitting region distorts the psd shape of the input signals , by smoothing out high frequency fluctuations , thus reducing the variability amplitude further , while damping can also affect the low - frequency power .",
    "therefore , the total effective filtering of the underlying fluctuations is quite complex , so we will primarily use numerical simulations to demonstrate its effects in the following section .",
    "the frequency - resolved time lags can be approximated by defining , for each signal @xmath65 ( produced at radius @xmath66 ) an ` average travel time ' , @xmath67 , by weighting the travel time of the fluctuations from @xmath66 to the radius @xmath6 , @xmath68 by the emissivity profile @xmath64 ,    @xmath69    if the signals are simple fluctuations on the viscous time - scale only ( i.e. defined by a delta - function and not a broad lorentzian psd ) , then @xmath66 can be expressed in terms of frequency and this formula gives the mean travel time as a function of @xmath49 . otherwise ,",
    "if the signals are characterised by broad lorentzian psds , a given temporal frequency will have important contributions from a range in radii @xmath66 . in this case",
    ", the mean travel time at a given frequency @xmath49 is a sum of @xmath70 for each contributing ( i.e. overlapping ) lorentzian signal psd , weighted by the variability power at @xmath49 contributed by that signal .",
    "time lags between two energy bands appear when they are characterised by different emissivity indices , since this produces different mean travel times for each band .",
    "we will use the difference of @xmath71 calculated with the corresponding @xmath20 indices as an approximation to the time lags between energy bands .",
    "an explicit form for the filter factor of the psd and for the time lags is given in appendix  a.",
    "the model was constructed to produce power law - psd time series that also reproduce the non - linear properties of agn and bhxrb light curves . the exact psd shape and spectral - timing properties between different energy bands ,",
    "depend on a few key model parameters : emissivity indices , disc structure parameters , psd of the input signals and damping coefficient . here",
    "we will explore how each of these parameters affect the observable properties .",
    "an overview of the spectral - timing measurements we use here is provided in appendix  b.      the loss of gravitational energy in the accretion disc requires an energy release per unit area proportional to @xmath72 @xcite .",
    "a given energy band will have the same radial emissivity profile only if it represents a constant fraction of the emitted flux at each radius .",
    "however , following @xcite , we assume the emitted spectrum hardens towards the centre , so the actual radial emissivity profile will be steeper for harder bands .",
    "we will refer to time series constructed with emissivity index @xmath47 as the ` soft ' light curve and use higher values of @xmath20 for the ` hard ' bands . in this subsection",
    ", we assume the product of disc structure parameters @xmath73 , and that there is no damping ( @xmath74 ) .",
    "the psd of the final variability pattern at @xmath17 for a realisation with input signal @xmath24 , is shown by the solid line in fig.[1a_per ] .",
    "this psd would correspond to an infinitely concentrated emitting region located at @xmath17 , or equivalently , a compact emitting region located entirely _ within _",
    "it keeps a @xmath2 behaviour ( corresponding to a flat top in this plot of power multiplied by frequency ) up to @xmath75 , as no annuli contribute with significant variability power above this frequency , the psd bends downward .",
    "the dotted and dashed lines show the psds of soft and hard light curves from a realisation with the same underlying accretion fluctuations , with @xmath76 and @xmath77 , respectively .",
    "the figure highlights the filtering effect of the extended emission on these two light curves , which makes them lose variability power at high frequencies , shifting the bend to lower frequencies . on longer time - scales ,",
    "all the psds flatten to their original slope of -1 .",
    "the resulting psds bend continuously to steeper slopes at high frequencies but , for a limited frequency range , they can be approximated fairly well by a singly bending power law model , as has been used to fit real data .",
    "following e.g. @xcite , we will use the following bending power law model to fit the psd ,    @xmath78    table [ t1 ] gives the values for the low and high frequency slopes , @xmath79 and @xmath80 respectively , and the break frequencies @xmath81 that result from fitting equation  [ eq1 ] to psds with emissivity indices @xmath20= 3 , 4 and 5 , for broad ( @xmath24 ) and narrow ( @xmath25 ) input signal psds .",
    "these values depend slightly on the frequency range used for fitting , but reveal the general trend of more high - frequency power for harder energy bands , given by flatter @xmath82 , and higher @xmath81 and/or flatter @xmath83 .",
    "note that the underlying psds bend continuously to steeper slopes at higher frequencies , so limiting the frequency range used for fitting , excluding higher frequencies , produces flatter high - frequency slopes .",
    "[ t1 ]    .bending power - law model fits to the psds of simulated light curves , with emissivity indices @xmath20= 3 , 4 and 5 , for broad ( @xmath24 ) and narrow ( @xmath25 ) input signal psds .",
    "higher @xmath20 values , corresponding to higher energy bands , retain more high - frequency power , evident in the flatter low - frequency slope @xmath82 and in and higher @xmath81 and/or flatter @xmath80 .",
    "the fitting range used was @xmath84 .",
    "note that the underlying psds bend continuously to steeper slopes at higher frequencies , so limiting the frequency range used for fitting , excluding higher frequencies , produces flatter slopes above the break .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     damping can also reduce the coherence , especially in the case of broad input signal psds .",
    "the dot - dashed line in fig .",
    "[ input_coh ] , shows the coherence for light curves of emissivity indices @xmath85 and @xmath86 , @xmath24 and damping coefficient @xmath87 .",
    "these light curves only differ from those corresponding to the dashed line on the same plot by the effect of damping , which increases the loss of coherence at the highest frequency bin from 2 to 4  per  cent .",
    "again , a larger difference in emissivity indices makes this drop more pronounced , and damping effects increase these losses accordingly : for @xmath88 and @xmath89 the coherence at the highest frequency bin drops by @xmath90  per  cent and for @xmath88 and @xmath91 , by 60  per  cent .",
    "finally , damping can produce slightly steeper lag spectra , reducing the lags at high frequencies .",
    "this effect is small : damping coefficients of @xmath74 and @xmath87 produce lags differing by a factor of @xmath92 at frequencies close to the measured break - frequency @xmath93 and less at lower frequencies .",
    "agn x - ray light curves from long monitoring campaigns typically show power law psds with a slope @xmath35 at low frequencies , bending or breaking at high frequencies to slopes @xmath94 or steeper ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "the high - frequency psd is energy dependent , with higher energy psds showing a higher break frequency and/or flatter slopes above the break , depending on model assumptions ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "significant frequency - dependent time lags have been measured in a few agn [ ngc  7469 @xcite ;  @xcite ; ngc  4051 @xcite ; ngc  3783 @xcite ] . in all cases ,",
    "these lags increase with time - scale and energy separation of the bands and show magnitudes of up to a few percent of the variability time - scale .",
    "the measured coherence is usually high ( @xmath95 ) up to about the break frequency , sometimes dropping by tens of per cent above the break @xcite .",
    "this behaviour is qualitatively consistent with the predictions of the fluctuating accretion model outlined in section  3 .",
    "now we will compare the model predictions directly to agn data to check this consistency quantitatively .",
    "the time lags in  reported by @xcite are among the largest measured in agn , with values of @xmath96 0.25 , 2.5 and 4.5 per  cent of the variability time - scale , when calculated between the 0.1 - 0.5 kev band and the 0.5 - 2 , 2 - 5 and 5 - 10 kev bands , respectively .",
    "the slopes of the lag spectra are not well constrained but are consistent with -1 . to reproduce these large lags with the model",
    ", we chose a fairly extended soft emitting region , with emissivity index @xmath97 , assumed @xmath98 at @xmath99 , used a value of @xmath100 to produce a lag - spectrum slope @xmath35 and used @xmath74 . using eq .",
    "[ eq1 ] , we calculated the lag spectra for these model parameters , choosing emissivity indices for the remaining energy bands to match the observed lags .",
    "we used @xmath101 for the calculation , although other @xmath0 values produce equally good fits as the width of the input signal psd has a very small effect in the lag spectrum over the frequency range used here ( see sec . [ input ] ) .",
    "the resulting lag spectra for @xmath102=3.3 , 5.5 and @xmath63 are shown in fig .",
    "[ lags_ngc ] , in dotted , solid and dashed lines , respectively . to convert light - crossing times to seconds , we assumed a mass of @xmath103 @xcite .",
    "overlaid in this figure , we show the lags measured from  data for  , where the observed light curves were constructed as described in @xcite .",
    "although the errors on the data are large , it is clear that the chosen model parameters are consistent with the amplitude , slope and energy dependence of the measured lags .",
    "was monitored with _ rxte _ and  on long and short time - scales respectively by @xcite , producing a well sampled psd over 6 decades in frequency .",
    "the high frequency psd in  shows strong energy dependence , varying from a slope @xmath104 in the 0.1 - 0.5 kev band to @xmath105 in the 2 - 5 kev band .",
    "the difference in emissivity indices for these energy bands , suggested by the lag spectra , can also explain the energy dependence of the high frequency psd slope .",
    "to measure the energy dependence we produced model light curves with broad input signal psds , @xmath24 , and model parameters as described above and fitted the final psd with a bending power law model . to make a fair comparison with the data , we followed the procedure used by @xcite by fixing the low - frequency slope @xmath82 to -1.1 and the bend frequency @xmath81 to the best fitting value for an intermediate emissivity index , and fitted the simulated psds over a similar range in frequencies . using again @xmath97 for the 0.1 - 0.5 kev and @xmath106 for the 2 - 5 kev band",
    ", we obtained psds that differ by @xmath107 , spanning a similar range to that measured for the real data , @xmath108 .",
    "the resulting psds and bending - power law fits are shown in fig .",
    "[ psd_surr_ngc ] , for emissivity indices @xmath109 2.5 , 3.3 and 5.5 .",
    "notice that in this figure the psd normalisations have been rescaled to match at the low frequency end , to highlight the different changes in slope . the filled circles in this figure correspond to @xmath110 , which would represent the 0.5 - 2 kev band , as seen in section  4.1 . correspondingly , the difference in high frequency psd slope between the @xmath111 and @xmath112 light curves is @xmath113 , placing the @xmath112 light curve between the 0.5 - 1.0 kev ( @xmath114 ) and 1.0 - 2.0 kev ( @xmath115 ) bands .    to check the consistency of the time - scales , we compared the bend frequency @xmath116 measured by @xcite , using the combined _ rxte _ and  light curves , to model light curves covering a similar range in frequencies .",
    "as the  data used for this fit corresponded to the 410 kev  band , we used the ` hard ' simulated light curves with @xmath20 between 5.5 and @xmath63 .",
    "the best fit bend frequencies for @xmath117 and @xmath118 , respectively , are @xmath119 and @xmath120 . equating these values to @xmath121 hz yields a mass of @xmath122 , consistent with the reverberation mapping mass of @xmath123 @xcite .",
    "a similar energy dependence of the psd has been found in other agn . as an example",
    ", the psd of the seyfert 1 galaxy  can also be fit with a bending power law model obtaining flatter high - frequency slopes for higher energy light curves @xcite .",
    "the energy dependence in this case is less pronounced than in , possibly suggesting that the energy bands used have closer emissivity indices .",
    "incidentally , emissivity indices that are closer in value would also produce smaller time lags , as observed in .",
    "however , more parameters contribute to define the observed lags , for example , the mass of the central object changes the frequency range probed in terms of the light crossing times .",
    "a comparison of the fractional lags at , for example , the psd bend frequency in each case gives a mass - independent measure , so an extrapolation of the lag spectra in  published by @xcite down to the break time - scale would suggest that the lags in this case are indeed systematically larger than in .",
    "we now apply our simple model to data from the well - studied , persistent black hole xrb cyg  x-1 , in the high / soft state .",
    "our model produces light curves with a @xmath124 psd shape down to low frequencies .",
    "this is because we assume that the input signals originate at many different radii throughout the accretion disc , are equally separated in the logarithm of frequency and have identical rms amplitudes of variability .",
    "psds of this shape are seen for several agn ( see previous section ) and cyg  x-1 in its high / soft state .",
    "we will use data from a short ( 2.3  ks ) _ rxte _ observation of cyg  x-1 in the high / soft state , observation i d 10512 - 01 - 09 - 01 , obtained on 1996  june  18 . using proportional counter array ( pca ) light curves with @xmath125  s resolution , we measured the lag spectrum and psd in two bands , 25.1  kev ( soft band ) and 813  kev ( hard band ) .",
    "we subtracted poisson noise , including the appropriate deadtime correction , e.g. @xcite , before calculating the ratio of the psds . to keep the fitting simple ,",
    "we consider only the ratio of the psds , and not the energy - dependent psd shapes themselves , so we do not attempt to match the psd shape by assuming any particular input signal .",
    "this approach allows us to estimate the lags and filtering effect in a simple analytical way , by assuming that each frequency contributing to the lag spectrum and psd ratio corresponds to a single radius , so input signal psds do not overlap in frequency , with the lags and psd filtering determined using the analytical expressions given in appendix  a. we note that @xcite do not claim any evidence of energy dependence of the psd in their fitting of the same data used here , but we do find a significant energy dependence using the psd ratio ( see below ) .",
    "the discrepancy may result from the fact that the measured psd ratio is , in fact , more sensitive than independent fits to the psd , because the light curves in different bands are correlated , so that statistical scatter in the psd due to the stochastic nature of the light curves is in the same direction in both bands , and its effect on the psd ratio is therefore mitigated",
    ".    we first stress that due to the complexity of fitting even our relatively simple model to the data , and the difficulty of quantifying certain measurement uncertainties ( see below ) , we will only test the broad consistency of our model with the data .",
    "therefore , we will not quote statistical errors on parameters derived here , which should be treated as only indicative of the underlying physical parameters .",
    "since our model contains many parameters with complex degeneracies between them , we only fit the model with a few parameters left free , to demonstrate whether the model can reproduce the data . for all our fits",
    ", we assumed a black hole mass of 10  m@xmath126 .",
    "the mass provides the scaling factor between the units of light - crossing time - scale used in our method , and the observed units of seconds .",
    "the effect of changing mass is therefore equivalent to that of a simple linear change in the quantity @xmath127 ( see section  3.2 ) at all radii , and is rather weak except at high frequencies .",
    "consistent with our earlier simulations , we initially keep @xmath73 at all radii .",
    "we assume a fixed outer disc radius @xmath128  @xmath129 , but allow the inner disc radius @xmath17 to vary , down to a minimum value of 1.23  @xmath129 ( i.e. the minimum stable orbit for a kerr black hole ) . for simplicity ,",
    "the soft emissivity index was initially fixed at @xmath88 , while @xmath102 was allowed to vary .",
    "we also introduced an additional normalising factor for the lags , so that all the lags predicted by the model can be increased by a single factor , which we leave free to vary in the fits .",
    "this renormalisation represents the possibility that the fluctuations propagate at some speed proportional to the theoretically predicted local drift velocity ( see section  2.1 ) , but not necessary equal to it .",
    "note that the psds in different energy bands can have different overall normalisations for a variety of reasons .",
    "for example , if a strong constant thermal emission component is present , as in the high / soft state ( see @xcite ) , the variability is diluted in the soft band and the psd normalisation reduced .",
    "alternatively , spectral pivoting at high energies ( e.g. due to compton cooling of the corona ) , which we do not model here , can lead to a larger normalisation in the soft band compared to the hard band ( e.g. see @xcite for evidence of this effect in the agn ngc  3227 ) .",
    "for these reasons , when fitting our model we allow the normalisation of the psd ratio to be free .",
    "the observed lag and soft / hard psd ratio spectra are shown in fig .",
    "[ cyghilagratio ] , together with the best - fitting model resulting from a joint fit of the lag and filtering equations to the data , i.e. we assume the same parameters for fitting both the lag and ratio plot .",
    "the reduced chi - squared , @xmath130 , indicates an excellent fit , for a renormalisation factor of 1.86 ( i.e. fluctuations propagate at @xmath131 times lower drift velocity than given by standard disc theory ) , @xmath132 , and @xmath133 .",
    "we caution however that the goodness - of - fit is almost certainly over - estimated , since the random errors in the soft and hard psds are correlated at low frequencies due to the intrinsic correlation between the light curves in these bands ( the correlation is much weaker at high frequencies due to poisson noise effects ) , and hence the error bars at these frequencies are almost certainly over - estimated .",
    "furthermore , there is likely to be some additional uncertainty in psd ratio at high frequencies ( @xmath134  hz ) , since an assumed poisson noise level had to be subtracted from each psd before the ratio was taken , and the uncertainty in the assumed noise level is not accounted for in the fit .",
    "the small inner disc radius preferred by the data is consistent with a rapidly rotating black hole .",
    "however , this interpretation is strongly governed by our assumptions about the emissivity profile , and our simplifying assumption that each frequency corresponds to a single input signal . since the travel time of material from 6  @xmath129 to 1.23  @xmath129 is very short ,",
    "the value of @xmath17 is not driven by lags at lower frequencies , but is mainly due to a combination of the relatively large high - frequency lags , and the weak drop in psd ratio at high frequencies .",
    "indeed , the frequencies corresponding to signals at 6  @xmath129 and 1.23  @xmath129 are 65  hz and 700  hz respectively , so that if the edge of the emitting region were observed at 6  @xmath129 a very pronounced drop in both the lags and the psd ratio would be observed approaching this frequency , hence the smaller radius is preferred . however ,",
    "if the input signals overlap substantially , the larger lags from signals at larger radii can contribute even at high frequencies , so a strong drop in lag and psd ratio would not be expected ( see section [ input ] ) .",
    "there may also be substantial emission at radii smaller than @xmath17 , which is not considered in our model .",
    "this would also increase the lags at high frequencies and reduce the effects of filtering which cause the drop in psd ratio at high frequencies .",
    "thus , the small value of @xmath17 inferred from our fit is quite model - dependent and should be treated with caution .",
    "the fact that the model can explain the soft / hard psd ratio also implies that it can explain the results of fourier frequency - resolved spectral analysis of the high / soft state continuum , as presented by @xcite .",
    "the fourier - resolved spectra become harder at higher temporal frequencies , with the change in photon index consistent with the frequency - dependent change in psd ratio which we measure here .",
    "finally , for completeness we note here that , unlike the smooth @xmath2 shape seen in the high / soft state , cyg  x-1 in the low / hard state is characterised by a band - limited psd with a few humps , which can be modelled as four broad lorentzian components @xcite .",
    "the lag spectrum also reveals a stepped structure , but it still follows approximately a @xmath135 power law slope .",
    "although the model can fit reasonably well the general trend seen in the psd ratio and lag spectra , it can not reproduce these detailed features , indicating that some of the model assumptions are not appropriate in this case .",
    "in particular , our simple implementation of the model uses power law emissivity indices and equal variability power per contributing annulus , so these smooth functions can not produce additional structure at a few given frequencies .",
    "the general scheme of propagating fluctuations can still be correct but additional assumptions need to be made , for example , assuming that a few annuli have much enhanced variability power will certainly produce a bumpy psd and might reproduce the steps in the lag spectra , as suggested by @xcite and also @xcite .",
    "the extended emitting region in our model is responsible for the high frequency bend in the psd , and the associated radial emissivity profiles produce the energy dependence of the psd and the time lags . in this section",
    "we will summarise the spectral - timing properties produced by the model , consider the implications of the model for the size of the emitting region , and discuss some possible improvements .",
    "keeping the local variability time - scales tied to the propagation time - scale produces time lag spectra of power law slope @xmath136 or flatter , and lags of @xmath137 of the variability time - scale , for a wide range of model parameters .",
    "as discussed in sections [ agn ] and [ xrb ] , these simple assumptions produce lag spectra that match the data well in time - scale dependence and amplitude .",
    "we note once again that these lags arise solely due to the difference in emissivity profiles of the x - ray energy bands and do not involve any other spectral evolution of the emitting region .",
    "the amplitude of the lags depends mostly on the emissivity indices of the energy bands , increasing rapidly with their difference , up to @xmath138 , above which the lag values tend to saturate .",
    "significant lags can appear between energy bands characterised by similar emissivity profiles and , correspondingly , similar psd shapes .",
    "in particular , the psd of cyg  x-1 in the high / soft state shows weak energy dependence ( see section  5.1 ) , but the psd ratio and lags can still be reproduced simultaneously with close emissivity indices for each energy band ( @xmath139 ) , provided that the propagation time - scale is slightly longer than the local fluctuation time - scale , and assuming that the inner disc radius is small .",
    "the power - law shape of the lag spectra is quite robust , its slope depends only weakly on disc structure parameters @xmath140 .",
    "incidentally , the stability of the lag spectra might explain the behaviour seen in , e.g. cyg  x-1 , in different spectral states .",
    "this object shows very different psd and energy spectra in the high / soft and low / hard states , indicative of different disc configurations , but surprisingly similar lags @xcite .      a comparison with agn and bhxrb data in the high / soft state shows that the filtering effect of the extended emitting region , acting on a simple @xmath2 underlying psd shape , can broadly reproduce their psd shape and energy dependence .",
    "cyg  x-1 in the low / hard state , however , requires a more complex _ intrinsic _ psd . in either case",
    ", the extended emitting region introduces a bend in the psd in addition to any intrinsic curvature , and produces the energy dependence of the filtered psds .    note that the bending power - law , used to fit agn data , is only an approximation to the actual psds produced by the fluctuating - accretion model .",
    "the filtered psd bends down continuously at high frequencies and has no well - defined high - frequency power law slope .",
    "the difference between the bending power - law model and the filtered psds can be appreciated in fig .",
    "[ psd_surr_ngc ] , where the single - bend psd fit overestimates the power in the highest frequency bins .",
    "however , as this region of the psds from real data is often heavily affected by poisson noise , the associated error bars and scatter are large and it is not possible to appreciate any deviations from a simple power law slope .",
    "therefore , even better agn data would be needed to discern if the model can replicate the exact psd shape or if additional variability components are needed .",
    "we also note here that , although @xcite fit the high / soft state psd from combined data from 1996 june 4 - 18 with a simple power law ( index -2.1 ) up to @xmath141  hz , the signal - to - noise at these frequencies is still fairly low , and the psd during that time is known vary in shape between observations @xcite , which makes interpretation of the underlying shape even more difficult . @xcite",
    "have recently demonstrated that the high / soft state psd can be fitted with weak lorentzians _ in addition _ to a @xmath142 power - law component with an exponential cut - off .",
    "this last component is reminiscent of our simulated psds .",
    "therefore , our model may be considered as representative of the times when the lorentzians in the psd are very weak or absent .    in our model , thick disc parameters , @xmath143 ,",
    "in the inner regions of the accretion flow and inner radius @xmath144 put the break frequency around @xmath145 ( i.e. @xmath962 - 20 hz for a @xmath146 black hole , @xmath147 for a @xmath148 ) .",
    "these values are in general agreement with the average break frequencies of agn and bhxrbs , indicating that fluctuations on the viscous time - scales of a geometrically thick accretion flow are appropriate to explain the variability .",
    "a geometrically thick disc is necessary to produce the observed high frequency fluctuations as _ viscous _ frequencies .",
    "if the fluctuations were instead produced on dynamical time - scales , or a magnetic time - scale related to this , as in e.g. @xcite , then a thinner flow might be allowed . however , the fluctuations need not only be produced but also propagated , which poses a difficulty for much thinner accretion flows , as fluctuations on time - scales much shorter than the propagation time - scale are easily damped @xcite .",
    "this , of course , does not rule out an additional thin disc , possibly underlying the thick flow , that might contribute to the flux but not to the variability .      in our implementation of the variability model",
    ", the x - ray emitting region extends out to large radii .",
    "the bend in the psd is produced by the radial distribution of variability time - scales and emissivity profiles alone and is not related to a characteristic time - scale at the maximum radius of emission .",
    "therefore , an outer edge to the emitting region might be allowed but is not required .",
    "the steep emissivity profiles concentrate most of the emitted flux in the centre so it would make little difference to the psd if the emitting region were truncated at some radius or if it extended out to infinity .",
    "however , the extent of the emitting region has a major impact on the lag spectra .",
    "if , for example , the x - ray emission is confined to the central few @xmath149 and responds to the variability pattern produced outside this radius , then time lags would still appear due to the radial segregation of the energy bands but , to first order , the lags would have the same value at _ all _ fourier frequencies ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) . in our case ,",
    "frequency - dependent lags appear because the fluctuations are produced _ within _ the emitting region .",
    "this consideration gives further support to the idea that @xmath81 does not correspond to the characteristic frequency of an outer edge of the emitting region , as noted above , as these lags are observed far below the break frequency .",
    "this , in turn , implies that the x - ray emitting region should extend at least as far as the radius corresponding to the longest time - scales where frequency - dependent lags are observed .",
    "we have made a number of simplifying assumptions that seem to reproduce the broad spectral timing properties of agn and bhxrbs .",
    "the detailed predictions of psds and lag spectra can be improved by including some additional effects .    as a first step ,",
    "the assumption that all radii in the disc produce the same amplitude of fluctuations can be relaxed , allowing for strongly enhanced variability at a few discrete annuli .",
    "this scenario might represent cyg  x-1 in the low / hard state where the psd appears to be composed of a few broad lorentzians , so it would be interesting to check if the effect of the extended emitting region would reproduce well the steps observed in the psd ratio and in the lag spectra .    to simplify the calculations , we have only allowed for power - law radial emissivity profiles .",
    "though this appears to be a reasonable assumption given the profile of total energy loss expected for an accretion disc , it is not clear that each energy band should follow a simple power - law profile .",
    "for example , the energy spectrum reveals other components in addition to the direct continuum that might be expected from an optically thin x - ray emitting corona . in bhxrbs in the",
    "high / soft state , black body disc emission is also seen , although it does not vary significantly on short time - scales @xcite , so may not contribute to the observed psd and lag spectra .",
    "however , in several agn ( e.g. ngc  4051 , @xcite ) , strongly variable soft excess emission is seen below @xmath150  kev , which may be associated with comptonised disc emission and hence could contribute a different component to the emissivity profile in the soft band .",
    "other complex profiles might be expected .",
    "for example , by fitting the profile of the broad iron line in  with a relativistic disc - line model , @xcite have inferred a broken power - law emissivity profile , which steepens from @xmath111 ( i.e. similar to the value we infer for ngc  4051 ) to @xmath151 within 6  @xmath149 of the black hole .",
    "thus , more complex emissivity profiles , perhaps with breaks or additional components , and taking account of general relativistic effects , could be considered .",
    "additional variable components , arising for example through reflection or reprocessing of the primary variable emission , can also affect the coherence and time lags and should be included in more detailed variability models . in particular , in high quality data from cyg  x-1 , @xcite",
    "show that a reflection component is necessary to reproduce the detailed _ energy dependence _ of the lags .",
    "the simple fluctuating - accretion model presented here agrees generally well with the observational variability measurements , but still needs to be set on physical grounds to be fully validated .",
    "a physical treatment must consider two things , the source of the variability ( i.e. source of accretion rate fluctuations , for example ) , and the source of emission .",
    "work on the evolution of a physical ( if simplified ) accretion flow , implemented with numerical simulations ( e.g * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , indicate that the necessary accretion rate fluctuations and wave - like propagation on viscous time - scale can be realised physically .",
    "finally , a model for the emission process , and its coupling to the accretion rate fluctuations , will be necessary to provide a physical motivation for the radial emissivity profiles of each energy band and , with it , a meaningful interpretation of the emissivity indices .",
    "we have used a computational fluctuating - accretion model to reproduce the spectral - timing properties of x - ray light curves from agn and bhxrbs . in the model , the variability is produced throughout the accretion flow as perturbations of the accretion rate on the local viscous time - scale , produced by many signals which are geometrically spaced in temporal frequency .",
    "the fluctuations propagate inward at the radial drift velocity and modulate the fluctuations produced further in .",
    "this general scheme , introduced by @xcite , produces light curves which possess @xmath2 type psds over a broad range of time - scales and follow a linear rms - flux relation . following @xcite , x - ray emission from a radially extended region",
    "is assumed to track the local accretion rate fluctuations and to show a power law radial emissivity profile , which steepens for higher energy bands .",
    "the different emissivity profiles and the inward propagation produce differences between the psds of each energy band and introduce time lags .",
    "our implementation of the model is successful in reproducing the observed variability properties of agn and bhxrbs , as follows :    1 .",
    "we reproduce the expected @xmath124 frequency - dependence of time lags between energy bands , and lag amplitudes of a few per cent of the variability time - scales , predicted by @xcite and observed in bhxrb and agn variability data .",
    "we demonstrate that the amplitudes and slopes of the lag spectra are only weakly dependent on changes in the emissivity indices , the radial dependence of the product of disc parameters @xmath152 , and the strength of damping of accretion fluctuations .",
    "the robust nature of the lag spectra may help to explain the similarity of lag spectra in the low / hard and high / soft states in cyg  x-1 @xcite , despite the very different psd and energy - spectral shapes in these states .",
    "the extended emitting region suppresses short time - scale fluctuations , producing a gradual bend in the psd at high frequencies .",
    "the ` filtered ' psd shapes resemble those of agn and bhxrbs in the high / soft state ( e.g. @xcite ) and can be approximately fitted with a bending power - law model .",
    "the bend frequencies obtained match the observed frequencies if the fluctuations are produced on the viscous time - scales of a geometrically thick accretion flow .",
    "values of @xmath153 gave adequate bend frequencies compared to data from seyfert galaxy  and the bhxrb cyg  x-1 .",
    "4 .   the fact that all energy bands are produced by the same emitting region can maintain a high coherence ( @xmath154 ) between light curves of different energy bands , as observed by e.g. @xcite , @xcite .",
    "however , the coherence can be substantially reduced at high frequencies if input signals at each radius have fairly broad psds and the difference between emissivity profiles in different bands is large .",
    "coherence is also reduced if damping of the inward - propagating fluctuations is significant .",
    "these results may provide an explanation for the drops in coherence observed at high frequencies in various bhxrbs and agn @xcite .",
    "the model can simultaneously reproduce both the observed energy - dependence of psd shape and the lag spectrum for the agn ngc  4051 and the bhxrb cyg  x-1 in the high / soft state , although the inferred propagation times in cyg  x-1 are slightly slower than the drift velocity expected for a standard disc . in the low / hard state of cyg",
    "x-1 , our simple model can reproduce the general slope of the lag spectrum but can not account for the stepped shape of the lag spectrum . modelling the detailed features of",
    "this spectrum would require additional assumptions about the mechanism producing the variability .",
    "direct comparison with spectral - timing data from agn and bhxrbs shows good general agreement with the model .",
    "however , we note that if the model is correct , the empirical bending or broken power - law models used to fit the psds of agn and bhxrbs in the high / soft state must break down for high signal - to - noise data , because they only approximate the gradual bending shape predicted by our model .",
    "also , we note that the model implies that the psd bend time - scale measured for agn and bhxrbs is a function of both the underlying psd of accretion fluctuations ( which can contain intrinsic breaks ) _ and _ the emissivity profile of the observed energy band ( which introduces a high - frequency bend ) .",
    "therefore , the psd bend time - scale is not necessarily associated with the outer radius of the emitting region , and this region can , in principle , be extremely large , provided the emissivity profile is relatively steep .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained from the high energy astrophysics science archive research center ( heasarc ) , provided by nasa s goddard space flight center .",
    "we wish to thank the two anonymous expert referees for their valuable comments .",
    "pa acknowledges support from the international max - planck research school in astrophysics ( imprs ) , travel support from grants associated with the nasa _ rxte _ guest observer program , and the hospitality of nasa s goddard space flight center .",
    "pu acknowledges a research associateship from the national research council .",
    "99 axelsson , m. , borgonovo , l. , larsson , s. , 2005 , a&a , 438 , 999 churazov , e. , gilfanov , m. , revnivtsev , m. 2001 , mnras , 321 , 759 cui , w. , zhang , s. n. , focke , w. , swank , j. h. , 1997 , apj , 484 , 383 fabian , a.c . , vaughan , s. , nandra , k. , et al .",
    "2002 , mnras , 335 , l1 gierliski m. , zdziarski  a. 2003 , mnras , 343 , l84 gilfanov , m. , churazov , e. , revnivtsev , m. , 2000 , mnras , 316 , 923 kato , s. , fukue , j. , mineshige , s. 1998 , black - hole accretion disks , kyoto ( kyoto university press ) king , a. r. , pringle , j. e. , west , r. g. , livio , m. 2004 , mnras , 348 , 111 kotov , o. , churazov , e. , gilfanov , m. 2001 , mnras , 327 , 799 lyubarskii , y.  e. 1997 , mnras , 292 , 679 markowitz , a. , et al .",
    "2003 , apj , 593 , 96 markowitz , a. 2005 , ( astro - ph/0508521 ) m@xmath155hardy , i. m. , papadakis , i. e. , uttley , p. , page , m. j. , mason , k. o. 2004 , mnras , 348 , 783 m@xmath155hardy , i. m. , gunn , k. f. , uttley , p. , goad , m. r. 2005 , mnras , 359 , 1469 miyamoto s. , kitamoto s. , 1989 , nature , 342 , 773 narayan , r. , yi , i. , 1994 , apj , l13 nowak , m.  a. , 2000 , mnras , 318 , 361 nowak , m. a. , wilms , j. , dove , j. b. , 1999a , apj , 517 , 355 nowak , m. a. , vaughan , b.  a. , wilms , j. , dove , j.  b. , begelman , m.  c. , 1999b , apj , 510 , 874 papadakis , i. e. , nandra , k. , kazanas , d. 2001 , apj , 554,133 pottschmidt , k. , wilms , j. , nowak , m. a. , heindl , w. a. , smith , d. m. , staubert , r. 2000 , a&a , 357 , 17 pottschmidt , k. , et al .",
    ", 2003 , a&a , 407 , 1039 press , w.h . ,",
    "teukolsky , s.a . , vetterling , w.t . , flannery , b.p .",
    ", 1992 , _ numerical recipes _ , cambridge university press ( cambridge ) reig p. , papadakis i. , kylafis n. d. , 2002 , a&a , 382 , 202 revnivtsev , m. , gilfanov , m. , churazov , e. 2000 , a&a , 363 , 1013 shakura , n.i . ,",
    "sunyaev , r. 1973 a&a , 24 , 337 shemmer , p. , uttley , p. , netzer , h. , m@xmath155hardy , i. m. 2003 , mnras,343,1341 timmer , j. , knig , m. 1995 , a&a , 300 , 707 uttley , p. 2004 , mnras , 347 , 61 uttley , p. , m@xmath155hardy , i. m. 2001 , mnras , 323 , 26 uttley , p. , m@xmath155hardy , i. m. , papadakis , i. e. , 2002 , mnras , 332 , 231 uttley  p. , taylor , r. d. , m@xmath155hardy , i.  m. , page , m.  j. , mason , k.  o. , lamer , g. , fruscione , a. , 2004 , mnras , 347 , 1345 uttley , p. , m@xmath155hardy , i. m. , vaughan , s. , 2005 , mnras , 359 , 345 uttley , p. , m@xmath155hardy , i. m. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 586 van der klis , m. 1995 , lewin , van paradijs , van den heuvel , eds .",
    "x - ray binaries . cambridge university press , campridge , p.252 vaughan , b. , nowak , m. 1997 , apj , 474 , l43 vaughan , s. , fabian , a.c . , & nandra , k. 2003 , mnras , 339 , 1237    [ lastpage ]",
    "as mentioned in sec . [ model ] , the extended emitting region acts as a low - pass filter on the psd .",
    "this filter factor , @xmath156 , can be approximated as :    @xmath157    taking the emissivity profile @xmath158 , the filter factor takes the form ( for @xmath159 ) :    @xmath160    in our implementation , the fluctuations are produced on the viscous time - scale at the radius of origin , so @xmath161 . substituting this value in the equation above gives the psd filtering factor as a function of frequency @xmath49 , where @xmath49 is in units of @xmath162 .",
    "this approximation for the filtering effect is appropriate for narrow - input - psd signals , where most of the variability power produced by each annulus is produced on the corresponding viscous time - scale .",
    "finite travel time effects contribute to cancel out variability produced at higher frequencies than @xmath163 , so the filtered psd in this case is distorted further .    for the calculation of the time lags ,",
    "the average travel time of a signal produced at @xmath66 can be approximated as :    @xmath164    if the fluctuations propagate with viscous velocity , @xmath165 , then @xmath166 and the average travel time can be calculated using the emissivity profile given above . for example , for the case",
    "where @xmath167 , the average travel time is :    @xmath168 \\nonumber\\\\ / \\left [ \\frac{r_s^{2-\\gamma } -r_{\\rm min}^{2-\\gamma } } { 2-\\gamma } -r_{\\rm min}^{0.5}\\frac{r_s^{1.5-\\gamma } -r_{\\rm min}^{1.5-\\gamma } } { 1.5-\\gamma } \\right]\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]    substitution of the exponentials with logarithms in the appropriate terms give the equation for the rest of the cases . for signals produced on the viscous time - scale of the radius of origin , @xmath66 can be substituted by @xmath61 as above , producing average travel times as a function of temporal frequency .",
    "finally , the difference between @xmath169 calculated for two different emissivity indices @xmath20 gives the time lag spectrum corresponding to this @xmath20 pair .",
    "we estimate the psd using the periodogram , where the variability power , @xmath170 , is calculated for discretely sampled frequencies @xmath171 as : @xmath172 where @xmath173 and @xmath174 are the real and imaginary parts of the discrete fourier transform of the time series @xmath175 , @xmath176 is the average count rate , @xmath177 is the sampling time interval and @xmath178 is the number of sampled points @xcite .    the cross spectrum between two time series , e.g. simultaneous soft and hard light curves , @xmath175 and @xmath179 , is defined as @xmath180 , where @xmath181 and @xmath182 are the fourier transforms of the respective light curves .",
    "the cross spectrum is a complex - valued function , from where the coherence and phase lags can be extracted .",
    "the coherence @xmath183 for discretely sampled time series is calculated as :      where @xmath185 and @xmath186 are the real and imaginary parts of the cross spectrum @xmath187 and angle brackets represent averaging over independent measurements ( i.e. the numerator in the equation is the modulus - squared of the averaged cross - spectrum ) .",
    "note that here , the averaging of independent measurements of the cross - spectrum and psd is carried out by binning up in frequency , as well as by averaging measurements of the cross - spectrum measured at the same frequency from separate light curve segments .        for a more detailed discussion on the measurement and interpretation of coherence and time lags , and the determination of errors on these measurements , see @xcite , @xcite and , in the context of agn , @xcite ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the fluctuating accretion model of @xcite and its extension by @xcite , seeks to explain the spectral - timing properties of the x - ray variability of accreting black holes in terms of inward - propagating mass accretion fluctuations produced at a broad range of radii . </S>",
    "<S> the fluctuations modulate the x - ray emitting region as they move inwards and can produce temporal - frequency - dependent lags between energy bands , and energy - dependent power spectral densities ( psds ) as a result of the different emissivity profiles , which may be expected at different x - ray energies . here </S>",
    "<S> we use a simple numerical implementation to investigate in detail the x - ray spectral - timing properties of the model and their relation to several physically interesting parameters , namely the emissivity profile in different energy bands , the geometrical thickness and viscosity parameter of the accretion flow , the strength of damping on the fluctuations and the temporal coherence ( measured by the ` quality - factor ' , @xmath0 ) of the fluctuations introduced at each radius . </S>",
    "<S> we find that a geometrically thick flow with large viscosity parameter is favoured , and confirm that the predicted lags are quite robust to changes in the emissivity profile , and physical parameters of the accretion flow , which may help to explain the similarity of the lag spectra in the low / hard and high / soft states of cyg  x-1 . </S>",
    "<S> we also demonstrate the model regime where the light curves in different energy bands are highly spectrally coherent . </S>",
    "<S> we compare model predictions directly to x - ray data from the narrow line seyfert  1 galaxy  and the bhxrb cyg x-1 in its high / soft state and show that this general scheme can reproduce simultaneously the time lags and energy - dependence of the psd .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion : accretion discs  galaxies : active </S>"
  ]
}