{
  "article_text": [
    "ever since the discovery of the first high - redshift quasar ( schmidt 1965 ) , quasars have maintained their title as the objects with the highest known redshift ; the present record holder is a quasar at @xmath6 ( schmidt , schneider , & gunn 1991 ) . nevertheless , the highest known redshifts of galaxies have followed closely behind , with bright radio galaxies having been found up to @xmath7 ( lacy et al .  1994 ; rawlings et al .",
    "1996 ) ; more recently , galaxies with high star formation rates have been identified from interstellar absorption lines at @xmath8 to 3 ( steidel et al .  1996 ) and from the ly@xmath0 emission line at @xmath9 ( hu & mcmahon 1996 ) .",
    "in fact , if quasars are related to supermassive black holes that formed in the centers of high - redshift galaxies , we should expect that many galaxies already existed before the first quasars appeared . in any ` bottom - up ' theory where the observed structure in the universe forms by hierarchical gravitational collapse , and the primordial density fluctuations extend to sufficiently small scales ,",
    "the first galaxies to form must have had much smaller masses than the present galaxies .",
    "the first stars should have formed in systems with velocity dispersions of @xmath10 or lower , corresponding to the lowest temperatures ( @xmath11 k ) that allow cooling and dissipation of the gas by atomic processes ( systems with even lower virial temperatures can cool and dissipate through molecular hydrogen , but this cooling process should be suppressed by photodissociation of the molecules after emission of a number of uv photons that is much smaller than that needed to reionize the universe ; see haiman , rees , & loeb 1996 ) .",
    "these systems would be very unlikely to form quasars , because even a small fraction of their baryons turning into stars should provide sufficient energy ( via ionization , stellar winds or supernovae ) to expel the remaining gas from the shallow potential well ( e.g. , couchman & rees 1986 ; dekel & silk 1986 ) .",
    "deeper potential wells , forming at later epochs , are probably needed to form supermassive black holes in galactic centers .    even if all the baryons were converted into stars very efficiently in these early dwarf galaxies , with a baryonic mass @xmath12 , their total stellar luminosity would be much smaller than in @xmath13 galaxies at present , simply due to their small mass . since only a small fraction of the baryons in these systems is likely to turn into stars before the gas is ejected",
    ", the total stellar mass in the first galaxies to form in the universe should be much smaller than @xmath14 .",
    "this implies that a supernova in one of these first galaxies to form will be far brighter than the galaxy itself .",
    "thus , the brightest probes of the era when the reionization of the intergalactic medium ( igm ) started should be supernovae in very small galaxies , caused by the death of the same stars responsible for the first ionizing photons . in this paper",
    ", we shall estimate the number of supernovae that should have taken place in these galaxies and should be observable at very high redshift , and their apparent magnitudes .",
    "the scenario where these first small galaxies caused the reionization of the universe is strongly supported by recent evidence that the metal abundance in the ly@xmath0 forest absorption lines with @xmath15 is typically @xmath16 , from observations of civ lines ( see tytler et al .",
    "1995 , songaila & cowie 1996 and references therein ) .",
    "there is relatively little uncertainty in the number of uv photons that were emitted by the stars that produced a given mass of heavy elements , because the heavy elements originate from the supernovae resulting from the same stars that emit most of the ionizing photons ( although the c / o ratio is more uncertain because carbon is more abundantly produced in lower mass stars ) .",
    "according to the most recent calculations ( madau & shull 1996 and references therein ) , the energy of lyman continuum photons emitted is 0.2% of the rest - mass energy of the heavy elements produced .",
    "thus , the energy emitted in ionizing photons per baryon is @xmath17 mev , where @xmath18 is the average metallicity of all baryons in the universe , so only @xmath19 is needed to have emitted one ionizing photon for each baryon . if @xmath20 , then 20 ionizing photons must have been emitted per baryon when the heavy elements were made .",
    "furthermore , if these were the photons responsible for reionizing the universe , then each baryon must have recombined 20 times on average during the reionization epoch .",
    "this is a reasonable number , because a fraction of these photons were probably absorbed in the systems where the stars were born before the gas was expelled , and those that escaped could also have been absorbed in lyman limit systems before the universe became transparent .",
    "thus , there is no need to invoke ejection of gas by more massive galaxies that can accrete the ionized igm to explain a metallicity @xmath21 .",
    "we can now calculate the number of supernovae that were required for enriching the gas in the igm to the average metallicity of @xmath22 that is observed in the ly@xmath0 forest at @xmath23 .",
    "this number should depend only on the igm density and the supernova yields , and should be independent of any other details related to the theory for galaxy formation and the type of galaxies that ejected the enriched gas .",
    "recent simulations of cold dark matter models show that the absorption lines in the ly@xmath0 forest can be identified with the igm , with density fluctuations caused by gravitational collapse , and that most of the baryons should be in the igm in these models ( cen et al .",
    "1994 , hernquist et al .",
    "1996 , miralda - escud et al.1996 ) .",
    "thus , it is reasonable to assume that the high - z supernovae enriched all the baryons in the universe to a mean at metallicity at least as high as that of the ly@xmath0 forest .",
    "since each supernova produces an average of @xmath24 of heavy elements ( with uncertainties depending on the assumed initial mass function and supernova models ; see woosley & weaver 1995 ) , this implies that a supernova took place at high redshift for each @xmath25 of baryons in the universe .",
    "we shall assume a high baryon density @xmath26 , in agreement with the primordial deuterium abundance measured by burles & tytler ( 1996 ) and by tytler , fan , & burles ( 1996 ) .",
    "notice that this implies that most of the baryons at the present time are dark , so many more baryons than those we observe in galaxies had to be enriched at high redshift .",
    "assuming the @xmath27 cosmological model , the total mass of baryons in a redshift shell of width @xmath28 around us is @xmath29 ^ 2/(1+z)^{3/2}\\ , \\delta z$ ] , where @xmath30 is the present hubble constant . with the above rate of supernovae per baryon mass ( assumed to take place within the epoch corresponding to the redshift shell @xmath28 ) , and taking into account that the supernovae within the shell would be seen by us over a time interval @xmath31 ,",
    "the total supernova rate observed over all the sky is @xmath32 ^ 2 { \\ , { \\rm yr}}^{-1 } ~.\\ ] ] or , for @xmath33 , about 1 supernova per square arc minute per year .",
    "most of these supernovae should be type ii which , if the progenitor is a red supergiant , have a plateau of the luminosity in their lightucurves from 1 to 80 days after the explosion , with @xmath34 erg / s ( woosley & weaver 1986 ) .",
    "a note of caution should be made here , in that the low - metallicity progenitors of these early supernovae could be very different from the high metallicity counterparts .",
    "as illustrated by the case of sn1987a , it is probably not possible at this stage to predict the type of supernovae we should expect from this first generation of stars ; in particular , the possibility that some supernovae might reach higher intrinsic luminosities than regular type iis should be kept in mind .",
    "a duration of 80 days would be redshifted to more than a year at redshifts @xmath35 , where the supernovae from stars responsible for the reionization of the universe should occur . at any random time there",
    "should therefore be one or more supernovae per square arc minute visible in the sky .",
    "of course , many more supernovae should have occurred in more massive galaxies at later epochs ( producing the metals in stars and interstellar gas at present ) , and possibly in small systems that ejected their gas and continued to enrich the igm .",
    "the main difficulty in detecting these supernovae is obviously the extremely faint flux expected .",
    "supernovae should be the brightest objects in the universe at very high redshift , but they are of course much fainter than quasars and , as the redshift increases , the bolometric fluxes decrease at least as rapidly as @xmath36 .",
    "one should point out , however , that when observing at a fixed , long wavelenth such that the supernovae are observed on the rayleigh - jeans part of the spectrum , the flux actually becomes brighter as @xmath37 , in the limit of high redshift .    to estimate the apparent magnitudes of the supernovae",
    ", we assume a blackbody spectrum , which is a sufficiently close approximation for our purpose . in figure 1",
    "we show the apparent magnitudes in several bands for a luminosity @xmath38 erg / s , and temperatures @xmath39 k and @xmath40 k. the high temperature is reached @xmath5 1 day after the explosion , when the luminosity drops to the value in the plateau part of the lightcurve ; during the next few days the temperature cools , reaching a value near @xmath41 k after about a week , and then it stays constant until the luminosity starts decreasing . immediately after the explosion , when the shock reaches the surface of the star , the luminosity and temperature can be much higher and the apparent flux can be brighter by a factor @xmath42 relative to the values in fig . 1 , but this phase only lasts for @xmath43 hour .",
    "the apparent magnitudes have been calculated for the @xmath27 model with @xmath44 km / s / mpc , from the flux at the central wavelengths of the bands , using the central wavelengths and zero - magnitude fluxes given in allen ( 1973 ) .",
    "the high - redshift cutoff in the curves in figure 1 indicate the redshift where the supernova light would be absorbed by the ly@xmath0 forest .    at high redshift , the supernovae",
    "must obviously be searched in the infrared .",
    "the faintest galaxy surveys from the ground have reached magnitudes @xmath45 ( cowie et al .  1994 ) . from fig . 1 , type ii supernovae would have similar magnitudes at @xmath46 , although searching for variable objects should require more telescope time than simple object identification . in order to find supernovae at redshifts higher than known quasars , fainter fluxes by a factor of @xmath47",
    "need to be detected .",
    "this might be achieved with implementation of adaptive optics on large ground - based telescopes ; in the longer term , the new generation space telescope should certainly be capable to observe these supernovae ( see mather & stockman 1996 ) .",
    "we emphasize again the large uncertainty in predicting the types and absolute magnitude of supernovae from these early generation of stars .",
    "one possibility to detect these supernovae before more powerful telescopes and cameras in the infrared can be built is to use the magnifying power of gravitational lensing in galaxy clusters .",
    "the deflection angles of the most massive clusters of galaxies are as large as @xmath48 , with critical lines of total length of several arc minutes .",
    "the cross section for magnifying a source by more than a factor @xmath49 is @xmath50 , or 0.01 square arc minutes for @xmath51 .",
    "thus , any rich lensing cluster should have a 1% chance of having a high - redshift supernova magnified by a factor larger than 10 at any time .",
    "the highly magnified images would always appear in pairs around critical lines , and would be simple to identify only from their positions and colors given a lensing model of the cluster ( see miralda - escud & fort 1993 ) .",
    "later , variability would have to be detected to distinguish the supernova from a faint , compact galaxy .",
    "we have suggested in this paper that , under reasonable assumptions , supernovae should be the brightest objects in the universe beyond some redshift , in particular during the early phases of the reionization .",
    "the supernovae might therefore be the first observational evidence we shall have of this epoch , when the very faint apparent magnitudes expected are observable .",
    "the other observable signature of this epoch may be the 21 cm absorption or emission by the neutral intergalactic gas ( scott & rees 1994 ; madau , meiksin & rees 1996 ) .",
    "the uv and heavy elements abundance inferred from quasar absorption lines allow us , as we have seen , to draw quantitative conclusions about the minimum number of high - mass stars formed beyond @xmath3 : to produce a metallicity @xmath22 requires one supernova for each @xmath52 of baryons .",
    "this inference is quite robust , being insensitive to the details of structure and galaxy formation at high redshift , which of course depend on the cosmological assumptions .",
    "however , the total mass of stars formed depends on the imf , and is therefore much more uncertain . for a standard imf ,",
    "@xmath53 of stars need to be formed to produce one supernova , so 2% of the baryons should have been turned into stars by the time the igm reached this level of enrichment .",
    "notice that this is equivalent to @xmath54 of the _ observed _ baryons in galaxies today , given our adopted value of @xmath55 which implies that only @xmath5 10% of the baryons are in known stars and gas in galaxies .",
    "it is of course quite possible that the imf was different for these early stars , given the different physical environment ( a higher ambient temperature , absence of heavy elements to act as coolants and provide opacity , and no significant magnetic fields ) .",
    "direct clues to the slope of the high - mass imf may come from ( for instance ) the relative ionization levels of h and he and heavy elements , which depend on the background radiation spectrum shortward of the lyman limit , or from relative abundances of heavy elements relative to carbon .",
    "conceivably , all the early stars might be of high - mass , so that no coeval low - mass stars survive ; at the other extreme , the early imf could have been much steeper than the standard one , in which case there could be many pregalactic brown dwarfs .    would any of these `` population iii '' stars be observable today ?",
    "let us consider the observational consequences of the simplest assumption : that the early imf was the same as in the solar neighborhood . in that case , most of the present luminosity from the population iii would arise from red giants and stars at the tip of the main - sequence , with @xmath56 .",
    "where should these stars be today ?",
    "after the first galaxies ejected all their gas back to the igm , the stars that had been formed should have remained in orbit near the center of the dark matter halos .",
    "the stars then behave as collisionless matter as the halos merge with larger objects , until the present galaxies are formed .",
    "we would therefore expect that these stars would at present be distributed approximately like the dark matter in galactic and cluster halos , and in addition there should be some surviving galaxies from that epoch which have not merged into much larger objects ( or have survived in orbit after merging with a large halo , having escaped tidal disruption ) and still have the population iii stars in their centers .",
    "the halos of stars formed in this way around galaxies might be somewhat more centrally concentrated than the dark matter , if many mergers take place with only a moderate increase of the halo mass at each merger ( so that dynamical friction is effective after each merger and it can bring the stars near the center of the newly formed halo before tidal disruption occurs ) .",
    "in fact , particles that start near the centers of halos that merge tend to end up near the center of the merger product ( e.g. , spergel & hernquist 1992 ) .",
    "the known halo stars have a very steep density profile , @xmath57 , and their total mass is @xmath58 ( e.g. , morrison 1993 ) .",
    "this mass is comparable to the total mass we would expect in the halo in the population iii stars , if the total mass of the halo of our galaxy is @xmath59 , with a baryon fraction of 10% , and if 2% of the baryons formed population iii stars .",
    "therefore , if the stellar mass function in the first galaxies was normal , a sizable fraction of the halo stars should have originated there ( this is not surprising , because it is derived from the assumption that the halo stars created their own metal abundance ) .",
    "it seems difficult that the process of dynamical friction alluded to above can result in the steep slope of the halo stars .",
    "however , the halo density profile might become shallower at large radius ( see hawkins 1983 and norris & hawkins 1991 for current observational evidence on this possibility ) , and a second halo population in the outer part of the galaxy ( @xmath60 kpc ) might be the remnant of the population iii .",
    "these halo stars could be found in the hubble deep field ( hdf , williams et al .",
    "if the stellar mass of this outer halo is @xmath61 , there should be @xmath62 stars near the main - sequence turnoff , i.e. , we expect a few stars in the hdf ( with area 4.4 arcmin@xmath63 ) ; these would have colors @xmath64 , @xmath65 at distances of 100 kpc . from fig . 2 in flynn , gould , & bahcall",
    ", we see that there is at least one stellar object with these characteristics in the hdf .",
    "several other observations may help to test the existence of the population iii stars .",
    "an outer stellar halo would also imply a certain number of high - velocity stars near the solar neighborhood .",
    "a stellar population may be found in the halos of external galaxies , with density profiles similar to the dark matter .",
    "sackett et al .",
    "( 1994 ) found a luminous halo in the galaxy ngc 5907 with @xmath66 ( i.e. , about ten times more light than what we expect for the population iii ) .",
    "planetary nebulae could also be found in nearby halos of galaxies or galaxy groups ; several of them were reported recently by by theuns & warren 1996 ) in the fornax cluster .",
    "there is also the possibility that the imf in the early galaxies produced a large number of brown dwarfs . in this case",
    ", a large fraction of the baryons could have been turned into brown dwarfs , and these could be detected in ongoing microlensing experiments towards the lmc ( see paczyski 1996 ) . if the baryon fraction in the universe is 10% , the optical depth of these brown dwarfs toward the lmc could be as high as a few times @xmath67 .",
    "finally , we notice that the metallicity distribution of the population iii stars is difficult to predict .",
    "if only a small fraction of the neutral igm collapsed to galaxies before the reionization , then the gas in these galaxies could reached high metallicities and formed stars , and the metallicity could have diluted in the igm when the gas was ejected . at the same time , the metal abundance of the igm after reionization could be highly inhomogeneous , so some galaxies formed later could have very low metallicities .",
    "therefore , it is difficult to predict even if the average metal abundance of the population iii stars should be higher , lower or similar to the more centrally concentrated halo stars , let alone the distribution of these metallicities .",
    "as the observational techniques improve our ability to detect extremely faint sources , and higher redshift objects can be searched for to continue unravelling the history of galaxy formation , supernovae should become the brightest observable sources .",
    "these supernovae created the heavy elements that were expelled to the igm , and their progenitor stars are the most likely sources of the photons that reionized the universe .",
    "the expected rates of these supernovae , calculating under the assumption of a high baryon density ( @xmath68 ) , and an average metal production of @xmath21 , is as high as 1 supernova per square arc minute per year . to detect the supernovae",
    ", the flux limits of the faintest sources detectable with our telescopes will probably need to be pushed by another @xmath69 magnitudes , although the first examples might be discovered at brighter fluxes behind clusters of galaxies , using the lensing magnification .",
    "any low - mass stars that were formed in the first small galaxies where these supernovae took place should be observable today .",
    "we have argued that , if the imf in these galaxies was similar to the present one in our galactic disk , the population iii stars are likely to account for a large fraction of the stars in our galactic halo , although most of them should be in an as yet undetected outer halo with a shallower density profile than the known , inner stellar halo .",
    "allen , c. w. 1973 , _ astrophysical quantities _",
    "( london : athlone press ) burles , s. , & tytler , s. 1996 , submitted to science ( astroph 9603069 ) cen , r. , miralda - escud , j. , ostriker , j. p. , & rauch , m. 1994 , apj , 437 , l9 couchman , h. m. p. , & rees , m. j. , 1986 , mnras , 221 , 53 cowie , l. l. , gardner , j. p. , hu , e. m. , songaila , a. , hodapp , k .- w . , & wainscoat , r. j. 1994 , apj , 434 , 114 dekel , a. , & silk , j. 1986 , apj , 303 , 39 flynn , c. , gould , a. , & bahcall , j. n. 1996 , apj , 466 , l55 haiman , z. , rees , m. j. , & loeb , a. 1996 , apj , submitted ( astroph-9608130 ) hawkins , m. s. 1983 , mnras , 206 , 433 hernquist , l. , katz , n. , weinberg , d. h. , & miralda - escud , j. 1996 , apj , 457 , l51 hu , e. m. , & mcmahon , r. g. 1996 , nature , 382 , 231 lacy , m. , et al .",
    "1994 , mnras , 271 , 504 madau , p. , meiksin , a. , & rees , m. j. 1996 , apj , submitted ( astroph 9608010 ) madau , p. , & shull , j. m. 1996 , , 457 , 551 mather , j. , & stockman , h. 1996 , nasa report .",
    "miralda - escud , j. , & fort , b. 1993 , apj , 417 , 5 miralda - escud , j. , cen , r. , ostriker , j. p. , & rauch , m. 1996 , apj , 471 , 582 morrison , h. l. 1993 , aj , 106 , 578 norris , j. , & hawkins , m. s. 1991 , apj , 380 , 104 paczyski , b. 1996 , ara&a , 34 , xxx rawlings , s. , lacy , m. , blundell , k. m. , eales , s. a. , bunker , a. j. , & garrington , s. t. 1996 , nature , 383 , 502 sackett , p. d. , morrison , h. l. , harding , p. , & boroson , t. a. 1994 , nature , 370 , 441 schmidt , m. 1965 , apj , 141 , 1295 schneider , d. p. , schmidt , m. , & gunn , j. e. 1991 , aj , 101 , 2004 scott , d. , & rees , m. j. 1990 , mnras , 247 , 510 songaila , a. , & cowie , l. l. 1996 , aj , in press ( astro - ph 9605102 ) spergel , d. n. , & hernquist , l. 1992 , apj , 397 , l75 steidel , c. c. , giavalisco , m. , pettini , m. , dickinson , m. , & adelberger , k. l. 1996 , apj , 462 , l17 theuns , t. , & warren , s. j. 1996 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph 9609076 ) tytler , d. , fan , x .-",
    "m . , burles , s. , cottrell , l. , davis , c. , kirkman , d. , & zuo , l. 1995 , in qso absorption lines , ed .",
    "g. meylan , p. 289 tytler , d. , fan , x .-",
    "m . , & burles , s. 1996 , nature , 381 , 207 williams , r. , et al .",
    "1996 , science with the hubble space telescope ii , eds .",
    "p. benvenuti , f. d. macchetto , & e. j. schreier ( baltimore : stsci ) , in press woosley , s. e. , & weaver , t. a. 1995 , apjs , 101 , 181 woosley , s. e. , & weaver , t. a. 1986 , ara & a , 24 , 205"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent evidence on the metal content of the high - redshift ly@xmath0 forest seen in quasar spectra suggests that an early generation of galaxies enriched the intergalactic medium ( igm ) at @xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate the number of supernovae that need to have taken place to produce the observed metallicity . </S>",
    "<S> the progenitor stars of the supernovae should have emitted @xmath2 ionizing photons for each baryon in the universe , i.e. , more than enough to ionize the igm . </S>",
    "<S> we calculate that the rate of these supernovae is such that about one of them should be observable at any time per square arc minute . </S>",
    "<S> their fluxes are , of course , extremely faint : at @xmath3 , the peak magnitude should be @xmath4 with a duration of @xmath5 1 year . </S>",
    "<S> however , these supernovae should still be the brightest objects in the universe beyond some redshift , because the earliest galaxies should form before quasars and they should have very low mass , so their luminosities should be much lower than that of a supernova .    </S>",
    "<S> we also show that , under the assumption of a standard initial mass function , a significant fraction of the stars in the galactic halo should have formed in the early galaxies that reionized and enriched the igm , and which later must have merged with our galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> these stars should have a more extended radial distribution than the observed halo stars . </S>"
  ]
}