{
  "article_text": [
    "stellar lithium abundances are potentially very useful for testing astrophysical theories .",
    "the abundances derived from observed spectra have spawned a number of scientific debates , for a recent review see thorburn ( 1996 ) , also the conference proceedings of crane ( 1995 ) and spite & pallavicini ( 1995 ) , and the introduction to carlsson et al .",
    "it is important in this context that we can be confident in the derived abundances  which so far mostly have been derived using the questionable assumptions of line formation in local thermodynamic equilibrium ( ) and plane - parallel homogeneous  photospheres .",
    "efficient computer codes and extensive atomic data sets have made possible realistic  spectral - line modeling for light atoms in plane - parallel cool - star photospheres that can provide  abundance corrections for the convenience of the stellar - abundance community ( e.g. , carlsson et al .",
    "1994 ; kiselman & carlsson 1996 ) .",
    "a notable departure from plane - parallel homogeneity in the quiet solar photosphere is the granulation , now understood as a visible manifestation of convection below the photosphere ( e.g. , spruit , nordlund , & title 1990 ) .",
    "we have also some knowledge of granulation on stars adjacent to the sun in the hr diagram ( gray & nagel 1989 ; nordlund & dravins 1990 ; dravins & nordlund 1990a , 1990b ) .",
    "how does granulation influence line strengths and abundance determinations ?",
    "holweger , heise , & kock ( 1990 ) argued that solar abundance ratios should not be seriously in error since they are based on line - strength ratios which are approximately constant over the solar granulation pattern in the simulations of steffen ( 1989 ) .",
    "this notion was confirmed observationally by kiselman ( 1994a ) who found that lines of both neutral and singly ionized species of several elements behaved similarly by being stronger in bright granular regions and weaker in dark intergranular lanes . for other work on lines in realistic granulation simulations that is relevant for abundance analysis ,",
    "see nordlund ( 1984 ) , bruls & rutten ( 1992 ) , atroshchenko & gadun ( 1994 ) , and kiselman & nordlund ( 1995 ) .    of special interest is the question of  effects on line formation in granulation .",
    "nordlund ( 1984 ) found that 3d  effects could be of some importance for lines in solar granulation , while kiselman & nordlund ( 1995 ) found rather small such effects for .",
    "note also that mihalas , auer , & mihalas ( 1978 ) did not find any important 2d effects in their investigation of artificial but solar - like atmospheric structures .",
    "kurucz ( 1995 ) claimed that  effects in extremely metal - poor solar - type stars can cause standard analyses to underestimate lithium abundances with a factor of ten . in this scenario ,",
    "lines will be weak in hot photospheric regions where li is largely ionized .",
    "the cooler regions would show strong  lines if  was valid , but the ultraviolet radiation from adjacent hot regions will keep lithium largely ionized also there . the  resonance line in integrated light would thus be very much weaker than the result from a 1d model representing a spatial and temporal average of the photospheric structure .",
    "thus the abundance would be underestimated when an analysis is performed using standard plane - parallel models .",
    "so far , there is no quantitative model to verify this effect , which would certainly have important impact on the debates related to stellar lithium abundances .",
    "this letter reports on  aspects of  line formation as found with experiments on a 3d solar - granulation model .",
    "the results are thus directly applicable only for sun - like stars , but they should give some indication on what we can expect for other stars as well .",
    "the  resonance doublet at 671 nm is very weak in the solar spectrum since the solar lithium abundance is so low  the standard value used here is @xmath0 ( grevesse , noels , & sauval 1996 ; mller , peytremann , & de la reza 1975 ) .",
    "the feature is blended with several other weaker lines , the stronger ( shorter wavelength ) doublet component being less affected .",
    "the doublet splitting , together with hyperfine and isotopic splitting , is neglected here since the weakness of the line makes its equivalent width insensitive to line - broadening details .",
    "thus the lithium atomic model of carlsson et al .",
    "( 1994 ) is employed with the change that the 671 nm resonance doublet is treated as a single line . in principle",
    ", this treatment leads to a change in line formation height and some modification of the nlte behavior .",
    "this is , however , not a problem here  the robustness of the results is indicated by the qualitative behavior of the line being unchanged even when the abundance is increased with a factor of ten .    the 3d photospheric model is a single snapshot from the hydrodynamic granulation simulations of stein & nordlund ( 1989 ) that was also used by kiselman & nordlund ( 1995 )  see that paper for illustrations .",
    "it has been contracted to a @xmath1 grid of thermodynamic quantities corresponding to @xmath2 mm on the solar surface and showing more than ten granules .",
    "( the figures of this paper only display @xmath3 surface points . )",
    "this single snapshot may not be adequate for statistically reliable results , but it should show a representative sample of different kinds of photospheric behavior .",
    "line profiles are calculated with a hybrid technique using version 2.2 of the 1d  code multi ( carlsson 1986 ) which uses the operator perturbation techniques of scharmer & carlsson ( 1985 ) .",
    "the radiative bound - free transitions , and some bound - bound transitions in the experiments below , are treated as fixed rates using a background 3d radiation field computed in ( strong )  with the methods of kiselman & nordlund ( 1995 ) .",
    "the equation of transfer was solved along a set of rays  five inclination angles ( @xmath4 ) and eight azimuthal angles ( @xmath5 )  and the resulting intensities along each ray were used to calculate a mean intensity @xmath6 in each @xmath7 point .",
    "the treatment can thus not really be called `` 3d '' but it does include 3d effects and  effects .    all line results presented here are for disk center , i.e. for vertical rays with @xmath8 .",
    "the general diagnostic to be discussed here is the dependence of line strength on continuum intensity .",
    "the upper left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_1.5d_33 ] shows equivalent width of the 671 nm line plotted as a function of continuum intensity when the line is computed in .",
    "each point represents the vertically emergent spectrum from one @xmath9 column of the simulation snapshot .",
    "six points marked with letters have been chosen as examples of different kinds of regions .",
    "the neighboring plots show the local planck function ( normalized with the emergent mean continuum intensity from the snapshot ) and the total opacity at line center ( normalized on the continuum opacity ) at these selected locations .",
    "the planck - function plot naturally also illustrates the temperature structure .",
    "note the typical crossing over of temperatures , with the hot bright regions ( i.e. granules ) like a and b having much steeper temperature gradients than a typical intergranular region like f. c is an intermediate point and d and e represents dark intergranular regions covered with cooler gas .",
    "the over - all appearance of the  @xmath10 diagram is typical of most lines studied so far ( kiselman 1994a ) .",
    "the strength of the line generally increases with continuum brightness , but there is a significant scatter , especially in the darker regions .",
    "it is possible to understand this behavior in a simple qualitative way .",
    "the line is strong where the temperature gradient is steep and/or if the temperature in the line - forming layers is low .",
    "these very weak lines are formed in a fairly extended region around @xmath11 , as evidenced from inspection of the contribution function due to magain ( 1986 ) .",
    "the large scatter in the  @xmath10 diagram is due to the high temperature sensitivity of the line opacity and reflects the variation in temperature in the upper layers of the granulation model .",
    "note how the dark examples ( d , e , f ) have similar low temperatures where the continuum is formed  the respective curves meet in the upper right panel around @xmath12  and thus similar continuum brightness .",
    "higher up in the line - forming layers the curves diverge , causing the line opacity to differ via the saha ionization equilibrium .",
    "thus the difference in equivalent width ( @xmath13 ) is a direct reflection of the temperatures there with higher temperatures meaning less  and weaker lines .    the plots in fig .",
    "[ fig_osmarcs_33 ] show results for an effective - temperature range of plane - parallel photospheric models computed with the osmarcs code of edvardsson et al .",
    "the  line behavior is much simpler in these models than in the granulation snapshot .",
    "let us then consider the results when the lines are calculated in  and 1.5d geometry .",
    "this term is used here to signify that each vertical column in the granulation snapshot is treated as a plane - parallel photosphere , thus neglecting any horizontal photon exchange in the model .",
    "the lower left panel of fig .",
    "[ fig_1.5d_33 ] shows the resulting @xmath10 plot which differs from the  one in three important respects .",
    "first , the line is on the average weaker in .",
    "second , the  case shows increasing line strength in brighter regions while the opposite is true in .",
    "also striking is the narrow brightness dependence in the  plot which contrasts to the big scatter among the points in the  plot .",
    "the -  difference in integrated - light equivalent widths is about 30% , which is more than the 10% found in the 1d results of fig .",
    "[ fig_osmarcs_33 ] .",
    "considering , however , uncertainties in abundances , @xmath14-values , fundamental stellar parameters , etc . , such effects are barely significant in typical stellar work .",
    "it is thus hardly possible to test either the  or the granulation results in integrated light alone .",
    "the different appearance of the  and the  plots shows , however , that even if effects of departures from  look insignificant in integrated light , or in 1d models , they can cause a definite qualitative difference in the spatially resolved @xmath10 behavior .",
    "this supports the idea ( kiselman 1996 ) that  effects can be discovered and diagnosed in this way .",
    "the 1.5d  plot is in fact easily understood .",
    "when we leave the  approximation , the atomic level populations will be more or less decoupled from the local kinetic temperature and the radiation field will govern them instead . thus the relevant quantities for the line , its line source function and the line opacity , will be set by the radiation field .",
    "this is exactly what the plot shows : for each value of the background continuum intensity the line equivalent width is the same .",
    "the low lithium abundance will make all  lines and ionization edges very weak , having virtually no impact on the radiation field ",
    "thus we only have to consider the continuum background radiation fields .",
    "the weakness of the  671 nm line together with the fact that the line - photon - destruction probability is rather small ( @xmath15 ) , makes the line source function @xmath16 follow the continuum angular mean intensity @xmath6 rather closely . a greater @xmath6 will thus lead to a greater @xmath16 and a weaker line .",
    "furthermore , the line opacity is set by the population of the  ground state and so it is the ionization balance between and liii that sets the line opacity . in the  case , the radiation field ( in the ionization edges themselves or at other wavelengths ) is obviously important for the ionization balance .    this explains why the range of 1d models in fig .",
    "[ fig_osmarcs_33 ] seems a much better approximation to the granulation - simulation results in  than in .",
    "the radiation temperature is set in the deeper layers where the granulation structure is much more like the 1d models than what is the case higher up .",
    "the interest here is in finding the processes important for the overall picture , not to explain  mechanisms operating in individual columns of the granulation snapshot .",
    "the @xmath10 plots in fig .",
    "[ fig_icw22 ] illustrate what happens when the 1.5d results already discussed are perturbed .",
    "these experiments will be referenced to according to the figure s panel designations .",
    "the importance of overionization caused by by @xmath17 in bound - free edges is assessed by computing the photoionization rates with @xmath18 ( * bf  b * ) .",
    "the small change shows that ultraviolet overionization is unimportant .",
    "a large majority of all  is in the ground state that sets the 671nm - line opacity .",
    "it will depart from its  value in a way dependent of the excitation balance among the  levels since departures from boltzmann equilibrium have an impact on the ionization equilibrium .",
    "the general rule is that there will be overionization if the excitation balance is shifted upwards since the bf cross section of the ground state is small and since there simply are more photons at the longer wavelengths of the excited levels ionization edges .",
    "this effect was found for bi by kiselman ( 1994b ) and it can be thought of as the opposite of the `` photon suction '' discussed by bruls , rutten , & shchukina ( 1992 ) for nai and ki . quenching the pumping effect of the ultraviolet resonance line at 323 nm by treating it as a fixed rate given by @xmath18 has a very small impact ( * 323  nm  b * ) .",
    "this specific pumping is unimportant for the formation of the 671 nm line .",
    "when all radiative transitions except the 671 nm line are treated in the same way ( * bf&bb  b * ) , about half of the  effect remains .",
    "the remaining departures from  are due to the resonance line itself .    the importance of 3d effects is assessed by treating radiative transitions as fixed using the precomputed 3d radiation field .",
    "doing this to the photoionizations causes insignificant changes ( * bf  3d * ) .",
    "treating all radiative transitions , except the 671 nm line , in 3d ( * bf&bb  3d * ) , gives an anticipated spread in the @xmath10 diagram since the local @xmath6 is influenced by neighboring points in the snapshot .",
    "finally ( * all  3d * ) , _ all _ radiative transitions , including the 671 nm resonance lines , are treated as fixed in 3d , now also with the application of a correction for line blanketing in the background radiation fields .",
    "this is the most sophisticated simulation presented here , but its shortcomings must be remembered ",
    "the 3d radiation fields have been calculated in  in a somewhat schematic way , all radiative transitions have been treated as fixed , and the correction for line blanketing is schematic .",
    "the @xmath10 plot shows a rather flat slope and a significantly larger spread than in the 1.5d case .",
    "apparently , effects of horizontal photon transfer are of some importance through the line transitions .",
    "however , the difference in intensity - weighted mean equivalent width between the 1.5d and the 3d case is only 3% .",
    "experiments with higher abundances show that the line behavior described here is qualitatively the same at a ten times higher abundance ( 2.1 ) , but at an abundance of 3.1 we leave the regime of weak - line behavior and the typical effects of strong resonance lines ( carlsson et al .",
    "1994 ) set in .",
    "line formation in granulation is not well approximated with simple `` cold '' and `` hot '' regions or streams .",
    "the strongly varying vertical photospheric temperature gradient , the typical inversion of the temperature pattern above a certain height , and the presence of inclined thermal inhomogeneities complicate the situation to the extent that conclusions regarding spectral lines must be based on realistic granulation simulations .",
    "a case has been made that such simulations together with spatially resolved solar spectroscopy can be used as diagnostics of  effects .",
    "another paper ( kiselman 1997 ) will follow up on this and compare simulations with solar observations of .",
    "the current calculations do not show evidence for any large  effects in quiet granulation that would seriously affect lithium abundance determinations for solar - like stars .",
    "this is not to say that effects of granulation are altogether unimportant  more comprehensive studies are needed to quantify `` granulation abundance corrections '' corresponding to the commonly used  abundance corrections .",
    "one may also speculate that 3d  effects could be important in regions of enhanced magnetic activity and thus be relevant to problems such as the apparent lithium - abundance spread in the pleiades ( cf .",
    "stuik , bruls , & rutten 1997 ) .    to draw conclusions about very metal - poor solar - type stars and",
    "the effect proposed by kurucz ( 1995 ) would be to extrapolate  the nature of these stars surface inhomogeneities is unknown but probably different from solar ( allende  prieto et al .",
    "one can note , however , that bound - bound processes may be important for the statistical equilibrium of li there as well as in the solar case studied here . wherever line transitions are the dominating drivers of departures from , any 3d effects are likely to be milder than if bound - free processes govern the  behavior , because the contrast of granulation or other thermal inhomogeneity is lower at the longer wavelengths of the  spectral lines than in the blue and ultraviolet continua .",
    "i thank rob rutten for discussions , comments , and manuscript sharing .",
    "mats carlsson kindly provided the lithium - atom model .",
    "gran scharmer is thanked for comments on the manuscript and martin asplund for discussions .",
    "allende prieto , c. , garca lpez , r. j. , lambert , d. l. , & gustafsson , b. 1995 , in iau symp . 176 : stellar surface structure , poster proceedings , ed . k. g. strassmeier ( institut fr astronomie der universitt wien ) , 107 atroshchenko , i. n. , & gadun , a. s. 1994 , , 291 , 635 bruls , j. h. m. j. , & rutten , r. j. 1992 , , 265 , 257 bruls , j. h. m. j. , rutten , r. j. , & shchukina , n. g. 1992 , , 265 , 237 carlsson , m. 1986 , uppsala astronomical report no .",
    "33 carlsson , m. , rutten , r. j. , bruls , j. h. m. j. , & shchukina , n. g. 1994 , , 288 , 860 crane , p. ( ed . ) 1995 , the light element abundances ( springer ) dravins , d. , & nordlund ,  .",
    "1990a , , 228 , 184 dravins , d. , & nordlund ,  . 1990b , , 228 , 203 edvardsson , b. , andersen , j. , gustafsson , b. , lambert , d.l . ,",
    "nissen , p.e . , & tomkin , j. 1993 , , 275 , 101 gray , d. f. , & nagel , t. 1989 , 341 , 421 grevesse , n. , noels , a. , & sauval , a. j. 1996 , in cosmic abundances , vol .",
    "99 , asp conference series , ed .",
    "s. s. holt & g. sonneborn , p.117 holweger , h. , heise , c. , & kock , m. 1990 , , 232 , 510 kiselman , d. 1994a , a&as , 104 , 23 kiselman , d. 1994b , , 286 , 169 kiselman , d. 1996 , in iau symp . 176 : stellar surface structure , poster proceedings , ed .",
    "k. g. strassmeier ( institut fr astronomie der universitt wien ) , 110 kiselman , d. 1997 , in preparation kiselman , d. , & carlsson , m. 1996 , , 311 , 680 kiselman d. , & nordlund ,  .",
    "1995 , , 302 , 578 kurucz , r. l. 1995 , , 452 , 102 magain , p. 1986",
    ", , 163 , 135 mller , e. , peytremann , e. , & de la reza , r. 1975 , solar phys .",
    ", 41 , 53 mihalas , d. , auer , l. h. , & mihalas , b. r. 1978 , , 220 , 1001 nordlund ,  .",
    "1984 , in small - scale dynamical processes in quiet stellar atmospheres , ed . s. l. keil ( sacramento peak observatory ) , p. 181",
    "nordlund ,  .",
    ", & dravins , d. 1990 , , 228 , 155 scharmer , g. b. , & carlsson , m. 1985 , j.comput.phys . , 59 , 56 spite , f. , & pallavicini , r. ( ed . ) 1995 , stellar and interstellar lithium and primordial nucleosynthesis , proc .",
    "iau jd 11 the hague , mem .",
    "vol 66 , no 2 , p. 517 spruit , h.c , nordlund ,  . , & title a. 1990 , , 28 , 263 steffen , m. 1989 , in solar and stellar granulation , ed .",
    "r. j. rutten & g. severino ( kluwer ) , p. 425",
    "stein , r. f. , & nordlund ,  .",
    "1989 , , 342 , l95 stuik , r. , bruls , j. h. m. j. , & rutten , r. j. 1997 , , 322 , 911 thorburn , j. 1996 , in cosmic abundances , asp conference series , vol .",
    "s. s. holt & g. sonneborn , p.165"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the possibility of significant systematic errors due to the use of 1d homogeneous atmospheres in lithium - abundance determinations of cool stars motivates a study of non - local - thermodynamic - equilibrium ( ) effects on  line formation in a 3d solar - granulation simulation snapshot . </S>",
    "<S> the  effect on the equivalent width of the 671 nm resonance line is small in 1d models or in integrated light from the granulation model . </S>",
    "<S> the line - strength variations over the granulation pattern are however markedly different in  compared to   observations of this may provide diagnostics to  effects . </S>",
    "<S> the effects of horizontal photon exchange found in the granulation model are moderate and due entirely to bound - bound processes , ultraviolet overionization is unimportant . </S>"
  ]
}