{
  "article_text": [
    "recent observations of pulsars revealed that some of them emit thermal - like radiation in the soft x - ray range ( gelman 1995 ) .",
    "these observations stimulated further investigations of neutron star ( ns ) photospheres responsible for the properties of the emitted radiation .",
    "one of important and hitherto untouched problems associated with modeling of the ns photospheres is the problem of convective energy transport which can affect the temperature distribution and the emergent spectra . due to huge gravitational accelerations , @xmath2 cm s@xmath3 ,",
    "the ns photospheres are much denser , @xmath4 g @xmath5 , than those of usual stars .",
    "the increased densities shift ionization equilibrium : the nonionized fraction grows with @xmath6 at moderate densities , @xmath7 g @xmath5 , and sharply decreases at @xmath8 g @xmath5 due to pressure ionization . as a result , zones of increased opacity ( increased radiative gradient @xmath9 ) and reduced adiabatic gradient @xmath10 develop in the ns photospheres at temperatures much higher than in photospheres of usual stars , which may cause convective instability at depths where the emergent spectrum is formed .",
    "so far the ns photospheres have been considered either for stars with very strong surface magnetic fields @xmath11 g ( see , for example , pavlov @xmath12 . 1994 ) where existing convection theories are not applicable , or for ` nonmagnetic ' ( low - field ) photospheres , @xmath13 g , with high surface effective temperatures @xmath14 k ( romani 1987 ) , where the convection can hardly be expected . since thermal ns radiation can be detected for @xmath15 k in the soft x - ray range , and for even lower temeratures , @xmath16 k , in the uv / optical range ( pavlov @xmath12 . 1995 ) , the study of the convective ns photospheres is important for the proper interpretation of these observations .",
    "the convective flow in stellar photospheres is turbulent and imposes many complicated problems .",
    "a common practice , which we follow here , is to use the phenomenological mixing - length theory with the traditional schwarzschild criterion for convective instability , @xmath17 .",
    "this theory has been widely implemented and testified .",
    "details of our numerical calculations will be described elsewhere .",
    "generally , we employ the complete linearization method for computing the photosphere models and include the convective energy transfer as described by mihalas ( 1978 ) .",
    "we calculated the model of nonmagnetic photospheres for different chemical compositions . here",
    "we present examples for pure hydrogen , helium and iron compositions at the gravitational acceleration @xmath18 cm s@xmath3 which corresponds to standard ns mass @xmath19 and radius @xmath20 km .",
    "the raditive opacities and equation of state for the iron composition were taken from the opal library ( iglesias @xmath12 .",
    "the results can be directly applicable to very old nss with low magnetic fields ( e.  g. , millisecond pulsars ) .",
    "our results show that , similar to the case of usual stellar photospheres , the convective energy transfer begins to play a role at lower surface temperatures when atoms are not fully ionized and the radiative opacities are strongly increased by contribution of the bound - free and bound - bound transitions .",
    "the increased opacities result in high values of @xmath9  the depth dependence of the temperature becomes steeper in order to transfer the energy flux throughout the photosphere . on the other hand , @xmath10 in the dense partially ionized layers",
    "can be much smaller than its limiting value 0.4 for an ideal fully ionized or fully nonionized gas ( see , for example , cox and guili 1968 ) . as a result ,",
    "superficial convection zones in ns photospheres arise and , as in usual stars , they are associated with layers of partial ionization .",
    "our computations show that @xmath10 can drop down to @xmath21 when the nonionized fractions are @xmath2270% .",
    "the actual temperature gradient @xmath23 in the convection zones satisfies the following relation : @xmath24 .",
    "1 shows the temperature distributions in photospheres with and without allowance for convection .",
    "one can see that convection leads to more gradual profiles , in accordance with the above relation .",
    "both in very surface layers , where @xmath9 is too low , and in deep layers , where @xmath10 is close to its maximum value , convection is absent , and the temperature profiles remain the same .",
    "the convective transfer affects not only the structure of photosphere but also the spectra of the ns thermal radiation ( fig .",
    "2 ) because the temperature profiles are changed in the layers where the radiation escapes from . in particular , convection substantially ( up to two orders of magnitide ) lowers the flux from h and he photospheres at photon energies above the main photoionization edges , so that the high - energy spectral tails become softer .",
    "the spectra remain the same at low and very high energies since both shallow and very deep layers are not affected by convection . in the case of fe composition , the convective zone lies so deep that only a high - energy tail ( @xmath25 kev ) is affected .",
    "the effect of convection on the spectra disappears with increasing effective temperature ( _ e .",
    "g. _ , at @xmath26 k for h , at @xmath27 k for he and at @xmath28 k for fe photospheres ) .",
    "the presented results correspond to the convective efficiency @xmath29 .",
    "acceptable values of this parameter can vary from 0.3 to 2.5 .",
    "bergeron @xmath12 .",
    "( 1992 ) showed that higher efficiency enhances convection and smoothes the spectra of white dwarfs .",
    "the same effect can be expected in the ns photospheres and , consequently , the convection there may develop at higher effective temperatures than in the models presented .",
    "convection in ns photospheres is important because it can mix the material in convective zones , bringing heavier elements from bottom to surface layers which would otherwise contain only light elements due to gravitational stratification .",
    "our calculations show that this may happen in cold nss with @xmath30 k , whereas radiating layers of hotter nss can be expected to consist mainly of hydrogen and helium . since the presence of convection softens the high - energy tails of the spectra , this effect should be taken into account for the proper interpretation of euv / soft - x - ray observations of thermal radiation from nss .",
    "bergeron p.  @xmath12 . , 1992 , apj , 387 , 288 cox j.p . and giuli r.t . , 1968 , principles of stellar structure , new york : cordon and breach iglesias c.a",
    ". , 1992 , apj , 397 , 717 mihalas d. , 1978 , stellar atmospheres , san francisco : freeman gelman h. , 1995 , in the lives of the neutron stars , eds .",
    "a. alpar , . kizilolu and j. van paradijs , kluwer academic publisher , p.101 pavlov g.g .",
    "@xmath12 . , 1994 , a&a 289 , 837 pavlov g.g .",
    "@xmath12 . , 1995 ,",
    "apj , submitted romani r. 1987 , apj , 313 , 718"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present first results of modeling convective photospheres of neutron stars . </S>",
    "<S> we show that in photospheres composed of the light elements convection arises only at relatively low effective temperatures ( @xmath0 k ) , whereas in the case of iron compositon it arises at @xmath1 k. convection changes the depth dependence of the photosphere temperature and the shapes of the emergent spectra . </S>",
    "<S> thus , it should be taken into account for the proper interpretation of euv / soft - x - ray observations of the thermal radiation from neutron stars .    </S>"
  ]
}