{
  "article_text": [
    "short time - scale x - ray variability from dozens of seconds to hours in agns is explained as the result of different kinds of processes which happen close to the central engine .",
    "the possible origins are changes of the accretion rate , flares in accretion disk , motion of hot spots around the black hole and , for longer time scales , motion of hydrogen clouds which obscure the central source , etc .    here",
    "we present results of investigations of short time - scale variability of active galactic nuclei using as example chandra observations of bright seyfert type galaxy ngc  4051 .",
    "all archive data sets ( obsid 829 , 2983 and 3144 ) were processed using ciao 2.3 package .",
    "seyfert type galaxy ngc  4051 is very bright object with rapid and dramatic changes of flux .",
    "chandra observations of ngc  4051 were made during ao1 , ao2 and ao3 ( see table 1 ) .",
    ".observation log .",
    "[ cols=\">,<,>,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in order to investigate the character of variability , we used the wavelet method , which is excellent for detection of incoherent or weakly coherent variations .",
    "many papers are devoted to the application of the wavelet method to periodic or multiperiodic processes .",
    "long - term variations of ngc 4051 have been smoothed by using the method of the running parabola . the optimal value of the filter half  width @xmath0  d has been determined from maximization of the  signal - to - noise \" ratio . to avoid apparent effects of low  frequency trends on the test  functions at high frequencies ,",
    "the original data have been detrended , i.e. the running parabola fit was subtracted from the observations .",
    "for these detrended time series , the test functions have been computed using the code described by . for visualization",
    ", we used the weighted wavelet z - transform ( wwz ) test - function , which is characterized as having the best contrast among other test functions .    on",
    "fig.1 one can see resulting wavelet maps , power spectra with red noise trend and detrended power spectra for all data sets .",
    "power spectra for different runs show prominent peaks ( fig.2 ) , but they never found again for other runs .",
    "however , the same result for time - scale of about 4 ksec have been found by previous investigators . as a result",
    "we can conclude incoherent ore only weakly coherent behaviour of variability of ngc 4051 .    to study typical time - scales of variability of ngc 4051 we plot the distributions of time - scales derived from wavelet maps for different runs ( fig.3 ) .",
    "all plots show two different groups of peaks with time - scale of approximately 5 and 15 ksec .",
    "additional powerful peak ( 9 ksec ) on distribution for the run 3144 corresponds to oscillations which were observed during the large flare on light curve .    on the next figure ( fig.4 )",
    "we show evolution of time scales and amplitudes for the most prominent oscillations detected with wavelet analysis .",
    "one can see that mostly long lived oscillations have life time approximately 3 - 4 times longer than their periods .",
    "this fact allow us assume non flare nature of these events .",
    "using results of wavelet analysis we declare absence of  true \" quasi - periodical oscillations in ngc 4051 with coherence time - scale longer than 4 periods .",
    "detected qpo - like events with coherence time - scale shorter than 3 periods must be explained as composition of different flares on light curves .",
    "however , several events , observed during 3 - 4 cycles , could be generated by some quasi - periodical processes in the vicinity of central black hole ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this work we analyzed x - ray light curves of active galactic nucleus ngc 4051 obtained using advanced ccd imaging spectrometer of chandra satellite . taking into account mainly flaring behaviour of agns we have used wavelet analysis for searching of short time lived events on light curves . </S>"
  ]
}