{
  "article_text": [
    "high x - ray fluxes observed in active galactic nuclei ( agn ) are a serious challenge for the standard accretion disk theory .",
    "they are also a serious challenge for any agn outflow model because no matter what is the physics of x - ray production , one has to deal with the so - called overionization problem : how outflows absorbing the ultraviolet ( uv ) radiation avoid full photoionization due to strong x - ray radiation .    in most pictures depicting the centers of agn ,",
    "the x - rays are produced in a small region , referred to as the central engine , whereas the outflows are produced outside of the central engine .",
    "therefore , the x - ray production mechanisms are usually considered to operate separately from the outflow production mechanisms . in this paper",
    ", we discuss new dynamical and radiative consequences of uv photons being emitted into the central engine .",
    "in particular , we argue that radiation pressure due to uv lines ( line force ) couples the x - ray and uv radiation processes by driving the disk material into the regime above the disk where x - rays are to be produced .",
    "the spectral energy distribution ( sed ) of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) is very broad .",
    "it spans the wavelength range from radio to hard x - rays .",
    "most of the agn luminosity , @xmath0 is in the optical  uv  ir regime but some significant fraction is in the x - ray band .",
    "it is commonly accepted that agn are powered by accretion of matter onto a supermassive black hole ( bh ) .",
    "agn are typically very luminous ( 0.001  @xmath1 , where @xmath2 is the eddington limit ) . for most agn ,",
    "the accretion flow is thought to form an optically thick , geometrically thin keplerian disk . in the standard picture ,",
    "this disk radiates thermally mostly in the optical  uv regime ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 ) .",
    "generally , the optically thick disk model can account for the optical  uv radiation but it does not account for the spectral shape and high flux observed in x - rays .",
    "the most commonly accepted model for the production of x - rays is multiple compton up - scattering ( comptonization ) of uv photons ( e.g. , sunyaev & titarchuck 1980 ) off hot electrons in a disk corona ( e.g. , walter & courvoisier 1992 ; haardt & maraschi 1991 , 1993 ; sobolewska et al .",
    "the derived x - ray spectrum depends on the temperature and optical depth of the scattering electrons . despite recent advances in observations and modeling of x - rays , the geometry and radiation processes responsible for x - ray emission remain poorly constrained .",
    "two types of geometries are being considered for an accretion disk and comptonizing corona : ( 1 ) `` slab '' or `` sandwich '' geometries ( e.g. , the top and bottom panels of fig .  1 in reynolds & nowak 2003 , hereafter rn ) and ( 2 ) `` sphere+disk geometries '' ( e.g. , the middle two panels of fig .  1 in rn ) .",
    "here we focus on exploring the first class of geometries where the hot corona is thought to be located immediately above the disk .",
    "the disk emits soft thermal photons which provide the main source of cooling for the hot electrons in the corona .",
    "it is possible that at the same time , the hard photons produced by comptonization are an important source of heating for the reflecting matter which reprocesses them into soft photons .",
    "thus there is a radiative coupling between the x - ray and uv radiation .",
    "many models account for this coupling and assume that a significant fraction of the gravitational power is dissipated in the hot tenuous layers ( e.g. , haardt & maraschi 1993 ; svensson & zdziarski 1994 ) .",
    "although the basic idea behind a hot disk corona is straightforward , the physical model of the corona remains one of the biggest challenges in the field .",
    "phenomenologically , one can imagine that the corona is heated by dissipation of the accretion power via magnetic processes ( e.g. , galeev et al .",
    "1979 ; field & rogers 1993 ) .",
    "direct studies of these complex multidimensional , time - dependent processes by means of numerical magnetohydrodynamical ( mhd ) simulations have begun .",
    "for example , miller & stone ( 2000 ) found that in a stratified disk , a mhd turbulence driven by the magnetorotational instability ( mri , balbus & hawley 1998 ) is capable of driving magnetogravitational modes of the parker instability .",
    "however , it has not been demonstrated yet that magnetic buoyancy can supply the disk corona with sufficient power to explain the observed x - ray emission .",
    "in fact , several numerical simulations indicate that local dissipation not magnetic buoyancy is the primary saturation mechanism of the mri ( e.g. , brandenburg et al .",
    "1995 ; stone et al . 1996 ; miller & stone 2000 , turner 2004 ) .",
    "viable models for agn must also account for mass outflows which is another important aspect of activity in galactic nuclei .",
    "the most relevant to this paper are the outflows that can be inferred from spectral features observed in the uv and x - ray bands ( i.e. , we do not discuss agn jets ) .",
    "broad absorption lines ( bals ) in qsos are the best example of spectral features revealing the existence of such outflows .",
    "these lines are almost always blueshifted relative to the emission - line rest frame , indicating the presence of outflows from the active nucleus , with velocities as large as 0.2  c ( e.g. , turnshek 1998 ) .",
    "the apparent x - ray properties can be affected by outflows , too .",
    "for example , the relative strength of the soft x - ray flux anti - correlates with the c  iv absorption equivalent width for qsos ( e.g. , brandt , laor & wills 2000 ) .",
    "there has been considerable time and effort spent to understand agn outflows ( e.g. , arav , shlosman & weymann 1997 ; crenshaw , kraemer & george 2002 , and references therein ) . in particular ,",
    "many theoretical models have been proposed to explain outflows in agns ( e.g. , crenshaw et al .",
    "one of most plausible scenarios for agn outflows is a wind from an accretion disk around a black hole where the line force drives a wind from a disk by the local disk radiation at radii where the disk radiation is mostly in the uv ( e.g. , murray et al .",
    "1995 , mcgv hereafter ; proga , stone , & kallman 2000 , psk hereafter ; proga & kallman 2004 , pk hereafter ) . in this scenario ,",
    "agn outflows are a natural consequence of the standard accretion disk theory because the theory predicts high enough radiative flux and gas opacity in the uv regime , for the line force to drive an outflow .",
    "numerical simulations of the radiation driven disk winds illustrate why and how a wind from an accretion disk can account for agn outflows .",
    "in particular , the simulations have been essential in studying the robustness of the radiation launching and acceleration of the wind ( e.g. , psk , pk ) .",
    "for example , pk considered relatively unfavorable conditions for line driving ( ld ) as they took into account the central engine radiation as a source of ionizing photons but neglected its contribution to the radiation force .",
    "additionally , they accounted for the attenuation of the x - ray radiation by computing the x - ray optical depth in the radial direction assuming that only electron scattering contributes to the opacity .",
    "the main result of the simulations is that the disk atmosphere can shield itself from external x - rays so that the local disk radiation can launch gas off the disk photosphere .",
    "ld can change the flow near the accretion disk in many ways .",
    "a powerful wind is just the most dramatic of them for which fairly strict requirements must be met . using some physical arguments as well as numerical simulations",
    "one can show that line - driven disk winds are produced only when the effective luminosity of the disk ( i.e. the luminosity of the disk , @xmath3 times the total line opacity in the optically thin case , @xmath4 ) exceeds the eddington limit ( e.g. , proga , stone & drew 1998 , psd hereafter ) .",
    "for the bh mass @xmath5 of a typical quasar , pk found that for @xmath6 a strong disk wind develops whereas for @xmath7 there is no disk wind .",
    "for a less luminous disk or stronger ionizing radiation that reduces @xmath4 , or both , the line force can still lift material off the disk but it fails to accelerate the flow to escape velocity .",
    "such a failed disk wind has been found in simulations with and without x - ray ionization ( see psd  98 for no x - ray cases , runs 1 and 6 there , and psk and pk for x - ray cases ) .    for x - ray cases ,",
    "a large fraction of the failed wind is not fully ionized and its temperature is comparable the disk effective temperature , @xmath8 ( see fig .  1 ) .",
    "ld can then change the vertical structure of an accretion disk by dynamically increasing the disk scale height . therefore",
    ", a failed wind solution can be referred to as a puffed - up disk .",
    "the disk wind solution is very sensitive to @xmath9 : for a fixed ratio , @xmath10 ( e.g. , 0.5 ) it is easier to produce a wind for @xmath11 than for @xmath12 ( pk ) .",
    "thus less dramatic but very important changes in the density distribution above the disk occur for a broad range of agn luminosities and bh masses ( e.g. , @xmath13 ) .",
    "we note that ld can change the density profiles even inside the disk .",
    "for example , dense and massive clumps of gas lifted by radiation can fall back on the disk ( e.g. , fig . 1 ) and perturb the disk structure and radiative properties .    to illustrate properties of the puffed - up disk",
    "/ failed wind , we show results from one of pk s simulations for an agn with @xmath5 ( we refer a reader to pk for a description of the calculations ) .",
    "pk present detail results from only one of the simulations where @xmath5 and @xmath14 . here",
    ", we present and discuss results for the same @xmath9 but for @xmath15 .",
    "for these parameters , the disk radiation launches the flow off the disk but fails to accelerate it to escape velocity ( fig .  1 ) .",
    "the top panel of fig .  1",
    "shows very clearly a high density flow above the disk , i.e. , the line force can maintain gas with the density as high as @xmath16 as high as @xmath17 of radius along the equator .",
    "we note that in the radiation dominated regime , the standard disk theory predicts the disk scale height , @xmath18 ( where @xmath19 is the inner disk radius and unit of the length scale : @xmath20 and @xmath21 ) .",
    "the density distribution in the vertical direction is much broader compared not only to the standard disk model but also compared to the x - ray heated disk corona .",
    "for example , for the gas temperature @xmath22  k , the scale height of a disk corona in hydrostatic equilibrium ( hse ) , @xmath23^{1/2}=0.7 $ ] at @xmath24 .",
    "the puffed - up disk is far from hse and displays unsteady behavior : the flow is complex with a few filaments and various knots and clumps of gas moving both upwards and downwards . the direction and speed of motion at any one position is apt to change unpredictably with time .",
    "there are two main reasons for this behavior : ( i ) the gravity and driving flux differently scale with @xmath25 ( e.g. , psd ) and ( ii ) the overionization of the innermost flow by the central engine radiation ( compare the left and right panels ) .",
    "pk s line - driven wind model takes into account x - ray radiation from a point source located at the origin of the coordinate system .",
    "thus it does not account for the x - ray emission as envisioned in the disk corona scenario described in  2.1 .",
    "however , we can estimate some of the effects of x - rays emitted immediately above the uv disk .",
    "for example , we can estimate the photoionization parameter , @xmath26 inside the puffed - up disk ( @xmath27 is the x - ray flux and @xmath28 is the number density ) .",
    "we assume that at a give point ( @xmath29 ) above the disk , the ionizing flux is comparable to the flux emitted by the disk at ( @xmath30 ) , i.e. , @xmath31 ( where @xmath8 is the effective disk temperature at @xmath32 ) . for @xmath24",
    "this yields @xmath33  k and @xmath34 . for the density of @xmath35 , typical for the region above the disk at @xmath36 ,",
    "this high @xmath38 implies that at this location , the gas would be fully ionized .",
    "however , for a few of reasons , this does not mean that the energy released above the disk must suppress formation of the failed wind .",
    "firstly , the failed wind is opaque as illustrated in the middle panel of fig .  1 which plots an estimate of the electron scattering optical depth as a function of position over the unit length scale , @xmath39",
    ". thus the size of a region fully ionized by locally dissipated energy will be small compared to the size of the failed wind . in other words , the failed wind can likely shield itself from locally produced x - rays as it does from external x - rays . secondly , as we eluded to above , the presence of dense and cold gas above the disk creates unfavorable conditions for transport and liberation of the energy above the disk in the first place .",
    "contrary to the standard disk corona scenario where the magnetized bubble carrying energy expands almost freely once outside the disk , here the bubble must rise through an extended , high density , dynamic region .",
    "generally , in a case of a disk with a failed disk wind , the strength of a magnetic field needed to dominate over the gas and radiation pressure outside the disk must be orders of magnitude higher than in a case of a bare disk . finally , the critical assumption about the x - ray production is the fact that the hot gas is tenuous so that the main cooling mechanism is inverse compton emission .",
    "however , for the gas density in the failed wind of @xmath40 the bremsstrahlung losses will exceed the compton losses ( e.g. , eq . 1 in haardt & maraschi 1993 ) . therefore ,",
    "even if the hot electrons were produced above the disk , they will cool very efficiently by bremsstrahlung instead of inverse compton emission and the coronal x - ray flux would be suppressed .",
    "in the standard accretion disk theory for agn , strong x - ray radiation is accounted for by allowing the gravitational energy to be dissipated above the disk .",
    "this energy dissipation is to lead to formation of a hot disk corona located immediately above the disk and inside this corona , uv disk photons are to be up - scattered to x - rays .",
    "we point out here , that for a broad range of agn properties , radiation pressure due to the very same uv disk photons can drive a flow from the disk into the corona .",
    "ld as a mechanism producing disk winds has been studied extensively , but ld as a mechanism changing the density distribution above and inside the disk has not been given its due .",
    "therefore , we comment mostly on some qualitative effects that would be very important and relevant to agn and other accretion disk systems such as x - ray binaries ( xbs ) .",
    "in particular , we use some physical arguments , quote and present results from simulations of line - driven disk winds to explore possible coupling between the x - ray and uv production processes .",
    "the base for our discussion are simulations of line - driven flows from accretion disks studied by pk .",
    "the simulations show that the flows are opaque and can shield themselves not only from external x - rays but also from x - rays produced locally ( i.e. , in the region just above the disk where the flows are driven into ) .",
    "these opaque flows can lead to a suppression of energy dissipation above the disk .",
    "if so , the corona and x - rays would have to be produced interior to the uv emitting part of the disk .",
    "this means that the uv and x - ray emitting regions do not overlap and argues against a two - phase accretion disk model ( i.e. , against the slab / sandwich type of geometries ) .",
    "if this is true then we have an inverse overionization problem : uv driven flow suppresses x - ray production .",
    "if however , line - driven flows were suppressed by locally emitted x - rays , then the agn wind would have to be launched from the disk exterior to the uv disk where coronal activity is negligible .",
    "it is possible that the intermediate situation occurs where x - rays are produced above the disk and the disk material is launched off the disk at different location / time .",
    "such a double activity above the disk would lead to formation of a two - phase corona where high temperature plasma bubbles coexist with cooler and denser clumps .",
    "the wind quenching of the hot corona raises many questions about the geometry , dynamics and energetics of agn .",
    "for example , if the x - rays are quenched by the failed wind , what happens to the energy pumped into the gas via magnetic fields ?",
    "could this energy contribute to the uv continuum ?",
    "will the resulted uv continuum drive a flow different than that predicted by current models ?    to address these and other issues , one would need to perform global simulations of a turbulent mhd accretion disk with line driven flows in the radiation - dominated regime .",
    "we anticipate that this will be possible soon as local simulations of these type without ld have been already preformed ( e.g. , turner 2004 ; hirose et al . in preparation ) .",
    "there are many observational implications of the fact that the radiation driven wind or the failed wind can quench the x - ray production .",
    "for example , one would expect an inverse correlation between x - ray fluxes and winds .",
    "perhaps , the observed anti - correlation between the relative strength of the soft x - ray flux and the c  iv absorption equivalent width for qsos ( e.g. , brandt et al . 2000 ) is due to the wind quenching rather than obscuration .",
    "the wind quenching can also play a role in solving the overionization problem in qsos .",
    "the expected inverse correlation between x - ray fluxes and winds is consistent with the fact that bals are not observed in x - ray sources such as seyfert galaxies .",
    "the wind quenching can also affect the disk reflected spectrum , big blue bump and iron lines .",
    "the observed spectra are complex convolutions of the primary and reprocessed photons because some fraction of the x - rays are always intercepted by the optically thick matter and reprocessed before escaping .",
    "thus , to understand those spectra , it is necessary to compute very carefully the effects of reprocessing as many physical processes play a role ( e.g. , ross & fabian 1993 ; ycki et al .",
    "1994 ; nayakshin et al .",
    "future calculations of x - ray spectra should include the effects of line - driven flows because the flows change the key parameters determining the spectra , i.e. , the temperature and optical depth of the scattering electrons .",
    "these effects have at their core a coupling between x - rays and uv photons and therefore can help to better constrain the agn models .",
    "we note that the x - ray / uv coupling is unlikely to operate in the solar corona . for this reasons among others , solar and agn coronal activities may significantly differ .",
    "however , this coupling or its variant may operate in xbs . for agn and xbs ,",
    "the same two types of disk / corona geometries are being considered ( e.g. , zdziarski & gierliski 2004 and fig .",
    "14 there ) . except for smallest radii ,",
    "the bound - free and line opacities and radiation flux are likely high enough for radiation pressure to lift dense material off the disk in some spectral / luminosity states of xbs .",
    "therefore , one can expect the sphere - disk geometry in these systems because of quenching of the disk corona .",
    "in fact , this geometry is inferred from analysis of the photon index of comptonization spectrum and frequencies of quasi periodic oscillations observed in some xbs ( e.g. , titarchuk & fiorito 2004 ; titarchuk & shaposhnikov 2005 ) .",
    "it appears then that we identified a physical mechanism that can determine a geometry of an accretion disk and corona in a wide range of accreting systems .",
    "we thank t. kallman , g. richards , a. raska , a. siemiginowska , and j.stone for useful discussions .",
    "we acknowledge support from nasa under ltsa grant nag5 - 11736 and support provided by nasa through grants hst - ar-09947.01-a and hst - ar-10305.05-a from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> within the standard accretion disk theory for active galactic nuclei ( agn ) , the observed x - rays are often modeled by compton up - scattering of ultraviolet ( uv ) disk photons inside a hot disk corona . here , we point out that for many agn , radiation pressure due to the very same uv disk photons can drive a flow from the disk into the corona and couple the processes producing x - rays and uv photons . this coupling could lead to quenching of the disk corona because the regions above the uv disk will be too dense , too opaque , and consequently too cold . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss various consequences of this new type of the x - ray / uv coupling on the dynamical and radiative properties of agn .    </S>",
    "<S> = = = 1=1=0pt = 2=2=0pt </S>"
  ]
}