{
  "article_text": [
    "one of the most promising approaches to determine the energy spectrum and composition of the cosmic rays with energies above @xmath0ev is the measurement of the number of electrons and muons produced in extensive air showers ( eas ) .",
    "however the results of such a shower analysis are strongly dependent on the hadronic interaction models used for simulating reference showers @xcite .",
    "therefore it is important to study in detail the role of hadronic interactions and in particular the energy and secondary particle phase space regions that are most important for the observed characteristics of eas .",
    "the electromagnetic component of a shower is well determined by the depth of maximum and the energy of the shower .",
    "due to the electromagnetic cascade , having a short radiation length of , any information on the initial distribution of photons produced in @xmath1 decays is lost .",
    "therefore the electromagnetic shower component depends on the primary particle type only through the depth of shower maximum .",
    "in contrast , the muon component is very sensitive to the characteristics of hadronic interactions .",
    "once the hadronic shower particles have reached an energy at which charged pions and kaons decay , they produce muons which decouple from the shower cascade .",
    "the muons propagate to the detector with small energy loss and deflection and hence carry information on hadronic interactions in eas . due to the competition between interaction and decay ,",
    "most of the muons are decay products of mesons that are produced in low - energy interactions .",
    "therefore it is not surprising that muons in eas are particularly sensitive to hadronic multiparticle production at low energy @xcite .",
    "recent model studies show that even at ultra - high shower energies the predictions on the lateral distribution of shower particles depend strongly on the applied low - energy interaction model @xcite .",
    "motivated by the measurement conditions of the kascade array @xcite , we consider showers with a primary energy of @xmath0  ev and apply a muon detection threshold of .",
    "using a modified version of the simulation package corsika @xcite we have simulated two samples of 1500 vertical and inclined ( @xmath2 ) proton and 500 iron induced showers .",
    "below the low - energy hadronic interaction model gheisha 2002 @xcite and above the high - energy model qgsjet 01 @xcite are applied . in the following only vertical proton showers",
    "are discussed .",
    "the results are very similar for iron induced showers and also for zenith angles up to @xmath2 .         due to the interplay between decay and interaction of pions and kaons ,",
    "low energy hadronic interactions are very important for muon production in extensive air showers . with increasing lateral distance the mean energy of these interactions , which are mainly initiated by pions and nucleons , decreases .",
    "the phase space regions of relevance to eas are shown in fig .",
    "[ ps ] and summarized in tab .",
    "[ ps_range ] .",
    "the most important interaction energies and phase space regions fall in the range accessible to fixed target experiments with large acceptance detectors such as harp , na49 , and mipp ( see also @xcite and refs . therein ) .",
    "therefore fixed target measurements could be used to improve low energy interaction models that can be independently cross - checked by muon measurements in eas .",
    "t.  antoni et al . ( kascade collab . )",
    "astropart . phys . in press , astro - ph/0505413 .",
    "r.  engel , t.k .",
    "gaisser , and t.  stanev , proc . of ismd ,",
    "providence , rhode island , august 9 - 13 , 1999 , world scientific ( 2000 ) , p. 457 ; h.j .",
    "drescher and g.  farrar , astropart .",
    "19 ( 2003 ) 235 .",
    "drescher , m.  bleicher , s.  soff , h.  stcker , astropart .",
    "21 , 87 - 94 ( 2004 ) ; d.  heck et al .",
    ", proc . of 28th icrc , tsukuba , japan , ( 2003 ) p. 279",
    ". t.  antoni et al .",
    "( kascade collab . )",
    "instr . meth .",
    "a 513 ( 2003 ) 490 .",
    "d.  heck , j.  knapp , j.  capdevielle , g.  schatz and t.  thouw , fzka 6019 , forschungszentrum karlsruhe , 1998 .",
    "h.  fesefeldt , report pitha-85/02 , rwth aachen , 1985 .",
    "kalmykov , s.  ostapchenko , and a.i .",
    "pavlov , nucl .",
    "suppl . ) 52b ( 1997 ) 17 .",
    "g.  barr and r.  engel , proc . of 13th",
    "isvhecri , pylos , greece , ( 2004 ) submitted to nucl .",
    "b , astro - ph/0504356 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using corsika for simulating extensive air showers , we study the relation between the shower characteristics and features of hadronic multiparticle production at low energies . </S>",
    "<S> we report about investigations of typical energies and phase space regions of secondary particles which are important for muon production in extensive air showers . </S>",
    "<S> possibilities to measure relevant quantities of hadron production in existing and planned accelerator experiments are discussed . </S>"
  ]
}