{
  "article_text": [
    "late stages of evolution of both low and high - mass stars are characterized by high mass - loss in a slow and dusty outflow .",
    "low- and intermediate - mass stars ( up to 8 m@xmath7 ) will lose a significant amount of their initial mass on the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) .",
    "more massive stars will lose their hydrogen - rich envelopes during a red supergiant ( rsg ) phase .",
    "the mass - loss rates can be as high as 10@xmath9  m@xmath10/yr for the low - mass stars and up to 10@xmath11  m@xmath10/yr for the high - mass stars .",
    "low and intermediate mass objects evolve to the blue part of the hr diagram after the entire h - rich envelope has been exhausted , and a planetary nebula ( pn ) is formed .",
    "high mass stars either explode as a supernova while they are red supergiants , or they evolve to the blue part of the hr diagram to become a population i wolf - rayet ( wr ) star before ending their live .",
    "the evolution of transition objects , i.e. stars that are in a rapid phase of evolution between the red and blue part of the hr diagram is not very well known .",
    "it is clear however , that mass loss plays an important role in determining evolutionary timescales .",
    "remnants of previous mass - loss phases are still in the vicinity of the star in the form of detached dust shells .",
    "infrared observations clearly reveal the existence of these dust shells and the study of the circum stellar environment ( cse ) provides essential information about mass - loss history and consequents of evolution .    the infrared - bright object afgl  4106 (= iras",
    "10215 - 5916 ) was classified as a transition object by hrivnak et al .",
    "( 1989 , hereafter hkv ) based on its iras colours .",
    "some confusion exists in the literature about its identification .",
    "hkv quote bidelman , who claim that iras  10215 - 5916 is equal to cod  -58@xmath123221 .",
    "apparently , this has sometimes been mistaken in the literature as cpd  -58@xmath123221 and therefore hd  303822 ( e.g. in the tycho catalogue ) .",
    "the correct identifications should be hd  302821 and cpd  -58@xmath122154 .",
    "the central star was classified as a g2 supergiant by garca - lario et al .",
    "the combination of a cool central star with low surface gravity and a relatively warm ( i.e. young ) detached dust shell is typical for transition objects .",
    "garca - lario et al .",
    "( 1994 ) found double - peaked [ n ii ] lines in the optical spectrum , which they thought to originate from an expanding envelope . the presence of the [ n ii ] is surprising given the spectral type of this object . from the separation between the two peaks they found an expansion velocity of v@xmath13 km s@xmath14 , which is quite reasonable for an agb - wind",
    "the expansion velocity of the detached shell was also measured in the co ( j@xmath15 ) rotational line and was found to be about 40 km  s@xmath14 ( josselin et al .",
    "this is high for a low mass agb star and suggests a massive progenitor .",
    "the difference with the [ n ii ] line is remarkable and is probably related to the extended nature of the [ n ii ] emitting region ( see van loon et al . , in prep . ) .",
    "the distance and luminosity of afgl 4106 are uncertain , which makes it hard to decide directly whether the progenitor was an agb star or a rsg .",
    "the luminosity of @xmath16 ( with @xmath17 in kpc ) , suggests that it is a luminous object , which until 2  kpc is a post - agb star , however if this object is located at a larger distance a post - rsg nature can not be excluded .",
    "we will present evidence that afgl  4106 is likely a post - rsg .",
    "the optical to sub - millimetre energy distribution of afgl  4106 was analysed in detail by hkv and grtler et al .",
    "( 1996 , hereafter gkh ) .",
    "both studies find a very high mass loss which recently stopped , however with rather different density distributions in the shell .",
    "afgl  4106 was selected for observations with the infrared space observatory ( iso ) in the guaranteed time of the short wavelength spectrometer ( sws ) consortium because of its classification as a transition object , and because of its very high infrared flux levels .",
    "the high - quality iso data allow a detailed determination of the dust composition and its distribution in the circumstellar shell , which may yield new insight in the origin and evolution of this remarkable object .",
    "waters et al .",
    "( 1996 ) studied the 30 - 45 @xmath0 m sws spectrum of afgl  4106 and discovered weak narrow emission bands that can be attributed to crystalline silicates . here",
    "we present a full inventory of the solid state emission bands and their identification .",
    "for the first time a full radiative transfer model of a cse including crystalline silicates is presented .",
    "this paper is organised as follows ; in sect .  2 we report on the observations and we discuss the data reduction procedures . in sect .  3 we present the stellar near infrared spectrum ( 2.4  5 @xmath0 m ) , which shows evidence for the binary nature of this object",
    ". in sect .",
    "4 the infrared excess at 5  195 @xmath0 m , caused by the dust shell , is analyzed .",
    "we identify the dust composition using the different solid state features detected in this part of the spectrum . in sect .",
    "5 we present a radiative transfer fit to the spectrum . in sect .",
    "6 we discuss the results of this paper and in sect .",
    "7 we summarize our main conclusions .",
    "spectra of afgl  4106 were obtained using the infrared space observatory ( iso , kessler et al .",
    "three spectra were taken with the short wavelength spectrometer ( sws , de graauw et al .",
    "1996 ) and one with the long wavelength spectrometer ( lws , clegg et al .",
    "1996 , swinyard et al .",
    "an overview of the iso observing log can be found in table  [ obslog ] .",
    "part of spectrum ii has already been shown in waters et al .",
    "( 1996 ) . because of its better signal to noise",
    ", we will use spectrum  iv for our discussion in this paper , but information from the other spectra has been used in the reduction of spectrum  iv .",
    ".iso observing log for afgl  4106 ( pv = performance verification phase ) [ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     since we identified both crystalline olivines as well as crystalline pyroxenes in our spectrum , it is likely that also both components are present in the amorphous state . for the amorphous olivines we applied the optical constants derived by dorschner et al . ( 1995 )",
    ". unfortunately they only published optical constants for two different fe / mg ratios ( mg@xmath18fe@xmath19sio@xmath20 and mg@xmath21fe@xmath21sio@xmath20 ) .",
    "so , although the more fe - rich olivine fits the data slightly better , it only gives a rough estimate of the fe over mg ratio for the amorphous olivines .",
    "dorschner et al .",
    "( 1995 ) also derived optical constants for amorphous pyroxenes ranging from mgsio@xmath4 to mg@xmath22fe@xmath23sio@xmath4 .",
    "amorphous pyroxenes with the same percentage of fe as the amorphous olivines produce a peak around 21 @xmath0 m , which is not seen in our iso - spectrum . only when the fe content drops below 0.2 ( i.e. mg higher than 0.8 ) , the peak vanishes . for mg - rich amorphous pyroxenes with a mg content above 0.8 only two sets of optical constants are available ( x=1 and 0.95 in mg@xmath24fe@xmath25sio@xmath4 ) .",
    "since the emissivity of the fe - poor pyroxenes is very dependent on the fe content , it is difficult to give a reliable estimate of the contribution of the amorphous fe - poor pyroxenes based on these 2 sets only .",
    "amorphous pyroxenes , if present at all , will only marginally contribute to the ir - excess , due to their lower fe content compared with the amorphous olivines , unless they have an efficient thermal coupling with fe - containing dust , due to an aggregate or a core mantle structure . since we have already found indications for separate grain populations , see e.g. the temperature differences found for the amorphous and crystalline olivines , we assume that these two component grains do not exist and only the amorphous fe - rich olivines are present .",
    "crystalline forsterite has 3 different crystallographic axes .",
    "we found two studies of the optical constants of the 3 axes , one by servoin & piriou ( 1973 ) who used a synthetic sample and one by steyer ( 1974 ) , who used a natural sample .",
    "both data sets do not cover the whole wavelength range .",
    "although both sets of optical constants should describe the same material there were quite some differences .",
    "the steyer ( 1974 ) optical constants were not able to reproduce the correct wavelengths of the 23.5 and 33.5 @xmath0 m bands , found in laboratory transmission measurements ( koike et al .",
    "1993 ; jger et al .",
    "1998 ) , even when shape effects or core mantle structures were taken into account .",
    "the servoin & piriou ( 1973 ) data set predicts for spherical grains peaks at shorter wavelengths than observed .",
    "a cde mixture produces peaks that are at slightly longer wavelengths than observed .",
    "it is likely that a somewhat modified cde mixture will give a good match .",
    "the difference between the steyer and servoin & piriou data may be related to the origin of the samples , i.e. respectively natural and synthetic . since servoin and piriou only have data longwards of 5 @xmath0 m we extended the data set to the shorter wavelengths using amorphous forsterite data as published by scott & duley ( 1996 ) , assuming that the absorption properties of the amorphous and crystalline grains do not differ much in this part of the spectrum . for a fair determination of the abundance of the crystalline forsterite we will apply mie theory , since we use the spherical shape also for the other dust species .",
    "however for the best fit we apply cde , since this fits the position of the peaks much better . in this case",
    "the abundance is decreased with 25% because of the influence of size and shape effects on the peak to continuum ratio of crystalline forsterite .    to our knowledge",
    "no optical constants are available for the three different crystallographic axes of the pure mg - end member of the crystalline pyroxene solid solution serie , enstatite ( mgsio@xmath4 ) .",
    "jger et al .",
    "( 1998 ) have measured ortho - enstatite with a small amount of fe ( mg@xmath26fe@xmath27sio@xmath4 ) . given the problems mentioned in sect .",
    "[ sec : cryst ] it is clear that we can not reproduce all the peaks with the desired strength for this set of optical constants , e.g. the 32.8 @xmath0 m peak .",
    "therefore we decided not to include enstatite in our model fit .",
    "we will derive the enstatite abundance in a different way ( see sect .  [ outcome ] ) .",
    "an interesting point is how to combine the different grain components in model calculations . from an observational point of view",
    ", there appear to be several separate grain components : the large temperature difference between the amorphous and crystalline grains suggest that these components are not in thermal contact , which , assuming that they are co - spatial , implies that they should be treated as two independent grain populations in the radiative transfer .",
    "the situation is less clear for the different crystalline silicates .",
    "they may very well be incorporated in the same grain , and this can change the optical properties of the material significantly . we have tried to produce a forsterite - enstatite - aggregate grain theoretically with the bruggeman ( 1935 ) method , and although the results are promising we will not use these results since no good optical constants for the pure enstatite are available at the moment . for forsterite , with its three different crystallographic axes , we assumed an equal distribution of the orientation axes .",
    "this has been achieved by adopting 3 different grain populations , one for each axis .",
    "the number density , and thus the mass , of each population is one third of the total number density ( mass ) of the material .",
    "our code is not well suited for large , non - spherical grains .",
    "therefore for feo we use instead of mie a cde shape distribution , which is not strictly correct for the size distribution we expect . since shape effects also change the emissivity of feo , the abundance of feo derived from our model fit should be used with great caution .",
    "we have not included melilite , because optical constants with a sufficient large ( 0.1 - 100 @xmath0 m ) wavelength coverage were not available .    the final point of caution is the fact that we used blackbodies to represent the stellar continua .",
    "this will influence the result especially in the part where absorption from molecules dominates the stellar photosphere , but not for longer wavelengths where the dust emission dominates .",
    "a more detailed fit of the stellar photospheres will be presented by van winckel et al .",
    "( in prep . ) .",
    "lrclc + l@xmath28 & & l@xmath10 + t@xmath28 & & k + l@xmath29 & & l@xmath10 + t@xmath29 & & k +   + inner radius & 4.2 & @xmath30 & @xmath31 & cm + outer radius & 4.1 & @xmath30 & @xmath32 & cm + @xmath33 at the inner radius & 1.2 & @xmath30&@xmath34 & g/@xmath35 + exp in @xmath36 & -2.2 & @xmath30&@xmath37 & + m@xmath38 & 3.9 & @xmath39 & @xmath40 & m@xmath7 + @xmath41m@xmath42 & 9 . &",
    "@xmath39 & @xmath43 & m@xmath7/yr +    our best fit to the sed can be seen in fig .",
    "[ fig : dustfit ] .",
    "the model parameters of the shell are given in table  [ shellfit ] , together with an estimate of their errors .",
    "starting estimates for the inner and outer radius of the dust shell were derived from the timmi image , assuming a distance to afgl  4106 of 3.3 kpc .    lc + grain size ( @xmath0 m ) & 0.4 - 6.0 + mass fraction of crystalline forsterite ( mg@xmath3sio@xmath20 ) & 4% + mass fraction of crystalline enstatite ( mgsio@xmath4 ) & 4 - 11% + mass fraction of crystalline water ice ( h@xmath3o ) & 5% + mass fraction of crystalline corundum ( @xmath44-al@xmath3o@xmath4 ) & 17 - 15% + mass fraction of amorphous olivine ( mg@xmath18fe@xmath19sio@xmath20 ) & 70 - 65% + mass fraction of ironoxide ( feo ) & @xmath45% +    this value will be discussed in sect .",
    "[ distance ] .",
    "the dust shell is optically thin at most wavelengths .",
    "this implies that the inner and outer radius of the dust shell depend linearly on the distance , as does the duration of the mass - loss burst .",
    "the total mass in the shell scales roughly with the square of the distance , therefore the mass loss rate will also scale linearly while the density at the inner radius is inversely proportional to the distance .    in table  [ tab : dustfit ] the dust parameters used in the model are given . to minimize the number of free parameters",
    ", we have assumed that all grain - species have the same size distribution .",
    "the typical errors in the grain size are 25% . in all models",
    "we have assumed a size distribution @xmath46 ( mathis et al .",
    "1977 ) .",
    "apart from the uncertainty of the enstatite mass fraction , which influences the whole scheme , the errors in the mass fractions differ between the materials . for feo",
    "the error is difficult to determine since the shape distribution largely influences the outcome , an order of magnitude can not be excluded .",
    "the mass fraction of the amorphous olivines is accurate to a few percent of the total mass .",
    "however the chemical fe : mg ratio is not well determined in the amorphous olivines , a change of 10% in this ratio will only marginally influence the spectrum .",
    "the crystalline forsterite abundance is mainly based on the strength of the 23.6 and 33.6 micron peak and has an error of about 1% of the total mass .",
    "the abundance of enstatite is hard to determine since no optical constants were available for this material .",
    "so , we used an alternative way to determine the enstatite to forsterite ratio . from transmission measurements of enstatite and forsterite",
    "one may determine the wavelength dependent extinction coefficients .",
    "the 33.6 @xmath0 m peak is caused by forsterite and the 32.8 @xmath0 m peak by ortho - enstatite .",
    "so the peak - strength ratio of these two features is indicative for the abundance ratio .",
    "since the peak wavelengths of these two features are very close , temperature effects do not influence the results .",
    "if we use the transmission spectra published by koike & shibai , we find a ratio of enstatite to forsterite of 3 . however , transmission spectra of forsterite published by jger et al .",
    "( 1998 ) give a peak strength of the 33.6  @xmath0 m feature which is 3 times smaller than that of koike & shibai ( 1998 ) , from which a ratio of enstatite to forsterite of 1 follows .",
    "we conclude that , given the large spread in laboratory data published so far , we find an abundance ratio of enstatite to forsterite between 1 and 3",
    ". it would be interesting to compare this value with the olivine to pyroxene ratio seen for the amorphous silicates .",
    "however , because of reasons given in sect .",
    "[ input ] this is not possible at the moment .    since we were not able to reproduce ( in a single dust shell ) the low temperature of crystalline h@xmath3o ice , the abundance of crystalline h@xmath3o ice",
    "is only based on the strength of the 43@xmath0 m peak and is in that sense accurate to about 1% of the total mass .",
    "however , if there is a very cool h@xmath3o ice dust shell surrounding this object , which can be responsible for the lws excess and missing strength of the 60 @xmath0 m feature , the h@xmath3o ice abundance would probably increase at least an order of magnitude .",
    "we tried different models and only with large grains we were able to fit the shape , strength and position of the 10 @xmath0 m feature .",
    "smaller grain sizes ( spherical or not ) would produce a distinct and relatively sharp peak at shorter wavelengths in contrast to the flat spectrum we observed .",
    "the presence of these large grains causes a grey extinction at optical wavelengths .",
    "this influences our previous determination of the extinction ( see sect .",
    "[ extinction ] ) and therefore the luminosity of both stars .",
    "the luminosity of the stars was derived using the standard interstellar extinction law ( fluks et al .",
    "1994 ) for both the interstellar and circumstellar extinction .",
    "since the colour excess changes much less when dealing with large grains , the stars are brighter than derived earlier in this paper . using an iterative fitting scheme we re - derived the luminosity and interstellar extinction .",
    "we find a luminosity of @xmath47l@xmath7 for the hot star and @xmath48l@xmath7 for the cool star and an interstellar extinction of @xmath49 mag .",
    "note that this value for the interstellar extinction is very close to the value which has been derived from the dibs .",
    "furthermore , our model predicts an optical depth to the star of @xmath50 at 6583  , which is in very good agreement with the value @xmath51 found by van loon et al .",
    "( in prep . ) for the optical depth at [ n ii]-line .",
    "although @xmath52 at 6583   is 0.6 , the circumstellar @xmath53 is only 0.015 mag .",
    ", due to the grey extinction ( at optical wavelengths ) of the large grains .",
    "so , the problem between the total extinction on one side and the circumstellar and interstellar dust extinction on the other side is resolved by the presence of large grains in the circumstellar environment leading to a non - standard extinction law for the dust shell .    even with these large grains we were not able to fit the entire shape of the 10 @xmath0 m silicate feature . especially around 13 @xmath0 m",
    "our models predicted lower flux levels than observed .",
    "when we subtract our model fit from the observations , a 13 @xmath0 m feature is evident .",
    "this feature resembles the 13 @xmath0 m feature observed in agb stars with low mass loss rates , and is often attributed to corundum ( @xmath44-al@xmath3o@xmath4 ) ( onaka et al .",
    "1989 ; begemann et al .",
    "1997 ; kozasa & sogawa 1998 ) .",
    "therefore we also included corundum in our modelling , which indeed gives a much better fit around 13 @xmath0 m .",
    "the total mass in the shell , assuming a gas - to - dust ratio of 100 and a distance of 3.3 kpc , is 3.9 m@xmath7 .",
    "taking all the different errors and assumptions ( such as the spherical shape of the dust grains ) into account , this mass may be overestimated by up to a factor two .    while about 70  % of the dust shell consists of fe - bearing amorphous olivines , about 7 to 15  % , depending on the assumed enstatite to forsterite ratio , constitutes of mg - rich crystalline silicates . for the crystalline silicates only the end members of the olivine and pyroxene",
    "series , forsterite and enstatite respectively , are present .",
    "we note that the crystalline silicates only become important at the longer wavelengths . at 10 @xmath0 m",
    "the amorphous silicates show a prominent peak but in this wavelength region there is no sign of the presence of the crystalline silicates .",
    "we conclude that the temperature of the crystalline silicates is lower than that of the amorphous ones .",
    "this temperature difference is confirmed by our model calculations .",
    "the temperatures at the inner radius are roughly 160 , 125 and 100  k , for respectively the amorphous olivines , crystalline forsterite and the crystalline water - ice .",
    "these temperatures are higher than estimated in sect .",
    "[ sec : ident ] , but one should take into account that there is a temperature gradient and that the values mentioned here are maxima .",
    "the temperature difference is caused by the increased opacity in the uv , optical and near - ir when fe is incorporated in the silicate .",
    "this implies that the two species are not thermally coupled , suggesting separate grain populations .      for some parts of the spectrum we did not obtain a satisfactory fit .",
    "the most obvious part is the lws spectrum .",
    "we were not able to fit simultaneously the slope in the lws part and the peak in the dust emission in the sws part .",
    "a shallower density gradient would result in a broadening of the synthetic spectrum around 30 @xmath0 m .",
    "we decided to fit the peak instead of the long wavelength part , also because of the differences between the 100 @xmath0 m iras and lws flux in this region , which required the steep density gradient .",
    "note that the model spectrum convolved with the iras 100 @xmath0 m sensitivity gives a flux of 125 jy , which is lower than both the iras and lws flux .",
    "the fact that the flux in our model is too low and that the lws spectrum contains a prominent and very cool h@xmath3o ice band , gives an indication that an extra cool dust component , with likely a large amount of crystalline h@xmath3o - ice , surrounding this object is required in the lws beam .",
    "the presence of a large amount of crystalline h@xmath3o , which is generally not found in the ism , suggests that this extra contribution is due to a previous mass loss phase .",
    "the discrepancy between iras and iso , however , remains unsolved .",
    "gkh had a 3 sigma detection of afgl  4106 at 1.3 mm of @xmath54  mjy . in our model",
    "we find a flux of 17 mjy ; this is within the errorbars .",
    "the ratio of 1.3  mm to ( iras ) 100 @xmath0 m flux densities is reproduced by our model , indicating that the largest grains are significantly smaller than 100 @xmath0 m .",
    "differences between the model and the broadband photometry in the optical and near - infrared , where we see the photospheres of both stars , can probably all be explained by the fact that we used blackbodies instead of real stellar photospheres .",
    "a third discrepancy is between 4.5 and 8 @xmath0 m .",
    "we were not able to fit this flat part of the spectrum .",
    "part of it can be explained by photospheric co absorption ( around 4.5 @xmath0 m ) .",
    "a few experiments with feo seem to indicate that a proper treatment of the shape effects of feo might produce a flat spectrum in this area . on the other hand",
    ", the timmi n - band image shows a bright central emission , which can not only be explained by the photospheres of the stars .",
    "it seems that an extra ( hot ) dust component is present at the center and that its infrared excess extends to the shorter wavelengths .",
    "whether this represents a recent mass loss phase or a more stable circumstellar dust configuration ( circumbinary disk ) is unknown .",
    "previous modelling of afgl  4106 has been performed by volk and kwok ( 1989 ) and hkv , who presented the same model , and gkh .",
    "both models use in the center a single blackbody , with a temperature of 5000 ( hkv ) and 4750  k ( gkh ) , surrounded by a single dust component circumstellar envelope . because of these big differences between their and our model",
    "it is not useful to compare the inner radius and density at the inner radius found by them and us .",
    "it is interesting that hkv and the present study both find a density distribution which differs from @xmath55 , with @xmath56 the distance of the position in the dust shell to the central object .",
    "hkv found a steeper density gradient than we did , but this is within the error margins .",
    "the main difference between our parameters and the ones of gkh is the exponent in the density gradient .",
    "since we have now spectral coverage longwards of 25  @xmath0 m , we can exclude the possibility of a density gradient of @xmath57 .",
    "their fit predicts a much broader ir excess around 25 @xmath0 m than observed .",
    "it should be noted that gkh fit the iras 60 and 100 @xmath0 m points better than the present study .",
    "however , because of the significant broadening of the top of the energy distribution when applying a flatter density distribution , which is not observed , the ir - excess problem is more likely solved with an extra dust shell .",
    "the density gradient of @xmath58 can be caused by two reasons : ( i ) the mass loss rate increased or ( ii ) the outflow velocity decreased with time . in both cases the density gradient increases due to the geometric expansion of the dust shell with time .",
    "so whatever the reason is for the present steep gradient , it is intrinsic but has steepened during the expansion of the dust shell .    assuming different grain size distribution for the different dust species might lead to an improvement of the fit and will result different mass ratios for the dust species . a smaller size distribution for one dust component will result in a decrease of its mass ratio and vice versa .",
    "in the literature distances ranging from 0.67  3.3 kpc ( garca - lario et al . 1994 ) are given .",
    "however one should note that afgl 4106 is located in the direction of carina , so we are looking along a spiral arm , which makes it hard to relate column density and distance .",
    "fortunately , we have spatial information from the n - band image .",
    "the inner radius of the dust shell is about @xmath59 , and together with the expansion velocity found in co ( josselin et al .",
    "1998 ) and [ nii]-line ( van loon et al . , in prep . ) of 30 to 40 km / s and the present - day shape of the sed , one can put a lower limit to its distance .",
    "assuming that the outflow is spherical , which seems plausible according to our modelling results and the [ n ii]-line velocity distribution by van loon et al .",
    "( in prep . ) , and that the velocity has not changed significantly in time , one can derive a kinematical age for the dust shell of 135 years times the distance in kpc . due to the expansion of the dust shell",
    "it is expected that the circumstellar dust extinction becomes smaller , leading to an increase in the brightness at short wavelengths .",
    "afgl  4106 has already been identified in the cape observatory photographic durchmusterung from 1895 to 1900 ( gill and kapteyn 1900 ) with a photographic magnitude @xmath60 mag . in the cordoba durchmusterung ( thome 1914 )",
    "a visual magnitude of 9.4 has been estimated for afgl  4106 . in the extended henry draper catalogue , with observations taken between 1922 and 1937 ( cannon and mayall 1949 ) ,",
    "its photographic magnitude was @xmath61 . on 18 march 1988 hrivnak et al .",
    "( 1989 ) measured a b magnitude of @xmath62 ( @xmath63 ) and a v magnitude of @xmath64 . from these observations",
    "one can derive that @xmath65 mag . over the last 90 years and @xmath66 mag . over the last 75 years , assuming an error of 0.5 magnitude in both durchmusterungen .",
    "so the visual and photographic band trends contradict each other , although the errorbars are significant . since the hot star is the dominant component at these two wavelengths it is possible that the star lowered its temperature , from a temperature with its peak luminosity at the photographic band to a temperature with its peak luminosity at the visual band .",
    "however , this is in contradiction with the present temperature , which peaks around the photographic band and is also not expected from evolutionary considerations .    in any case , the stability of the optical brightness of afgl  4106 over a timescale of @xmath67 years can be used to constrain its distance and luminosity . using our dust model fit",
    "we can calculate the expected sed of the system and the visual and photographic brightness in the past , assuming that the dust composition , the outflow velocity , the temperature and the radii of the stars did not change . for the photographic magnitude , it is safe to assume that the star has not brightened more than 0.3 magnitude over the last 90 years .",
    "this puts the star at a distance of at least 3.15 kpc and probably further away . on the other hand",
    "the brightning in the @xmath68-band over the last 75 years of @xmath66 puts the star at a distance of @xmath69 kpc .",
    "there is only a very small overlap region between these two trends , suggesting a distance of 3.3 kpc , just at the upper limit quoted by garca - lario et al .",
    "the size of this overlap region is mainly based on the estimated errors of the cape observatory photographic durchmusterung and the cordoba durchmusterung .",
    "this distance of 3.3 kpc implies that the luminosity is @xmath70 and @xmath71 l@xmath10 for the hot and cool star respectively , again pointing to a massive binary system .",
    "their luminosities point to stars with a main sequence mass between 15 and 20 m@xmath10 , using evolutionary tracks by maeder & meynet ( 1988 ) .",
    "other properties of afgl  4106 also support the high masses of both stars .",
    "the expansion velocity of 30 to 40 km / sec is unusually high for agb stars , and the relative large grains are typically found in the outflows massive supergiants ( jura 1996 ) .",
    "it is likely that the warm star is responsible for the expelled dust shell , and is now in the very rare evolutionary phase of the post - red - supergiants , which makes it a blue supergiant or wr star progenitor . only a few other stars are in the same evolutionary status , e.g. irc+10420 ( jones et al .",
    "1993 ) , and the central star of the radio nebula g79.29 + 0.46 ( trams et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "at a distance of 3.3 kpc the mass loss episode took about @xmath72 years and stopped 450 years ago . during this period the star expelled @xmath73 m@xmath10 , assuming a gas to dust ratio of 100 .",
    "this implies that the average mass loss rate is roughly @xmath74  m@xmath10/yr .",
    "in our modelling we assumed spherical symmetry , but we do see substructure in our n - band images .",
    "this is also expected , since it is likely that the m - type supergiant will influence the spatial distribution of the dust and gas , expelled by the hot star , by transferring orbital momentum to the gas and dust .",
    "this effect can create a density enhancement in the plane of the binary .",
    "this possible enhancement can lead to an over- or under - estimate of the total mass , depending on the angle at which we observe this system .",
    "however , the shape of the [ n ii]-line derived from different rotation angles of the slit , suggest that the shape of the dust shell is close to a sphere ( van loon et al . , in prep . ) .",
    "this implies that the orbital seperation between the two stars is probably relatively large and therefore the influence of the companion on the mass - loss not so important .",
    "so , although the spherical symmetry and other assumptions used in our model calculations might be somewhat simple , it is not expected that the mass - loss rate and the total mass found in our calculations would change more than a factor 2 .",
    "the formation of crystalline silicates is still largely unknown .",
    "several researchers have tried to quantify the condensation sequence of oxygen rich dust ( e.g. tielens , 1990 ; gail , 1998 ) .",
    "however , these are mainly based on the different condensation temperatures , therefore assuming thermal equilibrium ; it is not known if this assumption is valid .",
    "condensation of dust species and chemical reactions will only occur if : ( i ) the density is high enough and ( ii ) the temperature is suitable ( low enough for condensation and high enough for chemical reactions ) . since both the density and the temperature decrease with the distance from the star , it is likely that at a certain moment the dust structure freezes out .",
    "it is this stable dust configuration which we see at the moment . taking the condensation sequences mentioned above",
    ", it is expected that the first silicate that will form is forsterite .",
    "when the temperature becomes lower and the density is still high enough this will transform into enstatite .",
    "both species are expected to form above the glass temperature and are therefore thought to be crystalline .",
    "we see evidence in our spectrum for both forsterite and enstatite .",
    "this implies that the forsterite to enstatite transition is stopped before the forsterite was completely transformed .",
    "there might be 3 reasons for this : ( i ) the density became too low , ( ii ) the temperature dropped too rapidly or ( iii ) other chemical reactions took over .",
    "it is likely that it is a combination of these three .",
    "one chemical reaction that could take place at lower temperatures is the incorporation of fe into the silicates .",
    "since our spectra show that the crystalline silicates are very mg- rich and the amorphous silicates contain a lot of fe , it is likely that this incorporation of fe results in a destruction of the crystal structure .",
    "the clear chemical separation between the amorphous and crystalline materials is intriguing .",
    "it appears that the inclusion of fe in mg - rich silicates is a kind of runaway process .",
    "tielens et al .",
    "( 1998 ) proposed a scenario for such a chemical separation between amorphous and crystalline silicates .",
    "when the temperature becomes low enough fe may react with the mg - rich crystalline silicates .",
    "the opacity will increase , due to the incorporation of fe , and therefore the temperature of the grain .",
    "this process will act as a thermostat , incorporating just sufficient fe in the grains to keep the temperature near 800  k where fe can just diffuse in .",
    "this temperature is below the glass temperature for fe - bearing silicates and the lattice can not attain its energetically most favorable structure , thus leading to an amorphous structure . because of the increased opacity due to the incorporation of fe , it is likely that the temperature of the other grains behind this fe - reaction zone will decrease , leading to an even higher difference between the fe - rich ( amorphous ) and mg - rich ( crystalline ) silicates if thermal coupling between gas and dust can be neglected .",
    "grains that already contain a small amount of fe will be hotter and therefore the reaction rate for the adsorption of fe will be higher then for grains without any fe .",
    "this would lead to the required runaway process .",
    "if this scenario is correct , it would imply that the crystalline silicates are the primordial condensation products , and this will give us new insights in the dust nucleation .",
    "although this would lead to the required chemical separation between the crystalline and amorphous materials , it is not clear why the amorphous olivines should contain more fe than the amorphous pyroxenes , if present at all .",
    "besides the forsterite - enstatite condensation sequence , tielens  ( 1990 ) also presented a condensation sequence starting with corundum .",
    "the next condensation product would then be melilite , for which we find some evidence . according to the same scheme diopside",
    "would form . since certain strong features of this material",
    "are not found in our iso - spectrum , this may imply that the dust forming process along this condensation sequence line froze out around amorphous melilite .",
    "gail and sedlmayr ( submitted to a&a ) applied non - equilibrium calculation for the dust formation in outflows of m stars .",
    "they do explain the formation of several dust species , such as the amorphous fe - rich olivines , however they do not consider , based on laboratorium experiments , the formation of pyroxenes and are not capable to explain the co - existence of pure forserite particles and fe - rich amorphous olivines .",
    "the main results of this study can be summarized as follows :    * afgl  4106 is a ( double - lined spectroscopic ) binary , consisting of a warm star with @xmath75  k and a cool companion with @xmath76  k. * the luminosity ratio of both stars l@xmath77/l@xmath78 , which indicates that both stars are evolved .",
    "the warm star is likely responsible for the dust shell . *",
    "the expansion velocity of the shell , the grain size distribution and the minimal variations in the photographic and v band over the last 90 years all suggest a high luminosity .",
    "we conclude that the stars are at @xmath79 kpc and have l / l@xmath80 and @xmath71 respectively .",
    "these values correspond to main sequence masses of 15 to 20 m@xmath7 .",
    "the warm star is probably evolving rapidly to the blue part of the hr - diagram and may evolve to a blue - supergiant ( ending its life like sn 1987a ) or to a wolf - rayet phase . *",
    "the main component of the dust are large ( @xmath5 m ) amorphous , fe - rich olivines .",
    "if also amorphous pyroxenes are present , they will have a much lower fe content .",
    "we find a rich spectrum of narrow solid state emission bands in the iso - sws and lws spectra , which we identify with crystalline olivines and pyroxenes .",
    "these grains are mg - rich and fe - poor and have an abundance between 7 and 15 % by mass , depending on the assumed enstatite to forsterite ratio .",
    "we also find evidence for the presence of feo , al@xmath3o@xmath4 , melilite and crystalline h@xmath3o - ice .",
    "shape effects can have an important influence on the derived abundances . *",
    "the temperatures for the different dust species are quite different , this is caused by variations in their absorption characteristics at visual and near - ir wavelengths .",
    "these temperature differences imply that the different dust species are not thermally coupled , directly ( e.g. as a composite grain ) nor indirectly ( e.g. via gas - dust interactions ) .",
    "* the crystalline silicate bands can be divided into narrow ( fwhm/@xmath81 ) and broad ( fwhm/@xmath82 ) features .",
    "the wavelengths of the broad features match well with forsterite , while those of most of the narrow features line up well with enstatite .",
    "the width of the features is significantly smaller than those observed in laboratory spectra .",
    "the abundance ratio of enstatite to forsterite is between 3 and 1 . *",
    "the mean mass - loss rate was @xmath83 m@xmath7/yr for a period of about @xmath84 years and probably increased during this period .",
    "the mass loss stopped 450 years ago .",
    "the total mass expelled , assuming a gas to dust ratio of 100 , is 3.9  m@xmath7 .",
    "* we find a cool dust component , which can not be fitted by our dust model .",
    "this component is either an older mass loss phase , or an incorrect background subtraction of the ism .",
    "we also found indications from the spectrum between 4 and 7 @xmath0 m and the 10 @xmath0 m imaging that a third dust component , close to the binary is present . whether this represents a recent mass loss phase or a more stable circumstellar dust configuration is not known .",
    "because of its ( ir-)brightness afgl  4106 will be a key object in the further study of ( crystalline ) dust formation .",
    "high resolution imaging and spectroscopy both in the optical and ir will allow us to constrain the circumstellar versus interstellar extinction , the photospheres of the components , density and abundance gradients through the cse , and thus the conditions for dust formation and evolution .",
    "barlow m.j . , 1998 , a&ss 255 , 315 begemann b. , dorschner j. , henning th . , et al . , 1997 ,",
    "apj 476 , 199 bertie j.e . , labb h.j .",
    ", whalley e. , 1969 , the journal of chemical physics 50 , 4501 bohren c.f .",
    ", huffman d.r . , 1983 , absorption and scattering of light by small particles . ,",
    "john wiley and sons , inc .",
    ", new york bouwman j. , waters l.b.f.m .",
    ", 1998 , a&ss 255 , 435 bruggeman d.a.g . , 1935 ,",
    "physics ( leipzig ) 24 , 636 cannon a.j .",
    ", mayall m.w . , 1949 ,",
    "harvard coll .",
    "112 , 1 clegg p.e . ,",
    "ade p.a.r . , armand c. , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "a&a 315 , l38 decin l. , cohen m. , eriksson k. , et al . , 1997 , in proceedings of the first iso workshop on analytical spectroscopy with sws , lws , pht - s and cam - cvf , ed .",
    "heras a.m. , leech k. , trams n.r . ,",
    "perry m. , esa publications division , noordwijk , the netherlands dorschner j. , begemann b. , henning th . , et al . , 1995 ,",
    "a&a 300 , 503 ehrenfreund p. , cami j. , dartois e , foing b.h . , 1997 , a&a 317 , l28 fluks m.a . , plez b. , the p.s . , et al . , 1994 , a+as 105 , 311 gail h .-",
    ", 1998 , a&a 332 , 1099 garca - lario p. , manchado a. , parthasarathy m. , pottasch s.r . , 1994 , a&a 285 , 179 garca - lario p. , manchado a. , pych w. , pottasch s.r . , 1997 , a&as 126 , 479 gill d. , kapteyn j.c . , 1900 , ann .",
    "edinburgh , vol .",
    "v de graauw th .",
    ", haser l.n . ,",
    "beintema d.a . , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "a&a 315 , l49 grtler j. , kmpe c. , henning th . , 1996 ,",
    "a&a 305 , 878 henning th .",
    ", mutschke h. , 1997 , a&a 327,743 henning th .",
    ", begemann b. , mutschke h. , dorschner j. , 1995 , a&as 112 , 143 herbig g.h . , 1995 , ara&a 33 , 19 hrivnak b.j . , kwok s. , volk k.m . , 1989 , apj 346 , 265 iras explanatory supplement 1988 , eds .",
    "c. beichmann , et al .",
    "jger c. , molster f.j .",
    ", dorschner j. , et al .",
    ", 1998 , a&a 339 , 904 jenniskens p. , dsert f .- x . , 1994 ,",
    "a&ass 106 , 39 jones t.j . ,",
    "humphreys r.m . ,",
    "gehrz r.d .",
    ", et al . , 1993 , apj 411 , 323 josselin e. , loup c. , omont a. , et al . , 1998 , a&as 129 , 45 jura m. , 1996 , apj 472 , 806 kufl h-.u . , jouan r. , lagage p.o . , et al",
    ". , 1994 , infrared phys . technol .",
    "35 , 203 kessler m.f .",
    ", steinz j.a . ,",
    "anderegg m.e . , et al . , 1996 , a&a 315 , l27 koike c. , shibai h. , 1998 , isas report no .",
    "671 koike c. , shibai h. , tuchiyama a. , 1993 , mnras 264 , 654 koike c. , kaito c. , yamamoto t. , et al .",
    ", 1995 , icarus 114 , 203 kozasa t. , sogawa h. , 1998 , a&ss 255 , 437 kurucz r.l . , 1991 , in precision photometry : astrophysics of the galaxy , ed .",
    "davis philip a.g . ,",
    "upgren a.r .",
    ", janes k.a . ,",
    "l. davis press , schenectady little - marenin i.r .",
    ", little s.j . , 1988 ,",
    "apj 333 , 305 little - marenin i.r . , little s.j . , 1990 , aj 99 , 1173 lucy l.b . , 1974 , aj 79 , 745 maeder a. , meynet g. , 1988 , a&as 76 , 411 mathis j.s . , rumpl w. , nordsieck k.h . , 1977 ,",
    "apj 217 , 425 monnier j.d . ,",
    "geballe t.r .",
    ", danchi w.c . , 1998 ,",
    "apj 502 , 833 mutschke h. , begemann b. , dorschner j. , et al .",
    ", , 1998 , a&a 333 , 188 omont a. , forveille t. , moseley s.h . , et al . , 1990 , apj 355 , l27 onaka t. , de jong t. , willems f.j . , 1989 , a&a 218 , 169 schaeidt s.g . , morris p.w",
    ", salama a. , et al . : 1996 , a&a 315 , l55 scott a. , duley w.w . , 1996 ,",
    "apjs 105 , 401 servoin j.l .",
    ", piriou b. , 1973 , phys .",
    "( b ) 55 , 677 steyer t.r .",
    ", 1974 , phd - thesis , university of arizona swinyard b.m . ,",
    "clegg p.e . ,",
    "ade p.a.r . , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "a&a 315 , l43 tielens a.g.g.m . , 1990 , in from mira s to planetary nebulae : which path for stellar evolution ? ,",
    "mennessier & a. omont , 186 tielens a.g.g.m . , waters l.b.f.m . ,",
    "molster f.j . ,",
    "justtanont k. , 1998 , a&ss 255 , 415 thome j.m . ,",
    "1914 , results of national argentine obs .",
    "21 , 1 trams n.r .",
    ", van tuyll c.i . ,",
    "voors r.h.m . , et al . , 1999 in iau",
    "colloquium 169 , variable and non - spherical stellar winds in luminous hot stars \" , eds .",
    "wolf , fullerton , stahl valentijn e.a .",
    ", feuchtgruber h. , kester d.j.m . , et al .",
    ", 1996 , a&a 315 , l60 volk k.m .",
    ", kwok s. , 1989 , apj 342 , 345 waters l.b.f.m .",
    ", molster f.j . ,",
    "de jong t. , et al . , 1996 , a&a 315 , l361 waters l.b.f.m . , waelkens c. , van winckel h. , et al . , 1998 , nat 391 , 868"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present infrared spectroscopy and imaging of afgl  4106 . </S>",
    "<S> the 2.4 - 5 @xmath0 m iso - sws spectrum reveals the presence of a cool , luminous star ( t@xmath1  k ) in addition to an almost equally luminous f star ( t@xmath2  k ) . </S>",
    "<S> the 5  195 @xmath0 m sws and lws spectra are dominated by strong emission from circumstellar dust . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the dust consists of amorphous silicates , with a minor but significant contribution from crystalline silicates . </S>",
    "<S> the amorphous silicates consist of fe - rich olivines . </S>",
    "<S> the presence of amorphous pyroxenes can not be excluded but if present they contain much less fe than the amorphous olivines . </S>",
    "<S> comparison with laboratory data shows that the pure mg - end members of the crystalline olivine and pyroxene solid solution series are present . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we find strong evidence for simple oxides ( feo and al@xmath3o@xmath4 ) as well as crystalline h@xmath3o ice . </S>",
    "<S> several narrow emission features remain unidentified .    </S>",
    "<S> modelling of the dust emission using a dust radiation transfer code shows that large grains ( @xmath5 m ) must be present and that the abundance of the crystalline silicates is between 7 and 15% of the total dust mass , depending on the assumed enstatite to forsterite ratio , which is estimated to be between 1 and 3 . </S>",
    "<S> the amorphous and crystalline dust components in the shell do not have the same temperature , implying that the different dust species are not thermally coupled . </S>",
    "<S> we find a dust mass of @xmath6  m@xmath7 expelled over a period of @xmath8  years for a distance of 3.3  kpc . </S>",
    "<S> the f - star in the afgl  4106 binary is likely a post - red - supergiant in transition to a blue supergiant or wr phase . </S>"
  ]
}