{
  "article_text": [
    "cdm models predict two orders of magnitude more dark matter halos than satellites observed around the milky way @xcite .",
    "solutions to this problem include self - interacting dark matter @xcite , truncated power spectra @xcite and the restriction of gas accretion to the lowest mass dark matter halos to be before the epoch of reionization @xcite .",
    "the first two solutions would get rid of the smallest dark matter halos entirely , while the latter would predict that only one percent of the satellite halos actually contain stars .    in this paper , rather than attempting to solve the problem",
    ", we discuss how we might tell observationally whether it is a problem in the first place .",
    "the satellite dark matter halos in the cdm models comprise about 10% of the total mass of the parent galaxy on roughly isotropic orbits distributed throughout the galaxy @xcite .",
    "one idea is to look for signatures of these lumps around external galaxies in gravitationally lensed images of background quasars @xcite .",
    "we concentrate our study rather closer to home .",
    "if such lumps truly exist around the milky way then we would expect them to have some dynamical influence on the rest visible galaxy .",
    "for example , according to @xcite if the halo is entirely made of @xmath1 black holes they would significantly heat our galactic disk .",
    "@xcite used numerical simulations to ask whether the coldness of our disk could be used in a similar fashion to limit the distribution of dark matter lumps seen in cosmological simulations that could be orbiting the galaxy .",
    "using one realization of lump masses and orbits taken from a @xmath2cdm model of a galaxy - sized halo , they found that the heating caused by the lumps was less than the heating observed in the stellar populations in the disk and concluded that the disk is not an efficient probe of this model .",
    "streams of debris from the destruction of galactic satellites are another example of cold structures within the milky way that could be scattered by substructure in the potential . these streams tend to align along a single orbit @xcite and hence would individually have lower cross section to interactions than the galactic disk .",
    "nevertheless we chose to examine the response of these to perturbations rather than the disk for several reasons : they will explore the outer regions of the galactic potential that the disk does not experience ; we expect other sources of heating in this region ( structures such as the bar , spiral arms and giant molecular clouds in the disk ) to be negligible ; if streams from several satellites could be studied , we have the potential of probing a larger portion of the galaxy ; finally , these streams are often even colder than the disk itself and hence should be more sensitive to scattering .",
    "we approach this problem of scattering numerically rather than analytically both because of the nature of the predicted cdm mass distribution of lumps and the low cross sections of the streams .",
    "scattering by the few most massive lumps in the distribution is expected to be most important , and the exact degree of scattering will depend on the relative orientation of the lump and debris orbits . hence the process is dominated by a few strong encounters rather than one that can be modeled ( say ) by integrating over many weak encounters in the impulsive regime . nor would a simple analytic representation include how the wake in the halo , excited by the most massive lumps , would affect the stream orbits .",
    "weinberg s studies @xcite of the affect of the large magellanic cloud on the disk of the milky way suggest that the inclusion of such a wake in the halo introduces a large enhancement to the expected response of the disk .    in  2 we present our numerical approach to implementing the experiments described above . in ",
    "3 we compare the evolution of tidal debris in smooth and lumpy potentials and propose an algorithm for distinguishing between the two with currently available data . in ",
    "4 we apply our results to the stream of carbon stars known to be associated with sgr .",
    "we summarize our conclusions and outline future prospects in  5 .    note that during the final stages of preparation of this manuscript two other papers have appeared on this subject @xcite .",
    "we discuss their relation to our own work in  5 .",
    "we model our system with three sets of particles :    @xmath3 _ smooth halo _ particles .",
    "these are equal mass , and initially distributed as an equilibrium @xcite model .",
    "this model is assumed to represent a @xmath4 halo , with scale length @xmath5kpc , which mimics the nfw profile @xcite of a @xmath6km / s halo at @xmath7 in a @xmath2cdm universe ( taken from @xcite  paper since withdrawn , see below ) .",
    "@xcite showed that such halos are incompatible with the apparent mass distribution in the milky way , but we will nevertheless adopt them since we wanted to place our model in a consistent @xmath2cdm universe .",
    "@xmath8 _ lumps_. these are each represented by rigid @xcite models , with initial positions and velocities chosen at random from the same @xcite distribution as above .",
    "the masses are chosen at random from a power - law distribution @xmath9 , whose form is taken from the end point of n - body , cosmological simulations of cdm universes @xcite .",
    "the upper and lower limits of the distribution are chosen so that 10% of the parent halo mass is contained in lumps with masses in the range @xmath10 which approximately matches the level of substructure observed in n - body simulations @xcite .",
    "note that while figures 4 and 5 in @xcite suggest that the degree of substructure in their @xmath2cdm model is similar to their cdm case , @xcite found the numbers of satellites in their @xmath2cdm model to be roughly half those seen in their cdm model .",
    "we therefore adopt the @xcite and @xcite level of substructure as an upper limit to the degree of heating expected in a @xmath2cdm universe .",
    "the scale lengths @xmath11 are set to @xmath12 and the masses @xmath13 are chosen so that the potentials mimic `` universal '' @xcite profiles to within 10% out to radii @xmath14 , with the mass - dependence on concentration for a @xmath2cdm universe taken from @xcite .",
    "note that since completion of the numerical portion of this project the results of @xcite have been withdrawn and the models we adopted have been shown to be too concentrated .",
    "this will again cause a slight overestimate of the efficiency of scattering .",
    "@xcite profiles were used rather than nfw profiles because of the saving in cpu - time .",
    "we have not tidally truncated the models but do not expect this to significantly affect our results .",
    "figure [ lumps ] summarizes the mass and scale distribution used in the simulations with the solid lines representing the parameters for the hernquist model and the dotted lines representing the parameters for the equivalent nfw model .",
    "@xmath15 _ test particles_. these are massless and are either distributed on circular orbits at @xmath16 and 4.0@xmath17 , or on a range of orbits to mimic debris streams from sgr .",
    "the initial conditions for the latter were generated by running a simulations of satellites of mass @xmath18 disrupting in a rigid representation of the halo potential described above ( for simulation technique see @xcite ) along an orbit similar to that expected for sgr ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the time at which particles were lost from the satellite were noted , and the positions and velocities of a set of 500 particles used as initial conditions , starting from a point shortly after the pericentric passage at which they were first unbound .",
    "the influence of the smooth halo particles on each other and all other particles is calculated using a code that employs basis function expansions to represent the potential @xcite ( we used the mpi version of the code , adapted from the original by steinn sigurdsson and bob leary ) .",
    "this effectively smooths over all strong encounters ( which we expect to be unimportant for this component ) , but does follow both large - scale collective fluctuations and the halo s response to disturbances by lumps .    the influence of the lumps on each other and all other particles is calculated directly using the analytic form of the @xcite potential .",
    "the test particles respond to both the smooth halo and the lumps , but do not otherwise interact .",
    "this simplification is valid for our application of tidal streams , but would be a much poorer approximation were we trying to represent a system such as a disk which has significant self - gravity .",
    "simple leap - frog integration was used throughout .",
    "the major computational expense arose from the large number ( @xmath19 ) of smooth halo particles required ( see  [ smooth ] ) .",
    "however , since we were not interested in modeling strong encounters in this component in detail , we were able to use a large timestep ( @xmath20 in simulation units or about 4 myears ) for these particles corresponding to 1/100th of the dynamical time at the half mass radius of the parent galaxy .",
    "the lump and test particles were integrated with a much smaller timestep @xmath21 , where @xmath22 was chosen so the increase in computational cost for these integrations was not significant . for @xmath23 , @xmath24 and @xmath25",
    ", we could take @xmath26 ( or 256 small steps for every large step and @xmath27 years ) with just a 20% increase in cputime , and we double checked our simulations by rerunning them with @xmath28 to confirm convergence of the results . in general , we were looking to accurately follow encounters between features of a kpc with lumps traveling at 200km / s so we would expect @xmath29 years to be a sufficiently small integration time - step .",
    "the smooth halo distributions were allowed to run for ten dynamical times to erase any effects from generating the initial conditions .",
    "for each set of lumps , the combined smooth halo and lumps were run for an additional ten dynamical times as the lumps were grown slowly from zero to full strength to ensure no effects from suddenly introducing them .",
    "finally , the output of the latter simulations were used as initial conditions in which the test particles were also run .",
    "the finite number of halo particles will introduce potential fluctuations in addition to those due to the lumps @xcite so we need to ensure that the dominant cause of test - particle scattering is due to the lumps and not to numerical noise . to quantify the level of fluctuations in the halo due to the finite number of particles we first ran models with @xmath30 and 7 in isolation for ten dynamical times and recorded the basis - function expansion coefficients @xmath31 calculated by the code during this time ( where @xmath32 refers to the radial basis function and @xmath33 refers to the spherical harmonic",
    " see @xcite ) .",
    "the total potential energy can be written in terms of this expansion as @xmath34 .",
    "hence the potential energy associated with each of the spherical harmonics is @xmath35 .",
    "the points in figure [ spotlm ] show the dispersion in the lowest order @xmath36 recorded during the isolated simulations .",
    "the dotted line shows the same measurement made in a simulation containing @xmath23 particles and just one nfw lump .",
    "the plot suggests that to correctly model the influence of lumps on tidal streamers requires @xmath37 particles since otherwise scattering due to the finite resolution of the halo will compete with the effect being measured .",
    "a second numerical consideration is that , so long as the most massive particles have the greatest influence , the size of the effect we are trying to measure will depend on the exact choice of lump and streamer orbits . to gain a fair impression of the general evolution it is necessary to run many simulations with different lump orbits",
    ".    the combined requirements of large particle number and multiple runs supports our choice of running idealized simulations of fully formed galaxies over a restricted amount of time rather than trying to perform this experiment fully self - consistently in a cosmological context , which would add additional computational expense .",
    "each simulation was first `` relaxed '' for 500 large steps and then followed for 1000 large time steps , or ten dynamical times ( corresponding to about 4 gyears ) for a total cpu - cost of @xmath38hours .",
    "we ran more than 50 such simulations ( a subset of which are presented here ) . to reduce this to manageable proportions ( in memory and time )",
    ", simulations were run on multiple nodes of the wesleyan beowulf - class supercomputer ( weswulf ) .",
    "we present the results from a total of 37 simulations in this paper .",
    "each simulation contained @xmath23 halo particles and @xmath39 test particles .",
    "the `` control '' simulation contained no halo lumps .",
    "the remaining 36 consisted of 6 sets of 6 random realizations of lump orbits for @xmath40 and 256 .",
    "each set of simulations contained the same lump mass distribution , with increasing numbers of lumps exploring further down the mass function .",
    "since test particles were distributed on orthogonal orbits our final results contained 12 different realizations of debris distributions , all starting from the same initial conditions but experiencing different time dependent potentials .",
    "as an example of evolution in a lumpy potential figure [ pscirc ] plots the phase - space distribution of particles initially on circular orbits at @xmath41 and 1.0 kpc at times @xmath42 and 4gyrs from one simulation containing @xmath43 lumps .",
    "the left hand panels show positions in the orbital plane while the right hand panels show what observations we might make of the stars ( assuming we could identify the initial orbital plane of the debris ) : angular distance @xmath44 from the orbital plane and line - of - sight velocities @xmath45 as a function of angle @xmath46 along the debris .",
    "the two things immediately apparent are : ( i ) the orbital plane precesses over time ( visible as a sinusoidal shape in the lowest @xmath44 _ vs _ @xmath46 panel ) ; and ( ii ) particles initially distributed smoothly along the orbit become bunched in angular position and velocity .",
    "figures [ pssgr ] and [ pssgrl256 ] repeat the above plots for the tidal debris particles in simulations with zero and @xmath43 lumps .",
    "comparison of the right hand panels of these plots clearly show the orbital precession described above in the lumpy case .",
    "there is also some indication of additional structure along the orbit , but this is somewhat hidden by the intrinsic non - uniform distribution of debris along the orbit .      from our qualitative assessment of figures [ pscirc]-[pssgrl256 ]",
    "we know we need to design a statistic that is sensitive to scattering in both angle and velocity along a debris stream rather than to large scale effects such as overall heating .",
    "( although precession is an additional affect it is not observable since do not in general know the original orbital plane of the satellite . )",
    "a natural choice is to look at fourier series in the observed quantities : @xmath47 in general we expect the low order @xmath48 to contain signal that could be due to periodic nature of debris orbits ( in @xmath45 ) or debris density ( in @xmath46 ) along the orbit . however , higher @xmath48 should be sensitive to scattering in the debris distribution .    to mimic how this might be applied to a real data set ( such as sgr ) we : + ( i ) `` observe '' the galactic latitude and longitude and line - of - sight velocity @xmath45 of @xmath32 debris particles in our simulations from a viewpoint 8kpc from the galactic center ;",
    "+ ( ii ) define the orbital plane to be the best fit great circle to the angular data @xcite ; + ( iii ) find @xmath46 and @xmath44 relative to this great circle ; + ( iv ) define a `` scattering index '' by summing over the fourier expansion - @xmath49 where @xmath50 note that the limits in the summation were specifically chosen so that the statistic is not sensitive to large scale effects such as intrinsic non - uniformity of tidal debris .",
    "the top panel of figure [ b500 ] plots @xmath48 against @xmath51 calculated from all 500 of the debris particles from the @xmath52 satellite at the end of the simulations which each contained 256 lumps ( open squares and solid lines ) and contrasts these with the simulation containing no lumps ( closed squares and bold lines ) .",
    "the bottom panel plots the scattering index for all the simulations as a function of number of lumps ( open squares ) with the bold line showing @xmath53 for the no - lumps case . in general",
    ", we find we expect to be able to use this index to distinguish between s@xmath2cdm and non - lumpy milky way halos roughly ninety percent of the time . there is a tendency for the majority of the scattering to be caused by the very largest lumps .",
    "however , the large variance in the results for a given @xmath8 emphasizes that the degree of scattering is very sensitive to the relative orientation of lump and debris orbits .",
    "@xcite report the discovery of a set of carbon stars which closely align with the great circle defined by sgr s position and proper motion .",
    "they find that this stream is too thin to be easily explained in models of the galaxy that have oblate halos because debris orbits in non - spherical potentials precess beyond the width of the stream within the typical lifetimes of the carbon stars ( 47 of the 104 stars lie within 10 degrees of sgr s great circle which intercepts less than one quarter of the total survey area ) .",
    "such a cold stream provides an obvious testing ground for models that predict dark matter substructure around the milky way .",
    "carbon stars have ages ranging from a few to 6 or 7 gyears .",
    "hence we expect the length of our simulations ( 4 gyears ) to be a fair representation of how long this debris may have been orbiting independently .",
    "figure [ b47 ] repeats figure [ b500 ] but for 47 tidal debris particles chosen at random at the end of the simulations . in this case the particles were again viewed at point 8kpc from the galactic center chosen slightly out of the orbital plane of the satellite to reflect the sun s orientation relative to sgr s own orbit . to mimic the real survey",
    ", we also restricted our simulated survey to only those particles further than 30 degrees from the galactic disk and within 10 degrees of the best - fit great circle of the full debris distribution .",
    "in the upper panels of figure [ b47 ] the points and lines represent the results from just one set of particles in each simulation that contained @xmath8=256 . in the lower panels",
    "the points represent the results for one set of 47 particles chosen from each simulation .",
    "the lower shaded region in the lower panels shows dispersion around the average of the results for ten different particles sets in the no - lumps case .",
    "the bold dashed line in both panels is the result of the identical analysis performed on the sgr carbon star data set .",
    "the figure suggests that the sgr carbon star set exhibits a level of substructure inconsistent with debris orbits on a smooth , spherical potential .",
    "the `` lumps '' that we are already aware of in the milky way s halo consist of the large and small magellanic clouds and the eight other dwarf spheroidal satellites . since our results clearly depend on the exact orientation of the orbits of the largest lumps masses relative to the debris orbits we ran one final simulations in which we integrated the sgr debris in a halo containing a satellite of mass @xmath54 in an orbit like that of the lmc ( roughly perpendicular to sgr s orbit with a pericenter comparable to sgr s apocenter ) .",
    "the results of the application of the scattering index to to the output from the simulation are shown as bold dotted lines in figures [ b500 ] and [ b47 ] .",
    "we conclude that for the current sgr data set the degree of scattering is entirely consistent with debris perturbed by the lmc alone .",
    "moreover , figure [ b500 ] implies that even with a larger data set associated with sgr it will be difficult to distinguish between a s@xmath2cdm halo and a smooth one .",
    "in this paper we showed that it is possible to distinguish between smooth and lumpy milky way halos by quantifying the coldness of tidal streams .",
    "we proposed a `` scattering index '' , based on position and radial velocity measurements of stars , that is sensitive to small scale perturbations in the debris rather than large scale effects such as variations in debris density or line of sight velocity ( due to its basic dynamical properties ) .",
    "we found that this statistic , when applied to measurements of 500 stars in a single debris trail , could distinguish between smooth , spherical milky way models and those containing a level of substructure consistent with s@xmath2cdm models 90% of the time .",
    "most scattering was due to the few largest lumps and the degree of scattering was very sensitive to the exact orientation of lump and debris orbits .",
    "these results agree qualitatively with those of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "@xcite present images from simulations of tidal tails evolved in a fully self - consistent s@xmath2cdm models to illustrate to what extent the tails are disrupted .",
    "this approach has the advantage of being able to follow the evolution of debris within a cosmological context , but ( as noted in  2.5 ) , is limited by the resolution and cost of such simulations to single realizations of galaxies that may not be adequately resolved to conquer intrinsic scattering due to numerical noise .",
    "@xcite simplify our own approach by modeling only the influence of lumps on the debris , not accounting for the halo wake in their simulations and hence ( as they note ) underestimating the true magnitude of the lump influence .",
    "nevertheless , they demonstrate that scattering due to dark matter lumps should be easily detectable in the angular momentum distribution of debris from globular clusters  an experiment that will become feasible with the launch of the gaia satellite in the second decade of the twenty first century .",
    "in contrast to @xcite , our own aim was to look at the feasibility of constraining the halo dark matter distribution with data available today or in the near future . following this aim we applied our scattering index to the carbon star stream associated with sgr and found that it contains more scattering than would be expected if it were orbiting in a smooth milky way .",
    "we then demonstrated that the level of scattering in sgr s debris is entirely consistent with perturbations by the lmc alone .",
    "we conclude from our study that the current data is unable to place limits on the level of dark matter substructure in the milky way s halo .",
    "moreover , the specific alignments of the lmc s and sgr s orbits means that a larger sample of sgr s debris is unlikely to improve the sensitivity of our statistic .",
    "two other factors could be responsible for the large @xmath53 measured for the sgr sample : we have not taken into account the contamination of the carbon star sample by non - sgr stars ; and we have assumed that the galaxy is perfectly spherical and that the stream is not broadened by precession of the debris orbits . despite these limitations we remain optimistic about the use of tidal debris to constrain dark matter substructure in the future .",
    "the former problem should be solved once we have a large enough data set to identify sgr debris by continuous velocity variations across the sky , and the latter could be addressed with a clean sample by looking for anomalous local scatterings in velocity .",
    "in addition , there is mounting evidence to suggest that many others of the milky way s satellites ( and globular clusters ) have associated debris @xcite .",
    "this evidence is currently limited to overdensities of material close to these objects and hence too young dynamically to be of use for our study .",
    "however several deep - halo surveys are currently underway that have the potential of tracing these streams out further @xcite . if extensive debris is found then these satellites , all of which have lower masses than sgr , would provide even colder streams which should be even more sensitive probes of substructure .",
    "they are also on different orbits , exploring other regions of the halo , where the lmc s influence will be less dominant .",
    "looking even further to the future , astrometric satellite programs such as nasa s sim and esa s gaia will provide the two additional dimensions of proper motion to allow a more rigorous measure of scattering to be defined , such as that proposed by @xcite .",
    "we would like to thank mike irwin for generously making the sgr carbon star data set available to us , steinn sigurdsson for sending us the mpi version of the scf code and ben moore and julio navarro for helpful comments on the s@xmath2cdm model used .",
    "kvj was supported by nasa ltsa grant nag5 - 9064 and ch was supported by funds from wesleyan university .",
    "dns was partially supported by nasa atp grant nag5 - 7154 .",
    "ivezi ' c ,  . ,",
    "goldston , j. , finlator , k. , knapp , g.  r. , yanny , b. , mckay , t.  a. , amrose , s. , krisciunas , k. , willman , b. , anderson , s. , schaber , c. , erb , d. , logan , c. , stubbs , c. , chen , b. , neilsen , e. , uomoto , a. , pier , j.  r. , fan , x. , gunn , j.  e. , lupton , r.  h. , rockosi , c.  m. , schlegel , d. , strauss , m.  a. , annis , j. , brinkmann , j. , csabai , i.  .",
    ", doi , m. , fukugita , m. , hennessy , g.  s. , hindsley , r.  b. , margon , b. , munn , j.  a. , newberg , h.  j. , schneider , d.  p. , smith , j.  a. , szokoly , g.  p. , thakar , a.  r. , vogeley , m.  s. , waddell , p. , yasuda , n. , & york , d.  g. 2000 , , 120 , 963                                          yanny , b. , newberg , h.  j. , kent , s. , laurent - muehleisen , s.  a. , pier , j.  r. , richards , g.  t. , stoughton , c. , anderson , j.  e. , annis , j. , brinkmann , j. , chen , b. , csabai , i.  .",
    ", doi , m. , fukugita , m. , hennessy , g.  s. , ivezi ' c ,  . ,",
    "knapp , g.  r. , lupton , r. , munn , j.  a. , nash , t. , rockosi , c.  m. , schneider , d.  p. , smith , j.  a. , & york , d.  g. 2000 , , 540 , 825"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> cdm simulations predict that there are hundreds of lumps of with masses greater than @xmath0 in the milky way halo . however , we know of only a dozen dwarf satellites close to this mass . </S>",
    "<S> are these lumps simply lacking in stars or is there a fundamental flaw in our most popular cosmology ? by studying the tidal debris of known satellites we can potentially address this question . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> , we quantify the the effects of the dark matter lumps on tidal tails . </S>",
    "<S> the lumps scatter stars in the tidal tails from their original orbits producing a distinctive signature . </S>",
    "<S> we simulate debris evolution in smooth and lumpy halos potentials and use our simulations to motivate and test a statistical measure of the degree of scattering apparent in the angular position and radial velocity measurement of debris stars  the `` scattering index '' . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the scattering index can in general distinguish between the levels of substructure predicted by cdm cosmologies and smooth milky way models , but that the sensitivity of the debris depends on the orientation of the parent satellite s orbit relative to the largest lumps orbits .    </S>",
    "<S> we apply our results to the carbon star stream associated with the sagittarius dwarf galaxy ( sgr ) and find that these stars appear to be more scattered than we expect for debris orbiting in a smooth halo . </S>",
    "<S> however , the degree of scattering is entirely consistent with that expected due to the influence of the large magellanic cloud , which is on an orbit that intersects sgr s own . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that the current data is unable to constrain cdm models .    </S>",
    "<S> nevertheless , our study suggests that future data sets of debris stars associated with other milky way satellites could provide strong constraints on cdm models . </S>"
  ]
}