{
  "article_text": [
    "there is rapidly growing evidence for smbhs in the centers of many galaxies ( for a review see @xcite ) .",
    "there are too many examples to list here ; indeed , there are only a few galaxies for which observations indicate that a central smbh does not exist@xcite .",
    "many authors have pointed out that the mass of the central black hole @xmath2 correlates linearly with the mass of bulge @xmath3 , _",
    "i.e. _ , the ratio of @xmath2 to @xmath3 is almost constant ( 0.002 @xcite to 0.006@xcite ) .",
    "this suggests that the formation of the central bh is somehow related to the formation of the bulge .",
    "the formation mechanism of smbhs is not well understood .",
    "our theoretical understanding has not advanced much beyond the scenarios described by rees@xcite in the early 1980s . in the famous diagram by rees ,",
    "there were basically two paths from gas clouds to massive black holes .",
    "the first is direct monolithic collapse , the second is via the formation of a star cluster , with subsequent runaway collisions leading to bh formation .",
    "previous numerical studies , however , have demonstrated that neither path is likely . in the first , a massive gas cloud is more likely to fragment into many small clumps , in which stars then form , so direct formation of a massive bh from a gas cloud seems unlikely . in the second , stellar dynamics in star clusters",
    "does not easily lead to the formation of massive black holes .",
    "a number of low - mass black holes ( masses around 10m@xmath1 ) are formed via the evolution of massive stars , and these black holes do indeed sink to the center of the cluster through dynamical friction and form binaries by three - body encounters .",
    "however , recent @xmath4-body simulations@xcite have demonstrated that practically all of these black - hole binaries are ejected from the cluster by recoil following interactions with other black holes ( or bh binaries ) before they can merge through gravitational radiation .",
    "@xcite have identified nine bright compact x - ray sources in the central region of m82 using recent chandra data .",
    "the brightest source ( no .  7 in their table 1 )",
    "had a luminosity of @xmath5 in jan 2000 , corresponding to a black hole with a minimum mass of @xmath6 ( assuming emission at the eddington limit ) .",
    "it probably consists of a single compact object , as its x - ray flux shows rapid time variation@xcite .",
    "this is the first detection of a bh with a mass much greater than @xmath7 but much less than @xmath8 . among the eight other sources , at least three ( 5 , 8 and 9 ) have eddington masses greater than @xmath9 .",
    "@xcite observed the same region in using nobeyama millimeter array and found a huge expanding shell of the molecular gas .",
    "they estimated the age and kinetic energy of the shell to be around 10 myr and @xmath10 erg , which suggest a strong starburst took place a few myrs ago .",
    "@xcite observed the same region in the ir ( j , h , and k@xmath11-band ) using the cisco instrument on the subaru telescope@xcite .",
    "they identified a number of young compact star clusters , at least four of them coinciding with the x - ray sources within the position uncertainty of chandra and subaru .",
    "the subaru field of view is smaller than that of chandra , and three of the x - ray sources are outside of the ir field .",
    "thus , four out of six bright x - ray sources in the ir field of view have been identified with bright star clusters .",
    "the logical conclusion from these observations is that most of chandra x - ray sources , including the brightest one with an eddington mass of @xmath12 , are formed in star clusters .",
    "therefore , we now have two important observational results .",
    "the first is that a bh with intermediate mass ( @xmath13 ) has been found .",
    "the second is that it coincides with a young compact star cluster . in the following ,",
    "we discuss how these findings change our understanding of the formation of supermassive bhs .",
    "we first discuss how imbhs can be formed in young compact star clusters , then how imbhs might grow into smbhs .",
    "here we consider some formation mechanisms for imbhs in star clusters ( see figure 1 ) . an obvious way to form an imbh is the collapse of a supermassive star .",
    "however , this possibility seems to have little observational or theoretical support .",
    "observationally , no stars with masses larger than @xmath14 are known .",
    "the most luminous star currently known is the pistol star@xcite , with an estimated present mass of less than @xmath15 .",
    "recent radio observations of this star have detected signs of a strong stellar wind@xcite , which is consistent with the theoretical prediction that such massive stars are dynamically unstable@xcite .",
    "we therefore regard it as unlikely that an imbh with mass exceeding @xmath6 could have formed by the collapse of a single massive star .",
    "an alternative possibility is the formation and growth of massive stars ( and imbhs ) through successive merging .",
    "massive stars in star clusters have higher merger rates than less massive cluster members ( or field stars ) , for the following three reasons .",
    "first , they have larger geometrical cross sections , and these are further enhanced by gravitational focusing .",
    "second , because of mass segregation , these stars tend to be found in the high - density region near the cluster center .",
    "third , the most massive stars at the center tend to form binaries through three - body interactions , and binary membership greatly increases their chances of merging .",
    "a significant fraction of binary - single star encounters lead to complex resonances during which very close encounters can occur .",
    "many such encounters lead to physical collisions between stars @xcite .",
    "if these effects are strong enough , we expect that a `` merging instability''@xcite , or a runaway growth of the most massive star , will occur in the cluster core .",
    "@xcite performed fokker - planck simulations of globular clusters with merging of stars taken into account .",
    "he included the first two of the three effects mentioned above , and concluded that the merger instability is unlikely unless the mass of the globular cluster is very large ( @xmath16 , where @xmath4 is the number of stars ) .",
    "recently , however , @xmath4-body simulations carried out by @xcite have demonstrated that runaway merging can take place in much smaller systems containing only @xmath17 stars .",
    "the primary reason for this discrepancy is that , in @xmath4-body simulations , all three of the effects described above are automatically included , whereas in the fokker - plank calculation by lee the third was not modeled .",
    "a second reason is that portegies zwart et al . considered a young , compact cluster , similar to r136 in the lmc or the arches and quintuplet systems in the galactic center , while lee considered normal globular clusters",
    "thus , the dynamical timescale was much shorter in the models considered by portegies zwart et al . , allowing merging to occur before stellar evolution eliminated the most massive stars .",
    "portegies zwart et al",
    ". found that , in one case , the most massive star experienced more than ten collisions and reached a mass of around @xmath18 before experiencing a supernova . there is considerable uncertainty as to how much mass would remain as a bh after the supernova explosion of such a massive star , but it is quite likely that the remnant black hole would still be one of the most massive objects in the cluster , and that the runaway merging process would continue .",
    "although the geometrical cross section of a bh is small , `` merging '' would take place when a star approached within its tidal radius , leading to a relatively large merger cross section .    in order for runaway merging to occur , the dynamical friction timescale for the most massive stars must be short enough that they can sink to the center during their lifetime of several myr .",
    "the dynamical friction timescale may be expressed as@xcite : @xmath19 where @xmath20 is the coulomb logarithm , @xmath21 is the gravitational constant , @xmath22 is the local velocity dispersion , @xmath23 is the distance from the center of the cluster , @xmath24 and @xmath25 are the half - mass radius and the total mass of the cluster , and @xmath26 is the mass of the star .    in the following ,",
    "we consider how the dynamical friction works in the cluster found in m82 . from the infrared luminosity , @xcite estimate that the total mass of the cluster is @xmath27 .",
    "they also estimated the seeing - corrected radius of the cluster as 5 pc .",
    "the dynamical friction timescale is around 800 myr for stars at the half mass radius of the cluster .",
    "this looks too long , but in fact it is not .",
    "as can be seen from equation ( [ eq : df ] ) , the timescale depends rather strongly on @xmath23 . for @xmath28 , a volume which still contains about 5% of the total cluster mass ,",
    "the dynamical friction timescale is less than 10 myr .",
    "we therefore conclude that there is time for a fair fraction of the most massive stars in the cluster to sink to the cluster center and undergo runaway merging before exploding as supernovae .",
    "after the bh has become much more massive than other cluster members , it forms a cusp near the cluster center @xcite , and continues to consume other stars .",
    "unfortunately , no realistic simulations of this phase of the evolution are available .",
    "@xcite performed monte - carlo simulations of this stage for a simplified cluster containing @xmath29 solar - mass stars and one 50 solar - mass seed bh .",
    "they found that the bh mass jumped to over @xmath30 ( 0.3% of the cluster mass ) almost immediately after they put the bh into the system .",
    "after this initial rapid growth , a slower phase ensued , with a doubling timescale comparable to the relaxation time of the cluster . their result should be regarded as a lower limit on the bh growth rate , since realistic effects , in particular the presence of a mass spectrum , would greatly enhance the accretion rate . taking these effects into account",
    ", it seems safe ( even conservative ) to suppose that 0.1% of the total cluster mass accretes to form a @xmath31 central bh in a few myr .",
    "as stated above , there are more than 10 bright star clusters in the vicinity of the imbh host cluster in m82 , some of them apparently hosting small bhs .",
    "their age is around 10 myr@xcite .",
    "also , the starburst in m82 is a long - duration event , having started at least 200 myr ago@xcite .",
    "if we assume that the clusters are formed in a constant rate , we would conclude that around 200 clusters have been formed .",
    "the star formation rate certainly has not been constant , so there is considerable uncertainty in our estimate .",
    "even so , we believe it is safe to assume that around one hundred clusters similar to our host cluster have formed in total , and that a considerable fraction of them host imbhs .",
    "yr ) , those stars sink to the cluster core by dynamical friction , and form a dense inner core of massive stars at the cluster center . in this inner core ,",
    "the massive stars undergo runaway stellar merging and a very massive star with mass exceeding 100 @xmath32 forms .",
    "this massive star eventually collapse into a black hole , which continues to grow by swallowing nearby massive stars .",
    "if the cluster is not dense enough for mass segregation to occur in 10 myr , massive stars evolve into compact stellar remnants such as neutron stars and stellar - mass black holes ( @xmath33 ) .",
    "those stellar remnants slowly sink to the cluster center , since they are heavier than other stars in the system , and eventually form binaries .",
    "successive three - body interactions made these binaries more tightly bound , and eventually they are ejected from the cluster by slingshot mechanism . ,",
    "the growth rate of the imbh in a star cluster slows once massive stars disappear ( after @xmath34 myr ) .",
    "what happens to the cluster and the imbh after the initial rapid growth phase ? in the discussion below , we assume a cluster mass of @xmath35 m@xmath1 and a half - mass radius of 5pc .",
    "the cluster is subject to two evolutionary processes : evaporation through two - body relaxation and orbital decay ( sinking ) via dynamical friction .",
    "evaporation is driven partly by thermal relaxation and partly by stellar mass loss .",
    "@xcite estimated that the evaporation timescale for a roche - lobe - filling compact star cluster is around 2 - 3 half - mass relaxation times , which is of the order of a few gyr for our star clusters . rewriting equation ( [ eq : df ] ) using appropriate scaling for this case",
    ", we find that timescale on which the cluster sinks to the galactic center via dynamical friction is @xmath36 clusters initially within 1 kpc of the galactic center can therefore reach the center within one gyr .",
    "note that an imbh can reach the galactic center only if its host cluster can sink to the center before it evaporates .",
    "if the cluster dissolves before significant orbital decay occurs , the timescale for the imbh to fall to the center increases greatly .",
    "according to our estimate in the previous section , around 100 compact clusters have formed close to the center of m82 in the last 200 myrs .",
    "if we assume that half of these clusters contain @xmath37 imbhs , and that these imbhs actually merge , then the total bh mass at the center of the galaxy would be at least @xmath38 , high enough to be called a supermassive bh , if we take into account the relatively small total mass of m82 .",
    "having demonstrated that @xmath39 imbhs can form and reach the galactic center in a reasonable timescale , we now turn to the question of whether the multiple imbhs at the center can merge .",
    "@xcite discussed the evolution of a supermassive bh binary at the center of a galaxy , taking into account dynamical friction from field stars and energy loss via gravitational radiation .",
    "they found that the merging timescale depends strongly on mass , and for the very massive bhs in which they were interested , merging took much longer than a hubble time .",
    "there are two reasons why they obtained such a long timescale .",
    "the first is that they considered smbhs with masses exceeding @xmath40 , and the timescale for orbital decay via gravitational radiation is proportional to the mass , for given orbital velocity .",
    "the second reason is that they assumed that `` loss - cone depletion '' would occur . in other words",
    ", they assumed that stars approaching close enough to the bh binary to interact were supplied only though two - body relaxation , which is a very slow process in large elliptical galaxies .",
    "however , for the imbhs we consider here , the timescale for merging through gravitational radiation is many orders of magnitude shorter than that for the smbhs considered by begelman et al .",
    "one reason is simply that the imbh mass is many orders of magnitude smaller .",
    "an imbh of mass @xmath41 has a timescale @xmath42 times shorter than a @xmath43 smbh when compared at the same orbital velocity .",
    "a second reason is that loss - cone depletion is not as effective as originally assumed , at least for relatively small bh mass",
    ". therefore imbhs can reach high orbital velocities in short timescales .",
    "recent extensive numerical simulations @xcite have shown that the hardening of the bh binary through dynamical friction is in fact several orders of magnitude faster than the prediction from loss - cone arguments .",
    "a third reason for the long smbh merger time is the fact that begelman et al .",
    "ignored the effects of eccentricity , which can significantly reduce the merging time scale .",
    "thus , we can safely conclude that the merging time scale for imbhs with masses less than @xmath44 is no more than a few myr .",
    "since we expect many imbhs to fall to the center of the galaxy on a timescale of 100 myr , in principle , slingshot ejection might remove some of them from the region .",
    "however , once one bh has become more massive than typical infalling bhs , it becomes extremely unlikely that it will be ejected , since the kick velocity is inversely proportional to the mass ( because of momentum conservation ) .",
    "thus , even though some of the infalling bhs might be ejected , the central bh would continue to grow .",
    "figure 2 summarizes the discussion in this section .",
    "in this paper , we have discussed the implications for our understanding of the smbh formation mechanism of the recent discovery of an imbh in m82 .",
    "our conclusion is that the imbh found in m82 plays the role of `` missing link '' between stellar - mass bhs and smbhs .",
    "since we now know that imbhs exist , it seems natural to expect that smbhs might be formed from them .",
    "we propose that imbhs are formed in the cores of young compact star clusters through merging of massive stars and bhs formed from them .",
    "these compact young clusters sink to the galactic center by dynamical friction . at the same time , they evaporate via thermal relaxation , stellar mass loss and the effect of the parent galaxy s tidal field .",
    "thus , imbhs are created and transported to the center of the galaxy , where they eventually merge to form smbhs .    in the following ,",
    "we discuss how we might seek to confirm our new scenario . the most direct evidence would be the observation of gravitational radiation from close binary imbhs or merging imbhs .",
    "lisa @xcite , when completed , will be able to detect imbh merging events even at cosmological distances .",
    "the event rate for merging of smbh is estimated to be one per 110 years . in our scenario , each smbh is a product of @xmath34 mergings of imbhs or imbh and growing smbh .",
    "therefore we predict a much higher event rate for imbh - imbh and imbh - smbh merging , of the order of 1 per month or even 1 per week",
    ".    to test our hypothesis , searches for imbhs in other galaxies are clearly necessary . in our view , imbhs are likely to form in young compact star clusters created in nuclear starbursts .",
    "we predict that coordinated observations of nearby starburst galaxies at ir , x - ray and radio wavelengths , like those performed for m82 , will reveal many more candidate imbhs .",
    "it is also vital to determine internal and external kinematics of the host star clusters of imbhs .",
    "high - dispersion spectroscopy in the ir with large ground - based telescopes such as subaru should be able to determine the velocity dispersion of such a star cluster .",
    "observations by hst would easily resolve the cluster and give us detailed information of its structure .",
    "comparison of these results with theoretical models will then determine whether or not runaway merging can actually take place there .",
    "the ultra luminous compact x - ray sources@xcite may be directly related to imbhs .",
    "these are luminous compact x - ray sources with eddington masses exceeding 100 @xmath45 .",
    "most are found in the arms of spiral galaxies .",
    "thus , they are probably related to young star clusters , and might well also have been formed through merging of massive stars .",
    "their relatively low masses may reflect the differences sizes and masses of their parent star clusters .",
    "this work was supported in part by nasa through hubble fellowship grant hf-01112.01 - 98a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa under contract nas 5 - 26555 and by the research for the future program of japan society for the promotion of science ( jsps - rftp97p01102 ) . slwm and spz acknowledge support of nasa atp grants nag5 - 6964 and nag5 - 9264 .",
    "bahcall , j. n. , and wolf , r. a. 1976 , , 209 , 21 begelman , m. c. , blandford , r. d. , and rees , m. j. 1980 , , 287 , 307 binney j. , and tremaine s. 1987 , _ galactic dynamics _ , princeton university press , princeton .",
    "colbert , e. j. m. and mushotzky , r. f. 1999 , , 519 , 89 figer , d. , najarro , f. , morris , m. , mclean , i. , geballe , t. , ghez , a. , langer , n. , 1998 , , 506 , 384 de grijs , r. , oconnell , r. w. , gallagher , j. s. , 2001 , , 121 , 768 harashima , t. , et  al .",
    ", 2001 , in preparation hut , p. and inagaki , s. , 1985 , , 298 , 502 jafry y. r. , cornelisse j. , and reinhard r. ( 1994 ) lisa - a laser interferometer space antenna for gravitational - wave measurements . 18 : 219228 kaaret , p. , prestwich , a.h . ,",
    "zezas , a. , murray s.s . , kim d .- w . , kilgard , r.e . ,",
    "schlegel , e.m . , and ward , m.j . , 2001 , , 321 , l29 kormendy , j. , and mcclure , r.d . 1993 , , 105 , 1793 kormendy , j. , and richstone , d. 1995 , , 33 , 581 kormendy , j. , et  al . , 1997 , , 482 , l139 lang , c. , figer , d. , goss , w. , and morris , m. 1999 , , 118 , 2327 lee , h. m. 1987 , , 319 , 801 magorrian et al . 1998 , , 115 , 2285 makino , j. , fukushige , t. , okumura , s. , and ebisuzaki , t. 1993 , , 45 , 303 makino , j. 1997 , , 478 , 58 makishima , k. et al .",
    "2000 , , 535 , 632 matsumoto , h. , and tsuru , t. 1999 , 51 , 321 matsumoto , h. , tsuru , t. , koyama , k. , awaki , h. , canizares , c.r .",
    ", kawai , n. , matsushita , and s. , kawabe , r. 2001 , , 547 , l25 matsushita , s. , kawabe , r. , matsumoto , h. , tsuru , t. g. , kohno , k. , morita , k. , okumura , s. , vila - vilar , b. 2000 , , 545 , l107 marchant , a. b. and shapiro , s. l. 1980 , , 239 , 685 mcmillan , s. l. w. , 1986 , , 306 , 552 .",
    "portegies zwart , s. f. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s. l. w. , and hutt , p. 1999",
    ", , 348 , 117 portegies zwart , s. f. , and mcmillan , s. l. w. , 2000 , , 528 , l17 portegies zwart , s. f. , makino , j. , mcmillan , s. l. w. , and hut , p. , 2001",
    ", , 546 , l101 portegies zwart , s. f. et al .",
    "2001 , submitted to ptak , a. and griffith , r. 1999 , 535 , l85 merritt , d. and quinlan , g. d. 1998 , , 498 , 625 rees , m. j. , 1978 _ the observatory _",
    ", 98 , 210 .",
    "rees , m. j. , 1984 , 22 , 471 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of stellar kinematics , gas dynamics and masers around galactic nuclei have now firmly established that many galaxies host central supermassive black holes ( smbhs ) with masses in the range @xmath0m@xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> however , how these smbhs formed is not well understood . </S>",
    "<S> one reason for this situation is the lack of observations of intermediate - mass bhs ( imbhs ) , which could bridge the gap between stellar - mass bhs and smbhs . </S>",
    "<S> recently , this missing link ( i.e. , an imbh ) has been found in observations made by the asca and the chandra of the central region of the starburst galaxy m82 @xcite . subsequent observations by subaru have revealed that this imbh apparently coincides with a young compact star cluster . </S>",
    "<S> based on these findings , we suggest a new formation scenario for smbhs . in this scenario , imbhs first form in young compact star clusters through runaway merging of massive stars . </S>",
    "<S> while these imbhs are forming , the host star clusters sink toward the galactic nucleus through dynamical friction , and upon evaporation deposit their imbhs near the galactic center . </S>",
    "<S> the imbhs then form binaries and eventually merge via gravitational radiation , forming an smbh . </S>"
  ]
}