{
  "article_text": [
    "the possibility of providing a thermodynamical description of self - gravitating stellar systems has motivated a number of investigations in galactic dynamics , starting with the pioneering work of antonov and lynden - bell in the 60s .",
    "after the realization that violent relaxation is likely to lead to partially relaxed configurations in dynamical equilibrium @xcite , a re - examination of the problem of the isothermal sphere , studied earlier by @xcite for a self - gravitating gas , led to the interesting possibility that stellar systems may undergo the process of gravothermal catastrophe ( @xcite ; see also @xcite ) . however , a rigorous derivation of the onset of the gravothermal catastrophe from a study of the boltzmann entropy appeared to be available only for the case of ideal systems confined by a spherical reflecting wall .",
    "a number of convincing qualitative arguments made it clear that also unbound stellar systems with finite mass , such as those described by the king sequence ( @xcite ; these spherical models have a finite radius , but do not require an external wall ) , should probably fall into the same physical framework and indeed the paradigm received a lot of attention , especially in the context of the dynamics of globular clusters ( see @xcite ) , which are known to possess , at least to some extent , the desired internal collisionality ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "[ an indirect indication that the general physical picture of the gravothermal catastrophe is likely to be robust comes also from the proof that the behaviour of the classical gas case is basically independent of the assumption of spherical geometry @xcite . ]",
    "several investigations have aimed at producing a rigorous derivation of the gravothermal catastrophe for unbound stellar systems , focusing on the underlying argument that refers to the poincar stability of linear series of equilibria @xcite , but the proof has always been centered on an unjustified _ ansatz _ in order to connect the underlying entropy @xmath2 with the global temperature @xmath3 ( see appendix v in the article by @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "other investigations have explored the possibility of setting the discussion in the context of non - standard entropies ( e.g. , the tsallis entropies ; see the study of the polytropic spheres by @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "note that the concept of entropy for collisionless systems is quite subtle ( e.g. , see @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "one might even argue whether it is actually compatible with the long - range nature of gravity , given the fact that self - gravitating systems lack additivity , a key ingredient in thermodynamics .    in the meantime , inspired by n - body simulations of collisionless collapse @xcite , which confirmed the general picture of incomplete violent relaxation and showed that it can lead to systems with realistic density profiles without ad hoc tuning of the initial conditions ,",
    "some families of models were constructed able to reproduce , for quasi - spherical configurations , the characteristic feature of the anisotropy profile with an inner isotropic core and an outer radially biased envelope ( @xcite ; see @xcite and references therein ) : these families turned out to exhibit the characteristic @xmath1 projected density profile and indeed were shown to match nicely the observed photometric and kinematical characteristics of bright ellipticals . in an attempt at providing a justification of these models ( in particular , of the so - called @xmath4 models , constructed initially only from dynamical arguments ) from statistical mechanics , two routes were pursued @xcite .",
    "the first combines an explicit statement of partial relaxation , i.e. of a relaxation process that is expected to be inefficient in the outer regions , and the existence of a suitable weight , related to the orbital period , for the cells that make the relevant partition of phase space ; it follows qualitative arguments proposed by @xcite and is physically appealing ( see also @xcite ) .",
    "it was indeed shown to lead naturally to the @xmath4 models .",
    "however , this route is not fully satisfactory from the mathematical point of view , especially since it involves an explicit approximation for the orbital period that is applicable only to the low binding energy limit of quasi - keplerian orbits .",
    "the second route is straightforward from the mathematical point of view , being based on the classical boltzmann entropy and on the assumed explicit conservation of a third quantity @xmath0 , in addition to the total mass @xmath5 and to the total energy @xmath6 .",
    "it was shown to lead to an analytically different family of models ( that we may call the @xmath7 models ; see definition in sect .",
    "3 below ) , with qualitative properties very similar to those of the @xmath4 models .",
    "those models were not studied much further and did not receive great attention , not only because the relevant distribution function is not as simple as that of the @xmath4 models , but especially because the conservation of @xmath0 could only be justified approximately by inspection of a number of n - body simulations , without a clear - cut physical justification ( see @xcite ; in contrast , the conservation of the additional @xmath8 invariant sometimes invoked in plasma physics is rather transparent ; see @xcite ) .    in this paper",
    "we take advantage of the simple statistical mechanics foundation of the @xmath7 family of unbound partially relaxed stellar systems to explore the possibility of a thermodynamical description of stellar - dynamical models that are endowed with realistic properties .",
    "before proceeding to illustrate the results of this paper , we make a short digression in order to bring out the connections between the present analysis and the evolution of elliptical galaxies .",
    "we start by recalling that , formally , the sequence of @xcite models is one special family of solutions of the collisionless boltzmann equation . yet , it is recognized to provide a reasonable description of the current properties of globular clusters ( see @xcite ) , within a framework where these stellar systems continually evolve as a result of a variety of mechanisms ( among which star evaporation and disk shocking ; see @xcite and references therein ) and where the paradigm of the gravothermal catastrophe can be applied ( see @xcite ) .",
    "of course , it is well known that the level of internal collisionality in globular clusters is relatively high , so that the above approach is quite natural .    in contrast , one might at first think of dismissing the possibility that the paradigm of the gravothermal catastrophe should be of interest for the study of elliptical galaxies , because these large stellar systems lack the desired level of collisionality , judging from the estimate of the relevant star - star relaxation times . here , following the spirit of earlier investigations ( starting with @xcite )",
    ", we note that real elliptical galaxies are actually complex systems the evolution of which goes well beyond the idealized framework of the collisionless boltzmann equation . in other words , splitting their description into past ( formation ) processes and present ( mostly collisionless equilibrium ) conditions should be considered only as an idealization introduced in order to assess the properties that define their current basic state .    in practice",
    ", elliptical galaxies are expected to be in a state of continuous evolution , for which we can list several specific dynamical causes : ( 1 ) left - over granularity of the stellar system itself from initial collapse .",
    "clumps of stars are likely to continue to form and dissolve in phase space even after the system has reached an approximate steady state .",
    "this acts as internal collisionality thus making some relaxation proceed even at current epochs . indeed ,",
    "numerical simulations of violent ( partial ) relaxation show that some evolution continues well after the initial collapse has taken place .",
    "( 2 ) drag of a system of globular clusters or other heavier objects towards the galaxy center . a globular cluster system or the frequent capture of small satellites ( mini - mergers )",
    "may provide an internal heating mechanism associated with the process of dynamical friction by the stars on the heavier objects @xcite .",
    "( 3 ) long - term action of tidal interactions of the galaxy with external objects . ( 4 ) presence of gas in various phases ( cold , warm , and hot ) .",
    "significant cooling flows have been observed in bright ellipticals .",
    "traditionally , studies of processes of this kind focus on the dynamics of the cooling gas and keep the background stellar system as ` frozen ' . in reality , energy and mass exchanges take place between the stellar system and the interstellar medium .",
    "( 5 ) interaction between the galactic nucleus and the galaxy .",
    "a number of interesting correlations have been found between the properties of galaxy nuclei and global properties of the hosting galaxies ( e.g. , see @xcite ) .",
    "these correlations suggest that significant energy exchanges are taking place between the galaxy and its nucleus .",
    "eventually , if a sufficiently concentrated nucleus is generated , then star - star relaxation in the central regions may also become a significant cause of dynamical evolution .",
    "all of the above are specific mechanisms that are expected to make elliptical galaxies evolve in spite of their very long typical star - star relaxation time .",
    "most of these processes are hard to model and to calculate in detail . as for the evolution of other complex many - body systems",
    ", it is hoped that thermodynamical arguments may help us identify general trends characterizing such evolution .",
    "this is the basic physical scenario in which the calculations presented in this paper are expected to be of interest for real elliptical galaxies .",
    "let us consider the standard boltzmann entropy @xmath9 and look for functions that extremize its value under the constraint that the total energy @xmath10 , the total mass @xmath11 , and the additional quantity    @xmath12    are taken to be constant . here",
    "the functions @xmath13 and @xmath14 represent specific energy and specific angular momentum square of a single star subject to a spherically symmetric mean potential @xmath15 . as shown elsewhere",
    "@xcite , this extremization process leads to the following family of distribution functions    @xmath16}~,\\ ] ]    where @xmath17 , @xmath18 , and @xmath19 are positive real constants .",
    "one may think of these constants as providing two dimensional scales ( for example , @xmath5 and @xmath0 ) and one dimensionless parameter ; the dimensionless parameter can be taken to be @xmath20 . in principle , @xmath21 is any positive real number ; in practice , we will focus on values of @xmath22 .",
    "the @xmath7 non - truncated models are constructed by taking this form of the distribution function for @xmath23 , a vanishing distribution function for @xmath24 , and by integrating the relevant poisson equation under the condition that the potential @xmath25 be regular at the origin and behaves like @xmath26 at large radii .",
    "this integration leads to an eigenvalue problem ( see appendix ) for which a value of @xmath27 is determined by the choice of the central dimensionless potential , @xmath28 , with @xmath29 .",
    "the main point of the following analysis is the determination of the boltzmann entropy @xmath30 and of the total energy @xmath31 along the sequence of models , i.e. as a function of the concentration parameter @xmath32 defined above . these functions , at constant @xmath5 and @xmath0 ,",
    "are illustrated in fig .",
    "they have been obtained by noting that , from the definitions of @xmath2 and @xmath7 ,    @xmath33    from the definitions @xmath34 and @xmath35 and the definition of @xmath27 , we can express the variables @xmath36 in terms of the variables @xmath37 and thus find that the entropy per unit mass can be written as @xmath38 , where @xmath39 is constant when the values of @xmath5 and @xmath0 are fixed , with    @xmath40    here @xmath41 is the dimensionless total energy defined from @xmath42 . from the identity @xmath43 and the expression of @xmath44 obtained previously , we find @xmath45 , with :    @xmath46    the factor @xmath47 is a constant when @xmath5 and @xmath0 are taken to be constant .",
    "the quantities @xmath48 , @xmath49 , @xmath50 , and @xmath51 that enter the expression of @xmath52 and @xmath53 depend only on @xmath32 and are evaluated numerically on the equilibrium sequence .",
    "this completes the derivation that allows us to draw the analogy with the classical paper of @xcite .",
    "this step , straightforward for the @xmath7 models , is by itself interesting and new .",
    "in fact , other attempts at applying the paradigm of the gravothermal catastrophe to stellar dynamical equilibrium sequences were either based on an unjustified _ ansatz _ for the identification of the relevant temperature ( e.g. , see appendix v in the article by @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) or on the use of non - standard entropies ( for less realistic models ; @xcite ) .",
    "when the @xmath7 models were constructed @xcite , it was immediately realized that they have general properties similar to those of the @xmath4 models @xcite ; in particular , for values of @xmath22 , sufficiently concentrated models along the sequence tend to settle into a  stable \" overall structure , except for the development of a more and more compact nucleus , as the value of @xmath32 increases , and are characterized by a projected density profile very well fitted by the @xmath1 law characteristic of the surface brightness profile of bright elliptical galaxies .",
    "this property is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig2 ] .",
    "now , by inspection of fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] and by analogy with the study of the isothermal sphere @xcite , we can identify the location at @xmath54 as the location for the _ onset of the gravothermal catastrophe_. this sequence of models thus has the surprising result that the value of @xmath32 that defines the onset of the gravothermal catastrophe is precisely that around which the models appear to become realistic representations of bright elliptical galaxies .",
    "we leave to other papers ( see @xcite ) the detailed discussion of the issues that have to be addressed when comparison is made with the observations .",
    "we note that in this regime of high concentration the general properties of the gravothermal catastrophe are reasonably well recovered by the use of the _ ansatz _ that the temperature parameter conjugate to the total energy is @xmath17 , a quantity directly related to the velocity dispersion in the central regions .",
    "basically , this was the _",
    "ansatz _ made in the discussion of the possible occurrence of the gravothermal catastrophe for the king models or for other sequences of models ( e.g. , see @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) . here",
    "we have proved that the application of a rigorous derivation , which is available in our case , gives rise to relatively modest quantitative changes in the @xmath55 diagram for values of @xmath32 close to and beyond the onset of the catastrophe ( see fig .",
    "[ fig3 ] ) . however , in sect",
    ".  6 we will draw the attention to an interesting , qualitatively new phenomenon missed in the previous derivations based on the use of the @xmath17-_ansatz_.    in passing , we note that in this regime of relatively high concentrations , the @xmath7 models possess one intrinsic property that makes them more appealing than the widely studied @xmath4 models . this is related to the way the models compare to the phase space properties of the products of collisionless collapse , as observed in n - body simulations @xcite .",
    "in fact , one noted unsatisfactory property of the concentrated @xmath4 models was their excessive degree of isotropy with respect to the models produced in the simulations .",
    "family of models extended to the case of negative values of the coefficient @xmath17 multiplying the energy in the exponent .",
    "unfortunately , their proposed solution , in terms of models characterized by such a peculiar phase - space structure , is unable to reproduce both the core velocity distribution observed in numerical experiments and the modest amount of radial anisotropy revealed by observed line profiles .",
    "in addition , their proposed solution is not viable because for negative values of @xmath17 the radial anisotropy level is so high that the models are violently unstable , on an extremely short timescale , with the result that their structural properties would be drastically changed by rapid evolution @xcite . ] here we can easily check that the anisotropy level of the concentrated @xmath7 models , while still within the desired ( radial orbit ) stability boundary and still consistent with the modest amount of radial anisotropy revealed by the observations , seems much closer to that resulting from n - body simulations of collisionless collapse ; in particular , the anisotropy radius @xmath56 , defined from the relation @xmath57 , with @xmath58 , is close to the half - mass radius @xmath59 ( while for the @xmath4 models it is about three times as large ) .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] . in any case",
    ", we would like to emphasize that , while we have been clearly taking inspiration from simulations of collisionless collapse , our main interest is in comparing the structure of our models with that of observed objects rather than in providing a detailed fit to the results of n - body simulations .",
    "the intermediate concentration regime ( the precise point that marks the low concentration regime will be identified in the next section ) is a regime where the models appear to be stable , with respect not only to the gravothermal catastrophe ( following the arguments provided earlier ; but we should recall that the catastrophe is expected to require a sufficiently high level of effective collisionality in order to take off ) but also to other instabilities ( see the discussion given by @xcite and references therein ) . the relatively wide variations , between @xmath60 and @xmath61 , in all the representative quantities that characterize the equilibrium models suggest that this part of the sequence could be used to model the weak homology of bright elliptical galaxies ( see @xcite ) , much like the sequence of king models is able to capture observed systematic variations in the structure of globular clusters ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the low concentration regime is marked by an unexpected and significant difference with respect to the low concentration limit of the classical isothermal sphere @xcite .",
    "in fact , while the classical case reduces to the ideal non - gravitating gas , to which boyle s law applies , for the @xmath7 models the system remains self - gravitating , although it develops a wide core in the density distribution . a clear - cut proof of this difference is given by inspecting the behavior of the global temperature @xmath62 , identified from the thermodynamical definition @xmath63 . while the temperature defined by the _ a - ansatz _ remains obviously positive definite , by definition , if we look at fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] we see that the global temperature @xmath62 changes sign at @xmath64 .",
    "this marks a drastic qualitative deviation from the classical studies .    here",
    "we note a curious coincidence of this transition value of @xmath32 with the value around which the sequence is bound to change its stability properties with respect to the radial orbit instability @xcite .",
    "indeed , the location where the sequence is expected to become unstable in this regard is precisely that defined by @xmath64 , as can be judged from inspection of fig .",
    "[ fig4 ] ; around those values of @xmath32 the level of radial anisotropy , as measured by @xmath65 reaches the threshold value of @xmath66 , known to be sufficient for the excitation of the instability ( the precise value of @xmath67 corresponding to marginal stability is model dependent ; for some sequences the reported value is below the range suggested by @xcite ) .",
    "these clues appear to be interesting and important , but more work is required before a final claim can be made that there is indeed a direct relation between the dynamical radial orbit instability and the fact that the system possesses a negative global temperature , as we found based on the simple work presented here .",
    "a relatively straightforward and simple thermodynamical description of an equilibrium sequence constructed earlier and known to possess realistic characteristics with respect to bright elliptical galaxies shows that , on the one side , the paradigm of the gravothermal catastrophe may be adequate to explain the occurrence of realistic properties in models of collisionless stellar systems and , on the other side , a long - known dynamical instability might turn out to be interpreted in terms of a thermodynamical argument .",
    "probably the main open question regarding the models discussed in this paper , partially addressed in previous studies ( see @xcite ) , is to what extent the quantity @xmath0 is actually reasonably well conserved during violent ( partial ) relaxation .",
    "it is likely that a thorough investigation of this issue may give indications that the quantity is best conserved only in certain ranges of @xmath21 .",
    "studies of this type , combined with other dynamical and thermodynamical considerations , may turn out to lead to the identification of a family of equilibrium models with optimal behavior with respect to statistical mechanics , with respect to what we know about collisionless collapse , and with respect to the problem of providing a realistic representation of bright elliptical galaxies .",
    "we would like to thank l. ciotti , m. stiavelli , and t. van albada for interesting discussions and suggestions .",
    "this work has been partially supported by miur of italy .",
    "[ [ section ] ]      in which @xmath27 is considered as an eigenvalue to be determined by imposing the two natural boundary conditions @xmath69 and @xmath70 as @xmath71 . here",
    "the symbol @xmath72 indicates that the quantity is suitably expressed in dimensionless form .",
    "we have computed the two - dimensional integral for the density with an adaptive seven - point scheme @xcite in order to properly handle the presence of a peaked integrand for certain values of the pair @xmath73 .",
    "the poisson equation has then been solved with a fourth order runge - kutta code by starting from @xmath74 with a seed value for @xmath27 and iterating the procedure until the boundary condition at large radii is matched within a certain accuracy .",
    "finally , we have proceeded to calculate the global quantities @xmath49 , @xmath50 , and @xmath51 from their definitions .      in order to check the accuracy of the numerical integration",
    "we have performed the following tests : ( 1 ) the virial theorem is satisfied with accuracy of the order @xmath75 or better ; ( 2 ) the integrated mass ( from its definition ) and the mass derived from the asymptotic behaviour of the potential at large radii are the same with accuracy of the order @xmath76 ; ( 3 ) the expression for @xmath77 at large radii to two significant orders in the relevant asymptotic expansion has been checked to be correct with an accuracy from @xmath78 to @xmath76 ; ( 4 ) the asymptotic analysis allows us to estimate the contributions to @xmath79 , @xmath80 , and @xmath81 external to a sphere of large radius @xmath82 ; this has been checked to help improve the numerical determination of the relevant global quantities .",
    "we estimate that the final relative error in the quantities along the equilibrium sequence is of the order of some parts times @xmath76 for @xmath83 and @xmath84 and some parts times @xmath85 for @xmath86 .",
    "the total energy is less sensitive to the finite radius truncation error , due to its @xmath87 convergence .",
    "the propagation of these errors leads to the error bars plotted in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] , where the entropy @xmath52 is the more difficult to determine with good accuracy .",
    "bertin , g. , pegoraro , f. , rubini , f. , vesperini , e. 1994 , , 434 , 94 bertin , g. , and stiavelli , m. 1984 , , 137 , 26 bertin , g. , and stiavelli , m. 1993 , rep .",
    "phys . , 56 , 493 bonnor , w.b .",
    "1956 , , 116 , 351 chandrasekhar , s. , and woltjer , l. 1958 , proc .",
    "usa , 44 , 285 chavanis , p.h .",
    "2002 , , 386 , 732 djorgovski , s. , and meylan , g. 1994 , , 108 , 1292 katz , j. 1978 , , 183 , 765      katz , j. 1980 , , 190 , 497 king , i. r. 1966 , , 71 , 64 lombardi , m. , and bertin , g. 2001 , , 375 , 1091 lynden - bell , d. 1967 , , 136 , 101 lynden - bell , d. , and eggleton , p.p .",
    "1980 , , 191 , 483 lynden - bell , d. , and wood , r. 1968 , , 138 , 495 magliocchetti , m. , pucacco , g. , and vesperini , e. 1998 , , 301 , 25 merritt , d. , tremaine , s. , and johnstone , d. 1989 , , 236 , 829 padmanabhan , t. 1989 , , 71 , 751    pellegrini , s. 1999 , , 351 , 487 polyachenko , v.l . , and shukhman , i.g .",
    "1981 , sov .",
    ", 25 , 533 spitzer , l. 1987 , dynamical evolution of globular clusters , princeton : princeton university press stiavelli , m. , and bertin , g. 1987 , , 229 , 61 stiavelli , m. , and sparke , l.s .",
    "1991 , , 382 , 466 taruya , a. , and sakagami , m. 2002 , physica a , 307 , 185 tremaine , s. in structure and dynamics of elliptical galaxies , t. de zeeuw , dordrecht : reidel , 1986 , 367 van albada , t.s . 1982 , , 201 , 939 vesperini , e. 1997 , , 287 , 915"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine the thermodynamical properties of a family of partially relaxed , anisotropic stellar systems , derived earlier from the boltzmann entropy under the assumption that a third quantity @xmath0 is conserved in addition to the total energy and the total number of stars . </S>",
    "<S> we now show that the family of models conforms to the paradigm of the gravothermal catastrophe , which is expected to occur ( in the presence of adequate energy transport mechanisms ) when the one - parameter equilibrium sequence attains sufficiently high values of the concentration parameter ; these are the values for which the models are well fitted by the @xmath1 law . in the intermediate concentration regime the models belonging to the sequence exhibit significant deviations from the @xmath1 law . </S>",
    "<S> curiously , in the low - concentration regime , the global thermodynamical temperature associated with the models becomes negative when the models become too anisotropic so that they are unstable against the radial orbit instability ; this latter behavior , while offering a new clue to the physical interpretation of the radial orbit instability , is at variance with respect to the low - concentration limit of the classical case of the isotropic , isothermal sphere investigated by @xcite and @xcite . </S>"
  ]
}