{
  "article_text": [
    "for @xmath2 , there are observed correlations between galaxy luminous properties and mgii absorption properties that support a view in which metal  enriched extended ( @xmath3  kpc ) gaseous envelopes of normal bright galaxies are coupled to galaxies ( e.g.  @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "an alternative view , extracted from numerical simulations of cosmic structure growth , is that the gas is concentrated along intergalactic filaments , where matter overdensities also give rise to mergers and normal bright galaxies .    by @xmath4",
    ", do galaxies remain coupled to the cosmic flow of baryons driven by matter overdensities or have they decoupled ?",
    "if the latter , they likely sustain their gaseous envelopes via mechanical means within the galaxies . in this contribution , we present data that suggest the mgii absorption and the emission line kinematics are coupled in some galaxies .",
    "we also discuss the kinematic relationship between civ and mgii and present the first galaxy for which data of the emission and mgii and civ absorption kinematics are available .",
    "in figure 1 , we show schematics of quasar sightlines through galaxies . two simplified kinematic models are illustrated : isotropic infall ( left ) , to depict the igm inflow , and disk rotation ( right ) , to depict gas coupled to the stellar components .",
    "the sightlines pass through absorbing clouds whose velocity vectors are shown .",
    "below each schematic is an absorption profile .",
    "all profiles are in the systemic rest  frame velocity .",
    "the distribution of velocities for the infall model is symmetric about the galaxy systemic velocity and the profile is comprised of discreet , unblended absorption lines with a velocity spread comparable to the infall velocity .",
    "the disk model gives rise to a profile that is offset with both magnitude and sign dictated by rotation and is comprised of a complex blend with a varying optical depth spread over a narrow velocity range .",
    "if the sightline passes through both infalling and rotating components , the profile would appear as shown in the bottom central panel .",
    "these distinct absorption / kinematic signatures of infalling and rotating gas serve as a guide for discriminating scenarios of the nature of extended gaseous envelopes around galaxies ( for additional details see @xcite ) .",
    "steidel et  al .",
    "( 2002 ) compared the emission  line ( stellar ) rotation curves of five highly inclined spiral galaxies to their mgii absorption kinematics . in four of five galaxies ,",
    "the absorption profiles are suggestive of `` disk  like '' dynamics , exhibiting properties of the disk model ( figure 1 ) .",
    "the fifth galaxy exhibits a single , weak mgii absorber ( see @xcite ) at the galaxy systemic velocity .",
    "there was no example of discreet clouds distributed symmetrically about the galaxy systemic redshift . however , detailed interpretation of the absorption kinematics is , in reality , not clear .",
    "it is difficult to understand the spatial geometry of the gas for the observed kinematics , the high galaxy inclinations , and the large impact parameters .",
    "these systems serve as evidence that , at least in some cases , the extended gaseous envelopes around galaxies appear to be coupled to the emission  line kinematics .",
    "to be fair , it can not be ruled out that non ",
    "isotropic igm accretion could have the general sense of galactic rotation .",
    "the kinematics of mgii and civ are strongly correlated ( @xcite ) .",
    "churchill et  al.suggested that this correlation could arise if the gas spatial and kinematic distribution reflected a disk / halo connection similar to those in local galaxies ( see @xcite , and references therein ) .",
    "this is consistent with the gas having a multiphase ionization and kinematic structure ( e.g.@xcite ; @xcite , 2002b ) .    to better understand this mgii ",
    "civ kinematics correlation and the multiphase structure , we have observed the civ with stis / hst ( e230 m , @xmath5 ) . in figure 2 , we present four selected systems , s1s4 . for each",
    ", the top panel shows the mgii @xmath6 transitions ( hires / keck , @xmath7 ) and the lower panel shows the civ @xmath8 transition in rest  frame velocity ( zero points are arbitrary ) .",
    "the four mgii profiles were specifically selected to illustrate the disk  like kinematic signature .",
    "observationally , this signature is common in a sample of 23 mgii systems , only one system exhibited absorption symmetrically about the strong complex ( @xcite ) .    in systems s1 and s2 , the civ kinematically traces the mgii , though the civ has less substructure ( broader components ) .",
    "the bulk of the civ arises in a lower density phase , possibly supported by turbulence",
    ". these could be coronal structures similar to that of our galaxy ( e.g.  @xcite ) .",
    "system s3 is similar to s1 and s2 , except that the strongest civ component is offset in velocity where the mgii is very weak .",
    "further , the component is relatively narrow .",
    "system s4 is unique in that the civ is highly structured with the mgii absorption but has a strong , very narrow civ component where there is no observed mgii .",
    "this is a quiescent high ionization``civ  only cloud '' .",
    "the widths of these civ  only clouds would be substantially broader if they were galactic  like corona or shock heated infalling material .",
    "s4 is the @xmath10 absorber along the q@xmath11 sightline . in figure 3@xmath12",
    ", we present the wfpc2 image of the quasar field showing two galaxies , g1 and g2 .",
    "lris / keck spectra of these galaxies were obtained with the slit aligned as shown by the vertical lines .",
    "the redshift of g2 matches the absorption redshift ; its rotation curve is shown in the upper panel of figure 3@xmath13 , below which are the mgii @xmath6 and civ @xmath14 absorption profiles .    at face value ,",
    "the mgii kinematics are suggestive of the disk kinematic model .",
    "the strongest mgii is aligned with the stellar rotation and the weaker clouds are not symmetry about the galaxy systemic velocity .",
    "however , detailed modeling reveals that a simple disk scenario fails ; this system is very puzzling ( @xcite ) . at a projected distance of @xmath15  kpc , the nature of the narrow civ  only cloud , which is slightly positive with respect to the galaxy systemic velocity ( shaded region on the stellar velocity curve ) ,",
    "is also difficult to understand in view of the overall absorption kinematics .",
    "what is the nature and origin of the quiescent high ionization gas at a distance of 70  kpc having a nearly galactic systemic velocity ?",
    "if galaxy evolution to the present epoch is governed by the accretion of gas from the igm , the gas would provide a tracer of the structure , kinematics , and chemical enrichment of the cosmic web .",
    "the gas would not necessarily be coupled to galaxy emission ",
    "line kinematics in the majority of cases ; neither merging events nor igm accretion predict strong coupling between the gas kinematics and the stellar kinematics .",
    "a large statistical sample is needed to discern the veracity of this expectation .",
    "what scenario , then , can predict the observed coupling between the kinematics of the extended gas envelopes and the galaxy stars ? following a merging event ,",
    "star formation rates are elevated long after the stellar system has relaxed .",
    "supernovae inject gas into the halos of their host galaxies .",
    "this scenario naturally provides for the expulsion of gas from galaxies that is metal enriched and harbors some memory of the dynamical state of the stellar component of the galaxies .    supported in part by nasa",
    "nag5 6399 , nsf ast 9596229 and ast 0070773 , _ hst _ go 08672.01-a , go 05984.01 - 94a , and go 06577.01 - 95a , and the david & lucile packard foundation .",
    "we also thank k. adelberger , j. charlton , m. dickinson , b. jannuzi , j. maserio , m. pettini , j. rigby , a. shapley , and s. vogt ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> comparisons of the kinematics of mgii absorbing gas and the stellar rotation curves in @xmath0 spiral galaxies suggests that , at least in some cases , the extended gaseous envelopes are dynamically coupled to the stellar matter . </S>",
    "<S> a strong correlation exists between the overall kinematic spread of mgii absorbing gas and civ absorption strength , and therefore kinematics of the higher  ionization gas . taken together </S>",
    "<S> , the data may suggest a `` halo / disk connection '' between @xmath1 galaxies and their extended gaseous envelopes . though the number of galaxies in our sample are few in number , there are no clear examples that suggest the gas is accreting / infalling _ isotropically _ about the galaxies from the intergalactic medium . </S>"
  ]
}