{
  "article_text": [
    "the interstellar medium ( ism ) within a few hundred parsecs of the solar system has been a topic of considerable observational and theoretical investigation over recent years ( e.g. breitschwerdt , freyberg & trmper 1998 ; frisch 1996 ; cox & reynolds 1987 ) .",
    "this region , often referred to as the local interstellar medium ( lism ) , is known to contain several major features in the form of bubbles , supernova shells and clouds .",
    "the solar system itself is thought to reside in a low - density , x - ray  emitting cavity of a mean radius @xmath0 100 pc , a region usually referred to as the local bubble ( e.g. cox & reynolds 1987 ) .",
    "it is believed to be the remnant of a supernova explosion that occurred @xmath1 yr ago .",
    "prominent amongst other features in the lism are the four large - diameter , almost circular rings seen in the all - sky distribution of radio continuum emission .",
    "these are appropriately named radio loops i to iv ( haslam , khan & meaburn 1971 ) and are thought to be the projections of quasi - spherical bubbles . of these , the loop i bubble  the largest in angular extent ( solid angle @xmath2 steradian ) and also the brightest of the four loops  is of special interest ( see salter ( 1983 ) for a review ) .",
    "its close proximity to the sun allows an in - depth study ; see for example , the work of egger ( 1993 ) using data from the rosat soft x - ray sky survey , and that of nishikida ( 1999 ) who combined the rosat pspc data with iras sky survey and radio 21-cm data . in terms of origin ,",
    "loop i is thought to be an expanding super - bubble triggered by an epoch of star formation in the sco - cen association some @xmath3 years ago .",
    "further , it has been postulated that the properties of the lism may well be conditioned by the outer shock wave of this supernova remnant ( frisch 1981 , 1996 ; lallement 1998 ) .",
    "besides these radio loops , the other well - known examples of nearby bubbles that may be important in understanding the lism are : the eridanus bubble ( distance from the sun , d @xmath0 100150 pc ) , the gum nebula ( d@xmath0200250 pc ) , the orion bubble ( d @xmath0 455 pc ) and the monogem ring ( d @xmath0 1001300 pc ) .",
    "recent x - ray and uv data from rosat have led to several new insights into the structure of the lism .",
    "a noteworthy result comes from rosat pspc data suggesting an ongoing interaction between the local bubble and the loop i bubble . by comparing the diffuse x - ray background maps ( in the 0.12.0 kev band ) from the rosat all - sky survey ( trmper 1983 ) and data over a @xmath4 region centered at ( @xmath5)=(@xmath6 ; the apparent centre of the radio loop i ) , egger & aschenbach ( 1995 ; hereafter ea95 ; see also egger 1993 , 1998 ) recognize a `` ring - like '' structure between the local bubble and loop i , where the column density ( ) is even higher than that of the intervening dense shell known to exist in the direction of the sco - cen ob association ( centurion & vladilo 1991 ) . from absorption - line studies of nearby stars ,",
    "the distance to this interaction feature ( where jumps by nearly an order of magnitude ) is estimated to be @xmath0 70 pc ( see ea95 ) , quite comparable to the distance to the neutral wall ( @xmath7 pc ) inferred from rosat wfc star counts ( warwick et al .",
    "1993 ) and optical and uv spectral line data ( centurion & vladilo 1991 ) .",
    "interestingly , the formation of such a ring and the inferred density enhancement ( by a factor @xmath0 25 ) are in good agreement with the numerical simulations of colliding interstellar bubbles ( yoshioka & ikeuchi 1990 ) . in this picture ,",
    "loop i is considered to be an active super - bubble , with at least one bubble having already formed a dense cool shell prior to collision",
    ". however , alternative interpretations do exist ( e.g. , frisch 1996 , 1998 ) , wherein the local bubble is pictured as an appendix of loop i. more data and modeling may help to distinguish clearly between the different scenarios .",
    "while much of our understanding of the structure of the lism comes primarily from x - ray and uv data , nearby pulsars are promising tools for enhancing this understanding .",
    "studies of dispersion and scattering of the radio signals from pulsars are useful means for probing the intervening ism .",
    "of these two , interstellar scintillation ( iss ) effects are more likely to be influenced by the peculiar distribution of the ionized plasma along the line of sight ( los )  such as clumps of enhanced density superposed on a uniform distribution of ionized material .",
    "this is mainly because of ( a ) the nonlinear relation(s ) of the scintillation properties to the electron density , and ( b ) the fact that scintillation effects depend critically on the relative location of the scatterer ( or more generally , the actual distribution of scattering plasma along the sight line ) .",
    "for instance , if the medium is inhomogeneous , in order to produce noticeable effects in the dispersion measure ( dm ) , the density at the clumps has to be considerably larger than to produce similar effects in the scintillation data .",
    "however , if the pulsar happens to lie within or near the clumped region , its effect on the scintillation properties could be significantly reduced .",
    "thus , in some sense , dispersion and scintillation data can provide information complementary to each other .",
    "nevertheless , ( b ) would imply that the interpretation of scintillation data is less immune to distance errors , and hence offers a better handle .",
    "it is quite plausible that the distribution of ionized plasma in and around large local features such as the local bubble and loop i can considerably influence the dispersion and scintillation of nearby pulsars , and in some cases even scintillation of extra - galactic radio sources .",
    "the large - scale distribution of free electrons and turbulent scattering plasma in the galaxy has been modeled by taylor & cordes ( 1993 ; hereafter tc93 ) .",
    "while sophisticated compared to its predecessors , the tc93 model takes very little account of the peculiar properties of the lism due to individual interstellar features .",
    "the recent years have seen an accumulation of observational evidence for the effects of such features in the lism .",
    "early investigations include the work of phillips & clegg ( 1992 ) , who proposed that the scattering of radiation from the nearby pulsar psr b0950 + 08 is probably dominated by weakly turbulent plasma present in the interior of the local bubble , and that of hajivassiliou ( 1992 ) , who invoked an ellipsoidal envelope of highly turbulent plasma to explain the directional anisotropy seen in the turbulent intensity maps derived from interplanetary scintillation studies of radio sources .",
    "even earlier , rickard & cronyn ( 1979 ) had suggested scattering from the outer shell of loop i as the plausible cause of a statistically significant lack of interplanetary scintillators seen in a band some @xmath8 outside the brightest section of the loop i radio emission , the north polar spur ( nps ) .    in a previous paper ( bhat , gupta & rao 1998 ; hereafter bgr98 ) , we presented a detailed , systematic study of the lism using pulsar scintillation data from the ooty radio telescope ( ort ) .",
    "our results and analysis strongly support the view that the scattering in the lism is probably dominated by turbulent plasma at the boundaries of the local bubble .",
    "we proposed a simple model , wherein the solar system is surrounded by an ellipsoidal shell - like structure , with a size of @xmath0100 pc in the galactic plane and @xmath0500 pc in a plane perpendicular to this ( fig .  [ plotfour ] ) .",
    "the scattering structure has its center located at @xmath02035 pc from the sun towards @xmath9 , @xmath10 . in this picture , the interior of the bubble is filled with plasma of relatively low turbulence ( characterized by a scattering strength ,   @xmath11 ) , whereas the shell material ( thickness @xmath0110 pc ) has a scattering strength @xmath050800 times larger than that in the ambient ism ( integrated strength of scattering , scattering measure , given by 0.11@xmath12@xmath120.28 ) .",
    "the contribution of the shell thus dominates the total scattering , which would imply that the scattering geometry towards many sight lines can be approximated by a `` thin screen '' placed at the bubble boundary ( location in the range @xmath020200 pc ) .",
    "this model successfully explained the enhanced level of scattering measured towards a number of nearby pulsars .",
    "the ooty experiment covered only a few pulsars that would be useful for a study of loop i. however , the recent results from parkes observations of a large number of southern pulsars ( johnston , nicastro & koribalski 1998 ) has significantly improved the iss data available for probing the ism in and around loop i. this motivated us to take a more detailed look at the distribution of scattering material towards loop i and beyond , a study which forms the main theme of this paper . the paper is organized as follows : ",
    "[ s : data ] describes observational data and our analysis techniques ;   [ s : data - loop1 ] and   [ s : data - spiral ] present the modeling of the scattering plasma associated with loop i. the uncertainties relevant to our analysis are discussed in   [ s : res - loop1 ] . in   [ s : res - zone ] , we consider some possible alternative models , while later sections of   [ s : res ] discuss some general implications of our results for scintillation data and for the lism . in   [ s : conc ] , we summarize our conclusions .",
    "for the present analysis , we are interested in pulsars whose scintillation properties are likely to be influenced by the structure of loop i. in order to pre - select pulsars useful for this purpose , we adopt a geometry and size for loop i from the published literature .",
    "specifically , berkhuijsen , haslam & salter ( 1971 ) derived an angular diameter of @xmath13 , and a centre at @xmath14 ; see also ea95 ) .",
    "further , on the basis of the plausible connection between the origin of loop i and the sco - cen ob association ( e.g. egger & aschenbach 1995 ) , it is fair to assume the loop center to be near the center of mass of the association ( @xmath0170 pc ) . based on the above , we model the loop i bubble as a spherical shell of size @xmath0290 pc , with the center located at @xmath0170 pc towards ( @xmath15 ) .",
    "this yields 52 pulsars within @xmath0 2 kpc of the sun whose sight lines intersect the projected area of loop i on the sky . on carrying out a literature search",
    ", we find scintillation measurements to be available for only 20 of these ( see table  [ tableone ] ) .",
    "the majority of these scintillation measurements are from recent observations with the parkes and ooty radio telescopes , while a few are from arecibo ( data from johnston et al .",
    "1998 ; bhat et al .",
    "1999b , gothoskar & gupta 2000 , and cordes 1986 ) .",
    "the measurements of decorrelation bandwidth ( ) and the observing frequencies ( ) are listed in columns ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) of table  [ tableone ] , respectively .",
    "the distance estimates in column ( 4 ) are derived from dispersion measures ( dms ) and the model of galactic electron density ( ) by tc93 , except for psrs j14566843 and j17441134 .",
    "for these two pulsars , we use independent distance estimates derived from the measurement of annual trigonometric parallax ( bailes et al .",
    "1990 ; toscano et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "although the decorrelation bandwidth measurements listed in table  [ tableone ] are at different observing frequencies , we have scaled them to a common frequency of 327 mhz , assuming a kolmogorov scaling law ( i.e. , a wavenumber spectrum with a slope of 11/3 over the spatial scales of interest ; @xmath16 ) .",
    "we note that this can potentially produce some errors , as the exact nature of the electron density wavenumber spectrum is still debated .",
    "however , there is substantial observational evidence in favor of an @xmath17 spectrum towards many sight lines in the lism ( e.g. bhat , gupta & rao 1999a ) .",
    "even if this were not strictly correct , most measurements from parkes will be only marginally affected by an incorrect frequency scaling .",
    "this scaling bias may be significant for values at 1.5 ghz ; however , these are for relatively distant objects ( d@xmath181.2 kpc ) , and hence less critical for the investigation of scattering in the lism .",
    "there are three different methods by which pulsar scintillation measurements can be used to investigate the distribution of scattering material in the galaxy : ( 1 ) using the decorrelation bandwidth , ( or its equivalent , the temporal pulse broadening time , )  this quantifies the scattering measure ( sm ) which characterizes the total amount of scattering along the line of sight .",
    "this technique has been used extensively to investigate the large - scale distribution of in the galaxy ( cordes , weisberg & boriakoff 1985 ; cwb85 hereafter ; cordes et al .",
    "1991 ; tc93 ) : ( 2 ) using measurements of angular broadening ( ) in conjunction with  wherein the differing weighting functions of the two observables can be used to determine a more exact distribution of along the los ( e.g. gwinn , bartel & cordes 1993 ) : ( 3 ) using the hybrid method recently proposed by cordes & rickett ( 1998 )  wherein the diffractive scintillation measurements ( decorrelation bandwidth and scintillation timescale , ) , in conjunction with the pulsar proper motion and distance , can be used to obtain the distribution of along the los ( e.g. chatterjee et al .",
    "2000 ) .    of these methods , ( 2 ) is not relevant in our case , as measurements of and do not exist for bulk of the objects in table  [ tableone ] . to date , proper motion measurements are known for 9 of the 20 pulsars in table  [ tableone ] .",
    "however , uncertainties are too large for the values to be useful in most cases , and we were unable to derive any meaningful results on the distribution of scattering in and around loop i. we therefore restricted ourselves to method ( 1 ) for the analysis described in this paper ( see appendix a for a detailed description of the method ) .",
    "we first examine how well the scintillation data in table  [ tableone ] agree with the predictions of the local bubble model of bgr98 , as described in ",
    "[ s : intro ] .",
    "[ plotone ] shows a plot of the ratio of the measured to predicted decorrelation bandwidths ( ) against the pulsar distance estimates .",
    "we introduce a quantity , @xmath19 , that is a measure of the degree of agreement between and .",
    "this is expressed as    @xmath20 ^ 2\\ ] ]    where @xmath21 is the total number of pulsars for which the comparison is being made .",
    "the logarithm has been taken to give equal weight to discrepancies that are below and above unity when computing .    as is obvious from fig .",
    "[ plotone ] , there are large discrepancies ( ranging from a factor 2 to as much as @xmath050 ) for the case of the local bubble model ( shown by crosses ) . considering that most measurements in table  [ tableone ] are _ not _ from observations averaged over many epochs ,",
    "a potential explanation for part of these discrepancies may be errors due to long - term refractive interstellar scintillation ( riss ) effects ( e.g. gupta , rickett & lyne 1994 ; bhat et al .",
    "however , most discrepancies are considerably larger than the worst case factor of 35 that can be accounted for by riss effects .",
    "moreover , it is striking that all the ratios are less than unity , implying that the scattering strengths are systematically larger than that can be accounted for by the local bubble model .",
    "further , a systematic trend with distance is also evident in fig .",
    "[ plotone ] , whereby   ( for the local bubble model ) tends to lie in the range 0.010.1 for pulsars beyond 1.2 kpc , but between 0.1 and 1 for those nearer than this .",
    "in contrast , for a sample of pulsars within 1 kpc of the sun in the complementary sky ( shown by @xmath22 in fig .  [ plotone ] , cf .",
    "bgr98 ) , most ratios fall within a factor 23 of unity . the value of @xmath19 for this sample ( @xmath23  0.07 ) is about 16 times lower than that for the local bubble model applied to the current data set ( @xmath24 , as shown in table  [ tablethree ] ) .",
    "the simplest interpretation is that there is yet another source of excess scattering ( in addition to the local bubble shell ) in the general direction of loop i.      a number of previous studies have revealed the existence of strong excess scattering towards several sight lines in the galaxy ( e.g. moran et al .",
    "1990 ) . in the context of modeling the large - scale distribution of  in the galaxy ,",
    "cordes et al .",
    "( 1991 ) propose a ` clump ' component , possibly associated with supernova shocks or regions , to explain such unusually high scattering .",
    "these are regions of intense turbulence , with the strength of scattering many orders of magnitude larger than that in the typical ism .",
    "however , the mean free paths expected for such clumps are rather large ( typically @xmath0510 kpc ) .",
    "there seems to be no observational evidence for the presence of any such regions in the lism .",
    "strong excess scattering may also arise if the sight line to a pulsar intercepts an region ( e.g. gupta et al .",
    "1994 ) . to the best of our knowledge",
    ", none of the pulsars in table  [ tableone ] represents such a situation .",
    "even if the lism contains strong scattering regions that are hitherto unknown , these could be relevant only for a few lines - of - sight , whereas the data in fig .",
    "[ plotone ] suggest a common source of enhanced scattering for many sight lines .",
    "given the current understanding of the lism , and also on the basis of the results from our earlier work , we postulate that this enhanced scattering is probably caused by the shell of the loop i bubble .",
    "here we try to explain the observed discrepancies in decorrelation bandwidths for nearby pulsars in the direction of loop i in terms of enhanced scattering from a combination of the local bubble and the loop i bubble .",
    "a full modeling of the problem involves the determination of the parameters characterizing their size and location , and the distribution of scattering in and around them .",
    "this was done by bgr98 for the case of the local bubble alone .",
    "however , in the present case , since we already have a model for the scattering from the local bubble and there are very good models for the physical dimensions of loop i , we do not really need to do such full - blown modeling .",
    "instead , we take the following simpler approach .    first , we assume a scattering model for loop i which is very similar to the multi - component model for the local bubble , i.e. , an interior filled with a plasma of relatively low turbulence ( the los - averaged strength of scattering , @xmath25 ) and a dense , highly turbulent shell in which the scattering strength is many times larger than in the ambient ism that lies beyond loop i. for this ambient medium , we assume @xmath26 ( see bgr98 ) .",
    "second , as described in ",
    "[ s : data - sample ] , the size and structure of loop i are fairly well constrained by previous work ( e.g. berkhuijsen et al .",
    "we simply adopt these values for characterizing the physical dimensions and location of the loop i shell in our analysis .",
    "third , we simplify the problem by assuming the thickness of the loop i shell ( ) to be small compared with the pulsar distances involved . the problem",
    "then essentially reduces to obtaining the best estimate of the scattering measure due to the loop i shell ( @xmath27 , where denotes the scattering strength inside the shell ) that will minimize the discrepancies between and .",
    "note that the spherical shell geometry of loop i implies that should be a function of the los , or more precisely , of the angular distance of the los from the loop centre ( @xmath28 ) .",
    "this is because the actual path length through the shell intercepted by the los varies with @xmath28 .",
    "the effect will be more prominent for sight lines that are close to being `` tangential . '' in the analysis that follows , we will constrain sm as defined for a los that is normal to the shell ( i.e. , along @xmath29 ) .",
    "fourth , instead of obtaining a solution that will give a best case minimum for all the pulsars in table  [ tableone ] , we prefer to solve for the sm of the loop i shell using only two pulsars psrs j17441134 and j14566843 .",
    "this is justified on the grounds that ( a ) for many pulsars in table  [ tableone ] , the distance uncertainties and the large errors in the estimates of the decorrelation bandwidth ( due to riss effects ) , make it less meaningful to do a global fit , and ( b ) for several pulsars at distances 1 kpc , loop i may _ not _ necessarily be the _ only _ source of enhanced scattering and a global fit for could therefore be perturbed by this effect .",
    "the choice of the above two pulsars is dictated by the following arguments .",
    "both pulsars are heavily scattered ( johnston et al . 1998 ) and have precise , independent distance estimates from parallax measurements  @xmath30 pc for psr j17441134 ( toscano et al .",
    "1999 ) and @xmath31 pc for psr j14566843 ( bailes et al .",
    "interestingly , the estimate for psr j17441134 is over twice the value of 166 pc derived from the model of tc93 .",
    "the independent distance estimates allow the scattering geometry along these lines of sight to be fairly well constrained .",
    "this is illustrated in fig .",
    "[ plottwo ] , where the expected locations of the local bubble ( ) and loop i boundaries (   and ) in these directions are clearly marked .",
    "the farther boundary of the loop i shell ( ) lies very close to the mid - point to both objects , and is thus optimally placed for maximum contribution to the observed decorrelation bandwidth .",
    "such a geometry will be consistent with the enhanced level of scattering inferred for these two pulsars .",
    "appendix a describes our method for computing the expected decorrelation bandwidth ( ) for a given distribution of the scattering material along the los .",
    "we note that if homogeneously distributed scattering material ( i.e. , equation [ a1 ] , with the integral replaced by @xmath32 , where denotes the los - averaged strength of scattering ) were to explain the observed scattering for the lines of sight of these pulsars , the implied level of scattering strength ( = @xmath33 towards psr j17441134 , obtained from the value reported by johnston et al . [",
    "1998 ] , after scaling for the new distance ) would be several times larger than that expected for the typical ambient ism .",
    "this seems quite unlikely .",
    "the lism as relevant to the local bubble model of bgr98 can be treated as an inhomogeneous scattering medium , which can be best represented by multiple components of different strengths of scattering ( ) along the los ( see equation [ a2 ] , for example ) .",
    "this can be represented by a simpler , modified version of equation ( a2 ) ( i.e. , the right hand side consisting only the first two integrals and the last integral with the lower limit , + , replaced with + ) . if we were to attribute the entire excess scattering to material inside the local bubble shell ( located at @xmath03060 pc in this direction ; see fig .",
    "[ plottwo ] ) , then would have to be over an order of magnitude larger than that derived by bgr98 ; alternatively , the shell would have to be much more extended in this direction ( say , by an order of magnitude ) .",
    "again , either of these possibilities is rather unlikely , as it would require a drastic change in the properties of the local bubble in this direction .",
    "hence the possibility that the loop i shell is the source of the enhanced scattering is most plausible .",
    "we now estimate the optimal value of by modeling the scattering towards psrs j17441134 and j14566843 , taking into consideration the scattering due to the local and loop i bubbles , as well as that due to the distributed plasma ( i.e. , ambient ism ) beyond loop i. our model also takes into consideration the characteristic fall - off with z - height for the ambient scattering plasma ( scale height @xmath0500 pc ; see tc93 ) , and a gaussian fall - off ( scale height @xmath0125 pc ; see bgr98 for arguments ) for the shell material .",
    "the interiors of both bubbles are taken to be filled with weakly turbulent plasma ( @xmath34 ) .",
    "the shell of the local bubble is taken to have a scattering measure ( ) of 0.2 ( i.e. , @xmath0 a few 100 times larger than that in the ambient medium ) .",
    "the method for computing the expected decorrelation bandwidth ( ) for such a geometry is described by equation ( a2 ) in appendix a. to determine , we start with an initial value of 0.2 , and vary this from 0.02 to 2.0 in steps of 0.01 .",
    "interestingly , the best agreement between the predicted values and those measured is obtained for @xmath23 0.29 , a value quite comparable to that inferred for the local bubble shell .    using the sm of the loop i shell , as constrained by the above method",
    ", we compute new values for the ratios .",
    "these are shown by the filled star symbols ( @xmath35 ) in fig .",
    "[ plotone ] .",
    "it is quite remarkable that the above modeling successfully removes the discrepancies for pulsars out to a distance of a few 100 pc .",
    "the @xmath19 value for this model ( @xmath360.55 ) is a significant improvement over that for the earlier model of the local bubble alone , as listed in table  [ tablethree ] .",
    "further , as can be seen from this table , there is a dramatic improvement in ( i.e. , for pulsars within 1 kpc ) , and a much smaller one in  exactly as expected for the local bubble + loop i bubble model .",
    "next we address the systematic downward trend for the ratio in fig .",
    "[ plotone ] for pulsars beyond @xmath01.2 kpc",
    ". a closer examination of these loss suggests material within the sagittarius spiral arm to be the most plausible source of enhanced scattering for several of the pulsars .",
    "we show here that these results can be better explained by taking into account the enhanced level of scattering that can be expected due to this spiral arm as per the existing model of tc93 . with the arm parameters of the tc93 model and the distance",
    "estimates based on this model , the sight lines of six of our pulsars pass through this spiral arm . to model the effect of this ,",
    "we have simply adopted the arm locations and density parameters of tc93 .",
    "they consider a squared hyperbolic secant for the z - dependence and a gaussian fall - off for the radial dependence for the arm density , with @xmath37 pc for the scale height and 300 pc for the half width . with an arm density of 0.08",
    " i.e. , several times larger than the typical in the lism , and a fluctuation parameter ( @xmath38 ) of @xmath39 , the implied level of scattering is some 2 orders of magnitude larger inside the arm ( @xmath00.05 ) than in the lism .",
    "hence , substantial amounts of enhanced scattering are expected for these pulsars . on incorporating this ,",
    "the discrepancies are further reduced ( see the open circles in fig .  [ plotone ] ) , with a significant improvement in overall agreement ( @xmath40 ) as well as for ( see table  [ tablethree ] ) .",
    "the best agreement is seen with the lower and upper limits allowed ( by the model of tc93 ) for the values of the fluctuation parameter and the scale height , respectively .",
    "we have shown that the combined effect of enhanced scattering from the local bubble shell , the loop i bubble shell and the sagittarius arm goes a long way towards explaining the observed scattering properties of pulsars in the general direction of loop i. our new model consists of : ( a ) an ellipsoidal shell of sm@xmath00.10.3 to account for scattering due to the local bubble , ( b ) a spherical shell of sm@xmath00.3 to characterize the scattering due to loop i , ( c ) the ambient ism ( @xmath26 ) in the inter - arm region , and ( d ) the sagittarius spiral arm ( @xmath0 0.047 ) .",
    "we now discuss some of the implications of these results .",
    "the agreement between the measurements and the predictions of our new model is such that the scattering properties of most pulsars out to a distance of 1 kpc are successfully explained ( in the range 0.52.0 for 8 out of 10 objects ) .",
    "the major outliers are psrs j1713 + 0747 and j17302304 , with residual discrepancies of @xmath41 and @xmath42 times respectively between the predicted and measured values ( see fig .",
    "1 ) that remain to be explained . these discrepancies are possibly due to riss , or distance errors , or perhaps as yet un - modeled source(s ) of enhanced scattering . for more distant pulsars ( d 1.2 kpc ) , although the discrepancies are better accounted for , there still seems to be a systematic downward trend with distance , which is accounted for by extra enhanced scattering due to the sagittarius arm .",
    "the results thus clearly substantiate the role of loop i as a source of enhanced scattering in the lism .",
    "we now address the various sources of uncertainties relevant to our analysis .",
    "these include : ( a ) the uncertainties in size and geometry of ( i ) the local bubble , and ( ii ) loop i , ( b ) the uncertainty in the ( integrated ) scattering strength of the local bubble ( ) , ( c ) distance uncertainties , and ( d ) errors on the measurements of .",
    "first , we note that the local bubble geometry itself is not very well determined ( see bgr98 ) , and the expected location of the boundary is in the range @xmath02458 pc for psr j17441134 , and @xmath04474 pc towards psr j14566843 ( see fig .",
    "[ plotfour ] ) . taking this into consideration ,",
    "could be in the range 0.250.3 .",
    "however , the uncertainties in the angular size and location of loop i itself are small ( see berkhuijsen et al . 1971 ) , hence we do not expect them to affect appreciably . turning to ( b ) , the strength of scattering of the local bubble shell ( ) itself has a significant uncertainty : 0.11@xmath12@xmath120.28 ( see bgr98 )",
    ". however , this seems to affect only marginally ( 0.240.32 ) .",
    "the distances to psrs j17441134 and j14566843 have @xmath010% uncertainties , which translate in to a variation of 0.280.33 for . as for the measurements of , the dominant source of errors are due to their apparent variations caused by riss effects on time scales from days to weeks",
    ". however , these uncertainties are hard to estimate .",
    "nevertheless , if we consider a typical case of a factor of two variation in the measured values of , may lie in the range 0.150.57 .",
    "hence , the riss - induced errors in measured decorrelation bandwidths are likely to be the dominant source of errors in the final estimate of the strength of scattering of the loop i shell material .      in the above analysis",
    ", we have attempted to understand the observations in terms of enhanced scattering caused by turbulent plasma within the shells of the two bubbles .",
    "although this two - bubble model seems to successfully explain the scintillation measurements for most nearby pulsars , there is an interesting alternative that deserves consideration . as described in ",
    "[ s : intro ] , the work of ea95 and egger ( 1998 ) suggest that the two bubbles are probably undergoing a collision process ; the observational evidence for a dense interaction feature at @xmath070 pc towards sco - cen ( fig .",
    "4 of ea95 ) supports this .",
    "interestingly , the expected location of the closer boundary of loop i ( ) is either within the range of or near the local bubble boundary ( ) as constrained by bgr98 ( see fig .",
    "[ plotfour ] ) .",
    "in particular , for several lines - of - sight ,  lies in between the smaller and larger boundaries (  and   respectively ) of the local bubble .",
    "the possibility of enhanced scattering from an `` interaction zone '' between the two bubbles is therefore worthy of consideration .    to examine this possibility",
    ", we consider a model where the measured level of enhanced scattering is _ entirely _ attributable to an `` interaction wall '' or `` zone '' whose effective location is at the mean distance of the lb and loop i boundaries .",
    "the two extreme possible geometries for the lb would thus imply two possible locations for the interaction zone ( iz ) : = 0.5(+ ) and = 0.5(+ ) , which correspond to the cases of nearer and farther boundaries of the lb , respectively .",
    "these are listed in column ( 5 ) of table  [ tabletwo ] ( = /d ) . in the discussion",
    "below , we will refer to these as the iz - a and iz - b models , respectively .",
    "we also assume that the thickness of this zone ( ) is comparable to that of the lb or li shell , and also that it is much smaller than the pulsar distances .",
    "further , like the case of the loop i shell , the path length of the sight line through a possible interaction zone region , and consequently its contribution to the scattering measure , will be a function of the angular distance of the los from the loop centre . in order to determine the scattering measure of the iz ( ) , we performed a rather similar analysis to that described in ",
    "[ s : data - model ] , in which psrs j17441134 and j14566843 are used to estimate the value for . for the iz - a model ( =) , the best agreement between the measured and predicted values for",
    "is obtained for @xmath231.12 , which is @xmath04 times larger than the value of sm for the loop i shell , and @xmath0410 times larger than that for the lb .",
    "the required sm for the iz - b case is somewhat smaller : @xmath03 times the value for , and @xmath039 times .",
    "this is mainly due to the relatively further location of the zone in this case . using these values for , we re - computed new values for .",
    "the results for the iz - a model are shown in fig .",
    "[ plotthree ] .",
    "the agreement is _ not _ as good as that achieved with the two - bubble model , as indicated by somewhat larger values for the three @xmath43 parameters that quantify the level of agreement ( see table  [ tablethree ] ) . on a closer comparison of figs .",
    "[ plotone ] and [ plotthree ] , it is obvious that the agreement is somewhat poorer for several objects at d 1 kpc",
    ". nevertheless , the iz model(s ) may still be considered as a possible alternative to the two - bubble model . however ,",
    "unless there are well studied objects located in the loop i interior , it is not easy to distinguish conclusively between these two scenarios .    as a natural extension of the iz model(s )",
    ", we incorporate scattering due to the sagittarius spiral arm ( as discussed in   [ s : data - spiral ] ) in order to improve upon the agreement for pulsars beyond 1 kpc with sight lines intercepting that arm .",
    "the results for the iz - a+sa case are shown in fig .",
    "[ plotthree ] .",
    "the overall agreement , as indicated by = 0.27 and 0.25 respectively for the iz - a+sa and iz - b+sa cases , is somewhat poorer than that achieved with the two - bubble+sa scenario ( = 0.22 , see table  [ tablethree ] ) .        _",
    "( a ) interpretation of the scintillation data _    from the results of this work",
    "it is quite evident that the structure of the lism plays an important role in the interpretation of the scintillation data .",
    "the outer shells of the local bubble and loop i may very well be the dominant sources of scattering towards many directions in the lism , especially at higher galactic latitudes .",
    "interestingly , independent evidence in favor of similar close - by scattering screens ( @xmath025250 pc ) comes from recent observations of cm - wave iss and intra - day variability ( idv ) of quasars ( e.g. , dennett - thorpe & de bruyn 2000 ; rickett 2000 ) .",
    "in particular , the screen location of @xmath025 pc and strength of scattering , @xmath230.2 , inferred by dennett - thorpe & de bruyn ( 2000 ) towards the idv quasar j1819 + 3845 is in very good agreement with the location of the local bubble boundary ( @xmath02550 pc ) and the scattering strength ( ) expected in this direction .",
    "further , from the work of hjellming & narayan ( 1986 ) , the bulk of the scintillation ( riss ) of the radio source pks 1741038 at 1.49 ghz is caused by a single screen located at @xmath0140 pc from the sun .",
    "interestingly , the los to this object ( @xmath44 ) lies very close to the `` inner ridge feature '' of the nps ( beginning at @xmath45 ) . also , hjellming & narayan infer that there is significant excess scattering ( @xmath46 ) along this los . recently , lazio et al .",
    "( 2000 ) report multi - epoch vlbi observations of this object as it underwent an extreme scattering event ( ese ) ; the inferred level of scattering for the ese lens is orders of magnitude larger than that in the ambient medium . given the close proximity of the object to loop i",
    ", it is quite probable that the structure(s ) that caused the ese are located at the loop i shell . similarly ,",
    "if an interaction wall between the two bubbles exists , it could potentially act as a thin scattering screen for nearby pulsars with sight lines within @xmath47 and @xmath48 .",
    "such close - by scattering screens may also explain the shorter than expected timescales seen with the slow intensity variations of pulsars and the low frequency variables ( gupta , rickett & coles 1993 ; spangler et al .",
    "in addition , the enhanced scattering from such bubble shells may be responsible for some of the unusual scattering effects . in this context",
    ", it is interesting to note that the location of the scatterer that caused the multiple imaging event of psr b1133 + 16 in the ooty data ( gupta , bhat & rao 1999 ) was found to match well with the expected location of the local bubble shell (  @xmath23  0.77d ) in this direction .",
    "similarly , it has also been suggested that the the structures that cause extreme scattering events in the radio light curves of some quasars are probably associated with the galactic loops ( fiedler et al .",
    "recent work by toscano et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and chatterjee et al .",
    "( 2000 ) provides some evidence for enhanced scattering in the third galactic quadrant probably associated with an interface region between the local bubble and the gsh 238 + 00 + 09 super - bubble .",
    "all of the above arguments clearly support the view that the structure of the lism needs to be taken into account for a proper interpretation of dispersion and scintillation data .",
    "_ ( b ) on the nature of the bubble shells _    in our earlier work ( bgr98 ) , we argued that the elongated ellipsoidal shell of turbulence derived from the ooty data is possibly associated with the local bubble .",
    "the analysis described in   [",
    "s : data - loop1 ] presents quite convincing evidence for an outer turbulence shell for loop i also ( the existence of a turbulent interaction zone is an alternative possibility , though ) .",
    "thus , from observational data , it appears that interstellar bubbles in general may have turbulent outer shells .    on the theoretical front , a number of authors",
    "have dealt with the evolution of bubbles in the ism ( ikeuchi 1998 and references therein ) ; in particular , special attention has been paid to the major local features such as the local and loop i bubbles .",
    "interestingly , it turns out that turbulent outer shells can indeed be expected for interstellar bubbles .",
    "specifically , the recent model of breitschwerdt , freyberg & egger ( 2000 ) predicts turbulence to exist at the interface region of the local and loop i bubbles as a natural consequence of the hydro - magnetic rayleigh - taylor instability caused by the interaction of the two bubbles .",
    "a similar mechanism may also apply for the loop i shell . in an earlier work , breitschwerdt & kahn ( 1989 ; see also kahn & breitschwerdt 1988 ) showed that turbulent shells could also be expected for stellar - wind  blown bubbles as a consequence of acoustic instability .",
    "so , in general , the shells around bubbles may be expected to be turbulent .",
    "there are no explicit predictions available for the level of turbulent intensity expected at the shell or in interaction zone regions , or for a relation connecting the turbulent intensity to the physical parameters governing the process(es ) . nevertheless , the basic results from our investigations using pulsar data appear to be in accordance with some of the theoretical models of bubble evolution .",
    "the strength of scattering we derived for the outer shell of loop i is substantially higher ( @xmath0100500 times depending on the shell thickness ) than that measured towards typical loss in the lism .",
    "the regions of enhanced electron density ( ) are also thought to be plausible sites for enhanced scattering ( e.g. the gum nebula ) , though the exact relationship between these two is not clearly known .",
    "if we consider  to be uniform within the shell or the interaction zone regions ( i.e. , .@xmath49 , @xmath49 , where and represent the path lengths through the shell and interaction zone regions respectively ) , and assume a simple relation ( @xmath50 ) , then an indirect estimate of electron density in the shell ( ) is possible for a given shell thickness . considering the loop i shell ( sm@xmath00.3 ) , for a shell thickness @xmath0110 pc , this yields a density @xmath01030 times larger than the ambient ism value .",
    "somewhat higher values ( @xmath02050 ) result for the interaction zone models described in   [ s : res - zone ] .",
    "interestingly , a similar level of density enhancement is seen for the neutral gas at the annular interface region of the two bubbles ( ea95 ; egger 1998 ) . for the above densities",
    ", the effects on dispersion due to the shell region will be significant only for pulsars within a distance of a few 100 pc . taking this into consideration would , however , result in a _ much lower _ ambient density ( @xmath230.007 ) towards psr j17441134 , the disk pulsar with the lowest known . for a similar density enhancement ( @xmath010 times ) for the shell region towards psr j14566843 ( the only pulsar in quadrant 4 with a measured parallax ) , consideration of shell dispersion would result in an ambient density of @xmath23 0.016 for the two - bubble model , and @xmath23 0.013 for the interaction zone model .",
    "these values are comparable to measured towards several objects in quadrant 1 with known parallaxes ( see toscano et al .",
    "therefore , it is quite plausible that the loop i shell ( or the interaction zone ) contributes significantly to the dispersion of nearby pulsars in quadrant 4 .",
    "it is interesting to note that for the two pulsars  psrs j14566843 and j17441134  with independent distance estimates , the mean electron densities along the sight lines differ significantly : towards the former is almost twice that for the latter , despite their comparable distances and z - heights ( 67 and 57 pc respectively )",
    ". a closer look at their loss _ vis - a - vis _ the geometries of the local and loop i bubbles ( figs .",
    "[ plottwo ] and  [ plotfour ] ) indicates the following : ( 1 ) the local bubble cavity extends out almost twice as far towards psr j14566843 as towards psr j17441134 ( @xmath04474 pc and @xmath02458 pc respectively , for the geometry in fig .  [ plotfour ] ) , ( 2 ) the interior of loop i covers a much longer section of the los towards psr j14566843 ( @xmath49 @xmath23 233 pc for j14566843 , compared to 157 pc for psr j17441134 ; see fig .",
    "[ plottwo ] ) , and ( 3 ) the extent of the ambient medium beyond loop i is not much larger along the sight line towards psr j14566843 ( @xmath0192 pc compared to @xmath0159 pc for psr j17441134 ) .",
    "all of these make it harder to explain the larger towards psr j14566843 .",
    "there appears to be two plausible explanations for the above : ( a ) the ambient ism in quadrant 4 is simply much denser than that in quadrant 1 .",
    "however , in the absence of other pulsars in quadrant 4 with measured parallax , there seems to be no independent way to confirm this .",
    "( b ) the existence of a dense interface region between the local and loop i bubbles , as described in ",
    "[ s : res - zone ] . on a closer inspection of the sight lines of the two pulsars , case ( b ) seems the more likely .",
    "the loss towards psr j17441134 intercepts the `` annular ring , '' as recognized by ea95 ( see also egger 1998 ) , whereas the los toward psr j14566843 lies well within the `` interaction zone region '' confined by this ring - like feature .",
    "if the interaction zone region is filled with a denser , highly turbulent plasma , then it could potentially account for much of the dispersion towards psr j14566843 .",
    "if we assume an ambient density of @xmath23 0.01 ( i.e. , a value comparable to that in quadrant 1 ) , the interaction zone density ( ) will have to be @xmath040 times larger in order to account for the excess dispersion .",
    "we note that this is quite comparable to the value @xmath02050 derived from the sm estimate as constrained by our modeling .",
    "the consistency of the density estimates from the two independent methods can be argued , in some sense , to favor the existence of a dense interaction wall .",
    "measurements of parallax for other nearby pulsars in quadrant 4 will help to test for the existence of a wall .",
    "the most promising candidates for this seem to be low - dm ( say , 20 ) objects with loss intercepting the interaction zone region .",
    "for instance , psr j17514657 would be located much farther ( @xmath01765 pc ) than its tc93 distance ( @xmath01080 pc ) , if the ambient in this quadrant is comparable to that in quadrant 1 ( @xmath00.01 ) .",
    "psr j17302304 ( close - by to psr j17441134 ) is another interesting test case , whose distance will only be slightly more ( @xmath23555 pc ) if a denser zone is present , while it will be located much farther away ( @xmath01 kpc ) if the entire sight line was uniformly filled at @xmath00.01 .",
    "similarly , the distance of psr j14553330 will be @xmath0950 pc ( compared to tc93 value of @xmath0740 pc ) if we consider a dense zone and a low - density ( @xmath230.01 ) ambient medium . while our arguments are based on a fairly simple picture , it is amply clear that measurements of a few interesting test cases will be valuable for understanding the lism in this quadrant .      from the work presented here and related work in the recent past ( see   [ s : res - impli ] )",
    ", it is clear that pulsars can be used quite effectively to probe large - scale features in the lism .",
    "conversely , it is also obvious that detailed interpretation of pulsar dispersion and scintillation data will need to take the structure of the lism into account .",
    "there is growing observational evidence that the local bubble is surrounded by numerous bubbles of similar properties , many of which are likely to be filled with hot x - ray  emitting gas .",
    "while this work has concentrated on loop i , our most prominent such neighbor , other nearby examples include the eridanus bubble , the gum nebula and possibly radio loops ii and iii .",
    "further , there are also observations indicating possible interactions of some of these with the local bubble . in this paper",
    ", we have considered the possibility of an interaction region between the local and loop i bubbles .",
    "toscano et al .",
    "( 1999 ) and chatterjee et al .",
    "( 2000 ) have provided some evidence for interaction of the local bubble with the gsh 238 + 00 + 09 super - bubble in galactic quadrant 3 .",
    "the closeness between the location of the near side of the eridanus bubble ( 159@xmath5116 pc ; guo et al .",
    "1995 ) and the expected location of the local bubble shell in this direction ( @xmath23130 pc ) suggests a possible interaction between these two bubbles .",
    "the vela supernova remnant has been shown to be embedded in a hot bubble confined by the shell of the gum nebula ( aschenbach , egger & trmper 1995 ) . with the recently revised estimate for its distance ( 250@xmath5130 pc by cha , sembach & danks 1999 ) ,",
    "the near side of the `` gum - bubble '' is quite close to the local bubble boundary ( @xmath23100 pc ) ; this is also supported by the observation that the absorbing column density towards the vela snr is only about @xmath52 .",
    "an interaction between these two bubbles therefore seems quite likely .    of the 163 pulsars known within @xmath02 kpc of the sun , scintillation data",
    "are presently available for only 73 , and independent distance estimates for only 12 .",
    "clearly , a lot more needs to be done here .",
    "the new generation of large telescopes , such as the gmrt and the gbt , could potentially extend the available scintillation data for nearby weak pulsars .",
    "for many such cases , measuring pulse - broadening times at low frequencies ( 100 mhz ) may prove to be a more viable technique than decorrelation bandwidth measurements .",
    "observations of sources along well - chosen lines of sight where the scattering is dominated by the shells of these bubbles may also result in more detections of unusual scattering effects , such as multiple imaging and extreme scattering events .",
    "further , iss studies of radio sources through cm - wave iss and idv may also provide useful insights into the nature of the lism at higher galactic latitudes .",
    "many such observations hold great promise for extending the rather simplistic models derived from the present investigations into a more realistic picture of the lism .",
    "we have investigated the distribution of scattering plasma in the lism in the general direction of the loop i bubble by combining recent pulsar scintillation measurements .",
    "many pulsars within @xmath02 kpc , and located towards @xmath53 and @xmath54 , show enhanced levels of scattering , detected as a significantly reduced value of the ratio of the measured to expected decorrelation bandwidths .",
    "the discrepancies can not be explained by the local bubble model ( bgr98 ) alone , and we interpret them as being due to enhanced scattering associated with the shell of the loop i bubble and the sagittarius spiral arm . using data from two heavily scattered pulsars with precisely known distances , psrs j17441134 and j14566843",
    ", we have placed useful constraints on the scattering strength associated with the loop i shell .",
    "the scattering measure inferred for the plasma inside this shell is @xmath00.3 , quite similar to that for the local bubble shell . assuming a shell thickness @xmath0110 pc , this implies an average turbulence level @xmath0100500 times larger than that in the ambient ism . adopting this , our earlier model of the lism",
    "is extended by incorporating an explicit scattering component for plasma in and around loop i , in addition to that due to the local bubble .",
    "this two - bubble model successfully explains many of the observed decorrelation bandwidth discrepancies for nearby pulsars .",
    "the alternative possibility of enhanced scattering from an interaction zone between the local bubble and loop i is also considered .",
    "however , the level of turbulence in the interaction zone would have to be several times larger than that for the shells in the two - bubble model in order to explain the observations .",
    "even then , the final agreement with observations for the interaction zone model is not as good as that for the two - bubble model . assuming a simple relation between the scattering strength and the free electron density ( @xmath55 ) yields a shell density that is @xmath01030 times larger than the ambient value , and a somewhat higher density ( @xmath02050 ) for the interaction zone model . for several low - latitude pulsars at d@xmath012 kpc ( @xmath56300 pc ) ,",
    "we find that the observed scattering discrepancies are consistent with additional enhanced scattering from the sagittarius spiral arm .",
    "we have discussed implications of our results for the interpretation of scintillation data as well as for the structure of the lism . in the light of our results and those from several other recent works , we conclude that the structure of the lism needs to be considered in the interpretation of pulsar dispersion and scintillation data , and may also be relevant for observations of cm - wave iss .",
    "further , the general picture that emerges from the investigations in support of turbulent outer shells and/or interface regions of interstellar bubbles appears to be in qualitative agreement with the expectations of the models that describe the evolution of bubbles in the ism .",
    "_ acknowledgments : _ we thank c. salter for several fruitful discussions and valuable comments on the earlier versions of this paper which helped us to improve upon the content .",
    "we also thank p. b. preethi for help with the analysis software during early stages of this work .",
    "here we describe the method adopted for computing the decorrelation bandwidth ( ) .",
    "[ plottwo ] depicts typical scattering geometries relevant in our analysis : is the expected location of the local bubble boundary ,  and  denote the nearer and farther boundaries , respectively , of the loop i bubble .",
    "d is the pulsar distance .        where is a model dependent constant , denotes the frequency of observation , and @xmath58 is the slope of the electron density wavenumber spectrum . in this scheme ,",
    "the observer is at @xmath59 and the pulsar at @xmath60 . if we adopt the canonical value of 11/3 for @xmath58 ( i.e. , kolmogorov - like spectrum ) , @xmath61 .    the lism model corresponding to fig .",
    "[ plottwo ] can be treated as an inhomogeneous scattering medium , with multiple components of different strengths of scattering ( , also called turbulent intensity or scattering strength ) , located at different points along the line of sight .",
    "the observable is determined by the path length differences of scattered rays ; therefore , contributions to it from need to be appropriately weighted in such a way that scattering regions near the source or the observer produce smaller path - length differences than those that are mid - way ( cwb85 ) .",
    "hence , for the case of our interest , equation ( a1 ) can be rewritten as      where and are the thickness of local bubble and loop i shells , respectively .",
    "the turbulent intensity in the local bubble interior and in its shell are represented by and , respectively , and and are the equivalent quantities for the loop i bubble .",
    "the scattering plasma in the ambient ism is characterized by .",
    "the symbol is the ` weighting function ' for , and is given by      this simple function is symmetric with respect to the mid - point between observer and pulsar , which means an inherent ambiguity is involved in the interpretation of the underlying scattering geometry .",
    "for instance , in the simple case of a thin screen placed between us and a pulsar , a screen closer to pulsar ( say , at @xmath64 ) will be equivalent to the one placed at @xmath65 from us . in the case of an extended , inhomogeneous medium ( as in fig .",
    "[ plottwo ] ) , the ` inverse geometry ' is indistinguishable from the actual geometry .",
    "aschenbach , b. , egger , r. j. , trumper , j. , 1995 , nature , 373 , 587 + bailes , m. , manchester , r. n. , kesteven , m. j. , norris , r. p. , & reynolds , j. e. 1990 , nature , 343 , 240 + berkhuijsen , e. , haslam , c. g. t. , salter , c. , 1971 , a&a , 14 , 252 + bhat , n. d. r. , gupta , y. , rao , a. p. , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 500 , 262 ( bgr98 ) + bhat , n. d. r. , gupta , y. , rao , a. p. , 1999a",
    ", apj , 514 , 249 + bhat , n. d. r. , rao , a. p. , gupta , y. , 1999b , apjs , 121 , 483 + breitschwerdt , d. , freyberg , m. j. , egger , r , j. , 2000 , a&a , 361 , 303 + breitschwerdt , d. , freyberg , m. j. , trmper , j. , 1998 , _ lecture notes in physics _ , 506 + breitschwerdt , d. & kahn , f. d. , 1989 , mnras , 235 , 1011 + centurion , m. , & vladilo , g. , 1991 , apj , 372 , 494 + cha , a. n. , sembach , k. r. , danks , a. c. , 1999 , apj , 515 , l25 + chatterjee , s. , cordes , j. m. , lazio , t. j. w. , goss , w. m. , fomalont , e. b. , benson , j. m. , 2000 , apj , submitted .",
    "+ cordes , j. m. , 1986 , apj , 311 , 183 + cordes , j. m. , weisberg , j. m. , & frail , d. a. , et al .",
    "1991 , nature , 354 , 121 + cordes , j. m. & rickett , b. j. 1998 , apj , 507 , 846 + cordes , j. m. , weisberg , j. m. and boriakoff , v. 1985 , apj , 288 , 221 , ( cwb85 ) + cordes , j. m. , wolszczan , a. , dewey , r. j. , blaskiewicz , m. , stinebring , d. r. , 1990 , apj , 349 , 245 + cox , d. p. , & reynolds , r. j. 1987 , ara&a , 25 , 303 + dennett - thorpe , j. & de bruyn , a. g. 2000 , apj , 529 , l65 + egger , r. j. , 1993 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , tu muenchen + egger , r. j. 1998 , lecture notes in physics , 506 , 287 + egger , r. j. , & aschenbach , b. 1995 , a&a 294 , l25 , ( ea95 ) + fiedler , r. l. , dennison , b. , johnston , k. j. , waltman , e. b. and simon , r. s. 1994 , apj , 430 , 581 + frisch , p. c. 1981 , nature , 293 , 377 + frisch , p. c. 1996 , space sci .",
    "78 , 213 + frisch , p. c. 1998 , lecture notes in physics , 506 , 269 + gothoskar , p. & gupta , y. 2000 , apj , 531 , 345 + guo , z. , burrows , d. n. , sanders , w. t. , snowden , s. l. , penprase , b. e. , 1995 , apj , 453 , 256 + gupta , y. , bhat , n. d. r. & rao , a. p. , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 520 , 173 + gupta , y. , rickett , b. j. and coles , w. a. 1993 , apj , 403 , 183 + gupta , y. , rickett , b. j. , & lyne , a. g. , 1994 , mnras , 269 , 1035 + gwinn , c. r. , bartel , n. , cordes , j. m. , 1993 , apj , 410 , 673 + hajivassiliou , c. a. 1992 , nature , 355 , 232 + haslam , c. g. t. , khan , f. d. & meaburn , j. , 1971 , a&a , 12 , 388 + haslam , c. g. t. , large , m. i. & quigley , m. j. s. , 1964 , mnras , 127 , 273 + heiles , c. , 1998 , apj , 498 , 689 + hjellming , r. m. & narayan , r. , 1986 , apj , 310 , 768 + ikeuchi , s. , 1998 , lecture notes in physics , 506 , 399 + johnston , s. , nicastro , l. , & koribalski , b. 1998 , mnras , 297 , 108 + kahn , f. d. & breitschwerdt , d. , 1988 , mnras , 242 , 209 + a&a , 287 , 470 + lallement , r. 1998 , lecture notes in physics , 506 , 19 + lazio , t. j. w. , fey , a. l. , dennison , b. , et al .",
    ", 2000 , apj , 534 , 706 + milne , d. k. , 1968 , australian j. phys . , 21 , 201 + moran , j. m. , greene , b. , rodriguez , l. f. & backer , d. c. , 1990 , apj , 348 , 147 + nishikida , k. , 1999 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , the pennsylvania state university + phillips , j. a. & clegg , a. w. 1992 , nature , 360 , 137 + rickard , j. j. , & cronyn , w. m. 1979 , apj , 228 , 755 + rickett , b. j. , 1990 , ara&a , 28 , 561 + rickett , b. j. , 2000 , proceedings of iau 182 coll .",
    ", kluwer academic publishers + salter , c. 1983 , basi , 11 , 1 + spangler , s. r. , eastman , w. a. , gregorini , l. , et al . 1993 , a&a , 267 , 213 + stinebring , d. r. , faison , m. d. & mckinnon , m. m. , 1996 , apj , 460 , 460 + taylor , j. h. , & cordes , j. m. 1993 , apj , 411 , 674 , ( tc93 ) + toscano , m. , britton , m. c. , manchester , r. n. , et al . 1999 ,",
    "apj , 523 , l171 + trmper , j. , adv .",
    "space res .",
    "1983 , 4 , 241 + warwick , r. s. , barber , c. r. , hodkin , s. t. , pye , j. p. , 1993 ,",
    "mnras , 262 , 28 + yoshioka , s. , & ikeuchi , s. 1990 , apj , 360 , 352 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> recent pulsar scintillation measurements from ooty , in conjunction with those from parkes and other large radio telescopes , are used for a systematic investigation of the local interstellar medium ( lism ) towards the general direction of the loop i bubble . for several pulsars , </S>",
    "<S> clear evidence is found for an enhanced level of scattering which is over and above what can be accounted for by the enhanced scattering model for the local bubble . </S>",
    "<S> these results are interpreted in terms of enhanced scattering due to turbulent plasma associated with the loop i shell . </S>",
    "<S> useful constraints are obtained for the scattering properties of the shell . the inferred value for the scattering measure for the loop i shell is found to be @xmath00.3 . </S>",
    "<S> assuming a shell thickness @xmath0510 pc , this implies an average strength of scattering in the shell that is @xmath0100200 times larger than that in the ambient ism . </S>",
    "<S> an alternative explanation , where the enhanced level of scattering is due to a possible `` interaction zone '' between the local bubble and the loop i bubble , is also considered ; it is found to be somewhat less satisfactory in explaining the observations . </S>",
    "<S> the best fit value for the scattering measure for such an interaction zone region is estimated to be @xmath01.1 .    </S>",
    "<S> further , several pulsars beyond @xmath01 kpc are found to show enhanced levels of scattering over and above that expected from this `` two - bubble model . '' for some of the low - latitude pulsars , this is found to be due to enhanced scattering from plasma inside the intervening sagittarius spiral arm . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the implications of our results for the interpretation of scintillation data and for the general understanding of the lism . </S>"
  ]
}