{
  "article_text": [
    "the evolutionary relations among subclasses of magnetic and non - magnetic cataclysmic variables ( mcvs and cvs respectively ) have been studied for quite some time .",
    "nevertheless , our understanding of these relations remains incomplete , caused largely by serious selection effects which prevent completeness of the samples .",
    "here we consider the future evolution of the peculiar mcv ae  aqr .",
    "its future spin evolution and equilibrium states could clear much of the current confusion , as this binary has been identified as member of a potentially large group of post - thermal timescale mass transfer systems ( schenker et al . , 2002 ) .",
    "one consequence of this is the prediction of a relatively large population of mcvs at long orbital periods .",
    "such a population has not been detected .",
    "we consider the possibility that this could be because these long period mcvs occupy spin equilibria which significantly hamper accretion onto the white dwarf ( wd ) , causing them to have been overlooked or misclassified .",
    "we first consider the origin of cvs ( fig .  1 ) .",
    "the progenitor of the wd starts off as the more massive star in a relatively wide binary , which has evolved through various stages of ( single ) stellar evolution forming a degenerate core in its centre . during the agb phase",
    "the star swells and fills its roche lobe .",
    "a subsequent phase of common envelope evolution leaves the system with the exposed core ( pre - wd ) and the largely unaffected secondary in a close orbit . in order to be a future",
    "cv this system has to become semi - detached .",
    "this can be achieved by angular momentum loss ( aml ) shrinking the orbit or nuclear evolution increasing the secondary s radius .",
    "the latter channel can lead to a large fraction of systems with a secondary more massive than the wd primary leading to thermal - timescale mass transfer ( ttmt ) .",
    "examples of ttmt evolution are the various model tracks for ae  aqr presented in schenker et al.(2002 ) .",
    "in contrast to standard cvs ( which have low mass donors and stable , aml - driven mass transfer ) this subclass passes through an initial phase of high mass transfer prior to become an aml - driven cv . if we consider cvs which have suffered ttmt , we expect there to be differences to standard cvs at the onset of mass transfer : ( i ) the wds are likely to have large rotation rates and masses .",
    "this is a consequence of the high mass transfer rates during the supersoft phase ( during ttmt ) which allows significant accretion onto the wd .",
    "( ii ) instead of low - mass ms stars , the donors are the evolved cores of more massive stars .",
    "their different internal structure , manifesting itself e.g.  in a different mass - radius exponent @xmath0 , leads to smaller @xmath1 at the same @xmath2 , and even to different mass transfer rates .",
    "( iii ) the magnetic fields on either or both the donor and the wd may be different ( cf .  cumming , 2002 , and this volume , on @xmath3field suppression in rapidly accreting wds ) .      the majority of known mcvs ( fig .  2 )",
    "are either polars ( mostly below the period gap ) or intermediate polars ( ips , above the gap up to @xmath4 h ) .",
    "there are only a few , mostly peculiar systems longwards of @xmath5 h , one of which is ae  aqr . if many other systems like it have passed through a similar phase , where do they appear on the period distribution ? this lack of magnetic systems between 6 and 10 h we termed the `` ip gap '' , well aware of the sparse observational data to establish its existence ( cf .",
    "recently reheated discussions on evidence for a period gap in mcvs ) .",
    "we use a simplified description for the magnetic drag on gas streaming past a spinning wd ( king , 1993 ) , where the magnetic acceleration @xmath6 is proportional to the velocity shear @xmath7 . after splitting off the radial power dependency in the drag and replacing the @xmath3field and flow velocities with the wd rotation and keplerian motion",
    "respectively we obtain @xmath8 different interaction models are reduced to variations in the drag coefficient @xmath9 and the radial power @xmath10 . propelling and accreting states are possible depending on the wd spin , which determines the sign of the velocity shear .    extending the usual definition of the magnetospheric radius ( e.g.  warner , 1995 ; frank et al . , 2002 )",
    "we compare the timescale of the magnetic interaction to the dynamical timescale ( in the disk - less case , i ) and to the viscous timescale ( in the truncated disk case , ii ) .",
    "3 shows the resulting critical radii ( shaded for @xmath11 , and an additional set of lines for @xmath12 ) .",
    "for @xmath11 there is a critical spin period @xmath13 marking the maximum of the propelling branch in case i. such a maximum exists for all @xmath14 for both cases .",
    "additionally the asymptotic radius of the accreting branch in the limit of slow rotation can be written as @xmath15 which corresponds to the radius where the stream becomes threaded in an ordinary polar .",
    "both of these expressions describe case i where the mass transfer stream is specified by @xmath16 ( in @xmath17 ) , a stream width @xmath18 ( in @xmath19 ) , and the sound speed at the l1 point @xmath20 ( in @xmath21 ) .",
    "the wd mass is @xmath22 ( in @xmath23 ) and its magnetic moment is @xmath24 ( in @xmath25 ) .",
    "the corresponding expressions for case ii are @xmath26 and @xmath27 with @xmath28 describing the usual disk viscosity .",
    "spin equilibria ips are achieved when torques on the wd cancel .",
    "comparing @xmath29 to various other important radii identifies such states ( warner , 1995 ; king & wynn , 1999 ) .",
    "we are now able to analyse the various spin equilibria in mcvs provided we have good measurements of the periods ( easy ) , magnetic moments ( difficult ) , masses and mass transfer rates ( even more so ) .",
    "results of our most recent simulation are presented in fig .",
    "4 . extending previous attempts ( wynn et al . , 1997 ) to model the current status of ae  aqr",
    ", this calculation follows the spin evolution through the next few @xmath30 . during this time",
    "the spin - down continues at roughly the current rate .",
    "we can clearly see that at @xmath31 a truncated disk forms with a large inner hole of @xmath32 .",
    "we compare this result in fig .  5 to an analysis using critical radii .",
    "in the left - hand panel the situation for ae  aqr in its current state is shown : at the observed spin period of 33 sec and a strong propeller ( lower curve , as labelled ) , @xmath29 is large enough to prevent disk formation in the circularization region .",
    "as the wd slows down , a disk will form and the effective @xmath29 will switch to the truncated disk case ( pair of curves for hot and cold @xmath28 ) . as long as this happens at @xmath33 ( given by eq .",
    "( 4 ) ) , the next stage of spin evolution is a weak propeller in a truncated disk . in the final state of the computation in fig .",
    "4 we indeed find @xmath34 . for @xmath35 a stable equilibrium is possible where the propeller slows the wd down during quiescence , while it is spun up by an equal amount during outbursts .",
    "this equilibrium can be maintained over secular timescales .",
    "such a system will not be visible as a mcv during its rather long quiescent stage between outbursts .",
    "we can now construct a sequence of diagrams for ae  aqr with parameters taken from the post - ttmt evolution by schenker et al .",
    "the right - hand panel of fig .",
    "5 ( showing only the truncated disk pair of curves ) is taken at @xmath36 : the @xmath29 curves are shifted upwards along the corotation radius , i.e.  the central hole has grown to the point that spin equilibrium is impossible . further slow down of the wd ends the weak propeller phase , and _ for the first time _",
    "ae  aqr will appear as a normal ip : with a typical @xmath37 ratio and @xmath38 in the range where the bulk of ips are found ( fig .  2 ) .",
    "we also identified a potentially stable configuration for a strong ( disk - less ) propeller .",
    "the velocity of a stream reaches its maximum value near the point of closest approach to the wd , the point at which the rotational velocity of the magnetic field is lowest .",
    "so for given @xmath38 and @xmath39 a critical spin period @xmath40 can be found at which the sign of the drag force between the stream and the rotating wd field changes . as the force depends strongly on radius even a small inversion may be sufficient to balance the angular momentum transferred from the wd to the stream while further away .",
    "this may lead to a stable propeller , i.e.  a situation where the mass transfer stream is leaving the system yet _ the wd spin does not change_. in order to test this new idea , we have performed sph simulations to investigate the possibility of a stable strong propeller . as can be seen in fig .  6",
    ", it is possible to construct a strong propeller at this critical spin state .",
    "near the point of closest approach the velocity shear reverses and the stream returns angular momentum to the wd",
    ". however , it would appear that this can only happen at spin periods well above @xmath41 found for ae  aqr .",
    "in summary both the critical radius analysis and numerical work indicate that ae  aqr will continue to be a strong propeller for a short time .",
    "afterwards it is likely to become a weak propeller system with a truncated disk .",
    "at least theoretically , a stable strong propeller is possible , although most probably not feasible for ae  aqr . as long as the system can avoid accreting in a stable , ip - like manner , any descendant of ae  aqr may easily be overlooked as a mcv .",
    "overall we conclude that ttmt evolution forces us to re - evaluate ideas about magnetic binary evolution .",
    "the various spin states of magnetic wds can lead to drastically different behaviour of otherwise similar systems .",
    "in particular , stable states may exist with or without a disk , propelling or accreting .",
    "not all of these states would currently be considered to be magnetic systems on observational grounds ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the spin evolution of the unusual magnetic cv ae  aqr . as a prototype for a potentially large population of cvs subject to a thermally unstable phase of mass transfer , understanding its future is crucial . </S>",
    "<S> we present a new definition of the magnetospheric radius in terms of the white dwarf s spin period , and use this along with numerical simulations to follow the spin evolution of ae  aqr . </S>",
    "<S> we also present preliminary sph results suggesting the existence of a stable propeller state . </S>",
    "<S> these results highlight the complexity of mcvs and may provide am improved understanding of the evolution of all types of cvs .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}