{
  "article_text": [
    "the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy appears as a stream of stars covering several hundreds of square degrees around @xmath5 , @xmath6 .",
    "it is elongated perpendicular to the galactic plane and apparently is in the process of plunging through the milky way some 25 kpc from the sun and 17 kpc from the galactic center ( ibata et al .",
    "1994 , 1997 ; mateo et al . 1998 ) .",
    "this encounter is probably not the first for this system .",
    "it seems reasonable to search for effects which such an encounter might plausibly produce on the milky way , including distension of the layer in the direction of the dwarf galaxy , and , depending on the dwarf s mass , creation or enhancement of a galactic warp ( lin @xcite , ibata & razoumov @xcite ) .",
    "previous @xmath7  cm measurements have detected no at three positions near the center of the sgr dwarf ( koribalski et al .",
    "@xcite ) , making this system typical of nearby dwarf spheroidals , although the dsph galaxy sculptor is an interesting exception ( carignan et al .",
    "@xcite , carignan @xcite ) .",
    "we have measured the @xmath021  cm emission line of neutral hydrogen over a large area which includes the central region of the sgr dwarf in a search for neutral gas associated with or entrained by the dwarf galaxy , for a perturbation in galactic gas resulting from the first phases of an encounter , or for evidence for other phenomena such as a tidal tail or an analogue to the magallenic stream as it is associated with the large magellanic cloud .",
    "galactic spectra were taken toward the sagittarius dwarf galaxy using the 140 foot telescope of the nrao in green bank , wv , which has an angular resolution of @xmath8 at the 21 cm wavelength of the line .",
    "each spectrum covers about 1000 km  s@xmath9 centered at a velocity of @xmath10 km  s@xmath9 with respect to the lsr .",
    "the channel spacing is 2.0 km  s@xmath9 .",
    "the data were obtained by switching against a reference frequency @xmath11 mhz above the signal band .",
    "the temperature scale was calibrated using laboratory measurements of a noise diode .",
    "spot checks show that the spectra do not deviate by more than 10% from the calibrated intensity scale of the leiden / dwingeloo survey of hartmann & burton ( 1997 ) .",
    "the system temperature at zenith was about 20 k ; a typical rms noise level in a spectrum is about 30 mk .",
    "this noise is equivalent to a column density uncertainty @xmath12 @xmath13 over a 20 km  s@xmath9 band . at the 25 kpc distance of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal",
    ", this noise level allows a @xmath14 detection of 200 m@xmath2 of in a single 140 foot pointing .",
    "spectra were taken every @xmath15 in galactic longitude and latitude over the region bounded by @xmath16 and @xmath17 , with an extension to @xmath18 over @xmath19 . in all",
    ", more than 250 spectra were measured .",
    "we also examined spectra that were available over a more extended region , albeit taken at lower sensitivity , from the leiden / dwingeloo survey which covers the sky north of declination @xmath20 at half ",
    "degree spacing , and from the observations of liszt & burton ( 1980 ) , which cover the area within about @xmath21 of the galactic center , also at half  degree intervals .",
    "the brightest parts of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy are near @xmath22 ; stars associated with this system have been found from latitudes @xmath23 to perhaps @xmath24 , and its true extent is still uncertain ( alard @xcite , alcock et al .",
    "@xcite , mateo et al .",
    "the mean stellar velocity over the central region is within a few km  s@xmath9 of + 170 km  s@xmath9 with respect to the galactic standard of rest , which , at the center of the dwarf , corresponds to + 150 km  s@xmath9 with respect to the local standard of rest ( ibata et al .",
    "at such a low galactic longitude , conventional galactic rotation is almost entirely perpendicular to the line of sight , so unperturbed milky way disk gas at the location of the dwarf galaxy would have an lsr velocity of order @xmath25 km  s@xmath9 . the longitude of the sgr dwarf spheroidal passes , however , close to the galactic nucleus where gas in the bulge regions displays both high positive and negative  velocity motions within about @xmath26 of the galactic plane ( e.g. liszt and burton @xcite ) .",
    "any that is related to the sagittarius dwarf would be expected to be either at the velocity of the dwarf ( in the galactic center frame ) or to be spatially extended in relation to the dwarf .",
    "the former possibility can be tested simply , because there is not expected to be galactic at the velocity of the dwarf ; the later possibility requires comparison of the galactic toward the dwarf with the situation in directions away from it .",
    "figure 1 shows the intensity integrated over + 130 to + 170 ( lsr ) ; this velocity range extends @xmath27 about the mean stellar velocity of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal ( ibata et al .",
    "the amount of galactic decreases smoothly with latitude over this area ; there is no evidence for a concentration at the latitude of the central part of the sagittarius dwarf within this velocity range .",
    "a comparable view of the is given in figure 2 , which shows contours of intensity integrated over all observed velocities .",
    "again , there is no significant concentration of at the location of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal within that extended velocity range .",
    "figure 3 shows a latitude  velocity map of the hi made after spectra at constant latitude have been averaged over the longitude range of our observations .",
    "the centroid of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy is marked by the letters ` sds ' .",
    "for comparison , figure 4 shows a similar display of data for directions _ above _ the galactic plane from the leiden / dwingeloo survey of hartmann & burton ( 1997 ) .",
    "note that the positive  latitude figure is plotted with the latitude scale inverted to facilitate comparison with the data toward the dwarf galaxy .",
    "these figures show again that there is no bright feature at the location and velocity of the dwarf galaxy .",
    "moreover , at the latitude of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal the appearance of the contours at all velocities is quite similar above and below the galactic plane , showing no indication of a disturbance in the milky was disk gas stemming from the proximity of the dwarf .",
    "the feature labeled j5 in figure 3 is a cloud found by cohen ( @xcite ) that has previously been interpreted as one of the observational vagaries stemming from the projection of kinematics associated with the barred potential of the inner few kpc of the galaxy ( see burton & liszt 1978 , liszt & burton 1980 , burton & liszt 1983 ) .",
    "j5 has a velocity with respect to the galactic center of @xmath28 , while at its latitude the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal has a velocity of about @xmath29 in the same coordinate system .",
    "because of the velocity difference and lack of any evident spatial coincidence , and because feature j5 fits naturally into models of the galactic barred potential , we believe that an association of this feature with the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy is unlikely",
    ". the liszt & burton model of the galactic core also accounts for the small feature at @xmath30 , @xmath31 seen in figure 4 at the location and velocity mirror  symmetric to the j5 feature .",
    "feature j5 and its mirror  symmetric counterpart are a single pair of more than the dozen apparently anomalous paired features lying within the galactic core discussed by burton & liszt ( 1978 ) .",
    "all important geometrical aspects of the barlike model of the inner  galaxy gas distribution proposed by liszt & burton ( 1980 ) whose consequences subsume the individual anomalous features , have subsequently been confirmed by the direct evidence for a stellar bar in the milky way shown by the near  ir surface photometry ( see review by fux 1999 and references there , in particular blitz & spergel 1991 , dwek et al .",
    "1995 , and binney et al .",
    "the larger context into which j5 and its mirror  symmetric counterpart fit in a natural way makes a suggested association with the sagittarius dwarf particularly unconvincing .",
    "there is an additional hi cloud visible in the data at ( @xmath32 . this is a compact high  velocity cloud ( see braun & burton 1999 ) discovered by shane ( see saraber & shane 1974 ) , with no evident connection either to the milky way or to the sagittarius dwarf .",
    "we can place a limit on the mass at the velocity of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy of @xmath33 m@xmath2 ( @xmath14 ) in a single beam of the 140 foot telescope , assuming that the would have the velocity centroid and velocity dispersion ( @xmath34 ) observed in the stellar component ( ibata et al .",
    "@xcite ) . with the same assumpton ,",
    "a limit on the total mass of hi associated with the system in the region covered by the current observations was derived by averaging all spectra with @xmath35 and @xmath36 .",
    "the average spectrum thus obtained shows some emission above the noise level over the velocity range @xmath37 , in an amount which would be equivalent to 7000 m@xmath2 of at the 25 kpc distance of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal , but figure 3 shows that most of this emission is coming from the lowest latitudes , and it is neither centered on , nor increasing in intensity toward , the position of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy .",
    "indeed , the amount of in the velocity interval is doubled if the average is taken over an area extending to @xmath38 rather than to @xmath3 .",
    "we conclude that the rather small amount of emission detected in the large - area average is most likely contributed by gas in the galactic core ( possibly via the antenna sidelobes ) rather than by gas associated with the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy .",
    "there is no bright associated with the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy , either at the velocity of the galaxy itself , or signaling a perturbation to the milky way .",
    "there is no indication of a train of gas analogous to the magellanic stream ( see mathewson et al .",
    "1974 ) which is focussed at the position and velocity of the large magellanic cloud .",
    "the absence of in the dwarf spheriodal is consistant with earlier , more limited , measurement ( koribalski et al @xcite ) and with observations of similar systems . in general",
    ", the dwarf spheroidal companions of the galaxy and of m31 do not have a detectable amount of hi .",
    "the one exception is the sculptor dwarf galaxy , which has @xmath39 m@xmath2 of located in two clouds each about 500 pc from the center of that galaxy ( carignan et al @xcite , carignan @xcite ) .",
    "these clouds have peak column densities in excess of a few times @xmath40 @xmath13 , an order of magnitude greater than any feature in our data at the position and velocity of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy ( figure 1 ) .",
    "the brightest part of the sagittarius dwarf spheriodal galaxy is now about 5 kpc below the plane of the milky way , and some stars associated with it may be within 2 kpc of the disk .",
    "it appears that it will strike the milky way at a location near the line of nodes of the galactic warp , where the disk is expected to be distributed approximately symmetrically about @xmath41 .",
    "the at a galactocentric distance of 17 kpc has , on average , a scale - height of about 400 pc ( burton @xcite ) .",
    "the main part of the sagittarius dwarf is thus unlikely to be encountering the milky way gaseous disk gas as of yet , consistent with our finding that the sagittarius dwarf has not yet affected the milky way in any significant way .",
    "alard c. , 1996 , apj 458 , l20 alcock c. , et al . , 1997 , apj 474 , 217 binney j. , gerhard o. , spergel d.n , 1997 , mnras 288 , 365 blitz l. , spergel d.n . , 1991 ,",
    "apj 379 , 631 braun r. , burton w.b . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a 341 , 437 burton w.b . , 1992 , in _ the galactic interstellar medium _ , eds .",
    "d. pfenniger & p. bartholdi ; springer - verlag , heidelberg burton w.b . , liszt h.s . , 1978 ,",
    "apj 225 , 815 burton w.b . ,",
    "liszt h.s . , 1983 , a&as 52 , 63 carignan c. , beaulieu s. , cote s. , demers s. , mateo m. , 1998 , aj 116 , 1690 carignan , c. , 1999 , pasa 16 , 18 cohen r.j .",
    ", 1975 , mnras 171 , 659 dwek e. , arendt r.g .",
    ", hauser m.g . , et al . , 1995 , apj 445 , 716 fux r. , 1999 , a&a 345 , 787 hartmann d. , burton w.b . , 1997 , `` atlas of galactic neutral hydrogen '' , cambridge university press ibata r.a . , gilmore g. , irwin m. , 1994 , nature 370 , 194 ibata r.a . , wyse r. , gilmore g. , irwin m. , suntzeff n. , 1997 , aj 113 , 634 ibata r.a . , razoumov , a.o . , 1998 , a&a 336 , 130 koribalski b. , johnson s. , otrupcek r. , 1994 , mnras 270 , l43 lin d. , 1996 , in _ gravitational dynamics _ , eds . o. lahav , e. terlevich , r. terlevich ; cambridge contemporary astrophysics , cambridge liszt h.s . , burton , w.b . , 1980 ,",
    "apj 236 , 779 mateo m. , olszewski e.w . , morrison h.l . , 1998 , apj letters 508 , l55 mathewson d.s . , cleary m.n . , murray j.d",
    ", 1974 , apj 190 , 291 saraber m.j.m . , shane w.w . , 1974 , a&a 30 , 365"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have measured the @xmath021 cm line of galactic over more than 50 square degrees in the direction of the sagittarius dwarf spheroidal galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> the data show no evidence of associated with the dwarf spheroidal which might be consider analogous to the magellanic stream as it is associated in both position and velocity with the large magellanic cloud . nor do the data show evidence for any disturbance in the milky way disk gas that can be unambiguously assigned to interaction with the dwarf galaxy . </S>",
    "<S> the data shown here limit the mass at the velocity of the sagittarius dwarf to @xmath1 m@xmath2 over some 18 square degrees between galactic latitudes @xmath3 and @xmath4 . </S>"
  ]
}