{
  "article_text": [
    "cluster mergings are known to be among the most energetic phenomena in the universe , but until now studies at all wavelengths have not been extensively carried on : therefore it is still unclear how the collision energy is dissipated and which is the effect of merging on the emission properties of the galaxies and on the physics of the intracluster medium .    in cosmological n - body simulations",
    "the cluster accretion happens along specific directions defined by the density caustics and richer clusters form preferentially where the environment density is higher .",
    "superclusters can be considered as the observational counterparts of these caustics and it is expected that at their centers the cluster accretion is still strongly active .",
    "therefore , superclusters are the ideal places where to study merging phenomena , because the cross - section for cluster collisions is enhanced .",
    "the best place for these studies is the central region of the shapley concentration supercluster , a huge concentration of clusters at @xmath0 ( @xcite , @xcite , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* raychaudhury et al . 1991 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* zucca et al . 1993 ) ) .",
    "this region is anomalously rich in clusters , considering that it has 25 members while the great attractor ( with a similar mass overdensity ) contains only 6 clusters ( see table 3 of ( * ? ? ?",
    "* zucca et al . 1993 ) ) : for some reasons , in this region the cluster formation efficiency has been enhanced also with respect to similar regions .",
    "moreover , as noted by @xcite , the fraction of clusters with substructures in this supercluster is higher than elsewhere , meaning that the process of cluster formation is still strongly active , suggesting that this region could be considered a  nursery \" of rich clusters .",
    "various redshift surveys have been conducted in order to study the large scale distribution of galaxies in the shapley concentration ( @xcite , ( * ? ? ? * bardelli et al .",
    "2000 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* drinkwater et al . 2004 ) ) and its relation with the distribution of clusters .",
    "up to now , there are a few thousands of galaxy redshifts in the supercluster , allowing not only to determine its geometry but also its overdensity and mass ( see figure 1 ) .",
    "the distribution of inter - cluster galaxies is well described by a plane tilted with respect to the line of sight : the distribution of galaxies around this plane is a gaussian with a dispersion of @xmath1  h@xmath2 mpc  ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bardelli et al . 2000 ) ) . the huge overdensity in number of galaxies ( @xmath3 on a scale of @xmath4  h@xmath2 mpc  ) found for this supercluster",
    "is consistent only with @xmath5cdm or open cdm cosmological scenarios ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bardelli et al . 2000 ) ; for a more recent determination on larger scales see ( * ? ? ?",
    "* drinkwater et al . 2004 ) ) .",
    "the determination of the mass of the supercluster is more difficult because , as indicated by the overdensity , the region is far from virialization .",
    "various methods have been applied ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ettori et al .",
    "1997 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bardelli et al . 2000 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* reisenegger et al .",
    "2000 ) ) , leading to an estimate of @xmath6 .",
    "all these properties are extreme also for @xmath5cdm models and for this reason it is quite difficult to find a supercluster like the shapley concentration in numerical simulations .",
    "as can be seen in figure 2 , two main groups of clusters (  cluster complexes \" ) dominate the central region of this supercluster .",
    "the a3558 complex ( a3558 is the richest cluster of the region ) is a structure elongated for @xmath7  h@xmath2 mpc  in the east - west direction , comprising also a3562 , a3556 , sc1329 - 313 and sc1327 - 312 .",
    "the a3528 complex extends for @xmath7  h@xmath2 mpc  along the north - south direction and is formed by two pairs ( actually a3528 is double ) of interacting clusters , including also a3530 and a3532 .",
    "dynamical studies of @xcite and @xcite concluded that these structures ( with mass of a few @xmath8 each ) are in the collapse phase , while the entire central supercluster region already reached its turn - around radius and has started to collapse .",
    "in fact , the complexes represent a major merger at an advanced stage ( the a3558 complex ) and at an early stage ( the a3528 complex ) .",
    "these two strucures are connected by a  bridge \" of galaxies , resembling the great wall : within this wall the overdensity in number of galaxies is @xmath9 , consistent with the overall overdensity of @xmath10 obtained by @xcite after having eliminated the cluster regions .",
    "formally , there is also another complex , dominated by a3571 ( the cluster visible on the south - east in the lower panel of figure 2 ) which is connected with a3572 and a3575 ( two poor concentrations ) in the optical image .",
    "however , in the x - ray this cluster appears well relaxed and this could indicate that the merging is  old \" , in the sense that the gas had time to go to the equilibrium , while galaxies are still at the end of the relaxation process .",
    "clusters belonging to this structure are embedded in a continuous envelope of both hot gas ( @xcite ) and galaxies ( ( * ? ? ? * bardelli et al . 1998a ) ) on a scale of @xmath7  h@xmath2 mpc  , i.e. surrounding the entire structure ( see figure 3 ) .",
    "the hot gas has not had origin from the cosmological filament ( or  wall \" ) seen in the redshift survey , but probably it is intracluster gas expelled from the clusters by the merging ( see the spatial analysis of a3562 in ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ettori et al . 2000 ) ) .",
    "also the galaxy envelope has had the same origin , being formed by the less bounded cluster objects , shared by the whole structure after the merging .",
    "rosat , asca and beppo - sax ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bardelli et al . 2002 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* hanami et al . 1999 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* akimoto et al . 2004 ) , ( * ? ? ?",
    "* ettori et al . 2000 ) ) x - ray studies of this region did not detect shocks , although the gas distribution shows clear signs of disturbance . only between a3562 and sc1329 - 313 ,",
    "in the eastern part of the structure , a hotter region is detected ( see figure 3 ) .",
    "furthermore , sc1329 - 313 has a gas distribution particularly disturbed with a comet - like shape ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bardelli et al . 2002 ) ) : an asca analysis of its x - ray spectrum led @xcite to claim the existence of significant turbulent motions or of a multiphase gas .",
    "this means that the merging is still at work and the clusters are far from equilibrium .",
    "as can be seen from figure 4 , most of the gas distribution features in the a3558 complex could be related with galaxy distribution substructures .",
    "this spectacular major merging represents a unique opportunity to study the effect of merging at radio wavelengths ( see also the contributions of zucca and giacintucci , this conference ) .",
    "in particular , a peculiar radio feature has been detected : it is formed by a radio halo and by a diffuse radiosource ( see figure 5 ) ; the only other known case is in the coma cluster .",
    "the radio halo , detected at the center of a3562 , is nearby an head tail radiogalaxy : we verified ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* venturi et al . 2003 ) ) that this radiogalaxy furnished the electrons which , after the reacceleration by a merging 0.4 gyrs ago , are responsible for the halo emission . also the radio spectrum of the halo is consistent with the last electron acceleration happened 0.4 gyrs ago .",
    "moreover , we found that there is a significant lack of radiosources in this structure ( ( * ? ? ? * venturi et al .",
    "2000 ) ) : this signal is coming mainly from the cluster a3558 and could indicate that merging could switch - off , at least for a period , the radiosource activity .",
    "moreover , a relic radiosource has been found in the westernmost part of the a3558 complex : a geometrical and dynamical reconstruction of this part of the structure lead to speculate that this relic had origin on the shock front ( up to now undetected in the x - ray ) , caused by a small group infalling onto the a3556 cluster ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* venturi et al . 1998 ) ) .",
    "a3556 itself presents peculiar characteristics , because of its very low x - ray surface brightness with respect to the optical richness : moreover , its optical luminosity function presents an unusual shape , with a pronouced excess of bright galaxies ( ( * ? ? ?",
    "* bardelli et al . 1998a ) ) .",
    "a3528 , the dominant cluster of the complex , is a double cluster formed by two twins subclumps separated by 0.9  h@xmath2 mpc  and the other two clusters of the complex ( a3530 and a3532 ) are a close pair , separated by @xmath11  h@xmath2 mpc  .",
    "@xcite studied a3528 with xmm - newton observations , obtaining surface brightness , temperature and abundance maps .",
    "although a bridge of hot gas connecting the two clumps has been found , no shock is detected ( see figure 6 ) : this fact is unexpected , given the estimated masses of the clumps ( @xmath12 each ) and their relative distance .",
    "the most reasonable explanation is that the merging was not head - on but off - axis .",
    "after having subtracted a @xmath13 model from the surface brightness of the two subclumps , we found emission excesses which can be used to determine the infalling direction ( see right panel of figure 6 ) .",
    "the conclusion is that this system is in an off - axis post - merging phase , with the closest core encounter happened @xmath14 gyrs ago .",
    "the interesting point is that the optical blue luminosities of the two subclumps , which are twins for what regards the x - ray properties , differ by an order of magnitude .",
    "this could indicated that one of the two clumps suffered more than the other of the galaxy  pealing \" process , probably induced by a larger path through the large scale environment .",
    "xmm - newton data on the couple a3530/a3532 are presently in the reduction phase .",
    "our general conclusion is that , although the two single pairs of clusters ( the two clumps of a3528 and a3530/a3532 ) are mergings at an advanced state , the a3528 complex as a whole is at an earlier moment of collapse with respect to the a3558 complex , and the masses involved here are probably lower .",
    "central regions of superclusters give the possibility to find cluster mergings at different phases and strengths and to study the consequences of cluster collisions on the intracluster medium and the galaxy population .",
    "the case study of the shapley concentration which i presented here shows that the multiwavelength approach is the best way to analyse merging clusters ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> central regions of superclusters are the ideal places where to study cluster merging phenomena : in fact the accretion activity is enhanced , as predicted by the cosmological simulations . in this paper </S>",
    "<S> i review the case - study of the shapley concentration , aimed to understand the effect of major mergings on the intracluster medium and the galaxy population of the involved clusters . </S>"
  ]
}