{
  "article_text": [
    "brown dwarfs are essentially failed stars ; they formed within a stellar nebula just like any other star , but they failed to reach a mass that generates sufficiently high central temperatures and pressures to induce the process of hydrogen fusion . as a result of the lack of fusion , brown dwarfs are naturally very dark objects .",
    "the little light that they do put out is normally at the infrared end of the spectrum and is typically left over energy from the accretion process .",
    "the identification of brown dwarfs is a difficult process ; their inherently faint magnitudes make them both difficult to locate and to classify .",
    "classification of brown dwarf status relies on the identification of spectral features from the object which could nt have come from a low - mass star .",
    "the primary identifier of a brown dwarf is the presence of a lithium resonance doublet at 6708 @xmath0 .",
    "this feature up until recently proved very difficult to locate and the existence of isolated brown dwarfs was a subject of some controversy .    the first confirmed identification of a brown dwarf within the pleiades cluster was by basri , marcey & graham ( 1996 ) ( teide 1 ) .",
    "they successfully identified , spectroscopically , the lithium feature in a brown dwarf candidate first discovered by stauffer , hamilton & probst ( 1994 ) . since this first identification",
    "the assignment of brown dwarf status has been given to many more candidate objects , particularly in the pleiades cluster .",
    "due to its young age and proximity , the pleiades cluster is an excellent hunting ground for brown dwarfs .",
    "many surveys have been made of this cluster ; hambly ( 1999 ) performed a survey in the i and r bands and identified nine distinct single brown dwarf candidates .",
    "further surveys have yielded more brown dwarf candidates within the cluster , notably a recent survey by pinfield ( 2000 ) has identified 30 possible brown dwarfs in a six square degree survey of the cluster .",
    "of particular interest is the work of pinfield ( 1998 ) .",
    "their examination of the dynamics of the pleiades cluster lead them to believe that there are several thousand unseen brown dwarfs .",
    "if this is the case it is important to understand why so few brown dwarfs have been found within the central portions of the cluster which have been so well studied .",
    "the discovery of gliese 229b ( a brown dwarf contained within a binary system ) by nakajima ( 1995 ) ( see also golimowski 1998 , basri 1999 ) poses the interesting possibility of containing cluster brown dwarfs within a primordial binary population . since this first discovery of a binary containing a brown dwarf , a further six have been identified through the use of data from the 2mass survey ( gizis 2000 , skrutskie 1995 ) .",
    "martn ( 2000 ) performed near - infrared photometry on very low - mass members of the pleiades cluster .",
    "they failed to detect any resolved binary systems with a separation of more than 0.2 arcsec ; however they do manage to identify cfht - p1 - 16 as a brown dwarf binary of separation 0.08 arcsecs ( equivalent 11 au ) by use of hst data .",
    "they also detect the presence of a binary second sequence within the colour magnitude diagram ( see haffner & heckmann 1937 , hurley & tout 1998 for a discussion ) .",
    "however , they conclude that there is a deficiency in the population of wide binary systems ( those with a separation greater than 27 au ) ; we consider this issue in this paper .",
    "another cluster of interest is the hyades .",
    "this is located at @xmath146 pc from the sun , and is considerably older than the pleiades ( @xmath1650 myrs as opposed to the pleiades age of @xmath1 120 myrs ) .",
    "observations of this cluster reveal a deficit in low mass objects and brown dwarfs @xcite , although recent observations @xcite have identified a binary system , which may possibly contain a brown dwarf .",
    "however , in other regards it appears to be quite similar to the pleiades , just older .",
    "work by luhman ( 2000 ) has demonstrated a strong similarity between the initial mass functions ( imf ) of the trapezium , pleiades and m35 open clusters .",
    "they performed sensitive , high - resolution imaging of the central portion of the trapezium cluster utilising the near - infrared camera and multi - object spectrometer ( nicmos ) aboard the hubble space telescope , as well as performing ground based observations to take k - band spectra for many of their sources .",
    "their methodology allowed observations of objects well below the hydrogen burning limit and so we are now beginning to get a full explanation of the galactic field imf . within the several hundred objects identified within the trapezium cluster ,",
    "around 50 have been classified as brown dwarf candidates .",
    "the derived trapezium imf is found to be similar to mass functions predicted for other young star forming regions , ic 348 ( luhman 1998 ) and @xmath2 oph ( luhman & reike 1999 ) .",
    "indeed this work lends credence to the idea of a universal imf , at least in the case of open clusters ( there appear to be fundamental differences between these imf s and those of globular clusters ) .",
    "if this is true , a consistent model of brown dwarf dynamics within a cluster should explain observed differences .",
    "we seek to model the evolution of a cluster of stars which also contains a population of brown dwarfs , in an effort to predict what happens to the brown dwarf contingent that star clusters are predicted to have .",
    "stellar clusters may be modelled either through fokker - plank codes or direct n - body integrators .",
    "it is this latter technique that we apply .",
    "the use of n - body codes to simulate open cluster evolution has become common place with more advanced codes allowing more detailed study .",
    "the work of terlevich ( 1987 ) demonstrated the use of n - body simulations ; she successfully modelled the evolution of several clusters to their evaporation ( their total dissipation ) and examined the process of mass segregation within the cluster .    earlier work by de la fuente marcos & de",
    "la fuente marcos ( 1999 ) began the examination of brown dwarf evolution in open clusters .",
    "they utilised the @xmath3 code by sverre aarseth and examined the evolution of 8 separate cluster models which varied in their stellar make up .",
    "they conclude for their models the relative percentages of brown dwarfs to normal stars at older cluster ages is strongly dependent on the imf used at the start of their simulations . we seek to further this work via the use of the more advanced code nbody 6 also by sverre aarseth ( see hurley 2001 for a review of the nbody 6 code ) .",
    "we examine the affects of various cluster diameters , masses and density profiles .",
    "we also examine the implications of various binary fractions and the effects they can have on a brown dwarf population or at least appear to have .",
    "the paper is divided into the following sections : in section  [ sec : theo ] we discuss the theoretical considerations behind the simulations , detailing the important processes within the cluster . in section  [ sec : initcon ] we detail the various initial conditions which were used for the simulations performed , within section  [ sec : numres ] we outline the results of our various simulations .",
    "these results are analysed in detail within section  [ sec : dis ] , before concluding remarks are made within section  [ sec : concl ] .",
    "the motion of the objects within the cluster leads to the definition of two important time scales .",
    "the first of these time scales is the cluster crossing time , t@xmath4 , which defines how long it takes a star or brown dwarf to move across the cluster .",
    "it is defined by the equation :    @xmath5    where r@xmath6 is the half - mass radius of the cluster and @xmath7 is the velocity dispersion .",
    "our second time scale is the relaxation time , t@xmath8 .",
    "as the stars and brown dwarfs move within the cluster they will undergo gravitational interactions with each other .",
    "the relaxation time refers to the period taken for a star to undergo sufficient interactions with various other bodies exchanging energy and have a resultant change in velocity of order @xmath9 .",
    "one may estimate the relaxation time of a cluster based on the two - body relaxation time as defined in binney & tremaine ( 1987 ) :    @xmath10    where n is the number of stars within the cluster .",
    "the exchange of energy during the two - body interaction is a very important driving force for the cluster . during an interaction between two stars ,",
    "energy is transferred from the heavier to the lighter one , until the cluster reaches a state of equipartition of energy .",
    "this results in the heavy star falling deeper into the cluster potential , namely toward the core of the cluster .",
    "this leads to the phenomena of mass segregation , whereby one finds the heaviest stars within a cluster migrating toward the core regions .",
    "bonnell & davies ( 1998 ) demonstrate that the time scale for mass segregation within a cluster is well fitted by t@xmath8 ( as was predicted by spitzer 1940 ) .",
    "hence systems which are older than their t@xmath8 should be mass segregated .    whilst the heavy stars have lost energy during two body interactions , the lighter stars ( or brown dwarfs )",
    "have gained energy . as a result",
    "the body s velocity naturally increases and so it can move further out into the cluster . after a sufficient number of interactions , it is possible that the light star , or brown dwarf , may have a velocity which exceeds the escape speed of the cluster .",
    "this leads to the process of evaporation , whereby the cluster may lose mass via the escape of energetic stars .      within the cluster environment",
    "there is likely to be a population of binaries",
    ". these will provide another important mechanism for driving the evolution of the cluster ; interactions between binary systems and single stars provide another method of energy transfer within the system as we now briefly describe .",
    "there are two types of binary system , hard and soft .",
    "the definition of hard and soft arise when a binary system undergoes an interaction with a third star .",
    "we have to consider the ratio of the total kinetic energy of the three bodies and the binding energy of the binary .",
    "if the kinetic energy of the system is greater than the binding energy , then there exists the possibility that energy can be passed into the binary and cause it to break up ; this is referred to as a soft binary system . whilst if the kinetic energy of the three body event is less than the binding energy of the binary ,",
    "the binary is said to be hard . in this case energy",
    "is transferred to the interloping star and the binary becomes tighter , or harder .",
    "this transfer in energy then alters the energy budget of the cluster . the dividing line between the hard and soft regimes",
    "occurs when the total kinetic energy is just equal to the binding energy of the binary and so leads to the definition of the critical velocity ;    @xmath11}{m_3 ( m_1 + m_2 ) } \\frac{1}{d } \\label{vcrit}\\ ] ]    where m@xmath12 , m@xmath13 are the masses of the two stars within the binary system and m@xmath14 is the mass of the third star , whilst d is the binary separation .",
    "if we equate the resulting kinetic energy of the system to the binary system s binding energy , we can find the resulting definition of the hard soft boundary limit :    @xmath15    where @xmath16 is now simply the relative velocity of the interloping star in kms@xmath17 and the masses are in solar units .",
    "clearly we now see that the hard soft boundary of a star is now a function of the interloping star s mass .",
    "thus a system might be hard to one interaction whilst being soft to another one .",
    "as already mentioned , if a hard binary system were to undergo an interaction , it is expected to get harder ; in doing so energy has to be transferred from the binary system to the third star .",
    "this results in an increase in the third star s velocity and can ultimately lead to its evaporation from the cluster . alternatively ,",
    "if the interloping star has a mass greater than one of the components within the binary , then the two may be exchanged , with a hardening of the new binary system . a trivial calculation , based in a binary system with components of 0.6 @xmath18 and 0.05 @xmath18 , undergoing an interaction with a 0.4 @xmath18 star and forming a new binary which is @xmath120 per cent harder than the original system results in a kick velocity to the 0.05 @xmath18 body ( a brown dwarf ) of 4.9 kms@xmath17 .",
    "the escape velocity of our clusters is of order 2.5 kms@xmath17 , so clearly if such an interaction were to take place , the ejected brown dwarf would soon escape from our cluster .    the interaction time scale for bodies within the cluster",
    "may be defined as :    @xmath19    where @xmath20 is the number density of stars , @xmath16 is the relative stellar velocity and @xmath21 is the interaction cross - section .",
    "the clusters within our simulations all initially have a constant velocity dispersion , which is allowed to evolve with the cluster . as a consequence",
    "the interaction cross - section may be estimated as :    @xmath22    where @xmath16 is the relative velocity of the binary and the interloping stars and @xmath23 is the distance of closest approach for the system .",
    "as stellar clusters evolve they are subject to tidal forces from the galaxy within which they reside .",
    "these forces will lead to perturbations on the orbits of the stars within the cluster . for simplicity we model the motion of clusters moving on a circular orbit about the centre of our galaxy at a radius equivalent to that of the sun from the galactic centre ( r@xmath24=8.5kpc ) , this yields oorts constants of a = 14.5 @xmath25 1.5 kms@xmath17kpc@xmath17 and b = -12 @xmath25 3 kms@xmath17kpc@xmath17 . with the addition of tidal forces to the calculations , the equations of motion for",
    "the stars within the cluster become @xcite ;    @xmath26    @xmath27    @xmath28    where @xmath29 is the angular velocity about the centre of the galaxy defined by :    @xmath30    with m@xmath24 is the mass of the galaxy contained within a distance r@xmath24 .",
    "one of the most obvious effects of the tidal field is the existence of a tidal radius for the cluster .",
    "this is the point at which the gravitational forces due to the cluster and the galaxy balance ; it is defined by :    @xmath31    where m@xmath32 is the total mass of the open cluster .",
    "once past this radius a star is no longer considered to be bound to the cluster and moves off to become a part of the galactic disk . throughout all the simulations the effects of an external tidal field on the cluster are included with tidal radii calculated with the oort constants as measured in the solar neighbourhood .",
    "stellar masses for the population of stars within the simulations were produced by two methods .",
    "the first method was to simply utilise a catalogue of stellar masses for the objects currently present with in the pleiades .",
    "to this catalogue we added a population of 100 low - mass stars which were simply produced by doubling up the population of low mass bodies in the catalogue .",
    "this allowed us to model the well studied inner portions of the cluster .",
    "the addition of a further 100 bodies was decided on via numerical experiments that we performed .    the second method of producing stellar masses was to use the mass function by kroupa , tout & gilmore 1993 .",
    "with this function we produced a distribution of stars with an upper limit on mass of 10 @xmath18 and a lower mass of 0.08 @xmath18 ( the hydrogen burning limit ) .",
    "evolution of the stellar population was accomplished via the use of fitting formulas  @xcite . in using the imf by kroupa ,",
    "tout & gilmore ( 1993 ) we extended our investigations by looking at clusters of different masses , with stellar numbers ranging between 1000 and 3000 .",
    "in addition to examining two different mass profiles we also investigate the effects of two different initial density distributions .",
    "the first is the plummer distribution pattern which is commonly used in n - body simulations due to the fact that it s simple and fairly realistic .",
    "the second set of models examined the evolution of a uniform spherical distribution , which is preferred by some authors ( e.g.de la fuente marcos 1999 ) as a model for open clusters .      within our simulations we added to the cluster a population of 1500 brown dwarfs , each",
    "of which have a mass of 0.05 @xmath18 and positions and velocities determined in the same manner as for the stellar population .",
    "investigations were made into using a brown dwarf imf and populations with a constant mass other than 0.05 @xmath18 ; however the choice of brown dwarf mass had very little effect on the evolution of the cluster or of the brown dwarf populations themselves .      within the simulations performed between 0 and 500 primordial binary systems",
    "were added to the cluster .",
    "the binary systems were composed of stars all ready contained within the cluster , thereby conserving the total mass of the cluster between the simulations . in the cases where",
    "the pleiades masses have been used the components of the binary systems have been randomly paired ( leinert 1993 , kroupa , petr & mccaughrean 1999 , kroupa 2000 although for a differing view see for example mazeh & goldberg 1992 ) . for the other simulations , the imf used produced the required binary components . in each simulation a discrete fraction of the binary population was forced to have a brown dwarf as a secondary .",
    "three numbers which result from this treatment are the fraction of stars in binary systems , f@xmath33 , the fraction of brown dwarfs contained within binaries , f@xmath34 and the fraction of objects ( brown dwarfs and stars ) contained within binaries , f@xmath35 :    @xmath36    @xmath37    @xmath38    where n@xmath33 , n@xmath39 , n@xmath34 and n@xmath40 are the number of single stars , the number of stars contained in binary systems , the number of brown dwarfs and the number of brown dwarfs contained in binary systems .",
    "the various fractions considered are listed in table  [ binprops ] .",
    "these were chosen so that we might investigate the effects that the different binary populations had on the evolution of the cluster .",
    "the positions of the binary systems were set to be consistent with the distribution of stars in the particular cluster .",
    "the eccentricities of the systems were selected from a thermalised distribution ( jeans 1929 ) , whilst the nodes and inclinations were randomly selected .",
    "the separations of the binary components were chosen so that they were uniformly distributed in @xmath41 d. this was accomplished using the following ;    @xmath42    @xmath43    where d@xmath44 is the upper limit of the binary separation , a is a random number chosen from a uniform distribution between 0 and 1 and r is a quantity known as the range .",
    "the range determines the spread in binary separations between the upper limit and d@xmath45/r .",
    "a low value of r constrains the majority of the binary population to tight orbits whilst a high value leads to a greater spread in d. both scenarios of high and low r were examined for the clusters in these simulations .",
    "the separation of the binary components helps to determine what happens during a binary single encounter .",
    "when a tight binary undergoes an interaction , the energies involved tend to be much higher than during a corresponding interaction with a wide binary .",
    "however , the probability of a tight binary undergoing an interaction , is much lower than that of a wide system ; this is simply because it presents a much smaller cross section of interaction . to investigate the possible differences between the tight and wide systems ,",
    "two distinct upper limits on the binary separation were examined within the simulations .",
    "one , with d@xmath46=90 au , produced a tight population of binaries whilst the other , d@xmath46=900 au , produced a wider set ( both with r=100 ) .",
    "interactions involving the tighter binary population should lead to a change in the energy makeup of the cluster . either the population will harden or the lighter member of the binary system ( which could be a brown dwarf ) will be ejected with a substantial velocity which may be sufficient for it to escape the cluster .",
    "interactions involving the wider binaries are more likely to result in the ionisation of the binary system .",
    "the associated kicks given to the binary components will be less than in the previous scenario , consequently it is possible that brown dwarfs released from these soft systems remain within the cluster .",
    "our upper and lower limits on d allow us to investigate two important scenarios and see what effect they have on the evolution of the brown dwarf population .",
    "some argument could be made for selecting an even larger upper limit for the separation of the binary components .",
    "work by gizis ( 2001 ) demonstrates that the population of very wide systems ( d @xmath47 1000 au ) is non - negligible ; however , our separations should allow us to investigate the interesting effects within the cluster .",
    "table  [ binprops ] details the properties of the binary populations within the simulations we have run .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]",
    "through our simulations we have been able closely to match the observed stellar surface density distribution , as well as other key properties of the pleiades cluster , for a varied number of brown dwarfs within the cluster environment .",
    "this indicates that the presence of a brown dwarf population is unlikely to be betrayed by the observed stellar population .",
    "we have demonstrated that , in the case of the pleiades and hyades clusters , the cooling of the brown dwarfs on their own should be insufficient to hide them from view .    however",
    ", if they are contained within a primordial binary population , then the difference in luminosity between the primary and brown dwarf companion might be enough to make the companion unobservable , due to equipment limitations .",
    "observations lend credence to the existence of a primordial binary population within the pleiades . in particular the discovery of a binary second sequence by steel & jameson ( 1994 )",
    "indicates that there are many unresolved binary systems within the pleiades cluster , all of which have the potential to hide brown dwarfs .",
    "the work by richichi ( 1994 ) indicates that around half of the observed stars in the sky must actually be unresolved binary systems .",
    "this again lends credence to some of the high binary fractions used in some of our simulations .",
    "our multiple realisations of the cluster have shown that the effects of different brown dwarf binary fractions are minimal .",
    "the dynamics of the cluster remain largely unchanged with key features such as the stellar surface density profile and the loss rates of stars remaining almost the same for a particular cluster size .",
    "containing a contingent of brown dwarfs within a primordial binary population has two key effects ; first , the larger this contingent the greater the population of brown dwarfs present within the cluster at later cluster epochs . secondly , by containing the brown dwarfs within a binary system we have an effective method of hiding them from view , both in terms of inclination effects and their continual cooling .    in the case of the pleiades cluster",
    "we have demonstrated via the combination of figs  [ bdprofile ] &  [ frac1 ] , that the effects of dynamical depletion of brown dwarfs is insufficient to explain the low number of single brown dwarfs observed in the well studied central portions of the cluster ( @xmath1 30 strong brown dwarf candidates in total , a third of which are in binary systems with low mass companions ) .",
    "however , in the case of the much older hyades cluster , depletion effects become far more important , with perhaps two thirds , or more , of the initial brown dwarf population lost from the cluster ; and a greater proportion hidden from view by effects associated with binary systems .",
    "this quite clearly helps to explain why there are no confirmed brown dwarf sightings within the hyades cluster .    of concern",
    ", however , is the relatively low number of brown dwarf observations within the well studied central portions of the pleiades cluster .",
    "the data from our simulations would seem to indicate that the surface number density of brown dwarfs within the central parts of the cluster would lend themselves to detection .",
    "this being the case , there are a number of possibilities for explaining the disparity between observation and our results :    \\1 ) the number of brown dwarfs within the cluster has been over estimated .",
    "this seems likely as the work of rabound & mermilliod ( 1998 ) demonstrates the extreme uncertainties as regards the mass of the pleiades cluster .",
    "they use three distinct methods of predicting the cluster mass ; namely the use of the tidal radius , the virial theorem and a proposed imf , and get three different results with very large confidence bands .",
    "\\2 ) the cluster contains a population of very low mass brown dwarfs . as a result of their low mass these brown dwarfs",
    "have quickly cooled to a point below our detection threshold .",
    "\\3 ) a greater proportion of the brown dwarfs are contained within moderately tight binary systems and so are not optically resolvable .",
    "brown dwarfs contained in systems with a low - mass primary ( such that the mass ratio of the system is greater than a third ) will be detectable via the binary second sequence on the cmd .",
    "brown dwarfs contained in systems with heavy primaries ( m @xmath47 0.2 m@xmath48 ) may be detectable via the radial shifts in the light from the primary , in much the same way as the search for extra - solar planets is being conducted .",
    "it is this later theory that we favour .",
    "the observed number of single brown dwarfs compared to our predictions is so small it seems unlikely that such a large single population exists within the cluster . the effects of mass segregation can not move a sufficient fraction of the single brown dwarfs out of the well studied central region of the pleiades cluster to account for the low numbers observed .",
    "we have shown that the majority of brown contained within a binary system are virtually undectable without a massive search looking for radial shifts in the light of the primary .",
    "we also see that our simulated data predicts too few binary systems would be observed on the binary second sequence , this would strongly suggest a much higher binary fraction within the cluster ( which is of course necessary to explain the main sequence star - star binary systems we observe as well ) providing a method of hiding a substantial population of brown dwarfs within the cluster . further ,",
    "an examination of our simulations demonstrates that a considerable fraction of the currently single brown dwarfs may actually have initially been in binary systems which were broken up , the single population is , in part , made up by the _ repletion _",
    "effects that we discussed in section  [ sec : evclu ] .",
    "this would remove the need for a large single population of brown dwarfs to be present within the newly formed cluster .",
    "ta gratefully acknowledges support through a pparc research student ship .",
    "mbd gratefully acknowledges the support of the royal society through a urf .",
    "we are grateful to sverre aarseth for providing us with a copy of his n - body6 code .",
    "abt h.a . ,",
    "1972 , apj , 172 , 355 anderson m. 2001 masters thesis , copenhagen university andrievsky s.m .",
    "1998 , a&a , 334 , 139 baraffe i. , chabrier g. , allard f. & hauschildt p. a&a , 337 , 403 basri g. , marcy g.w . & graham j.r . 1996 ,",
    "apj , 458 , 600 binney j. , tremaine s. , 1987 , galactic dynamics , princeton university press bonnell i.a . , davies m.b . , mnras , 295 , 691 casertano s. & hut p. 1985 , apj , 298 , 80 cox a.n .",
    "1954 , apj , 119 , 188 , dachs j. , kabus h. 1989 , a&as , 78 , 25 de la fuente marcos r. , de la fuente marcos c. , 1999 , astrophysics and space science , 271 , 127 eggleton p.p . , fitchett m.j . & tout c.a . , 1989 , ap .",
    "j. 347 , 998 frandsen s. , dreyer p. , & kjeldsen h. , 1989 a&a , 215 , 287 giersz m. & heggie d.c .",
    "1997 mnras 286 709 gizis j.e . , kirkpatrick d. , burgasser a. , reid i.n . , monet d.g .",
    ", liebert j. , & wilson j.c .",
    "2001 ap.j .",
    "551 , l163 gizis j.e .",
    "2000 , american astronomical society meeting 197 , # 127.01 gizis j.e . ,",
    "reid i.n . ,",
    "monet d.g . , 1999 ,",
    "aj , 118 , 997 golimowski d.a .",
    ", burrows c.j . ,",
    "kulkarni s.r . ,",
    "oppenheimer b.r . ,",
    "brukardt r.a .",
    "1998 , aj , 115 , 2579 haffner h. , heckmann o. , 1937 , gtt , verff . , 55 , 77 hambly n.c . , hodgkin s.t .",
    ", cossburn m.r . ,",
    "jameson , r.f .",
    ", 1999 , mnras , 303 , 835 harris g.l . , fitzgerald m.p.v . , mehta s. , reed b.c .",
    "1993 , aj , 106 , 1533 hartwick f.d.a .",
    ", hesser j.e .",
    "1971 , pasp , 83 , 53 hawley s.l .",
    ", tourtellot j.g . ,",
    "i.n . 1999 , aj , 117 , 1341 hodgkin s.t . , pinfield d.j . ,",
    "jameson r.f .",
    ", steele i.a . ,",
    "cossburn m.r .",
    ", hambley n.c . 1999 ,",
    "mnras , 310 , 87 hurley j.r . ,",
    ", aarseth j.a . & pols o.r . , 2001 , mnras , 323 , 630 hurley j. , tout c.a . , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 977 hut , p. complexity , proceedings of the work shop on fundemental sources of unpredictability , held at the santa fr institute , 3/96 ianna p.a . , adler d.s . ,",
    "faudree e.f . , 1987 ,",
    "aj , 93 , 347 jeans j.h . astronomy & cosmogony , 2nd ed .",
    "jones b.f . , shauffer j.r . , 1991 ,",
    "aj , 102 , 1080 king i.r .",
    "1962 , a.j .",
    ", 67 , 471 kroupa p. 2000",
    "new astronomy 4 615 kroupa p. , petr m.g . , mccaughrean m.j .",
    ", 1999 new astronomy 4 1999 kroupa p. 1995 mnras 277 1491 kroupa p. , tout c.a . &",
    "gilmore g. 1993 mnras 262 545 leinert ch .",
    ", zinnecker h. , weitzel n. , christou j. , ridgeway s.t . , jameson r. , haas m. & lenzen r. 1993 , a & a , 278 , 129 luhman k.l . , reike g.h . , young e.t . , cotera a.s . , chen h. , rieke m.j . , schneider g. & thompson r.i .",
    "j. 540 , 1016 luhman k.l . & reike g.h .",
    "1999 ap.j .",
    "497 , 440 luhman k.l . &",
    "reike g.h .",
    "1998 ap.j .",
    "497 , 354 luhman k.r .",
    ", reike g.h .",
    ", lada c.j . & lada e.a .",
    "1998 , ap.j .",
    "508 , 347 martn e.l .",
    ", brandner w. , bouvier j. , luhman k.l . , stauffer j. , basri g. , zapatero osorio m.r . , barrado y navascus d. 2000 , apj , 543 , 299 mazeh t. , goldberg d. 1992 , apj , 394 , 592 nakajima t. , oppenheimer b.r . , kulkarni s.r .",
    ", golimowski d.a . , matthews k. & durrance s.t .",
    "1995 , nature , 378 , 463 perryman m.a.c .",
    ", brown a.g.a .",
    ", lebreton y. , gomez a. , turon c. , de strobel g.c .",
    ", mermilloid j.c . , robichon n. , kovalevsky j. , crifo f. 1998 , a&a , 331 , 81 pinfield d.j . ,",
    "hodgkin s.t . ,",
    "jameson r.f . ,",
    "cossburn m.r . , hambly n.c . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 313 , 347 pinfield d.j . ,",
    "jameson r.f . ,",
    "hodgkin s.t .",
    "1998 , mnras , 299 , 955 portegies zwart s.f . ,",
    "mcmillan s.l.w . ,",
    "hut p. , makino j. , mnras in press rabound d. & mermilliod j .- c .",
    "1998 a & a 329 101 reid i.n . ,",
    "mahoney s. , 2000 , mnras , 316 , 827 reid i.n .",
    ", hawley s.l . 1999 ,",
    "aj , 117 , 343 richichi a. , leinhert ch .",
    ", jameson r. , zinnecker h. 1994 , a&a , 287 , 145 sandrelli s. , bragaglia a. , tosi m. , marconi g. 1999 , mnras , 309 , 739 skrutskie m.f . , beichman c. , capps r. , carpenter j. , chester t. , cutri r. , elias j. , elston r. , huchra j.,leibert j. , lonsdale c. , monet d. , price s. , scheider s. , seitzer p. , steining r. , strom s. , weinberg m. , 1995 , american astronomical society meeting 187 , # 75.07 spitzer l. 1940 mnras 100 396 stauffer j.r . , hamilton d. & probstr.g .",
    "1994 , aj , 108 , 155 steele i.a . ,",
    "jameson r.f . , 1995 , mnras , 272 , 630 terlevich e. 1987 , mnras , 224 , 193"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results of multiple simulations of open clusters , modelling the dynamics of a population of brown dwarf members . </S>",
    "<S> we consider the effects of a large range of primordial binary populations , including the possibilities of having brown dwarf members contained within a binary system . </S>",
    "<S> we also examine the effects of various cluster diameters and masses . </S>",
    "<S> our examination of a population of wide binary systems containing brown dwarfs , reveals evidence for exchange reactions whereby the brown dwarf is ejected from the system and replaced by a heavier main - sequence star . </S>",
    "<S> we find that there exists the possibility of hiding a large fraction of the brown dwarfs contained within the primordial binary population . </S>",
    "<S> we conclude that it is probable that the majority of brown dwarfs are contained within primordial binary systems which then hides a large proportion of them from detection .    </S>",
    "<S> stars : low - mass , brown dwarfs  binaries : general  open clusters and associations : general open clusters and associations : individual : pleiades </S>"
  ]
}