{
  "article_text": [
    "non - interacting hydrogen atmosphere ( da ) white dwarfs pulsate in a narrow instability strip located within the temperature range 1080012300k for @xmath1 @xcite .",
    "these da variables ( davs ) are also called the zz  ceti  stars .",
    "the hot zz  ceti  stars show relatively few pulsation modes , with low amplitudes ( @xmath20.13% ) and periods around 100300s ( see * ? ? ?",
    "the cooler davs show longer periods , around 6001000s , larger amplitudes ( up to 30% ) , non - linear pulse shapes , and greater amplitude modulation ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "the pulsation characteristics of the hot and cool davs are quite distinct , and have allowed us to classify these stars meaningfully .",
    "@xcite was the first to systematically demonstrate the increase in mean pulsation period as a function of decreasing temperature for a significant sample of the zz  ceti  stars . with the discovery of additional zz  ceti  stars ,",
    "this empirical correlation was confirmed again by @xcite and more recently by @xcite .    using only the independent excited modes and excluding any harmonics and linear combinations , we compute the mean period for a given pulsation spectrum , weighting each period with the corresponding amplitude . in case of multiple pulsation spectra for a given zz  ceti  star , we determine an average of the individual values .",
    "we show the weighted mean period ( wmp ) as a function of spectroscopic temperature for two independent samples of zz  ceti  stars , and find that the weighted mean pulsation period correlates well with the spectroscopic temperature in both cases .",
    "note that we do not claim that the relationship between the wmp and the temperature is linear ; a straight line is merely the simplest model fit possible to the observations shown in figure 1 , considering the observed amount of scatter .",
    "the scatter , as measured along the x - axis , helps us constrain the average uncertainty in spectroscopic temperature , provided we assume that most of the scatter in the correlation arises due to uncertainties in temperature .",
    "we hereby constrain the average uncertainty in temperature for the 45 zz  ceti  sample published by @xcite and @xcite to be @xmath3170k .",
    "we also constrain the average uncertainty in temperature for the 41 sdss zz  cetisample to be @xmath3220k , which we acquired from the dr4 catalog for da white dwarfs , based on version auto22 of the spectral fitting algorithm .",
    "the 45 zz  ceti  star sample shown in the top panel is our best case scenario ; the temperatures come from high s / n optical spectra and most of these bright stars have well determined pulsation spectra , have been observed multiple times , and sometimes even from multiple sites . for this sample",
    ", we find that our upper limit of 170k for the average uncertainty in spectroscopic temperatures is * lower * than the estimate of 200k from @xcite .",
    "this is suggestive that the correlation between wmp and spectroscopic temperature is tighter than it seems , and that most of the scatter arises due to the uncertainties in temperatures , that have been derived from optical spectra .",
    "lastly , we highlight the extreme mass stars with @xmath4 or @xmath5 in figure 1 as upright triangles . for our best - case",
    "bright 45 zz  ceti  sample , we find that the massive stars are not outliers in the wmp-@xmath6 correlation .",
    "the massive crystallized pulsator bpm37093 with @xmath7 , which has been the subject of a wet run , agrees fairly well with the linear fit @xcite .",
    "three of the six extreme mass stars from the sdss dav sample are outliers in the plot , but most of these stars have pulsation spectra determined from no more than a few hours of discovery data . also , the masses of the sdss zz  ceti  stars have a relatively higher uncertainty than the montreal sample as they have been determined from lower s / n optical spectra",
    ". however the behaviour of the bright massive stars , and specially bpm37093 , is surprising .",
    "we expect that at a given temperature , white dwarfs of different masses have convection zones of different thicknesses .",
    "our models suggest that the driving frequency is governed by the thermal timescale at the base of the convection zone .",
    "massive white dwarfs should show a mean pulsation period longer than other average mass davs at the same temperature .",
    "the empirical wmp values for all four massive stars in the montreal group sample , and four out of six extreme mass zz  ceti  stars in the sdss sample contradict this theoretical expectation .",
    "although we presently have a small number of extreme mass zz  ceti  stars , their wmp values have implications for the slope of the blue edge and pulsation models in general .",
    "the observed correlation between wmp and @xmath6 suggests that wmp can be used to gauge stellar temperature .",
    "determining the pulsation periods of a zz  ceti  star involves small uncertainties , and is a relatively simple model - independent process .",
    "we can not determine an absolute temperature using wmp ; we can only derive the position of a zz  ceti  star within the instability strip . to do so",
    ", we do not need the correlation shown in figure 1 . as long as we restrict our relative @xmath6 parameter in units of seconds in the wmp temperature scale , the uncertainty in our measurements",
    "is not related to spectroscopic temperatures .",
    "it is only when we attempt to translate wmp into a temperature in degrees , that we have to use the relation between wmp and @xmath6 from figure 1 . even in this case",
    ", we are better off than the typical 200k uncertainty in spectroscopic temperatures because the slopes of the best fit lines in figure 1 depend on 4045 stars .",
    "using wmp directly as a temperature scale is non - intuitive at the present time . but this maybe worth thinking about as an alternative scale in the long run , as we improve our understanding of the relation between wmp and @xmath6 , both observationally and theoretically .",
    "we show the longest ( middle panel ) and shortest ( bottom panel ) excited periods for our best - case bright 45 zz  ceti  sample as a function of spectroscopic temperatures from the montreal group in figure 2 .",
    "we also include a plot of wmp vs. temperature ( top panel ) for comparison .",
    "we indicate a measure of the scatter in each of the panels , and find that the shortest excited period exhibits the tightest correlation with @xmath6 . but",
    "this may or may not be significant ; the sdss sample , for which we have no more than a few hours of discovery data , does not mimic this general behaviour .",
    "we determine wmp using all the independent periods excited in the star , but the weighting is amplitude dependent , which in turn depends on the inclination angle . using the shortest or the longest period , we overcome the amplitude dependence of wmp , but find ourselves relying on a single period determination instead .",
    "some of the older pulsation spectra come from data acquired using one and two channel photometers , which could not be used reliably to separate long pulsation periods from sky variations , unless the data came from south africa .",
    "also , the determination of the shortest pulsation period depends on the time resolution of the data .",
    "since we have a highly diverse set of pulsation spectra with stars of different magnitudes and pulsation amplitudes observed using different telescopes , we hesitate to draw any implications from figure 2 .",
    "the cool zz  ceti  stars exhibit a significant amount of amplitude modulation , and their pulsation spectra can change substantially from one season to the next ( e.g. * ? ? ? * ) .",
    "we believe this is the largest source of uncertainty in determining wmp and in using it as a temperature scale . in order to estimate the size of this source of uncertainty , we select those zz  ceti  stars in our data set that have multiple seasons of observations .",
    "we then determine the spread in the wmp values computed from the multiple pulsation spectra . for 36 zz  ceti  stars",
    ", we show the 1@xmath8 departure of wmp from the average obtained using multiple seasons of observations in figure 3 .",
    "we also show the worst case scenario , the maximum deviation of wmp from the average value .",
    "we find that 92% of the sample show a 1@xmath8 deviation smaller than 50s , and the whole sample shows a modulation in wmp smaller than 80s . even in the worst case , about 91% of the 36 zz  ceti  stars",
    "exhibit a modulation in wmp smaller than 100s , and 97% show a modulation smaller than 130s .        adopting the worst - case numbers , we find that the uncertainty in wmp is likely to be smaller than 100s for about 91% of the zz  ceti  stars , which translates to @xmath08% of the 1300 s width of the instability strip in period . adopting the best - case scenario for conventional spectroscopy",
    ", we will use our limit of 170220k as the average uncertainty in spectroscopic temperatures to arrive at an uncertainty of 1316% of the 1350k width of the instability strip .",
    "this suggests that for 90% of the zz  ceti  stars , we can improve our knowledge of the star s location within the instability strip by a factor of two , by using wmp instead of spectroscopy .",
    "however we have to face some theoretical questions before we can be certain of the factor of improvement in using wmp instead of spectroscopy .",
    "to determine which temperature scale is better , wmp or spectroscopic @xmath6 , we have devised the following test .",
    "the observed mean pulsation amplitude of zz  ceti  stars shows a large scatter when plotted as a function of @xmath6 ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , and this is largely due to the different inclination angles . if all davs with the same @xmath6 had the same inclination angle , then we theoretically expect to see a tight correlation between the mean amplitude and temperature .",
    "this is not strictly true because pulsation amplitude also depends on the mass of the star ; massive zz  ceti  stars have small amplitudes . excluding the massive davs ( @xmath9 ) and the low mass davs ( @xmath10 ) from both samples , we compute the scatter in plotting mean amplitude as a function of @xmath6 and also as a function of wmp .",
    "the temperature scale that was worse than the other would introduce an additional scatter in the plot .",
    "having conducted the test , we find a 15% reduction in scatter when using wmp as a temperature scale instead of spectroscopic @xmath6 for both samples .",
    "this suggests that wmp is at least 15% better than traditional spectroscopy .",
    "montgomery ( 2005 ) show that the thermal timescale at the base of the convection zone @xmath11 is proportional to @xmath12 and have successfully fit the non - linear pulse shape of one dav to date , namely g29 - 38 .",
    "@xcite find that the empirical wmp is not consistent with the thermal timescale at the base of the convection zone in models .",
    "the question to ask is : what physical quantity in the star does wmp represent . unless we can comprehend this satisfactorily",
    ", we will not be able to understand the tightness of its correlation with @xmath6 and the true uncertainties involved in using this technique to determine stellar temperature .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa through the hubble fellowship grant hst - hf-01175.01-a awarded by the space telescope science institute , which is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", for nasa , under contract nas 5 - 26555 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the mean pulsation period of zz  ceti  stars increases with decreasing effective temperature as we traverse from the blue to the red edge of the instability strip . </S>",
    "<S> this well - established correlation between the mean period and spectroscopic temperature suggests that the mean period could be utilized as a tool to measure the relative temperature of the star independent of spectroscopy . measuring the pulsation periods of a zz  ceti  star </S>",
    "<S> is a simple , model - independent , and straight forward process as opposed to a spectroscopic determination of its temperature .    internal uncertainties in determining the spectroscopic temperature of a zz  cetistar are at least 200k , 15% of the 1350k width of the instability strip . </S>",
    "<S> the uncertainties in determining the mean period arise mostly from amplitude modulation in the pulsation spectrum and are smaller than 100s for 91% of the zz  ceti  stars , @xmath08% of the 1300s width of the instability strip . in principle </S>",
    "<S> this implies that for 90% of the zz  ceti  stars , the average uncertainty in determining the location of a zz  ceti  star within the instability strip decreases by a factor of two in utilizing the mean period of the zz  ceti  star as a temperature indicator rather than conventional spectroscopy . </S>",
    "<S> presently we only claim that the relative temperatures of zz  ceti  stars derived by using the mean pulsation period are certainly as good as and perhaps about 15% better than spectroscopy . </S>"
  ]
}