{
  "article_text": [
    "although core - collapse supernovae ( sne ) present a wide range of spectral and photometric properties , there is growing consensus that much of this variety is due to the state of the progenitor star s hydrogen and helium envelopes at the time of explosion . those stars with massive , intact envelopes produce sne of type ii - plateau ( sne ii - p ; ii due to the presence of h in the spectrum , and `` plateau '' due to the characteristic shape of the light curve ) , those that have lost their entire hydrogen envelope ( perhaps through stellar winds or mass transfer to a companion ) result in sne  ib ( type i because of the absence of obvious hydrogen in their spectra ) , and those that have been stripped of both hydrogen and most ( or all ) of their helium produce sne  ic ; see filippenko ( 1997 ) for a general review .",
    "recently , a new subclass of objects has emerged whose members generically resemble sne  ic ( no hydrogen or obvious helium spectral features ) , but , unlike traditional sne  ic , have spectra characterized by unusually broad features at early times , indicating velocities in excess of @xmath8 km s@xmath6 .",
    "a few also possess inferred kinetic energies exceeding that of `` normal '' core - collapse sne by more than a factor of 10 ( see , e.g. , nomoto et al .",
    "these objects are colloquially referred to as `` hypernovae , '' although not all of them are clearly more luminous or energetic than normal sne  ic .",
    "there are currently 5 generally accepted members of this rare class : sn  1997dq , sn  1997ef , sn  1998bw , and , most recently , sn 2002ap and sn  2002bl ( see , e.g. , iwamoto et al .",
    "2000 ; matheson et al . 2000b ; filippenko , leonard , & moran 2002 ; mazzali et al .",
    "2002 ; kawabata et al .",
    ". a related subclass of sne exhibits many of the characteristics of these objects , but with hydrogen present in the spectra ; the clearest examples are sn 1997cy and sn 1999e ( see filippenko 2001 , and references therein ) , and they , too , are sometimes called hypernovae .",
    "intense interest in hypernovae has been sparked not only by their peculiar spectral features , but also by the strong spatial and temporal association between the brightest and most energetic of these events , sn 1998bw , and the @xmath9-ray burst ( grb ) 980425 ( e.g. , galama et al .",
    "this potential association has fueled the proposition that some ( or , perhaps all ) core - collapse sne explode due to the action of a `` bipolar '' jet of material ( wheeler , meier , & wilson 2002 ; khokhlov et al .",
    "1999 ; macfadyen & woosley 1999 ) , as opposed to the conventional neutrino - driven mechanism ( colgate & white 1966 ; burrows et al . 2000 , and references therein ) . under this paradigm ,",
    "a grb is only produced by those few events in which the progenitor has lost all of its outer envelope material ( i.e. , it is a `` bare core '' collapsing ) , and is only observed if the jet is closely aligned with our line - of - sight ( l - o - s ) .",
    "with such an explosion mechanism , one can well imagine that severe distortions from spherical symmetry may exist in the ejecta .",
    "since all hot , young sn atmospheres are dominated by electron scattering ( wagoner 1981 ) , which is an inherently polarizing process , spectropolarimetry provides a powerful probe of young sn morphology .",
    "the basic question is whether the sn is round : by symmetry , if the atmosphere is spherical the directional components of the electric vectors cancel to produce zero net polarization .",
    "in contrast , an asymmetric atmosphere will yield a nonzero polarization due to incomplete cancellation . from recent polarimetry of core - collapse events ,",
    "a tentative trend has been identified : the degree of polarization ( and , hence , asymmetry ) increases with decreasing progenitor envelope mass ( wheeler 2000 ) . indeed , while the intrinsic polarizations of `` normal '' sne ii - p are generally below @xmath10 ( leonard et al .",
    "2001 ; leonard & filippenko 2001 ) , a polarization of over 4% has been reported for an sn ic , suggesting an axial asymmetry of more than 3:1 in this event ( wang et al .",
    "the number of events investigated in detail with spectropolarimetry , however , remains small .",
    "an additional technique that has been used to infer explosion asymmetry is the analysis of nebular line profiles .",
    "recent simulations involving explosive nucleosynthesis in aspherical , jet - induced sn explosions predict that intermediate - mass and heavy elements such as iron are ejected ( at high velocity ) primarily along the poles whereas elements synthesized in the progenitor ( e.g. , he , c , ca , o ) are preferentially located at lower velocities near the equatorial plane in the expanding ejecta ( maeda et al .",
    "2002 ; khokhlov & hflich 2001 ; hflich et al .",
    "maeda et al .",
    "( 2002 ) model the effect that explosion asymmetry has on the spectra of hypernova explosions , and compare the results to the observed nebular line profiles of sn  1998bw .",
    "the main observable diagnostic for explosion asymmetry is found to be the ratio of the width of a probable [ ] blend near 5200    to that of [ ] @xmath116300 , 6364   .",
    "maeda et al . ( 2002 ) find models of spherical explosions to be incapable of yielding velocity ratios greater than @xmath12 3:2 , whereas aspherical models can generate ratios of more than 2:1 .",
    "although a specific degree of asphericity is not given , maeda et al .",
    "( 2002 ) find the nebular - phase line - width ratio of [ ] to [ ] for sn  1998bw to be inconsistent with a spherical explosion .    in this paper",
    ", we report on spectropolarimetric observations obtained for the recent peculiar type ic sn  2002ap in m74 ( kinugasa et al .",
    "2002 ; filippenko & chornock 2002 ; mazzali et al .",
    "2002 ; gal - yam , ofek , & shemmer 2002 ) during the photospheric phase , and two nebular - phase optical flux spectra .",
    "we describe the observations in   [",
    "sec : observations ] , present our results and analysis in ",
    "[ sec : resultsandanalysis ] , and discuss our conclusions in   [ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "additional details of the observations and analysis are given in appendix  a. as this paper was nearing completion , a submitted paper by kawabata et al .",
    "( 2002 ) describing similar spectropolarimetric data appeared on astro - ph ; we briefly compare our results with that work in ",
    "[ sec : conclusions ] .",
    "we obtained spectropolarimetry of sn  2002ap on 2002 february 14 and march 7 ( 16 and 37 days , respectively , after the time of explosion derived by mazzali et al .",
    "2002 ) , with the low - resolution imaging spectrometer ( oke et al .",
    "1995 ) in polarimetry mode ( lrisp ; cohen 1996 ) at the cassegrain focus of the keck - i 10-m telescope .",
    "after spending nearly three months in solar conjunction , sn  2002ap emerged from behind the sun in june , and we obtained optical flux spectra of it on 2002 june 8 and june 17 ( 131 and 140 days , respectively , after the time of explosion ) with the kast double spectrograph ( miller & stone 1993 ) at the cassegrain focus of the shane 3-m telescope at lick observatory . on the second june epoch ,",
    "spectropolarimetry of five distant galactic stars near to the l - o - s of sn  2002ap was also obtained in order to quantify the galactic interstellar polarization ( isp ) component contributing to the observed polarization of sn  2002ap .",
    "( due to the very limited time of visibility , spectropolarimetry of sn  2002ap itself was not obtained on this date . )",
    "the slit position angle was set to within @xmath13 of the parallactic angle ( filippenko 1982 ) for all observations in order to minimize differential light loss , and the total - flux spectra from all epochs were corrected for continuum atmospheric extinction and telluric absorption bands ( e.g. , wade & horne 1988 ; bessell 1999 ) .",
    "a journal of observations is given in table  1 .",
    "the polarimetry data were reduced according to the methods outlined by miller , robinson , & goodrich ( 1988 ) and detailed by leonard et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and leonard & filippenko ( 2001 ) .",
    "additional details of the observations and analysis , including an investigation of the potential impact of second - order light and instrumental polarization on our results , are given in appendix  a. the polarization angle ( p.a . )",
    "offset between the half - wave plate and the sky coordinate system was determined for all polarimetry epochs ( at both keck and lick ) by observing the polarized standard star bd @xmath14 and setting its @xmath15-band polarization position angle ( i.e. , @xmath16 , the debiased , flux - weighted average of the polarization angle over the wavelength range 50505950   ; see leonard et al . 2001 ) equal to @xmath17 , the value cataloged by schmidt , elston , & lupie ( 1992 ) . to check the precision of the p.a",
    ". offset at keck , we also observed the polarized standard star hd 127769 on both nights , and found its p.a . to agree to within @xmath18 of the values measured by clemens & tapia ( 1990 ) and hiltner ( 1956 ) . since the values individually reported by the two catalogs disagree by @xmath19 in p.a . and @xmath20 in polarization level for this standard star ,",
    "we do not ascribe much significance to the disagreement found between our measurements and the cataloged values .",
    "it is possible that this star exhibits polarization variability .",
    "the observed null standard star , hd 57702 ( mathewson & ford 1970 ) , was found to be null to within @xmath21 on both nights at keck .",
    "( see appendix  a for details of the small amount of instrumental polarization that may have existed in one of our settings during the february 14 epoch . ) at lick , the p.a .",
    "offset was checked by observing hd 204827 ; its p.a .",
    ", measured to be @xmath22 , differs by only @xmath23 from the value cataloged by schmidt et al .",
    "the null standards observed at lick , bd + @xmath24 and hd 212311 , were both found to be null to within @xmath25 .",
    "the results for sn  2002ap are shown in figures  [ fig:1 ] and [ fig:2 ] . before estimating and then removing the isp (   [ sec : removalofisp ] ) , we make a few general remarks about the observed polarization .",
    "the nature of the polarization of sn  2002ap changed significantly between our two observations . on day 16 ,",
    "the observed polarization rises from @xmath26 near 4000    to @xmath27 at 10,000   , with the general rise punctuated by some features that may be associated with strong features seen in the total - flux spectrum .",
    "the p.a . also changes by about @xmath28 across the spectrum .",
    "the notable feature in the polarization data from day 37 is an enormous polarization change associated with the p - cygni profile of the near - infrared ( ir ) triplet .",
    "the polarization changes between the two observational epochs , as well as the strong modulations across spectral lines , indicate that some of the observed polarization is intrinsic to sn  2002ap , and is not interstellar in nature . in order to progress with further interpretation , however , we must attempt to estimate and remove the isp from our data .      from reddening considerations we do not expect a large isp , since any dust that polarizes the sn light should also redden it , and sn  2002ap is not highly reddened : @xmath29 mag ( schlegel , finkbeiner , & davis 1998 ) and @xmath30 mag ( klose , guenther , & woitas 2002 ) , for a total estimated reddening of @xmath31 mag . since the empirical galactic limit for the maximum observed polarization for a given reddening",
    "is @xmath32 ( serkowski , mathewson , & ford 1975 ; see , however , leonard et al .",
    "2002a for a possible violation of this inequality for dust in an external galaxy ) , this implies an upper limit to the total ( galactic plus host galaxy ) isp of only @xmath33 .    one way to estimate",
    "the actual total isp level is to rely on the data obtained for sn  2002ap itself , along with some theoretical assumptions .",
    "figure  [ fig:3 ] shows the observed polarization data in the @xmath34-@xmath35 plane for both epochs .",
    "the majority of the data from each epoch appears to scatter about straight , but different , lines in the @xmath34-@xmath35 plane .",
    "such behavior is indicative of an axisymmetric asphericity in which the intrinsic p.a .",
    "is wavelength independent , a trait that has been identified in previous sn polarization studies ( e.g. , howell et al .",
    "2001 ; leonard et al .",
    "if axisymmetry is suspected , then the isp must lie along the best - fitting line to the points in the @xmath34-@xmath35 plane ; since the dominant axis for the two epochs prefer different p.a.s ( @xmath36 on days 16 and 37 , respectively ) , the intersection of the two lines provides an estimate of the isp . from figure  [ fig:3 ]",
    "we see that this occurs near @xmath37 , or @xmath38 . since isp varies with wavelength according to a `` serkowski '' curve ( whittet et al .",
    "1992 ) , it has a wavelength dependence ; for our purposes , we take the derived isp location to represent the value at @xmath39   , the average wavelength of maximum isp found from studies of galactic stars .    a second method to estimate",
    "the total isp is to assume that some spectral region is intrinsically _ completely _ unpolarized , with all of the _ observed _ polarization therefore coming from isp .",
    "there is both theoretical and empirical evidence that this may be the case in the ir emission profile on day 37 . since directional information is lost as photons are absorbed and reemitted in a line ( hflich et al .",
    "1996 ) , broad , unblended emission features have traditionally been treated as intrinsically unpolarized in sn studies . in their spectropolarimetric study of an early - time , emission - dominated spectrum of sn  1998s , leonard et al .",
    "( 2000 ) demonstrate that the basic paradigm of polarized continuum light being diluted by unpolarized emission lines is quite consistent with that data : the degree of depolarization across the broad - line features of sn  1998s changes in direct proportion to strength of the line at each wavelength across the profile . in the case of the profile of sn  2002ap , however , we see that this simple conceptual scheme fails , since the _ entire _ emission component , and even some of the absorption component , is polarized at roughly the same level ( fig .",
    "[ fig:2 ] ) ; such behavior is also seen in the h@xmath40  profiles of the type ii - p sn  1999em ( leonard et al .",
    "one possible interpretation of this is that not only are the emission - line photons unpolarized , but the underlying continuum photons are as well , having been absorbed and reemitted by the optically thick line .",
    "such a situation is also described by howell et al .",
    "( 2001 ) for an sn  ia .",
    "if we accept this premise , and estimate the isp from a 200    wide bin centered on the emission peak at 8578   , we derive @xmath41 .",
    "fitting a serkowski law isp curve ( whittet et al .",
    "1992 ) to this value with an assumed wavelength of maximum polarization of @xmath42   , we derive @xmath43 at @xmath44  , or @xmath45 . this result is quite similar to that derived earlier by the @xmath34-@xmath35 plane method , and is also consistent with the value kawabata et al .",
    "( 2002 ) found using a similar technique ( @xmath46 ) .",
    "the consistency between our two independent total isp estimates affords some confidence that we have determined an accurate value . taking the average of the two results yields an estimate of the total isp of @xmath47 , or @xmath48 at @xmath49 . since the reddening from milky way ( mw ) dust",
    "is thought to dominate the total reddening of sn  2002ap , we would expect galactic isp to make up the bulk of the total isp . to check this assertion",
    ", we obtained spectropolarimetry of five distant galactic stars near to the l - o - s of the object ( the catalog of heiles 2000 records no polarization measurements of any galactic star within @xmath50 of the l - o - s to sn  2002ap , the nominal angular separation over which some consistency of isp can be assumed ) , and list the results in table 2 .",
    "although the values have some scatter , they are generally consistent with each other ( they all fall in the same quadrant of the @xmath34-@xmath35 plane ) and confirm a non - negligible polarization in this area of the sky from galactic dust . calculating the mean and @xmath51 scatter of the individual values , we obtain @xmath52 , which yields @xmath53 at @xmath54 .",
    "this is to be compared with the total isp estimated by the earlier techniques of @xmath55 .",
    "the general agreement of all of these values affirms our contention that galactic isp makes up the bulk of the total isp , and also strengthens our belief that the total isp estimated by the earlier techniques must be nearly correct .",
    "we therefore adopt @xmath48 at @xmath56 for @xmath42   , and proceed to remove this isp from our data . may be somewhat less than the nominal value of @xmath42   . given the inherent difficulty of accurately measuring such low polarization values ( see , e.g. , leonard et al .",
    "2001 ) , however , we choose to use the nominal value of @xmath42   to correct our data . ]",
    "the resulting isp - corrected , intrinsic sn polarization and p.a . are displayed in figure  [ fig:4 ] .",
    "the outstanding feature of the intrinsic polarization on day 16 is its strong increase with wavelength , from @xmath57 near 4000    to @xmath58 at the cutoff near 10,000   .",
    "such a precipitous rise in polarization at optical and near - infrared wavelengths is completely unlike the serkowski law dependence of isp , and must be intrinsic to the sn .",
    "a similar redward rise in intrinsic polarization was seen in spectropolarimetry of the type ia sn  1999by , where it was attributed to the decreasing importance of line opacities , and the increased influence of continuum electron scattering at longer wavelengths ( howell et al .",
    "in particular , numerous lines , largely due to iron - group elements , dominate the spectrum at @xmath59    and significantly depolarize the light , whereas the red end of the spectrum suffers less severe line - blending , allowing the intrinsically polarized continuum light to dominate .",
    "we suspect that a similar effect may be operating here , and that the high polarization ( @xmath60 ) measured at the red end of the spectrum in fact represents a lower limit on the true level of continuum polarization undiluted by unpolarized line photons at this epoch .    a detail of the region near the strong polarization increase associated with the absorption trough of the ir triplet on day 37",
    "is shown in figure  [ fig:5 ] . in the absorption trough",
    "there is an apparent change in observed polarization of @xmath61 , where    @xmath62    and @xmath63 are the individual changes in the normalized stokes parameters compared with the nearby continuum value ( note that @xmath64 is an _ isp - independent _ quantity ; see leonard & filippenko 2001 ) .",
    "it is possible to interpret this sharp polarization increase within the basic model first proposed by mccall ( 1984 ) and later extended by jeffery ( 1991 ) , that polarization peaks are naturally associated with absorption minima due to selective blocking of forward - scattered ( and hence less polarized ) light in p - cygni troughs .",
    "with this simple model in mind , leonard & filippenko ( 2001 ) showed that a lower bound could be placed on the true intrinsic continuum polarization level of    @xmath65    where @xmath66 is defined by equation  [ eqn:1 ] , @xmath67 equals the interpolated value of the continuum flux at the location of the line trough , and @xmath68 is the total flux at the line s flux minimum .",
    "the main difficulty in the application of this to sn  2002ap is interpolating the continuum flux across the profile ; our adopted estimate of the continuum level is indicated in figure  [ fig:5]a . with @xmath69 and @xmath70 , we find that @xmath71 for this epoch .",
    "we therefore see evidence for significant intrinsic continuum polarization on both day 16 and day 37 after explosion .",
    "when modeled in terms of the oblate , electron - scattering atmospheres of hflich ( 1991 ) , the inferred continuum polarization demands an asphericity of at least @xmath2 on day 16 and @xmath3 on day 37 ; the actual value naturally depends on the ( unknown ) viewing orientation .",
    "it is also possible that ionization asymmetry or clumping in the ejecta may contribute to the polarization , which would reduce the inferred bulk asymmetry ( see , e.g. , hflich , khokhlov , & wang 2001 ) .",
    "detailed theoretical modeling of both the total flux and polarization data may set constraints on the viewing orientation ( e.g. , hflich , wheeler , & wang 1999 ) , and also serve to check the specific assumptions that underlie our estimates of the intrinsic continuum polarization .",
    "figure  [ fig:6 ] shows the total flux spectrum of sn  2002ap obtained after the sn reappeared following solar conjunction ; we have combined the observations taken 131 and 140 days after the explosion in order to improve the signal - to - noise ratio .",
    "the spectrum is characterized by strong emission profiles superimposed on a very weak continuum , implying that the sn has entered the nebular phase ( maeda et al .",
    "2002 ; sollerman et al . 2000 ) .",
    "the greater strength of the lines relative to the continuum level in the spectrum of sn  2002ap compared with other sne ic at similar , although slightly earlier epochs ( fig .  6 ) , is consistent with the rapid early spectral evolution reported by mazzali et al . ( 2002 ) , who found that sn  2002ap evolved at about twice the rate of sn  1997ef .",
    "early - time spectra of sn  2002ap showed very broad spectral features , indicating high velocities in the outer ejecta ( @xmath8 km s@xmath6 ; mazzali et al .",
    "2002 ) . given the extreme breadth of the early - time spectral features , one might expect the nebular - phase broad - line widths ( taken as the fwhm of a gaussian fit to the continuum - subtracted line profile ; see matheson et al .",
    "2001 ) for sn  2002ap to be greater than those measured in other nebular sne  ic .",
    "however , for [ ] @xmath116300 , 6364 we measure 8600  km s@xmath6 , consistent with the average value ( @xmath72 km s@xmath6 ) of 9 sne ic reported by matheson et al .",
    "( 2001 ) , and for [ ] @xmath117291 , 7324 , we measure 9800  km s@xmath6 , also consistent with the matheson et al .",
    "( 2001 ) value ( @xmath73 km s@xmath6 ) . at this stage",
    ", there is evidently not significantly more line emission coming from high - velocity gas in this `` hypernova '' than is typical for `` ordinary '' sne  ic .",
    "similarly normal expansion velocities were also found at late times for the hypernova sn  1998bw ( patat et al .",
    "2001 ) . in addiion , the identification of spectral features extending out to nearly @xmath8 km s@xmath6 in very early - time spectra of the type ii - p sn  1999gi ( leonard et al .",
    "2002b ) suggests that the presence of high - velocity material may be common among core - collapse sne , but is only easily identified if very early - time spectra are obtained .",
    "figure  [ fig:7 ] shows the [ ] @xmath116300 , 6364 and ] @xmath744571 line profiles for day 140 ( shown instead of the day 131 spectrum due to its superior resolution ) .",
    "a striking feature of both profiles is the very sharp peaks to the flux distribution , which may indicate the presence of a narrow - line component , redshifted by about 580 km s@xmath6  with respect to the systemic velocity of the host galaxy m74 . given the complex nature of the profiles , it is not certain whether these narrow features are resolved in our spectrum , which has a resolution of @xmath75 km s@xmath6  at 6300   .",
    "patat et al . (",
    "2001 ) observed redshifted emission peaks in spectra of sn  1998bw at a similar phase .",
    "this emission could come from an excess of gas existing in lower - velocity regions close to the center of the sn nebula .",
    "it is also possible that it is coming from material previously lost by the progenitor star and now existing ( in clumps ? ) in the circumstellar environment of the sn ( e.g. , sn  1999cq ; matheson et al .",
    ". continued monitoring at sufficient spectral resolution is urged in order to trace the development of these narrow features .",
    "given the spectropolarimetric evidence for asphericity during the photospheric phase (   [ sec : intrinsicpolarization ] ) , it is worthwhile to investigate whether the nebular - phase line profiles show any evidence for asymmetry in the line - emitting regions at these later epochs . as discussed in   [ sec : introduction ] , the main spectral diagnostic of asymmetry was found by maeda et al .",
    "( 2002 ) to be a large ratio ( @xmath76 ) between the width of the [ ] blend near 5200    and that observed in [ ] @xmath116300 , 6364 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig:6 ] for the identification of these features ) .",
    "one difficulty with this diagnostic , however , is the complex nature of the [ ] blend s profile , which might include contributions from other lines ( e.g. , [ ] @xmath77 ; [ ] @xmath78 ) that can substantially widen the observed profile , especially during the early nebular phase .",
    "it is also difficult to estimate the `` continuum '' underlying this feature , since it evidently drops significantly across the profile . in their study , maeda et al .",
    "( 2002 ) analyzed the feature in a nebular spectrum of sn  1998bw taken 201 days after @xmath79-band maximum , in which they felt confident that no extraneous lines contributed to the profile .",
    "given the rapid spectral development of sn  2002ap , it is possible that this region in our spectrum , from @xmath80 days after @xmath79 maximum , is similarly uncontaminated .",
    "detailed spectral models are needed to confirm this assumption , but they are beyond the scope of this paper . if we assume that our feature is the same as that observed in sn  1998bw at the later epoch , then we derive a velocity ratio of @xmath12 2.8:1 for the features .",
    "this value is similar to that found for sn  1998bw , which would therefore imply an aspherical explosion for sn  2002ap in the same way that it was inferred for sn  1998bw .",
    "however , the relatively early phase of our spectrum , the difficulty inherent in measuring the width of the [ ] feature , and the potential for significant line blending make us view this preliminary result with some degree of skepticism .",
    "there is strong evidence from spectropolarimetry and tentative evidence from nebular - phase line profiles that sn  2002ap is not spherical .",
    "it is useful to compare the spectropolarimetry of sn  2002ap with the small but growing number of core - collapse events for which polarimetry measurements exist .",
    "the lower bounds on the continuum polarization level of sn  2002ap ( @xmath81 and @xmath82 on days 16 and 37 , respectively ) are larger than those typically derived for sne ii - p ( wheeler 2000 ) , but not nearly as great as that inferred for the sn  ic 1997x ( wang et al .",
    "might be due to line - feature modulations similar to what is seen in the ir triplet of sn 2002ap during the second epoch , and not to intrinsically polarized continuum light . ] a more direct comparison to a similar event can be made with the spectropolarimetry presented by patat et al .",
    "( 2001 ) for the hypernova sn  1998bw .",
    "patat et al . (",
    "2001 ) present spectropolarimetry from two epochs , @xmath83 and + 10 days after @xmath79-band maximum ( our observations of sn  2002ap occurred on days 7 and 28 relative to the date of @xmath79 maximum derived by gal - yam et al .",
    "2002 ) with coverage from 4000    to 6900   .",
    "although the isp is unknown for this event , pc , which is insufficient to fully sample the dust in the galactic plane . ]",
    "we note that the overall level of the observed polarization ( @xmath84 ) , and the marked increase in the polarization level from blue to red wavelengths ( particularly in the earliest epoch ) , are quite similar to the behavior of sn  2002ap .",
    "in addition to the high inferred continuum polarization , another interesting finding for sn  2002ap is that while the data from both epochs suggest a substantial degree of axisymmetry ( fig .",
    "[ fig:3 ] ) , the dominant axes have quite different polarization angles , changing from @xmath85 on day 16 to @xmath86 on day 37 (   [ sec : removalofisp ] ) .",
    "this behavior is different from that observed in other core - collapse events , most notably those resulting from progenitors with massive envelopes intact at the time of explosion . for sn  1999em , a classic type ii - p event , leonard et al .",
    "( 2001 ) show that a common , wavelength - independent p.a .",
    "exists for all observational epochs , which includes days 12 , 45 , 54 , 164 , and 168 after explosion .",
    "this suggests a more complex morphology for the thinning ejecta of sn  2002ap .    as mentioned in ",
    "[ sec : introduction ] , a potentially relevant result of recent simulations involving explosive nucleosynthesis in aspherical , jet - induced sn explosions is that intermediate - mass and heavy elements ( e.g. , fe ) as well as freshly synthesized radioactive material such as @xmath87ni are ejected ( at high velocity ) primarily along the poles whereas elements synthesized in the progenitor ( e.g. , he , c , ca , o ) are preferentially located at lower velocities near the equatorial plane in the expanding ejecta ( maeda et al . 2002 ; khokhlov & hflich 2001 ; hflich et al .",
    "although the p.a . in the isp - corrected data from day 37 ( bottom , right panel of fig",
    ".  [ fig:4 ] ) is difficult to define in some regions due to the low polarization level , there is evidently a change near @xmath88  . below this wavelength , @xmath89 , a value similar to the one that characterizes the day 16 data . above @xmath90 ",
    ", @xmath91 tends to dominate ; this is especially easy to see ( and believe , due to the high polarization ) in the ir absorption trough ( see also fig .",
    "[ fig:3 ] ) .",
    "might this change in p.a .",
    "be due to the different spatial distributions of the iron - group elements , which dominate at blue wavelengths , from the elements synthesized by the progenitors , such as ca and o , that are responsible for much of the opacity at red wavelengths ( see fig .",
    "[ fig:2]a ) ? along these same lines , an explanation for the nearly constant p.a . on day 16 at all wavelengths , and its similarity to the p.a . of day 37 at blue wavelengths , could be due to the photosphere at early times being located in the highest - velocity ( i.e. , polar ) material . by day 37 ,",
    "perhaps the sn has cooled sufficiently to expose the inner , slower - moving equatorial regions , and we are witnessing the competition between these two different distributions of material .    to be sure , a small change in the isp estimate , or even the wavelength of maximum polarization of the isp , could alter the inferred p.a . of the continuum in the second epoch considerably .",
    "further interpretation of the polarization change near @xmath92   in the second epoch is probably not warranted .",
    "the @xmath93 p.a .",
    "difference between the the day 16 data and the region associated with the ir trough on day 37 , however , remains regardless of the isp choice , and may well indicate a true difference in the distribution of ca relative to iron - group elements .",
    "just prior to completion of this research , a paper describing similar data appeared on astro - ph by kawabata et al .",
    "although the observational epochs are slightly different ( kawabata et al .",
    "present data from 2002 february 9.211.3 and march 8.210.2 ) , the general results are similar : an observed polarization level in the february epochs of @xmath94 that may rise somewhat toward the red ( the increase is not as obvious as it is in our data since their data does not extend beyond 8300   ) and a dramatic polarization increase in the ir triplet s absorption trough followed by depolarization in the emission profile in the march data . one interesting speculation made by kawabata et al .",
    "( 2002 ) is that much of the polarized continuum at early times may result from scattering off of electrons in a jet , or bipolar jets , of material emitted from the sn during the explosion .",
    "supporting this hypothesis is the general similarity demonstrated between the intrinsic polarized flux ( i.e. , @xmath95 ) and the total flux spectrum redshifted by @xmath96 , the presumed speed of the jet .",
    "we also find qualitative agreement between the intrinsic polarized flux and the total flux redshifted by @xmath97 during our february epoch ( fig .",
    "[ fig:8 ] ) , although we have not investigated how significant the correlation is .",
    "we do note , though , that the speculation by kawabata et al .",
    "( 2002 ) is consistent with the scenario proposed above that the polarization p.a . on day 16",
    "is dominated by the distribution of the polar jet material . countering the jet hypothesis , however , is the recent assertion by berger et al .",
    "( 2002 ) that the extreme faintness of sn  2002ap at radio wavelengths is inconsistent with the presence of a jet , regardless of the viewing geometry . in any event , additional spectropolarimetry of young sne ic is certainly warranted in order to further test the jet model .",
    "the total flux spectra obtained in the early - nebular phase confirm that sn  2002ap continues the rapid spectral evolution previously witnessed during the photospheric phase by mazzali et al .",
    "it is characterized by a very weak continuum and broad emission lines , which demonstrate that it is already well along the transition to the fully nebular phase .",
    "the lines have widths similar to those observed in `` normal '' nebular sne ic .",
    "there are , however , unusual narrow lines superimposed on some of the broad - line profiles , including especially those of [ ] @xmath116300 , 6364 and ] @xmath744571 .",
    "it is possible that the ratio of the width of the [ ] blend near 5200    compared with that of [ ] @xmath116300 , 6364 is indicative of asymmetry in the line - emitting region , but additional , later - time spectra are needed to confirm this result .",
    "some of the data presented herein were obtained at the w. m. keck observatory , which is operated as a scientific partnership among the california institute of technology , the university of california , and the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the observatory was made possible by the generous financial support of the w. m. keck foundation .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with nasa , as well as the simbad database , operated at cds , strasbourg , france .",
    "this research was supported in part by nasa through the american astronomical society s small research grant program .",
    "our work was also funded by nasa grants go-8648 , go-9114 , and go-9155 from the space telescope science institute , which is operated by aura , inc . , under nasa contract nas 5 - 26555 .",
    "additional funding was provided to a.v.f . by nsf grant ast-9987438 .",
    "we thank a. j. barth and e. c. moran for help with some of the observations , w. li for useful discussions , and an anonymous referee for helpful suggestions that resulted in an improved manuscript .",
    "the assistance of the staffs at lick and keck observatories is greatly appreciated .",
    "the observational approach that we have taken at keck in the past for our program to study sn geometry has been to obtain spectropolarimetry with a 600 groove mm@xmath6 grating blazed at 5000   , which yields a spectral range of about 43506850   in the red arm of lris ( leonard et al .",
    "2000 ; leonard et al . 2001",
    "; leonard & filippenko 2001 ) .",
    "the observing procedure of sn  2002ap on february 14 and march 7 differed in two ways from our traditional approach .",
    "first , in an effort to take advantage of the extended coverage possible with the recently commissioned blue arm of the lris double spectrograph ( lris - b ; an overview of the lris - b instrument is available at http://alamoana.keck.hawaii.edu/inst/lris/lrisb.html ) , on february 14 we used the d680 dichroic filter to split the spectrum at 6800    and send the blue and red light to the respective arms of lris ( hereafter referred to as the `` uv '' and `` ir '' settings , respectively ) . to our knowledge , these are the first spectropolarimetric observations to be published using lris - b .",
    "second , on both nights we observed sn  2002ap using the red side alone ( i.e. , no dichroic ) with a 300 groove mm@xmath6 grating blazed at 5000   , which yielded coverage in the range 39308830    ( hereafter referred to as the `` opt '' setting ) .",
    "the lack of an order - blocking filter in this setting makes second - order light contamination beyond @xmath98    a concern . in this appendix",
    ", we discuss the performance of lris - b for spectropolarimetry and the impact of second - order light on the data acquired with the opt setting .    for the uv / ir setup ,",
    "a grism with 300 groove mm@xmath6 blazed at @xmath99  dispersed the light on the blue side , and a grating with 400 groove mm@xmath6 blazed at @xmath100    dispersed the light on the red side ; an og570 order - blocking filter was also inserted on the red side . in principle , such a setup yields coverage down to the atmospheric cutoff at @xmath123200   .",
    "however , we found the calibration of the spectropolarimetry to be problematic at blue wavelengths . at these wavelengths the poor efficiency of the blue ccd chip and grism ( see http://alamoana.keck.hawaii.edu/inst/lris/ccdblue_qe.html and + http://alamoana.keck.hawaii.edu/inst/lris/grism_list.html ) , along with the inefficiency of the `` hn-22 uv / optical polaroid '' polarizing filter , which is used to make the wavelength - dependent position angle correction curve ( see miller et al . 1988 ;",
    "ogle et al .",
    "1999 ) , probably contribute to the difficulty we encountered . when we attempted to calibrate the polarization standard bd @xmath14 ( schmidt et al . 1992 ) , strong , artificial p.a .",
    "rotations were evident below @xmath101   , indicating that the derived p.a .",
    "correction curve was not appropriate at these wavelengths .",
    "the data were also extremely noisy , especially for red objects .",
    "fortunately , a new polarizer for the blue side that should allow calibration of polarization further into the blue has recently been installed and is currently being tested . in the end , we concluded that reliable spectropolarimetry on the blue side was possible for sn  2002ap down to 3800   .",
    "the total flux spectrum was calibratable down to 3400   .",
    "an additional difficulty with the uv setting is the known problem of `` ghost '' images of second - order dispersed red - side light appearing on the blue side .",
    "although the intensity of the `` ghost '' images is reported to be no more than @xmath102 of the red - side intensity , such contamination , if variable between observations , could corrupt spectropolarimetry results in the uv setting .",
    "these uncertainties , as well as some previous problems that we have had calibrating spectropolarimetry data obtained with a dichroic ( see , e.g. , leonard et al .",
    "2001 ) , led us to approach the lris - b spectropolarimetry with some caution .",
    "the opt setting fortunately provides a check on the uv data from this first epoch . in a similar way ,",
    "the ir setting provides a check on possible second - order light contamination effects at red wavelengths in the opt setting .    on the red side ,",
    "the `` ir800 ir '' polarizer , which is used to make the wavelength - dependent position angle correction curve , does not produce @xmath103% polarized light at wavelengths beyond @xmath104   .",
    "however , unlike the case on the blue side , consistent results ( i.e. , no unusual p.a . or polarization level changes ) were obtained for all objects and standards out to @xmath105 m , indicating that the derived p.a .",
    "correction curve is accurate .",
    "this builds confidence in the calibration of the spectropolarimetry of sn  2002ap at red wavelengths as recorded by the ir setting .    to check for instrumental polarization ,",
    "the null standard hd 57702 ( mathewson & ford 1970 ) was observed on february 14 with all three settings ( fig .",
    "[ fig:9 ] ) .",
    "the polarization measured with both the opt and ir settings are in good agreement and effectively null . also impressive",
    "is the apparently good calibration of the ir polarization through the region affected by the dichroic cutoff .",
    "similarly promising results were also obtained for the polarization standard bd @xmath14 ( schmidt et al .",
    "1992 ) and other science objects observed on this night .",
    "although the signal - to - noise ratio decreases sharply for both uv and ir near 6800   , it may be possible to trust the polarization data in this region with no gap in coverage .",
    "the comparison between the uv and opt settings for hd 57702 , however , reveals that a small ( @xmath106 ) amount of instrumental polarization likely exists in the uv setting .",
    "this is also supported by similar discrepancies between the uv and opt settings in other objects data on this night . for hd 57702 , mathewson & ford ( 1970 ) list @xmath107 . from the opt setting data we measure @xmath108 ( statistical error only ) , while the uv setting yields @xmath109 .",
    "correcting for instrumental polarization at the @xmath110 level is usually of dubious merit , since the intrinsic polarization of null standards is generally of this order .",
    "nonetheless , since the opt setting value is closer to the cataloged value , and we have never found significant instrumental polarization to be evident on the red side of lris , we attempted to correct for this small degree of instrumental polarization in the uv data . to do this , we first derived the offsets in the raw stokes parameters between the uv and opt measurements of hd 57702 , and then used these offsets to correct the other objects uv data ( see leonard et al .",
    "we found that this correction consistently improved the agreement between the two settings , although in some cases the agreement between the two settings was still not perfect . since improvement was seen with the correction , though , we adopted it and applied it to the uv data obtained for sn  2002ap .",
    "the ultimate cause of this small amount of instrumental polarization in our uv setting is unknown .",
    "although spectropolarimetry is routinely obtained at keck using settings nearly identical to our opt setting ( e.g. , brotherton et al . 2000 ; ogle et al .",
    "1999 ) , this was the first time that we personally had obtained data significantly beyond 7000    without the use of an order - blocking filter .",
    "this lead to some concern over the possibility of second - order light contaminating the data beyond @xmath98   .",
    "the degree to which second - order light affects red - side data has been investigated in detail by putney & cohen ( 1996 ) for the 300 groove mm@xmath6 grating in the red camera , and they show that the percentage of blue light appearing as second - order red light in the range 64009000    is at most @xmath111 of the incident blue flux . furthermore , from observations of polarized stars made with and without an order - blocking filter in place , putney & cohen ( 1996 ) conclude that second - order light effects have negligible impact on polarimetry data , except perhaps for objects with highly wavelength - variable polarization ( potentially a concern for sn  2002ap ) , and/or very blue flux .",
    "the redundancy of having the opt data beyond @xmath112    also covered by the ir setting , in which an order - blocking filter was used ( in addition to the dichroic ) , allows us to directly test the conclusions of putney & cohen ( 1996 ) for sn  2002ap in the feb .",
    "figure  [ fig:10 ] shows the polarimetry data for sn  2002ap obtained on this night in all three settings .",
    "the agreement at red wavelengths is indeed quite good , and suggests that second - order light effects are not a concern . at blue wavelengths",
    ", there is relatively good agreement between opt and uv , although some discrepancies in the polarization level at the @xmath113 level do exist .",
    "given the concerns with the uv data , the demonstrated lack of second - order light effects at red wavelengths in the opt setting , and the very limited availability of sn  2002ap at the second epoch ( it was approaching solar conjunction and visible for less than 1 hour immediately after sunset ) ,",
    "we decided to observe sn  2002ap using only the opt setting on march 7 .",
    "thus , direct comparison between these data and those for which an order - blocking filter was used is not possible for this epoch .",
    "however , we can estimate the fraction of the observed red flux contributed by second - order blue light through a procedure similar to that described by putney & cohen ( 1996 ) , and compare this with the amount from the first epoch , for which second - order effects were shown to be negligible .",
    "since the second - order light effects derived by putney & cohen ( 1996 ) were not derived using observations made with the polarimetry optics in the light - path , we determined our own values by observing the blue flux standard feige 34 ( stone 1977 ; massey & gronwall 1990 ) in the opt setting , both with and without the gg495 order - blocking filter , as well as with the uv / ir setup .",
    "all observations were taken with the achromatic half - wave plate at a position angle of @xmath114 , which produces two parallel , perpendicularly polarized beams on the ccd chip .",
    "the beams were individually flux calibrated and then combined to yield the total flux spectrum .",
    "following the procedure of putney & cohen ( 1996 ) , we calculate the fraction of blue light appearing as second - order contamination in the red end as      where @xmath116 is the flux - calibrated data measured from 64008828    in the opt setting without an order - blocking filter in place , @xmath117 is the flux - calibrated data in the same region observed with an order - blocking filter , and @xmath118 is the flux - calibrated data measured below @xmath119   .",
    "we then smoothed @xmath120 and interpolated over telluric features ( e.g. , the a - band ) to produce the result shown in figure  [ fig:11 ] , which is , in fact , quite similar to the result derived by putney & cohen ( 1996 ) .",
    "for both the february and march epochs , and show the results in figure  [ fig:12 ] .",
    "( flux - calibrated data were available for sn  2002ap down to @xmath122    on february 14 and @xmath123    on march 7 ; see table  1 . )",
    "it is clear that second - order light does not make an appreciably larger contribution to the march 7 data than it did on february 14 . in both epoch",
    "s data , the contribution is less than 1.3% of the observed flux .",
    "this similarity , especially when coupled with the smooth , non - variable nature of the polarization in the range @xmath123@xmath124   ( fig .  [ fig:2 ] ) , implies similarly negligible second - order light effects in the march data , at least at wavelengths beyond 7800   , which includes the important ir region .",
    "additional confidence that second - order light does not compromise the data from the march epoch is gained from the favorable comparison with the spectropolarimetry data that kawabata et al .",
    "( 2002 ) obtained at nearly the same epoch , presumably without any second - order light contamination .",
    "we therefore conclude that second - order light contamination has had a negligible impact on our data for both epochs , and concur with the conclusions of putney & cohen ( 1996 ) that second - order light is not a concern for the spectropolarimetry of objects that do not have either highly wavelength - variable polarization at blue wavelengths or extremely blue color ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the early - time optical spectrum of the type ic supernova ( sn ) 2002ap was characterized by unusually broad features , leading some authors to designate it a  hypernova . </S>",
    "<S> \" we present optical spectropolarimetry of this object 16 and 37 days after the estimated date of explosion . after correcting for interstellar polarization </S>",
    "<S> , we find evidence for a high level of intrinsic continuum polarization at both epochs : @xmath0 on day 16 and @xmath1 on day 37 . </S>",
    "<S> prominent line polarization is also seen , especially in the trough of the ca  ii near - infrared triplet during the second epoch . when interpreted in terms of the oblate , electron - scattering model atmospheres of hflich ( 1991 ) </S>",
    "<S> , our results imply an asymmetry of at least @xmath2 ( day 16 ) and @xmath3 ( day 37 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the data suggest a fair degree of axisymmetry , although the polarization angle of the dominant polarization axes are different by about @xmath4 between the two epochs , implying a complex morphology for the thinning ejecta . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , there exists some spectropolarimetric evidence for a different distribution of ca relative to iron - group elements .    </S>",
    "<S> we also present flux spectra of sn  2002ap taken 131 and 140 days after the explosion . </S>",
    "<S> the spectra are characterized by a very weak continuum and broad emission lines , indicating that sn  2002ap has entered the nebular phase . </S>",
    "<S> the spectral features are substantially similar to those of `` normal '' sne ic in the nebular phase , and the emission lines are not significantly broader . </S>",
    "<S> however , some of the broad lines are very sharply peaked , and may possess a narrow component ( probably unresolved by our spectra , fwhm @xmath5 km s@xmath6 ) that is redshifted by @xmath7 km s@xmath6  with respect to the systemic velocity of the host galaxy . </S>"
  ]
}