{
  "article_text": [
    "supermassive black holes ( bhs ) , whose existence has been postulated since the discovery of quasars , are now believed to reside in the nuclei of all massive galaxies , with a correlation between the masses of the bhs and the masses of their host bulges ( as evidenced by the stellar luminosities or the velocity dispersions of the bulges ; e.g. , hring & rix 2004 ; tremaine et al .",
    "2002 ) . following an argument by soltan ( 1982 ) , the active galactic nucleus ( agn ) luminosity density from recent x - ray and optical surveys , integrated over cosmic time , when compared to the present - day space density of nuclear bhs , provides strong evidence that the bhs have grown primarily during relatively brief ( @xmath6  yr ) active periods when they accreted in a radiatively efficient mode as seyfert nuclei and quasars ( marconi et al .",
    "2004 ; shankar et al .",
    "2004 , cao 2007 ) .",
    "the favored mechanism for achieving the required high rest - mass - to - energy conversion efficiencies ( @xmath7 ) is a geometrically thin , optically thick , accretion disc ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 ) .",
    "a less efficient accretion mode during the seyfert / quasar phase would overpredict the currently observed bh space density .",
    "semi - direct evidence for the existence of such discs in agns has come from the presence of an optical to ultraviolet ( uv ) `` big blue blump '' in the spectral energy distributions ( seds ) of luminous agns ( e.g. , shang et al . 2005 ; kishimoto et al .",
    "2005 )  presumably the thermal radiation from the disc ( shields 1978 ; malkan 1983 ) , as well as from the profiles of iron x - ray emission lines , interpreted as gravitationally redshifted and relativistically doppler - broadened and -boosted emission from the inner regions of the disc ( see nandra et al . 2006 , for a recent review ) .",
    "estimates of the bh masses in seyferts and quasars indicate , furthermore , that the thin discs are often radiating at luminosities near the eddington limit , @xmath8 , corresponding to the bh mass ( kaspi et al .",
    "2000 ; kollmeier et al . 2006",
    "; netzer & trakhtenbrot 2007 ) .    compared to the radiatively efficient , high - rate , accretion mode of bhs in their short - lived",
    ", high - luminosity , phases , much less is known about bh behavior during their long , quiescent , stages . in the presence of a central bh , and",
    "given the ubiquity of gas from the mass loss accompanying normal stellar evolution of the bulge population , it appears unavoidable that accretion on to the bh at some finite rate still takes place ( e.g. , soria et al .",
    "2006a , b ) .",
    "however , it has been a challenge to explain how this accretion can be accompanied by only the feeble radiative signatures that are observed in non - active galaxies . during their quiescent stage , bhs may switch to a different accretion mode , characterized by a low accretion rate and low - radiative efficiency . in most models of such radiatively inefficient accretion flows ( riafs ; see , e.g. , yuan 2007 , and references therein ) , the kinetic energy associated with the gas is either advected with the matter into the bh , or redirected into an outflow .",
    "the funnels in the geometrically thick structures , such as tori , invoked by such models , also provide a plausible mechanism for collimating axial outflows and jets .",
    "observationally , agns show some evidence for a transition from a low - accretion - rate state , with an associated low luminosity and a hard x - ray spectrum , to a high - accretion - rate , high luminosity , soft - x - ray state , analogous to behavior observed in galactic stellar - mass accreting bhs ( e.g. , done & gierliski 2005 ) . however , direct observational evidence for the existence of riafs has been sparse , and some authors have argued against such structures based on the observed spectral slopes in specific wavelength regimes ( e.g. , done & gierliski 2005 ; krding , falcke , & corbel 2006 ) , when compared to the predictions of riaf models .    understanding the quiescent bh stage is important for a variety of reasons . it is not known what triggers the active stage of luminous agns , with galaxy interactions , or tidal disruption and accretion of stars being favorite contenders ( e.g. , volonteri et al . 2006 ) , and details about the quiescent stage could provide clues .",
    "the existence of the bh - bulge correlations and results of galaxy - formation simulations have led to proposals that agns provide `` feedback '' that can regulate star formation and can affect galactic structure ( e.g. , springel et al . 2005 ; silk 2005 ) .",
    "these ideas have been reinforced by the recent discovery of large cavities of hot gas that have been formed in the intracluster medium by jets from the nuclei of central cluster galaxies ( e.g. , dunn & fabian 2006 ; nusser et al .",
    "this feedback could well take place mainly during the quiescent stage of bh activity ( e.g. , heinz et al . 2007 ) .",
    "the low - level nuclear activity of the quiescent stage can manifest itself observationally in the form of compact , often - variable , sources of radio , uv , or x - ray emission , or as emission - line nuclei with line ratios uncharacteristic of stellar excitation , or with broad balmer lines reminiscent of seyfert 1 spectra ( see below ) .",
    "jets , generally seen in radio , but sometimes in other bands as well ( e.g. , as in m87 ) are another unambiguous indicator of nuclear activity seen in some galaxies .",
    "the weakness of these radiative signals from quiescent bhs make their study difficult , almost by definition .",
    "problems include confusion with brighter , non - agn , components , obscuration by dust , and selection effects .",
    "fortunately , it is becoming clear that a large fraction of all galactic nuclei do show some weak signs of activity that can be associated with the central bh , and in this sense most galaxies can be considered to host a low - luminosity agn .",
    "the ubiquity and nearness of these objects ( including the one in our own galaxy ) often permits separating their weak signals from the various possible backgrounds , such as radiation from stars in the optical to the uv range , and from circumnuclear accreting binaries in x - rays . in radio , high - angular resolution can help separate between jet emission and an unresolved nuclear source that could be coming directly from the accretion flow .",
    "probably the most common manifestation of low - luminosity agn appears in the form low - ionization nuclear emission - line regions ( liners ; heckman 1980 ) , which are detected in the nuclei of a large fraction of bright nearby galaxies ( ho et al .",
    "1997 ; kauffmann et al . 2003 ) .",
    "as their name implies , liners are characterized by collisionally excited lines of neutral and singly - ionized species , indicators of the presence of hot but largely neutral gas .",
    "theoretical studies that attempted to model liner spectra have generally agreed that liners are photoionized objects .",
    "the ionizing sources could be either an agn - like uv - to - x - ray source , or a cluster of massive stars of the right mix to produce a hard - enough spectrum ( e.g. , barth & shields 2000 ; kewley et al .",
    "although the nature of liners and their relation , if any , to agns has been debated for several decades , it is now becoming clear that at least a large fraction of liners are indeed agns ( see , e.g. , discussion in ho et al .",
    "recently , kewley et al .",
    "( 2006 ) have used sloan digital sky survey ( sdss ) data to show that liners occupy a well - defined `` cloud '' in emission - line ratio diagnostic diagrams , a cloud that is distinct from the regions occupied by h  ii and seyfert nuclei .",
    "these results largely overcome previous sentiments that liners are a `` mixed bag '' of objects , with some photoionized by stars , some by agns , and some perhaps excited by shocks . by assuming a bh mass for every galaxy based on the bh - bulge mass relation , kewley et al .",
    "( 2006 ) further showed that the transition from the seyfert region to the liner region in the diagnostic diagrams corresponds to a decrease in the eddington ratio , @xmath9 , confirming earlier conclusions by ho ( 2004 ) . if this decrease is accompanied by a hardening of the ionizing spectrum , the spectral transition can also be explained .    in terms of actually detecting the ionizing continuum source in liners , observations at uv wavelengths , where the bright background from the bulge stellar population basically disappears ,",
    "have proved to be useful . _ hubble space telescope _",
    "( hst ) imaging showed that some 25 per cent of liners have compact , generally unresolved ( i.e. , @xmath10 few pc ) , bright uv sources in their nuclei ( maoz et al .",
    "1995 ; barth et al . 1998 ) .",
    "optical hst imaging of 14 liners ( pogge et al . 2000 ) revealed that in every case where a compact uv nucleus had not been detected , obscuration of the nucleus by circumnuclear dust was apparent .",
    "this strongly suggests that most nearby liners ( including the 75 per cent that are `` uv - dark '' , i.e. , those that do not reveal a nuclear uv source at hst sensitivity , @xmath11 ) likely have such a nuclear uv source .    maoz et al .",
    "( 2005 ; m05 ) monitored with the hst _ advanced camera for surveys _ ( acs ) a sample of 17 compact uv liner nuclei at 2500     and",
    "they found that all but three of the objects varied in uv brightness on month - long time - scales , correlated between both uv bands , or on decade - long time - scales ( by comparison to flux levels measured previously [ 19932000 ] for these objects at bandpasses similar to the acs 2500     band , usually at 2300   ) , or both .",
    "months - scale variation amplitudes were typically @xmath12 per cent , while decadal variations were by a factor of a few .",
    "this result argues for a nonstellar uv source and , by extension to the ionizing far - uv range , for agn excitation of the liner emission lines .",
    "the variable uv flux provides a lower limit on the nonstellar contribution to the uv luminosity of each object .    in the radio , at very large array ( vla )",
    "resolution ( @xmath13 tens of pc ) , about half of liners display unresolved radio cores at 2  cm and 3.6  cm ( nagar et al . 2000 , 2002 ) . with very long baseline interferometer ( vlbi ) resolution at 6  cm ( @xmath14 pc ) , these cores remain unresolved , strongly arguing for the presence of an agn ( falcke & biermann 1999 ; falcke et al .",
    "the radio core fluxes have been found to be variable by factors of up to a few in about half of the @xmath12 liners observed multiple times over 3 years ( nagar et al .",
    "2002 ) .    at x - ray energies ,",
    "_ rosat _ hri images showed compact ( @xmath15 ) soft x - ray emission in 70 per cent of liners and seyferts ( roberts & warwick 2000 ) which , when observed with _ asca _ , were found to have a nonthermal 210 kev spectrum ( e.g. , terashima et al . 2000 ) .",
    "arcsecond - resolution _ chandra _ observations by terashima & wilson ( 2003 ) of 11 liners , each of which was preselected to have a radio core , revealed an x - ray nucleus in all but one case , and the nuclei were generally ( but not always ) unresolved .",
    "most recently , flohic et al . ( 2006 ) found an x - ray nucleus in 12 out of 19 liners observed with _",
    "chandra_. they argued that , in most cases , the observed x - ray agn is not luminous enough to power the h@xmath16 emission through photoionization .",
    "however , this conclusion depends on the assumed extrapolation of the 0.510 kev spectrum to far - uv energies . in fact , flohic et al . showed that the liners are consistent with the best - fitting relation found by ho et al .",
    "( 2001 ) between 210  kev and h@xmath16 luminosities for quasars and seyfert 1 galaxies .",
    "this implies that , if liners and luminous agns have similar uv - to - x - ray seds , then there is no photoionization energy budget problem in liners .",
    "the identification of the nonstellar emission components in liners permits obtaining a picture of the nuclear seds of these low - luminosity agns across the electromagnetic spectrum .",
    "comparison of the seds to theoretical predictions for different accretion modes may be the most promising avenue for understanding how bhs `` sleep '' .    ho ( 1999 ) compiled and studied seds for seven low - luminosity agns , including four liners , a seyfert , and two borderline liner - seyfert cases ( in the new classification scheme of kewley et al . [ 2006 ] , both borderline cases , m81 and ngc  4579 , are unambiguous liners ) .",
    "his main conclusion was that low - luminosity agn seds are markedly different from those of luminous agns , in that underluminous objects have a weak or absent big blue bump , and are `` radio loud '' in terms of the ratio of luminosity in the radio relative to other bands .",
    "however , several problems could cast doubt on these conclusions . in two of the objects",
    "( ngc  4261 and ngc  4374 ) the nucleus is obscured in the uv by conspicuous patches of circumnuclear dust , resulting in non - detections in this band . in a third object ,",
    "ngc  6251 , there are no space - uv data .",
    "thus , four objects ( m81 , ngc  4594 , ngc  4579 , and m87 ) with useful measurements remain in the critical space - uv region .",
    "a study by ho et al . ( 2002 ) included three additional liners ( ngc  1097 , ngc  4203 , and ngc  4450 ) , plus m81 , and reached similar conclusions .",
    "both of these studies included hst optical - band measurements in the seds , and considered optical - to - uv spectral slopes .",
    "i will argue (  [ comparisonsection ] ) that this is risky because , even at hst resolutions , nuclear starlight from the centrally peaked , often cusped , bulge light distributions can contaminate the optical measurements .",
    "this , and/or small amounts of reddening in the uv , can distort the sed in optical bands .",
    "ho ( 2002 ) studied further the radio - loudness issue , and showed that radio loudness anticorrelates strongly with eddington ratio .",
    "the ratio of radio to optical luminosity in agn samples , as a function of eddington ratio , was recently studied also by chiaberge et al .",
    "( 2005 ) and sikora et al .",
    "( 2007 ) . both of these studies were again based on optical measurements of low - luminosity nuclear fluxes , which are susceptible to contamination by non - agn components , even at hst resolution .",
    "the sample of chiaberge et al .",
    "( 2005 ) included 21 liners , and that of sikora et al .",
    "( 2007 ) has four liner nuclei .",
    "the seds of several low - luminosity agns have been compiled and analysed also on an individual basis : m81 and ngc  4579 ( quataert et al .",
    "1999 ) ; ngc 6166 ( di matteo et al .",
    "2001 ) ; ngc 4258 ( yuan et al .",
    "2002 ) ; ic 4296 and ngc  1399 ( pellegrini et al .",
    "2003a ) ; m87 ( wilson & yang 2002 ; di matteo et al . 2003 ; sabra et al .",
    "2003 ) ; ngc 4594 ( pellegrini et al .",
    "2003b ) ; ngc  3998 ( ptak et al . 2004 ) ; and ngc  4565 ( chiaberge et al .",
    "most of these analyses did not include uv data , and sometimes did include optical and ir data , which involve the risks mentioned above .",
    "six of the objects above will be re - analysed in the present work .    in this paper ,",
    "i revisit the seds of low - luminosity agns , motivated by several recent developments .",
    "first , a larger sample of liners having accurate hst / acs uv photometry is now available .",
    "furthermore , the observed variable fraction of the uv flux found by m05 in these objects provides a firm lower limit on the nonstellar agn flux .",
    "second , high - resolution x - ray measurements with _",
    "chandra _ and _ newton xmm _ exist for most of these objects , permitting better isolation of the compact central x - ray source . finally , recent statistical studies of the spectral properties of agns ( e.g. , steffen et al .",
    "2006 ; sikora et al . 2007 ; panessa et al .",
    "2006,2007 ) allow a clearer comparison of seds as a function of luminosity and eddington ratio , and thus give a better view of low - luminosity agns in the greater agn context .",
    "my objective in this work is to investigate the luminosity ratios between radio , uv , and x - ray emission in low - luminosity liner - type agns .",
    "high - angular - resolution uv measurements , possible only with hst , have been carried out for relatively few galaxies , and in only 25 per cent of the liners among them is the uv nucleus unobscured by circumnuclear dust ( see  1 , above ) .",
    "i therefore start with the 17 galaxies with known central uv nuclei , monitored in 20022003 with hst by m05 . although originally selected by m05 as liners , three of the 17 objects in the m05 sample were classified by ho et al .",
    "( 1997 ) as seyferts , since their narrow emission line ratios [ oiii ]  @xmath17/h@xmath18 were above the defining border between liners and seyferts by @xmath19 per cent ( for m81 and ngc  3486 ) and by a factor @xmath20 ( for ngc  4258 ) .",
    "however , in the new classification scheme proposed by kewley et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , and which separates well liners from seyferts , m81 is clearly a liner .",
    "ngc  3486 is a seyfert according to its [ oiii]/h@xmath18 and [ oi]/h@xmath16 ratios , but is just on the liner - seyfert boundary in the [ oiii]/h@xmath18 vs. [ sii]/h@xmath16 diagram , and is thus an ambiguous case .",
    "ngc  4258 is a seyfert according to its [ sii]/h@xmath16 and [ oi]/h@xmath16 ratios .",
    "i will therefore consider m81 a liner , ngc  3486 a borderline liner / seyfert , and ngc  4258 a seyfert nucleus .",
    "from this initial selection of 17 objects , i exclude from the sample the following galaxies .",
    "ngc  4258 is excluded , because , contrary to all the other objects , it is a seyfert , rather than a liner .",
    "furthermore , the morphology of its nuclear region in hst images suggests that the nucleus is partly obscured by dust ( pogge et al .",
    "this suspicion is reinforced by the high absorbing column ( @xmath21 ) fitted by pietsch & read ( 2002 ) to their xmm-_newton _ measurements of this object .",
    "the uv flux measured by m05 therefore likely underestimates by a large factor the unabsorbed uv flux , and using it could lead to a distorted picture of the true sed .",
    "finally , the unabsorbed nuclear 210  kev flux of @xmath22  ^-2s^-1 erg  @xmath23s@xmath4 , found by pietsch & read ( 2002 ) corresponds to a luminosity of @xmath24 ^ -1 ergs s@xmath4 , typical of seyfert nuclei , but 100 times larger than the typical luminosities of the rest of the liner sample .",
    "ngc  6500 is excluded because it has no clear nuclear uv source , and the nucleus may be obscured ( see m05 ) ; and ngc  4569 and ngc  5055 are excluded because , for both of these cases , there are multiple lines of evidence that a young nuclear star cluster , rather than an agn , dominates the energetics : nondetection in radio ( nagar et al . 2000 ) ; a resolved uv source ( barth et al .",
    "1998 ; m05 ) ; a uv spectrum dominated by clear signatures of massive stars ( maoz et al .",
    "1998 ) ; non - variability in the uv on both long and short time - scales ( m05 ) ; and a very low x - ray luminosity ( ho et al . 2001",
    "; flohic et al . 2006 ) .",
    "the remaining 13 objects in the sample include both liners having broad h@xmath16 wings ( which i will designate `` liner 1s '' ) , and those having only narrow emission lines ( `` liner 2s '' ) wings as liner  1.9 objects . since this is the only kind of type-1 liner in the sample of ho et al .",
    "( i.e. , there are no known examples of liner  1.2 , 1.5 , etc . )",
    ", i will simply refer to liner  1.9s as liner  1s . ]",
    "the nucleus of ngc  4552 , has broad components in both the permitted and the forbidden lines ( cappellari et al.1999 ) , and therefore does not fall easily into either the type-1 or type-2 category .",
    "all but one of the 13 objects , were found to be uv - variable by m05 , on short or long time - scales , or both ( the exception is ngc  3486 ) . both types , liner  1s and liner  2s , are variable .",
    "m05 found a rough trend in uv colour , in the sense that liner  2s have a redder flux ratio , @xmath25 , compared to liner  1s , by a factor of @xmath26 .",
    "table  [ table1 ] lists the objects in the sample and summarizes some of their properties .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^ , > , > , > , > , > , > , > , > , > , > , > \" , ]     the analysis that follows will be based mainly on luminosities at 6  cm , 2500   , and 2  kev .",
    "the following conversions are therefore performed on the data adopted in the previous section , and listed in table  [ table1 ] .",
    "when high - angular - resolution 5  ghz fluxes are unavailable , i assume the median spectral index @xmath27 ( @xmath28 , where @xmath29 is frequency , and @xmath30 is monochromatic flux ) found by nagar et al .",
    "( 2001 ) for the core emission in a sample of low - luminosity agns , @xmath31 , in order to convert monochromatic fluxes from 15  ghz to 5  ghz .",
    "i correct all uv fluxes for galactic extinction , assuming the @xmath32-band extinction values ( listed in table  [ table1 ] ) of schlegel et al .",
    "( 1998 ) , and the galactic extinction curve of cardelli et al .",
    "( 1989 ) , with the parameter @xmath33 .",
    "monochromatic x - ray fluxes at 2  kev are recovered from the 0.52  kev or 210  kev fluxes listed in table  [ table1 ] , for the adopted power - law photon spectral indices .",
    "when photon indices are not available , i assume a typical low - luminosity photon index of @xmath34 ( e.g. , ho et al . 2001 ) .",
    "when both 0.52  kev and 210  kev fluxes are available , i use the mean of the two 2  kev monochromatic fluxes obtained .",
    "all monochromatic fluxes , @xmath30 , are converted to luminosities , @xmath35 and @xmath36 , using the adopted distances to the galaxies , listed in table  [ table1 ] .",
    "luminosities in units of the eddington luminosity , @xmath37 , are obtained using the bh masses in table  [ table1 ] .",
    "the ratio of uv to x - ray luminosity in agns is usually discussed in terms of @xmath1 , the spectral index of a hypothetical power - law between @xmath35 at 2500     and at 2  kev , or @xmath38 }                       { \\log[(\\nu(2500~{\\rm \\aa})/\\nu(2~{\\rm kev})]}\\ ] ] @xmath39.\\ ] ] i derive two values of @xmath1 for every galaxy in the sample , one based on the `` high point '' uv flux , and one based on the lower limit on the uv flux from an agn , based on the variable flux .",
    "the latter provides an upper limit on @xmath1 .",
    "one galaxy , ngc  3486 , did not vary during the m05 campaign or before it , and hence there is no lower limit on its agn uv flux .",
    "furthermore , the nucleus is undetected in x - rays with only an upper limit . in this case",
    "i therefore use the uv `` high point '' and the x - ray upper limit to derive only an upper limit on @xmath1 .",
    "`` radio loudness '' , @xmath40 , is usually discussed in terms of the ratio of the luminosity at 5  ghz to the luminosity in optical , uv , or x - ray bands .",
    "i will define @xmath41 as the ratio of @xmath35 between 5  ghz and 2500   , @xmath42 as in the case of @xmath1 , i calculate two values of @xmath41 for each galaxy , one based on the high uv measurement in table  [ table1 ] , and another based on the lower limit on the nonstellar uv flux , which gives an upper limit on @xmath41 . in three galaxies ,",
    "ngc  404 , ngc  3368 , and ngc  3642 , no radio core has been detected .",
    "the upper limit on the radio flux in each of these cases , combined with the uv high point and lower limit , give two separate upper limits on @xmath41 . in a fourth case ,",
    "ngc  3486 , there is an upper limit on the radio flux , and no uv variability is detected . in this case , there is only one upper limit on @xmath41 , based on the constant uv flux .",
    "the numbers compiled and derived above permit a renewed look at the seds of unobscured , liner - type , low - luminosity agns , particularly the ratios of their uv , x - ray , and radio luminosities .",
    "table  [ table2 ] lists the monochromatic luminosities @xmath36 of every object at the various frequencies , based on the fluxes in table  [ table1 ] in the different bands , after the necessary corrections and conversions , and the main derived quantities for the sample : @xmath1 , and @xmath41 , each based on both the lower - limit uv flux and the high uv flux .",
    "figure  [ sedfig ] displays the sed data of each object , based on the data in table  [ table1 ] .",
    "following ho ( 1999 ) , i overlay in every frame the mean seds of radio - loud and radio - quiet quasars from elvis et al .",
    "( 1994 ) , normalized to pass through the high uv 2500     measurements for the liners .",
    "all the multi - wavelength measurements i use are non - simultaneous , often with many years between the measurements in different bands .",
    "variations by factors of a few in each band are common over these time - scales in low - luminosity objects ( see , e.g. , m05 , and references therein ) .",
    "this uncertainty should be kept in mind when comparing the non - simultaneous measurements of each individual object to the mean quasar seds .",
    "the sample of liners discussed here has been selected to be unobscured , is the sense that a nuclear uv point source is detected , optical imaging , when available , has not shown evidence for foreground dust extinction , and x - ray absorbing columns are @xmath43  @xmath23 . from fig .",
    "[ sedfig ] , it is qualitatively evident that the seds of this sample are not dramatically different from those of quasars [ the typical quasars used to produce the elvis et al .",
    "( 1994 ) templates have @xmath44 .",
    "while the ratio of x - ray to uv luminosity is sometimes larger in the liners , the difference is by not by more than a factor of a few .",
    "furthermore , there is no clear evidence for the absence of an optical - uv bump , only perhaps some signs that such a bump may be weaker , relative to x - rays , compared to quasars .    in the radio ,",
    "[ sedfig ] confirms previous assessments that , compared to quasars , most low - luminosity agns are radio loud , or even `` super radio loud '' .",
    "the radio loudness and uv - to - x ratio are examined more quantitatively below .",
    "figure  [ alphaoxfig ] permits a more quantitative look at the uv - to - x ratio by showing @xmath1 as a function of uv luminosity . for every object in the liner sample ,",
    "i plot the two @xmath1 values obtained by using either the high uv point or the uv lower limit , and connect them with a line .",
    "the true @xmath1 is therefore somewhere along these connecting lines , but possibly even below the point corresponding to the highest uv measurement , because uv measurements are so susceptible to extinction .",
    "we thus see that @xmath1 for most of the sample spans the range @xmath45 .",
    "to place these results in the wider agn context , i reproduce in fig .",
    "[ alphaoxfig ] the compilation by steffen et al .",
    "( 2006 ) of @xmath1 and 2500     luminosity for several samples of broad - lined agns . also plotted ( straight line ) is the best - fitting trend between these variables . as found by steffen et al .",
    "( 2006 ) for their sample . while the @xmath1 values for the liners are high compared to those of luminous quasars , as we saw quantitatively in fig .",
    "[ sedfig ] ( most of the quasars in the elvis et al .",
    "1994 sample have @xmath46 ) , they are actually _ in a similar range to those of seyfert 1 galaxies _ , having luminosities up to @xmath5 ^ -1 ergs s@xmath4",
    ". the @xmath1 s of the liners are clearly below the extrapolation of the steffen et al . relation to low luminosities .",
    "indeed , based on their data alone , steffen et al . already noted evidence ( significant at the @xmath47 level ) for a flattening of the relation toward low luminosities .",
    "figure  [ alphaoxfig ] shows that such a turnover is unavoidable .",
    "similarly , the @xmath1 s of the liners in the present sample are very similar to the values found by greene & ho ( 2007 ) , @xmath48 to @xmath49 , for a sample of type-1 agns having intermediate - mass bhs ( @xmath50 ) , with luminosities @xmath51  erg  s@xmath4 .",
    "we thus see that unobscured low - luminosity liner agns , as far as their uv - to - x luminosity ratios are concerned , are quite similar to agns that are @xmath52 times more luminous in uv and x - rays .",
    "two galaxies , ngc  404 and ngc  3486 , are very faint or undetected in x - rays , leading to outlying low values of @xmath1 .",
    "interestingly , both galaxies have small expected bh masses , of @xmath53 , an order of magnitude or more below those of the rest of the sample . a larger sample of galaxies is required to see if such a trend , of underluminous x - ray sources from small bulges , is real .",
    "one must keep in mind also the possibility that both of these objects are not true agns , and that the nuclear uv sources are , instead , compact star clusters .",
    "maoz et al .",
    "( 1998 ) indeed found that at least some of the uv light in ngc  404 is from massive stars .",
    "although m05 found that the uv flux in ngc  404 differed significantly between their single epoch and previous hst observations , there is always some risk in such comparisons among measurements made with different instrumental setups .",
    "as noted above , ngc  3486 has not been seen to vary on either long or short time - scales , and so a nonstellar nature of its uv emission has not been demonstrated .",
    "( in fact , since it is also undetected in radio , its optical spectrum , showing a borderline liner / seyfert 2 nucleus , is the only indicator of a possible agn . )",
    "further data are thus needed in order to determine if such objects are powered by stars , or constitute another agn phase , characterized by very steep @xmath1 , and perhaps limited to galaxies with small bhs .",
    "figure  [ rvlfig ] plots the radio - loudness parameter , @xmath41 , vs. uv luminosity for the liner sample . as in fig .",
    "[ alphaoxfig ] , the two possible values , based on the two uv measurements , are shown for every galaxy , and are connected by lines . for comparison ,",
    "i include in fig .",
    "[ rvlfig ] data from the recent compilation by sikora et al .",
    "( 2007 ) for several agn samples .",
    "i convert the luminosities and @xmath40 parameters , which are given by sikora et al . for the @xmath32-band ( 4400   ) , to 2500   , assuming an optical - uv power - law relation @xmath54 .",
    "the sikora et al . (",
    "2007 ) points for the four liners in common with my sample ( m81 , ngc  3998 , ngc  4203 , ngc  4579 ) are not plotted .",
    "figure  [ rvleddfig ] is the same as figure  [ rvlfig ] , except that the two values of the uv luminosity for each object are normalized by the object s eddington luminosity .",
    "( note that sikora et al .",
    ", in their fig .  4 ,",
    "plot @xmath40 only versus the eddington ratio , @xmath9 , rather than @xmath55 . however , as seen by comparing the sikora et al",
    ". data in my figs .",
    "[ rvlfig ] and [ rvleddfig ] , the plot is hardly changed when using either @xmath55 or @xmath9 , the result of the relatively small range in bh masses , compared to the large range in luminosities in their sample . )",
    "sikora et al . ( 2007 ) noted that , as pointed out by ho ( 2002 ) , radio loudness in inversely correlated with eddington ratio .",
    "they showed , however , that the entire ( possibly bimodal ) distribution in @xmath41 , including both radio loud and radio quiet objects , shifts to higher @xmath40 values when going from high to low luminosities .",
    "the radio - loud `` branch '' in the distribution consists exclusively of massive elliptical galaxies , with correspondingly large bhs , while the radio - quiet branch included both spirals and ellipticals .",
    "related results have been shown by xu et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , laor ( 2001 ) , best et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , chiaberge et al .",
    "( 2005 ) , wang , wu , & kong ( 2006 ) , panessa et al .",
    "( 2007 ) , and chiaberge ( 2007 ) .",
    "the liners in the present sample conform with this picture . while their radio - to - uv luminosity ratios are often similar to those of radio - loud quasars , and sometimes even greater ( as already seen qualitatively in fig .  [ sedfig ] )",
    ", these agns fall on the same two branches on the diagram , with the majority actually being on the `` radio - quiet '' branch , with @xmath56 .",
    "( i note that , in their compilation of radio fluxes , sikora et al .",
    "2007 included extended radio flux , while i have made a point of isolating , at the highest spatial resolution possible , just the unresolved nuclear flux .",
    "inclusion of the extended flux in the liner sample would likely move some of the points upwards in the diagram to some degree",
    ". this shift would be by up to an order of magnitude for the objects on the `` radio - loud '' branch , e.g. , m87 , which is a fri radio galaxy , but probably not by much for the others , since they are all core - dominated radio sources . )",
    "the four liners that are on the `` radio - loud branch '' , with @xmath57 , ( ngc  1052 , m87 , ngc  4552 , and ngc  4594 ) indeed all have high bh masses , above @xmath58 , and two of them have masses @xmath59 .",
    "equivalently , all the objects on the radio - loud branch have the lowest eddington ratios , @xmath60 .",
    "thus , in terms of their ratios of radio to uv luminosities , low - luminosity liners are , again , similar to agns of high luminosity , in that their radio loudness spans about 4 orders of magnitude , most of them are at the low-@xmath40 end of the distribution , and the most radio - loud cases occur in massive early - type galaxies .              the conclusions above , that liner seds are overall similar to those of higher - luminosity agns , are in contrast to those of most previous liner sed studies ( see   1 ) .",
    "it is therefore instructive to understand the source of these different conclusions .",
    "the claims by previous authors for a distinct sed in low - luminosity agns , with a weak or absent big blue bump , has been based on : ( 1 ) radio loudness ; ( 2 ) a low uv / x - ray ratio ; and ( 3 ) a steep optical - uv slope . in this paper ,",
    "i have argued that ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) are actually quite similar in agns at low and intermediate luminosities . in terms of measurements ,",
    "the values of @xmath1 , e.g. , for the five objects in common to ho ( 1999 ) , ho et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , and to this work ( m81 , m87 , ngc  4579 , ngc  4594 ) are similar . thus , the x - ray fluxes used by those authors , which were based on _ einstein _ , _ rosat _ , and _ asca _ measurements having lower angular resolutions , did not significantly overestimate the agn flux ( due , e.g. , to inclusion of diffuse x - ray emission or discrete circumnuclear sources ) , and hence this is not the source of the discrepancy . rather , with the more recent data on the statistics of @xmath1 ( e.g. , steffen et al . 2006 ; greene & ho 2007 ) and @xmath40 ( e.g. , sikora et al . 2007 ) , the values for liners are seen to largely overlap with those for seyferts .    however , the main source of the discrepancy concerns ( 3 ) , the optical - uv slope of the sed , which i have chosen to ignore in the present work . typical optical - uv power - law indices in quasars ( assuming @xmath61 ) are @xmath62 ( shang et al .",
    "2005 ) , @xmath63 ( vanden berk et al .",
    "2001 , at low redshifts ) , or @xmath64 ( zheng et al .",
    "the exact value depends on the chosen wavelength range ( optical contamination is a problem even in quasars ) , the bands to which the power law is fit , and how far to the uv one looks ( the spectrum is not a pure power law , and it becomes steeper toward the far uv ) .",
    "furthermore the spectral slope may depend on luminosity . by comparison , among liners that are apparently unobscured , previous sed studies have measured typical optical - uv slopes of @xmath65 ( although some liners , e.g. , ngc  4579 , have spectra that actually flatten in the uv , to @xmath62 ; maoz et al .",
    "is this difference in @xmath66 between liners and higher - luminosity agns significant ?",
    "efforts to isolate the nonstellar optical continuum in liners have been based on imaging ( e.g. , chiaberge et al .",
    "2006 ) or on the dilution of stellar features in optical spectra ( e.g. , ho et al . 2000 ) .",
    "all of these attempts , however , extrapolated the surface brightness outside the nucleus inwards in order to subtract the starlight , and/or assumed an unchanging stellar population when going from the bulge to the nucleus at hst resolution .",
    "many galaxies ( including the milky way ) , host compact nuclear star clusters .",
    "while those clusters that are detected as such are often young , in some galaxies the clusters could be of intermediate age , and hence much harder to discern as such , photometrically or spectroscopically .",
    "due to such residual contamination by starlight , systematic errors by factors of a few in the optical luminosity are conceivable . while such errors would have little effect on estimates of radio loudness and @xmath1",
    ", they would have a strong impact on the optical - uv slope .",
    "some of the previous studies have used spectral slopes measured in the space - uv region , where stellar contamination is less of a problem . however , these estimates are extremely sensitive to small amounts of foreground extinction .",
    "a @xmath67-band extinction of @xmath68  mag is sufficient to change a uv power - law slope of @xmath69 to @xmath70 ( see discussion in maoz et al .",
    "the preponderance of lanes , wisps , and clumps of dust seen in the neighbourhoods of most liners ( see , e.g. , pogge et al .",
    "2000 ; chiaberge et al .",
    "2006 ) makes it likely that even relatively unobscured objects undergo some small degree of reddening .",
    "such reddening , rather than an intrinsic lack of uv emission , could be the cause of the uv steepening of liner seds .",
    "( ngc  4579 , with its uv slope of @xmath69 , may be the case of an unobstructed line of sight . ) given these uncertainties , i have ignored in this work measurements of optical - uv slopes in liners .",
    "the remaining observables suggest a similarity , rather than a difference , between the seds of liners and those of more luminous agns .",
    "the optical - to - uv emission in luminous agns is widely thought to come from the inner parts of a thermally radiating , geometrically thin , accretion disc .",
    "if so , this emission provides the most direct measure of the accretion rate on to the bh . tracking this measure to lower and lower luminosities requires reliance on the uv , which is less susceptible than the optical emission to contamination by the old stellar population of galaxy bulges .",
    "i have used new , high - angular - resolution data , particularly recent measurements and variability - based lower limits in the uv , to re - assess the sed of low - luminosity liner nuclei .",
    "i have focused on unobscured objects in which the faint nuclear emission has been properly isolated from surrounding contamination .",
    "i have ignored ir and optical data and optical - uv slopes , which can be strongly affected by stellar contamination and by small amounts of reddening by dust . with these choices ,",
    "i have shown that the seds of liners are similar to those of seyfert - type agns @xmath71 to @xmath52 more luminous .",
    "this similarity is seen quantitatively in the parameters @xmath1 and @xmath41 .",
    "the lack of any conspicuous `` phase transition '' as a function of luminosity or accretion rate in the seds of liners , extends similar recent results by panessa et al .",
    "( 2007 ) for low - luminosity seyferts .",
    "it is tempting to speculate , therefore , that the same combination of physical components that gives rise to the seds of quasars is present at luminosities and accretion rates that are @xmath72 times smaller .",
    "in particular , if radiatively efficient accretion discs produce the uv emission in quasars , there is no compelling evidence that such discs disappear at low luminosities . instead , the ratio of uv to x - ray emission is fairly insensitive to luminosity .",
    "it is only the ratio of luminosities between radio and other wavelengths that does increase dramatically as the luminosity decreases .",
    "however , it seems that the entire distribution of radio loudness shifts to higher values , with most objects remaining at the low side of the @xmath40 distribution .",
    "the decrease in the accretion rate on to a supermassive bh ( as traced by the uv luminosity ) could thus be manifest as a hand - in - hand decrease in the uv and x - ray luminosities , but with a much smaller decrease in radio luminosity .",
    "the sources of the uv radiation ( presumably a thin accretion disc , although synchrotron emission from the jet could also contribute or dominate , e.g. , chiaberge et al .",
    "1999 ; verdoes kleijn et al .",
    "2002 ) and of the x - rays apparently persist , but are simply scaled down , with a minor increase in the prominence of the x - ray emission .",
    "interestingly , analogous results have been found recently for stellar - mass galactic bhs .",
    "miller et al . ( 2006a , b ) have analysed data for three bhs ( including a re - analysis of _ asca _ data for cygnus x-1 in its low state ) accreting at @xmath73 to @xmath74 of the eddington rate . in each case , the soft x - ray spectra require the presence of a thermally radiating thin accretion disc , down to the innermost marginally stable circular orbit .",
    "there is no obvious reason why such `` mass - starved '' structures could not exist at even - lower low accretion rates .",
    "riafs were devised in order to explain the low luminosities that are observed from dormant galactic nuclei , despite the significant rates of mass infall expected on to the bhs . instead",
    ", the evidence for the persistence of thin , radiatively efficient , but mass - flow - starved , discs suggests that some mechanism prevents gas from reaching the inner parts of the accretion flow in the first place . the radio loudness at low luminosities points to a solution in which gas joins a jet or outflow long before reaching the innermost orbits .",
    "high - resolution radio images of m87 indeed reveal a very wide base for the jet , of order @xmath75 or more ( junor et al .",
    "1999 ; ly et al .",
    "2007 ) , suggestive of this picture .    from a theoretical perspective ,",
    "a recent model that may produce the essential features required by these data is the coronal outflow dominated accretion disc by merloni & fabian ( 2002 ) . in this model",
    ", the magnetic stresses inside a geometrically thin , optically thick , disc generate an unbound magnetic corona .",
    "the corona comptonizes the thermal emission from the disc , producing the x - ray emission , and serves as a base for launching a vertical outflow or jet . at progressively lower accretion rates on to the bh , the ratio of the thermal to comptonized x - ray emission decreases , and the fraction of the gravitational potential energy channelled into kinetic energy of the outflow increases .",
    "figure  [ alphaoxfig ] shows , alongside the data , some of these models ( kindly provided by a. merloni ) in the @xmath76 plane .",
    "each curve in the plot is labelled by its bh mass , @xmath77 .",
    "the accretion rate along each curve decreases from right to left , producing a bolometric luminosity of @xmath78 on the right , and going to @xmath79 on the left .",
    "models are shown for two values of the numerical factor @xmath80 , which contains the unknown quantities in the model  the viscosity , and the efficiency of buoyant transport of magnetic structure in the vertical direction inside the disc .",
    "@xmath80 is thus related to the maximal fraction of power released in the corona .",
    "the top three curves are for @xmath81 and the bottom three are for @xmath82 .",
    "merloni & fabian ( 2002 ) note that , at accretion rates below those corresponding to @xmath83 , the spectral shape remains unchanged , and the total luminosity simply goes down . from fig .",
    "[ alphaoxfig ] , it appears that large values of @xmath80 ( corresponding to high viscosity and high vertical speed ) can lead to @xmath1 values comparable to those observed for the liners in the present sample .",
    "furthermore , as the accretion rate decreases , the outflow becomes energetically more dominant .",
    "the radiation from this outflow / jet could then lead to the observed increase in @xmath41 at low luminosities .",
    "like many previous accretion models , the merloni & fabian ( 2002 ) model begins with a dynamical scenario , makes some assumptions , and includes free parameters that can be adjusted to achieve agreement with observations .",
    "an alternative approach has been taken recently by loeb & waxman ( 2007 ) , who analyse the millimetre - band emission from sag a*. using measurements of size vs. wavelength of sag a * , they conclude that , irrespective of the dynamics , geometry , and physical details of the gas flow , a net inflow toward the bh is likely possible only in the inner tens of schwarzschild radii , whereas a net outflow is suggested at larger radii .",
    "sag a * has an even lower eddington ratio than the liners considered in this work , and it is of course unknown what its optical spectrum would be ( liner or otherwise ) , were we to view it from outside the obscuring disc of the galaxy .",
    "none the less , the same theme recurs in the loeb & waxman ( 2007 ) analysis  a low net accretion rate on to the bh , with most of the accreting mass at large radii ending up in an outflow .",
    "this picture is in contrast to that invoked in many riaf models , where the accretion energy of the mass inflow is advected into the bh .    to summarize , i have compiled recent radio , uv , and x - ray data for a sample of 13 unobscured low - luminosity liner agns .",
    "i have shown that their interband luminosity ratios are not dramatically different from those of higher luminosity agns .",
    "specifically , in terms of their uv / x ratios , there is only a slightly enhanced prominence of the x - ray emission compared to intermediate - luminosity agns .",
    "there is thus no obvious indication for the disappearance of the big blue bump at low luminosities , suggesting the persistence of thin accretion discs in the low - accretion - rate regime . in terms of radio / uv luminosity ratios ,",
    "the liners span a range of 4 orders of magnitude , with most of them residing at the lower end of the distribution , with @xmath84 . in this sense",
    ", these low - luminosity agns again are part of a continuous sequence with higher luminosity objects . since at least some",
    ", if not all , of the radio emission in agns is known to come from jets , this suggests a picture in which , at decreasing accretion rates , a progressively larger fraction of the inflowing mass is channeled into an outflow , and a smaller fraction into the persistent thin accretion disk .",
    "analogous results have been obtained recently for some galactic stellar - mass bhs .    while i have made an effort to compile the best available data , the measurements analyzed here are still crude .",
    "in particular , the fact that the measurements in different bands are often separated by years , coupled with the large fluctuations in flux that are common in low - luminosity agns , means that individual luminosity ratios could be off by an order of magnitude .",
    "future improvements could be achieved by means of contemporaneous x - ray and uv data , which could possibly be obtained using the multi - band capabilities on _ newton - xmm _ or _ swift _ ( for sources with an x - ray flux @xmath85 ) , and could be complemented by simultaneous ground - based radio data",
    ". repeated observations of individual objects over few - year time - scales could reveal changes in sed as a function of changing luminosity .",
    "such monitoring would also reduce the uncertainty regarding the non - stellar contribution to the uv , another major source of error in the present work .",
    "detection of nuclear variability also in the optical ( with hst ) and in the ir ( with _ spitzer _ ) would permit measuring reliably the agn component in those bands as well , significantly sharpening our view of the sed .",
    "finally , much larger samples of unobscured low - luminosity agns , analyzed in similar ways , could clarify the picture considerably .",
    "a larger , uv - selected , sample of such objects could be assembled by means of uv imaging ( e.g. , with _",
    "galex _ or with hst ) and subsequent optical spectroscopic classification to identify the liners .",
    "uv imaging need not necessarily be from space  the uv nuclei of the current sample are prominent in the f330w band , so such objects could potentially be indentified by ground - based observations near the atmospheric uv cutoff .",
    "alternatively , one could begin with the large , optically selected , sdss liner sample of kewley et al .",
    "( 2006 ) , and follow it up with sensitive multiwavelength observations .",
    "i thank ari laor , brent groves , marco chiaberge , luis ho , and the anonymous referee , for very useful suggestions and discussions .",
    "andrea merloni is thanked for making his models available in digital form .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jpl , caltech , under contract with nasa ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> low - luminosity active galactic nuclei ( agns ) are perceived to be radio loud and devoid of a `` big blue bump '' , indicating a transition from a radiatively efficient , geometrically thin , accretion disc in high - luminosity agns , to a geometrically thick , radiatively inefficient accretion flow at low luminosities and accretion rates . </S>",
    "<S> i revisit the issue of the spectral energy distributions ( seds ) of low - luminosity agns using recently published , high - angular - resolution data at radio , ultraviolet ( uv ) , and x - ray wavelengths , for a sample of 13 nearby galaxies with low - ionization nuclear emission - line region ( liner ) nuclei . </S>",
    "<S> i show that , contrary to common wisdom , low - luminosity liners have significant nonstellar uv flux , and uv / x - ray luminosity ratios similar , on average , to those of seyfert 1 nuclei @xmath0 times more luminous . </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath1 index that quantifies this ratio is in the range between -0.8 to -1.4 , and is below the extrapolation to low luminosities of the relation between @xmath1 and uv luminosity observed at higher luminosities . in terms of radio loudness , </S>",
    "<S> most of the liners are indeed radio loud ( or sometimes even `` super radio loud '' ) based on their radio / uv luminosity ratios , when compared to the most luminous quasars . </S>",
    "<S> however , the entire distribution of radio loudness has been shown to shift to higher radio / uv ratios at low agn luminosities . in the context of this global shift , some liners ( the majority ) can be considered radio quiet , and some ( from among those with black hole masses @xmath2 ) are radio loud . </S>",
    "<S> the seds of these low - luminosity ( @xmath3 ^ -1 ergs s@xmath4 ) agns are thus quite similar to those of seyferts up to luminosities of @xmath5 ^ -1 ergs s@xmath4 , and there is no evidence for a sharp change in the sed at the lowest luminosities . </S>",
    "<S> thin agn accretion discs may therefore persist at low accretion rates , in analogy to some recent findings for galactic stellar - mass accreting black holes .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    galaxies : active  galaxies : nuclei  galaxies : seyfert  quasars : general  ultraviolet : galaxies  </S>"
  ]
}