{
  "article_text": [
    "there is growing evidence that the jets observed in the inner regions of powerful extragalactic radio source have highly relativistic flows ( see e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the relativistic effects of such jets will cause their apparent properties to be strongly dependent on the viewing angle .",
    "the lines of argument for relativistic motion include side  to  side asymmetries in brightness and polarization , prominence of the core , less x - ray emission than expected from a very high brightness radio core , and apparent superluminal motions in the radio jets .",
    "the case for highly relativistic motions in low luminosity sources is less clear . at present , evidence is growing that parsec scale jets are relativistic also in low power sources ( see lara et al . , 1997 ) , but a detailed study of more sources is necessary to understand the jet dynamics . in recent years , we have been engaged in a program of studying a complete sample of low power radio sources in order to address this question ; this is the ninth paper of this series .",
    "the radio source associated with the galaxy ngc  315 has been well studied since its initial discovery ( @xcite ) , and is classified as a low luminosity fanaroff - riley type 1 ( fr i ) radio galaxy .",
    "this galaxy is a 12th magnitude dusty elliptical ( @xcite ) at z=0.0167 with h@xmath0 + [ nii ] emission lines ( @xcite ) .",
    "the large scale ( 50 ) structure of this radio source ( 0055 + 30 ) has been observed using arecibo , westerbork and the vla ( @xcite ) . on this large scale",
    ", the radio source has a long , straight , highly polarized jet ( @xcite ) with a sharp bend near the end .",
    "the counter - jet is much weaker and has an `` s '' shaped symmetric bend at its end .",
    "the source contains a prominent , peaked spectrum core concident with the nucleus of the galaxy .",
    "this core has been observed using vlbi arrays by @xcite , and recently by @xcite at 18 , 6 and 3.6 cm . on the basis of high core prominence , low level of nuclear x - ray emission as well as the jet sidedness , @xcite ( but see also @xcite ) concluded that the jet was highly relativistic , but could not detect the expected motions in the jet in comparison with the images of @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the flux density of the core was monitored from 1974 to 1980 by @xcite , but no variations were detected .    at the distance of this source , 1 milliarcsecond ( mas ) corresponds to 0.47 pc .",
    "= 50 km sec@xmath1mpc@xmath1 is assumed throughout the paper . ]",
    "we present new observations of ngc  315 using the very long baseline array ( vlba ) radio telescope .",
    "many of these data include measurements of the linear polarization .",
    "in this section the details of the observations and the reduction techniques are given .",
    "the resultant images are presented in the following section .",
    "the galaxy ngc  315 was observed at wavelengths of 6 and 3.6 cm ( 5 and 8.4 ghz ) using the vlba on 1994 november 14 ( total intensity only ) , and at 6 cm on 1995 october 28 ( dual polarization ) , 1996 may 10 ( dual polarization ) and 1996 october 7 ( dual polarization ) .",
    "these observations are summarized in table [ vlbaobs ] . in the november 1994 observations we switched wavelength every half an hour between 6 and 3.6 cm , obtaining a good uv - coverage at both wavelengths . in the 1995 october observations , the vla failed to give fringes to the vlba although internal vla observations showed no problems .",
    "the loss of the vla seriously reduced the sensitivity which is needed for linear polarization observations and the observations were repeated in 1996 may . during these re  observations , the complete failure of vlba - st .",
    "croix and serious tape recorder problems at vlba - pie town and vlba - mauna kea reduced the resolution of the data and the observations were rescheduled for 1996 october .",
    "this latter session was successful and produced the polarization measurements presented here .",
    "the vlba data were all correlated on the vlba correlator in socorro ( nm , usa ) and all processing used the nrao aips package .",
    "amplitude calibration was initially done using the standard method employing measured system temperatures and an assumed sensitivity calibration .",
    "the vlba calibration for the vla was determined from the source to system temperature ratio derived from the vla data . in the 1995 and 1996 observations ,",
    "the amplitude calibration was refined using the measured flux densities of the compact calibrator sources ( 0235 + 164 in 1995 , bl lac in 1996 ) .",
    "phase calibration of the 1995 and 1996 data employed the pulsed phase calibration system to remove variations in the difference of the phases of the right and left  handed polarized signals .",
    "all data were globally fringe fitted ( @xcite ) and then self calibrated .",
    "the vla was used in parallel with the 1995 and 1996 vlba observations to determine the flux density and polarization of the vlba calibrators .",
    "because ngc315 is too extended to be used as a phasing calibrator for the vla , the nearby source 0042 + 233 was used to periodically phase the vla antennas . in the 1996 october session , 3c48",
    "was used to calibrate the flux density and polarization angle and 3c84 was used to determine the instrumental polarization for the vla .",
    "[ t ]    .vlba observations [ cols=\"<,<,<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      +    these two , admittedly weak , derivations of the jet velocity give very nearly the same values of jet velocity and the same acceleration along the jet . taken together ,",
    "these two indicators of jet acceleration are stronger evidence than either is individually .",
    "if a value of h@xmath2 = 100 is used , there is substantial disagreement between the two putative indicators of jet velocity , while an intermediate value of h@xmath2 = 65 still gives comparable results .",
    "we note that , in any case , an increase in the jet velocity with the distance from the core and a similar acceleration for the bulk and pattern velocity is obtained .",
    "evidence of the presence of an accelerating jet is given in the literature for a few other sources where jet substructures are found to move at varying velocities and sometimes at varying angles with respect to the line of sight . in the radio galaxy 3c338 , @xcite found a proper motion with an apparent velocity @xmath3 0.8 h@xmath4 at 4 - 5 mas from the core and a slower proper motion at 1.5 mas from the core .",
    "@xcite , from two 1.3 cm observations of cygnus a find evidence for an apparent acceleration from @xmath5 0.2 to @xmath6 1.2 h@xmath7 in the region 1.5 - 3.2 h@xmath7 pc and finally @xcite find indication of acceleration along the parsec scale jet in 3c84 .    in m87 ( 3c274 )",
    ", the parsec and kpc scale jet shows a complex velocity field and no unambiguous conclusion can be drawn ; however , @xcite find that at very high resolution no proper motion is visible and give a limit of 0.03c for the apparent jet velocity in the inner 0.06 parsec .",
    "@xcite found that velocities measured in the kpc scale jet are much larger than seen at the parsec scale .",
    "this evidence for an accelerating pattern speed may be in contrast with the observed jet / counter  jet asymmetry in sources such as m87 ( but not in 3c338 ) .",
    "moveover , there are sources with quasi  stationary features near the core but with large jet / counter  jet ratios , suggesting a relativistic bulk flow speed . in ngc315 , for the first time , there is evidence of an acceleration of both the pattern and bulk flow velocities .",
    "we have derived potential information about the jet dynamics by applying the simple model in which the jet is adiabatically expanding . under this assumption ,",
    "the jet velocity , brightness and radius are related .",
    "the functional dependence between these parameters has been discussed in the limit of non - relativistic bulk motion by @xcite .",
    "the case of relativistic bulk motion is considered by @xcite , who obtained the following relationships :    predominantly parallel magnetic field : @xmath8    predominantly transverse magnetic field : @xmath9    where i@xmath10 is the jet surface brightness , @xmath0 is the spectral index , r@xmath11 , v@xmath11 and @xmath12 are the jet radius , velocity and lorentz factor , and d is the doppler factor : d = ( @xmath13 .",
    "the jet transverse fwmh ( full width at half maximum ) and peak brightness at increasing distance from the core were obtained by fitting a gaussian function to the transverse profiles of images at resolutions of 2.5 mas ( see fig . 6 ) and 1.8 mas .",
    "the parameters were then deconvolved from the clean beam , according to the formula given by @xcite , to get intrinsic quantities .",
    "the plot of these parameters is given in fig .",
    "the trend of the fwhm ( left panel ) shows a smooth increase with distance , with slope @xmath6 0.035 , corresponding to a constant opening angle of @xmath6 2@xmath14 .",
    "the best fit line does not contain the origin of the axes , but gives at the core position ( distance = 0 ) a fwhm of @xmath60.2 mas . in agreement with @xcite , we believe that this is the intrinsic angular size of the radio core .",
    "the values of the peak brightness decrease with the fwhm , according to a fwhm@xmath15 law ( right panel of fig . 8) . in an adiabatic jet with constant velocity and @xmath0=0.5 ,",
    "the trend implied by the above formulas is i@xmath16 fwhm@xmath17 and i@xmath16 fwhm@xmath18 , for the parallel and transverse magnetic field , respectively .",
    "the surface brightness observed in the jet decreases faster than can be explained by adiabatic expansion ; increasing doppler dimming of an accelerating , relativistic jet is one possible explanation .    using the relationships given above , we have modeled the jet brightness and jet fwhm as a function of the distance from the core . to avoid the variations in the measured quantities due to local fluctuations , or to the presence of blobs",
    ", we used the parameters obtained from the best fits ( see fig .",
    "we assumed a jet spectral index = 0.5 , a jet orientation to the line of sight of 35@xmath14 , and a jet initial velocity ( at 1 mas from the core ) of 0.7c .",
    "we considered the extreme possibilities of a purely parallel and purely perpendicular magnetic field , since this information is not available from the observations .",
    "the derived values of @xmath19 are shown in fig .",
    "[ velocity ] .",
    "the jet velocity increases along the jet up to the distance of 30 mas .",
    "the trend of the velocity is not crucially dependent on the orientation of the magnetic field .",
    "also , the use of a lower / higher initial velocity , does not change the overall trend , but only scales it to lower / higher values .",
    "the jet velocity derived from the adiabatic model is in reasonable agreement with the other two estimates shown in fig .",
    "[ velocity ] up to a distance of about 10 mas from the core , indicating an acceleration of the jet .",
    "after this point , the velocity derived from the adiabatic models are lower than those from the other methods .",
    "if this difference is meaningful , then it could indicate a reacceleration of the relativistic particles in the jet in violation of the assumption of an adiabatic jet .",
    "the consistency of the adiabatic jet model with the derived proper motion and brightness ratio velocities for the inner portion of the jet further supports the accelerating jet interpretation of the data .",
    "there is growing evidence that fri jets on the kpc scale have highly relativistic spines surrounded by lower velocity sheaths ( @xcite ) .",
    "the kpc scale structure of ngc  315 is consistent which such a model and high quality images have been obtained for detailed modeling .",
    "the situation on the pc scale is less clear .",
    "a very highly relativistic spine would be invisible to us if the orientation of the jet is indeed 35@xmath20 from our line of sight and only the slowest moving portions of a spine / sheath jet would be visible .",
    "the high degree of depolarization of this source suggests a rich environment for the jet providing material for entrainment and acceleration by a highly relativistic spine .",
    "the data presented here suggest an accelerating jet but does nt address the question of whether this is merely an acceleration of the outer layers of a mostly invisible , highly relativistic jet or if the jet has not yet accelerated to a highly relativistic state .",
    "if we are seeing only the outer layers , the jet should appear to be hollow and , observed with sufficient resolution , is easily distinguished from a strongly center brightened filled jet .",
    "unfortunately , the surface brightness of the fully transversly resolved portions of the jet is below the threshold of the images presented here so this test can not be performed .",
    "given the difficulties of accelerating a powerful jet many parsecs from the central engine and lacking evidence to the contrary , it seems most probable that the emission in the images in this paper come from the outer layers of a highly relativistic jet .",
    "we have presented here a detailed study of the nuclear properties of ngc315 .",
    "we can conclude that :    \\a ) the nuclear source shows occasional increases in the continuum radio emission indicating very active periods .",
    "unfortunately , the lack of a continuous monitoring does not allow a comparison between the nuclear activity and variation in the parsec scale morphology .",
    "\\b ) the 6 cm radio structure in the parsec scale jet of ngc315 is quite smooth with some evidence of moving features and a faint counter  jet . when interpreted in terms of a relativistic jet model , apparent motion of the features in the jet , as well as the jet / counter  jet brightness ratio ,",
    "indicate an acceleration of the jet in its inner 310 parsecs .",
    "a comparison of the jet s observed properties with the predictions of a simple adiabatic expansion model further supports the interpretation of an increasing jet velocity .",
    "the present data is insufficient to determine if the observed emission is from the entire jet or the slowest portions of an otherwise invisible , highly relativistic jet .",
    "\\c ) the extremely low upper limits on the polarization of the jet indicate either a very disorganised magnetic field in the inner parsecs of the jet or faraday depolarization either in the jet or in front of it . a strong candidate for the depolarizing mechanism",
    "is faraday depolarization in the narrow line region , future observations at higher frequency with higher angular resolution will clarify this point .",
    "the authors would like to thank alan bridle , roberto fanti , jose - luis gomez and daniele dallacasa for several helpful discussions .",
    "we would also like to thank the staffs of the observatories who participated in these observations and the socorro correlator staff .",
    "l. f. and g. g. acknowledge partial financial support by the italian ministry for university and research ( murst ) under grant cofin98 - 02 - 32 .",
    "baum , s.a . ,",
    "odea , c.p . ,",
    "giovannini , g. , biretta , j. , cotton , w.d . , de koff , s. , feretti , l. , golombek , d. , lara , l. , macchetto , f.d . ,",
    "miley , g.k . ,",
    "sparks , w.b . ,",
    "venturi , t. , and komissarov , s. 1997 , , 483 , 178        bridle , a. h. , davis , m. m. , meloy , d. a. , fomalont , e. b. , strom , r. g. , and willis , a. g. 1976 , , 262 , 179 bridle , a. h. , davis , m. m. , fomalont , e. b. , willis , a. g. , and strom , r. g. 1979 , , 228 , l9 cotton , w. d. 1993 , , 106 , 1241 davis , m. m. 1967 , _ bull .",
    "netherlands _ , 19 , 201 dhawan , v. , kellerman , k. , and romney , j.p .",
    "1998 , , submitted ebneter , k. , and balick , b. 1985 , , 90 , 183 ekers , r. d. , fanti , r. , and miley , g. k. 1983 , , 120 , 297 fanti , r. , lari , c. , spencer , r. e. , and warwick , r. s. 1976 , , 174 , 5p fanti , r. , lari , c. , parma , p. , bridle , a.h . , ekers , r.d . , and fomalont , e.b .",
    "1982 , , 110 , 169                            venturi , t. , giovannini , g. , feretti , l. , comoretto , g. , and wehrle , a. e. 1993 , , 408 , 81 willis , a. g. , strom , r. g. , bridle , a. h. , and fomalont , e. b. 1981 , , 95 , 250 walker , r. c. , kellermann , k. i. , dhawan , v. , romney , j. d. , benson , j. m. , vermeulen , r. c. , and alef , w. 1998 , in iau colloquium 164 : radio emission from galactic and extragalactic compact sources , asp conference series , 114 , j. a. zensus , g. b. taylor , j. m. wrobel ( eds . ) , 133"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of the core of the giant radio galaxy ngc315 made with vlbi interferometers are discussed in the context of a relativistic jet . </S>",
    "<S> the sidedness asymmetry suggests doppler favoritism from a relativistic jet . </S>",
    "<S> the presence of moving features in the jet as well as jet counter  </S>",
    "<S> jet brightness ratios hint at an accelerating , relativistic jet . </S>",
    "<S> an increasing jet velocity is also supported by a comparison of the jet s observed properties with the predictions of an adiabatic expansion model . on the parsec scale , </S>",
    "<S> the jet is unpolarized at a wavelength of 6 cm to a very high degree in clear distinction to the high polarization seen on the kiloparsec scale . </S>"
  ]
}