{
  "article_text": [
    "hydrodynamical codes provide a useful numerical tool for determining what happens during a collision between two main sequence stars . in particular , the smoothed particle hydrodynamic ( sph ) technique has been used extensively in the past decade to investigate the possibility that blue stragglers can be created by stellar collisions in globular clusters ( benz & hills 1987 , goodmann & hernquist 1991 , lombardi , rasio & shapiro 1996 , sandquist , bolte & hernquist 1997 ) .",
    "the emphasis of these groups has been to determine the internal structure of stellar collision products .",
    "these models can then be compared to blue stragglers in globular clusters , to help determine the creation mechanisms for blue stragglers , or to give information about the dynamics of the cluster as a whole .",
    "when running an sph simulation of a stellar collision , one needs to specify the entropy ( or pressure and density ) profiles of the parent stars .",
    "most groups used polytropes with polytropic indices of @xmath0 ( for convective stars ) and @xmath1 ( for radiative stars ) as approximations to the stars .",
    "while these polytropes are reasonable approximations to zero age main sequence stars , they are not sufficient representations of evolved stars .",
    "the most important difference between the two kinds of stellar models is that evolved stars have gradients of mean molecular weight . in this paper",
    ", we deal specifically with main sequence parent stars , and not with white dwarfs which are well represented by @xmath1 polytropes .",
    "an sph code takes the two parent stars and divides them up into many fluid elements . for head on collisions ,",
    "the code creates a collision product by , in essence , sorting the fluid in a configuration with the quantity @xmath2 increasing outward ( the dynamical stability criterion ) , where @xmath3 is pressure , @xmath4 is density and the adiabatic exponent @xmath5 for an ideal gas . while real stars are not exactly ideal gases , the low mass stars we are considering here are dominated by gas pressure , with radiation pressure contributing at most 5% to the total pressure .",
    "the quantity @xmath6 is closely related to entropy , since in the absence of shocks both are conserved by fluid elements during a collision . for convenience",
    ", we will refer to @xmath6 itself as the entropy .",
    "the entropy of a fluid element can be increased by shock heating , but since collisions in globular clusters are relatively gentle , this effect is not dominant .",
    "therefore , sorting the two parent stars by entropy yields a reasonable guess for the product of a given head on collision .    during the main sequence lifetime of a star ,",
    "its central temperature remains almost constant , since nuclear burning is a self - regulating process .",
    "the central pressure of a star is also approximately constant , since this is the pressure which is necessary to support a star of that mass .",
    "therefore , for a star with an ideal gas equation of state @xmath7 , the ratio of density to mean molecular weight must also remain constant . as the mean molecular weight increases ,",
    "the density must also increase in order to keep the pressure and temperature constant . since the density is in the denominator of the entropy , and since it is raised to a power greater than one , any increase in density results in a significant decrease in entropy .",
    "an evolved star has burnt much of its hydrogen to helium , which increases the mean molecular weight of the central material of the star .",
    "the central entropy of this evolved star will be significantly less than that of a corresponding unevolved star , or a polytrope .",
    "take , for example , a @xmath8 star at an age of 15 gyr , a turnoff star in a typical globular cluster .",
    "it has burnt almost all of its central hydrogen to helium , increasing the mean molecular weight at the center by a factor of about 2.5 .",
    "since the mean molecular weight at the center has increased , the central entropy has decreased ( see figure 1 ) .",
    "the realistic stellar models have been calculated using the yale rotating evolution code ( yrec , guenther _",
    "the polytrope used to model an unevolved @xmath8 star has a polytropic index of @xmath1 .    also consider a @xmath9 star at an age of 15 gyr .",
    "this star has completed only a small fraction of its main sequence lifetime , and therefore has not changed its mean molecular weight profile significantly .",
    "the evolved entropy profile looks quite similar to the entropy profile of the @xmath0 polytrope approximation of an unevolved star of the same mass ( see figure 1 ) .",
    "the decrease in entropy near the surface is a result of approximating the equation of state as that of a fully ionized ideal gas .    from figure 1",
    ", we can ascertain the general properties of a product that would result from the collision between any two of these stars .",
    "the portions of the two stars with the lowest entropy would settle to the center of the collision product , while that with the highest entropy would end at the surface .",
    "therefore , if we use the two polytrope models as our parent stars , the entire @xmath9 star will become the new core of the collision product , displacing the @xmath10 star outward .",
    "the collision product would then have a core of unburnt hydrogen from the @xmath9 star , surrounded by a layer of helium - rich material from the core of the @xmath8 star .",
    "however , a significantly different outcome occurs if we use the evolved parent stars . in this case",
    ", the center of the @xmath8 star has the lowest entropy and consequentially sinks to the center of the collision product .",
    "the core of the @xmath9 star has a much higher entropy , and ends up further out in the collision product .",
    "this star will have a core which is depleted of hydrogen from the core of the @xmath8 star , and an outer layer which is almost completely unburnt .",
    "we can also consider a collision between two @xmath8 stars .",
    "we expect in this case that there will be no significant differences in the fluid distribution between using polytropes and using realistic parent stars .",
    "although the values of the entropy curves are different , the overall shape is generally the same : the lowest entropy occurs in the center of the star , and the entropy increases monotonically to the surface .",
    "therefore , when two of these stars collide , the centers of the two stars will fall to the center of the product , and the outer layers will stay on the outside .    we have performed new simulations of a head - on collision between a @xmath8 and a @xmath9 star , and between two @xmath10 stars using a modified version of the sph code developed by rasio ( 1991 ) .",
    "the parent models were created using the density and pressure profiles from the realistic evolved models calculated by yrec .",
    "the @xmath9 and @xmath8 stars were represented by @xmath11 and @xmath12 equal mass sph particles respectively .",
    "details of the sph scheme are presented in lombardi _",
    "we compared the results of these calculations to the results of previous sph calculations which used polytropes as parent stars ( see cases a and g in lombardi , rasio & shapiro 1996 ) .",
    "the structures of the merger products are compared in figure 2 ( for the @xmath13 collision ) and figure 3 ( @xmath14 ) .",
    "the results are essentially as we predicted above .",
    "this can be seen best in the plots of helium fraction @xmath15 versus mass fraction , since the highest @xmath15 material was in the center of the @xmath8 star at the beginning of the collision .    using the technique outlined in sills _",
    "_ 1997 , we have used the results of these collisions as the starting models for stellar evolution calculations .",
    "the results are presented in figure 4 .",
    "as expected , the evolutionary tracks for the two cases of the @xmath16 collision are very different .",
    "the collision of two polytropes contains a significant amount of hydrogen in its core ( from the @xmath9 parent ) .",
    "therefore , the evolutionary track of this collision product shows a significant main sequence of @xmath17 years from point 1 to point 2 .",
    "however , the product of the collision between realistic parent stars did not have much hydrogen in its core , and so its main sequence ( point 1 to point 2 ) is almost non - existent , lasting only @xmath18 years .",
    "the two tracks for the @xmath19 collisions are essentially the same from the main sequence onward since the chemical composition and temperature profiles of the collision product were not significantly affected by the choice of parent star .",
    "we advocate the use of realistic stellar models , taken from stellar evolution codes , for starting models in hydrodynamic calculations .",
    "in particular , polytropic models are insufficient to model main sequence and giant stars which have undergone significant chemical evolution .",
    "while previous groups have made reasonable guesses for the structure of turnoff mass stars in globular clusters , the fact that they did not use realistic parent models significantly affects the structure of the collision product .",
    "therefore , any further evolution of these stars does not adequately represent the evolution of a real collision between globular cluster stars .",
    "the differences will be significant for work which draws conclusions about the structure of the collision product or which uses the results of hydrodynamic calculations as the starting models for stellar evolution calculations .",
    "the general conclusions of lombardi _ et al .",
    "_ 1996 and sills _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 are not invalidated by this work .",
    "it is still true that significant mixing does not occur either during the collision or during the thermal relaxation phase after the collision .",
    "however , the lifetime of the star on the main sequence and its subsequent evolution is significantly different from previous work , especially in collisions between unequal mass parent stars .",
    "this work was supported by nasa grant nag5 - 2867 and nsf grant ast-9357387 at yale university , as well as nsf grant ast 91 - 19475 and nasa grant nag5 - 2809 at cornell university .",
    "hydrodynamic simulations were performed at the cornell theory center , which receives major funding from the nsf and ibm corporation , with additional support from the new york state science and technology foundation and members of the corporate research institute .",
    "we would like to thank fred rasio and charles bailyn for their helpful discussions .",
    "benz , w. & hills , j. g. 1987 , , 323 , 614 goodmann , j. , & hernquist , l. 1991 , , 378 , 637 guenther , d. b. , demarque , p. , kim , y .- c . , & pinsonneault , m. h. , 1992 , 387 , 372 huang , k. 1987 , statistical mechanics , ( new york : john wiley and sons ) lombardi , j. c. , rasio , f. a. , & shapiro , s.l .",
    "1996 , , 468 , 797 rasio , f. a. 1991 , phd thesis , cornell university sandquist , e. , bolte , m. , & hernquist , l. 1997 , , 477 , 335 sills , a. , lombardi , j. c. , bailyn , c. d. , demarque , p. , rasio , f. a. , & shapiro , s. l. 1997 , in press"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we demonstrate the necessity of using realistic stellar models taken from stellar evolution codes , as opposed to polytropes , for starting models in smoothed particle hydrodynamics calculations of collisions between main sequence stars . </S>",
    "<S> evolved stars have mean molecular weight gradients , which affect their entropy profiles and therefore affect how they react during a collision . </S>",
    "<S> the structure of stellar collision products of polytrope parent stars is significantly different from that of collision products of realistic parent models . </S>",
    "<S> these differences strongly affect the future evolution of the collision products , particularly products of collisions between unequal mass stars which have undergone significant chemical evolution . </S>",
    "<S> the use of polytropes as parent star models is likely to result in qualitatively mistaken results for the structure of the collision product . </S>"
  ]
}