{
  "article_text": [
    "as the largest gravitationally bound systems in the universe , clusters of galaxies have attracted much interest since the pioneering works of zwicky , who evidenced the existence of dark matter in these objects , and later of abell ( 1958 ) , who achieved the first large catalogue of clusters .",
    "clusters of galaxies are now studied through various complementary approaches , e.g. optical imaging and spectroscopy , which allow in particular to derive the distribution and kinematical properties of the cluster galaxies , and to estimate the luminosity function , and x - ray spectral imaging , which gives informations on the physical properties of the x - ray gas embedded in the cluster , and with some hypotheses can lead to estimate the total cluster binding mass .    as a complementary approach to large cluster surveys at small redshifts such as the eso nearby abell cluster survey ( enacs , katgert et al .",
    "1996 ) , we have chosen to analyze in detail a few low - z clusters of galaxies , by combining optical data ( imaging and spectroscopy of a large number of galaxies ) and x - ray data from the rosat archive .",
    "we present here complementary results on abcg 85 , which our group has already analyzed under various aspects ( see references below ) .",
    "abcg 85 has a redshift of z@xmath00.0555 , corresponding to a spatial scale of 97.0  kpc / arcmin ( for h@xmath1 mpc@xmath2 , value that will be used hereafter , together with q@xmath3=0 ) .",
    "its center is defined hereafter as the center of the diffuse x - ray component : @xmath4  0@xmath541@xmath651.9@xmath7 , @xmath8  @xmath99@xmath101817 \" ( pislar et al . 1997 ) .",
    "a wealth of data is now available for this cluster : a photometric catalogue of 4232 galaxies obtained by scanning a  band photographic plate in a square region @xmath11 ( 5.83 mpc at the cluster redshift ) from the cluster center , calibrated with v and r band ccd imaging taken in the very center ( slezak et al .",
    "1998 ) and a spectroscopic catalogue of 551 galaxies in a roughly circular region of 1@xmath12 radius in the direction of abcg 85 , among which 305 belong to the cluster ( durret et al .",
    "1998a ) . as discussed in our previous papers ( pislar et al .",
    "1997 , lima - neto et al .",
    "1997 , durret et al .",
    "1998b ) , there exists in fact a complex of clusters abcg 85/87/89 in this direction . in x - rays ,",
    "abcg 85 shows a homogeneous body , onto which are superimposed various structures : an excess towards the north - west and south - west , a south region superimposed on it , and several blobs forming a long filament towards the south - east ; the velocity data confirm the existence of groups and clusters superimposed along the line of sight ( see a complete description in durret et al .",
    "1998b ) and show that this x - ray filament seems to be made of blobs falling onto the main cluster .",
    "we present here results on abcg 85 which may have cosmological implications on the formation of galaxies , clusters and large scale structures .",
    "the properties of emission versus non - emission line galaxies will be discussed in section [ emiss ] and compared to recent results on emission line galaxies in clusters by mohr et al .",
    "( 1996 ) for abcg 576 ( redshift z=0.038 ) , biviano et al .",
    "( 1997 ) for the large enacs sample at low redshift ( 0.035@xmath13z@xmath130.121 ) , and carlberg et al .",
    "( 1996 ) for the cnoc sample at higher redshift ( 0.1709@xmath13z@xmath130.5466 ) .",
    "the cluster luminosity function in the r band will be derived in section  [ fdl ] and its shape will be compared to that found in other clusters .",
    "we will present in section  [ dyn ] the dynamical properties of the cluster , by estimating the dynamical mass from optical data with various methods and comparing these results with the dynamical mass derived from x - ray data .",
    "finally , conclusions will be drawn in section  [ discu ] .",
    "in a recent paper based on enacs data , biviano et al .",
    "( 1997 , the third paper of the series ) gave a good review of the distribution and kinematics of emission line ( elgs ) versus non - emission line ( noelgs ) galaxies .",
    "their approach is a statistical one , leading to a general picture which fits well in a current scenario of cluster formation . on the other hand ,",
    "the present study is devoted to a specific cluster , abcg 85 , with already well known general properties ; the spirit of this work is therefore closer to that of mohr et al .",
    "( 1996 ) .",
    "we will first compare the distributions of elgs versus no elgs as a function of various parameters . as pointed out by mohr et al .",
    "( 1996 ) , this roughly corresponds to a separation into gas - rich and gas - poor galaxies , with some contamination of the gas - poor sample expected .",
    "it can also be considered as a separation into spiral and non - spiral galaxies , with an underestimation of spirals , since not all spirals are elgs .",
    "the numbers of elgs and noelgs in our sample are 102 and 449 respectively .",
    "these numbers are reduced to 33 and 272 respectively in the cluster velocity range , defined as the 13000 - 20000  interval by durret et al .",
    "( 1998a ) .",
    "this corresponds to an elg fraction of 0.11 in the cluster .",
    "such a fraction is in the range derived by biviano et al .",
    "( 1997 ) for the enacs sample ( 0.08 - 0.12 ) , but is notably smaller than the value of 0.34 estimated by mohr et al .",
    "( 1996 ) for abcg 576 .    a classification of the elgs belonging or not to abcg 85 based on the equivalent widths of the main emission lines will be performed in a forthcoming paper . the possible existence and influence of environmental effects on the presence and level of activity in galaxies",
    "will be discussed in that paper .",
    "[ histoemnoem ]    [ histoemnoemin ]    [ fracemr ]    the histograms of the distributions of elgs , noelgs and all galaxies as a function of r magnitude are displayed in fig .",
    "[ histoemnoem ] for all the galaxies in our redshift catalogue .",
    "a similar histogram is drawn in fig .",
    "[ histoemnoemin ] for galaxies belonging to the 13000 - 20000 velocity range .",
    "noelgs are seen to be brighter than elgs in both samples , as in abcg 576 ( mohr et al . 1996 ) .",
    "the fraction of emission line galaxies ( defined in each magnitude bin as the number of emission line galaxies divided by the total number of galaxies ) as a function of magnitude in the r band is displayed in fig .",
    "[ fracemr ] for cluster members .",
    "we note an increase of this fraction with magnitude , as expected since for a given exposure time redshifts are easier to obtain for emission line galaxies , which can therefore be measured for fainter objects than for non - emission line galaxies .",
    "note however that this increase becomes steep for r@xmath1417 , i.e. even at magnitudes for which there is usually no problem to measure absorption line redshifts , possibly suggesting that elgs are intrinsically fainter , though it is difficult to ascertain this result since our redshift catalogue is by no means complete in the entire region ( its completeness is 85% in a circular 2000 arcsec radius region for r@xmath1518 , then drops at larger radii , see table 2 in durret et al .",
    "in order to quantify this effect , we calculated the average luminosities for elgs and noelgs in the range 14.5@xmath15r@xmath1517.9 .",
    "we find average luminosities corresponding to magnitudes of 16.83 and 16.41 for elgs and noelgs respectively ; the standard errors on the luminosities give corresponding magnitude ranges of [ 16.65 , 17.04 ] and [ 16.35 , 16.47 ] , which do not overlap .",
    "the kolmogorov - smirnov and student tests indeed give probabilities that these two samples originate from the same parent population of 0.0014 and 0.03 respectively , confirming that elgs are indeed intrinsically fainter that noelgs .",
    "this result is in agreement with that found on a much larger sample by zucca et al .",
    "( 1997 ) of field galaxies .",
    "[ fracemd ]    the spatial distributions of elgs and noelgs are different for galaxies in the velocity interval 13000 - 20000 .",
    "it is generally believed that elgs are more frequent in the outer regions of the cluster than in the inner zones ( biviano et al .",
    "1997 , fisher et al .",
    "this result is indeed confirmed here in abcg 85 .",
    "[ fracemd ] shows the fraction of emission line galaxies ( estimated as the ratio of the number of emission line galaxies to the total number of galaxies in concentric rings 500 arcsec wide around the cluster center ) as a function of projected distance to the cluster center for the galaxies in the 13000 - 20000   velocity range .",
    "this fraction increases towards the outer regions of the cluster , implying a difference in the spatial distributions of elgs and noelgs .",
    "[ kernoem ]    [ kerem ]    in order to visualize better the spatial distributions of both kinds of galaxies , we have drawn adaptive kernel maps ( e.g. pisani 1993 ) of the spatial density distributions of elgs and noelgs ; these are shown in figs .",
    "[ kernoem ] and [ kerem ] for all galaxies in the spectroscopic sample , disregarding their velocities .",
    "the distribution of noelgs ( fig .",
    "[ kernoem ] ) is comparable to that derived from our much larger photometric catalogue for all galaxies , independently of spectral features and cluster membership ( see fig .  1 in slezak et al .",
    "1998 ) : it is elongated along pa@xmath16 and shows a strong concentration around abcg 85 , a secondary peak towards the south east coinciding with abcg 87 ( see for example table 2 in durret et al .",
    "1998b ) and an enhancement roughly at the position of abcg 89 to the north west ( as discussed by durret et al .",
    "1998b ) . the galaxy distribution of elgs ( fig .",
    "[ kerem ] ) is quite different : its peak does not coincide with abcg 85 , but is close to the position of abcg 87 ; it shows a weak secondary maximum in the north - northeast direction and elongations along several pas , all quite different from 160@xmath12 .",
    "[ wavevnoem ]    [ wavevem ]    the mean and median velocities , as well as the velocity dispersions are quite different for elgs and noelgs ; the mean velocities are 15968 and 16627 , the median velocities are 15701 and 16732 , and the velocity dispersions are 1606   and 1109   for elgs and noelgs respectively , suggesting that the morphology - density relation is coupled with kinematic differences .",
    "biviano et al .",
    "( 1997 ) found differences in the average velocities of elgs and noelgs at a level larger than 2@xmath17 only for 12 clusters out of their sample of 57 ; their interpretation was that in these 12 clusters elgs are a non - virialized population falling onto the main cluster .",
    "in a much smaller sample of 6 clusters , zabludoff & franx ( 1993 ) also found a difference in mean velocity between spirals and early type galaxies in 3 clusters ; on the other hand , mohr et al . (",
    "1996 ) found that in abcg 576 elgs and noelgs had the same average velocity , but with elgs having a larger velocity dispersion , as in abcg 85 .",
    "the velocity distributions displayed in figs .",
    "[ wavevnoem ] and [ wavevem ] were obtained simultaneously using profile reconstructions based on a wavelet technique and classical histograms .",
    "we remind the reader that the features obtained with the wavelet method are significant at a 3@xmath17 level above the noise ( estimated at the smallest scale , see fadda et al .",
    "1998 ) . while the velocity distribution of noelgs shows only one peak around 16800 close to the mean or median previously given , that of elgs shows a peak at about 15300  and a much smaller one around 19250",
    "therefore , calculations of a mean value and of a velocity dispersion for the total sample of elgs in abcg 85 do not characterize the elg velocity distribution properly .",
    "the mean ( median ) velocity for galaxies belonging to the main elg component ( corresponding to v@xmath1318000 km s@xmath2 ) is 15394  ( 15411 ) and the velocity dispersion is 900@xmath18190 , much smaller than the value of 1606  previously calculated .",
    "the second small peak includes five galaxies , and has a mean ( median ) value of 19170 ( 19320 ) and a velocity dispersion of 320 .",
    "three of these five galaxies are very close both spatially and in velocity space , suggesting that they are part of a physical group .",
    "notice that the velocity distribution of noelgs is not gaussian .",
    "a more detailed velocity analysis of the total sample of galaxies can be found in durret et al .",
    ".    furthermore , it is interesting to note that the _ minimum _ of elg velocity density is obtained for @xmath19  close to the _ maximum _ for noelg velocity density ( @xmath20 ) ; the two samples are therefore different in velocity space , as confirmed by statistical tests ( see table  1 and section 2.4 ) .",
    "the fraction of elgs seems to increase with velocity .",
    "it is about 0.12 within the cluster velocity range , and increases to 0.25 - 0.33 for background objects ( those with velocities larger than 20000 ) , with an extreme value of 0.45 in the last velocity bin ( velocities larger than 60000 ) .",
    "such variations are obviously at least partly due to a selection effect ( the redshifts of faint background galaxies are easier to measure for emission line than for absorption line spectra ) , but are difficult to interpret because of the incompleteness of our velocity catalogue at large radial distances .",
    "as shown above , the spatial , magnitude and velocity distributions of elgs and noelgs are different . in order to quantify statistically these results ,",
    "we have tested the null hypothesis which would assume both samples to be issued from the same parent population , both in velocity space ( v ) and spatially ( right ascension @xmath21 , declination @xmath22 and projected distance to the cluster center d ) .",
    "the statistical tests used are the unpaired comparison t - test and the kolmogorov - smirnov ( k .- s . ) test .",
    "the former is based on the comparison of the means of both samples ( elgs and noelgs ) .",
    "since we have seen that the velocity distribution of elgs is bimodal , we have applied this test in two velocity ranges : ( a ) [ 13000 - 20000 km / s ] , corresponding to the entire cluster velocity range , and ( b ) [ 13000 - 18000 km / s ] , where the second small peak in velocity distribution of the elgs is eliminated , while the noelg distribution is not strongly affected .",
    ".statistical tests on the properties of elgs and noelgs [ cols= \" < , > , > , > , > \" , ]     [ dip ]    the above facts suggest that the bright galaxy distributions in these clusters have roughly comparable properties , but also that they differ from a cluster to another , and even from one region to another in a given cluster .",
    "this is also the case for the relative abundances of galaxy types , which depend on the local density and/or on the global properties of each cluster .",
    "[ toy2 ]    in fact , a simple model based on the shapes of the luminosity functions of the various galaxy types and on their relative proportions ( e.g. bhm & schmidt 1995 , jerjen & tammann 1997 , and references therein ) can roughly account for the dip in the luminosity function .",
    "by using only three kinds of luminosity functions , and adjusting the relative proportions of these three types of galaxies , it is easy to recover a luminosity function with a similar shape to that observed . as an example , such a toy - luminosity function is given in fig.[toy2 ] ; in this case , we have used :    - a gaussian with @xmath2315.8 and @xmath241.1 , for the spiral luminosity function ;    - a gamma density ( also called erlang density ) : @xmath25 for ellipticals .",
    "this density function is asymmetric and has been used by biviano et al ( 1995 ) to describe the luminous part of the coma ; @xmath26 is a cut - off value ( in the example we have chosen @xmath2717.2 ) the maximum is given by @xmath28 ;    - a power law to represent faint or dwarf galaxies , filtered by an apodisation function to account for the incompleteness for high values of r.    we can see from fig.[toy2 ] that although located at the good position , the dip is broader than the abcg 85 dip and not as deep , and that the luminous part of the  is convex instead of concave .",
    "in fact , because the game is played with at least three functions , each of them driven by 3 or even 4 parameters , we have too many degrees of freedom and are able to modify these features in various ways",
    ". however , the location of ellipticals relative to dwarfs is well determined : the dip corresponds to the transition zone between ellipticals and dwarfs .",
    "however , it has not been possible to play the same game with two functions only .    in this hypothesis",
    ", the fact that the dip falls roughly at the same absolute magnitude for at least seven clusters suggests that in the dip region these clusters have comparable galaxy populations ; however , the fact that the various dips are not located exactly at the same absolute magnitudes and have different widths raises the question of the relative positions and densities of these various populations .",
    "lobo et al . (",
    "1997 ) have shown that the slope of the faint luminosity function varies with the local environment . the less rich a cluster ,",
    "the more numerous are spiral galaxies ; an increase in the number of spirals will modify the luminosity function only around m@xmath29 .",
    "the combination of these well established results leads to confirm , as suggested by previous authors , that in general luminosity functions depend simultaneously on type and on local density and/or global properties ( such as cluster richness ; see e.g. phillipps et al .",
    "1998 ) . however , our data is not complete enough to allow a further analysis .",
    "we initially intended to analyze the faint end of the luminosity function derived from our ccd imaging catalogue after subtracting the background as described above .",
    "however , for m@xmath30 the luminosity function is found to decrease dramatically , rapidly reaching negative values , although the data sample appears to be complete up to r@xmath31 .",
    "this implies that the background contribution has been overestimated , i.e. the `` universal '' background counts as obtained in previous section ( fig .",
    "[ bg ] ) are not representative of the background of abcg 85 .    marginal evidence for the existence of a background larger than expected from statistical arguments has also been found in coma . out of 51 redshifts obtained for faint galaxies ( r@xmath32 ) in a small region near the coma cluster center , at most five galaxies",
    "were found to be cluster members ( adami et al .",
    "1998b ) , while the expected number was @xmath33 .",
    "due to the small number of redshifts involved , this result is of course still preliminary ; however , it raises the question of statistical background subtraction , which should not be as universally accepted as it is now .",
    "with the assumption that the x - ray emitting gas is isothermal and in hydrostatic equilibrium with dark matter , the dynamical mass was estimated as a function of distance to the cluster center by pislar et al .",
    "( 1997 ) from x - ray ( rosat pspc ) data ( see their figure 13 ) . within the x - ray image , which is limited to a distance of 1.3 mpc around the cluster center , the total",
    "mass estimated is about @xmath34 m@xmath35 .",
    "the basic physical picture behind this determination is that if the cluster abcg  85 is in equilibrium , then the velocities of any subpopulation should reflect the mass distribution .",
    "we have calculated the ellipticity of the galaxy distribution using the momentum method .",
    "this provided us with a direction of the major axis and the ratio @xmath36 of the small to large axes .",
    "we have then changed the coordinates of the position of each galaxy by an anamorphosis along the major axis : @xmath37 .",
    "the galaxy distribution then appears spherical .",
    "this defines a new radius @xmath38 which will be used in the following equations .",
    "this transformation assumes that the cluster major axis is parallel to the plane of the sky , in the prolate as well as the oblate cases .",
    "we may then infer the enclosed mass from the measured velocities of a tracer population .",
    "another possible method which is commonly used is to perform counts in concentric circular rings .",
    "our method is more accurate since the galaxy count estimate is adapted to the geometry , but equation ( 2 ) assumes spherical symmetry and is not fully correct .",
    "the other method cumulates both defects .",
    "let us investigate the properties of the cumulative mass profile derived from the different tracers when isotropy is assumed . this is achieved via parametric and non parametric modeling .",
    "the appendix gives a more detailed description of the non - parametric methods involved .",
    "optimal inversion techniques should avoid binning while relying on techniques such as kernel interpolation .",
    "we found here that for such a sample and when assessing quantities which are two derivatives away from the data , the kernel introduces spurious high frequency features in the recovered mass profile .",
    "binning the projected quantities on the other hand allows us to control visually the quality of the fit .",
    "we use floating binning which is defined as follows : for each galaxy we find its p - nearest neighbors , and define a ring which encompasses them exactly ; the estimator for the density , @xmath39 , would be defined as p divided by the area of that ring . for",
    "the projected velocity dispersion squared , @xmath40 , we could sum over the velocity squared ( measured with respect to the mean velocity of the cluster ) of the p neighbors and divide by p ; in practice a better estimator , @xmath41 , accounting for velocity measurement errors is given by @xmath42 where @xmath43 is the sum of the error on the measured variance , @xmath44 , and of the square of the measured error on the velocity @xmath45 .",
    "bootstrapping is applied to estimate @xmath40 while first neglecting these measurement errors .",
    "an estimate of the projected energy density is given by @xmath46 .",
    "in practice , binning over @xmath47 to @xmath48 neighboring galaxies is applied , yielding estimates of the poisson noise induced by sampling .",
    "the sample is truncated in projected radius @xmath38 .",
    "since generically , truncation and deprojection will not commute , the estimation of the cumulative mass profile arising from a truncated sample in projected radius will be biased . in physical terms , this follows because we can not distinguish between projected galaxies which are truly within a sphere of radius @xmath38 , and those which are beyond but happen to fall along the line of sight .",
    "considerations about the physical properties of the tracer may help reduce the confusion , but a bias remains in the estimated mass when the sample is truncated in projected radii .",
    "extrapolation provides some means of correction .",
    "note that extrapolation has a different meaning depending on what the true profile is .",
    "specifically the boundary conditions ( exponential splines , edge spline , truncation at two or five times the last measured radius ) will make a difference in the recovered profile . since the completeness of our redshift catalogue decreases with increasing radius , we restrict our analysis to the inner region of the cluster within 1000 arcsec ( 1.62 mpc at the cluster redshift ) , where this catalogue is fairly complete ( 92% for r@xmath49 ) . in practice",
    "we check that all mass estimates converge to the same total mass within the error bars .",
    "the equilibrium of an isotropic stationary spherical galactic cluster obeys jeans equation : @xmath50 where @xmath51 is the gravitational potential generated by all the types of matter , i.e. stellar matter , x - ray emitting plasma and unseen - matter , @xmath52 the density of galaxies in the cluster and @xmath53 the radial velocity dispersion .",
    "can be applied locally to assess the cumulative dynamical mass profile .",
    "the surface density of galaxies is related to the density via an abel transform : @xmath54 where @xmath55 is the projected galaxy density and @xmath38 the projected radius as measured on the sky .",
    "similarly the line of sight velocity dispersion @xmath56 is related to the intrinsic radial velocity dispersion , @xmath57 , via the _ same _ abel transform ( or projection ) @xmath58 note that @xmath59 is the projected kinetic energy density divided by three ( corresponding to one degree of freedom ) and @xmath60 the kinetic energy density divided by three .",
    "inverting eqs .",
    "( 3)-(4 ) into yields : @xmath61 therefore , assuming we have access to estimators for @xmath62 and @xmath63 , the cumulative mass distribution follows .",
    "the bahcall & tremaine ( 1981 ) mass estimator for test particles around a point mass assumes completeness and isotropy and is given by : @xmath64      in a nutshell , given that formally the inverse of is @xmath65 it is straightforward to construct parametric pairs of projected and deprojected fields .    in order to describe the density profile of galaxies , and/or the energy density ,",
    "we have used various kinds of parametric forms :     1 .",
    "a @xmath66-model : + @xmath67 + for the spatial profile , and @xmath68 for the projected profile .",
    "a sersic profile @xmath69 for the projected profile , to which corresponds the spatial profile :   @xmath70 where @xmath71 ( gerbal et al .",
    "a power - law for both the spatial and surface energy density since the inverse abel transform of a power law is a power law with a power index decreased by one .",
    "the non parametric inversion problem is concerned with finding the best solution to for the cumulative mass profile when only discretized and noisy measurements of @xmath62 and @xmath72 are available ( gebhardt et al . 1996 , merritt 1996 , pichon & thibaut 1998 and references therein ) . in order to achieve this goal these functions",
    "are written in some fairly general form involving generically many more parameters than constraints and such that each parameter controls only locally the shape of the function .",
    "the corresponding inversion problem is known to be ill - conditioned : a small departure in the measured data ( due to noise ) may produce drastically different solutions since these solutions are dominated by artifacts due to the amplification of noise .",
    "some kind of trade off must therefore be found between the level of smoothness imposed on the solution in order to deal with these artefacts on the one hand , and the level of fluctuations consistent with the amount of information in the signal on the other hand .",
    "finding such a balance is called the `` regularization '' of the inversion problem .    in practice",
    "the regularization can be imposed either directly upon the projected model in data space or upon the unprojected model .",
    "the latter ( the non parametric inversion ) is preferable for abel transforms such as since the projection on the sky of a given galaxy distribution is bound to be smoother than the galaxy distribution itself .",
    "moreover , physical constraints such as positivity of the galaxy distribution are also more stringent ( and better physically motivated ) in model space .",
    "nevertheless it is sometimes more straightforward to carry the regularization in model space ( a non parametric fit ) and then carry the inversion numerically when an explicit inversion formula such as is available .    here , we apply both techniques to the recovery of the mass profile of abcg  85 .",
    "we fit a regularized spline to @xmath73 and @xmath74 as a function of @xmath75 with a linear penalty function on the second derivative ( i.e. which leaves invariant linear functions of @xmath76 which are power laws of @xmath38 ) .",
    "we then make explicit use of to compute numerically @xmath77 and @xmath78 together with their derivative .",
    "note that this procedure is a non parametric fit rather than a non parametric inversion , and the regularization parameter needs to be boosted to account for the fact that the fit is then inverted to yield supposedly smooth deprojected quantities . in practice",
    "we use the regularization parameter @xmath79 where @xmath80 is given by general cross validation as defined in the appendix .",
    "we fit the projection of a b - spline family which is sampled logarithmically in radius with a linear penalty function on the second derivative as discussed in the appendix .",
    "the coefficients of the fit yield directly @xmath52 and @xmath81 which together with lead to the cumulative mass profile of abcg  85 . as expected , the error bars on the corresponding mean profile are larger for the non parametric inversion since this method imposes the weakest prejudice on the expected mass profile .",
    "we have obtained various dynamical integrated mass profiles , some of which are displayed in fig .",
    "[ masses ] , superimposed on those obtained from x - ray data ( pislar et al . , 1997 ) .",
    "in order to avoid having too many curves on this figure , we omitted the three curves corresponding to the following cases : 2d non parametric fit , galaxy density and pressure following @xmath66models , and galaxy density following a sersic distribution and pressure following a @xmath66model ; these three cases are almost indistinguishable from the power law case .",
    "notice that the limiting radius for the mass obtained from optical data ( ) - 1000 arcsec - is smaller than the limiting radius - 1300 arcsec - for the mass obtained from x - ray data ( ) ; this is due to the lack of completeness of the galaxy velocity catalogue in a larger region .",
    "[ masses ]    we give in fig .  [ vedepr ] an example of a non - parametric fit of the observed pressure ( bottom panel ) and observed profile ( middle panel ) .",
    "the observed points for the pressure are the result of the product of the numerical profile with the velocity dispersion shown in the top panel .",
    "this profile corresponds to the velocity distribution as a function of projected distance to the cluster center displayed in fig .",
    "[ vdall ] .",
    "[ vedepr ]    [ vdall ]    one may notice that the various es are very close to one another , the distances between the curves being smaller than the error bars ( see figure ) ; the dynamical mass estimated with the bahcall & tremaine method is totally consistent with our estimate .      `",
    "optical ' dynamical masses are larger than es . at a distance of r=1000 arcsec",
    ", es are @xmath82 m@xmath35 , while es are @xmath83 m@xmath35",
    ".    a simple explanation would be the following : from the spectral capability of the rosat pspc , pislar et al .",
    "( 1997 ) have derived an _",
    "isothermal _ plasma temperature of about 4 kev",
    ". however markevitch et al . (",
    "1998 ) using asca have shown that in the centre of abcg  85 ( where our analysis is performed ) the temperature is about 8 kev .",
    "such a discrepancy between rosat and asca determined temperatures is not uncommon , since the energy range of rosat is lower than that of asca , and therefore not well suited to measure cluster temperatures . since es are proportional to the temperature , the use of the markevitch et al .",
    "temperature would lead to a dynamical mass @xmath82 m@xmath35 at r=1000 arcsec , equal to the es .",
    "it is then tempting to conclude that the markevitch et al .",
    "high plasma temperature is confirmed by the comparison of ` optical ' and es .",
    "a careful analysis of the abcg 85 temperature map provided by asca ( markevitch et al . 1998 ) raises the question of the actual gas temperature ; the observed value of 8  kev is only valid for a region of about 500 arcsec radius .",
    "[ markevitch ]    a 3-d temperature profile must be defined by at least three quantities , i.e. a slope ( or equivalently an adiabatic index ) , a length scale and a value of the temperature at a given radius . in the case of abcg 85 ,",
    "the data are too poor to recover the three above values ( markevitch , private communication ) .",
    "however we have estimated the dynamical mass assuming a `` mean '' value for the temperature slope compatible with the whole sample of the markevitch et al .",
    "data and using the hydrostatic equation . notice first that the asymptotic behaviour for the integrated dynamical mass is ( obviously ) no longer the isothermal one ( i.e. @xmath84 , with @xmath85 ) . as a consequence",
    "the amount of dark matter at large scale would be largely reduced compared to the isothermal behaviour .",
    "however , we adress the question of the dynamical mass in a region of only 1000 arcsec . using a value for the scale length of order 500 kpc we are able to derive a m@xmath86 profile ; the obtained mass compared to the isothermal one is displayed in fig .",
    "[ markevitch ] . as it is the case for some clusters analysed by markevitch et al .",
    "( private communication and poster at the paris texas meeting ) the non - isothermal mass is higher for small radii but intersects the isothermal profile at a radius of @xmath87 arcsec .",
    "the resulting profile is clearly located in the region covered with error bars as indicated in fig .",
    "[ markevitch ] .",
    "our conclusion is that a non - isothermal analysis is not currently possible due to the weakness of the temperature analysis at least for abcg 85 , but is certainly a promising possibility in the future .",
    "one may notice that es show the same rate of growth ( i.e. @xmath88 ) as the es in the isothermal regime ; the corresponding densities vary as @xmath89 .",
    "we have calculated the 3-d galaxy velocity dispersion profile ( defined as the pressure to density ratio ) . the mean velocity dispersion is 1072 km s@xmath2 and the residual of this profile compared to this mean value is displayed in fig .  [ isoveloce ] ; the variation is @xmath90 indicating that the dispersion profile is constant with radius .",
    "[ isoveloce ]    therefore with similar hypotheses - isothermality for the x - ray emitting plasma , isovelocity for the galaxies - es and es are equal .",
    "this coherence validates the two independent techniques ; notice however that the static hypothesis is common for the two methods .    it is interesting to note that the dependence of the mass of the different components with radius ( between @xmath0100 and 1000 arcsec ) is : @xmath91 for galaxies , @xmath92 for the x - ray gas and @xmath93 for dynamical matter , as noted above in the isothermal case .",
    "the various modelling techniques implemented onto the masss profile of abcg 85 have led to very similar featureless powerlaw profiles for the enclosed mass ( fig .",
    "this property follows because even with a sample of about 300 galaxies ( all the galaxies in the cluster velocity interval were included , i.e. 272 noelgs and 33 elgs ) the inversion of or is dominated by shot noise and requires stringent regularisation .",
    "as mentioned previously by merritt & tremblay ( 1994 ) , we find here that a truly non parametric inversion would require that nature provides many more galaxies per cluster .",
    "we remind the reader that we have assumed an isotropic velocity dispersion for the galaxies ; the agreement found above shows that this hypothesis is reasonable .",
    "it is easily accounted for by the fact that the dominance of radial orbits is probably due to the continuous infall of galaxies and small groups , as shown in particular for abcg 85 ( durret et al .",
    "1998b ) , which occurs mostly in the outskirts of the cluster .",
    "it is only in the outer regions that the hydrostatic hypothesis is also questionable .",
    "a possible caveat is the following : only the velocity dispersion is observed , while it is the pressure which is the important physical quantity . the estimate of the pressure as the numerical density multiplied by the velocity dispersion is correct if there is no equipartition between small and large galaxy masses , or expressed differently if the velocity dispersion does not depend on the galaxy mass . we have checked in a central region of 750 arcsec radius that the velocity dispersion does not depend on the magnitude ; assuming a constant mass to light ratio for all galaxies , this implies that the velocity dispersion does not depend on galaxy mass .",
    "the combined large field photographic plate and small field ccd imaging catalogues , coupled with extensive spectroscopic data , have led us to gather one of the largest amounts of data for a single cluster .",
    "these data have been used in the present paper to analyze several properties of abcg 85 .",
    "some of these properties have already been discussed in the past by various authors ( see introduction ) , but the large amount of data now available allows a more refined analysis , leading either to derive new properties or to confirm previous results with a high confidence level .",
    "first , we have compared the distributions of emission line ( elgs ) and non - emission line galaxies ( noelgs ) , and shown that elgs seem intrinsically fainter than noelgs , and do not appear as centrally condensed as noelgs , both spatially and in velocity space .",
    "elgs show an enhancement south of the nucleus , where groups are falling onto the main cluster ( as discussed in our previous paper by durret et al .",
    "this fits in well with the general view of this cluster : the gas in the galaxies belonging to these groups is expected to be shocked and consequently star formation should be more important in the impact region at the epoch of actual galaxy infall , and less important in the central regions of clusters where star formation appears to be truncated .",
    "this has been shown to be the case for two clusters at redshifts 0.2 and 0.4 by abraham et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and morris et al .",
    "( 1998 ) . besides , the cluster analyzed by abraham et al . , abcg 2390 , shows evidence for a subcomponent infalling onto the main cluster , as the south blob is falling onto abcg 85 .",
    "second , we have analyzed in detail the luminosity function of abcg 85 in the r band , using a wavelet reconstruction technique .",
    "we have shown with a high confidence level that a dip was present at an absolute magnitude m@xmath94 .",
    "this feature has also been detected in several other clusters and can be accounted for by the distributions of the various types of galaxies present in the cluster . in this scenario , the dip would correspond to the separation between elliptical and dwarf galaxies .",
    "third , parametric and non - parametric methods applied to our redshift catalogue have allowed us to derive the dynamical properties of the cluster .",
    "we find that the dynamical mass profiles derived from the x - ray gas and galaxy distributions agree if the temperature of the x - ray emitting plasma is about 8 kev .",
    "between 250 and 1000 arcsec , whatever technique we apply ( parametric or not ) , and whatever data we use ( x - ray or optical ) , the slopes of the dynamical mass profiles are the same ( @xmath93 ) . in this region , both the x - ray plasma and the `` gas '' of galaxies are isothermal , and the galaxy velocity dispersion is isotropic . if we take into account the temperature gradient of the x - ray gas , the dynamical mass is reduced .",
    "if we take into account a possible temperature gradient of the x - ray gas , the  is reduced at very large scale but is still comparable to the  in the x - ray emitting region .    although this paper is the last one of the series on abcg 85 , the analysis of a much larger area in that region of the sky is planned in a near future : we have recently obtained about 300 new redshifts in the direction of abcg 87 ( in collaboration with m.  colless ) , and have the project of obtaining redshifts for the various clusters and groups aligned along pa@xmath16 and in which abcg 85 seems embedded .",
    "we also intend to discuss the large scale structure properties of the universe in the direction of abcg 85 , based on the large scale velocity features of our velocity catalogue .",
    "we are very grateful to valrie de lapparent and h. lin for making their counts in the r band available to us , and to a. biviano for his adaptive kernel program .",
    "we acknowledge interesting discussions with g.b .",
    "lima - neto .",
    "cp would like to thank e.  thibaut for many valuable discussions .",
    "last but not least , we gratefully thank dario fadda for his help in tackling the problem of estimating error bars on the luminosity function and frdric magnard for his help in these computations .",
    "we appreciated several interesting suggestions by the referee , a. biviano .",
    "c.l . acknowledges financial support by the cnaa ( italia ) fellowship reference d.d .",
    "n.37 08/10/1997 , and c.p . acknowledges funding from the swiss nf .    #",
    "1#2#3    abell g.o .",
    "1958 , apjs 3 , 211 abraham r.g .",
    ", smecker - hane t.a . , hutchings j.b .",
    "1996 , apj 471 , 694 adami c. , biviano a. , mazure a. 1998a , a&a 331 , 439 adami c. , nichol r.c . , mazure a. et al .",
    "1998b , a&a 334 , 765 arnouts s. , de lapparent v. , mathez g. et al . , 1997 , a&as 124 , 163 bahcall j. , tremaine s. 1981 , apj 244 , 805 bekki k. 1998 , apj submitted , astro - ph/9811117 binggeli b. , sandage a. , tammann g.a .",
    "1988 , ara&a 26 , 509 biviano a. , durret f. , gerbal d. et al .",
    "1995 , a&a 297 , 610 biviano a. , katgert p. , mazure a. et al .",
    "1997 , a&a 321 , 84 bhm p. , schmidt k .- h .",
    "1995 , astron .",
    "316 , 137 carlberg r.g . ,",
    "yee h.k . , ellingson e. et al .",
    "1996 , apj 462 , 32 driver s.p .",
    ", phillipps s. , davies j.i . , morgan i. , disney m.j .",
    "1994 , mnras 268 , 393 durret f. , felenbok p. , lobo c. , slezak e. 1998a , a&as 129 , 281 durret f. , forman w. , gerbal d. , jones c. , vikhlinin a. 1998b ,",
    "a&a 335 , 41 efron , b. 1979 , ann stat 7 , 1 efron , b. 1982 , in siam , 38 fadda d. , slezak e. , bijaoui a. 1998 , a&as 127 , 335 fisher d. , fabricant d. , franx m. , van dokkum p. 1998 , apj 498 , 195 gebhardt k. , richstone d. , ajhar e.a .",
    "1996 , aj 112 , 105 gerbal d. , lima - neto , g.b . , mrquez , i. , verhagen , h. 1997 , mnras , 285 , l41 jerjen h. , tammann g. a. 1997 , a&a 321 , 713 katgert p. , mazure a. , perea j. et al .",
    "1996 , a&a 310 , 8 lima - neto g.b . , pislar v. , durret f. , gerbal d. , slezak e. 1997 , a&a 327 , 81 lin h. 1996 , apj 464 , 60 lobo c. , biviano a. , durret f. et al .",
    "1997 , a&a 317 , 385 markevitch m. , forman w. , sarazin c. , vikhlinin a. 1998 , apj 503 , 77 merritt d. , tremblay b. 1994 , aj 108 , 514 merritt d. 1996 , aj 112 , 1085 metcalfe n. , godwin j.g . ,",
    "peach j.v .",
    "1994 , mnras 267 , 431 mohr j.j .",
    ", geller m.j . , fabricant d.g .",
    "et al . 1996 , apj 470 , 724 molinari e. , chincarini g. , moretti a. , de grandi s. 1998 , a&a 338 , 874 morris s. , hutchings j.b . ,",
    "carlberg r.g .",
    "1998 , apj accepted for publication , or astro - ph/9805216 phillipps s. , jones j.b . , smith r.m . ,",
    "couch w.j . , driver s.p .",
    ", astro - ph/9812229 , to appear in ` the low surface brightness universe ' , proceedings of i.a.u .",
    "colloquium no .",
    "171 , cardiff , eds .",
    "j. i. davies , c. d. impey & s. phillipps , pasp pichon c. , thibaut e. 1998 , mnras 301 , 419 pisani a. 1993 , mnras 265 , 706 pislar v. , durret f. , gerbal d. , lima - neto g. , slezak e. 1997 , a&a 322 , 53 slezak e. , durret f. , guibert j. , lobo c. 1998 , a&as 128 , 67 van haarlem m. , van de weygaert r. 1993 , apj 418 , 544 wahba g. , wendelberger j. 1979 , _ `` some new mathematical methods for variational objective analysis using splines and cross validation '' _ , monthly weather review 108 , 1122 wahba , g. 1990 ,",
    "_ `` spline models for observational data . ''",
    "_ , cbms - nsf regional conference series in applied mathematics , society for industrial and applied mathematics , philadelphia .",
    "1994 , mnras 268 , 79 zabludoff a.i . , franx m. 1993 , aj 106 , 1314 zucca e. , zamorani g. , vettolani g. et al .",
    "1997 , a&a 326 , 477",
    "-1.0truecm      the non parametric solutions of and are described by their projection onto a complete basis of functions @xmath95 of finite support , which are chosen here to be cubic b - splines ( i.e. the unique @xmath96 function which is defined to be a cubic over 4 adjacent intervals and zero outside , with the extra property that it integrates to unity over that interval ) : @xmath97 @xmath98 the parameters to fit are the weights @xmath99 and @xmath100 . calling @xmath101 or @xmath102 ( the parameters ) and @xmath103 or @xmath104 ( the measurements ) and",
    "then become formally @xmath105 where @xmath106 is a @xmath107 matrix with entries given by @xmath108    the projection and the self consistent potential of b - splines can be computed analytically .",
    "their knots can be placed arbitrarily in order to resolve high frequencies in the profiles which are believed to be signal rather than noise ( this is a requirement when using a penalty function which operates on the spline coefficient since imposing a correlation between these coefficients would truncate the high frequency ) . the analytic properties of b - splines and their transform turns out handy in particular since taylor expansions are available when dealing with exponential profile where the dynamical range is large .",
    "another useful property of b - spline is extrapolation : the correlation of the spline coefficient induced by the penalty function yields an estimate for the behaviour of the profile beyond the last measured point ; since the abel transform requires integration to infinity , this estimate corrects in part for the truncation . note that an explicit analytic continuation of the model can be added to the spline basis if required . finally here",
    "the requirement is that @xmath109 is smooth , which is more strigent than requiring that @xmath62 ( or @xmath63 ) are smooth .    assuming that we have access to discrete measurements of @xmath62 and @xmath63 ( via binning as discussed above ) , and that the noise in @xmath62 and @xmath63 can be considered to be normal",
    ", we can estimate the error between the measured profiles and the non parametric b - spline model as @xmath110 where the weight matrix @xmath111 is the inverse of the covariance matrix of the data ( which is diagonal for uncorrelated noise with diagonal elements equal to one over the data variance ) .",
    "linear penalty functions obey @xmath112 where @xmath113 is a positive definite matrix . in practice",
    ", we use @xmath114 where @xmath115 is a finite difference second order operator @xmath116 \\equiv   \\left[\\begin{array}{cccccc } -1 & 2 & -1 & 0 & \\ldots & 0\\\\ 0 & -1 &   2 & -1 & \\ldots &   \\\\ & & \\ddots & \\ddots &   \\ddots & \\\\ & &   & & & \\\\ \\end{array}\\right ] \\ , .\\ ] ]    in short , the solution of ( or ) is found by minimizing the quantity @xmath117 where @xmath118 and @xmath119 are respectively the likelihood and regularization terms given by and , @xmath109 are the ( large number ) of parameters , and where the lagrange multiplier @xmath120 allows us to tune the level of regularization . the introduction of the lagrange multiplier @xmath121 is formally justified by the fact that we want to minimize @xmath122 , subject to the constraint that @xmath118 should be equal to some value . for instance , with @xmath123 the problem is to minimize @xmath122 subject to the constraints that @xmath118 is in the range @xmath124 ) . in practice ,",
    "the minimum of @xmath125 is : @xmath126    the last remaining issue involves setting the level of regularization .",
    "the so - called cross - validation method ( wahba 1990 ) adjusts the value of @xmath121 so as to minimise residuals between the data and the prediction derived from the data .",
    "let us define @xmath127 we make use of the value for @xmath121 given by generalised cross validation ( gcv ) ( wahba & wendelberger 1979 ) estimator corresponding to the mimimum of @xmath128 ^ 2 } \\right\\ } \\ , .",
    "\\eqn{gcv}\\ ] ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper is the fourth of a series dealing with the cluster of galaxies abcg 85 . using our two extensive photometric and spectroscopic catalogues ( with 4232 and 551 galaxies respectively ) , we discuss here three topics derived from optical data . </S>",
    "<S> first , we present the properties of emission line versus non - emission line galaxies , showing that their spatial distributions somewhat differ ; emission line galaxies tend to be more concentrated in the south region where groups appear to be falling onto the main cluster , in agreement with the hypothesis ( presented in our previous paper ) that this infall may create a shock which can heat the x - ray emitting gas and also enhance star formation in galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> then , we analyze the luminosity function in the r band , which shows the presence of a dip similar to that observed in other clusters at comparable absolute magnitudes ; this result is interpreted as due to comparable distributions of spirals , ellipticals and dwarfs in these various clusters . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we present the dynamical analysis of the cluster using parametric and non - parametric methods and compare the dynamical mass profiles obtained from the x - ray and optical data . </S>"
  ]
}