{
  "article_text": [
    "our understanding of the faintest radio sources has advanced over the last decade through increasingly sensitive radio surveys and through follow - up work at optical and infrared wavelengths .",
    "the appearance of a ` new ' population of radio galaxies at millijansky and sub - millijansky levels , first revealed by the changing slope of the 1.4ghz radio source count distribution , has been confirmed by spectroscopic and multicolour studies ( @xcite ) .",
    "the population comprises star forming galaxies whose numbers increasingly dominate classical ( agn - powered ) radio sources as the flux density limit falls below 1mjy .",
    "the evolution of these galaxies , and the role of interactions and mergers in the population , are only partially understood .",
    "the number of catalogued microjansky radio sources at 5 and 8ghz is a few hundred , and at 1.4ghz there are few catalogued sources fainter than @xmath5jy .",
    "the _ phoenix deep survey _ ( pds ) aims to increase the number of known 1.4ghz sources fainter than @xmath5jy .",
    "the pds covers a 2  diameter field selected to lie in a region of low optical obscuration and devoid of bright radio sources ( @xcite ) .",
    "the pds provides a large , homogeneous sample of 1.4ghz sources which , through multiwavelength observations , is being used to investigate starburst and post - starburst galaxies in the the faint radio population ( @xcite ) .",
    "we present here the source counts and optical identifications in a phoenix mosaic image which contains many sources fainter than @xmath5jy .",
    "earlier radio observations of the pds at 1.4ghz provided images with a @xmath6 sensitivity of @xmath7jy over the 2  phoenix deep field ( pdf ) , and @xmath5jy in a sub - region of @xmath8 diameter , referred to as the phoenix deep field sub - region ( pdfs ) ( @xcite ) .",
    "additional observations were made in 1997 november and december , using the atca-6c configuration in mosaic mode with 32 channel , 128mhz bands centred at 1.380ghz and 1.472ghz .",
    "the mosaic has seven pointings , six arranged hexagonally around a pointing centred on the pdfs [ @xmath9 , @xmath10 .",
    "a integration of 122 hours was spent on the mosaic .",
    "the primary calibrator was b1934 - 638 .",
    "the phase calibrator , b0153 - 410 , was observed for ten minutes every hour .",
    "an additional 42 hours of data obtained in 1994 september on the central pdfs pointing were included in the imaging .",
    "the miriad ( multichannel image reconstruction , image analysis and display ) data analysis package was used to edit and calibrate the data , as with previous pds observations ( @xcite ) .",
    "an artifact at the phase centre of earlier pds images due to self - interference from the sampler clocks is no longer present .",
    "an imaging cell of @xmath11 arcsec@xmath12 per pixel was used , providing at least 3 pixels across the shortest fwhm of the synthesised beam . naturally and uniformly weighted images were produced .",
    "the rms noise in the naturally weighted image is lower , but the synthesised beam larger ( @xmath13 compared with @xmath14 for uniform weighting ) .",
    "sources have been detected in the naturally weighted image , and individual sources ( when detected ) have been investigated using the uniformly weighted image .",
    "mosaic components at each pointing were made 2100 pixels ( @xmath15 ) square , to allow correct cleaning of the sidelobes of out - of - field sources .",
    "although the pdf and pdfs fields were chosen to avoid bright sources , the two westernmost pointings were affected by the sidelobes of a strong source outside the field .",
    "these were removed by imaging , modelling and removing this source ( using the miriad task uvmod ) when constructing the images for those pointings .",
    "the images for each pointing were cleaned individually , in each case reaching the thermal noise , before being combined to form the final mosaic .",
    "the central 50@xmath16 diameter of the mosaic is shown in figure  [ deepimage ] .    because the final image is a mosaic in which the individual pointings have different integration times , spatial overlap , and primary beam attenuation , the distribution of noise in the image is not uniform .",
    "the rms noise is a minimum at the centre ( @xmath0jy ) rising uniformly to @xmath1jy at a radius of @xmath17 .",
    "the rms noise at the centre is a factor of 2.5 lower than the previous pdfs image ( @xcite ) , consistent with the 4-fold increase in integration time and the absence of the phase - centre artifact present in the earlier observations .",
    "the dynamic range of the image can be described in two ways : the brightest source ( in the ne , 22.7 mjy ) lies more than a factor of 100 above the rms noise of its surrounds , while the ratio of the flux densities of the brightest and faintest reliably detected sources exceeds 500:1 .",
    "the mosaic achieves wide - field coverage and good sensitivity at the price of having an unavoidably non - uniform noise distribution .",
    "the detection and statistical characterisation of sources is thus a more complex procedure than it is in single - pointing interferometer images .",
    "an important auxiliary in this process is the noise image , in which each pixel is assigned a value equal to the theoretical @xmath18 noise level accounting for the observing time , mosaic overlap and primary beam attenuation .",
    "the miriad task sfind ( @xcite ) was used to compile a list of sources which have a peak flux density greater than 4 times the value in the noise image at the same position , lying in the central @xmath2 diameter disk of the mosaic .",
    "this disk is the area bounded by the @xmath1jy ( @xmath18 ) contour . over 770 sources within this region",
    "having a peak flux density brighter than the _ local _ value of @xmath19 survive visual inspection in the interactive confirmation phase of sfind .",
    "there is some deviation from gaussian statistics in the distribution of negative pixel values ( @xmath20% of pixels lie in a non - gaussian tail associated with visible sidelobes and the edges of the image ) which evidently exists in the positive pixel values as well , albeit masked by true sources .",
    "however , the procedure we have adopted provides a very robust estimate of the noise level above which we claim detections , and excludes essentially all spurious positive candidates .",
    "the construction of the source count distribution takes account of two significant corrections ( c.f .",
    "first , the use of a peak detection algorithm to locate sources will underestimate the total number of sources to a given total flux density . a correction based on the statistical distribution of source sizes has been applied .",
    "secondly , it is necessary to correct the raw counts at any noise level for the fraction of the total area over which such sources could be detected above @xmath19 .",
    "figure  [ rawcounts ] illustrates the magnitude of this latter correction , while figure  [ scounts ] shows the corrected counts .",
    "questions of sensitivity , completeness , spurious sources , and source confusion are important in a survey exploited close to its limit , but are somewhat difficult to answer in view of the non - uniform noise properties of the mosaiced images and the fact that some but not all of the sources are resolved .",
    "the observed field contains approximately @xmath21 independent beam areas and some 750 sources , resulting in over 100 beam areas per source except in the few small regions of highest source density within the highest sensitivity area ( only a few percent of the field ) .",
    "hence we have not quite reached the sensitivity and source density at which confusion would become a serious problem .",
    "we have established that there are only a few deviations from a gaussian distribution in the negative pixels , due to fluctuations similar to those edited out in sfind .",
    "we thus expect approximately 10 spurious sources due to noise statistics with our @xmath19 peak flux cut - off .",
    "the catalogue completeness can be described in terms of the factors required to correct for the primary beam weighting and the presence of resolved sources ( @xcite ) .",
    "the survey has 50% completeness at that peak flux density which requires a factor of 2 correction for these effects .",
    "the peak flux density of the 50% completeness limit varies with radial position , @xmath22 .",
    "it is @xmath23jy for @xmath24 ; @xmath25jy for @xmath26 ; and @xmath27jy for @xmath28 .",
    "the faintest catalogued source has an integrated flux density of @xmath3jy .",
    "the optical catalogue is derived from anglo - australian telescope ( aat ) prime - focus ccd observations made in the johnson - kron - cousins @xmath29-band ( @xcite ) .",
    "the most probable optical candidate ( where one exists ) is chosen by searching a radius of @xmath30 , and selecting the source with the least probability of being an accidental alignment ( given the known surface density of sources as bright or brighter than the candidate ) provided that that probability @xmath31% .",
    "while some true associations may be missed by this method it minimises spurious associations .",
    "of the 773 detected radio sources , 52% have been optically identified . as explained by @xcite",
    "the 50% completeness limit of the optical survey is @xmath4 although sources fainter than this have been reliably detected and are included in the analysis .",
    "figure  [ opmags ] presents histograms of the distribution of apparent @xmath29-band magnitude as a function of the radio source flux density .",
    "the median optical magnitude ( @xmath32 ) of the detected optical counterparts falls with decreasing radio flux density .",
    "the magnitude bounding the first decile ( @xmath33 ) also decreases to fainter optical magnitudes as the radio brightness declines .",
    "the fraction of sources in each flux density bin with identified optical counterparts , @xmath34 , is smaller for the faintest bin , to our fixed limiting optical magnitude .",
    "over 50% of the @xmath35jy radio sample is optically identified to @xmath4 , with a lower rate ( 44% ) for fainter radio sources .",
    "visual inspection shows that the faint ( @xmath36jy ) sources are mostly identified with single optical galaxies , rather than interacting systems .",
    "this may reflect the fact that these identifications are made quite close to the limit of the ccd images , or it may indicate that the very faint radio counterparts to a fixed optical magnitude are located in galaxies different from harbouring slightly brighter sub - mjy radio sources ( c.f .",
    "@xcite ) .    figure  [ scounts ] reveals considerable scatter in different determinations of the 1.4ghz source counts below about 1 mjy .",
    "counts from different surveys fluctuate by amounts large compared with the poisson errors and with the respective image variances .",
    "the effect can be seen between counts in the @xmath2 diameter survey area presented here and those in the entire 2  phoenix field .",
    "it seems unlikely that limited dynamic range , sidelobe confusion , or the blending of faint sources to mimic single brighter sources could account for the effect within the phoenix data set or within the other catalogues .",
    "it is known that large samples of radio sources brighter than @xmath37mjy at 1.4ghz show no or weak evidence of clustering ( e.g. @xcite ) . however , fainter samples may have revealed clustering ( @xcite ) , and it is predicted ( @xcite ) that a @xmath38 diameter survey with @xmath39jy might well reveal fluctuations above poisson statistics . indeed , benn & wall caution that deep radio surveys with pencil beams may not be representative .",
    "since the clustering scale responsible for the observed fluctuations is likely to be @xmath40 , extending the phoenix survey at its current sensitivity limit to a field of several degrees could provide constraints to large - scale structure on scales intermediate between those probed by microwave background experiments and by optical redshift surveys .",
    "a new 1.4ghz radio survey with the atca has been completed as part of the _ phoenix deep survey_. a catalogue of 773 sources with @xmath41jy has been compiled .",
    "this sample is homogeneously selected and thus uniform across the entire flux density range .",
    "the new sample provides an opportunity to investigate a large number of faint radio galaxies through multicolour photometry and spectroscopy .",
    "statistical fluctuations in observed 1.4ghz source counts below @xmath42jy provide a tantalising hint that very sensitive large area 1.4ghz surveys may be used to provide constraints to cosmic structure on the scale @xmath43 , intermediate between scales probed by microwave background experiments and by optical redshift surveys .",
    "we thank the atca hdf - s team for generously making their 1.4ghz source count data available .",
    "we are grateful to eric richards for helpful comments and discussion .",
    "jma gratefully acknowledges support in the form of a scholarship from fundao para a cincia e a tecnologia through programa praxis xxi .",
    "the australia telescope is funded by the commonwealth of australia for operation as a national facility managed by csiro .",
    "baleisis a. , lahav o. , loan a. j. , wall j. v. , 1998 , , 297 , 545 benn c. r. , rowan - robinson m. , mcmahon r. g. , broadhurst t. j. , lawrence a. , 1993 , , 263 , 98 benn c. r. , wall j. v. , 1995 , , 272 , 678 cram l. , hopkins a. , mobasher b. , rowan - robinson m. , 1998 , apj , 507 , 155 cress c. m. , helfland d. j. , becker r. h. , gregg m. d. , white r. l. , 1996 , , 473 , 7 georgakakis a. , mobasher b. , cram l. , hopkins a. , lidman c. , rowan - robinson m. , 1999 , , ( in press ) gruppioni c. , zamorani g. , de ruiter h. r. , parma p. , mignoli m. , lari c. , 1997 , , 286 , 470 hammer f. , crampton d. , lilly s. j. , le fvre o. , kenet t. , 1995 , , 276 , 1085 hopkins a. m. , 1997 , phd thesis , university of sydney hopkins a. m. , mobasher b. , cram l. , rowan - robinson m. , 1998 , , 296 , 839 hopkins a. m. , cram l. , mobasher b. , georgakakis a. , 1999 , in  looking deep in the southern sky , \" eds r. morganti & w.j . couch , ( springer : berlin ) 120 mobasher b. , cram l. , georgakakis a. , hopkins a. , 1999 , , ( in press ) norris r. , hopkins a. , sault r. , ekers r. , ekers j. , badia f. , higdon j. , wieringa m. , boyle b. , 1999 , ( in preparation ) richards e. a. , kellermann k. i. , fomalont e. b. , windhorst r. a. , partridge r. b. , 1998 , , 116 , 1039 thuan t. x. , condon j. j. , 1987 , , 322 , l9 windhorst r. a. , miley g. k. , owen f. n. , kron r. g. , koo d. c. , 1985 , , 289 , 494 windhorst r. a. , fomalont e. b. , partridge r. b. , lowenthal j. d. , 1993 , , 405 , 498 windhorst r. a. , gordon j. m. , pascarelle s. m. , schmidtke p. c. , keel w. c. , burkey j. m. , dunlop j. s. , 1994 , , 435 , 577"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present a deep 1.4ghz survey made with the australia telescope compact array ( atca ) , having a background rms of @xmath0jy near the image phase centre , up to @xmath1jy at the edge of a @xmath2 field of view . </S>",
    "<S> over 770 radio sources brighter than @xmath3jy have been catalogued in the field . </S>",
    "<S> the differential source counts in the deep field provide tentative support for the growing evidence that the microjansky radio population exhibits significantly higher clustering than found at higher flux density cutoffs . </S>",
    "<S> the optical identification rate on ccd images is approximately 50% to @xmath4 , and the optical counterparts of the faintest radio sources appear to be mainly single galaxies close to this optical magnitude limit . </S>"
  ]
}