{
  "article_text": [
    "doppler surveys have discovered more than 130 extrasolar planets orbiting stars of near - solar type @xcite .",
    "about 15% of these extrasolar planets orbit within @xmath6 au of their stars , the so - called ` hot jupiters ' .",
    "the small orbital radii of hot jupiters implies that they have significant probabilities ( @xmath7 ) of transiting their stars , and six transiting systems are known @xcite .",
    "transits provide opportunities to perform absorption spectroscopy of the atmospheres of extrasolar planets @xcite .",
    "the extrasolar planet hd209458b is illuminated during transit by a relatively bright star ( v=7.65 ) , permitting spectroscopy to high signal - to - noise ratio ( snr ) , at high spectral resolution .",
    "@xcite used transmission spectroscopy from the hubble space telescope imaging spectrograph to detect atomic sodium in the atmosphere of hd209458b .",
    "they discovered that sodium absorption is weak relative to predictions @xcite , and several models for this weakness have been suggested ( reviewed by @xcite , also see @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "the models that explain the weakness of the observed sodium fall into two categories : 1 ) those invoking unique properties of sodium , such as a low sodium abundance , or 2 ) those invoking some more general property of the atmosphere , such as high clouds . by searching for other spectral features during transit",
    ", we can begin to discriminate between these two classes of models .",
    "in addition to sodium , atomic hydrogen has been detected in uv absorption @xcite , with evidence for oxygen and carbon absorption ( @xmath8 detections , @xcite ) . unlike sodium in the hydrostatic atmosphere , the uv absorptions are relatively strong ( @xmath9@xmath10 ) and extend to several planetary radii .",
    "@xcite conclude that they have observed an escaping planetary coma .",
    "all spectroscopic detections of extrasolar planetary atmospheres to date have been made from space - borne platforms .",
    "but it should be possible to make such detections from the ground .",
    "molecular transitions in hot jupiters often coincide with telluric transmission windows , either because of the large planetary doppler shift @xcite or negligible level populations in the corresponding telluric lines @xcite .",
    "carbon monoxide is a prime target for ground - based detection .",
    "it is predicted to be abundant at typical hot jupiter temperatures @xcite and has strong and discrete transitions in a favorable window near 2  @xmath1 m .",
    "moreover , co should not be significantly depleted by photochemistry @xcite , but might actually be increased in abundance by mixing from greater depth @xcite . however , like sodium , co may be hidden by cloud opacity .",
    "an infrared spectroscopic study of the 2  @xmath1 m continuum by @xcite suggests the presence of substantial cloud opacity , even on the stellar - facing hemisphere of the planet .",
    "@xcite reported an exploratory attempt to detect co in hd209458b during transit using data from the near - infrared spectrometer ( nirspec ) on the keck  ii telescope .",
    "they observed only a single transit , and their spectra were degraded by poor weather , light losses in the adaptive optics system , and prominent fringing in nirspec .",
    "nevertheless , they demonstrated sensitivity within a factor of three of that needed to detect planetary co in a plausible model . in this paper",
    "we report follow - up observations with nirspec on keck  ii that improve sensitivity by about a factor of ten .",
    "we observed 3 transits of hd209458b on 19  august , 26  august , and 2  september 2002 ut using nirspec @xcite on the keck  ii telescope without adaptive optics .",
    "each night s observations consist of a nearly continuous sequence of ( typically ) 45-sec integrations on hd209458 from several hours before the center of transit to several hours after .",
    "we observed at wavelength @xmath11 2.3  @xmath1 m ( k band ) with spectral resolution @xmath12 , where @xmath13 is the full - width at half - maximum ( fwhm ) of the instrument profile and covers @xmath14 3 pixels . in order to facilitate the greatest possible stability in the spectra , and the most efficient temporal duty cycle",
    ", we did not nod the telescope .",
    "we kept the star at a single position on the @xmath15 arc - sec slit .",
    "dark frame exposure times bracket the stellar exposures and flat fields come from spectra of a continuum lamp .",
    "each spectral frame consists of 6 non - contiguous echelle orders ( 3 of which contain co lines ) .",
    "each order covers @xmath16 @xmath2 , ( @xmath17@xmath2 per pixel ) .",
    "we used an order - sorting filter with 50% transmission at 5400 and 3800 @xmath2 ( 1.84 & 2.63 @xmath1 m ) .    passing cirrus clouds interrupted observations on 19  august , especially in the first half of the night . on 19",
    "august and especially early on 26  august , the grating position made uncontrolled moves of a few pixels , sufficient to greatly complicate our analysis .",
    "these uncontrolled grating moves are a recognized problem with nirspec .",
    "the recommended solution ( at that time ) was to turn off the image rotation .",
    "accordingly , we observed for most of 26  august and all of 2  september without using image rotation .",
    "we recorded a total of 379 , 456 , and 354 spectra on 19  august , 26  august , and 2  september , respectively .",
    "we reject 32 spectra from 19  august due to low signal level from cirrus cloud absorption , and we reject the first 80 spectra taken on 26 august , due to the uncontrolled grating motion ( see sec .  4 ) .",
    "the analysis of this paper is therefore based on a total of 1077 spectra , each comprising @xmath18 independent spectral resolution elements .",
    "searching for co absorption in the transiting planet requires averaging over multiple lines in several vibration - rotation bands to achieve the required snr .",
    "we perform this averaging , in effect , by fitting the observed spectral residuals ( sec .",
    "4.2 ) to a theoretical template spectrum using linear least squares ( sec .",
    "4.6 ) . for diagnostic purposes",
    ", we repeat this fit over a grid of theoretical template spectra .",
    "our intent in this paper is to define the range of atmospheric parameters allowed by our observations , not to construct physically self - consistent models .",
    "we therefore begin with a radiative equlibrium temperature profile from @xcite , and perturb it in an _ ad hoc _ fashion .",
    "we represent clouds by setting the total opacity to be infinite for pressures greater than either 1 , 2 , 3 , 10 , 37 , 100 , or 1000 mbar . we also add various @xmath19 values to the temperature at all pressures , choosing from @xmath20 + 200 , 0 , -200 , -300 , -500 and -700 kelvins .",
    "we define our fiducial model to be the unperturbed @xcite t - p profile ( @xmath21 ) , with cloud tops at @xmath22 bar @xmath23 mbar .",
    "this cloud top pressure was used as a fiducial model by @xcite , so this choice allows us to judge the strength of any co absorption relative to the sodium detection .",
    "our computation of the theoretical template spectra utilizes the idl code developed by @xcite , modified for tangent - path spherical geometry . after adding the @xmath19 to the @xcite t - p profile",
    ", we define the height scale ( @xmath24 ) by integrating the equation of hydrostatic equilibrium with surface gravity @xmath25",
    "cm sec@xmath26 @xcite .",
    "we choose the constant of integration so that @xmath27 occurs where the continuum optical depth in the tangent - path geometry equals unity .",
    "we take the planet s radius to be the distance from the planet s center to the @xmath27 point . in practice",
    ", the continuum optical depth becomes unity very close to the pressure level assumed for the cloud tops ( see below ) .",
    "therefore , in the absence of stellar limb darkening , the computed eclipse depth in the 2  @xmath1 m continuum will be @xmath28 independent of the cloud top pressure level , where @xmath29 is the planet radius , and @xmath30 is the stellar radius , both from @xcite .    at each wavelength",
    "we compute the total tangent path optical depth as a function of tangent height , using spherical geometry .",
    "refraction in the planet s atmosphere can be significant in other transit - related applications @xcite , but will not have a measurable effect on our transmission spectra , especially considering the much smaller refractivity values at this long wavelength .",
    "we therefore neglect refraction in our computed spectra .",
    "the area of an atmospheric annulus at each tangent height is weighted by the factor @xmath31 , and the annuli are summed to give the total blocking area of the planet as a function of wavelength .",
    "the continuum optical depth is due to collision - induced h@xmath32-h@xmath32 and h@xmath32-he opacity @xcite .",
    "the line opacity at each wavelength is computed by summing opacities from all lines within some adjustable interval ( typically 3 @xmath2 ) , with the opacity profile of each line computed exactly from the voigt function .",
    "we use a single damping coefficient for all lines of a given species , based on averaging hitran 2000 data .",
    "the co line wavelengths and strengths were taken from @xcite , including isotopic lines in solar abundance ratios .",
    "the ratio of the planet s blocking area to the area of the stellar disk , with a correction for stellar limb darkening , is the transit depth at that wavelength , @xmath33 .",
    "our co search requires that we consider the effect of water absorption , because significant water lines overlay co at some wavelengths .",
    "the water molecule exhibits millions of transitions in the wavelength regions we have observed , most of these being quite weak .",
    "we evaluated the possible effect of a quasi - continuous opacity due to numerous overlapping weak water lines , using the water line data from @xcite .",
    "these data show a line density of @xmath14  3000 lines per @xmath2 in the 2  @xmath1 m region , potentially sufficient to obscure the contrast in the co transit spectrum .",
    "we scaled the strengths of all the water lines to the @xmath14 constant temperature above the cloud tops , and summed their scaled strengths in bins of 0.01  @xmath2 width .",
    "the total strength in each bin was then treated as a single pseudo - line , with lower state energy of zero .",
    "this treatment will be relatively accurate for the upper layers of hd209458b s atmosphere , because our bin size is comparable to the doppler width , and because the temperature in the @xcite model remains relatively constant at the greatest heights .",
    "the thermochemical equilibrium abundances of co and water were computed from the formulae given by @xcite .",
    "since water is likely to be depleted by photolysis at high altitudes @xcite , our assumption of equilibrium water abundance is conservative for the purpose of detecting co.    our tangent - path spectrum code does not attempt to modify the pressure - temperature relation from the stellar - facing to anti - stellar hemispheres .",
    "however , we include template spectra where we set the co mixing ratio to zero on the anti - stellar side , simulating the effect of a large temperature difference @xcite .",
    "we use a constant radial velocity along each line of sight .",
    "however , we do include the effect of planetary rotation , assumed to be tidal - locked solid - body rotation .",
    "we shift the spectrum in velocity corresponding to multiple azimuth points in the atmospheric annulus , and add these shifted spectra to produce a rotationally - broadened template .",
    "our tangent - path code has been checked in two ways .",
    "first , its ancestor code ( for normal incidence spectra ) was checked against independent calculations by sara  seager @xcite , and second , we compared the present calculations against selected individual co lines in the transit spectra computed by @xcite .",
    "figure  1 shows our template spectra , based on convolving the transit depths ( @xmath33 ) to the spectral resolution of nirspec .",
    "the difference in transit depth between the continuum and the strongest co lines is @xmath34 in the unconvolved ( 0.5 km sec@xmath35 resolution ) spectra .",
    "this reduces to @xmath36 at nirspec resolution .",
    "a first analysis of the data for the best night ( 26  august ) was done ( by tmb ) using the cross - correlation / singular - value - decomposition method described by @xcite . from this first look",
    ", tmb concluded that no co absorption could be detected in the spectra , to a limit @xmath37 times less than the expected amount .",
    "it was also evident that the data were of sufficient quality that the singular - value - decomposition formalism was no longer necessary .",
    "we have accordingly analyzed the full set of data using more conventional methods .",
    "our primary analysis uses linear least squares to correlate the data against the ensemble of lines in each template spectrum .",
    "we have also checked the least squares results using cross - correlation calculations .",
    "the data analysis consists of : 1 ) extraction of spectra from the raw spectral frames , 2 ) wavelength calibration and correction for telluric absorption to yield spectral residuals , 3 ) injection of fake signals into copies of the extracted spectra , to be analyzed in parallel with the real data , 4 ) evaluation of the noise level as a function of time , wavelength , and temporal frequency , 5 ) fitting the template spectrum to the residuals by linear least squares to estimate the amplitude of co absorption in each spectrum , and 6 ) fitting a transit curve to the co absorption amplitudes .      our choice to observe without nodding places stringent demands on the spectrum extraction procedure , because effects normally removed by nodding ( sky emission and some artifacts such as ` hot pixels ' ) have to be removed by numerical filters .",
    "we therefore performed spectrum extractions using a custom idl code , not the nirspec facility codes , and we describe this process in more detail than usual .",
    "for each spectral frame , we subtract a dark frame and divide by a flat - field frame .",
    "the flat - field frame is a pixel - by - pixel median of a series of continuum lamp exposures , each normalized to the same total intensity . for each spectral frame , we compute a pixel - by - pixel median of five frames centered on the given frame .",
    "we subtract the median frame from the given frame to form a difference frame . a two - stage ,",
    "1d median filter is applied to rows ( along the dispersion direction ) of the difference frame , with decreasing width and threshold .",
    "this removes energetic particle events and the most obvious hot pixels .",
    "in addition , we compute the pixel - by - pixel variance in the series of flat - field ( continuum lamp ) spectra , and we use these variances with an appropriate threshold to replace noisy pixels ( ` warm pixels ' ) in the difference frame .",
    "the filtered difference frame is then added back to the median frame to produce a cleaned version of the given frame .",
    "the curvature of each echelle order on the cleaned frame is determined by fitting a gaussian to the spatial profile of the star along the slit at each wavelength .",
    "a 4th order polynominal fit to the gaussian centroid positions defines the spatial center of the order as a slowly - varying function of wavelength .",
    "the spatial profile along the slit at each wavelength is then spline - interpolated to a common spatial grid to define the average spatial profile for each echelle order .",
    "this spatial profile is computed separately for each echelle order , but we found that it does not vary significantly with wavelength in a given order . the spatial profile is fit to the original data at each wavelength by linear least squares , with free parameters being amplitude and zero - point in intensity .",
    "the fitted amplitude is equivalent to the optimal spectrum value at that wavelength @xcite , and the background subtraction occurs automatically via the zero - point of the fit . in this process",
    ", we reject further warm pixels based on the residuals from the fit of the spatial profile to the data .",
    "our procedure ignores the tilt of the slit . in principle",
    "this can degrade the spectral resolution , but degradation in resolution is negligible for our data because each spectrum is narrow in spatial extent ( @xmath38 pixels  fwhm ) , and because the co absorption fortunately occurs in echelle orders where the tilt of the slit is minimal ( @xmath39 pixels in @xmath40 , per spatial pixel ) .",
    "we verified the resolution of the extracted spectra by fitting gaussian profiles to determine the widths of minimally - blended telluric lines , and we obtained good agreement with the nominal nirspec resolution .",
    "the extracted spectra are generally not coincident in wavelength .",
    "we therefore shift the spectra to make them coincident and apply a wavelength calibration to the average spectrum as follows .",
    "we begin by computing an order - by - order average of the non - coincident spectra .",
    "each order of a given spectrum is then spline - shifted in small increments ( 0.025 pixels ) and fitted to the average spectrum at each shift value by stretching in intensity using linear least squares . the rms difference in intensity",
    "is tabulated _ vs. _ shift , and a parabolic fit finds the ` best ' shift from the minimum rms difference .",
    "normalization in intensity uses a continuum fit .",
    "about 10 continuum windows are selected in each order , and the continuum is derived from a 4th order polynominal fit to the intensity of each spectrum in those windows .",
    "we divide the observed spectrum by the _ wavelength - integrated _ intensity under the continuum fit ( not a point - by - point division ) .",
    "we then fit the log of intensity to airmass at each wavelength using linear least squares and correct each spectrum , at each wavelength , to an airmass of unity .",
    "( for 19  august we make separate airmass corrections for the first and second halves of the night , since sky conditions changed . )",
    "the airmass corrections ranged in value from @xmath41 magnitudes per airmass for the best windows to @xmath42 in telluric lines .    if telluric absorption were strictly proportional to airmass , the spectra corrected as described above would vary only due to absorption by the planet during transit .",
    "however , fourier analysis of the intensities at each wavelength show power spectra whose amplitudes increase sharply for time intervals greater than @xmath14 15 minutes ( 2 cycles per hour ) .",
    "we denote this as ` 1/f ' noise ( without implying that the noise power is strictly proportional to the inverse of frequency ) .",
    "the 1/f noise is more pronounced near telluric water lines , but is evident to some degree virtually everywhere in the spectra .",
    "these ubiquitous slow variations in the terrestrial atmosphere can not be completely corrected using any proportional - to - airmass technique , and they are the limiting source of error in our analysis .",
    "fortunately , they are partially correlated between closely spaced wavelengths , so we can remove them to some degree using a high - pass digital filter . for a given wavelength @xmath40 ,",
    "we compute the average out - of - transit spectrum over the wavelength range @xmath43 to @xmath44 . where @xmath45 is 3  times the nirspec spectral resolution .",
    "we fit this short fiducial spectral segment to the corresponding portion of each individual spectrum , scaling it in intensity by using linear least squares .",
    "the difference between the best scaled fiducial segment and the real spectrum at wavelength @xmath40 and time @xmath46 is denoted as the residual intensity @xmath47 , in units of the stellar continuum .",
    "the @xmath47 are the fundamental data in which we search for real planetary co absorption during transit .",
    "the computation and fitting of the fiducial segment is repeated at each wavelength .",
    "the choice of @xmath45 equal to 3 nirspec resolution elements ( 9 pixels ) is optimal for removing telluric effects while passing real signal . this optimal value is selected by trial and error : we vary @xmath45 and monitor the magnitude of the remaining low frequency telluric variations , and the amplitude of the transit in data containing a fake transit signal .",
    "wavelength calibration is performed , order - by - order , using the average of the coincident and normalized spectra .",
    "( we do the actual calibration in frequency , not wavelength . )",
    "in each echelle order we choose about 12 minimally - blended telluric calibrating lines , and we fit parabolas to their profiles within one spectral resolution element of the intensity minimum .",
    "these fits to the line cores minimize contamination by line blends and define the precise pixel positions of the telluric calibrating lines . to relate the pixel positions to wavenumber",
    ", we use the digital version of the high - resolution solar spectral atlas @xcite .",
    "convolving this atlas to nirspec resolution , we perform the same parabolic fits as on the nirspec lines .",
    "this yields effective wavenumbers for the telluric calibrating lines at nirspec resolution .",
    "a quadratic fit of the pixel positions to the effective wavenumbers provides coefficients of the wavelength calibration .",
    "one can judge the precision of this calibration from the scatter in the fits of wavenumber to pixel position , which is 0.01 to 0.02  @xmath2 ( 0.18 to 0.35 pixels ) , depending on the echelle order .",
    "figure  2 shows the wavelength - calibrated spectrum in echelle order 33 , for 26  august 2002 ( compare to figure  1 of @xcite ) .",
    "all of the structure visible in figure  2 is either telluric absorption ( primarily methane ) , or instrumental effects ( fringing in nirspec ) .",
    "the fringing seen in our spectra is similar in period and amplitude to that seen by @xcite , but is more stable .",
    "the noise level @xmath48 is a function of time , wavelength , and temporal frequency .",
    "time dependence derives from the variation of signal strength with airmass , and general sky clarity , and wavelength dependence derives from the grating blaze function and the telluric line spectrum .",
    "the dependence on temporal frequency derives from the 1/f noise described above . at a given wavelength , we compute the variance of the @xmath47 residuals in two bandwidths , with time varying , by summing the power spectrum over the appropriate limits .",
    "we denote the standard deviations as @xmath49 and @xmath50 , where @xmath24 and @xmath51 denotes frequencies higher and lower than 2 cycles per hour , respectively . the square root of the quadratic sum of @xmath49 and @xmath50 is denoted @xmath52 , the total noise level in intensity at wavelength @xmath40 .",
    "@xmath52 is shown _ vs. _ wavelength in figure  3 for echelle order 33 , on 26  august , 2002 .",
    "the best wavelengths exhibit snr ( @xmath53  300 , but the noise level increases sharply near some telluric lines .",
    "we therefore reject some wavelengths from our analysis , based on the @xmath52 values .",
    "typically we mask out those wavelengths where @xmath52 exceeds 200% of a ` baseline ' noise level , obtained as the lower envelope of the @xmath52 values .",
    "the masked wavelengths are overplotted with diamond symbols on figure  3 , and they invariably correspond to wavelengths near telluric lines ( compare figures  2  &  3 ) .",
    "in addition to the @xmath52 values , we also have an estimate of how the noise varies from spectrum to spectrum , from the fits of individual spectra to the average spectrum , a by - product of making the spectra coincident in wavelength .",
    "we denote the average noise level of the spectrum at time @xmath46 as @xmath54 .",
    "we can therefore estimate the noise level expected for each pixel in each spectrum , in each bandwidth , @xmath55 , and @xmath56 , and the total over all frequencies @xmath48 , by assuming that the time and bandwidth variations are independent of @xmath40 ( an approximation ) , and requiring that the sum of @xmath57 equal @xmath58 for each @xmath40 , in each bandwidth , where @xmath59 is the number of spectra for that night .",
    "the best @xmath48 values are lower than the @xmath52 values shown in figure  3 , because @xmath52 includes spectra taken over all airmass values .",
    "our best spectra have peak signal levels per column of @xmath60 electrons , so we should reach the poisson electron statistical limit ( snr  @xmath14  380 ) for the best @xmath48 .",
    "the @xmath48 distribution has 63% of its snr values between 200 and 400 , with 26% having snr @xmath61 , and 11% with snr @xmath62 .",
    "this sharper cutoff at high snr is consistent with reaching the photon noise limit .",
    "there are two additional error sources in our spectra .",
    "first , there is the optical fringing with two distinct periods , noted by @xcite .",
    "both fringe systems are found in our data ; however , they are less time - variable than experienced by @xcite . some of this optical fringing is removed by the digital filter which produces the @xmath47 .",
    "however , fourier analysis of the @xmath47 data reveals that both fringe systems remain detectable . when the residual fringes amplitudes exceed 0.25 in the log of the average power spectrum per echelle order per night , fourier notch filters remove them .",
    "second , extra noise is ubiquitous near the nyquist frequency ( 0.5 cycles per pixel ) in the power spectra of the @xmath47 with @xmath40 varying .",
    "this probably derives from the array detector electronics .",
    "we remove it prior to the digital filter step by zeroing the nyquist frequency in the fourier spectrum .",
    "figure  4 presents the stacked , wavelength - coincident spectra and the @xmath47 values for echelle order 33 on 26 august 2002 , as false color images .",
    "a complete understanding of the errors requires comparing the distribution of @xmath47 to a normal error curve , and also examining whether the noise power per unit bandwidth is constant ( white noise ) .",
    "although the error level varies with time and wavelength , the ratio of the individual residual values to their expected error , @xmath63 , should approach a gaussian error distribution , with a standard deviation of unity .",
    "figure  5 ( upper panel ) shows this distribution totaled over all 3 nights and all 3 echelle orders , on a log scale . within @xmath64",
    "this distribution is very close to the gaussian error curve .",
    "however , the data exhibit an excess of points in the wings beyond @xmath65 .",
    "specifically , 0.5% of the @xmath66 points lie beyond @xmath64 , and 0.05% are beyond @xmath67 .",
    "a gaussian distribution predicts 0.27% and 0.006% beyond @xmath64 and @xmath67 respectively . using a monte - carlo simulation",
    ", we verified that the number of excess points in the wings of the data distribution are not sufficient to have a significant impact on our results , nor to affect our error analysis significantly , particularly since they are uncorrelated with transit phase .",
    "a more serious problem is the fact that the noise power per unit bandwidth is not constant , i.e. the 1/f character previously mentioned .",
    "we compute the power spectrum of each @xmath47 series , with @xmath46 varying , using a lomb - scargle algorithm @xcite .",
    "the average of these power spectra for all @xmath40 over all three nights is shown as the lower panel of figure  5 .",
    "the sharp increase in noise power below @xmath14  2 cycles per night is quite evident ; this increased noise at low frequencies would be about 2 times worse ( 0.3 in the log ) without the digital filter technique described above .      in order to verify that our analysis is sensitive to the low levels of absorption expected in transit spectra , we have injected fake signals into the data and recovered them with our analysis procedures",
    "the first fake signal is generated from the co template spectrum of the fiducial model ( figure  1 , solid line ) , doppler shifted into the frame of the planet , and convolved to nirspec spectral resolution .",
    "we adopted a heliocentric radial velocity for the system of @xmath68 km sec@xmath35 @xcite , and a planetary orbital velocity amplitude of 142  km  sec@xmath35 .",
    "the orbital period and transit times are very precisely known @xcite , and we corrected for the earth s orbital motion , both in radial velocity and light travel time .",
    "a second fake signal is generated using the co+water template spectrum ( figure  1 , dotted line ) , and similarly transformed to the frame of the planet .",
    "we injected the fake signals into the data after the wavelength calibration , but before the digital filter and fringe removal .",
    "we therefore analyze three sets of data in parallel : the real data , and two copies of the real data with injected fake signals .",
    "each of these data sets is analyzed against a grid of template spectra , where we offset the temperature in the model atmosphere , and vary the cloud height . in some cases we also set the co mixing ratio to zero on the anti - stellar hemisphere of the planet , to simulate the worst - case effect of a large diurnal temperature difference .",
    "our spectra contain significant information concerning the spectrum of the star , i.e. hd209458a .",
    "two aspects of the stellar spectrum are relevant to the transit analysis .",
    "first , we have searched for stellar co absorption . in the solar spectrum ,",
    "the first overtone co features are relatively prominent , having line depths , when convolved to nirspec resolution , of @xmath69% .",
    "stellar lines are removed by the procedures that compute the @xmath47 residuals , so we have to identify them prior to removal of telluric lines . also , stellar lines are not significantly modulated by the transit . hence , they are somewhat difficult to detect",
    ". we therefore overlaid and averaged 26 lines of stellar co lying in good telluric transmission windows .",
    "we see no evidence of a co signature in the stacked spectra , with the confusion limit being determined by the telluric background at the @xmath70% level .",
    "co lines of solar strength would be easily seen ( @xmath71 ) , but hd209458a shows no detectable co features .",
    "we considered whether the system might be lacking in carbon and/or oxygen , but the star has normal metallicity @xcite , and 2- to 3@xmath4 evidence for both carbon and oxygen is seen in the planet s uv transit spectrum @xcite .",
    "it is more likely that the non - appearance of stellar co is related to the temperature of hd209458a , which is slightly hotter than the sun @xcite .",
    "although stellar co is not detected in our spectra , we do detect the few stellar atomic lines that are expected .",
    "we used 5 atomic lines to derive the star s radial velocity .",
    "we identified the lines using the @xcite solar atlas , and fit parabolas to their line cores in both our keck spectra and the solar atlas convolved to nirspec resolution . on this basis",
    "we derive a heliocentric radial velocity for the system of @xmath72 km sec@xmath35 , agreeing with the more precise @xcite value , within our error .",
    "this serves as an independent check on our velocity transformation between the planet frame and the heliocentric frame .      for each observed spectrum ( at time @xmath46 )",
    ", we determine the degree to which the template transit spectrum ( @xmath33 ) is present in the @xmath47 values .",
    "we doppler shift the template spectrum to the frame of the planet , convolve it to nirspec resolution ( see above ) , and filter it exactly as we filter the data .",
    "this transformed and filtered template spectrum ( @xmath73 ) is used as the independent variable , with the @xmath47 values as the dependent variable , in a linear regression at each @xmath46 :    @xmath74    where @xmath75 is a zero - point constant having no significance , and @xmath76 is the statistical best - estimate of the amplitude of the template transit spectrum in the @xmath47 at that time ( this treatment follows @xcite ) .",
    "if the template spectrum is an exact description of the planet s transit spectrum , then the @xmath76 will lie on a transit curve which is zero out of transit and dips to -1 during transit ( the negative sign denotes absorption , the @xmath33 being proportional to the blocking area ) . as an added dimension to this calculation , we vary the assumed heliocentric radial velocity of the hd209458 center of mass , by up to @xmath77 km sec@xmath35 ( @xmath78 pixels ) , and we tabulate @xmath76 for each @xmath79 . since line structure in the template corresponds to entirely different pixels in the data as @xmath79 is varied significantly , this added dimension serves to check the errors and significance of our results .    for the 26  august data , our first 80 spectra showed particularly troublesome uncontrolled grating motion .",
    "we found a systematic error in results based on these data , evident as a correlation between the spectrum shift and the @xmath76 .",
    "these 80 spectra were all taken prior to the start of transit . since this portion of the transit curve",
    "is adequately sampled by other nights , we have deleted the first 80 spectra taken on 26  august from our analysis , as noted in sec .  2 .",
    "we input the @xmath48 , @xmath56 , and @xmath55 values to the least squares fits in order to estimate the errors in the @xmath76 over the corresponding bandwidths , denoted @xmath80 , @xmath81 , and @xmath82 .",
    "the @xmath80 are typically as large , or larger , than the amplitude itself ( snr@xmath83  1 ) .",
    "nevertheless , the linearity of the analysis preserves the fidelity of the signal when the amplitudes from 1077 spectra are considered , and the expected snr on the transit curve becomes sufficient to expect detection of co absorption .    fitting a theoretical transit curve to the @xmath76 _ vs. _ time implicitly involves averaging them .",
    "this requires proper accounting for the errors as a function of frequency .",
    "for example , spectra taken in quick succession will produce an average @xmath76 whose high frequency error of the mean decreases as the inverse square root of their number . but",
    "averaging spectra over brief intervals will not similarly reduce the low frequency errors , which can be correlated over short times .",
    "we are not aware of any rigorous methodology for treating non - white quasi - gaussian errors in data analysis .",
    "we therefore implement the approach of approximating the full fourier spectrum by two frequency bands , above and below 2 cycles per hour .",
    "we average the @xmath76 for each night in 15-minute bins ( 0.003 in phase ) . within a given bin on a given night ,",
    "the high frequency errors apply , and the low frequency errors apply when comparing one bin to another .",
    "the binning involves a weighted average : within bin @xmath84 on night @xmath85 the @xmath76 are weighted by the inverse square of their @xmath82 .",
    "the error associated with the average of bin @xmath84 on night @xmath85 is given as :    @xmath86    where the sum extends over the @xmath59 amplitudes in bin @xmath87 and @xmath81 is the typical low frequency error common to all points in the bin ( the low frequency errors do not vary strongly within each @xmath87 bin ) .",
    "eq.(2 ) is easily derived from first principles , and we have verified it using numerical simulations . a grand average amplitude at phase @xmath84 results from combining bins at all @xmath85 ( all nights ) , weighting the @xmath87 bin averages by the inverse square of @xmath88 .",
    "we similarly combine the @xmath88 to yield the error for the grand average amplitude at phase @xmath84 .",
    "we fit a theoretical transit curve to the grand average amplitudes and their errors .",
    "the shape of the theoretical transit curve is generated by numerically simulating the passage of the planet across a limb - darkened star , and the depth is normalized to unity , to be consistent with the amplitude retrievals ( see above ) .",
    "the stellar and planet parameters were adopted from @xcite , and the stellar limb - darkening at 2  @xmath1 m was taken from the solar observations of @xcite .",
    "figure  6 plots the retrieved co amplitudes , @xmath76 , for the fiducial model _",
    "vs. _ phase .",
    "the 1077 individual @xmath76 are shown in the top panel , with error bars supressed for clarity , but with different colors used for the three nights .",
    "the middle panel shows the grand average amplitudes binned over phase ( bin width = 0.003 ) , with error bars added . to clarify our sign conventions , recall that points with negative amplitudes denote absorption .",
    "we fit a transit curve dipping to negative values during transit , so the fit of a negative curve to negative co amplitudes should retrieve a positive depth ( + 1.0 if the fiducial model is correct ) .",
    "the transit curve is fit to the binned amplitudes in the middle panel , giving a depth of @xmath89 in model units , i.e. no evidence of co absorption matching our template spectrum during transit .",
    "the solid line shows this best fit .",
    "the square root of the reduced chi - squared of the fit , @xmath90 , where @xmath91 is the number of degrees of freedom .",
    "hence , the scatter in the binned amplitudes is somewhat greater than the error bars , which result from propagating the error in the @xmath47 values consistently through our linear analysis .",
    "the dashed red line in the middle panel shows a transit amplitude of unity , which is obviously incompatible with the data .",
    "the lower panel of figure  6 shows the binned fake data with transit curve fit .",
    "our analysis recovers 82% of the input signal , with a least squares best fit transit depth of @xmath92 ; this transit is shown as the solid red line .",
    "note that only the relative depth of the transit curve is significant in these fits : the zero point displacement in amplitude units has no significance .",
    "the 1/f noise in the @xmath47 produces a noticeable signature on figure 6 .",
    "slow variations are evident in the top panel , giving the points in each color a quasi - patterned appearance .",
    "these variations ultimately derive from the variability of the terrestrial atmosphere . to investigate the error and significance of our result further ,",
    "figure  7 shows the depth of the best fit transit curve _ vs. _ the heliocentric @xmath79 of the hd209458 center of mass ( re - doing the analysis of the @xmath47 for each assumed @xmath79 ) .",
    "the dispersion of the waveform shown on figure  7 should be the same as the average error associated with the transit curve depth ( @xmath93 ) .",
    "the figure  7 dispersion is 0.22 ; if we use this more conservative value as the error in transit curve depth , and considering the 82% efficiency of recovering the fake signal , the fiducial model is rejected at @xmath94 significance .",
    "the dashed line on figure  7 shows the result from the fake co signal , which is clearly detected at the correct @xmath79 of the system .",
    "our grid of template spectra provides several ways to explore physical reasons for the non - appearance of a co transit .",
    "for example , we hypothesize a large temperature difference between the stellar - facing and anti - stellar hemispheres of the planet , with co being absent on the anti - stellar side . as the template lines weaken , the error level increases , because the same data are being fit to smaller contrast in the template . when the error envelope , to some specified level of significance , expands to include a transit depth of 0.82 ( the fake signal recovery level ) , that particular template spectrum can no longer be rejected .",
    "setting the co mixing ratio to zero on the anti - stellar side of the fiducial model produces a best fit transit depth of @xmath95 , with the figure  7 dispersion increasing to 0.25 . this case",
    "is rejected at greater than @xmath64 significance , so removal of co on the anti - stellar hemisphere has only a small effect on our results .",
    "the effect is small because the strong co lines in the template are saturated .",
    "other physical effects that could account for our result are high clouds , or decreased temperature in the upper atmosphere of the planet .",
    "we have repeated our analysis over our entire grid of template spectra .",
    "none of the templates gives a significant detection of a co transit .",
    "we compute the maximum cloud top pressure consistent with this null detection for each @xmath19 , by interpolating to find where the error envelope allows a transit depth of 0.82 ( the fake signal transit depth ) .",
    "we take the size of the error envelope to be three times the formal error in transit depth ( as in figure  6 fits ) , or the maximum excursion in transit depth _ vs. _",
    "@xmath79 ( as in figure  7 ) , whichever is greater .",
    "the maximum cloud top pressure is plotted _ vs. _ the @xmath19 added to the temperature profile in figure  8 .",
    "a separate relation is shown for the case when co is absent on the anti - stellar hemisphere .",
    "investigators who wish to make their own evaluation of models should use the criterion that the strong 2 - 0 r - branch lines between 4320 and 4330 @xmath2 have",
    "depths during transit less than 1.6 parts in @xmath3 in units of the stellar continuum ( 3@xmath4 limit ) , at a spectral resolving power of 25,000 .",
    "this observational criterion is weakly model - dependent because we derive it using a template spectrum ( figure  1 ) wherein the relative strengths of the co lines vary slightly with temperature .",
    "water absorption has been included in one version of our model template ( figure  1 , dotted line ) , and carried through our analysis as a second fake signal . to verify that water does not mask the presence of co in our analysis",
    ", we first analyze the co+water fake signal using the template containing only co. this analysis yields a transit depth of @xmath96 .",
    "this is less than the @xmath97 depth recovered from the co - only fake signal , albeit the same within the errors . nevertheless , to guarantee maximum sensitivity to co in the presence of water lines , we have analyzed the data with a full grid of co+water templates .",
    "the co+water template in the fiducial model recovers the fake co+water signal with essentially the same efficiency ( 80% ) that the co - only template recovers the co - only fake signal ( 82% ) .",
    "we have verified that our results ( i.e. , figure  8) do not change significantly when the data are analyzed using the co+water template grid .",
    "our upper limit for co is similar to the sodium detection @xcite , in the sense that absorption from both na and co is significantly weaker than predicted by a fiducial model with cloud tops at 0.1/e bars ( = 37 mbar ) .",
    "several published explanations for the weakness of sodium invoke some relatively specific mechanism that would not necessarily apply to co ( e.g. , @xcite ) .",
    "our upper limit is interesting because fewer explanations can account for the weakness of both species .",
    "one of these viable explanations is the presence of high clouds . to be strictly consistent in comparing with the @xcite interpretation of their sodium observations",
    ", we must refer to the highest temperature on figure  8 , @xmath98k .",
    "@xcite followed @xcite in using an early version of the @xcite model that has @xmath99k in the upper layers , 200 kelvins hotter than is the model published by @xcite . at @xmath100k ,",
    "our results require a maximum cloud top pressure of 3.3  mbar ( figure  8) .",
    "using the @xcite model without perturbation increases this to 5.7  mbar .",
    "clouds occur at pressures as low as 1  mbar in some models .",
    "not only do they reproduce the sodium result , they are helpful in accounting for the relatively large radius of the planet @xcite . however , the high forsterite cloud discussed by @xcite is comprised of small particles ( @xmath101 m ) , whose visible opacity is dominated by scattering . at the much longer wavelength of the co bands ,",
    "scattering opacity by submicron particles will be greatly reduced ( an issue discused by @xcite ) , and such clouds may not suffice to explain our co result . indeed ,",
    "@xcite show a spectrum ( their figure  1 ) based on data from @xcite , that illustrates weakened sodium , but still shows prominent co features .",
    "cooler atmospheres would allow the ir - opaque cloud tops to occur at higher pressures ( figure  8) , and might prove easier to reconcile with our results .",
    "note that a cooler atmosphere for hd209458b could also explain the non - detection of a 2  @xmath1 m continuum peak by @xcite .",
    "it is interesting to note that even very cool temperatures for hd209458b still require opaque clouds at pressures much less ( i.e. , greater geometric heights ) than the point where a cloudless atmosphere becomes opaque in the tangent geometry .",
    "for example , figure  8 requires cloud tops above 100 mbar even for a model 500k cooler than the @xcite model .",
    "as we decrease the temperature in the @xcite model , the mixing ratio of co becomes negligible at the greatest heights , but a significant transit signature should persist from co at higher pressures .",
    "our null result therefore requires that clouds exist at an observable level in the atmosphere of hd209458b , unless this planet is dramatically colder than current belief .",
    "we have considered alternative interpretations of our result .",
    "since the observed spectral resolution is high , a stringent requirement is that the line wavelengths be accurate .",
    "fortunately , errors in line wavelengths are unlikely to be significant to our analysis .",
    "we inspected the much higher - resolution solar atlas @xcite , and were able to confirm wavelengths even for lines of insignificant importance to our template .",
    "for example , in the solar spectrum we find the 7 - 5  r(59 ) transition at 4083.797  @xmath2 , _ vs. _ 4083.793  @xmath2 in our template @xcite .",
    "we also consider the possibility that the absorbing levels of co are depopulated high in the planetary atmosphere , i.e. , not in local thermodynamic equilibrium ( lte ) .",
    "note that departures from lte are only significant as they affect the lower state of the absorbing transition ; transit spectroscopy is insensitive to the upper state population .",
    "the strongest co lines in our template are the p and r branches of the 2 - 0 and 3 - 1 bands , so it suffices for the @xmath102 level to be in lte for our analysis to be valid .",
    "@xcite discuss the radiative and co - h@xmath32 collisional rates for @xmath102 to @xmath103 relaxation .",
    "using their landau - teller parameters for h@xmath32 collisions , we calculate that the @xmath102 to @xmath103 collisional and radiative rates become comparable at 1  mbar",
    ". therefore departures from lte can not solely explain our result , which requires weakening of co at tens of mbar , where collisional rates dominate .",
    "we thank the keck support staff , particularly randy campbell and grant hill , for assistance with nirspec , and we thank dave sudarsky and adam burrows for providing the temperature / pressure profile of hd209458b .",
    "sara seager made comments which improved this paper significantly .",
    "portions of this work were supported by nasa s origins of solar systems program .",
    "the authors wish to recognize and acknowledge the very significant cultural role and reverence that the summit of mauna kea has always had within the indigenous hawaiian community .",
    "we are most fortunate to have the opportunity to conduct observations from this mountain .",
    "alonso , r. , brown , t. m. , torres , g. , latham , d. w. , sozzetti , a. , mandushev , g. , belmonte , j. a. , charbonneau , d. , deeg , h. j. , dunham , e. w. , odonovan , f. t. , & stefanik , r. p. 2004",
    ", , 614 , l153 ayres , t. r. , & wiedemann , g. r. 1989 , , 338 , 1033 barman , t. s. , hauschildt , p. h. , schweitzer , a. , stancil , p. c. , baron , e. , & allard , f. 2002 , , 569 , l51 borysow , a. 2002 , , 390 , 779 bouchy , f. , pont , f. , santos , n. c. , melo , c. , mayor , m. , queloz , d. , & udry , s. 2004 , , 421 , l13 brown , t. m. 2001 , , 553 , 1006 brown , t. m. , charbonneau , d. , gilliland , r. l. , noyes , r. w. , & burrows , a. 2001 , , 552 , 699 brown , t. m. , libbrecht , k. g. , & charbonneau , d. 2002 , , 114 , 826 burrows , a. , sudarsky , d. & hubbard , w. b. 2003 , , 594 , 545 burrows , a. , sudarsky , d. , & hubeny , i. 2004 , in _ the search for other worlds _ , eds",
    ". s. holt & d. deming , aip conference series , ( melville , new york : american institute of physics ) , p. 143 .",
    "burrows , a. , & sharp , c. m. 1999 , , 512 , 843 charbonneau , d. , brown , t. m. , latham , d. w. , & mayor , m. 2000 , , 529 , l45 charbonneau , d. , brown , t. m. , noyes , r. w. , & gilliland , r. l. 2002 , , 568 , 377 charbonneau , d. , brown , t. m. , gilliland , r. l. , & noyes , r. w. 2003 , paper presented at _ the search for other worlds _ , eds . s. holt & d. deming , aip conference series , ( melville , new york : ameican institute of physics ) .",
    "fortney , j. j. , sudarsky , d. , hubeny , i. , cooper , c. s. , hubbard , w. b. , burrows , a. , & lunine , j. 2003 , , 589 , 615 goorvitch , d. 1994 , , 95 , 535 harrington , j. , deming , d. , goukenleuque , c. , matthews , k. , richardson , l. j. , steyert , d. , wiedemann , g. , & zeehandelaar , d. 2003 , in _ scientific frontiers in research on extrasolar planets , _ eds .",
    "d. deming & s. seager , asp conference series vol .",
    "294 , ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 471 henry , g. w. , marcy , g. w. , butler , r. p. , & vogt , s. s. 2000 , , 529 , l41 horne , k. 1986 , pasp , 98 , 609 hubbard , w. b. , fortney , j. j. , lunine , j. i. , burrows , a. , sudarsky , d. , & pinto , p. 2001",
    ", , 560 , 413 hui , l. & seager , s. 2002 , , 572 , 540 jorgensen , u. g. , hammer , d. , borysow , a. , & falkgesgaard , j. 2000 , , 361 , 283 konacki , m. , torres , g. , jha , s. , & sasselov , d. d. 2003 , nature , 421 , 507 konacki , m. , torres , g. , sasselov , d. d. , pietrzynski , g. , udalski , a. , jha , s. , ruiz , m. t. , gieren , w. , & minniti , d. 2004 , , 609 , l37 lammer , h. , selsis , f. , ribas , i. , guinan , e. f. , bauer , s. j. , & weiss , w. w. 2003 , , 598 , l121 liang , m .- c . , parkinson , c. d. , lee , a. y .- t .",
    ", yung , y. l. , & seager , s. 2003 , , 596 , l247 livingston , l. w. , & wallace , l. 1991 , an atlas of the solar spectrum in the infrared from 1850 to 9000 @xmath2 ( 1.1 to 5.4 microns ) , nso technical report # 91 - 001 ( tucson : national solar observatory ) marcy , g. w. , butler , r. p. , fischer , d. a. , & vogt , s. s. 2003 , in _ scientific frontiers in research on extrasolar planets _ , eds .",
    "d. deming & s. seager , asp conference series vol .",
    "294 , ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 1 mazeh , t. , and 19 co - authors , 2000 , , 532 , l55 mclean , i. s. , et al . proc .",
    "spie , 3354 , 566 nidever , d. l. , marcy , g. w. , butler , r. p. , & vogt , s. s. 2002 , , 141 , 503 noll , k. s. , geballe , t. r. , & marley , m. s. 1997 , , 489 , l87 partridge , h. & schwenke , d. w. 1997 , j. chem .",
    "106 , 4618 pierce , a. k. , mcmath , r. r. , goldberg , l. , & mohler , o. c. 1950 , , 112 , 289 pont , f. , bouchy , f. , queloz , d. , santos , n. , melo , c. , mayor , m. , & udry , s. 2004 , , in press , astro - ph/0408499 press , w. h. , teukolsky , s. a. , vetterling , w. t. , & flannery , b. p. 1994 , _ numerical recipes in c _ , ( cambridge : cambridge university press ) ribas , i. , solano , e. , masana , e. , & gimenez , a. 2003 , , 411 , l501 richardson , l. j. , deming , d. , wiedemann , g. , goukenleuque , c. , steyert , d. , harrington , j. , & esposito , l. w. 2003a , , 584 , 1053 richardson , l. j. , deming , d. , & seager , s. 2003b , , 597 , 581 sudarsky , d. , burrows , a. , & hubeny , i. 2003 , , 588 , 1121 seager , s. & sasselov , d. d. 2000 , , 537 , 916 seager , s. 2003 , in _ scientific frontiers in research on extrasolar planets _ ,",
    "d. deming & s. seager , asp conference series vol . 294 , ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 457 schultz , a. b. , kochte , m. , kinzel , w. , hamilton , f. , jordan , i. , henry , g. , vogt , s. , bruhweiler , f. , storrs , a. , hart , h. m. , bennum , d. , rassuchine , j. , rodrigue , m. , hamilton , d. p. , welsh , w. f. , wittenmeyer , r. , & taylor , d. c. 2003 , in _ scientific frontiers in research on extrasolar planets _ , eds .",
    "d. deming & s. seager , asp conference series vol .",
    "294 , ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 479 showman , a. p. , & guillot , t. 2002 , , 385 , 166 vidal - madjar , a. , lecavelier des etangs , a. , desert , j .- m . ,",
    "ballester , g. e. , ferlet , r. , hebrard , g. , & mayor , m. 2003 , nature , 422 , 143 vidal - madjar , a. , desert , j .- m . , lecavelier des etangs , a. , hebrard , g. , ballester , g. e. , ehrenreich , d. , ferlet , r. , mcconnell , j. c. , mayor , m. , & parkinson , c. d. 2004 , , 604 , l69 wiedemann , g. r. , deming , d. , & bjoraker , g. 2001 , , 546 , 1068 wittenmeyer , r. a. , welsh , w. f. , & orosz , j. a. 2002 , baas , 201 , 46.11"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have revisited the search for carbon monoxide absorption features in transmission during the transit of the extrasolar planet hd209458b . in august - september 2002 </S>",
    "<S> we acquired a total of 1077 high resolution spectra ( @xmath0 ) in the k - band ( 2 @xmath1 m ) wavelength region using nirspec on the keck  ii telescope during three transits . </S>",
    "<S> these data are more numerous and of better quality than the data analyzed in an initial search by @xcite our analysis achieves a sensitivity sufficient to test the degree of co absorption in the first overtone bands during transit , based on plausible models of the planetary atmosphere . </S>",
    "<S> we analyze our observations by comparison to theoretical tangent geometry absorption spectra , computed by adding height - invariant _ ad hoc _ temperature pertubations to the model atmosphere of @xcite , and by treating cloud height as an adjustable parameter . </S>",
    "<S> we do not detect co absorption . </S>",
    "<S> the strong 2 - 0 r - branch lines between 4320 and 4330 @xmath2 have depths during transit less than 1.6 parts in @xmath3 in units of the stellar continuum ( 3@xmath4 limit ) , at a spectral resolving power of 25,000 . </S>",
    "<S> our analysis indicates a weakening similar to the case of sodium , suggesting that a general masking mechanism is at work in the planetary atmosphere . under the interpretation that this masking is provided by high clouds , </S>",
    "<S> our analysis defines the maximum cloud top pressure ( i.e. , minimum height ) as a function of the model atmospheric temperature . for the relatively hot model used by @xcite to interpret their sodium detection </S>",
    "<S> , our co limit requires cloud tops at or above 3.3 mbar , and these clouds must be opaque at a wavelength of 2 @xmath1 m . </S>",
    "<S> high clouds comprised of submicron - sized particles are already present in some models , but may not provide sufficient opacity to account for our co result . </S>",
    "<S> cooler model atmospheres , having smaller atmospheric scale heights and lower co mixing ratios , may alleviate this problem to some extent . however , even models @xmath5k cooler that the @xcite model require clouds above the 100 mbar level to be consistent with our observations . </S>",
    "<S> our null result therefore requires that clouds exist at an observable level in the atmosphere of hd209458b , unless this planet is dramatically colder than current belief . </S>"
  ]
}