{
  "article_text": [
    "luminous supersoft x - ray sources ( sss ) have been established as a new and distinct class of objects which are observationally distinguished by their very soft x - ray spectra with temperatures on the order of 30ev and luminosities of @xmath0ergs@xmath1 ( for recent reviews see kahabka & van den heuvel 1997 ; van teeseling 1998 ) .",
    "several sss have been identified as accreting close binaries with orbital periods of @xmath2 1 day or less .",
    "the most popular interpretation of these systems involves a white dwarf which accretes matter via roche - lobe overflow and an accretion disk at a rate of @xmath3/yr , sufficient to permit stable quasi - steady nuclear shell - burning in the surface layers of the white dwarf , either because of thermal timescale mass transfer from a more massive ( slightly evolved ) main sequence companion ( van den heuvel et al .",
    "1992 ) or because of wind - driven mass transfer from a low - mass irradiated companion ( van teeseling & king 1998 ) .",
    "the luminous transient soft x - ray source rxj0513.96951 ( henceforth rxj0513 ) discovered in the rosat all - sky survey ( schaeidt et al . 1993 ) has been optically identified as a high mass - transfer accreting binary system in the lmc ( cowley et al .",
    "1993 ; pakull et al .",
    "1993 ) with an orbital period of 0.76 days ( crampton et al .",
    "optical monitoring has revealed that rxj0513  undergoes recurrent low states at quasi - regular intervals , in which the optical brightness drops by @xmath2 1 magnitude ( reinsch et al .",
    "1996 ; southwell et al .",
    "the optical low - states are accompanied by a turn - on of the system in the soft x - ray range ( reinsch et al .",
    "1996 ; schaeidt 1996 ) .",
    "the optical low states last for @xmath2 40 days and repeat about every 140180 days .",
    "such short time scales can not be explained by the limit - cycle behaviour sketched by van den heuvel et al .",
    "( 1992 ) or by recurrent burning models ( fujimoto 1982 ) . within the framework of a shell - burning white",
    "dwarf an alternative explanation has been suggested by pakull et al .",
    "( 1993 ) : the rather sudden changes in the soft x - ray flux are the result of the direct response of the white dwarf to slight changes in the mass transfer rate . on the horizontal shell - burning branch ,",
    "a small increase of the accretion rate may significantly affect the effective radius of the white dwarf envelope ( kato 1985 ) .",
    "an increase of the photospheric radius by e.g. a factor of 4 implies that the effective temperature drops by a factor of 2 . given the extreme sensitivity of the rosat pspc and hri count rates on temperature , this in turn",
    "implies that the source may become undetectable although the bolometric luminosity remains roughly the same ( e.g. heise et al .",
    "1994 ) . in this model of an expanding and contracting envelope the sudden drop of the optical flux ,",
    "the colour variation , and the temporarily increased soft x - ray flux can be quantitatively described by variations in the effective temperature of the hot central star and variations in the irradiation of the accretion disk ( reinsch et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "this model is supported by an independent estimate of the neutral hydrogen column density obtained with recent hst uv spectroscopy which constrains the x - ray luminosity during the on - state of rxj0513  to @xmath4ergs@xmath1 , i.e. somewhat below the eddington limit , and confirms that the radius of the soft x - ray source is consistent with the radius of a non - expanded white dwarf ( gnsicke et al .",
    "in order to obtain tight limits for the temporal development of the radius and the effective temperature of the photosphere , we have monitored rxj0513  with the rosat hri detector at intervals of about two days covering one complete x - ray outburst cycle ( fig . [ hri_opt ] , upper part ) .",
    "the source remained undetectable during the x - ray off state and showed a sudden increase of the soft x - ray flux by a factor of @xmath5 at the end of august 1997 , reaching maximum flux after @xmath2 5 days .",
    "the x - ray outburst lasted @xmath2 40 days and ended with a steep flux decline by again a factor of @xmath5 to non - detectability within 2 days .",
    "the slow flux variation during the x - ray outburst can be approximated by an exponential decline with a time constant of @xmath6days .",
    "detailed light curves of several optical low states are available from regular monitoring of rxj0513  as a serendipitous source on ccd images taken for the macho project ( southwell et al .",
    "1996 ) . in fig .",
    "[ hri_opt ] ( lower part ) the light curves of different observed optical minima are shifted in time such that the onset of the optical decline occurs at @xmath7 .",
    "macho data obtained quasi - simultaneously with our hri monitoring indicate that the steep onset of the x - ray outburst occurred within 12 days after the beginning of the optical decline ( w. sutherland , private communication ) .    the shape of the optical low states repeats fairly well with an uncertainty of some 5 days in the duration of the low state .",
    "within this uncertainty , its length coincides with the duration of the x - ray outburst .",
    "both , the x - ray and the optical light curves show a similar small flux gradient before the final fast transition to the x - ray off/ optical high state occurs .",
    "to test whether the model of a contracting and expanding white dwarf can quantitatively explain both the x - ray light curve and the dips in the optical light curve we have calculated a predicted optical light curve from our x - ray data .",
    "first we used lte white dwarf model atmosphere spectra ( van teeseling et al .",
    "1994 ) to determine the photospheric radius as a function of the hri count rate , where we assumed a distance of 50kpc , a bolometric luminosity of @xmath8ergs@xmath1 , and an absorption column of @xmath9@xmath10 ( gnsicke et al .",
    "then we used the binary light curve code binary++ ( van teeseling et al .",
    "1998 ) to calculate the orbital average optical magnitude as a function of the photospheric radius @xmath11 of the white dwarf . since this code self - consistently calculates the amount of irradiation from an extended white dwarf on the accretion disk and companion , including all possible shielding effects , this calculation is more accurate than the semi - analytic approach we used in reinsch et al .",
    "( 1996 ) and allows us to investigate how the results depend on the various parameters .",
    "we assume a mass ratio of @xmath12 , an orbital separation @xmath13 cm as appropriate for a quasi - main - sequence donor star and an orbital period @xmath14days , an orbital inclination of @xmath15 , a disk filling 80% of the average roche - lobe radius , a uniform irradiation reprocessing efficiency of @xmath16 , a secondary temperature of @xmath17k , and an accretion rate of @xmath18 .",
    "figure  [ mvradius ] shows the resulting total absolute @xmath19 magnitude as a function of @xmath11 , and individual magnitudes of the disk , the companion star and the white dwarf . for @xmath20 or ,",
    "the expanded white dwarf is the dominant optical light source . with increasing @xmath11",
    "the disk first becomes brighter because of more effective irradiation , but becomes fainter again for @xmath21 cm because an increasing part of the inner disk disappears inside the white dwarf envelope .    in figure  [ hri_opt ]",
    ", we have plotted the predicted optical light curve over the combined macho light curve . for data points with only an upper limit for the x - ray count rate ,",
    "we assume a radius @xmath22 cm , which correctly reproduces the amplitude of the dip in the macho light curve . the @xmath23 x - ray upper limit of 0.00014 cts / s for the x - ray off state requires a radius of @xmath24 cm ( using @xmath25ergs@xmath1 , @xmath26k , @xmath27@xmath10 ) during the optical bright state .",
    "our calculations show that it is relatively easy to reproduce the observed optical dips from the x - ray data , with the correct amplitude and surprisingly accurate absolute magnitudes .",
    "it also illustrates that when the x - rays become detectable , the white dwarf photosphere has almost reached its minimum size and the optical light curve has almost reached the level of the faint phase plateau .",
    "the difference between the observed and predicted optical light curve immediately after the optical decline could be explained by the initial lack of an optically thick inner disk after the white dwarf envelope has contracted to its minimal proportions .",
    "the x - ray and optical light curves of rxj0513  suggest that the system follows a kind of a limit cycle behaviour with four typical time - scales : the @xmath2140 days of the optical high/ x - ray off state , the rapid transition ( @xmath284 days ) to the x - ray on/ optical low state , the @xmath230 days duration of this state , and , again , the rapid transition ( @xmath282 days ) to the optical high/ x - ray off state .",
    "we propose here that this behaviour results from expansion of the white dwarf photosphere in response to enhanced accretion onto the white dwarf , together with the reaction of the disk to increased irradiation by this expanded photosphere while the mass transfer from the companion star remains constant . at the ( arbitrary ) start of the cycle ( fig .",
    "[ scenario](d ) ) , let us assume we have an accretion disk supplying matter to a white dwarf with its non - expanded radius @xmath29  cm . because the mass supply rate is close to the eddington critical accretion rate @xmath30 ( fujimoto 1982 ; kato 1985 ) , the white dwarf radius begins to expand ( fig .",
    "[ scenario ] ( d)(e ) ) , as explained in sect . 2 above .",
    "this will , in turn , influence the disk temperature .",
    "an extended central source with radius @xmath31 , where @xmath32 is the scale height of the disk , produces a surface temperature @xmath33 at disk radius @xmath34 in an optically thick disk ( e.g. adams et al .",
    "1988 ) given by @xmath35 .",
    "\\label{eq : tex}\\ ] ] here @xmath36 , @xmath37 is the temperature of the white dwarf photosphere , limb - darkening has been neglected , and @xmath38 is the reprocessing efficiency of the disk surface .",
    "increasing @xmath11 has two effects : ( i ) at given radius @xmath34 , the disk temperature rises approximately as , and ( ii ) the inner disk disappears in the hot envelope of the star ( see also sect . 4 above ) .",
    "the increase in disk temperature raises the mass - flow rate in the disk , since the disk viscosity coefficient @xmath39 is increased . here",
    "@xmath40 is the sound speed , and @xmath41 is the scale height of the disk .",
    "the disk is now no longer in a steady state , since the mass - flow rate within it exceeds the mass supply rate from the companion star at its outer edge .",
    "its mass is therefore gradually drained onto the white dwarf on a viscous timescale @xmath42 where @xmath43 cm is a characteristic disk radius ( the radius of the roche lobe is about @xmath44 cm ) , @xmath45 , @xmath46cms@xmath1 for @xmath47k , and @xmath48 is a typical value of the viscosity parameter . with the disk",
    "being drained , the accretion rate onto the white dwarf eventually drops below @xmath30 , and the white dwarf reverts to its unexpanded state , the disk becomes cooler , and the system enters an optical low and x - ray on state ( fig .",
    "[ scenario](a)(b ) ) .",
    "the collapse of the expanded stellar envelope leaves the accretion disk with an inner hole of approximately the envelope radius which is gradually refilled by accretion from the outer disk .",
    "the disk temperature at a given radius @xmath34 decreases as , but with @xmath49 cm in the optical low state the temperature at the edge of the hole ( @xmath50 cm ) becomes @xmath51k , similar to the outer disk temperature in the optical high state .",
    "the viscous time scale for refilling the hole , assuming again @xmath52 and @xmath46cms@xmath1 then is @xmath53 this picture predicts a long x - ray off state and a shorter x - ray on state , with rapid ( thermal - timescale ) transitions between them , in quantitative agreement with what is observed .",
    "besides the exponential decline , the soft x - ray flux of rxj0513  shows significant variations of @xmath540.1 hri counts / s on timescales of hours to days ( fig . [ hri_residuals ] ) .",
    "a time - series analysis of the detrended hri count rates , however , reveals no clear periodicity in the range 0.110days .",
    "the strongest signal is found at @xmath55days but corresponds only to a @xmath56 detection .",
    "we have arbitrarily phase - folded the residual fluxes on the suggested orbital period of @xmath20.76 days but find no obvious modulation of the light curve neither using the spectroscopic ephemeris ( crampton et al .",
    "1996 ) nor using the better defined photometric ephemeris ( alcock et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "although our analysis shows that variability on the orbital and possibly shorter timescales may be present , our data coverage is not sufficient to decide whether the flux variations are truly periodic or not .",
    "the rosat hri monitoring of a complete x - ray outburst of the transient sss rxj0513  has shown that the transition between the x - ray on and off states occurs with a change of the soft x - ray flux by a factor of @xmath57 within 24 days . in the model of an expanding and contracting white dwarf envelope",
    "this implies that the decrease of the effective radius by a factor of @xmath58 and the increase of the effective temperature by a factor of @xmath59 3 occur on the same time - scale during the x - ray turn - on and vice versa during the x - ray turn - off .    the steepest intensity variations in the optical occur on a similar time - scale as the soft x - ray flux variations .",
    "this is consistent with our model that the optical variability is caused by the varying contribution of the accretion disk illumination by the expanding and contracting envelope of the white dwarf .",
    "the existence of typical time - scales of the optical high/ x - ray off state , of the optical low/ x - ray on state , and of the transition phases , and the fairly accurate repetition of the optical lightcurve suggests that the observed variability is driven by limit - cycle behaviour .",
    "a possible self - maintained mechanism is the periodic change of the accretion disk viscosity in response to changes of the irradiation by the hot central star . in this scenario ,",
    "the mass - flow rate at the surface of the white dwarf varies while the mass - transfer rate from the companion star remains constant .",
    "our model can qualitatively explain the observed time - scales and requires no external mechanism like the episodic occurrence of star spots near the @xmath60 point to trigger the transition between the x - ray on and off states .",
    "we thank will sutherland ( oxford ) for providing some information about the onset of the august 1997 optical low - state of rxj0513 .",
    "we also thank the rosat team at the mpe ( garching ) for their support with the time - critical scheduling of our hri observations and for including additional target - of - opportunity pointings during the final phase of the x - ray outburst .",
    "this work was supported in part by the dlr under grant 50or96098 .",
    "adams f.c . , shu f.h . ,",
    "lada c.j . , 1988 ,",
    "apj 326 , 865 alcock c. , allsman r.a . , alves d. et al . , 1996 , mnras 280 , l49 cowley a.p .",
    ", schmidtke p.c . , hutchings j.b .",
    ", crampton d. , mcgrath t.k .",
    ", 1993 , apj 418 , l63 crampton d. , hutchings j.b .",
    ", cowley a.p . , et al . , 1996 ,",
    "apj 456 , 320 fujimoto m.y . , 1982 , apj 257 , 767 gnsicke b. , van teeseling a. , beuermann k. , de martino d. , 1998 , a&a 333 , 163 heise j. , van teeseling a. , kahabka p. , 1994",
    ", a&a 288 , l45 kahabka p. , van den heuvel e.p.j . , 1997 ,",
    "ann . rev .",
    "aa 35 , 69 kato m. , 1985 , pasj 37 , 19 pakull m.w . , motch c. , bianchi l. , et al . , 1993 , a&a 278 , l39 reinsch k. , van teeseling a. , beuermann k. , abbott t.m.c . , 1996 , a&a , 309 , l11 schaeidt s. , hasinger g. , trmper j. , 1993 , a&a 270 , l9 schaeidt s. , 1996 , lecture notes in physics 472 , 159 southwell k.a . , livio m. , charles p.a . , odonoghue d. , sutherland w. , 1996 , apj 470 , 1065 van den heuvel e.p.j .",
    ", bhattacharya d. , nomoto k. , rappaport s.a . , 1992 ,",
    "a&a 262 , 97 van teeseling a. , heise j. , paerels f. , 1994 , a&a 281 , 119 van teeseling a. , 1998 , asp conf .",
    "137 , 385 van teeseling a. , king a. r. , 1998 , a&a 338 , 957 van teeseling a. , reinsch k. , pakull m.w .",
    ", beuermann k. , 1998 , a&a 338 , 947"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present new results of our x - ray monitoring of the transient binary supersoft x - ray source rxj0513.96951 in the lmc and of our re - analysis of optical light curves obtained during the macho project . </S>",
    "<S> we have covered a complete x - ray outburst cycle with the rosat hri detector . from the amplitude and timescale of the soft x - ray variability , </S>",
    "<S> tight limits are derived for the temporal behaviour of the white - dwarf radius and the effective temperature of its envelope . </S>",
    "<S> a limit - cycle model is proposed to explain the observed optical and x - ray variability , the characteristic timescales of the durations of the x - ray on and off states , and those of the transitions between both states . </S>",
    "<S> our observations confirm that the radius changes of the white - dwarf envelope occur on the kelvin - helmholtz timescale . </S>",
    "<S> the duration of the x - ray on and off states is compatible with the viscous timescales of the inner and outer accretion disk , respectively . </S>"
  ]
}