{
  "article_text": [
    "high angular resolution techniques for astronomical imaging have matured rapidly in recent years ( see e.g. beichman & ridgway @xcite ) and have been applied to a variety of galactic and extra - galactic sources . for ground - based near - ir imaging ,",
    "adaptive optics techniques have been very succesful in approaching the theoretical diffraction limit of the telescope ( rigaut et al .",
    "the systems allow on - line correction for atmospheric perturbations using either a natural guide star ( part of the object under study , or an unrelated star in the near vicinity ) or laser guide star ( see e.g. lloyd - hart et al .",
    "@xcite ) . a natural extension of this technique is to achieve two - dimensional polarimetric observations in the near - infrared with the , in principle , simple provision of a polarizer in the beam .",
    "the combination of both techniques allows information on the detailed polarization of an extended source , or determination of the individual polarization of close multiple sources .",
    "it may be applied to reflection nebulae for determining the position of embedded illuminating sources , for study of the line of sight geometry of dust scattering regions and for the orientation of magnetic fields in star forming regions or quasar jets .",
    "the extinction of interstellar dust peaks in the uv and declines to longer wavelengths ( e.g. mathis @xcite ) , but the continuum emission from grains at typical temperatures of a few hundred k in regions heated by starlight increases strongly above 2@xmath2 m .",
    "in addition molecular emission and absorption bands are stronger above 3@xmath2 m .",
    "the 1 - 2@xmath2 m region therefore provides an ideal window for the study of the close environment of dust embedded sources , such as regions around proto - stars or emerging young stars . for typical interstellar grains the low extinction in the near - ir enables information on the scattering properties of the grains , or the study of scattering regions , which have high optical extinction .",
    "near - ir polarization is thus entirely analogous to optical polarization study but can be extended to more embedded environments . at longer wavelengths the grain emission dominates and",
    "any polarization of the radiation is controlled by anisotropic emission mechanisms such as aligned non - spherical grains ( davis & greenstein @xcite ) .",
    "examples of ir polarimetry include : detection of extended dust disks in young stellar objects ( see e.g. piirola et al .",
    "@xcite , for observational results and berger & mnard @xcite , for theoretical work ) ; dust structures in agb envelopes ( e.g sahai et al .",
    "@xcite for crl 2688 ) ; detection of dust in interstellar jets ( e.g. hodapp 1984 ) ; magnetic field structure in star forming regions ( e.g. whittet et al .",
    "@xcite ) and polarization in galaxies ( e.g. jones @xcite ) and quasars ( sitko & yudong @xcite ) . extending polarimetry to the ir also brings the potential of high spatial resolution , both through the dependence of diffraction on wavelength and the decrease in atmospheric seeing size with wavelength .    in the near - ir , the dominant contribution to polarization is therefore from scattering of radiation by grains , and their finite relative size requires that mie theory must be used to predict the scattering properties .",
    "however the optical properties of typical interstellar grains are fairly well represented by models based on laboratory and observational data ( draine & lee @xcite ) , so that the scattering properties of interstellar grains in the near - ir can be predicted .",
    "whilst polarization data naturally provides geometric information on the location of illuminating sources , the scattering efficiency with scattering angle is required to derive geometric information about the line of sight location of the scatterers ( white et al .",
    "@xcite ) . for high dust column optical depths ,",
    "multiple scattering may occur and has then to be modelled using monte carlo methods ( c.f .",
    "e.g. witt @xcite , warren - smith @xcite ; whitney & hartmann @xcite ; fischer , henning & yorke @xcite ; code & whitney @xcite ) .",
    "as part of a programme to study the nature of the dust in the homunculus nebula around the massive star ( or stars ) @xmath1 carinae and determine information about the 3-d structure of the reflection nebula , near - ir imaging polarimetry data were obtained with the eso adonis system . @xmath1 car and the homunculus is an ideal source for adaptive optics since the central point source is very bright and the nebula is not so extended that off - axis anisoplanicity becomes an important effect .",
    "the present paper is devoted to the details and subtleties of the data collection and removal of the instrumental signature vital to the derivation of a polarization map .",
    "a following paper will present the scientific results on the high resolution near - ir polarization of @xmath1 car and the homunculus .",
    "2 is devoted to a brief description of the adonis instrument ; sect .",
    "3 then considers the observational strategy .",
    "the fundamentals of the data reduction are described in sect . 4 and the polarimetric calibration of the instrument in sect .",
    "6 exposes the different deconvolution techniques applied to the data and their resulting effect on the polarization maps .",
    "adonis is the adaptive optics near infrared system ( see e.g. beuzit & hubin @xcite or beuzit et al .",
    "@xcite ) supported by eso for common users since december 1994 at the f/8.1 cassegrain focus of the la silla 3.6 m telescope .",
    "fig  [ layout ] shows the optical layout of the adonis adaptive optics ( ao ) system . a tip - tilt and a 64 element",
    "deformable mirror corrects the distortions of the image in real time and a shack - hartmann wavefront sensor ( wfs ) provides the difference signal for the deformable mirror using a bright reference star close to the object .",
    "the detector for the shack hartmann sensor can be chosen as either an intensified reticon for bright sources ( m@xmath3 @xmath4 8 mag . ) or an electron bombarded ccd for fainter sources ( 8 @xmath4 m@xmath3 @xmath4 13 mag .",
    ", 25 to 200hz sampling ) .",
    "both detectors are sensitive in the visible wavelength region .",
    "an off - axis tiltable mirror allows the sky background , in a field of radius @xmath530@xmath6 , to be chopped with the on - source image .",
    "the output f/45 focus delivers the image to a near - ir detector - either a rockwell 256@xmath7 hgcdte array ( sharp ii for 1 - 2.5@xmath2 m , hofmann et al .",
    "@xcite ) or a lir hgcdte 128@xmath7 anti - blooming ccd ( comic for 1 - 5@xmath2 m , marco et al .",
    "@xcite ) .",
    "the sharp ii camera was selected for the near - ir polarimetric observations .",
    "this camera has a fast shutter at the internal cold lyot stop , allowing integration times as short as 20msec .",
    "the present observations were made with the standard j , h , k filter set and a narrow band 2.15@xmath2 m continuum filter , with a width of 0.017@xmath2 m , and denoted hereafter k@xmath8 .",
    "the polarizer , from graseby inc .",
    ", is a wire grid of 0.25@xmath2 m period , on a caf@xmath9 subtrate .",
    "it is especially designed to work in the spectral range 1 to 9@xmath2 m and has a transmission of 83% perpendicular to the wire grid at 1.5@xmath2 m .",
    "it is remotely rotated by the adocam control system to any desired absolute position angle within tolerances of 0.1@xmath0 .",
    "this polarizer , as a pre - focal instrument , is inserted into the beam in front of the camera ; and is not cooled .",
    "however since the polarizer is not oriented perfectly perpendicular to the optical axis there is a small image motion on the detector when rotating the polarizer ( see sect .",
    "[ derivpol ] and fig .  5 ) .",
    "the magnification giving a pixel scale of 0.05@xmath6 has been selected to ensure an adequate sampling of the psf , at h band .",
    "the field was thus 12.8@xmath1012.8@xmath6 ; for the study of extended sources larger than the field size it is obviously necessary to employ several pointings and mosaic the resulting images after basic data reduction .",
    "adonis has a limit of 30@xmath6 for the radial extent of the offset sky so values less than [ 30 - half detector size ] ( @xmath6 ) must be employed in order to have unvignetted sky background frames .",
    "special care has been taken in the selection of the offset sky position to avoid any overlapping with the extended object observed .",
    "for all sources , object and chopped sky images were obtained at each position of the polarizer .",
    "a data cube of 256@xmath10256 spatial pixels @xmath10 m frames , where m is the number of object and sky frames , was acquired .",
    "table [ tab - pol - standards ] lists the details of the adonis polarimetry observations of the science and calibration sources .",
    "sets of chopped images were obtained at nine different positions of the polarizer , each 22.5@xmath11 apart , from 0 to 180@xmath0 .",
    "the minimum number of frames required to determine the linear polarization and its position angle is 3 ( spanning more than 90@xmath11 in position angle ) . by effectively oversampling the polarization curve ( viz .",
    "the variation of detected signal with polarizer rotation angle ) one can at least hope to average out shorter term variations in atmospheric transmission in order to improve the quality of the polarization measurement . expressed in terms of the stokes parameters i ,",
    "q and u ( see e.g. azzam & bashara @xcite ) , i depends on the total signal whilst q and u depend on the difference in signals between images taken at polarizer angles of 0 , 90 , 45 and 135@xmath0 . then the linear polarization p is given by ,   @xmath12   where q = q / i and u = u / i .",
    "the position angle of linear polarization is ,   @xmath13   ( serkowski @xcite ) .",
    "determining the polarization from @xmath14 twice as many images as necessary leads to improvement in polarization accuracy provided that any photometric variations are on timescales different from the exposure time of individual images at each polarizer angle .",
    "the worst case scenario is when photometric variations occur on a timescale similar to the exposure times , so that the measured difference signals vary wildy - the polarization determined by fitting a cosine curve then approaches zero . the chosen exposure times per polarizer angle",
    "were in the range 1 to 50 s depending on the source brightness ( see table [ tab - pol - standards ] ) . observing a polarized source with the polarizer at 0 and 180@xmath11 polarizer positions",
    "should give the same detected counts and is therefore a direct way to monitor the photometric variations during the observational sequence .",
    "column 8 of table [ tab - pol - standards ] lists half the difference ( in percentage ) between integrated counts in the star profile for the 0 and 180@xmath0 images ( i.e. rms on the mean of the 0 and 180@xmath0 signal values ) . for r monocerotis ,",
    "the semi - stellar peak of the reflection nebula ngc  2261 , the aperture covers the central extended source ( full extent 8@xmath6 ) , whilst for oh  0739 - 14 , a reflection nebula around an embedded young star , an area 10@xmath6 in size was used for the statistics .",
    "[ cols=\"<,^,^,^ , > , > , > , < \" , ]",
    "in order to measure polarization structure in the vicinity of a bright point source , it is necessary to deconvolve the point source response from the data frames taken at each position angle of the polarizer and then to form the polarization maps from the deconvolved images .",
    "the aim here is to detect polarization structure within an offset distance of a few times the diffraction limit from the point source .",
    "several different approaches to restoration have been attempted in order to obtain detailed information on the fine structure of the homunculus nebula close to the central source @xmath1 carinae .",
    "this was motivated by the need to detect and measure the polarization of the three knots found in the 0.4@xmath6 vicinity of @xmath1 car by speckle imaging in the optical ( weigelt & ebersberger @xcite and falcke et al .",
    "@xcite ) . the polarization data for @xmath1 car will be used to exemplify these experiments ; the scientific conclusions will be reported in walsh & ageorges ( @xcite ) . a preliminary discussion of restoration of these images , without considering the polarization , has been given by ageorges & walsh ( @xcite ) .",
    "two deconvolution techniques have been applied to the data : richardson - lucy ( r - l ) iterative deconvolution ( lucy @xcite , richardson @xcite ) and blind deconvolution ( ` idac ' , jefferies & christou @xcite , christou et al .",
    "the major difference between these methods is related to the treatment of the point spread function ( psf ) . with the richardson - lucy method ,",
    "a psf is required a priori to deconvolve the data , while for blind deconvolution , the psf is determined from variations in the target object data .",
    "the blind deconvolution method uses an initial estimate , which can be a gaussian for example . since the adaptive optics psf changes with time and is not spatially invariant ( see e.g. christou et al .",
    "@xcite ) , blind deconvolution should be better suited than the richardson - lucy method , which assumes a psf constant in time . the exact spatial variation of the ao psf is not known .",
    "however in the present case , this is a minor problem since the source itself ( @xmath1 car ) has been used as wavefront sensor reference star .",
    "moreover with the pixel scale chosen , all the valuable information in the short band data is enclosed in the isoplanatic angle ; the spatial variation of the psf is thus negligible over the area of the @xmath1 carinae images , which is not the case for the time variation .",
    "a comparison of the richardson - lucy method and idac - iterative deconvolution algorithm in c , i.e the blind deconvolution algorithm used , was made using the k@xmath8 data on @xmath1 car ( table 2 ) .",
    "the aim was to test the reality of structures revealed in the near environment of the central star of this reflection nebula . for the r - l restoration ,",
    "the lucy - hook algorithm ( hook & lucy @xcite ) , in its software implementation under iraf ( ` plucy ' ) , was employed .",
    "the principle is the same as for the richardson - lucy method , except that it restores in two channels , one for the point source and the other for the background ( considered smooth at some spatial scale ) .",
    "the estimated position of the point source is provided and the initial guess for the background is flat .",
    "k@xmath8 data taken at polarizer angles of 0 and 180@xmath0 were restored ( called k@xmath80 and k@xmath8180 ) . for the k@xmath80 image",
    ", blind deconvolution was also performed .",
    "it should be noted that although the polarizer angles are effectively identical , the strehl ratio is not identical between the two data sets ( k@xmath15 & k@xmath16 ) and is higher for k@xmath15 ( 27.9% against 22.1% ) .",
    "although this could be considered an advantage , it has a drawback since the four bumps around the psf ( see fig .  [ psf - ima ] for the appearance of the psf )",
    "are more pronounced .",
    "these bumps ( ` waffle pattern ' ) correspond to a null mode of the wavefront sensor as a result of an inadequacy in the control loop .",
    "the problem of the four bumps distributed symetrically around the source is that although they are in the psf they do not vary ; they are fixed in time and position and therefore not removed from the image as part of the psf .",
    "there is however a way to overcome this problem , and that is by forcing them to be in the psf .",
    "[ deconv ] presents the deconvolution results obtained with both methods on the two separate data sets ( table [ tab - pol - standards ] ) and fig .",
    "[ psf - ima ] shows the psf derived from blind deconvolution .",
    "the plucy deconvolved data have been restored to convergence and then convolved with a gaussian of 3 pixels fwhm .",
    "the blind deconvolved data were not restored to convergence but limited to 1000 iterations to be comparable , in terms of number of iterations , with the lucy deconvolution .",
    "the resulting image seems thus more noisy than the lucy deconvolved ones . note that neither of the methods used succeeded in removing the 4 bumps from the k@xmath8 images of the first observational sequence ( k@xmath150 ) .",
    "the data acquired at the polarizer position angles of 0 and 180@xmath11 , deconvolved with the same algorithm ( ` plucy ' ) both show identical structures ( upper row of fig .",
    "[ deconv ] ) .",
    "this example serves to illustrate the stability of the ` plucy ' method when applied to ao data while using a reasonable psf estimate .",
    "the image from the first polarizer sequence , polarizer angle 0@xmath0 , deconvolved using idac is shown as the lower right image in fig .",
    "[ deconv ] and is to be compared with the upper left image deconvolved with ` plucy ' .",
    "it is clear that similar structures appear in both restorations and that there are no significant features in one restoration which do not appear in the other .",
    "the differences in the images are mainly due to the fact that the blind deconvolution has been stopped before fully resolving the data and the final image is thus more noisy .",
    "moreover the presence of the four bumps is enhanced in this image .",
    "the major difficulty in this deconvolution is that these noise structures are convolved with extended emission from the homunculus nebula .",
    "being in the middle of the nebula , the flux identified on these bumps is then a convolved product of the waffle pattern and the extended structure of the nebula .",
    "it is thus very difficult for the program to isolate these four point sources and recover properly the true shape of the nebula at these positions . in order to fully compare the different deconvolution techniques ,",
    "blind deconvolution has been pushed to convergence for k@xmath80 ( data set 1 & 2 ) .",
    "the results ( fig .",
    "[ rec - ima ] ) are to be compared with the right hand side of fig .",
    "[ deconv ] .",
    "the structures close to @xmath1 car emphasized by the two deconvolution processes , excluding the four bumps , confer a degree of confidence in the scientific results which will be presented in walsh & ageorges ( @xcite ) .      in the case of polarimetric data ,",
    "the deconvolution problem is more severe since the photometry must be preserved in the restored images in order to derive a polarization map .",
    "the richardson - lucy algorithm is superior to blind deconvolution in that it should preserve flux .",
    "experiments were performed on the k@xmath8 @xmath1 car data set , restoring each of the nine polarizer images with the psf derived from the unpolarized standard at the same polarizer angle .",
    "the results were poor even when the restored image was convolved with a gaussian of 3 pixels fwhm .",
    "they illustrate the effect of the variable psf and thus the difficulty to recover polarization data at high angular resolution so close to the star .",
    "huge fluctuations in the value of the polarization were seen in the vicinity of @xmath1 car .",
    "the differing psf of the unpolarized star and of @xmath1 car ( the ao correction was much better for the @xmath1 car images than for the standard star ) produced restored images with large differences in flux at a given pixel in the different polarization images . at present",
    "there is no known method to recover the true psf from the data and conserve the flux through restoration . a possible",
    "( although computer intensive ) solution is to determine the psf from blind deconvolution and use the result for the psf in another algorithm known to preserve the flux",
    ". this has been performed here : the psf determined by blind deconvolution has been used both with the richardson - lucy and lucy - hook algorithms .",
    "since the idac blind deconvolution algorithm normalised the input image at the beginning of the iterations , the final image was rescaled back to the original total count to allow error estimation of the polarization image .",
    "polarization maps for the three methods ( ` idac ' alone and combined with r - l and ` plucy ' methods ) have been created and compared after reconvolution with a 3 pixel gaussian .    from the high resolution restored",
    "images an attempt has been made to derive the polarization map .",
    "[ highp ] illustrates the result obtained while using the psf determined by the blind deconvolution with the r - l algorithm ( 30 iterations with the accelerated version ) , after reconvolution with a gaussian of 3 pixel fwhm .",
    "the overall centro - symmetric pattern of polarization observed at larger scale and resolution is recognisable here as well . the major deviation from this pattern at @xmath17 and @xmath18 zero ( i.e. east - west and north - south through the image of @xmath1 car ) is due to the spider of the telescope .",
    "the presence of this feature is hard to identify on the intensity map underplotted but clearly present at this position in the original ( undeconvolved ) data .",
    "[ highpcomp ] is a vectorial difference between results obtained with lucy deconvolution and blind deconvolution .",
    "special care has been taken to avoid the vector difference to add when the position angles were separated by close to 2@xmath19 .",
    "some vectors at the border of the noise cut - off ( e.g. at @xmath20 ) detected in the lucy map but not in the other are not represented here to avoid confusion with the differential vectors plotted .",
    "major differences can be found at approximately 0.5@xmath6 from the center and correspond to differences in the deconvolution due to the wings of @xmath1 carinae . at @xmath17 = 0 and @xmath18 = 0 @xmath21 0.3@xmath6 ,",
    "the important difference between the two reconstructed polarization maps is meaningless since these positions correspond to the spider of the telescope and the data are poorly restored here .",
    "the process of data acquisition and reduction for polarization observations taken with the eso adonis adaptive optics system has been described . whilst certain precautions both in the observing method and in data reduction are required for imaging polarimetry and adaptive optics seperately",
    ", several other problems are presented arising from the combination of the two methods .",
    "* since the psf varies in time the wavefront sensor reference star should be as similar as possible to the target object in terms of brightness ( since the achieved strehl ratio strongly depends on the reference star magnitude ) and spectral characteristic , to ensure similar ao correction . since the psf varies across the field of view ( depending on the anisoplanatic angle ) , it is also preferable to select the wfs reference star as close as possible to the target object . in practice",
    "this is rarely achieved when the target itself can not be used as wfs reference star .",
    "however a good estimate of the psf provided by the reference star allows accurate deconvolution of the target without the introduction of artifacts arising from the differing psf s . *",
    "imaging polarimetry requires good photometric conditions . by oversampling the cos(2@xmath22 ) polarization curve at more than three position angles of the polarization analyser , an averaging over the photometric conditions is achieved .",
    "however depending on the time period of the photometric variations the averaging can result in zero polarization even from a substantially polarized source . in principle",
    "the use of an ao system should not compromise the photometric quality of the observations .",
    "* the two polarization calibrations that are required impose the observation of an unpolarized source , to determine the instrumental polarization , and of a target with known polarization , to calibrate the angle of polarization . in the ir",
    "there is a very distinct lack of unpolarized and polarized standards .",
    "stars with known very low optical polarization are suitable as ir unpolarized standards since the serkowski interstellar polarization law shows that the polarization is much less in the ir than the optical .",
    "however polarized standards typically have a circumstellar origin to their high polarization and the value in the ir can not be predicted .",
    "many of the reflection nebulae around young stellar objects have variable polarization and are therefore not ideal polarized standards .",
    "several strategies have been described for flat fielding and sky subtraction and it was shown how deviations from the expected cos(2@xmath22 ) curve can give an indication of the photometric conditions at the time of observation and allow any discrepant polarizer angles to be discarded as was found for the adonis polarizer at pa 157.5@xmath0 .",
    "the instrumental polarization for adonis was determined at 1.7% over the j , h and k range .",
    "polarization maps have been succesfully produced for the reflection nebula around @xmath1 carinae ( the homunculus ) . by using the psf s determined from blind deconvolution at the same polarizer angles as the data",
    ", it has been shown that polarization structure can be revealed as close as two times the diffraction limit to a point source .",
    "the interpretation of the adonis ao polarization results on @xmath1 carinae will be presented in a forthcoming paper ( walsh & ageorges @xcite ) .",
    "we would like to thank the eso adonis team for their advice and help during the development of the data reduction strategy .",
    "s. m. scarrott is also acknowledged for useful comments on imaging polarimetry .",
    "ageorges n. , 1997 , polarimetric measurements and deconvolution techniques , proceedings of the nato - asi summer school on `` laser guide star adaptive optics for astronomy '' , cargse 29 sept . -",
    "1997 ageorges n. & walsh j.r . , 1997 , the messenger 87 , 39 ageorges , n. , walsh , j. r. , 1998 , spie proc .",
    "3353 , in press azzam r. m. a. , bashara , n. m.,1987 , ellipsometry and polarized light , elsevier science , amsterdam bailey , j. a. , hough , j. h. , 1982 , pasp , 94 , 618 beichman c.a . , ridgway s. , 1991 , physics today , 44 , 48 berger j .- p . , mnard f. , 1997 , poster proceedings of iau symposium 182 on herbig - haro objects and the birth of low mass stars , f. malbet & a. castet eds . , 201 bevington , p. r. , 1969 , data reduction and error analysis for the physical sciences , new york , mcgraw - hill beuzit j .-",
    "l . & hubin n. , 1993 , the messenger 71 , 52 beuzit et al . , 1997 , experimental astronomy 7 ,",
    "285 christou j. c. , bonaccini d. , ageorges n. , 1997 , proc . of spie vol .",
    "3126 , 68 christou j.c .",
    ", marchis f. , ageorges n. , bonaccini d. & rigaut f. , 1998 , spie proc .",
    "3353 , in press close l. m. et al . , 1997 ,",
    "apj 489 , 210 code a.d .",
    ", whitney b.a . , 1995 ,",
    "apj 441 , 400 davis l. jr . ,",
    "greenstein j.l . , 1951 ,",
    "apj 114 , 206 devillard n. , 1997 , the messenger 87 , 19 draine , b. t. , lee , h. m. , 1984 , apj , 285 , 89 falcke , h. , davidson , k. , hofmann , k .- h . , weigelt , g. , 1996 , a&a , 306 , l17 fischer o. , henning th . ,",
    "yorke h.w . , 1994 , aa 284 , 187 goodrich , r. w. , 1986 , apj 311 , 882 heckert , p. a. , zeilik , m. , 1983 , mnras , 202 , 531 hodapp k.w . , 1984 , aa 141 , 255 hofmann r. , brandl b. , eckart a. , eisenhauer f. , tacconi - garman l. , 1995 , proc .",
    "spie 2475 , 192 hook r.n .",
    ", lucy l.b . , 1994 , image restorations of high photometric quality .",
    "ii . examples . in hanisch r.j . & white r.l .",
    "( eds ) space telescope science institute , the restoration of hst images and spectra ii , 86 jefferies s.m .",
    ", christou j.c . , 1993 ,",
    "apj 415 , 862 jones t.j . , 1997 , aj 114 , 1393 lloyd - hart m. et al . , 1998 ,",
    "apj 493 , 950 lucy l. , 1974 , aj 79 , 745 marco , o. , lacombe , f. , bonaccini , d. , 1996 , eso messenger , no .",
    "85 , 39 mathewson , d. s. , ford , v. l. , 1970 , mem .",
    "ras , 74 , 139 mathis , j. s. , 1990 , araa , 28 , 37 minchin n. r. et al . , 1991 , mnras , 249 , 707 naghizadeh - khouei , j. , clarke , d. , 1993 , a&a , 274 , 968 piirola v. , scaltriti f. , coyne g.v . ,",
    "1992 , nature vol 359 , no .",
    "6394 , 399 richardson w.h . , 1972 ,",
    "62 , 55 rigaut f. et al . , 1998 ,",
    "pasp 110 , 152 sahai r. et al .",
    ", 1997 , apj 492 , l163 serkowski , k. , 1962 , adv . in a&a , ed .",
    "z. kopal , 1 , 289 sitko m.l .",
    "& yudong z. , 1991 , apj 369 , 106 shure , m. , sellgren k. , jones , t. j. , klebe , d. , 1995 , aj , 109 , 721 tinbergen , j. , 1979 , a&ass , 35 , 325 turnshek d.a .",
    "et al . , 1990 ,",
    "aj , 99 , 1243 vrba f.j . , strom s.e . , strom k.m . , 1976 , aj 81",
    ", 958 walsh , j. r. , ageorges , n. , 1999 , a&a , in preparation warren - smith , r. f. , 1983 , mnras , 205 , 337 weigelt , g. , ebersberger , j. , 1986 , a&a , 163 , l5 white , r. l. , schiffer , f. h. , mathis , j. s. , 1980 , apj , 241 , 208 whitney b.a . , hartmann l. , 1992 , apj 395 , 529 whittet , d. c. b. , 1993 , dust in the galactic environment , bristol , inst . of phys .",
    "whittet , d. c. b. et al . , 1994 ,",
    "mnras 268 , 1 witt , a. n. , 1977 , apjs , 35 , 1"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the process of data taking , reduction and calibration of near - infrared imaging polarimetry data taken with the eso adaptive optics system adonis is described . </S>",
    "<S> the adonis polarimetric facility is provided by a rotating wire grid polarizer . </S>",
    "<S> images were taken at increments of 22.5@xmath0 of polarizer rotation from 0 to 180@xmath0 , over - sampling the polarization curve but allowing the effects of photometric variations to be assessed . </S>",
    "<S> several strategies to remove the detector signature are described . </S>",
    "<S> the instrumental polarization was determined , by observations of stars of negligible polarization , to be 1.7% at j , h and k bands . </S>",
    "<S> the lack of availability of unpolarized standard stars in the ir , in particular which are not too bright as to saturate current ir detectors , is highlighted . </S>",
    "<S> the process of making polarization maps is described . </S>",
    "<S> experiments at restoring polarimetry data , in order to reach diffraction limited polarization , are outlined , with particular reference to data on the homunculus reflection nebula around @xmath1 carinae . </S>"
  ]
}