{
  "article_text": [
    "since 16 gamma - ray bursts ( grbs ) were discovered in the late sixties by _ vela _ satellites @xcite , several satellites have been dedicated to observe the bursts and numerous theories were suggested to explain their nature and origin @xcite .",
    "unfortunately , however , the origin of grbs has remained unsettled for more than three decades .",
    "observations of the afterglow of grbs enable us to establish the facts that grbs are cosmological @xcite and the emission of the afterglow is due to the electron synchrotron radiation from a decelerating relativistic blast wave @xcite , which suggests indirect hints of the emission mechanism of grbs . from the observations of several grb afterglows the evidence of beamed grbs has accumulated @xcite , and there are works on models for the geometry of grbs ( e.g. , mao and yi 1994 ) .",
    "durations of grbs range from about 30 ms to about 1000 s , and show a bimodality in the logarithmic distribution @xcite . on the contrary ,",
    "study of the afterglows ( e.g. , piran 1999 and references therein ) deals with the emission on much longer timescales ( e.g. , months , or even up to years ) than grb emission timescales .",
    "this is both good and bad for the subject .",
    "it is good because details of the complicated initial conditions are largely irrelevant to the calculation .",
    "it is bad because the study of the afterglow reveals very limited information on the central engine of the grbs .    to examine proposed grb theories one has to consider the following points : observed isotropy and inhomogeneity in space , apparent flux distribution , temporal and spectral features observed in bursts . among others ,",
    "the study of burst morphologies is a difficult task because of diversity , apparently no clear correlation with other observational parameters , relatively undeveloped methods for the study of temporal structures of grbs .",
    "nonetheless , there are several attempts to quantify pulse shapes of grbs and interpret results in terms of physics @xcite .",
    "the fourier transform technique is widely used to study hydrodynamical turbulence and to search for the underlying process in the system as well as periodical phenomena @xcite . in",
    "most of the grb models , an individual burst is a random realizaiton of a single stochastic process .",
    "features of such a process can be probed with statistical methods applied to a sufficiently large ensemble .",
    "provided that the grbs are generated by the same origin , one may employ the simplest statistical quantity , i.e. , the average .",
    "a possible way to subtract statistical fluctuations from the underlying characteristics is to take the average of pdss over samples .",
    "then the fluctuations affecting each individual pds tend to cancel out each other and one can see the underlying features .",
    "@xcite applied the fourier transform technique to the analysis of 214 light curves of long grbs ( @xmath2 sec ) .",
    "they found that , even though individual pdss were very diverse the averaged pds was in accord with a power law of index @xmath0 over 2 orders of magnitude of a frequency range , and that fluctuations in the power were distributed according to the exponential distribution .",
    "they also noted that the value of the slope was the same as the kolmogorov spectrum of velocity fluctuation in a turbulent fluid .",
    "they concluded that the grb emission was generated in a relativistic and fully developed turbulent outflow , resulting from the coalescence of two neutron stars or a neutron star and a black hole .",
    "however , they implicitly assume that the selected bursts ( @xmath3 ) are long enough compared with the temporal resolution ( e.g. , @xmath4ms ) and that the rise and decay time scales have no effects on the resulting slope of the pdss .",
    "@xcite analyzed the temporal behavior of grbs in the framework of a relativistic internal shock model , using the power density spectrum .",
    "they set up their internal shock model , and attempted to identify the most sensitive model parameters to the pds and to explore the efficiency of conversion of kinetic energy of shells to radiation .",
    "they suggested that the wind must be modulated such that collisions at large radii release more energy than those at small radii in order to reproduce the consistent pdss with the observation .",
    "we address the following questions : is the sampling interval of 64 ms in the time domain really short enough to obtain bias - free conclusions in the pds analysis ? or",
    "can one see the decaying timescale if the slope and the sampling timescale are given , provided that there is a relation among those parameters ?",
    "answers to these questions may well have implications on interpretations of pds analysis results , such as , those in @xcite , and an evolution of grb light curve during the grb emissions .",
    "one may take the pdss of grb light curves in separate energy channels instead of bolometric light curves as we do in this _",
    "letter_. it is well - known that the pulses in a grb are more narrow in a higher energy band .",
    "one therefore expects that the averaged pds has different slopes in different channels for a given sampling interval due to different timescales in different energy bands .",
    "evidence for a broad luminosity function is found when looking at the isotropic luminosities of the bursts with measured redshifts .",
    "the issue of whether the dim bursts are intrinsically weak remains unsettled yet .",
    "the difference of bright and dim bursts in temporal behaviors may be an important fact in this respect .",
    "one may study a correlation between the burst brightness and the pds slope . in this _",
    ", we demonstrate that the fourier transform technique can be used in investigations of the behavior of the central engine. we construct a simple model for grbs , for simplicity , considering a two - sided exponential function ( see norris et al .",
    "light curves of grbs show the diverse temporal profiles . besides differences in different bursts , pulse shapes exhibit a broad range in a form of individual pulse , in the rise and decay time scales , in a variability .",
    "burst asymmetry on short time scales results from the tendency for most ( @xmath5 90  % ) pulses to rise more quickly than they decay , the majority having rise - to - decay time scale ratios of @xmath6 , independent of energy .",
    "nonetheless , it is worth noting that not all of the bursts show fred shape ( fast rise , exponential decay ) .",
    "some of grbs show symmetric pulse shapes , or even reversed behaviors , that is , slow rise and fast decay .",
    "the dominant trend of spectral softening seen in most pulses arises partially from faster onsets at higher energy and slower decays at lower energies , although in addition , pre - cursors appear in the higher energy band in some cases .",
    "even though shapes for all pulses within a single burst show variations from pulse to pulse @xcite , we describe grb light curves as a sum of two - sided exponential functions given by : @xmath7 where @xmath8 @xmath9 being the height of peaks , @xmath10 being the time of the pulse s maximum intensity , @xmath11 and @xmath12 being the rise and decay timescales , respectively .",
    "then , the fourier transform of the function is obtained analytically .",
    "since the fourier transform is a linear operator , the fourier transform of @xmath13 is a sum of the fourier transforms of @xmath14 , @xmath15 , which reads @xmath16 where @xmath17 , @xmath18 is the observational duration , or the duration of the burst , and @xmath19 is the angular frequency . having done the integration we have the final resulting pds is given by @xmath20,\\nonumber\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath21 s are complicated @xmath22 and @xmath23 terms which cause fluctuations on the pds .    in practice , however , we sample grb light curves every pre - determined time interval , e.g. , 64 ms .",
    "the time interval defines the nyquist frequency , which limits the region we see the information in the frequency domain @xcite . therefore ,",
    "unless the sampling interval is short enough compared with the typical decaying timescale , the resulting pds can not reveal generic features of the pds of the original function in the time domain .",
    "for instance , consider the pds of the bi - exponential function .",
    "basically , the pds of the exponential function is given by @xmath24 where @xmath25 is the typical decaying timescale .",
    "however , if an observer takes insufficiently frequent samples , that is , the nyquist frequency is not sufficiently large , then one may see the transition region of the pds from the flat part to the power law part with the slope of @xmath26 .",
    "the power is dominated upto @xmath27 , where @xmath28 .",
    "the pds appears flat until @xmath29 , and falls with the slope of -2 as one may expect .",
    "a summation of the bi - exponential function with randomly distributed decaying timescales smears out the transition region of the pds .",
    "the slope one may end up with is not determined analytically in that the region and it is determined randomly around a typical value of the decaying timescale .",
    "we empirically obtain a conclusion that a sampling interval which yields unbiased slope of the pds should be smaller than the decaying time scale by at least a couple of orders .",
    "we have generated 100 artificial light curves of grbs in the frequency domain for random rising and decaying constants @xmath30 and the waiting time between peaks @xmath31 .",
    "the number of peaks is about 20 in our artificial data .",
    "the duration of the bursts is fixed to 20 seconds .",
    "we consider noise - free signal . unless there is a systematically biased noise in data , the noise can be regarded as white. and effects of this kind of noise should be irrelevant for our conclusions , since errors due to such a white noise will be averaged out after all .",
    "once generating the fourier transform of each light curve we take a square of its modulus to obtain an individual pds , then we average pdss . before taking the fourier transform of light curves",
    "we scale them such that the height of their highest peak has unity in the artificial grb light curves .",
    "this has been done to compare our results with those of @xcite .",
    "we find that our conclusions are insensitive to adopted statistics of @xmath32 , @xmath33 , and @xmath31 .    in figure 1",
    ", we show that the average of 100 pdss of our model . what is shown in fig .",
    "1 is essentially the same pds , but in different parts of the pds in the frequency domain .",
    "as the sampling interval becomes shorter , the nyquist frequency becomes larger .",
    "subsequently , the maximum frequency in the plots becomes larger for more frequent sampling .",
    "different parts of the pds appears to follow a slightly different slope . for comparison , dotted lines with a slope of @xmath26 and",
    "dashed lines with @xmath0 are shown . for",
    "given rising and decaying timescales , the slope of the average pds is subject to the sampling interval in the time domain .",
    "the @xmath0 slope is no longer universal for the pds of such an artificial light curve .",
    "instead the observed slope of the averaged pds should be considered as a function of the rising and decaying timescales , and the sampling interval . even for the pds analysis of long bursts ( @xmath2 sec ) , which is longer than the shortest triggering time scale ( @xmath34 ms ) in three orders of magnitude , the currently available triggering timescale may not be short enough to be free from a possible bias . in figure 2 ,",
    "the distribution of individual powers is shown .",
    "the dashed line is the theoretical exponential distribution .",
    "the distribution of individual powers almost exactly follows the exponential distribution .",
    "based on the fact that one may recover the slope of the pds of the artificial light curves and the distribution of powers by adjusting the rising and decaying timescales and the sampling interval we conclude that the observed slope is ambiguous . further more , unless one resolves the issue as to whether the currently available time interval is short enough , in comparison with the rising and decaying timescales , efforts to identify a controlling parameter on the behavior of the pds should be carried out with due care . as we have demonstrated , a conclusion from such kind of analysis is not unique .",
    "can one determine the decaying time scale for a given sampling interval and observed slope ?",
    "the answer to this question is certainly yes , only provided that the light curve is properly modeled . as seen in the observational data ( e.g. , norris et al .",
    "1996 ) , the temporal features of the grbs are diverse .",
    "one way to practically use the fourier transform method is to divide light curves according to a similarity . in other words",
    ", one may select bi - exponential looking light curves and bi - gaussian looking light curves , and apply a different model function to each group separately to obtain the timescales .",
    "provided that one implements a sophisticated algorithm to accommodate the diversity of the light curves with further efforts , this method could be used for more important problems such as the evolution of the grb emission in a single burst and the classification of the origin of short and long bursts .",
    "the two classes may have intrinsically different flare time scales which could be identified in an analysis similar to the present one .",
    "for a long burst , there is an argument that the grb emission mechanism is not necessarily unique even in the same burst ( e.g. , yi and blackman 1997 ) .",
    "one would like to apply this method to long bursts individually , and see whether there is a signature of a possible evolution in the grb emission mechanism .",
    "one may also explore the emission timescale of long bursts and short bursts to account for two different origins of them , for instance , as suggested by @xcite .",
    "beloborodov , a. , stern , b. , and svensson , r. 1998 , , 508 , l25 blackman , e. g. and yi , i. 1998 , , 498 , l31 bracewell , r. 1965 , the fourier transform and its applications , ( new york : mcgraw - hill ) .",
    "daigne , f. and mochkovitch , r. t. 1998 , , 296 , 275 fenimore , e. 1999 , , 518 , 375 fenimore , e. , madras , c. d. , and nayakshin , s. 1996 , , 473 , 998 fishman , g. j. and meegan , c. a. 1995 , ann .",
    "astrophys , 33 , 415 fryer , c. l. , woosley , s. e. , and hartmann , d. h. 1999 , , 526 , 152 halpern , j. p. et al .",
    "1999 , , 517 , l105 int zand , j. j. m. and fenimore , e. 1996 , , 464 , 662 klebesadel , r. w. , strong , i. b. , and olson , r. a. 1973 , , 182 , l85 kobayashi , s. , piran , t. , and sari , r. 1997 , , 490 , 92 macfadyen , a. i. and woosley , s. e. , 1999 , , 524 , 262 mao , s. and paczy@xmath35ski , b. 1992 , , 388 , l45 mao , s. and yi , i. 1994 , , 424 , l131 meegan , c. a. et al .",
    "1992 , nature , 355 , 143 @xmath36 , p. and rees , m. j. 1993 , , 405 , 278 metzger , m. r. et al . 1997 , nature , 387 , 879 narayan , r. , paczy@xmath35ski , b. , and piran , t. 1992 , , 395 , l83 norris , j. p. et al .",
    "1996 , , 459 , 393 paczy@xmath35ski , b. 1998 , , 494 , l45 paczy@xmath35ski , b. and rhoads , j. 1993 , , 418 , l5 panaitescu , a. , spada , m. , and @xmath36 , p. 1999",
    ", , 522 , l105 piran , t. 1992 , , 389 , l45 piran , t. 1999 , phys .",
    ", 314 , 575 portegies - zwart , s. f. , lee , c .- h . , and lee , h. k. 1999 , , 520 , 666 rees , m. j. and @xmath36 , p. , 1994",
    ", , 430 , l93 rhoads , j. e. 1999 , , 525 , 737 sari , r. and piran , t. 1995 , , 455 , l143 sari , r. , piran , t. , and halpern , j. p. 1999",
    ", , 519 , l17 usov , v. v. 1994 , , 267 , 1035 waxman , e. 1997a , , 485 , l5 waxman , e. 1997b , , 489 , l33 wijers , r. a. m. j. , rees , m. j. , and @xmath36 , p. 1997",
    ", , 288 , l51 woosley , s. e. 1993 , , 405 , 273 yi , i. and blackman , e. g. 1997 , , 482 , 383 yi , i. and blackman , e. g. 1998 , , 494 , l163"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate statistical properties of grb light curves by comparing the reported characteristics in the pdss of the observed grbs with those that we model , and discuss implications on interpretations of the pds analysis results . </S>",
    "<S> results of pds analysis of observed grbs suggest that the averaged pds of grbs follows a power law over about two decades of frequency with the power law index , @xmath0 , and the distribution of individual power follows an exponential distribution . though an attempt to identify the most sensitive physical parameter has been made on the basis of the internal shock model , we demonstrate that conclusions of this kind of approach should be derived with due care . </S>",
    "<S> we show that the reported slope and the distribution can be reproduced by adjusting the sampling interval in the time domain for a given decaying timescale of individual pulse in a specific form of grb light curves . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , given that the temporal feature is modeled by a two - sided exponential function , the power law behavior with the index of @xmath0 and the exponential distribution of the observed pds is recovered at the 64 ms trigger time scale when the decaying timescale of individual pulses is @xmath1 second , provided that the pulse sharply rises . </S>",
    "<S> another way of using the pds analysis is an application of the same method to individual long bursts in order to examine a possible evolution of the decaying timescale in a single burst . </S>"
  ]
}