{
  "article_text": [
    "the standard giant planet formation scenario is the so - called core - accretion model . in this model , a solid core",
    "is formed first by the accretion of solid planetesimals . as the core grows , it eventually becomes massive enough to gravitationally bind some nebular gas , forming a gaseous envelope in hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "the further increase in core and envelope masses lead to larger and larger radiative losses which ultimately prevent the existence of an equilibrium envelope .",
    "runaway gas accretion occurs , rapidly building up a giant planet .",
    "this scenario , which naturally implies giant planets enriched in heavy elements compared to the sun , has suffered so far from the problem that the resulting formation time is comparable to , or longer than , the lifetime of protoplanetary disks as inferred from observations ( pollack et al .",
    "1996 - hereafter p96 , haisch et al .",
    "one approach to solve this long - standing problem has been to revise the opacities used to model the planet s envelope ( see hubickyj et al .",
    "2003 ) and/or to allow for a local enhancement in the number of planetesimals ( klahr & bodenheimer 2003 )",
    ". however , alibert et al .",
    "( 2004,2005a - hereafter a04 and a05a ) have shown recently that extending the original core accretion scenario to include migration of the growing planet and protoplanetary disk evolution , results in a formation speed - up by over an order of magnitude even without local density enhancements or modified opacities . in this letter , we show that in addition to solving the formation timescale problem , these models can also account for the characteristics of the two most well known giant planets : jupiter and saturn .    within the framework of our model , we find that the uncertainties on the characteristics of the initial protoplanetary disk are large enough to allow us to match the observed properties of a single planet ( jupiter for example ) relatively easily .",
    "the situation is more complicated with _ two _ planets forming within the _ same _ protoplanetary disk . for each satisfactory model matching the observed properties of jupiter ( total mass , distance to the sun , mass of the core , total mass of heavy elements and volatiles enrichments ) , only two parameters are left in order to account for the same five quantities in saturn : the initial location of the embryo and the time offset ( that can be equal to 0 ) between the start of the formation of both planets .",
    "the purpose of this letter is to show that , by assuming reasonable properties for the initial protoplanetary disk , it is possible to construct models of jupiter and saturn , compatible with all the observations detailled in the next two paragraphs .    using measurements of jupiter and saturn ( mass , radius , surface temperature , gravitational moments , etc . ) and state - of - the - art structure modeling , saumon & guillot ( 2004 - hereafter sg04 ) have derived important constraints regarding the possible internal structure of these planets . from this modeling , @xmath0 , the mass of the core of the planet and @xmath1 , the amount of heavy elements in the envelope ( assumed to be homogeneously distributed ) can be obtained . in the case of jupiter ,",
    "the maximum total amount of heavy elements present in the planet ( @xmath2 ) is of the order of @xmath3 ( earth masses ) , whereas the mass of the core can vary from @xmath4 to @xmath5 .",
    "this large uncertainty is essentially due to the undertainties in the equation of state of hydrogen . in the case of saturn ,",
    "@xmath1 ranges from nearly 0 to 10 @xmath6 , the mass of the core being between 8 and 25 @xmath6 .",
    "note however that the mass of the solid core might be reduced by up to @xmath7 depending upon the extend of sedimented helium , a process which is required to explain the present day luminosity of the planet ( fortney & hubbard 2003 , guillot 2005 ) .",
    "abundances of some volatile species in the atmosphere of jupiter have been measured using the mass spectrometer on - board the _ galileo _ probe ( see mahaffy et al . 2000 , wong et al .",
    "these measurements show that the planet s atmosphere is enriched in c , n , s , ar , kr , and xe by a factor of @xmath8 , @xmath9 , @xmath10 , @xmath11 , @xmath12 , and @xmath13 respectively compared to solar values ( lodders 2003 ) . for saturn , ground - based observations ( brigg & sackett 1989 , kerola et al .",
    "1997 ) have shown that c and n are enriched by a factor of @xmath14 and @xmath15 compared to the solar values .",
    "since the two planets are almost entirely convective , we assume that these enrichments are representative of the mean envelope composition .    in sect . 2 of this letter",
    ", we give a short presentation of our formation models . in sect .",
    "3 , we apply these models to jupiter and saturn , and show an important role of jupiter s formation on that of saturn . in sect .",
    "4 , we calculate the enrichments in volatile species in the atmosphere of the two planets , and sect . 5 is devoted to summary and conclusions .",
    "our formation models consist in the simulation of the time evolution of the protoplanetary disk and of the two planetary seed embryos that will eventually lead to jupiter and saturn .",
    "we calculate in a consistent way the structure and evolution of the disk , the migration of the planets , and their growth in mass due to accretion of gas and planetesimals .",
    "the evolution of the protoplanetary disk is calculated in the framework of the @xmath16 formalism ( shakura & sunyaev 1973 ) .",
    "the initial gas surface density @xmath17 inside the protoplanetary disk ( which extends from 0.25 au to 30 au ) is given by @xmath18 .",
    "the gas to solids ratio is constant in the whole disk ( the embryos always stay beyond the ice line ) , with @xmath19 .",
    "the gas surface density evolves as a result of viscous transport and photoevaporation : @xmath20 + \\dot{\\sigma}_w(r ) .\\ ] ] the photoevaporation term @xmath21 is taken as in veras & armitage ( 2004 ) .",
    "the thermodynamical properties of the disk as function of position and surface density ( temperature , pressure , density scale height ) , as well as the mean viscosity @xmath22 , are calculated by solving the vertical structure equations using the method presented in papaloizou & terquem ( 1999 ) and a05a .",
    "these quantities are used to determine the composition of the ices incorporated in the planetesimals , and finally the enrichments in volatile species in the two planets ( see sect .",
    "[ volatiles ] ) .",
    "the key point in our models is that both planets are formed concurrently within the same disk , hence the physical assumptions and initial properties of the nebula are the same for both . for a given disk model , we begin by searching a satisfactory model matching the observed properties of jupiter .",
    "once such a model is found , we try to adjust the two remaining parameters ( initial location of the embryo and time delay ) to find a similarly suitable model for saturn .",
    "our entire approach , as well as some tests we have made to check our code , can be found elsewhere ( a05a ) , we give here some details on two points , the calculation of @xmath23 and @xmath1 , and the migration rates .    to estimate @xmath0 and @xmath1 , we compute the fate of the infalling planetesimals by computing their trajectory inside the envelope as well as their mass loss . the latter results from thermal effects as well as mechanical ablation due to rayleigh - taylor instabilities on the planetesimals surface ( korycansky et al .",
    "this allows us to determine the fraction of planetesimals mass that directly reaches the core , which we identify as @xmath0 , the core mass at the end of the formation process .",
    "the mass deposited inside the envelope is assumed , due to convection , to be homogeneously distributed within the envelope and is identified as @xmath1 , the mass of heavy elements in the planet s envelope .",
    "finally , we note that processes like core erosion or settling could occur during subsequent evolution of the planet and modify significantly the values of @xmath0 and @xmath1 found here ( see sg04 ) .",
    "on the other hand , the total mass of heavy elements in the planets should remain constant .",
    "the calculation of the planetesimal s trajectory also gives the place where the energy of planetesimals is deposited .",
    "this quantity is used to calculate the structure of the forming planet , by solving the standard internal structure equations : the amount of energy released by infalling planetesimals enters in the energy equation , in the sinking approximation ( see p96 and a05a ) .",
    "low mass planets undergo type i migration at a rate being linear with the planet s mass . however , the most recent analytical estimates of type i migration rates by tanaka et al .",
    "( 2002 ) , which have been derived assuming a laminar disk , are much too large to be compatible with the observed frequency of extra - solar planets .",
    "therefore , planet survival implies a significantly reduced rate of type i migration .",
    "first hints how this could be achieved have been obtained by nelson & papaloizou ( 2004 ) in numerical modelling of turbulent disks in which much reduced migration rates have been obtained . in our calculations , we have reduced the rate of type i migration by multiplying the analytical estimates by an arbitrary factor @xmath24 , whose value varied in order to check its influence on the results . for higher mass planets ,",
    "the migration is of type ii ( ward 1997 ) , the rate being independant of the planet mass .",
    "when the mass of the planet becomes comparable to the one of the disk , migration slows down and eventually stoppes .",
    "the switch from type i to type ii occurs when the hill s radius of the planet is equal to the disk density scale height , which is calculated with the vertical structure of the disk .",
    "finally , note that we do not take into account gravitational interactions between the two forming planets that could alter the migration rates .",
    "we consider values of @xmath24 between 0 ( no type i migration ) and 0.03 ( as we shall see below , higher values would imply too large starting locations of proto - jupiter to account for the present structure of saturn ) .",
    "for this range , we find suitable jupiters to form from embryos starting between 9.2 au ( astronomical units ) and 13.5 au in a disk with a total mass ranging from 0.05 to 0.035 @xmath25 ( solar masses ) and a total photoevaporation rate comprised between 1 and 1.5 @xmath26 yr .",
    "for all the cases considered here ( @xmath24=0 , 0.001 , 0.005 , 0.01 and 0.03 ) , it was possible to form within 3 myr a planet whose final mass , location and global internal structure were compatible with the jupiter ones ( see fig .",
    "we note that the final structure of the planet ( @xmath0 , @xmath1 ) is independant of the assumed type i migration rate .",
    "this rate only gives the starting location of the embryo .",
    "concurrently with the formation of jupiter , we also follow the growth of the proto - saturn embryo .",
    "the latter is started at a larger heliocentric distance and with an arbitrary time delay .",
    "this implies that , depending upon initial conditions , proto - saturn may actually enter a region of the disk already visited and consequently modified ( less planetesimals for example ) by proto - jupiter ( see fig .",
    "1c ) . in fig .",
    "2 , we present the successful saturn formation model corresponding to the jupiter model presented in fig . 1 ( red curves , @xmath24=0.001 ) .",
    "the synthetic saturn started as an embryo at 11.9 au , 0.2 myr after proto - jupiter .",
    "the resulting planet exhibits characteristics quite comparable to the actual saturn ( see fig",
    "the mass of the core is slightly lower than the one allowed by sg04 .",
    "however , we recall that the mass derived in sg04 may be decreased by up to @xmath27 due to the sedimentation of helium ( see sect .",
    "[ intro ] ) .",
    "the mass of saturn s final core is similar to the one obtained for jupiter .",
    "this is because the core is built from the infalling planetesimals that are able to traverse the gaseous envelope without being disrupted . for a fixed envelope , disruption is essentially a function of the size of the planetesimals which in our work is assumed to be identical at all locations ( 100 km ) . increasing the mass of the planetesimals by a factor ten leads to core masses of the order of @xmath28 .",
    "the importance of jupiter s wake on the formation of saturn is evidenced by the green curves in fig .",
    "2a which were obtained by forming saturn in the absence of jupiter in an otherwise identical disk . in this case , the increased rate of planetesimal infall prevented the accretion of a sizeable envelope , and the resulting planet , while at saturn s current location , remained quite small ( @xmath29 ) .",
    "this can be explained by the fact that the gas accretion rate is inversely dependent upon the energy deposited by infalling planetesimals .",
    "thus , once proto - saturn s feeding zone enters a region previously depleted in planetesimals by the passage of jupiter , their infall is reduced and gas accretion proceeds at a faster rate , ultimately leading to a more massive planet than in the case without planetesimal depletion . in the latter case ( ignoring the effects of jupiter s formation ) , we checked that even by varying the initial location and formation starting time , it was not possible to obtain a saturn - mass planet at its current location ( see fig . 2c ) . increasing the starting location of jupiter ( beyond @xmath30 10 au , corresponding to @xmath24 larger than 0.01 ) , results in saturn - like planets containing too few heavy elements compared to the actual planet .",
    "moreover , the mass of accreted planetesimals never reaches a level which could trigger a significant accretion of gas . at the present location of saturn ,",
    "the synthetic planet remains less massive than the actual one ( see fig 2c , blue curve ) .",
    "we now concentrate on the models that can form both jupiter and saturn ( red ones in fig .",
    "1a and fig .",
    "2a ) and examine whether they can also account for the volatile abundances measured in the atmospheres of the two planets .",
    "to do this , we use the clathrate trapping theory ( lunine & stevenson 1985 ) and the thermodynamical conditions inside the disk as calculated in our models to compute the composition of ices incorporated in the planetesimals . knowing the mass of accreted planetesimals , we compute the total expected abundances of some volatile species , in our case c , n , s , ar , kr , and xe .",
    "we use for this calculation the recent solar abundances determinations of lodders ( 2003 ) .",
    "c is set to have been present in the solar nebula vapor phase under the form of co@xmath31 , co and ch@xmath32 , with co@xmath31:co : ch@xmath32=30:10:1 , ratios which are compatible with ism measurements ( see allamandola et al .",
    "1999 , gibb et al .",
    "moreover , n is taken to have been present under the form of n@xmath31 and nh@xmath33 , with a ratio nh@xmath33:n@xmath31=1 , and s under the form of h@xmath31s and other sulfur compounds ( pasek et al .",
    "2005 ) . other initial ratios of co@xmath31:co : ch@xmath32 and nh@xmath33:n@xmath31 can lead to slightly different abundances of volatiles , but do not modify our main conclusions . we note finally that co@xmath31 crystallizes as a pure condensate prior to be clathrated ( see alibert et al",
    ". 2005b ) which has a considerable influence on the total amount of water required for trapping all the volatiles in the planet .",
    "the results of these abundances calculations in the case of jupiter have been presented elsewhere in details ( see alibert et al .",
    "2005b ) , we only summarize the main conclusions here :",
    "c , n , s , ar , kr and xe are enriched respectively by a factor of about 2.8 , 2.5 , 2.1 , 2 , 2.1 , 2.6 compared to their solar values . these values are compatible with the _ in situ _ measurements made by the _ galileo _",
    "probe and recalled at the beginning of this letter .",
    "the resulting enrichment for oxygen ( not yet measured ) is at least o / h = @xmath34 or @xmath35 times the solar value .    in the case of the saturn formation model",
    ", we obtain enrichments of 2.4 and 2.2 compared to solar values for c and n respectively .",
    "this is again compatible with the ground - based observations quoted in the introduction .",
    "moreover , we predict that s , ar , kr , and xe are enhanced by a factor of respectively 1.9 , 1.7 , 1.9 and 2.3 .",
    "our formation model predicts the accretion of @xmath36 of heavy elements , and the trapping of the volatiles result from the accretion of at least @xmath37 of ices ( depending on the efficacity of the clathration process ) .",
    "these two calculations imply that the mean ices / rocks ( i / r ) ratio of accreted planetesimals was @xmath38 , a value consistent with the one inferred for saturnian satellites .",
    "finally , the resulting enrichment of o in saturn is o / h @xmath39 , ie 5.2 times the solar value .",
    "we have calculated in this letter formation models of the two gas giant planets of our solar system , in the framework of our extended core - accretion models taking into account migration and disk evolution .",
    "the calculations presented here are simplified in some aspects , that could be improved in the future .",
    "in particular , our disk model is calculated in the framework of the @xmath16 formalism of shakura & sunyaev ( 1973 ) , which itself is a limitation . moreover",
    ", we do not take into account gravitational interactions between the two planets that can alter the migration rates .",
    "our calculations allowed us to give an estimate of the core mass , enrichment in heavy elements , and enrichment in volatile species that can be compared with observational data about jupiter and saturn .",
    "these calculations therefore show that our models can lead to the formation of two giant planets closely resembling our jupiter and saturn in less than 3 myr . in order for our synthetic planets to match the bulk properties of the two gas giants in our solar system , we found that jupiter must have started at a heliocentric distance smaller than @xmath30 10 au otherwise saturn , which follows in its trail , can not accrete enough heavy elements .",
    "the heavy elements content as well as the core mass obtained for our synthetic planets are in good agreement with the interior models of sg04 .",
    "finally , in the framework of our model , the enrichments ( compared to solar ) of some volatile species measured in the atmosphere of both giant planets can also be accounted for in a self - consistent manner .",
    "however , we note that , recently , the _ cassini _",
    "spacecraft measurements have led to a revised value of the abundance of c in saturn s atmosphere of @xmath40 times the solar value ( see flasar et al .",
    "2005 ) . using the clathrate hydrate trapping theory , and assuming the minimum value for the c abundance ( 6.5 times the solar value )",
    ", we obtain abundances of n , s , ar , kr , and xe of respectively 5.9 , 5 , 4.7 , 5.1 and 6.1 times the solar values .",
    "the resulting o enrichment would be about 14 times the solar value . these predicted",
    "enrichments are significantly higher than the ones quoted in sect .",
    "[ intro ] , in particular for n. the future confirmation of both the new measurement of c and of the `` old '' value of n would imply that there has been some unknown fractionation processes between these species in the solar nebula gas - phase , and that their abundances in saturn can not be explained using solely the standard clathrate hydrate trapping theory . however , the measurement of c in saturn by the _ cassini",
    "_ spacecraft may be subject to revisions in a near future .",
    "alibert , y. , mordasini , c. , & benz , w. 2004 , astronomy & astrophysics , 417 , l25-l28 ( a04 ) alibert , y. , mordasini , c. , benz , w. & winisdoerffer , c. 2005 , astronomy & astrophysics , _ in press _ , astroph-0412444 ( a05a ) alibert , y. , mousis , o. & benz , w. 2005 , apj , _ in press _ , astroph-0502325 allamandola , l.  j. , bernstein , m.  p. , sandford , s.  a. , & walker , r. l. 1999 , space sci .",
    ", 90 , 219 briggs , f.h . & sackett , p. d. 1989 , icarus 80 , 77 - 103 flasar , f. m. et al .",
    "2005 , science , _ in press _ fortney , j. , hubbard , w.b . , 2003 , icarus , 164 , 228 gibb , e.  l. , whittet , d.  c.  b. , boogert , a.  c.  a. , & tielens , a. g. g. m. 2004 , apj supp .",
    ", 151 , 35 guillot , t. 2005 , annual review of earth and planetary sciences , _ in press _ haisch , k. e. , lada , e. a. & lada , c. j. 2001 , apj 553 , l153-l156 hartman l. , calvet , n. , gullbring , e. & dalession , p. 1998",
    ", , 495 , 385 hubickyj , o. , bodenheimer , p. & lissauer , j. j. 2003 , proceedings of the 35th dps meeting , 25.06 kerola , d. x. , larson , h. p. & tomasko , m. g. 1997 , icarus 127 , 190 - 212 klahr , h. & bodenheimer , p. 2003 , in esa sp-539 : earths : darwin / tpf and the search for extrasolar terrestrial planets , 481 - 483 korycansky , d. g. , zahnle k. j. & mac low m. m. 2002 , icarus , 157 , 1 - 23 lunine , j.  i. , & stevenson , d.  j. 1985 , apj supp . , 58 , 493 lodders , k. 2003 , apj , 591 , 1220 mahaffy , p. r. et al .",
    "j. 2000 , geophys .",
    "res . 105 , 15061 - 15072 nelson , r. p. & papaloizou , j. c. b. 2004 , , 350 , 849 papaloizou , j. c. b. & terquem , c. 1999 , , 521 , 823 pasek , m.  a. , milsom , j.  a. , ciesla , f.  j.  et al .  2005 ,",
    "icarus , _ in press _ pollack , j. b. , hubickyj , o. , bodenheimer , p. , lissauer , j. j. , podolak , m. , & greenzweig , y. 1996 , icarus , 124 , 62 ( p96 ) saumon , d. & guillot , t. 2004 , apj 609 , 1170 - 1180 ( sg04 ) shakura , n. i. & sunyaev , r. a. 1973 , a&a , 24 , 337 tanaka , h. , takeuchi , t. & ward , w. r. 2002 , , 565 , 1257 veras , d. & armitage , p. j. 2004 , mnras , 347 , 613 ward , w. r. 1989 , , 345 , l90 ward , w. r. & hahn , j. m. 1995 , , 440 , l25 ward , w. r. 1997 , , 482 , l211 wong m. h. et al .",
    "2004 , icarus , 171 , 153 - 170     = 0.001 ( resp . 0.03 ) .",
    "( a ) mass of accreted planetesimals ( dashed lines ) , total mass ( dotted lines ) and mass of solid core ( solid lines ) as a function of time for two simulations .",
    "( b ) heliocentric distance as a function of time .",
    "( c ) final surface density of planetesimals  @xmath41 as a function of heliocentric distance .",
    "( d ) core mass ( @xmath0 ) and mass of heavy elements ( @xmath1 ) dissolved in the envelope .",
    "the black curve gives the domain allowed by the present day structure models of sg04 .",
    "if some core dissolution occurs after the formation , the two points would evolve along the lines .",
    "for all the values of @xmath24 we used , the points representing the final structures are very close to the red and blue ones .",
    "these points are not represented here for clarity .",
    ", width=377 ]       ( blue curves in fig .",
    "the green line is similar to the red one , except that the effect of jupiter s wake on saturn formation is _ not _ taken into account .",
    "the black star indicates saturn s position in this diagram .",
    "( d ) core mass ( @xmath0 ) and mass of heavy elements ( @xmath1 ) dissolved in the envelope .",
    "the black curve gives the domain allowed by the present day structure models of sg04 , taking into account a possible shell of sedimented helium , of mass between @xmath4 and @xmath42 .",
    ", width=377 ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the wealth of observational data about jupiter and saturn provides strong constraints to guide our understanding of the formation of giant planets . </S>",
    "<S> the size of the core and the total amount of heavy elements in the envelope have been derived from internal structure studies by saumon & guillot ( 2004 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the atmospheric abundance of some volatile elements has been measured _ in situ _ by the _ galileo _ probe ( mahaffy et al . 2000 , wong et al . 2004 ) or by remote sensing ( briggs & sackett 1989 , kerola et al . </S>",
    "<S> 1997 ) . in this letter , we show that , by extending the standard core accretion formation scenario of giant planets by pollack et al . ( 1996 ) to include migration and protoplanetary disk evolution , it is possible to account for all of these constraints in a self - consistent manner . </S>"
  ]
}