{
  "article_text": [
    "emission lines originating in ionized gas provide very valuable diagnostics for physical conditions in several components of the interstellar medium ( ism ) such as  regions , supernova remnants ( snrs ) , planetary nebulae , or the warm ionized medium . to demonstrate the complex relation of these various components we show in fig .",
    "1 the  emission of the central star - forming region of the nearby late - type galaxy ngc55 . besides the presence of localized sources ( i.e. ,  regions and snrs ) this image demonstrates that a significant fraction of  emission originates outside of  classical \" -regions ( which are saturated black in the grey scale representation ) in shells , loops , bubbles , filaments , and knots , as well as a smoothly distributed , diffuse component .",
    "this h@xmath0 gas outside of  regions is now frequently called ( despite its morphological diversity ) _ diffuse ionized gas _ ( dig ) or _ warm ionized medium _ ( wim ) and can be identified with the _ reynolds - layer _ of the milky way .",
    "the  emission of the galaxy is currently being mapped in a northern sky survey by the wisconsin h - alpha mapper ( wham ; reynolds et al .",
    "1998 ) and first results from wham ( haffner et al .",
    "1998 ) show striking similarities between the dig in ngc55 ( fig . 1 ) and the galaxy",
    ". a more complete documentation demonstrating the power of the wham fabry - perot survey for galactic studies can be found at [ 9 ] .",
    "the filamentary structure of  emitting dig in fig .",
    "1 can be traced out into the halo on scales of several hundreds of pc and becomes an observational challenge with increasing distance from the mid - plane and decreasing flux .",
    "this faint extra - planar dig corroborates scenarios of a large scale exchange of matter between the ism in galactic disks and their halos driven by the energy input of star forming regions in the disk .",
    "more detailed reviews of this aspect can be found in , e. g. , dahlem ( 1997 ) or dettmar ( 1999 ) .",
    "the first imaging detection of a @xmath11kpc thick layer of dig in ngc891 ( rand et al .",
    "1990 , dettmar 1990 ) was meanwhile confirmed spectroscopically ( rand 1997 ) extending the detection limit out to at least 5kpc above the plane .",
    "the most active galactic disks with regard to their star formation rate possess spectacular gaseous halos , e.g , in the case of ngc4631 an extend of 16kpc in radius has been claimed from a narrow band imaging experiment by donahue et al .",
    "( 1995 ) . using fors1 in long - slit mode",
    "we could recently establish _ by spectroscopy _",
    "( tllmann et al . 2000 ) that also the dig halo in ngc5775 extents out to at least 10kpc ( fig .",
    "2 ) , confirming and extending the work by rand ( 2000 ) .",
    "this finding is in itself of interest in the context of the chemical evolution history of disk galaxies , since the gaseous halo and in particular its hot component could transport and maintain significant amounts of metals .",
    "the detailed physics of such mass exchanges or outflows are of course most important for the understanding of the metal enrichment processes in early phases of galaxy evolution .",
    "it is therefore of some importance that not even the energy balance of the ism is well understood : the ionization and excitation conditions of the dig component require more than photoionization by ob stars can directly supply .",
    "however , it is unclear what additional process(es ) ( turbulence , dust heating , shocks , magnetic reconnection ) contribute(s ) to the heating , in particular since there is more and more observational evidence that the temperature is increasing with height above the plane _ z _ ( reynolds et al .",
    "1999 , for the milky way ; rand 1997 , for ngc 891 ; tllmann and dettmar 2000 , for a sample based on eso / la silla observations ) .",
    "further progress with regard to the physical conditions of the ionized halo gas would require deep spectra that allow for the detection of faint diagnostic emission lines over a large wavelength range .",
    "this problem can be best treated with a specialized high - efficiency spectrograph and is addressed by prieto ( 2001 ) elsewhere in this volume .",
    "se of the nucleus ) of ngc5775 for prominent emission lines extracted from a vlt fors1 spectrum .",
    "the noise level of @xmath2ergs @xmath3s@xmath4@xmath4 reached in 3 hrs allows for a detection out to 10kpc above the disk .",
    "the dashed line indicates the systemic velocity ( from tllmann et al .",
    "the deep vlt spectra of ngc5775 are , however , of interest also with respect to the kinematical information as fig.2 shows that the rotational velocity of the dig halo drops to systemic high above the plane .",
    "in addition , it was shown ( tllmann et al . 2000 ) , that the dig halo is associated with highly ordered magnetic fields , surprising in view of the energy input ( i.e. , turbulence , flows etc . ) from the star formation activity in the underlying disk .",
    "these findings now allow us to discuss some new physical processes to explain the ionization / excitation as well as the kinematics of the halo gas .",
    "the surprising kinematical information can be used to study the ( magneto?)hydro@xmath5dynamics of a possible large scale outflow . since the observed drop in velocity is dramatic",
    ", one has to expect that the shape of the dark matter distribution plays an important role , too . since the magnetic field structure with a strong vertical component also is very suggestive for outflows ",
    "such a magnetic field structure actually would favour outflow rather than suppressing it  and the question of the gas metalicities in the halo becomes even more important for chemical enrichment processes .",
    "another interesting aspect is added by the recent finding from an uv absorption line study of galactic halos .",
    "ct et al .",
    "( 2000 ) report that absorption lines associated with galactic halos are observed at the systemic velocity of the host galaxy independent of the impact parameter for the line - of - sight .",
    "for both applications mentioned in the two previous sections  the detection of faint emission and the extraction of kinematical information  a higher spectral resolution than typically reachable with grism spectrographs would be an advantage .",
    "considering the manifold of integral field spectrographs already available at the vlt and discussed at this meeting as possible future vlt instruments , a fabry - perot design may best meet this requirements , in particular if good spatial coverage is another constraint .",
    "the power of a fabry - perot spectrograph is well demonstrated in several applications by bland - hawthorn ( see e.g. bland - hawthorn et al . 1997 ) and the more specialist use of a fabry - perot as a tunable filter attached to the vlt was recently discussed as a modification to fors ( jones et al .",
    "2001 ) .    to demonstrate the gain in s / n for the detection of emission lines in the presence of bright night sky lines by using a fabry - perot we reproduce in fig .",
    "3 a channel of a taurus data cube of ngc891 before and after correction for the night sky contribution . with an integration time of 2min per channel a detection of @xmath1 2@xmath610@xmath7ergs @xmath3s@xmath4arcsec@xmath8 could be reached at the 4 m wht .",
    "the examples of ngc5775 and ngc4631 given above demonstrate that the extent of ionized gaseous halos around spiral galaxies is limited by the detection limit reached .",
    "also kinematical studies would much benefit from higher spectral resolution over a large field of view , with r between 10000 and 30000 , depending on the scientific case .",
    "a scanning fabry - perot spectrograph seems to be a very versatile instrument to meet these requirements and compared favourable to other integral field spectrometer designs with regard to spacial sampling and spectral resolution .",
    "it would therefore ideally complement the current vlt instrumentation .",
    "+ _ acknowledgements . _",
    "its a pleasure to thank ron allen and thijs van der hulst for the patient collaboration on our `` long term '' fabry - perot project . thanks also to staff and students at ruhr - university for contributing the `` real '' work presented here .",
    "the author acknowledges partial financial support in this field by dfg through sfb191 .",
    "bland - hawthorn , j. , freemann , k. c. , quinn , p. j. 1997 apj 490 , 143 ct , s. , broadhurst , t. , carignan , c. , freeman , k. , wyse , r. f. g. 2000 in : _ cosmic evolution and galaxy formation _ , j. franco et al .",
    "( eds . ) , asp conf .",
    "215 , p. 287 dahlem , m. 1997 pasp 109 , 1298 dettmar ,",
    "r .- j . 1990 a&a 232 , l15 dettmar , r .- j .",
    "1999 in : _ the physics and chemistry of the interstellar medium _",
    ", v. ossenkopf et al .",
    "( eds . ) , cga - verlag ( herdecke ) p. 18",
    "dettmar , r .- j . ,",
    "allen , r. j. , van der hulst , j. m. in prep .",
    "donahue , m. , aldering , g. , stocke , j. t. 1995 apj 450 , l45 haffner , l. m. , reynolds , r .- j . , tufte , s. l. 1998 a&a 501 , l83 http://www.astro.wisc.edu/wham jones , h. , renzini , a. , rosati , p. , seifert , w. 2001 eso messenger 103 , 10 otte , b. , dettmar , r .- j .",
    "1999 a&a 343 , 705 prieto , a. 2001 , _ this volume _ rand , r. j. 1997 apj 474 , 129 rand , r. j. 2000 apj 537 , l13 rand , r. j. , kulkarni , s. r. , hester , j. j. 1990 apj 352 , l1 reynolds , r. j. , tufte , s. l. , haffner , l. m. , jaehnig , k. , percival , j. w. 1998 pasa 15 , 14 tllmann , r. , dettmar , r .- j . 2000 a&a 362 , 119 tllmann , r. , dettmar , r .- j . , soida , m. , urbanik , m. , rossa , j. 2000 a&a 364 , l36"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> based on results obtained with fors1 in long - slit mode we demonstrate the power of the vlt for the spectroscopy of faint emission line nebulae such as the gaseous halos of diffuse ionized gas ( dig ) in spiral galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> it is shown that vlt spectra of dig allow us to address the ionization and excitation processes for the interstellar medium on galactic scales and that in the future more detailed kinematical studies of dig could help to constrain the origin of the observed thick h@xmath0 layer in galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> the currently available instrumentation with regard to this application is compared to other possible designs and efficiencies for integral field spectrographs , in particular fabry - perot systems . </S>"
  ]
}