{
  "article_text": [
    "the field of high - speed infrared photometry is one that has existed for many years , but has until now developed very slowly .",
    "the range of work done with high - speed near - ir photometers is wide and varied , from observations of pulsars ( both rotation- and accretion - powered ) , x - ray binaries , and cataclysmic variables to applications in ir interferometry , planetary occultations , and lunar occultations .",
    "however , the amount of work has been limited , largely due to the relatively poor performance of typical near - ir detectors ( e.g. insb and hgcdte - see lundgren ( 1994 ) ; pipher _ et al .",
    "_ , ( 1995 ) ; hodapp _ et al .",
    "_ , ( 1995 ) ) at high speed operation ( sampling rates greater than @xmath1 hz ) .",
    "the appearance of a new technology , that of the solid - state photomultiplier , promises to change this state of affairs .",
    "the solid - state photomultiplier ( sspm ) , developed by rockwell international science center ( risc ) , is a si : as detector with single - photon counting capability over the wavelength range from @xmath2 @xmath3 m , intrinsic time response of order 1 ns , and low detector noise . as such",
    ", it provides great advantages over previous high - speed ir detectors in terms of both sensitivity and time resolution .",
    "for instance , our first - generation photometer provides 1000 times the time resolution and 2.6 times the signal - to - noise ( at 1 khz ) of the caltech insb - based high - speed photometer ( lundgren , 1994 ) .",
    "thus , the sspm for the first time brings high - speed ir photometry into the realm of competition with high - speed optical photometry , which relies on the well - developed technology of photomultiplier tubes ( pmts ) .",
    "the basic operating principle of the sspm is that of a blocked - impurity band ( bib ) detector operated in avalanche mode . as shown in figure 1(a ) , a layer of arsenic - doped silicon is deposited on the silicon substrate , with a blocking layer of undoped si between the si : as layer and the electrode . a bias applied to the detector results in the field configuration shown in figure 1(b ) .",
    "an incident infrared photon passes through the substrate and interacts in the si : as layer , generating an electron / hole pair . under the effect of the electric field",
    ", the electron drifts quickly to the blocking layer .",
    "the increased field near the blocking layer ( bl ) ( see figure 1(b ) ) provides a high cross - section for impact ionization , resulting in an avalanche of electrons with a typical gain of @xmath4 .",
    "the electrons are collected at the electrode in timescales of a few nanoseconds , while the holes drift more slowly to the opposite electrode implanted in the silicon substrate .",
    "detector dark current arises primarily from thermal generation in the si : as layer . for a more detailed description of the sspm device physics ,",
    "see petroff _ et al . _",
    "due to the operating requirements of the sspm ( detector temperature @xmath5 k ) and its long - wavelength response , the sspm must be cooled with liquid helium .",
    "we house the sspm in an infrared laboratories dewar ( see figure 2 for schematic ) with a typical hold time of @xmath6 hours .",
    "light enters the dewar through a fused silica entrance window , and then passes through a cold filter ( usually a j- , h- , or k - band filter on a thermal blocker which reduces long - wavelength radiation ) . immediately after the cold filter comes an aperture stop slide at the focal plane of the telescope , with stop diameters of 0.6 and 0.3 mm ( giving 6 arcsec and 3 arcsec fields on the las campanas observatory 2.5-meter telescope ) .",
    "two fused silica lenses reimage the aperture stop on the detector with a 3:1 ratio .",
    "the first lens images the telescope secondary mirror onto a lyot stop which blocks stray light . the second lens then brings the light to a focus on the 200x200 micron back - illuminated sspm , which is mounted on a gold - coated plate along with a temperature - sensing diode and a heating resistor for thermal control .",
    "in addition to the previously mentioned advantages of speed and photon - counting capability , the unique structure of the sspm also gives it the ability to be easily aligned with an optical system , which can otherwise be troublesome for back - illuminated single element detectors .",
    "the basis of the alignment technique is the interface between the si : as layer and the undoped si blocking layer ( bl ) . at room temperature ,",
    "the as acts as a simple dopant , providing a high concentration of electrons in the conduction band ( that is , n - doping ) .",
    "thus , the interface between the si : as and the bl forms a photodiode junction at room temperature , sensitive to light out to near the silicon cutoff ( @xmath7 m ) . in order for some photons to penetrate the si substrate and yet still interact at the junction , we must use a fairly bright source with a wavelength just below the cutoff , such as a nd : yag @xmath8 m cw laser .",
    "we performed the alignment of our instrument at the mit laser spectroscopy lab , using a 300 mw cw nd : yag laser .",
    "the laser beam was sent into the ( open , room - temperature ) dewar and aligned with the smallest aperture stop using an ir viewer , retro - reflecting the beam to check orthogonality .",
    "we connected the sspm dewar leads to a simple circuit such as is commonly used for reversed - bias operation of photodiodes .",
    "we placed a chopper wheel in the laser beam path , and connected the sspm signal to an sr560 amplifier ( see below ) with both high- and low - frequency filtering selected to minimize noise while passing the chopper frequency .",
    "the signal was easily readable on an oscilloscope , with typical amplitudes of @xmath1 mv , and noise amplitudes of @xmath9 mv .",
    "the position of the sspm plate was then manually adjusted to provide the maximum signal .",
    "figure 3 show the sspm electronics chain for telescope observations .",
    "a variable potentiometer outside the dewar controls the detector bias , and a @xmath10 resistor acts as a current - limiter to prevent detector breakdown . the other terminal of the detector is connected to a room - temperature transimpedance amplifier ( tia ) ( r= @xmath11 ) mounted directly outside the dewar .",
    "the tia acts as a current - mode preamplifier , converting the avalanche current to an output voltage .",
    "photon events produce typical amplitudes of @xmath12 mv at the tia output , while the rms noise is typically @xmath13 mv .",
    "the tia is then fed through a stanford research sr-560 amplifier with gain @xmath14 , which is typically mounted on the telescope near the instrument .",
    "the amplifier output feeds into a stanford research sr-400 digital photon counter .",
    "we set the sr-400 discriminator level to cleanly separate real photon events from noise .",
    "one sr-400 output feeds a pc real - time display , which facilitates target acquisition and data monitoring throughout the observation .",
    "the second sr-400 output is a digital logic pulse to a data recording system .",
    "we measure the time resolution of the entire detector+electronics system ( limited by the post - detector electronics ) to be @xmath15s , with dead - time of @xmath16s per count .",
    "the data recording system we use is the `` lil wizard pulsarator '' built by richard lucinio of caltech and jerome kristian of the carnegie obervatories .",
    "the heart of the wizard is 2 sets of 2 counting registers .",
    "one register accumulates counts from the sr-400 output , while the other counts a preset number of oscillations from a rubidium ( rb ) frequency standard ( user - selectable register integration times range from @xmath0s to 64 ms ) .",
    "when the rb register reaches the preset limit , the counting function switches to the other set of registers , and the first data register is transferred to a buffer .",
    "after the buffer accumulates 8192 data elements , it is flushed to an exabyte tape drive , along with header information including the number of rb oscillations since power - up .",
    "thus , the wizard provides continuous data recording while maintaining phase coherence to the accuracy of the rb frequency standard ( typical allan variance @xmath17 s / s ) , even over several separate nights of observation .",
    "we have evaluated the performance of our sspm instrument in the laboratory , using a standard infrared test setup .",
    "a blackbody cavity with a pinhole aperture illuminates a 45-degree flat mirror through a variable - speed chopper wheel .",
    "the blackbody beam is either fed into the sspm optics directly from the flat mirror ( for most measurements ) , or else is reflected off a scanning flat mirror , and then into the sspm optics ( for measuring the instrument beam profile ) .",
    "we have measured the instrument dark current and jhk quantum efficiency across a wide range of detector temperatures and bias .",
    "typical quantum efficiency and dark current are plotted in figures 4 and 5 .",
    "taking these data , along with estimates or measurements of background for a band , field of view , and telescope , we can derive the relative signal - to - noise for the various combinations of temperature and bias .",
    "figure 6 shows en example curve for h - band observations on the mmt with a 2-arcsec field of view .",
    "we use such curves to select the optimal operating parameters for a given observation .",
    "we have used the sspm high - speed photometer on several telescopes , including the whipple observatory 1.2-meter , the las campanas 2.5-meter , and the multiple mirror telescope . some of the most striking examples of the sspm s capabilities are shown in figure 7 .",
    "figure 7(a ) shows a j - band ( @xmath18 m ) pulse profile of the 33 ms crab nebula pulsar with @xmath19s time resolution . taking advantage of this high time resolution",
    ", we have found trends in the pulse shape as a function of wavelength ( ransom et al . , 1994 ; eikenberry et al . , 1996ab ) ,",
    "including changes in the peak - to - peak separation and the peak half - widths on timescales @xmath20s , which are providing new challenges for models of the pulsar emission mechanism .",
    "previous infrared photometers have lacked the time resolution to detect these effects ( by an order of magnitude ) .",
    "figure 7(b ) shows the h - band pulse profile of hercules x-1 , an x - ray pulsar . while the time resolution on these 1.2 s pulses is unremarkable , the sensitivity of the observation is exceptional .",
    "the figure 7(b ) profile , which results from a 1 hour observation on the whipple 1.2-meter telescope , has a @xmath21 significance .",
    "observations with previous detectors ( e.g. middleditch , pennypacker , and burns , 1984 ) have required 3 hours on 3-meter telescopes to obtain slightly weaker detections . from these observations , we have determined the @xmath22 sensitivity of the instrument to a crab - like pulse profile to be @xmath23 jy ( h=17.3 ) ( 1.2-meter telescope ) , @xmath24 jy ( h=18.8 ) ( 2.5-meter telescope ) , and @xmath25 jy ( h=20.0 ) ( mmt ) for a 1 hour observation .",
    "the sspm sensitivity scales according to the following equation    @xmath26 \\",
    "t_{obs}}}},\\ ] ]    where s / n is the signal - to - noise ratio , @xmath27 is the sspm quantum efficiency , @xmath28 is the signal photon flux density ( photons per square centimeter per micron per square arcsecond per second ) , @xmath29 is the observation time in seconds , @xmath30 is the sspm dark count rate ( counts per second ) , @xmath31 is the sky background photon flux density , @xmath32 is the bandpass ( microns ) , @xmath33 is the telescope area ( square centimeters ) , and @xmath34 is the field of view ( square arcseconds ) .",
    "the sensitivities given above also allow a direct comparison between the sspm and other types of high - speed infrared photometers .",
    "as none of these others are actual photon counters , their noise will have a @xmath35 dependence , where @xmath36 is maximum sampling rate - the electronic bandwidth for analog detectors ( e.g. single - pixel devices ) , or the read rate for digital detectors ( e.g. array detectors ) .",
    "we plot the relative signal - to - noise for the sspm versus a single - pixel insb detector ( lundgren , 1994 ) in figure 8 .",
    "again , the response curve for all non - photon - counting detectors will have the shape shown by the insb detector , while the sspm curve is flat with respect to sample rate .",
    "thus , at speeds greater than @xmath1 hz , the sspm becomes the ir detector of choice .",
    "in addition to the observations mentioned above , we are using the current sspm photometer in a wide range of other astronomical applications . in the area of pulsar research",
    ", we are searching for infrared pulsations from sn1987a and other supernova remnants .",
    "we have also observed other known pulsars ( such as the optical pulsar 0540 - 69 ) and compact objects to search for infrared pulsations .",
    "a brief list of observed targets includes pulsars ( psr0540 - 69 , psr1257 + 12 , psr1957 + 20 , geminga , psr1509 - 58 ) , supernova remnants ( sn1987a ) , soft gamma - ray repeaters ( sgr1806 - 20 , sgr1900 + 14 ) , cataclysmic variables ( rw sextans ) , black hole candidates ( j0422 + 32 ) , and globular clusters ( m15 ) .",
    "while we have found no pulsar signals in these preliminary searches , we plan to continue these searches in the future .",
    "besides the research geared toward compact objects , the sspm may be extremely useful in the field of ir adaptive optics . in adaptive optics ,",
    "one of several corrections is the global wavefront , or `` tip - tilt '' correction .",
    "previously , both global and local wavefront corrections have been done in the visible , even though the science detectors usually operate in the near - ir ( e.g. lloyd - hart _ et al . _ , 1995 ) .",
    "since the earth s atmosphere possesses differential dispersion between the optical and ir wavebands , the actual distortion being corrected may differ significantly between the optical and the ir .",
    "thus , several groups are investigating the construction of adaptive optics systems with ir tip - tilt coreection , sampling from 40 - 100 hz ( m. lloyd - hart , personal communication ) . while the current sspm is competitive with `` standard '' detectors only at the high end of this range , work on future sspm instruments ( see next section ) will almost certainly alter this state of affairs dramatically .",
    "as mentioned above , the current back - illuminated instrument is the fastest and most sensitive astronomical high - speed ir photometer yet built .",
    "however , we have considerable room for improvement , especially in the area of quantum efficiency ( typically @xmath37 for j- , h- , and k - bands ) .",
    "the back - illuminated sspm is limited in qe at these wavelengths by the relatively short path length of the incident photons through the sensitive region ( typically @xmath38 m ) , compared to the typical absorption length ( @xmath39 mm ) .",
    "risc has found one solution in the edge - illuminated sspm , which is similar to the back - illuminated sspm , but , as its name suggests , is illuminated from the side , resulting in a path length of order @xmath40 m . using this technique ,",
    "risc has achieved near - infrared quantum efficiencies of @xmath41 in laboratory tests .",
    "we are currently building a 2nd generation instrument employing an edge - illuminated sspm as the detector .",
    "the principle problem we have encountered in building this instrument is the small area@xmath42solid - angle product of the detector . in order to achieve maximum response",
    ", the detector requires an input beam of f/3 or slower .",
    "however , given the @xmath43 m dimension of the sensitive area , this corresponds to a field of view of only @xmath44 arcsec on a 4-meter telescope . in order to increase this field",
    ", we use an optical system that feeds the detector with an f/1 beam , resulting in a more practical 2.3 arcsec field . by calculating the average path length through the detector",
    ", we estimate that this will reduce the effective quantum efficiency by @xmath45 , to a final value of @xmath46 .",
    "given measurements of sky backgrounds with the present instrument and of the dark current from the edge - illuminated detector , we conclude that the edge - illuminated sspm should produce a factor of @xmath47 improvement in sensitivity over the current sspm .",
    "thus , we expect that our @xmath22 detection limit for a 1 hour observation will be @xmath48 jy ( h=19.2 ) for a 1.2-meter telescope , @xmath49 jy ( h=20.7 ) for a 2.5-meter telescope , and @xmath50 jy ( h=22.0 ) for the mmt .",
    "we thank risc for supplying the sspms , and especially k. hays and m. stapelbroek for their invaluable advice and help , and r. florence for his continued support of infrared astronomical instrument development ; j. middleditch , c. pennypacker and j. kristian for their support of the sspm project in both development and observations ; j. geary , s. willner , c. hughes , and p. crawford for their assistance in designing and assembling both instruments at the cfa ; d. paolucci and the mit laser spectroscopy lab for help with the laser alignment ; bill riley and eg & g for supplying the rubidium frequency standard ; r. narayan for providing funding support ; and , r. lucinio for maintaining the wizards .",
    "the sspm project has been supported in part by a smithsonian scholarly studies grant .",
    "s. eikenberry is supported by a nasa graduate student researchers program fellowship through nasa ames research center .",
    "cheng , k.s .",
    ", ho , c. , & ruderman , m. 1986a , , 300 , 500 .",
    "cheng , k.s .",
    ", ho , c. , & ruderman , m. 1986b , , 300 , 522 .",
    "eikenberry , s.s . ,",
    "fazio , g.g .",
    ", ransom , s.m . ,",
    "middleditch , j. , kristian , j. , pennypacker , c.r .",
    "1996a , apj letters , submitted eikenberry , s.s . ,",
    "fazio , g.g . ,",
    "ransom , s.m . ,",
    "middleditch , j. , kristian , j. , pennypacker , c.r .",
    "1996b , , submitted hodapp , k.w . , hora , j.l . , hall , d.n . ,",
    "cowie , l.l . ,",
    "metzger , m. irwin , e.m . ,",
    "keller , t.j .",
    ", vural , k. , kozlowski , l.j . ,",
    "kleinhans , w.e . , 1995 ,",
    "spie vol . 2475 , 8 .",
    "lloyd - hart , m. , angel , j.r.p . , jacobsen , b. , wittman , d. , dekany , r. , mccarthy , d. , kibblewhite , e. , wild , w. , carter , b. , beletic , j. , 1995 , , 439 , 455 .",
    "lundgren , s.c .",
    ", 1994 , phd . thesis , cornell university .",
    "middleditch , j. , pennypacker , c.r . , burns , m.s .",
    "1983 , , 274 , 313 .",
    "petroff , m.d . ,",
    "stapelbroek , m.g . , and kleinhans , w.w .",
    "1987 , appl.phys.lett .",
    "pipher , j.l . , forrest , w.j . ,",
    "wu , j. , 1995 , spie vol .",
    "2475 , 428 .",
    "ransom , s.m . ,",
    "fazio , g.g .",
    ", eikenberry , s.s . ,",
    "middleditch , j. , kristian , j.a . , hays , k . , pennypacker , c.r .",
    "1994 , , 431 , l43 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we describe the design , operation , and performance of a new high - speed infrared photometer using the solid - state photomultiplier ( sspm ) detector . </S>",
    "<S> the sspm was developed by rockwell international science center and has single - photon counting capability over the 0.4 - 28 micron wavelength range , intrinsic time response of order 1 ns , and low detector noise ( petroff , _ et al . </S>",
    "<S> _ , 1987 ) . </S>",
    "<S> we have operated a 200x200-micron back - illuminated sspm in a liquid - helium cooled dewar with a room - temperature transimpedance amplifier output . </S>",
    "<S> single photon pulses can be easily distinguished above the amplifier noise . </S>",
    "<S> the individual photon pulses are binned at a selectable time resolution ranging from @xmath0s to 64 ms , and then written to exabyte tape . in the first astronomical application of such a device , we have made observations of the crab nebula pulsar and her x-1 at near - infrared wavelengths ( j- , h- , and k - bands ) , and we present the instrument sensitivities established by these observations . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss other astronomical observations which are either planned or currently underway . finally , we present design specifications and predicted performances for a second - generation sspm high - speed infrared photometer . </S>"
  ]
}