{
  "article_text": [
    "the detection of infrared ( ir ) thermal emission from two extrasolar planets @xcite using the _ spitzer space telescope _",
    "@xcite opened a new era in which planets orbiting other stars can be studied directly .",
    "the spitzer detections were made by observing the flux decrement during secondary eclipse in transiting systems .",
    "the recently discovered planet transiting the star hd189733 @xcite is particularly suitable for spitzer detection and characterization , because it transits a relatively small star  allowing maximum planet - star contrast  and because the distance to the system is only 19 pc @xcite .",
    "hd189733b has an orbital period of only 2.219 days @xcite , putting it in the class of ` very hot jupiters ' .",
    "@xcite suggested that the very hot jupiters are a separate dynamical class of exoplanets . since the other members of this class orbit much fainter stars ,",
    "the discovery of hd189733 may allow a previously impossible direct comparison between different classes of extrasolar planets .    in this paper",
    "we report detection of a prominent secondary eclipse of hd189733b using spitzer observations at @xmath1 m .",
    "we confirm that the strong ir thermal emission from this planet will indeed permit detailed characterization studies . to begin such studies , we examine our data for structure in the ingress / egress portions of the eclipse curve , as can be caused by temperature structure on the disk of the planet .",
    "we thus attempt the first exploratory observations of spatially - resolved structure on the disk of a planet orbiting another star .",
    "whereas the first spitzer detections @xcite were made using the irac and mips instruments , we here use the infrared spectrograph ( irs , @xcite ) in the peak - up imaging ( pui ) mode to detect hd189733b .",
    "this mode provides imaging photometry at a wavelength ( @xmath1 m peak , @xmath9 m  fwhm ) intermediate between the @xmath10 m irac and @xmath11 m mips bands .",
    "our pui photometry began on 17 november 2005 at 23:54 utc .",
    "we placed the star alternately at two positions on the detector array , separated by 25(13.5 pixels ) .",
    "we obtained 15 six - second exposures of the star at each position , then nodded to the other position , and repeated this cycle 98 times .",
    "we thus acquired a total of 1470 images during the 6-hour observation .",
    "the nod procedure allowed us to examine the zodiacal background at each position , out of phase with the stellar observations .",
    "this permits us to check the flat - fielding , using the spatially uniform background .",
    "the nod also permits measurement of latent image effects , and it provides insurance against unanticipated hot or inoperative pixels .",
    "the @xmath1 m zodiacal background in our observations of hd189733 is approximately 9 mjy / sr , and this is sufficiently weak compared to hd189733 ( peak intensity @xmath12 mjy / sr ) to allow simple aperture photometry , not limited by background noise . after eliminating 5 images having obvious flaws",
    ", we summed the intensity for each image in a @xmath13-pixel box centered on the star , and subtracted the background level .",
    "the background level for each image was determined from a histogram of the pixel values outside of the stellar box , fitting a gaussian to determine the centroid of the histogram .",
    "photometry from the two nod positions differed by a constant factor close to unity ( @xmath14 ) , but showed no other differences above the noise .",
    "we normalized the measurements at both nod positions so as to yield the same average intensity .",
    "we also performed aperture photometry on 2mass20004297 + 2242342 , which is @xmath15 distant , and about 4 magnitudes fainter than hd189733 .",
    "we set the boundary of the @xmath16-pixel box for this comparison star at the intensity minimum between the overlapping psf wings of both stars .",
    "the comparison star contributes a very small flux in the photometry aperture for hd189733 ( @xmath17 ) , and we corrected for this using a modeled spitzer psf .",
    "figure  1 shows the stellar photometry vs. time for hd189733 , before background subtraction .",
    "we record about @xmath18 electrons in each exposure , of which @xmath19 are from the star .",
    "we therefore expect the stellar snr to be @xmath20 .",
    "the point - to - point scatter in our final photometry is @xmath21 .",
    "we were not able to improve this significantly by decorrelating against other parameters .",
    "for example , we found no significant correlation between the photometric noise and fluctuations in the position of the star on the detector ( typically @xmath22 pixels , @xmath23 arc - sec ) .",
    "the snr of our photometry is @xmath24% of the photon noise limit , which is more than sufficient to detect the secondary eclipse of the planet .",
    "the eclipse is already obvious as the dip in the time series on figure  1 . a vertical line on the figure at phase 0.5 marks the nominal center of the eclipse .",
    "the reality of the eclipse is established by the fact that it is not present in either the comparison star or the background time series . moreover , the amplitude , central phase , and shape of the eclipse are in close accord with expectations .",
    "figure  1 shows that the measured intensity of the star increases steadily over the 6-hour observation sequence .",
    "both the comparison star and the background level show a similar increase , which we denote as the ` ramp ' .",
    "there are two peak - up arrays in irs , and the red ( @xmath25 m ) array ( that was pointed to adjacent sky ) shows a similar ramp .",
    "this ramp is a previously unreported instrument effect , not yet understood by the irs instrument team . in july 2005",
    "we observed two secondary eclipses of hd209458 using irs in the @xmath26 m spectroscopic mode . during these spectroscopic observations , the peak - up arrays ( always operating )",
    "were both observing adjacent sky , and the backgound in all cases exhibits a similar ramp .",
    "we verified that the ramp appears in raw data , so it can not be an artifact of the pipeline processing at the ssc .",
    "we detect very weak latent images after changing the position of hd189733 , but their maximum amplitude ( @xmath27 of the real image ) is not sufficient to account for the ramp .",
    "it should eventually be possible to diagnose the nature of this ramp , and perhaps correct it from first principles .",
    "however , the secondary eclipse is of immediate interest , so here we fit a polynominal to the baseline .",
    "the limiting factor in the accuracy of our secondary eclipse measurement is our ability to correct the ramp , and establish an accurate photometric baseline spanning the eclipse .",
    "the ramp has a shape reminiscent of @xmath28 , where @xmath29 is the elapsed time from start of observations , but a first - order log function does not fit it particularly well .",
    "moreover , the shape of the ramp is slightly different for sources of different brightness ( background , star ) .    to correct the baseline ,",
    "we first divide background - subtracted hd189733 photometry by the comparison star .",
    "we do not subtract background from the comparison star , so that it will be a closer match to the intensity level of hd189733 and also will have greater snr .",
    "it is still necessary to smooth the comparison star photometry , which we do by fitting a fourth - order polynominal in @xmath30 ( figure  1 ) .",
    "dividing hd189733 by this fit removes virtually all of the higher - order curvature from the hd189733 time series , for phases greater than @xmath31 ( neglecting the strongly varying initial measurements ) .",
    "a residual ramp remains in hd189733 after the division , but it is nearly linear .",
    "we zero - weight the eclipse itself ( @xmath32 ) , and we fit both a linear and a quadratic baseline to the residual ramp in the hd189733 data .",
    "our baseline correction has the distinct advantage of not fitting a higher - order polynominal directly to hd189733 data . because the eclipse itself must be zero - weighted",
    ", the higher - order coefficients would have to be fit ` over the gap ' , a less robust procedure that we avoid . for investigators who wish to do their own baseline corrections",
    ", we include an electronic table ( table  1 ) giving our photometry both before and after baseline correction .",
    "the original data are freely available from the spitzer science center .",
    "our background - subtracted photometry yields a stellar flux of @xmath33 mjy for hd189733 at @xmath1 m . we included an aperture correction of 14% , calculated using a @xmath11 m mips psf scaled to @xmath1 m .",
    "our flux error is from calibration scatter described in the irs data handbook .",
    "interpolating in a grid of kurucz model atmospheres , the flux expected from a 5050/4.5/0.0 model @xcite at 19.3 pc is 104  mjy .",
    "the 2mass k magnitude ( = 5.54 ) used with the star - pet calculator on the ssc website , for spectral type k2 , predicts a stellar flux of 120  mjy .",
    "given the difference between the 16  @xmath34 m fluxes expected from the 2mass magnitude , and from a kurucz model for the @xcite temperature , there is no convincing evidence for a circumstellar dust contribution to the @xmath1 m flux .",
    "we therefore interpret the contrast in the secondary eclipse solely in terms of the planet - to - star flux ratio .",
    "figure  2 shows the baseline - corrected secondary eclipse .",
    "we generate a theoretical eclipse curve numerically @xcite , from the @xcite parameters for the system .",
    "we fit this to the individual measurements ( upper panel of figure  2 ) .",
    "the fit has only two free parameters : phase at center of eclipse , and the eclipse depth .",
    "we estimate errors by generating and fitting to @xmath35 fake data sets having @xmath36 , matching the scatter in the real data .",
    "the standard deviations of the eclipse depth and central phase from these monte - carlo realizations are adopted as the errors for these parameters .",
    "the best - fit eclipse depth is @xmath37 , with central phase @xmath38 .",
    "adopting a stellar flux of @xmath39 mjy , the flux from the planet is @xmath40jy .",
    "the exact eclipse depth is dependent on the details of the baseline correction .",
    "if we adopt a linear fit over the gap ( see above ) , the derived eclipse depth is @xmath41 .",
    "the choice between the linear and quadratic baselines is largely subjective ; we prefer the quadratic baseline .",
    "the magnitude of the difference in eclipse depth for the two choices is indicative of the accuracy of our result , estimated as @xmath42 .",
    "this being greater than the precision of the detection , baseline correction is the limiting factor in our analysis .",
    "the lower panel of figure  2 averages the photometry into bins of 0.001 in phase .",
    "the eclipse in the binned data is dramatic , and its duration and shape agree well with the theoretical curve .",
    "we are aware that some ground - based transit photometry for this planet yields a smaller radius ( d. charbonneau and g. bakos , private communication )",
    ". however , the duration of secondary eclipse should be the same as the transit duration , already relatively well determined by the discovery observations .",
    "we do not expect that a smaller radius for the planet will affect the duration and shape of the secondary eclipse curve by more than our errors .",
    "the brightness temperature inferred for the planet may be more sensitive to radius ( see below ) .",
    "the central phase of the eclipse , @xmath38 , is seemingly different from @xmath43 , and at face value this would indicate a non - circular orbit .",
    "however , the difference between the discovery orbital period , 2.219 days @xcite , and the hipparcos value we used ( 2.218575 days , @xcite ) , when propagated to the time of our observations , give a phase difference ( @xmath44 ) that is greater than the offset we observe .",
    "therefore we regard any conclusions about the central phase of the eclipse as premature until the ephemeris is more firmly established . for reference ,",
    "our secondary eclipse is centered at @xmath45 . unlike the eclipse depth",
    ", the center time does not depend significantly on our baseline correction .",
    "it is interesting to compare this planet with the spitzer detection of tres-1 @xcite , since both planets orbit k dwarfs . in thermal equilibrium , and assuming equal bond albedos and heat re - distribution efficiencies for both planets , their temperatures will scale as :      where @xmath47 is the effective temperature of the star , and @xmath48 is its angular diameter as seen from the planet . for the tres-1 @xcite and hd189733 parameters @xcite , eq .",
    "( 1 ) predicts virtually identical temperatures , as the larger and hotter star has the more distant planet ( tres-1 ) . the @xmath1 m brightness temperature of hd189733 , from a kurucz model , is 4315k . adopting the @xcite ratio of radii",
    ", our secondary eclipse contrast translates to a @xmath1 m brightness temperature for the planet of @xmath5k .",
    "this is very similar to both the tres-1 ( @xmath49k , @xcite ) and hd209458b ( @xmath50k , @xcite ) detections .",
    "our contrast measurement is in close accord with a prediction for hd189733b by @xcite , who expect hd189733b to be intermediate between tres-1 and hd209458b .",
    "however , if the planet - to - star radius _ ratio _ for hd189733 is revised , then our revised brightness temperature will be :      where @xmath52 is the ratio of planet radius to the stellar radius .",
    "our @xmath1 m measurement is as close to a continuum flux as possible using spitzer photometry ; comparison with the irac and mips ( @xmath11 m ) bands ( ddt program 261 by d. charbonneau ) should define the degree of absorption by methane , water and co @xcite .",
    "the fact that spitzer detects this secondary eclipse to high snr ( @xmath3 precision ) prompts us to ask what other information can be extracted from the eclipse curve , and what are the implications for the detection of lower - mass planets , e.g. , hot neptunes @xcite that may transit .",
    "the lower panel of figure  2 suggests that our binned data during ingress and egress contain information on the shape of the eclipse curve .",
    "the pressure scale height in the atmosphere of a solar - type star @xcite is much less than the radius of a planet .",
    "hence , the shape of the secondary eclipse curve encodes information on the spatial distribution of ir intensity across the planet s disk @xcite .",
    "we computed the derivative of intensity with respect to time ( phase ) for our binned data .",
    "we approximate the derivatives as simple finite differences .",
    "we fold the eclipse curve about mid - eclipse , averaging ingress and egress , before computing derivatives .",
    "folding maximizes our sensitivity , but smears any planetary thermal structure that is not symmetric .",
    "figure  3 shows the results for two bin sizes : 0.001 in phase ( upper panel ) , and 0.002 ( lower panel ) . at 0.001 resolution (=  3  minutes )",
    "the scatter is much greater than the amplitude of the derivative curve , but the average derivative during ingress / egress is higher than at other phases .",
    "as we increase the bin size , the derivatives during ingress / egress must inevitably become significantly different from zero .",
    "this follows because the integral of the derivative is the eclipse curve itself , that is already detected to high significance . at 0.002 resolution",
    "( 6  minutes ) , the scatter is dramatically improved , the derivatives peak near mid - ingress / egress , and a @xmath53 analysis firmly rejects the null hypothesis that the derivatives are consistent with zero ( @xmath54 probability ) . a similar analysis for the comparison star finds only random noise .",
    "apart from the real derivative increase during ingress / egress , only the lower left bin on figure  3 stands out in the @xmath53 analysis , with a @xmath55 probability of being due to noise .",
    "this marginal value is due to the extra noise noticeable just before egress , rather than to a real derivative signal .",
    "the extra noise can also be seen in the background flucuations at this time ( see figure  1 ) .",
    "figure  3 compares the observed derivatives to models that are constrained to fit the observed eclipse depth .",
    "we use two simple , ad - hoc models : a uniform brightness temperature on the disk ( solid line ) , and an extreme limb - darkened model with intensity falling proportional to @xmath56 , becoming zero at the limb ( dashed line ) . the dominant effect in the modeled and observed derivatives is the shape of the planet . at 6-minute resolution ,",
    "the individual derivatives peak at the middle of ingress / egress .",
    "the data crudely indicate the overall shape of the planet , but can not discriminate between a uniform disk ( solid line ) and the extreme limb - darkened model ( dashed line ) .",
    "however , modest improvements in spitzer duty cycle and snr may allow us to relax our symmetry assumption , and place meaningful limits on dynamically - forced temperature asymmetries of large spatial scale on the planet s disk @xcite .",
    "the @xmath3 precision we obtain for this secondary eclipse remains a @xmath57 detection for a planet an order of magnitude smaller in area , but in an identical orbit .",
    "this limit corresponds to @xmath58  1  neptune radius . as we proceed down the main sequence , planet - to - star contrast increases as the inverse square of the stellar radius . for planets orbiting m",
    "dwarfs @xcite , it follows from eq .",
    "( 1 ) that , in the rayleigh - jeans limit , this dominates the reduced heating of the planets . if close - in neptunes are discovered transiting nearby m  dwarfs , their ir emission should be detectable by spitzer .",
    "this work is based on observations made with the spitzer space telescope , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology under a contract with nasa .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa .",
    "we thank gordon squires for his rapid handling of our proposal , and the entire spitzer staff for their efficient scheduling , and rapid data processing .",
    "we are grateful to dave charbonneau and gaspar bakos for discussions concerning this planet , and we thank daniel devost , kevin uchida , james houck , and gregory sloan for their thoughts regarding irs systematics .",
    "we thank an anonymous referee for comments that improved this paper .",
    "alonso ,  r. , and 11 co - authors 2004 , , 613 , l15 barman ,  t.  s. , hauschildt ,  p.  h. , & allard ,  f. 2005 , , 632 , 1132 bonfils ,  x. , forveille ,  t. , delfosse ,  x. , udry ,  s. , mayor ,  m. , perrier ,  c. , bouchy ,  f. , pepe ,  f. , queloz ,  d. , & bertaux ,  j .- l .",
    "2005 , , 443 , l15 bouchy ,  f. , & 11 co - authors , 2005 , , 444 , l15 brown ,  t.  m. , charbonneau ,  d. , noyes ,  r.  w. , & burrows ,  a. 2001 , , 552 , 669 burrows ,  a. , hubeny ,  i. , & sudarsky ,  d. 2005 , , 625 , l135 butler ,  r.  p. , vogt ,  s.  s. , marcy ,  g.  w. , fischer ,  d.  a. , wright ,  j.  t. , henry ,  g.  w. , laughlin ,  g. & lissauer ,  j.  j. 2004 , , 617 , 580 charbonneau ,  d. , & 10 co - authors , 2005 , , 626 , 523 cho ,  j.  y .- k . , menou ,  k. , hansen ,  b.  m.  s. , & seager ,  s. 2003 , , 587 , l117 .",
    "cooper ,  c.  s. , & showman ,  a.  p. 2005",
    ", , 629 , l45 deming ,  d. , seager ,  s. , richardson ,  l.  j. , & harrington ,  j. 2005 , nature , 552 , 699 fortney ,  j.  j. , marley ,  m.  s. , lodders ,  k. , saumon ,  d. , & freedman ,  r. 2005 , , 627 , l69 fortney ,  j.  j. , saumon ,  d. , marley ,  m.  s.,lodders ,  k. , & freedman ,  r.  s. 2006 , , in press , astro - ph/0507422 gaudi ,  b.  s. , seager ,  s. , & mallen - ornelas ,  g. 2005 , , 623 , 472 hebrard ,  g , & lecavelier  des  estang ,  a. 2006 , , 445 , 341 houck , j.  r. , & 34 co - authors , 2004 , , 154 , 18 perryman ,  m.  a.  c. ( ed ) , 1997 , _ the hipparcos and tycho catalogues _ , esa sp-1200 , european space agency , noordwijk .",
    "richardson ,  j.  l. , seager ,  s. , deming ,  d. , harrington ,  j. , barry ,  r.  k. , rajagopal ,  j. , & danchi ,  w.  c. 2006 , in iauc 200 , _ direct detection of exoplanets : science & techniques _ , eds . c.  aime , & f.  vakili , in press rivera ,  e.  j. , lissauer ,  j.  j. , butler ,  r.  p. , marcy ,  g.  w. , vogt ,  s.  s. , fischer ,  d.  a. , brown ,  t.  m. , laughlin ,  g. , & henry ,  g.  w. 2005 , , 634 , 625 seager ,  s. , richardson ,  l.  j. , hansen ,  b.  m.  s. , menou ,  k. , cho , j.  y .- k . , & deming ,  d. 2005 , , 632 , 1122 sozetti ,  a. , yong ,  d. , torres ,  g. , charbonneau ,  d. , latham ,  d.  w. , prieto ,  c.  a. , brown ,  t.  m. , carney ,  b.  w. , & laird ,  j.  b. 2004 , , 616 , l197 vernazza ,  j.  e. , avrett ,  e.  h. , & loeser ,  r. 1976 , , 30 , 1 werner ,  m.  w. , & 25 co - authors , 2004 , , 154 , 1        ) , versus the absolute phase difference from the center of eclipse ( @xmath60 ) .",
    "the derivative values from the data were obtained using a phase resolution of 0.001 .",
    "the dashed vertical lines indicate the start and end of ingress and egress . _",
    "lower panel : _ derivative of relative intensity versus phase , as in upper panel , but for a phase resolution of 0.002 .",
    "the curved line shows the relation expected for a circular planet of uniform brightness temperature , and the dashed line has a temperature distribution sharply peaked at the planet s disk center .",
    "the numbers in each region of the figure are the probabilities , from a @xmath53 analysis , that the observed derivatives are consistent with zero .",
    "[ fig : deriv ] ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report detection of strong infrared thermal emission from the nearby ( @xmath0 pc ) transiting extrasolar planet hd189733b , by measuring the flux decrement during its prominent secondary eclipse . </S>",
    "<S> a 6-hour photometric sequence using spitzer s infrared spectrograph in peak - up imaging mode at @xmath1 m shows the secondary eclipse depth to be @xmath2 , with accuracy limited by instrumental baseline uncertainties , but with @xmath3 precision ( @xmath4 ) on the detection . </S>",
    "<S> the @xmath1 m brightness temperature of this planet ( @xmath5k ) is very similar to the spitzer detections of tres-1 and hd209458b , but the observed planetary flux ( @xmath6jy ) is an order of magnitude greater . </S>",
    "<S> this large signal will allow a detailed characterization of this planet in the infrared . </S>",
    "<S> our photometry has sufficient signal - to - noise ( @xmath7 per point ) to motivate a search for structure in the ingress / egress portions of the eclipse curve , caused by putative thermal structure on the disk of the planet . </S>",
    "<S> we show that by binning our 6-second sampling down to @xmath8-minute resolution , we detect the modulation in the intensity derivative during ingress / egress due to the overall shape of the planet , but our sensitivity is not yet sufficient to distinguish between realistic models of the temperature distribution across the planet s disk . </S>",
    "<S> we point out the potential for extending spitzer secondary eclipse detections down to the regime of transiting hot neptunes , if such systems are discovered among nearby lower main sequence stars . </S>"
  ]
}