{
  "article_text": [
    "xmm - newton @xcite comprises 3 co - aligned telescopes , each with effective area at 1.5kev of @xmath01500@xmath1 , and full width half maximum ( fwhm ) angular resolution of @xmath05 arcseconds .",
    "the 3 telescopes each have a focal plane ccd imaging spectrometer camera provided by the epic consortium .",
    "two also have a reflection grating array , which splits off half the light , to provide simultaneous high resolution dispersive spectra .",
    "these two telescopes are equipped with epic mos cameras @xcite , which are conventional cmos ccd - based images enhanced for x - ray sensitivity .",
    "the third employs the epic pn camera @xcite which is based on a pn - junction multi - linear readout ccd .",
    "the epic cameras offer a field of view ( fov ) of @xmath030 arcminute diameter , and an energy resolution of typically 100  ev ( fwhm ) in the range @xmath00.210  kev .",
    "the two mos telescopes are equipped with a reflection grating instrument @xcite that has its own dedicated readout camera .",
    "the in - orbit calibration of the xmm - newton mirrors has been reported elsewhere @xcite , with special reference to the on - axis angular resolution ( point spread function , psf ) .",
    "a second important calibration data set that is critical for analyzing spectroscopic information is the energy - dependent effective area @xcite .",
    "both these features are under constant review as a result of improving knowledge of the instrumentation , and the requirements imposed by new science investigations . in this work we concentrate on different aspects of mirror performance that must be calibrated in the context of other scientific drivers which include , for example , cluster radial brightness distribution for determining gas mass , exposure maps and counts - to - flux conversions in population studies and diffuse background normalization measurements etc .. the reduction in effective area with radial distance from the field of view centre , or vignetting , must be accurately determined to support these investigations .    to highlight the effect visually",
    ", figures  [ seren_image ] and [ seren_image2 ] show the excess flux per source detected in the 1xmm catalogue of epic serendipitous source detections ( plotted in units of sigma ) .",
    "the images are displayed in the epic camera detector coordinates , and flux determinations assume the nominal vignetting correction centred on the reference pixel of the detector co - ordinate system ( detx , dety in the nomenclature of the xmm data analysis system ) .",
    "these figures show that some low level discrepancy in the spatial variation in effective area calibration must be present .",
    "c    c    for xmm - newton , direct measurement on the ground of the x - ray vignetting function was prevented because nearly all x - ray beam measurements were performed in a non - parallel beam .",
    "the installation of an x - ray stray - light baffle in front of the mirrors , and the reflection grating array ( rga ) stack at the mirror exit plane @xcite , introduced potential complications that were only measured in long wavelength , visible light at an euv parallel beam facility @xcite .    although the measured _ geometric _ vignetting factor at longer wavelengths was comparable with predictions , it was necessary to use in - orbit data to confirm the x - ray energy dependence , and check that the geometric factor was maintained through the spacecraft assembly , integration , verification and launch campaigns .",
    "the design of the xmm - newton optics was originally driven by the requirement to obtain the highest possible effective collecting area over a wide band of energies up to 10 kev .",
    "the three , nominally identical , mirror systems utilize a shallow grazing angle of @xmath00.5@xmath2 in order to provide sufficient reflectivity at high energies .",
    "the effective area is increased by nesting 58 mirror shells in each telescope to fill the front apertures as efficiently as possible .",
    "both the paraboloid and the hyperboloid sections of each shell were replicated as a single piece from a single mandrel @xcite .",
    "each telescope is complemented by an x - ray baffle , which minimizes x - ray straylight from sources outside the field of view , when rays reach the focal plane detectors by single reflection from the hyperbola .",
    "the energy dependence of vignetting , which is superposed on any geometrical component , becomes apparent at the critical angle for grazing incidence at the off - axis angle of the target .",
    "there may be an increase in effective area again at higher energies as a consequence of the fact that only the innermost mirror shells provide substantial reflectivity .",
    "for a small diameter shell , at high energies , the area increases initially with off - axis angle : on one side of the mirror the parabola grazing angle is shallower than for the on - axis geometry .",
    "the corresponding hyperbola graze angle is then larger but because of the asymmetry of the reflectance vs. angle curve the higher reflectivity on the parabola dominates the product of the reflectances .",
    "each shell was individually aligned during assembly of the telescope to a design accuracy of 10 s arcseconds and glued into a mounting `` spider '' .",
    "the whole mechanical assembly was provided with alignment fiducials and optical alignment cubes and mirrors to ensure correct placement during the various activities for on - ground calibration and assembly into the spacecraft . the nominal error budget allowed for possible misalignment of the telescope axis of @xmath030 arcseconds .",
    "two of the three telescopes were equipped with reflection grating arrays that also required alignment with the telescope axes .",
    "the three telesope assemblies were mounted on a spacecraft mirror platform that contained star trackers providing an absolute reference for the co - ordinate system of the spacecraft .",
    "the focal plane detectors were aligned so that a reference pixel was located on the nominal telescope optical axis . in the case of the epic mos cameras the reference was the central pixel of its middle ccd , while for the pn camera a dead gap at the physical centre of the camera , between ccds , meant that the reference pixel was chosen to be slightly offset to ensure that on - axis targets were not lost onto the gap .",
    "the location of the rga readout cameras were defined to ensure that no expected bright emission lines in dispersed spectra would fall on gaps between its ccd detectors .",
    "these reference pixels were the origin of the detx , dety co - ordinate system of the xmm - newton science analysis system ( sas , ) , in units of 0.05 arcseconds per pixel .",
    "the physical alignment of the cameras was subject to possible error in addition to uncertainty in locating the telescope axis , and the design had to allow also for the possibility of 10 s arcsecond relative shifts due to the effects of launch loads , and eventual differential shrinkage of the carbon - fibre optical bench tube due to water vapour out - gassing in orbit .",
    "one of the first in - orbit calibration tasks was to determine the extent of any such shifts and also determine the co - alignment to the spacecraft ( star - tracker ) reference axis .",
    "for any observation a user could potentially request any one of six ( including the optical monitor ) instruments to be the prime , and for which a preferred detector location was defined to avoid inter - ccd gaps .",
    "the mis - alignment for each of these `` boresight axes '' had to be determined .",
    "fortunately the initial mechanical alignment was sufficiently good , and preserved into orbit so that a single optimised boresight could be defined for all x - ray imaging configurations , and one for rga spectroscopic observations .",
    "it should be highlighted that this complicated set of axis definitions is a peculiar consequence of the multiple telescope configuration of xmm - newton compounded by the use of different instruments in the same telescopes and between different telescopes .",
    "the measurement of vignetting requires a compact , simple - spectrum , non - variable source at locations off - axis , with which to compare the inferred spectrum with that of the same object measured on - axis .",
    "true point sources with reasonable brightness are precluded because the effects of pile - up @xcite are severe , and furthermore vary with the changes in off - axis point spread function ( psf ) , as well as with the count rate reduction due to the vignetting itself .",
    "extended objects require a complex ray - tracing and psf - folding to account properly for the vignetting component .",
    "while a number of viable targets were selected for the in - orbit calibration , we have concentrated on g21.5 - 09 @xcite and 3c58 @xcite for this work .",
    "the initial choice of pointing locations was complicated by the need to ensure that no significant portion of the remnants fell near ccd gaps . given the orthogonal orientation of the two mos cameras , together with the totally different gap patterns in the pn ( figure  [ gaps ] ) , this severely constrained the orientation available , and an angle @xmath07 degrees rotated from the nominal detector axes , and a field angle of 10 arcminutes were chosen for the initial measurements of g21.5 - 09 .",
    "c    as a consequence of the grating array angles and blocking fraction , the vignetting in the mos cameras is expected to be a strong function of azimuthal angle , so four locations were scheduled for g21.5 - 09 to sample the extreme ranges of rga blocking ( see figure  [ g21image ] ) .",
    "c    snr g21.5 - 09 is a hard , bright source ideal for determining the energy dependent vignetting .",
    "a set of observations of the softer , somewhat fainter , snr 3c58 were subsequently made to supplement the earlier observations and better sample the azimuthal dependency of the mos camera vignetting .",
    "measurements of 3c58 were scheduled to fall within the central ccd of the mos cameras , to minimize the possible effect of varying quantum efficiency over the detector .",
    "again the limitations of chip gaps cause a compromise in the actual rotations employed , such that the ensemble of pointings is as shown in figure  [ 3c58images ] .",
    "c    table [ t : obs ] summarises the requested pointings and observation details for these data sets    .summary data for the snr observations used in the analysis [ cols=\"^,^,^,<,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]",
    "all the epic instrument calibration team who have contributed to understanding the instrument are warmly thanked for their efforts .",
    "we thank the xmm - newton science operations centre team for their help in scheduling the calibration observations that needed special arrangements .",
    "af acknowledges receiving the max - plank - gesellschaft fellowship .",
    "_ xmm - newton _ is an esa science mission with instruments and contributions directly funded by esa member states and the usa ( nasa ) .",
    "aschenbach , b. , briel , u. , haberl , f. , et al .",
    "2000 , proc .",
    "spie , 4012 , 731 aschenbach , b. 2002 , proc .",
    "spie , 4496 , 8 ballet , j. 1999 , a&a suppl , 135 , 371 briel , u.g . , henry , j.p . ,",
    "lumb , d.h .",
    "2001 , a&a 365 , l60 bocchino , f. , warwick , r. s. , marty , p. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 369 , 1078 de chambure , d. , laine , r. , van katwijk , k. , et al .",
    "1996 , proc spie 2808 , 362 den herder , j. w. , brinkman , a. c. , kahn , s. m. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a 365 , l7 egger , r. , aschenbach , b. , bruninger , h. et al .",
    "1997 , panter test reports xmm - ts - pa063/970829 , xmm - ts - pa070/980115 etc .",
    "jansen , f. , lumb , d.h .",
    ", altieri , b. et al .",
    "2001 , a&a 365 , l1 lumb , d.h . ,",
    "warwick , r.s .",
    ", page , m. , and de luca , a. , 2002 , a&a , 389 , 93 saxton , r.d .",
    "2002 , xmm - science ops centre technical note xmm - soc - cal - tn-0023 stockman , y. , tock , j - p . , thome , m. , et al .",
    "1997 , csl test reports , rp - csl - mev- 97032 , rp - csl - mev-97019 etc .",
    "strder , l. , briel , u. , dennerl , k. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 365 , l18 tock , j - p . ,",
    "collette , j - p . and stockman , y. , proc .",
    "spie 3114 , 554 turner , m.j.l.t . ,",
    "abbey , a. , arnaud , m. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 365 , l27 warwick , r.s . , bernard , j .-",
    "p . , bocchino , f. , et al .",
    "2001 , a&a , 365 l248 watson , m.g . , augueres , j - l . , ballet , j. et al .",
    ", 2001 , a&a 365 l51"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we describe measurements of the mirror vignetting in the xmm - newton observatory made in - orbit , using observations of snr g21.5 - 09 and snr 3c58 with the epic imaging cameras . </S>",
    "<S> the instrument features that complicate these measurements are briefly described . </S>",
    "<S> we show the spatial and energy dependences of measured vignetting , outlining assumptions made in deriving the eventual agreement between simulation and measurement . </S>",
    "<S> alternate methods to confirm these are described , including an assessment of source elongation with off - axis angle , the surface brightness distribution of the diffuse x - ray background , and the consistency of coma cluster emission at different position angles . </S>",
    "<S> a synthesis of these measurements leads to a change in the xmm calibration data base , for the optical axis of two of the three telescopes , by in excess of 1 arcminute . </S>",
    "<S> this has a small but measureable effect on the assumed spectral responses of the cameras for on - axis targets . </S>"
  ]
}