{
  "article_text": [
    "grb are suspected to come from black holes .",
    "nearly all grb produce x - ray afterglow .",
    "this is significant because , if grb were driven by the pure energy that can be extracted from a black hole , it is unlikely that there would be afterglow .",
    "pairs could be produced in a variety of ways , but they would probably annihilate within @xmath1 cm of the central engine before making afterglow .",
    "this is not an embarrassment either for black hole models of grb or for models of afterglow , because baryons can be picked up after the pair fireball is launched - either from a surrounding baryonic wind that emanates from the accretion disk , from the walls of a host star , or from ambient material , such as a presupernova wind emitted by the star that hosts the grb .",
    "moreover , the possibility exists that the grb is driven by the accretion disk surrounding the black hole , and that the latter plays no active role other than to provide gravitational energy to the accreting matter .",
    "nevertheless , the event horizon of the underlying black hole would be more convincingly revealed by _ failure _ to produce afterglow , especially now that afterglow is regarded as routine",
    ". a line of sight in which @xmath2-rays , but not baryons , were emitted could be the signature of an event horizon , which permits energy , but not baryons , to escape along the field lines that thread it .",
    "the recent giant flare of 27 december 2004 from sgr 1806 - 20 displayed both strong mass ejection and bright gamma - ray emission , implying that the latter can take place in the presence of the former without an event horizon .",
    "this is probably to large variations in the baryon loading that naturally result from magnetic reconnection in a highly stratified medium .",
    "however , the duration of the mass ejection during this event was smaller than the rotation period of the central object , which is unlikely to be the case for grb .    very recently",
    ", piro et al ( 2004 ) have tracked what appears to be the beginning of the afterglow phase from two relatively bright grb using data from the wide field camera ( wfc ) of bepposax .",
    "the wfc was able to track the grb s 011121 and 011211 , which lasted tens of seconds .",
    "they then show a lull for about 200 seconds ( after correcting for redshift ) and , after this lull , there is a soft but non - thermal `` revival '' detected in the x - ray band .",
    "previous timings of afterglow onset ( e.g. pian et al 2001 ) are consistent with delays of order 70 seconds , but are hard to separate from the end of the prompt phase of the grb .",
    "the revival decreases as a power law and fits the backwards extrapolation of the afterglow observed several hours later with the narrow field instrument ( nfi ) .",
    "although such lulls are not seen for all grb , they are not atypical and many are shorter , lasting perhaps 70 seconds on average . for grb that are not so bright , a revival following a long lull would not have been picked up by the wfc , so short lulls and/or revival - free prompt emission may be positively selected in all but the brightest grb s .",
    "noting that the revived x - ray emission appears to be the beginning of the x - ray afterglow , piro et al .",
    "suggest that grb s 011121 and 011211were particularly prolonged - enough that the afterglow it produces should peak late , i.e. that the reverse shock and onset of self - similar expansion should begin after several minutes .",
    "they tentatively attribute lulls occurring from @xmath3s to a decrease in the efficiency of converting outflow energy to gamma rays , e.g. by internal shocks . in this letter",
    "i suggest an alternative explanation - that the late onset of the x - ray afterglow is due to a viewing angle effect .",
    "i suggest that our line of sight is not in the primary direction of the blast of kinetic energy and that the beaming angle of the afterglow has become wide enough to include our line of sight only after @xmath4s .",
    "this was predicted in eichler and levinson ( 2004 ) , who noted that the amati et al relation ( amati et al , 2002 , atteia et al , 2004 ) between spectral peak frequency @xmath5 can be attributed to off - beam viewing .",
    "the present suggestion is at odds with the model of grb in which @xmath2-rays are produced by internal shocks in a baryonic outflow downstream of the photosphere ( mezsaros and rees , 1994 ) . in this popular model ,",
    "the presence of @xmath2-rays implies the existence of a somewhat larger energy reservoir of baryonic kinetic energy , which then produces the afterglow along any line of sight on which there were observed @xmath2-rays .",
    "( the reverse need not be true if there happen to be no internal shocks . )",
    "the present suggestion , on the other hand , allows for the possibility that the beam of @xmath2-ray emission need not lie entirely within the beam of afterglow - producing baryons .    it has already been suggested ( eichler and levinson , 2004 ) that x - ray flashes and their adherence to the amati et al relation between spectral peak @xmath6 and isotropic equivalent fluence @xmath7 can be attributed to an observer s view that is not in the direct line of fire of the @xmath2-ray fireball .",
    "it was also noted ( eichler and levinson , 2004 ) that such x - ray flashes may not always be accompanied by early afterglow , and that a late afterglow onset would confirm the whole picture of delayed onset due to viewing angle effects ( granot et al . , 2002 , 2005 ) as applied to these x - ray flashes .",
    "[ off angle viewing as an explanation for x - ray bursts has also been discussed by yamazaki et al .",
    "( 2002 , 2004 ) , who derive a different viewing angle - induced relation because of different assumptions .",
    "they attribute the amati et al .",
    "relation at higher energy to some other unexplained effect . ]",
    "below , we use parameters guided by the observed amati et al relation , and show that even within 200 seconds of observer time , the blast can decelerate enough that the afterglow beam encompasses baryon - poor viewing angles .",
    "consider the following topology for a grb fireball : the fireball is emitted or collimated into a cone of opening angle @xmath8 .",
    "the baryons infiltrate into the fireball from the side and penetrate an angle @xmath9 so that they flow out along the annulus @xmath10 .",
    "assume that the @xmath2-rays within this annulus are isotropic at their point of emission or last scattering , in a frame that moves at lorentz factor @xmath11 relative to the observer .",
    "thus the @xmath2-rays ultimately fill a cone of opening angle @xmath12 . at first , only observers in the line of sight @xmath13 see early afterglow .",
    "the lorentz factor of the blast decreases as it sweeps up ambient matter , so that at observer time t , afterglow is seen in an enhanced annulus @xmath14 ( here and throughout @xmath15 in cgs units . )    given that softened grb spectra are attributed to off - beam viewing angles , the amati et al relation can be best understood if a ) @xmath16 and b ) @xmath17 ( levinson and eichler 2004 ) .",
    "these requirements are based on the fact that the off - beam viewing angle that is offset by @xmath18 from the @xmath2-ray beam receives contributions at comparable doppler factors from a patch that is @xmath19 in width and in length , and is thus proportional to @xmath20 .",
    "this somewhat compensates the large decrease in @xmath7 due to the decrease in the doppler factor @xmath21 .",
    "baryons are directed only at observers in the baryon rich zone .",
    "hence , an observer sees afterglow only if he is within @xmath25 of this zone .",
    "observers in the outer zone see x - ray flashes peaking at @xmath26 if they are at a viewing angle @xmath27 from the baryon rich zone . here",
    "@xmath28 is the spectral peak seen by a head - on observer , apparently about 1 to 2 mev in the assumptions of the off - beam viewing angle of the amati et al relation .",
    "observers in the inner zone would see a @xmath2-ray burst with weak or delayed afterglow , or possibly no afterglow at all .",
    "observers within @xmath29 of the baryon rich zone see an x - ray rich grb , where the soft contribution comes from the baryon rich zone viewed obliquely .",
    "note that the assumption that @xmath2-rays fill the inner zone is not quite the same as in ( eichler and levinson 2004 ) , where it was assumed that _ all _ the @xmath2- ray emission was from the baryon rich zone .",
    "this zone , slightly expanded by @xmath30 , may include the collection all of the photons that hit the baryonic lining of the corridor that the grb fireball bores through the host star , and then get scattered forward into the annulus defined , more or less , by the baryonic outflow . because the original solid angle of this luminosity component can be rather large , the luminosity from the baryonic annulus may be considerably larger than that coming directly from the inner zone .",
    "an observer in the inner zone might see both direct photons and off - beam photons last scattered in the baryon - rich zone , and the relative strength of each would be strongly viewing - angle dependent .    in principle an observer near the axis could see a grb with no afterglow .",
    "how often would this occur ?",
    "observationally , it must be a small fraction of the total , as all but one grb localized with bepposax displayed x - ray afterglow observed by the nfi , which makes its observations @xmath31 seconds after the burst trigger , @xmath32 .",
    "the expected fraction of grb that would display no afterglow by time t is then      as an example , we consider the parameter choice @xmath34 , @xmath35 , and @xmath36 .",
    "[ the choice @xmath37 has both empirical motivation ( eichler and levinson , 2004 ) as well as _ a priori _ motivation in the model of levinson and eichler ( 2003 ) , where it is estimated that neutrons freely stream at a surface with @xmath38 , which is somewhat greater than @xmath39 for typical grb but by less than an order of magnitude . ]",
    "the fraction of observers seeing hard @xmath2-rays along baryon poor lines of sight is @xmath40 , a not insignificant fraction .",
    "if the blast decelerates as @xmath41 , the case of a constant density ambient medium , then within 3 hours ( @xmath42s , say ) , @xmath43 , and even an observer exactly at the axis would detect afterglow . if @xmath44 , the case for a wind , then after @xmath42s ( @xmath45s ) , @xmath46 ( @xmath47 ) , and a small fraction @xmath48 ( @xmath49 ) fail to see afterglow .",
    "this illustrates the point that _ afterglow may be nearly guaranteed for an observer of a grb after several hours , even if the original line of sight is baryon - poor_. at a time t of only 200s , on the other hand , still assuming the above grb parameters and that @xmath50 , it follows that @xmath51 , and the probability for a viewer of the prompt emission of a grb ( defined here to be within 0.1 [ radians ] of the axis ) to not observe its afterglow by this time ( i.e. to be within 0.04 of the axis ) , would be about 0.16 .",
    "it is thus reasonable that some modest fraction of all x - ray afterglows begin , from the observer s point of view , at @xmath52s .",
    "it goes without saying that the numbers here are somewhat uncertain , and the sharp zone boundaries invoked here are an oversimplification . where we have formulated the results in terms of afterglows being seen or not seen , with no middle ground",
    ", it might actually be the case that they would be bright or dim relative to the prompt emission .",
    "observations with swift will allow better measurements of afterglow onset , but the full bepposax data set already allows modest statistical analysis .",
    "i thank dr .",
    "e. pian for useful discussions .",
    "this research was supported by the arnow chair of astrophysics at ben gurion university , by a center of excellence grant awarded by the israel science foundation , and by a grant from the israel - u.s . binational science foundation .",
    "99 amati , l. et al .",
    ", 2002 , astron . and astroph .",
    "390 , 81 j - l .",
    "atteia , g.r .",
    "ricker , d.q .",
    "lamb , t. sakamoto , c. graziani , t. donaghy , c. barraud , and the hete-2 science team , astro - ph 0312371 eichler , d. & levinson , a. 1999 , apj , 521 , l117 eichler , d. & levinson , a. 2004 , apj , 614 , l13 frontera , f. et al .",
    "2000 , apjs , 127 , 59 granot , j. , panaitescu , a. , kumar , p. and woosley , s. ( 2202 ) , apj , 570 , l61 granot , j. , ramirez - ruiz , e. , perna r. , 2005 astro - ph/0502300 v2 meszaros , p. & rees , m. j. 1994 , apj lett .",
    ", 430 , l93 pian , e. soffitta , p , alessi , a. amati , l. , costa , e. frontera , f. fruchter , a. , massetti , n. , palazzi , e. , panataiscu , a. and kumar , p. ( 2001 ) astron . and ap . , 372 , 456 piro . l. de pasquale , m. soffitta , lazzati , d. amati , l. , costa , e. , feroci , m. , frontera , f. , fuidorzi , c. , zand , , j. m. j. , montanari , e. , and nicastro , l. , ( 2004 ) astro - ph/0412589"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have suggested previously that baryons in grb fireballs infiltrate from the surrounding walls that collimate the fireball . </S>",
    "<S> the efficiency @xmath0 for generating blast energy can then be angle dependent . </S>",
    "<S> delayed onset of afterglow can be interpreted as being due to a baryon - poor viewing angle . </S>"
  ]
}