{
  "article_text": [
    "x - ray emission in the universe arises in intense gravity environments . at high galactic latitudes , active galactic nuclei ( agn ) and other emission line galaxies",
    "dominate the source counts at all explored fluxes , with galaxy clusters being the second most abundant source class .",
    "recent _ rosat _ deep surveys ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) have shown that most of the soft x - ray volume emissivity in the universe arises at redshifts @xmath0 ( @xcite ) .",
    "the agn and star formation rate per unit volume follow a remarkably similar evolution rate in the universe ( @xcite ) and therefore they can both be used as tracers of the evolution of large - scale structure in the universe .",
    "using agn and star - forming galaxies as tracers of cosmic inhomogeneities is most sensitive to intermediate redshifts ( @xmath1 ) , providing a critical link between cosmic microwave background studies ( which map the @xmath2 universe ) and local galaxy surveys ( @xmath3 ) .    in this paper",
    "we briefly review the current status of the use of x - ray observations towards the study of large - scale structure .",
    "more details are presented in @xcite .",
    "then we explore possibilities of making qualitative progress in this field by carrying out different types of x - ray surveys .",
    "at galactic latitudes @xmath4 the contribution from the galaxy to the x - ray sky is small : less than 10% of the x - ray background above 2 kev is due to galactic emission , absorption is negligible above this photon energy and a census of x - ray sources down to any flux limit exhibits less than 10 - 20% of galactic stars . observations of the x - ray background at high galactic latitudes and photon energies above 2 kev can therefore be used to map the extragalactic x - ray sky .",
    "the all - sky distribution of the x - ray background for cosmological purposes has been best mapped by the heao-1 mission .",
    "a galactic anisotropy dominates the large - scale anisotropy , but this can be modelled out ( @xcite ) .",
    "a dipole contribution is detected in the x - ray sky , in rough alignment with the direction of our motion with respect to the cosmic microwave background frame ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "the amplitude of this dipole accounts for both the kinematical effect of our motion ( the compton - getting effect ) and the excess x - ray emissivity associated with the structures which are pulling us .",
    "these two effects are expected to be of the same order ( @xcite ) and the analysis done in @xcite shows this to be the case .",
    "however , in an analysis of the rosat all - sky data at lower photon energies ( which have the disadvantage of a larger contamination from the galaxy ) plionis & georgantopoulos @xcite find a dipole several times larger than the expected kinematical dipole .",
    "the difference between both results might be partly affected by the elimination of x - ray bright clusters in the scharf et al analysis , as clusters are known to be a largely biased population ( @xcite ) .",
    "the bias parameter derived from the xrb dipole is large ( @xmath5 ) .",
    "treyer et al @xcite have analyzed higher order multipoles of the heao-1 a2 x - ray background .",
    "the discrete nature of the xrb contributes a constant term to all multipoles which scales as @xmath6 , where @xmath7 is the minimum flux at which sources have been excised .",
    "treyer et al detect a signal growing towards lower - order multipoles which is consistent with a gravitational collapse picture , as predicted by @xcite .",
    "excluding the dipole , this analysis yields a moderate bias parameter for the x - ray sources ( @xmath8 ) .    on smaller ( a few degrees ) angular scales , probing linear scales of hundreds of mpc",
    ", the ` excess fluctuations ' technique has been used often in the analysis of the xrb .",
    "the way this works is by modelling the distribution of xrb intensities on a given angular scale in terms of confusion noise , plus a contribution coming from source clustering ( @xcite ) .",
    "these studies have yielded so far only upper limits for the excess fluctuations : @xmath9 on scales of @xmath10 ( @xcite ) and @xmath11 on scales @xmath12 ( @xcite ) .",
    "we discuss later what is the expected signal and how it could be measured .",
    "yet on smaller ( a few arcmin ) angular scales , which probe the galaxy - galaxy clustering scale , data from x - ray imaging telescopes has been used .",
    "the autocorrelation function of the xrb on these scales should reflect the clustering of high redshift x - ray sources in the nonlinear regime ( @xcite ) .",
    "soltan et al @xcite have found a strong positive detection for angular separations 0.3 - 20@xmath13 which is , however , difficult to interpret as both the galaxy and the local supercluster could contribute to this .",
    "studying the clustering of x - ray selected agn is likely to be the most direct way to map the structure of the x - ray sky . at soft x - ray energies",
    "this requires fairly deep surveys ( going below @xmath14 ) as otherwise very few objects at @xmath15 , where most of the x - ray volume emissivity is produced , would be sampled .",
    "carrera et al @xcite have analysed a set of ` pencil beam ' medium and deep rosat images containing 200 x - ray selected agn , sampling a redshift interval @xmath16 .",
    "the net result is the detection of x - ray selected agn clustering which is relatively weak ( the 3d correlation length is @xmath17 , for @xmath18 ) and strongly evolving with redshift ( faster than comoving ) . at much brighter flux limits @xcite used the rosat",
    "all sky survey sources to derive a 2d correlation function that , when translated to 3d with an appropriate catalogue depth , yields a larger correlation length ( @xmath19 ) .",
    "in @xcite we compile various measurements of the bias parameter for x - ray sources and in particular for x - ray selected agn and the xrb .",
    "the bias parameter is likely to be redshift dependent . for a simple model where all objects form at the same early redshift , fry @xcite finds @xmath20 , which implies that at high z the bias parameter could be large .",
    "the other effect that comes into play , especially when using the xrb , is that at low redshift clusters become more numerous and their imprint in the local xrb features becomes more important .",
    "as clusters are a strongly biased source population ( @xcite estimate @xmath21 ) it is not surprising that the amplitude of the xrb dipole calls for large bias factors , but higher order multipoles ( sensitive to more distant sources ) do not .    within present knowledge and uncertainties , the bias factor for the agn as the dominant x - ray source population , appears to take moderate values @xmath22 at low to intermediate redshifts .",
    "indeed at higher redshifts the agn population might be more strongly biased .",
    "deep surveys , particularly at hard photon energies , are a key ingredient to forthcoming studies af the large - scale structure of the x - ray universe .",
    "currently popular models for the x - ray background assume a population of agn with a distribution of absorbing columns ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) , where most of the x - ray energy produced by accreting black holes is absorbed and re - radiated in the infrared ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "several claims have been made that the absorbed agn population evolves differently than the unabsorbed one ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "as most of the energy content in the xrb resides at 30 kev , it is crucial to explore harder photon energies than previously achieved with the rosat deep surveys .",
    "xmm is the most sensitive x - ray observatory to survey the x - ray sky at photon energies above 2 kev .",
    "although its point - spread - function is significantly worst than that of chandra , at energies above 2 kev both instruments are photon - starved and then the much larger collecting area of xmm will make it more efficient . we have carried out extensive simulations of xmm epic observations at various depths and found that the deepest planned xmm observations ( pvcal , gto and ao-1 ) reaching  350 - 400 ks will _ not _ be confusion noise limited .",
    "figure 1 shows the resulting image in the 2 - 10 kev band of a simulation of a 350 ks xmm epic - pn exposure in a blank field ( using the standard model @xcite ) .",
    "as the epic field of view is @xmath23 in diameter , we expect to find @xmath24 sources in such a pointing once vignetting has been corrected for .",
    "most of these sources are expected to lie at redshifts @xmath0 , from which the x - ray volume emissivity in hard x - rays will be derived and compared with the one , assumed so far , obtained with rosat for soft x - ray photons .",
    "the measurement of large - scale structure in the x - ray universe does not necessarily require individually resolving all sources in very large areas of the sky down to very faint fluxes .",
    "if the x - ray volume emissivity as a function of @xmath25 can be derived from deep surveys , fluctuation analyses of the xrb can also be used ( @xcite ) . if the x - ray volume emissivity peaks at some intermediate redshift as it does in soft x - rays ( @xmath26 ) , then for a fixed angular scale the xrb fluctuations are related almost uniquely to the value of the power spectrum of the inhomogeneities in the universe at a single comoving wavenumber .",
    "the scales to be probed by xmm ( from a few to a few tens of arcmin ) will provide a measurement of the @xmath27 regime .",
    "the power spectrum is expected to peak at @xmath28 , which corresponds to an angular scale of @xmath29 .",
    "in @xcite we argue that to detect the excess fluctuations of the xrb due to source clustering for a beam size of 1@xmath30 , a large fraction of the sky needs to be surveyed . to prove that this is feasible ,",
    "we have carried out simulations of hard x - ray source populations over the whole sky with a simple clustering model for the sources and measured xrb intensities ( details in @xcite ) .",
    "these intensities are then ` measured ' with a proportional counter of 1m@xmath31 effective area during one complete 6-month scan of the sky at 100% efficiency and including stable particle background in a manner similar to the _ ginga _ lac observations .",
    "figure 2 shows one of these simulations where the clustering has been modeled with a gaussian correlation function with comoving evolution . ignoring data within @xmath32 ,",
    "figure 3 shows the histograms for the xrb intensities in 3 cases : absence of clustering , linear clustering evolution and comoving clustering evolution ( @xmath33 in all cases ) .",
    "the distributions are clearly distinguishable , and the excess fluctuations can be determined with a very high accuracy . indeed with a significantly smaller collecting area and similar circumstances , excess fluctuations can still be detected , but measured with larger statistical uncertainties .",
    "one such survey will also benefit other approaches to measure large - scale structure in the universe , particularly the multipole expansion , especially if a sensitive source survey could also be carried out . in this way",
    ", those @xmath34 regions where sources above a given flux are detected could be masked out for the multipole analysis , as discussed in @xcite .",
    "direct measurements of the large - scale structure of the universe at redshifts @xmath35 via x - ray observations require surveying areas of hundreds of square degrees to a sufficient depth .",
    "using galaxy clusters as tracers of large - scale structure of the universe presents the difficulty of the faintness of most of these objects beyond redshifts @xmath36 .",
    "even xmm will require a large amount of time to do a sensible mapping of galaxy clusters out to these redshifts .",
    "using agn has the advantage that they have strong positive evolution up to @xmath35 . in order to reach the redshifts where most of the x - ray emissivity is produced @xmath35 , agn surveys have to go down to ,",
    "at least , a 2 - 10 kev flux @xmath37 .",
    "figure 4 illustrates the redshift distribution for different flux limits assuming the @xcite model .",
    "the advantage of x - ray agn surveys over similar optical work ( e.g. the sloan digital sky survey ) is that with hard x - rays the absorbed agns can also be used up to earlier times if they evolve more strongly than the unabsorbed broad - line objects .",
    "mapping a 100@xmath30 contiguous area of the sky with the xmm epic cameras , which have the largest field of view among all operating x - ray facilities , to a depth of @xmath38 ( needed to get reliable detections at @xmath39 ) will require 10 msec of effective exposure time with xmm .",
    "this will collect @xmath40 sources .    a more efficient way to carry out",
    "that project is by means of a dedicated mission with a wide - field x - ray telescope .",
    "the panoram - x mission proposed in @xcite , would cover the whole sky to a depth @xmath41 .",
    "of course , finding redshifts for a reasonable fraction of the several tens of millions of sources to be discovered by such mission is simply impossible . a full analysis of the spatial distribution of x - ray selected agn would then require the modelling of the 2d distribution from these maps , using redshift distributions from the deep hard x - ray surveys .",
    "x - ray cosmology is just in its infancy . basic questions such as what is the bias parameter of different classes of x - ray sources are still partly unanswered .",
    "however the fact that most of the x - ray sky is dominated by extragalactic sources of which agn are the major component make the x - ray sky especially suited for cosmology at intermediate redshifts .",
    "making quantitative progress in this field requires not only proper use of existing or planned observatory - type facilities ( i.e. , chandra and xmm ) , but probably also dedicated missions to survey all ( or most of ) the sky .",
    "x - ray cosmology is now in a position to make specific predictions for the structure of the x - ray universe ( once hard x - ray surveys have been carried out with chandra and xmm ) .",
    "these surveys can then be designed and optimized to obtain detections and precise measurements of the large - scale structure of the universe at redshifts @xmath35 .",
    "that would really be a major boost for cosmology at intermediate redshifts .",
    "99 boyle , b.j .",
    "et al , 1994 , mnras , 271 , 639 mchardy , i.m . , et al 1998 , mnras , hasinger , g. et al 1998 , a&a , 329 , 482 miyaji , t. , hasinger , g. , schmidt , m. , 1999 , a&a , in press franceschini , a. , hasinger , g. , miyaji , t. , malquori , d. , 1999 , mnras , in the press , ( astro - ph/9909290 ) iwan , d. et al , 1982 , apj , 260 , 111 shafer , r.a .",
    ", 1983 , phd thesis , univ of maryland scharf , c. , et al , 1999 , apj , submitted lahav , o. , piran , t. , treyer , m.a . , 1997 , mnras , 284 , 499 plionis , m. , georgantopoulos , i. , 1999 , mnras , in the press plionis , m. , kolokotronis , v. , 1998 , apj , 500 , 1 treyer , m. , et al , 1998 , apj , 509 , 531 barcons , x. , 1992 , apj , 396 , 460 shafer , r.a . ,",
    "fabian , a.c .",
    ", 1983 , in : iau symposium 104 , early evolution of the universe and its present structure , reidel , p. 333",
    "butcher , j.a .",
    "et al , 1997 , mnras , 291 , 437 carrera , f.j . , barcons , x. , 1992 , mnras , 257 , 507 soltan , a. et al 1999 , a&a , 349 , 354 carrera , f.j .",
    "et al 1998 , mnras , 299 , 229 akylas , a. , georgantopoulos , i. , plionis , m. , 1999 , mnras , submitted ( astro - ph/9911254 ) fry , j.n . , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 461 , l65 setti , g. , woltjer , l. , 1989 , a&a , 224 , l21 madau , p. , ghisellini , g. , fabian , a.c . , 1994 , mnras , 270 , l17 comastri , a. , setti , g. , zamorani g. , hasinger , g. , 1995 , a&a , 296 , 1 fabian , a.c .",
    "et al , 1998 , mnras , 297 , l11 fabian , a.c . ,",
    "iwasawa , k. , 1999 , mnras , 303 , l34 gilli , r. , risalati , g. , salvati , m. , 1999 , a&a , in the press ( astro - ph/9904422 ) barcons , x. , fabian , a.c . ,",
    "carrera , f.j . , 1998 , mnras , 293 , 60 chincarini , g. , 1999 , preprint ( astro - ph/9902184 ) barcons , x. , carrera , f.j . ,",
    "ceballos , m.t . , mateos , s. , 2000 , astrophys lett & comm , submitted pompilio , f. , la franca , f. , matt , g. , 2000 , a&a , in the press ( astro - ph/9909390 ) fabian , a.c .",
    ", 2000 , mnras , in the press ( astro - ph/9908064 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper we discuss various possibilities of using x - ray observations to gain information about the large - scale structure of the universe . after reviewing briefly the current status of these investigations </S>",
    "<S> we explore different ways of making progress in this field , using deep surveys , large area surveys and x - ray background observations . </S>"
  ]
}