{
  "article_text": [
    "at an early stage in their evolution stars eject material in the form of outflows .",
    "in fact , the first signs of an outflow are coupled with infall motion and therefore with the first stages of star formation ( e.g. bachiller 1996 ; richer et al .",
    "once the protostar is formed , outflows are the main means of removing the material left over from the collapse of the cloud .",
    "small molecular clumps ( @xmath2 0.1 pc ) are detected in association with several outflows ; it is generally believed that the clumps are generated by episodic mass loss of the forming object . to date , there is no detailed understanding of the role of the clumpiness in outflows .",
    "in fact , two main kinds of clumps have been observed : ( i ) high - velocity clumps or the so - called molecular bullets which are well defined entities travelling at velocities larger than 100 km s@xmath3 .",
    "the prototype is l1448 ( bachiller , martn - pintado & fuente 1991 ) , where bullets appear in pairs with the members of a pair being symmetric in both position and velocity with respect to the star .",
    "these bullets are most likely associated with mini - bow shocks formed by the outflow propagation ( e.g. dutrey , guilloteau & bachiller 1997 ) .",
    "the molecular lines emitted by this kind of clump are relatively weak , so their chemical composition remains unknown .",
    "( ii ) a second kind of clump , observed along a few outflows associated with low- and intermediate - mass stars ; these outflows stand out because of their association with chemically rich clumps at definitely lower velocity , such as l1157 , bhr71 , and cb3 ( bourke et al .",
    "1997 ; codella & bachiller 1999 ; bachiller et al .",
    "the origin of these chemically rich clumps is not yet clear .    in this paper",
    ", we investigate the origin and nature of the second kind of clumps by the use of a chemical model that simulates the clump formation and its subsequent interaction with the outflow .",
    "we consider here two main scenarios : ( 1 ) pre - existing clumps , affected by the outflow , and ( 2 ) newly - formed clumps , created by the outflow . _",
    "note that we will use the word pre - existing to indicate a density structure formed before the advent of the outflow .",
    "_ our definition does not imply that the observed abundances ( e.g codella & bachiller 1999 ; bachiller et al .",
    "2001 ) are pre - existing to the outflow .    in",
    "what follows , we introduce our two scenarios for the formation of the clumps .    *",
    "the clumps are pre - existing to the outflow ; for example they may be either remnant material of the collapsing parent cloud or completely independent of the star formation process , but present homogeneously in the dark molecular cloud ( e.g. falle & hartquist 2002 ; morata et al .",
    "2003 ; garrod et al .",
    "2003 ) . in this scenario",
    ", we observe these clumps in association with molecular outflows because , as the outflows travel through the molecular cloud , they interact with the clumps and shock them .",
    "if this is the case , then the clumps may not be an indication of the episodic nature of outflows . *",
    "the cloud material is homogeneous and low in density but as an episodic outflow forms , its interaction with the surrounding homogeneous material will lead to a compression ( increase in density ) and increase in temperature ( with subsequent evaporation of the grains mantles ) in localized regions _ only _ , hence the observed clumpiness ( e.g arce & goodman 2001 , 2002 , and reference therein ) . in this scenario ,",
    "the clumps are a direct manifestation of the episodic nature of outflows .",
    "note that these scenarios do not necessarily exclude each other : in fact , the morphology of the regions where outflows and jets propagate have a very complicated geometry and structure by their very nature ( e.g hester et al . 1998 ) .",
    "the main aim of this study is to investigate the nature of the chemically rich clumps by modelling their chemical evolution and by comparing the models with observations . in particular , we attempt to identify observable species that can be used as discriminants between the two scenarios . in this paper",
    ", we will focus our attention on the clumps located in the intermediate - mass star forming region cb3 ( codella & bachiller 1999 ) .",
    "in addition , a low mass case , represented by the l1157 outflow , will be briefly discussed .",
    "our model is described in section 2 , and our results are presented , discussed and compared with observations in section 3 . a brief conclusion is given in section 4 .",
    "the aim of the modelling is to explore the chemistry in the different scenarios of clump formation described above .",
    "the basic chemical model we adopt is a modification of the time - dependent model employed in viti & williams ( 1999 ) and viti et al .",
    "the chemical network is taken from the umist database ( millar et al .",
    "1997 ; le teuff et al .",
    "we follow the chemical evolution of 221 species involved in 3194 gas - phase and grain reactions .",
    "our model is two - phase calculation .",
    "phase i represents the formation of the pre - existing clumps , scenario 1 , or of the homogeneous dark cloud , scenario 2 , from diffuse gas , while phase ii represents the effect on the gas and dust of the outflow .",
    "figure  [ fg : scheme ] shows a schematic of how the two scenarios are treated in the model .    in phase",
    "i , we allow the diffuse gas to collapse gravitationally within the molecular cloud . during the collapse phase , gas - phase chemistry and freeze - out on to dust grains with subsequent processing",
    "are assumed to occur .",
    "the initial density of the gas is taken to be 100 @xmath4 , and the final density is treated as a free parameter ( see later ) . during phase i , the temperature is kept constant at 10 k. in phase ii we simulate the presence of the outflow ( see sections 2.12.3 for a detailed description of each grid of models ) by an increase in temperature and an assumed subsequent thermal or ( non - dissociative ) shock - induced evaporation of the grain mantles .",
    "sputtering of the core of the grains and fast , dissociative shocks are not included .",
    "phase ii was halted at 10@xmath5 yr .",
    "in phase ii , scenario 1 , we have investigated both a uniform and homogeneous clump ( the set of physical parameters for which we have explored the chemistry is here called grid a ) , and clumps with a density structure ( grids b and c ) .",
    "we have also considered the possibilities that after the initial increase of the temperature ( to @xmath2 100 k ) , the temperature remains constant ( grid c ) or enters a shocked phase to a higher temperature , followed by cooling ( grid b ) .",
    "see 2.12.3 for more details .    in scenario 2 the outflow impacts on a dark molecular cloud , of density @xmath2 10@xmath6 @xmath4 , and induces the formation of clumps . in this case",
    "we use phase i of the model to simulate the formation of the dark cloud , and phase ii to simulate the formation of the clumps due to the impact of the outflow . during phase ii ,",
    "the gas and dust temperatures increase as the clump forms , and the grains evaporate . here",
    "too we investigated the possibility that after the initial increase to 100 k , the temperature enters a shocked phase to a higher temperature and subsequent cooling .",
    "this scenario will be modelled in a range of physical parameters here labelled grid d.    within each grid we have explored a reasonably large parameter space .",
    "to impose some constraints to the initial parameters , we adopt the physical parameters derived by codella & bachiller ( 1999 ) for the clumps observed along cb3 , namely : a size for the final clump of @xmath2 0.12 pc , a final density of about 10@xmath510@xmath7 @xmath4 , a final temperature of 100 k , and an age of 10@xmath5 yrs .",
    "table  [ tb : grida ] lists the details for the models computed for grid a. grid a consists of 9 models where , in phase i , we vary the following parameters : i ) the type of collapse , ii ) the depletion efficiency , iii ) the final density , and iv ) the initial sulphur elemental abundance .    the collapse is either treated as free - fall as described by rawlings et al .",
    "( 1992 ) or retarded .",
    "the depletion efficiency is determined by what fraction of the gas phase material is frozen on to the grains , and undergoes hydrogenation .",
    "several routes of hydrogenation for the most significant species ( o , n , c , co ) have been explored .",
    "the freeze - out fraction is arranged by adjusting the grain surface area per unit volume , and assumes a sticking probability of unity for all species .",
    "the fraction of material on grains is then dependent on the product of the sticking probability and the amount of cross section provided per unit volume by the adopted grain size distribution .",
    "this product was varied so that at the end of phase i , we would have different percentages of ices ( see table  [ tb : grida ] ) . note that as the chemistry is time - dependent , different species form at different times and as a consequence the material frozen out on the grains at any one time is @xmath8 representative of the whole gas but of selected species ( in this case",
    ", we chose to monitor frozen co ) .",
    "for the final density , we chose a lower limit of 10@xmath5 @xmath4 and an upper limit of 5@xmath910@xmath7 @xmath4 .",
    "the initial relative abundance of sulphur is very uncertain ( e.g. , ruffle et al .",
    "1999 ) ; we chose the solar value as an upper limit and a factor of hundred lower than the solar value as a lower limit . during phase ii ,",
    "the temperature rises fast and it reaches a maximum of 100 k.    .model parameters for grid a. the notation a(b ) signifies a @xmath9 10@xmath10 . the model number is listed in column 1 ; column 2 shows the density of the gas ; column 3 , 4 and 5 shows respectively the percentage of the gas depleted onto grain at the end of phase i , the type of collapse ( b=1 free  fall ; b=0.1 retarded ) , the initial sulphur abundance . [",
    "cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ tb : l1157 ]",
    "we have presented here a detailed time - dependent chemical model of the chemically rich clumps observed along outflows .",
    "this preliminary study was aimed at finding some observable tracers that could help us understanding the origin of the clumps with respect to the outflow .",
    "we also attempted a qualitative comparison of our models with some observations , in particular with the clumps observed along the cb3 outflow ( codella & bachiller 1999 ) . despite large uncertainties in the mode of formation and several chemical assumptions we made",
    ", we believe that we are able to constrain some of physical and chemical parameters of the cb3 clumps .",
    "our conclusions are :    1",
    ".   the initial sulphur abundance of the gas forming the clump can not be solar .",
    "we find a depletion factor of @xmath2 100 , confirming the findings of other studies ( oppenheimer & dalgarno , 1974 ; ruffle et al .",
    "2 .   a substantial freeze out must occur during the formation of the clump , regardless of its mode of formation .",
    "our models indicate that the most likely explanation for the outflow clumps is that they are pre - existing , meaning @xmath11 that their density structure is , at least partly , formed prior of the advent of the outflow .",
    "this does @xmath8 exclude the general explanation that the outflow clumps are mainly made of swept - up ambient gas and that therefore the clumps are an indication of the episodic nature of the outflows .",
    "it is probable that , with the advent of the outflow , not only the temperature of the clumps increases and reaches the one observed , but the clumps also undergo a period of non - dissociative shock ( and therefore high temperatures , @xmath2 1000 k ) .",
    "the rich chemistry of the clumps observed along cb3 , and l1157 , seems to be a consequence of a pre - existing density enhancement ( either uniform or already in clumps ) and of its interaction with the outflow .",
    "the latter , most likely , shocks and accelerate the gas , and possibly , if episodic , induces its clumpiness .",
    "this is indicated by the high abundance of methanol and some of the sulphur - bearing species .",
    "in fact these molecules are formed by a combination of freeze out and surface reactions , and shocked chemistry : both most efficient when the outflow compresses already dense material at its passage",
    "we find that it is not possible for the outflow clumps to have a uniform high density - a density gradient is needed in order to account for the observed emission of most species . 7 .",
    "co , ch@xmath0oh , cs and so@xmath1 are most likely emitted from the lower density components , while so and ocs come from an intermediate density component .",
    "this chemical stratification supports the findings of bachiller et al .",
    "8 .   at late times",
    "( @xmath12 yr ) h@xmath1co is @xmath13 over - abundant by at least a couple of orders of magnitudes .",
    "this discrepancy is similar to that found for the clumps ahead of herbig - haro objects ( viti et al .",
    "2003 ) : these objects however do not share a common chemistry and we find no chemical reason why the abundance of h@xmath1co predicted by our models should be much larger than apparently observed . a possible explanation may be that the observed clumps are smaller than the size implied by the observations .",
    "in fact , when computing the theoretical column densities for smaller sizes ( see section 3.3.4 ) , the match between theory and observations improves .    in conclusion , we suggest that interferometric observations of outflow clumps closer to us than cb3 are performed .",
    "this may reveal the real structure of these clumps and help constrain the models .",
    "the authors are indebted to prof d. a. williams for useful conversations about clumpiness and for a critical reading of this revised version .",
    "sv and mb thank the italian space agency for financial support .",
    "sv acknowledges individual financial support from a pparc advanced fellowship .",
    "the authors are very grateful to the referee for comments and suggestions that substantially improved the manuscript .",
    "arce h. g. , & goodman a. a. , 2001 , apj 554 , 132 arce h. g. , & goodman a. a. , 2002 , apj 575 , 928 bachiller r. , 1996 , ara&a 34 , 111 bachiller r. , martn - pintado j. , fuente a. , 1991 , a&a 243 , l21 bachiller r. , p ' erez guti ' errez m. , kumar m.  s.  n. , tafalla m. , 2001 , a&a 372 , 899 bergin e. a. , neufeld d. a. , melnick g. j. , 1999 , apj 499 , 777 bergin e.  a. , alves j. , huard t. , lada c.  j. , 2002 , apj 570 , l101 bourke t.l .",
    ", garay g. , lehtinen k.k .",
    ", et al . , 1997 , apj 476 , 781 charnley s.  b. , 1997 , apj 481 , 396 codella c , , & bachiller r. , 1999 , a&a 350 , 659 dutrey a. , guilloteau s. , bachiller r. , 1997 , a&a 317 , l55 falle s. a. e. g. , & hartquist t. w. , 2002 , mnras 329 , 195 garrod r. t. , williams d. a. , hartquist t. w. , rawlings j. m. c. , viti s. , 2003 , a&a , submitted hatchell j. , thompson m.  a. , millar t.  j. , macdonald g.  h. , 1998 , a&a 338 , 713 hatchell j. , viti s. , 2002 , a&a 381 , l33 hester j. j. , stapelfeldt k. r. , scowen p. a. , 1998 , aj 116 , 372 le teuff y. h. , millar t. j. , markwick a. j. , 2000 , a&as 146 , 157 millar t. j. , farquhar p. r. a. , willacy k. , 1997 , a&as 121 , 139 millar t. j. , & hatchell j. , 1998 , faraday discussions n. 109,``chemistry and physics of molecules and grains in space '' , p. 15",
    "morata o. , girart j. m. , estalella r. , 2003 , a&a 397 , 181 oppenheimer m. , & dalgarno a. , 1974 , apj 187 , 231 rawlings j. m. c. , hartquist t. w. , menten k. m. , williams d. a. , 1992 , mnras 255 , 471 richer j.s . ,",
    "shepherd d.s .",
    ", cabrit s. , bachiller r. , churchwell e. , 2000 , in protostars and planets iv , ed . mannings v. , boss a.p . ,",
    "russell s.s .",
    ", university of arizona press , p .",
    "867 rowan - robinson m. , 1980 , apjs 44 , 403 ruffle d. p. , hartquist t. w. , caselli p. , williams d. a. , 1999 , mnras 306 , 691 tafalla m. , myers p. c. , caselli p. , walmsley c. m. , comito c. , 2002 , apj 569 , 815 van dishoeck e. w.,1998 , in the molecular astrophysics of stars and galaxies , ed",
    ". t. w. hartquist & d. a. williams ( clarendon press , oxford ) , 53 viti s. , & williams d. a. , 1999 , mnras 310 , 517 viti s. , girart j. m. , garrod r. , williams d. a. , estalella r. , 2003 , a&a 399 , 187"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the origin of the small , chemically rich molecular clumps observed along the main axis of chemically rich outflows such as cb3 and l1157 . we develop a chemical model where we explore the chemical evolution of these clumps , assuming they are partially pre - existing to the outflow , or alternatively newly formed by the impact of the outflow on the surrounding medium . </S>",
    "<S> the effects of the impact of the outflow are reproduced by density and temperature changes in the clump . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the observed abundances of ch@xmath0oh , so and so@xmath1 are best reproduced by assuming a scenario where the dense molecular gas observed is probably pre - existing in the interstellar medium before the formation of their exciting ( proto)stars and that the clumpiness and the rich chemistry of the clumps are a consequence of a pre - existing density enhancement and of its interaction with the outflow .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    ism : clouds - ism : jets and outflows - ism : molecules - ism : individual objects : cb3 - ism : individual objects : l1157 </S>"
  ]
}