{
  "article_text": [
    "cataclysmic variables ( cvs ) are interacting binary systems in which a white dwarf ( wd ) accretes matter from a low - mass companion . in non - magnetic cvs ,",
    "the in - falling matter forms a disk around the wd .",
    "dwarf novae ( dne ) are disk - accreting cvs that undergo sharp rises in luminosity , during which the optical brightness typically increases by 2 to 5mag .",
    "the outbursts occur when a sudden increase in the gas viscosity ( due to a change in the ionization state of the gas ) allows matter to flow more rapidly through the disk , causing an increase in the accretion luminosity .    in most dne , outbursts",
    "last for a day to a few weeks . in the subclass of dne known as u gem systems , outbursts end with a steady decline to minimum that has a typical timescale of a day",
    "however , in z  cam systems , the decline from outburst occasionally stalls about 1mag below the peak .",
    "such ` standstills ' can last for days to , in a few cases , years .",
    "other non - magnetic cvs ( nova - like variables ) appear to remain persistently in the outburst state .",
    "the z  cam standstill state is comparable to that of a nova - like variable , i.e. a steady , high state , but somewhat lower in luminosity than the peak of a dwarf nova outburst .",
    "the difference in outburst behavior between u  gem , z  cam and nova - like systems is thought to reflect a difference in the rate of mass flow from the secondary ( ) . in dne , is below the upper stability boundary ( ) for which dn outbursts can occur , whereas in nova - like systems @xmath1 . in z cam - type stars @xmath2",
    "lies very near , but below @xmath3 most of the time .",
    "standstill phases are triggered when an increase in @xmath2 @xcite is accompanied by a decrease in @xmath3 as a response to heating of the outer edge of the accretion disk by the increased mass transfer @xcite .",
    "thus , @xmath2 becomes greater than @xmath3 and the disk assumes a stable high state ( like a nova - like variable ) .",
    "it has been difficult to measure mass transfer rates in cvs observationally , and as a result reliable empirical determinations of and are lacking . on theoretical grounds , is thought to be about when heating of the mass transfer stream is taken into account @xcite .",
    "z  cam is the brightest ( in outburst ) and most extensively studied object of its class .",
    "it has an orbital period @xmath4d , which implies that it , like other standstill systems , is above the period gap .",
    "( a complete list of system parameters is presented in table  [ t : param ] . )",
    "the difference in the magnitude at outburst maximum ( @xmath5=10.4 ) and quiescence ( @xmath613 ) is small for dne in general , but typical of standstill systems .",
    "the standstill @xmath5 averages 11.5 @xcite .",
    "far ultraviolet ( fuv ) spectra of z  cam in outburst were obtained with the hopkins ultraviolet telescope ( hut ) @xcite .",
    "the outburst spectrum resembles that of a steady - state accretion disk with a mass accretion rate = , modified by resonant scattering by material in a wind @xcite .    here",
    ", we attempt to complete the picture of z cam by describing fuv spectra of z cam in the quiescent and standstill states .",
    "we utilize spectra of z cam in quiescence that we have obtained using _ far ultraviolet spectroscopic explorer _ ( ) , and a spectrum of z  cam in standstill obtained with  telescope that we retrieved from the mast archive .",
    "our discussion of the effort to understand the two datasets is organized as follows : in section  [ s : obs ] , we describe the  data reduction and the mean spectrum of z cam in quiescence . in section  [ s :",
    "cont ] , we attempt to fit the spectrum of z cam in quiescence , while in section  [ s : var ] we analyze the time variability of the spectral lines . in section  [",
    "s : stand ] , we describe the  spectrum of z cam in standstill as well as our attempts to model that spectrum .",
    "finally , in section  [ s : discus ] , we evaluate the available spectral models and compare the properties of z  cam in its different luminosity states .",
    "provides a resolving power of @xmath720,000 , in the 9051187  range @xcite .",
    "z  cam was observed with  on 2002 february 9 , from 13:19:54  ut to 21:06:12  ut . as indicated in fig .",
    "[ f : aavso ] , the observations took place about eleven days after the return to quiescence from a short outburst and five days before the next outburst .",
    "the observations were made through the lwrs ( @xmath8 ) aperture .",
    "the data were obtained in the histogram mode , because z cam can ( in outburst ) exceed the brightness limit for the high - time - resolution mode . a total of 24,436  s of useful data was obtained .",
    "this comprised 43 separate exposures , ranging in length from 534s to 584s .",
    "the raw data were extracted and calibrated with version 2.2 of the calfuse pipeline and version 12 of the calfuse calibration files .",
    "the spectrum from each  channel was examined separately to ensure that the flux calibration was consistent enough for the spectra to be spliced together .",
    "some data at the edges of each detector segment where the flux calibration is often uncertain were masked out , as was the ` worm ' feature that is present in the lif1b channel .",
    "the spectra from the sic1a channel indicated anomalously higher fluxes in the range 1000 - 1065  and so this region was excluded .",
    "the remaining data from the four channels were combined to create spectra at 0.1  binning .",
    "our process for combining the data consists of summing all the data points that fall within a given wavelength bin , weighting each according to the detector pixel sensitivity .",
    "a time - averaged spectrum was created by summing the individual spectra , weighted according to exposure time .",
    "this is shown in fig .",
    "[ f : spectrum ] .",
    "the interstellar lines have measured widths of @xmath70.1  ( about the expected spectral resolution ) , indicating that the four channels remained well - aligned over the course of the observation .",
    "this is supported by the flux levels of the overlap regions between spectral channels .",
    "the quiescent spectrum has a fairly flat continuum with peak flux lying near 1000 , at a flux level of @xmath9 .",
    "the continuum flux falls by only @xmath10% from its peak level before lyman line blanketing sets in at 912 .",
    "table  [ t : lines ] lists the spectral lines observed in the spectrum of z  cam .",
    "the equivalent width ( ew ) measurements are made from the time - averaged spectrum , except for those lines that are seen to be obscured by airglow in fig .  [",
    "f : spectrum ] ; in this case the measurements are made from a mean spectrum constructed from exposures that were recorded during spacecraft night ( as indicated in the image header ) .",
    "the night - time exposures make up about 30% of the total observing time and are relatively free of distortion by airglow lines . of absorption lines intrinsic to z",
    "cam , we see the lyman series up to at least @xmath11 , and a range of metals , including c , n , o , s  and si. the absorption lines are smooth and are fit well by gaussian profiles with fwhm of @xmath12 . some of the absorption lines cut into broad emission profiles .",
    "these include the lower ionization lines of c@xmath13977 and c@xmath131176 , s@xmath141062,1073 and and the higher ionization o@xmath141032,1038 lines . none of the absorption lines fall to zero flux at the line core : the deepest absorption lines are o  and c , which have absorption minimum flux levels of , respectively , 30 and 40%  of the continuum .    a careful inspection of the mean spectrum indicates that the flux below the lyman limit is not zero , but averages .",
    "judging from earlier fuv observations ( knigge et al . 1997 , also section  [ s : stand ] ) and given the hydrogen column density ( @xmath15 ) to z cam ( mauche 1995 , private communication as quoted by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , we expect to see no flux from z cam in this region .",
    "calibration of spectra involves a background subtraction step and for histogram data a time - averaged background is used .",
    "if the average background during the observation were higher , then the extra background will appear as extra flux after the pipeline processing .",
    "the background is a combination of scattered light and internal detector background and does not follow the effective area curve of for valid photons . as a result ,",
    "the effect of poor background subtraction is most severe when the effective area is smallest ( or at the short wavelength end of the detector ) .",
    "the scattered - light portion of the background is much higher in the spacecraft daytime .",
    "therefore , we checked the mean spectrum from the full observation against one constructed from night - time only exposures . for the night - time spectrum , the flux below the lyman limit averages ( one quarter that of the mean spectrum ) . at wavelengths longer than 915  the discrepancy is significantly smaller , with the night - time continuum being on average @xmath16% less than in the mean spectrum , although in the two spectra the depth of the interstellar lyman lines differs by about the same amount as the flux level below 915 . at the minima of absorption lines intrinsic to z",
    "cam ( excluding those filled in by airglow in the mean spectrum ) the day - time flux is , at worst 15% less than the night - time flux level , with the effect being greatest in lines lying below 1000 .    given that the flux offsets are small we are confident that the background subtraction problem does not affect the spectrum significantly at most wavelengths and does not prevent an accurate qualitative assessment of the spectrum .",
    "however , in applying spectral model fits ( in section  [ s : cont ] ) we use only the night - time data .",
    "this is primarily because the absence of many of the strong airglow lines that are seen in the mean spectrum allows more data points to be included in the model fits , but also because we are more confident that the flux level of the night - time only data is closer to the true observed flux .",
    "a comparison of model flux levels with the observed fluxes calls for a reliable measurement of the distance to z cam .",
    "this has been estimated variously at @xmath17pc @xcite and @xmath18pc @xcite , based on the fraction of infrared and optical luminosity that can be attributed to the secondary star .",
    "a recent parallax measurement , combined with proper motions and absolute magnitude constraints , puts the distance somewhat closer at @xmath19pc @xcite ; we shall use this last distance in this paper .",
    "wd model spectra were generated using tlusty and synspec software @xcite .",
    "the model spectra covered effective temperatures from 13,000k to 100,000k and rotation rates of 0 to 1200 .",
    "we adopted @xmath20@xmath21 ( mauche 1995 , private communication as quoted by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , e(b - v)@xmath220.0 , and @xmath23 ( strictly @xmath24 is expected for a 1@xmath25 wd ) .",
    "the parameters of all the model fits are listed in table  [ t : fits ] .",
    "we first fit non - rotating da models to the mean night - time spectrum , after masking all of spectral lines other than those associated with hydrogen .",
    "the models were fit by @xmath26 minimization .",
    "the best - fit da model has @xmath2751,200k . as shown in fig .",
    "[ f : dafit ] , the model is a reasonably good match to the continuum slope and the peak of the continuum at @xmath71000  .",
    "the best - fitting da model falls below the data from the lyman limit to about 950  ; at the limit the model flux lies at about @xmath28 of the observed flux .",
    "varying the interstellar @xmath29 about its modest value has a negligible effect on the appearance of the best - fit model spectrum . increasing the interstellar reddening from zero to e(b - v ) @xmath30 ( the upper limit given by * ? ? ?",
    "* ) increases the best - fit temperature marginally , and also lowers the model peak flux level slightly , to better match the observed level .",
    "assuming the entire wd is visible , the normalization of a model is a measure of the solid angle of the wd and can be combined with the distance to give the wd radius . for the best - fit da model we arrive at , where the errors correspond to the upper and lower distance limits . adopting the wd mass - radius relation of @xcite and @xmath31 (",
    "* quoted in @xcite ) , the expected  for z  cam is .",
    "the value  ( and hence the mass ) determined from the fit is therefore consistent with the value of  predicted from shafter s mass estimate and the normal wd mass - radius relation .",
    "the da model spectrum does not fit the higher order lyman lines particularly well .",
    "they are broader and deeper in the model spectrum than the observed lines .",
    "increasing , or decreasing the surface gravity of the model narrows the predicted profiles , but not enough to bring the models and the data into good agreement . changing these parameters also causes the spectral slope to become steeper , worsening the model fit to the continuum .",
    "one possibility is that there is an emission component , possibly from the disk , that contributes to the narrowness of the observed lines .",
    "the h  emission is illustrated most effectively by the difference spectrum in fig .",
    "[ f : dafit ] .",
    "the emission components around other lines ( as noted in section  [ s : obs ] ) can also be made out in the difference spectrum , although they appear to be weaker than the h  emission .",
    "we contrast this to the result of @xcite , who find that the lack of strong lyman absorption in the uv spectrum of am  her in the high state can be explained by irradiation of the wd surface by a hot spot that radiates as a blackbody , _ without _ noticeable emission or absorption features .",
    "we next considered wd with metal - enriched photospheres .",
    "solar abundance models were created for a range of temperatures from 13,000k to 100,000k and wd rotational velocities from 0 to 1200 . before fitting the spectrum ,",
    "the o@xmath13@xmath321031,1039 , s@xmath13@xmath32933,944 and n@xmath13924 lines were masked out , as wd surface temperatures are not typically high enough to form these high - ionization lines .",
    "the best - fit solar - abundance wd model is shown in fig.[f : wdfit1 ] .",
    "it has @xmath33 8 cm , @xmath34k and @xmath35 .",
    "the peak in the continuum at 1000  and the slope of the continuum are a good match to the data . however , like the da model the solar abundance model underestimates the flux at the long- and short - wavelength ends of the spectrum .",
    "the effect is slightly less in the solar abundance case , because the hotter wd does a better job reproducing the short - wavelength emission .",
    "as was the case with the da model fits , the best fit parameters indicate that the wd is at somewhat greater distance than 163 pc and/or has some what greater mass than 0.99 .",
    "however , given the error bars , the various estimates are self - consistent .",
    "the solar abundance wd model does a good job of reproducing some of the stronger absorption lines , e.g. c@xmath13977 , n@xmath131085 , si@xmath13@xmath321122,1128 and c@xmath131176 . in the model",
    "the n@xmath13924 , n@xmath13989 , s@xmath131012 - 1021 and s@xmath13@xmath321062,1073 , s@xmath131077 and si@xmath131108 - 1113 lines are significantly weaker then in the data , whereas the si@xmath131066 line is much stronger .",
    "in other quiescent cv , two - temperature ( 2 t ) wd model fits have been known to give a significant improvement over the single - temperature models ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "in non - magnetic cvs , the second component is attributed to matter arriving onto the surface of the wd from the accretion disk .",
    "the accreted matter is hotter than the wd and travels at the keplerian rotational velocity , and so the high - temperature , rapidly - rotating gas can form an ` accretion belt ' on the wd surface @xcite .    to see",
    "whether model fits of this type provide a better representation of the spectrum , we fit the data to models consisting of two different temperatures , allowing the normalization and rotational velocity of each to vary independently .",
    "the best fit has one component with temperature @xmath36 of 26,300 k covering 71% and a second component with @xmath37 of 71,700 k covering 29% of the surface .",
    "statistically , the more complex model with  of 9.4 is better than the single - temperature fit with  of 10.1 , but qualitatively there is little difference between the fits and neither is `` statistically acceptable '' in the sense that  is still considerably greater than one .",
    "therefore physical arguments will ultimately guide the interpretation . ) for the 2 t fit , the dominant contribution to the emission is due to the higher temperature component . at 1100  , 78% of the flux is from the high temperature component and shortward of 1000   essentially all of the flux is from the hot component .",
    "the 2 t fit does result in a larger radius of for the wd , which is typically the case when 1 t and 2 t models are compared .",
    "a value of ( at the nominal distance for z cam ) is close to the value of predicted from the estimated mass .",
    "we have performed tests to see how the temperature and contribution of the hot component ( @xmath37 ) varies as a function of the temperature of the low temperature ( @xmath36 ) is adjusted . for @xmath36 between 23,000 and 37,500 k ,",
    "it is possible to fit a two - component wd model with a radius in the range allowed by the error limits on the wd mass ( table  [ t : param ] ) . as the temperature of the low - t component increases , the fraction of the surface covered by the hot component also increases . at @xmath36",
    "= 23,000k , the hot component has @xmath37=70,000k and covers 27% of the surface , whereas at 37,500k the hot component has @xmath37=75,000k and covers 41% of the surface . statistically , there is little difference between the goodness of these 2 t fits .",
    "they all have  in the range 9.4 to 9.9 .",
    "the values of the rotation velocity @xmath38 for our best - fit 2 t model are 170 and 320 @xmath39 for the low and high temperature components , respectively .",
    "there is no real ( positive ) evidence that the second component , if it exists , is rotating rapidly , and hence there is no `` smoking gun '' for a rapidly rotating accretion belt .",
    "this is not entirely surprising though , given the fraction of the flux contributed by the high temperature component .",
    "z  cam was extensively observed with the _ international ultraviolet explorer _ ( ) between 1979 and 1991 , although only twice during quiescence .",
    "the flux level at the long wavelength end of the spectrum provides an excellent overlap with the short - wavelength end of the z  cam quiescent spectrum swp18844 ( as presented in * ? ? ? * ) and swp37155 .",
    "we rebinned the spectrum to the 1.7   to match the wavelength spacing of the lowres dataset and merged it with swp18844 .",
    "we then created model spectra to match the coarser spectra resolution of . at this resolution",
    ", there is little sensitivity to @xmath38 and so all of the models were constructed with @xmath38 of 300 @xmath39 .",
    "a solar abundance model fit to the combined and spectrum ( fig.[f : dafuseiue ] ) has @xmath40k and = . at @xmath41",
    "the model flux level is somewhat lower than is observed and at around 1000the model continuum level lies slightly above that of the observed spectrum .",
    "the larger value of  is a direct result of the lower temperature in these fits .    in fig .",
    "[ f : dafuseiue ] , we also plot the best 2 t wd fit to the combined spectrum . in this case",
    ", @xmath36 is 17,600 k and this component covers 97% of the surface , while @xmath37 is 82,000k and covers only 3% of the surface . in terms of flux , the low t component contributes 27% at 1100   and 46% at 1500  .",
    "there is a significant improvement in the statistical quality of the fit from  of 8.2 to 4.9 .",
    "the 1 t model has difficulties at the short and long wavelength ends of the spectrum ; the 2 t model ( predictably ) addresses these difficulties since the high t component provides flux near the lyman limit while the low t component provides flux at the long wavelength portion of the spectrum .",
    "however ,  is now larger than desired . if one constrains the normalization to place the system at the nominal distance and radius ranges , tests",
    "show that larger @xmath36 and lower @xmath37 are required .",
    "as was the case for when only the  data were fitted , there is a locus of values for @xmath36 and @xmath37 that provide qualitatively similar fits to the data .",
    "given that z cam was observed in the quiescent state , we do not expect that steady - state accretion disk models would provide a good description of the  spectra . nevertheless , it is important to check that this is not the case .",
    "therefore , we constructed model disk spectra from summed , area - weighted , doppler - broadened spectra of stellar atmospheres of the appropriate temperature and gravity for each disk annulus .",
    "as for the wd models , we adopted @xmath42 and @xmath20@xmath21 .",
    "disk spectra were created for a range of  from @xmath43 to , and normalized to a distance of @xmath44pc .",
    "since the inclination for z cam is not tightly constrained ( @xmath45 ) , we created model spectra for inclinations of 46 , 57 , and 68 .",
    "we then fit the data using the same wavelength intervals as the solar abundance wd fits . unless otherwise indicated , these fits have one variable , since in most cases we did not allow the normalization ( or alternatively the distance ) to be a free parameter .",
    "[ f : diskfit1 ] shows the best - fit disk spectrum with = .",
    "this model matches the slope and level of the continuum between 1050 and 1185 , but bluewards of  the model flux declines steeply to zero . as expected from a keplerian disk , the rotational velocities are too high to fit the narrow absorption lines .",
    "since we are not allowing the normalization to vary in these fits , the exact values of that we derive are dependent both on the distance to z cam and on the inclination .",
    "the inclination of z cam can not be very much larger than 68 or eclipses would be observed .",
    "if we assume this inclination , then we obtain of and a slightly better fit in terms of .",
    "this apparent improvement in the fit is due to the fact that higher model has a flatter continuum slope at shorter wavelengths .",
    "this said , the fits are considerably worse than both the uniform t and two - t wd models .",
    "better fits would be obtained if the normalization of the spectra were not fixed .",
    "indeed the best fit to the spectral shape would suggest of , a physically implausible value for a quiescent system , and an equally implausible distance of 710 pc .",
    "we also combined an accretion disk component with the wd models .",
    "we fit two - component models wherein the first component was a wd with @xmath46 and the second component was an accretion disk of @xmath47 ( the resultant spectrum was essentially unchanged when the disk inclination was varied to 68 ) . in the combined disk and wd model",
    "the wd is at 62,000k , with @xmath48 and the disk has = .",
    "the resultant model differs negligibly from the wd model fits ( see fig .",
    "[ f : wdfit1 ] ) ;  is 9.8 , slightly worse than produced in the 2 t wd fits ( 9.4 ) .",
    "the wd component dominates the model spectrum , while the disk component acts basically only to flatten the continuum slope , by providing a small flux contribution at long - wavelengths .",
    "since in quiescence , one does not necessarily expect the spectrum to mimic that produced by steady state disk models , we also experimented with models in which the disk contribution was assumed to be a power law ( @xmath49 ) .",
    "these models produce similar fits statistically ( = 8.7 ) to fits using a wd and a steady state disk built from stellar spectra .",
    "the power law contributes about 33% of the flux at 1100   and has a slope @xmath50 of 1.6 .",
    "the wd contributes the bulk of the flux , and has a temperature of 44,900 k ,  of , and  of 210@xmath39 .    for completeness",
    ", we carried out the same disk model analysis for the combined  and  data .",
    "the results are almost identical to that of the  data alone . a careful inspection of fig .",
    "[ f : fuse_iue_disk ] , where the results are shown , indicates that the main observational disagreement between disk and wd models for z cam is in the  wavelength range .",
    "we note in passing that  for the combined wd and disk fit ( 5.0 for 57 ) is better than for simple 1 t wd or disk models , and almost identical to that obtained for 2 t wd models ( 4.9 ) .",
    "the inferred wd radius for the combined wd and disk model fit suggests a very massive wd , in excess of 1.35  and much greater than estimated by @xcite .",
    "one way to lower the mass would be to allow the distance to be larger .",
    "but much more probably , the result is an artifact of our limited knowledge of the spectrum of a quiescent disk , which we , in the absence of any fully - calculated alternative , have represented as that expected from a steady - state optically - thick disk .",
    "it has been suggested that in quiescent cv the accretion disk is truncated at its inner edge , due to irradiation by the white dwarf ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "if we assume that the emission components seen around some of the absorption lines are formed in a keplerian disk , and hence are doppler broadened by the disk rotation , we can estimate the smallest radius at which the emission is formed .    using the starlink software dipso",
    ", we fit the s@xmath511063,1072 , si@xmath1311081113 and c@xmath131175 lines after first normalizing the continuum flux .",
    "we fit a gaussian absorption and emission line to each component of the multiplet ( except in the case of c@xmath131175 , which is fit as a single line ) .",
    "these are shown in fig .",
    "[ f : emission ] . after subtracting the multiplet splitting , the emission components all have widths of about @xmath74000  ( fwzi ) .",
    "this translates to a rotational velocity of 2400 , or a keplerian disk radius of , which is @xmath74  ( * ? ? ?",
    "* for example , predicts that the quiescent disk truncation radius is @xmath52 ) .",
    "this suggests that the emission lines could be formed by material rotating with the quiescent accretion disk .    at present",
    "we have only a poor idea of exactly what observational signatures from a cold optically - thin disk would be detectable in the fuv .",
    "however , there is substantive evidence that there is an additional component to the quiescent continuum and some attempts have been made to model the structure of this as a coronal layer above the quiescent disk ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "there currently exist no quantitative uv spectral models for such a corona , so in order to get some idea of what these properties might be , we constructed tlusty models of an optically thin plasma veil , at various temperatures and densities , which were then rotated as a solid body , to mimic the disk rotation .",
    "we then took a simple optically thin emission prescription for the emitted flux ( @xmath53 ) .",
    "the optically thin plasma was able to reproduce the relative strengths of the emission components seen around some absorption lines .",
    "however , there was some degeneracy between various h column densities , electron densities and temperatures .",
    "hence , we found it impossible to estimate , from these models , a possible physical structure for the corona .",
    "the 43 histogram exposures cover just over one orbital period of z  cam from 0.94 to 0.06 , with a phase uncertainty of 0.015 ( using the spectroscopic ephemeris of thorstensen & ringwald , 1995 ) .",
    "the phase coverage is continuous , apart from gaps at phases 0.570.63 and 0.810.88 .",
    "we are thus confident that the mean spectrum is representative of the average over the full orbital period , rather than a reflection of some orbital phase - dependent characteristic .",
    "we created a continuum light curve by summing the flux over selected spectral windows .",
    "for the light curve we used only data from the lif1 channel . is guided on this channel and so it should be less susceptible than the others to channel misalignment . to measure flux variation across the entire lif1 range , we first excluded regions contaminated by airglow and the worm region ( see section  [ s : obs ] ) and summed the flux over the ranges 9961024 , 10291038 , 10461081 , 10951103 and 11701185 .",
    "continuum flux varied by up to @xmath54% either side of the mean . however , given the noted discrepancy between the day and the night - time flux levels ( see section  [ s : obs ] ) , we found no evidence of variability in the continuum flux level in excess of that which could be associated with the periodic transition of the spacecraft from day to night time .",
    "the spectroscopic ephemeris of thorstensen & ringwald ( 1995 ) is accurate enough to radial - velocity correct each exposure onto the wd rest frame , with errors of about 25 .",
    "the spectra presented in this section are plotted after this correction has been applied .",
    "[ f : variation1 ] shows the 10051045region plotted in phase bins of 0.1@xmath55 .",
    "the 11001133  spectral range encompasses the c@xmath131010 , s@xmath1310121021 ,  and o@xmath13@xmath321032,1037 lines and gives a good representative sample of the line variability seen across the spectrum .    in the time - averaged spectrum the flux minima of the absorption lines",
    "are all centered at between 100 and 200  redwards of the transition rest velocity . throughout the observation",
    "there is almost no shift in the position of this feature , except for during phase 0.5 to 0.7 where the entire line profile shifts bluewards by about 100200  ( i.e. back to closer agreement with the rest velocity , see fig .",
    "[ f : variation1 ] ) . that the mean line profiles are centered redwards of the rest - velocity could well be an artifact of the radial velocity correction .",
    "we take the zero - phase ephemeris from the inferior conjunction of red star emission lines , rather than using the h@xmath50 emission line ephemeris , as the latter may be formed in an extended outflow ( see * ? ? ?",
    "this therefore , does not take into account gravitational redshifting , which is 76if @xmath56 ( or 108if @xmath57 ) .",
    "if the absorption lines are formed on the surface of the wd , then this accounts for a portion of the redshift of the mean line profile centroids .",
    "there is little variability in the strength and width of the absorption lines , except between phases 0.65 and 0.81 ( fig.[f : addabs ] ) . then there is a sharp increase in the strength of most of the absorption lines and we clearly see some lines that are barely apparent in the mean spectrum , e.g. p@xmath13@xmath321118,1128 and the si@xmath13994997 triplet . at the same time",
    "there is no sign of an increase or decrease in continuum flux .",
    "the fwhm of the lines increases by no more than a few tens of .",
    "the additional absorption mainly affects the depth of the line absorption .",
    "there is no shift bluewards or redwards from the mean line profile .",
    "the increased absorption is seen across the full range of atomic species and ionization stages , for example s@xmath1310121021 , s@xmath13@xmath321062,1073 and s@xmath13@xmath32933,944 .",
    "the higher ionization s  and s  lines increase in ew by around 30% .",
    "on average , the increase in line ew at phase 0.650.81 is also @xmath58% .",
    "the s  triplet shows increased absorption by up to 300%  in the mean ew of the s@xmath131013 component , but only 40%  in the s@xmath131021 component .",
    "some lines , such as si@xmath1311081113 , show a smaller variation ( @xmath59% ) ; others , such as si@xmath13997 and p@xmath131118 , increase their ew by two or three times ; and others , such as si@xmath13@xmath32994,995 , appear only during the period of enhanced absorption .",
    "there are a few lines , most notably n@xmath13924 , o@xmath13@xmath321032,1038 , and c@xmath13977 and 1176 that do not increase in ew at phase 0.650.81 . as the lines that show increased absorption cover a range of excitation energies we can rule out any obvious temperature - dependence .",
    "an increase in the absorption line strength could stem either from an increase in the column density of absorbing ions , or from an increase in their covering factor against the continuum background ( or a combination of the two ) .",
    "given that , at the time of the increased absorption , we see no evidence of an accompanying alteration of the ionization balance , it seems most likely that we are seeing a shift of material into the line of sight and/or an increase in the continuum covering fraction of absorbing ions .",
    "we are unable to say whether the narrow absorption endures beyond phase 0.81 as there is a gap in the data from phase 0.81 to 0.88 . however ,",
    "when the coverage picks up again at phase 0.88 , the additional absorption has disappeared .",
    "z  cam entered standstill on 1992 september 23 .",
    "z cam was observed with the berkeley extreme and far - uv spectrometer ( befs ) , on board the  telescope @xcite , on 1993 september 18 .",
    "a single 1477s spectrum was obtained .",
    "the system remained in standstill for a further 100 days , before declining to quiescence ( see the lightcurve in * ? ? ?",
    "during the standstill the system brightness can fluctuate by about 0.3mag either side of the average magnitude of 11.5 , but the timing of this observation so far into the standstill assures us that  captured z  cam in a true standstill phase .",
    "we retrieved the befs spectrum , pre - calibrated , from the mast archive .",
    "the spectrum covers the range 7001175  at a spectral resolution of about 0.2  in the two longer - wavelength channels of the spectrometer .",
    "however , no flux was detected below 912 , so we have used only data from the longest - wavelength channel ( 9001175 ) .    in fig .",
    "[ f : standstill ] we have plotted the befs and the  spectra together . despite the order - of - magnitude difference in continuum flux ,",
    "the two spectral shapes are very similar . the standstill spectrum peaks at @xmath60 , at .",
    "this is to the red of the peak in the quiescent spectrum ( at @xmath61 ) . on the longer - wavelength side of the peak ,",
    "both have similar continuum slopes .",
    "both spectra show significant flux down to the lyman limit , although the continuum between 912 and the peak flux is slightly flatter in the quiescent spectrum than in standstill .    most of the absorption lines seen in the standstill spectrum as we are also seen in quiescence ( see table  [ t : standstill ] ) . in the befs spectrum",
    "the absorption equivalent widths are generally 30 - 60% greater in the higher - ionization lines ( e.g. o , sand s ) than in the  spectrum , whereas the lower - ionization lines ( e.g. si  and s ) are weaker by a factor of at least 2 .",
    "note also the appearance of the p@xmath13@xmath321118,1128 lines at standstill ( which are only seen at phase 0.650.81 in quiescence ) .",
    "this is indicative of a general move upward in the ionization state between quiescence and standstill .",
    "the standstill line widths ( fwhm ) are generally about 100200  narrower than the quiescent lines , with the exception of c , n  and o. in standstill , there is no sign of the broad line emission that is seen in quiescence . nor for that matter are there indications of the wind that is observed in outburst in z cam , e.g. p - cygni - like profiles or even blue - shifted absorption features .",
    "we repeated the model - fitting exercise that was carried out on the quiescent spectrum , beginning with solar abundance wd models ( as for section  [ s : cont ] ) . in order not to bias a comparison to the  data , we excluded the same regions of the spectra as were used for the  analysis . in general , the best - fit values of  were lower for the  than the  data , a fact that is directly attributable to the statistical quality of the two datasets .    the best - fit wd model is shown in fig .",
    "[ f : standfit2 ] .",
    "the wd model spectrum matches fairly well to the observed continuum , although the model flux peaks at around 1000 , bluewards of the observed flux peak at 1060 .",
    "the best fit has a temperature of 59,700k and  of 240 @xmath39 , not very different from that in the  quiescent spectrum . in common with the quiescent wd model",
    "fits , the model lyman lines are broader than the observed .",
    "however , the normalization at 163pc gives = , which would imply an unacceptably low ( 0.35 ) wd mass .",
    "we then fit model accretion disk spectra , as in section  [ ss : diskfits ] .",
    "we find that the standstill continuum emission is reproduced well by an accretion disk model with = at an inclination of 57  and = at 68  ( see fig.[f : standfit2 ] ) .",
    "the disk models are a good fit to the continuum ( the higher - inclination model is slightly better ) , although they are unable to reproduce the absorption lines .",
    "the disk model falls off steeply towards the lyman limit , whereas the data ( and to a certain extent the wd models ) level off before dropping steeply to zero .",
    "in quiescence , we find that the fuv continuum of z cam as observed by  is qualitatively well - described in terms of emission from a hot metal - enriched wd atmosphere . for log g=8.5 ,",
    "the best fit single temperature models has a  of 57,200 k and  of .",
    "the mass of the wd in z cam is estimated to be 0.99@xmath620.15 , which suggests  of .",
    "thus the two measurements of  can be reconciled if the distance to z cam is @xmath63 pc , where the errors here are calculated from the uncertainty in the mass .",
    "this is slightly larger than , but wholly consistent with the astrometric distance of @xmath64 pc .",
    "if this interpretation is correct , then the wd in z cam is hot when compared to the wds in other cvs .",
    "a recent compilation of reliably determined wd temperatures in cvs by @xcite contains 34 objects ( other than z cam ) ranging in temperature from 9,500 k in the polar ef eri to 50,000 k in the nova - like variable and sw sex star dw uma .",
    "a temperature of 57,200 k would make z cam the hottest wd in a cv , excepting only v1500 cyg , which is still cooling from its nova outburst in 1975 and for which there is a crude blackbody temperature estimate of 70,000 to 120,000 k for the wd @xcite .",
    "is this reasonable ?",
    "the surface temperatures of wds in cvs are thought to be primarily determined by the accretion history of the wd @xcite .",
    "this is because although the wds in cvs emerge from the common envelope phase as very hot wds , the wds cool to temperatures of 4,500 - 6000 k in the 3 - 4 gyr required to reach the mass - exchanging stage .",
    "accretion reheats the surface layers of the wd on the time scales of outbursts ( weeks ) , as is evidenced from observations of temperature changes in wds in cvs such as u gem @xcite and vw hyi @xcite .",
    "more importantly , accretion reheats the entire wd over longer time scales ( ) , as the envelope and core adjust to the increase in mass of the wd , an effect known as compressional heating , and through nuclear burning of the accreted material @xcite .",
    "recently , @xcite have determined the relationship between time - averaged accretion rate and wd temperature .",
    "for a temperature of 57,000 k , the required rate is @xmath7 ( with uncertainties of perhaps a factor of two ) .",
    "( a somewhat lower value of is obtained for 45,000 k , the temperature derived from the combined  +  spectrum . )",
    "thus the accretion rate required is high , although it may be consistent with the fact that z cam is commonly in ( or near ) the high state . indeed , of the four systems with wd temperatures greater than 40,000 k , mv lyr , tt ari , ru peg , and dw uma , all but ru peg are nova - like variables and hence , like z cam , are systems where there are other indications of high time - averaged accretion rates .",
    "given this , we believe a temperature of 57,000 k is reasonable .",
    "an alternative interpretation of the  quiescent spectrum is that the surface temperature of the wd in z cam is not uniform .",
    "our analysis shows that a somewhat better , but still not statistically acceptable fit to the  data can be obtained if 2 t models are considered .",
    "our best fit had a low temperature component with @xmath36 of 26,300 k covering 71% of the surface and a high temperature component with @xmath37 of 71,700 k covering 29% . if the low temperature component represents energy loss from the interior of the wd while the high temperature component is due to recent or ongoing accretion , then 94% of the luminosity of the wd is due to recent accretion .",
    "is this reasonable ?    if the excess emission is due to ongoing accretion , then the observed luminosity is @xmath65 , where @xmath66 is the fraction of gravitational energy available that is radiated . for the best 2 t parameters , the excess luminosity is , and",
    "the implied value of @xmath67 is .",
    "this is a fairly large value for a disk in quiescence , especially since @xmath68 , but is hard to rule out because of our lack of good models for emission from quiescent disks and the brightness of the wd itself .    on the other hand ,",
    "the accretion belt hypothesis is that some of the kinetic energy of material that reaches the boundary layer between the disk and wd is stored in a rapidly rotating belt and released slowly during the interoutburst period . in standard accretion disk theory ,",
    "half of the gravitational energy of material accreted by the wd is radiated by the disk and half remains as kinetic energy when it enters the boundary layer . for z cam , with a disk accretion rate of",
    ", the disk luminosity is . for the outburst that preceded the  observation , z cam remained within 1 mag .  of outburst maximum for about 4 days ( see fig.[f : aavso ] ) , and hence the total energy release was about .",
    "the  observation occurred about 11 days from the return to quiescence and , as noted previously , the belt luminosity in the context of this hypothesis was still .",
    "we do not have the coverage to determine the time decay of the second component , but a conservative lower limit is obtained by assuming constant luminosity until the observation and zero from then on . by this argument",
    "the energy stored in the rotating layer was at least , or 8% of the energy of the outburst .",
    "if one assumes an exponential decay , then the energy release is @xmath69 , where t is the time from outburst , l(t ) the luminosity at the time of our observation , and @xmath70 the decay time constant . if @xmath70 was 11 days , then the total energy released would be @xmath71 greater , or 20% of the total outburst energy . in either case , the energy that must be stored in the belt is large , though not energetically disallowed .",
    "if the hot component is produced by short - term effects of accretion , then the low t component reflects the long - term average of accretion .",
    "for a temperature of 26,300 , this requires an accretion rate of . this is lower than the number inferred from 1 t fits , but still substantial .",
    "so how does one decide between the two models we have explored for z cam in quiescence ?",
    "the data are not definitive .",
    "the model parameters that result from both models are substantially in agreement with other known parameters of the system .",
    "is somewhat better for the 2 t model than the uniform temperature model .",
    "but  is much greater than 1 per degree of freedom in the 2 t model , showing that it is at best a step toward a correct model of z cam in quiescence , and the systematic errors in the  spectrum are difficult to quantify .",
    "the differences in the two model spectra are quite small ; there is no characteristic of the spectrum that one can point to that requires a second component .",
    "evidence that  for the high temperature component is high compared to the low t component is lacking . in u gem @xcite ,",
    "single temperature models lead to a physically implausible result , namely that the wd grows in radius during quiescence .",
    "since we do not have multiple observations of z cam through a quiescent period , we do not know whether single t models lead to a similar problem in z cam .",
    "there are other well - observed systems , e.g. vw hyi @xcite and wz sge @xcite , which do not exhibit `` radius growth '' in the context of one temperature models , and so one can not use that as a guide .",
    "there is also no consensus theoretically .",
    "while @xcite have argued that mass transfer from the disk is higher immediately after outburst in order to explain uv delays in dne , the expected x - ray evidence of a gradual decline in hard x - ray emission following outbursts is lacking .",
    "furthermore the x - ray data that exist indicates that the x - ray plasma that exists in quiescence is not rotating rapidly @xcite , and therefore it is hard to understand how it could produce a heated annular region around the surface . while @xcite postulated the existence of accretion belts and described an instability that might release energy in an accretion belt , there are to our knowledge no detailed calculations of expected properties of the emitting region and no attempt to calculate the luminosity of the rotating component with time .",
    "given these considerations , our answer to the question of which model is most likely correct is to appeal to occam s razor and assert that the simpler 1 t model provide a good physical description of the data and is therefore is the best - bet physical model to pursue .    in outburst",
    ", @xcite showed that the shape of the fuv ( 9001800 ) continuum of z  cam could be modeled as an accretion disk with @xmath72 at an inclination of 57  and distance of 170 pc ( very close to the best astrometric distance of 163 pc ) . in the high state ,",
    "the fits are self - consistent . in standstill",
    "we find @xmath73 .",
    "approximately , then , there appears to be at least an order of magnitude increase in from quiescence to standstill , while is an order of magnitude higher still .",
    "our derived gives an upper limit on , as it is a reasonable assumption that is also the rate of mass flow from the secondary at that time , which must be greater than .",
    "@xcite calculate @xmath74 , using the formula of @xcite and taking into account heating by the stream  disk impact ( or if tidal dissipation is also included ) .",
    "our upper limit of @xmath75 is just consistent with this and with the upper limit of @xmath76 derived by @xcite .",
    "the comparison of the befs standstill spectrum and the spectrum of z  cam in quiescence illustrates the problem of separating a wd spectrum from that of a disk . except for the flux level the qualitative differences between the befs spectrum and the  spectrum are relatively small . in both states ,",
    "the continuum slope is almost the same and , other than a slight increase in ionization temperature , their line spectra are very similar . yet",
    ", we find that in quiescence a wd alone can make up the continuum flux , whereas in standstill an accretion disk is the best model for the continuum flux . ultimately , the key model parameter that has enabled us to fit one model and reject others is the normalization required to match the observed and the modeled flux levels , which in turn depends on the wd mass and the distance from the sun . without a reasonably accurate knowledge of these parameters it would be impossible to judge between a wide range of models that reproduce the continuum slope and line spectrum equally well .      in the time - resolved spectra of z  cam in quiescence",
    ", we have seen enhanced line absorption between phase 0.65 and 0.81 , which covers the full range of atomic species and excitation levels .",
    "the enhanced absorption is very well centered on the mean line profile , which , in turn , is centered 100200  to the red of the transition rest velocity .",
    "the change in absorption width is greatest in those lines that are weak or absent from the mean spectrum , but also encompasses lines which are thought to be optically thick in the mean spectrum , leaving only the n@xmath13924 , o@xmath13@xmath321032,1038 and c@xmath13977 and 1176 lines unchanged .",
    "flux variations at around phase 0.50.8 are seen in a selection of disk - accreting systems , in phenomena such as dips in the uv @xcite and x - ray @xcite light curve of low - mass x - ray binaries and cv , and humps in the optical light curves of cv ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this is typically attributed the interaction of the accretion stream from the secondary with the outer edge of the accretion disk .",
    "this can result in a luminous ` bright spot ' at the outer edge of the disk , which is thought to be responsible for the optical light curve modulation .",
    "also , the shock of the in - falling stream can cause the disk to bulge outwards at smaller radii or cause the stream to be deflected upward and arc over the surface of the accretion disk ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "this can cause phase dependent absorption as colder material in the accretion stream moves in front of the continuum source .",
    "the additional absorption seen in z  cam is qualitatively compatible with some sort of stream - disk interaction .",
    "the enhanced absorption is narrow and centered on the mean line profile , indicative of matter that is moving across , rather than parallel to the line of sight .",
    "there is no corresponding change in the ionization state and the increase in absorption affects those transitions that appear to be optically thick in the mean spectrum .",
    "this is consistent with a disk bulge or stream temporarily moving to occult a larger area of the continuum source , or to place a greater column density of absorbing ions into the line of sight . also , the 0.650.81 phasing is in the phase range that stream - overflow effects are thought to be seen . in these respects",
    "z  cam compares well with the spectrum of u  gem in outburst @xcite , which was observed to show strong enhanced absorption at phase 0.53 to 0.79 .",
    "the line variability in u  gem is of a similar strength to that seen in z  cam , i.e. residual line core flux reducing to as little as 40% of its mean value in some lines , with the o  lines being the least affected , although the n@xmath13924 , c@xmath131176 and other weak lines participate in the variation in u  gem .",
    "smooth particle hydrodynamical models of the disk - stream interaction are now being produced ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "* ; * ? ? ?",
    "these models make predictions of the observational qualities which we are now able to set against the evidence for stream - related variability seen in the spectrum of z  cam .",
    "the models are generally in agreement that stream overflow can occur at low mass - accretion rates , i.e. quiescent disks .",
    "@xcite predict that efficient cooling of the hot - spot region can occur in systems with low mass - accretion rates ( @xmath77 , or @xmath78 ) , allowing material to overflow the inner disk in a coherent stream , whereas , in higher-  systems the stream impact region tends to push the disk into a bulging shape . using a different method",
    ", @xcite concurs with armitage & livio that up to @xmath59% of the matter in the accretion stream from the secondary is able to overflow the disk .",
    "if the phase - dependent absorption is a result of stream - overflow , it may have implications for the estimated inclination of the system .",
    "logically , for absorption by the stream , the absorption strength should have a strong correlation with inclination angle . at higher inclinations ,",
    "material above the disk plane presents a higher column density to the bright continuum regions , i.e. the wd and inner disk .",
    "@xcite estimate that in outburst , enhanced absorption can be seen in systems of inclinations down to 65 , based on the maximum scale height above the disk attained by material in the accretion stream .",
    "however , they predict that , at low , material is not as strongly deflected upward as for high  and that an inclination angle of at least 75is needed before the overflowing stream can cause accretion dips . at an inclination of only @xmath79(as taken from * ? ? ?",
    "* ) , z  cam would fall below this lower limit .",
    "furthermore , an inclination above the current upper limit of 68  for z cam would produce observable eclipses and therefore can be ruled out .",
    "however , given the similarity of the time - dependent absorption to that seen in u  gem ( @xmath80 ) , an inclination angle near 68seems far more plausible that the opposite extreme of 48 .",
    "we have obtained observations with the satellite of the dwarf nova , z  cam , during a period of quiescence .",
    "the spectrum is characterized by a fairly flat continuum , with a peak in the flux at 1000 .",
    "the line spectrum covers a broad range of atomic species and ionization stages and is dominated by absorption lines of fwhm @xmath12 .",
    "qualitatively , the spectrum can be self - consistently described in terms of emission from the wd with a temperature of 57,000 k. modest improvements in the fits are obtained with 2 t models in which most of the emission comes from a small fraction ( 29% ) of the surface heated to @xmath81k .",
    "the remainder is at 26,300k .",
    "we favor the uniform temperature model for z cam , largely because the data do not require anything more complicated .",
    "there are emission lines ( e.g. c@xmath131176 ) that do not come from the wd .",
    "the widths of these lines are consistent with a disk origin .    in the phase - resolved quiescent spectrum",
    "we have observed transient enhanced line absorption . from the 0.650.81 phasing of this absorption and its effect on a wide range of ionization species ,",
    "we attribute it to material raised from the disk plane into the los , due to interaction of the accretion stream with the disk , or the stream itself moving over the disk",
    ". such effects may be easier to understand if inclination of z cam is close to the upper limit of 68 .",
    "the standstill continuum is best described by an optically - thick disk accreting at a rate of , depending on the actual inclination of z cam .",
    "the continuum slope and the line absorption spectra differ little between quiescence and standstill , despite that , during standstill , an accretion disk creates ( most of ) the continuum flux .",
    "the qualitative similarity of the two spectra highlights the difficulty of separating wd from disk signatures without detailed model fitting and , also , underlines the reliance of the model fits on an secure knowledge of the distance and the wd mass .",
    "the high temperature of the wd in z cam and the estimates of mass accretion rate in standstill and outburst are all consistent with a mass transfer rate from the secondary star that is higher than in normal dne .",
    "additional fuv observations of z cam in the period following a normal outburst are highly desirable both to better understand the physics of standstill systems and to cleanly distinguish between single and multi - temperature models of the wd in z cam .",
    "in this research , we have used , and acknowledge with thanks , data from the aavso international database , based on observations submitted to the aavso by variable star observers worldwide .",
    "we also gratefully acknowledge the financial support from nasa through grant nag 5 - 11885 .",
    "all of the data presented in this paper was obtained from the multimission archive at the space telescope science institute ( mast ) .",
    "stsci is operated by the association of universities for research in astronomy , inc .",
    ", under nasa contract nas5 - 26555 .",
    "support for mast for non - hst data is provided by the nasa office of space science via grant nag5 - 7584 and by other grants and contracts .",
    "we thank the anonymous referee for their helpful comments and suggestions .",
    "anderson , n.  1988 , , 325 , 266 araujo - betancor , s. a. , g \" ansicke , b. t. , long , k. s. , beuermann , k. , de martino , d. , sion , e. m. & szkody , p. 2005",
    ", , submitted armitage , p.  j.  & livio , m.  1996 , , 470 , 1024 armitage , p.  j.  & livio , m.  1998 , , 493 , 898 baraffe , i. , kolb , u. 2000 , mnras , 318 , 354 baskill , d. , wheatly , p. j. , osbourne , j. p. 2001",
    ", , 328 , 71 berriman , g. , szkody , p. , and capps , r.  w.  1985 , , 217 , 327 buat - m ' enard , v. , hameury , j .-",
    "m . , & lasota , j .-",
    "2001 , , 369 , 925 froning , c. s. , long , k. s. , drew , j. e. , knigge , c. , proga , d. 2001 , , 963 g \" ansicke , b.  t.  & beuermann , k.  1996 , , 309 , l47 g \" ansicke , b.  t. , hoard , d.  w. , beuermann , k. , sion , e.  m. , & szkody , p.  1998",
    ", , 338 , 933 hameury , j. , menou , k. , dubus , g. , lasota , j. , & hure , j.  1998 , , 298 , 1048 hellier , c. , garlick , m.  a. , & mason , k.  o.  1993 , , 260 , 299 hessman , f.  v.  1999 , , 510 , 867 hubeny , i. 1988 , comput .",
    "commun . , 52 , 103 hubeny , i. , & lanz , t. 1995 , , 439 , 875 hubeny , i. , lanz , t. , & jeffery , c. s. 1994 , in newsletter on analysis of astronomical spectra ( st .",
    "andrews : st .",
    "andrews univ . ) , 20 , 30 hurwitz , m.  et al.1998 , , 500 , l1 king , a.  r.  1997 , , 288 , l16 king , a.  r.  & cannizzo , j.  k.  1998 , , 499 , 348 kiplinger , a.  l.  1980 , , 236 , 839 kippenhahn , r.  & thomas , h .- c .",
    "1978 , , 63 , 265 knigge , k. , long , k. s. , blair , w. p. , and wade , r. a. 1997 , , 476 , 291 kunze , s. , speith , r. , & hessman , f.  v.  2001 , , 322 , 499 lasota , j .- p .  2001 , new astronomy review , 45 , 449 liu , f.  k. , meyer , f. , & meyer - hofmeister , e.  1995 , , 300 , 823 long , k.  s.  et al .",
    "1991 , , 381 , l25 long , k.  s. , blair , w.  p. , bowers , c.  w. , davidsen , a.  f. , kriss , g.  a. , sion , e.  m. , & hubeny , i.1993 , , 405 , 327        mauche , c.  w. , wheatley , p.  j. , long , k.  s. , raymond , j.  c. 2004 , & szkody , p.  2004 , in asp conf .",
    "the astrophysics of cataclysmic variables and related objects , ed .",
    "j. m. hameury & j. p. lasota , in press    meyer , f.  & meyer - hofmeister , e.  1994 , , 288 , 175 moos , h.  w.  et al .",
    "2000 , , 538 , l1 oppenheimer , b.  d. , kenyon , s.  j. , & mattei , j.  a.  1998 , , 115 , 1175 sahnow , d.  j.  et al.2000 , , 538 , l7 schreiber , m.  r.  & g \" ansicke , b.  t.  2002 , , 382 , 124 shafter , a. w.1983 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , ucla sion , e.  m.  1999 , , 111 , 532 schmidt , g.  d. , liebert , j. , & stockman , h.  s.  1995 , , 441 , 414    sion , e.  m.  1985 , , 297 , 538 sion , e.  m.  1995 , , 438 , 876 sion , e.  m.  & urban , j.  2002 , , 572 , 456 sion , e.  m. , szkody , p. , g \" ansicke , b. , cheng , f.  h. , ladous , c. , & hassall , b.  2001 , , 555 , 834 stehle , r. , king , a. , & rudge , c.  2001 , , 323 , 584 szkody , p.  & wade , r.  a.  1981 , , 251 , 201 szkody , p.  & mateo , m.  1986 , , 301 , 286 szkody , p. , g \" ansicke , b.  t. , howell , s.  b. , & sion , e.  m.  2002 , , 575 , l79                    lcccc n * + h ... & 922924 ; 923.2 & 2.02@xmath620.10 & 1030@xmath6265 + h ... & 930.748 & 0.6@xmath620.1 & 570@xmath6275 + s ... & 933.4 & 0.79@xmath620.06 & 565@xmath6230 + h ... &",
    "937.8 & 1.1@xmath620.1 & 545@xmath6245 + s ... & 944.5 & 0.82@xmath620.06 & 470@xmath6220 + h+ p ... & 949.7 ; 950.7 & 1.80@xmath620.1 & 900@xmath6260 + h ... & 972.5 & 1.09@xmath93 & 600@xmath6250 + c ... & 977.0 & 1.14@xmath620.06 & 590@xmath6240 + he * +",
    "n ... & 989.8 ; 992.3 & 2.88@xmath620.09 & 1150@xmath6240 + si * ... & 997.4 & @xmath94 & @xmath95 + c * ... & 1010.0 & 0.20@xmath620.04 & 420@xmath6290 + s ... & 1012.5 & 0.09@xmath620.02 & 240@xmath6260 + s ... & 1015.5 & 0.40@xmath620.02 & 410@xmath6230 + s ... & 1021.1 & 0.56@xmath620.03 & 500@xmath6230 + ... & 1025.7 & 1.0@xmath620.2 & 470@xmath6290 + o ... & 1031.9 & 1.57@xmath620.03 & 610@xmath6220 + o ... & 1037.6 & 1.88@xmath620.03 & 700@xmath6220 + s ... & 1062.7 & 0.75@xmath620.07 & 480@xmath6230 + s ... & 1073.0 & 0.73@xmath620.05 & 480@xmath6230 + s * ... & 1077.2 & 0.11@xmath620.02 & 280@xmath6261 + he * +",
    "n ... & 1084.9 ; 1085.0 & 1.9@xmath620.2 & 1020@xmath6280 + si * ... & 1108.4 ; 1110.0 & 1.65@xmath620.03 & 890@xmath6220 + si * ... & 1113.2 & 0.98@xmath620.02 & 500@xmath6220 + p ... & 1118.0 & @xmath96 & @xmath97 + si * ... & 1122.5 & 0.6@xmath620.1 & 730@xmath6250 + p+ si * ... & 1128.0 ; 1128.3 & 0.8@xmath620.1 & 850@xmath6280 + c * ... & 1175.3 & 3.28@xmath620.06 & 940@xmath6230 +    cccccccc + da & 4.3 & 58,100 & - & - & 163 &  6.7 &  672 + wd & 4.4 & 57,200 & 330 & - & 163 & 10.1 & 1146 + 2wd & 6.0  ( 71%/29% ) & 26,300/71,700 & 170/370 & - & 163 &  9.4 & 1146 + disk  ( 46 ) & - & - & - &  6.6 & 163 & 32.1 & 1146 + disk  ( 57 ) & - & - & - &  9.1 & 163 & 27.1 & 1146 + disk  ( 68 ) & - & - & - &  12.9 & 163 & 22.0 & 1146 + disk  ( 57 ) & - & - & - & 180.0 & 710 & 11.9 & 1146 + disk  ( 46 ) & wd & 4.0 & 62,000 & 306 &  1.2 & 163 & 9.8 & 1146 + disk  ( 57 ) & wd & 4.0 & 62,000 & 295 &  1.7 & 163 & 9.8 & 1146 + disk  ( 68 ) & wd & 3.9 & 62,000 & 293 &  2.5 & 163 & 9.8 & 1146 +   + wd & 6.0 & 44,600 & - & - & 163 &  8.2 &  471 + 2wd & 18.4(97%/3% ) & 17,600/82,400 & - & - & 163 &  4.9 &  471 + disk  ( 46 ) & - & - & - &  6.0 & 163 & 11.1 &  471 + disk  ( 57 ) & - & - & - &  8.7 & 163 &  9.6 &  471 + disk  ( 68 ) & - & - & - &  12.9 & 163 &  8.1 &  471 + disk  ( 57 ) & - & - & - & 182.0 & 710 &  5.8 &  471 + disk  ( 46 ) & wd & 3.0 & 82,000 & - &  3.0 & 163 & 4.7 &  471 + disk  ( 57 ) & wd & 3.0 & 81,000 & - &  4.0 & 163 & 5.0 &  471 + disk  ( 68 ) & wd & 3.0 & 81,000 & - &  6.3 & 163 & 5.4 &  471 +   + wd & 12.5 & 59,700 & 240 & - & 163 &  2.6 & 1505 + disk  ( 46 ) & - & - & - &  43.0 & 163 &  2.7 & 1505 + disk  ( 57 ) & - & - & - &  69.0 & 163 &  2.6 & 1505 + disk  ( 68 ) & - & - & - & 112.0 & 163 &  2.5 & 1505 + disk  ( 57 ) & - & - & - & 195.0 & 270 &  2.4 & 1505 + [ fits ]    lcccc h ... & 930.748 & @xmath98 & @xmath99 + s ... & 933.4 & @xmath100 & @xmath101 + h ... & 937.8 & @xmath102 & @xmath103 + s ... & 944.5 & @xmath104 & @xmath105 + h  + p ... & 949.7 & @xmath106 & @xmath107 + h ... & 972.5 & @xmath108 & @xmath109 + c ... & 977.0 & @xmath110 & @xmath111",
    "+ n  + si * ... & 989.8 ; 993.5 & @xmath112 & @xmath113 + si * ... & 994.8 & @xmath114 & @xmath115 + si * ... & 997.4 & @xmath116 & @xmath117 + s ... & 1012.5 & @xmath96 & @xmath115 + s ... & 1015.5 & @xmath96 & @xmath115 + s ... & 1021.1 & @xmath118 & @xmath119 + ... & 1025.7 & @xmath120 & @xmath121 + o ... & 1031.9 & @xmath122 & @xmath123 + o ... & 1037.6 & @xmath124 & @xmath125 + s ... & 1062.7 & @xmath126 & @xmath127 + s ... & 1073.0 & @xmath128 & @xmath129 + he * +",
    "n ... & 1084.9 ; 1085.0 & @xmath130 & @xmath131 + si * ... & 1108.4 ; 1110.0 & @xmath132 & @xmath133 + si * ... & 1113.2 & @xmath134 & @xmath135 + p ... & 1118.0 & @xmath136 & @xmath137 + si * ... & 1122.5 & @xmath138 & @xmath139 + p  + si * ... & 1128.0 ; 1128.3 & @xmath120 & @xmath140 +"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have obtained _ far ultraviolet spectroscopic explorer _ ( 9051187 ) spectra of the non - magnetic cataclysmic variable z  cam during a period of quiescence . </S>",
    "<S> the spectrum resembles that of a hot ( 57,000k ) metal - enriched white dwarf . a high effective temperature is consistent with the expectation that dwarf nova systems that show standstills , as z cam does , have higher than normal time - averaged mass accretion rates . </S>",
    "<S> it is also consistent with current estimates for the mass and distance to z cam . </S>",
    "<S> a white dwarf model in which 29% of the surface has a temperature of 72,000 k and the rest of the surface is at 26,000k also reproduces the spectral shape and the continuum flux level at the nominal distance and wd mass , and is a somewhat better statistical fit to the data . </S>",
    "<S> a second component could be due to a rotating accretion belt , a remnant of an outburst that ended eleven days prior to the  observation , or ongoing accretion . </S>",
    "<S> we favor the uniform temperature model for z cam , largely because the data do not require anything more complicated . </S>",
    "<S> we have compared the quiescent spectrum with an archival spectrum of z  cam in standstill , obtained with . </S>",
    "<S> the standstill spectrum is described well by a disk accreting at = , where the errors depend on the assumed inclination .    </S>",
    "<S> the quiescent spectra cover a full orbital period and are time - resolved to @xmath0s . </S>",
    "<S> no variability was observed in the continuum during the observation , but the depth of many of the absorption lines increased between orbital phases 0.65 and 0.81 . </S>",
    "<S> we attribute this effect to absorption by material associated with the accretion stream , which is easier to understand if the inclination is near the maximum allowed value of 68 . </S>"
  ]
}