{
  "article_text": [
    "cluster mergers convert kinetic energy of the gas in colliding subclusters into thermal energy by driving shocks and turbulence in the gaseous halo of the merged cluster .",
    "a fraction of this energy may be diverted into nonthermal phenomena , such as magnetic field amplification and the acceleration of relativistic particles that manifest themselves via synchrotron radio halos ( recently reviewed by , e.g. , feretti 2002 , 2004 ; kempner et al .  2004 ) and inverse compton hard x - ray emission ( e.g. , fusco - femiano et al .  2004 ; rephaeli & gruber 2002 ) .",
    "this energy fraction depends on microphysics of the magnetized intracluster plasma , which is poorly known .",
    "shock fronts may provide a unique observational tool to study the above processes , because they create high - contrast features in the cluster x - ray images ( and , as we shall see , in the radio images ) , and because they are those rare locations in clusters where gas velocities in the sky plane can be determined from the x - ray imaging spectroscopy ( e.g. , markevitch , sarazin , & vikhlinin 1999 ) .    until recently , the only unambiguous cluster merger shock ( exhibiting both a sharp gas density edge and a convincing temperature jump , the prerequisites for determining the gas velocity and density jumps ) was that found by  in e  ( markevitch et al .  2002 ) . in this paper , we present the second such example discovered in a520 , a merging cluster at @xmath2 . while many clusters exhibit merging and shock - heated gas , observations of shock _ fronts _ are so rare because one has to catch a merger at a very specific stage when the shock has not yet moved to the outer , low surface brightness regions , and at a sufficiently small angle from the sky plane so that projection does not hide the density edge .",
    "both a520 and e  have radio halos ( govoni et al .",
    "2001 ; liang et al.2000 ) .",
    "close relation between halos and mergers was extensively discussed ( e.g. , feretti 2002 ; buote 2001 ; markevitch & vikhlinin 2001 ; govoni et al .",
    "2004 , hereafter g04 ) .",
    "merger - driven turbulence is likely the main process responsible for generation of the ultrarelativistic electrons producing the diffuse radio emission ( e.g. , schlickeiser , sievers , & thiemann 1987 ; brunetti et al .",
    "2001 ; fujita , takizawa , & sarazin 2003 ) , but the contribution due to shock acceleration ( e.g. , harris et al .  1980 ; tribble 1993 ; sarazin 1999 ) is still not clear .",
    "the best way to separate these two contributions is to look at a cluster with a bow shock and a radio halo , which is what we do in this paper .",
    "we assume a flat cosmology with  and @xmath3 , in which 1is 3.34 kpc at the cluster s redshift .",
    "uncertainties are 90% unless stated otherwise .",
    "( 0,15.5)(18.5,24.0 ) ( 0.8,24)=7.9 cm    ( 9.4,24)=7.9 cm    ( 0.75,24.036)=7.94 cm = 8.03 cm    ( 9.36,24.036)=7.94 cm = 8.03 cm    ( 7.93,19.97)(8.63,19.89 ) ( 4.88,17.02)(4.93,16.32 )    ( 1.30,16.6)(2.38,16.6 ) ( 1.84,16.85)300 kpc    ( 9.90,16.6)(10.98,16.6 ) ( 10.44,16.85)300 kpc    ( 1.3 , 23.5)a ( 9.9,23.5)b",
    "a520 was observed with  acis - i twice .",
    "results from the first , short ( 9 ks ) exposure taken in october 2000 were presented in g04 . in december 2003 , the cluster was re - observed for 67 ks .",
    "we analyze this dataset here and omit the earlier exposure for simplicity .",
    "the data were prepared and cleaned in a standard manner ; the instrument responses for spectral analysis were generated as described in vikhlinin et al.(2004 ) .",
    "the background was modeled using the blank - sky dataset as described in markevitch et al .",
    "( 2003b ) .",
    "we encountered a minor complication in the form of a slowly - varying 10% background excess over the quiescent level at @xmath4 kev , somewhat similar to ( but smaller than ) that described in markevitch et al .",
    "( 2002 ) . in the image area",
    "free of cluster emission , and in the energy interval 0.89 kev that we used for spectral fitting , the spectrum of the excess was well - modeled by a power law with photon index @xmath5 ( without applying the mirror effective area or ccd efficiency to the model ) .",
    "we assumed this component to be spatially uniform and included it in the fits .",
    "the uncertainty of this component propagates into errors of best - fit temperatures that are smaller than the statistical errors for the interesting cluster regions .",
    "[ fig : img]_a _ shows a smoothed acis image of the cluster . as seen from the x - ray as well as weak lensing data ( clowe et al .  in prep .",
    ") , the cluster undergoes a merger along the ne - sw direction . a bright irregular structure southwest of center consists of dense , cool pieces of a cluster core that has been broken up by ram pressure as it flew in from the ne direction ( markevitch et al .  in prep ) . in front of this structure is a prominent bow - shaped brightness edge perpendicular to the merger direction .",
    "this was suggested by the earlier , shorter , exposure ; the new observation provides sufficient statistics to determine that it is a shock front .",
    "[ fig : profs]_a _ shows a radial brightness profile across this edge , extracted in a sector marked in fig .",
    "[ fig : img]_a _ and excluding regions affected by the dense core structures . the energy band 0.52 kev was chosen to minimize the dependence of the x - ray brightness on temperature .",
    "the profile has the characteristic shape of a projected sharp spherical density discontinuity .",
    "we therefore fit it with such a radial density profile ( two power laws with a jump ) , shown in panel _",
    "b _ and in projection as a histogram in panel _",
    "a_. the best - fit amplitude of the density jump , after a small ( 3% ) correction for the measured temperature difference across the edge , is @xmath6 .",
    "the gas temperatures in the same sector are @xmath7 kev and @xmath8 kev for the low and high density side of the edge , respectively .",
    "the latter temperature value is `` deprojected '' , for which we used the best - fit density model to subtract the ( small ) contribution of the outer cooler gas on the line of sight near the shock .",
    "the sign of the temperature jump confirms that the edge is indeed a shock front . from the rankine - hugoniot shock conditions",
    ", we can use the above density and temperature jumps to obtain two independent estimates of its mach number .",
    "they are @xmath0 and @xmath9 , respectively , in good mutual agreement ; we will use the more accurate value from the density jump . from the gas the temperatures and the mach number , the velocities of the the pre - shock and post - shock gas flows in the shock reference frame are approximately 2300  and 1000 , respectively .",
    "( 0,17.8)(18.5,24.0 ) ( 0.2,24)=6.0 cm    ( 6.5,24)=6.0 cm    ( 12.3,24)=6.0 cm    ( 5.6 , 22.9)a ( 11.5,22.9)b ( 17.3,22.9)c",
    "a520 has a prominent radio halo ( govoni et al .",
    "2001 ) , whose brightness contours are overlaid on the x - ray image in fig .",
    "[ fig : img]_b_. g04 already noted a remarkable coincidence of the sw edge of the radio halo with the shock - like x - ray feature , although at that time it was not clear whether the feature is a shock front . a similar extension of the radio halo edge to the bow shock is seen in e  ( markevitch et al .",
    "2002 ; g04 ) . in another merging cluster ,",
    "a665 , a `` leading '' edge of the halo also corresponds to a region of hot gas that is probably behind a bow shock , although the x - ray image of a665 does not show a gas density edge at the shock , probably due to an unfavorable viewing angle ( markevitch & vikhlinin 2001 ; g04 ) . the overall structure of the halo in a520 may even suggest two distinct components , a mushroom with a stem and a cap , where the main stem component goes across the cluster and the cap ends at the bow shock .",
    "the main component appears to be in the region of the cluster where one expects relatively strong turbulence ( g04 ) . in this paper , we concentrate on the halo edge .      one possible explanation for the radio edge is acceleration of electrons to ultrarelativistic energies by the shock .",
    "the shock should generate electrons with an energy spectrum @xmath10 with @xmath11 via first - order fermi acceleration ( e.g. , blandford & eichler 1987 ) ; @xmath12 for our shock with @xmath13 .",
    "the synchrotron emission should have a spectrum @xmath14 with @xmath15 right behind the shock front .",
    "however , these electrons are short - lived because of ic and synchrotron energy losses , and their spectrum will quickly steepen .",
    "the respective electron lifetimes , @xmath16 and @xmath17 , are @xmath18 and @xmath19 ( e.g. , sarazin 1999 ) .",
    "ic losses dominate for @xmath20 ; other losses are negligible for our range of energies and fields . for a power - law electron spectrum with @xmath21 ( expected for shocks with @xmath22 ) , the contribution of different @xmath23 at a given synchrotron frequency has a peak at @xmath24 the exact value depends only weakly on @xmath25 in the interesting range , and the emission at a given frequency comes from a relatively narrow interval of @xmath23 . assuming @xmath26 , the lifetime for electrons with @xmath27 that emit at 1.4 ghz in a520 is @xmath28 yr .",
    "thus , given the 1000  velocity of the downstream flow (  [ sec : data ] ) that carries these electrons away from the shock , the width of the synchrotron - emitting region should only be about 100 kpc , beyond which the electrons cool out of the 1.4 ghz band . at lower frequencies ,",
    "the cooling is slower and this region will be wider ( we discuss this in more detail in  [ sec : b ] ) .",
    "this scale is an order of magnitude smaller than the size of the halo , so the whole halo can not be produced by particles accelerated at this shock .",
    "this is true for merger shocks in general ( e.g. , brunetti 2003 ) .",
    "however , the cap - like part of the radio halo appears to have just the right width , @xmath29 kpc ( considering the finite angular resolution ) .",
    "thus with the available data , this region is not inconsistent with shock acceleration and may be a `` radio gischt '' , using the classification of kempner et al .",
    "( 2004 ) . while the relativistic particles in this structure cool down soon after the shock passage",
    ", some may later be picked up and re - accelerated as they reach the turbulent region behind the subcluster core , where the stem - like halo component forms .",
    "however , the efficiency with which collisionless shocks in clusters can accelerate particles is unknown , and may be insufficient to generate the observed radio brightness . the radio edge in a520 offers an interesting prospect for constraining it .",
    "if the acceleration efficiency is low , the observed radio edge may alternatively be explained by an increase in the magnetic field strength and the energy and density of the pre - existing relativistic electrons simply due to the gas compression at the shock .",
    "such pre - existing particles may be , for example , secondary electrons generated by relativistic protons ( e.g. , dennison 1980 ) or cooled primary electrons accumulated from previous merger events ( e.g. , sarazin 1999 ) .",
    "this is similar to the scenario proposed by enlin & gopal - krishna ( 2001 ) for radio relics , which may be regions of fossil radio plasma re - energized by a recent merger shock passage . in this model",
    ", the pre - existing electrons must produce diffuse radio emission _ in front of _ the bow shock , whose intensity and spectrum may be predicted from the shock compression factor and the post - shock radio spectrum , as given below .    for a rough estimate",
    ", we assume that as the gas crosses the shock surface , its tangled magnetic field is compressed isotropically ( indeed , observations at the earth s bow shock show that a shock passage strengthens the field whether it is parallel or perpendicular to the shock , e.g. , wilkinson 2003 and references therein ) .",
    "the average field strength @xmath30 then increases by a factor @xmath31 ( and the energy density as @xmath32 ) , where @xmath33 is the gas density jump .",
    "we further assume for simplicity that relativistic particles do not have a significant velocity component along the field lines .",
    "this should nt be too far from the truth , because in a highly nonuniform field , the particles spend most of their time in the field bottlenecks and mirrors where the component of their momentum perpendicular to the field indeed dominates . the shock passage would then cause the particles to spin up as ( the adiabatic invariant ) . for",
    "a power - law fossil electron spectrum of the form @xmath34 such a shift in energy would preserve the slope of the spectrum and increase its normalization proportional to @xmath35 .",
    "in addition , the number density of relativistic electrons increases by another factor of @xmath33 due to the compression , so the electron spectrum normalization after the shock passage will change as ( given eq .",
    "[ eq : b ] ) @xmath36 ( note that we recover the relativistic adiabat for the particles : across the shock , their volume energy density changes as @xmath37 . ) for a power - law electron spectrum , the synchrotron surface brightness at a given frequency is @xmath38 ( e.g. , rybicki & lightman 1979 ) , where the integral is along the line of sight . for our viewing geometry with the shock surface parallel to the line of sight , it should exhibit a jump at the shock @xmath39 thus , for our shock with @xmath40 , if the radio edge is due to the compression only , there must be a pre - shock radio emission with the same spectrum as post - shock but fainter by a factor of @xmath41 for @xmath42 , respectively ( in practice , @xmath43 can be determined from the post - shock radio spectrum ) .",
    "the assumption of a power law spectrum can be relaxed somewhat .",
    "the frequency at which the particle emits most of its synchrotron radiation scales across the density jump as @xmath44 or by a factor of 3 for the a520 shock . even if the spectrum deviates from a pure power law , the pre - shock spectrum can still be predicted directly from the post - shock spectrum at the frequencies scaled down as given above .",
    "given the simplifying assumptions about the change of the magnetic field and particle energy at the shock , the above is of course only a rough estimate , but it should not be too far off .",
    "one can obtain estimates within a factor of 2 for the @xmath45 increase under very simple alternative assumptions about the field structure .",
    "in addition to the two mechanisms discussed above , there is a third possibility , namely , re - acceleration of the fossil electrons by the shock . in the linear acceleration regime ,",
    "the post - shock electron spectrum will be ( e.g. , blandford & eichler 1987 ; micono et al .  1999 ) : @xmath46 where @xmath25 is from eq .",
    "( [ eq : p ] ) , @xmath47 is the minimum initial energy of the particles that can be accelerated at the shock ( or present in the fossil population , whichever is higher ) , and @xmath48 is the fossil electron spectrum . if the latter is a power law given by eq .",
    "( [ eq : foss ] ) , and is steeper than the one produced by direct shock acceleration ( i.e. , @xmath49 ) , the post - shock spectrum will acquire the slope @xmath25 and its normalization will increase by a large factor dependent on @xmath47 . in practice , this case will probably be indistinguishable from the direct shock acceleration considered above .",
    "if the fossil spectrum is flatter with @xmath50 , the post - shock spectrum will preserve the slope @xmath43 while its normalization will increase as @xmath51 a comparison of this factor to the one derived for the compression ( eq.[eq : ncompr ] ) confirms the intuitive expectation that re - acceleration would provide a bigger boost to the fossil electron spectrum than simple compression .",
    "for example , for @xmath52 ( a flatter slope than @xmath53 for our shock ) , an increase due to the compression is by factors of @xmath54 for our shock , while the re - acceleration increase is by factors of @xmath55 , respectively .",
    "we should note that a boost of the fossil electron spectrum due to the magnetic field compression should occur regardless of the presence of shock acceleration , but whether or not these two effects are additive probably depends on the exact processes on the microscopic level .",
    "the above estimates show that the least efficient way to create the radio edge is the increase of the energy of the pre - existing relativistic electrons due to the compression of the magnetic field by the shock . in such a scenario",
    ", those fossil electrons should also generate synchrotron emission in front of the shock . if future sensitive measurements do not detect a pre - shock radio emission at the level predicted for simple compression , it would mean that the shock generates relativistic electrons and/or a magnetic field , as opposed to simply compressing them .",
    "observations of interplanetary shocks of a similar strength and high thermal - to - magnetic pressure ratio relevant for cluster plasma seem to be consistent with a simple compression of the field ( russell & greenstadt 1979 ) , so magnetic field generation is unlikely .",
    "thus such a non - detection would provide a direct estimate of the shock s particle acceleration efficiency .    while the expected pre - shock emission may be below the current measurement sensitivity",
    ", one can get an initial idea of the origin of the electrons in the cap of the halo by measuring the radio spectrum immediately behind the edge .",
    "if the electrons are shock - accelerated directly , the radio spectral slope should be @xmath56 . within the range of possibilities that we have considered",
    ", a steeper spectrum would point to compressed fossil electrons , and a flatter spectrum would indicate fossil electrons with a flat initial energy spectrum , either compressed or re - accelerated .    because the bow shock is spatially separated from the turbulent area further downstream ( except for the region around the small dense core fragments ) and there is no reason to expect significant turbulence and additional acceleration in that intermediate region , the cap - like structure is likely to exhibit a measurable spectral difference from the main halo . within the 100 kpc - wide strip along the shock",
    ", the spectrum should quickly steepen starting from @xmath56 ( or other , probably not very different , value as discussed above ) .",
    "if the region is unresolved , the resulting mixture would have a volume - averaged slope @xmath57 ( ginzburg & syrovatskii 1964 ) which is significantly steeper than @xmath58 observed on average in most halos ( e.g. , feretti 2004 ) , the bulk of which is probably continuously powered by turbulence .",
    "interestingly , feretti et al.(2004 ) found that the presumed post - shock region in a665 indeed exhibits the steepest radio spectrum in the spectral index map of the cluster , which is consistent with the above two - component cap + stem picture .",
    "( 0,16.2)(8.8,23.8 ) ( 0.2,24 )      regardless of the exact origin of the relativistic electrons responsible for the radio edge , the distinct `` gischt '' in a520 , and perhaps a similar region in e , provide an interesting possibility for estimating the magnetic field strength behind the shock . as discussed above ,",
    "ic and synchrotron cooling cause the electron spectrum to steepen and the electrons to drop out of the radio image on timescales of order @xmath59 yr .",
    "this timescale depends on @xmath30 as shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : b ] , which combines eqs .",
    "( [ eq : tic ] , [ eq : tsyn ] , [ eq : gmax ] ) .",
    "it gives the lifetime of the electrons that contribute the most at a given frequency , for a @xmath60 spectrum and an interesting range of @xmath30 .",
    "we assume that the bow shock causes a momentary increase in electron energy and @xmath30 .",
    "the post - shock gas flows away from the shock with a known velocity and effectively `` unrolls '' the time evolution of the electron spectrum along the spatial coordinate ( assuming no diffusion , see  [ sec : diff ] , and neglecting for this simple estimate the change of the post - shock velocity with coordinate ) .",
    "thus the width of the `` gischt '' , if it is resolved , can give us the measure of the magnetic field .",
    "in practice , such a measurement needs to be done at more than one frequency in order to determine the spectrum of the electrons for a more precise calculation of @xmath61 ( and of course to verify that the electrons cool as predicted at different frequencies , that is , no acceleration occurs after the shock passage ) .",
    "in addition , the radio angular resolution has to be sufficient to perform at least a rough deprojection of the spherical edge of the bow shock ( cf .  figs .",
    "[ fig : profs]_a , b _ ) and exclude the ( possibly turbulent ) region around the dense core remnant ( fig .",
    "[ fig : img]_a _ ) . a cooling time",
    "@xmath62 yr ( the minimum interesting time ) corresponds to the 6  distance from the front , which gives the minimum resolution requirement .",
    "the available single - frequency radio data ( fig .",
    "[ fig : img]_b _ ) do not have the needed signal to noise ratio or resolution , but are not inconsistent with @xmath30 of order a @xmath63 .",
    "such a measurement may be easier in e  than in a520 , as the shock there is more prominent and farther away from the turbulent area .",
    "this method is reminiscent of that of harris & romanishin ( 1974 ) which compares the hard x - ray ic and radio synchrotron luminosities , in that it also combines the ic and synchrotron emission .",
    "the field values derived from the ic / synchrotron ratio have persistently been lower than those derived from faraday rotation ( see carilli & taylor 2002 for a review ) .",
    "one of the proposed explanations is that the hard x - ray and radio emissions come from different electron populations in regions with different fields ( e.g. , rudnick 2000 ; petrosian 2001 ; brunetti et al .",
    "our method would be free from this complication , because we essentially estimate the ic losses using the time evolution of the synchrotron emission from exactly the same electrons .",
    "our method can distinguish among the values in the controversial interval of @xmath64 , although , as seen from fig .",
    "[ fig : b ] , it can not give a unique value of @xmath30 , because @xmath65 is not a monotonous function of @xmath30 .",
    "note also that the magnetic field behind the shock would be amplified as discussed in  [ sec : compr ] .",
    "the above argument assumes that relativistic particles do not diffuse through the gas away from their place of origin .",
    "diffusion with a velocity less than the 1000  shock velocity would not alter the picture qualitatively .",
    "the diffusion speed is not expected to exceed the alfvn velocity of @xmath66  ( e.g. , jaffe 1977 ) , because faster - diffusing particles should be slowed down by self - generated alfvn waves .",
    "if in reality this mechanism is not effective and the diffusion is much faster , a factor of @xmath67 or more above the sound speed , it will spread the radio edge into the pre - shock region .",
    "therefore , the study of the radio edge also provides an interesting opportunity to detect or place a direct limit on the diffusion of relativistic particles .",
    "diffusion would create pre - shock radio emission which may be confused with that from any fossil particle population discussed in  [ sec : compr ] .",
    "however , unlike the fossil particles which do not know anything about this shock , diffusion would create a narrow strip clearly related to the shock ( for any reasonable diffusion rates ) .",
    "thus , if any pre - shock emission is ever detected , it should not be difficult to separate these two possibilities .",
    "the  observation of a520 reveals a prominent bow shock with @xmath67 , which is only the second clear example of a substantially supersonic merger shock front besides e. the shock coincides with an apparent leading edge of the radio halo . in light of this coincidence",
    ", we discuss possible explanations for the radio edge , which include direct acceleration of relativistic electrons by the shock , or energizing pre - existing electrons via shock re - acceleration or the compression of the magnetic field .",
    "both models make testable predictions . in particular",
    ", the compression model predicts the existence of pre - shock radio emission at a level about 1/101/20 of the post - shock brightness .",
    "if one determines which of the models is valid , it could provide a measure of the particle acceleration efficiency in the cluster merger shocks .",
    "the slope of the radio spectrum immediately inside the edge may also give an idea of the nature of the edge , and possibly even test the applicability of the fermi acceleration mechanism .",
    "regardless of the nature of the radio edge , it offers an interesting tool to measure the magnetic field strength in the post - shock gas ( albeit not unambiguously ) and exclude high rates of diffusion of the relativistic electrons , provided high - resolution radio data .",
    "all these measurements rely on the knowledge of the shock velocity and compression factor obtained from the x - ray .",
    "the shock fronts in a520 and e  can thus provide unique information on the microphysics of the intracluster gas .",
    "we thank pasquale blasi , tracy clarke , alexey vikhlinin and dan harris for stimulating discussions , and the referee for useful comments .",
    "support for this work was provided by nasa contract nas8 - 39073 ,  grants go2 - 3164x and go3 - 4172x , and by inaf grant d4/03/15 .",
    "brunetti , g. , setti , g. , feretti , l. , & giovannini , g.  2001 , , 320 , 365 brunetti g. , 2003 , proc .  `` matter and energy in clusters of galaxies '' , taiwan , asp conf .",
    "series , eds .  s. bowyer & c .- y .",
    "hwang , 301 , 349 ( astro - ph/0208074 )                fusco - femiano , r. , orlandini , m. , brunetti , g. , feretti , l. , giovannini , g. , grandi , p. , & setti , g.  2004 , , 602 , l73 ginzburg , v.  l.  & syrovatskii , s.  i.  1964 , the origin of cosmic rays ( new york : macmillan )    govoni , f. , feretti , l. , giovannini , g. , bhringer , h. , reiprich , t.h .",
    ", & murgia , m. , 2001 , a&a , 376 , 803 govoni , f. , markevitch , m. , vikhlinin , a. , vanspeybroeck , l. , feretti , l. , & giovannini , g. 2004 , apj , 605 , 695 ( g04 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> observations of the merging galaxy cluster a520 reveal a prominent bow shock with @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> this is only the second clear example of a substantially supersonic merger shock front in clusters . </S>",
    "<S> comparison of the x - ray image with that of the previously known radio halo reveals a coincidence of the leading edge of the halo with the bow shock , offering an interesting experimental setup for determining the role of shocks in the radio halo generation . </S>",
    "<S> the halo in a520 apparently consists of two spatially distinct parts , the main turbulence - driven component and a cap - like forward structure related to the shock , where the latter may provide pre - energized electrons for subsequent turbulent re - acceleration . </S>",
    "<S> the radio edge may be caused by electron acceleration by the shock . </S>",
    "<S> if so , the synchrotron spectrum should have a slope of @xmath1 right behind the edge with quick steepening further away from the edge . </S>",
    "<S> alternatively , if shocks are inefficient accelerators , the radio edge may be explained by an increase in the magnetic field and density of pre - existing relativistic electrons due to gas compression . in the latter model </S>",
    "<S> , there should be radio emission in front of the shock with the same spectrum as that behind it , but 1020 times fainter . </S>",
    "<S> if future sensitive radio measurements do not find such pre - shock emission , then the electrons are indeed accelerated ( or re - accelerated ) by the shock , and one will be able to determine its acceleration efficiency . </S>",
    "<S> we also propose a method to estimate the magnetic field strength behind the shock , based on measuring the dependence of the radio spectral slope upon the distance from the shock . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , the radio edge provides a way to constrain the diffusion speed of the relativistic electrons . </S>"
  ]
}