{
  "article_text": [
    "understanding the galaxy luminosity function has been a goal of galaxy formation theory for several decades ( e.g. ) .",
    "a particularly interesting question is whether the luminosity function is universal or whether it depends on environmental factors such as the mass of the dark halo that hosts a particular galaxy population .",
    "considerable attention has been paid to the faint end of the luminosity function which has a much flatter slope than the low mass end of the halo mass function predicted in cold dark matter ( cdm ) models of galaxy formation ( e.g. ) .",
    "the early work of showed that the number of faint galaxies must have been strongly affected by feedback processes that prevented most of the gas from cooling in small halos at early times .",
    "some likely feedback mechanisms , such as the injection of energy into the interstellar medium in the course of stellar evolution , depend on the internal properties of the galaxy and so their effects may be expected to be independent of the large - scale environment .",
    "a number of observational studies , such as a recent analysis of the 2df galaxy redshift survey @xcite , indeed find no significant difference between the luminosity functions of galaxies in rich clusters and in the field .",
    "other studies , however , have found the opposite .",
    "for example , concluded that galaxies in rich clusters have luminosity functions with considerably steeper faint ends than galaxies in the field .",
    "more recently , have claimed that the faint end of the galaxy luminosity function varies systematically with environment , increasing in slope from small , diffuse systems like the local group , to massive , dense systems like the coma cluster .    in the cold dark matter model of galaxy formation ,",
    "dark matter halos retain considerable substructure after they collapse and virialize ( e.g. ) and some of these subhalos are associated with sites of galaxy formation .",
    "the mass function of subhalos appears to be relatively independent of the mass of the parent halo .",
    "thus , trends such as those inferred by would require processes that either preferentially suppress the formation of dwarf galaxies in low mass systems , or destroy them after they form .",
    "an effective mechanism for suppressing the formation of small galaxies is the reheating of the intergalactic medium ( igm ) caused by the reionization of the universe at a redshift @xmath0 .",
    "have argued that this process could introduce an environmental dependence in the galaxy luminosity function on the grounds that a higher fraction of the low - mass halos that formed before reionization ( when dwarf galaxy formation proceeded unimpeded by photoionization suppression ) ended up in clusters today than in less massive systems .",
    "the effect of reionization on the formation of galaxies has been the subject of several recent studies @xcite , aimed mostly at investigating the discrepancy between the large number of subhalos found in n - body simulations of galactic cdm halos and the small number of satellite galaxies observed in the local group . in this paper",
    ", we employ the cdm model of to calculate the luminosity function of galaxy populations residing in dark matter halos of different mass .",
    "we find that there are significant differences in these luminosity functions and we then explore how they combine together to build up the global luminosity function , with particular emphasis on the faint end slope .",
    "a partial study of luminosity functions in halos of different mass using a semi - analytic model of galaxy formation was carried out by .    to calculate galaxy luminosity functions in halos of different mass correctly , it is important to include tidal effects on satellite galaxies , a potential galaxy destruction mechanism .",
    "our model treats these effects in considerably more detail than previous models of galaxy formation .",
    "we find that tidal effects are important in limiting the formation of massive galaxies at the centre of rich clusters .    in this paper , we compare the results of our calculations to the data of and assess whether feedback from reionization is a viable explanation of the trend claimed by these authors .",
    "the existing dataset is small , but forthcoming results from the 2df and sloan galaxy surveys will enable much more extensive comparisons with the theory .",
    "the remainder of this paper is arranged as follows . in  [ sec : model ] we briefly outline our model of galaxy formation , in  [ sec : res ] we present results for the environmental dependence of the luminosity function and in  [ sec : compobs ] we compare our model with the available observational data . finally , in ",
    "[ sec : dis ] we present our conclusions .",
    "we present , in an appendix , several simple models of photoionization suppression to elucidate how this mechanism works .",
    "we employ the semi - analytic model of galaxy formation described in detail by and benson et al .",
    "( 2002a ; hereafter paper  i ) to compute the properties of galaxies in a range of environments at @xmath1 .",
    "the reader is referred to those papers for a complete and detailed description of the model .",
    "briefly , the hierarchical formation of dark matter halos is calculated using the extended press - schechter formalism @xcite .",
    "the formation of galaxies in the resulting dark matter halo merger trees is followed by means of simple , physically motivated models of gas cooling , star formation and galaxy merging .",
    "recent work has demonstrated that at least in so far as gas cooling is concerned these simplified calculations are in excellent agreement with the results of n - body / hydrodynamical simulations @xcite . applying a stellar population synthesis model",
    "gives galaxy luminosities in different passbands .",
    "the model includes a prescription for supernovae feedback which drives gas out of galaxies at a rate proportional to the current star formation rate , with a constant of proportionality that is larger for less strongly bound systems .",
    "this negative feedback flattens the faint end slope of the luminosity function but , on its own , its effect is not strong enough to account for the measured function ( paper  i )",
    ". developed , and incorporated into this model , a detailed , self - consistent treatment of photoionization suppression of galaxy formation ( hereafter abbreviated as ) . by causing further suppression of faint galaxy formation",
    ", this mechanism brought the model luminosity function into excellent agreement with observations . in paper",
    "i , we also included a much more detailed treatment than was previously possible of the evolution of satellite galaxies as they orbit within larger halos experiencing tidal forces and gravitational shock heating .",
    "( hereafter , we abbreviate  tidal limitation as . )",
    "the associated mass loss also affects the shape of the luminosity function , and so we will explore this process in this paper .",
    "we adopt essentially the same model parameters as in paper  i , with the following differences . while the models of paper  i used the press - schechter halo mass function , we choose to adopt the function proposed by which gives a better match to the results of n - body simulations . consequently , to produce a reasonable galaxy luminosity function",
    ", we find it necessary to adjust the parameters @xmath2 from @xmath3 to @xmath4 , @xmath5 ( which determines the star formation rate ) from 0.0050 to 0.0067 , and @xmath6 ( which affects mass - to - light ratios ) from 1.38 to 1.03 ( since @xmath6 affects the fraction of mass recycled in star formation , we adjust that fraction accordingly ) . even with these changes , the mass function results in a somewhat worse fit to the bright end of the luminosity function than was obtained in paper",
    "i. we defer further study of this aspect of the model to future work .",
    "we adopt an escaping fraction of ionizing photons from galaxies , @xmath7 , of 12% .",
    "this produces a neutral hydrogen fraction for gas at zero overdensity in the igm at @xmath8 of @xmath9 , in agreement with the lower limit of @xmath10 derived by , while causing reionization to occur at as high a redshift as possible .",
    "this maximizes the associated suppression of galaxy formation slightly further without violating the limit of but , since the neutral hydrogen fraction drops very rapidly in our model at these redshifts ( paper  i ) , it makes almost no difference to the suppression of galaxy formation . ] .",
    "the resulting model is essentially the same as the @xmath11 model presented in paper  i.",
    "[ sec : res ]      we begin by studying the luminosity functions of galaxies in individual dark matter halos of different mass , and then proceed to consider how these combine together to form the global galaxy luminosity function . using the model described in  [ sec : model ] , we simulate galaxy formation in a large number of halos of masses @xmath12 , @xmath13 , @xmath14 , @xmath15 and @xmath16 km s@xmath17 mpc@xmath17 . ] .",
    "this spans halo masses appropriate to systems ranging from the local group to rich galaxy clusters .",
    "( the @xmath18 bin corresponds to halos less massive than that of the local group but we include it since it shows the most dramatic effects . ) merger trees are constructed with a resolution of @xmath19 of the final halo mass or @xmath20 , whichever is smaller .",
    "this is sufficient to follow accurately the formation and evolution of galaxies brighter than @xmath21 except in the most massive clusters ( @xmath16 ) for which resolution begins to affect our results faintwards of @xmath22 ; for these clusters , we show results only down to @xmath23 .",
    "we perform calculations for our `` standard model '' ( i.e. including the effects of  and  of satellite galaxies ) , and repeat them switching off  and/or  ( resulting in a total of four different sets of results ) , in order to assess the effects of each physical mechanism separately .",
    "we simulate a sufficiently large number of halos of each mass so that the average luminosity functions are reasonably smooth .",
    "the solid lines in figure  [ fig : elf ] show the luminosity functions of galaxies in our simulated halos .",
    "the basic form of the standard model luminosity function is similar in all mass halos .",
    "it has two components : a near power - law distribution at faint magnitudes which is made up of satellite galaxies ( i.e. those galaxies that do not reside at the centre of the final halo ) , and a strongly peaked distribution at bright magnitudes beyond which no more galaxies are found and which is made up of the central galaxy in each final halo .",
    "as we consider halos of increasing mass , both components shift to ever brighter luminosities , but the peaked component decreases in amplitude relative to the power - law component , indicating that , in low mass halos , a single galaxy tends to dominate , while in clusters the light is more equally shared among many galaxies .    observed luminosity functions , @xmath24 ( where @xmath25 is the number of galaxies per unit volume and @xmath26 is luminosity ) , are typically described by the schechter function , @xmath27 where @xmath28 , @xmath29 and @xmath30 are parameters . at magnitudes faint compared to the characteristic luminosity , @xmath29 ,",
    "has the simple form @xmath31 . following normal practice",
    ", we will refer to @xmath30 as `` the faint end slope . ''",
    "although the luminosity functions in fig .  [ fig : elf ] are not well fit by the schechter form , we can still obtain a formal value of @xmath30 by fitting to the data in the first few bins plotted .",
    "we find slopes in the range @xmath32 , except in the lowest mass halos ( @xmath18 ) for which a much flatter slope , @xmath33 , is found ( although it is possible that a steeper slope would be obtained also in this case if we probed to even fainter luminosities ) .",
    "there is little evidence for a strong variation of slope with halo mass , except perhaps for a weak ( and rather insignificant ) trend for _ flatter _ slopes in higher mass clusters .",
    "however , it is important to note that the slope is not constant with galaxy magnitude .",
    "this is clearly seen , for example , in the @xmath34 halos for which , in the region @xmath35 , the slope is close to @xmath36 .    switching off  in our model , and reverting to the simpler calculation of dynamical friction of , results in the dotted curves of fig .",
    "[ fig : elf ] . clearly ,  has little influence on the faint end of the luminosity function , although it does slightly reduce the luminosities of already faint galaxies ( as is particularly noticeable for @xmath34 halos ) .",
    "a more interesting effect of  is apparent in the massive clusters ( @xmath15 and @xmath16 halos ) . here , switching off results in a new population of very luminous galaxies , visible as a `` bump '' in the luminosity function at bright magnitudes .",
    "these highly luminous objects form through multiple mergers at the centres of cluster halos .",
    "when  is included , the merger rate of massive galaxies in clusters is significantly reduced , and none of these highly luminous objects form . as shown in the left - hand panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : tidal ] , cluster central galaxies are about an order of magnitude less massive when our accurate calculation of dynamical friction is used . note that the inclusion of  makes much less difference in @xmath34 halos , due to the very different shape of the luminosity function in these systems ( i.e. there is relatively little mass in satellites to merge into the central object ) .",
    "this difference between the merger rates in our model and that of can not be fully reproduced by simply lengthening the dynamical friction timescale in the prescription by some factor ( even if this factor is a function of halo mass ) .",
    "the shape of the distribution of merger times is significantly different between the models and , in our calculation , varies with halo mass .",
    "an effect similar to that shown by the comparison of the solid and dotted lines in fig .",
    "[ fig : elf ] was noticed by in cluster luminosity functions calculated using a different semi - analytic model .",
    "computed luminosity functions adopting both simple estimates of galaxy merger rates ( similar to those assumed in computing the dotted curves in fig .",
    "[ fig : elf ] ) and merger rates taken directly from a high resolution simulation of dark matter .",
    "they found that the simple scheme produced highly luminous galaxies through merging that were not present in the n - body calculation .",
    "based on the number of massive mergers quoted by , we can conclude that a similar reduction in central galaxy mass occurred when our realistic merger rate calculation was employed . as suggested by ,",
    "the cause of this difference is that the simple scheme underestimates the merging timescale of rather massive subhalos in clusters , leading to many massive galaxies merging with the central object in the final halo . in our more detailed calculation , as in the n - body simulation , these large subhalos loose a significant amount of their mass as they orbit within the cluster , leading to a reduced dynamical friction force and hence to a reduced merger rate .    the right - hand panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : tidal ] shows the mass functions of _ surviving _ substructure halos in clusters at @xmath1 .",
    "the dotted histogram shows the model with no , while the dashed histogram corresponds to the model with  included , but the mass of each substructure is plotted as it was _ before _ it experienced any tidal mass loss . clearly",
    ", inclusion of  has resulted in fewer mergers since there are more surviving substructures of a given initial mass .",
    "the solid histogram gives the distribution of substructure masses after tidal mass loss .",
    "comparing the dashed and solid histograms indicates that halos typically lose between 50% to 70% of their mass ( with higher mass halos losing less than lower mass halos ) .",
    "the dynamical friction time scales as the mass of the satellite halo and is therefore increased by factors of 2 to 3 when  is included , greatly reducing the galaxy merger rates .    [ cols=\"^,^ \" , ]     for the two most massive systems , our model results are in reasonably good accord with the observational determinations , but for the lower mass systems there are significant discrepancies .",
    "this analysis verifies and quantifies the comparison between the shapes of the predicted and observed luminosity functions made in fig .",
    "[ fig : elf ] .",
    "using a semi - analytic model of galaxy formation , we have calculated the luminosity function of galaxy populations contained in halos of different mass .",
    "we find large differences in the shapes of these luminosity functions . in smaller mass halos",
    "( @xmath37 , the luminosity function has a `` hump '' at bright magnitudes and a roughly power - law shape at fainter magnitudes . in more massive systems",
    ", the shape approaches the familiar schechter form .",
    "these differences reflect the relative contributions of `` central '' and `` satellite '' galaxies . in the smaller mass halos , the bright end of the luminosity function",
    "is dominated by a single or at most a few bright galaxies and the rest of the population consists predominantly of much fainter satellites . in the more massive halos ,",
    "the light is more evenly distributed amongst a large number of galaxies .",
    "these differences reflect the complex interplay between the processes that establish the number of halos and subhalos of different mass ( i.e. hierarchical clustering from cdm initial conditions ) and the processes that light them up ( i.e. gas cooling , stellar evolution , feedback , etc ) .",
    "the global luminosity function is the weighted sum of the luminosity functions of individual halos .",
    "interestingly , the faint end slopes of the individual luminosity functions are always steeper than the faint end slope of the global luminosity function .",
    "this can be understood in terms of the relative contributions to the global luminosity function of satellite and central galaxies from individual halos , whose luminosity functions have steep and shallow slopes respectively .",
    "the slope of the global function is intermediate between these two .",
    "our model of galaxy formation represents an advance over previous models because of its detailed treatment of two processes that are important in establishing the luminosity function : the suppression of galaxy formation in small halos at high redshift ( ) , as a result of the photoionization of the igm by early generations of galaxies and quasars , and tidal mass loss from satellite galaxies ( ) .",
    "is particularly relevant at the faint end and has the net effect of reducing the number of faint galaxies , giving rise to a flatter luminosity function than would otherwise be the case .",
    "this outcome is far from obvious .",
    "for example , a simplistic model of  in which galaxy formation is assumed not to occur in low mass halos below the reionization redshift results , in fact , in a steeper luminosity function ( see appendix  [ sec : faint ] ) . in reality , the effects of  depend on the mass of the halo relative to the time - dependent `` filtering mass '' ( defined as the halo mass which accretes only half the mass that it would have accreted in the absence of photoionization ; ) .",
    "galaxies can form even if their halos have mass smaller than the filtering mass , but with reduced luminosity .",
    "the lower the mass of the halo relative to the filtering mass , the fainter is the galaxy that forms .",
    "the filtering mass is an increasing function of time .",
    "thus , although lower mass halos form at higher redshift , the redshift where the filtering mass becomes comparable to their mass is also higher , increasing the fraction of them which experience strong suppression .",
    "these two effects combined _ do _ tend to produce a flatter luminosity function but the degree of flattening depends on their detailed balance . as we have shown previously (; see also ) ,  on its own can not account for the shallow faint end slope of the global luminosity function .",
    "other processes , such as feedback from energy released by stellar winds and supernovae , need to be included in order to reduce the number of faint galaxies to the observed level .",
    "the other process that we have treated in detail , , is relevant at the bright end of the luminosity function , particularly in massive halos harbouring rich clusters .",
    "mass loss from satellite galaxies , as they spiral into the centre of their halo , increases the dynamical friction time , so reducing the merger rate .",
    "this prevents the formation of some of the highly luminous and unobserved cluster galaxies that tend to appear in models of galaxy formation that do not take this process into account .    keeping in mind the provisos of  [ sec : compobs ] , we find that our model fails to reproduce the steepening of the faint end slope of the luminosity function with system richness found by @xcite .",
    "the model agrees quite well with the data for the virgo and coma clusters , but it predicts a steeper faint end than is inferred for the local group and ursa minor .",
    "photoionization is an effective ( and unavoidable ) mechanism for suppressing galaxy formation in low mass halos , but it does not produce the kind of `` environmental '' variation seen by . at the low mass end , this failure of the model is related to the discrepancy that we ( , see also ) , found previously in our cdm models of the local group .",
    "photoionization has a dramatic effect on the overall number of satellites that survive in galactic halos and can reduce it to the levels seen in the local group . however , the satellite luminosity function in the models is considerably steeper than is observed .",
    "this discrepancy contrasts with the success of cdm models in reproducing the structural properties of the satellites @xcite .",
    "taking at the face value the discrepancy between our models and the data of , it is interesting to speculate about the possible root causes of the problem . leaving aside alternative theories for the nature of the dark matter or drastic changes to the initial power spectrum of density perturbations specifically designed to reduce the amount of small - scale power ( e.g. ) , we focus on our modeling of baryonic processes within the context of the cdm cosmogony .",
    "this is undoubtedly simplified .",
    "for example , the effects of  depend upon both the time variation of the filtering mass and on the assumed functional form of the suppression , both of which are uncertain . as discussed in the appendix",
    ", reasonable variations in our assumed mass dependence of do not seem capable of producing a sufficiently flat faint end slope in our models of the local group .",
    "however , we can not exclude the possibility that the simplifications made in our model are inappropriate .",
    "for example , we neglect the patchy nature of reionization , but if low density regions became ionized first , galaxy formation would be suppressed more effectively in these regions , altering the temporal evolution of the filtering mass .",
    "localized triggered , for example , by a nearby galaxy or quasar could also change our model predictions .",
    "these processes are poorly understood theoretically , but observational evidence ( e.g. ) suggests that they could be important in determining the thermodynamic state of the igm at high redshift .    at a more basic level , there are approximations in our model which might be inappropriate in the regime of low mass halos .",
    "thus , although comparisons with n - body / hydrodynamical simulations indicate that our estimates of gas cooling rates are accurate for relatively massive galaxies @xcite , it has not been shown that the same is also true for the low mass galaxies of interest here .",
    "cooling times in these objects can become very short and this might conceivably render incorrect the assumption of cooling from an initial , spherically symmetric quasi - hydrostatic equilibrium .",
    "further study of gas cooling in low mass systems is necessary to address this issue .",
    "similarly , it is far from clear that the simple rules for star formation in our model , which are empirical parameterizations tuned to match observational constraints for relatively bright galaxies at low redshifts , remain valid when extrapolated to low mass galaxies and/or high redshifts .",
    "other physical constraints on star formation not currently included in our models may also be important for these low mass galaxies ( e.g. ) .",
    "finally , our modeling of feedback is also simplified and , again , its extrapolation to low masses may be unrealistic .",
    "possible sources of feedback such as strong outflows or heating by agn which are currently neglected may be important on these scales .    in conclusion",
    ", we have found substantial differences in the luminosity functions of galaxies residing in dark matter halos of different mass .",
    "these result from the interplay of a variety of processes that affect the formation of galaxies of different luminosity .",
    "although the exact predictions of our model no doubt depend on its details , the gross differences between the predicted luminosity functions are likely to be generic and to be present in a broad class of cold dark matter models of galaxy formation .",
    "comparison with existing data gives mixed results : fair agreement with the luminosity functions in virgo and coma but substantial disagreement with the luminosity functions in the local group and ursa minor cluster .",
    "the much larger and better controlled samples that will be forthcoming from cluster analyses of the 2df and sdss galaxy redshift surveys will allow a more comprehensive test of the general class of cold dark matter models of galaxy formation .",
    "adelberger  k.  l. , et al . in preparation balcells",
    "m. , peletier  r.  f. , 1994 , aj , 107 , 135 benson  a.  j. , pearce  f.  r. , frenk  c.  s. , baugh  c.  m. , jenkins  a. , 2001 , mnras , 320 , 261 benson  a.  j. , lacey  c.  g. , baugh  c.  m. , cole  s. , frenk  c.  s. , 2002a , mnras , 333 , 156 benson  a.  j. , frenk  c.  s. , lacey  c.  g. , baugh  c.  m. , cole  s. , 2002b , mnras , 333 , 177 bond  j.  r. , cole  s. , efstathiou  g. , kaiser  n. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 440 bower  r.  g. , 1991 , mnras , 248 , 332 bullock  j.  s. , kravtsov  a.  v. , weinberg  d.  h. , 2000 , apj , 539 , 517 cole  s. , 1991 , apj , 367 , 45 cole  s. , lacey  c.  g. , baugh  c.  m. , frenk  c.  s. , 2000 , mnras , 319 , 168 coln  p. , avila - reese  v. , valenzuela  o. , 2000 , apj , 542 , 622 de propris  r. et al .",
    ", 2002 , mnras , 329 , 87 diaferio  a. , kauffmann  g. , colberg  j.  m. , white  s.  d.  m. , 1999 , mnras , 307 537 eke  v.  r. et al . , 2002 , in preparation geller  m.  j. , diaferio  a. , kurtz  m.  j. , 1999 , apj , 517 , 23 gnedin  n.  y. , 2000 , apj , 542 , 535 helly  j.  c. , cole  s. , frenk  c.  s. , baugh  c.  m. , benson  a.  j. , lacey  c. , pearce  f.  r. , 2002 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph/0202485 ) klypin  a.  a. , kravtsov  a.  v. , valenzuela  o. , prada  f. , 1999 , apj , 522 , 82 jenkins  a. , frenk  c.  s. , white  s.  d.  m. , colberg  j.  m. , cole  s. , evrard  a.  e. , couchman  h.  m.  p. , yoshida  n. , 2001 , mnras , 321 , 372 kamionkowski  m. , liddle  a.  r. , 2000 , phys.rev.lett . , 74 , 4525 lacey  c.  g. , cole  s. , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 lidz  a. , hui  l. , zaldarriaga  m. , scoccimarro  r. , 2002 , submitted to apj ( astro - ph/0111346 ) mellier  y. , 2002 , space science reviews , 100 , 73 moore  b. , ghigna  s. , governato  f. , lake  g. , quinn  t. , stadel  j. , tozzi  p. , 1992",
    ", apj , 524 , 19 norberg  p. et al . , 2002 , mnras in press ( astro - ph/0111011 ) phillipps  s. , shanks  t. , 1987 , mnras , 227 , 115 press  w.  h. , schechter  p. , 1974 ,",
    "apj , 187 , 425 schindler  s. , binggeli  b. , bhringer  h. , 1999 , a&a , 343 , 420 somerville  r.  s. , 2002 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph/0107507 ) springel  v. , white  s.  d.  m. , tormen  g. , kauffmann  g. , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 726 stoehr  f. , white  s.  d.  m. , tormen  g. , springel  v. , 2002 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph/0203342 ) trentham  n. , hodgkin  s. , 2002 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph/0202437 ) tully  r.  b. , somerville  r.  s. , trentham  n. , verheijen  m.  a.  w. , 2002 , apj , 569 , 573 verde  l. , oh  s.  p. , jimenez  r. , 2002 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph/0202283 ) white  s.  d.  m. , rees  m.  j. , 1978 , mnras , 183 , 341 white  s.  d.  m. , frenk  c.  s. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 52 yoshida  n. , stoehr  f. , springel  v. , white  s.  d.  m. , 2002 , submitted to mnras ( astro - ph/0202341 )",
    "the faint end of the luminosity function directly reflects the outcome of feedback effects .",
    "the two sources of feedback in our model , supernova - driven winds and photoionization , are both important in determining the number of faint galaxies .",
    "as we discussed in paper  i , photoionization inhibits the formation of faint galaxies for two reasons : it raises the temperature and pressure of the igm , curtailing the ability of gas to accrete into halos , and it reduces the rate at which gas in halos can cool , inhibiting star formation .",
    "the first of these processes is the dominant effect .",
    "it can be conveniently described in terms of a `` filtering mass , '' @xmath38 , defined as the mass of a halo which accretes only half the baryonic mass that it would have accreted in the absence of photoionization .",
    "the mass of gas accreted by a halo of mass @xmath39 is approximated by the following formula @xcite , based on the results of gas - dynamical simulations : @xmath40 ^ 3},\\ ] ] where @xmath41 is the universal baryon fraction and @xmath38 is the filtering mass .      1 .",
    "galaxy formation is significantly suppressed in halos less massive than the filtering mass .",
    "the filtering mass is an increasing function of time ( at least over the range of redshifts of interest here ) .",
    "3 .   for halos formed at a given redshift ,",
    "the suppression of galaxy formation is greater the smaller the halo mass is relative to the filtering mass .",
    "the impact of these three factors will depend on the distribution of formation redshifts of dark matter halos of different mass in different environments . according to the extended press - schechter formalism",
    ", it is always true ( for a cdm power spectrum ) that the typical formation redshift of a halo increases as the mass of the halo decreases , and also as the mass of the final host in which the halo resides increases .",
    "further understanding of halo formation redshift distributions may be gained by considering eqn .  2.15 of that gives the mass function of progenitor halos at any redshift and which we reproduce in slightly different form below : @xmath42^{3/2 } }",
    "\\nonumber \\\\   & & \\exp \\left ( -{(\\delta_{\\rm c}^{\\rm ( z)}-\\delta_{\\rm c}^{\\rm ( 0)})^2\\over 2[\\sigma^2(m)-\\sigma^2(m_{\\rm host } ) ] } \\right ) { \\d \\sigma^2 \\over \\d m } , \\label{eq : ps}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath43 is the critical value of the linear theory fractional overdensity for collapse at redshift @xmath44 , @xmath45 is the mass of the progenitor halo at that redshift , @xmath46 is the variance of the linear fractional overdensity in a sphere of mass @xmath45 , and @xmath47 is the mass of the halo into which that progenitor has been incorporated by the present day .    consider galaxies living in relatively low mass halos at the present day ( in which most of the galaxies that make up the faint end of the luminosity function reside ) .",
    "the relative numbers of halos of masses @xmath48 and @xmath49 at some particular redshift depends upon @xmath50 and @xmath51 . as @xmath47 increases , @xmath52 decreases for a cdm power spectrum .",
    "thus , for sufficiently large @xmath47 , the relative numbers of halos of masses @xmath48 and @xmath53 tends to a fixed value . for @xmath47",
    "comparable to @xmath48 , the relative numbers of these halos become a very strong function of @xmath47 , and the number of mass @xmath48 halos is exponentially suppressed , as indicated by eqn .",
    "( [ eq : ps ] ) .    these theoretical expectations are clearly manifest in fig .",
    "[ fig : explan ] , where we plot the positions of galaxies in the halo - mass _ vs. _ formation - redshift plane . all of the galaxies we consider at @xmath1 are satellites in a larger host halo ( of mass @xmath47 ) due to the ranges of luminosity and @xmath47 we have chosen to consider .",
    "therefore , we plot the formation redshift and mass for the halo in which the satellite formed .",
    "we adopt the definition of formation redshift of , namely a halo is assumed to be newly formed if its mass exceeds twice the mass of each of its progenitors at their own formation time , and plot the halo mass at the formation redshift ( it may have increased afterwards due to continued accretion and merging ) .",
    "( the formation redshifts appear quantized in this figure because of the finite timesteps in our calculations which , however , are sufficiently fine so as not to affect the results . ) the halo mass of the satellite is then set equal to the mass of the halo in which it lived at redshift @xmath54 ) .",
    "the position of a halo in this plane , relative to the redshift - dependent filtering mass ( shown as a solid curve ) , determines the degree of it experiences .",
    "we examine faint galaxies in two luminosity ranges , @xmath55 ( dots ) and @xmath56 ( small squares ) .",
    "consider first a model with no  ( left - hand panels ) . in this case , faint galaxies currently hosted in a @xmath57 cluster halo ( lower panel ) have a much more extended range of formation redshifts than galaxies in a @xmath34 milky way - type halo ( upper panel ) .",
    "the fainter galaxies located in lower mass halos have a more extended range of formation redshifts than their brighter counterparts , although this difference is rather small .",
    "the values of @xmath30 for the two populations , given in each panel , indicate steep slopes in both environments .",
    "the filtering mass has no influence on these results , of course , but is shown to indicate which of halos might be expected to still form a galaxy when  is switched on .    in the right - hand panels we plot results for a model with .",
    "the effect of the filtering mass can now be clearly seen : halos below the solid line form galaxies much less efficiently than before ( although there are certainly still some halos that managed to make galaxies below this line ) .",
    "the values of @xmath30 given in the panels indicate that some flattening of the luminosity function has occurred , but this effect is small .",
    "let us now examine the importance of these various processes using simplified models of .",
    "figure  [ fig : elftest ] shows luminosity functions in different mass halos constructed using the simplified models described below , together with our standard model of ( heavy solid line ) and a model with no  ( thin solid line ) .",
    "* model a * : :    in the simplest scenario , suppose the filtering mass jumps abruptly    from zero to @xmath38 at redshift @xmath58 , and that any halo of smaller mass forming at lower redshift    makes no galaxy at all , while galaxy formation in other halos proceeds    unchanged . in this case , the luminosity function should be unaffected    at bright magnitudes ( since these galaxies form in halos which are    more massive than @xmath38 ) , should plummet sharply at    a magnitude corresponding to halo mass equal to    @xmath38 , and should rise again to fainter magnitudes    ( since these galaxies inhabit lower mass halos which typically form at    redshifts greater than @xmath59 ) . on the basis of    eqn .",
    "( [ eq : ps ] ) , the slope of this rise should be large for low    @xmath47 halos since these have the greatest    variation in progenitor number with mass at    @xmath59 , and should approach some fixed value for    large @xmath47 .",
    "this behaviour is borne out when we    apply this simple prescription to our semi - analytic models , using    values of @xmath60 ( comparable to the value of    @xmath38 at the redshifts where the majority of the    faint galaxies are formed in our standard model ) and    @xmath61 ( the redshift of reionization in our    standard model ; dot - long - dashed lines in    fig .",
    "[ fig : elftest])suppression is greatest for small    @xmath62 , tends to steepen the faint end of the luminosity function ,    and causes the most steepening for the lowest    @xmath47 .",
    "this model produces a discontinuity in the    luminosity function and is a poor approximation to the full treatment . *",
    "model b * : :    at the next level of sophistication , we take into account the    variation of the filtering mass with redshift as predicted by our    model , but retain the simple prescription wherein any halo forming    with mass below the filtering mass forms no galaxy at all . since    @xmath38 increases with time , galaxy formation in lower    mass halos",
    "is suppressed earlier , an effect which should tend to    flatten luminosity function slopes . since halos of a given mass form    earlier in larger @xmath47",
    ", we still expect the    effects of filtering to be weaker for clusters than for the local    group . at a given magnitude",
    ", this process would simply reduce the    number of galaxies . however , the detailed consequences for the faint    end slope are now harder to anticipate since they depend on just how    @xmath38 varies with redshift . applying this    prescription to our model ( long - dashed lines in fig .  [",
    "fig : elftest ] ) ,    we still find a discontinuity in the luminosity function ( although    this is much weaker than in model ( i ) since @xmath38    varies smoothly with time ) which is flattened relative to that without    any .",
    "furthermore , the slopes are significantly flatter than in case    ( i ) , indicating that the time variation of @xmath38    largely counteracts the steepening of the luminosity function produced    by the variation in halo formation distributions .",
    "no environmental    variation is introduced by these processes .",
    "the resulting luminosity    functions are quite similar to those from our full  calculations ,    although the level of suppression is somewhat greater . again",
    ", the    effects are largest for the lowest @xmath47 .",
    "* model c * : :    alternatively , we can consider a prescription which has no time    variation in @xmath38 , but in which , instead , the    degree of suppression varies smoothly with halo mass ( as prescribed by    ) constant , resulting in a filtering mass that increased with time .",
    "this prescription , also adopted by provides a better match to the    results of our standard model . here",
    ", however , we are intersted only in    exploring simplified models . ] .",
    "we find that this model also produces    luminosity functions similar to those from our full  calculations    ( dot - short - dashed lines ) , and with about the right degree of    suppression for suitable choices of @xmath38 and    @xmath59 .",
    "* model d * : :    we next consider a model in which @xmath38 varies with    time and in which the degree of suppression varies smoothly with halo    mass .",
    "this then differs from our full calculations only in neglecting    suppression due to photoheating by the ionizing background . in this    model ,",
    "photoionization redistributes galaxies which previously had a    given magnitude over a range of fainter magnitudes . at a given    magnitude , some galaxies are lost due to suppression , but also new    ones appear as brighter galaxies are partially suppressed , thus    becoming fainter .",
    "the net effect is therefore difficult to judge since    it depends on the time variation of the filtering mass and on the    previous shape of the luminosity function .",
    "we can , however , safely say    that the effect is still expected to be larger for lower    @xmath47 .",
    "applying this prescription we reproduce    the results of our full  calculation rather well ( dotted lines in    fig .",
    "[ fig : elftest ] ) , finding slightly less suppression overall than in    case ( ii ) , but still with no environmental variation . * model e * : :    a smoother variation of suppression with halo mass would result in    less flattening of the faint end slope .",
    "for example , the short - dashed    lines in fig .  [ fig : elftest ] show results for a suppression of the form    @xmath63    with the same variation of filtering mass with redshift as in our    standard model .    in conclusion ,",
    "a simple model in which galaxy formation at @xmath64 is entirely suppressed below some fixed mass scale grossly overestimates the effects of , and produces very different luminosity functions from those predicted by our full calculation . including _ either _ a smoothly varying degree of suppression _ or _ a time - varying filtering mass produces better agreement with our full calculations , indicating that these two ingredients are of comparable importance .",
    "the degree of suppression ( as characterised by the reduction in amplitude of the lf ) for a given time dependence in @xmath38 depends on the functional form used to characterize the variation of suppression with halo mass . the sharper the transition from weak to strong suppression ,",
    "the greater the net effect on the luminosity function .",
    "smoother transitions tend to produce steeper faint end slopes , but even the sharpest transition possible does not produce slopes as flat as are observed and we never find any significant environmental variation ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using semi - analytic modeling techniques , we calculate the luminosity function of galaxy populations residing in cold dark matter halos of different mass . </S>",
    "<S> we pay particular attention to the influence of the reionization of the universe on the number of faint galaxies and to the effects of dynamical friction and tidal limitation of satellites on the number of bright galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we find substantial differences in the shapes of the galaxy luminosity functions in halos of different mass which reflect generic features of the cold dark matter model of galaxy formation and thus offer the opportunity to test it . </S>",
    "<S> we then consider how the individual halo luminosity functions combine together to produce the global luminosity function . </S>",
    "<S> surprisingly , the global function ends up having a shallower faint end slope than those of the constituent halo luminosity functions . </S>",
    "<S> we compare our model predictions with the limited datasets compiled by . </S>",
    "<S> we find good agreement with the luminosity functions measured in the virgo and coma clusters but significant disagreement with the luminosity functions measured in the local group and ursa minor cluster . </S>",
    "<S> we speculate on possible inadequacies in our modeling and in the existing observational samples . </S>",
    "<S> the luminosity functions of galaxies in groups and clusters identified in the 2df and sdss galaxy redshift surveys offer the prospect of testing galaxy formation models in detail . </S>"
  ]
}