{
  "article_text": [
    "most galaxies are barred ( e.g. , sellwood & wilkinson 1993 ; knapen , shlosman & peletier 2000a ) and a substantial fraction of barred galaxies show enhanced star formation ( sf ) activity in or near their centres , often in the form of complete or incomplete nuclear rings ( e.g. , buta & combes 1996 ; knapen 1999 ) .",
    "it is believed that there is a causal connection between the existence of a bar and circumnuclear sf activity . through its non - axisymmetric potential",
    ", a bar can facilitate gas inflow by extracting angular momentum from the gas through gravitational torques .",
    "the inflowing gas may then accumulate in the vicinity of inner lindblad resonances ( ilrs ) , triggering massive sf ( see , e.g. , review by shlosman 1999 ) .",
    "it is therefore natural to infer that the properties of the circumnuclear starburst region are connected to those of the large - scale structure , most obviously the bar , and it is this inference that we wish to test observationally in the present paper .",
    "correlations have been established between morphological properties of the stellar bar , such as size , shape and surface brightness ( martin 1995 ; elmegreen & elmegreen 1985 ) , the location of star forming regions ( sersic & pastoriza 1967 ; phillips 1993 , 1996 ) , the presence of nuclear activity ( chapelon , contini & davoust 1999 ; knapen et al .",
    "2000a ; shlosman , peletier & knapen 2000 ; laine et al .",
    "2002 ) and the hubble type of their host galaxy .",
    "bars are found to be longer in early - type barred galaxies ( martin 1995 ) , longer bars are more elliptical ( martinet & friedli 1997 ) , bar radial profiles appear to be flatter in early - type galaxies and exponential in late - type galaxies ( elmegreen & elmegreen 1985 ) , and there is some evidence that the more elliptical the bar is , the higher is its overall sf rate ( aguerri 1999 )",
    ". there also appears to be some correlation between the location of sf in galaxies and their morphological classification .",
    "phillips ( 1993 ) noted that early - type barred galaxies exhibit sf in rings but neither in the bar nor the centre , whereas late - type barred spirals display many star forming regions along their bars .",
    "sersic & pastoriza ( 1967 ) realised that enhanced sf is found in the inner parts of some spiral galaxies , and that this sf is frequently arranged into a ring or pseudo - ring pattern .",
    "combes & gerin ( 1985 ) and athanassoula ( 1992a ) found that such spiral galaxies are usually of early type and host a bar .",
    "rings in galaxies , including nuclear rings , were extensively reviewed by buta & combes ( 1996 ) .",
    "buta & crocker ( 1993 ) compiled a catalog of rings in galaxies , including ten nuclear rings studied in the present paper , and derived metric characteristics for the rings .",
    "case studies combining optical and near - infrared ( nir ) imaging with velocity fields and dynamical modelling show in detail how the bar and the circumnuclear regions ( cnrs ) are part of the same dynamical system .",
    "gas is driven inward under the influence of a large stellar bar , where it piles up near or between the ilrs , and possibly results in massive sf .",
    "examples of such case studies are those by knapen et al .",
    "( 1995a , b , 2000b ) on m100 ( = ngc  4321 ) , regan et al .",
    "( 1996 , 1997 ) on ngc  1530 , buta , crocker & byrd ( 1999 ) on eso  565 - 11 ( see also rautiainen & salo 2000 ) , and laine et al .",
    "( 1999 , 2001 ) and jogee et al .",
    "( 2002a , b ) on ngc  5248 . in thin bars ( high axial ratio )",
    "the gas inflow may be most effective , but according to the simulations by piner , stone & teuben ( 1995 ) , nuclear rings will not form in such bars and gas will flow directly to the nucleus .",
    "nuclear bars , spirals , or rings , are frequently observed on scales of a kiloparsec or less , and can be modelled as directly resulting from the dynamics of the overall system ( see knapen et al .",
    "2001 for many examples ) .",
    "we have performed an imaging study of a dozen barred spirals with evidence for the presence of star - forming cnrs , to investigate the coupling between the cnrs and their host galaxies in a more statistical manner .",
    "our main goal is to test the hypothesis ( knapen et al .",
    "1995b ; prez - ramrez & knapen 1998 ) that the structure and dynamics of the large - scale bar and disk of the host galaxies is intimately connected with that of the inner , active region ( either agn or sf ) , and thus determines whether such activity occurs in a given galaxy , and in what form . in paper",
    "i ( prez - ramrez et al . 2000 ) , we presented nir images of the central regions of a sample of 12 barred galaxies to study the properties of circumnuclear structures in stars and dust that exist at small scales ( a few hundred pc to a few kpc ) . in this paper",
    ", we present optical broad - band and h@xmath2 imaging of the whole extent of the disks of the same 12 barred galaxies , and combine parameters derived from the nir and optical parts of our imaging survey with parameters taken from the literature to identify several correlations which illuminate the important connections that exist between the central regions and the host galaxy structures at large .",
    "we summarise the observations and data reduction procedures in @xmath5  2 , and present our observational results in @xmath5  3 .",
    "relative  fluxes from different parts of the sample galaxies are explored in @xmath5  4 . in subsequent sections ,",
    "we explore correlations between the strength of the bar and the geometric parameters of the nuclear rings ( @xmath5  5 ) , and the shapes of the dust lanes within the bar ( @xmath5  6 ) .",
    "we summarise our main findings in @xmath5  7 .",
    "notes on individual objects can be found in appendix  1 .",
    ".observing details : month of observation ( col .",
    "2 ) ; telescope ( col .",
    "3 ) , int is the 2.5 m isaac newton telescope , wht is the 4.2 m william herschel telescope ; filters ( col .",
    "4 ) ; and source from which the image was obtained ( col .",
    "5 ) , kb96 is knapen & beckman ( 1996 ) , rbk96 is rozas , beckman & knapen ( 1996 ) and k98 is knapen ( 1998 ) [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     we have compiled iras fluxes for our sample galaxies from the literature ( table  5 ) .",
    "we explored possible relations between the iras index log(@xmath6/@xmath7 ) , used as an indicative value to quantify the global sf , and the length and strength of the bars , but found no trends from our small sample of galaxies ( e.g. , fig .",
    "4 shows the iras index vs. bar strength @xmath8 ) . from larger samples of galaxies , but using less reliable methodology , martinet & friedli ( 1997 ) and aguerri ( 1999 ) found that galaxies with enhanced global sf as measured from their iras fluxes tend to have longer and more elliptical bars .",
    "equally , we can not distinguish any trends in the distribution of sf as a function of bar strength @xmath8 ( as an example , we show the run of the relative flux from the cnr against bar strength in fig .",
    "5 ) or length ( not shown ) of the bar . a related conclusion is drawn by sheth ( 2001 ) who finds that the ratio of nuclear over disk molecular gas surface density does _ not _ correlate with the length of the bar .",
    "this ratio itself is much enhanced in barred with respect to non - barred galaxies ( see also sakamoto et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "figure  6 presents the run of the relative flux from the cnr against the iras log(@xmath6/@xmath7 ) index , quantifying the global sf .",
    "it shows that a higher  flux fraction from the cnr leads to higher iras indices .",
    "this may be due to the iras index being more sensitive to cnr sf , which is concentrated in a more dusty environment than disk sf .",
    "it may also imply , though , that the more centrally concentrated the star formation is , the more sf takes place in absolute terms in the whole of the host galaxy .",
    "although we subtracted the  flux which might be a result of non - stellar nuclear activity rather than circumnuclear sf , a caveat here is the role played by nuclear activity in the fir emission , which we can not quantify for our sample galaxies in the absence of fir spectroscopy . on the basis of studies of other galaxies ( see e.g. genzel & cesarsky 2000 ) , though , we estimate that the seyfert nucleus contributes at most 20% , and possibly as little as 5% , to the total flux , with the exception of ngc  3516 . for this galaxy ,",
    "already excluded from our analysis on other grounds , mouri & tanaguchi ( 2002 ) claim that the fir luminosity is dominated by the agn contribution .",
    "only the study of a larger sample of galaxies can confirm the tentative relation we report here .",
    "we have started to undertake such a larger study .",
    "from our h@xmath2 images and radial profiles we have measured the sizes of the nuclear rings , the deprojected differences between the pas of the major axes of the rings and of the large - scale bar of their host galaxies , as well as the deprojected , or intrinsic , ellipticities of the rings ( table  3 ) . since for most of our galaxies we also know the bar strength , we can now , for the first time , explore observationally how these geometric ring parameters depend on the strength of the bar potential that hosts them .",
    "the relative orientations of the nuclear rings span the complete range from aligned to perpendicular to the bar , with no preferred pa offset .",
    "this was also found by buta & crocker ( 1993 ) .",
    "these authors describe a number of caveats in the derivation of pa offsets which also apply to our work , namely selection effects , sample size , and difficulty of properly defining ring shapes and orientation . in fig .  7 , we plot the observed pa offset between the nuclear ring and the bar as a function of the bar strength @xmath8 . even though the galaxy with the weakest bar ( ngc  5248 ) has the smallest pa offset and the one with the strongest bar ( ngc  1530 ) one of the largest , there is no obvious correlation .",
    "8 shows the run of the relative size of the nuclear ring , defined as the ring diameter divided by the host galaxy diameter , as a function of bar strength @xmath8 .",
    "it is seen that stronger bars host smaller rings . finally , fig .",
    "9 shows that the intrinsic ellipticity of the rings does not vary with different bar strength .    numerical modelling ( e.g. ,",
    "knapen et al .",
    "1995b ; heller & shlosman 1996 ) gives important clues to the evolution of the geometric properties of a nuclear ring which forms near the ilrs in a barred galaxy .",
    "the first point to note is that stronger , thinner , bars lead to smaller nuclear rings , exactly as we see here in fig .",
    "this can be seen , e.g. , in fig .",
    "11 of knapen et al .",
    "( 1995b ) , from the form and extent of the representative stellar periodic orbits in a bar with ilrs . the main orbit family , that of the so - called @xmath9 orbits ( see contopoulos & papayannopoulos 1980 ) , forms the backbone of the stellar bar . a second orbit family , that of the @xmath10 orbits , is oriented perpendicularly to the @xmath9 orbits in the region of the ilrs . since nuclear rings are gaseous features , it is important to note that gas can only populate those regions where the @xmath9 and @xmath10 orbits are not intersecting , which is the inner part of the galaxy .",
    "11 of knapen et al .",
    "( 1995b ) makes clear that , in order to avoid the intersecting orbits , gas will have to settle further in in the case of stronger , or thinner , bars .",
    "this then leads to smaller areas where the nuclear ring can form , and thus to smaller nuclear rings . of course smaller nuclear rings in this context",
    "is a relative term , and we have chosen here to use the size of the ring relative to the total size of the galaxy ( following laine et al .",
    "however , if we use the size of the ring relative to the length of the bar as a measure , we find a similar correlation ( not shown ) as depicted in fig",
    "the situation is different for both the pa offsets from the bar , and the intrinsic ellipticities , of the nuclear rings . as described by , e.g. , knapen et al .",
    "( 1995b ) and shlosman ( 1999 ) , these parameters are regulated primarily by the gas inflow into the cnr . as can be seen in , e.g. , fig .",
    "13 of knapen et al .",
    "( 1995b ) , less inflow will lead to a smaller leading angle of the ring with respect to the bar , and to a smaller ellipticity of the ring : it becomes rounder . since gas inflow does not depend exclusively on the parameters of the bar , such as its strength , but more generally on the availability of fuel , correlations of ring ellipticity and pa offset are not expected , and in fact not observed ( figs .  7 , 9 ) .",
    "the dynamical timescale in the cnr is of the order of @xmath11 yrs , and thus the availability of the fuel can be expected to be variable , further eliminating any correlation with , e.g. , the bar strength . because the dynamical timescale of a large stellar bar is much longer ( @xmath12 yrs ) the size of a nuclear ring will be much more stable in time , given the arguments outlined in the preceding paragraph .",
    "this picture is nicely illustrated by the recent results of jogee et al .",
    "( 2002b ) for the nuclear ring of ngc  5248 .",
    "they found that the younger population in the ring , as traced by fuv emission , outlines spiral arms and is more elliptical in shape , whereas the relaxed ring , as seen in older stellar population , is much rounder .",
    "colour index maps reveal interesting symmetric dust lane patterns in the bars of strongly and weakly barred galaxies .",
    "the curvature of the dust lanes has theoretically been related to the strength of the bar , in the sense that weak bars are associated with curved dust lanes , whereas strong bars have straight dust lanes ( athanassoula 1992b ) .",
    "we have used a simple method to measure and quantify the curvature of the dust lanes , in an attempt to probe the anti - correlation theoretically predicted by athanassoula ( 1992b ) between the degree of curvature of the bar dust lanes and the strength of the bar . from deprojected @xmath13 and @xmath0-band images , where the dust lanes are well visible , we have measured the change in the angle of the tangent to the curved dust lane , and express the result @xmath14 in units of degrees per kiloparsec distance along the dust lane . we ignore those parts of the dust lanes ( e.g. , where the lanes connect to the cnr ) where the curvature increases or decreases sharply .",
    "well - defined , twofold symmetric dust lanes could not be identified clearly enough in ngc  2903 , ngc  3516 , and ngc  3982 , and these galaxies are not considered in the analysis below .    in this scheme ,",
    "the lowest values of @xmath14 correspond to the straightest class of dust lanes ( e.g. , ngc  6951 ) , whereas the highest values obviously correspond to the most curved lanes ( e.g. , ngc  5248 ) .",
    "the measurements were made along the largest possible stretch of dust lane , which in all cases runs from just outside the cnr to very near the end of the bar .",
    "since dust lanes have rather constant curvature over this entire range , use of a smaller part of the lanes to derive @xmath14 would lead to the same values , but with larger uncertainties simply because the linear range involved would be smaller .",
    "we estimate typical errors in @xmath14 to be of the order of 3/kpc , where uncertainties in the distance to the galaxy , and in the definition of the curvature of the dust lane from the images are the main contributing factors .",
    "the resulting values are tabulated in table  5 and plotted against deprojected bar ellipticity in fig .",
    "10 , and against @xmath8 in fig .  11 .",
    "the theoretically expected trend of more curvature of the dust lanes in weaker bars is borne out clearly in the run of @xmath8 vs. dust lane curvature , but much less clearly so , if at all , in the run of bar ellipticity .",
    "this is in fact the first time that a correlation between bar strength and dust lane curvature has been _ observed _ for a sample ( albeit admittedly small ) of bars .",
    "we thus confirm observationally the prediction from theory and modelling ( e.g. , athanassoula 1992b ) .",
    "the fact that the correlation shows up much less clearly when bar ellipticity is considered does not contradict this confirmation , given the poor correlation between bar ellipticity and @xmath8 shown by block et al .",
    "we looked for , but did not find , correlations between the curvature of the dust lanes and parameters like host galaxy type or inclination angle .",
    "this paper is the second of a pair presenting results of our study of how the general structure of barred galaxies is related to , and possibly determines , the presence and properties of dynamical features such as rings and spirals in their cnrs .",
    "we present optical broad and narrow - band imaging of our sample galaxies in @xmath15 and h@xmath2 in order to map the structural components across the disks of these barred galaxies .",
    "the 12 galaxies in our sample are all nearby spiral galaxies known to host star - forming circumnuclear ring - like structure .",
    "we present graphically our optical images and the radial profiles we derived from these by ellipse fitting . from these data ,",
    "we infer geometric and dynamical parameters such as bar lengths and ellipticities , and location of sf and general dust structures , and combine these with parameters obtained from the literature .",
    "our main results can be summarised as follows :    * for the first time using bar strengths ( @xmath8 values from the literature ) rather than ellipticity , and using nir imaging of the bars , we checked the previously found correlation between bar strength and length , i.e. , longer bars are also stronger .",
    "our results are confusing because bar length as such correlates with bar strength , but bar length relative to , e.g. , the size of the galaxy does not .",
    "careful study of larger samples is needed . *",
    "the fir index log(@xmath6/@xmath7 ) , a sf indicator , is used to verify whether the strength of the bar is connected to the global sf activity .",
    "we find no relation with the bar strength @xmath8 nor with the length of the bar .",
    "* we measure the relative h@xmath2 flux from the disk , bar and cnr components in the galaxies .",
    "we find that the more centrally concentrated the  emission is ( i.e. , the higher the fraction of total sf from the cnr ) , the more sf takes place in absolute terms in the galaxy , as estimated from the fir flux ratios .",
    "this is possibly due to the iras index being more sensitive to cnr sf , which is concentrated in a dust - rich environment .",
    "alternatively , the cnr sf activity as measured from  is related to the overall sf activity , as measured in the fir , of the disk .",
    "we find no correlation between the relative h@xmath2 flux from the disk , the bar , and the cnr with bar strength , nor with bar length .",
    "* we explore relations between the strength of the bar and the geometric parameters of the nuclear rings , namely their size relative to the galaxy disk , intrinsic inclination , and pa offset between the major axes of the nuclear ring and the bar which hosts it .",
    "we find that stronger bars tend to host smaller rings , but that the bar strength is unrelated to both the pa offset and the intrinsic ring ellipticity .",
    "the fact that smaller rings occur in stronger bars can be understood from bar orbit theory , which predicts that stronger bars limit the region where @xmath10 orbits can exist , and thus in turn the size of the nuclear ring . as known from numerical modelling ,",
    "both pa offset and intrinsic ring ellipticity depend primarily on the mass inflow rate into the nuclear ring , which in turn is determined only in part by the strength of the bar , but more directly on the availability of fuel , and on temporal variations therein . *",
    "we present a new , reproducible , measure of the curvature of dust lanes in bars , a parameter which was theoretically linked about a decade ago to the strength of the bar .",
    "this link is through gas shocking under the influence of the bar potential , at the location where pairs of symmetric dust lanes are seen along the bars in optical images .",
    "we indeed confirm that the stronger the bar , the straighter its dust lanes .",
    "this is in fact the first observational confirmation of this theoretical result , based on the use of both a sample ( admittedly still rather small ) of galaxies , and of quantitative measures of both dust lane curvature and bar strength .    from these results",
    ", we can confirm that indeed the cnrs of barred galaxies are intimately linked to their host galaxies , and that their sf and morphological properties are determined to a significant degree by the properties of , mainly , the large bar .",
    "the small size of our sample precludes a detailed exploration of the correlations that we have found .",
    "studies using larger samples of nuclear ring galaxies are needed to more fully test the predictions and results from theory and modelling , and to explore further relations between the parameters governing the cnr , the bar , and the disk .",
    "_ acknowledgements _    we thank milagros ruz and sharon stedman for help during the observing runs and for discussions , and reynier peletier for his help in the preparation of figure  1 .",
    "we thank isaac shlosman for illuminating discussion on bars and rings , and david axon for discussions about subtracting the h@xmath2 continuum .",
    "we thank ron buta for calculating @xmath8 values for ngc  1530 and ngc  6951 .",
    "an anonymous referee is acknowledged for comments which greatly helped to improve the presentation of our results .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa / ipac extragalactic database ( ned ) which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "the jacobus kapteyn and isaac newton telescopes are operated on the island of la palma by the ing in the spanish observatorio del roque de los muchachos of the instituto de astrofsica de canarias .",
    "data were partly retrieved from the ing archive .",
    "99    aguerri j. a. l. , 1999 , a&a 351 , 43    alonso - herrero a. , ryder s.  d. , knapen j.  h. , 2001 , mnras , 322 , 757    athanassoula e. , 1992a , mnras , 259 , 328    athanassoula e. , 1992b , mnras , 259 , 345    benedict g. f. , et al . , 1993 ,",
    "aj , 105 , 1369    block d.  l. , puerari i. , knapen j.  h. , elmegreen b.  g. , buta r. , stedman s. , elmegreen d.  m. , 2001 , a&a , 375 , 761    b \" oker t.  et al .  1999 ,",
    "apjs , 124 , 95    buta r. , block d.  l. , 2001 , apj , 550 , 243    buta r. , combes f. , 1996 , fundamentals of cosmic physics , 17 , 95    buta , r.  & crocker , d.  a.  1993 , aj , 105 , 1344    buta , r. , crocker , d.  a. , & byrd , g.  g.  1999 , aj , 118 , 2071    chapelon s. , contini t. , davoust , e. , 1999 , a&a , 345 , 81    colina l. , arribas s. , 1999 , apj , 514 , 637    colina l. , garca vargas m.  l. , mas - hesse j.  m. , alberdi a. , krabbe a. , 1997 , apj , 484 , l41    combes f. , gerin m. , 1985 , a&a , 150 , 327    contopoulos g. , papayannopoulos t. , 1980 , a&a , 92 , 33    de vaucouleurs g. , de vaucouleurs a. , corwin j.  r. , buta r.  j. , paturel g. , fouque p. , 1991",
    ", third reference catalogue of bright galaxies , 1991 , new york : springer - verlag ( rc3 )    downes d. , reynaud d. , solomon p. m. , radford s. j. e. 1996 , apj , 461 , 186    dultzin - hacyan d. , moles m. , masegosa j. , 1988 , a&a , 206 , 95    elmegreen b. g. , elmegreen , d. m. , 1985 , apj , 288 , 438    friedli d. , wozniak h. , rieke , m. , martinet l. , bratschi p. , 1996",
    ", a&as , 118 , 461    genzel r.  & cesarsky c.  j.  2000 , araa , 38 , 761    gonzlez delgado r.  m.  & prez e.  1997 , apjs , 108 , 199    jogee s. , knapen j. h. , laine s. , shlosman i. , scoville n. z. , 2002a , apj , 570 , l55    jogee s. , shlosman i. , laine s. , englmaier p. , knapen j. h. , scoville n. z. , wilson c. d. , 2002b , apj , in press ( astro - ph/0202270 )    knapen j. h. 1998 , mnras , 297 , 255    knapen j. h. , 1999 , in asp conf .",
    "187 , the evolution of galaxies on cosmological timescales , eds .",
    "j.  e.  beckman , & t.j .",
    "mahoney ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 72    knapen j. h. , beckman j. e. , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 251    knapen j. h. , beckman j. e. , shlosman i. , peletier r. f. , heller c. h. & de jong r. s. , 1995a , apjl , 443 , l73    knapen j. h. , beckman j. e. , heller c. h. , shlosman i. & de jong r. s. , 1995b , apj , 454 , 623    knapen j.  h. , beckman j.  e. , shlosman i. , & mahoney t.  j. , eds .",
    ", 2001 , asp conf .",
    "ser .  249 : the central kiloparsec of starbursts and agn : the la palma connection ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific )    knapen j. h. , shlosman i. , heller c. h. , rand r. j. , beckman j. e. & rozas , m. , 2000b , apj , 528 , 219    knapen j. h. , shlosman i. , peletier r. f. , 2000a , apj , 529 , 93    laine s. , & heller c. h. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 557    laine s. , knapen j. h. , prez - ramrez d. , doyon r. , nadeau d. , 1999 , mnras , 302 , l33 .    laine s. , knapen j.  h. , p ' erez - ramrez d. , englmaier p. , matthias m. , 2001 , mnras , 324 , 891    laine , s. , shlosman , i. , knapen , j.  h. , peletier , r.f . , 2002 , apj , 567 , 97    laurikainen e. , salo h. , rautiainen p. , 2002",
    ", mnras , 331 , 880    martin p. , 1995",
    ", aj , 109 , 2428    martinet l. , friedli d. 1997 , a&a , 323 , 363    moshir , m. , et al . ,",
    "1990 , iras faint source catalogue , version 2.0 ( pasadena : jpl infrared processing and analysis center )    mouri , h.  & taniguchi , y.  2002 , apj , 565 , 786    prez  ramrez , d. , knapen j. h. 1998 , in iau symp .",
    "184 , the central regions of the galaxy and galaxies , ed .",
    "y. sofue ( dordrecht : kluwer ) , 113    prez ",
    "ramrez d. , knapen j. h. , peletier r. f. , laine s. , doyon r. , nadeau d. , 2000 , mnras , 317 , 234 ( paper  i )    phillips a. c. 1993 , a&as , 183 , 2306    phillips a. c. , 1996 , in asp conf .",
    "91 , barred galaxies , eds .",
    "r.  buta , d.  a.  crocker , b.  g.  elmegreen ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 44    piner b.  g. , stone j.  m. , & teuben p.  j.  1995 , apj , 449 , 508    pogge r. w. , 1989 , apjs , 71 , 433    puxley p. j. , hawarden t. g. , mountain c.m .",
    "1988 , mnras , 231 , 465    rautiainen p.  & salo h.  2000 , a&a , 362 , 465    regan m. w. , teuben p.j . , vogel s.n .",
    ", van der hulst , t. 1996 , aj , 112 , 2549    regan m.  w. , vogel s.  n. , teuben p.  j. , 1997 , apj , 482 , l143    rozas m. , beckman j. e. , knapen j. h. 1996 , a&a , 307 , 735    sakamoto k. , okumura s. k. , ishizuki s. , scoville n. z. , 1999 , apj 525 , 691    sellwood j. a. & wilkinson a. 1993 , rep .",
    ", 56 , 173    sersic j. l. , pastoriza m. g. 1967 , pasp , 79 , 152    sheth k. , 2001 , in asp conf .",
    "249 , the central kiloparsec of starbursts and agn : the la palma connection , eds . j.  h.  knapen , j.  e.  beckman , i.  shlosman , & t.  j.  mahoney ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 605    shlosman i. , 1999 , in asp conf .",
    "187 , the evolution of galaxies on cosmological timescales , eds .",
    "j.  e.  beckman , & t.j .",
    "mahoney ( san francisco : astronomical society of the pacific ) , 100    shlosman i. , peletier r. f. , knapen j. h. , 2000 , apj , 535 , l83    wozniak h. , friedli d. , martinet l. , martin p. , bratschi p. , 1995 ,",
    "a&as , 111 , 115",
    "this barred galaxy is a prototype grand - design sbb spiral .",
    "it has a very prominent and smooth bar and two spiral arms that start abruptly at the end of the bar ( fig .",
    "1a ) . in our @xmath13 image",
    ", we can see two straight , offset dust lanes rather parallel to the major axis of the bar .",
    "these dust lanes are smooth when compared to the arms , which corresponds to a lack of distinct emitting regions .",
    "it is also apparent from our colour map that , near the ends of the bar , the bar dust lanes join the dust lanes along the inner edge of the arms .",
    "sf is not obvious in the bar , nor in the nucleus .",
    "the cnr is a site of considerable sf , concentrated in a small area .",
    "there is a concentration of hii regions where the arms join the bar , and mainly so on the western side .",
    "the western arm also contains several very luminous hii regions , while the eastern arm shows some less luminous enhancements .",
    "the h@xmath2 profile shows a modest peak of luminosity at radii corresponding to those of the cnr , and a gradual decrease in the region of the bar .",
    "the radial profiles reflect and confirm the distribution of sf in this galaxy .    the nuclear ring in ngc  1300 ( fig .",
    "1a , 2a ) is rather small angularly , and our  image does not give much information .",
    "it is clear , however , that the massive sf occurs in a number of discrete clumps ( see also pogge 1989 ) , which are not reproduced in the nir colour index images .",
    "whereas the nuclear ring is incomplete in , it appears complete in the nir , although in paper  i we showed that the nir ring is in fact a pair of tightly wound spirals .",
    "the _ hst _ image ( fig .",
    "1 of paper  i ) shows structure in the nuclear ring , but no hot spots corresponding to the  emission peaks .",
    "ngc  1530 ( fig .",
    "1b ) has a large and moderately elliptical bar and two wide open spiral arms originating from its ends .",
    "its most prominent feature , however , is a bright mini - spiral at a radius of 10@xmath16 from the nucleus , and extended roughly perpendicularly to the bar .",
    "this feature can be seen best in the  and @xmath13 images . from co and hi",
    "observations ( e.g. , downes et al . 1996 ; regan et al .",
    "1996 ) it is known that a large amount of gas is present in the centre . despite this , the galaxy has a relatively modest sf rate near the nucleus , which can be explained by the trapping of gas in @xmath17 orbits near an inner ilr , inhibiting further infall .",
    "the gas will thus not reach the critical density that is needed to make the galaxy a true starburst ( downes et al .",
    "1996 ) . in our h@xmath2 image",
    ", we find relatively weak sf sites along the bar , at the ends of the bar , and along the spiral arms . in the cnr we find two distinct strongly emitting regions , from where the arms of the mini - spiral seem to start .",
    "the h@xmath2 profile shows a peak at the centre , dips in the region of the bar , and a slight increase at roughly the radius where the bar joins the disk spiral arms .",
    "our @xmath13 image shows two curved dust lanes emerging from the nucleus , which continue along the bar .",
    "again , as in ngc  1300 , it is apparent from our colour map that , near the ends of the bar , the bar dust lanes join those along the inner edge of the arms .",
    "the two symmetrically placed clumps of massive sf ( fig .  1b , 2b ) are not obvious in the colour map , and seem to be hidden by the spiral structure .",
    "they appear similar to k1 and k2 in m100 ( knapen et al .",
    "1995a ) , however , whereas in m100 k1 and k2 are most obvious in the nir , the peaks are not conspicuous at all in our nir images of ngc  1530 , not even in the _ hst _ image ( paper  i ) .",
    "emission is seen to follow the northern miniature spiral arm , coinciding with the red spiral arm fragment in the nir colour index image .",
    "ngc  2903 is a `` hot - spot '' galaxy with a circumnuclear starburst .",
    "the @xmath13 colour map reveals a beautiful and complex multi - armed dust structure , but no clear pair of dust lanes in the bar ( fig .",
    "1c ) . in the h@xmath2 images we see sf along the bar and in the arms , mostly in the southern arm , and in the cnr .",
    "very luminous hii regions delineate the bar and arms in this galaxy .",
    "the h@xmath2 profile drops smoothly , outlining continuous and strong hii emission all the way from the centre to the ends of the bar , and further out into the disk .",
    "the profiles show a lot of structure throughout the cnr and disk , caused by the combined effects of dust extinction and sf activity .",
    "blue dips in the @xmath13 profile are accompanied by enhancements in the  and in some cases the @xmath0 profiles .",
    "no nir pa and ellipticity profiles are given because these could not be fitted in paper  i.    the  emitting regions do not all correspond in position and intensity to the nir hot spots ( fig .",
    "our  image shows just three of them , whereas our ground - based nir images , and especially the _ hst _ nir image ( paper  i ) , show a plethora of individual emitting regions . a detailed study of the sf properties of the cnr in this galaxy , using _ hst _ archival  and pa  @xmath2 imaging and nir spectroscopy , in combination with stellar population synthesis modelling , has recently been published by alonso - herrero , ryder & knapen ( 2001 ) .",
    "ngc  3351 shows a nuclear ring and a larger , inner , ring of hii regions that encircles the stellar bar ( fig .",
    "the @xmath13 image shows two straight dust lanes emerging from an elliptical ring - like region surrounding the nuclear ring .",
    "the sf in this galaxy is significant and concentrated in the cnr and the inner ring . from the h@xmath2 profile",
    "we can see a constant , high level in the nucleus , and a decrease along the bar .",
    "the profiles display a pronounced peak , coincident with the location of the nuclear ring , at around 10 arcsec radius , and a secondary peak corresponding to the inner ring .",
    "both these peaks appear blue in the @xmath13 colour plot reflecting the underlying sf .    in the close - up of the h@xmath2 image of the cnr ,",
    "the circumnuclear ring is clearly visible , outlined by clumps of sf . for ngc  3351",
    "we have only a ground - based @xmath18-band image at our disposal , along with an _ hst _ @xmath19-band image ( paper  i ) .",
    "the correspondence of the sf clumps of its nuclear ring as seen in  with those seen in the nir is obvious from fig .",
    "2d , where the h@xmath2 contours are shown overlaid on the @xmath18-band image , and can be further traced in the _ hst _ image .",
    "ngc 3504 is an inclined barred galaxy with a nuclear starburst .",
    "the double nuclear peak seen in the nir ( paper  i ) does not show up in our optical images due to the limited spatial resolution .",
    "the @xmath13 colour map shows two curved dust lanes in the bar region , but very little organised dust in the disk region ( fig .",
    "1e ) . in our h@xmath2 image",
    ", we see an elliptical region around the nucleus , where sf activity is intense . outside the cnr",
    ", the most luminous hii regions are found near the ends of the bar , but sf is also prominent in the rest of the surrounding disk structure .",
    "the radial h@xmath2 profile shows a decrease from the nucleus to the radius corresponding to the end of the bar , where enhanced sf activity causes a local maximum in the profile .",
    "the @xmath13 radial profile shows a blue peak at the same radius , of about 50@xmath16 .",
    "the values for the @xmath13 colour are between 1.5 and 2 .",
    "the central  emission in ngc  3504 ( fig .",
    "2e ) is elongated in the direction of the double nucleus , as discussed in paper  i.      this galaxy hosts a seyfert  1.5 nucleus , but shows little structure in the optical .",
    "the images displayed in fig .",
    "1f have a field of view roughly half as big as the rest of the galaxies , due to the larger distance and smaller angular size of this galaxy .",
    "the h@xmath2 image shows enhanced emission from the nuclear region , not necessarily from sf but quite possibly from the agn .",
    "we do not detect any sign of sf in the bar or disk of this galaxy .",
    "the @xmath13 colour index image shows no convincing structure in the disk , except possibly two redder regions near the ends of the ( main ) bar .",
    "the nucleus is red , as seen in the @xmath13 image and profile , but the white patches seen in the image ( fig .",
    "1f ) may be artificial and induced by the nearby presence of the strong nuclear peak .",
    "the @xmath13 profile decreases from the nucleus , and becomes stable at 2.5 magnitudes .",
    "the  emission in the cnr of ngc  3516 ( fig .",
    "2f ) is featureless apart from a slight extension in the e - w direction .",
    "ngc  3982 is one of two barred spirals with a seyfert  2 nucleus in our sample .",
    "the presence of a small bar , at a radius of around 10  arcsec , is evident from the @xmath1-band image ( fig",
    ".  1 g ) and from the ellipticity and pa profiles .",
    "further out , the disk is dominated by a spiral pattern .",
    "the @xmath13 colour index image displays a rich multi - armed spiral pattern in dust and sf , but is rather smooth near the nucleus .",
    "this multi - armed spiral pattern is clear also in the h@xmath2 image , with several luminous clumps of sf located mainly in the arm south of the nucleus , and slightly less in the arm north of it .",
    "the nucleus of this galaxy , while neutral in @xmath13 , is a relatively strong h@xmath2 emitter .",
    "we can not say how much of this emission is due to stars or the agn , but the latter is a likely contributor .",
    "the h@xmath2 profile displays a peak in the nucleus , followed by a dip and a secondary peak corresponding in radius to the zone where the sf sites in the spiral arms are located .",
    "the profile drops rapidly after a radius of 20 - 25 arcsec .",
    "the @xmath13 profile reflects the  peak due to the spiral arm sf as a blue depression .",
    "the calibration of our @xmath0 and @xmath1-band data is subject to larger uncertainties than in other galaxies , because no aperture photometry was available for this galaxy .",
    "we use average values for the @xmath0 and @xmath1 surface brightness and @xmath13 colour , as derived from those other sample galaxies for which calibration was available , and concentrate on the changes in colours rather than on the exact calibrated value .",
    "the cnr of ngc  3982 ( fig",
    ".  2 g ) , which may in fact be interpreted as the emission from the relatively compact disk of this galaxy ( the scale length of the exponential disk is only 0.6  kpc - table  1 ) , shows many individual sites of  and nir emission .",
    "the relationship between these two kinds of emission is not clear , however , due to the relatively small signal to noise ratio in the areas of interest .",
    "comparison with the _ hst _ image as shown in paper  i , however , indicates that the same individual regions are responsible for  and nir emission .",
    "the second seyfert  2 host galaxy in our sample shows a well - defined bar in the @xmath1-band image ( fig .",
    "the @xmath13 image shows two dust lanes in the bar region , which join the inner edge of the spiral arms , and continue as arm dust lanes . the radial profiles in  and @xmath0 show a central peak in surface brightness , followed by a decrease to the radius corresponding to the end of the bar where a secondary peak is located , and a steeper decrease in the disk",
    "the @xmath13 profile reflects these zones as well .",
    "the h@xmath2 image shows sf activity along the arms and at the ends of the bar , where the bar joins the arms .",
    "an especially large concentration of hii regions is located near the northern end of the bar , and a smaller number of hii regions , but of higher luminosity , are found near the southern end .",
    "no sf is visible in the bar itself , but the cnr ( fig .",
    "2h ) is the site of substantial h@xmath2 emission , the morphology of which is however not fully resolved with our imaging .",
    "the @xmath13 image reflects in blue colours where these main sites of sf are .",
    "the fact that the cnr , so bright in , is not as blue as the regions near the ends of the bar may indicate substantial amounts of dust in the central regions .",
    "alternatively , a substantial fraction of the cnr  emission is due to the seyfert nucleus and not to circumnuclear sf .",
    "we refer to colina et al .",
    "( 1997 ) and colina & arribas ( 1999 ) for more detailed imaging of the cnr of this galaxy .",
    "ngc  4314 is a symmetrical sba galaxy with a long stellar bar and two faint outer spiral arms , not visible in our rather shallow @xmath1-band image ( fig .",
    "the h@xmath2 image shows a number of hii regions forming an incomplete bright nuclear ring , and substantial emission from the ( liner ) nucleus .",
    "there is no sign of sf activity in the bar or disk of this galaxy .",
    "in fact , 94% of the total h@xmath2 emission from the galaxy originates in the central region ( pogge 1989 ) . in the @xmath13 colour map ,",
    "the bar is rather featureless , but in the cnr we see several well - defined blue knots corresponding to the sites of sf , and a pair of short dust lanes which depart from the circumnuclear ring . in the nir colour index images in paper  i ,",
    "these dust lanes were seen to form a smooth and continuous ring .",
    "the presumed continuation of these dust lanes into the bar can not be distinguished in the image .",
    "the morphology of the galaxy can clearly be recognised in the h@xmath2 profile : a nuclear peak followed by a depression , a secondary peak at the radius of the star - forming cnr , and a rapid fall - off outside the cnr .",
    "the cnr can be recognised as a dip in the @xmath13 profile , as well as in the @xmath0-band profile as a peak due to enhanced blue emission .",
    "we find no evidence for a double bar in this galaxy , neither from our own nir ( paper  i ) and optical data , nor from the hst nir image shown in paper  i. the ellipticity does go up slightly around 10  arcsec in radius , but this rise is accompanied by large changes in pa ; these changes are most probably caused by the strongly emitting distinct regions in the cnr .",
    "we thus do not confirm the suggestion by benedict et al .",
    "( 1993 ) and friedli et al .",
    "( 1996 ) of a secondary bar with a semi - major axis length of around 4  arcsec .",
    "as in the case of ngc  3982 , no aperture photometry in the @xmath1-band have been published .",
    "we thus took an average calibration number from the rest of our sample and applied this to the @xmath1 and @xmath13 profiles .",
    "the  image of the cnr of ngc  4314 ( fig .",
    "2i ) displays four main discrete clumps of massive sf in an incomplete ring .",
    "the ring is visible , and appears more complete , in the @xmath20 colour map , which shows no evidence for discrete sf sites .",
    "the  hot spots are located very near or on the red ring - like region in the colour index map , which points towards an origin of the nir red colours there in massive sf .",
    "the _ hst _ image ( paper  i ) shows that at high resolution the nir `` ring '' is resolved into many individual hot spots , located along a pair of very tightly wound spiral arms .",
    "ngc 4321 ( m100 ) is a late - type barred galaxy with well - defined spiral arms and a spectacular central region which only reveals some of its hidden features through the use of the nir observations .",
    "knapen et al .",
    "( 1995a , b ) discussed in detail the existence and origin of a stellar bar with a large - scale and a small - scale component , a two - armed star - forming spiral in the cnr , and a pair of leading arms inside the nuclear ring - like region .",
    "we have used the same optical images as used by knapen & beckman ( 1996 ) and refer the reader to that paper for a detailed discussion . in summary , the @xmath13 colour index map shows a pair of curved dust lanes in the bar continuing into the disk spiral arms .",
    "a string of hii regions accompanies the dust lanes in the bar .",
    "there is abundant h@xmath2 emission from the cnr and the disk of this galaxy .",
    "knapen ( 1998 ) catalogued almost 2000 individual hii regions from the image shown here and presents a statistical analysis of their properties , but also discusses the h@xmath2 morphology .",
    "knapen & beckman ( 1996 ) presented surface brightness profiles for , among other tracers , @xmath21 and h@xmath2 .",
    "although the profiles in the present paper were determined using a different ellipse fitting algorithm , we confirm the main characteristics of the surface brightness and colour profiles .",
    "the ellipticity and pa profiles confirm the two parts of the bar ( fig .",
    "1j ) .    as discussed in detail in the literature ( e.g. , knapen et al .",
    "1995a , b , 2000b ) , images of the cnr of ngc  4321 ( fig .",
    "2j ) show good coincidence between the features highlighted by the @xmath20 colour map and the h@xmath2 contours .",
    "we can see clearly the sf clumps along the arms of the miniature spiral structure ( including the characteristic k1 and k2 points  red loci accompanied by massive sf toward the se and nw of the nucleus ) .",
    "laine et al . ( 1999 ) used some of the optical data presented here , in combination with our nir data from paper  i and adaptive optics nir imaging , to describe the spiral structure in this galaxy at various scales , including at scales of tens of pc , where it manifests itself in the form of a nuclear grand - design spiral .",
    "we refer the reader to laine et al . for a description of the general disk morphology of ngc  5248 , as well as of the cnr .",
    "further detailed studies of the cnr and host galaxy can be found in laine et al .",
    "( 2001 ) and jogee et al .",
    "( 2002a , b ) . our @xmath13 colour index map ( fig .",
    "1k ) shows a pair of curved dust lanes emerging from the nuclear region , more prominent southwest than northeast of the nucleus .",
    "massive sf , as measured by h@xmath2 emission , is very strong in the cnr and in the ( non - active ) nucleus , and is located mainly along the spiral arms in the bar ( see jogee et al .",
    "the h@xmath2 profile outlines the central region with its peak in intensity , followed by a second maximum that corresponds to the region of the arms where the sf is found . in the region of the second maximum",
    "a small bump in the @xmath13 colour profile is also visible .",
    "the ellipticity and pa profiles are remarkably flat .",
    "ngc  5248 ( fig .",
    "2k ) also exhibits massive sf sites mainly situated in the nuclear ring , seen in h@xmath2 and in the _ hst _ @xmath19-band image ( paper  i ) .",
    "the massive sf activity seems not to extend to the spiral arms and is confined to the nuclear ring and the region immediately surrounding it .",
    "our images of this galaxy ( fig .",
    "1l ) suffer from rather poor spatial resolution , but the strong bar and main spiral arms in the disk can easily be identified .",
    "the @xmath13 image shows a pair of curved dust lanes which emerges from the cnr and runs roughly parallel to the spiral arms .",
    "the enhanced sf activity in the cnr is obvious from the blue colour in the @xmath13 map and from the h@xmath2 image , but the resolution in the images is too poor to show much detail ( compare , e.g. , to the @xmath19-band hst image shown in paper  i ) .",
    "the h@xmath2 image shows sf activity across the disk , but none is observed along the bar .",
    "there is also some h@xmath2 emission from the ( liner / seyfert ) nucleus .",
    "we encountered two problems in the process of the ellipse fitting , resulting in higher than normal uncertainties : the original images had saturated centres , and no aperture photometry for the @xmath1-band was found .",
    "we thus used average values for @xmath22 and @xmath13 as labelled in the appropriate profiles in fig .",
    "we see no evidence for an inner bar from our combined optical and nir profile fits , contrary to the suggestion of wozniak et al .",
    "( 1995 ) as based on optical imaging , a suggestion which , however , could not be unambiguously confirmed by the same team from their nir imaging ( friedli et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "ngc  6951 ( fig .",
    "2l ) , like ngc  5248 , shows miniature spiral structure in the _ hst _ image , but this spiral is not resolved in our  image and the clumps of massive sf seem to be confined to the ring . as in , e.g. , ngc  4314",
    ", the regions of massive sf as traced by  emission coincide in radius with the red `` ring '' as traced by the @xmath20 image ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present optical broad- and narrow - band imaging of a sample of a dozen barred galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> these images are analyzed in conjunction with our previously published near - infrared imaging of their central regions and with literature values for , e.g. , bar strengths and the total star formation activity of the galaxies . </S>",
    "<S> we present @xmath0 , @xmath1 and h@xmath2 images , and radial profiles derived from these , to infer geometric and dynamical parameters of the structural components of the galaxies , such as bar lengths , bar ellipticities , and location of star formation and dust . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the more centrally concentrated the  emission in a galaxy is , i.e. , the higher the fraction of star formation originating in the circumnuclear region , the higher the overall star formation rate , as measured from far - infrared flux ratios . </S>",
    "<S> stronger bars host smaller nuclear rings , but the strength of the bar does not correlate with either the intrinsic ellipticity of the ring or the offset between the position angles of the bar and the ring . </S>",
    "<S> we interpret these results in comparison with modelling of gas inflow in the circumnuclear region , and show that they were theoretically expected . </S>",
    "<S> we confirm observationally , and for the first time , the anti - correlation predicted from theory and modelling between the degree of curvature of the bar dust lanes and the strength of the bar , where stronger bars have straighter dust lanes .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1 2_2h@xmath3 2_h_2@xmath4 # 1.#2 # 1#2 # 1.#2 # 1#2 # 1.#2 # 1#2 # 1h#2m#3s # 1^h#2^m#3^s # 1d#2m#3s # 1#2#3 # 1h#2m#3.#4s # 1^h#2^m#3#4 # 1d#2m#3.#4s # 1#2#3#4 # 1.#2 # 1^m -0.55em.0.22em#2    = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupeurmn @mathgroup@bold@groupeurbn @mathgroup@group @mathgroup@normal@groupmsamn @mathgroup@bold@groupmsamn = `` 019 = ' ' 016 = `` 040 = ' ' 336 = \" 33e = = = = = = = =    # 1 # 1 # 1 # 1 = = = = = = = =    [ firstpage ]    galaxies : barred  galaxies : evolution  galaxies : ism  galaxies : spiral  galaxies : starburst  galaxies : structure </S>"
  ]
}