{
  "article_text": [
    "`` the universe is spatially homogeneous and isotropic '' , states the cosmological principle , the pillar on which the standard cosmological model is built .",
    "it is this assumption that allows us to treat the spatial hypersphere of our universe ( i.e. the three  dimensional space we live in ) , as a maximally symmetric subspace of the whole of space  time , and derive what is known as the robertson ",
    "walker metric .",
    "all we do in our everyday cosmology work is based upon this , with the further ingredient of an equation of state for the material content of the universe ( see e.g. weinberg 1972 ) .",
    "distances , luminosities , sizes : they all depend on this initial assumption . for this reason , considerable efforts were spent in the past decades to test observationally the validity of the cosmological principle , as described , e.g. , in peebles ( 1993 ) . due to the lack of distance measurements for most of the galaxies ,",
    "the prime test adopted was that of counting objects as a function of apparent flux , and still number counts are widely used as a powerful probe of the distant / past universe ( see e.g. ellis 1997 ) .",
    "the situation changed in the seventies , when the industry of galaxy redshift measurements started , allowing the reconstruction of the true tridimensional galaxy distribution over large areas of the sky . to everybody",
    "s surprise , since then ( and until very recently ) , any new 3d map continued to show highly structured patterns , with sizes comparable to those of the volumes surveyed .",
    "the question became , therefore , on which scales did the expected homogeneity start , or better , was there really any evidence of the assumed homogeneity ?",
    "this specific observation that larger and larger surveys seemed to show larger and larger structures naturally suggested a similarity with the mathematical objects called _ fractals _ , that were becoming commonplace in the description of other physical phenomena , in particular of what was known as _",
    "nonlinear dynamics_. several pages of b.  mandelbrot book _ the fractal geometry of nature _ , are dedicated to this property of the observed galaxy distribution .",
    "in fact , the elegant idea of a continuous fractal hierarchy of cosmic structures goes back to the beginning of the century ( charlier 1908 ) , but only in recent years the actual data could be used as direct motivation for such models . further support to the fractal view was added by the first estimates of the galaxy correlation function , whose power  law shape quantitatively indicated a scale  free character typical of fractal sets ( peebles 1980 ) .",
    "given the importance of the general issue , one can understand the reasons for the considerable  and very often controversial  debate that arised on this subject , stimulated in particular by the work of pietronero and collaborators .",
    "in particular , the first paper by this latter author on this specific subject ( pietronero 1987 ) is a good reference to grasp the spirit of the controversy , and can be taken as the manifesto of the `` no  evidence  for  homogeneity '' line of thought .",
    "several debates have been organized in the last couple of years in the attempt to settle this controversy , the most notable one being probably that of the `` critical dialogues in cosmology '' conference , held in princeton in june 1996 , opposing l.  pietronero ( pietronero   1997 , p97 hereafter ) , and m.  davis ( davis 1997 ) .",
    "this paper has its origin in a similar debate , held in frascati ( rome ) in december 1996 during the fifth italian national cosmology meeting , in which i was asked to defend the thesis that the universe is indeed homogeneous on large scales , against f.  sylos  labini . here",
    "i present in some detail the conclusions i have reached by looking at essentially two simple tests based on redshift data .",
    "this , therefore , is not conceived as a thorough review on the subject  although it often summarizes and uses previous results with a pedagogical style  but aims at showing through a couple of very specific observations that our faith in the cosmological principle is still well placed .",
    "since very often the controversies on this and other subjects have arised by a lack of communication produced by the different jargons used in different fields of physics , the style is deliberately phenomenological and aims at being understendable to an audience possibly larger than just the astronomical community .",
    "i decided to base my defense essentially on : a ) the scaling of the galaxy  galaxy correlation length @xmath0 with the sample size ; b ) the behaviour of counts of objects within volumes of increasing radius centered on our own galaxy .",
    "these are the two main arguments used by pietronero and collaborators to argue that in fact the data are consistent with an unlimited fractal with dimension @xmath1 ( e.g. p97 ) .",
    "the topics i chose are also partly complementary to those discussed by davis at the princeton meeting ( davis 1997 ) .",
    "more discussion on the subject can be also found in peebles ( 1993 ) .    since in this controversy",
    "i feel like playing the role of the advocate , this paper can be seen as a sort of harangue , whose aim will be to convince the jury that when the best optical redshift surveys are properly analyzed , the data are more consistent with a universe that becomes homogeneous above a scale comprised between 100 and 200 @xmath2 , rather than with an unlimited fractal distribution . trying to be a good lawyer , in the final section",
    "i will try to clarify some of the confusion existing on the actual scaling properties of the galaxy distribution , _ in the range where there is indeed a fractal  like scaling , _ and discuss how these can provide some hints on the origin of the large  scale structure of the universe .",
    "the first point that needs to be clarified before entering the core of the problem , is that any investigation that aims at checking for large  scale homogeneity can not be based on catalogues that are intrinsically highly incomplete .",
    "i refer in particular to the leda database ( paturel  1995 ) , on which some of the claims for a neverending fractal structure have recently been made ( di nella  1996 , p97 ) .",
    "this catalogue is a completely heterogenous compilation of literature redshifts , which can be very useful for a number of other applications , but whose intrinsic spatial inhomogeneities make it useless for performing an unbiased clustering analysis .",
    "these incompletenesses are addressed in a rather naive way in the quoted work ( where they are treated as _ spatially random _ , while they are _ patchy _ ) , and are most probably the origin of the enormous correlation length , @xmath3 , estimated for the largest sample extracted from this catalogue . since nowadays we have much better data sets available for testing our theoretical expectations , in this discussion i will not consider the results coming from leda as having any meaning whatsoever .",
    "let us remind the basic properties of fractal structures , and their relation to the standard correlation function used in cosmology ( see e.g. pietronero 1987 and provenzale 1991 for a more comprehensive discussion ) .",
    "a fractal distribution of points is characterized by a specific _ scaling _ relation .",
    "this scaling law can be by itself taken as a definition of fractal : the number of objects counted in spheres of radius @xmath5 around a randomly chosen object in the set must scale as @xmath6 where @xmath7 is the _ fractal dimension _ ( or more correctly , the fractal _ correlation _ dimension , see provenzale 1991 ) .",
    "analogously , the density within the same sphere will scale as @xmath8 for our purposes , it is useful to consider the expectation value of the density measured within shells of width @xmath9 at separation @xmath5 from an object in the set .",
    "this is called the _ conditional density _",
    "@xmath10 , after pietronero ( 1987 ) , and for a fractal set will scale in the same way , @xmath11 where @xmath12 is an amplitude that is a constant for a given fractal set .",
    "this function is useful , because it allows us to connect the fractal description to the standard two  point correlation function commonly used in cosmology , i.e. to the excess probability of finding an object within the same shell of width @xmath9 at separation @xmath5 from another taken at random ( see peebles 1980 for an accurate definition ) .",
    "if @xmath13 is the mean density of the sample ( we shall come back in a moment to explain what this means for a fractal ) , then it can be shown that @xmath14 in the strong clustering regime @xmath15 , and therefore we recover the classic result discussed in peebles ( 1980 ; 1993 ) , that a power  law correlation function for galaxies , @xmath16 , implies a scale  free , fractal clustering with dimension @xmath17 .",
    "this formally justifies the common wisdom that with a power  law correlation function the structures have a fractal character and look the same no matter the scale at which they are viewed .",
    "note , however , that in the weak clustering regime only @xmath18 , and not @xmath19 , will be able to show the existence of a fractal  like scaling .",
    "i will come back to this in   [ true - scaling ] .",
    "the discussion so far is valid for the case of a pure fractal distribution , or more in general within a range of scales where a clear scaling law can be identified ( as for a fractal range limited by an upper transition to homogeneity ) . in this situation",
    "the mean density @xmath13 is an ill  defined quantity , and depends directly on the sample size within which it is measured .",
    "in fact , integrating eq .",
    "[ gamma ] one can see that for a spherical sample with radius @xmath20 ( _ centered on an object _ , a point not always appreciated ) , the mean density is @xmath21 i.e. decreasing as a power law of the sample radius @xmath20 . correspondingly , the two  point correlation function is @xmath22 with a correlation length @xmath23 we have therefore a specific prediction : if the galaxy distribution has a pure fractal character , with a well defined fractal correlation dimension @xmath7 , then the correlation length @xmath24 is a linear function of the sample radius @xmath20 , with a coefficient that depends on the fractal dimension .",
    "the claim by pietronero and coworkers is that the behaviour described by eq .",
    "[ r0 ] is actually observed in the data .",
    "we know that galaxy clustering is well described by a power  law correlation function at small separations , at least for @xmath25 .",
    "this certainly implies that for sufficiently small samples the correlation length will not be a stable quantity .",
    "this should not be a tremendous surprise even for the not  fractally  trained cosmologist : it is a natural consequence of clustering independently from the way we describe it .",
    "a slightly different way of expressing the same concept , is to say that if one measures the mean density within a sphere of radius @xmath20 centered on a galaxy ( so as our redshift surveys are centered on our own galaxy ) , the expectation value of this quantity , @xmath26 , will be given by @xmath27   r^2 dr}\\,\\,\\,\\ , .",
    "\\label{n - measured}\\ ] ] since is positive for @xmath28 , for values of @xmath20 comparable to these inevitably @xmath26 will be larger than the asymptotic cosmic reference value @xmath13 . in other words , for the simple reason that galaxies are clustered , the mean density as seen by a generic galaxy will tend to be systematically overestimated ( note that this is true for the _ expectation value _ and therefore for an ensemble average : there will be fluctuations around this , so that some observers could well see an opposite trend . ) increasing the sample size @xmath20 , @xmath26 will converge asymptotically to @xmath13 , in a way that depends on the shape of the _ true _ two  point correlation function .",
    "consequently , in turn , any estimate of will tend be underestimated ( i.e. overnormalized ) for small samples , its amplitude will grow with the sample size and the correlation length @xmath0 will be a function of the sample radius @xmath20 , in essentially the same way as discussed in the previous section .",
    "this was in fact observed _ for small samples _ at the end of the eighties ( e.g. einasto   1986 ) , so there is little doubt that this is a real , consistent observational fact .",
    "the crucial point to be asked is however the following : is the observed relation between @xmath0 and @xmath20 linear over a significant range of scales , or does it asymptotically converge to a stable value ?",
    "coleman  ( 1988 ) claimed that such relation was indeed linear , with no evidence for convergency .",
    "however , in order to sample large enough volumes , in their study of the cfa1 sample they mixed up the clustering properties of galaxies with rather different intrinsic luminosity . in this way , they did not consider an extra variable ( i.e. luminosity ) , upon which clustering does , albeit weakly , depend ( see e.g. iovino  1993 , and more recently guzzo  1997 ) .",
    "davis  ( 1988 ) , for example , showed that the functional dependence , at least for  galaxies , was more like a square root of @xmath20 , a possible indication that the fractal range had some sort of upper cutoff to homogeneity inducing convergency of the mean density .",
    "these results gave rise to strong controversies related both to the samples used ( cfa1 vs. ) and to the use of statistical estimators in the computation of .",
    "rather than going back to the details of the controversy [ that can be found in davis ( 1997 ) and p97 ] , i prefer to turn to the new optical redshift data , that have become available since then and see what they yield in this respect .    in table",
    "[ tab - r0 ] i have listed as reference the general properties of the three deepest wide  angle redshift surveys of optically  selected galaxies available to date , the stromlo / apm survey , the eso slice project ( esp ) survey , and the las campanas redshift survey ( lcrs ) .",
    "redshift surveys typically do not sample a spherical volume , so that the `` sample radius '' has to be defined appropriately . in this case , a reasonable definition of @xmath20 is the radius of the maximum sphere which can be contained within the survey volume ( e.g. p97 ) , that is approximately expressed as @xmath29 , where @xmath30 is the survey depth and @xmath31 is the angular diameter of the largest circle that can be fully contained within the survey area on the sky .    [ cols=\"<,^,^,>,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     for the three surveys , table  [ tab - r0 ] lists , in particular , the `` sample radius '' @xmath20 and the corresponding expected value of @xmath0 for @xmath32 , if eq .",
    "[ r0 ] holds .",
    "the last column gives the actual observed values of @xmath0 .",
    "what the data consistently show is that the observed correlation lengths are off by tens of standard deviations from the values predicted by the simple @xmath32 fractal model . the result would be even worse using @xmath33 ( i.e. extrapolating the fractal dimension actually observed on small scales ",
    "[ true - scaling ] ) , that would predict larger @xmath24 s .",
    "i stress that these are true _",
    "values of the correlation length , and are performed on samples that include a similar range of absolute magnitudes .",
    "these aspects are usually confusingly mixed up in the comparisons presented , e.g. , in p97 .",
    "in fact , redshift ",
    "space correlation functions are characterized by a correlation length @xmath34 that is typically about 15% higher than the corresponding @xmath0 , due to the combined effect of small  scale and large ",
    "scale distortions produced by peculiar velocities . on the other hand , volume ",
    "limited samples that include only galaxies brighter than @xmath35 yield real  space correlation lengths @xmath36 ( see e.g. guzzo  1997 ) .",
    "the stability of @xmath0 in table  [ tab - r0 ] is indeed remarkable , and can not be justified as a consequence of the technique used to estimate @xmath19 , as often claimed ( e.g. p97 ) , given the very different geometry of the three surveys .",
    "this issue is discussed in a bit more detail in appendix a.",
    "the other test that i have decided to discuss is the behaviour of galaxy spatial counts within growing volumes centered on our own preferred location .",
    "pietronero and collaborators claim that also this statistics does indeed agree with the behaviour expected for an unlimited fractal distribution ( eq .  [ n_z ] ) for a number of redshift surveys [ more precisely , in p97 it is discussed the equivalent behaviour of the density within growing volumes , i.e. of the quantity @xmath38 . here",
    "i present my version of the story .",
    "first , i have considered one of the redshift surveys of the previous generation , the perseus ",
    "pisces redshift survey ( pp , giovanelli & haynes 1991 ) , which is one of those used by p97 for their analysis .",
    "fig1.ps , 4 , 4    the cone diagram of figure  [ cone_pp20 ] displays the distribution of the galaxies contained within a volume  limited subsample mpc@xmath39 and compute absolute magnitudes assuming @xmath40 . ] with @xmath41 and @xmath42 , basically the deepest volume  limited sample one can construct from the survey .",
    "the reason why i show this cone diagram is to remark what i mentioned in the introduction , i.e. how until very recently all redshift surveys continued to reveal structures with size comparable to the survey depth .",
    "( another example is the cfa2 survey , that , equivalently , is dominated by the so  called great wall , see e.g. geller & huchra 1989 ) .",
    "figure  [ nz_pp20 ] ( filled circles ) , shows the result of counting the number of objects as a function of distance , i.e. the integral counts within volumes of radius @xmath43 ( in @xmath44 ) for this sample .",
    "the red line gives the expected behaviour for a fractal distribution with @xmath32 , while the blue line describes the homogeneous case ( i.e. @xmath45 ) .",
    "the two curves are normalized as to reproduce the total number of galaxies in the sample .",
    "taken at face value , this plot seems to indicate that after an initial wiggling around the homogeneous curve , above @xmath46 the counts rise closer to the fractal curve , apparently confirming the findings of pietronero and collaborators .",
    "reality is a bit more complicated than this plot alone shows , however .",
    "let us consider the _ differential _ redshift distribution of the galaxies for the same sample , shown in figure  [ hist_pp20 ] .",
    "the solid histogram in the left panel clearly shows the preponderancy of the perseus ",
    "pisces supercluster at @xmath47 , while again the two curves in colour show the expectation values of the counts in the @xmath32 and homogeneous cases .",
    "one can notice that the boost observed in the integral counts of figure  [ nz_pp20 ] starts where the strong positive contribution of the supercluster enters the sampled volume .",
    "the right panel shows the ratio between the observed counts and those predicted in the two scenarios , ( the curve whose mean trend is closer to 1 will be the one which better describes the data ) . the red line ( fractal case ) , shows a monotonic increase with scale , indicating that it predicts on the average less objects at larger and larger radii than are actually observed .",
    "the homogeneous model describes the data better , fluctuating around a substantially flat mean , although the differences between the two models for @xmath48 are very small and not significant .",
    "intrinsic fluctuations due to clustering are still very strong on samples this size , and also when averaged over the large solid angle of the pp survey ( @xmath49 ) , they are much stronger than the poissonian fluctuations within the bins ( indicated by the error bars ) . comparing the integral and differential histograms , one should probably conclude that samples of this depth are simply not large enough for using @xmath50 as a discriminator of the global geometry .",
    "let us therefore consider again what are presently the state  of  the  art for redshift surveys , and in particular the esp .",
    "this redshift survey has an apparent magnitude limit of @xmath51 and contains radial velocities for 3342 galaxies , whose distribution in space is shown in figure  [ esp_cone ] .",
    "note for comparison how the largest structures in this survey are much smaller than the survey size ( what r.  kirshner called `` the end of greatness '' when describing the similar lcrs ) , unlike the pp and cfa2 surveys .",
    "based on the analysis of a preliminary version of this survey , pietronero and collaborators again claim that the behaviour of @xmath50 is consistent with a @xmath32 fractal .",
    "i have repeated the same exercise with the whole survey ( now completed , vettolani  1997 ) , extracting a volume  limited sample with @xmath52 and @xmath53 , containing a total of 517 galaxies .",
    "one word of caution is important here : this survey is deep enough so that galaxy magnitudes have to be k  corrected before the true rest ",
    "frame absolute magnitude can be recovered ( see zucca  1997 for details on the k  correction procedure ) .",
    "apparently , this seems to have been neglected in the analysis presented , e.g. , in p97 [ see scaramella  ( 1997 ) for a more detailed investigation of this point , together with a comparison of the @xmath50 of abell clusters ] . in figure  [ nz_esp ]",
    "i have plotted the integral counts @xmath54 obtained for the esp subsample , compared again to the expectations of the @xmath32 and @xmath45 cases , as in figure  [ nz_pp20 ] .",
    "fig4.ps , 6 , 6    the counts are now performed in the full cosmological framework , assuming a spatially flat universe with @xmath55 , as indicated in the figure .",
    "the fractal ( red ) curve is computed by assuming that comoving distances are distributed according to the fractal law , and then calculating the corresponding redshift in the chosen world model .",
    "i note , however , that there is an internal inconsistency in this procedure , since the friedmann ",
    "walker cosmology _ assumes _ a priori homogeneity on large scales .",
    "therefore , we would not even be allowed to make this comparison on scales where the global cosmology starts to be important , if the fractal hypothesis were true .",
    "in other words , one would have first to re  found a different cosmology , based on a different sort of cosmological principle compatible with the fractal hypothesis , construct the proper distance relations , and then finally compare predictions with the observations . for our purposes ,",
    "cosmological corrections are still small on these scales so that the simple frw comparison should be meaningful .",
    "as one can note from the figure , the integral counts seem to be very well in agreement with those expected for a homogeneous universe on large scales .",
    "note the low values of the counts at small radii .",
    "this is due first of all to the small survey volume within these distances ( the esp survey area is only @xmath56 thick in declination ) , so that bright objects are lost due to shot noise , that cuts off the bright tail of the luminosity function .",
    "( this is the same as saying that the volume is not large enough as to make the integral of the luminosity function over that volume larger than 1 : since we can not observe , say , 1/5 or 1/2 of a galaxy , no galaxy  at that luminosity  is observed ) .",
    "the second effect is a true underdensity in the mean distribution of galaxies in the south galactic pole region which seems to extend out to @xmath57 .",
    "this underdensity has been shown by zucca  ( 1997 ) to be the origin of the observed deficit of `` bright '' galaxies in the number counts .",
    "the important result in figure  [ nz_esp ] is that the counts clearly stabilize around the homogeneous curve for @xmath58 .",
    "this is in contradiction with what has been claimed by pietronero and collaborators from the analysis of the same survey .",
    "the only explanation of the discrepancy i can find is possibly in them having improperly analysed a preliminary , incomplete version of the survey and most importantly not having performed any k  correction as a measure of distance and applies no k  correction , the resulting @xmath59 behaves similarly to a @xmath1 model . ] .    in figure",
    "[ esp_hist ] , just as a further indication , i show the behaviour of the differential redshift distribution for the same sample .",
    "again , the @xmath32 fractal model ( red line ) , overestimates the expected distribution at small distances while underestimating it at large distances .",
    "so far we have concentrated on two specific observational tests that i considered as crucial , and that explicitly show the difficulty of describing the distribution of galaxies as a pure unlimited fractal . to shortly summarize the conclusions reached so far : 1 ) the mean density and hence the correlation length does not depend on the sample size _ for the largest statistically complete redshift samples available today _ , and on the contrary @xmath24 is remarkably stable among surveys of very different geometry .",
    "2 ) the growth of the number of galaxies in volumes of increasing radius is more consistent , _ within sufficiently large volumes _ , with a homogeneous distribution than with a fractal .",
    "having established this , however , what can be said about the fractal properties of the galaxy distribution in the range where galaxies are clustered , and in which their distribution shows a clear self  similar character ?",
    "the classical arguments in this respect are discussed in detail in peebles ( 1980 ; 1993 ) , and in mandelbrot ( 1982 ) .",
    "the essence of this is that galaxy clustering on scales smaller than @xmath60 is well described by a power  law correlation function @xmath16 with @xmath61 . on these scales",
    "@xmath15 , and we have seen in   [ basics ] how this implies a fractal behaviour characterized by a fractal dimension @xmath62 .",
    "n  body simulations ( e.g. valdarnini , borgani & provenzale 1992 ) , statistical ( peebles 1980 ) , and thermodynamical arguments ( saslaw 1984 ) , seem to agree in indicating that a @xmath63 power  law correlation function is a sort of equilibrium attractor of fully nonlinear gravitational evolution . independently on the way we describe it , therefore , this regime seems to be undoubtedly the product of the scale  free action of gravity .",
    "we have also seen that , in general , a fractal regime is strictly evidenced by a power ",
    "law behaviour of @xmath50 , @xmath10 or , better , @xmath18 .",
    "if therefore , clustering has some sort of fractal behaviour also in the linear regime ( where @xmath64 or smaller ) , one will be capable to detect it only by looking at these functions .",
    "motivated by these arguments , discussed in pietronero ( 1987 ) , some years ago guzzo  ( 1991 , g91 hereafter ) studied the behaviour of @xmath18 in the pp and cfa1 redshift surveys .",
    "the result was that consistently in both surveys this function is characterized by two distinct power ",
    "law ranges : a small  scale part with @xmath33 for @xmath65 , and a second range , between 3.5 and @xmath66 , where @xmath18 is still well described by a power law , but with a fractal dimension @xmath67 .",
    "they speculated that the two ranges could be evidence for two distinct physical regimes : ( 1 ) fully nonlinear gravitational clustering on small scales , and ( 2 ) quasi  linear fluctuations on larger scales , characterized by a shallower clustering , possibly still reminiscent of initial conditions .",
    "the interest in this latter range was clearly motivated by the attractive possibility to relate it directly to the linear shape of the power spectrum of density fluctuations @xmath68 .",
    "the observed behaviour implied a rather steep @xmath68 on these scales , with @xmath69 , significantly steeper than , e.g. , that expected from a standard cold dark matter ( cdm ) fluctuation spectrum on the same scales , that has an effective index close to @xmath70 .",
    "branchini  ( 1994 ) showed how a phenomenological linear power spectrum with such a slope could be numerically evolved to develop the correct small ",
    "scale @xmath33 slope , while providing at the same time a good match to the observed large ",
    "scale shallower clustering .",
    "the result by g91 was certainly approximate in many respects , in particular in the treatment of redshift  space distortions .",
    "the two regimes can indeed be clearly seen only in real space : redshift  space damping produced by cluster velocity dispersions below @xmath71 has the perverse effect of flattening down the correlation function , bringing the observed @xmath7 to a value around 1.61.8 , so that when one plots @xmath72 , this is very well described by a single power law with slope @xmath73 on all scales out to @xmath74 .",
    "for this reason , the best test of the g91 findings is provided by the distortion ",
    "free clustering measures computed from angular surveys like the apm .",
    "qualitatively , one could already notice that the angular correlation function @xmath75 from the apm survey ( maddox  1990 ) , shows a `` shoulder '' above @xmath56 ( @xmath76 at the depth of the lick catalogue , to which that result is scaled ) , the same feature that g91 showed to be the fingerprint of the large  scale shallower scaling ( see also calzetti 1992 for a similar inference from earlier angular data ) .",
    "this indication was made more explicit by the estimate of the apm real  space power spectrum , that baugh & efstathiou ( 1993 ) , computed by de ",
    "projecting @xmath75 .",
    "i have replotted their estimate in figure  [ pk_apm ] .",
    "the figure shows that at wavenumbers larger than the peak around 0.05 h mpc@xmath39 the spectrum is characterized by two slopes : @xmath77 at intermediate wavenumbers , and @xmath78 at larger @xmath79 s ( small spatial scales ) .",
    "these correspond , in fourier space , to the two clustering ranges observed by g91 on @xmath18 .",
    "the transition between the two regimes is around @xmath80 h mpc@xmath39 , corresponding to the @xmath81 change of slope observed in the correlation function [ @xmath82 .",
    "this scale , therefore , seems to assume a particularly important dynamical meaning in the clustering properties of our universe at the present epoch : it is the typical scale below which _ today _ fluctuations are fully nonlinear .",
    "the relation of the two power  law ranges to the linear and nonlinear regimes of evolution of the power spectrum , has been recently confirmed through a detailed investigation by peacock ( 1997 ) .",
    "branchini  ( 1994 ) simply assumed that the large  scale @xmath67 power law was strictly describing the behaviour of linear fluctuations , and extrapolated this regime to smaller scales to construct their phenomenological linear power spectrum .",
    "peacock ( 1997 ) , on the other hand , applies a modified version of hamilton  ( 1991 ) analytical reconstruction algorithm to the baugh & efstathiou apm power spectrum and to a similar real ",
    "space estimate from the _qdot _ survey ( saunders 1992 ) , to obtain the linear power spectrum from the nonlinear data .",
    "the observations [ expressed as variance per logarithm of @xmath79 , @xmath83 , and the reconstructed linear power spectrum ( dotted line ) , are shown in figure  [ jap ] .",
    "the important result is that the reconstructed linear power spectrum turns out to be characterized by a an index around @xmath84 for scales smaller than the turnover at @xmath85 h mpc@xmath39 , as deduced by g91 and branchini  ( 1994 ) using the shape of @xmath18 .",
    "the main conclusions that i have reached in this harangue in defense of a homogeneous universe can be summarized as follows .",
    "\\1 ) there is strong evidence from the large  scale distribution of galaxies that the observed clustering does not continue to arbitrarily large scales , but is limited by a turnover to homogeneity .",
    "this cutoff scale , that we can associate to a maximum in the power spectrum @xmath68 , is most probably located around a 3d wavelength scale comprised between 100 and @xmath86 and becomes evident when we properly analyze the largest surveys presently available .",
    "it is clear that even these samples have just reached this scale , and certainly we are not yet sampling well enough the largest clustering wavelengths in the galaxy density field .",
    "however , the stability of the galaxy  galaxy correlation length and the law of growth of the number of objects within larger and larger volumes are in contraddiction with a pure fractal with a well  defined @xmath7 on all observed scales .",
    "\\2 ) on the other hand , within the range where they are clustered galaxies do cluster in a fractal  like way .",
    "more specifically , there is strong evidence that we are witnessing the effect of two processes , both producing a scale  free behaviour in the galaxy distribution within their respective ranges of action . at separations smaller than @xmath87",
    "we observe a distribution with @xmath33 , resulting from the nonlinear gravitational evolution of the initial spectrum . on larger scales",
    ", there is a second range extending to separations of @xmath74 in which a fractal  like scaling is also observed , but with a shallower scaling law characterized by @xmath88 .",
    "we have seen that there are very good reasons to interpret this range as being directly related to initial conditions , corresponding to a linear power spectrum with a slope @xmath89 between @xmath90 and @xmath91 . in the framework of cdm models , open models with @xmath92 best",
    "reproduce the observed shape on small and large scales ( peacock 1997 ) .",
    "however , the best match to the observations in absolute terms is provided by phenomenological shapes in which the maximum of @xmath68 is much sharper than in any cdm variant ( branchini  1994 ; peacock 1997 ) recently provided by einasto  ( 1997 ) . ] .",
    "if this primordial scaling really corresponds to a fractal behaviour ( to this end it would be important a better understanding of the present phase distribution of the large  scale density field as traced by galaxies , see e.g. ghigna  1994 ) , then one can speculate how this could have developed strarting from the natural assumption of an initially gaussian density field .",
    "if initial conditions were gaussian ( and therefore intrinsically non  fractal ) , characterized by a power ",
    "law @xmath68 with @xmath93 over comoving wavelengths between @xmath94 and random phases , one could think of linear gravitational clustering ( perhaps in combination with galaxy formation processes that favour the density field above a certain threshold  see e.g. szalay & schramm 1985 ) , as a process that very quickly rearranges the phases of the density field , while the power spectrum slowly grows self  similarly in amplitude .",
    "this would provide the necessary phase ordering which is a key for producing fractal distributions , characterized by strongly non ",
    "random phases . in a different perspective , this stage of evolution could be seen as the build up of pancakes , i.e. the early linear growth of long  wavelength fluctuations along one preferred direction , giving rise to flattened , sheet  like structures ( an interpretation already proposed by dekel & aarseth 1984 ) . in fact , provenzale  ( 1994 ) explicitly showed that the observed two regimes of clustering can be reproduced also in a toy model in which : ( 1 ) galaxies are distributed as a 2d fractal on the surfaces of planar structures ; ( 2 ) these are in turn randomly oriented in space in a 3d network , with a specific mean inter  plane distance . in this picture , the large ",
    "scale @xmath95 dimension would be _ topological _ , rather than fractal .    while large scales grow linearly , at the same time on small scales nonlinear gravitational clustering starts building up vigorously a different , more packed structure with @xmath96 , that grows up in time extending to larger and larger scales .",
    "is this a true fractal distribution ?",
    "it has recently been shown explicitly that the observed scaling law can be produced by a distribution of _ density singularities _ ( i.e. clusters ) with a certain profile ( murante  1997 ) .",
    "the observed @xmath33 at small separations would directly descend in this picture from the mean density profile of these clusters , that dominate two  point statistics on small scales .",
    "my feeling is that probably on large scales ( the @xmath1 regime ) , we are seeing a true fractal essentially produced both by the re  ordering of phases along large ",
    "scale density fluctuations and the effects of galaxy formation that bias the luminous objects towards the large  scale density peaks .",
    "the result of these early processes is to form the tridimensional network of objects with scale  free clustering properties , that we observe today on scales between 5 and @xmath97 . on small scales ,",
    "on the other hand , i find the singularity picture more realistic .",
    "in fact , nonlinear collapse ( strongly anisotropic in the beginning , as driven by the initial long  wavelength distribution , i.e. preferentially along the `` phase channels '' provided by the large  scale structure ) , produces a `` phase  scrambling '' , with a total erasing of the initial information .",
    "the result of this process , after subsequent re  expansion , is a virialized , relaxed structure that we call a cluster , with a well  defined and rather isotropic density profile that plays the major role in producing the observed small ",
    "scale @xmath33 slope in the two  point correlation function .",
    "given that we indeed observe these relaxed objects and that galaxies in clusters dominate two  point statistics on small scales , this `` distribution of density singularities '' , as discussed by murante  ( 1997 ) , might seem a better description of the observed statistical behaviour , than that of a homogeneous fractal with the same two  point function .    at the end of the 1996",
    " critical dialogues \" meeting , l.  pietronero and m.  davis agreed to wager a case of good wine ( californian vs. italian , respectively ) , about which value for the galaxy correlation length will be measured by the sloan digital sky survey .",
    "the discussion i have presented here seems to point in the direction of more italian wine to be exported to california , rather than the opposite .",
    "while we wait for the sdss to produce its first estimate of @xmath24 , however , we seem already able to draw some conclusions of methodological character .",
    "the morale of the present discussion could be that , like good wine , if fractal techniques and methods are `` taken with moderation '' they provide a useful perspective from which to interpret the nature and evolution of large  scale structure .",
    "this perspective is not at all in contraddiction with the classical gravitational instability description , given that an homogeneity turnover does seem to be there .",
    "this means that , unlike for a pure fractal , a mean density of the universe can be defined and in turn the whole concept of density fluctuations makes sense . on the contrary , we have seen that statistical descriptions that are common place in the study of fractal phenomena ( see e.g. borgani 1995 for an overview ) , and that are often very simple ( but significant ) modifications of those usually applied in cosmology , can help in evidencing very important characteristics of galaxy clustering . in particular , to show where and with which properties galaxies do display a scale  free behaviour of some sort .",
    "continuing with the same oenological analogy , i should conclude at this point that also a good vintage wine can , if used immoderately , lead to rather annoying consequences . in the same way , i hope to have shown that the beauty and elegance of the fractal description has to be applied to the real data keeping in mind the physics of structure formation , and most importantly the whole range of subtle selection biases that affect the observations .",
    "* acknowledgments *    i am indebted to jim peebles for his contribution to the birth of this paper , and for his encouraging comments on the manuscript .",
    "i thank antonello provenzale for many stimulating discussions on this subject during the past years , and guido chincarini , marc davis , roberto scaramella , gianni zamorani , elena zucca , and especially peter schcker for very useful comments and discussions .",
    "i am grateful to all the esp survey team for allowing me to discuss some results from the project in advance of publication , and to carlton baugh for providing the apm power spectrum in electronic form .",
    "john peacock is gratefully acknowledeged for his patience in our e - mail discussions on the evolution of clustering .",
    "i would also like to acknowledge vigorous discussions with my opponents in this very stimulating controversy , francesco sylos  labini and luciano pietronero .",
    "bartlett , j. ,  ( the esp team ) , 1997 , in preparation    baugh , c.m . , & efstathiou , g.p . , 1993 , mnras , 265 , 145    borgani , s. , 1995 , phys . rep .",
    ", 251 , 1    branchini , e. , guzzo , l. & valdarnini , r. , 1994 , apj , 424 , l5    calzetti , d. , giavalisco , m. , & meiksin , a. , 1992 , apj , 398 , 429    castagnoli , c. , & provenzale , a. , 1991 , a&a , 246 , 634    charlier , c.v.l . , 1908 ,",
    "astron . fys . , 4 , 1    coleman , p.h . ,",
    "pietronero , l. , & sanders , r.h . , 1988 ,",
    "a&a , 200 , l32    davis , m. , 1997 , preprint , astro - ph/9610149    davis , m. , meiksin , a. , strauss , m.a .",
    ", da costa , l.n . , & yahil , a. , 1988 , apj , 333 , l9    dekel , a. , & aarseth , s.j . , 1984 , apj , 283 , 1    di nella , h. , montuori , m. , paturel , g. , pietronero , l. , sylos labini , f. , a&a , in press ( astro - ph/9603015 )    einasto , j. , klypin , a. , saar , e. , 1986 , mnras , 219 , 457    einasto , j. , 1997 , nature , 385 , 139    ellis , r.s . , 1997 ,",
    "ara&a , in press    fisher , k.b . , davis , m. , strauss , m.a . ,",
    "yahil , a. , & huchra , j.p . , 1994 , mnras , 267 , 927    geller , m.j . , & huchra , j. , 1989 , science , 246 , 897    ghigna , s. , borgani , s. , bonometto , s.a . ,",
    "guzzo , l. klypin , a. , primack , j.r . ,",
    "giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.p . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 437 , l71    giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.p . , 1991 , ara&a , 29 , 499    guzzo , l. , iovino , a. , chincarini , g. , giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.p . , 1991 , apj , 382 , l5 ( g91 )    guzzo , l. , strauss , m.a . , fisher , k.b . , giovanelli , r. , & haynes , m.p . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 489 , in press ( astro - ph/9706150 )    hamilton , a.j.s . ,",
    "kumar , p. , lu , e. , & matthews , a. , 1991 , apj , 374 , l1    iovino , a. , giovanelli , r. , haynes , m.p . ,",
    "chincarini , g. , & guzzo , l. 1993 , mnras , 265 , 21    lemson , g. , & sanders , r.h.,1991 , mnras , 252 , 319    lin , h. , 1995 , _ phd thesis _ , university of harvard .",
    "loveday , j. , maddox , s.j .",
    ", efstathiou , g. , & peterson , b.a .",
    ", 1995 , apj , 442 , 457    maddox , s.j . ,",
    "efstathiou , g. , sutherland , w. j. & loveday , j. , 1990 , mnras , 242 , 43p    mandelbrot , b.b .",
    ", 1982 , _ the fractal geometry of nature _",
    "( san francisco : freeman )    murante , g. , provenzale , a. , spiegel , e.a . , & thierberger , r. , preprint , astro - ph/9704188    paturel , g. , 1995 , in _ information and on  line data in astronomy _",
    ", d.  egret & m.  albrecht eds . , kluwer , p.  115 .",
    "peacock , j.a .",
    ", 1997 , mnras , 284 , 885 .",
    "peebles , p.j.e . , 1980 , _ the large  scale structure of the universe _ ,",
    "( princeton : princeton university press )    peebles , p.j.e . , 1993 , _ principles of physical cosmology _ , ( princeton : princeton university press )    pietronero , l. , 1987 , physica , 144a , 257    pietronero , l. , montuori , m. , & sylos  labini , f. , 1997 , preprint , astro - ph/9611197 ( p97 )    provenzale , a. , 1991 , in _ applying fractals in astronomy _ , a.  heck & j.  perdang eds . , ( berlin : springer )    provenzale , a. , guzzo , l. , & murante , g. , 1994 , mnras , 266 , 555    saslaw , w.c . , 1984 , _ gravitational physics of stellar and galactic systems _ , ( cambridge : cambridge university press )    saunders , w. , rowan  robinson , m. , lawrence , a. , 1992 , mnras , 258 , 134    scaramella , r. ,  ( the esp team ) , 1997 , in preparation",
    "szalay , a.s . , & schramm , d.n . , 1985 , nature , 314 , 718    valdarnini , r. , borgani , s. , & provenzale , a. , 1992 , apj , 394 , 422    vettolani , p. ,  ( the esp team ) , 1997 , a&a , 325 , 954    weinberg , s. , 1972 , _ gravitation and cosmology _ , ( new york : wiley )    zucca , e. ,  ( the esp team ) , 1997 , a&a , 326 , 477",
    "in p97 and in many previous works by the same authors , a basic methodological cricitism is made of the standard technique normally used to estimate @xmath19 from redshift surveys in the presence of sample boundaries ( e.g. davis & peebles 1983 ) .",
    "the effect of the finite survey volume is usually taken into account by normalizing the observed number of pairs at each separation to that obtained from a set of random points distributed within the same volume of the survey . without entering into the technical details of the problem , here i would only like to mention the results of two simple direct tests of the limits of this technique .",
    "to this end , provenzale   ( 1994 ) constructed simulated fractal distributions using the @xmath31model algorithm , from which they extracted artificial mock surveys with classical `` cone  like '' shapes .",
    "the result was that they were not able to reproduce the observed flattening of @xmath18 at @xmath98 [ i.e. a break in @xmath19 ] , from a pure unlimited fractal model `` observed '' as the real surveys .",
    "the observed behaviour was reproduced only by a @xmath31model with an upper cutoff to homogeneity above cubes of @xmath97 side , corresponding to fluctuations with wavelength around @xmath100 .",
    "the same conclusions had been reached independently by lemson & sanders ( 1991 ) , who instead used voronoi tesselation and lvy flights to produce synthetic fractals by which to test the estimators of the two  point correlation function ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i critically discuss in a pedagogical and phenomenological way a few crucial tests challenging the recent claims by pietronero and collaborators that there is no evidence from available galaxy catalogues that the universe is actually homogeneous above a certain scale . in a series of papers </S>",
    "<S> , these authors assert that observations are consistent with a fractal distribution of objects extending to the limit of the present data . </S>",
    "<S> i show that while galaxies are indeed clustered in a scale  free ( fractal ) way on small and intermediate scales , this behaviour does not continue indefinitely . </S>",
    "<S> although the specific wavelength at which the galaxy distribution apparently turns to homogeneity is dangerously close to the size of the largest samples presently available , there are serious hints suggesting that this turnover is real and that its effects are detected in the behaviour of statistical estimators . </S>",
    "<S> the most recent claims of a continuing fractal hierarchy up to scales of several hundreds megaparsecs seem to be abscribable to the use of incomplete samples or to an improper treatment of otherwise high  quality data sets . </S>",
    "<S> the fractal perspective , nevertheless , represents a fruitful way to look at the clustering properties of galaxies , when properly coupled to the traditional gravitational instability scenario . </S>",
    "<S> in the last part of this paper i will try to clarify , at a very simple level , some of the confusion existing on the actual scaling properties of the galaxy distribution , and discuss how these can provide hints on the evolution of the large  scale structure of the universe .    </S>",
    "<S> *   _ med    # 1 , # 2 , # 3    _ pacs codes : 98.80.-k _ , _ keywords : cosmology : large  scale structure of universe  cosmology : observations  cosmology : theory _ </S>"
  ]
}