{
  "article_text": [
    "globular clusters ( gc ) are thought to be the oldest bound stellar systems in our galaxy .",
    "their study provides therefore valuable information about the early galactic evolution . in this respect ,",
    "a major problem is that we do not know whether what we presently observe is still representative of the initial conditions and , thus , a fossil imprint of the formation process , or whether the initial conditions have been wiped out by a 15gyr long evolution within the tidal fields of the milky way .",
    "modelling the dynamical evolution of the galactic globular cluster system ( gcs ) is thus of great interest as it helps us to go back in time to the earliest stages of the cluster system and to disentangle the formation and evolutionary fingerprints ( see , e.g. , gnedin & ostriker 1997 , baumgardt 1998 , vesperini 1998 , fall & zhang 2001 ) .",
    "the gcs most vulnerable to evaporation and disruption are the low - mass clusters located at small galactocentric distance . as a result",
    ", the evolution with time of a gcs is markedly determined by the initial distribution of the gcs in space around the galactic centre as well as by their initial mass spectrum .    as for the presently observed spatial distribution of the galactic halo gcs",
    ", it is centrally concentrated with the density varying as @xmath0 ( @xmath1 is the galactocentric distance ) over most of the halo ( zinn 1985 ) . in the inner 3 - 4kpc",
    ", the distribution flattens to something closer to an @xmath2 dependence . as a result",
    ", the overall distribution is conveniently described by a power - law with a core ( see section 2 ) .",
    "the observed central flattening probably arises from a combination of several effects : our failure to discover some gcs in the heavily absorbed central regions of the galaxy , distance errors , and the real flattening of the distribution .",
    "it is still unclear whether such a flattening is of primordial origin and reflects the initial spatial distribution of the system , or whether it has been completely determined by evolutionary processes .",
    "the latter are especially effective at small galactocentric distances where the gc relaxation time is short , causing the disruption of some gcs and the partial evaporation of some others .",
    "more generally , as far as we are aware of , the shape of the whole spatial distribution of the halo gcs has received no explanation .",
    "the aim of this paper is to present a possible model accounting for the distribution around the galactic centre of the mass content of the halo gcs , that is , the variation with galactocentric distance of the mass density of the halo gcs .",
    "we will consider solely the old halo ( oh ) gcs , excluding from our analysis the younger halo ( yh ) subsystem .",
    "this one is made of gcs suspected of having been accreted and is thus of limited relevance to the earliest stages of the main body of our galaxy ( see , e.g. , zinn 1993 , van den bergh 1993 ) .",
    "a common trend of different scenarios for the formation of gcs is to assume that their gaseous progenitor clouds , whatever their size ( @xmath3 , e.g. , fall & rees 1985 ; @xmath4 , e.g. , harris & pudritz 1994 ) , are embedded in a hot and tenuous background at the virial temperature .",
    "we build on this picture , splitting the protogalaxy in a set of three components : a gaseous medium consisting of a hot and a cold phases ( in the form of a collection of cold and dense clouds , the gaseous precursors of the halo gcs , pressure - bound by a hot medium ) , and a dark matter corona .",
    "we investigate whether the mass density profile of the halo gcs may trace the profile of the cold phase , that is , of the cold baryonic matter which was available to star formation some 15gyr ago .",
    "+ the outline of the paper is as follows . in section 2",
    ", we build the radial mass density profile of the oh and obtain new fits of a power - law with a core , with parameter values appropriate to this subsystem of gcs only .",
    "we also summarize the evidence from the literature following which mass - related quantities may be better probes to the initial conditions than number related quantities . in section 3 , we present our hypothesis regarding the shape of the initial mass density profile of the oh gcs and we compare the oh profile obtained in section 2 with our suggested model , that is , with the radial density profile of the cold protogalactic material . in section 4",
    ", we simulate the evolution with time of a gcs whose initial mass density profile mirrors the one of the cold protogalactic gas , and this for various initial gc mass spectra . we compare the spatial mass distributions of these evolved systems with the presently observed spatial mass distribution of the oh . finally , our conclusions are presented in section 5 .",
    "the observed radial distribution of the galactic gcs ( i.e. , the number of gcs per unit volume in space as a function of galactocentric distance @xmath1 ) is often parametrized by a simple power law with a core : @xmath5 realizing a `` chi - by - eye '' fitting of this type of curve on the observed spatial distribution of the gcs , djorgovski & meylan ( 1994 ) found good matches for @xmath6 3.5 - 4.0 and @xmath7 0.5 - 2kpc , the steepest slope being associated with the largest core .",
    "this approach is purely empirical however and is not meant to imply any physical meaning of the distribution given by equation ( [ eq : pl_core ] ) .",
    "both the number and the mass density profiles of the halo ( [ fe / h ] @xmath8 0.8 ) gcs can be described by equation ( [ eq : pl_core ] ) , as both profiles are indistinguishable in shape . however , as argued by mclaughlin ( 1999 ) , the spatial distribution of the mass is likely to be a better estimate of the initial conditions than its number counterpart . dynamical evolution targetting mostly low - mass clusters and these ones accounting for a limited fraction of the gcs mass ( see below and section [ sec : evol_rho_d ] ) , the decrease with time of the total gcs mass is much slower than the decrease of the total number of gcs .",
    "this interesting property comes from how the shape of the initial mass spectrum of the halo gcs may have looked like . in our galaxy ,",
    "the luminosity function of the halo gcs or @xmath9 , while we refer to the mass / luminosity _ function _ to describe the number of objects per _ logarithmic _ luminosity / mass interval , @xmath10 or @xmath11 . ]",
    "( the number of gcs per unit absolute magnitude , which is proportional to the number of objects per logarithmic mass interval ) is bell - shaped and usually fitted with a gaussian .",
    "however , the underlying mass spectrum ( i.e. , the number of objects per linear mass interval ) is well fitted by a two - index power - law , with exponents @xmath12 and @xmath13 above and below @xmath14 m@xmath15 , respectively ( mclaughlin 1994 ) .",
    "the peak of the gaussian magnitude function in fact coincides with the cluster mass at which the slope of the mass spectrum changes .",
    "the slope of the high mass regime is reminiscent of what is observed in interacting and merging galaxies ( see , e.g. , whitmore & schweizer 1995 , whitmore et al .",
    "2002 ) where systems of young gcs show well defined power - law with slopes ranging between 1.8 and 2 for their luminosity spectrum ( but see the discussion in section [ sec : evol_rho_d ] ) .",
    "this thus suggests that the initial mass spectrum of the halo gcs may have been itself a single - power law .",
    "numerous studies of gcs dynamical evolution modelling have shown that a hubble time long evolution turns such an initial spectrum into the presently observed one ( e.g. , baumgardt 1998 , vesperini 1998 , fall & zhang 2001 ) .",
    "in fact , low - mass clusters being the most vulnerable to evaporation and disruption , the gc mass spectrum gets severly depleted below a turnover of @xmath16 m@xmath15 , leading to a much shallower mass spectrum ( i.e. , slope @xmath17 ) in the low - mass regime .",
    "pal  5 constitutes a striking example of a low - mass gc currently dissolved by the galactic tidal fields ( odenkirchen et al .",
    ", 2001 ; dehnen et al . ,",
    "2004 ) .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     how the initial mass spectrum of the galactic halo gcs looked like is a much debated issue . as mentioned earlier , the observed luminosity spectrum @xmath18 of numerous cluster systems recently formed in starburst and merging galaxies is a power - law . however , whether the luminosity spectrum @xmath18 constitutes a faithfull mirror of the underlying mass spectrum @xmath19 is questionable .",
    "both shapes agree only if the variations of the mass - to - light ratio from cluster to cluster are limited ( as is roughly the case for the galactic halo gcs ) . such a requirement may not be true for ongoing or recent starbursts : the formation duration of such systems may be a significant fraction of the system s median age and , thus , age spread effects among the young star cluster population may not be negligible . being an age related quantity , the mass - to - light ratio can no longer be considered as a constant and the shape of the luminosity spectrum may differ substantially from the shape of the mass spectrum . raising this issue ,",
    "meurer et al .  ( 1995 ) and fritze v. alvensleben ( 1998 , 1999 ) showed that systems of young gcs could display a power - law luminosity spectrum while the underlying mass spectrum is a broken power - law or , equivalently , a gaussian when the binning is logarithmic ( @xmath20 ) .",
    "the reason for this is that , owing to the fading with time of the cluster luminosity , high mass clusters can be observed over a wide range of ages , while low - mass ones are detectable at young ages only . as a result , low - mass clusters are underrepresented in the observed mass spectrum .",
    "thus , this one can be described by a two - index power - law ( or equivalently a bell - shaped mass function ) as it does not raise in the low - mass regime as steeply as in the high - mass regime .    vesperini ( 1998 )",
    "has indeed shown that the halo gcs could have started with a gaussian initial mass function .",
    "building on n - body simulations performed by vesperini & heggie ( 1997 ) , he demonstrated the existence of a quasi - equilibrium gc mass function , that is , a mass function whose initial gaussian shape and parameters ( mean and standard deviation ) are preserved during the entire evolution through a subtle balance between disruption of clusters and evolution of the masses of those which survived , even though a significant fraction of the gcs is destroyed .",
    "interestingly , the mean and the standard deviation of this gaussian equilibrium mass function ( @xmath21 and @xmath22 ) are remarkably close to those of the mass function of the halo gcs .",
    "thus , the initial gc mass function may have been very similar to what it is today .",
    "obviously , the study of the temporal evolution of the gc mass spectrum is not enough to unveil its initial shape as both a power - law and a gaussian mass functions evolve into the current gc mass function after a hubble time .",
    "if we _ assume _ that the halo gc initial mass spectrum was similar to what is observed today in starbursts and mergers , to derive the latter , one should estimate the individual ages for all star clusters .",
    "this can be done by , for instance , comparing the observed broad - band photometry to the colours generated by spectral evolution synthesis models ( see , e.g. , parmentier , de grijs & gilmore 2003 ) .",
    "these models will then provide an estimate of the mass - to - light ratio for each cluster as a function of age , eventually enabling one to derive the intrinsic mass spectrum underlying the observed luminosity spectrum .",
    "unfortunately , even such studies lead to unconclusive results .",
    "analysing the system of young gcs in the antenna merger ngc  4038/39 , zhang & fall ( 2001 ) show that the very young clusters ( i.e. , with age less than 150  myr ) , those which have remained unaffected by the various dynamical effects , are distributed in mass according to a pure power - law with slope @xmath232 . on the other hand , de grijs et al .",
    "( 2003 ) derive a gaussian mass function @xmath24 ( or equivalently a two - index power - law when binning the data in @xmath25 ) for an equally young system in the nearby starburst galaxy ngc  3310 .",
    "therefore , at the present stage , neither the theory of the dynamical evolution of a gcs , nor the observations of young gcs in starburst galaxies can help distinguishing between a power - law or a gaussian mass function for the gc initial population . considering the very unclear issue of this debate , we have computed the temporal evolution of the spatial distribution of the gcs mass around the galactic centre for various mass functions .",
    "+    to evolve the spatial distribution of the mass of a gcs from the time of its formation up to an age of 15gyr , we adopt the analytic formulae of vesperini & heggie ( 1997 ) which supply at any time @xmath26 the mass @xmath25 of a gc with initial mass @xmath27 and moving along a circular orbit at a galactocentric distance @xmath1 .",
    "these relations have been obtained by fitting the results of a large set of n - body simulations in which vesperini & heggie ( 1997 ) take into account the effects of stellar evolution as well as two - body relaxation , which leads to evaporation through the gc tidal boundary .",
    "disc shocking can also be included ( see below ) . in order to take into account dynamical friction , gcs",
    "whose time - scale of orbital decay ( see , e.g. , binney & tremaine 1987 ) is smaller than @xmath26 are removed from the gcs at that time .",
    "a summary of the method is provided in vesperini ( 1998 , his section 2 ) .",
    "the temporal evolution of the mass of a gc , modelled as a multi - mass king model with an initial dimensionless concentration parameter @xmath28 and orbiting at constant galactocentric distance @xmath1 , is assumed to follow : @xmath29    @xmath30 is the fraction of cluster mass lost due to stellar evolution ( 18 per cent in this particular model ) .",
    "the time @xmath26 is expressed in units of 1myr and @xmath31 , a quantity proportional to the initial relaxation time , is defined as : @xmath32    where @xmath27 and @xmath1 are in units of 1m@xmath15 and 1kpc , respectively , and @xmath33 is the initial number of stars in the gc . to take into account disc shocking , the factor 0.828/@xmath31 is merely replaced by @xmath34 as defined by equation ( 3 ) of vesperini ( 1998 ) .",
    "+ we have distributed 20,000 gcs following a radial distribution obeying our equation ( [ eq : rho_cold ] ) and various mass spectra :    * a gaussian mass function @xmath35 with parameters equal to those of the equilibrium mass function of vesperini ( 1998 ) , * three power - law mass spectra @xmath36 with a single slope of 1.9 and different lower mass limits , namely , 1e3 , 1e4 and 1e5m@xmath15 .    as for the last cut - off value , fall & zhang ( 2001 ) indeed showed that the gc mass spectrum might have started with a truncation at mass of order 1e5m@xmath15 , the low - mass tail of the currently observed gc mass distribution being formed as a result of the evaporation of the massive gcs located at short distance from the galactic centre . + each panel of fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_evol ] displays the results of one of these simulations ( the case of a power - law truncated at 1e4m@xmath15 is not represented as it is highly similar to the 1e3m@xmath15 case ) .",
    "the dashed , plain and dashed - dotted lines are , respectively , the initial mass density profile as described by equation ( [ eq : rho_cold ] ) , the radial mass density profile after a hubble time long evolution without disc shocking ( obtained through equation [ eq : mgc_t_nods ] ) and with disc shocking . the final profile without disc shocking ( plain curve ) has been vertically shifted to provide the best agreement , in the least - squares sense , with the observed spatial distribution of the oh mass .",
    "the amplitude @xmath37 of the shift , the @xmath38 and q values of each fit , as well as the fraction of surviving clusters ( f@xmath39 ) and the ratio of the final to the initial total mass in gcs ( f@xmath40 ) , are listed in table [ tab : fit_evol_gcs ] .",
    "f@xmath39 exhibits an extremely large range of variation , with more than 90 per cent of the clusters being disrupted if the initial mass spectrum is a single power - law going down to 1000 m@xmath15 , while a cut - off at 10@xmath41 m@xmath15 leads to the preservation of most of the gcs .",
    "this large scatter in f@xmath39 contrasts markedly with the limited range in f@xmath40 , as this one varies by less than a factor 2 .",
    "therefore , considering our ignorance of the shape of the gc initial distribution in mass , mass - related quantities appear as indicators of the initial conditions more reliable than number - related quantities . in the frame of the initial density profile described by equation ( 8)",
    ", we also note that the initial mass of the oh gcs was at most 2.5 times larger than what it currently is , thus suggesting that the bound cluster formation efficiency in the galactic halo was at most of order @xmath42 ) .",
    "this result also agrees with previous studies ( e.g. , baumgardt 1998 , vesperini 1998 , mclaughlin 1999 ) following which the disruption of gcs can not be a major contributor to the build - up of the stellar halo . indeed , assuming a mass - to - light ratio of 2.35 ( see section 2 ) , the mass of the oh gc subsystem is @xmath43m@xmath15 , about two orders of magnitude less massive than the stellar halo ( @xmath44 10@xmath45m@xmath15 , freeman & bland - hawthorn 2002 ) . + as already quoted ,",
    "the shapes of the initial and final mass profiles are very similar , at least beyond a galactocentric distance of @xmath46kpc . it may be worth remembering that about one fifth of the cluster mass decrease is due to mass - loss associated with stellar evolution , which is independent of galactocentric distance . as a result , the shape of the radial profile is left unaffected by this gaseous mass loss taking place during the very early evolution of the gcs .",
    "the initial shape of the model profile being only moderatly affected by dynamical evolution , it is not surprising that the observed oh profile ( indicated by the filled squares or circles in fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_evol ] , depending on the size of the bins ) and the outcome of our simulations ( plain curve in fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_evol ] ) are in satisfactory agreement as indicated by the q values listed in table [ tab : fit_evol_gcs ] .",
    "the agreement is weaker than in table [ tab : fit_rho_cold ] however , especially for the power - laws with a truncation at 1e3m@xmath15 and 1e4m@xmath15 , but this effect is mostly driven by one bin only , at log@xmath47 .",
    "should it be ignored , the agreement between the model and the observations would jump up to @xmath48 in the least favourable cases .",
    "this kick in the observed density profile arises from the presence , at almost the same galactocentric distance , of two of the handful of very massive ( @xmath49 ) gcs , i.e. , ngc  6266 and ngc  6273 at d=1.7 and 1.6kpc , respectively .    in case of disc shocking ( dashed - dotted curves in fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_evol ] ) , the ratios f@xmath39 and f@xmath40 are almost unaffected , being reduced by 4 per cent at most with respect to the simulations without disc shocking ( see table [ tab : fit_evol_gcs ] ) . the shape of the density profile is also preserved except at galactocentric distances shorter than 2kpc where the predicted cluster density is significantly affected compared to the case without disc shocking .",
    "in these regions , the disc shocking model underestimates the observed mass density .",
    "this discrepancy may be solved if these very inner halo regions are contaminated by the metal - poor tail of the bulge gcs .",
    "alternatively , it may be that the high - density high - pressure environment of these very inner galactic regions promoted the formation of gcs with an efficiency locally higher than in the overall halo .",
    "in such case , the original gcs mass density profile around the galactic centre may have been steeper than the density profile @xmath50 . + it is interesting to compare the values @xmath51 and @xmath52 listed in table [ tab : fit_evol_gcs ] with those obtained in previous studies . considering the case of the equilibrium gc mass function ( run [ 1 ] in table [ tab : fit_evol_gcs ] ) , vesperini ( 1998 ) derived f@xmath53 and f@xmath54 .",
    "as for a power - law mass spectrum with a slope 2 and a low - mass cut - off @xmath551000m@xmath15 ( run [ 2 ] in table [ tab : fit_rho_cold ] ) , baumgardt ( 1998 ) indicates that the fraction of surviving clusters may be of order 1 per cent , while the final mass in gcs would represent 15 to 30 per cent of the initial mass content .",
    "these results , although in rough agreement with ours , are systematically lower .",
    "this is not surprising however as these studies assume an initial radial distribution scaling as d@xmath56 ( even d@xmath57 for some of baumgardt s runs ) , thus significantly steeper in the inner regions than our radial profile @xmath50 ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_oh_mod ] ) .",
    "therefore , with respect to our simulations , a larger fraction of the initial population of gcs is put on orbits closer to the galactocentric centre where they are more efficiently evaporated and eventually disrupted .",
    "we have proposed a model accounting for the spatial distribution of the mass of the oh gcs . we suggest that this gc subsystem formed out of the cold baryonic gas present in the galaxy some 15gyr ago , that is the gas leftover once the contribution of the dark matter is removed , with a roughly constant formation efficiency throughout the halo . in order to test our hypothesis ,",
    "we have built the presently observed radial distribution of the oh gcs , making use of the latest classification of the halo gcs between the oh and yh subsystems ( harris 1996 , updated 2003 , mackey & gilmore 2004 ) .",
    "we have found good agreement between our suggested model ( equation 8) and the observed oh mass distribution ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_oh_mod ] and table [ tab : fit_rho_cold ] ) .",
    "the fit is robust with respect to uncertainties in the observed distribution of the mass ( i.e. , depending on whether a few oh gcs may be accreted objects as the yh gcs ) as well as with respect to the uncertainties in the parameters involved in equation ( 8) .",
    "we have made one more step , demonstrating that the gcs mass density profile , as described by equation ( 8) , has not been severly affected by a hubble time - long evolution in the tidal fields of the milky way , at least beyond galactocentric distances of order 2 to 3kpc .",
    "this result is only weakly dependent on the shape of the initial gc mass spectrum , which is still very poorly known .",
    "in fact , numerous studies found that both an initial gaussian mass function ( i.e. , a two - index power law mass spectrum ) and an initial power - law mass spectrum will evolve into the presently observed gaussian mass function of gcs . therefore , to recover the faint end of the original mass function of gcs on the basis of its temporal evolution only is not feasible .",
    "we have thus considered various mass functions in order to demonstrate the robustness of the gcs mass density profile with respect to the dynamical evolution .",
    "our simulations make use of the analytic formulae obtained by vesperini & heggie ( 1997 ) , and the starting point consists in assuming a given radial distribution and a given mass function for the gcs .",
    "doing so , we neglect finer details such as the non - circularity of the gc orbits as well as the initial concentration of gcs . as for the first point however , we recall that our main interest in this paper is the oh subsystem , which shows less extreme kinematics than the yh gcs ( see , e.g. , dinescu , girard & van altena 1998 ) . thus , while the assumption of circular orbits for the gcs is clearly a simplifying one , this issue is likely to be less critical than if we have dealt with the whole halo gcs or with the yh only .",
    "regarding the second point , we note that the equation ( 9 ) , which describes the temporal decrease of the cluster mass according to vesperini & heggie ( 1997 ) , implicitly assumes an initial concentration @xmath28 for all gcs .",
    "the existence of gcs with lower initial concentration is thus clearly neglected .",
    "such low concentration gcs may have been initially present and destroyed relatively quickly by a combination of stellar winds and tidal limitation with little or no help from two - body relaxation or gravitational shocks . in the inner galactic regions ( say within the solar circle ) , that is , where most of the gcs mass is located , even high - mass gcs are unable to survive if their initial concentration is low ( vesperini 1997 ) . by assuming that all gcs start with a concentration @xmath28",
    ", we may thus overestimate the survival capacity of some high mass gcs and , thus , underestimate the decrease with time of @xmath58 .",
    "however , it is worth pointing out that gcs exhibit a correlation between their luminous mass estimate and their concentration in the sense that more massive gcs are more concentrated ( van den bergh 1994 ) .",
    "this correlation is likely to be of primordial origin as it is stronger at larger galactocentric distances ( bellazini et al .",
    "1996 ) , that is , where evolutionary processes act on longer time - scales and , thus , where memory of the initial conditions is better preserved .",
    "moreover , simulations show that high - mass low - concentration gcs are destroyed in the inner halo but manage to survive at large galactocentric distances ( i.e. , @xmath59kpc , vesperini 1997 ) .",
    "as they are not observed even beyond the solar circle , high - mass low - concentration gcs were probably not part of the initial gcs and , therefore , to neglect them should not affect the results displayed in fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_evol ] and table [ tab : fit_evol_gcs ] .",
    "bearing these caveats in mind , we have shown that the shape of the evolved radial mass density profile still nicely mirrors the initial one , even though a significant fraction of the gcs has been destroyed during a hubble time long evolution .",
    "not surprisingly thus , the observed spatial distribution of the oh mass and the distributions arising out of our simulations are also found to be in good agreement ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : rho_evol ] and table [ tab : fit_evol_gcs ] ) .",
    "this strengthens our hypothesis following which the distribution of the gas gcs formed from obeys equation ( 8) and , also , that the dark matter , whatever its nature , was not involved in the earliest stages of star formation .",
    "this good agreement also suggests that the flattening of the observed distribution of gcs around the galactic centre may not result from tidal disruption processes only but may be , at least partly , of primordial origin .",
    "indeed , in the region 1 to 3kpc , our suggested cold matter profile shows a flattening ( slope @xmath60 ) which contrasts with the overall shape , reasonably approximated by a slope of @xmath61 ( see fig .  [",
    "fig : rho_oh_mod ] ) .",
    "the situation is still unclear however as , at an age of 15gyr , our mass distribution underestimates the observed mass density profile of the gcs for @xmath62kpc , especially when disc shocking is included in the simulations ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : rho_evol ] ) .",
    "possible solutions of this discrepancy include the contamination of the observed distribution by the metal - poor tail of the bulge / disc system and/or star formation efficiencies higher in the inner regions of the galaxy owing to higher pressures and densities . as a result of this latter suggestion",
    ", the initial mass distribution of the gcs in the galactic central regions may have been steeper than indicated by equation ( 8) .",
    "apart from these uncertainties , the satisfactory agreement between the model and the observed radial density profile of the oh subsystem , beyond @xmath63 2 to 3kpc , suggests that the formation of gcs took place with a formation efficiency almost constant throughout the oh .    99 baumgardt h. , 1998 , a&a , 330 , 480 bellazzini m. , vesperini e. , ferraro f. r. , pecci f. , 1996 , mnras , 279 , 337 binney j. , tremaine s. , 1987 , galactic dynamics , princeton univ .",
    "press , princeton nj caldwell j.a.r .",
    ", ostriker j.p . , 1981 , apj , 251 , 61 da costa g.s . , armandroff t.e . , 1995 , aj , 109 , 2533 de grijs r. , fritze - v .",
    "alvensleben u. , anders p. , gallagher j.s . , bastian n. , taylor v.a . , windhorst r.a .",
    ", 2003 , mnras , 342,259 dehnen w. , odenkirchen m. , grebel e.  k. , rix h .- w . , 2004 ,",
    "aj , 127 , 2753 dinescu d.i .",
    ", girard t.m . , van altena w.f .",
    "1999 , aj 117 , 1792 djorgovski s. , meylan g. , 1994 , aj , 108 , 1292 eggen o.j . , lynden - bell d. , sandage a. , 1962 , apj , 136 , 748 fall s.m . , rees m.j . , 1985 , apj 298 , 18 fall s.m . , zhang q. , 2001 , apj , 561 , 751 freeman k.c . , bland - hawthorn j. , 2002 , ara&a , 40 , 487 fritze - von alvensleben u. , 1998 , a&a , 336 , 83 fritze - von alvensleben u. , 1999 , a&a , 342 , l25 gnedin o.y . , ostriker j.p . , 1997 , apj , 474 , 223 grebel e.k . , gallagher j.s .",
    "iii , 2004 , apjl , 610 , 89 harris w.e .",
    "1996 , aj , 112 , 1487 harris w.e .",
    ", pudritz r.e . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 429 , 177 harris w.e .",
    ", bell r.a . ,",
    "vandenberg d.a .",
    ", bolte m. , stetson p.b . , hesser j.e . , van den bergh s. , bond h.e . ,",
    "fahlman g.g . ,",
    "richer h.b . , 1997 , aj , 114 , 1030 lee y.w . , demarque p. , zinn r. , 1994 , apj , 423 , 248 mackey a.d . ,",
    "gilmore g. , 2004 , mnras , 355 , 504 mclaughlin d.e . , 1994 ,",
    "pasp , 106 , 47 mclaughlin d.e . , 1999 ,",
    "aj , 117 , 2398 meurer g. r. , heckman t. m. , leitherer c. , kinney a. , robert c. , garnett d. r. , 1995 , aj , 110 , 2665 murray s.d . ,",
    "lin d.n.c . , 1992 , apj , 400 , 265 odenkirchen m. , grebel e.k .",
    ", rockosi c.m . , dehnen w. , ibata r. , rix h .- w . , stolte a. , wolf c. , and 12 coauthors , 2001 , apjl , 548 , 1650 parmentier , g. , jehin , e. , magain , p. , noels , a. , thoul , a. , 2000 , a&a , 363 , 526 parmentier g. , gilmore g. , 2001 , a&a , 378 , 97 parmentier g. , de grijs r. , gilmore g. , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 208 piotto g. , king i.r . , djorgovski s.g .",
    ", sosin c. , zoccali m. , saviane i. , de angeli f. , riello m. , recio - blanco a. , rich r.m .",
    ", meylan g. , renzini a. , 2002 , a&a , 391 , 945 press w.h . ,",
    "teukolsky s.a . , vetterling w.t . and flannery b.p . , 1992 , numerical recipes ( 2nd ed . ; cambridge univ .",
    "press ) pryor c. , meylan g. , 1993 , in : s.g .",
    "djorgovski , g. meylan ( eds ) asp conference series volume 50 , structure and dynamics of globular clusters , p.  370 salaris m. , weiss a. , 2002 , a&a , 388 , 492 searle l. , zinn r. , 1978 , apj , 225 , 357 van den bergh s. , 1993 , apj , 411 , 178 van den bergh s. , 1994 , apj , 435 , 203 van den bergh s. , 2000 , the galaxies of the local group , cambridge univ . press , cambridge ,",
    "uk van den bergh s. , mackey , a.d .",
    ", 2004 , mnras , 354 , 713 vesperini e. , heggie d. c. , 1997 , mnras 289 , 898 vesperini e. , 1998 , mnras , 289 , 898 whitmore b.c . , schweizer f. , 1995 , aj , 109 , 960 whitmore b.c . , schweizer f. , kundu a. , miller b.w . , 2002 , aj , 124 , 147 zhang q. , fall s.m . , 1999 ,",
    "apj , 527 , l81 zinn r. , 1985 , apj 293 , 424 zinn r. , 1993 , in : smith g.h .",
    ", brodie j.p .",
    "( eds ) asp conference series volume 48 , the globular clusters - galaxy connection , p.  38"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate what may be the origin of the presently observed spatial distribution of the mass of the galactic old halo globular cluster system . </S>",
    "<S> we propose its radial mass density profile to be a relic of the distribution of the cold baryonic material in the protogalaxy . assuming that this one arises from the profile of the whole protogalaxy minus the contribution of the dark matter ( and a small contribution of the hot gas by which the protoglobular clouds were bound ) </S>",
    "<S> , we show that the mass distributions around the galactic centre of this cold gas and of the old halo agree satisfactorily . in order to demonstrate our hypothesis </S>",
    "<S> even more conclusively , we simulate the evolution with time , up to an age of 15gyr , of a putative globular cluster system whose initial mass distribution in the galactic halo follows the profile of the cold protogalactic gas . </S>",
    "<S> we show that beyond a galactocentric distance of order 2 to 3kpc , the initial shape of such a mass density profile is preserved inspite of the complete destruction of some globular clusters and the partial evaporation of some others . </S>",
    "<S> this result is almost independent of the choice of the initial mass function for the globular clusters , which is still ill - determined . </S>",
    "<S> the shape of these evolved cluster system mass density profiles also agree with the presently observed profile of the old halo globular cluster system , thus strengthening our hypothesis . </S>",
    "<S> our result might suggest that the flattening shown by the old halo mass density profile at short distance from the galactic centre is , at least partly , of primordial origin .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    globular clusters : general  galaxy : halo  galaxy : formation </S>"
  ]
}