{
  "article_text": [
    "radio source counts derived from deep 1.4 ghz surveys show a sudden steepening below 1 mjy ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) , which is interpreted as the result of the emergence of a new population of radio sources different in nature from the ones which dominate at higher flux densities ( e.g. classical radio galaxies and qsos ) . nevertheless , despite the large observational efforts , the physical and evolutionary properties of this population are still poorly understood .",
    "+ today we know that the faint radio population is a mixture of several types of objects ( faint agns , normal spirals and ellipticals , starburst galaxies ) , but the relative importance of the different classes is still debated and very little is known about their redshift distribution and luminosity properties . + the cause of it is twofold",
    ". first , faint radio samples are small , with sky coverages typically going from a fraction to a few square degrees .",
    "the statistics available is therefore quite poor .",
    "secondly and more importantly , the optical follow - up of these samples is strongly incomplete .",
    "typically @xmath0 of the radio sources are identified on optical images , while only @xmath1 have spectroscopic information .",
    "exceptions are the @xmath2jy sample taken on the hdf north ( see @xcite ) where the identification rate is @xmath3 and the marano field ( mf ) sub - mjy sample ( see @xcite ) with spectroscopy available for @xmath4 of the sources . in both cases ,",
    "though , the numbers involved are very small .",
    "+ this means that the results drawn from radio - optical studies of the faint radio population are based on limited optical follow - up and biased by the fact that only the optically brightest sources have spectral information available .",
    "it is therefore clear that larger deep radio samples with possibly complete optical follow - up are strongly needed in order to fully assess the nature and evolution of the faint radio population .",
    "with this in mind , we took advantage of the mosaic observing mode capability of the australia telescope compact array ( atca ) to deeply image at 1.4 ghz the entire region previously covered by the eso slice project ( esp ) redshift survey ( see @xcite for a full description ) .",
    "+ we have produced 16 radio mosaics with uniform noise of @xmath5 @xmath2jy and spatial resolution of @xmath6 ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "the sky coverage of the atesp survey is 26 square degrees , i.e. one order of magnitude larger than any other previous sub - mjy sample . from the radio images we have extracted a catalogue of 2967 radio sources ,",
    "complete down to @xmath7 mjy ( see @xcite ) .",
    "+ the esp redshift survey ( @xcite ) provided us with spectroscopy information for a sample of 3342 galaxies complete down to @xmath8 .",
    "such data allowed us to identify about 10% of the atesp radio sources .",
    "the typical depth of the esp survey ( @xmath9 ) is @xmath10 .",
    "such sample is therefore very well suited to assess the _ local _ radio - optical properties of the faint radio population . in fig .  1 we show the bivariate radio luminosity function derived from the esp galaxies , as a function of the well - known radio - to - optical ratio ( @xmath11 ) .",
    "@xmath12 where @xmath13 is the 1.4 ghz radio flux in mjy and @xmath14 is the @xmath15 optical magnitude ( see @xcite ) .",
    "the radio - to - optical ratio is a measure of the radio excess in a galaxy of given optical luminosity .",
    "as shown in the figure , emission line galaxies ( typically associated with spiral galaxies ) are characterized by small radio - to - optical ratios and their luminosity function steeply increases below a reference value of @xmath16 ( or @xmath17 ) . on the other hand , absorption systems ( typically associated with elliptical and s0 galaxies )",
    "have a flatter luminosity function and their contribution to the overall population increases going to higher radio - to - optical ratios , becoming the dominant class at very high @xmath11-values . +",
    "this result implies that radio emission associated to star - forming regions in disk galaxies is weaker than radio emission triggered by nuclear activity in early - type galaxies . +    to get optical information about atesp sources at higher redshifts ,",
    "we have focused our attention on a sub - region of 3 sq .",
    "degrees which overlaps with the eso imaging survey ( eis patch a ) . in this sub - region optical images and catalogues complete down to @xmath18 have been made publicly available in 1998 ( @xcite ) .",
    "such data allowed us to identify 60% ( @xmath19 ) of the atesp sources in this area ( see @xcite for details ) .",
    "we have then used the eso 3.6 m telescope to get spectroscopy of the identified sources in the atesp - eis region .",
    "so far we have obtained spectra for 69 of the 70 galaxies brighter than @xmath20 .",
    "this spectroscopic sample can therefore considered complete down to this limiting magnitude .",
    "the median redshift of the sample is @xmath21 and the good quality of our spectroscopy allowed us to reliably classify all the observed objects . + by inspecting the atesp radio source composition as a function of flux",
    ", we find that the agn contribution does not significantly change going from mjy to sub - mjy fluxes ( @xmath22 ) . on the other hand",
    "early type galaxies largely dominate ( 60% ) the mjy population , while star - formation processes become important at sub ",
    "mjy fluxes : sb and post - sb galaxies go from 13% at @xmath23 mjy to 39% at @xmath24 mjy . nevertheless , at sub ",
    "mjy fluxes , early type galaxies still constitute a significant fraction ( 25% ) of the whole population ( @xcite ) . a result which was already noticed in the marano field ( @xcite ) and in the phoenix deep field ( @xcite ) .",
    "the change with flux of the source composition is evident in the flux - magnitude diagram shown in fig .  2 .",
    "early type galaxies ( empty circles ) are the dominant population at higher flux densities , while the contribution of star - forming galaxies ( stars ) becomes increasingly important going to sub - mjy fluxes . at a closer inspection ,",
    "though , we notice that , as found in our local sample , star - forming galaxies preferentially populate the region of the plot corresponding to low radio - to - optical ratios , while the opposite is true for early type galaxies .",
    "+ this suggests that the main parameter that regulates the faint radio source composition is not the radio flux alone , but rather the radio - to - optical ratio , i.e. a combination of the radio flux and the optical magnitude . under this hypothesis",
    "we expect that at fainter magnitudes the atesp radio sources will be mostly early type galaxies and agns ( supporting the results of @xcite in the marano field ) , while at a given limiting magnitude , fainter radio samples will be more sensitive to the star - forming galaxy population ( as supported by the hdf @xmath2jy sample @xcite ) .",
    "the picture outlined above needs verification on a larger statistical base , getting spectroscopy down to much fainter magnitudes and including complete radio - optical analysis of large @xmath2jy samples .",
    "nevertheless , a first verification can be done using the existing data in the literature . + in fig .",
    "3 we show a flux - magnitude diagram , with all the mjy , sub - mjy and @xmath2jy radio samples available so far included ( first @xcite , atesp - eis @xcite , mf @xcite , pdf @xcite , b93 @xcite , h00 @xcite ) . only the sources with measured redshift and reliable classification are plotted .",
    "the lines represent the reference radio - to - optical value , below which the star - forming population is expected to dominate .",
    "this value has been locally normalized to the value found in our esp sample ( see fig .",
    "1 ) : assuming @xmath25 , we have that @xmath26 translates to @xmath27 .",
    "+ the samples drawn are affected by several incompleteness and selection biases and therefore no strong statement can be drawn from this plot .",
    "nevertheless it is worth noticing that the distribution of both the early type ( empty circles ) and the star - forming galaxies ( stars ) follows the expected one , once we include some standard form of evolution for both the radio ( @xmath28 ) and the optical ( @xcite ) luminosity in drawing the reference @xmath11 line .",
    "+ very interestingly , this picture provides a very natural way to explain and reconcile the existing discrepant results about the relative contribution of star - forming and early type galaxies to the faint radio population . in fig .",
    "4 we show the region of the flux - magnitude diagram probed by each of the samples drawn in fig .  3 .",
    "in each panel , the solid line represents the reference @xmath11-value shown in fig .",
    "3 ( the one with evolution included ) and separates the locus dominated by early - type galaxies ( above ) from the locus dominated by star - forming galaxies ( below ) . as expected the fraction of early type galaxies found in each sample increases clockwise , going from 10% in the b93 sample , which is the less sensitive to the locus dominated by the early type population , to @xmath29 in the mf , which is the most sensitive to early type galaxies .",
    "correspondingly , the fraction of star - forming galaxies decreases clockwise from @xmath29 in the b93 sample to @xmath30 in the mf . +",
    "this qualitative analysis seems very promising in giving a unique picture of the faint radio population , but more quantitative studies are needed to verify this scenario . to this respect very helpful will be the analysis of a 1  sq .",
    "region where the atesp survey overlaps with a very deep ( @xmath31 ) multicolor ( ubvri ) eso survey which is currently under way .",
    "benn c.r . , rowan - robinson m. , mcmahon r.g . , et al . , 1993 ,  263 , 98 condon j.j . , 1980 ,  242 , 894 georgakakis a. , mobasher b. , cram l. , et al . , 1999 ,  306 , 708 gruppioni c. , mignoli m. , zamorani g. , 1999 ,  304 , 199 haarsma d.b . , partridge r.b . , windhorst r.a . , richards e.a",
    ". , 2000 ,  544 , 641 magliocchetti m. , maddox s.j . , wall j.v . , et al . , 2000 ,  318 , 1047 nonino m. , bertin e. , da costa l. , et al . , 1999 ,  137 , 51 poggianti b.m . , 1997 ,  122 , 399 prandoni i. , gregorini l. , parma p. , et al . , 2000a ,  146 , 31 prandoni i. , gregorini l. , parma p. , et al . , 2000b ,  146 , 41 prandoni i. , gregorini l. , parma p. , et al .",
    "2001 ,  365 , 392 prandoni i. , gregorini l. , parma p. , et al .",
    "2001 ,  369 , 787 richards e.a .",
    ", fomalont e.b . ,",
    "kellermann k.i . , et al . , 1999 ,  526 , l73 vettolani g. , zucca e. , merighi r. , et al . , 1998 ,  130 , 323 windhorst r.a . , mathis d. , neuschaefer l. , 1990 , in evolution of the universe of galaxies , ed",
    "kron , p. 389"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we present the results obtained so far from the optical follow - up of the atesp sub - mjy radio survey . </S>",
    "<S> the atesp results are then compared with the ones obtained from other deep radio samples and we show how the existing discrepancies about the nature of the faint radio population can be explained in terms of selection effects . </S>"
  ]
}