{
  "article_text": [
    "the emission line spectrum of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) is produced over a wide range of distances from the central continuum source , and under a wide range of physical and kinematical conditions ( see sulentic et al . 2000 , and references therein ) .",
    "the line strengths , their widths and shapes are the powerful tools for emitting gas diagnostics in different parts of the emitting region of an agn .",
    "the physics in the broad line region ( blr ) is more complicated than in the narrow line region ( nlr ) .",
    "the classical and recent studies point toward photoionization as the main heating source for the blr emitting gas ( see e.g. kwan & krolik 1981 , osterbrock 1989 , baldwin et al .",
    "1995 , marziani et al .",
    "1996 , baldwin et al .",
    "1996 , ferland et al .",
    "1998 , krolik 1999 ) .",
    "the photoionization , recombination and collisions can be considered as relevant processes in blrs . at larger ionization parameters ,",
    "recombination is more important , but at the higher temperatures the collisional excitation become also important as well as in the case of low ionization parameters .",
    "these two effects , as well as radiative - transfer effects in balmer lines should be taken into account to explain the ratios of hydrogen lines ( osterbrock 1989 , krolik 1999 ) .",
    "different types of the physical conditions and processes can be assumed in order to use the emission lines for diagnostic of emission plasma ( osterbrock 1989 , griem 1997 , ferland et al .",
    "although `` in many aspects the blrs are physically as closely related to stellar atmospheres as traditional nebula '' ( osterbrock 1989 ) , the plasma in the blr probably does not come close to being in complete local thermodynamical equilibrium ( lte ) .",
    "however , there may still be the partial local thermodynamical equilibrium ( plte ) in the sense that populations of sufficiently highly excited levels are related to the next ion s ground state population by saha - boltzmann relations ( van der mullen et al .",
    "1994 ) , or to the total population in all fine - structure levels of the ground - state configuration ( see griem 1968 , 1997 ) .",
    "the plte for different types of plasma : ionizing , recombining plasma and plasma in ionization balance were discussed in fujimoto & mcwhirter ( 1990 ) .",
    "they found that the populations of higher - lying levels are well described by the saha - boltzmann equation . on the other hand van der mullen et al .",
    "( 1994 ) confirmed that `` if electrons realize an equilibrium between ionization and recombination in a two - temperature radiationless plasma , then the sahal equation can be obtained by replacing the thermodynamic temperature by the electron one '' .",
    "moreover , recently popovi et al .",
    "( 2002 ) found that the balmer lines of ngc 3516 indicate that the balmer emitting line region may be in the plte .",
    "the aim of this paper is to test the existence of plte , and discuss the possibility of estimation of the relevant physical processes and plasma parameters in blrs using the boltzmann - plot of balmer lines .",
    "as a simple case let us consider the optically thin plasma . in the case of plasma of the length @xmath3 along the line of sight ,",
    "spectrally integrated emission line intensity ( i@xmath4 ) is given as ( see e.g. griem 1997 , konjevi 1999 )    @xmath5 where @xmath6 is transition wavelength , @xmath7 statistical weight of the upper level , @xmath8 transition probability , @xmath9 the partition function , @xmath10 the total number density of radiating species , @xmath11 the energy of the upper level , @xmath12 electron temperature and @xmath13 are the well known constants ( planck , speed of light and boltzmann constant , respectively ) .",
    "if the plasma is in plte , the population of the parent energy states adhere to a boltzmann distribution uniquely characterized by their excitation temperature ( @xmath12 in eq .",
    "( 1 ) ) , and this temperature may be obtained from a boltzmann - plot when the transitions within the same spectral series are considered    @xmath14 where @xmath15 is relative intensity of transition from upper to lower level ( @xmath16 ) , @xmath17 and @xmath18 are constants , where @xmath18 indicates temperature and we will call it the temperature parameter .",
    "if we can approximate the @xmath19 as a linear decreasing function of @xmath20 then : a ) it indicates that plte may exist at least to some extent in the blr ; b ) if plte is present , the population adhering to a boltzmann distribution is uniquely characterized by its excitation temperature .",
    "then we can estimate the electron temperature from eq .",
    "( 2 ) , @xmath21 , where @xmath22 is the boltzmann constant ; c ) if plte is present we can roughly estimate the minimal electron density in blr . here",
    ", we should mention that `` case b '' recombination of balmer lines can bring the @xmath19 _ vs _ @xmath20 as linear decreasing function ( osterbrock 1989 ) .",
    "but , regarding the physical conditions ( electron densities and temperatures ) in blrs in this case the constant a is too small ( @xmath23 ) and the boltzmann - plot can not be applied for diagnostics of electron temperature even if plte exists ( see discussion in sec .",
    "moreover , in this case boltzmann - plot method can be used as an indicator of `` case b '' recombination in blrs of some agn .",
    "taking into account that the balmer lines originate from the same series , we can use the boltzmann - plot relation for testing the existence of plte or `` case b '' recombination . also , here we should mention that we will assume that @xmath3 , the length of the balmer line formation region , is the same for all balmer lines .",
    "in order to test the existence of plte in blr , we use hst observations obtained with the space telescope imaging spectrograph ( stis ) and faint object spectrograph ( fos ) , covering the wavelength ranges 2900 - 5700    and 6295 - 6867    ( rest wavelength ) . from the very large data base of agn spectra at hst archive we selected the objects using following selection criteria :",
    "a ) the observation covered the balmer series line wavelength region ; b ) the observations were performed on the same day ; c ) all the lines from balmer series can be recognized and all have relatively well defined shapes ; d ) we considered only low red - shifted objects .",
    "the list of 14 selected objects is presented in table 1 .",
    "the spectra were reduced by the hst team .",
    "we transformed the wavelength scale to zero red - shift taking into account the cosmological red - shift of the objects ( vron - cetty & vron 2000 ) .",
    "after that we estimated and subtracted the continuum . estimated error of 5% - 10% due to subtraction of the continuum",
    "is included in the cumulative error ( see figs.1 - 3 ) .",
    "the fluxes of the lines were measured by using the dipso software . the measured flux ratios of broad balmer lines are present in table 2 .      to perform a test we subtracted the narrow and satellite lines from balmer lines . to estimate the contribution of these lines we used a multi - gaussian analysis .",
    "we fit each line with a sum of gaussian components using a @xmath24 minimalization routine ( figs . 1 - 3 ) .    to limit the number of free parameters in the fit of the h@xmath25 line we have also set some",
    "_ a priori _ restrictions on the narrow components and satellite lines ( popovi et al .",
    "2001,2002 ) . in the first place ,",
    "the three narrow gaussians representing the two [ oiii]@xmath26 lines and the narrow h@xmath25 component are preconditioned to have the same red - shift and full widths proportional to their wavelengths . in the second place ,",
    "we have linked the intensity ratio of the two [ oiii ] lines according to the atomic value ( line strength ) , 1:3.03 .",
    "finally , we have included in the fit a shelf of fe ii template ( korista 1992 , popovi et al .",
    "2001,2002 ) .",
    "an example of fitting h@xmath25 line region of wpv 007 is present in fig .",
    "1 , the dashed lines are subtracted from h@xmath25 profile .    in the case of h@xmath27 , we assume that the [ nii]@xmath28 and the h@xmath27 narrow components have the same red - shift and full widths proportional to their wavelengths ( dashed lines at the bottom of the fig .",
    "2 ) . taking into account that the two [ nii ] lines belong to the transition between the same multiplet we assume that their intensity ratio is 1:2.96 ( see e.g. wiese et al .",
    "1966 ) .    in the case of an agn with strong narrow lines we estimated the contribution of [ oiii]4363 line in h@xmath29 flux using the ratio of ( i@xmath30i@xmath31i@xmath32 lines adopting that @xmath33 k ( see table 11.5 in osterbrock 1989 ) and low electron density characteristic for nlrs .",
    "where it was possible , we also fit h@xmath29 line assuming that [ oiii]4363 line can be represented with one gaussian having the same full width as [ oiii ] lines proportional to its wavelength ( see fig .",
    "the contribution of the [ neiii]3967 line in h@xmath34 has been neglected .    the error - bars , presented in figs . 5 ,",
    "are estimated as cumulative errors due to continuum subtraction error ( @xmath3510% ) , and error of the line flux measurements .",
    "one should note that we approximatively subtracted narrow and satellite lines , but we estimated that error in this procedure was within the frame of errors presented on the graphs .      on the other hand , the reddening effect can influence the balmer lines ratio ( see e.g. crenshaw & kraemer 2001 , crenshaw et al .",
    "2001 , 2002 , and references therein ) and consequently on temperature parameter obtained by boltzmann - plot . here",
    "the galactic reddening was taken into account using the data from nasa s extragalacitc database ( ned ) . in order to test the total ( galactic + intrinsic ) reddening influence we have considered the case of akn 564 , where the reddening data are given by crenshaw et al . (",
    "we estimated that the reddening effect can contribute to the boltzmann - plot slope around of 30%-40% ( in the case of akn 564 around of 35% , @xmath36 ) , but this effect can not qualitatively disturb the straight line as a function in boltzmann - plot .",
    "the reddening effect will always cause that temperatures measured by this method will give smaller values if this effect is not taken into account . in the rest of our sample",
    "we did not consider the intrinsic reddening effect .",
    "the data quality required for a comparison of temperature parameter @xmath18 as a function of velocity is quite high .",
    "the data quality are different for different spectra of agn .",
    "consequently , for velocity measurements we used only @xmath37 and @xmath38 lines . to investigate the velocity obtained on full width at half maximum ( fwhm ) and full width at zero intensity ( fwzi ) as a function of temperature for considered agn , we first normalized the cleaned profiles of these lines to one and converted wavelength axis to the @xmath39 scale ( see fig .",
    "4 ) . in order to investigate the random velocity dependence which is probably related to physical conditions ( in this case electron temperature ) we measured fwhm and fwzi of an averaged line profile obtained from @xmath37 and @xmath38 profiles .",
    "the differences between fwhm and fwzi of @xmath37 and @xmath38 were relatively small , except in ngc 1566 .",
    "in figs . 5 - 7 and in table 2 we present our results . as one can see from figs . 5 and 6 ,",
    "the boltzmann - plot of the broad balmer lines indicates the existence of plte at least in some parts of blr of significant fraction of the considered agn ( mainly blrg ) .",
    "if we take into account that intrinsic reddening can amplify the constant @xmath18 then we have three cases : i ) boltzmann - plot can not be applied at all ( e.g. ngc 1566 ) , ii ) boltzmann - plot can be applied , but the constant is small @xmath40 , then even if the plte exists , the ratio of balmer line fluxes are nearly independent of temperature .",
    "this case can rather be treated as ( or indicates ) recombination .",
    "iii ) boltzmann - plot can be applied and @xmath41 . in this case",
    "we can consider that plte exists in the sense that the populations of the higher - lying levels ( @xmath42 ) are well described by the sahal - boltzmann equation , and excited temperature can be replaced by electron temperature .",
    "from the 14 selected agn , we can say that in 9 agn boltzmann - plot indicates the existence of plte ( @xmath41 , @xmath43 k ) in blr , while in the case of 4 of them ( see table 2 and fig .",
    "6 ) the boltzmann - plot indicates `` case b '' recombination in blr . in the remaining 1 agn ( ngc 1566 )",
    "the boltzmann - plot can not be applied ( see fig .",
    "5 ) . using this method",
    "we can determine the electron temperature . in a favorable situation in laboratory , with this method the electron temperature may be determined to 2 - 3% , otherwise normally an uncertainty of about 5 - 10% must be expected for laboratory plasma ( konjevi 1999 ) . in our case , the determination of the temperatures is very sensitive to the flux measurements .",
    "as one can see from fig .",
    "5 uncertainties in the measured flux are higher for weaker lines .",
    "moreover , the intrinsic reddening effect can increase the temperature .",
    "consequently , the uncertainties in the temperature determination in this case are around 30% .",
    "valid criteria for plte and criteria for the application of this spectroscopic method are widely discussed by fujimoto & mcwhirter ( 1990 ) , griem ( 1997 ) and konjevi ( 1999 ) . the measured flux ratio of balmer lines and measured flux of h@xmath25 line and temperature parameter @xmath18 are given in table 2 .",
    "as one can see from table 2 there is no strong dependence between @xmath44 ratio and temperature parameter .",
    "on the other hand , one can see from table 2 and figs .",
    "6ab the temperature difference between radio quiet ( rq ) and radio loud ( rl ) objects .",
    "although this follows the fact that rl and rq agn have different distributions in balmer line widths ( e.g. wills and browne 1986 ) , temperature differences rl and rq agn might be a result from selection biases rather than a difference in the radio properties . from table 2 and fig 6ab",
    ", one can conclude that in considered sample of rl agn plte might exist in blrs . here",
    "we should mention that an alternative to the plte may be a very high intrinsic reddening in this type of agn . in any case",
    "the electron temperatures are in good agreement with some previous estimates ( see , e.g. osterbrock 1989 , sulentic et al .",
    "2000 ) .    to estimate the electron density we will consider two cases : optically thin and optically thick plasma .    for spatially homogeneous and inhomogeneous plasma , as well as in a steady state plasma ( applicable to slowly time - varying plasma ) but _ optically thin plasma _",
    ", the method may be used to estimate the lower limit of electron density ( griem 1997 ) taking that @xmath45 , where @xmath46 is the charge `` seen '' by the optical electron ( @xmath47 for neutral emitters ) , @xmath48 is the principal quantum number of the upper level , and e@xmath49 is ionization energy of hydrogen . taking @xmath50 ( for the h@xmath27 emission in plte ) , the low limit of the electron density is of the order of @xmath51 ( see also discussion and fig .",
    "7.4 . in griem 1997 ) .    on the other hand",
    ", we can not consider pure optically thin plasma in blrs , and one should consider the case of _ optically thick plasma _ in blr . for optically thick plasma , the equation of radiation transfer should be solved simultaneously with the rate equations for the population densities .",
    "however , sometimes it is adequate to assume that a reduced transition probability for the spontaneous transition describes the effect of reabsorption of the line . within this approximation",
    ", one can take that in eq .",
    "( 1 ) effective transition probabilities decrease by a factor @xmath52 , that is the mean number of scattering before escape which depends of the optical depth ( see eq . 12.6 in osterbrock 1989 ) .",
    "assuming that for all lines from balmer spectral series @xmath52 is similar , we still can use the eq .",
    "( 2 ) , but in this case the value of critical @xmath53 should be reduced ( osterbrock 1989 ) @xmath54 . considering the critical electron density one may take the values for the h@xmath27 optical depth ( @xmath55 ) given in osterbrock ( 1989 ) . for these optical depths",
    "we obtain the values of electron density within the range from @xmath56 .",
    "it is in agreement with the previous estimates ( osterbrock 1989 , krolik 1999 ) .",
    "the electron density estimated for optically thin plasma , @xmath57 , is significantly higher than in some previous estimates for the blr ( @xmath58 see , e.g. osterbrock 1989 , sulentic et al .",
    "however , in some previous works a high electron density has been also suggested ( van groningen 1987 , sivron & tsuruta 1993 , brotherton et al .",
    "but , for optical thick plasma the estimated electron densities are in agreement with conventionally accepted for blrs .",
    "on the other hand , it has been shown that the balmer line ratios are velocity dependent in agn ( stirpe 1990,1991 ) and this is probably related to both a range of physical conditions ( electron temperature and density ) and to the radiative transfer effects . although , we have relatively small number of observed agn for serious statistical analysis , we analyzed the temperature parameter as a function of random velocities at fwhm and fwzi obtained from an averaged profile of h@xmath27 and h@xmath25 lines ( fig .",
    "6 ) . as one can see from fig .",
    "6 the temperature parameter a tends to increase with velocities , especially in the case of velocities measured at fwzi . in this case",
    "the function a _ vs _",
    "fwzi has a linear trend . also , the difference in a _ vs _ fwhm ( fig .",
    "6a ) and a _ vs _ fwzi ( fig .",
    "6b ) indicates that blr is complex and that physical conditions of regions which contribute to the line core and line wings are different . for the agn where @xmath41 and where plte may be present , we plot the estimated electron density as a function of velocities measured at fwhm ( fig .",
    "7a ) and fwzi ( fig .",
    "7b ) . as one can see from figs .",
    "7ab , the electron temperature decrease with velocities .",
    "the solid lines in fig .",
    "7ab present the best fit with a linear function @xmath59 , where v is velocity measured at fwhm and fwzi . for constants",
    "@xmath60 and @xmath61 we obtained : @xmath62 and @xmath63 for velocities measured at fwzi ; and @xmath64 and @xmath65 for velocities measured at fwhm .",
    "using the fact that the balmer lines belong to the same spectral series , we apply the boltzmann - plot method to test the presence of plte in blr and discuss the relevant physical processes in a sample of 14 agn . from our test",
    "we can conclude :    \\1 ) from the 14 selected agn , we found that in 9 agn boltzmann - plot indicates the existence of plte in blr , while in the case of 4 of them the boltzmann - plot indicates `` case b '' recombination in blr . in remaining 1",
    "agn the boltzmann - plot can not be applied .",
    "\\2 ) the estimated blr electron temperatures using boltzmann - plot where plte exists are in a range ( 1.3 - 3.7)@xmath66 k ( within 30% accuracy ) .",
    "they are in a good agreement with the previous estimations .",
    "the electron densities in blr have been considered for optically thin and optically thick plasma and we found that    \\i ) for optically thin plasma , the electron density in the case of plte , at least in some parts of blr , should be higher than conventionally accepted for blr .",
    "\\ii ) for optically thick plasma , the electron density in the case of plte is in agreement with the conventionally accepted for blr .    on the other hand , the electron temperatures estimated by using boltzmann - plot tend to be velocity dependent as a linear decreasing function of random velocities measured at fwhm as well as at fwzi .",
    "although , an alternative of plte in some agn may be very high intrinsic reddening effect , the boltzmann - plot method may be used for fast insight into physical processes in blr of an agn prior applying more sophisticated physical models .    for future investigation",
    "it is needed to do the decomposition of complex balmer lines in order to find the part where this method can be fully applied and investigate the velocity dependence of balmer line ratios on a large sample of agn .",
    "this work was supported by the ministry of science , technologies and development of serbia through the project `` astrophysical spectroscopy of extragalacitc objects '' .",
    "also , the work was supported by alexander von humboldt foundation through the program for foreign scholars .",
    "i thank prof .",
    "s. djenie , prof .",
    "dimitrijevi and prof .",
    "n. konjevi for useful discussion and suggestions .",
    "i would like to thank to the anonymous referee for the very useful comments ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> using a well known method for laboratory plasma diagnostic , the boltzmann - plot , we discuss the physical properties in broad line region ( blr ) of active galactic nuclei ( agn ) . </S>",
    "<S> we apply the boltzmann - plot method to balmer lines on a sample of 14 agn , finding that it may indicate the existence of `` case b '' recombination or partial local thermodynamical equilibrium ( plte ) . for blr of agn , where plte exists , we estimated the electron temperature and density of blr . </S>",
    "<S> the estimated electron temperature ( @xmath0 k ) are in good agreement with previous estimates . </S>",
    "<S> the estimated electron densities depend on opacity of the emitting plasma in blr . </S>",
    "<S> they are from @xmath1 for optically thick to @xmath2 for optically thin emission plasma in blr . </S>",
    "<S> the estimated electron temperature has been shown to be velocity dependent , and it decreases for higher velocities . although the alternative explanation than plte indicated by boltzmann - plot may be considered ( e.g. high intrinsic reddening ) , the method may give the quick estimate of physical conditions in blr before to apply the sophisticated methods . </S>"
  ]
}