{
  "article_text": [
    "we believe that the radiation we see from blazars comes from the transformation of bulk kinetic into random energy of particles , which then produce beamed emission . how to produce the large velocities of the plasma in the jet and which is the dissipation mechanism are still a matter of debate , but there is no doubt that nature succeds in producing collimated outflows with bulk lorentz factors @xmath1 520 for blazars , and even higher for gamma ",
    "ray bursts . only in recent years",
    "we began to estimate the power of jets , through the radiation they emit ( e.g. celotti & fabian , 1993 ) and especially through the energy required to be transported to the lobes ( rawling & saunders , 1991 ) .",
    "it has been found that the observed jet radiation must be a small fraction of the total energetics , even of the last decade witnessed a factor 10 increase in the power observed to be emitted by blazars as a class , thanks to the high energy @xmath0ray observations of egret , onboard the compton gamma ray observatory satellite .    the egret observations , and the detection of a few sources ( mkn 421 , mkn 501 , 2344 + 514 and pks 2155304 ) in the tev band by ground based cherenkov telescopes , renewed the interest about blazars , allowing the discovery that their spectral energy distribution ( sed ) is characterized by two broad peaks , whose location is a function of the observed bolometric luminosity ( fossati et al .",
    "1998 , ghisellini et al . 1998 ) .",
    "these peaks have been interpreted as due to synchrotron and inverse compton radiation , respectively .",
    "blazars form a well defined sequence , with low powerful objects having both peaks at a similar level of luminosity , and located at higher frequencies than in more powerful objects , in which the inverse compton peak dominates the emission . in fig .",
    "1 we show three examples of sed of blazars with different power , to illustrate the overall behavior and what can be the contribution of x  ray observations in these three classes of objects .",
    "recent observations of high redshift ( @xmath2 ) blazars ( celotti , these proceedings ) , and of low power bl lacs ( costamante et al .",
    "these proceedings ) have extended the blazar sequence at both ends , confirming the original trend .",
    "at the high luminosity end of the sequence we find interesting lower limits on the bulk kinetic power that the jet can carry , requiring it to be larger than the power dissipated in radiation , derived dividing the apparent luminosity ( assuming isotropy and no beaming ) by the square of the bulk lorentz factor .",
    "results indicate that jet of fsrq ( flat spectrum radio quasars ) must have a large kinetic power ( celotti , these proceedings ) . as an example , pks 0836 + 710 has an apparent luminosity of @xmath3 erg s@xmath4 , which requires a jet power of at least @xmath5 erg s@xmath4 ( tavecchio et al . , 2000a ) .",
    "note that in these sources most of the jet power must not be dissipated through radiation , but must feed the extended radio structures .    at the low luminosity end of the blazar sequence",
    "we find objects whose synchrotron spectrum peaks in the x  ray band , indicating very large energies of the emitting electrons . here",
    "we can learn about the acceleration mechanism , and find good candidates to be detected in the tev band ( costamante et al , these proceedings ) .    here",
    "i will focus on two main topics , namely how the _ internal shock scenario _ can explain the main characteristics of blazars , and how the large ( and very large ) scale x  ray jets recently observed by @xmath6 can be interpreted .",
    "the key idea of the internal shock scenario is to assume a central engine working intermittently , i.e. producing discrete blobs or shells of plasma moving at slightly different velocities . in this case",
    "there will always be a later faster shell catching up a slower earlier one .",
    "if the initial separation of the two shells is @xmath7 and the lorent factors @xmath8 differ by a factor 2 , the collision will take place at @xmath9 .",
    "this idea is not new : rees ( 1978 ) proposed it to explain some features of the m87 jet , by it was almost forgotten in the agns field , even if it became the leading scenario to explain the @xmath0ray radiation of gamma  ray bursts .",
    "consider two shells with bulk lorentz factors @xmath10 and @xmath11 and mass @xmath12 and @xmath13 .",
    "conservation of energy and momentum implies that a fraction @xmath14 of the total bulk kinetic energy must be dissipated : @xmath15 where @xmath16 is the bulk lorentz factor after the interaction and is given through ( see e.g. lazzati , ghisellini & celotti 1999 ) @xmath17 the above relations imply , for shells of equal masses and @xmath18 , @xmath19 and @xmath20 .",
    "the fraction @xmath14 is not entirely available to produce radiation , since part of it is in the form of hot protons and magnetic field .",
    "this is the efficiency for a single collision .",
    "merged shells ( that have already collided ) can however collide again with other shells ( or merged shells ) , increasing the total fraction of kinetic energy transformed into radiation to 510% .",
    "the rest is transported to the outer radio structures of the jet . the small efficiency in producing radiation is a major problem in the field of gamma  ray bursts , but is indeed a positive feature for blazars , since we need to transport most of the power to the outer radio lobes .",
    "one of the most important implications of the egret observations of blazars is the realization that most of the luminosity of these sources must be emitted in a well localized region of the jet ( ghisellini & madau 1996 ) .",
    "this region can not be too close to the jet apex , to avoid absorption of @xmath0rays by x ",
    "ray radiation produced by the jet itself or by the accretion disk and its corona . on the other hand the rapid @xmath0ray variability suggests that the @xmath0ray emitting zone is not too far from the jet apex .",
    "hundreds of schwarzschild radii are indicated . in powerful blazars ,",
    "this distance is conveniently close to the distance of the broad line region ( blr ) , which can produce seed photons for the formation of the @xmath0ray flux .",
    "on the other hand , the entire jet must emit some radiation , particularly at radio frequencies , where synchrotron self ",
    "absorption limits the emission in the inner part of the jet . in the internal shock scenario",
    "the emission at large scales is due to collisions between shells that have already collided once ( or more times ) .",
    "the efficiency in this case is lower , since the bulk lorentz factors have already averaged out somewhat",
    ".      internal shocks are a very simple way to produce variability . in this scenario",
    "there is a typical variability timescale ( at least for the first collisions ) connected to the initial separation between two colliding shells and their width .",
    "if the initial separation of two consecutive shells is @xmath7 , they will collide at the distance @xmath21 , but the corresponding time will be observed doppler contracted by the factor @xmath22 and will be of the same order of the initial separation @xmath23 . the duration of each flare is linked to the duration of the collision , which will be of the order of the shock crossing time .",
    "inhomogeneities within the shells and small scale instabilities , if present , can produce variability on shorter timescales .",
    "high frequency emission is mainly produced by shells colliding for the first time at @xmath24 cm from the jet apex .",
    "lower frequency ( radio and far ir ) flux is produced further out in the jet , when merged shells collide with other merged shells .",
    "therefore there should be some correlations between the light curves at different frequencies , especially between the @xmath0ray and optical fluxes and the mm  radio flux .      we ( spada et al .",
    "2000 ) simulated the case of a powerful blazar jet , of average bulk kinetic power of @xmath25 erg s@xmath4 , carried by shells or blobs injected in the jet , on average , every few hours , with a bulk lorentz factor chosen at random in the range [ 1030 ] .",
    "the shell width is initially of the same order of the initial shell  shell separation .",
    "material in the shell ( both protons and electrons ) are assumed to be initially cold , and consequently the shell is assumed to have a constant width until the first collision takes place .",
    "after that , the shell width is assumed to expand with the sound velocity .",
    "the first collisions happen at a few@xmath26 cm , well within the broad line region ( blr ) , assumed to be located at @xmath27 cm and to reprocess 10% of the disk luminosity , assumed to be equal to @xmath28 erg s@xmath4 .    for simplicity",
    ", a fixed and constant fraction of the energy dissipated during each collision is assumed to go into the electron and to the magnetic field components .",
    "the emitting relativistic particles are assumed to have a broken power ",
    "law energy distribution throughout the entire emitting zone .",
    "this energy distribution is derived by assuming to inject in the source electrons with a single power law distribution with minimum electron energy @xmath29 whose value is found by energetic considerations .",
    "limits in computing time do not allow us to consider details of spectral changes on a timescale faster than the light crossing time of a single shell ( few hours when @xmath30 cm and a month on the parsec scale )",
    ".    particles emit by synchrotron , synchrotron self  compton ( ssc ) , and compton scattering off the external radiation ( ec ) produced by the blr .",
    "we simulate the evolution of the total spectrum summing the locally produced spectra of those regions of the jet which are simultaneously active in the frame of the observer . in fig .",
    "2 we show some spectra , each corresponding to one particular shell  shell collisions at a different distance , as sketched in the bottom panel .",
    "the entire time dependent evolution can be seen in the form of a movie at the url : http://www.merate.mi.astro.it/@xmath31lazzati/3c279/index.html .    as can be seen ,",
    "the predicted spectra are extremely variable ( more so at the higher frequencies ) .",
    "first collisions are the most efficient in converting bulk energy into radiation , since in this case the  @xmath8contrast \" : ( i.e. @xmath32 ) is the largest . these collisions , taking place inside the blr , make the inverse compton process the most important cooling agent .",
    "the corresponding spectrum therefore peaks in the @xmath0ray band .",
    "collisions taking place outside the blr ( preferentially between shells that have already collided once ) have a smaller @xmath8contrast , and see relatively less seed photons .",
    "this makes the synchrotron component to dominate ( dashed and dotted lines in fig .",
    "2 ) .    in fig .",
    "2 we also show the observational data of 3c 279 during three observational campaigns . while the agreement is gratifying , we stress that we have not yet tried to obtain  a best fit \" for this source",
    ". we have rather used fiducial numbers for the initial time separation of the shells , their initial width and the overall average bulk kinetic energy of the jet .",
    "we have performed a cross  correlation analysis of the light curves at different frequencies .",
    "as expected , there is no lag between the @xmath0ray and the x  ray and the optical fluxes , which are mainly produced in the same ( inner ) zones of the jet .",
    "instead , there is a well defined delay of @xmath3140 days between the @xmath0ray and the far infrared ( 1 mm ) fluxes .",
    "this is easily explained by the fact that the mm radiation is preferentially produced at some pc from the center , yielding a time delay of @xmath33    one of the main assumptions of our simulations has been to calculate the value of the magnetic field considering only the energy dissipated in each collisions , and neglecting any seed magnetic field which , surviving from previous collisions , can be amplified by shock compression . as a consequence , the magnetic field @xmath34 scales with distance @xmath35 ( from the jet apex ) as @xmath36 , resulting in very small magnetic field values on the outer zones . in turn",
    "this implies long cooling times and small variability in the radio band .",
    "while we hope to  cure \" this in future work , we would like to stress that there are other possibilities for enhanced dissipation at large distances .",
    "the relativistic plasma could in fact be shocked by  obstacles \" in the jet , or it can interact with the ( steady ) walls of the jet .",
    "this case resembles what in the gamma ",
    "ray burst field is called  external shock scenario \" , in which the collisions are much more efficient in converting bulk into random energy than internal shocks ( i.e. the shell decelerates much more ) . in this case",
    "it is natural to expect some velocity structure across the jet , with a fast  spine \" along the axis and slower  layers \" along the borders .",
    "indeed , chiaberge et al .",
    "( 2000 ) found evidences for this structure , for explaining the spectra of radiogalaxies .",
    "we have shown ( celotti , ghisellini & chiaberge 2000 ) that if some dissipation takes place in the jet at distances greater than 1100 kpc , then the inverse compton scattering process with external radiation is favored with respect to the synchrotron self compton process , leading to an x  ray flux larger than what expected by a pure ssc model .",
    "this study was motivated by the recent detection by chandra of large scale x  ray jets both in radio  galaxies and in quasars , especially in pks 0637752 ( chartas et al .",
    "2000 ; schwartz et al .",
    "this source is particularly interesting because radio vsop observations detected superluminal motion in the ( pc scale ) jet ( lovell 2000 ) , which implies @xmath37 and a viewing angle @xmath38 degrees .",
    "this in turn implies a de  projected x  ray jet length of almost a mpc .",
    "we have proposed that , at these scales , the jet is still relativistic @xmath3915 ) and then its randomly accelerated particles can efficiently interact with the cosmic microwave background ( cmb ) , producing beamed x  ray rays through the inverse compton process",
    ".    it may seem unusual to invoke relativistic bulk motion at these extremely large scales .",
    "but :    \\i ) if the jet decelerates , it has to dissipate , and a sizable fraction of the initial energy must be radiated , contrary to the requirement that most of the jet power survives up to the radio structures .",
    "more so if the jet becomes only mildy relativistic , through , e.g. entrainment .",
    "\\ii ) suppose that the 100 kpc jet is only mildly relativistic .",
    "the produced radiation is then only marginally beamed , _ enhancing _ the requirements on the total energetics with respect to a relativistic jet ( ghisellini & celotti , 2000 , in prep . ) .",
    "celotti , ghisellini & chiaberge ( 2000 ) were able to fit both the core and the large scale jet emission of pks 0637752 ( see fig .",
    "4 ) , with a bulk lorentz factor of 17 for the core and 14 for the jet , _ conserving the bulk kinetic power of the jet _ between the two emission sites , and with nearly equipartition between magnetic and electron energy densities in the large scale jet emission site ( see tavecchio et al .",
    "2000b for another solution ) .    in the frame comoving with the jet ,",
    "the energy density of the cosmic background radiation is @xmath40",
    ". therefore distant blazars with fast large scale jets should be even brighter than pks 0637752 in x ",
    "rays with respect to their synchrotron radio  optical components , making the efforts of chandra to detect them easier .    as mentioned , besides fast  spines \" we can have slowly moving  layers \" , and also these components can emit more inverse compton radiation with respect to a pure ssc model , because the layers can be illuminated by the beamed radiation produced by the core , if the core and the large scale jets are aligned .",
    "4 ( top panel ) shows one example , with the comparison with a pure ssc spectrum .",
    "being slow , and possibly only mildly relativistic , the layers produce radiation which is much more isotropic than the spine : at small viewing angles ( blazar case ) this component is outshined by the spine component , but it can become visible as the viewing angle increases ( i.e. in radio  galaxies ) .",
    "internal shocks can dissipate the right amount of jet power at the right location , originating in a natural way the violent variability observed in blazars .",
    "this scenario has the virtue to be at the same time simple and quantitative , offering a coherent view of almost all the radiative jet , from milliparsecs to kiloparsecs . in the @xmath0ray band",
    "we expect the most pronounced variability , in agreement with observations , and we are now working to find how the @xmath0ray duty cycle ( i.e. the fraction of the time spent in high @xmath0ray states ) scales with the initial separation of the shells and their initial bulk lorentz factor to compare it with data coming from the foreseen @xmath0ray satellites agile and glast .",
    "we hope that this scenario will also explain the observed  blazar sequence \" , linking the overall blazar spectrum with the jet power ( i.e. the bulk motion power ) .",
    "we also hope , with longer simulations , to be able to see if there is a relation between the strongest @xmath0ray flares and the birth of radio superluminal blobs at the pc scale .",
    "the emission predicted by the internal shock scenario ( as it is now ) beyond the kpc scale likely underestimates the x  ray flux ( both soft and hard ) . at these distances the energy densities in magnetic field and",
    "locally produced synchrotron radiation are very small , and seed photons of the cosmic microwave background on one hand and of the core of the jet on the other hand are important contributors to the inverse scattering process for fast spines and slow layers , respectively .",
    "celotti a. & fabian a.c . , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 228 celotti a. , ghisellini g. & chiaberge m. , 2000 , mnras subm .",
    "( astro  ph/0008021 ) chartas g. , et al .",
    "2000 , apj , in press ( astro - ph/0005227 ) chiaberge m. , celotti a. , capetti s. & ghisellini g. 2000 , a&a , 358 , 104 costamante l. et al . 2000 , in prep .",
    "fabian a.c . , celotti a. , iwasawa k. & ghisellini g. , 2000 , mnras subm .",
    "fossati g. , celotti a. , comastri a. , maraschi l. & ghisellini g. 1998 , mnras , 299 , 433 ghisellini g. & madau p. , 1996 ,",
    "mnras , 280 , 67 ghisellini g. , celotti a. , fossati g. , maraschi l. & comastri a. 1998 , mnras , 301 , 451 ghisellini g. 2000 , in _ stellar endpoints , agn and the diffuse background _ , bologna , sept . 1999 , in press lazzati d. , ghisellini g. & celotti a. , 1999 , mnras , 309 , l13 maraschi l. et al . , 1994 ,",
    "apj , 435 , l91 rawlings s.g . &",
    "saunders r.d.e . , 1991 , nature , 349 , 138 rees , m.j . , 1978 , mnras , 184 , p61 schwartz d.a . , et al .",
    "2000 , in press ( astro - ph/0005255 ) spada m. , ghisellini g. , lazzati d. & celotti a. 2000 , mnras subm .",
    "tagliaferri g. et al . ,",
    "2000 , a&a .",
    "354 , 431 tavecchio f. et al . , 2000a , apj , in press tavecchio f. , maraschi l. , sambruna r.m .",
    "& urry c.m .",
    "2000b , subm .",
    "to apjl ( astro  ph/0007441 ) wehrle a.e .",
    "et al . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , 497 , 178"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the radiation observed by blazars is believed to originate from the transformation of bulk kinetic energy of relativistic jets into random energy . a simple way to achieve this is to have an intermittent central power source , producing shells of plasma with different bulk lorentz factors . </S>",
    "<S> these shells will collide at some distance from the center , producing shocks and then radiation . </S>",
    "<S> this scenario , called _ internal shock model _ </S>",
    "<S> , is thought to be at the origin of the @xmath0rays observed in gamma  ray bursts and can work even better in blazars . </S>",
    "<S> it accounts for the observed key characteristics of these objects , including the fact that radiation must be preferentially produced at a few hundreds of schwarzschild radii from the center , but continues to be produced all along the jet . at the kpc scale and beyond , the slowly moving parts of a ( straight ) jet can be illuminated by the beamed radiation of the core , while the fast parts of the jet will see enhanced cosmic microwave radiation . in both cases </S>",
    "<S> the inverse compton process can be the dominant radiation process , leading to a copious production of high energy ( x  rays and beyond ) radiation in both radio loud quasars and radio  galaxies .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}