{
  "article_text": [
    "it has been generally accepted for decades that disk galaxies are ubiquitously embedded in massive dark matter halos . during the past few years , a consensus has been developing that elliptical galaxies also contain dark halos .",
    "their existence is predicted by hierarchical theories of galaxy formation , and has recently been supported by various observational evidence , such as gravitational lensing ( griffiths et al .",
    "1996 ; keeton , kochanek , & falco 1998 ) and x - ray measurements of their hot gas atmospheres ( matsushita et al .  1998 ;",
    "loewenstein & white 1999 ) .",
    "although useful to infer the large - scale mass distribution of elliptical galaxies , these observations do not sufficiently constrain the detailed structure of the mass distribution at a few effective radii .",
    "this region is particularly important for understanding the coupling of the dark and luminous matter . in order to constrain the gravitational potential at these radii , other , kinematical",
    ", tracers are used . for disk galaxies ,",
    "the neutral hydrogen gas , which radiates at 21 cm , forms an excellent kinematical tracer ; elliptical galaxies , however , usually lack the necessary amounts of interstellar gas .",
    "discrete tracers such as planetary nebulae , globular clusters and dwarf satellite galaxies can be used ( zepf et al .",
    "2000 ; romanowski & kochanek 2001 ; kronawitter et al .",
    "2000 ) , but due to their small numbers and larger distances to the center , they do not sufficiently constrain the gravitational potential at a few @xmath0 .",
    "this leaves stars as the main tracer for the mass distribution in elliptical galaxies in this region .    the first stellar kinematical evidence for dark matter halos around elliptical galaxies came in the early 1990s .",
    "at that time , the available kinematical data consisted of the mean projected velocity @xmath1 and the projected velocity dispersion @xmath2 , at projected radii rarely larger than @xmath3 . for a number of elliptical galaxies , the projected velocity dispersion profile was found to decrease only slowly with projected radius , a behavior that was interpreted as a signature for the presence of a dark matter halo ( saglia , bertin , & stiavelli 1992 ; saglia et al .",
    "however , such @xmath2 profiles can also be generated by intrinsically tangentially anisotropic galaxy models , without the need for dark matter halos .",
    "the velocity dispersion profile alone does not contain sufficient kinematic information to constrain both the mass and the orbital structure of elliptical galaxies , a problem usually referred to as the mass - anisotropy degeneracy ( gerhard 1993 ) .",
    "this degeneracy can be broken by considering the higher order kinematical information contained in the line - of - sight velocity distributions ( losvds ) , usually parameterized by means of the gauss - hermite shape parameters @xmath4 ( where @xmath5 ; gerhard 1993 ; van der marel & franx 1993 ) .",
    "in particular , the additional information contained in the @xmath6 profile provides the key to breaking the mass - anisotropy degeneracy : the combination of a slowly decreasing velocity dispersion profile , together with a relatively large @xmath6 profile , is generally interpreted as evidence for a dark matter halo .",
    "profiles , we refer to section  3 of gerhard et al .",
    "( 1998 ) . ]",
    "thanks to improved instrumentation and data reduction techniques , it is nowadays possible to determine @xmath1 , @xmath2 , @xmath7 and @xmath6 profiles with a reasonable accuracy , out to several @xmath0 .",
    "several authors have recently adopted such kinematical information to constrain the dark matter distribution in a number of elliptical galaxies ( rix et al .",
    "1997 ; gerhard et al .  1998 ; saglia et al .",
    "2000 ; kronawitter et al .  2000 ) .    in this entire discussion , it has ( implicitly ) been assumed that elliptical galaxies consist of two dynamically important components : the stars moving as test particles in a gravitational potential , generated by both stellar and dark mass . during the past decade",
    ", it has become well established that elliptical galaxies also contain a surprisingly large amount of interstellar dust ( up to several million solar masses ) , most of it believed to be distributed diffusely over the galaxy ( roberts et al .",
    "1991 ; goudfrooij & de jong 1995 ; bregman et al .",
    "this number must be revised an order of magnitude upward , if more detailed dust mass estimators ( merluzzi 1998 ) or additional submillimeter measurements ( fich & hodge 1993 ; wiklind & henkel 1995 ) are taken into account .",
    "this is still a negligible fraction of the total mass of the galaxy , such that the dust will hardly influence the gravitational potential .",
    "nevertheless , it has a significant role in galaxy dynamics : dust grains efficiently absorb and scatter optical photons .",
    "interstellar dust will therefore affect all observable quantities , including the observed kinematics .",
    "we are undertaking an effort to understand the impact of interstellar dust on the observed kinematics in elliptical galaxies .",
    "previously , we investigated how absorption by dust grains affects the light profile and the observed kinematics ( baes & dejonghe 2000 ; baes , dejonghe , & de rijcke 2001 ) .",
    "we found that the observed kinematics are affected only in the most central regions , the magnitude of these effects being of the order of a few percents .",
    "here we have extended our modeling to incorporate the process of scattering off dust grains .",
    "we will show in this letter that this has a considerable effect on the observed kinematics , in particular concerning the stellar kinematical evidence for dark matter halos .",
    "to investigate the effects of attenuation on the observed kinematics , we constructed a spherically symmetric elliptical galaxy model , consisting of a stellar and a dust component . for the stellar distribution",
    ", we adopted an isotropic hernquist model .",
    "it is a reasonable approximation for the observed surface brightness distribution of elliptical galaxies , and has the advantage that most of the internal stellar kinematics can be calculated analytically ( hernquist 1990 ) .",
    "the distribution of the ( diffuse ) dust in elliptical galaxies is not well constrained ; its presence has been demonstrated only indirectly . we adopted a dust distribution that is shallower than the stellar density , with a total visual optical depth of order unity .",
    "such a model seems to be indicated by the observed color gradients in elliptical galaxies ( witt et al.1992 ; goudfrooij & de jong 1995 ; wise & silva 1996 ) . for the optical properties of the dust grains ( the relative opacity , the scattering albedo , and the phase function )",
    ", we adopted the values calculated by maccioni & perinotto ( 1994 ) and displayed in di bartolomeo , barbaro & perinotto ( 1995 ) .",
    "a more extended set of models , with a larger variety in optical depth and star - dust geometry , will be presented in a forthcoming paper ( m. baes & h. dejonghe , 2001 , in preparation ) .",
    "the inclusion of dust absorption in the calculation of the losvds was rather straightforward : it required an extra factor in the integration along the line of sight ( baes & dejonghe 2000 ) .",
    "if scattering is included , however , such an approach is not possible anymore .",
    "indeed , photons can now leave their initial path , and reach the observer through a completely different path . therefore , we adopted a monte carlo technique to include this process .",
    "basically , the method consists of following the individual path of a very large number of photons ( typically about @xmath8 ) , selected randomly from phase space , according to the phase space distribution function of the galaxy .",
    "knowledge of the path along which each photon leaves the galaxy , together with the kinematical signature of the star that emitted it , enables us to construct the surface brightness profiles and losvds of the galaxy , both with and without dust attenuation taken into account .",
    "the @xmath2 and @xmath6 profiles are extracted from the losvds ( the @xmath9 and @xmath7 profiles are identically zero , because we consider a spherically symmetric nonrotating galaxy model ) .",
    "a more detailed description of the method will be given in m. baes & h. dejonghe ( 2001 , in preparation ) .",
    "a check on the method was provided by the case where only absorption is taken into account : we found the results of the monte carlo simulation to be in perfect agreement with our previously obtained semianalytical results ( baes & dejonghe 2000 ) .",
    "in figure 1 , the effect of dust attenuation on the observed kinematics is illustrated .",
    "for the lines of sight that pass near the galaxy center , the kinematics are nearly unaffected . because of the modest ( and conservative )",
    "dust masses we used , the high - velocity stars in the galaxy center are only slightly obscured . as a result ,",
    "the velocity dispersion only decreases marginally . at large radii ,",
    "however , the kinematics are seriously affected .",
    "the @xmath2 profile drops less steeply , and the @xmath6 parameter is significantly larger compared to the dust - free case . in figure  2 , we show the losvd at @xmath10 of our galaxy model , with and without dust attenuation .",
    "this figure clearly indicates that dust attenuation brings on significant high - velocity wings in the outer losvds .",
    "in particular , it should be noted that these losvds do not vanish at the local escape velocity : hence , stars are observed that can physically not be present on these lines of sight .",
    "these wings are a scattering effect , as demonstrated in figure 3 , and they are responsible for the increase of @xmath2 and @xmath6 .",
    "attenuation by interstellar dust apparently has a kinematical signature that is strikingly similar to the presence of a dark matter halo : a velocity dispersion profile that decreases more slowly than expected , and a relatively large @xmath6 profile .",
    "hence , dust - affected kinematics mimic the presence of a dark matter halo .",
    "to check this into more detail , we considered our dust - affected kinematics as an observational data set , and modeled it as any dynamical modeler would do , i.e. , without taking dust attenuation into account .",
    "we concentrated on the model with @xmath11 , and considered a data set consisting of the @xmath12-band photometry and @xmath13-band @xmath2 and @xmath6 profiles , out to @xmath14 .",
    "the modeling was performed with a powerful non - parametric modeling technique based on quadratic programming ( dejonghe 1989 ) .",
    "first , we tried to find out whether the data were consistent with a model with a constant @xmath15 .",
    "we constructed a set of dynamical models , with @xmath15 as a free parameter .",
    "the best - fitting model is represented by the dashed line in figure 4 .",
    "obviously , this fit is not satisfactory : it can fit the @xmath2 profile , but only through a strong tangential anisotropy , reflected in a strongly negative @xmath6 profile .",
    "it is impossible to fit both the @xmath2 and @xmath6 profiles with a constant @xmath15 model .      in order to construct models with a rising @xmath15 ,",
    "i.e.  with a dark halo , we considered a set of hernquist potentials , each with a different scale length .",
    "we constructed a set of dynamical models , with both the potential scale length and the mass - to - light ratio as free parameters .",
    "the best fit to the photometry and the @xmath2 and @xmath6 profiles is plotted in solid lines in figure 4 .",
    "its potential has a scale length 45% larger than the original hernquist potential , and in the maximum stellar mass hypothesis ( the analogue for the maximum disk hypothesis in disk galaxies ) , the dark matter contributes roughly a third of the total mass within 1@xmath0 , and half of the total mass within the last data point .",
    "this clearly demonstrates that the effects of dust attenuation can mimic the presence of a dark matter halo .",
    "taking dust attenuation into account in dynamical modeling procedures will hence reduce or may even eliminate the need for a dark matter halo at a few @xmath0 .",
    "in view of these results , we may have to reconsider the stellar kinematical evidence for dark matter halos . in analogy with the mass - anisotropy degeneracy , which could be lifted by considering higher - order shape parameters for the losvds ,",
    "we are now faced with a new degeneracy , which could be called the mass - dust degeneracy .",
    "indeed , the attenuation ( in particular the scattering ) by dust grains has the same effect on the stellar kinematics as a dark matter halo . at least ,",
    "these results apply for the model we have explored in this letter , with a dust distribution shallower than the stars and with an optical depth @xmath11 .",
    "we are well aware that these assumptions are quite uncertain , and an extended set of models , with a large variety in optical depth and star - dust geometry , is being investigated .",
    "the new mass - dust degeneracy strongly complicates the use of stellar kinematics as a tracer for the mass distribution in elliptical galaxies . although the presence of dark matter halos nowadays seems firmly established at very large scales , this leaves us with a major problem concerning the determination of the dark halo properties at a few effective radii .",
    "there are two possible ways to break this new degeneracy .",
    "the first option is to observe the kinematics at near - infrared wavelengths , where the effects of dust are negligible .",
    "this , however , poses a serious observational challenge in the off - center regions .",
    "the second option is to include radiative transfer calculations in dynamical modeling techniques . besides a computational challenge , this requires a better knowledge of the spatial distribution and of the optical properties of dust grains in elliptical galaxies than we have today .",
    "the new generation of far - infrared and submillimeter instruments , such as alma and _ sirtf _ , will help to solve this problem .",
    "the authors would like to thank t.  van albada and a.  n.  witt for stimulating discussions , and the referee , n. cretton , for his constructive remarks .",
    "m.  b.  acknowledges the financial support of fwo - vlaanderen .",
    "baes m. , dejonghe h. , 2000 , mnras , 313 , 153 baes m. , dejonghe h. , de rijcke s. , 2000 , mnras , 318 , 798 bregman j. n. , snider b. a. , grego l. , cox c. v. , 1998 , apj , 499 , 670 dejonghe h. , 1989 , apj , 343 , 113 di bartolomeo a. , barbaro g. , perinotto m. , 1995 , mnras , 277 , 1279 fich m. , hodge p. , 1993",
    ", apj , 415 , 75 gerhard o. e. , 1993 , mnras , 265 , 213 gerhard o. , jeske g. , saglia r. p. , bender r. , 1998 , mnras , 295 , 197 goudfrooij p. , de jong t. , 1995 , a&a , 298 , 784 griffiths r. e. , casertano s. , i m m. , ratnatunga k. u. , 1996 , mnras , 282 , 1159 hernquist l. , 1990 , apj , 356 , 359 keeton c. r. , kochanek c. s. , falco e. e. , 1998 , apj , 509 , 561 kronawitter a. , saglia r. p. , gerhard o. , bender r. , 2000 , a&as , 144 , 53 loewenstein m. , white r. e. iii , 1999 , apj , 518 , 50 maccioni a. , perinotto m. , 1994 , a&a , 284 , 241 matsushita k. , makishima k. , ikebe y. , rokutanda e. , yamasaki n. , ohashi t. , 1998 , apj , 499 , l13 merluzzi p. , 1998 ,",
    "a&a , 338 , 807 rix h .- w . de zeeuw p. t. , cretton n. , van der marel r. p. , carollo c. m. , 1997 , apj , 488 , 702 roberts m. s. , hogg d. e. , bregman j. n. , forman w. r. , jones c. , 1991 , apjs , 75 , 751 romanowsky a. j. , kochanek c. s. , 2001 , apj , 553 , 722 saglia r. p. , bertin g. , stiavelli m. , 1992 , apj , 384 , 433 saglia r. p. , bertin g. , bertola f. , danziger j. , dejonghe h. , sadler e. m. , stiavelli m. , de zeeuw p. t. , zeilinger w. w. , 1993 , apj , 403 , 567 saglia r. p. , kronawitter a. , gerhard o. , bender r. , 2000 , aj , 119 , 153 van der marel r. p. , franx m. , 1993 , apj , 407 , 525 wiklind t. , henkel c. , 1995 , a&a , 297 , l71 wise m. s. , silva d. r. , 1996 , apj , 461 , 155 witt a. n. , thronson j. a. jr . , capuano j. m. jr .",
    ", 1992 , apj , 393 , 611 zepf s. e. , beasley m. a. , bridges t. j. , hanes d. a. , sharples r. m. , ashman k. m. , geisler d. , 2000 , aj , 120 , 2928      ; the different curves correspond to those in fig .  1",
    ". the losvds are normalized to unity at @xmath17 .",
    "the escape velocity @xmath18 at this line of sight is indicated by an arrow . if dust attenuation is not taken into account , no stars are observed with line - of - sight velocities larger than @xmath18 .",
    "if dust attenuation is considered , however , the losvd does not vanish at @xmath18 . ]    .",
    "if there were no dust attenuation , the photon would travel along a straight line , and contribute a line - of - sight velocity @xmath19 to the losvd at the projected radius @xmath20 . in a dusty galaxy , however , photons can leave their initial path and reach the observer through a completely different path . in the figure",
    ", the photon is scattered twice , at @xmath21 and @xmath22 , and it leaves the galaxy along a line of sight with projected radius @xmath23 . during its journey through the galaxy ,",
    "the photon carries along the kinematical signature of the star that emitted it .",
    "hence , it will contribute the line - of - sight velocity @xmath24 to the losvd at the line of sight @xmath23 .",
    "in particular , it is possible that the observed line - of - sight velocity @xmath24 exceeds the local escape velocity @xmath25 .",
    "this is indeed observed in the outer losvds : they do not vanish at the local escape velocity ( fig .",
    "2).,width=245 ]    . shown",
    "are the surface brightness @xmath26 , velocity dispersion @xmath2 , and @xmath6 profiles .",
    "the data are represented by the gray circles .",
    "the dashed line is the best fitting model with constant @xmath15 ; the solid line is the best fitting model with a dark matter halo ( see text ) .",
    "the projected kinematics of the input model , without dust attenuation taken into account , are represented by a dotted line . ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> hierarchical models of galaxy formation and various observational evidence suggest that elliptical galaxies are , like disk galaxies , embedded in massive dark matter halos . </S>",
    "<S> stellar kinematics are considered the most important tracer for this dark halo at a few effective radii . using detailed modeling techniques , </S>",
    "<S> several authors have recently presented stellar kinematical evidence of a dark halo for a number of elliptical galaxies . in these modeling techniques , dust attenuation ( </S>",
    "<S> absorption and scattering of starlight by dust grains ) has not been taken into account . </S>",
    "<S> nevertheless , elliptical galaxies contain a significant amount of interstellar dust , which affects all observable quantities , including the observed kinematics . </S>",
    "<S> we constructed a set of dynamical models for elliptical galaxies , in which dust attenuation is included through a monte carlo technique . </S>",
    "<S> we find that a dust component , shallower than the stellar distribution and with an optical depth of order unity , affects the observed kinematics significantly , in the way that it mimics the presence of a dark halo . </S>",
    "<S> if such dust distributions are realistic in elliptical galaxies , we are faced with a new mass - dust degeneracy . </S>",
    "<S> taking dust attenuation into account in dynamical modeling procedures will hence reduce or may even eliminate the need for a dark matter halo at a few effective radii . </S>"
  ]
}