{
  "article_text": [
    "the polarization of the cosmic microwave background was the subject of extensive theoretical studies in the last three years ( seljak 1997 , seljak & zaldarriaga 1997 , zaldarriaga & seljak 1997 , kamionkowski _ et al .",
    "_ 1997a , kamionkowski _ et al .",
    "_ 1997b , kamionkowski & kosowsky 1998 ) . indeed",
    ", it should provide us with additional information on the cosmological parameters , in particular the reionization optical depth ( zaldarriaga 1997 ) and the tensor - related parameters @xmath0 ( spectral index of tensor perturbations ) , and @xmath1 ( tensor to scalar amplitudes ratio , see kamionkowski _ et al .",
    "_ 1997b , seljak & zaldarriaga 1997 ) .",
    "although the existence of polarization in the cmb has first been predicted long ago in the context of an anisotropic universe ( rees 1968 ) , there are so far only upper limits on the polarization level of the cosmic microwave background ( netterfield _ et al .",
    "_ 1995 ) , which in the case of an isotropic universe is expected to be at best @xmath2 of the anisotropy level ( bond & efstathiou 1984 ) .",
    "the late revival of interest in the polarized part of the cmb is motivated by the fact that the sensitivities of future satellite missions like map and planck are comparable to the expected level of polarization in the cmb .    while this is enough to raise the interest of theoreticians in the matter , the issue of the _ measurability _ of such a signal in a given instrumental configuration needs further investigation .",
    "in particular , one needs to study the level of contamination of this polarized signal by other astrophysical sources of emission as a function of both frequency _ and _ spatial scale .",
    "this paper intends to give the present status of our knowledge concerning a galactic foreground polarized emission : _ the polarized emission coming from the thermal emission of aligned dust grains .",
    "_    the polarization of the stellar light in _ absorption _ has been discovered a long time ago ( hiltner 1949 , hall 1949 ) .",
    "this polarization has been interpreted as a selective absorption of the stellar light by dust grains aligned respectively to magnetic field .",
    "currently uv , optical , near - infrared and far - infrared polarimetry is one of the major sources of information about magnetic field structure .",
    "the very same polarization is the impediment for the cosmic microwave studies , as it shall contribute to the polarized signal to be measured by map and plank . in this review",
    "we estimate the level of contamination of polarized signal by galactic dust .    in what follows",
    "we estimate the intrinsic polarized emissivity of dust at submillimeter wavelengths ( section  2 ) , discuss the angular distribution of polarized dust emission ( section  3 ) and compare the dust polarized spectrum with that of cmb ( section  4 ) .",
    "we discuss intended work in section  5 and summarize our results in section  6 .",
    "as we will see in this section , the polarized emissivity of the grains depends on their shape , more specifically on their asphericity .",
    "there have been therefore several attempts to constrain their shape using optical ( kim & martin 1995 and references therein ) and infrared data ( hildebrand & dragovan 1995 , lee & draine 1985 and references therein ) .",
    "the idea is to constrain the shape of the grains by fitting the observed polarization ( in absorption ) to extinction ratios of stellar light in some frequency range .",
    "these ratios , in the uv and optical wavelengths , are very sensitive to the size distribution of the grains ( because the size of the grains and the wavelengths observed are comparable ) , and therefore are mainly used to constrain it , but they nevertheless tend to show that , assuming spheroidal shape for the grains , oblate grains are somewhat preferred to prolate grains .    on the other hand , given the dielectric properties of the grain materials in the infrared , it is possible to constrain the shape of the grains using the same ratios , but in a frequency range covering some absorption features .",
    "this is what has been done around the @xmath3 @xmath4 ice feature , and around the @xmath5 silicate feature ( see hildebrand & dragovan 1995 , lee & draine 1985 ) . at those wavelengths ,",
    "the polarization curves are less sensitive to the size distribution of the grains , provided that the maximal size of the distribution remains much smaller than the wavelengths of interest .",
    "indeed , we are then in the conditions where the dipole approximation for the computation of polarized cross - sections is valid ( _ cf _ draine & lee 1984 ) .",
    "hildebrand & dragovan ( 1995 ) , analyzing the polarization in absorption around the @xmath5 silicate feature , found that this curve was best fitted by oblate grains with an axis - ratio of @xmath6 ; this is in agreement with the other studies of kim & martin ( 1995 ) and lee & draine ( 1985 ) who both inferred that the correct shape of the grains should be oblate , with an axis ratio of @xmath7 .",
    "this axis ratio , inferred from near - infrared and optical spectro - polarimetry , predicts a polarization degree in emission of @xmath8 for perfectly aligned grains on a uniform magnetic field in the plane of the sky . of course , such an idealized situation is not likely to occur , and different depolarization mechanisms will diminish the _ observed _ degree of polarization in the fir wavelengths .",
    "such mechanisms are discussed in the next section .",
    "one could argue that the grains responsible for the near - infrared and optical dichroic absorption could be different from those responsible for the fir polarized emission ( see goodman 1995 ) .",
    "this indeed may be true for molecular clouds , where cold grains far from emission sources may not be aligned ( lazarian , goodman & myers 1997 , hildebrand _ et al .",
    "_ 1999 ) . in diffuse medium , however , there are both theoretical and observational reasons to believe that adsorbing and emitting grains are indeed the same .",
    "first , suppose that a grain population emits a polarized thermal radiation in the fir , if we want this population not to contribute to the polarization by absorption in the optical or near - infrared region , the size of those grains should be very big ( @xmath9 ) , and they would then induce a lot of absorption in the near - infrared , which is not seen ( unless we grossly overestimate the absorption properties of the grain materials ) .",
    "another reason why such hypothesis does not seem plausible is the measured metallicity of the diffuse interstellar medium , indeed the interstellar abundance of si provides us with barely enough grain material to build the grain mass distributions necessary to fit the optical data ( kim _ et al .",
    "_ 1994 , grevesse & anders 1989 ) .",
    "there are also observational reasons to believe that the same grains are responsible for the polarization by absorption in the near infra - red and the polarized emission in the fir .",
    "indeed , one of the simplest tests of this ansatz is the expected orthogonality of the direction of polarization between the two wavelengths regimes ( see below ) .",
    "this orthogonality was verified by hildebrand _",
    "_ 1984 in orion ( see also hildebrand 1988 ) .",
    "a good match of the expected maximum polarization in emission predicted from the observed polarization to extinction ratio in the near - infrared also supports the idea that the grains are the same .    indeed ,",
    "if we consider an optically thin medium , we can show that the polarization degree in emission @xmath10 and polarization degree in absorption @xmath11 are related via a simple relation @xmath12 ( see hildebrand 1988 ) . from the _",
    "observed _ polarization to extinction ratio at @xmath13 ( jones _ et al .",
    "_ 1992 ) and using the dielectric functions of draine & lee ( 1984 ) for a mixture of `` astronomical silicate '' and graphite grains to compute @xmath14 hildebrand & dragovan ( 1995 ) obtained , using eq.(1 ) , the maximum polarization one could expect at @xmath15 , they find a maximum polarization of the order of @xmath16 , which corresponds to the maximum polarization observed by hildebrand _",
    "( 1995 ) in the orion nebulae .",
    "it seems then that the same grains are responsible for the polarization of starlight in the near - infrared and for the fir polarized emission .",
    "we will now expose the different depolarization mechanisms responsible for the discrepancy between the observed maximum polarization ( @xmath16 ) and the theoretical prediction of @xmath17 .",
    "as shown in greenberg ( 1968 ) , the dichroism of the medium ( defined as the _ observed _ polarization cross - section can be written as : @xmath18 where @xmath19 defines the plane of the sky , the regular magnetic field being in the @xmath20 plane , making an angle @xmath21 with the @xmath22 axis ( see fig ... ) .",
    "the radiation is experiencing different depolarisation effects , as it travels towards the observer :    * @xmath23 is the so - called `` rayleigh reduction factor '' , which gives the amount of depolarisation arising from the imperfect alignment of dust grains on the magnetic field lines , @xmath24 being the precession angle of the grain ( for a review on dust grain alignment mechanisms , see e.g. lazarian _",
    "* @xmath25 is the reduction factor coming from a turbulent random component of the galactic magnetic field . in this case",
    ", @xmath26 is the angle between the random and the regular component of the field . *",
    "finally , the @xmath27 factor arises from a projection effect .",
    "as stressed by goodman ( 1996 ) , the observed polarization flux in absorption depends on the direction of the magnetic field , and its fluctuations , while the extinction does not no bigger than @xmath2 , which is less than the usual observational errors on @xmath28 anyway ( see lee & draine 1985 ) . ] .",
    "thus , there is a large scatter in the observed values of @xmath28 , which implies a scatter in the corresponding @xmath10 in the far infrared ( for an illustration see fig .",
    "5a of hildebrand 1996 ) .",
    "the _ maximum observed value _ of @xmath10 ( around @xmath2 in orion ) has been interpreted by hildebrand & dragovan ( 1995 ) to correspond to lines of sight where the magnetic field lies in the plane of the sky .",
    "the discrepancy between @xmath2 polarization observed and the predicted @xmath29 expected for the given grain geometry was interpreted by hildebrand & dragovan ( 1995 ) as a consequence of limited efficiency of gold alignment calculated in lazarian ( 1994 ) .",
    "we , however , would tend to believe that the fluctuations of magnetic field direction are mostly responsible for the discrepancy , while the alignment is close to being complete ( see below ) .",
    "for instance , polarization measurements from bima that resolve smaller scale structure that those by hildebrand s group reveal higher degrees of polarization ( goodman 1999 ) . in the diffuse gas",
    "the structure of magnetic field should be more ordered and we expect to observe polarization higher than 10% .",
    "we claim below that the grains responsible for the fir emission in dark clouds constitute just a subset of the total grain population , namely , a subset of grains that are close to the stars and are aligned because of this . the rest of the grains within dark clouds may not be aligned and therefore the observed optical and near - infrared polarization does not follow extinction for large optical depths ( goodman 1995 ) . this reduction of the grain alignment efficiency is nevertheless a characteristic of high column density regions , and is not likely to appear in the diffuse ism .",
    "thus for our modeling of the polarized emission of dust in the `` infrared cirrus '' at high galactic latitudes ( which are more representative of the foreground emission for cmb polarization measurements ) , we will assume that the grain alignment efficiency is perfect .",
    "we should finally wonder about the wavelength dependence of the polarization degree in emission in the fir and submillimeter wavelengths . according to the theory , because the wavelengths considered are much greater than the maximum size of the grains , this polarization degree should be fairly independent of wavelength ( see draine & lee 1984 ) .",
    "this has been confirmed by multifrequency observations ( ranging from @xmath30 to @xmath31 , see leach _",
    "_ 1991 , schleuning _",
    "_ 1996 , hildebrand _ et al .",
    "_ 1995 ) .",
    "grain alignment is a problem of half a century standing with the first observations dated as far back as 1949 ( hiltner 1949 , hall 1949 ) and first theories put forward in 1951 ( spitzer & tukey 1951 , davis & greenstein 1951 , gold 1951 ) .",
    "intensive recent research have partially uncovered the mystery of how grains can be aligned and we briefly summarize below what is known of grain alignment .",
    "various mechanism of alignment ( see table  1 in lazarian , goodman & myers 1997 , henceforth lgm97 ) can be broadly separated in three categories : _ paramagnetic _ , _ mechanical _ and _ via radiative torques_. the latter seem to dominate in diffuse ism ( draine & weingartner 1996 , 1997 ) , while mechanical alignment is important in particular regions of outflows , mhd turbulence ( lazarian 1994 , 1997 ) and also in the regions of supersonic ambipolar diffusion ( roberge _ et al .",
    "_ 1995 ) .",
    "the role of paramagnetic effects is not clear so far .",
    "jones and spitzer ( 1967 ) have shown that grains can be well aligned via paramagnetic dissipation if they contain ferromagnetic or superparamagnetic inclusions .",
    "this idea was further supported by mathis ( 1986 ) , who showed that such grain can provide a proper wavelength dependence for polarization and also by martin ( 1995 ) and goodman & whittet ( 1996 ) who observed that gems ( glass with embedded metal ) and other strongly magnetic inclusions found in primitive meteorites and in the interstellar dust particles caught in earth atmosphere can render dust the required magnetic response .",
    "work by lazarian & draine ( 1997 ) made the case of paramagnetic alignment stronger : they showed that grains can be nearly perfectly aligned even when they have properties of ordinary paramagnetic materials , provided that grains rotate via h@xmath32 torques discovered by purcell ( 1979 ) .",
    "however , further research showed that purcell s torques can be suppressed by thermal flips of interstellar grains ( lazarian & draine 1999 a , b ) and the resulting alignment may be small .",
    "the thermal flipping should be enhanced for grains with superparamagnetic and ferromagnetic inclusions and therefore these grains are likely to rotate thermally ( lazarian & draine 1999a ) which entail the decrease of alignment for `` supermagnetic '' grains .",
    "radiative torques unlike purcell torques are not fixed in the grain body frame .",
    "therefore they are less sensitive to averaging arising from thermal flipping .",
    "therefore these torques are likely to be the principal mechanism for grain spin - up and grain alignment in diffuse ism .",
    "unfortunately , we do not have proper theoretical understanding of the alignment via radiative torques .",
    "the existing numerical simulations disregard grain flipping and therefore can not provide the quantitative answer .",
    "however , it seems plausible that the degree of radiative alignment should be high , e.g. of the order @xmath33% .",
    "the picture of grain alignment in diffuse media is simpler than in molecular clouds , where grains in cold dense environments can come to thermal equilibrium with gas and randomize .",
    "according to lgm97 the latter process is responsible for marginal polarizing power of grains in dark clouds observed by goodman ( 1995 ) .",
    "recently hildebrand _ et al . _",
    "( 1999 ) confirmed this prediction of lgm97 , observing that cold grains are not aligned , while hot grains are aligned .",
    "because the grains align themselves on the magnetic field , and polarize the light ( absorption or emission ) by dichroism , it is clearly tempting to try to infer the distribution of the underlying magnetic field from polarization maps .",
    "the problem is however far from being trivial .",
    "as we saw , the ratio of polarization to extinction is sensitive to a large number of factors , which include the random changes of the turbulent part of the magnetic field , as well as possible changes of the polarization efficiency of grains along the line of sight , and from one line of sight to the other .",
    "however , observations seem to show in a robust way that the polarization efficiency is decreased only in the denser parts of the interstellar objects ( where @xmath34 ) , and is maximal in the diffuse interstellar medium ( lgm97 ) , so we will concentrate mainly on the distribution of magnetic field flux .    the problem has been first studied by chandrasekhar & fermi ( 1953 ) in the case of wave - like fluctuations of the magnetic field ( describing the case of alfvenic turbulence ) .",
    "they used the distribution of polarization position angles to infer the amplitude of the mean magnetic field .",
    "this approach was further elaborated by zweibel ( 1990 ) in the case of a collection of clouds threaded on the magnetic field lines .",
    "the value of the magnetic field amplitude computed by this method is in good agreement with values inferred from completely different methods , like zeeman splitting of the hi line ( see heiles 1987 ) , and provides additional indication that the polarization patterns are indeed related to the underlying magnetic field distribution .",
    "jokipii & parker ( 1969 ) addressed the statistics of magnetic field in a more general way .",
    "they concluded that in order for cosmic rays to escape the galactic disk in about @xmath35 , the correlation length of the magnetic field lines had to be of the order of @xmath36 in the diffuse ism .",
    "this method has been extended by myers & goodman ( 1990 ) , who inferred from the observation of the distribution of polarization position angles in dark clouds the relative amplitudes of the random and regular components of the magnetic field , as well as the amplitude and direction of the mean field ( with the addition of zeeman splitting measurements in the same regions , see heiles 1987,1988 ) .",
    "they obtained a rough estimate for the number of magnetic field correlation lengths along the line of sight .",
    "a unifying approach was adopted by jones , klebbe & dickey ( 1992 ) .",
    "they describe the magnetic field fluctuations in a statistical way , but relate its correlation length to the optical depth variations along the line of sight , thereby stressing the coupling between the magnetic field and the underlying density field .",
    "they generalized the earlier studies by the introduction of a correlation function of the magnetic field position angle along the line of sight , as a function of optical depth .",
    "they obtained an estimate of the typical correlation length of the magnetic field of the order of @xmath37 .",
    "the idea of relating the magnetic field directions distribution to the underlying density field seems physically well motivated .",
    "unfortunately , it is difficult to quantify the correlation between interstellar density and magnetic field .",
    "some insight could be obtained via numerical simulations of compressible mhd .",
    "the results available thus far deal unfortunately either with 2d turbulence ( vazquez - semadeni , passot & pouquet 1995 ; passot , vazquez - semadeni & pouquet 1995 ; vazquez - semadeni , passot & pouquet 1996 ) or with 3d turbulence ( padoan & nordlund 1998 , jones , ostriker & gammie 1998 ) , but with insufficient resolution to obtain a detailed statistical picture .",
    "these simulations , however , do indicate a correlation of magnetic field and the underlying gas density .",
    "the kinds of statistical approaches described above may be useful in addressing the problem of predicting the polarized foreground from dust in the diffuse ism since the cmb will also be analyzed in term of its statistical properties . to be more practical",
    ", we would like to compare not only the one - point pdf of both emissions , but also their two - point functions , or equivalently their spatial power spectra .",
    "this problem , to be solved , requires not only a knowledge of the dust density and magnetic field distribution , but also the knowledge of their _ cross - correlation _ which seems to be non - vanishing , as shown by numerical simulations .",
    "unfortunately , only some derived statistical properties ( like projected distributions ) are available through the observations",
    ". a fair amount of modeling will then be necessary to guess what the power spectra of the dust polarized emission could look like .",
    "we will present different possible ways to estimate its properties in the following .      a first ( and rather crude ) model to infer the statistical properties of dust polarized emission has been discussed in prunet _",
    "( 1998 , henceforth psbm98 ) .",
    "the fundamental ideas behind their method are the following :    * the dust emissivity ( as seen by iras / dirbe maps at @xmath38 ) is strongly correlated to the underlying gas density ( as seen by the hi @xmath39 line maps of the galaxy , see hartmann & burton 1995 ) , at least for column densities smaller than @xmath40 ( boulanger _ et al .",
    "_ 1996 ) . *",
    "the hi maps contain an additional information , which is the distribution of hi densities in velocity space along each line of sight ( measured through the doppler shift of the hi emission lines ) , and therefore contain some information about the statistical properties of the 3d distribution of hi gas .",
    "psbm98 used the galaxy rotation curve to map the hi density field from velocity space to real space , and then assumed three different possibilities for the correlation of the magnetic field lines distribution with respect to the underlying hi density distribution :    * the magnetic field lines follow the filamentary hi structures ( i.e. are locally aligned with the density least - gradient direction ) .",
    "* the magnetic field lines are randomly chosen in the plane perpendicular to the local direction of the filaments ( this could be representative of helicoidal field lines wrapped around filaments ) . *",
    "the magnetic field is constant throughout the observed patch ( as a comparative case )    those prescriptions , together with the arguments provided in sections  [ sec : shapes ] and [ sec : emissivity ] allowed psbm98 to infer the spatial power spectra of the stokes parameters of the dust polarized emission , as well as their cross - correlation power spectra with unpolarized emission ( hereafter referred to as temperature emission ) .",
    "however , the first observable quantity predicted by this method is the distribution of polarization degree in emission , which can be compared to the measured histograms of the same quantity toward dense objects ( see hildebrand 1996 and references therein ) .",
    "this histogram is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : percentage ] .",
    "we can see immediately that the uniform magnetic field case does not reproduce the observations ( as expected ) , but the first two cases seem to reproduce correctly the observational trend , with a peak at a few percent and a long tail extending up to @xmath41 .",
    "however , it was argued in section [ sec : emissivity ] that an overall reduced polarization ( by a factor of @xmath42 ) was necessary to explain the observed polarization degrees in dark clouds .",
    "the histograms shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : percentage ] are supposedly representative of the diffuse ism where the grain alignment is expected to be nearly perfect .",
    "although they peak at slightly higher values of polarization ( in the two realistic cases ) compared to the histograms observed in dark clouds , they can not reproduce this factor of @xmath43 .",
    "this discrepancy may have numerous reasons .",
    "first , this value of @xmath43 for the reduction of polarization in dark clouds , was interpreted by hildebrand & dragovan ( 1995 ) entirely as a reduction of the grain alignment efficiency , under the assumption that the maximum observed polarization level was representative of a _ single _ magnetic field line in the plane of the sky ; or if the field had already experienced one or two reversals along the line of sight , this factor would have to be lowered .",
    "another possible explanation comes from the naive mapping used in the model to go from velocity space to real space .",
    "indeed , the presence of the turbulent velocities can artificially stretch the structures along the line of sight , thereby artificially reducing the amount of polarization in the case where magnetic field lines are aligned with the filaments .",
    "finally , the ( almost ) random magnetic field case is giving too low results , as expected since it does not reproduce the smooth magnetic field component observed in the galactic disc ( called `` uniform '' or `` regular '' magnetic field ) .",
    "the latter is necessary to reproduce the observed polarization to extinction ratios in the near infra - red ( see jones , klebbe & dickey 1992 ) , as well as the position angles distribution ( see myers & goodman 1991 ) .",
    "we can then consider the constant magnetic field case and the random magnetic field case as _ limiting cases _ for this study .",
    "we will see in what follows that they should give some upper and lower bounds on the _ slope _ of the power spectrum of polarization , as well as a rough normalization .",
    "the power spectra of the stokes parameter q are shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : stokes ] for the three different assumptions for the magnetic field lines .",
    "the case with constant magnetic field has , as expected , the same power - law dependence as the unpolarized emission ( @xmath44 , see gautier _ et al .",
    "_ 1992 ) . what is more interesting is the fact that the two other power spectra are both flatter",
    "; indeed , even if the correlation length of the magnetic field is similar to the density s one , the _ modulation _ of the density field by the magnetic field orientation results always in a flatter power spectrum .",
    "then we can conclude that the slope of the real power spectrum of the polarized dust emission should lie somewhere between those given by the constant and random magnetic field cases .",
    "another quantity of interest for the measurement of polarization in the cmb is the cross - correlation between the polarized and unpolarized emission ( e.g. zaldarriaga & seljak 1997 ) .",
    "the cross - correlation power spectra are given in fig .",
    "[ fig : stokes ] for the dust , and for the three assumptions concerning the magnetic field .",
    "we can see from this figure that this spectrum is expected to have more or less the same value around the degree scale , which is of interest for cmb polarization measurements ( see next section ) . for a mathematical definition of the power spectra , see psbm98 .",
    "this model has several advantages and drawbacks .",
    "the main advantage of this model is to put upper and lower limits on the slope and normalization of the different polarized power spectra expected for diffuse dust emission , which will be of interest for a comparison to the predicted cmb polarized power spectra . from this point of view",
    "it gives a rough first idea of what we should be dealing with when processing cmb polarized data .",
    "however , it does not give a precise picture of what should be the polarization patterns of dust emission in any localized region .",
    "moreover , it could be that the predicted statistical observables themselves may be flawed by the presence of the turbulent motions that spoil any attempt to do a precise mapping of hi density from velocity space to real space .",
    "it appears that only in the case of short wavelength dominated density spectra can we hope to measure the statistical properties of the gas density field from hi data ( see lazarian & pogosyan 1999 ) .",
    "we will then give some guidelines for alternative methods to derive the polarized spectra of dust emission , taking into account the turbulent velocity component of hi , or relying on 2d data only .",
    "finally , we would like to compare the amplitude of the different polarized power spectra of the dust emission from the diffuse ism to the _ predicted _ amplitudes of the same quantities for the cmb , as inferred by theoretical computations ( seljak & zaldarriaga 1996 ) .",
    "it is most convenient to redefine new variables of polarization ( zaldarriaga & seljak 1997 ) , called `` electric '' and `` magnetic '' modes of polarization ( @xmath45 ) in analogy with the transformation properties of the electro - magnetic field under parity transformations .",
    "these modes are particularly well adapted to describe cmb polarization , as scalar perturbations induce only electric modes of polarization ( seljak & zaldarriaga 1997 , see also kamionkowski _ et al .",
    "_ 1997a , b for a similar analysis in terms of tensor spherical harmonics ) . as we dealt with relatively small patches on the sky in the analysis performed on the hi maps ( see psbm98 ) , we can use the definition of those modes in the small - angle ( or flat space ) approximation ( seljak 1997 ) : @xmath46\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] the different power spectra for cmb and dust are shown in figures  [ fig : e],[fig : b ] and [ fig : te ] in the case where the magnetic field lines are assumed to follow the directions of the gaseous filaments .",
    "the cmb power spectra have been computed for a tilted cdm model with scalar spectral index @xmath47 , tensor index @xmath48 and a tensor to scalar temperature quadrupole ratio of @xmath49 , using the boltzmann code cmbfast ( seljak & zaldarriaga 1996 ) .",
    "we can draw some interesting conclusions from those figures . if we keep in mind the uncertainties discussed before concerning the dust polarized power spectra",
    ", we can conclude that the e modes power spectra of cmb should be measurable at least for scales smaller than the degree ( _ i.e. _ in the doppler peaks region ) .",
    "concerning the temperature - polarization cross - correlation , we expect , as shown in figure  [ fig : te ] , that the correlation will be stronger for the cmb signal than for the dust signal , making the cmb signal accessible to measurements up to even larger scales ( @xmath50 ) .",
    "however , the b - modes of cmb polarization are _ of the same level _ as their contaminants , and we can not at this stage conclude about the possibility of their measurement .",
    "we discussed earlier the fact that the degree of polarization of the dust _ thermal _ emission should be fairly independent of wavelengths .",
    "then , if we learn about the spectral dependence of dust emissivity on wavelength by observing denser regions of the ism , we should be able to predict with a good accuracy the spectral behavior of the polarized dust from the diffuse ism ( this is subject to the fact that the denser regions observed to measure the emissivity of dust at different wavelengths are close in composition and grain temperatures to the very diffuse ism ; we therefore refer to the former as _ intermediate density regions_. ) we can then use this information , combined with the polarized maps observed at higher frequencies where the dust emission is _ dominant _ over all other processes ( including cmb ) , to _",
    "clean _ the low frequency polarized maps where we seek the cmb signal .",
    "this multi - frequency filtering of the data can be implemented in a lot of different ways , and has been applied to cmb anisotropy data by kogut _",
    "( 1996 ) for the first time on the cobe dmr data .",
    "since then , different techniques have been developed , which can be grouped in two broad categories : wiener filtering techniques ( bouchet _ et al .",
    "_ 1996 , tegmark & efstathiou 1996 ) , and maximum entropy methods ( maisinger _ et al .",
    "_ 1997 , hobson _",
    "( 1999 ) generalized the wiener filtering method to take into account polarized cmb data .",
    "the resulting errors on the polarized power spectra , _ after removal _ of the foreground emissions ( which were in this article galactic dust and synchrotron polarized emissions ) are shown in figures  [ fig : bande ] , [ fig : bandte ] and [ fig : bandb ] for different instrumental configurations .",
    "we have to be careful in reading those figures , as a logarithmic smoothing has been performed ; the covariances shown here are for band - power estimates of the power spectra , not for individual modes .",
    "they give nevertheless a good idea of what accuracy should be reached by the upcoming satellite missions in the observation of cmb polarization . for instance , relatively broad band features in the spectra of e modes and cross - correlation should be observed with a good accuracy .",
    "the b modes power spectrum is , as expected from the weakness of the signal , much less constrained .",
    "however , even a poor determination of this signal is important for constraining tensor - induced cosmological parameters ( prunet _ et al . _",
    "1998a,1998b ) .",
    "we should also notice that the amount of gravitational waves could be much higher for a given class of inflationary models ( lesgourgues _ et al .",
    "_ 1998 ) , thus making the signal of b modes easier to measure .",
    "out results sensitively depend on the assumed angular distribution of the polarized dust emission .",
    "the model used so far has its flaws .",
    "it is therefore important to test other approaches .",
    "[ [ a - full - statistical - approach ] ] a full statistical approach : + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    as shown by lazarian & pogosyan ( 1999 ) , the gas underlying density distribution in the diffuse ism should be measurable in the hi velocity space data cubes ( hartmann & burton 1995 ) if it is short - wave dominated . with some assumption about the correlation of the field lines with the density , inspired by numerical simulations and/or theoretical considerations of mhd turbulence , one could infer the resulting angular distribution of polarized dust assuming perfect , or non perfect alignment .",
    "this method , under the above assumption concerning the magnetic field - density correlation , would at least be correct statistically , which is the primary goal of the exercise .",
    "the measurement of polarization statistics by upcoming satellite missions would then be a mean to check the validity of theories of mhd compressible turbulence !    [ [ a - pragmatic - approach ] ] a pragmatic approach : + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    whether or not the underlying statistics of hi is short- or long - wave dominated the density distribution integrated over 21  cm emission line reveal hi density structure . to find the statistics of the 3d underlying density one may use the inversion technique in lazarian ( 1995 ) or use the observe 2d structure to infer the expected projected pattern of magnetic field .",
    "if magnetic field direction fluctuates along the line of sight this method should provide an overestimate of the expected variations of polarization .",
    "[ [ using - synchrotron ] ] using synchrotron : + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + + +    synchrotron emissivity depends both on the distribution of magnetic field and the distribution of relativistic cosmic electrons .",
    "the latter are distributed more smoothly than the former and this allows to infer the small - scale statistics from variations of synchrotron intensity ( see lazarian 1992 ) .",
    "potentially synchrotron is a very valuable tool for studying the statistics of magnetic fields . having this statistics and 2d statistics of hi emissivity it seems possible to evaluate the expected polarized emissivity .",
    "so far we have discussed the polarization at frequencies larger than 100  ghz . at lower frequencies dust",
    "contributes to microwave emissivity via magneto - dipole emission and rotational emission from ultra - small grains ( draine & lazarian 1999b)and both types of emission are partially polarized .",
    "the magneto - dipole emission is most prominent when the grain materials are strongly magnetic , e.g. ferro- or ferrimagnetic .",
    "however , even for ordinary paramagnetic grains magneto - dipole emission dominates the ordinary electro - dipole emission for frequencies less than 30  ghz . the emission from single dipole ferro or ferrimagnetic grains",
    "is strongly polarized ( up to 40% ) and shows characteristic frequency dependence signatures ( draine & lazarian 1999b ) .",
    "emission from ultra - small grains emanates due to grain rotation .",
    "small grains are likely to have dipole moment and therefore the emission can be called rotational emission in analogy with the corresponding emission from molecular transitions . if small grains are aligned their emission is polarized .",
    "calculations in lazarian & draine ( 1999c ) show that polarization degrees up to a few percent is possible for rotational emission at frequencies less than 40  ghz .",
    "our results can be summarized as follows :    \\1 . polarized radiation from dust can appreciably interfere with the attempts to measure polarization of cosmological origin .",
    "the signal from tensor modes is expected to be completely masked by dust . however , with the expected independence of the dust polarization degree on wavelength , we can hope to remove this contaminant from cmb maps with reasonable efficiency , provided that we have polarized measurements of the same regions at higher frequencies where the dust emission is dominant .",
    "the expected polarization from dust differs in the range of high ( @xmath51  ghz ) and low ( @xmath52  ghz ) frequencies .",
    "the emission at high frequencies is of electro - dipole nature and therefore can be treated using the accepted technique .",
    "the low frequency emission is either of magneto - dipole origin or from rotating ultra - small grains and the expected polarization depends on various factors , e.g. on whether grains consist of single magnetic domains or have multi - domain structure .      bond , j. r. , efstathiou , g. 1984 , , 285 , l45 bouchet , f. r. , gispert , r. , puget , j .- l .",
    "1996 , in `` unveiling the cosmic infrared background '' , aip conf .",
    "348 , e. dwek ed . ,",
    "bouchet , f. r. , prunet , s. , sethi , s. k. 1999 , mnras , 302 , 663 boulanger , f. , abergel , a. , bernard , j .-",
    "p . , burton , w. b. , dsert , f .- x . , hartmann , d. , lagache g. , puget j .-",
    "l . , 1996 , , 312 , 256 chandrasekhar , s. , fermi , e. 1953 , , 118 , 113 davis , l. jr . , greenstein , j. l. 1951 , , 114 , 206 draine , b.t . , lazarian 1999a , , in press draine , b.t . , lazarian 1999b , this volume draine , b. t. , lee , h. m. 1984 , , 285 , 89 draine , b. t. , & weingartner , j.c .",
    "1996 , , 470 , 551 draine , b. t. , & weingartner , j.c .",
    "1997 , , 480 , 633 gautier , t. n. iii , boulanger , f. , prault , m. , puget , j .- l .",
    "1992 , , 103 , 4 greenberg , j. m. 1968 , in `` stars and stellar systems '' , vol 7 , p221 , eds .",
    "b. m. middlehurst & l. h. aller , university of chicago press grevesse , n. , anders , e. 1989 , aip conf .",
    "183 , eds .",
    "r. g. lerner ( new york : aip ) , 1 gold , t , 1951 , nature , 169 , 322 goodman , a.a .",
    "1999 , , in preparation goodman , a.a .",
    "1995 , in asp conf .",
    "73 , from gas to stars to dust , ed .",
    "j. davidson , e. erickson , & m. haas ( san francisco : asp ) , 45 goodman , a.a , & whittet , d.c.b .",
    "1995 , , 455 , l181 hall , j. s. 1949 , science , 109 , 166 hartmann , d. , burton , w. b. 1995 , atlas of galactic hi emission , cambridge university press heiles , c. 1987 , in interstellar processes , eds .",
    "d. j. hollenbach & h. a. thronson ( dordrecht : reidel ) , p171 hildebrand , r. h. 1988 , qjras , 29 , 327 r. h. hildebrand , j. l. , dotson , c. d. dowell , d. a.schleuning , & vaillancourt 1999 , apj 516 , 000 hildebrand , r. h. , dotson , j. l. , dowell , c. d. , platt , s. r. , schleuning , d. a. , davidson , j. a. , novak , g. 1995 , in airbone astronomy symposium on the galactic ecosystem : `` from gas to stars to dust '' , eds . m. r. haas , j. a. davidson & e. f. erickson ( asp , san francisco ) , p97 hildebrand , r. h. 1996 , in `` polarimetry of the interstellar medium '' , asp conf",
    ". series vol .",
    "97 , p254 hildebrand , r. h. , dragovan , m. 1995 , , 450 , 663 hildebrand , r. h. , dragovan , m. , novak , g. 1984 , , 284 , l51 hiltner , w. a. , science , 109 , 165 hobson , m. p. , jones , a. w. , lasenby , a. n. , bouchet , f. r. 1998 , mnras , 300 , 1 jokipii , j. r. , parker , e. n. 1969 , , 155 , 799 jones , t. j. , klebe , k. , dickey , j. m. 1992 , , 389 , 602 kamionkowski , m. , kosowsky , a. , stebbins , a. 1997a , , 55 , 7368 kamionkowski , m. , kosowsky , a. , stebbins , a. 1997b , , 78 , 2058 kamionkowski , m. , kosowsky , a. 1998 , , 57 , 685 kim , s. h. , martin , p. g. 1995 , , 444 , 293 kim , s. h. , martin , p. g. , hendry , p. d. 1994 , , 422 , 164 kogut , a. , banday , a. j. , bennett , c. l. , gorski , k. m. , hinshaw , g. , smoot , g. f. , wright , e. i. 1996 , , 464 , l5 lazarian , a. 1992 , astron . and astroph .",
    "transactions , 3 , 33 lazarian , a. 1994 , mnras , 268 , 713 lazarian , a. 1995 , a&a , 293 , 508 lazarian , a. 1997 , , 338 , 902 lazarian , a. , draine , b.t .",
    "1999a , , in press lazarian , a. , draine , b.t .",
    "1999b , , submitted lazarian , a. , draine , b.t .",
    "1999c , , in preparation lazarian , a. , goodman , a. a. , myers , p. c. 1997 , , 490 , 273 leach , r. w. , clemens , d. p. , kane , b. d. , barvainis , r. 1991 , , 370 , 257 lee , h. m. , draine , b. t. 1985 , , 290 , 211 lesgourgues , j. , prunet , s. , polarski , d. 1998 , accepted in mnras maisinger , k. , hobson , m. p. , lasenby , a. n. 1997 , mnras , 290 , 313 myers , p. c. , goodman , a. a. 1991 , , 373 , 509 netterfield , c. b. , jarosik , n. , page , l. , wilkinson , d. , wollack , e. 1995 , , 445 , l69 padoan , p. , nordlund , a. a. 1998 , astro - ph/9901288 passot , t. , vazquez - semadeni , e. , pouquet , a. 1995 , , 455 , 536 prunet , s. , sethi , s. k. , bouchet , f. r. , miville - deschnes , m .- a .",
    "1998 , , 339 , 187 ( psbm98 ) prunet , s. , sethi , s. k. , bouchet , f. r. 1998a , in `` wide field surveys in cosmology '' , proc . of the xiv iap coll . ,",
    "s. colombi , y. mellier , b. raban eds . ,",
    "editions frontires , p305 prunet , s. , sethi , s. k. , bouchet , f. r. , 1998b , in preparation rees , m. j. 1968 , , 153 , l1 roberge , w.g . , hanany , s. & messinger , d.w .",
    "1995 , , 453 , 238 roberge , w.g . , &",
    "lazarian 1999 , mnras , in press schleuning , d. a. , dowell , c. d. , platt , s. r. 1996 , in `` polarimetry of the interstellar medium '' , asp conf .",
    "97 , ed w. g. roberge & d. c. b. whittet ( asp : new york ) , p285 seljak , u. 1997 , , 482 , 6 seljak , u. , zaldarriaga , m. 1997 , , 78 , 2054 spitzer , l. , & tukey , j.w .",
    "1951 , , 114 , 187 stone , j. m. , ostriker , ostriker , e. c. , gammie , c. f. 1998 , , 508 , 99 tegmark , m. , efstathiou , g. 1996 , mnras , 281 , 1297 vazquez - semadeni , e. , passot , e. , pouquet , a. 1995 , , 441 , 702 vazquez - semadeni , e. , passot , e. , pouquet , a. 1996 , , 473 , 881 zaldarriaga , m. 1997 , , 55 , 1822 zaldarriaga , m. , seljak , u. 1997 , , 55 , 1830 zweibel , e. 1990 , , 362 , 545"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this review , we intend to present the current knowledge of the polarized emission from thermal dust in our galaxy . we show different methods to estimate the spatial distribution statistics of this emission in the lack of any data from the diffuse ism , and compare it to the expected cmb polarized signal . </S>",
    "<S> we finally show how this contaminant could be efficiently removed from cmb maps using multi - frequency observations . </S>"
  ]
}