{
  "article_text": [
    "bars within bars appear to be a common phenomenon in galaxies .",
    "recent surveys indicate that up to 30% of early - type barred galaxies contain such double bars ( erwin & sparke 2002 ; laine et al .",
    "inner bars remain distinct in near infrared ( wozniak et al .",
    "1995 ) , therefore fairly old stars must contribute to their light .",
    "the relative orientation of the two bars in doubly barred galaxies is random , therefore it is likely that the bars rotate with different pattern speeds .",
    "the origin of multiply barred systems remains unclear .",
    "a bar takes away angular momentum from gas very efficiently , and in the young universe bars might have been responsible for the early rapid growth of the massive black holes ( begelman , volenteri & rees 2006 ) .",
    "if the innermost parts of galactic discs formed first , then early instabilities there might have lead to the formation of small - scale bars , which may be surviving in the present - day universe as nuclear bars , often nested inside larger , outer bars , that might have formed later .",
    "studying the dynamics of nested bars can therefore help us to understand the formation of galaxies and of their central massive black holes .",
    "our understanding of how double bars are sustained has significantly improved in the recent years .",
    "maciejewski & sparke ( 1997 , 2000 ) have developed a formalism that enables finding families of stable regular orbits in such systems .",
    "stable regular orbits are robust structures , which define the shape of the galaxy , and therefore they can serve as a backbone for double bars . so far they have been analyzed for the case when the pattern speed of the inner bar is higher than that of the outer bar ( maciejewski & sparke 2000 ) . using n - body simulations , rautiainen et al .",
    "( 2002 ) confirmed that stars get trapped around these orbits , and form long - lasting doubly barred systems .",
    "however , in this scenario the kinematics of the inner bar is not a scaled - down copy of that of the main bar , since the inner bar can not extend to its corotation .",
    "other numerical simulations have shown that systems of two counter - rotating bars are also possible ( sellwood & merritt 1994 ; friedli 1996 ) , and systems with secondary bars rotating slower than the outer , main bars , have never been excluded on theoretical grounds .    various dynamical scenarios for doubly barred galaxies may have different implications for the evolution of the galactic centres .",
    "in order to discriminate between them , one should measure the pattern speed of the inner bar .",
    "if only one pattern speed is present in the system , the tremaine - weinberg ( 1984 ) method allows to derive it using a set of simple kinematical measurements .",
    "recent kinematical observations of the doubly barred galaxy ngc  2950 ( corsini , debattista & aguerri 2003 ; hereafter cda03 ) are inconsistent with one pattern speed there .",
    "the observations are suggestive of another pattern speed in the area of the inner bar .",
    "cda03 attempted to estimate it , but they concluded a wide range of values , consistent with a fast - rotating prograde secondary bar as well as with a retrograde one .    in this paper ,",
    "i show that a simple extension of the tremaine - weinberg method to multiple pattern speeds , based on the separation of tracer s density , is sufficient to discriminate between prograde and retrograde inner bars .",
    "similar extension has been already considered by cda03 , but they did not explore its implications . in section 2 ,",
    "i outline the extended method , and i show that it immediately gives a qualitative information about the sign of rotation of the inner bar . in section 3 ,",
    "i calculate the integrals in the original tremaine - weinberg method for the case of a realistic doubly barred galaxy , and i show that their deviation from values for a single rotating pattern is the same as predicted by the extension to the tremaine - weinberg method proposed in section 2 . in section 4 ,",
    "i examine one method to measure the pattern speed of the inner bar , and i show that it recovers the pattern speed in the model with an acceptable accuracy",
    ". limitations of the extended method , other attempts to estimate multiple pattern speeds using the tremaine - weinberg formalism , and consequences of counter - rotating inner bars for the evolution of galactic centres are discussed in section 5 .",
    "when the extended tremaine - weinberg method proposed here is applied to ngc  2950 , it indicates that the pattern speed of the inner bar there is smaller than the positive pattern speed of the outer bar , and that it is most likely negative , i.e. the inner bar is counter - rotating with respect to the outer bar and to the disc ( see also maciejewski 2004 ) .",
    "the tremaine - weinberg method is designed for one pattern speed , which it derives from the luminosity centroid and the luminosity - weighted line - of - sight velocity of a chosen tracer moving in the galaxy s potential .",
    "the method rests on three assumptions : the disc of the galaxy is flat , it has a well - defined pattern speed , and the tracer obeys the continuity equation . under these assumptions ,",
    "the surface density of the tracer , @xmath2 , can be written as @xmath3 where @xmath4 is the pattern speed , @xmath5 are cartesian coordinates in the disc plane , @xmath6 are polar coordinates there , centred on the galactic centre , and @xmath7 is time .",
    "when another pattern speed is introduced , the two patterns can not rotate rigidly one through another ( louis & gerhardt 1988 ; sridhar 1989 ; maciejewski & sparke 2000 ) , and in principle one can not split the right - hand side of ( 1 ) into components with different pattern speeds . however , if a rough separation of patterns is possible , and if one neglects secular evolution , this system is periodic with period @xmath8 , where @xmath9 and @xmath10 are pattern speeds of the two bars . consequently , the surface density of the tracer can generally be written as @xmath11 where @xmath12 denotes dependence on time with periodicity @xmath13 . in appendix",
    "a , i evaluate correction to the tremaine - weinberg integrals that arises because of this periodic oscillation of realistic double bars",
    ". this correction turns out to be small , and i will neglect it in the following argument .",
    "once periodic oscillations of nested bars are neglected , ( 2 ) gets reduced to @xmath14 twofold interpretation of such a separation of tracer s density is possible .",
    "either the tracer in the disc ( e.g. stars ) can be divided into subgroups belonging to two unchanging patterns , each rotating with a constant pattern speed , or one can separate radial zones in the galactic disc that rotate with constant pattern speeds , with no net exchange of the tracer between the zones .",
    "neither of these interpretations is consistent with the dynamics of galaxies , because patterns rotating one through another change with time , and tracers of each pattern are often present at the same radius .",
    "however , as i show in appendix a , these inconsistencies are likely to be small , and the separation ( 3 ) can still be approximately valid .    below",
    "i will show that although the extension of the tremaine - weinberg method based on the separation of tracer s density ( 3 ) can not recover the two pattern speeds , it can yield a qualitative prediction of how the integrals in the standard tremaine - weinberg method change when a second rotating pattern is introduced . in section 3",
    ", i will show that this change , calculated properly for a realistic model of doubly barred galaxy , with bars oscillating in time , and with tracers of each bar overlapping , is the same as predicted by the extended method proposed here .",
    "thus the separation of tracer s density may help in interpreting the tremaine - weinberg integrals in the models and in the observed galaxies .",
    "once tracer s density is separated according to ( 3 ) , one can write two separate continuity equations .",
    "further derivation is identical to the one performed by tremaine & weinberg ( 1984 ) , and it can be conducted for each tracer s density separately , leading to two equations : @xmath15 @xmath16 where @xmath17 are coordinates on the sky ( @xmath18 running parallel to the line of nodes and @xmath19 being the offset , perpendicular to the line of nodes , of the slit along which the integration is performed ) , @xmath20 is the observed line - of - sight velocity , and @xmath21 is the inclination of the disc . let the tracer be made of stellar - light emission ; then one can define for each bar component , as well as for the whole galaxy , the luminosity - density @xmath22 the luminosity centroid @xmath23 and the luminosity - weighted line - of - sight velocity @xmath24 where the index @xmath25 is @xmath26 for the outer bar , @xmath27 for the inner bar , and @xmath28 for the whole galaxy .",
    "obviously , only values with index @xmath28 can be observed , for example by placing a slit parallel to the line of nodes ( fig.1 ) , and deriving along it the values of luminosity , centroid and line - of - sight velocity , where all integrals include integration over the width of the slit . with the definitions above",
    ", the sum of ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) takes a form @xmath29 where @xmath30 .",
    "cda03 gave a similar equation , but in their convention there are no fractions @xmath31 .",
    "note that equation ( 6 ) is not sufficient to derive two pattern speeds @xmath32 by measuring the luminosity centroid @xmath33 and the luminosity - weighted line - of - sight velocity @xmath34 along the slits .",
    "although @xmath35 , and it can be measured directly , the pattern speeds are combined with the unknown @xmath36 and @xmath37 .        however , the form of equation ( [ twsum ] ) , together with the morphology of the doubly barred galaxy , whose pattern speeds we want to measure , already reveals some information about the relation between the two pattern speeds .",
    "the line of nodes passing through the centre of the galaxy sets a division of this galaxy into four quadrants .",
    "consider for example the case when the two bars lie in opposite quadrants of the galaxy ( fig.1 ) .",
    "this is the case of ngc 2950 . even if we can not measure @xmath38 or @xmath39 , we know that they are always of opposite signs , no matter how the slit is placed ( parallel to the line of nodes )",
    ". then if @xmath10 and @xmath9 are of the same sign , adding the inner bar should bring the sum on the left of ( [ twsum ] ) closer to zero ( or even through zero for strong fast inner bars ) when compared to the contribution of the outer bar alone .",
    "this implies that the observed @xmath40 should be smaller when entering the region of the inner bar than that interpolated from the outer bar .",
    "to the contrary , cda03 observe @xmath40 _ increasing _ around this transition region in ngc  2950 , consistent with @xmath9 having the sign opposite to @xmath10 , i.e. with the counter - rotating secondary bar .",
    "in the argument above , no reference point has been fixed , since the sums on each side of ( [ twsum ] ) get modified by the introduction of the secondary bar .",
    "we do not know the contribution from the outer bar in the region where the inner bar is present , and interpolation can be misleading . here",
    "i show that ( [ twsum ] ) allows to tell whether @xmath42 or @xmath43 .",
    "equation ( [ twsum ] ) can be rewritten as @xmath44 this form shows how the relation between the integrals @xmath34 and @xmath33 gets modified by the presence of the secondary bar : the second term in the sum is a correction term . for slits outside the inner bar this correction is zero ( because @xmath45 is zero there ) , and for those slits the observed values of @xmath33 and @xmath34 should lie on a straight line of inclination @xmath46 . when the slit passes through the inner bar , @xmath47 . if for such slits @xmath40 is larger than the values given by the linear relation ( 7 ) without the correction factor , then the correction has to have the same sign as @xmath48 . for the bars that lie in opposite quadrants , like in ngc 2950 ( fig.1 ) , @xmath38 and @xmath39 are of opposite signs , and @xmath33 has the same sign as @xmath38 throughout the galaxy ( fig.3 in cda03 ) .",
    "therefore the two components of the sum in ( 7 ) can only be of the same sign when @xmath10 has opposite sign to @xmath41 . if we take a convention that @xmath49 then @xmath43 .",
    "this argument can be extended to the case when @xmath33 changes sign for slits passing through the secondary bar . in ngc 2950 ,",
    "the values of @xmath33 for these slits are very small , which is consistent with the observed geometry of bars .",
    "a similar argument can be applied to galaxies with bars in the same quadrants , where @xmath33 for innermost slits is not that small . in this case , @xmath38 , @xmath39 and @xmath33 are all of the same sign .",
    "if an increase of @xmath40 is observed in the region of the inner bar , @xmath10 must now have the same sign as @xmath41 , which means @xmath42 for the assumed @xmath49 .",
    "thus we see that the same increase of @xmath40 in the region of the inner bar can either indicate the inner bar rotating slower or faster than the outer bar , depending on the relative orientation of the bars .",
    "in some cases , an argument can be made about corotation or counter - rotation of the inner bar with respect to the inertial frame .",
    "it relies on the variation of the integrals in the tremaine - weinberg method with the distance of the slit from the centre of the galaxy , @xmath19 .",
    "this argument can be made under an assumption that @xmath50 does not increase when we march with the slit through the galaxy toward the line of nodes ( in the direction marked by an arrow on the left of fig.1 ) .",
    "this is a justified assumption , since @xmath51 decreases inward for the very reason of the introduction of the secondary bar , and @xmath52 should not go up inward , since early - type galaxies like ngc 2950 have flat bars with a nearly constant surface brightness as a function of radius ( elmegreen et al .",
    "1996 ) .",
    "consider again equation ( [ twsum ] ) .",
    "normally , for slits that avoid the secondary bar , @xmath40 decreases inward ( i.e. when shifting the slit in the direction given by the arrow in fig.1 ) .",
    "this is also the case in ngc 2950 ( fig.3 in cda03 ) .",
    "if then @xmath40 _ increases _ inward when the slit reaches the secondary bar ( like in ngc 2950 ) , this can be caused by either of the two components of the sum on the left of ( [ twsum ] ) .",
    "i already argued that the first component can not be the cause , since @xmath51 decreases , @xmath52 is unlikely to increase , and @xmath53 .",
    "the second component can only cause the increase of the sum when it is of the same sign as the first one . but",
    "again , @xmath38 and @xmath39 are of opposite sign",
    ". therefore @xmath9 and @xmath10 have to be of opposite sign , too .",
    "one can repeat this reasoning for a galaxy with bars in the same quadrants , to show that in that case @xmath40 increasing in the region of the inner bar indicates that the inner bar is corotating in the inertial frame .",
    "similar to section 2.1 , the conclusion about the sense of rotation of the inner bar depends on the relative orientation of the bars .",
    "regular motion of a particle in a potential of a doubly barred galaxy has two frequencies associated with it , each related to one of the bars , in addition to the frequency of its free oscillations ( maciejewski & sparke 1997 ) . in the linear approximation",
    "this motion corresponds to epicyclic oscillations with these frequencies around the guiding radius .",
    "particles with the same guiding radii are bound to closed curves ( loops ) that oscillate in the pulsating potential of double bars .",
    "loops are also observed in nonlinear analysis ( maciejewski & sparke 2000 ; maciejewski & athanassoula 2006 ) .",
    "the orbital approach directly indicates that the motion of a particle associated with one bar has always a component coming from the other bar .",
    "amplitudes of the oscillations can be easily evaluated in the linear approximation ( maciejewski 2003 ) , giving particle s position and velocity at each relative position of the bars . in fig.2 , i plot the loops populated by particles moving in the potential of a doubly barred galaxy constructed by maciejewski & sparke ( 2000 ; model 2 ) .",
    "this is a realistic potential , since it admits orbits that support the outer bar , as well as orbits supporting the inner bar , throughout the extent of each bar .",
    "the two bars in this model rotate in the same direction with pattern speeds @xmath54 km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 and @xmath55",
    "km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 .",
    "i plot the loops for two relative orientations of the bars : the bars parallel ( fig.2 , left ) , and the bars at the angle of @xmath56 rad , the value similar to that observed in ngc  2950 after deprojection ( fig.2 , right ) .",
    "the loops change shapes as the bars rotate one with respect to another , and loops associated with one bar intersect the loops associated with the other bar .",
    "thus formally one can not perform here the separation of tracer s density postulated in ( 3 ) .",
    "however , changes in the shapes of the bars , and zones where both tracers coexist , may be small , and then , what formally prohibits the separation , may turn into a higher - order correction to it ( see also appendix a ) . in order to check whether it is the case for the realistic model 2 ( maciejewski & sparke 2000 ) , i calculated the positions and velocities of some @xmath57 points on 200 loops in that model , from which i obtained the centroids @xmath33 and the line - of - sight velocities @xmath34 along slits placed at the same relative angle to the outer bar as in the cda03 observations of ngc  2950 ( dotted straight lines in fig.2 ) . for clarity , only 28 loops are displayed in fig.2 , out of 200 used in the calculations .",
    "the 200 loops were populated with particles , so that a smooth density distribution in the bars is recovered .",
    "several recipes have been adopted to populate loops with particles , in order to make sure that the results below do not depend on the way in which the model is constructed . in the model ,",
    "i use deprojected velocities , which replaces @xmath58 by @xmath34 , and i measure @xmath19 in the plane of the galaxy .    in fig.3b",
    ", i plot the value of the centroid , @xmath33 , as a function of the offset of the slit from the galaxy centre , @xmath19 .",
    "when the inner bar is placed at the position similar to the one observed in ngc  2950 , the value of @xmath33 ( solid line ) is closer to zero in the region of the inner bar ( @xmath59 ) , than when the inner bar is absent ( dot - dashed line ) .",
    "however , @xmath33 does not change the sign in the region of the inner bar , which is also observed in ngc  2950 ( fig.3 in cda03 ) .",
    "this indicates that the light integrated along a slit passing through the inner bar is still dominated by the outer bar . in the case of the two bars parallel ( fig.2 , left panel ) there is no such decrease of @xmath33 in the region of the inner bar ( dashed line in fig.3b ) .    in fig.3a",
    ", i plot the luminosity - weighted line - of - sight velocity , @xmath34 , as a function of the same offset of the slit from the galaxy centre , @xmath19 , as in fig.3b .",
    "when the inner bar , rotating in the same direction as the outer bar , but faster , is placed at the position similar to the one observed in ngc  2950 , the value of @xmath34 ( solid line ) rapidly approaches zero in the region of the inner bar ( @xmath59 ) , and in most of this region it has the sign opposite to the value of @xmath34 for slits not passing through the inner bar ( @xmath60 ) .",
    "this behaviour of @xmath34 is opposite to that observed in ngc  2950 by cda03 .",
    "for the model of galaxy with @xmath42 , changes of @xmath34 with @xmath19 observed by cda03 can only be reproduced when both bars lie in the same quadrants of the galaxy .",
    "for the particular case of bars parallel , presented here , @xmath40 increases in the region of the inner bar ( dashed line in fig.3a ) , relative to the case when there is no inner bar ( dot - dashed line ) .",
    "this dependence of deviations in @xmath34 on the relative position of the two bars is exactly as expected from the simple extension of the tremaine - weinberg method derived section 2 , based on the separation of tracer s density ( 3 ) .",
    "namely , if the inner bar rotates faster than the outer bar then , when both bars are in the same quadrants ( defined by the line of nodes and the centre of the galaxy ) , @xmath40 increases in the slits passing through the inner bar , but it _ decreases _ , when the bars are in the opposite quadrants .",
    "the plot of @xmath34 as a function of @xmath33 is presented in fig.3c .",
    "one may attempt to fit a second straight line in the region of the inner bar , but this fit will not yield the actual pattern speed of the inner bar . in fig.3d , i plot the ratios of @xmath61 as estimators of the derived @xmath62 . for a single bar ( dot - dashed line ) , there is one pattern speed independent of the offset of the slit , and equal to the one assumed in the model . if there are two pattern speeds in the system , the inner bar does not alter significantly the pattern speed of the outer bar derived from the slits that do not pass through this inner bar .",
    "however , the induced deviations are systematic : pattern speed of the outer bar is spuriously increased when the bars lie in the same quadrants , and decreased when they lie in quadrants opposite .",
    "the effect is small though , below 5% .",
    "for the slits passing through the inner bar , the derived @xmath62 rapidly decreases if the bars lie in opposite quadrants ( solid line ) , and it becomes negative , not giving any information about the pattern speed of the inner bar .",
    "if the bars lie in the same quadrants ( dashed line ) , the derived @xmath62 is larger than @xmath10 for the slits passing through the inner bar , but it varies with @xmath19 , and never reaches the value of @xmath63 km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 assumed in the model , remaining at slightly over half of that value .    .",
    "values of @xmath64 are plotted against @xmath65 . ]",
    "the main goal of this paper is to show that with a simple extension of the tremaine - weinberg method to multiple pattern speeds one can derive at least rough qualitative information about the secondary pattern rotation . for the data on ngc  2950 presented by cda03",
    "this information is that the inner bar rotates in the opposite direction than the outer bar . on the other hand , getting the numerical value of the pattern speed of the secondary bar , @xmath9 , may not be possible without making additional assumptions . here",
    "i analyse one possible method to calculate @xmath9 .    if the tracer of the secondary bar does not extend beyond some radius @xmath66 in the galaxy plane ( outlined in projection by the dotted ellipse in fig.1 ) , then ( 5 ) can be rewritten as @xmath67 where @xmath68 . summing ( 4 ) and ( 8) leads to @xmath69 however , aside for @xmath9 ,",
    "we still do not know the integral in ( 9 ) .",
    "it can be approximated when one assumes that only tracers of the inner bar and of the axisymmetric component are present inside the dotted ellipse in fig.1 , i.e. that the outer bar is almost axisymmetric in this region .",
    "note that this is a strong and poorly founded assumption .",
    "however , if we take it , and since the contribution of the axisymmetric component to the integral in ( 9 ) cancels out , one can substitute there the observable @xmath70 for the unknown @xmath45 , and rewrite ( 9 ) as a linear regression of @xmath41 : @xmath71 thus @xmath41 can be obtained as a slope of a straight line fitted to the data from slits passing through the inner bar .",
    "a similar equation has been used by cda03 to estimate @xmath9 , but here the coefficient at @xmath41 is defined differently .",
    "i tested equation ( 10 ) on the model examined in section 3 , for the position angles of the bars like the ones observed in ngc  2950 .",
    "as in section 3 , in the model i use deprojected velocities , which replaces @xmath58 by @xmath34 , and i measure @xmath19 in the plane of the galaxy . on the basis of the shapes of the loops",
    ", i chose @xmath72 kpc for this model , and i fixed @xmath73 km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 . in fig.4 ,",
    "i plot the data points for the regression ( 10 ) .",
    "they follow a straight line well , except for the points around zero values . however , these points come from @xmath74 , where the integration is over a small number of particles , hence random error is large there . if we exclude these points , the derived @xmath41 oscillates between 60 and 70 km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 for @xmath75 kpc .",
    "this gives @xmath9 between 95 and 105 km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 , consistent with the input value of 110 km s@xmath1 kpc@xmath1 , with an error of about 10% .    in order to apply the same method to the observed data on ngc  2950 from cda03",
    ", the value of @xmath66 can be estimated by checking how the integral in ( 10 ) changes with varying @xmath66  it should have a plateau in the transition area between the bars .",
    "i used the r - band image of ngc 2950 ( erwin & sparke 2003 ) to calculate this integral and @xmath76 for each of the slits passing through the secondary bar , placed at positions reported by cda03 .",
    "the values of @xmath77 as a function of @xmath66 are plotted in fig.5 .",
    "all curves indeed have a plateau around the same @xmath66 of 56 arcsec .",
    "it is located just outside a nuclear stellar ring at @xmath78 arcsec , reported by erwin & sparke ( 2003 ) , which is likely circular in the plane of the galaxy .",
    "thus the method proposed here may be particularly well suited for ngc 2950 .     as a function of @xmath79 for ngc 2950 .",
    "the curves are derived from the r - band image of ngc 2950 ( erwin & sparke 2003 ) , for slits placed parallel to the line of nodes , and offset from it by values given on the right of the plot in arcsec .",
    "two dotted vertical lines indicate a plateau range , common for all the curves . ]",
    "each curve in fig.5 has a characteristic u - shape , whose depth depends on the relative contribution of the inner bar to the integral in ( 10 ) , and therefore it vanishes outside the inner bar , and also very close to the line of nodes , where the integral tends to be zero . from the r - band image ,",
    "the depth is largest for slits offset by @xmath80 arcsec .",
    "the linear fit to ( 10 ) , with the data for @xmath34 and @xmath33 from each slit passing through the inner bar provided by cda03 , reveals a large negative value of @xmath41 , about @xmath81 km s@xmath1 arcsec@xmath1 . for @xmath82 km s@xmath1 arcsec@xmath1 , measured by cda03 ,",
    "this gives @xmath83 km s@xmath1 arcsec@xmath1 .",
    "this result , although with much poorer grounds than the qualitative arguments from section 2 , reaffirms counter - rotation of the inner bar . note that the unrealistically large value of @xmath9 derived with this method is likely an overestimate : in order to get it , the integral @xmath84 has been substituted for @xmath85 .",
    "the substituted integral is most likely smaller than the original one , because the contributions of the two bars are of opposite signs .",
    "the original tremaine - weinberg method , and its extension proposed here , are based on the continuity equation applied to a tracer moving in the gravitational field of the galaxy .",
    "if old stars are taken as the tracer , the continuity equation is well satisfied globally . if tracers associated with each bar are separated as proposed in ( 2 )",
    ", continuity of each tracer can only be violated when there is a net flux of stars from one bar to the other , consistent over many rotations of the bars .",
    "this corresponds to a secular strengthening of one bar at the cost of the other , hence such a system is no longer periodic .",
    "however , if the mass transfer is slow , the analysis presented in this paper is still applicable . this can be supported by an argument similar to that presented in appendix a , but for densities of the bars monotonically changing .",
    "moreover , studies of orbits in self - consistent models of double bars show that mass transfer between the bars is likely to be small , because orbits that are trapped and oscillate around one or the other bar , populate large fraction of phase space ( maciejewski & sparke 2000 ; maciejewski & athanassoula 2006 ) .",
    "note that the separation of tracers in ( 2 ) is only formal , and ( 2 ) applies to any system that is periodic with period @xmath13 .",
    "however , in order to follow the tremaine - weinberg formalism for each tracer , one has to approximate each tracer as a solid - body rotator , which leads to ( 3 ) .",
    "the analysis of a realistic doubly barred galactic potential , presented in section 3 , indicates that although this approximation is incorrect in a rigorous sense , deviations from solid - body rotation are small , and they only contribute to higher - order terms in the tremaine - weinberg integrals .",
    "namely , even if each particle in the system oscillates with frequencies related to both bars , for most of the particles one frequency dominates , and the separation can be performed . although the presence of two forcing frequencies leads to noticeable pulsation of the inner bar ( e.g. rautiainen et al . 2002 ) , the magnitude of additional terms in the tremaine - weinberg integrals , that this pulsation gives rise to , is much smaller than the magnitude of the leading terms , as argued in appendix a. the radial separation of the tracers , necessary for the estimate of the pattern speed of the inner bar in section 4 , can also be possible , if the zones , where two tracers coexist , occupy small fraction of the galaxy .",
    "the larger this fraction , the poorer is the estimate of the inner bar s pattern speed .",
    "further testing of this method will require a fully self - consistent model with an inner bar .",
    "this paper shows that the change in value of the integrals @xmath33 and @xmath34 in the original tremaine - weinberg formalism , caused by the second pattern speed , depends on the relative position of the bars .",
    "in particular , i showed that fitting another straight line in the @xmath86 diagram to the data from slits passing through the inner bar _ does not _ yield the pattern speed of this bar .",
    "therefore recent derivations of multiple pattern speeds based on such analysis ( rand & wallin 2004 ; hernandez et al .",
    "2005 ) have to be treated with caution .",
    "the retrograde rotation of the inner bar in ngc  2950 proposed here is inconsistent with the first estimate of @xmath9 by cda03 . however , in that estimate it is assumed that the inner bar dominates the light in the slits passing through it .",
    "this can not be correct , since @xmath33 and @xmath39 are of opposite sign there , which indicates that the light from the outer bar still dominates in the slits passing through the inner bar .",
    "the second estimate of cda03 , like the estimate given in this paper , indicates that the inner bar is counter - rotating .",
    "the obvious next step in verifying counter - rotation of the inner bar in ngc  2950 would be an examination of orbital structure of a galaxy with a retrograde inner bar , following the method presented in section 3 .",
    "however , a bar counter - rotating with respect to its stellar disc has to be built out of so called @xmath87 orbits , which are normally very close to circular ( see e.g. sellwood & wilkinson 1993 ) . in terms of the linear approximation of section 3 , the amplitude of oscillation around the guiding radius generated by a retrograde bar is very small ( see equations ( 12 ) and ( 13 ) in maciejewski 2003 ) .",
    "thus a construction of a retrograde bar in a prograde stellar disc is unlikely .",
    "this is consistent with n - body simulations , in which multiple pattern speeds form naturally in stellar discs ( rautiainen et al . 2002 )  these simulations do not recover retrograde pattern speeds .",
    "this leads to another possibility , namely that the inner bar is formed out of an inner disc that counter - rotates with respect to the outer disc .",
    "numerical results indicate that two counter - rotating bars , formed in two counter - rotating stellar discs that overlap each other , can survive in galaxies for many rotation periods ( sellwood & merritt 1994 ; friedli 1996 ) .",
    "if this is the case , one should find out whether a retrograde inner disc is consistent with the rotation curve and velocity dispersion in ngc  2950 .",
    "the data presented by cda03 do not indicate counter - rotation in the innermost few arc - seconds of ngc  2950 .",
    "if further kinematical studies of ngc  2950 confirm counter - rotation in its innermost parts , then extending the tremaine - weinberg method along the lines proposed here may yield an efficient way of detecting counter - rotation in galaxies with nested bars .",
    "thus far all detections of counter - rotation in galaxies come directly from the observed velocity fields obtained with the long - slit ( e.g. kuijken , fisher & merrifield 1996 ) or integral - field ( e.g. emsellem et al . 2004 ) spectroscopy .",
    "however , if the counter - rotating population is small , it may not be recognized with those methods . on the other hand , the tremaine - weinberg method goes beyond the raw observed velocity field by finding integrals that are useful in detecting a rotating pattern . in the presence of rotating patterns counter - rotation",
    "should be spotted more easily with this method .",
    "the use of this method , like of the original tremaine - weinberg method , is limited to galaxies with bars considerably inclined to both the major and minor axes of the disc .",
    "ngc  2950 fulfils this requirement particularly well , but there is a number of other galaxies to which this method can be readily applied .",
    "for example ngc  3368 , ngc  3941 , ngc  5365 , ngc  5850 , and ngc  6684 all have the position angles of both bars separated by 20 to 70 degrees from the position angle of the line of nodes ( see the catalogue by erwin 2004 for the parameters ) .",
    "the bar inside the oval in ngc  3081 has also parameters favourable for this method .",
    "in addition , a modification of the tremaine - weinberg method along the lines proposed in section 4 can be applied to the interiors of nuclear rings that often host nuclear bars ( e.g. ngc  1097 , ngc  6782 ) .",
    "the fraction of counter - rotating inner bars can constrain theories of galaxy formation and evolution .",
    "currently the most accepted view on the origin of the inner bar is that it forms through instabilities in gas inflowing along the outer bar ( shlosman , frank & begelman 1989 ) .",
    "however , if inner bars form on early stages of galaxy assembling , and outer bars form from material that settled on the galaxy later , the spins of the two bars may be unrelated , leading to a large fraction of counter - rotating inner bars . determining this fraction may help to distinguish between these two evolutionary scenarios .",
    "in this paper i presented an argument that a simple extension of the tremaine - weinberg method to multiple pattern speeds can provide an information about the sense of rotation of the inner bar in doubly barred galaxies .",
    "the extended formula advocated here links the relative position of the bars to the sign of rotation of the inner bar .",
    "this extension can not be as rigorous as the original method , because it assumes that the patterns do not change as they rotate one through another , which is not true in general .",
    "however , it predicts the same deviations of the integrals in the tremaine - weinberg method from their values for the single rotating pattern , as in the orbital model of a realistic doubly barred galaxy , which does not involve this assumption .",
    "this indicates that the degree of change that the patterns rotating one through another undergo is small , and that it does not affect significantly the results of the extended method proposed here .",
    "application of the extended method to ngc  2950 implies that the inner bar there counter - rotates with respect to the outer bar and to the large - scale disc . since",
    "a retrograde bar is unlikely to be supported in a prograde disc , a retrograde inner disc may be hiding in the central kiloparsecs of ngc  2950 .",
    "* acknowledgements . *",
    "i wish to thank peter erwin for letting me use the r - band image of ngc 2950 , which he obtained with the wyin telescope , and for the list of other galaxies , to which this method can be applied .",
    "i am grateful to the authors of the cda03 paper for sharing the details of their observations with me .",
    "discussions with linda sparke improved presentation of this argument .",
    "this work was partially supported by the polish committee for scientific research as a research project 1 p03d 007 26 in the years 20042007 .",
    "begelman m.c . , volonteri m. , rees m.j . , 2006 , mnras , 10.1111/j.1365 - 2966.2006.10467.x corsini e.m . , debattista v.p . ,",
    "aguerri j.a.l . , 2003 ,",
    "apj , 599 , l29 elmegreen d.m . ,",
    "elmegreen b.g , chromey f.r . ,",
    "hasselbacher d.a . ,",
    "bisssel b.a . , 1996 , aj , 111 , 2233 emsellem e. , et al . , 2004 , mnras , 352 , 721 erwin p. , 2004 ,",
    "a&a , 415 , 941 erwin p. , sparke , l.s . , 2002 ,",
    "aj , 124 , 65 erwin p. , sparke , l.s . , 2003 , apjs , 146 , 299 friedli d. , 1996 , a&a , 312 , 761 hernandez o. , wozniak h. , carignan c. , amram p. , chemin l. , daigle o. , 2005 , apj , 632 , 253 kuijken k. , fisher d. , merrifield m.r . , 1996 , mnras , 283 , 543 laine s. , shlosman i. , knapen j.h . , peletier , r.f . , 2002 ,",
    "apj , 567 , 97 louis p.d . , gerhard o.e . , 1988 , mnras , 233 , 337 maciejewski w. , 2003 , in : contopoulos g. , voglis n. ( eds . ) lecture notes in physics vol .",
    "626 , springer verlag , berlin , 91 maciejewski w. , 2004 , in : block d.l . , puerari i. , freeman k.c",
    ". , groess r. , block e.k .",
    "astrophys . and",
    "space sci . lib .",
    "vol.319 , springer verlag , berlin , 175 maciejewski w. , athanassoula e. , 2006 , in preparation maciejewski w. , sparke l.s . , 1997 ,",
    "apj , 484 , l117 maciejewski w. , sparke l.s . , 2000 ,",
    "mnras , 313 , 745 rautiainen p. , salo h. , laurikainen e. , 2002 , mnras , 337 , 1233 rand r.j .",
    ", wallin j.f . , 2004 , apj , 614 , 142 sellwood j. a. , merritt , d. , 1994 , apj , 425 , 530 sellwood j. a. , wilkinson a. , 1993 , rep .",
    ", 56 , 173 shlosman i. , frank j. , begelman m.c . , 1989 , nature , 338 , 45 sridhar s. , 1989 , mnras , 238 , 1159 tremaine s. , weinberg m.d . , 1984 , apj , 282 , l5 wozniak h. , friedli d. , martinet l. , martin p. , bratschi p. , 1995 , a&as , 111 , 115",
    "consider a ferrers bar with major and minor axes @xmath88 and @xmath89 .",
    "its surface density can be written in the cartesian coordinates @xmath5 in the plane of the galaxy as @xmath90 where @xmath91=const is the central density of the bar .",
    "pulsation of the bar can be described by periodic variation of the length of its axes @xmath92 where @xmath93 and @xmath94 are periodic functions of time with period @xmath13 .",
    "thus non - zero density , corresponding to the top line in ( a1 ) , of a pulsating bar that rotates with pattern speed @xmath10 , can be written in polar coordinates @xmath95 as @xmath96 , \\nonumber\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] where @xmath97 note that ( a2 ) is one of the components of ( 2 ) for the particular case of a ferrers bar .",
    "let ( a2 ) , wherever larger than zero , describe non - zero surface density of a tracer in a rotating and pulsating bar . in the tremaine - weinberg method , the time derivative of this surface density enters the continuity equation .",
    "simple partial derivation of ( a2 ) gives @xmath98 further on in the tremaine - weinberg method , the continuity equation is integrated over @xmath99 and @xmath100 , which in the case considered here leads to @xmath101 where @xmath102 is the velocity of the tracer along the @xmath100 axis .",
    "( a4 ) is the counterpart of ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) , and since bar s pulsation is explicitly included here , it contains two additional correction terms ( second and third term ) , involving integration over @xmath103 and @xmath104 .",
    "this integration , although formally extending to infinity , in this case is limited to the regions where bar s surface density is non - zero .",
    "thus since @xmath103 and @xmath104 contain only rotated cartesian coordinates , the integrals that involve them are finite , and will be denoted as @xmath105 and @xmath106 . moreover , let us represent the pulsation of the bar by a simple oscillatory form of @xmath93 and @xmath94 : @xmath107 where @xmath108 , and @xmath109 controls the amplitude of the oscillation .",
    "then , with the use of notation from section 2 , ( a4 ) takes the form @xmath110 similar exercise can be done for the second bar , indexed by @xmath27 , leading to an equation being a counterpart to ( a6 ) @xmath111 the sum of these two equations gives ( 6 ) , the equation of the extended tremaine - weinberg method , but here with correction terms , one for each bar . in both ( a6 ) and ( a7 ) , the correction term is the second term .    for each bar ,",
    "the integrals @xmath112 and @xmath113 can be evaluated explicitly , indicating that @xmath114 is about twice smaller than @xmath115 throughout each bar .",
    "numerical simulations indicate that the overall pulsation of the inner bar is more noticeable than that of the outer bar , hence the magnitude of the coefficient @xmath116 should be larger for the inner bar . in the numerical n - body simulations by rautiainen et al.(2002 )",
    ", the axial ratio of the inner bar , @xmath117 , varies roughly between 0.52 and 0.72 . in the notation adopted here",
    ", this corresponds to @xmath118 .",
    "finally , @xmath119 is always smaller than @xmath120 .",
    "thus the magnitude of the second , correction term in ( a7 ) should not exceed about 15% of the magnitude of the first , leading term in the case of the inner bar .",
    "for the outer bar , the ratio of @xmath121 is larger , but since the pulsation of that bar has smaller amplitude , @xmath109 is significantly smaller .",
    "this example shows that periodic changes in time of surface density of the tracer of each bar in this bar s reference frame can be accommodated as correction terms in the extended tremaine - weinberg formalism proposed in this paper , given that the amplitude of these changes is sufficiently small .",
    "this amplitude , as observed in numerical simulations , is indeed small enough , and it leads to correction terms that are one order of magnitude smaller than the leading terms in the extended tremaine - weinberg equation ( 6 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> when integrals in the standard tremaine - weinberg method are evaluated for the case of a realistic model of a doubly barred galaxy , their modifications introduced by the second rotating pattern are in accord with what can be derived from a simple extension of that method , based on separation of tracer s density . </S>",
    "<S> this extension yields a qualitative argument that discriminates between prograde and retrograde inner bars . </S>",
    "<S> however , the estimate of the value of inner bar s pattern speed requires further assumptions . </S>",
    "<S> when this extension of the tremaine - weinberg method is applied to the recent observation of the doubly barred galaxy ngc 2950 , it indicates that the inner bar there is counter - rotating , possibly with the pattern speed of @xmath0 km s@xmath1 arcsec@xmath1 . </S>",
    "<S> the occurrence of counter - rotating inner bars can constrain theories of galaxy formation .    </S>",
    "<S> galaxies : individual ( ngc 2950 )  galaxies : kinematics and dynamics  galaxies : structure </S>"
  ]
}