{
  "article_text": [
    "it is commonly accepted now that planetary nebulae ( pns ) and similar nebulae around evolved stars , e.g. , the nebula around the massive star @xmath1 carinae , owe their axisymmetrical shapes to binary interaction .",
    "there are many different processes by which a binary companion can influence the mass loss geometry from an evolved star ( soker 2004 and references there in ) .",
    "recent higher sensitivity surveys have found more pns with binary central systems , ( de marco et al .",
    "20004 ; hillwig 2004 ; pollaco 2004 ) , further supporting the binary paradigm . in one of the shaping",
    "processes the companion accretes mass from the mass losing primary star , with specific angular momentum high enough to form an accretion disk and then blows two jets ; if the jets are not well collimated , they are termed collimated fast wind ( cfw ) .",
    "detection of jets blown by the white dwarf ( wd ) companion in symbiotic systems ( sokoloski 2004 ; galloway & sokoloski 2004 ; brocksopp et al .",
    "2004 and references therein ) provides additional support for the shaping by jets model .",
    "morris ( 1987 ) first proposed that many pns are shaped by jets blown by an accreting companion .",
    "other papers followed , attributing specific structural features to jets : soker ( 1990 ) argues that dense blob pairs ( termed ansae or fliers ) along the symmetry axis of many elliptical pns are formed by jets blown in the transition from the asymptotic giant branch ( agb ) to the pn phase ( the proto - pn or post - agb phase ) ; sahai & trauger ( 1998 ) argue that jets blown in the post - agb phase shape many pns ; in soker ( 2002b ) i demonstrated that jets can also account for the presence of ring - pairs , as the two outer rings of sn 1987 .",
    "one of the most prominent structures formed by jets is a pair of lobes ( or bubble pair ) .",
    "the similarity between the structure of some pns and the structure of x - ray deficient bubble - pairs in some clusters of galaxies leaves no doubt that lobes in pns are formed by fast jets ( soker 2003 ; 2004 ) .",
    "pns whose main structure is two lobes with an equatorial waist between them are termed bipolar - pns .",
    "of course , not all pns are shaped by jets .    moreover , there are many processes by which binary companions can influence the shape of the nebula , and there are many evolutionary routes that progenitors of bipolar pns can take ( soker 2002c ) . considering the different processes , different evolutionary routes , and the dependence of the appearance on inclination , i found ( soker 2002c ) that the number of different apparent structures of bipolar pns is larger than the number of known bipolar pns and proto - pns",
    "hence , i reasoned , every bipolar pn is a ` unique ' object in its appearance , but all can be explained within the binary model paradigm .",
    "therefore , i suggest terminating the use of adjectives such as ` unique ' , ` peculiar ' , and ` unusual ' to bipolar pns and proto - pns .",
    "this is not just a terminology exercise . by removing these adjectives",
    "the need to invoke a new model for almost every ` unusual ' bipolar pn becomes unnecessary .",
    "instead , all bipolar pns can be explained with a binary model , using similar processes that occur in other pns and/or other astrophysical objects .    in a recent paper cohen et al .",
    "( 2004 , here after cvbg ; also van winckel 2004 ) presented new images of the the red rectangle proto - pn , associated with the post - agb binary system hd 44179 ( ir source afgl 915 ) .",
    "this binary system has an orbital period of @xmath2 days , a semimajor axis of @xmath3 , and an eccentricity of @xmath4 ( waelkens _ et al .",
    "_ 1996 ; waters _",
    "_ 1998 ; menshchikov et al .",
    "cvbg attached to the nebula of the red rectangle the adjective ` unique ' , while van winckel ( 2004 ) , in reference to my recommendation to stop using this adjective ( soker 2002c ) , used the adjective ` more unique ' , although he referred mainly to the unique chemistry of the nebula ( which might be indeed more particularized than its morphology ) . with a ` unique ' nebula , a ` unique ' model is required , and for that cvbg cite the model proposed by icke ( 2004 ) .",
    "the simulations of icke ( 2004 ) start with a periodic biconical flow from the central region outward , based on the biconical flow studied by icke ( 1981 ) .",
    "my view is that the model proposed by icke ( 2004 ) can not account for the structure of the red rectangle for the following reasons : ( 1 ) the biconical outflow proposed by icke ( 1981 ) is due to a gaseous disk . in most astrophysical objects , however , from agn to young stellar objects , the accretion disk blows collimated winds , or jets , but not biconical flows .",
    "the large cold disk around the binary stellar system hd 44179 at the center of the red rectangle ( e.g. , jura & kahane 1999 ; dominik et al .",
    "2003 ) is not expected to blow a wind energetic enough to form the bipolar structure of the red rectangle .",
    "( 2 ) the simulations of icke ( 2004 ) do not reproduce the exact structure of the red rectangle . in particular , the faint rims connecting the ` vortices ' to the center ( termed ` winegalss ( parabola ) ' in fig . 10 of cvbg ; reproduced here in figure 1 . )",
    "do not close back to the center in icke s simulations . also , in the simulations the ` ladder rungs ' ( fig . 1 )",
    "are curved too much back toward the center .",
    "( 3 ) most important , i am searching for a unified model to explain bipolar pns , based on a basic common driving agent .",
    "the model presented by icke ( 2004 ) seems to lack such an ingredient ; the biconical outflow is rare in other objects .    in the present paper",
    "i argue that jets blown by the accreting companion can account for the structure of the red rectangle . using previously studied ingredients aiming at explaining bipolar nebulae , from x - ray deficient bubbles pairs in cluster of galaxies through supernovae remnants and pns",
    ", i build a scenario to explain the basic structure of the red rectangle . in section 2",
    ", i describe the basic structure of the red rectangle and outline the proposed scenario . in section 3 , i gives the relevant parameters which distinguish the binary progenitor of the red rectangle ( hd 44179 ) from progenitors having large orbital separation . in section 4 ,",
    "i summarize the main results .",
    "the general structure of the inner region of the red rectangle is presented in figure 10 of cvbg , which is reproduced here in figure 1 , and depicts the following components .",
    "there are two bright pairs of radial ( more or less ) lines , marked ` bicone edge ' on figure 1 , emanating from the center , each pair on opposite sides of the equatorial plane , in an approximate mirror symmetry .",
    "this is the bright part of the biconical structure . at larger distances , the opening angle of the biconical structure ,",
    "i.e. , the angle between the rays , increases from @xmath5 to @xmath6 .",
    "the bicone edge are composed of more or less symmetrical , but not exactly periodic , bright knots , termed vortices by cvbg .",
    "faint arcs , in most cases not complete , connect the vortices to the center , in a more or less parabolic shape ; these are termed ` wineglass ( parabola ) ' by cvbg .    it is assumed that the nebula has a more or less axisymmetrical structure , and that the structure described above is a cut through a plane containing the symmetry axis , and that the symmetry axis of the red rectangle is almost parallel to the plane of the sky ( almost perpendicular to our line of sight ) . therefore , each pair of vortices on opposite side of the symmetry axis are a limb - brightened projection of a single ring . this ring is connected with a paraboloid to the center .",
    "such a structure is not unique to the red rectangle .",
    "the outer lobe pair of the pn m2 - 9 has this structure ( see hst home page and doyle et al .",
    "2000 ) . in the outer lobes of m2 - 9 the paraboloid rims are brighter , the ring is wider , and there is only one ring on each side of the equatorial plane .",
    "however , the basic structure of a ring connected with faint paraboloid to the center is similar to each ring in the red rectangle .    with somewhat less similarity , but still possessing this basic structure , i list the hourglass pn ( mycn 18 ) , which also displays a wide bright ring connected to the center with a paraboloid ( dayal et al .",
    "2000 ) . because the symmetry axis of mycn 18 is highly inclined to the plane of the sky , it is hard to compare it to the structure of the rings in the red rectangle or to the rings structure in m2 - 9 .",
    "sugerman et al .  (",
    "2004 ) argue , based on their study of light echo from sn 1987 , that the outer double - ring structure of sn 1987 is formed by the bright parts of an hourglass structure connected to the center of the nebula .",
    "if this is indeed the case , then the outer rings of sn 1987 also have the ring - wineglass structure .",
    "double - ring systems have been found also in the pns hubble 12 ( welch et al .",
    "1999 ) and he 2 - 113 ( sahai et al .",
    "2000 ) . however , it is hard to tell whether the structure is that of a ring - wineglass type .      from the previous subsection ,",
    "i conclude that the basic difference between the red rectangle and the other nebulae described , is that the progenitor of the red rectangle ( hd 44179 ) had multiple ejection events , each forming a pair of ring - wineglass structure .",
    "the scenario is as follows .",
    "the agb progenitors loses mass with episodes of enhanced mass loss rate .",
    "semi - periodic enhanced mass loss rate episodes are inferred to occur in stars about to leave the agb from the presence of multiple semi - periodic concentric shells ( termed also arcs , rings , and m - arcs ) in pns and proto pns .",
    "the m - arcs are observed mainly in the spherical haloes of elliptical and bipolar pns ( e.g. , hrivnak et al .",
    "2001 ; kwok et al .",
    "2001 ; corradi et al .",
    "the companion accretes mass from the agb star , forms an accretion disk , and blow two jets , one at each side of the equatorial plane . as i argued in a previous paper ( soker 2002b ) , such a process might form a double - ring structure .",
    "the mass loss rate between the enhanced mass loss rate episodes are too low for the companion to blow jets .",
    "the question i address now is why the red rectangle shows the semi - periodic nebular structure in a biconical structure , which i argued above is a multiple double - ring system , while the other pns mentioned above ( e.g , corradi et al .",
    "2004 ) show the multiple enhanced mass loss episodes in more or less spherical structures ?",
    "the answer is in the accretion rate of the close companion in the red rectangle , which is higher that in systems with larger orbital separations . in the red rectangle the orbital separation is @xmath7 , while in the other pns , according to the proposed scenario , the orbital separation is larger . following the arguments presented by soker & rappaport ( 2000 )",
    ", i assume that jets are launched only when the accretion rate into the companion is above a critical value of @xmath8 , depending on the nature of the companion , for example , a wd or a main sequence star .",
    "the accretion rate is the bondi - hoyle rate @xmath9 , where @xmath10 is the density of the agb wind , @xmath11 is the accretion radius , @xmath12 is the relative velocity between the companion and the wind , and @xmath13 is the mass of the compact companion .",
    "the relative velocity is @xmath14 , where @xmath15 is the slow agb wind velocity at the location of the companion , and @xmath16 is the orbital velocity of the companion around the primary .",
    "it is adequate to assume here for the calculation of @xmath16 that @xmath17 and that the orbit is circular .",
    "the wind density is @xmath18 , where @xmath19 is the mass loss rate of the agb star , defined positively .",
    "the accretion rate of the companion is given then by @xmath20 where the accretion coefficient @xmath21 was defined in the second equality .",
    "to make the behavior more transparent , i take the slow wind speed to be @xmath22 , and @xmath23 .",
    "the expression for the accretion coefficient reads @xmath24 where @xmath25 is the orbital separation in units of @xmath26 .",
    "the first , and most important factor which determines the accretion rate is the orbital separation . for @xmath27 , 5 , and 25 , one finds for @xmath22 , @xmath28 , 0.69 , and 0.08 , respectively .",
    "this demonstrates that the accretion rate is sensitive to the orbital separation , a concept by now well established .",
    "a second factor which enhances the accretion rate by companions at very close separation is the wind speed .",
    "the value of @xmath21 at an orbital separation of @xmath29 is likely to be even larger , since the wind there does not reach its terminal velocity yet and @xmath15 is lower .    a third factor that increases the accretion rate of close companions is tidal interaction . because of tidal interaction , a close companion is likely to enhance the mass loss rate from the agb star during the enhanced mass loss rate episodes .    a fourth factor is the mass of the companion .",
    "in order to avoid a common envelope phase , companions at small orbital separations must be relatively massive , @xmath30 , while companions at larger orbital separations , much larger than the maximum envelope radius the primary attains on the agb , can be less massive .",
    "hence , in the red rectangle and similar objects the companion can not have too little mass .",
    "in the model for double ring formation proposed in a previous paper ( soker 2002b ) , the flow studied was axisymmetric , with two jets expanding along the symmetry axis into a thin shell .",
    "as stated earlier , such a flow is expected in binary systems where the mass - losing primary undergoes an impulsive mass loss episode which forms a thin , dense shell .",
    "each jet hits a substantial fraction of the shell s material .",
    "the shocked shell s material is accelerated sideway by the jet , and forms a higher density ring . in that earlier paper",
    "i also noted that if there are several such impulsive mass loss episodes , more double rings are formed , and , because of the binary interaction and orbital motion , the double - ring system is displaced from the symmetry axis of the main nebula .",
    "basically , the assumption in soker ( 2002b ) was that the orbital period is much longer than the duration of the impulsive enhanced mass loss episode .",
    "the situation in the red rectangle is the opposite .",
    "the enhanced mass loss rate episodes occur every 70 years or longer ( cvbg ) .",
    "the duration of the enhanced mass loss episodes may last some fraction of this , i.e. , @xmath31 .",
    "the orbital period of the central binary system is @xmath32 . in this section",
    "i discuss the implication of the very short orbital period in regard to the formation of a double ring system during an enhanced mass loss rate episode .",
    "let us consider the following flow structure , drawn schematically in figures 2 and 3 .",
    "the agb ( or post - agb ) wind flowing near the equatorial plane toward the companion is accreted by the companion .",
    "the wind above and below the equatorial plane and to the other side of the companion is undisturbed .",
    "this accretion flow from the primary to the companion ( not drawn on figures 2 and 3 ) is as the flow simulated by mastrodemos & morris ( 1998 , 1999 ) .",
    "the companion blows two jets , one on each side of the equatorial plane , with the following properties .",
    "the speed of gas inside the jet is @xmath33 , its half opening angle ( from its symmetry axis to its edge ) is @xmath34 , and the mass loss rate into each jet is @xmath35 , where @xmath36 is the fraction of the accreted mass blown into each jet . in driving the approximate equations below i",
    "take @xmath37 , and @xmath38 .",
    "the density inside the jet , which propagates perpendicular to the orbital plane along the @xmath39 axis , is @xmath40 the density of the slow wind material , through which the jet plows , at height @xmath39 from the equatorial plane is given by @xmath41 where @xmath42 is the orbital separation .",
    "the jets interacts with the slow wind ( before breaking out ) , and material flows to the sides of the jet s heat , marked as region a in figure 2 and region b in figure 3 .",
    "the head of the jet proceeds at a speed @xmath43 given by the balance of pressures on its two sides .",
    "assuming supersonic motion and @xmath44 , this equality reads @xmath45 . eliminating @xmath46 , using the equations above for @xmath47 , and @xmath10 , and with @xmath48 from equations ( [ eq : acc01 ] ) and ( [ eq : acc02 ] ) , yields @xmath49 close to the jet s source , @xmath50 , the jet s head proceed at a speed close to @xmath33 .",
    "the jets clean a region above the companion .",
    "when the companion returns to that point after one revolution , the slow wind filled that region up to a distance from the agb star equals to @xmath51 . the outflow in the red rectangle has @xmath52 ( jura et al .",
    "1997 ) , and as in cvbg i use @xmath53 . for @xmath54 and @xmath55 ,",
    "i find @xmath56 .",
    "for @xmath57 , then , in order to break out of the slow wind dense region the jets should reach a distance of @xmath58 .",
    "however , as the jet s head proceeds , the companion moves a substantial distance , such that no fresh jet material is supplied .",
    "the material pushed to the side along the orbit ( region b in fig .",
    "3 ) , is later accelerated along the @xmath39 direction , because of the companion orbital motion .",
    "this accelerated gas is drawn schematically as region c in figure 3 .",
    "later the jet s head breaks out of the slow wind gas ( because the primary mass - losing star did not fill this region ) , and pushes the material to form the ring ( drawn as region d in fig .",
    "3 ) .    to examine the jet s head motion , i use in equation ( [ eq : vh1 ] ) the typical values",
    "@xmath59 , @xmath60 , @xmath61 ( opening angle of @xmath62 ) , @xmath63 ( @xmath64 per cents of the accreted mass is blown into the two jets ) , and @xmath65 , resulting in @xmath66 at @xmath67 .",
    "i neglect the term @xmath68 in the left hand side of equation ( [ eq : vh1 ] ) , hence overestimating somewhat the speed of the jet s head @xmath43 at @xmath69 , and obtain @xmath70 the total width of the jet at a distance @xmath39 from the equatorial plane is @xmath71 ( see fig .",
    "the orbiting jet - blowing companion crosses this distance along its orbital motion in a time of @xmath72 . during that time the jets proceeds a distance of @xmath73 note that the distance does not depend on the opening angle of the jet . for the parameters used in the previous example , and @xmath74 one finds @xmath75 and for @xmath76 , @xmath77 . for these parameters , therefore , the jets break out of the slow wind at about the same time that no fresh jet s material is supplied to accelerate its head .",
    "the jets push the slow wind dense gas to the sides ( regions c and d in fig .",
    "3 ) , forming rings .",
    "the slow wind gas which is pushed to the side in the radial direction ( region a in fig .",
    "2 ) , will form the bright rim on the wineglass structure .",
    "it was assumed here that the two jets propagate perpendicular to the orbital plane .",
    "this is a good approximation .",
    "jet bending by the ram pressure of the slow wind is small for the typical parameters used here .",
    "this can be shown by using equation ( 11 ) of soker & rappaport ( 2000 ) , which shows that significant bending occurs only at distances of @xmath78 , which requires larger orbital separation than that in the red rectangle .",
    "a small departure from perpendicular expansion relative to the center of mass of the system occurs because of the orbital motion .",
    "the pre - shock jet s material has a velocity component parallel to the orbital plane of @xmath16 , which is , however , small relative to the perpendicular velocity of @xmath33 .      to estimate the ring velocity , i first note that at the distances relevant to the flow here , the densities are high and all gas segments involved cool rapidly .",
    "hence , momentum conservation is a good approximation .",
    "let the ring material be composed of slow wind material that was blown inside a cone having a half opening angle of @xmath79 , measured from an axis originating from the primary mass losing star and perpendicular to the orbital plane . a wind segment moving at angle @xmath80 has a velocity @xmath81 perpendicular to the orbital plane , and @xmath82 parallel to the orbital plane .",
    "integrating the absolute value of the momentum of slow wind segments will give the momentum discharge ( momentum per unit time ) component perpendicular and parallel to the orbital plane . the mass flow rate into one cone",
    "is @xmath83 .",
    "the total momentum discharge perpendicular to the orbital plane in one cone is @xmath84 while the total momentum flow rate parallel to the orbital plane in one cone is @xmath85 the jet blown by the companion adds a momentum mainly perpendicular to the orbital plane at a rate of @xmath86    for the parameters used here ( @xmath63 ; @xmath65 ; @xmath87 ; @xmath88 ) , i find for @xmath89 , that @xmath90 , @xmath91 , and @xmath92 .",
    "if all the jet s momentum is deposited to the ring , then the half - opening angle of the rings will be @xmath93 , or @xmath94 . for @xmath95",
    ", i find @xmath96 and @xmath97 ( @xmath98 does not change ) , and @xmath99 . in the red rectangle",
    "( see cvbg ) the half - opening angle of the rings increases from @xmath100 close to the center to @xmath101 in the region shown in figure 1 , to @xmath5 in the outer nebula . in the present proposed model for the multiple - ring structure , this increase of the opening angle as rings move away from the center is explained as transverse acceleration at later times . as shown in section 3.1 ,",
    "the jets are likely to break out of the dense , slow - wind material blown during the enhanced mass loss episode .",
    "however , between these enhanced mass loss episodes the more diluted slow - wind gas continues to fill the region up to the ring ( assuming no jets are blown between enhanced mass loss episodes ) . before the next enhanced mass loss rate episode , the ring reaches a distance of @xmath102 .",
    "the jets themselves , after breaking out of the denser slow wind material blown during an enhanced mass loss rate episode , will fill regions further out . at these large distances",
    "the cooling time becomes longer than the flow time , and a hot bubble might be formed , that accelerates mass to the sides , as in the model for bubble formation by jets ( soker 2002a ; lee & sahai 2003 ) .",
    "the central goal of the paper is to show that the main structure of the red rectangle ( central star hd 44179 ; ir source afgl 915 ) does not need a unique model ; it can be explained by the same process that was described in forming double - ring systems ( soker 2002b ) and lobes in planetary nebulae and related objects , e.g. the outer rings in sn 1987a .",
    "namely , a companion accretes mass from the evolved mass losing star ( the primary ) .",
    "if the specific angular momentum of the accreted mass is high enough an accretion disk is formed , and if , in addition , mass accretion rate is high enough jets ( or a collimated fast wind ; cfw ) are blown . in this cfw model , if the mass loss rate is more or less continuous , the cfw ( or jets ) lead to the formation of double lobes ( or double bubbles ) with a waist between them , i.e. a bipolar structure .",
    "this model can account for bipolar structure in symbiotic nebula , pns , the nebula around the massive star @xmath1 carinae , and other related objects . if , on the other hand , mass loss rate is intermittent , and during one orbital period the slow wind fills a region which does not extend much beyond the binary system , then only a fraction of the double - lobe structure is formed , namely , rings . in the red rectangle",
    "this is the case , as the slow wind velocity is much lower than the orbital motion , @xmath103 , and during one orbital period the slow wind fills a region comparable to the binary separation .",
    "this work is motivated by the recent detail study of the structure of the red rectangle conducted by cvbg . as discussed in section 2.1 ,",
    "i interpret the bright structure to be composed of several ring pairs ( fig . 1 taken from figure 10 of cvbg ) . in section 2.1",
    ", i presented the basic scenario of semi - periodic enhanced mass loss rate episodes .",
    "these lead to the formation of jets by the accreting companion .",
    "as was shown in a previous paper ( soker 2002b ) such jets can form rings .",
    "the difference between the red rectangle and many other binary systems that form bipolar pns is the small orbital separation which enable jet formation at relatively low mass loss rate ( still , an enhanced mass loss rate episode is required ) , and the slow wind speed being much lower than the orbital velocity ( section 2.2 ) . in section 3.1 , i found that the jets breaks out of the region filled by the dense slow wind during one orbital period , but they marginally do so .",
    "the material pushed to the side and forward in one enhanced mass loss rate episode form one ring ( figs . 1 and 2 ) . in section ( 3.2 )",
    "i showed that the rings will move at a relatively low speed when compared with the jets speed .",
    "the present study is by no means a substitute to 3 dimensional hydrodynamical gas simulation .",
    "however , such numerical simulations are resource demanding , and the basic flow structure should be explored via analytical means to make the numerical simulations as realistic as possible .",
    "as shown in previous works ( e.g. , soker & rappaport 2001 ) , in the binary shaping model of nebulae around evolved stars , if the orbital orbit is eccentric the nebula is expected to possess departure from pure axisymmetrical structure ( binary progenitor in circular orbit can also lead to departure from axisymmetry ) .",
    "such a departure is observed indeed in the red rectangle , in the equatorial plane in the near infrared contour map of tuthill et al .",
    "( 2002 , fig .",
    "1 ) , and in the infrared maps of miyata et al .  ( 2004 , fig .",
    "( analyzing the departure from axisymmetry is an effective tool to understand the shaping of nebulae , which , oddly is ignored by most observers . )    the conclusion of this paper is that the slowly expanding biconical structure of the red rectangle might be formed by intermittent jets blown by an accreting companion , thereby demonstrating the suitability of the red rectangle in the binary shaping model of pns .",
    "i thank ann feild from the space telescope science institute for providing figure 1 , and martin cohen for his permission to use this figure .",
    "this research was supported in part by the israel science foundation .",
    "hillwig , t. 2004 , in asymmetrical planetary nebulae iii : winds , structure and the thunderbird , eds .",
    "m. meixner , j. h. kastner , b. balick , & n. soker , asp conf .",
    "series , 313 , ( asp , san francisco ) ( astro - ph/0310043 )                                    soker , n. 2002a , apj , 568 , 726 soker , n. 2002b , apj , 577 , 839 soker , n. 2002c , mnras , 330 , 481 soker , n. 2003 , pasp , 115 , 1296 soker , n. 2004 , in asymmetrical planetary nebulae iii : winds , structure and the thunderbird , eds . m. meixner , j. h. kastner , b. balick , & n. soker , asp conf .",
    "series , 313 , ( asp , san francisco ) ( extended version on astro - ph/0309228 )          sugerman , b. e. k. , crotts , a. , lawrence , s. , kunkle , b. , & heathcote , s. 2004 , in asymmetrical planetary nebulae iii : winds , structure and the thunderbird , eds .",
    "m. meixner , j. h. kastner , b. balick , & n. soker , asp conf .",
    "series , 313 , ( asp , san francisco ) ( extended version on astro - ph/0309228 )      van winckel , h. 2004 , in asymmetrical planetary nebulae iii : winds , structure and the thunderbird , eds .",
    "m. meixner , j. h. kastner , b. balick , & n. soker , asp conf .",
    "series , 313 , ( asp , san francisco ) ( see : http://www.astro.washington.edu/balick/apn/apn_talks_posters.html and go to h. van winckel talk ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i argue that the slowly expanding biconical structure of the red rectangle@xmath0a nebula around the post asymptotic giant branch binary stellar system hd 44179@xmath0can be formed by intermittent jets blown by the accreting companion . the bright biconical structure of the red rectangle nebula can be understood to be composed of a multiple double - ring system . in the proposed shaping process , </S>",
    "<S> one among several processes through which a companion can shape the circumbinary gas , the companion accretes mass from the slow wind blown by the evolved mass losing star </S>",
    "<S> . an accretion disk is formed , and if mass accretion is larger than a critical value , two jets , or a collimated fast wind ( cfw ) are blown . </S>",
    "<S> if the high mass loss rate duration is long , bipolar lobes are formed . </S>",
    "<S> if , on the other hand , mass loss rate is intermittent , and during one orbital period the slow wind fills a region which does not extend much beyond the binary system , then only a fraction of the double - lobe structure is formed , namely , rings . </S>",
    "<S> this , i propose , was the case with the progenitor of the red rectangle , where intermittent episodes of enhanced mass loss rate led to the formation of a multiple double - ring system .    * key words : * stars : agb and post - agb  binaries : close  stars : individual ( hd 44179 ; afgl 915) stars : mass - loss  planetary nebulae : general ism : jets and outflows </S>"
  ]
}