{
  "article_text": [
    "the star cluster at the galactic center ( gc ) is unique in the milky way .",
    "it is composed of a mixed population of young and old stars in a very dense cluster around the central supermassive black hole .",
    "various efforts to study the members of this cluster have involved imaging and spectroscopic observations ( e.g. @xcite and @xcite ) ; all in the infrared since the extinction to the gc is a@xmath0 30 mag @xcite . @xcite and @xcite also discussed the variability of stars as probes of the stellar population content , although the data sets involved had sparse temporal sampling .",
    "more recently , @xcite used the results from seven years of observing ( roughly 6 - 7 nights per year ) to identify many variable stars in the gc , including the discovery that one of the sources very near the gc , irs16sw , is a short period variable .    in 1999",
    "we began a long - term project to monitor the gc .",
    "we obtained infrared images of the gc for many nights in subsequent observing seasons .",
    "the goals are to identify all the variable stars in the gc and use the statistics to better understand the star formation history of the region .",
    "the data collection for this project is on - going and we expect to produce the full results eventually . here",
    "we report on the light curve of irs16sw from images taken during the 2001 observing campaign .",
    "we find that irs16sw may be a representative of a new class of regularly pulsating massive stars .",
    "pulsating stars are critical for the determination of the extragalactic distance scale , cepheid variables in particular ( see gibson et al . 2000 ) . however , even cepheids are difficult to detect at large distances .",
    "massive stars can have bolometric luminosities hundreds of times larger than cepheids and can therefore be seen over much larger distances .",
    "the behaviour of massive stars is intrinsically complex , however , so their use as standard candles has been limited ( see kudritzki , bresolin , & przybilla ( 2003 ) and kudritzki et al .",
    "( 1999 ) for additional discussion ) .",
    "thus , the combination of regular pulsational brightness variation and high luminosity that we observe in irs16sw could have significance beyond simple interest in this particular source .",
    "images of the galactic center in the h ( 1.65 @xmath1 m ) and k ( 2.2 @xmath1 m ) bands were obtained at the ctio / yale 1 m telescope using the facility optical / infrared imager ( andicam ; see * ? ? ?",
    "* for a description of the instrument ) . on the ctio / yale 1 m telescope",
    "the andicam s infrared camera has a pixel scale of 022 pix@xmath2 , which provides a total field of view of 225  on the 1024@xmath31024 hgcdte array .",
    "the first images for our 2001 observing campaign were obtained on utc 2001 may 20 ( hjd 2452049.5 ) ; additional images were obtained on every usable night through utc 2001 november 2 ( hjd 2452216.5 ) . on each night , we acquired seven individual images of the galactic center , each slightly offset from the others , in each of the h and k filters .",
    "the individual h images were 30 second exposures ; the individual k images 10 second exposures .",
    "the groups of seven images required roughly 4 minutes at h and 2 minutes at k to obtain . between the h and k images we acquired similar sequences of images of a sky position several degrees from the gc .",
    "the sets of images were flat fielded using dome flats and then shifted and combined to create single h and k images for that night ; a similarly processed sky image was then used to provide the sky subtraction for each filter .",
    "the final nightly images were trimmed to a size of 512@xmath3512 pixels providing a field of view of 112 arcseconds centered approximately on the galactic center . upon inspection ,",
    "some of the images were found to be of poor quality ; typically due to poor seeing , bad telescope focus or tracking , or excessive wind shake .",
    "89 k images and 83 h images were retained for further analysis . of these , 75 images in each band are on the same night , providing contemporaneous measurements of the @xmath4 colors .",
    "the images of the galactic center at h and k are extremely crowded ( roughly 5 bright sources within @xmath52 arcseconds in the irs16 complex ; see @xcite and @xcite ) .",
    "further , the median seeing in our images is @xmath511 , but ranges from a minimum of 094 to a maximum 24 .",
    "therefore , simply performing aperture photometry on irs16sw does not produce an adequately accurate light curve .",
    "instead , we used the isis image subtraction package ( see * ? ? ? * ; * ? ? ? * ) to analyze the images .",
    "we used the isis package to combine four of the best - seeing images in each band into a template image , and then subtracted the template from each individual image , after convolving the template to the seeing in each image .",
    "the resulting subtracted images allowed us to measure all variable sources in the observed field , including irs16sw .",
    "we photometrically calibrated the light curves by comparing the brightness of irs16sw in the template image to the brightness of isolated stars in the frame .",
    "these stars varied by @xmath6 over the course of the 2001 observing season ; the brightness of these stars were assumed to be the same as reported by @xcite .",
    "intercomparison of 10 of these stars suggests that the absolute calibration of the photometry is accurate to @xmath7 .",
    "we note that @xcite find the mean k brightness ( @xmath8 ) of irs16sw to be @xmath59.61 mag ; we find @xmath8 @xmath9 9.5@xmath100.1 mag . the relatively insignificant difference could be due to slight differences in the effective wavelength of the filters used in the two data sets , since irs16sw is very red .",
    "our measurement is also consistent with previous high angular resolution measurements of @xmath8 ( e.g. simon et al .",
    "1990 , simons , hodapp , & becklin 1990 , depoy & sharp 1991 , and blum , sellgren , & depoy 1996 ) .",
    "we find that the mean h@xmath11k color of irs16sw is 2.6@xmath100.15 mag .",
    "previous determinations of the h@xmath11k color of irs16sw include 2.00@xmath100.07 mag @xcite , 2.05 mag ( rieke , rieke , & paul 1989 ) , 2.1@xmath100.3 mag ( simons , hodapp , and becklin 1990 ) , 2.4 mag ( krabbe et al .",
    "1995 ) , and 2.8@xmath100.2 ( depoy & sharp 1991 ) . our measurement is generaly consistent with these previous determinations , although it is somewhat redder than the most precise ( e.g. blum , sellgren , & depoy 1996 ) . the marginally significant ( @xmath54@xmath12 ) difference between our determination of the h@xmath11k color of irs16sw and that of @xcite suggests that our h - band magnitudes may contain systematic uncertainties .",
    "note that @xcite measured the h@xmath11k color on a single night ( 13 july 1993 ) , so the variability of the color of irs16sw ( see below ) does not account for the difference .",
    "we searched for the periodic signal in the h and k light curves of irs16sw using the multiharmonic analysis of variances ( anova ) period - search algorithm described by @xcite .",
    "we used a c - language implementation based on a program provided by christophe alard for this analysis .",
    "two harmonics were required to get a good periodogram fit , giving a period of variability of 9.725@xmath100.005 days , consistent with that reported by @xcite .",
    "the period found for each of the h and k lightcurves was consistent to within the stated uncertainty and we see no evidence for higher frequency overtones .",
    "figure  [ fig : f1 ] shows the phase - folded light curves at h and k for irs16sw .",
    "we note that the shape of the light curve is similar to that found by @xcite .",
    "there are some differences , however .",
    "in particular , our light curve shows more continuous change in brightness than that of @xcite ; we see no evidence of any part of the light curve that remains constant for a substantial fraction of the phase .    also shown in figure  [ fig : f1 ] is the color change in irs16sw over the period of variation . the @xmath4 color of the source changes by a total of 0.16@xmath100.03 mag ( exclusive of systematic calibration uncertainties )",
    ". the source appears bluest ( @xmath132.52 mag ) at maximum light and reddest ( @xmath132.68 mag ) at minimum light .",
    "the shape and period of the irs16sw light curve suggests it is either an eclipsing binary star system or some variety of periodic variable star .",
    "careful examination of the properties of the light curve , however , rules out most of the familiar classes of explanations . below we review and discuss these possibilities and present evidence that irs16sw may represent a new class of regularly pulsating massive stars .",
    "@xcite presented the possibility that irs16sw is a cepheid variable .",
    "they concluded that irs16sw was not likely a cepheid on the basis of the light curve shape and apparent brightness of the source at k. they also note that the spectrum of irs16sw from @xcite is not consistent with that expected from a cepheid .",
    "our data shows that irs16sw changes color by @xmath50.18 mag ( @xmath4 ) over the course of its light curve .",
    "this is also inconsistent with the behaviour of cepheids , which typically show @xmath140.05 mag h - k color change over their periods ( see * ? ? ?",
    "it therefore seems unlikely that irs16sw is a cepheid variable .    nonetheless , the shape of the irs16sw light curve is reminiscent of pulsating variable stars ( i.e. a sharper rise to maximum light followed by a slower decline ) .",
    "one possibility is that irs16sw is a @xmath15 cephei variable .",
    "these are high mass stars ( 6 - 30 m@xmath16 ) that pulsate due to the @xmath17-mechanism caused by ion absorption peaked at _ t_@xmath182@xmath310@xmath19 k that excites fundamental mode oscillations ( see * ? ? ?",
    ". known @xmath15 cephei variables are early b - type stars ( except for hd 34656 ; @xcite )",
    ". this may be due to the very short length of time higher mass stars spend in the appropriate part of the hertzsprung - russell diagram or because the pulsations in higher mass stars are of very small amplitude and difficult to detect @xcite .",
    "furthermore , observations of b - type @xmath15 cephei variables suggest that the photometric amplitude of the variation decreases with wavelength @xcite .",
    "also , the periods of @xmath15 cephei variables are typically @xmath141 day . both these are not particularly consistent with observations of irs16sw , although there are no observations of this class of variables in the infrared or any modeling predicting their behaviour .    we are not aware of any other well - observed class of pulsating stars that have characteristics similar to irs16sw",
    ".      irs16sw does not appear to be an eclipsing binary .",
    "if irs16sw is an eclipsing binary system , then the lack of any secondary eclipse requires that either one of the systems is invisible ( and the period is @xmath59.725 days ) or that both components have the same effective temperature ( and the period is actually 2@xmath39.725@xmath919.45 days ) .",
    "however , we detect a color change over the period , which indicates that if there are two stars in the system then one is cooler than the other or that both are detected . logically , then , irs16sw can not be an eclipsing binary system .",
    "ott et al . proposed that irs16sw is an eclipsing binary and described two possible scenarios .",
    "the first was a contact binary system with a high - mass primary dominating the total light from the system eclipsed by a lower - mass companion in a 9.725 day orbit around the primary .",
    "in such a system , we would expect to see a relatively deep primary eclipse followed by a shallow secondary eclipse half an orbital phase later .",
    "this is not seen in our light curve ( see figure  [ fig : f1 ] ) , and so can be ruled out .",
    "the second scenario was of a contact binary composed of two equal mass stars each contributing equally to the total light .",
    "dividing the light equally between the stars gives them radii of 64r@xmath20 , implying minimum masses of 75m@xmath20 each for two stars in contact given an orbital period of 19.450 days ( 2@xmath39.725days).150m@xmath20 for this case , but it is clear that they inadvertently used an orbital period of 9.725days instead of 19.45days as required by an equal - mass / equal - radius eclipsing binary system in which the primary and secondary eclipses are identical ]    we modeled the expected light curve for this equal - mass contact eclipsing binary system using a wilson & devinney model @xcite ( we used a 1998 version of the code generously provided by r.e .",
    "the wilson & devinney model correctly accounts for all of the relevant physics in two stars sufficiently close together to be distorted by their mutual gravitational fields . for this calculation we used two equal - mass stars with @xmath21 and @xmath22r@xmath20 in a contact binary system with a circular orbit of semi - major axis @xmath23r@xmath20 and a period of @xmath24days .",
    "the temperature and radius were selected based on models of irs16sw by najarro et al .",
    "( 1997 ) modified to account for the binarity of the source ( as suggested by ott et al . ) .",
    "the code modeled the stars as in contact and distorted by tides , using limb - darkening parameters typical of electron - scattering atmospheres expected in such high - mass , hot stars .",
    "an orbital inclination relative to the line of sight of @xmath25 produces a double eclipse with a depth of 0.3 mag , matching the amplitude of variability seen in our k - band light curve shown in figure  [ fig : f1 ] ( note that if @xmath26 , the eclipse depth should be exactly 50% of the light , or 0.75 mag ) .",
    "we note that we did not attempt to `` fit '' our light curve ( other than by attempting to match the observed amplitude of the light curve ) , rather we generated the predicted light curve for the equal - mass contact binary system described .",
    "the model light curve is shown plotted over our observed light curve in figure  [ fig : f2 ] .",
    "this model is clearly a poor match to the observed light curve .",
    "further , if the two stars have the same mass and evolutionary state , then there should be no systemic color change over the period ; as mentioned above , this is contrary to the observed color change .",
    "therefore , we rule out the equal - mass contact binary scenario .",
    "if we rule out that irs16sw is a known type of pulsating star or an eclipsing binary system , then it must represent a new class of variable object .",
    "this intriguing possibility is supported by recent work on internal models of massive stars . in particular , @xcite found that linearly overstable pulsational modes can develop into regular variability in radiation hydrodynamic simulations of massive stars .",
    "in particular , for very high mass stars their models suggest that these modes can cause very regular cyclic brightness variability with light curves similar to those of classic pulsating variables .",
    "the models suggest that this variation is stable over reasonably long timescales .",
    "the highest mass model presented by @xcite is for a 60 m@xmath16 , l @xmath9 900,000 l@xmath16 , @xmath27 star ( their model m60c ) .",
    "the model predicts a regular pulsation with @xmath28 days and peak - to - peak bolometric brightness variation of 0.66 mag .",
    "the light curve looks qualitatively like that we observe for irs16sw : a relatively steep rise , followed by a somewhat slower fall .",
    "the model predicts no significant phase shift between different filter passbands of features in the light curves , which @xcite attribute to low heat capacity in the most superficial stellar layers .",
    "color changes are present , however , since the effective temperature of the star changes during the pulsations .",
    "these aspects of the model are also consistent with our observations of irs16sw .",
    "note that @xcite simulated this model s pulsation for a timescale of more than 20 years without seeing a change in the pulsational properties .",
    "however , @xcite modeled variations only in specific optical passbands ( ubvi ) and their highest mass model has a period less than half that of irs16sw .",
    "their models show that the amplitude of variability decreases with wavelength throughout the optical , with the largest amplitudes in the ultraviolet .",
    "the amplitude of the m60c model in the i band is @xmath50.2 mag , suggesting the variations in the near - infrared would be much smaller than we observe in irs16sw .",
    "furthermore , all their models with @xmath29 show secondary maxima caused by shocks waves in the atmospheres of the stars ( a difference between the dynamical timescale of the atmosphere and the pulsational period causes collapsing layers to collide with already rerising deeper layers ) ; we see no evidence for these secondary maxima in our irs16sw light curve .",
    "@xcite point out that there is no observational evidence for pulsating very massive main - sequence stars with short periods .",
    "they suggest this may be due to either a missing piece of physics in their models , which would damp out the pulsations , or lack of appropriate observational data , which would easily confuse the pulsations with flickering or simply observational error .",
    "their models suggest that both period and amplitude of variation increase with mass , but this has not been modeled .",
    "thus , although it is attractive to speculate that irs16sw is an example of a massive and regularly pulsating star , additional theoretical work is necessary before reliable conclusions can be made . to guide future theoretical efforts",
    ", a summary of the stellar parameters of irs16sw is appropriate .",
    "the basic observational characteristic of the source is that it is bright and red .",
    "as discussed in section 2 , irs16sw has mean @xmath8 @xmath9 9.5@xmath100.1 mag ; the reddening is a@xmath30 @xmath18 3 mag .",
    "this corresponds to @xmath31 @xmath18 @xmath118.2 mag ( for an assumed distance of 8.5 kpc ) .",
    "the color of irs16sw is dominated even in the near infrared by the high extinction to the gc ; the color does not provide meaningful constraints on the characteristics of the star ( that is , the uncertainty in the colors and extinction do not place interesting constraints on the spectral type of the object ) .",
    "irs16sw also has strong hi and hei line emission ; some of the hei emission might be due to ciii and niii ( see krabbe et al .",
    "najarro et al .",
    "( 1997 ) used the spectrum of irs16sw to model the physical characteristics of the star .",
    "their model suggests that the star has a radius of @xmath590 r@xmath20 , a luminosity of @xmath526 l@xmath20 , and an effective temperature of @xmath524,000 k. their model also suggests irs16sw has an outflow of about 1.5@xmath310@xmath32 m@xmath20 yr@xmath2 .",
    "they conclude the star is an evolved blue supergiant close to the evolutionary phase of wolf - rayet stars , although this conclusion may be tempered by future theoretical work on the nature of the star s pulsations .",
    "observations of the galactic center region over roughly the entire 2001 observing season show that irs16sw is a periodic variable star , confirming the results of ott et al .",
    "the period of the variation is 9.725@xmath100.005 days in both the h and k bands .",
    "this is the same period reported by ott et al . , demonstrating that irs16sw has had a period stable for at least the past @xmath510 years .",
    "there is a change in the @xmath4 color of irs16sw over this period of @xmath50.16 mag .    the light curve shape and color change over phase demontrate that irs16sw is not an eclipsing variable star . instead",
    ", the light curve is most similar to that of a periodic pulsating star .",
    "however , the amplitude and color of the light curve and the lumiosity of irs16sw are inconsistent with any known type of pulsating variable .",
    "the observations are very roughly consistent with the predictions for an unobserved class of periodically varying , high mass stars made by @xcite . although the measured light curve resembles the predictions , there were also serious differences ( period , amplitude , etc . ) , so the intriguing possibility that irs16sw is the first of a new class of high mass variable stars can not be confirmed .",
    "we wish to thank juan espinoza and david gonzalez for their dedication and hard work at the telescope and the staff of the cerro tololo inter - american observatory for their excellent support .",
    "andicam was built with funds from nsf grant ast-9530619 by the staff of the imaging sciences laboratory of the ohio state university .",
    "we thank c. alard for providing isis and r. e. wilson for supplying the program to simulate contact binary light curves .",
    "computing support provided by the ohio state university department of astronomy .",
    "depoy , d. l. , atwood , b. , belville , s. r. , brewer , d. f. , byard , p. l. , gould , a. , mason , j. a. , obrien , t. p. , pappalardo , d. p. , pogge , r. w. , steinbrecher , d. p. , & teiga , e. j. spie conference proc .",
    "( 2002 kona )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we report measurements of the light curve of the variable galactic center source irs16sw . </S>",
    "<S> the light curve is not consistent with an eclipsing binary or any other obvious variable star . </S>",
    "<S> the source may be an example of a high mass variable predicted theoretically but not observed previously . </S>"
  ]
}