{
  "article_text": [
    "the rossixte mission has changed our view of the high - energy emission of black hole transients ( bht ) , leading to a new , complex picture which is difficult to interpret . at the same time , a clear connection between x - ray and radio properties has been found ( see fender 2005 , fender et al .",
    "2004 ) . in the following ,",
    "i present briefly the state paradigm that is now emerging , based on a large wealth of rossixte data from bright transient sources and its connection with jet ejection ( see belloni et al .",
    "2005 ; homan & belloni 2005 ; fender et al .",
    "although a full discussion would necessitate a much longer paper , i will simplify the picture as much as possible , concentrating on the most important issues .",
    "in particular , i will stress the connection between fast - timing properties and presence of a jet .",
    "the results of detailed timing and color / spectral analysis of the rossixte data of bright bhts have evidenced a very wide range of phenomena which are difficult to categorize . nevertheless , it is useful to identify distinct states .",
    "based on the variability and spectral behavior and the transitions observed in different energy bands , i consider the following states in addition to a quiescent state ( see homan & belloni 2005 ; belloni et al . 2005 ; see also casella et al .",
    "2004,2005a for the description of the different qpo types ) :    * low / hard state ( ls ) : this state is the one associated to relatively low values of the accretion rate , i.e. lower than in the other bright states , but it can be observed at all luminosities .",
    "the energy spectrum is hard and the fast time variability is dominated by a strong ( @xmath030% fractional rms ) band - limited noise . sometimes , low frequency qpos are observed .",
    "the characteristic frequencies detected in the power spectra follow broad - range correlations ( see belloni et al .",
    "2002 ) . in this state , flat - spectrum radio emission",
    "is observed , associated to compact jet ejection ( see gallo et al .",
    "2003 ; fender et al .",
    "* hard intermediate state ( hims ) : the energy spectrum is softer than in the ls , with evidence for a soft thermal disk component . the power spectra feature band - limited noise with characteristic frequency higher than the ls and usually a rather strong 0.1 - 15 hz type - c qpo ( see e.g. casella et al .",
    "the frequencies of the main components detected in the power spectra extend the broad correlations mentioned for the ls .",
    "the radio emission shows a slightly steeper spectrum ( fender et al .",
    "2004 ) . just before the transition to the sims ( see below ) , fender et al .",
    "( 2004 ) suggested that the jet velocity increases rapidly , giving origin to a fast relativistic jet .",
    "* soft intermediate state ( sims ) : here the energy spectrum is systematically softer than the hims . the disk component dominates the flux .",
    "no strong band - limited noise is observed , but transient type - a and type - b qpos , the frequency of which spans only a limited range .",
    "no core radio emission is detected .",
    "the few instances of high - frequency qpos in bht were observed in this state ( see e.g. morgan et al .",
    "1997 ; homan et al . 2001,2003 ; cui et al .",
    "2000 ; remillard et al .",
    "* high / soft state ( hs ) : the energy spectrum is very soft and strongly dominated by a thermal disk component . only weak power - law noise is observed in the power spectrum .",
    "no core radio emission is detected ( see fender et al . 1999 ; fender 2005 )        this classification originates from the analysis of the time evolution in bhts .",
    "the states described above are defined also in terms of their transitions , which need to be taken into account .",
    "a sketch of the evolution of the 2002/2003 outburst of gx 339 - 4 is ideal to show the transitions ( see homan & belloni 2005 ; belloni et al .",
    "figure 1 shows the outburst in a hardness - intensity diagram ( hid ) : the x - axis shows the x - ray hardness and the y - axis the detected count rate ( from belloni et al .",
    "the general direction of the time evolution of the outburst is shown by the arrows in the bottom left corner . as described in detail below , the position of the boundaries between different states are absolutely not arbitrary , but are based on the presence of sharp changes in the observed properties .",
    "the states outlined above are defined in terms of their transitions , unlike other proposed state - classifications ( see mcclintock & remillard 2005 ) . however , as i will show , some transitions appear to be more relevant than others .",
    "* _ ls to hims : _ the position of this transition in the hid can be debated , as the color and timing properties change rather smoothly .",
    "however , homan et al ( 2005 ) showed that abrupt changes in the infrared / x - ray correlation are observed in correspondence of a particular date , which provides a strong mark for the position of the transition .",
    "the ir / x - ray correlation is positive before the transition , then switches to negative after the transition .",
    "the timing properties do show evidence of changes ( see belloni et al .",
    "2005 ) , but in a rather smooth way .",
    "* _ hims to sims : _ here the transition is very sharp .",
    "the power spectra change from band - limited noise plus type - c qpo to red noise plus type - a / b qpo on a time scale that can be as short as a few seconds ( see nespoli et al .",
    "2003 , casella et al .",
    "color changes are not that marked , and indeed from integral data of the 2004/2005 outburst of gx 339 - 4 there is evidence that during such a transition the hard spectral component changes smoothly ( belloni et al .",
    "2005 , in prep . ) .",
    "* _ sims to hs : _ after the transition line in fig .",
    "1 , all observations do not show any evidence of features in the power spectrum .",
    "although some sims observations also appear very quiet , it is remarkable that below a certain source rate , no more signal is detected . averaging all observations ,",
    "a weak power law is observable in the power spectrum ( see fig .",
    "_ hs to hims : _ the line in fig .",
    "1 clearly marks the appearance of strong band - limited noise ( plus type - c qpos ) .",
    "the three observations that moved back to the left of this line do not have this noise , indicating that there is indeed a color boundary . * _ hims to ls : _ as in the case of the reverse transition , the color and timing properties do not show strong discontinuities in their evolution",
    ". the transition line is placed at the same color as the reverse transition .    in the model of fender et al .",
    "( 2004 ) , the hims ",
    "sims transition corresponds to the ` jet line ' , which marks the time of the sudden quenching of a rapidly accelerating radio jet ( see also corbel et al .",
    "notice that in some sources this transition can be repeated : in grs 1915 + 105 , it takes place on all time scales , and radio oscillations are observed to correlate with it ( see eikenberry et al .",
    "1998 , klein - wolt et al . 2002 ) .",
    "also in xte j1859 + 226 , rapid transitions are observed : it is interesting to notice that the appearance of type - b qpos , tracers of the sims , appear roughly in correspondence of radio flares ( see casella et al .",
    "the jet line does not extend to the low part of the diagram , but a discontinuity line can be traced vertically ( see fig .",
    "the right of this line , marked ` radio - loud ' , where a radio emitting jet component exists , there is strong band - limited noise in the power spectrum , often accompanied by type - c qpos whose frequencies correlate with spectral parameters ( see vignarca et al .",
    "2003 ) . to",
    "the left of this line , marked ` radio - quiet ' , no strong core radio emission is observed ( see fender et al .",
    "1999 ) and the power spectrum does _ not _ show strong noise , with the occasional presence of a type - a / b qpos , whose frequencies vary only over a small range ( see casella et al",
    ". 2005a ) .",
    "typical power spectra ( from gx 339 - 4 ) can be seen in fig .",
    "2 .        the clear separation in timing and radio properties of the hard ( ls and hims ) and",
    "soft ( sims and hs ) states can be seen in fig .",
    "3 , where the time evolution of the integrated fractional rms of gx 339 - 4 during.this indicates that the four states presented above , in terms of physical conditions , might be reduced to only two : a hard state characterized by radio - loudness , strong noise components and variable - frequency type - c qpos , and a soft one , radio - quiet , with weak power - law noise and transient type - a / b qpos .    it is important to note that major tracers of these states are low - frequency qpos and associated noise components .",
    "type - c qpos and band - limited noise components provide characteristic frequencies that trace the evolution of the accretion during the early and final part of the outburst ; in the hard states , the strong correlations between hard x - ray emission and radio flux led to models for the jet production and x - ray emission which need to take these timing tracers into account ( see e.g. meier 2005 ) .",
    "type - a / b qpos are much less studied and their origin is unclear .",
    "however , the transient presence of type - b qpos could be important for the study of the physical conditions of the accretion flow as the source crosses the jet line . the small range of long - term variability of their centroid frequency , its fast short - term variability ( see nespoli et al .",
    "2003 ; belloni et al .",
    "2005 ) and the absence of band - limited noise components are key ingredients for their understanding ( see casella et al .",
    "the general picture that can be drawn from the properties discussed above is the following . in the hard state ,",
    "the source is probably jet - dominated , in the sense that the power in the jet is larger than that in the accretion ( see fender et al .",
    "the dominant component in the x - ray range is a thermal hard component , which is possibly associated to the jet itself ( see e.g. markoff et al . 2003 and nowak et al . 2005 ) .",
    "the geometrically thin , optically thick , accretion disk is very soft and has a varying inner radius , so that its contribution to the x - ray emission changes .",
    "this state is characterized by strong band - limited noise and type - c qpos , whose characteristic frequencies show clear correlations between themselves and with spectral parameters ( see wijnands & van der klis 1999 ; belloni et al . 2002 ; markwardt et al .",
    "1999 ; vignarca et al .",
    "this state includes the ls and hims : the latter is associated to small accretion disk radii , faster jet ejection , steeper energy spectra and higher characteristic frequencies . in the hims , the corona component ( see below ) starts contributing to the x - ray flux ( zdziarski et al .",
    "2001 ; rodriguez et al . 2004 ) . in the soft states",
    "( hs and sims ) , the jet is suppressed ( radio and x - ray jet components are not observed ) .",
    "the flux is dominated by the optically thick accretion disk component , which now has a higher temperature and a small inner radius , possibly coincident with the innermost stable orbit around the black hole , but an additional power - law component , with no evidence of a high - energy cutoff up to @xmath01 mev is visible , which i associate here ( generically ) to a corona . in the power spectra , no strong band - limited noise component is observed , and transient qpos of type a / b are observed , with frequencies above a few hz and not much variable on time scales longer than a few seconds ( casella et al .",
    "2005a ) .",
    "the above picture involves four observationally separated states , two physical states and three emission components : the optically thick disk , the thermal hard component and the corona component .",
    "their contribution to the fast time variability is markedly different : the disk component does not contribute to it , the thermal hard component is associated to the band - limited noise and type - c qpos , and the corona component is associated to the type - a / b qpos and the weak power - law variability observed in the soft states .",
    "a key ingredient is the hims ",
    "sims transition : the transition itself is marked by the timing properties , but the spectral evolution through it is far from being clear .",
    "recent integral data suggest that the transition between the thermal component being dominant ( as in the ls ) and the corona component being visible at high energies ( in the hs ) is smooth across the jet line ( belloni et al .",
    "2005 , in prep . ) .",
    "although timing analysis of the fast variability of bhts can give us direct measurements of important parameters of the accretion flow , up to now we do not have unique models that permit this .",
    "recent results show that a clear association can be made between type - c qpo , strong band - limited noise and the presence of a relativistic jet . in the framework of unifying models",
    ", these results could play an important role ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> due to the impressive amount of new data provided by the rxte satellite in the past decade , our knowledge of the phenomenology of accretion onto black holes has increased considerably . in particular , it has been possible to schematize the outburst evolution of transient systems on the basis of their spectral and timing properties , and link them to the ejection of relativistic jets as observed in the radio . here , i present this scheme , concentrating on the properties of the quasi - periodic oscillations observed in the light curves and on the link with jet ejection .    95.75.wx , 95.85.nv , 97.10.gz , 97.80.jp </S>"
  ]
}