{
  "article_text": [
    "binary stars influence globular cluster evolution to a far greater degree than had long been believed @xcite .",
    "once thought not to exist in numbers significant enough to influence the evolution of globular clusters ( gcs ) , binary stars are now seen as providing energy to gc single stars and halting core collapse .",
    "not only has the importance of binary stars increased to theoretical studies , observers are now detecting globular cluster binaries , overturning earlier observational reports that gcs do not contain signficant numbers of primoridial binary stars @xcite .",
    "the question that arises is whether the binary fraction in gcs changes with age .",
    "while young globular clusters have been studied theoretically , it is well known that milky way gcs were all formed in the first few gyr of the history of the universe , but such is apparently not the case in the magellanic clouds , with lmc globular - like clusters ( glcs , also called `` young , globular - like stellar associations '' ) such as ngc 1850 and ngc 1818 , which have ages on the orders of @xmath0 or even @xmath1 years .",
    "preliminary observational work has led to the discovery of some binaries in the field near these clusters @xcite , but surveys are needed in order to compare the binary fraction of these `` young '' glcs with that of the better studied but older milky way gcs .",
    "observations are needed to address the central question of how binaries affect the dynamical evolution of _ young _ globular - like clusters .",
    "the detection reported here of two eclipsing binary stars in the region of the young glc ngc 1850 does not yet answer this question , but shows that the use of moderate sized ( 0.9 m ) telescopes can be brought to bear on constraining the answer .",
    "i present new time series imaging of the lmc cluster ngc 1850 and an analysis of photometric variables using image subtraction methods .",
    "i present four light curves for ngc 1850 region systems .",
    "first , i discuss the finding of a second detached eclipsing binary in the region of ngc 1850 ( refered to here as `` variable 5 '' or `` v5 '' ) ; which is the first eclipsing binary found in the region of the subcluster ngc 1850a .",
    "next , i present an eclipsing binary ( `` variable 1 '' or `` v1 '' ) in the larger region of ngc 1850 which was found by the optical gravitational lens experiment ( ogle ) collaboration @xcite , and its light curve is presented here .",
    "the ogle group has graciously confirmed that their data show v5 to be an eclipsing binary that was originally missed in their large , comprehensive catalog of mc eclipsing binaries @xcite ( publicly available from the ogle project website ) , and data from the much longer - term ogle project provided a better determination of the period than the current dataset alone ( a. udalski , private communication ) .",
    "seven nights of observations of a field roughly centered on ngc 1850 were taken during 2002 february 20 - 23 and march 03 - 05 , with the 0.9 m cerro tololo inter - american observatory ( ctio ) telescope .",
    "these observations are summarized in table [ obstable ] , and where taken in the `` cousins @xmath2 ( @xmath3 ) '' band .",
    "this telescope was equipped with a 2048 @xmath4 2048 tektronix ccd camera with 0401 pixel@xmath5 plate scale ( as measured by jao et al .",
    "bias frames and dome flats were taken at the beginning of each night .",
    "all frames were read through four amplifilers , one for each quarter of the frame .",
    "the raw data were reduced using the standard image reduction and analysis facility ( iraf ) tasks zerocombine and flatcombine .",
    "the task xccdproc was used to combine the four subframes produced by the four amplifiers .",
    "relative photometric light curves for photometric binary stars were extracted using the image - subtraction package isis @xcite , from the _ i_-band data . image - subtraction was chosen to deal with the highly crowded fields .",
    "image - subtraction is more effective than traditional photometry for detection of variable stars @xcite , and it works especially well in highly crowded fields @xcite .",
    "use of the `` optimal image - subtraction '' method of alard ( 1999 ) and alard & lupton ( 1998 ) with alard s isis image - subtraction reduction packages requires going through the following steps :    \\1 ) image alignment : a new version of each image is produced that is aligned to one of the images that has been chosen as the grid `` register '' image .",
    "the alignment is done by matching locations of stars , and can actually work better for a moderately crowded field .",
    "the matching is done to a fraction of a pixel by interpolation , with the new images not only shifted and rotated but also adjusted for spatial scale variation within the image .",
    "\\2 ) reference image creation : from a user - selected list of the best seeing images , one combined reference image is created by stacking the best images but removing inconsistent signals that are likely to be cosmic rays and other defects .",
    "\\3 ) formation of an optimum convolution kernel and image subtraction : for each image , a psf matching `` kernel '' image is produced that minimizes least squares differences between each image and the reference image .",
    "this is a big improvement over previous methods because it is not necessary to know either the psf or the backgrounds of individual images .",
    "also , this only requires artificially degrading the seeing of the best images to that of each individual image , rather than as in earlier image subtraction efforts where all images were degraded to the seeing of the worst image .",
    "isis had difficulty processing the full 136 @xmath4 136 frames , but ran successfully when the frames were cropped to 120 @xmath4 120 . on the subtracted images ,",
    "the constant stars ideally will cancel out , with only a signal from the variable stars remaining ( fig .",
    "[ cmpimgsub ] ) ; in practice , residual signals from brighter stars remain , complicating identification of varying stars . fortunately",
    ", true variable stars have smooth difference signals with psfs resembling that of stars , while imperfections in the psfs of bright stars create residuals with a characteristic wave pattern ( as can be seen in figure [ cmpimgsub ] ) .",
    "this generally allows truly varying stars to be identified , but the high amount of residual noise in the densely crowded region towards the center of the cluster may obscure variable stars that might otherwise be identifiable . the presence of noise from brighter stars is a consequence of their larger noise variation from frame to frame than the background ; hence , while the difference between psfs of faint stars are low enough that the fainter stars differenced signals fade into the background , the brighter stars differenced signals still stand above the background .",
    "4 ) variable star identification : from the subtracted images , images of the normalized mean absolute deviation are stacked to create a variable star finding image , in which variable stars stand out well , but defects from a single image also show up .",
    "the isis software identifies variations that have more than a single increase in an individual image to accept a psf - fitted region as a candidate variable star , thus rejecting the majority of cosmic rays .",
    "the routine does not do as well at rejecting variations from bad columns , but these are easily recognizable by eye and edited out by hand .",
    "\\5 ) light curve photometry : differenced photometric light curves as a function of time are produced from the image subtracted images , using both conventional photometric methods of psf - fitting and aperture photometry .",
    "a list file of these light curves giving positions and other properties of the light curves is also generated . because these light curves are created from image subtracted images rather than the original ,",
    "the differential signal is output , and because the images are relative to a reference image , the values are negative as well as positive . while the disadvantage of image subtraction is that the magnitude of each star is left to be determined after the image subtraction analysis is completed , the advantage is that smaller relative differences from image to image stand out more strongly .",
    "6 ) period finding and light curve fitting : the algorithm of schwarzenberg - czerny @xcite , optimized for searching for a periodicity in unevenly sampled observations is used to obtain preliminary values for the periods , though the periods must be plotted and checked by eye .",
    "subsequently , the analysis of variance code written and provided by a. udalski @xcite was found to yield better - fitting periods ( both as measured against previously found periods and as measured by eye ) .    for each variable star light curve presented here ,",
    "the differenced flux counts @xmath6 are divided by the normalized flux counts from the reference image @xmath7 , using psf profile - fitting photometry .",
    "( isis outputs aperture photometry counts as well . )",
    "the magnitude difference @xmath8 is the usual @xmath9 .",
    "a detailed description of using isis in practice is given by bruntt ( 2003 ) .",
    "here i present relative photometric light curves for four stars in the ngc 1850 region , including two cluster detached eclipsing binary ( eb ) stars ( v1 and v5 ) and two cluster cepheid variables ( v2 and v4 ) ; data for a nearby lmc field star is presented in the next section .",
    "these variables are summarized in tables [ varstable ] , [ oglephottable ] , [ varsidtable ] , and [ positionstable ] , which extensively use data from the ogle project @xcite obtained online and through the gracious private communication of a. udalski ( 2003 ) . both ogle ii and ogle iii data were used , ogle ii data for its more rigorous absolute calibration , and the still preliminary ogle iii data for its better relative precision .",
    "table [ varstable ] gives the periods of the variables to within roughly 0.01 day , and the amplitudes of the variation with errors of less than 0.1 magnitude .",
    "for the eclipsing binaries , the two values are for the primary and secondary eclipses .",
    "table [ oglephottable ] gives the variables ogle ii photometry in @xmath10 , @xmath11 , and @xmath2 magnitudes .",
    "the most significant find is v5 , a detached eclipsing binary with a period of 3.13 days that , unless it is a very coincidentally positioned lmc foreground star , is probably a member of the young subcluster ngc 1850a .",
    "the subcluster has an age in the range of 4 myr to 6 myr as reported by @xcite and @xcite , although @xcite report an age spread of about 10 myr . however , caloi & cassatella point out that if massive cluster stars are often members of binary systems , then this larger age spread may not be valid .",
    "the position of v5 is shown in figure [ v6-find ] , and the light curve of v5 is shown in figure [ stv006-dmag ] .",
    "v5 is in a group of a small number of young high luminosity stars that make ngc 1850a s core stand out brightly from the rest of ngc 1850 .",
    "the strong blending between v5 and the other bright subcluster stars is the likely reason its binary nature was missed by previous surveys .",
    "the second eclipsing binary in the cluster region , v1 , was previously noted in the ogle collaboration s lmc eclipsing binary stars catalog @xcite , and v1 is also a detached eclipsing binary with a 1.48 day period .",
    "its position is shown in figure [ nov03ebs - nuel ] , and its light curve is shown in figure [ stv001-dmag ] .",
    "though within the cluster radius , the ngc 1850 region s location in the fairly crowded lmc field will require confirmation of v1 s cluster membership .",
    "the @xmath11 , @xmath10 , and @xmath2 magnitudes give partial confirmation that v5 and v1 are members of the ngc 1850 group , because as will be shown their luminosities are consistent with the lmc mean distance modulus of @xmath12 @xcite , though they still could be lmc foreground stars .",
    "i use the reddening value for ngc 1850 from @xcite of @xmath13 = @xmath14 mag , which gives an interstellar extinction of @xmath15 mag . using the ogle ii photometry for v5 of @xmath16 mag , this interstellar",
    "extinction and distance modulus gives an absolute magnitude of @xmath17 .",
    "for a single star , @xmath18 corresponds to v5 being of spectral type o5 or o6 @xcite .",
    "being binary , v5 could have a primary between @xmath18 to -3.9 mag , going from the case of a dim secondary to the case of a pair of equal luminosity type o8 stars .",
    "spectral types o5/o6 have @xmath19 = -0.30 mag and spectral type o8 has @xmath19 = -0.285 mag @xcite .",
    "ogle ii photometry gives the @xmath11 magnitude of v5 as @xmath20 which gives a raw @xmath21 mag .",
    "when adjusted for redenning v5 has a resulting measured @xmath19 value of @xmath22 mag , which is only slightly higher than @xmath23 mag expected from an o5 magnitude star at the ngc 1850 s reddening value .",
    "( other authors lmc distance moduli vary more than this @xmath24 mag error , and @xmath19 values are not definitive for o stars , so v5 could be an earlier or later type o star , which would not change the distance conclusion here . ) while the magnitudes are consistent with v5 being an ngc 1850 member , the difference between ngc 1850 s ( and ngc 1850a s ) and the lmc s distance modulus is not well known @xcite , so the measured values would also be consistent with v5 being an lmc background star . since only its lmc membership is established , confirmation of the membership of v5 in ngc 1850a is important to using v5 to study ngc 1850a .",
    "similarly , the ogle photometry of v1 , @xmath25 mag and the lmc distance modulus and the ngc 1850 interstellar reddening used above give v1 an @xmath26 mag corresponding to a type b2 to b3 star ( dim secondary ) which have @xmath27 -0.23 to -0.18 mag ranging to a pair of @xmath28 mag type b5 stars which have @xmath29 mag @xcite . the ogle photometry for v1 of @xmath11 magnitude of @xmath30 which gives a raw @xmath31 mag that when adjusted for reddening is @xmath32 mag .",
    "this is in good agreement with the the lmc distance modulus , though v1 will require further study to exclude the possibility of its being an lmc foreground star .    definitive confirmation of v5 and v1 as cluster members",
    "would put the currently known ngc 1850 binary star census at two ( both detached )",
    ". it would be worthwhile to obtain spectroscopic orbits which combined with light curves would provide direct distances to the ngc 1850 and ngc 1850a @xcite .",
    "determination of separate distances to v1 and v5 has the potential of providing distance measurement between the main body and ngc 1850a , as well as a better measurement of ngc 1850 s position within the lmc .",
    "this is especially important as `` double '' or `` multiple '' clusters in the lmc have a significant chance of being merely chance superposition @xcite .",
    "spectra to provide an accurate spectral type for v5 would be of special interest as it is one of only a relatively small number of early to middle type o binaries known . a recent catalog of spectroscopic binary orbits published up to 2001 june , `` the chara spectroscopic binary catalog '' @xcite , is available , which lists 70 type o star orbits among its total of 2353 orbits , with 12 of these stars being type o6 and earlier , nine of type o7 , 19 o8 , and 25 o9 . in 2002 ,",
    "new orbits were published by @xcite bringing an additional three orbits for stars of massive type o3 and one of type o5 , but the number of young detached stars with known masses at the highest stellar masses remains small @xcite .",
    "in addition to the early - type binaries described above , several previously known cepheid variables were also clearly seen in the image subtracted current dataset . however , the phase coverage was only sufficient to produce two clear cepheid light curves , labeled here as v2 and v4 .",
    "v2 is a cluster cepheid variable with an 8.56 day period , was known to sebo & wood and earlier authors @xcite , and is listed as sw 58 .",
    "it is identified in the ogle internet catalog of lmc cepheid variables @xcite and is in the macho lmc survey internet database .",
    "the position of v2 is shown in figure [ feb04cep - find ] , and its light curve is shown in figure [ stv002-dmag ] .",
    "the difficulty of measuring the magnitude of a star in such a crowded core region of stars is illustrated by the macho data where only 141 of the 1215 @xmath11 band and 120 of the 530 @xmath33 band measurements of v2 had errors low enough to use the measurements .",
    "v1 and v4 are in similarly difficult to measure crowded regions .",
    "v2 shows brightly in many image subtracted frames such as figure 1b , where it is the southwest of the two strongest image subtracted signals in the frame .",
    "the other prominent nearby signal is `` sw 17 '' ( sebo & wood variable 58 ) , which has a period longer than covered by the current data .",
    "despite being in the cluster core region , sebo & wood found sw 17 s period - derived luminosity to be inconsistent with other ngc 1850 cepheids , particularly v2 ( sw 58 ) , indicating that sw 17 is a foreground star @xcite .",
    "v4 is another cepheid variable discovery of ogle , having a period of 5.57 days @xcite , and is shown in figure [ mar04ebs - find ] , which has had the contrast adjusted to more easily see the bright stars such as v4 .",
    "the light curve of v4 is shown in figure [ stv004-dmag ] .",
    "the light curve of an lmc field eclipsing binary star , v3 ( finder chart figure [ stv003-find ] ) , is shown in figure [ stv003-dmag ] .",
    "it is presented as an excellent example of an eclipsing binary which shows up clearly in image subtracted frames .",
    "the macho project , using traditional photometry , has v3 catalogued on their website but does not identify it as an eclipsing binary .",
    "the ogle project , using image subtraction , was able to identify v3 as an eclipsing binary even though it is on the edge of their frame .",
    "the power of image subtraction became apparent when in the very early stages of the image subtraction analysis , this star stood out strongly despite its being significantly fainter than the two or three nearby stars with significant blending ; at that time the ogle finding was not known to the author but the lower level of brightness was apparent to the eye on the macho website s light curve of v3 , and the stars dimming is apparent in the original images .",
    "the current light curve produced the same 3.11 day period and greater than 1 magnitude change in brightness , but does not cover the secondary minimum .",
    "study of mc glcs is needed to answer the question of whether they represent a younger stage of gc evolution or if they are really dense open clusters unrelated to true gcs .",
    "study of whether young glcs , intermediate age glcs , and `` old '' milky way gcs have related binary fractions could help answer this question .",
    "comparisons of observations with models of the binary fraction of gc evolution such as studied by @xcite are needed .",
    "this would include both cmd analysis such as @xcite and the somewhat more direct method of finding binary fractions from measurements of the fraction of stars that are eclipsing binaries .",
    "previously surveyed gcs for photometric binaries include 47 tuc ( albrow et al .",
    "2001 ; kaluzny et al . 1997a , 1998 ; edmonds et al .",
    "1996 ) , ngc 6934 ( kaluzny , olech , & stanek 2001 ) , m22 ( kaluzny and thompson 2001 ) , @xmath34 centauri ( kaluzny et al .",
    "1996 , 1997b ) , m5 ( yan & reid 1996 ) , m71 ( yan & mateo 1994 ) , ngc 6397 ( rubenstein & bailyn 1996 ; kaluzny 1997 ) , m4 @xcite , ngc 3201 @xcite , ngc 4372 ( kaluzny & krzeminsky 1993 ) , m10 @xcite , and m12 @xcite , with a compilation of w uma - type ( contact or semi - detached ) binary stars compiled and discussed by rucinski ( 2000 ) .",
    "gc binary fractions have also been studied using chandra in the x - ray region , including by @xcite .",
    "most of the photometric work was done by the conventional technique of first determining the numerical magnitudes and then looking for periods in the photometric time series",
    ". however , kaluzny , olech , & stanek ( 2001 ) and albrow et al .",
    "( 2001 ) were able to use alard & lupton s improved method of image subtraction @xcite .",
    "they started their analysis with conventional techniques , but after using image subtraction were able to find 6 additional variable stars not found with their previous procedures .",
    "the work by kaluzny , olech , & stanek is of particular interest because it was done with a modest sized ground - based telescope ( 1.2 m ) .",
    "other authors who have improved their results using image subtraction include @xcite ; and @xcite .",
    "because traditional crowded - field photometry ( psf or aperture fitting ) works poorest in crowded fields , finding photometric binaries in dense gcs is well suited for image - subtraction .",
    "comparative studies of variable stars in young glcs are lacking compared to the studies of milky way gcs such as listed above .",
    "observations with both moderate and larger telescopes can then be used to evaluate cmd ( color magnitude diagram ) studies of young gcs , and results from both can be compared with results from the relatively better studied `` old '' gcs of the milky way .",
    "the current work shows that the binary fraction of a glc much younger than milky way gcs can be directly addressed with current techniques , in addition to cmd analysis .",
    "because of their importance to the study of gc evolution , longer duty - cycle surveys of mc glcs are needed to determine the binary fraction of stars in ngc 1850 and similarly dense mc clusters in order to understand whether these binary fractions are consistent with dynamical models of gc evolution , and whether mc glc and mw gc binary fractions as a function of age follow a consistent pattern .",
    "spectroscopic study of v5 and v1 would give important data about the distance to the well studied glc ngc 1850 .",
    "these observations demonstrate than an extension of binary fraction measurements to young clusters , even in regions of crowded stellar fields , is now possible .",
    "i am grateful to alberto miranda and the staff at the national science foundation s cerro tololo inter - american observatory , in particular edgardo cosgrove , manuel hernandez , and malcolm smith , for their assistance . the generous encouragement and support of research at georgia state university under harold a. mcalister",
    "is acknowledged . the support for using the ctio 0.9 m telescope by todd henry and the smarts consortium is also gratefully acknowledged .",
    "chara members doug gies and william bagnuolo provided helpful discussion",
    ". computer network support by john mcfarland , rajesh deo , james p.",
    "kinney iii , and ginny mauldin - kinney is appreciated .",
    "this research was supported by a research program enhancement grant from the georgia state university research office .",
    "this paper utilizes work from the ogle project ( udalski et al .",
    "1999 ; udalski , 2003 ; wyrzykowski et al .",
    "this paper utilizes public domain data originally obtained by the macho project , whose work was performed under the joint auspices of the u.s .",
    "department of energy , national nuclear security administration by the university of california , lawrence livermore national laboratory under contract no .",
    "w-7405-eng-48 , the national science foundation through the center for particle astrophysics of the university of california under cooperative agreement ast-8809616 , and the mount stromlo and siding spring observatory , part of the australian national university .",
    "i appreciate the contributions of analysis code , ogle data , and valuable suggestions from kaspar von braun , michael reid , hans bruntt , barbara j. mochejska , christophe alard , and andrzej udalski .",
    "elson , r.a.w . ,",
    "sigurdsson , s. , davies , m. , hurley , j. , & gilmore , g. 1998 , mnras , 300 , 857 ferdman , r.  d. , richer , h.  b. , brewer , j. , fahlman , g.  g. , gibson , b.  k. , hansen , b.  m.  s. , huber , m.  e. , ibata , r.  a. , kalirai , j.  s. , matthews , j.  m. , rich , r.  m. , rowe , j.  f. , shara , m.  m. , & stetson , p.  b.   2004 , , 127 , 380      gies , d.  r.  2003 , in iau symp . 212 , a massive star odyssey : from main sequence to supernova , eds .",
    "van der hucht , a. herrero & c. esteban , ( san francisco : asp ) 91 gilmozzi , r. , kinney , e.k . ,",
    "ewald , s.p .",
    ", panagia , n. , & romaniello , m. 1994 , apj , 435 , l43 hanson , m.  m. , howarth , i.  d. , & conti , p.  s. 1997 , , 489 , 698 hut , p. , mcmillan , s. , & romani , r.  w. 1992 , , 389 , 527 jao , w. , henry , t.  j. , subasavage , j.  p. , bean , j.  l. , costa , e. , ianna , p.  a. , & mndez , r.  a. 2003 , , 125 , 332 kaluzny , j.  & krzeminski , w.  1993 , , 264 , 785 kaluzny , j. , kubiak , m. , szymanski , m. , udalski , a. , krzeminski , w. , & mateo , m.  1996 , , 120 , 139    kaluzny , j.  1997 , , 122 , 1 kaluzny , j. , krzeminski , w. , mazur , b. , wysocka , a. , & stepien , k.  1997a , acta astronomica , 47 , 24 kaluzny , j. , kubiak , m. , szymanski , m. , udalski , a. , krzeminski , w. , mateo , m. , & stanek , k.   1997b , , 122 , 471 kaluzny , j. , thompson , i.  b. , & krzeminski , w.  1997 , , 113 , 2219          mochejska , b. j. , kaluzny , j. , stanek , k. z. , sasselov , d. d. , & szentgyorgyi , a. h. 2001a , , 121 , 2032 mochejska , b. j. , kaluzny , j. , stanek , k. z. , sasselov , d. d. , & szentgyorgyi , a. h. 2001b , , 122 , 2477                        wozniak , p.r .",
    "2000 , acta astron . ,",
    "50 , 421 wyrzykowski , l. , udalski , a. , kubiak , m. , szymanski , m. , zebrun , k. , soszynski , i. , wozniak , p.  r. , pietrzynski , g. , szewczyk , o. 2003 , acta astronomica , 53 , 1"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> i present light curves for two detached eclipsing binary stars in the region of the lmc cluster ngc 1850 , which is possibly a young globular cluster still in formation . </S>",
    "<S> one , a likely spectral type o star , is a newly detected eclipsing binary in the region of the very young subcluster ngc 1850a . </S>",
    "<S> this binary is among a small number of highly massive o - type stars in binary systems found in lmc clusters . </S>",
    "<S> these two eclipsing binaries are the first discovered in the well studied ngc 1850 , and the o - type star is the first eclisping binary found in ngc 1850a . </S>",
    "<S> light curves for two ngc 1850 region cepheid variables are also shown . </S>",
    "<S> discovering two eclipsing binaries in the young globlular - like cluster ngc 1850 is discussed in terms of the importance of the binary fraction to globular cluster evolution . </S>"
  ]
}