{
  "article_text": [
    "a successful theory of galaxy formation needs to explain a wide variety of physical phenomena across many scales . on the galactic mass scale ,",
    "the problem of how small satellites form around galaxies such as the milky way poses two interesting , and as yet not fully answered questions .",
    "these are : 1 ) what determines the number of milky way satellites and the shape of their luminosity function ?",
    "2 ) why are the milky way s satellites aligned on a great circle in the sky and why is this great circle nearly perfectly perpendicular to the disc of the milky way ? at present , it is unclear whether the luminosity function of the satellites of the milky way and their peculiar spatial distribution are unique to the galaxy , or whether these are generic features that arise during the formation of a typical galaxy . by virtue of their small size , extragalactic satellites are difficult to observe and most studies are hampered by either flux limits , completeness , or sample size .",
    "however , recent advances using large sky surveys have resulted large samples  albeit with only very few satellites per primary  and have shed some light on these questions .    in a universe",
    "in which the gravitationally dominant component is cold dark matter ( cdm ) , the existence of small - scale power in the initial conditions causes the early collapse of matter ; cosmological simulations show that small , dense , cdm haloes are able to form at early times .",
    "these low mass haloes grow by successive mergers and smooth accretion giving rise to the large - scale structures we see today ( e.g @xcite ) .",
    "high resolution n - body simulations of the growth of cdm halos have shown that the dense cores of merging clumps often survive the disruptive effects associated with mergers and remain as distinct substructures ( or subhalos ) embedded within a larger , smooth main halo ( @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "although the total mass attached to subhalos is only of order @xmath2 of the total halo mass ( @xcite ) , both n - body simulations and semi - analytical calculations of the assembly of dark matter haloes based on the extended press - schechter theory ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) , show that many more embedded substructures survive than there are visible satellites in galactic halos ( kauffmann , white & guiderdoni 1993 ; @xcite ) .",
    "many authors have argued that this so - called `` missing satellite problem '' poses a severe challenge to the cdm cosmology and encourages the study of alternative forms of dark matter ( @xcite ) or of different cosmological initial conditions ( @xcite ) .",
    "other authors have argued that the paucity of satellites in the local group is a natural byproduct of the physics of galaxy formation that regulate the cooling of gas in small halos ( @xcite ; bullock , kravstov & weinberg 2000 ; @xcite ) or merely the result of a misidentification of substructures in the simulations with satellites in the milky way ( @xcite ) .",
    "the semi - analytical model of galaxy formation of @xcite included a detailed treatment of the reionization of hydrogen in the early universe which , by altering the thermodynamic state of primordial gas , inhibits the formation of small satellite galaxies . in this model ,",
    "the increase in the entropy of the gas has two effects : it inhibits the cooling of new gas into small halos and it delays star formation in gas that has already cooled . the end result is a satellite population with about the observed numbers seen in the local group and with a luminosity function that matches the faint end of the observed function but not its bright end where the model fails to produce enough large , lmc - like satellites .",
    "the spatial distribution of satellite galaxies poses another interesting problem within the cdm paradigm .",
    "whereas n - body simulations show that the substructures that survive within halos tend to be nearly spherically distributed , the galactic satellites of the milky way are confined to a highly flattened structure , a puzzling fact first recognized 30 years ago ( @xcite , @xcite ; see also @xcite ) .",
    "kroupa , thies & boily ( 2005 ) drew attention to this discrepancy and concluded that the anisotropic alignment of the galaxy s satellites contradicts the cdm model .",
    "recent work , however , has shown that the satellite galaxies do not populate a random selection of subhalos but are preferentially found in a biased subset which is arranged in a flattened configuration .",
    "this bias partly reflects the preferential infall of the most massive dark matter clumps along the filaments of the cosmic web .",
    "this phenomenon is clearly seen ( to various degrees ) in the n - body simulations analyzed by @xcite , @xcite and @xcite ( and in the cluster mass simulations of @xcite ) .",
    "these studies differ in the precise way in which subhalos are identified with satellites but they all agree that flattened satellite configurations such as that seen in the milky way are not uncommon .",
    "in particular , libeskind et al . and zentner et al . followed the formation of satellites by applying a semi - analytic galaxy formation model to high - resolution n - body simulations .",
    "both studies found not only fattenings consistent with that seen in the milky way , but also that the long axis of the flattened satellite distribution tends to be aligned with the long axis of the parent dark matter halo .    beyond the local group ,",
    "a number of studies have claimed correlations between the orientation of central galaxies and the distribution of their satellites . @xcite",
    "first identified a lack of satellites in the plane of a coadded sample of central galaxies out to a projected radius of @xmath3  kpc .",
    "@xcite found evidence for this `` holmberg effect '' but only on much larger scales ( @xmath4  kpc ) .",
    "the reality of the holmberg effect remains controversial .",
    "early authors claimed that if an anisotropy exists at all , it is , even if significant , at best small ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "an enhancement perpendicular to the disc was recently inferred in the distribution of satellites identified in the 2dfgrs by @xcite but a private communication quoted in @xcite indicates that the original analysis was incorrect and that the enhancement is , in fact , along the disc , not perpendicular to it . @xcite and @xcite have claimed to see an alignment of satellites in the sdss in the opposite direction to holmberg s , that is along the plane of the galaxy disc rather than orthogonal to it .",
    "@xcite found that the planar distribution is detectable only in red satellites but the blue population is consistent with an isotropic distribution .",
    "these apparently conflicting observational studies all seem to suggest anisotropic distributions of satellites but they disagree on how the overall distribution of satellites is oriented relative to the central galaxy .    in principle , simulations are an ideal way to investigate this sort of issues .",
    "since their introduction to cosmology in the 1970s and early 1980s ( @xcite ; aarseth , turner , & gott 1979 , frenk , white & davis 1983 ) , n - body simulations have been extremely useful in revealing how cosmic structures emerge out of small primordial perturbations ( see springel , frenk & white 2006 for a review ) . to investigate questions such as the alignment between satellites and central galaxies",
    ", however , it is necessary to follow not only the evolution of dark matter , but the coupled evolution of the baryonic component as well . until recently , progress in this area was hampered by the inability of hydrodynamic simulations to produce realistic discs from cdm initial conditions . without some form of feedback to prevent most of the gas from cooling into subgalactic fragments , the outward transfer of orbital angular momentum to the dark halo as these fragments merge results in discs that are much too small ( @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ; @xcite ) .",
    "the `` disc angular momentum problem '' has recently been overcome , at least partially , in a number of simulations which include plausible forms of feedback and are able to produce relatively realistic galactic discs ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) . in this paper , we analyse the simulations carried out by @xcite . specifically , we investigate the properties of satellite galaxies orbiting central galaxies of mass similar to that of the milky way .",
    "we derive the satellite luminosity function over a limited , but still interesting , range of luminosity . we search for anisotropy in the satellite galaxy distribution , and",
    "study the alignment of satellite systems with their central disc , as well as the alignment of the disc with the its host dark matter halo .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section  2",
    "we describe the simulations we have used , as well as our method for selecting complete satellite samples . in that section",
    "we also derive the satellite galaxy luminosity function and investigate the gas fraction of the largest satellites .",
    "we present our analysis of relative shape alignments in section  3 and of angular momentum alignments in section  4 , and conclude in section  5 .",
    "in this section , we briefly describe the simulations that we have analyzed and the methods that we have developed in order to identify central and satellite galaxies .",
    "we have analyzed two simulations of galaxy formation , both carried out using the parallel pm - treesph code ` gadget2 ` ( @xcite ) , as modified by @xcite . `",
    "gadget2 ` calculates the evolution of dark matter using n - body techniques and the evolution of gas using smooth particle hydrodynamics ( sph ) .",
    "initially , the two simulations followed the evolution of dark matter in a cosmological cubical volume of length @xmath5mpc in a @xmath0cdm model with cosmological parameters @xmath0=0.7 , @xmath6=0.3 , @xmath7  km  s@xmath8 and @xmath9=0.9 .",
    "for the first simulation ( hereafter sd ) , a region around a suitably chosen dark matter halo was identified at the final time and the simulation was run again , this time adding many more dark matter particles , as well as sph particles , in the region of the halo , and perturbing these with additional high frequency power drawn from the same power spectrum of the original simulation following the general method outlined by @xcite . since the goal of this simulation was to investigate the formation of a galactic disc , the halo chosen for resimulation was selected to have a quiet recent merger history , with no major mergers since @xmath10 .",
    "a preliminary semi - analytical calculation applied to the merger tree of this halo , using the methods of @xcite , indicated that a disc galaxy was likely to form in this halo .",
    "the high resolution region enclosed a spherical volume of radius 0.9  mpc around the halo at @xmath11 .",
    "simulation sd did indeed form a reasonably realistic disc , as discussed by @xcite ( in their `` shock - burst '' model ) .",
    "encouraged by this success , we ran a second simulation ( hereafter sr ) with the same code , this time populating several regions of the same volume with high resolution dark matter and gas particles .",
    "the high resolution regions consisted of a large sphere of radius 5@xmath12mpc and four smaller overlapping spheres each of radius r=1@xmath12mpc .",
    "this arrangement ensured coverage of all the large galaxies that formed out to the virial radii of their halos .",
    "the same cosmological parameters were used in both simulations , except that the baryon density was taken to be @xmath13=0.040 in sd , and slightly larger , @xmath13=0.044 , in sr . in both simulations ,",
    "the mass per particle was @xmath14 for gas and @xmath15 m@xmath16 for dark matter .",
    "the gravitational softening was 0.5 and 1@xmath12  kpc for sph and high resolution dark matter particles respectively , while the minimum sph smoothing length was 0.5 @xmath12  kpc for simulation sd and 0.39 @xmath12  kpc for simulation sr .",
    "the various physical processes included in our simulations are described in detail in @xcite . here , we summarize the salient points .",
    "the interstellar medium ( ism ) is modelled , following @xcite , as a two phase medium composed of hot ambient gas and cold gas clouds in pressure equilibrium .",
    "gas heating and cooling rates are computed assuming collisional ionization equilibrium in the presence of a uniform and evolving ultra - violet ( uv ) background , which is assumed to be generated by hot ob stars and is switched on at @xmath17 ( @xcite ) .",
    "the cooling rates , which depend on the metallicity of the gas , are computed from the tables given by @xcite ; molecular cooling and other forms of cooling below @xmath18  k are ignored .",
    "star formation can occur in a `` quiescent '' and a `` burst '' mode . in the quiescent mode , gas particles that meet a specified density criteria ,",
    "are turned into stars according to a pre - determined probability .",
    "these stars form with a standard initial mass function ( imf ; @xcite ) .",
    "bursts of star formation are triggered by major mergers which are identified by tracking large changes in the entropy of the gas . in a burst , stars form on a shorter timescale than in the quiescent mode and with a top - heavy imf .",
    "this model of star formation is motivated by the semi - analytical work of @xcite who argue that only a top - heavy imf in bursts can explain the number density of sub - millimetre and lyman - break galaxies at high redshift .",
    "@xcite argue , similarly , that this model is also required to explain the metallicity of the intracluster medium and of elliptical galaxies .    in the @xcite model",
    ", the evolution of the stellar populations that form is followed in detail , tracking both type - ii and type - ia supernovae .",
    "this requires abandoning the instantaneous recycling approximation ( ira ) assumed by @xcite , whereby star formation , cold gas cloud formation by thermal instability , the evaporation of gas clouds and the heating of ambient gas by supernovae explosions all occur simultaneously . instead , following each star formation event , supernovae energy and metals",
    "are injected back into the ism on a timescale which is computed from the mass - dependent stellar lifetime ( @xcite ; @xcite ) and the assumed imf .",
    "a top heavy imf in bursts increases the number of supernovae that explode per unit of mass turned into stars , thereby generating stronger feedback .",
    "this , in turn , inhibits the early collapse of cold gas clouds in small subgalactic halos , helping to maintain an abundant reservoir of hot halo gas . following the last major merger and accompanying starburst",
    ", radiative cooling of hot gas from the reservoir flows inwards and settles into a centrifugally supported disc which becomes unstable to star formation .",
    "this is the key to the formation of a realistic disc galaxy in the simulations of @xcite .",
    "we begin the process of finding central and satellite galaxies by identifying `` friends - of - friends '' ( fof ) groups in the dark matter , linking together particles whose separation is less than 0.2 times the mean interparticle separation , corresponding roughly to particles within the virialised halo ( @xcite ) .",
    "we then identify bound substructures ( `` subhalos '' ) in the simulation with the algorithm ` subfind ` ( @xcite ) . using particle positions and velocities , `",
    "subfind ` calculates the binding energy of each fof group ( stripping unbound particles of group membership ) and then identifies self - bound substructures inside the parent halo .",
    "we consider only halos with ten or more dark matter particles , corresponding to a subhalo mass resolution of @xmath19 .",
    "for each subhalo , we calculate the centre of mass , as well the size , @xmath20 , defined as the rms distance of its particles from the centre .",
    "substructures within the parent halo are thus identified as locally overdense , self - bound , regions in the dark matter density field that fall within the high resolution region of the simulation . in order to identify clumps of star particles as individual galaxies , we associate each star particle with a unique dark matter substructure . for each gas and star particle",
    ", we find the substructure whose centre of mass is closest and assign the sph particle to that substructure if it is within @xmath20 . since star clumps tend to be dense and centrally concentrated , our results are robust to the choice of subhalo radius ( for example , increasing @xmath20 by 50% has a negligible effect on our results ) .",
    "we also impose a ten star particle lower limit , corresponding to @xmath21m@xmath16 , on the stellar mass of any galaxy . with this resolution",
    "limit , our galaxy samples become incomplete at magnitudes fainter than @xmath22 .",
    "we identify `` central '' galaxies of luminosity similar to the milky way with galaxies brighter then -20.4 in the v band .",
    "we calculate their virial radius by growing concentric spheres around the galaxy and noting where the mean internal density first falls below 200@xmath23 , where @xmath24 is the critical density .",
    "galaxies that fall within this radius are considered satellite galaxies . in order to obtain isolated systems similar to the milky way",
    ", we ensure that no two central galaxy candidates are within each other s virial radius .",
    "the virial radius , defined by @xmath25 , is marked by the green circle . ]",
    "[ fig1 ] shows an illustrative example of how our algorithm selects central and satellite galaxies .",
    "we plot all the star particles within the virial radius projected onto the principal planes of the central galaxy , i.e. the planes on which the galaxy is face - on and edge - on . in red",
    ", we plot the star particles that are associated with satellite galaxies .",
    "there are different numbers of satellites in each projection because we are plotting all the star particles in projection through the virial radius , which is larger than the plotted box . in the bottom right panel",
    ", we show the face - on projection of the system out to the virial radius .",
    "the central galaxy has a very extended stellar halo ( black points in the figure ) made up of stars that lie within the @xmath20 of the central galaxy subhalo and not within the @xmath20 of any satellite subhalo .",
    "this extended halo makes up only a small fraction of the stellar mass of the central galaxy .",
    "below , when we calculate the shape of the central galaxy we remove the extended halo by considering only the innermost 98% of the stars .",
    "[ properties ]    [ cols=\"<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     [ prob ]    for the first test , we constructed a spherically symmetric nfw halo with @xmath26 particles .",
    "we then selected 11 particles at random from the halo 1000 times , and calculated the cumulative distributions of minor - to - major and intermediate - to - major axis ratios .",
    "the probability of drawing more extreme values that those measured for the satellite distributions in the simulations is given in the first row of table  [ prob ] , for each of the three galaxies with 11 or more satellites . for the second test , we construct flattened nfw halos by squashing a sphere according to the values of @xmath27 , @xmath28 , and @xmath29 for each of the three simulated halos .",
    "we then performed the same test as before ; the results are displayed in the second row in table .",
    "finally , we selected 11 dark matter particles directly from each of the three halos ( again 1000 times ) and performed the same test with results given in the third row of the table .        with the exception of galaxy gh2 ,",
    "whose satellite system is the least flattened of the three ( see fig.[cavba ] ) , the numbers in table  [ prob ] rule out with high confidence the null - hypothesis that the satellite systems in the simulations were randomly drawn from either a spherical or a squashed nfw halo or from the dark matter distribution of the halo itself .",
    "this result agrees well with those obtained by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the flattening and relative orientations of the disc , halo and satellite system of each of our three well populated simulations are shown schematically in cross section in fig .",
    "[ 3drends ] .",
    "while the relative flattening and orientation of each component has been rendered according to the measured values , for clarity , the relative sizes have been chosen arbitrarily .",
    "the central galaxy is represented by a yellow ellipsoid embedded within two larger ellipsoids , a blue one representing the satellite system and a red one representing the dark halo .",
    "the poles ( i.e. the direction of the @xmath30 axis ) are visible as the point at which the lines of `` longitude '' converge . the various systems",
    "display a variety of orientations which we quantify below .",
    "the central galaxy orientations displayed in fig .",
    "[ 3drends ] were calculated from the innermost 98% of stars . to refine our estimate of orientation and for other purposes",
    ", we have performed a dynamical bulge - disc decomposition for each of the nine central galaxies in our simulations , applying the method proposed by @xcite and used also by @xcite .",
    "the net angular momentum , relative to the centre of mass of the galaxy , of the material in the inner @xmath31  kpc is used to define a `` z '' axis .",
    "the angular momentum , @xmath32 , about this axis is computed for each star particle and compared to the angular momentum of a circular orbit with the same energy , @xmath33 .",
    "all stars with @xmath34 are assigned to a disc component whose orientation is taken to be the direction of the nett angular momentum of the disc stars .",
    "( in some cases , this method may incorrectly assign some bulge stars to the disk , but this is not important for our analysis . ) generally , the direction defined by the disc angular momentum coincides with that of the short axis of the overall stellar distribution , except in two case ( galaxies gh8 and gh9 ) which are bulge - dominated galaxies with very small discs whose orientation is ill - defined . in what follows ,",
    "we take the orientation of the galaxy to be that of the disc except for gh8 and gh9 for which we take the direction of their minor axis .",
    "the angles between the different components of each of the three galaxies with 11 or more satellites are plotted in fig .",
    "[ align.shape ] .",
    "the top panel shows that in two of the galaxies , the disc is inclined about @xmath35 relative to the minor axis of the dark halo .",
    "surprisingly , in the third galaxy , the disc is orthogonal to the minor axis of the halo .",
    "the middle panel shows that in two cases ( including the one with the orthogonal disc ) , the satellite systems are , within @xmath36 , perpendicular to the galactic disc .",
    "this is also surprising but it is exactly the alignment seen in the milky way galaxy , where the satellites lie approximately along a great circle on the sky whose pole is in the galactic plane ( e.g. @xcite ) . in the third system ( gh3 ) , the satellite system is almost perfectly aligned with the galactic disc .",
    "finally , the bottom panel shows that in two of the three cases , the long axis of the satellite system is well aligned with the long axis of the dark halo .",
    "this is consistent with the conclusions reached by @xcite from their ( discless ) dark matter simulations .",
    "the lack of alignment in system gh2 is probably due to the fact that this has the least aspherical dark halo whose long axis is therefore poorly determined .",
    "in this section , we extend our study of alignments to include the possible correlations between the angular momenta of the dark matter halo , @xmath37 , the satellite galaxy population , @xmath38 , and the stars of the central galaxy , @xmath39 . unless otherwise noted , we consider a number - weighted mean angular momentum , @xmath40 . for the dark matter halo and the central galaxy whose particles all have roughly the same mass , this `` specific '' angular momentum is approximately proportional to the standard , mass - weighted angular momentum ( @xmath41 ) . for a satellite system",
    ", however , this definition gives equal weight to each satellite , preventing the statistics from becoming dominated by one or two very large satellites .    ) and the dark halo ( @xmath37 ) for material within the virial radius for our nine simulated galaxy systems .",
    "the right - hand axis gives the value of the angle .",
    "each galactic system has been assigned a colour that will be retained throughout the remainder of this paper . ]",
    "the angle between @xmath37 and @xmath39 evaluated for all the material within the virial radius , is plotted in fig .",
    "[ align.all ] .",
    "since the number of satellites is immaterial in this case , we expand our sample to include the six other galactic systems ( identified according to the criteria outlined in sec .",
    "[ identify ] ) that were excluded from the satellite analysis in the preceeding section .",
    "the angular momenta of the galaxy and the dark matter within the virial radius are aligned to within @xmath42 , i.e. the galaxy spins in essentially the same direction as the dark matter halo .",
    "the single exception is system gh9 in which the galaxy and the dark matter are counter - rotating .",
    "a ks test shows that the probability of obtaining the distribution of cos@xmath43 shown in the figure from nine objects drawn at random from a larger sample of randomly oriented galaxies is only @xmath44 .",
    "we conclude that there is a significant alignment between the angular momenta of the galaxy and that of the dark halo it inhabits .",
    "this is consistent with the acquisition of angular momentum prior to the collapse of the system , when dark matter and gas were well mixed , as expected in the tidal torque theory ( e.g. @xcite ) and as usually assumed in semi - analytic models of galaxy formation ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "the radial dependence of the galaxy - halo spin alignment is shown in fig .",
    "[ alignfr ] where we plot the cosine of the angle between @xmath39 and @xmath45 for our nine systems . in 7 out of 9 cases",
    ", the alignment persists out to the virial radius of the halo , never straying much beyond @xmath42 .",
    "the two exceptions are systems gh9 and gh8 . in the first of these , a tight alignment persists for @xmath46 , but it rapidly disappears beyond this radius .",
    "a visual inspection of this system shows that the reason for the rapid change in spin direction is simply the presence of a large counter - rotating fragment of dark matter in the outer parts of the halo which has recently been accreted , causing the halo angular momentum to flip in the outer parts .",
    "the other anomalous system owes its strange behaviour to the fact that the galaxy is almost a pure spheroid with very little angular momentum and for which the direction of @xmath39 is poorly defined .    ) and the dark matter halo ( @xmath47 ) as a function of radius .",
    "each colour represents a single system according to the same code used in fig  [ align.all ] . ]",
    "previous studies ( e.g. @xcite , @xcite ) have found that the halo angular momentum , @xmath37 , tends to be aligned with the halo minor axis , @xmath48 .",
    "the simulations of @xcite clearly show such an alignment in the inner parts of the dark halo .",
    "bailin & steinmetz ( 2005 ; see their fig .",
    "16 ) demonstrate that the alignment becomes weaker with radius but is still significant ( @xmath49 ) at the virial radius .",
    "by contrast , @xcite report an absence of alignment between @xmath48 and @xmath39 at the virial radius in seven hydrodynamic simulations .",
    "we now consider the angle subtended by @xmath37 and @xmath48 in our own simulations .    , pentagons ) and of the galaxies ( @xmath50 , squares ) for the nine galactic systems . the angular momentum vector in most of the galaxies points in the direction of the shortest galactic axis . for the halos ,",
    "however , no such correlation exists . ]    in fig .",
    "[ jdmcdm ] we plot the angle between @xmath37 and @xmath48 for all the material within the virial radius and , in fig .",
    "[ jdmcdmfr ] , the run of this angle with radius .",
    "we also plot the ks probability that the distribution of angles in the nine systems at each radius is consistent with a uniform distribution .     and @xmath51 for material within a given radius .",
    "each of the 9 galactic halos is plotted using a different colour , according to the same code used in fig .",
    "our results are qualitatively in good agreement with both @xcite and @xcite .",
    "the radial dependence of @xmath52 , displayed in fig .",
    "[ jdmcdmfr ] , shows that , apart from one anomalous system , gh9 , there is a good alignment between these two vectors in the inner parts of the halo , within a few tenths of @xmath53 . in the outer parts the correlation becomes much weaker , which is perhaps not surprising for systems",
    "whose shape is supported by an anisotropic velocity dispersion tensor rather than by rotation ( @xcite ) .",
    "while @xcite and @xcite find a weak correlation at the virial radius our small sample of 9 halos is consistent with no correlation .",
    "thus , the ks probability that the cosine of the angle for these 9 halos is consistent with a uniform distribution jumps from @xmath54 at @xmath55 to @xmath56 at @xmath53 .    turning to the galaxies , fig .",
    "[ jdmcdm ] shows that in all but two of them , the angular momentum vector points in the direction of the shortest galactic axis , as expected for systems flattened by rotation .",
    "of the two discrepant galaxies , gh8 is a nearly perfect spheroid with very little rotation while gh9 is a rapidly rotating spheroid , whose angular momentum is dominated by the bulge s bulk rotation .",
    "the orientation of the galaxy and its host halo is displayed in fig .  [ jdisccdm ] where we plot the angle between @xmath48 and @xmath39 as a function of radius .",
    "since @xmath39 is always parallel to @xmath57 , this is equivalent to plotting the angle between @xmath48 and @xmath57 .",
    "apart , again , from the anomalous gh9 , the angular momentum vector of the galaxy points along the short axis of the halo in the inner parts of the system . this alignment begins to weaken beyond @xmath58 , but even at @xmath53 the ks probability is consistent with a uniform distribution only at the @xmath59% level .",
    "our results agree well with those of @xcite in the inner parts of the halo , but they are marginally inconsistent at the virial radius where their small sample of objects has a distribution of cosines consistent with uniform .    ) and the short axis of the dark matter halo ( @xmath51 ) for the 9 galactic system as a function of radius . each of the 9 galactic halos is plotted using a different colour , according to the same code used in fig .",
    "we now turn to the alignment of the angular momentum of the satellite system with those of the galaxy and the dark matter halo . in this case",
    ", we can use only the three systems with a large satellite population .",
    "the results are plotted fig .",
    "[ align.angmom](a ) as filled and empty squares .    , and @xmath37 ( filled squares ) and between @xmath38 and @xmath39 ( empty squares ) . _ bottom panel _ ( b ) : the cosine of the angle between @xmath38 and the long axes of its spatial distribution , @xmath60 .",
    "the filled squares correspond to the case when the angular momentum is calculated assuming each satellite has the same mass ( i.e @xmath61 ) , while the empty squares correspond to the case when the angular momentum is calculated in the standard way ( i.e @xmath62 ) . ]    for all three systems , there is some alignment ( within @xmath63 ) between the spin vectors of the satellite systems and the dark halo .",
    "however , in only one case ( gh3 ) is the spin of the satellites aligned with that of the galaxy .",
    "finally , we ask whether the net angular momentum of the satellite system is related to the shape of the system , i.e. whether the satellites tend to orbit in the approximate plane that they define .",
    "if this were the case , we would expect @xmath38 to point along the short axis of their distribution , @xmath64 .",
    "in fact , this is not what we find .",
    "@xmath38 tends to point in a direction which , while often approximately at right angles to @xmath60 , the long axis of the satellite system ( fig .",
    "[ align.angmom](b ) ) , it is nevertheless not along the short axis of the system , @xmath64 .",
    "this arrangement is illustrated schematically in fig .",
    "[ 3dorbits ] where the blue ellipsoid demarks the structure defined by the anisotropic satellite distribution , while the spin axis , @xmath38 , is shown as a red line and its three projections along the three principal axes of the satellite structure are shown as black lines .        from fig .",
    "[ align.angmom](b ) we find that in all three cases the angular momentum of the satellite system subtends an angle greater than @xmath65 with the long axis of the satellite distribution , indicating that the satellites are not orbiting in the apparent plane defined by their spatial distribution .",
    "however , there is little consistency amongst the 3 galactic systems which exhibit a variety of orientations and alignments .",
    "we have analyzed two n - body / sph simulations of galaxy formation in a @xmath0cdm universe , one of a single bright galaxy and the other of a small region .",
    "our simulations include the main physical processes thought to be important in galaxy formation : metal - dependent gas cooling , heating by photoionizing the primordial hydrogen gas , star formation , metal production and feedback due to supernovae energy injection . in total",
    ", we obtained a sample of 9 bright galaxies comparable in luminosity to the milky way , containing a total of 78 satellites .",
    "three of the central galaxies had a population of at least 11 satellites , the number of well - studied satellites in the milky way .",
    "we have used these samples to investigate several interrelated properties of the satellite population .",
    "we first investigated the luminosity function of satellites , a property often regarded as a challenge to the cold dark matter model ( e.g. @xcite ) .",
    "we find , however , that our simulations produce an excellent match to the observed luminosity function of satellites in the local group , at least to the resolution limit of the calculation which corresponds to @xmath66 , close to the luminosity of the faintest observed satellites .",
    "the gas fractions in these satellites agree well with observations , suggesting that their formation paths may be similar to those of real satellites .",
    "many of the small subhalos resolved in the simulations fail to make a substantially bright satellite . as @xcite have argued , star formation is inefficient in small subhalos due to the combined effects of reionization and supernovae feedback which limit the supply of cool gas to the subhalo .",
    "the match of our simulations to the satellite data over most of the observed range suggests that the relative paucity of satellites in the local group ( the  satellite problem \" ) does not reflect the much larger abundance of subhalos , but rather feedback effects that limit the growth of small galaxies .",
    "furthermore , @xcite and @xcite have argued that the internal dynamics of cdm satellites are also consistent with the data .",
    "overall , our results agree well with the semi - analytic model of @xcite . in the semi - analytic model , however , _",
    "bright _ satellites , of luminosity similar to the lmc or m33 , were rare .",
    "this is not the case in our simulations which match the bright end of the satellite luminosity function well .",
    "the differences between the two treatments are no doubt due to the different ways in which the physics of galaxy formation are modelled , including differences in the treatment of feedback and star formation and in the satellite merger rates .",
    "we next considered the spatial distribution of the satellites . in the outer half of the system ,",
    "the number density profile of the satellites tracks the dark matter",
    "well but in the inner parts it falls below the dark matter profile . remarkably , the number density profile of the 11 brightest satellites in one of our simulations is almost indistinguishable from the profile for the 11 brightest satellites of the milky way .",
    "the profiles of the other 2 well populated systems are broadly similar , as is the profile for the satellites of m31 . as in previous n - body studies ( e.g. @xcite ;",
    "@xcite ; @xcite ) , we find no resolved satellites in the inner @xmath67 of the halo",
    ".    we can study the distribution of individual satellite systems , particularly their alignments with the halo and disc , for the three systems that formed more than 11 satellites . in agreement with previous purely n - body studies ( @xcite , @xcite ) , we find that the satellites tend to be distributed in a highly flattened configuration whose major axis is aligned with the major axis of the ( generally triaxial ) dark halo .",
    "@xcite argued that this arrangement reflects the preferential infall of satellites along the spine of the filaments of the cosmic web .",
    "our gasdynamic simulations allow us to go further than previous n - body work and investigate the alignment of satellite systems with galactic discs and the alignment of the latter with the dark matter halo .",
    "we find that in 2 out or 3 systems , the satellite system is nearly perpendicular ( to within @xmath36 ) to the plane of the galactic disc .",
    "this surprising configuration is exactly what is seen in the milky way .",
    "the third satellite system ended up well aligned with the disc .    to investigate these alignments",
    "further , we calculated the relationship between the disc and the halo , this time using the 9 bright galaxies in our simulations .",
    "previous hydrodynamic simulations have found a good alignment between the disc and the principal plane of the halo ( i.e. a good correlation between the directions of the disc axis and the halo minor axis ) , but only in the inner @xmath68 of the halo ( @xcite ; @xcite ) . beyond this , these studies find little or no correlation .",
    "we also find a good alignment in our simulations between the disc and the halo at small radii but , unlike in the previous studies , the correlation persists , albeit much weakened , out to the virial radius .",
    "this sort of alignment is perhaps not unexpected in the simplest interpretation of the tidal torque theory since both the dark halo and the baryon component experience similar tidal torques .",
    "the relatively small differences between our results and those of @xcite and @xcite are most likely the result of different treatments of star formation and feedback .",
    "for example , the strong feedback in our simulations at early times which leads later to a prolonged period of gas accretion and the formation of a large disc in a relatively quiet halo favours the persistence of a relationship between the properties of the halo and the disc .    of the two cases in which the satellite systems are nearly perpendicular to the disc , in the one which exhibits the strongest alignment ( gh1 ) the disc is also nearly perpendicular to the minor axis of the halo .",
    "in the other case , the alignment between the disc and the halo is weaker . in the third system ( gh3 ) ,",
    "in which the satellite system lies in the plane of the disc , the disc is only roughly aligned with the halo .",
    "although our sample is small , it suggests that it should not be surprising that similar kinds of alignments are found in observational studies of satellites in the sdss and 2dfgrs ( @xcite , @xcite , @xcite ) .",
    "finally , we investigated the connection between the angular momenta of the disc and the dark halo . for most systems ,",
    "the two vectors are very well aligned as a function of radius , out to the edge of the system .",
    "the halo spin tends to be point along the short axis of the halo .",
    "however , since the shape of the halo varies with redshift , the spin axis of the disc or of the halo can often loose its alignment with the short halo axis .",
    "thus , care should be taken when interpreting alignment statistics , either in simulations or in observational data .    in conclusion ,",
    "our simulations have revealed a number of interesting connections between the properties of central galaxies , their satellite systems and their dark matter halos .",
    "they also point to a good overall match between predictions of the @xmath0cdm model and the observations of galaxy satellite systems that we have considered here such as the luminosity function and the peculiar spatial arrangement of the satellites of the milky way .",
    "however , due to their high computational cost , our simulations are still too small to provide good statistics .",
    "larger simulations of this kind are required to test the validity of the trends that we have found .",
    "aarseth s. j. , turner e. l. , gott j. r. iii , 1979 , apj , 228 , 664 abadi m. g. , navarro j. f. , steinmetz m. , eke v. r. , 2003 , apj , 597 , 21 bailin j. , kawata d. , gibson b. k. , steinmetz m. , navarro j. f. , brook c. b. , gill s. p. d. , ibata r. a. , knebe a. , lewis g. f. , okamoto t. , 2005 , apj , 627,17 bailin j. , steinmetz m. , 2005 , apj , 627 , 647 baugh c. m. , lacey c. g. , frenk c. s. , granato g. l. , silva l. , bressan a. , benson a. j. , cole s. , 2005 , mnras , 356 , 1191 benson a. j. , frenk c. s. , lacey c. g. , baugh c. m. , cole s. , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 177 benson a. j. , frenk c. s. , lacey c. g. , baugh c. m. , cole s. , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 156 bond j. r. , cole s. , efstathiou g. , kaiser n. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 440 bower r. g. , 1991mnras , 248 , 332 brainerd t. g. , 2005 , apj , 628 , l101 bullock j. s. , kravstov a. v. , weinberg d. h. , 2000 , apj , 539 , 517 cole s. , lacey c. g. , baugh c. m .. frenk c. s. , 2000 mnras , 319 , 168 craig m. w. , davis m. , 2001 , new astron , 6 , 425 davis m. , efstathiou g. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1985 , apj , 292 , 731 eke v. r. , efstathiou g. , wright l. , 2000 , mnras , 315 , l18 fall s. m. , efstathiou g. , 1980 , mnras , 193 , 189 frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , davis m. , 1985 , apj , 271 , 417 frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , efstathiou g. , davis m. , 1985 , nature , 317 , 595 frenk c. s. , evrard a. e. , white s. d. m. , summers f. j. , 1996 , apj , 472 , 460 gao l. , white s. d. m. , jenkins a. , steohr f. , springel v. , 2004 , mnras , 355 , 819 ghigna s. , moore b. , governato f. , lake g. , quinn t. , stadel j. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 146 gnedin n. y. , 2000 , apj , 542 , 535 governato f. , mayer l. , wadsley j. , gardner j. p. , willman b. , hayashi e. , quinn t. , stadel j. , lake g. , 2004 , apj , 607 , 688 haardt f. , madau p. , 1996 ,",
    "apj , 461 , 20 hawley d. l. , peebles p. j. e. , 1975 , aj , 80 , 477 helly j. c. , cole s. , frenk c. s. , baugh c. m. , benson a. , lacey c. , 2003 , mnras , 338 , 903 holmberg e. , 1969 , arkiv astron .",
    ", 5 , 305 kang x. , mao s. , gao l. , jing y. p. , 2005,a&a , 437 , 383 kamionkowski m. , liddle a. r. , 2000 , phys .",
    "lett . , 84 , 4525 kauffmann g. , white s. d. m. , guiderdoni b. , 1993 , mnras , 264 , 201 kawata d. , gibson b. d. , 2003 , mnras , 340 , 908 .",
    "kazantzidis s. , kravtsov a. v. , zentner a. r. , allgodd b. , nagai d. , moore b. , 2004 apj , 611 , l73",
    "salpeter e. e. , 1955 , apj , 121 , 161 klypin a. , kravstov a. v. , valenzuela o. , prada f. , 1999 apj , 522 , 82 knebe a. , gill s. p.",
    "d. , gibson b. k. , lewis g. f. , ibata r. a. , dopita m. a. , 2004 , apj , 603,7 kroupa p. , thies c. , boily c. m. , 2005 , a&a , 431 , 517 kunkel w. e. , demers s. , 1976 , r. greewhich obser . bull . , 182 , 241 lacey c. , cole s. , 1993 , mnras , 262 , 627 libeskind n. i. , frenk c. s. , cole s. , helly j. c. , jenkins a. r. , navarro j. f. , power c. b. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 146 libeskind n. i. , cole s. frenk c. s. , helly j. c. , 2006 , mnras , 368 , 138 lynden - bell d. , 1976 , mnras,174,695 lynden - bell d. , 1982 , obs , 102 , 202 macgrillivray h. t. , dodd r. j. , mcnally b. v. , corwin h. g. , 1982 , mnras , 198 , 605 marigo p. , 2001",
    ", a&a 370 , 194 mateo m. , 1998 , ara&a,36,435 mcgaugh s. s. , 2005 , apj , 632 , 859 moore b. , ghinga s. , governato f. , lake g. , quinn t. , stadel j.,tozzi p. , 1999 , apj,524 , l19 moore b. , gelato s. , jenkins a. , pearce f. r. , quilis v. , 2000,apj , 535 , 21 nagashima m. , lacey c. g. , okamoto t. , baugh c. m. , frenk c. s. , cole s. , 2005a , mnras , 363 , l31 nagashima m. , lacey c. g. , baugh c. m. , frenk c. s. , cole s. , 2005b , mnras , 358 , 1247 navarro j. , benz w. , 1991 , apj , 380 , 320 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1995 , mnras , 275 , 720 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1996 , apj , 462 , 563 navarro j. f. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. , 1997 , apj , 490 , 493 okamoto t. , eke v. r. , frenk c. s. , jenkins a. , 2005 , mnras , 363 , 1299 portinari l. , chiosi c. , bressan a. , 1998 , a&a , 334 , 505 peebles p. j. e. , 1971 , a&a , 11 , 337 pearrubia j. , kroupa p. , boily c. m. , 2002 , mnras , 333 , 779 robertson b. , yoshida n. , springel v. , hernquist l. , 2004 , apj , 606 , 32 sales l. , lambas d. g. , 2004 , mnras , 348 , 1236 sharp n. a. , lin d. n. c. , white s. d. m. , 1979 , mnras 187 , 287 shaw l. d. , weller j. , ostriker j. p. , bode p. , 2006 apj submitted ( pre - print astro - ph/0603150 ) sommer - larsen , jesper ; gotz , m. , portinari , l. , 2003 , apj , 596 , 47s sommer - larsen j. , gelato s. , vedel h. , 1999 , apj , 519 , 501 spergel d. n. , steinhardt p. j. , 2000 , phys .",
    "lett . , 84 , 3760 springel v. , white s. d. m. , tormen g. , kauffmann g. , 2001 , mnras , 328 , 726 springel v. , hernquist l. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 289 springel v. , 2005 , mnras , 364 , 1105 springel v. , white s. d. m. , frenk c. s. , 2006 , nature , 440",
    ", 1137 stanimirovi s. , staveley - smith l. , jones p. a. , 2004 , apj , 604 , 176 staveley - smith l. , kim s. , calabretta m. r. , haynes r. f. , kesteven m. j. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 87 stoehr f. , white s. d. m. , tormen g. , springel v. , 2002 , mnras , 335 , l84 sutherland r. s. , dopita m. a. , 1993 , apjs , 88 , 253 warren m. s. , quinn p. j. , salmon j. k. , zurek w. h. , 1992 , apj , 399 , 405 wechsler r. h. , bullock j. s. , primack j. r. , kravtsov a. v. , dekel a. , 2002 , apj , 568 , 52 weil m. l. , eke v. r. , efstathiou g. , 1998 , mnras , 300 , 773 white s. d. m. , 1984 , apj , 286 , 38 white s. d. m. , rees m. j. , 1978 , mnras , 183 , 341 yang x. , van den bosch f. c. , mo h. j. , mao s. , kang x. , weinmann s. m. , guo y. , jing y. p. , 2005 ,",
    "mnras , 362 , 711 yoshida n. , springel v. , white s. d. m. , tormen g. , 2000 , apj , 544 , 87 zaritsky d. , smith r. , frenk c. s. , white s. d. m. 1997 , apj , 478 , l53 zentner a. r. , kravstov a. v. , gnedin o. y. , klypin a. a. , 2005 apj , 629 , 219 zhao d. h. , mo h. j. , jing y. p. , brner g. , 2003 , mnras , 339 , 12"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we investigate the properties of satellite galaxies formed in n - body / sph simulations of galaxy formation in the @xmath0cdm cosmology . </S>",
    "<S> the simulations include the main physical effects thought to be important in galaxy formation and , in several cases , produce realistic spiral discs . in total , a sample of 9 galaxies of luminosity comparable to the milky way was obtained . at magnitudes brighter than the resolution limit , @xmath1 , </S>",
    "<S> the luminosity function of the satellite galaxies in the simulations is in excellent agreement with data for the local group . </S>",
    "<S> the radial number density profile of the model satellites , as well as their gas fractions also match observations very well . in agreement with previous n - body studies , </S>",
    "<S> we find that the satellites tend to be distributed in highly flattened configurations whose major axis is aligned with the major axis of the ( generally triaxial ) dark halo . in 2 out of 3 systems with sufficiently large satellite populations , </S>",
    "<S> the satellite system is nearly perpendicular to the plane of the galactic disc , a configuration analogous to that observed in the milk way . </S>",
    "<S> the discs themselves are perpendicular to the minor axis of their host halos in the inner parts , and the correlation between the orientation of the galaxy and the shape of the halo persists even out to the virial radius . however , in one case the disc s minor axis ends up , at the virial radius , perpendicular to the minor axis of the halo . </S>",
    "<S> the angular momenta of the galaxies and their host halo tend to be well aligned . </S>"
  ]
}