{
  "article_text": [
    "close encounters between gas - rich galaxies often have devastating effects on the state of their interstellar medium ( ism ) , in particular of the ism of either the smaller or of the most gas - rich of the interacting galaxies ( e.g. , de grijs et al .",
    "2001 , 2003 ) .",
    "the ram pressure caused by the time - varying gravitational potential induced by the interaction causes free - floating giant molecular clouds in the affected galaxy s ism to collapse and enter a phase of violent star formation .",
    "this process is particularly well illustrated by the ongoing interaction between ngc 6745 and its small northern companion galaxy , `` ngc 6745c '' ( cf .",
    "de grijs et al . 2003 ) , where dynamical and kinematic evidence from hi observations obtained with the very large array support the scenario that the small companion galaxy has traveled from the south east across the eastern edge of the main galaxy to its current location north of the main galaxy , in its wake leaving a frenzy of very violent and active star , and in particular star _ cluster _ ,",
    "formation .    in de grijs et al .",
    "( 2003b ) we used the ages , masses and metallicities of the rich young star cluster system in ngc 6745 , based on the analysis of multi - passband archival _",
    "hubble space telescope ( hst ) _ observations , to derive its cluster formation history and subsequent evolution .",
    "we derive a median age , and thus an estimate of the starburst duration , of @xmath0 myr .",
    "ngc 6745 contains a significant population of high - mass `` super star clusters ( sscs ) '' , with masses in the range @xmath1 .",
    "we caution , however , that these massive ssc candidates may not be gravitationally bound objects , but more diffuse star forming regions or aggregates of multiple unresolved clusters instead .",
    "nevertheless , we measure an effective radius for the most massive object ( @xmath2 ) of only @xmath3 pc",
    ". however , this object appears very elongated , or may in fact be a double cluster",
    ". we should keep in mind , of course , that this high mass estimate is a strong function of the ( low ) metallicity assumed ; if we had assumed solar metallicity for this object , the derived age would have been significantly smaller ( @xmath4 myr vs. @xmath5 gyr ) , and the mass could be smaller by a factor of @xmath6 .",
    "even so , if we could confirm this mass estimate spectroscopically , either of the subcomponents would be the most massive cluster known to date , significantly exceeding cluster w3 in ngc 7252 , which has a mass of about @xmath7 , depending on the age , metallicity and imf assumed ( schweizer & seitzer 1998 ; maraston et al . 2001 ) .",
    "the suggestion that such massive objects ( either star clusters , or extended star - forming regions ) form preferentially in the extreme environments of interacting galaxies , is supported quantitatively by our analysis ( de grijs et al .",
    "2003a ) of pixel - by - pixel colour - magnitude and colour - colour diagrams of the mice and tadpole interacting galaxies ( ngc 4676 and ugc 10214 , respectively ) , based on a subset of the ( archival ) _ hst _ advanced camera for surveys early release observations , which provide a powerful technique to explore and deduce the star and star cluster formation histories of galaxies at moderate distances .",
    "in each interacting system we found some 40 bright young star clusters , with a characteristic mass of @xmath8 , which are spatially coincident with blue regions of active star formation in their tidal tails and spiral arms .",
    "we showed that star cluster formation is a major mode of star formation in galaxy interactions , with @xmath9% of the active star formation in encounters occurring in star clusters .",
    "in particular , the tidal tail of the tadpole system is dominated by blue star - forming regions , which occupy some 60% of the total area covered by the tail and contribute @xmath10% of the total flux in the f475w filter ( decreasing to @xmath11% in f814w ) .",
    "finally , in the nearby ( ultra)luminous infrared galaxy ngc 6240 , we detect a population of massive young star clusters , with tentative evidence ( based on statistical considerations ) that the more massive clusters are found closer to the galaxy s double ( or perhaps triple ) nucleus and the most intense starburst region ( pasquali , de grijs , & gallagher 2003 ) .",
    "thus , the currently available empirical evidence , mostly based on high - resolution _ hst _ imaging observations , strongly suggests that star cluster formation is an important and perhaps even the dominant mode of star formation in the starburst events associated with galaxy interactions .",
    "i acknowledge invaluable collaborations with peter anders , nate bastian , uta fritze - v .",
    "alvensleben , jay gallagher , henny lamers , and anna pasquali .",
    "de grijs , r. , oconnell , r.w . ,",
    "gallagher , j.s . ,",
    "iii 2001 , aj , 121 , 768    de grijs , r. , lee , j.t . , mora herrera , m.c . , fritze - v .",
    "alvensleben , u. , anders , p. 2003a , new astron .",
    ", 8 , 155    de grijs , r. , anders , p. , bastian , n. , lynds , r. , lamers , h.j.g.l.m . , oneil , e.j",
    ". , jr . 2003b , mnras , 343 , 1285    maraston , c. , kissler - patig , m. , brodie , j.p .",
    ", barmby , p. , huchra , j.p .",
    "2001 , a&a , 370 , 176    pasquali , a. , de grijs , r. , gallagher , j.s .",
    ", iii 2003 , mnras , in press ( astro - ph/0306446 )    schweizer , f. , seitzer , p. 1998",
    ", aj , 116 , 2206",
    "one of the main contributions to date of the _ hubble space telescope ( hst ) _ to the field of stellar populations in nearby galaxies has been the discovery of numerous dense stellar objects resembling star clusters with properties similar to those predicted for the progenitors of the old globular cluster ( gc ) population in the milky way and other nearby galaxies .",
    "these objects are often confusingly referred to as `` super star clusters '' ( sscs ) , by virtue of their high luminosities and compact sizes .",
    "they have been found in a wide variety of galactic environments , ranging from quiescent dwarf and irregular or amorphous galaxies to large , gas - rich spiral galaxies involved in large - scale gravitational interactions and mergers , and in the starburst events associated with them ( see de grijs , oconnell , & gallagher 2001 for an overview )",
    ". however , the question arises of whether these objects are indeed `` super '' star clusters , in terms of either their integrated luminosity or their total mass . if they are indeed the progenitors of milky way - type gcs , assuming that they have the potential to survive for a hubble time , then their high luminosities at their correspondingly young ages ( of up to @xmath5 gyr , in general ) are simply conform the expectations of any modern flavour of simple stellar population theory .",
    "indeed , the mass distributions of most of these young star cluster populations do not extend significantly beyond that of the milky way gc population ( which is generally used as a benchmark ) , with a few exceptions ( e.g. , ngc 7252-w3 : schweizer & seitzer 1998 , maraston et al .",
    "2001 ; ngc 6745 : de",
    "grijs et al . 2003c ; some of the antennae clusters , e.g. , mengel et al .",
    "2002 ) , although their existence might simply be due to stochastic effects",
    ". nevertheless , the latter objects may therefore truly be super_massive _ objects . with the exception of these few clusters ,",
    "one should perhaps not consider the overall mass distribution of a given cluster population compared to that of the almost universal gc mass function in a wide variety of galaxies hosting such old objects , but instead consider these remarkable clusters in the context of their own parent population .",
    "this exercise leads us to realise that in a number of ( predominantly ) dwarf and irregular galaxies the overall cluster population is host to a few clusters that are significantly more massive than any of the other clusters ( although not necessarily more massive than the high - mass wing of the milky way gc system ) , such as observed in ngc 1705 ( ngc 1705-i , ho & filippenko 1996 ) , ngc 1569 ( sscs a and b ; see , e.g. , hunter et al .",
    "2000 , and anders et al 2003 for comparative analyses in the context of the galaxy s overall cluster population ) , and m82 ( m82-f ; e.g. , smith & gallagher 2001 ) . therefore , the assignation `` super '' appears to be merely a relative qualification .    in view of the confusing nomenclature",
    ", i will henceforth refer to these objects as _ young massive star clusters ( ymcs)_.",
    "although ymc populations are often assumed to be gc - type progenitors , their survival for a hubble time is by no means guaranteed .",
    "in fact , this depends crucially on the slope of the stellar initial mass function ( imf ) governing these clusters .",
    "high - resolution spectroscopy can  for the nearest ymc systems  be utilised to derive dynamical mass estimates and , combined with integrated luminosity measurements from e.g. _ hst _ imaging , one can derive mass - to - light ( m / l ) ratios for a small number of clusters at a time . in their comparison of the m / l ratios at the corresponding ages for a handful of the brightest ymcs , smith & gallagher ( 2001 ) and mengel et al .",
    "( 2002 ) showed convincingly that a number of them appear to have imf slopes that are significantly too shallow for the clusters to survive for any longer than roughly the next gyr .",
    "thus , these objects are unlikely to become gc analogues .    instead of going through the cumbersome exercise of measuring individual m / l ratios",
    ", one can approach this problem statistically , by analysing the potential of a given cluster population to survive for a hubble time .",
    "the currently most popular models for the dynamical evolution of star clusters predict that the power - law cluster luminosity functions ( clfs ) characteristic of ymc systems will be transformed rapidly into the universal gaussian clfs of old milky way - type gc systems . in a recent paper ( de grijs , bastian , & lamers 2003a",
    "; see also de grijs , bastian , & lamers 2003b ) , we provided the first evidence for a turn - over in the intermediate - age , approximately 1 gyr - old clf in the centre of the nearby starburst galaxy m82 , which very closely matches the universal clfs of old milky way - type gc systems .",
    "this is likely to remain virtually unchanged for a hubble time .",
    "we also showed that with the very short characteristic cluster disruption time - scale governing the centre of m82 ( de grijs et al .",
    "2003b ) , its cluster mass distribution will evolve towards a higher characteristic mass scale than for the galactic gcs by the time it reaches a similar age .",
    "we argue , therefore , that this evidence , combined with the similar cluster sizes ( de grijs et al .",
    "2001 ) , lends strong support to a scenario in which the current central m82 cluster population will eventually evolve into a significantly depleted old milky way - type gc system dominated by a small number of high - mass clusters .",
    "this implies that gc progenitors , which were once thought to be the oldest building blocks of galaxies , are still forming today in galaxy interactions and mergers .",
    "however , they will likely be more metal - rich than the present - day old gc systems .",
    "this connection between young or intermediate - age star cluster systems and old gcs lends strong support to the hierarchical galaxy formation scenario .",
    "m82 s proximity , its shortest known cluster disruption time - scale of any galaxy , and its well - defined peak of cluster formation make it an ideal candidate to probe the evolution of its star cluster system to fainter luminosities , and thus lower masses , than has been possible for any galaxy before ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the currently available empirical evidence on the star formation processes in the extreme , high - pressure environments induced by galaxy encounters , mostly based on high - resolution _ hubble space telescope _ </S>",
    "<S> imaging observations , strongly suggests that star _ cluster _ </S>",
    "<S> formation is an important and perhaps even the dominant mode of star formation in the starburst events associated with galaxy interactions .    </S>",
    "<S> # 1_#1 _ # 1_#1 _ =    # 1 1.25 in .125 in .25 in </S>"
  ]
}