{
  "article_text": [
    "quasi - periodic x - ray brightness oscillations at kilohertz frequencies ( hereafter khz qpos ) have recently been discovered in many neutron - star low - mass x - ray binaries ( lmxbs ) with the _ rossi x - ray timing explorer _ ( rxte ; see , e.g. , van der klis et al .",
    "1996 ; strohmayer et al .",
    "these are strong , often relatively coherent ( @xmath1 up to @xmath2 ) oscillations that occur commonly in pairs ( see van der klis 1998 for a recent review ) .",
    "the frequencies of the khz qpos are comparable to the dynamical timescale near the neutron star surface and depend on the mass accretion rate as inferred from the observed countrates and the spectral properties of the sources ( van der klis et al .",
    "1996 ; strohmayer et al.1996 ; ford et al .",
    "1997a , 1997b ; van der klis et al .",
    "the peak separation between the lower - frequency ( hereafter the lower khz qpo ) and the upper - frequency khz qpo ( hereafter the upper khz qpo ) in a given source is generally consistent with a constant value , independent of the mass accretion rate ( strohmayer et al .  1996 ; ford et al .",
    "1997a , 1997b ; wijnands et al .",
    "1997b , 1998a , 1998b ) . in 4u  1728@xmath034 and in 4u  1702@xmath043 , this peak separation is closely equal to the frequency of the nearly coherent oscillations observed during type  i x - ray bursts that are thought to be produced at the spin frequencies of the neutron stars ( strohmayer et al .",
    "1996 ; strohmayer , zhang , & swank 1997 , 1998 ) ; in 4u  1636@xmath0536 and in ks  1731@xmath026 , the peak separation is closely equal to half the frequency of the nearly coherent oscillations observed during type  i x - ray bursts ( smith , morgan , & bradt 1997 ; wijnands & van der klis 1997 ; strohmayer et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "the above observations offer strong evidence in favor of beat - frequency models , in which the frequency of the lower khz qpo is the beat frequency between the upper khz qpo and the neutron star spin ( strohmayer et al .",
    "1996 ; miller , lamb , & psaltis 1998 ) . in sco  x-1 , however , which is a luminous lmxb , the peak separation of the khz qpos is _ not _ constant , but decreases with increasing inferred mass accretion rate ( van der klis et al .",
    "1997 ) . in 4u  1608@xmath052 , which is a less luminous lmxb , there is also evidence for a peak separation that is not constant ( mndez et al .",
    "1998 ) .    in this paper ,",
    "we use previously published _",
    "data on several low - mass x - ray binaries to critically discuss the evidence in favor of a constant frequency separation between the khz qpo peaks required in any simple beat frequency interpretation .",
    "we find that the current data on all sources except sco  x-1 are insufficient , when used individually , to distinguish between a constant peak separation and a peak separation that varies by amounts similar to those seen in sco  x-1 .",
    "when we use the combined dataset of all sources , we find a remarkable correlation between the frequencies of the lower and upper khz qpos , which suggests that the peak separation may be varying in all sources .",
    "the current data on khz qpos include observations of eleven neutron - star lmxbs in which pairs of khz qpos have beed detected in their persistent emission . in three of these systems ,",
    "nearly coherent oscillations have been detected during type  i x - ray bursts at frequencies consistent with being equal to the peak separation between the khz qpos or their first overtones . in 4u  0614 + 09",
    ", a third qpo has been detected with marginal significance ( reported to be @xmath3 ; ford et al .",
    "1997a ) at a frequency consistent with being equal to the peak separation between the khz qpos .",
    "table  1 summarizes these observations .",
    "testing the hypothesis of a constant peak separation between the khz qpos requires for each individual source the detection of both qpos over a wide range of frequencies . in the three sources",
    "in which both the pair of khz qpos in the persistent emission and nearly coherent oscillations during type  i x - ray bursts have been detected , the range of reported frequencies of simultaneously detected khz qpo pairs in the persistent emission is _ very _ narrow ( see table  1 ) . in all sources , besides sco  x-1 , in which the range of detected frequencies of the pairs of khz qpos is wide ( @xmath4  hz in gx  17@xmath52 , gx  340@xmath6 , gx  5@xmath01 , and 4u  0614@xmath009 ) , the fractional errors in the measurement of the centroid frequencies of the qpos are substantial .",
    "figure  1 compares the distribution of fractional ( @xmath7 ) errors in the determination of the peak separation between the khz qpos in sco  x-1 with the corresponding distribution for gx  17@xmath52 , gx  340@xmath6 , gx  5@xmath01 , and 4u  0614@xmath009 . in all sources besides sco  x-1 , the average 1@xmath8 error is @xmath91050  hz , comparable to the change in the peak separation observed in sco  x-1 .",
    "figure  2a shows the results of testing the simple beat - frequency interpretation of the pairs of khz qpos in several sources by means of a @xmath10 test .",
    "we performed this test for the five sources in our sample for which the range of frequencies of simultaneously detected upper and lower khz qpos is wide ( i.e. , at least 200  hz ) using for each source all the measurements reported in the references listed in table  i ; the uncertainties in the measurements were estimated in the same way for all sources and hence our observational sample is uniform .",
    "the more limited data on 4u  1728@xmath034 and 4u  1636@xmath0536 are consistent with the result presented in figure  2 .",
    "figure  2a shows the resulting @xmath10 values for these sources , confirming the known result that the sco  x-1 data are inconsistent with a constant peak separation , whereas the data on the remaining sources are consistent with it ( see also van der klis et al .",
    "1997 ; wijnands et al .  1997b , 1998a , 1998b ; ford et al .  1997a , 1997b )",
    ". in gx  5@xmath01",
    ", the minimum @xmath10 value is @xmath11 mostly because we included for this source frequencies of khz qpos that were marginally detected ( at @xmath12 ; see wijnands et al .",
    "1998b for a discussion ) .",
    "the peak separation in all sources is @xmath13  hz .",
    "the peak separation between the khz qpos in sco  x-1 decreases with increasing inferred mass accretion rate ( van der klis et al .",
    "figure  3a shows the frequency @xmath14 of the lower khz qpo in sco  x-1 plotted against the frequency @xmath15 of the upper khz qpo .",
    "the data points can be adequately described by the power - law relation @xmath16 which is shown in the figure as a dashed line .",
    "the @xmath10 value that corresponds to relation  ( [ scopl ] ) is 2.0 ( see figure  2b ) .",
    "this is a relatively high value because , at high ( @xmath17  hz ) frequencies of the upper khz qpo , the qpo peaks are weak and therefore the measurements are dominated by systematic uncertainties ; when we use only the data points with upper khz qpo frequency @xmath18  hz , the @xmath10 value for relation  ( [ scopl ] ) becomes @xmath19 .",
    "it is important to note that the power - law description was arbitrarily chosen here to describe the sco  x-1 data in the following discussion and other functional forms could fit the sco  x-1 data equally well .",
    "in particular , relation  ( [ scopl ] ) implies a non - monotonic change of the peak separation , with a maximum at an upper khz qpo frequency of @xmath20  hz .",
    "however , we are not proposing here that the peak separation varies non - monotonically , as this requires extrapolating relation  ( [ scopl ] ) to frequencies smaller than the lowest khz qpo frequency detected so far in sco  x-1 .",
    "figure  3b shows the observed peak separation of the khz qpos in sco  x-1 together with the curve implied by relation  ( [ scopl ] ) .",
    "the atoll source 4u  1608@xmath052 has also shown evidence for a peak separation that decreases with increasing khz qpo frequency ( mndez et al .",
    "1998 ) . in this source",
    "only one khz qpo has so far been detected in the power spectra ( see , e.g. , berger et al .",
    "1996 ) . however , by shifting the power spectra so that the khz qpo peaks are aligned and adding them up reveals the existence of the second , higher - frequency khz qpo peak ( mndez et al .",
    "1998 ) . because of the shifting of the power spectra and the alignment of the qpo peaks , the information regarding the centroid frequency of the upper khz qpo is lost .",
    "moreover , the ranges of frequencies of the lower khz qpos used originally with the above technique were overlapping . as a result",
    "we can not directly compare the decrease of the peak separation in sco  x-1 implied by relation  ( [ scopl ] ) to the data of 4u  1608@xmath052 .    in the original analysis of mndez et al .",
    "( 1998 ) the frequency of the lower khz qpo in the observation of march 3 , 1996 varied in the range @xmath21  hz . the peak separation was found to be @xmath22  hz .",
    "we have reanalyzed the data of march 6 , 1996 using only the part of the dataset in which the frequency of the lower khz qpo was in the range @xmath23  hz to avoid any overlap with the range of frequencies detected on march 3 . even with this restricted part of the dataset we detected a second qpo peak ( at @xmath24 ) with a peak separation equal to 288.1@xmath2511.3  hz .",
    "figure  3b compares the 4u  1608@xmath052 and sco  x-1 data ; because of the technique used for 4u  1608@xmath052 , the march 3 and 6 observations are represented by bands of constant peak separation .",
    "figure  3b suggests that the decreasing peak separation found in 4u  1608@xmath052 is consistent with that of sco  x-1 .",
    "the frequencies of the khz qpos observed in the sources used to test the beat - frequency hypothesis in figure  2a are _ also _ consistent with a non - constant peak separation , similar to the one implied by relation  ( [ scopl ] ) for sco  x-1 .",
    "figure  2b demonstrates this by showing the result of testing the latter hypothesis , i.e. , of a power - law correlation between the lower and upper khz qpo frequencies , by means of a @xmath10 test .",
    "the minimum @xmath10 values for all sources that were found to be consistent also with a constant peak separation ( see figure  2a ) are @xmath26 .    as mentioned earlier , for all the sources for which simultaneous khz qpos have been detected besides the ones used to plot figure  2 , the range of observed khz qpo frequencies is narrow .",
    "we therefore can not test directly whether the peak separations between the khz qpos in these sources vary by amounts comparable to those seen in sco  x-1 or not .",
    "however , figure  4a shows that the frequencies of the lower and upper khz qpos observed in all nine sources are remarkably tightly correlated and follow fairly closely relation  ( [ scopl ] ) that describes the data of sco  x-1 ; figure  4b shows the instantaneous peak separations in all nine sources and compares them with the varying peak separation of sco  x-1 . the tight correlation between the khz qpo frequencies shown in figure  4a together with the large uncertainties in the determination of the peak separation for all sources besides sco  x-1 showh in figure  4b strongly suggests that the data for _ all _ sources are consistent with the varying peak separation of sco  x-1 .",
    "note , however , that although all sources are consistent with a peak separation that is varying by amounts similar to those seen in sco  x-1 , not all these sources are consistent with a single relation between the lower and upper khz qpo frequencies . in fact , the lower and upper khz qpo frequencies for all z sources , with the possible exception of gx  17@xmath52 , are consistent with relation  ( [ scopl ] ) that describes the data of sco  x-1 ( see fig.2b ) .",
    "on the other hand , the data for the atoll sources 4u  0614@xmath509 , ks  1731@xmath026 , and 4u  1636@xmath053 are consistent with a single power - law relation with the same index as relation  ( [ scopl ] ) but a lower normalization ( @xmath27  hz ; the @xmath10 values for testing this relation is @xmath28 in each of the three sources individually ) .",
    "in  2 we showed that , using current khz qpo data of neutron - star low - mass x - ray binaries , we can not reject the hypothesis that the frequency separations of the two khz qpo peaks in the pair are constant in each source besides sco  x-1 , nor the hypothesis that they vary in a way similar to sco  x-1 . in sco  x-1 , which is the only source with very precisely measured centroid frequencies for the khz qpos , the data are inconsistent with a constant peak separation ( see also van der klis et al .",
    "furthermore , measurements of the peak separation in all other sources in which two simultaneous khz qpos have been detected are consistent with change of the kind observed in sco  x-1 .",
    "this is the case for the z sources , which are thought to be accreting at near - eddington mass accretion rates ( see , e.g. , hasinger & van der klis 1989 ) , as well as for the atoll sources , which are thought to be accreting at substantially lower rates .",
    "these results hint that the frequencies of the upper and lower khz qpos in all sources considered individually , including sco  x-1 , are consistent with following a simple ( but not necessarily the same ) relation , such as a power - law , which is nevertheless very similar even for sources with very different mass accretion rates . obeying such a relation would contradict any beat - frequency interpretation of the pairs of khz qpos in lmxbs , in which the frequency separation of the qpos is exactly constant .",
    "however , the nearly coherent oscillations observed during type  i x - ray bursts in two sources with frequencies closely equal to the peak separations of the khz qpos and the fact that the oscillation amplitudes evolve systematically during the bursts are very strong evidence that the peak separations in these sources are similar to the spin frequencies of the neutron stars ( strohmayer et al .  1996 , 1997b ) .",
    "most importantly , in 4u  1728@xmath034 the frequencies of the oscillations in the tails of bursts separated by about 20 months are consistent with being constant , implying a timescale for the frequency change of @xmath29  yr ( strohmayer 1997 ) .",
    "the only conceivable frequency in these systems that is stable to the degree inferred from the observations of 4u  1728@xmath034 is the spin frequency of the neutron star .",
    "therefore , the frequency separation of the two khz qpo peaks in this source appears to be _ closely equal but perhaps not identical _ to the spin frequency of the neutron star . in 4u  1636@xmath0536 and in ks  1731@xmath026 ,",
    "the peak separation of the khz qpos also appears to be directly related to the neutron star spin frequency .    in current beat - frequency models for the pair of khz qpos ( see ,",
    "e.g. , strohmayer et al .  1996 ; miller et al .",
    "1998 ) , the upper khz qpo peak is produced at the keplerian orbital frequency at a characteristic radius in the accretion disk ; the lower khz qpo peak is then produced at the beat frequency of the upper khz qpo with the neutron star spin . in order for a beat - frequency model to account for",
    "the varying peak separation between the khz qpos , one of the above assumptions would need to be relaxed .",
    "for example , the frequency that is beating with the neutron star spin to produce the lower khz qpo may not be the frequency of the upper khz qpo , i.e. , the two frequencies could correspond to different radii in ( or heights above ) the disk plane ( see miller et al .",
    "the fact that the variation in the peak separation of the two khz qpos in sco  x-1 is larger than the fwhm of either the lower or upper khz qpos implies that the two annuli or regions in the accretion disk responsible for the two khz qpos are not overlapping .",
    "alternatively , the frequency that is beating with the upper khz qpo to produce the lower khz qpo may be nearly but not strictly equal to the neutron star spin frequency ( see , e.g. , white & zhang 1997 ) .    in conclusion , the data from both the z and atoll sources are consistent with a varying peak separation between the khz qpos .",
    "if future data support this conjecture , they will pose interesting new constraints on beat - frequency models for these qpos : the peak separation should correlate more strongly with the frequency of the upper khz qpo than with the mass accretion rate or the magnetic field strength .",
    "dp thanks vicky kalogera and deepto chakrabarty for many useful discussions and for carefully reading the manuscript .",
    "this work was supported in part by a post - doctoral fellowship of the smithsonian institute ( dp ) , by a fellowship of the consejo nacional de investigaciones cientificas y tcnicas de la repblica argentina ( mm ) , by the netherlands organization for scientific research ( pwo ) grant pcs 78 - 277 and the netherlands foundation for research in astronomy ( astron ) grant 781 - 76 - 017 ( rw , jh , pj , mvdk ) , by nsf grant ast  96 - 18524 ( fkl ) , by nasa grants nag  5 - 2925 ( fkl ) , nag  5 - 2868 ( mcm ) , nag  5 - 3269 and nag  5 - 3271 ( jvp ) , and by several _",
    "rxte _ observing grants .",
    "whgl also gratefully acknowledges support from nasa .",
    "berger , m. , van der klis , m. , van paradijs , j. , lewin , w.h.g . , lamb , f.k . ,",
    "vaughan , b.a . , kuulkers , e. , augusteijn , t. , zhang , w. , marshall , f.e . , swank , j.h . ,",
    "lapidus , i. , lochner , j.c . , & strohmayer , t.e .",
    "1996 , apjl , 469 , l13"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> pairs of quasi - periodic oscillations ( qpos ) at kilohertz frequencies are a common phenomenon in several neutron - star low - mass x - ray binaries . </S>",
    "<S> the frequency separation of the qpo peaks in the pair appears to be constant in many sources and directly related to the neutron star spin frequency . </S>",
    "<S> however , in sco  x-1 and possibly in 4u  1608@xmath052 , the frequency separation of the qpos decreases with increasing inferred mass accretion rate . we show that the currently available _ rossi x - ray timing explorer _ data are consistent with the hypothesis that the frequency separations in all sources vary by amounts similar to the variation in sco  x-1 . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the implications for models of the kilohertz qpos .    to appear in _ the astrophysical journal letters_. </S>"
  ]
}