{
  "article_text": [
    "the tendency of stars to form in approximately coeval groups , rather than in isolation , is by now a well established observational fact ( lada et al .",
    "@xcite ; zinnecker et al .",
    "@xcite ; gomez et al .",
    "@xcite ; hillenbrand  @xcite ,  @xcite ; testi et al .",
    "a result which sets stringent constraints to the theory is the fact that the `` richness '' of the groups depends on the mass of the most massive star in the cluster : low - mass stars form in loose groups of a few objects per cubic parsec ( gomez et al .",
    "@xcite ) , which in the following we will call `` aggregates '' , while high - mass stars are usually found to form in dense clusters with densities up to 10@xmath2 objects per cubic parsec in the case of the trapezium cluster ( see e.g. mccaughrean & stauffer  @xcite ; hillenbrand  @xcite ) .",
    "the transition between these two modes of formation occurs in the mass interval @xmath3 .",
    "herbig ae / be stars ( herbig  @xcite ) are pre  main - sequence ( pms ) stars of intermediate - mass located outside complex star forming regions .",
    "these stars are sufficiently old ( age @xmath4  myr ) to be optically visible , but still young enough that any population of lower mass stars born in the same environment has not had time to move away from their birthplace .",
    "thus , the fields around herbig ae / be stars represent ideal targets to study the transition from aggregates to dense clusters and to empirically probe the onset of cluster formation .",
    "multiwalength studies of the environments of several herbig ae / be stars in the optical , near infrared and millimeter ( lkh@xmath5  101 : barsony et al .",
    "@xcite , aspin & barsony  @xcite ; bd@xmath640@xmath74124 : hillenbrand et al .",
    "@xcite , palla et al .",
    "@xcite ; mach12 : plazy & mnard  @xcite ) have shown that the young clusters are still partially embedded in the parent molecular clouds and that near infrared observations , especially at k - band ( @xmath8 m ) , are best suited to detect the less massive companions to the herbig ae / be star itself .",
    "observations at near infrared wavelengths of a consistent number ( 16 ) of fields around herbig ae / be stars have been presented by li et al .",
    "( @xcite ) .",
    "their study is focused at the detection of bright companions and/or diffuse emission which may affect large beam photometry of the herbig stars , and , for this reason , it is limited to a small area around each star , much smaller than the extent of the known clusters ( e.g. lkh@xmath5  101 , bd@xmath640@xmath74124 ) .    the first statistical study aimed at investigating the properties of star formation around herbig ae /",
    "be stars using k - band images has been carried out by hillenbrand  ( @xcite ) . in spite of the relatively small number of observed fields ( 17 ) ,",
    "hillenbrand has found evidence for a correlation between the mass of the herbig ae / be star and the surface density of k - band stars detected around it .",
    "these initial results were confirmed by testi et al .",
    "( @xcite ; hereafter paper  i ) , who obtained j , h and k images of moderately large fields around 19 herbig ae / be stars . using various methods to define the richness of the star cluster , in addition to simple k - band star counts , in paper  i we have shown a clear dependence of the richness of the embedded clusters with the spectral type of the herbig ae / be star .",
    "moreover , our data seem to indicate that the clustered mode of star formation appears at a detectable level only for stars of spectral type b5b7 or earlier . whether the transition from isolated stars to clusters has a threshold or is a smooth function of stellar type ( or , better , mass ) is still unclear because of the small statistical significance of the samples studied so far .    in order to complete our systematic study of herbig stars ,",
    "we have observed in the near infrared a second sample of 26 fields selected from the compilations of finkenzeller & mundt  ( @xcite ) and th et al .",
    "( @xcite ) . among the observed stars , we included z  cma",
    "whose spectral type is f5 and whose membership to the herbig group has been disputed .",
    "however , we will not consider it in the analysis of the clustering properties .",
    "together with the 19 stars analysed in paper  i , our final sample consists of 44 objects covering almost uniformly the whole spectral range from o9 to a7 stars .",
    "we have included in our sample 33 out of the 39 stars ( 85% ) with declination greater than @xmath9 listed in finkenzeller & mundt  ( @xcite ) and replaced the remaining six objects with 11 stars of similar spectral type taken from the updated catalog of th et al .",
    "( @xcite , table i of members and candidate members ) .",
    "thus , we are confident that the final sample gives a fairly complete representation of the whole class of herbig ae / be stars and that the inferences discussed in this paper should have a solid physical and statistical meaning .    in a companion paper ( testi et al .",
    "@xcite ; hereafter paper  ii ) , we have collected the observational material ( images , colour - colour diagrams and stellar density profiles ) of each of the combined sample of 44 fields . in this paper , we present the results of the analysis of this large body of observations aimed at the detection , characterization and comparison of the small star clusters around intermediate - mass pms stars .",
    "0.3 cm    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in our previous studies we have identified the most suitable indicators of the richness of embedded stellar cluster that greatly reduce the problem of background / foreground contamination .",
    "the two quantities of interest are the number of stars in the k - band image within 0.21 pc from the herbig star with an absolute k magnitude m@xmath10 ( ) , and the integral over distance of the source surface density profile subtracted by the average source density measured at the edge of each field , ( ) .",
    "the choice of a radius of 0.2 pc for computing  is suggested by the typical value of the cluster size determined in paper  ii , as the distance from the herbig star where the sources surface density profile reaches the background level .",
    "as illustrated in fig .",
    "[ fsize ] , the distribution of the radius of the stellar density enhancement shows a clear peak around @xmath110.2  pc .",
    "this result is in good agreement with that found in various young stellar clusters ( hillenbrand  @xcite ; carpenter et al .",
    "it is remarkable that stellar groups with a few to several hundred members share similar sizes , corresponding to the typical dimensions of dense cores in molecular clouds .",
    "the values of  and  computed for the 44 stars of our complete sample are given in columns  3 and 4 of table  [ trind ] , together with the name and spectral type of the herbig ae / be star at the center of each field .",
    "the uncertainty on  has been calculated by propagating the error in the determination of the background stellar density at large distances from the herbig star . as in paper",
    "i , we discuss the dependence of the richness indicators on the spectral type of the herbig star rather than on its mass , even though the latter is the relevant physical parameter .",
    "the main reasons for this choice are the proximity of the herbig star to the main sequence ( and hence a close relation between spectral type and mass is `` almost '' well defined ) and the much larger uncertainties in the mass estimates based on the location of the stars in the hr diagram and the use of evolutionary tracks . on the other hand ,",
    "spectral types of young stars sample are usually determined with an uncertainty of one or two subclasses , with the exception of a few cases ( see the discussion in paper  ii ) .",
    "in particular , rno  1b and mwc  300 do not have a reliable classification and in the literature they are generically referred to as be stars . for plotting purposes ,",
    "we have arbitrarily assigned a b5 classification to both of them .",
    "these stars have both values of  and  typical of b stars , and the assigned spectral type of b5 does not affect our results .",
    "the variation of  and i@xmath12 as a function of the spectral type of the herbig star is shown in figures  [ fncksp ] and [ ficsp ] , respectively .",
    "both figures confirm the initial results found in paper  i and by hillenbrand  @xcite that higher mass stars tend to be surrounded by richer clusters . as expected , the evidence for clusters is more pronounced using i@xmath12 instead of @xmath13 , but the fact that the same trend is seen in both indicators gives strength to its real significance .",
    "in addition to the evidence for a variation of i@xmath12 with spectral type , the results of fig .",
    "[ ficsp ] suggest the existence of three regimes for the distribution of stars around herbig stars . in the first one , characterized by i@xmath1440 ,",
    "the herbig stars are definitely associated with rich clusters ; in the intermediate regime with @xmath15 i@xmath16 a small cluster may be present ; in the third case where i@xmath1710 only small aggregates or background stars in the field are found , a situation similar to that observed in low - mass star forming regions .",
    "three stars of our sample ( mwc  137 , as  310 and bd@xmath665@xmath71637 ) belong to the first group . the sizes of the clusters derived for these stars in paper  ii are on the large side of the distribution ( @xmath18  pc ) , however , at least in two cases ( as  310 and bd@xmath665@xmath71637 ) the herbig star is not at the center of the cluster , and this results in an overestimate of the cluster radius , determined from the radial density profile . among stars of early spectral types , we find a large spread of values of . in some cases , the low  are dubious .",
    "for example , v645 cyg and mwc  1080 , have reletively low values of  typical of the intermediate regime",
    ". however , both stars are embedded in bright nebulosities which may affect the star count resulting in a severe underestimate of the actual stellar density . in other cases , however , the low values of  may be real .",
    "the presence of groups or small clusters is secure around most of the stars belonging to the intermediate regime .",
    "a clear central density peak is observed in the density profiles of almost all stars of this group , as shown in paper  ii .",
    "typically , the herbig star is located at the center of the stellar group , which generally has a round shape .",
    "a possible exception is the vy  mon field , where the stellar aggregate has an elongated structure with an aspect ratio of approximately 4:1 ( the herbig star is at the center ) .",
    "hd  52721 is not associated with molecular gas ( fuente et al .",
    "@xcite ) , it is a rather old star , and the large cluster radius is probably the result of dynamical relaxation .",
    "finally , the large majority ( @xmath19% ) of the herbig stars of the sample have very low values of showing no enhancements above the background stellar density . all the fields around stars with spectral type",
    "later than b9 belong to this group .",
    "however , although most of these stars have spectral types later than b7-b8 , there are extreme cases of early - type stars that deserve some discussion .",
    "first , the negative value of  found for r  mon ( b0 ) is probably due to localized extinction around the star , which is probably on the observer side of a molecular clump .",
    "also , the stars bhj  71 ( b0 ) , hd  200775 ( b3 ) and hd  259431 ( b5 ) have anomalously low values of .",
    "the first one is a poorly studied star , and we have not been able to find any information on the molecular gas in the literature ( see paper  ii ) .",
    "hd  200775 is in many respect very similar to bd  65@xmath71637 : same spectral type , same molecular gas morphology and similar evolutionary status ( fuente et al .",
    "the absence of a cluster of young stars around hd  200775 , as opposed to the rich cluster around bd  65@xmath71637 , may be the result of dynamical dissipation ( see below ) or reflect a difference in the environment .",
    "hd  259431 appears to be isolated in spite of the large amount of molecular material around it ( hillenbrand  @xcite ) . among late - type stars ,",
    "lkh@xmath5  198 stands out for its negative value of  due to the bright nebulosity and localized extinction .",
    "interesting cases with an indication of an extended population of embedded sources but not spatially concentrated around the herbig star are vx  cas ( a0 ) , hd  245185 ( a2 ) and mac  h12 ( a5 ) .",
    "since young stars change their bolometric luminosity and effective temperature during pms evolution , the mass of the smallest star detectable ( @xmath20 ) in our k - band images is a function of age ( @xmath21 ) , of the absolute completeness k - magnitude ( m@xmath22 ) and of the extinction along the line of sight ( a@xmath23 ) .    in paper  ii , using the pms evolutionary tracks for intermediate mass stars of palla & stahler  ( @xcite ) and the compilation of stellar parameters from the literature , we have computed in an homogeneous way the ages of most of the stars later than b5 .",
    "then , using the pms evolutionary tracks for low mass stars of dantona & mazzitelli  ( @xcite ) , we have translated m@xmath22 into @xmath20 for two values of the extinction ( a@xmath24 and 2 ) assuming that all the stars in each group are coheval with the herbig ae / be star .",
    "there are some stars ( mostly early be types ) for which it is not possible to derive ages from pms tracks . for these stars",
    ", we have estimated the age in the following way . from the results of paper",
    "ii we see that the herbig ae systems tend to be 1 to 10  myr old ( the mean value is @xmath25  myr ) , while be systems tend to be younger than 1  myr ( with a mean age of @xmath26  myr ) .",
    "thus we decided to adopt as age @xmath27  myr for the 17 be systems and @xmath28  myr for the 2 ae systems without an age determination in paper  ii .    if @xmath290 mag , all the fields with a good age estimate from paper  ii are complete to less than 0.1 m@xmath0 , with the only exception of the two fields around hk ori and lkh@xmath5198 . in this case ,  and @xmath30 sample the totality of the stellar population in practically all fields . if @xmath29 2 mag , the minimum mass is generally larger , ranging from @xmath31 to 0.49 m@xmath0 in hk  ori . for each field",
    "we have computed the absolute magnitude corresponding to these masses and the corresponding extinctions at k - band , then we have calculated the two _ richness indicators _ discussed in sect .",
    "[ sres ] considering , in each field , only the stars with magnitude lower than the computed one . in this way , under the assumption",
    "that the mean extinction is approximately the same in all fields ( and for all stars in each field ) , we have calculated mass limited _",
    "richness indicators_. the values of @xmath13 and i@xmath12 for a@xmath24 and 2 ( @xmath32,@xmath33 , i@xmath34 and i@xmath35 ) are reported in table  [ trind ] , columns  69 . since some of the fields without an estimate of the age of the herbig  ae",
    "/ be star have mass sensitivities lower than our limits ( which are based on hk  ori ) , some of the values reported are lower limits ( indicated by @xmath36 ) .    in fig .",
    "[ fnckspm ] and  [ ficspm ] we show the behaviour of the `` mass sensitivity corrected '' indicators . fig .",
    "[ fnckspm ] clearly shows that trend detected in fig .",
    "[ fncksp ] is completely cancelled by the bias introduced by the contamination from field stars .",
    "in fact , since the late type stars are older than early type the absolute magnitude corresponding to the same mass limit is higher for the ae systems than for the be systems , and since this discrepancy is not compensated by the difference in distance , we are effectively counting more field objects in ae fields than in be fields . on the contrary , fig .  [ ficspm ] clearly shows the same trend as fig .",
    "[ ficsp ] supporting our conclusion of a dependence of  on the spectral type of the herbig ae / be star . therefore",
    "in the following we will use  which has a higher signal to noise ratio than i@xmath34 and i@xmath35 .",
    "in paper  i we suggested the presence of a threshold for the appearence of clusters around herbig stars of spectral type earlier than @xmath37b7 .",
    "the results discussed in the previous section confirm the property that be systems are associated with more conspicuous groups than the ae systems . although the identification of a critical spectral type ( or mass ) is no longer evident in the complete sample , it is worth noting that no stars later than b9 show large groups , i.e. their i@xmath12 is @xmath38 .",
    "this general result raises some important issues : ( 1 ) is this difference between be and ae system related to a different location in the galaxy ? ( 2 ) since ae systems are generally older than be systems , could the disappearence of the cluster be an evolutionary effect ?",
    "( 3 ) what is the typical environment in which intermediate mass stars form ? ( 4 ) does the standard accretion scenario for the formation of herbig stars need to be replaced by formation in clusters ?    the first question is easy to answer . we do not find evidence for a dependence of the clustering properties with the galactic position of the target star , shown in paper  ii .",
    "we must caution , however , that most of the observed stars lie in the outer regions of the galaxy , due to the selection effect introduced by our observing sites in the northern hemisphere .",
    "although we do not expect an opposite result toward the inner galaxy , we must await the results of a similar study on a southern sample before generalizing our conclusion .",
    "following the age estimates given in paper  ii , our sample of herbig  ae / be stars covers the range of ages from @xmath39 to 10  myr . as noted above , ae stars tend to be older than be stars .",
    "thus , it is possible that the variation of the _ richness indicators _ from be to ae systems is caused by some evolutionary effect .",
    "it is possible that a stellar group composed by few tens or hundreds of objects could be dispersed on a timescale of a few million years and become undetectable ( i.e. confused with the field stars ) in older systems .    in order to explore this possibility",
    "more quantitatively , we show in fig .",
    "[ fage ] the run of i@xmath12 as a function of the age for the 25 fields with an age determination of the herbig star ( see table  2 of paper  ii ) .",
    "the lack of stars with high values of i@xmath12 for ages greater than 2  myr is related to the fact that our sample does not contain be stars of that age .",
    "however , it is worth noting that for be systems ( filled circles in fig .",
    "[ fage ] ) younger than 2  myr we find high and low values of i@xmath12 at any age .    from the figure",
    "we see that it does not seem to exist a correlation between the age of the herbig star and the presence of a cluster .",
    "the correlation is only with the spectral type ( or mass ) .",
    "stars earlier than b7 have clusters or not independently of their age ; stars later than b7 do not have clusters and are on average older than the rest .",
    "if we say for convenience that a cluster is detected for @xmath40 , the oldest star surrounded by a cluster is xy  per with an age of 2 myr .",
    "since stars of age greater than @xmath374 myr do not have clusters , there are two possibilities to account for such property : these stars did form in relative isolation or the attending cluster has by now disappeared .",
    "the former explanation is obvious and does not require any further comment .",
    "the second alternative is theoretically more interesting and we have performed several n - body simulations to verify under which conditions the dynamical evolution of a small cluster can evolve so rapidly to dissipate the majority of its members in a time scale less than @xmath374  myr .",
    "we have considered models containing @xmath41100 , 150 and 200 stars starting from different initial conditions ( virialized and non virialized clusters ) and with varying frequency distributions of stellar masses ( salpeter , scalo , kroupa and uniform mass ) .",
    "the half - mass radius was varied between 0.4 and 0.7 pc and the typical velocity dispersion was 2 km s@xmath42 .",
    "thus , the clusters are initially richer and larger than those actually observed around herbig stars characterized by i@xmath4330 - 40 and a radius of @xmath370.2 pc .",
    "we have also varied the upper limit of the most massive object from 20 m@xmath0 , corresponding to a o9 star , to 2 m@xmath0 , corresponding to an a5 star .",
    "it is well known that the dynamical evolution of cluster models is very dependent on the choice of the imf , especially in what concerns the effects of mass segregation at early times ( e.g. de la fuente marcos 1995 , 1997 ) .",
    "we have not considered the presence of primordial binaries in the initial population .    for most runs",
    ", we have found that it is very difficult to loose a significant fraction of stars in the initial few crossing times , as required by the age constraints of the herbig stars .",
    "the only cases where the stellar population decreases to less than half the initial value in about ten crossing times are those characterized by the lowest number of stars ( @xmath41100 in our models ) distributed in mass according to a salpeter imf .",
    "the first point is a critical one , since the evaporation time increases very rapidly with the number of stars .",
    "even models with @xmath41150 do not evolve sufficiently rapidly .",
    "as for the imf , the result is acceptable even though we know that a single power - law approximation must break down at subsolar values .",
    "more important , however , is the sensitivity of the evolution to the upper limit of the mass distribution .",
    "only if the most massive star exceeds 5  m@xmath0 , the evolution is fast enough that the system loses many members in several crossing times .",
    "otherwise , it is impossible to modify the cluster composition in a few million years .",
    "now , since a 5  m@xmath0 corresponds to a b6 zams star , it is clear that herbig stars of later types which were formed in relatively small clusters would have retained the original population of companions at the observed age . _",
    "therefore , we conclude that the fact that we do not see evidence for the presence of clusters around stars of type later than about b7-b8 is an imprint of the stellar formation mode rather than the consequence of the dynamical evolution of a presently dispersed cluster . on the other hand , the absence of clusters around some of the early type b stars could result from the dynamical evolution , especially in case of a relatively small initial population_.      0.3 cm    the values of @xmath13 and i@xmath12 can be transformed into star ( or effective star ) volume densities using the average cluster radius of 0.2 pc and assuming spherical clusters .",
    "the logarithm of the stellar densities in sources per cubic parsec are reported in the last two columns of table  [ trind ] .",
    "this estimates of the stellar densities are affected by large uncertainties ( as high as 30% , hillenbrand  @xcite ) , due to the unknown depth of the clusters along the line of sight and the neglection of concentration effects , but it is a useful approximation to be used for comparing the various regions .",
    "the resulting distributions shown in fig .  [ frho ] confirm the apparent trend discussed in sect .  2 and put on a firmer ground the suggestion of hillenbrand ( 1995 ) of a physical relationship between cluster density and the maximum mass of the herbig star . for comparison ,",
    "we also show in fig .",
    "[ frho ] the stellar density range of the t tauri aggregates found in taurus - auriga by gomez et al .",
    "( @xcite ) ( shown as the solid line at g / k , not to scale ) , and the same quantity for the trapezium cluster ( mccaughrean & stauffer  @xcite ; hillenbrand  @xcite ) .",
    "the conclusion is evident : _ intermediate mass stars mark the transition from low density aggregates of @xmath38 stars per cubic parsec of t tauri stars to dense clusters of @xmath44 stars per cubic parsec associated with early - type stars_.      the conventional theory of protostellar infall successfully accounts for the formation and early stellar evolution of low- and intermediate - mass stars up to about 10 m@xmath0 .",
    "the location of the stellar birthline and the distribution of the observed t tauri and herbig ae / be stars in the hr diagram are in excellent agreement with the theoretical predictions ( palla & stahler 1990 , 1993 ) . protostars more massive than about 10 m@xmath0 burn hydrogen while still in the accretion phase and therefore join the main sequence , implying that stars of even higher mass have no contracting pms phase .",
    "observations of clusters such as ngc  6611 and the dense regions of the trapezium cluster support this finding ( e.g. hillenbrand 1993 , 1998 ) .",
    "however , the accretion scenario of isolated protostars fails to explain the existence of massive stars .",
    "radiation pressure by photons produced at the stellar and disk surfaces on the infalling gas begins to become significant at about the critical mass of 10 - 15 m@xmath0 ( e.g. larson & starrfield 1974 ; yorke & krugel 1977 ) .",
    "this limit can be increased by considering variations in the dust properties ( abundances and sizes ) or in the mass accretion rate ( wolfire & cassinelli 1987 ) .",
    "but in either case the required conditions are so extreme ( dust depletion by at least one order of magnitude and accretion rates of at least 10@xmath45  m@xmath0  yr@xmath42 ) that can not reasonably apply in all circumstances .",
    "any departure of the infall from spherical symmetry can also help to shift the critical mass to very massive objects ( e.g. nakano 1989 ; jijina & adams 1996 ) .",
    "the fact that , as we have seen , stars form in groups and clusters rather than in isolation may offer an alternate mechanism to circumvent the problem of the high luminosity of massive stars and the negative feedback on the accreting gas .",
    "accretion processes in clusters has long been advocated to explain the shape of the initial mass function ( zinnecker 1982 ; larson 1992 ; price and podsiadlowski 1995 ) , and to account for the location of massive stars in the cluster centers ( bonnell et al .",
    "1997 ) . very recently ,",
    "bonnell et al . (",
    "1998 ) have presented model calculations of the dynamical evolution of rich , young clusters that show that accretion - induced collisions of low- and intermediate - mass stars ( formed in the standard accretion mode ) can result in the formation of more massive objects in time scales less than 10@xmath46 years .",
    "however , the process requires a critical stellar / protostellar density so that collisions and merging are frequent .",
    "for the formation of a star of mass of @xmath3750 m@xmath0 , an initial density of @xmath4710@xmath2 stars pc@xmath45 is required .",
    "this is the typical density observed in the central regions of large clusters such as the orion nebula cluster where stars so massive are indeed present , but it is hardly the case for the stars of our sample . as shown in fig .",
    "[ frho ] , the highest stellar volume densities are limited to about 2@xmath4810@xmath49 stars pc@xmath45 , almost an order of magnitude lower than the minimum value for the efficient collisional build - up of massive stars .",
    "these densities are found for stars of spectral type b0-b2 , i.e. with zams masses of about 20 to 10 m@xmath0 .",
    "thus , these stars are at the borderline between the conditions of isolated and collisional accretion mechanisms .",
    "it would be extremely interesting to extend the bonnell et al .",
    "( 1998 ) models to less extreme conditions on the stellar density in order to explore the dynamical evolution of clusters resembling those observed around herbig be stars . based on the observational evidence , we may conclude that _ in most cases , the formation of herbig stars can be understood in terms of the conventional accretion scenario , whereas for the most massive members of this group dynamical interactions in the cluster core and residual gas accretion can be of importance in determining the final mass , even though the observed stellar density is never extremely high_.",
    "using the techniques described in paper  i , we have analyzed the near - infrared observations of the fields surrounding herbig ae / be stars presented in paper  ii with the goal of identifying and characterizing the presence of ( partially ) embedded clusters formed around the intermediate - mass stars .",
    "we have examined 44 fields around stars ranging in spectral types from a7 to o9 .",
    "the main results of these studies can be summarized as follows .",
    "we have confirmed and extended the correlation between the spectral type ( or mass ) of the herbig stars and the number of nearby , lower mass objects , first noted by hillenbrand ( 1995 ) .",
    "rich clusters with densities up to 10@xmath49 pc@xmath45 only appear around stars earlier than b5 , corresponding to a mass of about 6 m@xmath0 .",
    "conversely , a - type stars are never accompanied by conspicuous groups and the typical density is less than 50 pc@xmath45 .",
    "however , the transition between formation in loose groups and in clusters does not occur sharply around spectral type b7 as we suggested in paper  i. the appearence of denser stellar groups is quite smooth moving from ae to be systems , thus suggesting that intermediate - mass stars fill naturally the gap between the low - density , low - mass aggregates and the high - density , high - mass clusters .    using a richness indicator , i@xmath12 , based on stellar surface density profiles ,",
    "we have identified three regimes for the distribution of stars around herbig ae / be stars : rich clusters characterized by values of i@xmath1440 ; small clusters or aggregates with @xmath15i@xmath16 , and small aggregates or background stars for lower values of i@xmath12 .",
    "herbig stars with rich clusters are rare : only three stars of the sample definitely belong to the first group , whereas in other cases we have indication that the star counts may severely underestimate the actual stellar density .",
    "the typical cluster size is @xmath370.2 pc irrespective of the richness of the clusters .",
    "this value is remarkably close to the dimension of dense cores in molecular clouds .",
    "the majority of herbig stars ( 65% ) are found in the last regime , showing no enhancement above the background stellar density .",
    "all the stars with spectral types later than b9 belong to this regime and are generally older than be stars .",
    "this result is not affected by different sensitivities to the lowest masses in different fields . from dynamical considerations , we conclude that the absence of clusters around late - be and ae stars is an imprint of stellar formation in relatively isolated cores ( as in the case of t tauri stars ) , and not the result of rapid cluster evolution and dispersion .",
    "the fact that the most massive herbig stars have clusters strongly supports the notion that their formation has been influenced by dynamical interactions with lower mass stars and/or protostellar cores .",
    "it is no coincidence that the onset of clusters manifests at a mass of about 8 - 10 m@xmath0 where the conventional accretion scenario for isolated protostars faces severe theoretical problems .",
    "future studies of the formation and evolution of these stars should take into account the observational evidence for high stellar density environments .",
    "it is a pleasure to thank alessandro navarrini for his help with the n - body simulations described in this paper .",
    "this project was partly supported by asi grant ars 96 - 66 and by cnr grant 97.00018.ct02 to the osservatorio di arcetri .",
    "support from cnr - nato advanced fellowship program and from nasa s _ origins of solar systems _ program ( through grant nagw4030 ) is gratefully acknowledged .",
    "adams f.c . &",
    "fatuzzo m. 1996 , apj , 464 , 256 aspin c. , & barsony m. , 1994 , a&a , 288 , 849 barsony m. , schombert j.m . , kis - halas k. , 1991 , apj , 379 , 221 bonnell , i.a . ,",
    "bate , m.r . ,",
    "clarke , c.j . ,",
    "pringle , j.e .",
    "1997 , mnras , 285 , 201 bonnell , i.a . ,",
    "bate , m.r . ,",
    "zinnecker , h. 1998 , mnras , 298 , 93 carpenter j.m . ,",
    "meyer m.r .",
    ", dougados c. , strom s.e . ,",
    "hillenbrand l.a . , 1997 ,",
    "aj , 114 , 198 dantona f. & mazzitelli i. , 1994 , apjs , 90 , 467 de la fuente marcos , r. 1995 , a&a , 301 , 407 de la fuente marcos , r. 1997 , a&a , 322 , 764 finkenzeller u. , & mundt r. , 1984 , a&as , 55 , 109 fuente a. , martn - pintado j. , bchiller r. , neri r. , palla f. , 1998 , a&a , 334 , 253 gomez m. , hartmann l. , kenyon s.j . , hewett r. , 1993 , aj , 105 , 1927 herbig g.h .",
    ", 1960 , apjs , 4 , 337 hillenbrand l.a . ,",
    "1995 , ph.d .",
    "thesis , university of massachusets hillenbrand l.a .",
    ", 1997 , aj , 113 , 1733 hillenbrand l.a . ,",
    "meyer m.r .",
    ", strom s.e . , 1995 ,",
    "aj , 109 , 280 hillenbrand l.a . , strom s.e . , vrba f.j . ,",
    "keene j. , 1992 , apj , 397 , 613 hillenbrand l.a . ,",
    "massey , p. , strom s.e . ,",
    "merrill , m.k .",
    "1993 , aj , 106 , 1906 jijina , j. , adams , f.c .",
    "1996 , apj , 462 , 874 lada e.a .",
    ", strom k.m . ,",
    "myers p.c.,1993 , in _ protostars and planets iii _ , e.h .  levy & j.i .",
    "lunine eds . , ( tucson : the university of arizona press ) , p.245 larson , r.b . , starrfield , s. 1971 , a&a , 13 , 190 larson , r.b .",
    "1992 , mnras , 256 , 641 li w. , evans n.j.ii , harvey p.m. , colom c. , 1994 , apj , 433 , 199 mccaughrean m.j . & stauffer j.r .",
    ", 1994 , aj , 108 , 1382 nakano , t. 1989 , apj , 345 , 464 palla f. & stahler s.w .",
    "1990 , apj , 360 , l47 palla f. & stahler s.w .",
    "1993 , apj , 418 , 414 palla f. , testi l. , hunter t.r .",
    ", taylor g.b . , prusti t. , et al .",
    "1995 , a&a , 293 , 521 plazy f. & mnard f. 1997 , in `` _ low mass star formation from infall to outflow _ '' , iau symp .",
    "182 , eds .",
    "f.  malbet & a.  castets , p.  36 price , n.m .",
    "& podsiadlowski , ph . 1995 , mnras , 273 , 1041 testi l. , palla f. , prusti t. , natta a. , maltagliati s. , 1997 , a&a , 320 , 159 , paper  i testi l. , palla f. , natta a. , 1998 , a&as , 133 , 81 , paper  ii th p.s",
    ". , de winter d. , & prezm.r .",
    ", 1994 , a&as , 104 , 315 wolfire , m.g . ,",
    "cassinelli , j. 1987 , apj , 319 , 850 yorke , h.w . ,",
    "krgel , e. 1977 , a&a , 54 , 183 zinnecker , h. 1982 in symposium on the orion nebula to honour henry draper , eds .",
    "glassgold et al .",
    ", new york academy of sciences , p. 226 zinnecker h. , mccaughrean m.j .",
    ", wilking b.a . , 1993 , in _ protostars and planets iii _ ,",
    "e.h .  levy & j.i .",
    "lunine eds . , ( tucson : the university of arizona press ) , p.429"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the large body of near infrared observations presented in testi et al .  </S>",
    "<S> ( @xcite ; @xcite ) are analysed with the aim of characterizing the young stellar clusters surrounding herbig  ae / be stars . </S>",
    "<S> the results confirm the tendency of early be stars to be surrounded by dense clusters of lower mass `` companions '' , while ae stars are never found to be associated with conspicuous groups . </S>",
    "<S> the transition between the different environments appears to occur smoothly from ae to be stars without a sharp threshold .    </S>",
    "<S> no correlation of the richness of the stellar groups detected is found with the galactic position or the age of the central herbig  ae / be star .    </S>",
    "<S> the stellar volume densities estimated for the groups surrounding pre  main - sequence stars of intermediate mass show the transition from the low density aggregates of t tauri stars and the dense clusters around massive stars .    only the most massive stars ( 10 - 20  m@xmath0 ) are found to be associated with dense ( @xmath1 ) stellar clusters . </S>",
    "<S> this is exactly the mass regime at which the conventional accretion scenario for isolated star formation faces theoretical problems . </S>",
    "<S> thus our findings strongly supports the idea that the formation of high - mass stars is influenced by dynamical interaction in a young cluster environment . </S>"
  ]
}