{
  "article_text": [
    "black hole candidate ( bhc ) x - ray binaries ( tanaka & lewin 1995 ) are believed to consist of an accreting black hole with a mass in the range @xmath0m@xmath1m@xmath2 ( see e.g. charles 1999 for a review of the dynamical evidence for black holes in these systems ) .",
    "four bhc systems in our galaxy ( cyg x-1 , gx 339 - 4 , 1e1740.7 - 2942 and grs 1758 - 258 ) and two in the lmc ( lmc x-1 and lmc x-3 ) are persistent x - ray sources , in the sense that their x - ray emission is more or less constant over time ( which means , in effect , over several decades since their discoveries ) .",
    "several more systems , the soft x - ray transients ( sxts ) , are known only to have undergone a handful of x - ray outbursts during the history of x - ray astronomy , but it is these systems which offer the most convincing dynamical evidence for black holes .",
    "charles ( 1999 ) lists several such systems , which include a 0620 - 00 , gro j0422 + 32 , gs 2000 + 25 and grs 1124 - 68 . generally speaking ,",
    "these x - ray outbursts of the sxts are accompanied by radio outbursts ( hjellming & han 1995 ; kuulkers et al .",
    "1999 ) .",
    "it was initially realised that black holes displayed at least two spectral states , ` high ' ( in this paper high / soft ) and ` low ' ( low / hard ) , based upon the strength of their soft ( @xmath3 few kev ) x - ray emission ( tanaka & lewin 1995 ) . an ` off ' state was first reported for gx 339 - 4 by markert et al .",
    "additionally , the ` very high ' ( miyamoto et al . 1991 ) and ` intermediate ' ( mndez & van der klis 1997 ) states have been identified .",
    "mndez , belloni & van der klis ( 1998 ) have shown that even unusual systems like the ` superluminal ' transient gro j1655 - 50 display these ` canonical ' states .",
    "the physical interpretation of the different states is based upon an origin for the soft x - ray component in an accretion disc and the hard x - ray component via comptonisation of softer photons in a corona of high - energy electrons .",
    "the most popular current models invoke a truncated accretion disc in the low / hard x - ray state , inside of which may be an advection - dominated flow ( e.g. esin et al . 1998 ) , and the presence of a strong comptonising corona . in the high / soft state the disc component dominates and the corona is smaller and cooler . in the very high state",
    "both the disc and corona are strong ; the intermediate state may be similar but at a lower overall luminosity .",
    "how does radio emission relate to black hole state transitions ? for the transient sources the radio emission is generally ( although not always ) associated with one or more discrete ejections , the first ( and generally foremost ) of which is associated with the rapid rise ( corresponding to something like a off@xmath4high / soft state transition in the space of a day or so ) of x - ray emission at the time of the outburst .",
    "the evidence for discrete ejections comes from both direct imaging and the radio light curves ( discrete peaks ) and radio spectra ( rapidly evolving to optically thin and subsequently decaying ) observed ( e.g. kuulkers et al . 1999 ) . as well as the transients , the persistent sources cyg x-1 ( zhang et al . 1998 ) and maybe also gx 339 - 4 ( corbel et al . in prep ) show flaring at times of state transitions .      how does radio emission relate to canonical state outside of state transitions ? we know from the x - ray transients that radio emission is pretty weak ( often undetectable ) during x - ray quiescence @xmath5 off state .",
    "this is supported by weak radio detections of gx 339 - 4 when at very low x - ray flux levels ( corbel et al . in prep ; fig 1 ) .",
    "cyg x-1 and gx 339 - 4 are generally observed in the low / hard x - ray state , and reveal very similar characteristics , namely weak ( few mjy at cm wavelengths ) but steady radio emission with a flat / inverted radio spectrum ( i.e. spectral index @xmath6 ) which is correlated with both soft and hard x - ray emission over approximately a factor of two in intensity ( brocksopp et al . 1999 and references therein ; hannikainen et al .",
    "1998 ; corbel et al . in prep ) .",
    "the radio emission from cyg x-1 is additionally modulated at the 5.6-day orbital period ( pooley , fender & brocksopp 1999 ; brocksopp et al .",
    "1999 ) , probably due to free - free absorption in the dense stellar wind of the massive companion star .",
    "models for flat / inverted radio emission generally invoke a partially self - absorbed outflow of the kind originally envisaged for agn cores by blandford & knigl ( 1979 ) .",
    "this is supported by the large size scale required ( a sphere with radius greater than the binary separation of cyg x-1 is required to generate the observed cm - wavelength emission ) .",
    "final confirmation of the jet hypothesis has come from vlba observations of an extension on mas - scales from cyg x-1 ( stirling et al .",
    "1997 ; de la force et al . in prep )",
    ".        as well as the persistent sources cyg x-1 and gx 339 - 4 , some x - ray transients also spend extended periods in the low / hard state ( e.g. gro j0422 + 32 , gs 2023 + 338/v404 cyg ) .",
    "these systems also display a flat radio spectrum with comparable luminosity to cyg x-1 and gx 339 - 4 , when in the low / hard state ( fender , in prep ) .",
    "it was already suspected that the radio flux density in cyg x-1 dropped significantly when the system was in the high / soft x - ray state .",
    "dramatic confirmation that this was a phenomenon shared by other bhcs came from long - term monitoring of gx 339 - 4 at radio , soft- and hard - x - ray energies , in which it was found that the radio emission from the system was reduced by a factor @xmath7 during a year - long period in the high / soft state ( fender et al .",
    "figure 1 demonstrates this result , encompassing low / hard , high / soft , low / hard and finally off states during the period of our monitoring program ( corbel et al . in prep ) , and dramatically reveals the extremely strong correlation between hard x - ray and radio emission .",
    "is the outflow physically suppressed during this state or cooled ( via inverse compton losses ) so rapidly by the more luminous disc that the electrons no longer produce synchrotron emission ?",
    "the answer to this is unclear , but at least one ( naive ) argument , the evidence for radio emission during the ( even more luminous ) very high state ( see below ) , suggests physical suppression of the jet .    note",
    "that while many x - ray transients appear , at face value , to be radio - bright whilst in the high / soft state , more careful scrutiny reveals that the radio emission is usually just the decaying tail of emission from the flare event at the start of the outburst ( i.e. at the state transition ) , which is by then physically decoupled from the system .",
    "the very high state is much rarer than the low / hard or high / soft states , and few clear examples exist of radio observations of this state .",
    "gx 339 - 4 , while having previously entered this state ( miyamoto et al . 1991 ) , has not done so since radio monitoring began .",
    "gs 1124 - 683 also spent an extended period in the very high state ( miyamoto et al .",
    "1993 ) , during which time there _ was _ radio coverage ( for at least 30 days  kuulkers et al .",
    "1999 and references therein ) , revealing fairly bright and variable emission .",
    "however , the radio coverage does not appear to have been good enough to distinguish between rapid radio variability ( as in grs 1915 + 105 , see below ) , or simply two large , discrete ejections .",
    "belloni ( 1998 ) has suggested that grs 1915 + 105 , when exhibiting its highly variable ` dipping ' behaviour , may be in the very high state .",
    "this pattern of behaviour is associated with bright and repeated flare events with a flat spectrum from the radio  mm  infrared , which are most likely associated with discrete ejection events @xmath5 transient jet formation ( fender & pooley 1998 and references therein ) .",
    "the intermediate state may be similar to the very high state , but at lower luminosity levels , but again there has been no good radio coverage of this state .",
    ".the relation of radio emission to black hole x - ray state . [ cols=\"^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     we are now in a position to be able to characterise the relation of radio emission from bhc x - ray binaries to their ` state ' as defined observationally by their x - ray spectral and timing properties , except for the intermediate state , for which there is no clear case of simultaneous radio observations .",
    "this relation is summarised in fig 2 and table 1 .",
    "several implications are quite clear    * the low / hard state supports a quasi - continuous outflow whose contribution to the overall energetics of the system is likely to be significant . in this state",
    "there is a three - way correlation between radio , soft- and hard - x - rays , which may reflect small changes in the accretion rate",
    ". the off state may simply be the low / hard state ` turned down ' to lower accretion rates .",
    "* in the high / soft state the radio emission drops below detectable levels , probably corresponding to the physical disappearnce of the jet .",
    "it is this state , in both radio and x - ray emission , which is most different to the other states . * rapid changes in the accretion disc radius ( or whatever it is that is physically changing which is currently modelled as an inner disc radius ! ) correspond to discrete ejections , which appear as radio ( and sometimes mm and infrared ) flares .",
    "this mechanism may be operating in analogous ways in both general state transitions and in the very high state .",
    "* there is an extremely strong correlation between radio and hard x - ray emission .",
    "the radio emission has been _ directly observed _ to arise in outflows and to originate in synchrotron emission from a population of high - energy electrons .",
    "the hard x - ray emission is _ inferred _ to arise via comptonisation by a similar population of electrons ( albeit the low - energy tail of the distribution ) .",
    "furthermore both components , the jet and corona , are believed to originate at the centre of the accretion disc , in the vicinity of the black hole . by far",
    "the simplest interpretation therefore is that the comptonising corona , at least in the case of bhc systems , is simply the base of the jet .",
    "a simple observational relation between black hole state and radio emission , and hence accretion and jet formation , has now been established for the bhc systes .",
    "furthermore all the evidence points to the comptonising corona in these systems being physically related to the presence of a jet .",
    "the next stage will be to investigate these relations quantitatively .",
    "rpf would like to thank mariano mndez , eric ford , jeroen homan and michiel van der klis for stimulating discussions .",
    "charles p.a . , 1999 , _",
    "black holes in our galaxy : observations _ , in : abramowicz , m.  a. , bjrnsson , g. , pringle , j.  e. ( eds ) , theory of black hole accretion discs , cambridge contemporary astrophysics , cup , 1998 , p.1            hjellming , r.  m. , han , x. , 1995 , _ radio properties of x - ray binaries _ , in : lewin , w.  h.  g. , van paradijs , j. , van der heuvel , e.  p.  j. ( eds . ) , x - ray binaries , cambridge university press , cambridge , 308330                      zhang s.n . , mirabel i.f .",
    ", harmon b.a . , kroeger r.a .",
    ", rodrguez l.f . , hjellming r.m . ,",
    "rupen m.p . , 1997 , _ galactic black hole binaries : multifrequency connections _ , in : dermer c.d .",
    ", strickman m.s .",
    ", kurfess j.d .",
    "( eds . ) , proc .",
    "4th compton symposium , aip , p.141"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> an empirical relation between ` canonical ' x - ray states in black hole x - ray binaries and radio emission is presented . in the low / hard state </S>",
    "<S> a quasi - continuous radio - emitting jet is produced . in the the high / soft state the jet is not observed . in the very high state and at major state transitions , which may correspond physically to rapid and/or significant changes in the inner accretion disc radius , discrete ejection events , which manifest themselves as radio flares , are observed . </S>",
    "<S> these relations appear to hold for both transient and persistent systems . </S>",
    "<S> furthermore it is argued that the extremely strong coupling between hard x - rays and radio emission from black hole x - ray binaries implies that the comptonising corona is simply the base of the jet . </S>"
  ]
}