{
  "article_text": [
    "sco  x-2 is one of the persistently bright neutron star low - mass x - ray binaries known as z sources .",
    "z sources are so - named because , over time , they trace out a ` z ' shaped track in an x - ray colour - colour ( cd ) and hardness - intensity ( hid ) diagram . the top of the ` z ' is called the horizontal branch ( hb ) , the diagonal is the normal branch ( nb ) , and the bottom is the flaring branch ( fb ) ( hasinger & van  der  klis @xcite ) . inferred mass - accretion rate increases from the hb , through the nb , to the fb .",
    "the mass - accretion rate is thought to reach the eddington limit at the bottom of the nb , and is super - eddington in the fb .",
    "the five other traditional z sources are : sco  x-1 , gx  17 + 2 , cyg  x-2 , gx  340 + 0 and gx  5@xmath11 .",
    "a related class of objects are the atoll sources ; they exhibit a curved track in a colour - colour diagram ( hasinger & van  der  klis @xcite ) .      through the study of the x - ray fast - time variability of low - mass x - ray binaries ,",
    "we are able to investigate mass - accretion processes ; in particular , the fast - time variability is a signature of the flow of matter near the compact object ( see review van  der  klis @xcite ) . the typical power spectral properties of z and atoll sources",
    "are correlated with position in the cd ( hasinger & van  der  klis @xcite ; also van  der  klis @xcite ) .    on the hb ,",
    "z sources typically exhibit six variability components that are phenomenologically related ( e.g. , homan  et  al . @xcite and references therein ) : a band - limited noise component with cut - off frequency in the range 210  hz , called low frequency noise ( lfn ) ; a quasi - periodic oscillation ( qpo ) in the range 1560  hz , known as the horizontal branch oscillation ( hbo ) ; a broad sub - hbo peak located between the lfn and hbo , and which has been identified as a sub - harmonic of the hbo ; a second harmonic to the hbo ; and a pair of qpos in the range 2001130  hz , called khz qpos .    on the nb and lower part of the fb",
    "there is a qpo in the range 620  hz ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite ; dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ; homan et  al .",
    "@xcite ) . on the nb ,",
    "it is known as a normal branch oscillation ( nbo ) , and its frequency is roughly constant near 6  hz . with movement through the nb / fb vertex the mean frequency and full - width - at - half - maximum ( fwhm ) of the qpo rise rapidly .",
    "it is then known as a flaring branch oscillation ( fbo ) , and becomes indistinguishable from the underlying continuum at about 1020  per  cent of the way up that branch .",
    "some of the features seen in the hb are also sometimes seen on the nb and fb . in sco  x-1 ,",
    "van  der  klis  et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that the nbo appeared to ` peak - up ' out of the lfn . in gx  17 + 2 ,",
    "homan  et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that the nbo and lfn existed simultaneously , and were separate features .",
    "they also observed a peaked noise feature in the fb , in addition to an fbo , which they identified as lfn .    a power - law noise component , called very low frequency noise ( vlfn ) , exists throughout the z track , and is stronger at higher mass - accretion rates and at higher energies ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite ) .",
    "van  der  klis ( @xcite ) suggested that it is produced by the variations in intensity that are associated with movement along the z track .",
    "dieters & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) constructed power spectra of rank number ( see section  [ sect : cohidaps ] ) , in the frequency range 3@xmath210@xmath30.01  hz , and also of intensity , in the range 8@xmath40.2  hz .",
    "they found that the power - law indices from the rank number power spectra were consistent with those from the intensity power specta , although we note that the uncertainties on the rank number power - law indices were quite large .",
    "if vlfn is due to movement along the z track , then the speed of that movement should be correlated with the vlfn strength .",
    "dieters & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) found this to be the case in sco  x-1 , homan et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that the correlation exists in some parts of the z track of gx  17 + 2 , and wijnands et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that the vlfn strength in cyg  x-2 did not vary monotonically with speed .",
    "finally , a noise component with a cut - off frequency in the range 30100  hz , called high frequency noise ( hfn ) , has also been observed ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite ) .    at their lowest inferred mass - accretion rates",
    "atoll sources exhibit : a band - limited noise component , modelled using a broken power - law with a break frequency in the range 0.132  hz , called ( rather confusingly ) high frequency noise ; low frequency qpos or broad peaks in the range 167  hz ; and khz qpos . except for the khz qpos , these features are very similar to those seen in black hole candidates ( bhcs ) ( e.g. , wijnands & van  der  klis @xcite and references therein ) . in atoll",
    "souces vlfn dominates at higher mass - accretion rates .",
    "a correlation was found in z sources and atoll sources between the frequencies of the khz qpos , and the hbo or 167  hz qpo ; the same correlation was found between features in the power spectra of bhcs ( psaltis , belloni & van  der  klis @xcite ; also psaltis et  al .",
    "@xcite ) . wijnands & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) discovered another correlation in atoll sources and bhcs , between the break frequency of the band - limited noise ( the hfn in atoll sources ) , and the centroid frequency of a qpo or bump in the range 0.267  hz ( the 167  hz qpo in atoll sources ) . the same correlation was found to exist in z sources between the lfn and sub - hbo peak , and also between the sub - hbo and hbo ( wijnands & van  der  klis @xcite ; also homan et  al .",
    "van  der  klis ( @xcite , b ) , belloni , psaltis & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) , and sunyaev & revnivtsev ( @xcite ) have also made comparisons between the power spectra of bhcs and neutron star lmxbs .    there is currently much effort being put into developing models that can explain these correlations . the discovery that the power spectral components in black hole candidates follow the same correlations seen in z sources and atoll sources gives support to those models which do not depend on the presence or otherwise of a solid surface or magnetic field ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite ) .      except for the fact that sco x-2 has never been observed in the hb , its hardness - intensity diagram looks nearly identical to that of sco  x-1 ( e.g. , schulz , hasinger & trmper @xcite ) .",
    "therefore , one might expect the fast - time variability of sco  x-2 to be similar to that seen in sco  x-1 .",
    "ponman , cooke & stella ( @xcite ) analysed _ exosat _ data and found broad peaked noise in the fb , with a centroid frequency , fwhm and fractional rms amplitude of roughly 5  hz , 10  hz and 3  per  cent , respectively .",
    "kuulkers & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) analysed a small _ rxte _ dataset and found that the peaked noise became narrower and moved to lower frequencies with movement from the nb into the fb .",
    "oneill et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) analysed _ ginga _ data , and found peaked noise with a centroid frequency and fwhm in the range 47  hz and 612  hz , respectively .",
    "they found that it was strongest at about 10  per  cent of the way up fb , and was present until halfway up the branch .",
    "they referred to the feature as flaring branch noise ( fbn ) , and concluded that : fbn is not the same as atoll source high frequency noise ; it is difficult to explain it with the model for typical normal / flaring branch oscillations ( fortner , lamb & miller @xcite ) ; and it resembles the peaked noise seen in the fb of cyg  x-2 at low overall intensities .",
    "oneill et  al . (",
    "@xcite ) also found very low frequency noise that became stronger with movement up the fb , as seen in other z sources .",
    "zhang , strohmayer & swank ( @xcite ) observed sco  x-2 with _ rxte _ in 1998 january . during those observations sco  x-2 traced out the most extensive z track ever seen from that object ; most importantly , it was found higher up in the nb than ever before .",
    "a pair of kilohertz quasi - periodic oscillations were detected at 712  hz and 978  hz , respectively , in the uppermost part of the observed nb .",
    "agrawal & bhattacharyya ( @xcite ) analysed @xmath040  ks of _ rxte _ data obtained in 1998 september and october and also found an extended nb .",
    "they detected peaked noise similar to that found in previous observations , though its fractional rms amplitude did not vary smoothly , and the feature was detected as high as 80  per  cent of the way up the fb .",
    "they found that the properties of the peaked noise were similar throughout the z track , and thus concluded that the peaked noise seen in the nb was the same as that seen in the fb .",
    "a qpo , with a centroid frequency of 3.8  hz , was detected ( 90  per  cent confidence level ) in the fb during a dip in the intensity that occurred after a flare . during the september and october observations",
    "the behaviour of the vlfn was very different to that seen previously : it was , on average , stronger in the nb than in the fb , and did not exhibit an increase in strength with movement up the fb .",
    "on the basis of phenomenology , the peaked noise observed in the nb and fb of sco  x-2 is unlikely to be an n / fbo ( e.g. , agrawal & bhattacharyya @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "first , the peaked noise seen in the nb of sco  x-2 is much broader than an nbo .",
    "second , as sco  x-2 moves from the nb , through the nb / fb vertex , and then up the fb , the centroid frequency and fwhm of the peaked noise decrease , and then stay roughly constant .",
    "this is in contrast to an n / fbo , of which , with the same movement along the track , the centroid frequency and fwhm increase rapidly .",
    "third , the peaked noise in sco  x-2 has been seen as far as 80  per  cent of the way up the fb , while fbos are only present in the lowest 1020  per  cent of that branch .",
    "zhang et  al . ( @xcite ) did not analyse the low frequency fast - time variability in detail .",
    "we , therefore , decided to reanalyse those data .",
    "our primary objectives were : to look for the lfn and hbo that are expected to accompany khz qpos ; to better understand the phenomenology of fbn ; to study the properties of the khz qpos as a function of both position on the z track and photon energy ; and , to further investigate vlfn .",
    "a preliminary account of this work has been given by oneill et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) .",
    "the _ rossi x - ray timing explorer _ ( _ rxte _ ; bradt , rothschild & swank @xcite ) proportional counter array ( pca ) observed sco  x-2 between 1 and 29 january 1998 .",
    "the @xmath0156  ks of data were recorded simultaneously in six different modes .",
    "the ` standard 2 ' mode data had a time resolution of 16  s , and sco  x-2 was visible in the energy range 2.040  kev .",
    "three ` single bit ' modes and one ` event mode ' were used , with a time resolution of 122  @xmath5s .",
    "the effective energy boundaries of the single bit and event mode data were 2.05.16.58.7  kev and 8.740  kev , respectively .",
    "we only used data in which all five proportional counter units were operating .",
    "a hardness - intensity diagram was constructed from the standard 2 data using 16  s averages , and is shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : b_rk ] .",
    "the counting rates were corrected for detector deadtime and background . in the hid ,",
    "the hardness is defined as the counting rate ratio between the energy ranges 8.719.7  kev and 6.28.7  kev , and the intensity is the counting rate in the range 2.019.7  kev .",
    "[ fig : b_rk ] shows the most complete z track ever observed from sco  x-2 ( see also zhang et  al .",
    "the counting rate at the top of the fb is a factor of 2.6 greater than the intensity at the nb / fb vertex . in comparison ,",
    "the factor was : 2.2 in _ ginga",
    "_ data ( 1.116.7  kev , 64  s averages ; oneill et  al .",
    "@xcite ) ; @xmath02.1 in the _ exosat _ data ( 110  kev , 64  s averages ; ponman et  al .",
    "@xcite ) ; and @xmath02 in the 1998 september and october _ rxte _ data ( 216  kev , 256  s averages ; agrawal & bhattacharyya @xcite ) .",
    "we note that using lower energy bands and longer averages reduces the observed maximum intensity of the fb .",
    "light curves were extracted from the single bit and event mode data , with a time resolution of 244  @xmath5s .",
    "we summed the energy resolved data to produce light curves with various energy ranges .",
    "we calculated power spectra from 16  s intervals in each light curve ; each interval corresponded exactly to one point in the hid . to investigate the 0.0625300  hz frequency range we used a logarithmic frequency rebinning scheme , while we used linear rebinning to investigate the kilohertz region .",
    "a spline was fitted through the hid , and rank numbers were calculated for each point .",
    "rank number is a one dimensional measure of position in the z track ; it was introduced by hasinger et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) , and is symbolised as s@xmath6 ( hertz et  al . @xcite ; see also dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) . it is a measure of the inferred mass - accretion rate .",
    "we defined the nb / fb vertex as s@xmath6=2 , and the top of the fb as s@xmath6=3 .",
    "average power spectra were then constructed on the basis of rank number , and were normalised to give fractional rms amplitude squared per hz . the error given for each mean",
    "s@xmath6 is the standard deviation of the rank numbers used in the average .      to investigate the low frequency fast - time variability",
    ", we fitted the resultant power spectra in the range 0.0625300  hz using : a power - law to represent very low frequency noise , lorentzians as required to represent peaked noise , and a constant to represent the deadtime - affected white - noise level .",
    "we investigated the kilohertz quasi - periodic oscillations by fitting the resultant power spectra in the range 5001200  hz , using two lorentzians and a constant .",
    "the vlfn fractional rms amplitude was measured by extrapolating the best - fitting power - law and integrating over the range 0.011  hz .",
    "the addition of a lorentzian component to a model was deemed necessary only when the probability of exceeding the @xmath7 of the best - fitting model was @xmath80.001 , and an f - test for the inclusion of the extra lorentzian was significant at or above the 3@xmath9 level .",
    "we fixed the centroid frequency and/or the fwhm of a lorentzian component either when they could not be constrained , or when a fractional rms amplitude upper limit was being measured .",
    "uncertainties in the best - fitting parameters were measured using @xmath10 , and upper limits were measured using @xmath11 ( 95  per  cent confidence level ) .",
    "we corrected the best - fitting fractional rms amplitudes for differential deadtime and channel cross - talk as appropriate ( see appendix  a ) .",
    "finally , we corrected the fractional rms amplitudes for the background counting rate ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite ) . in the low frequency power spectra , the reduction of the rms due to the binning of data was negligible ; the binning correction factor applied to the rms of the khz qpos was 1.1 ( van  der  klis @xcite ) .      to further investigate the vlfn",
    ", we constructed a hid from the single bit and event mode data using 32  s averages .",
    "we defined the hardness as the counting rate ratio between the energy ranges 8.740  kev and 6.58.7  kev , and the intensity as the counting rate in the range 2.040  kev .",
    "we calculated complex fourier spectra from both the hardness light curve and the deadtime corrected intensity light curve , using 1  s time resolution and 32  s intervals .",
    "each interval , along with its associated fourier spectrum , corresponded exactly to one point in the hid .",
    "we used 1  s time resolution so we could directly investigate the fast - time variability in the time - domain .",
    "the fourier spectra had a frequency range of 0.031250.5  hz .    for each 32  s interval we calculated complex cross spectra between the hardness and intensity .",
    "we multiplied the complex fourier amplitudes of the intensity , by the complex conjugate of the complex fourier amplitudes of the hardness ( e.g. , van  der  klis et  al .",
    "@xcite ) . at each frequency in the resultant cross spectrum",
    "there is a corresponding cross vector @xmath12 , with a real and imaginary component .",
    "the phase of the cross vector is the phase difference between the variations in hardness and the variations in intensity ; a negative phase means that hardness lags intensity .",
    "a phase of 0@xmath13 means hardness and intensity are positively correlated , and a phase of 180@xmath13 means they are anti - correlated .",
    "we then constructed average complex cross spectra . at each frequency",
    ", we averaged together the real and imaginary components from all cross spectra whose corresponding point in the hid was within a specified range of hardness and intensity .",
    "the mean amplitude and phase at each frequency was calculated from the mean real and imaginary components .",
    "the uncertainties in the mean real and imaginary components are the observed standard deviation in the mean of those components , and we determined the uncertainties in amplitude and phase by using error propagation .",
    "the phases at the nyquist frequency are always either 0@xmath13 or 180@xmath13 so they have no error bars .",
    "if , at a particular frequency , the hardness and intensity are uncorrelated , then the phases of the _ individual _ cross vectors corresponding to that frequency will be uniformly distributed between @xmath14 and @xmath15 . in this situation , the real and imaginary components of the corresponding vector @xmath16 in the _ average _ cross spectrum will have gaussian distributions with a mean of zero .",
    "the real component of @xmath16 has a variance , @xmath17 , that is equal to the variance of the imaginary component , @xmath18 .",
    "these may be calculated by using the expression    @xmath19    where @xmath20 and @xmath21 are the observed standard deviation and mean , respectively , of the amplitudes of the set of cross vectors that were averaged together , and @xmath22 is the number of vectors comprising that average .",
    "therefore , in the absence of a correlation between intensity and hardness , the squared amplitude @xmath23 of the average cross vector is distributed such that the probability of observing a @xmath23 greater than a certain threshold level @xmath24 is given by ( dieters et  al .",
    "@xcite ; dieters , private communication )    @xmath25    where    @xmath26    given an observed squared amplitude @xmath24 , the significance of the detection of a correlation , expressed as a percentage , is given by    @xmath27    the cross vector at the nyquist frequency has only a real component , so it must be treated separately . the value @xmath28 is distributed as @xmath29 with 1 degree of freedom , where @xmath30 .    for a comparison with the analytical significance levels",
    ", we also used a monte carlo simulation to determine the significance of the observed correlations .",
    "we randomised the phase difference between the hardness and intensity at each frequency , in each _ individual _ complex cross spectra , while maintaining the observed amplitudes .",
    "we then used those ` random - phase ' cross spectra to construct an average cross spectrum .",
    "we repeated this procedure 10000 times and obtained , at each frequency , the distribution of mean amplitudes that would be present if our data were actually uncorrelated . with this method ,",
    "the significance of a correlation is equal to the percentage of random - phase amplitudes that are less than the observed amplitude .",
    "we deemed the hardness and intensity to be correlated , at a particular frequency , if the significance obtained from the analytical method was at least 90  per  cent .",
    "the phases of those cross vectors with a significant correlation are presented in table  [ tab : phases ] , along with the significance we obtained from each method .",
    "the results obtained from the monte carlo method were , on average , within 0.3 per  cent significance of those found from the analytical method ( see table  [ tab : phases ] ) .",
    "we repeated the entire procedure twice .",
    "first , using a time resolution of 8  s with 256  s intervals , corresponding to the frequency range 0.003906250.0625  hz , which allowed us to investigate the frequency range in which the power - law component dominates .",
    "second , using a time resolution of 0.125  s with 4  s intervals , corresponding to the frequency range 0.254.00  hz , which allowed us to investigate the influence of low frequency noise and flaring branch noise on our cross spectra .",
    "in fig .  [ fig : f_55_s ] we present representative 0.0625300  hz power spectra from the nb ( fig .  [",
    "fig : f_55_s ]  top ; s@xmath6 range 1.531.85 ) and fb ( fig .",
    "[ fig : f_55_s ]  bottom ; s@xmath6 range 2.033.0 ) , and the various components we identified .",
    "we detected three features : very low frequency noise ; low frequency noise / flaring branch noise ; and a high frequency peaked noise component .",
    "we subdivided our data further and constructed thirteen average power spectra covering the entire z track .",
    "the best - fitting values from the thirteen average power spectra , in the range 0.0625300  hz , are presented in table  [ tab : powfits2 ] .    in table",
    "[ tab : powfits2 ] we also present the @xmath31 of each lorentzian component .",
    "this can be calculated for both a lorentzian and cut - off power - law , and it facilitates a comparison between the two forms .",
    "the @xmath31 is the frequency at which there is a maximum in a power - density - times - frequency plot , and it is a useful measure of the characteristic frequency of a power spectral feature ( e.g. , belloni et  al .",
    "@xcite ) .",
    "the kilohertz quasi - periodic oscillations were only detected at s@xmath6=1.66 . in table  [ tab : khzfits ] we present the best - fitting values of the khz qpos in the nb .",
    "we investigated the energy dependence of the khz qpos by fitting energy resolved power spectra corresponding to s@xmath6=1.66 .",
    "we fixed the centroid frequencies and fwhm at the values found from the 2.040  kev power spectrum . in the energy resolved spectra , we only detected khz qpos in the 5.140  kev range , with fractional rms amplitudes of 2.3@xmath320.2  per  cent and 2.1@xmath320.2  per  cent for the lower and upper peaks , respectively . in the energy range 2.08.7  kev , the upper limits of the rms for the lower and upper peaks were 2.1  per  cent and 1.8  per  cent , respectively . therefore , the khz qpos in sco  x-2 are hard , like those seen in other objects ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "zhang et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) fitted the khz qpos using gaussians ; we also fitted our qpos using gaussians and found best - fitting values consistent with their results .",
    "the @xmath7/degrees of freedom ( dof ) was 0.97/51 for the gaussian model , compared with 0.93/51 for the lorentzian model .    to investigate the energy dependence of the 0.0625300",
    "hz power spectral features we used energy resolved power spectra corresponding to the average spectra shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : f_55_s ] .",
    "we fixed the centroid frequencies and fwhm at the values found from the 2.040  kev spectra .",
    "the results are shown in table  [ tab : enefits ] .    in the next three subsections",
    "we describe in more detail the properties of the lfn / fbn peak , the high frequency peak , and the vlfn .    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]      + @xmath33256  s intervals .",
    "+ @xmath3432  s intervals .",
    "+ @xmath354  s intervals .",
    "using zhang  et  al.s  ( @xcite ) _ rxte _ data , we have carried out the most comprehensive investigation of the x - ray fast - time variability of sco  x-2 thus far , as a function of position on the z track .",
    "our primary discoveries are : the properties of the low frequency noise / flaring branch noise peak , and the very low frequency noise , exhibit abrupt changes with movement from the nb into the fb ; there is a peaked noise feature with a centroid frequency in the range 1154  hz , which , in the nb , may contain either one or two components ; and , very low frequency noise is not entirely due to motion along the z track .",
    "the peak we observed in the nb and fb , with a centroid frequency in the range 3.37.6  hz , is not an n / fbo : nbos are much narrower than the peak we observed ; the centroid frequency of an fbo increases rapidly with movement up the fb , in contrast to our peak ; and fbos are only present in the lowest 1020  per  cent of the fb , while the feature in sco  x-2 is present until about halfway up the branch ( see also section  [ sec : sx ] ) . given the presence of khz qpos in the upper nb , and the fact that the peak has a @xmath31 in the range 7.59.1  hz , which is consistent with the lfn found in other z sources ( e.g. , gx  17 + 2 , homan et  al .",
    "@xcite ; sco  x-1 , dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) , we argue that we have detected lfn in the nb . in the fb ,",
    "the peak is similar to the fbn found earlier in sco  x-2 ( e.g. , agrawal & bhattacharyya @xcite and references therein ) , and we identify it as such .",
    "lfn is a hard phenomenon ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite ) .",
    "for example , jonker et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that the fractional rms amplitude of the lfn in gx  340 + 0 was more than a factor of three greater in the 1360  kev band than it was in the 25  kev band .",
    "in contrast , the lfn we observed is strongest in the 6.58.7  kev band .",
    "this difference suggests that maybe we have _ not _ observed lfn , since different production mechanisms give rise to different energy dependences ( e.g. , compare hbos with nbos , van  der  klis @xcite and references therein ) .",
    "however , the fractional rms amplitude spectrum of nbos , for example , is known to differ between objects ( e.g. , van  der  klis @xcite and references therein ; dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ; dieters et  al .",
    "@xcite ) and lfn may behave similarly different per source .",
    "this suggestion can be confirmed through a sensitive investigation of the s@xmath6 dependence of the lfn that we detected , and by making a comparison with other z sources .    in previous observations of sco",
    "x-2 the properties of the peaked noise in the nb was found to be similar to that seen in the fb , suggesting that it was the same feature in both branches ( agrawal & bhattacharyya @xcite ) .",
    "we argue , for two reasons , that fbn is different to lfn : the properties of the lfn / fbn peak , as seen in fig .  [",
    "fig : fbn_val ] , exhibit abrupt changes at the nb / fb vertex ; and the energy dependence of the peak differs between nb and fb . we note that according to the ` unified model ' ( psaltis , lamb & miller @xcite ) , the inferred mass - accretion rates are expected to be sub - eddington in the nb , and super - eddington in the fb , suggesting that the mechanism producing the variability in the nb may be different to that in the fb .",
    "however , the properties of the n / fbo , for example , also differ between nb and fb , with the changes occurring near the vertex ( e.g. , dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) , and the nbo and fbo are still thought to be related .",
    "likewise , there remains the possibility that lfn evolves into fbn .",
    "our observations of fbn support the conclusions reached by oneill et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) , which were detailed in section  [ sec : sx ] .",
    "in particular , we note again the similarity between fbn and the broad peak seen in the fb of cyg  x-2 at low overall intensities ( kuulkers , wijnands & van  der  klis @xcite ; see also oneill et  al .",
    "@xcite ; agrawal & bhattacharyya @xcite ) . the feature in cyg  x-2 was fitted with a cut - off power - law , with a @xmath31 of 10@xmath323  hz .",
    "this is consistent with the fbn we observed .",
    "the peak in cyg  x-2 was not observed in the nb , with a fractional rms amplitude upper limit of 1.0  per  cent , compared with the fb rms of 2.7@xmath320.2  per  cent .",
    "an investigation of the s@xmath6 dependence of the cyg  x-2 peak will reveal whether or not it is the same phenomenon as fbn . furthermore , a stringent upper limit on the rms of the peak in the nb would support our suggestion that fbn is not the same as lfn .",
    "we now compare the lfn and fbn we observed in sco  x-2 , with the lfn observed in the nb and fb of gx  17 + 2 ( homan et  al .",
    "the @xmath31 of the lfn in the nb of sco  x-2 is generally a few hertz lower than that seen in the nb of gx  17 + 2 , and it is consistent with the @xmath31 observed in the hb . there is no abrupt decrease in the centroid frequency and increase in the fractional rms amplitude of the lfn in gx  17 + 2 , with movement from the nb into the fb , suggesting that it may not be the same as sco x-2 lfn / fbn .",
    "however , homan et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) stated that their best - fitting values of lfn in the lower nb and lower fb were probably influenced by the n / fbo that was present , so the true lfn phenomenology may have been masked .",
    "the overall behaviour of @xmath31 in the fb is similar in both objects , and the decrease in the fractional rms amplitude of the lfn in gx  17 + 2 , with movement up the fb , is remarkably similar to fbn .",
    "in contrast to the fbn we observed , the lfn in gx  17 + 2 was detected as high as about 85  per  cent of the way up the fb .",
    "but , we note again that agrawal & bhattacharyya ( @xcite ) reported the detection of peaked noise in the fb of sco  x-2 at about 80  per  cent of the way up the fb .",
    "in addition to gx  17 + 2 , a close examination of the lfn in sco  x-1 is also desirable .",
    "sco  x-1 has been observed by _",
    "rxte _ , with 260  kev counting rates of @xmath010@xmath36  counts  s@xmath37 , and these data are currently available in the archive ( e.g. , yu , van  der  klis & jonker @xcite ) . of course , more data on sco  x-2 are also required before sufficiently detailed comparisons can be made .      in the nb , we detected a high frequency peaked noise feature , with a centroid frequency in the range 1122  hz .",
    "this feature contains power at frequencies where we would expect to find high frequency noise , a horizontal branch oscillation , and/or a sub - horizontal branch oscillation ( see section  [ sec : zaasfv ] ) .",
    "we showed that the nb power spectrum could be fitted satisfactorily with a two - lorentzian model , using one lorentzian for the low frequency noise , and one for the high frequency peak ( see section  [ sec : hfp ] ) .",
    "however , at s@xmath6=1.66 , there is an excess of power in the frequency range where we would expect to find an hbo ( see fig .",
    "[ fig : f_09_s_2lore ] ) .",
    "the addition of a third lorentzian component significantly improved the fit .",
    "therefore , we shall consider both two- and three - lorentzian models for fitting the nb data .",
    "the high frequency peak , if considered as a single lorentzian , resembles z source hfn .",
    "the @xmath31 we found is consistent with that seen in other z sources ( e.g. , hasinger & van  der  klis @xcite ) , and it was stronger at higher energies , which is typical of hfn ( e.g. , dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) .",
    "however , there is some doubt as to the origin of hfn : it may be an instrumental effect from _ exosat _ ( berger & van  der  klis @xcite ) .",
    "homan et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) did not detect hfn in a large _ rxte _ dataset on gx  17 + 2 , in contrast to previous observations made by _ exosat_. they suggested that in the hb in the _ exosat _ observations , where the hfn was too strong to be an instrumental effect , the feature being fitted in power spectra may have actually been the sub - hbo peak .",
    "is then the high frequency peak , taken as a single lorentzian , a sub - hbo peak ? at the top of the observed nb , the lfn we detected had a @xmath31 of 7.5@xmath320.5  hz . the centroid frequency , fwhm and @xmath31 of the high frequency peak were 22@xmath3211  hz , 70@xmath3211  hz and 41@xmath327  hz , respectively . in comparison , when the lfn in gx  17 + 2 had a @xmath31 of @xmath07.5  hz , its sub - hbo peak had a centroid frequency , fwhm , and @xmath31 of 25.2@xmath321.3  hz , 21@xmath327  hz and 27@xmath322  hz , respectively ( homan et  al .",
    "the high frequency peak in sco  x-2 is at the expected centroid frequency of a sub - hbo , but there are some marked differences : we would expect to clearly detect an hbo when a sub - hbo peak is present ; the high frequency peak is much broader than a typical sub - hbo , which results in a much higher @xmath31 ; and , with movement down the nb , the @xmath31 of the high frequency peak in sco  x-2 _ decreased _ to 21@xmath323 , while in gx 17 + 2 the @xmath31 of the sub - hbo peak _ increased _ to a maximum of @xmath050  hz .",
    "therefore , we conclude that the high frequency peak , if considered as a single lorentzian , can not be identified as a typical manifestation of a sub - hbo .",
    "we now consider the possibility that the high frequency peak consists of two lorentzian features . at s@xmath6=1.66 , the peak",
    "could be fitted using two lorentzians , representing a possible sub - hbo and hbo . in the same part of the nb ,",
    "the lower khz qpo is at 715@xmath3212  hz .",
    "we find that , according to the correlation found by wijnands & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) , and in comparison to gx  17 + 2 ( homan et  al .",
    "@xcite ) , the frequencies of the lfn and possible sub - hbo peak we observed in sco  x-2 are consistent with expectations , assuming the presence of an hbo at 48  hz .    according to the correlation found by psaltis  et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) , when the lower khz qpo is at 715  hz the hbo is inferred to have a centroid frequency of about 60  hz .",
    "this is somewhat higher than the 48  hz centroid frequency of our possible hbo .",
    "an hbo centroid frequency of 48  hz corresponds to a lower khz qpo frequency of about 600  hz ( psaltis et  al .",
    "@xcite ; homan et  al .",
    "the hbo is sco  x-1 has only been detected with centroid frequencies in the range @xmath04050  hz , and sco  x-1 also lies off the psaltis et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) correlation ; for example , its hbo was found at @xmath045  hz , even when the lower khz qpos was at @xmath0875  hz ( van  der  klis et  al .",
    "therefore , we speculate that sco  x-2 is similar to sco  x-1 in this regard , and predict that future observations may reveal an hbo in the same frequency range as seen in sco  x-1 .    there remains a problem , however , with the interpretation of our @xmath31@xmath020  hz feature as being a z source sub - hbo .",
    "if we assume we have detected an hbo and sub - hbo in the nb power spectra at s@xmath6=1.66 and 1.79 , then , as sco  x-2 moves down the nb , the sub - hbo peak should disappear before the hbo does .",
    "this effect is clearly seen in gx  17 + 2 , in which the sub - hbo peak becomes undetectable in the middle part of the nb while the hbo is present all the way down to the fb ( homan et  al .",
    "@xcite ) . in contrast , we find that our possible hbo component disappears by s@xmath6=1.91 , while the possible sub - hbo component remains strong .",
    "furthermore , the @xmath31 and centroid frequency of the possible sub - hbo at s@xmath6=1.79 and 1.91 , are significantly lower than the maximum values observed in the nb in gx  17 + 2 ( homan et  al .",
    "@xcite ) . however , we note that the uncertainties on our measurements do allow for an increase in the possible sub - hbo centroid frequency and @xmath31 . therefore , although problematic , we can not rule out the possibility that we have observed a manifestation of a sub - hbo slightly different to that seen in gx  17 + 2 .    in summary ,",
    "if three lorentzians _ are _ required to fit the power spectrum from the upper nb , we conclude that : the frequency of the lower khz qpo , relative to the centroid frequency of the hbo , is similar to that seen in sco  x-1 ( van  der  klis et  al .",
    "@xcite ) ; and the feature with @xmath31@xmath020  hz may be a sub - hbo peak , though it must be a different manifestation to that seen in gx  17 + 2 .      since flaring branch noise is present at super - eddington inferred mass - accretion rates , where the accreting material and outgoing radiation must be separated ( e.g. , lamb @xcite ) , an adaptation of the photon bubble model ( klein et  al .",
    "@xcite ) may prove useful in explaining it .",
    "the photon bubble model was originally applied to x - ray pulsars , in which locally super - eddington accretion takes place onto the polar caps of a strongly magnetised neutron star ( klein et  al .",
    "photon bubbles are formed in the settling mound below the accretion shock .",
    "the bubbles coalesce to form larger bubbles , and then rise up and lose their photons through diffusion into the accretion shock .",
    "the result is quasi - periodic variability in the x - ray intensity , the frequency of which is primarily dependent upon the time it takes for the bubbles to coalesce .",
    "modelling showed that qpos could be produced at frequencies from as low as 20  hz to as high as 12000  hz , along with a simultaneous power - law component ( klein et  al .",
    "@xcite ; klein et  al .",
    "it would be interesting to see whether or not a similar process , operating in either a radial inflow or in the accretion funnel onto the neutron star magnetic poles , could give rise to fbn .    in the magnetospheric beat frequency model for horizontal branch oscillations ( e.g. , alpar & shaham @xcite ; lamb et  al .",
    "@xcite ; shibazaki & lamb @xcite ) , the hbo is predicted to be accompanied by a noise component at lower frequencies , with both features expected to be hard . in the power spectra of z sources",
    "it is possible to identify either the lfn or the sub - hbo peak as the noise component ( e.g. , wijnands & van  der  klis @xcite ) .",
    "the lfn that we observed in the nb was strongest at intermediate energies , suggesting that , in the context of the magnetospheric beat frequency model , either lfn is not related to the hbo , or the feature we observed is not classical lfn .",
    "we have argued in section  [ sect : lfnafbn ] that we _ have _ observed z source lfn .",
    "if we are correct , then the sub - hbo peak , rather than lfn , might be identified as the noise component that is expected to accompany the hbo .    in the relativistic precession model , the upper and lower khz qpos , and the hbo ,",
    "are all produced by the same blob orbiting in the accretion disc ( stella & vietri @xcite ; stella & vietri @xcite ; stella , vietri & morsink @xcite ) .",
    "the model makes clear predictions of the correlations between those frequencies .",
    "unfortunately , since we did not definitely detect an hbo , and the khz qpos were only detected in one part of the z track , we can not test those predictions . and",
    ", our hbo upper limits are too high to draw any meaningful conclusion about its presence or otherwise , since weaker hbos have been observed ( e.g. , in sco  x-1 ; van  der  klis et  al .",
    "if we assume that we _ have _ detected an hbo at 48  hz , with khz qpos at 715  hz and 985  hz , then the mass and spin frequency of the neutron star can be inferred from the model .",
    "judging from fig .  1 in stella & vietri ( @xcite ) , the inferred mass is @xmath02  m@xmath38 ;",
    "the other z sources have inferred masses in the range @xmath01.82.2  m@xmath38 ( stella & vietri @xcite ) .",
    "the mass of the neutron star in cyg  x-2 has been dynamically established as 1.78@xmath320.23  m@xmath38 , which is consistent with the inferred masses ( orosz & kuulkers @xcite ) .",
    "judging from fig .",
    "1(b ) in stella et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) , the inferred spin frequency , for neutron star equation of state au and an assumed mass of 1.95  m@xmath38 , is @xmath0600  hz ; the other z sources have an inferred spin frequency in the range @xmath0600900  hz ( stella et  al .",
    "@xcite ) .    in the so - called transition layer model ( e.g. , titarchuk ,",
    "osherovich & kuznetsov @xcite ) , z source lfn is the same phenomenon as atoll source hfn , and the sub - hbo peak is the same phenomenon as atoll source 167  hz qpos .",
    "both of these phenomena are due to oscillations in the transition layer between the disc and the neutron star .",
    "the hbo , the hbo second harmonic , and the upper khz qpo , are frequencies at which a blob oscillates , having been thrown out of the transition layer into the magnetosphere . the lower khz qpo is the orbital frequency at the inner edge of the disc .",
    "recently , wu ( @xcite ) found good agreement between the predictions of the model and observations of z sources and atoll sources .",
    "it is unclear how the fractional rms amplitude of lfn is predicted to vary with energy because the actual mechanism that produces that variability has not been specified ( titarchuk & osherovich @xcite ) .",
    "naturally any such mechanism that is proposed must account for the energy dependence we observed in sco  x-2 .",
    "if the transition layer model is correct , we can measure the angle @xmath39 between the plane of the accretion disc and the equator of the magnetosphere ( e.g. , titarchuk et  al .",
    "if we assume an hbo frequency of 48  hz , and use our observed khz qpo frequencies , then we infer @xmath39=56@xmath3203 , which is within the 5464 range found from the other z sources ( wu @xcite ) .",
    "the sub - hbo seen in z sources may be interpreted as the fundamental qpo frequency , with the hbo and its second harmonic being interpreted as the second and fourth harmonics of the sub - hbo ( jonker et  al .",
    "jonker et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) ( also jonker @xcite ) found a broad feature in gx  5@xmath11 at 1.5 times the hbo frequency , making it the third harmonic of the sub - hbo .",
    "they suggested that a warped disc with a two - fold symmetry can provide a mechanism which produces odd harmonics that are broader than the even harmonics , and that this mechanism could be used as part of the relativistic precession model .",
    "the fwhm of the possible sub - hbo and hbo we observed at s@xmath6=1.66 were 29@xmath3210  hz and 26@xmath328  hz , respectively .",
    "the uncertainties here are too large to test the warped disc model .        if vlfn is due to changes in intensity that are associated with the movement of a source along its z track , then a model for vlfn will provide at least part of the mechanism that gives rise to the z track .",
    "for example , in the unified model ( e.g. , psaltis et  al .",
    "@xcite ) the movement along the z track is driven by changes in the mass - accretion rate which alter the physical conditions in the region of the neutron star and inner accretion disc .",
    "the mass - accretion rate changes from sub- to super - eddington with movement from the nb into the fb . in this particular context , a model for vlfn will provide the mechanism that produces those changes in the accretion rate .",
    "recently , van  der  klis ( @xcite ) suggested that position along the z track may not be related to the actual mass - accretion rate .",
    "rather , he proposed that rank number is related to the ratio @xmath40 between the instantaneous accretion rate through the disc , and the long - term average of that rate . in this model ,",
    "movement to a higher s@xmath6 requires either : an increase in the accretion rate ; or for the accretion rate to remain constant immediately following a decrease .",
    "conversely , movement to a lower s@xmath6 occurs either : when the accretion rate decreases ; or when it remains constant immediately following an increase . again",
    ", if vlfn is due to movement along the track , then the details of this model must be such that @xmath40 exhibits a power - law variability .",
    "furthermore , the abrupt changes we observed in the properties of the vlfn with movement through the nb / fb vertex suggests that any model for vlfn should also provide information about the physical basis of that transition .",
    "we observed an increase in the fractional rms amplitude of the vlfn with increasing s@xmath6 , and it was stronger at higher energies .",
    "the same behaviour was seen in the _ ginga _ observations of sco  x-2 ( oneill et  al .",
    "@xcite ) , and also in sco  x-1 ( dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) . however , our results are very different to those from the 1998 september and october _ rxte _ data on sco  x-2 , in which the vlfn behaved somewhat erratically , and was , on average , stronger in the nb than in the fb ( agrawal & bhattacharyya @xcite ) .",
    "homan et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that , in gx  17 + 2 , the rms of the vlfn did not increase smoothly with movement up the fb ; as the object moved away from the nb / fb vertex , the rms decreased at first , reaching a local minimum at about one - quarter of the way up the fb , and then increased smoothly with increasing s@xmath6 .",
    "however , the vlfn in gx  17 + 2 was still , on average , stronger in the fb than in the nb .",
    "the reason for the differences between our results and those from the 1998 september and october data is unclear .",
    "agrawal & bhattacharyya ( @xcite ) used 8  s intervals when calculating their power spectra , which meant their lowest frequency was 0.125  hz , compared to 0.0625  hz in our spectra ; this may have produced some differences between the two sets of results due to interference , during the fitting process , from the peaked noise .",
    "the power - law index of the vlfn we observed decreased with movement down the nb , abruptly increased at the nb / fb vertex , and then remained roughly constant with movement up the fb , decreasing slightly in the upper part of the fb ; in the fb , the mean value of the index was 1.70@xmath320.02 .",
    "in contrast to this , the index of the vlfn found in the 1998 september and october _ rxte _ data exhibited no dependence on s@xmath6 ; in the fb the index had a mean value of 1.64@xmath320.07 ( agrawal & bhattacharyya @xcite ) . in sco  x-1 , the power - law index _ increased _ with movement down the nb , from 1.2 to 1.7 , although , similar to our results , was constant in the fb , with a mean of 1.76@xmath320.04 ( dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) .",
    "in gx  17 + 2 , the index gradually increased with movement down the nb and reached a maximum at about 10  per  cent of the way up the fb ; it then decreased gradually with further movement up the fb ( homan et  al .",
    "@xcite ) . of note",
    ", however , is that the power - law index in gx  17 + 2 reached a local maximum of @xmath01.6 , at roughly three - quarters of the way down the nb , and it then subsequently decreased to reach a local minimum , of @xmath00.8 , near the nb / fb vertex ( see fig .  11 in homan et  al .",
    "a similar effect has also been seen in gx  5@xmath11 ( jonker et  al .",
    "@xcite ) , and we may have observed the same thing in sco  x-2 , albeit with a much broader local minimum .    as discussed in the previous section ,",
    "understanding vlfn is important in understanding the overall behaviour of z sources .",
    "therefore , the presence of vastly different vlfn phenomenologies in sco  x-2 , during different observations , is an important result that needs to be clarified .",
    "wijnands et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that , in cyg  x-2 , the properties of the vlfn varied as the overall intensity level changed ; variations in other components of the fast - time variability , and in the x - ray spectral properties , also accompanied those changes .",
    "the differences in the vlfn phenomenology in sco  x-2 may be related to the same effect .",
    "dieters & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) identified vlfn in sco  x-1 with movement along the z track , while homan et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) found that , in gx  17 + 2 , the speed of movement through the z track was not correlated with vlfn strength in all parts of the track .",
    "wijnands et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) similarly investigated the vlfn in cyg  x-2 at different overall intensities .",
    "they found that the speed of movement through the track was highest at the highest overall intensity level , while the vlfn was strongest at the intermediate level ; they , therefore , concluded that the vlfn in the nb could not solely be due to movement along the z track .",
    "we detected vlfn in the vertical part of the nb .",
    "therefore , if vlfn is produced solely by intensity changes that are associated with movement along the track , then , within each interval , there must significant movement along the track to regions above and below the vertical part of the nb , such that there are variations in intensity .",
    "the absence of an arc - like distribution of the 1  s time resolution points suggests there is no such movement .",
    "the 1  s time - domain data points have very large uncertainties in hardness , so we used cross spectral analysis to investigate the relationship between intensity and hardness .    in the fb and upper nb the variations in the intensity and hardness",
    "are consistent with being in phase with each other .",
    "this is consistent with the variations in intensity being due only to movement along the z track , though it does not rule out a cross - track component .    in the lower nb",
    ", we found that at @xmath410.004  hz the variations in intensity were negatively correlated with the variations in hardness , which is consistent with those variations also being due to movement up and down that part of the nb .",
    "however , at higher frequencies , we found that the intensity was positively correlated with hardness , indicating that , at those frequencies , the variations in intensity must be associated with movement that is not directly along the z track . and",
    ", the negative correlation at @xmath410.004  hz suggests that that cross - track component of motion is more prominent at higher frequencies .",
    "we caution , however , that these conclusions must remain tentative due to the low significance , and large uncertainties , of our phase measurements .",
    "a model has been proposed to explain power - law variability in black hole candidates ( e.g. , mineshige , takeuchi & nishimora @xcite ) .",
    "their model can produce power - law fluctuations in the mass - accretion rate from the inner accrection disc , even when the rate of mass - injection into the inner part of the disc is random .",
    "the predicted x - ray power spectrum exhibits a power - law index of about 1.6 , with a flattening at low frequencies .",
    "this model can possibly be applied to the unified model , thereby providing the mechanism to produce changes in the accretion rate . whether or not it can produce a large enough range in mass - accretion rate ( 0.71.02 times the eddington limit ; psaltis et  al .",
    "@xcite ) and a low enough break frequency ( sco  x-1 is predicted to have a turnover time - scale of several days ; dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) needs to be tested .    an alternative , yet similar , model for vlfn is the ` dripping handrail ' model ( e.g. , young & scargle @xcite ) , in which the amount of matter present at the inner edge of the accretion disc varies both quasi- and aperiodically . if luminosity is considered to be proportional to the mass at the inner edge of the disc , then both a power - law variability and a qpo are produced .",
    "the frequency of the qpo is proportional to accretion rate , so it can not be identified as flaring branch noise ( see also dieters & van  der  klis @xcite ) .",
    "if the rate at which matter _ leaves _ the disc is considered , then the power - law component disappears ( steiman - cameron et  al .",
    "this model can not , therefore , produce a power - law variability in mass - accretion rate , and so it can not be applied to the unified model .",
    "time dependent nuclear burning on the surface of the neutron star has also been proposed to produce vlfn , with the power - law index expected to increase with increasing mass - accretion rate ( bildsten @xcite ) .",
    "dieters & van  der  klis ( @xcite ) noted that : the predicted variability has a characteristic time - scale , in contrast to the observed vlfn in sco  x-1 , which is a power - law over time - scales ranging from 10  s to about 14  h ; and the energy available from nuclear burning is not sufficient to produce the observed fractional rms amplitude .",
    "therefore , it is difficult for nuclear burning alone to account for vlfn .",
    "our results provide further evidence that the variations in intensity comprising the very low frequency noise are associated with movement that is not directly along the z track .",
    "a possible scenario is that changes in mass - accretion rate , or @xmath40 , produce motion in which there is a component both along , and across , the track , and that the cross - track component is more prominent at higher frequencies .",
    "alternatively , changes in mass - accretion rate or @xmath40 might only produce movement along the track , with nuclear burning providing a cross - track component .",
    "except for the transition from the nb into the fb , we observed a general decrease in power - law index with increasing inferred mass - accretion rate .",
    "in contrast , the nuclear burning model predicts an increase in index with increasing mass - accretion rate .",
    "therefore , if nuclear burning is found to be contributing significantly to vlfn , the ` @xmath40 model ' for the z - track is preferred , since it does not specify a particular mass - accretion rate for each part of the track . as pointed out by dieters & van  der  klis ( @xcite )",
    ", the two types of variations would need to combine and produce the observed vlfn power - law .",
    "we have carried out the most comprehensive study to date , of the x - ray fast - time variability of sco  x-2 as a function of position on the z track .",
    "we found low frequency noise in the nb , and typical sco  x-2 flaring branch noise in the fb , with centroid frequencies in the range 3.35.8  hz and 5.47.6  hz , respectively .",
    "the lfn was strongest at intermediate photon energies , while fbn was hard .",
    "the various models seeking to provide an explanantion for lfn in z sources must account for the energy dependence we observed .",
    "with regard to fbn , we confirm the conclusions reached by oneill et  al .",
    "( @xcite ) , and again note the similarity between fbn and the peaked noise seen the fb of cyg  x-2 at low overall intensities ( kuulkers et  al .",
    "we suggest that an adaptation of the photon bubble model may possibly provide an explanation for fbn ( klein et  al .",
    "@xcite ) .    we found a new peaked noise feature in the nb and fb , with a centroid frequency in the range 1154  hz .",
    "this high frequency peak was stronger at higher energies .",
    "it could be fitted satisfactorily with a single lorentzian , but , in the nb , it could also be fitted with two lorentzian components , representing a possible hbo and sub - hbo peak .",
    "we found very low frequency noise throughout the z track .",
    "it exhibited abrupt changes in the power - law index and fractional rms amplitude with movement from the nb into the fb .",
    "we calculated complex cross spectra between intensity and hardness , and discovered that vlfn is not entirely due to movement along the z track . we speculate that vlfn may be due to : variations in mass - accretion rate or @xmath40 that produce motion in the hid with a component both parallel , and perpendicular , to the track ; or a combination of nuclear burning on the neutron star , and variations in accretion or @xmath40 .",
    "this research has made use of data obtained from the high energy astrophysics science archive research center , nasa / goddard space flight center .",
    "the authors thank alan smale for assistance in obtaining the data .",
    "pmo has in part been supported by the australian postgraduate award scheme .",
    "this work was supported in part by the netherlands organization for scientific research ( nwo ) .    99    agrawal v. k. ,",
    "bhattacharyya s. , 2001 , a&a , submitted [ astro - ph/0112545 ]    alpar m. a. , shaham j. , 1985 , nat , 316 , 239    belloni t. , psaltis d. , van  der  klis m. , 2002 , apj , submitted [ astro - ph/0202213 ]    berger m. , van  der  klis m. , 1994 , a&a , 292 , 175    bildsten l. , 1995 , apj , 438 , 852    bradt h. v. , rothschild r. e. , swank j. h. , 1993 , a&as , 97 , 355    dieters s. w. , van  der  klis m. , 2000 , mnras , 311 , 201    dieters s. w. , vaughan b. a. , kuulkers e. , lamb f. k. , van  der  klis m. , 2000 , a&a , 353 , 203    fortner b. , lamb f. k. , miller g. s. , 1989 , nat , 342 , 775    hasinger g. , van  der  klis m. , 1989 , a&a , 225 , 79    hasinger g. , van  der  klis m. , ebisawa k. , dotani t. , mitsuda k. , 1990 , a&a , 235 , 131    hertz p. , vaughan b. , wood k.s . , norris j.p . , mitsuda k. , michelson p.f . , dotani t. , 1992 , apj , 396 , 201    homan j. , van  der  klis m. , jonker p. , wijnands r. , kuulkers e. , m@xmath42ndez m. , lewin w. h. g. , 2002 , apj , 568 , 878    jonker p. g. , 2001 , phd thesis , univ . of amsterdam    jonker p. g. , van  der  klis m. , wijnands r. , homan j. , van  paradijs j. , m@xmath42ndez m. , ford e. c. , kuulkers e. , lamb f k. , 2000 , apj , 537 , 374    jonker p. g. , van  der  klis m. , homan j. , m@xmath42ndez m. , lewin w. , wijnands r. , zhang w. , 2002 , mnras , submitted [ astro - ph/0202420 ]    klein r. i. , arons j. , jernigan g. , hsu j. j .- l .",
    ", 1996a , apj , 457 , l85    klein r. i. , jernigan j. g. , arons j. , morgan , e. h. , zhang , w. , 1996b , apj , 469 , l119    kuulkers e. , van  der  klis m. , 1998 , a&a , 332 , 845    kuulkers e. , wijnands r. , van  der  klis m. , 1999 , mnras , 308 , 485    lamb f. k. , 1991 , in ventura j. , pines d. , eds . , neutron stars : theory and observations .",
    "kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht p. 445 .    lamb f. k. , shibazaki n. , alpar m. a. , shaham j. , 1985 , nat , 317 , 681    lewin w. h. g. , lubin l. m. , tan j. , van  der  klis m. , paradijs j. , penninx w. , dotani t. , mitsuda k. , 1992 , mnras , 256 , 545    mineshige s. , takeuchi m. , nishimori h. , 1994 , apj , 435 , l125",
    "oneill p. m. , kuulkers e. , sood r. k. , dotani t. , 2001a , a&a , 370 , 479    oneill p. m. , kuulkers e. , sood r. k. , van  der  klis m. , 2001b , in inoue h. , kunieda h. , eds",
    ". , new century of x - ray astronomy , astronomical society of the pacific conf .",
    ". astronomical society of the pacific , san francisco , p. 396 .",
    "orosz j. a. , kuulkers e. , 1999 , mnras , 305 , 132    ponman t. j. , cooke b. a. , stella l. , 1988 , mnras , 231 , 999    psaltis d. , lamb f. k. , miller g. s. , 1995 , apj , 454 , l137    psaltis d. , belloni t. , van  der  klis m. , 1999a , apj , 520 , 262    psaltis d. , et al .",
    ", 1999b , apj , 520 , 763    schulz n.s . , hasinger g. , trmper j. , 1989 , a&a , 225 , 48    shibazaki n. , lamb f. k. , 1987 , apj , 318 , 767    steiman - cameron t. y. , young k. , scargle j. d. , crutchfield j. p. , imamura j. n. , wolff m. t. , wood k. s. , 1994 , apj , 435 , 775    stella l. vietri m. , 1998 , apj , 492 , l59    stella l. vietri m. , 1999 , phys .",
    ", 82 , 17    stella l. vietri m. , morsink s. m. , 1999 , apj , 524 , l63    sunyaev r. , revnivtsev m. , 2000 , a&a , 358 617    titarchuk l. , osherovich v. , 1999 , apj , 518 , l95    titarchuk l. , osherovich v. , kuznetsov s. , 1999 , apj , 525 , l129    van  der  klis m. , 1989 , in gelman h. , van  den  heuvel , e. p. j. , eds . , timing neutron stars .",
    "kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , p. 27 .    van  der  klis m. , 1991 , in ventura j. , pines d. , eds . , neutron stars :",
    "theory and observation .",
    "kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , nato asi series c  344 , p. 319 .    van  der  klis m. , 1994a , a&a , 283 , 469    van  der  klis m. , 1994b , apjs , 92 , 511    van  der  klis m. , 1995a , in lewin w. h. g. , van  paradijs j. , van  der  heuvel e. p. j. , eds .",
    ", x - ray binaries .",
    "cambridge univ . press , cambridge ,",
    "p. 252 .",
    "van  der  klis m. , 1995b , in alpar m. a. , et al .",
    ", eds . , the lives of neutron stars .",
    "kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , p. 301 .",
    "van  der  klis m. , 2000 , ara&a , 38 , 717    van  der  klis m. , 2001 , apj , 561 , 943    van  der  klis m. , hasinger g. , stella l. , langmeier a. , van paradijs j. , lewin w. h. g. , 1987 , apj , 319 , l13    van  der  klis m. , wijnands r. a. d. , horne k. , chen w. , 1997 , apj , 481 , l97    wijnands r. , van  der  klis m. , 1999 , apj , 514 , 939    wijnands r. , van  der  klis m. , kuulkers e. , asai k. , hasinger g. , 1997 , a&a , 323 , 399    wu x. , 2001 , apj , 552 , 227    young k. , scargle j. d. , 1996 , apj , 468 , 617    yu w. , van  der  klis m. , jonker p. g. , 2001 , apj , 559 , l29    zhang w. , strohmayer t. e. , swank j. h. , 1998 , apj , 500 , l167",
    "in the case of _ rxte _ , the observed counting rate _ per detector _",
    "@xmath5 , and incident counting rate @xmath43 , can be divided into four components:`good xenon ' counting rate @xmath44 ; the ` remaining count ' @xmath45 ; the counting rate from the propane layer @xmath46 ; and the ` very large event ' counting rate @xmath47 .",
    "the counting rate of good xenon events is the x - ray counting rate from the source and background .",
    "the remaining count is the counting rate of events that are detected simultaneously at more than one anode .",
    "these coincident events are primarily due to particles , and , in bright sources , may also due to ` genuine ' photons . in each detector",
    ", there is a propane layer in front of the xenon layers which is used primarily for anti - coincidence , and may also be used to detect source photons in the range 13  kev ( bradt et  al .",
    "@xcite ) . the very large event counting rate is from events that are above the upper discriminator ; these events are mainly due to particles .",
    "the actual fractional rms amplitude @xmath57 of variations in @xmath58 may be related to the observed fractional rms amplitude @xmath59 of variations in @xmath44 by the following expression ( van  der  klis @xcite )          to determine @xmath62 , we need to evaluate @xmath63 .",
    "therefore , we also need to determine how @xmath64 , @xmath65 and @xmath66 , depend on @xmath58 . in figs .",
    "[ fig : remainingcnt ] , [ fig : vpcnt ] , and [ fig : vlecnt ] , we present plots of @xmath64 , @xmath65 , and @xmath66 , respectively , versus @xmath58 .",
    "the data presented are from standard  1 mode using 16  s averages .    in  fig .",
    "[ fig : remainingcnt ] , in the region @xmath673000  counts  s@xmath37  detector@xmath37 , there is a roughly linear relationship between the good xenon counting rate and remaining count . in the region @xmath683000",
    "counts  s@xmath37  detector@xmath37 , the lower envelope of the plot also follows the linear relationship observed above 3000  counts  s@xmath37  detector@xmath37 , suggesting that the relationship holds for all @xmath58 .",
    "the best - fitting linear coefficient , as fitted in the @xmath58 range 30004600  counts  s@xmath37  detector@xmath37 , was 0.085 .",
    "the large scatter of points lying above the linear relationship , in the region @xmath683000  counts  s@xmath37  detector@xmath37 , can be attributed to events from particles .",
    "this interpretation is supported by the presence of a similar scattering of points in fig  [ fig : vlecnt ] .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : vpcnt ] , there is a quadratic relationship between @xmath65 and @xmath58 .",
    "the best - fitting quadratic and linear coefficients were @xmath11.165e-5 and 0.175 , respectively . in fig .",
    "[ fig : vlecnt ] , there is no clear correlation between @xmath66 and @xmath58 .",
    "@xmath71 } { \\left ( 1 + \\tau_{\\mathrm{xe}}\\lambda_{\\mathrm{xe } }                                     + \\tau_{\\mathrm{r}}\\lambda_{\\mathrm{r } } + \\tau_{\\mathrm{p}}\\lambda_{\\mathrm{p } }                                     + \\tau_{\\mathrm{v}}\\lambda_{\\mathrm{v } }             \\right)^{2 } }             \\\\ \\frac{d f}{d         \\lambda_{\\mathrm{xe } } }         & =         - \\tau_{\\mathrm{xe}}[1.26 - ( 2.33\\mathrm{e-}5)\\lambda_{\\mathrm{xe } } ] { f^{2}}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ]"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> sco  x-2 ( gx  349 + 2 ) is a low - mass x - ray binary and z source . </S>",
    "<S> we have analysed @xmath0156  ks of _ rossi x - ray timing explorer _ data , obtained in 1998 january , on this source . </S>",
    "<S> we investigated the fast - time variability as a function of position on the z track . during these observations , </S>",
    "<S> sco  x-2 traced out the most extensive z track ever reported from this object , making this the most comprehensive study thus far . </S>",
    "<S> we found the broad peaked flaring branch noise that is typical of sco  x-2 , with a centroid frequency in the range 3.35.8  hz . </S>",
    "<S> we also discovered low frequency noise , and a new peaked noise feature , with centroid frequencies in the range 5.47.6  hz and 1154  hz , respectively . </S>",
    "<S> we discuss the phenomenology of these features , their relationship with the power spectral components found in other low - mass x - ray binaries , and the implications for current models . </S>",
    "<S> in particular , the low frequency noise we observed was strongest at intermediate energies , in contrast to the low frequency noise seen in other z sources . </S>",
    "<S> we also detected very low frequency noise , and have calculated complex cross spectra between intensity and hardness . </S>",
    "<S> we found that the very low frequency noise is not entirely due to motion along the z track .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    accretion , accretion disks  stars : binaries : close  stars : individual : sco  x-2 ; gx  349 + 2  stars : neutron  x - rays : stars </S>"
  ]
}