{
  "article_text": [
    "the origin of hvcs is still a matter of discussion .",
    "some of the hvcs seem to be located at extragalactic distances while the large northern hvc complexes ( m , a and c ) are members of the galactic halo ( blitz et al . 1998 , van woerden et al .",
    "1998 ) .",
    "in this paper we focus on the question : `` can high - velocity clouds be explained as condensations of the galactic halo matter ? '' . for this aim , we study the stability of the gaseous galactic halo and the velocity distribution of the in - falling condensations in the framework of a galactic rain .",
    "we include the drag - forces as well as the sweeping up of matter on their way to the galactic disk .",
    "benjamin & danly ( 1997 ) investigated the influence of drag - forces on the velocity of ivcs and hvcs .",
    "benjamin ( these proceedings ) argues that several observational facts indicate interactions between hvcs and the interstellar medium : ( 1 ) the existence of cometary shaped clouds in our galaxy ( odenwald 1988 ) , ( 2 ) the correlation between distance and velocity of hvcs and ivcs claimed by ( benjamin & danly 1997 ) , ( 3 ) the existence of velocity bridges or now called head - tail structures of hvcs ( pietz et al . 1996 ) , and ( 4 ) the positional correlation between enhanced x - ray emission and hvcs ( kerp et al .",
    "recent investigations of the and x - ray data further supported the hvc in - fall scenario : brns ( 1998 ) searched for head - tail structures of hvcs across the whole sky which is covered by the leiden / dwingeloo survey ( hartmann & burton 1997 ) . in total",
    ", he analyzed 252 hvcs with column densities @xmath1 .",
    "45 hvcs of his sample revealed head - tail structures .",
    "moreover , he deduced that the probability to find a hvc with a head - tail structure increases proportional to the column density of the hvc .",
    "kerp et al .",
    "( 1999 ) searched for excess soft x - ray emission towards four prominent hvc complexes . towards hvc complexes c , d and gcn / gcp",
    ", they detected excess soft x - ray emission . in case of hvc complex c",
    ", they showed , that the excess soft x - ray emission is in position closer correlated with hvcs than with ivcs gas .",
    "the majority of the x - ray bright hvcs have column densities @xmath2 . towards hvc complex c 2/3 of the head - tail structures studied by pietz et al .",
    "( 1996 ) are associated with excess soft x - ray emission .    in this paper",
    "we study the development of neutral clouds falling towards the galactic disk .",
    "these clouds are produced by instabilities within the galactic halo gas .",
    "the velocity and brightness temperature distribution of these condensations are quantitatively compared with the leiden / dwingeloo data .",
    "we present evidence , that low - column density neutral high - velocity gas exists within the galactic halo .",
    "this high - velocity gas seems to be associated with the turbulent motion of neutral gas condensations in the halo . up to @xmath3low - surface brightness high - velocity gas",
    "is detectable in the new leiden / dwingeloo survey . in sect .",
    "2 we present the basic parameters of a hydrostatic equilibrium model of the galaxy according to the model of kalberla & kerp ( 1998 , hereafter k&k ) .",
    "we address the stability of the galactic halo and evaluate the probability that individual neutral condensations may be formed and fall onto the galactic disk . in sect .",
    "3 we compare the derived column density and velocity distribution of our modeled hvcs with the observational data , and discuss the implications . in sect .",
    "we discuss the implications of our results .",
    "recently , k&k showed that on large scales the milky way can be described well by a hydrostatic equilibrium model .",
    "k&k included in their calculation the recent physical parameters of the gaseous phases within the galactic halo .",
    "they compared the model predictions with the observational situation using the most recent @xmath4-ray , x - ray and radio surveys , which trace the distribution of magnetic fields , cosmic - rays and of the interstellar gas .",
    "their model consists mainly of 3 clearly distinct regions : ( 1 ) the gaseous halo , hosting an ubiquitous x - ray emitting plasma and a neutral component with a high - velocity dispersion of 60 , in addition to the well know highly - ionized atomic species .",
    "( 2 ) the disk , consisting predominantly of cold- and warm - neutral medium with scale heights of 150 pc and 400 pc respectively , and ( 3 ) a disk - halo interface , which is the environment of the diffuse ionized gas with a scale height of 950 pc ( reynolds , 1997 ) .",
    "such a layered disk - halo structure was found on average to be stable against parker instabilities .",
    "k&k pointed out , that the stability depends strongly on the composition of the layers , the most critical region is the disk - halo interface . in any case , a hierarchical disk - halo composition is required for a stable halo .    one remarkable fact , which became apparent at this conference is , that hydro - dynamical calculations by avillez ( 1997 and these proceedings ) resembles gas layers with similar scale heights , densities and temperatures as deduced by the hydrostatic equilibrium model of k&k .",
    "stability in a dynamical modeling requires a constant mass flow considering vertical upward motions of a fountain flow and downward motion of the cooled gas .",
    "this similarity may indicate , that the large scale view of the milky way is indeed well approximated by a hydrostatic equilibrium model , however , this does not imply that the halo is stable and in equilibrium on all scales .",
    "stability requires that the gas pressure exceeds a minimum value @xmath5 : @xmath6 here @xmath7 is the gas density , @xmath8 the gas pressure and @xmath9 the gravitational potential perpendicular to the galactic plane .",
    "instabilities may occur if the local pressure of the plasma in the halo exceeds the steady state value significantly , e.g. if the plasma rises to scale heights @xmath10 kpc .",
    "in such a case , the stability condition given in eq . 1 is violated .",
    "the stability criterion in dynamical models implies , that next to the rising gas some gas condensations must fall back to the galactic disk .",
    "here , we study a `` galactic rain '' which is caused by instabilities within the k&k model beyond a @xmath0-distance of 4kpc . these instabilities form condensations within the highly turbulent gas phase of the galactic halo .      we assume , that the amount of halo gas which may condense due to instabilities , is proportional to the local gas density and proportional to the fractional overpressure which caused the instability . in our approach ,",
    "we assume that the production of a hvc may occur as a stochastic process .",
    "this neglects the spiral structure of the milky way , and accordingly the probability distribution of the perturbation across the galactic disk .",
    "our approach is certainly a simplification of the real situation in detail , but on large angular and long time scales , we will obtain statistical information on the velocity distribution of the condensations .",
    "figure1 shows the probability distribution for the creation of an hvc by instabilities .",
    "below about @xmath11kpc it is very unlikely that a condensation will be formed out of the halo material .",
    "the probability reaches its maximum at @xmath12kpc , corresponding to the average scale height of the gaseous halo . beyond this @xmath0-distance",
    "the probability decreases proportional to the volume density distribution .",
    "condensations from the gaseous halo are accelerated by gravity until friction sets in , which is caused by the layered structure of the galaxy .",
    "the further velocity development of the condensations and their final appearance as an intermediate - velocity cloud ( ivc ) , depends on the initial column density of the condensation .    to evaluate the gravitational acceleration of the milky way",
    ", we adopt the equation published by kuijken & gilmore ( 1989 ) .",
    "the decelerating drag forces are parameterized according to benjamin & danly ( 1997 ) .",
    "in addition , we introduce two major modifications . first , to calculate the drag forces we use the gas densities as determined by k&k .",
    "second , we assume that the condensations are sweeping up gas as they approach the galactic disk .",
    "hvcs may either sweep up material on their way through the halo or they may loose gas which is stripped off from the outer cloud boundaries due to drag forces",
    ". probably , both effects occur at the same time , however we assume that on the average more material is swept up by the hvcs than lost .",
    "the amount of matter which a hvc is sweeping up is highly uncertain .",
    "we estimate that on the average hvcs accumulate 50% of the gas which is passed by",
    "such a rate seems to be reasonable because ivcs have significantly higher column densities than hvcs .",
    "in addition at such a rate we obtain in our model calculations ivc velocities which are close to the observed ones . as a consequence of gas enrichment , in our model the gas - to - dust ratio as well as the metalicity of hvcs and ivcs is modified by the swept - up material .",
    "figure 2 shows the velocity distribution of a sample of condensations with different column densities .",
    "we calculate trajectories for hvcs originating at @xmath0 = 5 , 7.5 and 10 kpc . gravity and drag forces",
    "are evaluated in the solar vicinity . in each case",
    "the @xmath0-velocities are given for column densities between @xmath13 and @xmath14 , and for comparison the ballistic curve without any energy loss . for @xmath15 kpc only the ballistic curve is given .",
    "obviously , condensations with low column densities are significantly decelerated by drag forces .",
    "the higher the column density of the condensation , the higher the maximum speed",
    ". condensations with high column densities reach their maximum velocities within the @xmath0-distance range of @xmath16 kpc , while clouds with low column densities have their maximum velocities at large @xmath0-distances .",
    "close to the galactic disk ( @xmath17 pc ) our model predicts condensations with ivc velocities in the range @xmath18 . our main conclusion from fig .",
    "2 is , that condensations which are formed at distances @xmath19 kpc may appear as hvcs .",
    "according to the hydrostatic equilibrium model of k&k , we can compare the velocity of the condensations with the sound velocity ( bold solid line in fig .",
    "2 ) in the galactic halo . at @xmath19 kpc @xmath20 while close to the disk @xmath21 drops to 25 @xmath22 .",
    "condensations which have velocities above this line are supersonic , those below move sub - sonic . for most of the @xmath0-distances , condensations with @xmath1 @xmath23 move supersonic with respect to the gaseous halo .      up to now",
    "we have shown that above @xmath24kpc perturbations in the galactic halo gas may cause instabilities .",
    "we demonstrated , that the condensations caused by such instabilities may reach velocities comparable to the observed hvc velocities , otherwise they might appear as ivcs .",
    "now , we introduce more quantitative aspects into the discussion . first , to overcome the arbitrary boundary condition that the analysis is restricted to the local neighborhood of the sun , we extend the calculation to the entire milky way .",
    "we use the density distribution according to k&k .",
    "second , we introduce a random motion of the halo gas into our model , which is indicated by the detection of the high - velocity dispersion component by kalberla et al .",
    "third , we include a co - rotation of the galactic halo with the disk , according to the result of savage et al .",
    "the rotation curve is taken from fich et al .",
    "finally , the column density distribution of the condensation should resemble the observed column density distribution of the hvcs ( murphy et al .",
    "1995 ) .",
    "these assumptions allow to construct a model which is consistent with the known physical conditions within the galactic halo . according to this model",
    ", we now generate a `` galactic rain '' falling down onto the milky way , triggered by random events across the entire halo .",
    "the rain falls during a time twice the free - fall time of the lowest column density condensations .",
    "after this period , we stop the calculation and evaluate the `` frozen - in '' column density and velocity distribution of the condensations . in the final step , we quantitatively",
    "compare the velocity as well as the column density distribution of the model with observational data .",
    "our approach is optimized to derive overall statistical properties of in - falling condensations onto the milky way .",
    "we have to compare the modeled situation with the observed one . in fig.3",
    "we plot the mean observed brightness temperature @xmath25 on a logarithmic scale versus the radial velocity ( @xmath26 ) . the solid line in fig .",
    "3 shows the leiden / dwingeloo data decomposed into gaussian components .",
    "all components with a significance of at least 3 @xmath27 have been integrated .",
    "the main reason using gaussian components is the suppression of the rms - noise at high velocities . for comparison with the observation we plot",
    "the distribution according to the k&k model ( dashed line ) . for positive velocities @xmath28 model and observations",
    "agree well . for negative velocities in the range @xmath29 excess emission",
    "is observed , which is associated with the inner part of the galaxy beyond the scope of the k&k model .",
    "the excess emission for @xmath30 was found to be predominantly due to the magellanic stream and the anti - centre - complex . the dotted line in fig .",
    "3 represents a simulation , derived from the k&k model _ without _ any gas in the galactic halo . comparing the models with the observational data ,",
    "it is obvious , that the main emission at velocities @xmath31 is dominated by the turbulent neutral galactic halo gas .    in fig .",
    "3 the observed brightness distribution is biased due to the fact that the leiden / dwingeloo survey covers only declinations @xmath32 . in fig .",
    "4 only observational data for latitudes @xmath33 are compared with the model . comparing the observations ( solid line ) with the modeled distribution ( dashed line ) we find , within the uncertainties , an agreement in the velocity range @xmath34 .",
    "the velocity regions @xmath35 and @xmath36 are affected by residual baseline uncertainties in addition to those discussed by kalberla et al . ( 1998 ) .",
    "the deviations between both curves in this range are probably due to instrumental uncertainties . for the northern galactic hemisphere",
    "we find no indications for significant amounts of hvc gas which deviate from a distribution predicted by the k&k model .",
    "thus , within our limited global investigations the only hvcs which were found to be obviously incompatible with a galactic rain model are the magellanic stream and anti - centre - complex .",
    "we can conclude , as an intermediate result , that most of the galactic emission at high velocities @xmath37 is caused by the turbulent neutral galactic halo gas .",
    "now , we evaluate the column density distribution of the in - falling condensations as described in sect .",
    "2 . the histogram marked by the dashed line in fig . 4 represents the derived brightness temperature distribution . at velocities @xmath38 the modeled hvc distribution",
    "is closely related to the model distribution derived for a gaseous halo .",
    "accordingly , considering _",
    "mean _ properties only , we can not distinguish between the emission of the in - falling condensations and the emission of the turbulent galactic halo gas .",
    "dropping the assumption that the condensations have an initial velocity according to the turbulent gas motion within the galactic halo , we are able to separate the signal of the in - falling condensations from that of the turbulent galactic halo gas .",
    "the corresponding brightness temperature distribution of the `` non - turbulent '' condensations is plotted as a histogram marked by the dotted line .",
    "condensations originating form a non - turbulent medium barely reach velocities exceeding @xmath31 . in this case",
    "the derived velocity distribution resembles that of a galactic fountain ( bregman 1980 , wakker 1990 ) .",
    "our conclusion is , that the turbulent galactic halo gas contributes significantly to the very - high - velocity and high - velocity emission across the entire galactic sky .",
    "in this paper we investigate the hypothesis that hvcs may originate from instabilities within the galactic halo . using the hydrostatic model by k&k , we predict the vertical distribution of condensations originating from such instabilities .",
    "hvcs originate predominantly above @xmath0-distances of @xmath39 4 kpc . considering gravitational acceleration and deceleration by drag forces ( benjamin & danly 1997 ) we calculate trajectories for such clouds and model their large scale velocity distribution .",
    "the velocity of an individual condensation depends on the initial mass .",
    "the higher the @xmath0-distance and mass of the condensation , the higher the terminal velocity .",
    "strong deceleration starts when a condensation approaches the galactic disk - halo interface .",
    "most of the hvcs with column densities exceeding @xmath1 @xmath23 move supersonic with respect to the gaseous halo . for these clouds",
    "indications for interactions with the interstellar medium are found : head - tail structures and excess soft x - ray emission .",
    "further we find that the fraction of supersonic hvcs increases proportional with column density .    down to the very limits of the leiden / dwingeloo data the hydrostatic equilibrium model of k&k",
    "fits the data well , across 6 orders of magnitude . averaged across the entire galactic sky ,",
    "the lines of the in - falling condensations are distributed similar to that of the 21-cm line emission of the turbulent galactic halo gas . in particular , assuming that hvcs originate from a turbulent galactic halo gas , represents the observed very - high - velocity gas up to @xmath40 better than galactic fountain models .",
    "we conclude , that the turbulent galactic halo gas produces faint high - velocity 21-cm line emission detectable across the entire galactic sky . within this pervasive gas phase condensations",
    "can be observed as hvcs . on average ,",
    "the velocity distribution of hvcs does not deviate significantly from the distribution of the pervasive halo gas phase .",
    "hvcs share the turbulent motions within the halo and are significantly affected by drag forces .",
    "the physical conditions within the turbulent galactic halo gas are comparable to those of the highly - ionized hvc discovered by sembach et al .",
    "( 1995 , 1998 and these proceedings ) .",
    "according to the k&k model , the volume density at a @xmath0-distance of 15 kpc is in the oder of @xmath41 .",
    "the pressure of the halo gas at such a @xmath0-distance is @xmath42/k@xmath43 , assuming a plasma temperature of galactic halo gas of @xmath44k ( pietz et al .",
    "we conclude , that the civ clouds discussed by sembach et al .",
    "( these proceedings ) may be located within the outer galactic halo . due to the intergalactic radiation field",
    ", only little gas is expected to be associated with hvcs at such distances .",
    "avillez m.a . ,",
    "1997 , ph.d thesis , university of xcevora bregman j.n .",
    ", 1980 , apj 236 , 577 benjamin r.a . , danly l. , 1997 , apj 481 , 764 blitz l. , spergel d.n .",
    ", teuben p.j . ,",
    "hartmann dap , burton w.b . , 1998 ,",
    "apj , in press ( astro - ph/9803251 ) brns c. , 1998 , diploma thesis , university of bonn fich , m. , blitz , l. , stark , a.a .",
    "1990 , apj 342 , 272 hartmann dap , burton w.b .",
    "1997 , `` atlas of galactic neutral hydrogen '' , cambridge university press kalberla p.m.w .",
    ", kerp j. , 1998 , a&a 339 , 745 kalberla p.m.w . , westphalen g. , mebold u. , hartmann dap . , burton w.b . , 1998 , a&a 332 , l61 kerp j. , burton w. b. , egger m.j .",
    "et al . , 1999 ,",
    "a&a , in press ( astro - ph/9810307 ) kuijken k. , gilmore g. , 1989 , mnras 239 , 605 murphy e.m . , lockman f.j . ,",
    "savage b.d .",
    ", 1995 , apj 447 , 642 odenwald s.f . , 1988 apj 325 , 320 pietz j. , kerp j. , kalberla p.m.w . , mebold u. , burton w.b , hartmann dap , 1996 , a&a 308 , l37 pietz j. , kerp j. , kalberla p.m.w . , et al . , 1998 , a&a 332 , 55 reynolds r.j . 1997 , in proc .",
    "we - heraeus - seminar on `` the physics of galactic halos '' , eds .",
    "lesch , r .- j .",
    "dettmar , u. mebold , & r. schlickeiser , akademie verlag , berlin , 57 savage b.d . ,",
    "sembach k.r .",
    ", lu l. , 1997 , aj 113 , 2158 sembach k.r . , savage b.d . , lu l. , murphy e.m . , 1995 ,",
    "apj 451 , 616 sembach k.r . ,",
    "savage b.d . ,",
    "lu l. , murphy e.m . , 1998 , apj submitted ( astro - ph/9809231 ) van woerden h. , wakker b. , schwarz u.j . ,",
    "peletier r.f . ,",
    "kalberla p.m.w . , 1998 , in proceedings of the iau colloquium no .",
    "166 `` the local bubble and beyond '' , eds .",
    "d. breitschwerdt , m.j .",
    "freyberg , j. trmper , lecture notes in physics 506 , 467 wakker b.p . , 1990 ,",
    "ph.d thesis , university of groningen"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we study the hypothesis that high - velocity clouds ( hvcs ) may originate from instabilities within the gaseous phase of the galactic halo . according to the hydrostatic equilibrium model of kalberla & kerp ( 1998 ) </S>",
    "<S> , we determine the probability distribution of occurrence of instabilities within the galactic halo . </S>",
    "<S> instabilities may produce condensations within the galactic halo beyond a @xmath0-distances of 4kpc , which are accelerated by gravity and decelerated by drag - forces .    </S>",
    "<S> we present evidence that the high - velocity dispersion component , discovered by kalberla et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 1998 ) is associated with high - velocity - halo gas . </S>",
    "<S> the physical properties of this high - velocity halo gas are similar to the recently detected highly - ionized hvcs by sembach et al . </S>",
    "<S> ( 1995 , 1998 ) . </S>",
    "<S> accordingly , the high - velocity dispersion component may be the neutral tracer of the turbulent gas motions within the galactic halo . </S>",
    "<S> our calculations demonstrate , that the sky - averaged signal of in - falling condensations does not differ significantly from the emission of the turbulent galactic halo gas . </S>"
  ]
}