{
  "article_text": [
    "the origin of stellar groups is one of the abiding mysteries of astronomy .",
    "infrared and radio observations have demonstrated that these aggregates are born within cold molecular clouds ( lada & lada  2003 ) .",
    "we also know that young groups come in three varieties  ",
    "t  associations , open clusters , and ob associations .",
    "yet we have little notion as to what distinguishes the progenitor cloud for each type .",
    "the statistics of stellar births on the galactic scale indicates that most stars originate in ob associations ( roberts  1957 ; miller & scalo  1978 ) .",
    "these populous groups form inside clumps within giant molecular complexes ( blitz  1993 ) .",
    "the parent clump must have attained a high density at the formation site of the massive o and b stars , since the youngest of these are almost always found in crowded stellar fields ( e.g. , stahler _ et al .  _  2000 ) . but how did the cloud attain such a high density ? more generally , what forces drove its evolution as it was producing the association ?    by far the best - studied young ob association is the orion nebula cluster .",
    "over a thousand members are seen only in the near - infrared ( ali & depoy 1995 )",
    ". however , a comparable number are optically visible ( _ e.g. _ , prosser _ et al .",
    "_ 1994 ) , since much of the parent cloud is now dispersed .",
    "foreground neutral gas is largely confined to a relatively thin layer ( odell _ et al .",
    "_ 1992 ) , while gas ionized by @xmath2  ori  c and its massive companions is being driven outward ( gordon & churchwell 1970 ; odell 1994 ) . behind this hemispherical blister of stars and ionized gas",
    "lies a dense , massive wall of molecular gas , still creating new stars ( see , _ e.g. _ , genzel & stutzki 1989 ) .    in this paper",
    ", we examine anew both the present morphology of the cluster and its past record of star formation .",
    "our goal is to elucidate , as much as possible , the properties and dynamical history of the parent cloud body .",
    "this contribution is the latest in a continuing investigation of stellar groups and their origin .",
    "palla & stahler ( 1999 ; hereafter paper  i ) found that star formation in this region has been accelerating over time , a result seen generally , albeit at a reduced level , in other nearby groups ( palla & stahler 2000 ; paper  ii ) . in a study of pre - main - sequence binaries , palla & stahler ( 2001 ) showed that the companion to bm  ori is no older than @xmath3  yr .",
    "it thus apears that the centrally located trapezium stars were formed relatively recently . here",
    ", we wish to provide a fuller account of the region s evolution in both space and time , and to draw implications for stellar group formation generally .",
    "our main results may be readily summarized .",
    "the trapezium stars are truly anomalous within the group , with a total mass equivalent to hundreds of ordinary stars . excluding the trapezium , the distribution of stellar masses is nearly uniform throughout the remaining cluster .",
    "the fractional increase with time in the stellar population has also been the same at all locations . in other words , the acceleration in starbirth , which occurred over some @xmath0  yr , was a _",
    "phenonemon , and resulted in a remarkably homogeneous membership , except at the very center .",
    "we hypothesize that this rise in star formation activity was stimulated by large - scale contraction of the onc parent cloud .",
    "the gas density must have increased in a quasi - static , but accelerating manner .",
    "we explore a simple model , in which the cloud was supported against self - gravity by turbulent pressure . the energy associated with this turbulent motion",
    "is continually dissipated by internal shocks . in our model , the mean turbulent speed _ increases _ with time because of gravitational compression .",
    "energy dissipation from shocks also increases , which allows faster contraction . in summary ,",
    "our model illustrates how accelerating contraction , along with a concurrent rise in star formation , is a natural and generic consequence of support from internal turbulence .",
    "section 2 below presents our analysis of the present - day onc stellar distribution . in section 3 , we utilize pre - main - sequence stellar ages to infer the star formation history throughout the region .",
    "section 4 offers our physical interpretation of this history in terms of the parent cloud and its evolution .",
    "finally (  5 ) , we discuss the implications of this study , both for the onc and for stellar group formation generally .",
    "our empirical dataset comes from the important study by hillenbrand ( 1997 ) . combining her own observations with the existing literature ,",
    "hillenbrand obtained both optical spectra and @xmath4- and @xmath5-band fluxes for 934 stars within 2.5  pc of the trapezium .",
    "a comparable number of stars are detectable only at near - infrared wavelengths ( ali & depoy 1995 ) .",
    "the optical spectra yielded spectral types , which in turn gave effective temperatures .",
    "observed @xmath4-@xmath5 colors were then employed to find individual extinctions .",
    "a bolometric correction to the @xmath5-magnitudes , together with the extinction , then gave stellar luminosities .",
    "in this manner , the stars were placed in the theoretical hr diagram , _",
    "i.e. _ , the @xmath6-@xmath7 plane .",
    "figure  1 shows the positions of a large subsample , 705 stars , from the full , optically visible set .",
    "these are the objects that , according to hillenbrand , have a membership probability exceeding 67  percent .",
    "these probabilities were assessed from earlier proper - motion studies , principally that of jones & walker ( 1988 ) .",
    "as is well known , the stars are crowded toward @xmath2  ori  c , whose own position is central in the plot .",
    "the conspicuous gap in stars just to the east of the trapezium coincides with the dark bay , familiar from optical photographs of the region ( _ e.g. _ , pogge et al .",
    "1992 ) .    what is the true , three - dimensional distribution of these stars ?",
    "it has long been accepted that the visible population is contained within an ionized blister of gas , located in front of omc-1 , itself a portion of the extended orion  a cloud ( zuckerman 1973 ) .",
    "wen & odell ( 1995 ) used the distribution in h@xmath8 emission to map out the ionized front surface of omc-1 .",
    "they found that the main ionizing source , @xmath2  ori  c , is situated only 0.2  pc from this rear wall .",
    "( see their figure 3 . )",
    "this distance is small compared to the full cluster diameter of 5  pc .",
    "hence we may assume , with little loss of precision , that the onc morphology is hemispherical .",
    "working within this model , we first azimuthally average the projected stellar distribution , again choosing @xmath2  ori  c as our origin . in figure",
    "2 we show this empirical distribution as a function of the radius @xmath9 . the quantity displayed is the number of stars enclosed at each @xmath9-value .",
    "this cumulative number is then converted to a fraction of the total stellar population , and denoted as @xmath10 .",
    "we fit these data by adopting a simple form for the three - dimensional stellar number density throughout the hemisphere : @xmath11^{\\!-1 } \\,\\,.\\eqno(1)\\ ] ] for each choice of the scale lengths @xmath12 and @xmath13 , we project this density onto the plane of the sky and compute the cumulative number fraction @xmath10 .",
    "we then vary @xmath12 and @xmath13 until our model @xmath10 best matches the empirical curve .",
    "note the negative sign preceding the term containing @xmath12 ; this choice is necessary to match the relatively rapid rise in the observed @xmath10 away from the origin .",
    "note also that the central density @xmath14 is unconstrained by this matching procedure .",
    "the smooth curve in figure  2 shows the best - fit @xmath10 , obtained by selecting and . to estimate the central density , we integrate equation ( 1 ) over the entire hemisphere and equate the total number of stars to the observed 705 .",
    "we thus find .",
    "this result is close to that given by herbig & terndrup ( 1986 ) , who surveyed the inner 0.5  pc in radius .",
    "both numbers are dwarfed by the density of @xmath15  pc@xmath16 found in the high - resolution , near - infrared study of mccaughrean & stauffer ( 1994 ) .",
    "their high value was obtained by counting stars within 0.05  pc of @xmath2  ori  c , a distance comparable to that of the other trapezium members .    it is interesting that the stellar number density falls off as @xmath17 for .",
    "of course , we forced this result mathematically through our adopted functional form of @xmath18 .",
    "we were guided in this choice by previous authors , who noted that the _ projected _ areal density falls approximately as @xmath19 ( see , _",
    "e.g. _ , scally & clarke 2001 ) .",
    "how robust is this result ?",
    "we have generalized equation ( 1 ) to include an exponent @xmath20 in the term involving @xmath13 .",
    "we then varied @xmath21 along with @xmath12 and @xmath13 in our matching procedure .",
    "an acceptable fit , in the least - squares sense , could only be obtained for @xmath21 ranging from -0.1 to + 0.4 .",
    "if this @xmath17 falloff continued to very large radii , the cumulative , projected starcount would increase as @xmath9 . according to figure 2 ,",
    "the rise is actually slower , both observationally and in the theoretical fit .",
    "we are seeing the effect of a finite boundary , corresponding to 2.5  pc in radius .",
    "outside this boundary , no stars are counted .",
    "has a projected surface density which varies as @xmath19 times the correction factor ] of course , the stellar population does not truly vanish , but there is a steeper falloff in this vicinity , as the central group blends into the larger orion  ic association ( herbig & terndrup 1986 ) .",
    "figure  3 displays the reconstructed , three - dimensional density @xmath18 .",
    "one notable feature here is the central dip .",
    "however , the results of mccaughrean & stauffer ( 1994 ) indicate that this falloff , which occurs for , is not real .",
    "the true stellar density climbs steeply toward the center . at visible wavelengths ,",
    "this interior population is lost in the brilliant glare of the trapezium .",
    "it is at least partially recovered in high - resolution , near - infrared imaging .",
    "( see also hillenbrand & carpenter 2000 . )",
    "the dashed curve in figure  3 is a pure @xmath17 profile .",
    "extended inward , its rise is suggestive of that found empirically within 0.05  pc .",
    "we turn next to the spatial distribution of stellar masses in the present - day cluster . to obtain a full sampling of masses among the optical population , we need to consider the sensitivity limit of the original survey . here",
    "we are concerned with spectroscopic observations , which are needed to place stars in the hr diagram .    according to hillenbrand ( 1997 ) ,",
    "her observations are complete to .",
    "( see upper panel of her figure 6 . )",
    "a typical onc star is of spectral type m2 , for which .",
    "the bolometric correction needed to extrapolate from the @xmath4-band to @xmath22 is @xmath23 ( hillenbrand 1997 ; appendix c ) .",
    "for the representative extinction , and the distance modulus of 8.4  mag , we find that the limiting @xmath5-magnitude corresponds to a luminosity of @xmath24",
    ".    we may now address the completeness of stellar masses .",
    "suppose we limit our investigation to stars with ages less than @xmath25  yr .",
    "then the lowest stellar mass for which we have complete data is that whose pre - main - sequence track descends to 0.1  @xmath26 at @xmath27  yr .",
    "inspection of figure  1 from palla & stahler ( 1999 ) shows that this critical mass is @xmath28 .",
    "when discussing stellar masses and ages , we will henceforth limit our attention to the restricted sample of 244 stars with .",
    "it is important to note that the failure to account for survey completeness may lead to puzzling and erroneous results . for example , hillenbrand ( 1997 ) observed that lower - mass stars in both orion and other regions are younger , on average , than their high - mass counterparts .",
    "this age discrepancy was noted again by hartmann ( 2004 ) , and led him to reject the pre - main - sequence tracks themselves as reliable age indicators .",
    "however , the lower - mass population is incompletely sampled in all surveys .",
    "the missing objects are precisely those of lower luminosity , and hence greater ages . within our more",
    "carefully defined sample , we find no age - mass correlation ( see  3 below ) .",
    "we now wish to explore both the distribution of masses and how this distribution varies spatially in the cluster .",
    "a simple but instructive exercise is to divide the cluster into two groups of equal population .",
    "the inner group lies within a circle of radius 0.88  pc , centered on @xmath2  ori  c. the outer group is in the surrounding annulus .",
    "we rank stars in each group by mass , and calculate the fraction of the group at or below every mass - value . to construct the figure , we find , for each mass in one group , that mass in the other group which represents the same cumulative fraction .",
    "( such a _ quantile - quantile plot _ is a common statistical tool for comparing populations ; see evans et al . 2000 ) .",
    "figure  4 shows the result .",
    "the vast majority of stars match up , _",
    "i.e. _ , the two populations are essentially identical .",
    "( the step - like character of the empirical curve is an artifact of the discrete spectral typing . ) above , however , the two populations differ radically .",
    "the inner group contains objects which are more massive than any found outside .",
    "naturally , the trapezium stars are part of this exceptional subgroup .",
    "figure  4 , which displays masses on a logarithmic scale , shows vividly how the trapezium is truly anomalous .",
    "if we ignore its central region , the cluster appears to be homogeneous in terms of membership .    another way to demonstrate this point",
    "is presented in figure  5 .",
    "the dashed curve in both panels represents the cumulative mass fraction , _",
    "i.e. _ , the fraction of the total cluster mass contained in each radius @xmath9 .",
    "the solid curve is the cumulative number fraction .",
    "if we include the trapezium ( _ left panel _ ) , the mass fraction immediately rises above the number fraction . if we omit the trapezium ( _ right panel _ ) , the mass and number fractions are nearly identical from the center outward .",
    "in other words , increasing the number of stars by a certain fraction gives the same fractional increase in mass , at all radii .",
    "the distribution of individual stellar masses must therefore be similar throughout the cluster .",
    "clearly , we are not seeing mass segregation in the traditional sense .",
    "it also follows that the local mass distribution is essentially the same as the global one .",
    "paper  i (  4 ) asserted that the onc stars roughly follow the field star initial mass function .",
    "the top two curves of figure  6 show that the two distributions actually differ in a significant way . the solid curve displays the cumulative mass function @xmath29 , _",
    "i.e. _ , the number of stars with masses up to the value @xmath30 . for comparison ,",
    "the dashed curve shows the same quantity calculated from the field star initial mass function ( scalo 1998 ) .",
    "( this and the other dashed curves are normalized to the total population in each age range ) .",
    "it is apparent that the onc is deficient in members with .",
    "a similar discrepancy appears in the analysis of hillenbrand ( 1997 ) , although she used different pre - main - sequence tracks and a different field - star initial mass function .",
    "( see the upper panel of her figure 15 . )",
    "the remaining curves of figure  6 concern the temporal development of the cluster , and it is this subject that we now consider .",
    "the distribution of pre - main - sequence ages provides the essential record of star formation in any group .",
    "palla & stahler ( 1999 ) used this technique to show that production of stars within the onc began some @xmath0  yr in the past and has been accelerating to the present .",
    "we now go one step further , and combine stellar ages and _ locations_. in other words , we assess the evolution of the region both temporally and spatially .",
    "the four panels of figure  7 display maps of the onc at various epochs . within each time interval",
    "( given in the caption ) , the panel shows all stars from the sample of 244 that were born during that interval .",
    "the small symbols denote low - mass objects , while the larger ones represent those of intermediate mass .",
    "we have omitted the three innermost trapezium stars , which would not be resolved in these plots .",
    "none of these three have reliable ages , although they were probably formed within the most recent epoch ( palla & stahler 2001 ) .",
    "note that the lowest - mass trapezium star , bm  ori , has 7  @xmath31 , and is thus included in the final map .",
    "it is apparent that the earliest star formation , which occurred some @xmath0  yr in the past , was diffuse spatially , and did not exhibit crowding toward the future site of the trapezium .",
    "intermediate - mass stars also began forming early , and were also spread throughout the region .",
    "as expected , the entire population increased dramatically within the last few myr .",
    "no star formation is occurring now within the volume occupied by the visible stars , since molecular gas has been driven off .",
    "if , however , the cluster extends into the wall of omc-1 , then starbirth is undoubtedly continuing apace in that embedded region .",
    "the onc stars have transverse velocities of several km  s@xmath32 ( jones & walker 1988 ) . over @xmath0  yr",
    ", they would have moved tens of parsecs , well out of the area shown .",
    "how , then , can we identify their present positions with their birth sites ?",
    "the reason is that _ the stars have not been moving on ballistic trajectories_. they have been subject to the gravitational pull from other cluster members and , much more significantly , from the ambient molecular gas . in other words , they were trapped in local potential wells until recently , when the nearby gas was ionized and dispersed .",
    "if this dispersal occurred @xmath3  yr ago , then the stars subsequently moved only a few tenths of a parsec .",
    "we also arrive at this picture of the stellar motion by following the consequences of the alternative view .",
    "suppose that all stars were born in the most crowded region , near the present - day trapezium .",
    "suppose further that they drifted away from their birth sites at constant speed .",
    "then we would see today an age gradient , in the sense that the older stars would be farther from the center .",
    "figure  8 plots the mean stellar age at each projected radius , along with the rms dispersion .",
    "the mean age does not increase outward , but remains constant to within the statistical errors . under the drift hypothesis , furthermore , proper motion vectors would tend to point outward for more distant members .",
    "this effect is also not seen ; the vectors are randomly oriented ( jones & walker 1988 ) .",
    "a plot of the mean age versus stellar mass is also of interest , especially in light of the previous claims for a correlation ( hillenbrand 1997 ; hartmann 2004 ) .",
    "figure 9 shows the result .",
    "when we limit ourselves to the sample of 244 stars , the mean pre - main - sequence age is essentially independent of mass , at least for . for higher masses ,",
    "the mean age does systematically fall , in apparent agreement with the earlier claims .    however , this falloff only reflects the diminishing pre - main - sequence lifetime of more massive objects .",
    "the dashed curve displays this lifetime , _",
    "i.e. _ , the contraction time from the birthline to the zero - age main sequence , as a function of mass . above @xmath33 , a significant fraction of the stars have already reached the main sequence .",
    "however , all stars in the sample are assigned _ pre_-main - sequence ages , according to their positions on the hr diagram .",
    "the main - sequence stars thus have ages which are too young .",
    "since the relevant fraction increases with stellar mass , there is a spurious correlation of age with mass .    returning to the global evolution ,",
    "the sequential maps of figure  7 demonstrate that star formation is accelerating , but they do not tell us the spatial pattern of that acceleration . is the increase of stellar births predominantly near the center ? has the acceleration process perhaps moved inward over time ?",
    "such details are important if we are to discern the physical processes at play in group formation .",
    "it is again instructive to divide the cluster into two groups of equal population , as we did when constructing figure  4 .",
    "this time , we compare the star formation histories of the inner and outer portions of the cluster . the result is shown in figure  10 . here",
    "we display the fraction of stars in each group that have at least the indicated ages . in other words",
    ", we are showing that portion of each group formed at any time .",
    "the two curves are nearly identical .",
    "what we have found is that the acceleration did not occur locally .",
    "nor did it sweep across the parent cloud .",
    "in fact , there is no known mechanism by which low - mass star formation in one region can stimulate formation in another , distant region .",
    "the accelerating star formation occurred globally .",
    "this process must have been stimulated by contraction of the parent cloud .",
    "we mentioned previously that the present - day distribution of masses differs somewhat from the canonical initial mass function .",
    "returning to figure  6 , we find that this distribution changed substantially as time progressed . here",
    ", the series of lower curves shows the cumulative mass function @xmath34 at the indicated times .",
    "thus , the bottom curve represents the number of stars with mass less than any @xmath30 which are older than 5  myr .",
    "relatively few stars have the requisite age .",
    "the figure shows , not surprisingly , that their mass spectrum also does not resemble the standard initial mass function .    what determines the upper mass cutoff at each epoch ?",
    "it is tempting to hypothesize that no relatively massive stars existed long ago because there had not yet been sufficient time to form them .",
    "however , the figure itself suggests an alternative explanation .",
    "the open circles show the masses for which the pre - main - sequence lifetime equals the age in question .",
    "( compare the dashed curve of figure 9 . ) at all times , the maximum mass is fairly close to this limit . in other words ,",
    "more massive stars could have indeed formed , but they already would have joined the main sequence . if such objects were ( erroneously ) assigned contraction ages , the latter would necessarily be less than the corresponding time .",
    "we have seen how the present number density of stars , @xmath18 , peaks at a very high central value .",
    "since the parent cloud was only recently dispersed , its own density must have similarly peaked .",
    "the gas itself was not smoothly distributed , but consisted of clumps , many of which already contained the stars we see today . averaging over such clumps , what might have been the radial falloff in density and the total cloud mass , just prior to dispersal ?",
    "a second clue comes from the observed proper motions of stars .",
    "jones & walker ( 1988 ) found the vectors to be randomly oriented in the sky ; the component in any direction has a mean magnitude of .",
    "the spread in proper motion magnitudes is relatively small , about 0.2  km  s@xmath32 .",
    "if the stars were indeed trapped in the gas before dispersal , then we may interpret their speed as the one - dimensional velocity of the cloud gas .",
    "the observed randomness in orientation of the stellar velocities implies that the corresponding gas motion was similarly random .",
    "that is , the internal bulk motion of the cloud was turbulent .",
    "we equate the stellar proper velocity in any direction with @xmath35 , the one - dimensional turbulent speed .",
    "it is conventional to model the momentum transfer associated with such turbulent motion as arising from the pressure of an ideal gas .",
    "then our cloud is effectively a self - gravitating , isothermal sphere . because of the central peak",
    ", it is specifically the singular isothermal sphere , with a density given by @xmath36 and a total mass of @xmath37 inside the radius @xmath38 . for a cluster radius of 2.5  pc and the @xmath35-value taken from the stellar data",
    ", we find that .",
    "note that we have taken the cloud to be a full sphere , whose foreground half produced the visible stars .",
    "for comparison , the total mass of these stars is only @xmath39 for the sample of 244 , and @xmath40 for the larger group of 705 .",
    "our estimate of the onc cloud mass rests on the assumption that self - gravity balanced turbulent pressure just prior to dispersal .",
    "how well is this assumption supported by observation ?",
    "it has long been known that the line widths of optically thin tracers yield fluid velocities consistent with virial values , over a large range of masses and sizes ( larson 1981 ; myers & goodman 1988 ) .",
    "this finding is generally interpreted to mean that clouds are indeed supported by internal , turbulent motion .    motivated by the observations of superthermal linewidths ,",
    "a number of theorists have modeled , through direct numerical simulation , the dynamics of turbulence in a magnetized cloud gas .",
    "( see v@xmath41zquez - semadeni _ et al .  _",
    "2000 for a review of such calculations . )",
    "although the simulations adopted a variety of assumptions concerning the impressed turbulence , the results have been qualitatively consistent . in the absence of persistent driving",
    ", the turbulence decays rapidly , typically within a few crossing times .",
    "this time is set by the average eddy speed and the size of the computational box .",
    "mac  low ( 1999 ) has determined the energy dissipation rate from a suite of mhd simulations . his essential conclusion is @xmath42 here , @xmath43 is the energy loss rate per unit mass of gas , @xmath35 the average ( rms ) eddy speed , and @xmath44 the dominant wavelength of the impressed turbulence . the empirical ,",
    "nondimensional coefficient @xmath45 was found to be about 0.4 in these simulations .",
    "these important experiments are actually finding _ two _ results ; both may not be applicable to real molecular clouds . the first , and more basic",
    ", finding is that mhd turbulence is dissipative .",
    "even incompressible modes ( alfvn waves ) quickly transfer energy to compressive waves , which steepen and shock ( goldstein 1978 ; see also the discussion in stone et al .",
    "this result is physically compelling , even if the actual dissipation in the simulations is numerical in origin .",
    "the second result , more problematic astrophysically , is that the turbulence quickly decays .",
    "here we must bear in mind that all the simulations are local .",
    "any global compression of the cloud due to self - gravity can not be modeled .",
    "but that very compression should supply energy and help sustain the turbulence .",
    "indeed , if the mean eddy speed is to match the virial value at all times , as observations suggest , then that speed should _ increase with time .",
    "_ furthermore , if the cloud contraction is mediated by turbulent dissipation , then this contraction naturally accelerates .",
    "let us illustrate these considerations through a simple , heuristic model , inspired by our reconstruction of the onc cloud .",
    "the total energy , gravitational plus thermal , of the cloud in the recent past is that of the bounded , singular isothermal sphere . for a cloud of mass @xmath46 and radius @xmath38 ,",
    "this energy is given by @xmath47    what was the cloud structure at previous times ?",
    "the strong central peak in density was presumably attained just prior to the formation of the trapezium , _",
    "i.e. _ , within the last @xmath3  yr .",
    "it is reasonable to assume that the cloud s density contrast monotonically increased with time to that point .",
    "if the turbulent velocity was also spatially homogeneous during earlier epochs , then the cloud evolved through a sequence of isothermal spheres , culminating in the singular configuration .",
    "the evolution is driven by self - gravity , mediated by the energy loss from turbulence .",
    "this bulk motion continually drives internal shocks , which themselves radiate energy at a _ local _ rate given by equation ( 4 ) .",
    "if the largest eddy has a size @xmath44 comparable to the cloud diameter , then the mass - integrated heat equation is @xmath48 the quantity @xmath49 is the cloud enthalpy , equal to . here",
    ", @xmath50 is the bounding pressure , and @xmath4 the cloud volume . as we show in the appendix , it is this quantity whose decrease yields the cloud s total , shock - generated luminosity .",
    "we regard @xmath45 as a free parameter , whose value we expect to be less than that found in the current local simulations .",
    "for the singular isothermal sphere , the enthalpy is @xmath51 pending a more detailed calculation that tracks the cloud s changing internal structure , we simply adopt this expression for all times , and substitute it into equation ( 6 ) . after utilizing equation ( 3 ) as well",
    ", we find an expression for the decrease of @xmath38 with time : @xmath52 which integrates to yield @xmath53 here , @xmath54 is the present cloud radius . equation ( 8) yields the cloud radius for each past epoch , _",
    "i.e. _ , for negative values of @xmath55 .",
    "the quantity @xmath56 is defined to be @xmath57    equation ( 8) verifies that the cloud contracts in an accelerating fashion .",
    "indeed , it undergoes a kind of diluted free fall . the time scale for this process",
    ", some multiple of the free fall time @xmath56 , is set by the ( still unknown ) parameter @xmath45 .",
    "as the cloud contracts , the speed @xmath35 , which is related to @xmath38 through equation ( 3 ) , accelerates _",
    "upward_. this conclusion is in striking contrast to the current numerical results ( see v@xmath41zquez - sendani et al .",
    "2000 for a review ) , which show the turbulent speed to fall with time .",
    "the difference stems from our basic assumption , motivated by the molecular line studies ( _ e.g. _  myers & goodman 1988 ) , that the cloud is nearly in virial equilibrium at all times .",
    "extending our earlier investigations of other systems , we have documented empirically the acceleration of star formation in the onc .",
    "we have shown that this process occurred at all stellar masses , so that there is no present - day correlation between stellar age and mass .",
    "furthermore , the acceleration was not confined to the cluster s central region , but was global in character .",
    "we then surmised , on theoretical grounds , that the parent cloud itself underwent an accelerating contraction , again of a global nature , prior to its recent dispersal .",
    "it is tempting , of course , to relate these two phenomena .",
    "somehow , the contraction of the onc parent cloud must have stimulated the formation of individual dense cores .",
    "this picture is self - consistent only if the dense cores themselves quickly collapsed to stars .",
    "such rapid evolution is at odds with the traditional view that dense cores evolve over a time of order @xmath0  yr through ambipolar diffusion ( shu et al .",
    "one intriguing possibility is that ambipolar diffusion itself is enhanced by cloud turbulence ( nakamura & li 2005 ) .",
    "if star formation generally accelerates , then most molecular clouds should exhibit relatively low rates of starbirth .",
    "where are these quiescent objects ?",
    "recall that most stars form within ob associations .",
    "the associations themselves are produced by cloud clumps within giant complexes , like the parent entity of the onc .",
    "we suppose that these clumps evolve with time , gaining mass from their surroundings until they undergo accelerating contraction . only the most massive clumps produce luminous clusters , as was found in the careful study of the rosette complex by williams et al .",
    "but if the picture advocated here is correct , then sensitive infrared surveys should reveal lower levels of star formation activity in the remainder of the clump population .",
    "we have stressed that the trapezium stars are truly anomalous in mass .",
    "more specifically , figure 4 shows that , for objects below about @xmath58 , the onc population is spatially homogeneous , but that its central region contains an unusual number of more massive objects .",
    "this central concentration could not have been the result of dynamical relaxation in the brief interval since the dispersal of the parent cloud ( bonnell & davies 1998 ) .",
    "these facts argue for an alternative formation mechanism for massive stars .    both bonnell _ et al .  _",
    "( 1998 ) and stahler et al ( 2000 ) have advocated coalescence models .",
    "the first authors pictured the merging units to be bare stars and their disks , while the second group invoked dense cores already containing young stars , which subsequently merge . within the context of a globally contracting cloud ,",
    "we see how such cores , squeezed by the ambient pressure to sizes smaller than the canonical 0.1 pc , would first coalesce in the central region .",
    "theoretical modeling of this phenomenon would be a welcome contribution .",
    "finally , our study bears on the eventual fate of the onc and similar groups .",
    "we have found that under 10  percent of the parent cloud mass consisted of stars , just prior to gas dispersal .",
    "including obscured sources within omc-1 raises this figure .",
    "even with this addition , the fraction is low enough that the stars themselves can not be bound solely by their mutual gravity .",
    "they will disperse into space , forming a typically distended ob association .",
    "it has long been noted that many distant associations appear to contain tight stellar clusters at their centers ( see , e.g. , garmany & stencel 1992 ) .",
    "if the onc is typical in terms of star formation efficiency , then these groups will similarly disperse .",
    "in contrast to this view , a number of theorists have proposed that bound clusters originate at the centers of ob associations ( adams 2000 ; kroupa et al .",
    "2001 ) . however , their calculations assume that a large fraction ( e.g. , one third ) of a clump s mass is converted to stars before dispersal . in the traditional virial theorem analysis ,",
    "the fraction necessary to produce a bound system is one half ( hills 1980 ) .",
    "our analysis of the onc , the nearest rich cluster , indicates that these are overestimates .",
    "the origin of bound clusters must lie elsewhere .    in a future study , we plan to follow in more detail the evolution of a cluster - forming cloud .",
    "we will track theoretically both the early growth of such entities within a giant complex , as well as the structural changes that accompany their final , accelerating contraction .",
    "we also hope to connect quantitatively the rate of star formation at any epoch with the corresponding cloud evolution .",
    "such a calculation would be an important first step toward understanding the larger issue of star formation efficiency on galactic scales .",
    "this project has been aided by illuminating discussions with james graham , alessandro navarrini , and jon swift .",
    "s. s. was partially supported by nsf grant ast-9987266 .",
    "consider a mass element within a contracting , isothermal cloud of temperature @xmath59 .",
    "the lagrangian changes in specific entropy , thermal energy , and mass density are related by      when we integrate over all such mass elements , the lefthand side of this equation becomes @xmath61 where @xmath62 is now the total entropy , and where the luminosity @xmath63 is assumed to arise from optically thin radiation .",
    "if we further invoke mass continuity , in the form @xmath64 then we find @xmath65 where @xmath66 is the total thermal energy .",
    "we recognize @xmath67 as the volume element @xmath68 .",
    "if we do an integration by parts and evaluate the surface term , then the second righthand term in equation ( a4 ) becomes @xmath69 where @xmath70 is the total change in cloud volume .",
    "for the pressure gradient @xmath71 , we employ euler s equation @xmath72 where @xmath73 is the gravitational potential .",
    "further manipulation transforms equation ( a4 ) into @xmath74 here , @xmath75 is the change in the bulk kinetic energy : @xmath76 since we are not considering a rotating or pulsating cloud , we will henceforth set @xmath77 equal to zero .",
    "the remaining volume integral appearing in equation ( a6 ) equals the change in @xmath78 , the gravitational potential energy .",
    "( see tassoul 1979 , p. 147",
    "( 127 ) , but note his sign error . )",
    "we thus find @xmath79    dividing by @xmath80 yields the desired heat equation : @xmath81 where the generalized enthalpy .",
    "note , finally , that for a monatomic gas , , where @xmath82 is the isothermal sound speed .",
    "when evaluating @xmath66 for the singular isothermal sphere , we have employed this relation , identifying @xmath82 with the turbulent velocity @xmath35 .",
    "adams , f. c. 2000 , , 542 , 964 .",
    "ali , b. & depoy , d. l. 1995 , , 109 , 709 .",
    "blitz , l. 1993 , in _ protostars and planets iii _",
    "e. h. levy & j. i. lunine , ( tucson : u. of arizona press ) , p. 125 .",
    "bonnell , i. a. , bate , m. r. , & zinnecker , h. 1998 , , 298 , 93 .",
    "bonnell , i. a. , & davies m. b. 1998 , 295 , 691 .",
    "evans , m. , hastings , n. , & peacock , b. 2000 _ statistical distributions , 3rd ed . _",
    "( new york : wiley ) .",
    "garmany , c. d. & stencel , r. e. 1992 , aas , 94 , 211 .",
    "genzel , r. & stutzki , j. 1989 , araa , 27 , 41 .",
    "goldstein , m. l. 1978 , , 219 , 700 .",
    "gordon , m. a. & churchwell , e. 1970 ,  , 9 , 307 .",
    "hillenbrand , l. a. 1997 , , 113 , 1733 .",
    "hillenbrand , l. a. & carpenter , j. m. 2000 , , 540 , 236 .",
    "jones , b. f. & walker , m. f. 1988 , , 95 , 1755 .",
    "kroupa , p. , aarseth , & hurley , j. 2001 , , 321 , 699 .",
    "lada , c. j. & lada .",
    "e. a. 2003 , , 41 , 57 .",
    "larson , r. b. 1981 , 194 , 809 .",
    "mac low , m .-",
    "1999 , 524 , 169 .",
    "miller , g. e. & scalo , j. m. 1978 , , 90 , 506 .",
    "myers , p. c. & goodman , a. a. 1988 , 326 , 27 .",
    "nakamura , f. & li , z .- y . 2005 , , 631 , 411 .",
    "odell , c. r. 1994 , , 216 , 267 .",
    "odell , c. r. , walter , d. k. , & dufour , r. j. 1996 , , 399 , l67 .",
    "palla , f. & stahler , s. w. 1999 , , 525 , 772 ( paper  i ) .",
    "palla , f. & stahler , s. w. 2000 , , 540 , 255 ( paper  ii ) .",
    "palla , f. & stahler , s. w. 2001 , , 553 , 299 .",
    "pogge , r. w. , owen , j. m. , & atwood , b. 1992 , , 399 , 147 .",
    "prosser , c. f. , stauffer , j. r. , hartmann , l. , soderblom , d. r. , jones , b. f. , werner , m. w. , & mccaughrean , m. j. 1994 , , 421 , 517 .",
    "roberts , m. s. 1957 , , 69,59 .",
    "scalo , j. 1998 , in _ the stellar initial mass function _ , ed .",
    "g. gilmore , i parry , & s. ryan ( cambridge university press ) , p. 32 .",
    "shu , f. h. , adams , f. c. , & lizano , s. 1987 , araa , 25 , 23 .",
    "stahler , s. w. , palla , f. , & ho , p. t. p. 2000 , in _ protostars and planets iv _ , ed . v. mannings , a. p. boss , & s. s. russell , ( tucson : u. of arizona press ) , p. 327 .",
    "stone , j. m. , ostriker , e. l. , & gammie , c. f. 1998 , , 508 , l99 .",
    "tassoul , j .- l .",
    "1979 _ theory of rotating stars _ , ( princeton : princeton u. press ) , chapter  6 .",
    "vazquez - semedani , e. , ostriker , e. c. , passot , t. , gammie , c. f. & stone , j. m. 2000 , in _ protostars and planets iv _ , ed . v. mannings ,",
    "a. p. boss , & s. s. russell , ( tucson : u. of arizona press ) p. 3 .",
    "wen , z. & odell , c. r. 1995 , , 438 , 784 .",
    "williams , j. p. , blitz , l. & stark , a. a. 1995 , , 451 , 252 .",
    "zuckerman , b. 1973 , , 183 , 863 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we examine the pattern of star birth in the orion nebula cluster ( onc ) , with the goal of discerning the cluster s formation mechanism . outside of the trapezium , </S>",
    "<S> the distribution of stellar masses is remarkably uniform , and is not accurately described by the field - star initial mass function . </S>",
    "<S> the deconvolved , three - dimensional density of cluster members peaks at the trapezium stars , which are truly anomalous in mass . using theoretical pre - main - sequence tracks , we confirm the earlier finding that star formation has accelerated over the past @xmath0  yr . we further show that the rate of acceleration has been the same for all masses . </S>",
    "<S> thus , there is no correlation between stellar age and mass , contrary to previous claims . </S>",
    "<S> finally , the acceleration has been spatially uniform throughout the cluster .    </S>",
    "<S> our reconstruction of the parent molecular cloud spawning the cluster shows that it had a mass of @xmath1 prior to its destruction by the trapezium . </S>",
    "<S> if the cloud was supported against self - gravity by mildly dissipative turbulence , then it contracted in a quasi - static , but accelerating manner . </S>",
    "<S> we demonstrate this contraction theoretically through a simple energy argument . </S>",
    "<S> the mean turbulent speed increased to its recent value , which is reflected in the present - day stellar velocity dispersion .    </S>",
    "<S> the current onc will be gravitationally unbound once cloud destruction is complete , and is destined to become a dispersing ob association . </S>",
    "<S> we hypothesize that similarly crowded groups seen at the centers of distant ob associations are also unbound , and do not give rise to the galactic population of open clusters . </S>",
    "<S> finally , accelerating star formation implies that most clumps within giant molecular complexes should have relatively low formation activity . </S>",
    "<S> sensitive infrared surveys could confirm this hypothesis . </S>"
  ]
}