{
  "article_text": [
    "for over last three decades , fluid dynamical studies of the accretion disk around black holes have been extensively studied .",
    "shakura & sunyaev ( 1973 ) initiated this discussion considering very simplistic but effective model of accretion disk .",
    "they chose the newtonian gravitational potential .",
    "novikov & thorne ( 1973 ) and page & thorne ( 1974 ) studied a few aspects of the accretion disk in a full relativistic treatment .",
    "paczyski & wiita ( 1980 ) proposed one pseudo - potential which could approximately describe relativistic properties of the accretion disk around non - rotating black holes . using that pseudo - potential",
    ", abramowicz & zurek ( 1981 ) studied some transonic properties of accretion flows .",
    "later on , with time , number of studies of accretion disk have been carried out with modified disk structures ( e.g. abramowicz et al .",
    "1988 ; abramowicz & kato 1989 ; chakrabarti 1990 , 1996a ; narayan & yi 1994 ; narayan et al .",
    "1997 , 1998 ; kato et al . 1998 ; mukhopadhyay 2002a ) for non - rotating black holes .",
    "also the studies of accretion disk in kerr geometry have been explored by several authors ( sponholz & molteni 1994 ; chakrabarti 1996b , 1996c ; abramowicz et al .",
    "1996 ; peitz & appl 1997 ; gammie & popham 1998 ; popham & gammie 1998 ; miwa et al .",
    "1998 ; lu & yuan 1998 ; manmoto 2000 ) .",
    "those studies have been made either in a full general relativistic or in a pseudo - newtonian approach .",
    "the study on stability of accretion disk is one of the important criteria in this context .",
    "the possibility of steady and stable disk formation by incoming matter towards a black hole is allowed only for certain sets of initial parameters .",
    "abramowicz & zurek ( 1981 ) studied the effect of angular momentum on the accretion and corresponding stability of the transonic nature of the infalling matter onto the black hole .",
    "after that , chakrabarti ( 1989 , 1990 ) discussed about the formation of sonic points and shock waves in accretion disks .",
    "he showed that the formation of stable sonic points and shock in the disk are possible for a particular range of physical parameters .",
    "recently , mukhopadhyay & chakrabarti ( 2001 ) have analysed the stability of accretion disk in presence of nucleosynthesis .",
    "as the temperature of the disk is very high ( at least of the order of @xmath0k ) , nuclear burning can take place and generate or / and absorb energy in a large scale in the disk . because of this generation / absorption of nuclear energy , fundamental properties of the disk , like sonic locations , temperature , mach number , shock location ( if any ) , etc .",
    ", may be affected .",
    "thus the stability gets influenced by the nuclear burning .",
    "if the rate of generation / absorption of nuclear energy is large , the disk structure may become unstable . in their discussion ,",
    "mukhopadhyay & chakrabarti ( 2001 ) have also shown that the sonic locations disappear for a particular shell of accretion disk where the nuclear energy is significant compared to the mechanical energy of the accreting matter .",
    "in all the above mentioned works , when the stability was analysed for the accretion disk , the central black hole was chosen to be non - rotating .",
    "as it is well known that no object is static in the universe , before making any serious conclusions about the inner properties of the accretion disk , the consideration of rotation of a black hole is essential . though a few works have been done for kerr black holes , no such comparative study has been explored so far with different kerr parameters .",
    "thus automatically the following questions arise , does the rotation of black hole play an important role in the accretion properties of a disk ? does the consideration of rotation of black hole affect the disk structure for a particular parameter regime which is known to be stable for the non - rotating case ? here , we would like to address all these questions one by one .",
    "recently , we have proposed a new pseudo - newtonian potential ( mukhopadhyay 2002b , hereinafter",
    "paper - i ) to describe the accretion disk around kerr black holes . following paper - i",
    ", we will describe our accretion disk in a pseudo - newtonian manner .",
    "the potential , that we are using , can describe approximately all the essential general relativistic properties of the accretion disk .",
    "it can reproduce the locations of marginally stable and bound orbit exactly or almost exactly for different kerr parameters ( see paper - i ) , which are the pure general relativistic properties .",
    "therefore , we call this study as a _ pseudo - general - relativistic approach_. as our main interest is to study the inner region of the accretion disk , we will concentrate upon the sub - keplerian flow , where the effect of rotation of black hole is significant . in paper - i",
    ", we already raised several questions , which are important to address in physics of accretion disk .",
    "here we will show , how useful is the pseudo - potential prescribed in paper - i to study the global behaviour of the accretion disk . in full general relativity ,",
    "the basic equations of accretion disk are very complicated and tedious to handle . in early",
    ", there were no suitably good pseudo - potential for a rotating black hole .",
    "it seems that paper - i has come up with the answer and one of our aim in this paper is to show its applicability .",
    "as the location of horizon , marginally bound and marginally stable orbits change for different kerr parameters , any inner property of the disk is very much related to the rotation of black hole .",
    "we will follow mukhopadhyay & chakrabarti ( 2001 ) to analyze the stability of the disk .",
    "we will study , whether or not the sonic location(s ) , shock formation(s ) ( if any ) , etc .",
    ", gets affected by applying rotation to the black hole . in an accretion disk ,",
    "if the sonic point looses entropy or disappears by the rotational effect of black hole , we will understand that the sonic point as well as the disk is unstable because stable sonic point is necessary for the accretion onto black hole . in the next section",
    ", we will present the basic equations needed to describe the accretion disk . in ",
    "3 , we will discuss about the parameter space of accretion disk and how does the rotation affect it .",
    "subsequently , in  4 , we will describe the fluid dynamical results .",
    "finally , in  5 , we will sum up all the results and make the overall conclusions .",
    "here , throughout in our calculations , we express the radial coordinate in unit of @xmath1 , where @xmath2 is mass of the black hole , @xmath3 is the gravitational constant and @xmath4 is the speed of light .",
    "we also express the velocity in unit of speed of light and the angular momentum in unit of @xmath5 .",
    "the equations to be solved are given below as : @xmath6 @xmath7 where , @xmath8 is the vertically integrated density and @xmath9 is the gravitational pseudo - newtonian force given in paper - i as @xmath10 where @xmath11 indicates the specific angular momentum of the black hole ( kerr parameter ) . we do not consider any kind of energy dissipation in the accretion disk , as we want to check , how the black hole rotation solely can affect the disk properties .",
    "thus the angular momentum of accreting fluid ( @xmath12 ) remains constant throughout a particular flow .",
    "following matsumoto et al .",
    "( 1984 ) , we can calculate the vertically integrated density as @xmath13 where , @xmath14 is the density at equatorial plane , @xmath15 is the half - thickness of the disk and @xmath16 , where @xmath17 is the polytropic index . from the vertical equilibrium assumption ,",
    "the half - thickness can be written as @xmath18 where @xmath19 is the speed of sound .",
    "we also consider the equation of state to be @xmath20 , where @xmath21 is the gas constant .    now , combining ( [ ec ] ) and ( [ rmom ] ) we get @xmath22 far away from the black hole , @xmath23 and close to it , @xmath24 , thus there is an intermediate location where the denominator of ( [ dvdx ] ) must vanish .",
    "therefore , to have a smooth solution at that location , the numerator has to be zero . this location is called the sonic point or critical point ( @xmath25 ) .",
    "the existence of this sonic location plays an important role in the accretion phenomena . for",
    "an accretion disk around black hole , sonic point must exist . from the global analysis of sonic point",
    ", one can understand the stability of physical parameter region which we will discuss in the next section .",
    "as it is described above that , at @xmath26 , @xmath27 , using lhospital s rule and after some algebra , we can get the velocity gradient of accreting matter at the sonic location as @xmath28 where , @xmath29-\\frac{3\\lambda^2}{x_c^4}-\\frac{df}{dx}|_c\\\\ \\nonumber & -&\\frac{c_{sc}^2(\\gamma-1)}{(\\gamma+1)^2}\\left[\\frac{3}{x_c}-\\frac{1}{f_c}\\frac{df}{dx}|_c\\right]^2 .",
    "\\label{cof}\\end{aligned}\\ ] ] thus , we have to integrate ( [ dvdx ] ) and ( [ dvdxc ] ) with an appropriate boundary condition to get the fluid properties in accretion disk . from ( [ dvdx ] )",
    ", we can easily find out the mach number at the sonic point as @xmath30 and the corresponding sound speed as @xmath31 now integrating ( [ ec ] ) and ( [ rmom ] ) , we can write down the energy and entropy of the flow at sonic point as @xmath32 and @xmath33 where @xmath34 is the gas constant that is basically the entropy of the system , @xmath35 and @xmath36",
    ". actually @xmath37 itself is not entropy but carries the information of it . for a non - dissipative system , @xmath37 is conserved for a particular @xmath38 , unless the shock forms there .",
    "we have to supply the sonic energy @xmath39 as the boundary condition for a particular flow .",
    "then from ( [ ec ] ) , we can find out the sonic location @xmath25 .",
    "therefore , knowing @xmath25 , one can easily find out the fluid velocity and sound speed at the sonic point from ( [ mac ] ) and ( [ csc ] ) for a particular accretion flow .",
    "these have to be supplied as further boundary conditions of the flow .",
    "another important issue is the formation of shock in the discussion of accretion disk . here",
    ", whenever we mention the shock , will mean the rankine - hugoniot shock ( landau & lifshitz 1959 ) .",
    "if we generalize the conditions to form a shock in accretion disk given by chakrabarti ( 1989 ) , to the case of a rotating black hole , we get @xmath40 @xmath41 @xmath42 where @xmath43 here , subscripts @xmath44 and @xmath45 indicate the quantities just before and after the shock respectively and @xmath46 indicates the shock location .",
    "@xmath2 denotes the mach number of the matter and @xmath47 . from ( [ scke])-([sckent1 ] ) , it is very clear that except the entropy expression , all remain unchanged with respect to the case of a non - rotating black hole . also from ( [ sckmom ] ) and ( [ sckent1 ] )",
    ", we get the shock invariant quantity as @xmath48 which remains unchanged with respect to a non - rotating case .",
    "if all the conditions ( [ scke])-([sckent ] ) and ( [ sckinv ] ) are simultaneously satisfied by the matter , shock will only form in an accretion disk .",
    "one of our aim is to check , how does the rotation affect the disk parameter region known for schwarzschild black hole .",
    "therefore , we have to analyse globally the accretion disk properties around rotating black holes .",
    "we also have to check , how does the rotation of black hole affect the sonic location , structure as well as the stability of disk . in fig . 1a",
    ", we show the variation of disk entropy as a function of sonic location .",
    "the intersections of all the curves by the horizontal line ( which is a constant entropy line ) indicate the sonic points of the accretion disk for that particular entropy and rotation of the black hole .",
    "it is clearly seen that , at a particular entropy , if the rotation of black hole increases , marginally bound ( @xmath49 ) and stable ( @xmath46 ) orbits as well as sonic points shift to a more inner region and the possibility to have all four sonic points in the disk outside the horizon increases . as an example , for @xmath50 , the inner edge of accretion disk enlarges in such a manner that the fourth sonic point in the disk appears outside the horizon . on the other hand , for retrograde orbits ( counter rotating cases ) , @xmath49 and @xmath46 move to greater radii and",
    "all the sonic points come close to each other for a particular kerr parameter .",
    "similar features are reflected from fig .",
    "1b , where the sonic energy is plotted as a function of sonic location . here also , the intersections of the horizontal line ( which indicates a constant energy line ) by all the curves indicate the sonic points of the accretion disk for that particular energy and rotation of the black hole . for both the fig . 1a and 1b , sonic points with negative slope of the curve indicate the locations of saddle - type sonic point and positive slopes indicate the centre - type sonic point .",
    "thus the rotation of black hole plays an important role to the formation and location of sonic points which are related to the structure of accretion disk .    in fig .",
    "2 , with the consideration of rotation of black hole , we show how the disk region having three sonic points is affected .",
    "figure 2a , b , c show the variation of sonic entropy as a function of sonic point , when the angular momentum of accreting matter is chosen as parameter for three different rotations of the black hole as @xmath51 respectively .",
    "if we join the extrema of the curves , we get the bounded parameter region of the disk where the three sonic points exist . as the angular momentum of accreting matter reduces , the possibility of forming three sonic points reduces .",
    "this is very well - understood physically ; as the angular momentum of accreting matter reduces , disk tends to a _ bondi - flow like _ structure , that has single saddle - type sonic point .",
    "the solid curves of all three figures indicate the locus of sonic entropy with a single extremum point .",
    "only the flows of angular momentum greater than that of the solid curve have three sonic points , otherwise for a particular flow , we have only one sonic point . in fig . 2d , we show the projection of all the curves in fig .",
    "2a , b , c to the @xmath52 plane , where @xmath53 indicates the extremum entropy at the sonic points .",
    "figure 2d indicates the valid physical parameter region of the accretion disk that has three sonic points in the flow .",
    "it should be noted that , for a particular kerr parameter , the accreting flow can have three sonic locations for different pairs of ( @xmath54 ) .",
    "however , for a particular @xmath12 , if @xmath53 decreases the stability of the sonic points as well as that of the disk diminishes too .",
    "thus , in a section of the diagram for particular @xmath11 , all points are not equally probable set of physical parameters in the formation of three sonic points .",
    "it is clear that , as the co - rotation of black hole increases , the parameter region enlarges , where three sonic points may exist .",
    "therefore , the disk with three sonic points becomes more probable at high co - rotation . on the other hand",
    ", this region reduces for the counter - rotating flow .",
    "similar features are noticed from fig .",
    "3 , where the variation of sonic energies are depicted . in a similar manner , fig .",
    "3d indicates that the parameter space with three sonic points enlarges if the co - rotation of black hole increases , where @xmath55 indicates the extremum energy of the different curves in fig .",
    "3a , b , c .",
    "the physical reasons are the following .",
    "higher co - rotation results in a shift of @xmath49 and @xmath46 to a more inner edge of the accretion disk and an enlargement of the stable disk region ( as we know that the stable circular orbit is possible in the disk upto the radius @xmath46 ) . on the other hand , higher counter - rotation results in an outward shift of @xmath49 and @xmath46 and the size of the stable disk region reduces .",
    "figure 4 indicates the variation of energy with entropy at sonic locations for different kerr parameters .",
    "i indicates the branch of inner x - type sonic point that is different for different kerr parameters , while o indicates the outer x - type sonic point branch . along the branch",
    "o , all the curves ( solid , dotted and dashed ) lie on top of each other .",
    "therefore it is clear that the rotation of black hole does not affect the outer x - type sonic point .",
    "figures 4a , b show that with the increase of kerr parameter ( co - rotation ) , inner sonic points of the disk shift towards the lower entropy region and the disk becomes unstable .",
    "but the outer sonic point branch remains unchanged for all values of rotation .",
    "we know that , if there is a possibility of matter in the outer sonic point branch of lower entropy to jump to the inner sonic point branch of higher entropy , the shock can form in accretion disk . as , with the increase of kerr parameter , the inner sonic point branch shifts to the lower entropy region , the stability of both the shock and the disk is at stake .",
    "for example , in fig .",
    "4a , if we join the points a , b and a , d , we will find two sections of the curve namely , abc ( for solid curve ) and ade ( for dashed curve ) which are the parameter regions where the shock may form in accretion disk for @xmath56 and @xmath57 respectively .",
    "if we draw the lines of constant energy ( which are horizontal in fig .",
    "4a ) , connecting the outer sonic point branch ( ac for @xmath56 and ae for @xmath57 ) to the inner one ( bc for @xmath56 and de for @xmath57 ) , section abc will contain more number of lines with respect to that in section ade ( as the section abc is bigger than ade ) . on the other hand ,",
    "a constant energy line indicates the possibility of shock ( as it shows the possibility of increment of entropy in the flow , keeping the energy constant ) . clearly , for a co - rotating black hole",
    ", the possibility of formation of shock reduces as well as the shock itself becomes unstable .",
    "the physical reason is that , with the increase of kerr parameter , the angular momentum of the system increases , which helps the disk to maintain a high azimuthal speed of matter upto a very close proximity to the black hole , as a result the radial matter speed can overcome the corresponding sound speed at an inner radius only . on the other hand ,",
    "the inner edge of the accretion disk is comparatively less stable as the entropy decreases at lower radii . as the inner sonic points form at an inner radii , with the increase of @xmath11",
    ", the disk tends to an unstable situation that decreases the value of entropy .",
    "figure 4b shows that the possibility of shock disappears completely when @xmath50 as there is no transition possible from the outer to inner sonic branch that can increase entropy of the system . here",
    ", the inner edge is extremely unstable in such a manner that its entropy is even lower than that of outer sonic point branch .",
    "as the inner edge of the disk spreads out for @xmath50 , there are two branches of the centre - type sonic .    in fig .",
    "4c , the situation is opposite . as the counter - rotation of black hole increases in magnitude , the inner sonic point branch shifts towards a higher entropy region .",
    "thus , the disk as well as the shock become more stable .",
    "still , the outer sonic point branch is not affected due to the rotation of black hole and the branches for different kerr parameters are superimposed . in fig .",
    "4c , the sections abc ( for solid curve ) and ade ( for dashed curve ) are for @xmath56 and @xmath58 respectively , show the regions where the shock may form in the disk .",
    "the physical reason to have a more stable inner sonic point branch for the counter - rotating case is as follows .",
    "higher the counter rotation implies that the net angular momentum of the system reduces , as a result , the matter falls faster at larger radii and it becomes supersonic at a comparatively outer edge of the disk that is more stable . in a similar manner , as explained for fig .",
    "4a , the greater size of the section ade than that of abc implies the greater possibility of shock .",
    "however , for a very high counter - rotation of the black hole ( see fig .",
    "4d ) , the entire system shifts to the outer side that is more stable , and the inner sonic point branch itself tends to merge to the branch of outer sonic point .",
    "since the net angular momentum of the system becomes very small for higher counter - rotation , the corresponding centrifugal pressure onto the matter becomes insignificant , as a result the possibility of shock formation diminishes again .",
    "therefore we can conclude that , if the angular momentum of black hole increases or decreases significantly , the shock wave in accretion disk becomes unstable and the disk itself looses stability .",
    "we will discuss now the effect of rotation of black hole on the disk fluid . in the previous section ,",
    "we have already confirmed that the rotation significantly affects the global parameter space of accretion disk .",
    "our intention is , to incorporate the rotation of black hole and to see the change of fluid properties known for the non - rotating case .",
    "figure 5a shows the variation of mach number for a particular set of physical parameter . if the black hole is chosen to be non - rotating , shock forms in the disk .",
    "when the rotation is considered keeping other parameters unchanged , the solution changes and shock disappears .",
    "if the black hole co - rotates , the inner - edge of disk becomes unstable and the matter does not find any physical path to fall steadily into the black hole . on the other hand , if the black hole counter - rotates , there is a single sonic point in the disk and the matter attains a supersonic speed only close to the black hole and falls into it .",
    "thus , for the non - rotating and counter - rotating cases , there are smooth solutions of matter passing through the inner sonic point , while for the co - rotating cases , it is not so .",
    "the physical reasons behind these phenomena can be explained as follows .",
    "when the black hole co - rotates , the angular momentum of system increases , the radial speed of matter may not be able to overcome the centrifugal barrier to fall into the black hole for that parameter set .",
    "if the black hole counter - rotates , the angular momentum of system reduces , the centrifugal barrier smears out and matter falls steadily into the black hole .",
    "it can be mentioned here that , for the other choice of physical parameters ( e.g. reducing / increasing the angular momentum of accreting matter for co / counter - rotation , changing the sonic locations etc . )",
    "the shock may appear again , even for the rotating black holes ( a few such examples are depicted in fig .",
    "figure 5b shows the corresponding density profiles in unit of @xmath59 for a particular accretion rate .",
    "as the matter slows down abruptly , the density of disk fluid jumps up at the shock location for a non - rotating case . for the counter - rotating black holes ,",
    "the angular momentum of the system is less , thus , to overcome the centrifugal barrier , matter does not need to attain a high radial speed away from the black hole .",
    "in this situation , the radial matter speed is less and the corresponding density of accreting fluid is high compared to a non - rotating case .",
    "we also show the density profiles for co - rotating , unstable cases . in fig .",
    "5c , we compare the corresponding temperature profiles in unit of @xmath0 ( @xmath60 ) .",
    "the variation of temperature is similar to that of density away from the black hole but is opposite when close to the horizon ( as the density varies inversely with the temperature at a small @xmath61 but not so at a large @xmath61 , see eqn .",
    "( [ ec ] ) ) .",
    "as the higher counter - rotation mach number lowers down , the temperature of accretion disk becomes higher .",
    "the variation of shock invariant quantity , @xmath62 is shown in fig . 5d for the non - rotating case . the intersections between the solution of the inner and outer sonic point branches indicate the shock locations . since the inner shock location is unstable , the only shock forms at an outer radius , @xmath63 .",
    "figure 6 gives examples where the shock forms in an accretion disk around rotating black hole .",
    "the variation of mach numbers for different kerr parameters are shown in fig .",
    "it reflects that , for a small rotation of black hole ( @xmath64 ) , matter adjusts the sonic locations in such a manner that the outer ( @xmath65 ) and inner ( @xmath66 ) sonic locations shift in a more outer and more inner region respectively with respect to a non - rotating case , and the shock forms in disk at @xmath67 . for the counter - rotating case ( @xmath68 ) , @xmath65 may remain unchanged , but @xmath66 has to be shifted outside to form a shock at @xmath69 ( that keeps the shock location ( almost ) unchanged ) . as for the counter rotating cases , marginally stable ( @xmath46 ) and marginally bound ( @xmath49 ) orbits shift away from the black hole with respect to a co - rotating one , @xmath66 also shifts outside to stabilize the disk . if the co - rotation of black hole is higher , say @xmath57 , to form a stable shock , not only the inner sonic location has to be smaller , the disk angular momentum ( @xmath12 ) should also be reduced .",
    "high rotation of a black hole results in the location of horizon ( @xmath70 ) as well as @xmath49 and @xmath46 to shift inwards , and the matter attains a supersonic speed at a point in more inside of the inner edge of the disk to fall into the black hole . thus all the phenomena , like sonic transitions , shock formations , etc . ,",
    "shift inside .",
    "moreover , for the stable solution , the angular momentum of the system can not be very high , otherwise matter will be unable to overcome the centrifugal barrier .",
    "thus , for the high rotation of a black hole , like @xmath57 , @xmath12 has to be reduced to form a shock ( at @xmath71 ) and stabilize the disk .",
    "however , for @xmath58 and onwards , there is no sub - keplerian flow for which a shock may form . for the higher counter - rotation of a black hole , the angular momentum of system reduces .",
    "since a higher centrifugal barrier is essential to form a shock , at the higher counter - rotation , shock completely disappears in the accretion disk .",
    "figures 6b and 6c show the corresponding variations of density and temperature respectively . in figs .",
    "6d , e , f , we show the corresponding variation of shock invariant quantity @xmath62 for the inner and outer sonic point branch , when @xmath72 respectively .",
    "again it becomes clear that , for the faster rotation of a black hole , the shock location shifts inside the disk .    in fig .",
    "7 , we show the fluid properties for @xmath73 . at a very high rotation of black hole",
    ", the possibility to form a shock in accretion disk totally disappears . for the co - rotating case , the disk can not be stable unless the angular momentum of accreting matter is very low ( as we have already mentioned that the high angular momentum of the system makes the disk unstable ) . therefore , there is no scope to form a shock , as to its formation , matter needs a significant centrifugal barrier as well as a high angular momentum of the accreting fluid . here",
    "we choose , @xmath74 and the matter falls almost freely . for the counter - rotating case , the matter angular momentum need not be low to stabilize the disk .",
    "however , in the sub - keplerian accretion disk , @xmath12 can not attain a high value to increase the angular momentum as well as the centrifugal barrier of a system to form a shock .",
    "thus , shock also disappears for a high counter - rotating case .",
    "figure 7a shows that @xmath49 and @xmath46 shift outwards for the retrograde orbit and the matter attains a supersonic speed at an outer radius than the case of a direct orbit of the disk . however , far away from black hole , the radial velocity is less ( as it needs to overcome a little centrifugal barrier ) than that of co - rotating case .",
    "figure 7b shows the variation of corresponding density .",
    "less velocity implies a high rate of piling up of matter at a particular radius that produces a high density in the disk and thus , the density behaves in an opposite manner to mach number .",
    "figure 7c shows the variation of virial temperature in accretion disk .",
    "the temperature is low for the co - rotation and high for the counter - rotation .",
    "the physical reason behind it is as follows . for a co - rotation ,",
    "the net speed as well as the kinetic energy of matter is less , producing less temperature . on the other hand , for a counter - rotating case , the situation is opposite . although we show the virial temperature of the disk , in reality several cooling processes may take place that can reduce the disk temperature upto a factor of two orders .",
    "here , we have studied the stability of accretion disk around rotating black holes in a pseudo - newtonian approach . following paper - i ,",
    "we have incorporated the general relativistic effects ( according to kerr geometry ) to the accretion disk in such a manner that all the essential relativistic properties , like , the locations of the marginally bound and stable orbits , black hole horizon and mechanical energy of the accreting matter are reproduced in the disk for various values of kerr parameters .",
    "thus we can say , our method is a pseudo - general - relativistic. as our interest is to check how the rotation of a black hole solely affects the disk structure , we have chosen the inviscid fluid in accretion disk .",
    "most of the earlier studies on structure and stability analysis of the accretion disk have been done around a non - rotating black hole ( schwarzschild geometry ) .",
    "as no cosmic object is static , it is very important to consider the effect of rotation of the black hole , particularly for the discussion of an inner edge of accretion disk .",
    "we have found that when the rotation of a black hole is incorporated , the valid , known disk parameter region of a non - rotating black hole is dramatically affected . as a result ,",
    "the location of various sonic points and shock ( if any ) get shifted severely and influence the disk structure . therefore , we can conclude that in the study of an accretion disk , the rotation should be considered .",
    "any related conclusion depends on the rotation parameter of a black hole .",
    "so , we can say that the known physical parameter regime ( chakrabarti 1989 , 1990 , 1996a ) to form a shock , sonic locations etc . in the disk around a non - rotating black hole",
    "is not global .",
    "the mentioned disk properties and phenomena not only get modified and/or shifted in location at the disk , but also sometimes completely disappear . in our study",
    ", we have chosen the kerr parameter from @xmath56 to the case of an extremely high rotation as @xmath50 and thus , we now have a clear global picture of the accretion disk .",
    "though , in the literature , there are a few works on the accretion disk around kerr black holes ( e.g. chakrabarti 1996b , c ; gammie & popham 1998 ; popham & gammie 1998 ) , those do not concentrate on the comparative study of a rotating and non - rotating black hole and the instability of disk induced by the rotation of black hole .",
    "chakrabarti ( 1996b , c ) mainly concentrated on fast rotating black holes and showed solution topology in full kerr geometry .",
    "he does not show , how the solution varies with the change of rotation of the black hole , keeping unchanged other physical parameters .",
    "thus , it is not clear from those works , how the kerr parameter affects the disk solution solely . on the other hand , gammie & popham ( 1998 ) and popham & gammie ( 1998 )",
    "do not discuss the effect of rotation on the sonic points globally , which is shown here in figs . 1 - 4 .",
    "however , the fluid dynamical results achieved by them tally with the present work .",
    "for example , they ( gammie & popham 1998 ; popham & gammie 1998 ) showed , the effect of non - zero kerr parameter is dominant close to the black hole , that is also reflected from fig .",
    "4 of the present work , which shows the outer sonic point branches are unchanged , while the inner ones are shifted .",
    "they also showed , the ( inner ) sonic points move to smaller ( larger ) radii as co - rotation ( counter - rotation ) increases in magnitude . in our work ,",
    "similar features come out from figs .",
    "1,2,3 and 6 .",
    "thus , we can conclude once again that , the pseudo - potential prescribed in paper - i can reproduce the general relativistic properties in accretion disk .",
    "unlike the works by gammie & popham ( 1998 ) and popham & gammie ( 1998 ) , here we have chosen inviscid flow to understand the sole effect of rotation of the black hole on the fluid and corresponding disk structure .",
    "finally we can conclude that the effect is significant .    here",
    ", we have carried out the stability analysis of accretion disk by choosing the black hole to be rotating .",
    "prasanna & mukhopadhyay ( 2002 ) have worked on the stability of accretion disk around rotating compact objects ( but not for black holes ) in a perturbative approach .",
    "they incorporated the rotational effect of central object in a disk indirectly , by the inclusion of coriolis acceleration term . here ,",
    "the compact object is black hole and its rotational effect is brought from the kerr metric only . as we have a very self - consistent pseudo - potential ( paper - i ) , it has been now easy to study the accretion phenomena around a rotating black hole .    from the global analysis of sonic points , we have established that the disk becomes unstable for a higher co - rotation at a particular angular momentum of the accreting matter . on the other hand , to form a shock , accretion disk must have a stable inner sonic point .",
    "thus for higher @xmath11 ( kerr parameter ) , shock is unstable , as the inner region of disk itself is not stable . in that regime",
    ", shock may disappear by any disturbance created on the accreting matter and thus the matter may not get a steady inner sonic point to form a stable inner disk . for the counter - rotating cases , the angular momentum of the system reduces and the matter falls to the black hole more rapidly . as there is no significant centrifugal barrier to slow down the matter",
    ", the possibility of shock reduces again . for a very high counter - rotation",
    ", shock disappears completely .",
    "thus we can conclude that the parameter region where the shock is expected to form ( chakrabarti 1989 , 1990 , 1996a ) for non - rotating black holes , gets affected for the rotating ones . for a positive @xmath11",
    ", shock might have been formed for a lesser value of the angular momentum of accreting matter . on the other hand , for a negative @xmath11 , to form a shock , the angular momentum of accreting matter should have a larger value than that of non - rotating cases . as we are studying the sub - keplerian accretion flow , the angular momentum of matter can not be unlimitedly high ( e.g. , for a non - rotating black hole , @xmath75 at last stable orbit ) .",
    "thus , to form a shock , matter can not attain the angular momentum beyond a certain limit . also for a highly co - rotating black hole , to stabilize the disk",
    ", @xmath12 has to be reduced by some physical process , otherwise the radial speed could not overcome the centrifugal pressure to form a steady inner edge of the disk .",
    "therefore , the disk would not be transonic and could be unstable in this situation . because of a reduced @xmath12 , centrifugal force as well as shock strength reduces , as a result , the possibility of a shock is also reduced for both the co - rotating and counter - rotating black holes . however , at an intermediate co - rotation , the parameter region of accretion disk enlarges having three sonic points and there is a possibility of a stable shock formation . on the other hand , for a counter - rotation , the valid parameter region with three sonic points at the disk shortens and thus the possibility of shock reduces .",
    "now the question may arise , how would a flow behave in the region where sonic points disappear because of the higher rotation of black hole ?",
    "it can be thought as , matter would try to pass through same sonic point as of non - rotating ( or slowly rotating ) case . because of the absence of sonic point , the searching procedure for the true sonic location should give rise to an unstable solution . only the time - dependent simulation of accretion disk can tell whether this idea is correct or not .",
    "overall we can say that the rotation of a black hole affects the sonic locations of an accretion disk which are directly related to the formation of stable disk structure .",
    "therefore , the stability of an accretion disk is strongly related to the rotation of central black hole .",
    "it has also been confirmed that the potential given in paper - i is very well applicable for the global solution and corresponding fluid dynamical study of the accretion disk around a rotating black hole .",
    "the set of a full general relativistic disk equations is very complicated for a kerr black hole , particularly , when the accreting fluid is chosen to be viscous .",
    "thus , in the study of a relativistic accretion disk , this pseudo - potential is very effective to avoid the complexities of full general relativistic fluid equations . the next step should be the study of a viscous accretion disk using this general pseudo - potential ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we discuss the solution of accretion disk when the black hole is chosen to be rotating . </S>",
    "<S> we study , how the fluid properties get affected for different rotation parameters of the black hole . </S>",
    "<S> we know that no cosmic object is static in universe . here </S>",
    "<S> the effect of the rotation of the black hole to the space - time is considered following an earlier work of the author , where the pseudo - newtonian potential was prescribed for the kerr geometry . </S>",
    "<S> we show that , with the inclusion of rotation of the black hole , the valid disk parameter region dramatically changes and disk becomes unstable . </S>",
    "<S> also we discuss about the possibility of shock in accretion disk around rotating black holes . </S>",
    "<S> when the black hole is chosen to be rotating , the sonic locations of the accretion disk get shifted or disappear , making the disk unstable . to bring it in the stable situation </S>",
    "<S> , the angular momentum of the accreting matter has to be reduced / enhanced ( for co / counter - rotating disk ) by means of some physical process . </S>"
  ]
}