{
  "article_text": [
    "the supernova remnant ( snr ) g290.10.8 was originally discovered by @xcite in their survey of radio sources and named msh 11 - 6_1_a .",
    "it was first recognised as an snr by @xcite . based on observations at 408 mhz @xcite and at 5 and 8",
    "ghz @xcite , @xcite classified the remnant as shell - type with an angular size of @xmath3 , a flux density @xmath4 of 40 jy at 1 ghz , and a spectral index @xmath5 ( @xmath6 ) of 0.4 .",
    "@xcite observed this snr at 843 mhz with the molonglo telescope and found considerable complex internal structure rather than the well - defined annular brightness distribution typical of shell snrs .",
    "@xcite observed the snr in  with a spectral resolution of 2 using the parkes radiotelescope .",
    "their spectrum shows  emission in three broad peaks near 20 , 10 and + 25 , appearing to extend to + 50 . from the absorption spectrum they assigned a lower distance limit of 3.6 kpc ( the tangent point using the earlier model of @xmath7 10 kpc ) to the snr . in a contemporary paper",
    ", @xcite claimed the snr was _ at _ the tangent point but with little convincing evidence .",
    "the optical counterpart to the radio snr was discovered virtually simultaneously by @xcite and @xcite .",
    "both papers concluded that the remnant was much older and much further away than assumed by @xcite and estimated the distance to be 12 to 15 kpc .",
    "more recently , @xcite studied the kinematics of g290.10.8 based on h@xmath5 observations and concluded that the kinematic velocity of the snr is + 12 .",
    "however , the authors note the high complexity of the h@xmath5 emission along the line of sight to the remnant .",
    "@xcite detected the snr in x - rays as part of his comprehensive survey of galactic snrs .",
    "although the x - ray morphology shows some similarity to the radio shape , the emission is strongly peaked towards the centre .",
    "for this reason , seward classifies the remnant as filled - centre in contrast to the radio classification as a clumpy shell .",
    "@xcite analyzed _ advanced satellite for cosmology and astrophysics _",
    "( asca ) observations of g290.10.8 and found that the x - ray emission is of thermal origin .",
    "therefore , this remnant should be classified as a `` mixed - morphology '' snr , which are shell - like in radio wavelengths and centrally peaked in thermal x - ray emission ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "with such a model , @xcite estimate that the distance to g290.10.8 must be in the range 8 - 11 kpc , while the age should be between 10 - 20 kyr .",
    "shaver & goss ( 1970a , b ) published images of the remnant at 408 and 5000 mhz in a field containing two other strong sources , g289.90.8 and g290.40.9 .",
    "the first of these sources has a thermal spectrum and they classified the second as extragalactic based on its spectral index and the fact that it was unresolved using a @xmath8 beam .",
    "@xcite classified g289.90.8 as an  region based on a detection of a recombination line with a velocity of + 5 and assigned a distance of 7.5 kpc to it .",
    "@xcite observed a co cloud at @xmath9 with a velocity of + 22 to which they assign a distance of 7.9 kpc .",
    "other  regions in this vicinity have similar velocities and may be associated with the co cloud .",
    "@xcite comment that the snr is ` seen close to a small co peak ' .",
    "iras and msx images in this region show the  region g289.90.8 very clearly but little or no infra - red emission is seen from the snr . as seen in the @xcite and the @xcite images , there is an extended and complex region around @xmath10 consisting of many  regions and co clouds which are clearly beyond the solar circle at a kinematic velocity of 22 .",
    "the snr is located in the middle of this complex but there is no evidence of association .",
    "three pulsars lie in the vicinity of g290.10.8 . both psr j11036025 @xcite and psr j11046103 @xcite have characteristic",
    "ages greater than one myr and are located well outside the boundaries of the snr .",
    "of more interest is psr  j11056107 @xcite , a rapidly rotating pulsar with a characteristic age of only 63 kyr .",
    "its dispersion measure is 271 @xmath11pc , which implies a distance of 7 kpc , although the pulsar is located over 2 remnant radii away from snr g290.10.8 . taking the age and distance at face value , and assuming the pulsar was born in the same event which produced the snr",
    ", it would then need an average velocity of @xmath12700 to reach the current position .",
    "this is high , although not impossible ( e.g. * ? ? ?",
    "@xcite and @xcite suggest that psr j1105 - 6107 is not likely to be associated with the remnant .",
    "in this paper we present new high resolution  line and 20-cm radio continuum observations towards g290.10.8 to understand more about this snr and its environment .",
    "simultaneous  line and 20-cm radio continuum observations were carried out with the 1.5c and 750c configurations of the australia telescope compact array ( atca ) on 1995 may 16 and june 1 , respectively .",
    "both observations were of 14 hr duration . with these configurations combined , there are 20 baselines ranging from 46 to 1480 m and an additional 10 baselines between 2000 and 5000 m. the phase centre was at ( j2000 ) ra @xmath13 , decl.= 6056110 .",
    "the primary beam has a fwhm of 33at 1400 mhz .",
    "the  measurements were centred at 1421 mhz using a 4 mhz bandwidth which was divided into 1024 channels .",
    "the velocity resolution is 1 .",
    "the radio continuum measurements were centred at 1384 mhz using a bandwidth of 128 mhz .",
    "the data reduction was carried out with the miriad software package @xcite using standard procedures . the primary flux and bandpass calibrator was pks 1934638 , while pks 1036697 and pks 1215457 were used for phase calibration .",
    "a low - resolution radio continuum image was constructed using all visibilities corresponding to baselines shorter than 1480 m. the data were fourier - transformed with ` uniform ' weighting to minimize sidelobe levels .",
    "compact sources were cleaned first , and then the residual image was used to find the clean components corresponding to diffuse emission .",
    "all clean components were finally convolved with a beam of @xmath14 , with a position angle ( p.a . ) of @xmath15 .",
    "the final image , shown in figure  1 , has an rms noise level of @xmath16 .",
    "we also made a high resolution image of this region using only the visibilities from 12.5 to 24 k@xmath0 ( baselines from 2.6 to 5 km ) .",
    "in this _ u - v _ data set , structures larger than @xmath1 are filtered out , and we find that virtually all the emission from the snr is resolved out .",
    "all continuum images were corrected for the primary beam response .    using the capability of atca to measure simultaneously continuum emission from two orthogonal linear polarizations , we constructed images of the stokes parameters q and u. no polarized emission was detected , and we do not discuss this further .    , p.a.=@xmath15 , is indicated in the bottom right corner .",
    "the rms noise level is @xmath17 .",
    "letters a to h indicate the compact sources discussed in the text .",
    "the two grey lines labeled as ne - sw and n - s ( both interrupted at the snr location ) show the directions and extent of the two cuts in fig .  2 .",
    "]      to construct the  cube , the continuum component was subtracted in the fourier domain by fitting a linear baseline to 700 line - free channels .",
    "the data were fourier - transformed using ` natural ' weighting , cleaned and restored with a synthesized beam of @xmath18 , p.a.@xmath19 .",
    "a sensitivity of @xmath20  was achieved in line free channels . to recover structures at shorter spatial frequencies ,",
    "the atca  data were combined in the _ u - v _ plane with data from the southern galactic plane survey ( sgps ; * ? ? ?",
    "the latter combinies parkes and atca  observations .",
    "no tapering was applied to the lower resolution cube .",
    "the line - free channels from the combined  data set have an rms of @xmath122 k.    for the absorption study , a second  cube was constructed using the method in @xcite , which is described in detail in @xcite . in this second cube ,",
    "the continuum was not subtracted and all baselines shorter than 1.1 k@xmath0 were removed .",
    "the result is that all   structures larger than @xmath21 are filtered out . since the continuum emission from g290.10.8",
    "is dominated by smooth , extended structures , much of the continuum flux is also filtered out .",
    "however , the  absorption features can still be easily seen towards the brightest structures . to deconvolve the data ,",
    "the compact features were cleaned out and a cube with the residuals was obtained .",
    "this cube was further cleaned in a second stage .",
    "all clean components were restored with a @xmath22 beam , with p.a.=@xmath23 .",
    "a filtered continuum image was constructed by averaging several line - free channels in the cube , and this was used to weight the final data cube .",
    "absorption spectra can be computed by dividing the spectrum by the square of the integrated continuum flux from the same region .",
    "the 20-cm radio continuum image of g290.10.8 and the surrounding complex region is shown in figure  1 .",
    "the snr shows considerable internal structure . the high resolution and sensitivity achieved with the present observations",
    "reveal a network of filaments across the face of the remnant .",
    "the sharp southern and northern edges of the snr are remarkably straight , suggesting that the shock front may have encountered a plane parallel density gradient .",
    "there is some evidence for a ` blow - out ' of material towards the nw and se .",
    "the nw ` blow - out ' ends in a fringe with faint threads oriented in the direction of the major axis of the snr , while the other bulge ends in a thin , very faint tail @xmath24 long extending to the south .",
    "this weak tail is also seen in the 843 mhz image @xcite .",
    "the flux density of g290.10.8 is estimated to be 25 jy , which is about 40% lower than the predicted value based on measurements in other frequencies .",
    "although this snr has been classified as shell type , there is no evidence of shell structure in the 20-cm radio continuum image ( fig .",
    "1 ) except for a bright arc at the western rim . to show this , we plot in figure  2 the intensity along two cuts across the remnant .",
    "the directions of the cuts ( ne - sw and n - s ) are shown in fig .  1 .",
    "both cuts show the profiles of multiple narrow filaments , perhaps evidence of internal shocks .",
    "the seven strongest compact sources in the field ( all with flux densities @xmath25 ) are labelled a ",
    "g in fig .  1 .",
    "source h is a bright patch of emission projected onto the southern rim of the snr .",
    "its possible association with the remnant is discussed below .",
    "sources b and d are both associated with extended continuum emission with total flux densities of 1050 and 100 mjy , respectively . the parameters for these sources are listed in table  1 .",
    "the first column corresponds to the label as given in fig .  1 .",
    "some of these sources have been identified in simbad , and we have included these identifications in the second column of table  1 . to compute the coordinates ( third and fourth columns ) and flux density at 20-cm ( fifth column ) , the sources have been fitted with two - dimensional gaussians . for",
    "double sources ( see discussion below ) , the coordinates of the brightest component derived using the high resolution image are listed .",
    "the sixth column gives the computed spectral index .",
    "the last two entries ( systemic velocity and kinematical distance ) are discussed in section  3.2 .    to compute the spectral indices",
    ", we used an 843 mhz radio continuum image ( hpbw of @xmath26 ) obtained from the sydney university molonglo sky survey ( sumss ; * ? ? ?",
    "the atca 20-cm radio continuum image was convolved to the same resolution as the molonglo image , and fluxes at both frequencies were compared in such a way that the slope between them gives a measure of the spectral index @xcite .",
    "the method requires that the two images to be compared are filtered for the same _ u - v _ coverage @xcite .",
    "although this condition was not rigorously fulfilled here , the method may be used to give a good approximation for structures smaller than a few arcmin .    [ cols=\"<,<,^,^,>,^,^,^ \" , ]      were blanked .",
    "the noise level is 3 .",
    "boxes indicate the regions where  absorption spectra are computed ( south and west ) . the location of sources f and h",
    "are also indicated .",
    "a 20-cm radio contour at 1  is included.,width=252 ]    spectra towards all sources ( a  h ) were obtained in both cubes in order to compare  emission and absorption .",
    "all profiles are displayed in figure  4 .",
    "the name of each source and their galactic coordinates are indicated at the top of the  emission profile , while the corresponding absorption profile is shown below .",
    "a brief description follows of the spectra for each of the sources .",
    "source a shows strong absorption up to + 77 , coincident with the most positive velocity emission feature , which implies a lower distance limit of 14 kpc .",
    "the steep spectral index indicates an extragalactic origin for this source .",
    "source b , named g289.90.8 by @xcite and also known as msh 116_1_b , shows strong absorption through all negative velocities and at + 20 .",
    "we assign source b a lower distance limit of 7.7 kpc and an upper limit of 8.4 kpc , the latter corresponding to + 28 , which is the first emission feature with no associated absorption . @xcite",
    "classify this source as an ultracompact  region based on the detection of the cs 1 - 0 line at about + 20 .",
    "the extended source possibly associated with source b is very faint at 20-cm , which makes an absorption study difficult . from the  data it is not possible to establish a physical link between the compact source b and the extended emission .",
    "the spectral index of the diffuse emission to the north of source b is @xmath27 , typical of  regions , while the spectral index of source b is @xmath28 , which is expected for stars with an ionized , uniform , spherically symmetric mass loss flow @xcite .",
    "source c , shown as g290.40.9 on early radio images , shows strong absorption features to + 115 .",
    "this is the only source to clearly show absorption at such a high velocity .",
    "however , the brightness temperatures for the other sources in table  1 are lower and any high velocity absorption may be lost in the noise . the high resolution image which shows that the source is a compact double and the steep spectral index",
    "strongly indicate that the source is extragalactic .",
    "sources d , e and f are all located within 6 arcmin of each other .",
    "the emission spectra in the direction of these sources are similar and yet d ( the strongest of the 3 sources ) shows a rather different absorption spectrum .",
    "sources e and f clearly show absorption to + 33 and again against the emission feature near + 70 , which implies lower distance limits of approximately 13 and 14 kpc respectively . in contrast , source d shows no evidence for absorption against the + 70 feature and is therefore likely to be a galactic source .",
    "the lower distance limit to d is 8.8 kpc , based on the absorption feature at + 31.5 .",
    "furthermore , it appears to be resolved in the visibilities measured for the longest baselines , recording only 25% of the total intensity .",
    "source d also has strong infrared emission and is coincident with a water - vapor maser @xcite located 8.9 kpc away , derived from a systemic velocity of @xmath29 from cs and c@xmath30s observations @xcite .",
    "source g is the weakest point source listed .",
    "its absorption spectrum is rather noisy and difficult to interpret .",
    "there appears to be absorption out to + 75 , implying a lower distance limit of @xmath31 kpc .",
    "finally , source h clearly shows absorption to + 80 , which sets a lower limit of 14 kpc for the distance .",
    "the range of possible velocities for each source according to the discussion above , and the derived distances , are summarized in the last two columns of table  1 .      to determine the kinematical distance to g290.10.8 , we analyzed absorption profiles towards different regions of the snr , using the procedure described in section  2.2 .",
    "pixels below @xmath32 , where @xmath33 , have been blanked . for each absorption spectrum",
    ", we produced 5@xmath34 envelopes to determine which features were significant .",
    "this method also filters out smooth scale continuum emission . from figure  5 , where the resulting filtered continuum image is shown",
    ", it is seen that there are not many areas of the snr where there is an opportunity to prepare absorption spectra using this method .     uncertainties . ]    in figure  6 , the two most convincing absorption profiles are displayed , towards the south and the west of the snr ( shown with boxes in fig .  5 ) .",
    "an average  emission spectrum towards the whole area subtended by the snr is included .",
    "the two absorption profiles look quite different : the western spectrum shows no absorption beyond about + 20 , while the southern spectrum shows no absorption beyond about + 7 .    the interpretation of these  spectra , particularly with respect to estimating the distance to the snr , is complicated and described in the next section",
    "a visual inspection of the  data cube shows that snr g290.10.8 is seen unambiguously in absorption for velocities from 30 to approximately + 7 . beyond this velocity",
    "the picture is not clear .",
    "figure  7 shows images at 12 velocity channels from the  cube to demonstrate the complexity of the structures and illustrate the difficulty in determining the systemic velocity for this snr .",
    "absorption is clearly seen against most of the remnant out to velocities of about + 7 .",
    "the first channels displayed in fig .  7 clearly show an ``  shadow '' within the outer contours of the radio continuum emission .",
    "we note that the  emission and absorption across the face of the remnant vary substantially , with absorption structure that often does not correlate well with the continuum intensity peaks . beyond",
    "about + 7 there is no obvious ``  shadow '' at the position of the remnant , partly due to diminished  emission at velocities up to about + 14 .",
    "a slight drop in  emission at the western edge of the remnant , at velocities around 1820 , is difficult to interpret , but most likely not due to absorption .",
    "in contrast ,  absorption against the very bright radio continuum emission of source b is clearly seen out to about + 24 .",
    "the  spectrum against the western rim ( figure  6 ) shows a local minimum at + 20 .",
    "this is one of several features which are marginally above the @xmath32 detection limit .",
    "the feature does not appear in the  spectrum against the southern rim .",
    "it is not possible to determine conclusively from the present data if this feature is associated with absorption by the snr .",
    "if this velocity does represent the systemic velocity of the remnant , it would correspond to a distance of @xmath35 kpc .",
    "another anomaly complicating the interpretation of g290.10.8 concerns the bright compact source h which is located within the snr rim .",
    "a comparison with the clearly unrelated source f is helpful .",
    "both sources are shown in figure  5 .",
    "inspection of the two absorption spectra ( figure  4 ) shows obvious similarities , with strong positive velocity features at + 33 and + 70 , indicating distances beyond the solar circle of more than 14 kpc .",
    "source h also appears to have an infrared counterpart , catalogued in both the iras ( 110146044 ) and msx ( g290.218100.8153 ) surveys .",
    "furthermore , the weak finger of continuum emission extending from source h , outside the snr rim , also has an msx source at the same position .",
    "hence , it seems most likely that source h is unrelated to the snr and the shock heated dust model to explain the iras spectrum @xcite has an origin not related to the formation of the snr .    a common problem when studying  absorption against a continuum source is confusion with self - absorption against the  background .",
    "this happens when the optical depth along the line of sight is high and the phenomenon is typically seen as narrow features indicating the presence of small , cold clouds . for a small scale object",
    ", an interferometer observes a brightness temperature @xmath36 @xcite , where @xmath37 is the  spin temperature , @xmath38 is the background  emission and @xmath39 is the fraction of absorbed . to test the nature of the observed absorption",
    ", we followed the method employed by @xcite to determine the distance to tycho s snr : we plotted the minimum   value per channel in the unfiltered interferometric cube towards the whole area subtended by g290.10.8 , and towards regions away from the snr in the four directions , north , south , east and west , all covering the same area .",
    "if features are similar on- and off - source , then self - absorption may be the explanation .",
    "the spectra are shown in figure  8 .",
    "clear absorption against the continuum emission from g290.10.8 is not found much beyond + 7 .",
    "the possibility of the + 20  feature being associated with the snr is discussed previously . from figure  8",
    ", we can deduce that absorption is definitely associated out to + 7 , by observing the large differences between the snr spectrum and the other spectra . for more positive velocities",
    "we again see inconsistent results . adopting a value of + 7 for the systemic velocity ,",
    "the corresponding distance is about @xmath40 kpc , using the fich et al .",
    "( 1989 ) model for galactic rotation .",
    "note that the distance derived previously for + 20   is not greatly different from our proposed estimate and likely to be consistent within the uncertainties of the model and expected peculiar velocities .    while the centrally peaked x - ray source is located near the central bright filament of the snr , the distance estimate from the x - ray data of 8  11",
    "kpc is not sufficiently well - constrained to help us determine the velocity range of features that are associated with absorption by the snr .",
    "the column density measured by integrating the  from the most negative velocity to the highest related positive velocity ( taken as + 10 ) is @xmath41 2 , which is not inconsistent with the value estimated by @xcite of @xmath42 2 , given the uncertainties .",
    "the values would be even closer if the velocity of + 20 is adopted as the systemic velocity .    on balance",
    ", it seems likely that the systemic velocity is close to + 10 , which is in good agreement with the h@xmath5 result from @xcite of + 12 , corresponding to a kinematic distance of @xmath43 kpc .",
    "this places the snr in the carina arm with a linear diameter of about 25 pc at a scale - height of nearly 100 pc , which are consistent with parameters for the known snr population .",
    "the results from this work do present a consistent picture , notwithstanding the difficulty in interpreting the highly complex structure seen in data , which can be due not only to absorption by continuum sources , but real density variations , turbulence and velocity structure and self - absorption by cold clouds in the ism .",
    "the surface brightness of g290.10.8 is @xmath44 w@xmath45 m@xmath46 hz@xmath47 sr@xmath47 .",
    "statistically , high surface brightness snrs ( above @xmath48 w@xmath45 m@xmath46 hz@xmath47 sr@xmath47 ) are strongly concentrated around @xmath49 , but there is another peak at @xmath50 @xcite .",
    "if this secondary peak is due to the fact that in this direction the carina arm is crossed tangentially , and there is a concentration of high surface brightness snrs in this arm , then it is very probably that g290.10.8 also belongs to the carina arm .",
    "this is supporting evidence that g290.10.8 is at a distance of 7 kpc ( systemic velocity @xmath51 ) .",
    "we have imaged the snr g290.10.8 in both the radio continuum and the 21-cm  line using the atca . to recover the shortest spatial frequencies ,",
    "our  observations were combined with sgps data ( mcclure - griffiths et al .",
    "absorption was analyzed by filtering the  data , keeping only the highest spatial frequencies ( above 1.1 k@xmath0 ) .    in the 20-cm radio continuum image ,",
    "g290.10.8 shows filamentary emission with little evidence of shell structure , although this snr is classified as a shell - type .",
    "the northern and southern edges of this snr are remarkably straight , suggesting that the shock front may have encountered a plane parallel density gradient .",
    "however , no emission features with similar morphology were found in the  cube at any velocity likely to be associated with g290.10.8 .",
    "the  in this direction is very complex since the line of sight cuts tangentially through the carina spiral arm .",
    "departures in velocity of @xmath52 with respect to circular rotation model are common .",
    "to resolve the problem of the kinematic distance to g290.10.8 , we made various tests and conclude that the upper limit of the systemic velocity is about + 7 , also in good agreement with the result obtained from h@xmath5 data @xcite .",
    "this velocity is translated into a distance of @xmath40 kpc , in good agreement with the lower limit inferred from x - rays asca data @xcite .",
    "additionally , we studied eight radio sources in the field , including a compact knot in the southern rim of g290.10.8 which is probably an unrelated source . a high resolution image constructed using",
    "only the baselines involving the 6th atca antenna ( baselines from 2.6 to 5 km ) revealed that some of these sources are close doubles .",
    "spectral indices were computed using the flux - flux method combining our observations with data from the sumss at 843 mhz .",
    "distance limits were derived for all these sources based on their absorption spectra .",
    "the authors wish to thank naomi mcclure - griffiths for her advices on the  absorption analysis .",
    "this project was partially financed by grants anpcyt-14018 and ubacyt a055 ( argentina ) . during part of this work ,",
    "e. m. r. was a visiting scholar at the university of sydney .",
    "the atca is part of the australia telescope , which is funded by the commonwealth of australia for operation as a national facility managed by csiro .",
    "this research has made use of the nasa/ ipac infrared science archive , which is operated by the jet propulsion laboratory , california institute of technology , under contract with the national aeronautics and space administration .",
    "kramer , m. , bell , j. f. , manchester , r. n. , lyne , a. g. , camilo , f. , stairs , i. h. , damico , n. , kaspi , v. m. , hobbs , g. , morris , d. j. , crawford , f. , possenti , a. , joshi , b. c. , mclaughlin , m. a. , lorimer , d. r. , faulkner , a. j. , 2003 , mnras , 342 , 1299"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we have observed the supernova remnant ( snr ) g290.10.8 in the 21-cm  line and the 20-cm radio continuum using the australia telescope compact array ( atca ) . </S>",
    "<S> the  data were combined with data from the southern galactic plane survey to recover the shortest spatial frequencies . </S>",
    "<S> in contrast ,  absorption was analyzed by filtering extended  emission , with spatial frequencies shorter than 1.1 k@xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> the low - resolution atca radio continuum image of the remnant shows considerable internal structure , resembling a network of filaments across its 13 arcmin diameter . </S>",
    "<S> a high - resolution atca radio continuum image was also constructed to study the small scale structure in the snr . </S>",
    "<S> it shows that there are no structures smaller than @xmath1 , except perhaps for a bright knot to the south , which is probably an unrelated object . </S>",
    "<S> the  absorption study shows that the gas distribution and kinematics in front of snr g290.10.8 are complex . </S>",
    "<S> we estimate that the snr probably lies in the carina arm , at a distance 7 ( @xmath2 ) kpc . </S>",
    "<S> in addition , we have studied nearby sources in the observed field using archival multiwavelength data to determine their characteristics .    </S>",
    "<S> [ firstpage ]    ism : supernova remnants  </S>",
    "<S> ism : individual : g290.10.8  line : profiles  radio lines : ism </S>"
  ]
}