{
  "article_text": [
    "which things about the world are accidental , which things are necessary ? philosophers have debated this metaphysical question for thousands of years ( see , e.g. , leslie 1989 ) , but it has become more than an abstract philosophical issue since the answer now influences the mathematical design of fundamental physical theory ( see , e.g. , tegmark 1998 ) . within the confines of physics",
    "we can sharpen the question and can even hope to offer some provisional answers .",
    "the question now has special currency because in modern fundamental theories , low - energy effective constants can preserve the symmetry of precise spatial uniformity over a large spatial volume even a whole `` daughter universe'' even while they adopt different values in different universes .",
    "in addition , inflationary cosmology offers a physical mechanism for creating a true statistical ensemble ( a `` multiverse '' ; rees 1997 ) where many possible values of the constants are realized .",
    "the truly fundamental equations may be the same everywhere in all universes but may not completely determine the values of all the effective , apparently `` fundamental '' constants at low energies in each one .",
    "the theory of everything currently under construction , even in its final form , may never provide a derivation from first principles of all the pure numbers controlling everyday phenomenology .",
    "these may instead be primarily determined by a kind of selection , dubbed the `` anthropic principle '' by carter , the `` principle of complexity '' by reeves , the `` principle of effectiveness '' by rozenthal , such that the elementary building blocks of the universe allow for complex things to happen , such as the assembly of observers .",
    "we can seek clues to the flexible degrees of freedom in the `` final theory '' by looking for parameters of the effective low - energy theory ( the standard model ) with especially powerful effects : parameters whose small variation from their actual fortuitous values lead to major qualitative changes .    since the reviews of carr and rees ( 1979 ) and barrow and tipler ( 1986 ) , advances in both physics and astronomy have , amazingly , led to progress on the ancient riddle of chance and necessity , on very different fronts : at one extreme the very concrete circumstances about our local habitable environment and its detailed history ; at the other extreme , the most abstract levels of physics .",
    "the natural history of the solar system and the galaxy have revealed new couplings between biology and the astrophysical environment , as well as actual data on other solar systems .",
    "inflationary multiverses ( e.g. , vilenkin 1998b ) now provide a physical framework to discuss different choices of physical vacuum which may allow some of the parameters of low - energy physics ( which we try to identify ) to be tuned by selection . at the same time , unified theories constrain some relations among the parameters to be fixed by symmetry .",
    "_ remarkably , the freedom still available to tune parameters in grand unified theories appears well matched to that required to select parameters which yield a complex phenomenology at low energy .",
    "_ simple arguments suggest that one independent coupling constant and two out of the three light fermion masses ( the down quark mass , and either the up quark or electron mass ) may not be fixed by symmetry , which allows the fundamental theory enough flexibility to find a combination with a rich nuclear and chemical phenomenology ; the other relationships among the 20 or more parameters of current standard theory can be fixed by symmetries of unification mathematics .",
    "it is easy to guess wrong about selection effects and it is worth recalling the history of the large numbers hypothesis .",
    "dirac ( 1937 ) saw two of the large numbers of nature the weakness of gravity and the low density of the universe and concluded , incorrectly , that gravitational coupling depends on cosmic density .",
    "the correct insight ( by dicke , 1961 ) was that the density of the universe is determined by its age , and the age of the universe is mainly fixed by our own requirements , probably mainly to do with how long it takes stellar populations to synthesize the heavy nuclei needed for planets and life .",
    "the long timescales associated with stars ultimately derive from the weakness of gravity and the energy available from nuclear fusion .",
    "once it is granted that our presence requires evolved stars , dirac s coincidence can be derived from physical models of stars .",
    "carter ( 1983 ) extended the argument to draw conclusions about the intrinsic timescales of biological evolution , some of which appear to be confirmed by modern astrobiology .",
    "fossil evidence now confirms intricate couplings of biological and astronomical processes throughout the history of the earth , and we have developed enough understanding to guess that highly complex life requires a rare combination of factors ( ward and brownlee 1999 ) .",
    "it is also easy to discredit anthropic arguments . in the same way that darwinian natural selection can be discredited by silly `` just so stories '' ( how the leopard got his spots , etc . ) , anthropic arguments are sometimes used indiscriminately ; for example , when a theory of quantum cosmology essentially fails to predict anything , so that all the important features of the universe must be attributed to selection .",
    "such extreme applications of anthropic reasoning undermine the essential goal of unification physics , to achieve an elegant mathematical explanation for everything .",
    "yet one must bear in mind dare we call it a principle of humility? that at least some properties of the world might not have an elegant mathematical explanation , and we can try to guess which ones these are .",
    "the large - scale character of spacetime is well established to be a large , nearly homogeneous , expanding 3-space with a ( real or imaginary ) radius of curvature vastly larger than any microscopic scale .",
    "this fundamental structure , which used to seem to require fine tuning of initial conditions , is now understood as a natural causal consequence of inflation , which automatically creates macroscopic spacetimes , exponentially larger than microscopic scales , from microscopic instabilities .",
    "our time coordinate in this spacetime , now estimated to be about 12 to 14 gy , is ( as dicke argued ) probably selected by our own needs .",
    "the simplest of these is the need for a wide variety of chemical elements .",
    "the early universe produced nearly pure hydrogen and helium , but biochemistry uses almost all of the chemically active , reasonably abundant elements in the upper half of the periodic table .",
    "the time required to manufacture abundant biological elements and stars with earthlike planets is determined by the formation and evolution times of galaxies and stellar populations , setting a minimum age of billions of years .",
    "curiously , most observations now suggest that we also appear to be living at an intrinsically special time in the history of the expansion .",
    "data on the hubble constant , the age of the universe , cosmic structure , matter density , and in particular the supernova hubble diagrams of riess et al .",
    "( 1998 ) and perlmutter et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , and microwave background anisotropy , e.g. miller et al .",
    "( 1999 ) , de bernardis et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , hanany et al .",
    "( 2000 ) , all support a cosmological model with close to a spatially flat geometry , a low matter density , and a significant component of `` dark energy '' such as a cosmological constant ( see fukugita 2000 for a review of the data ) .",
    "these models have an intrinsic expansion rate @xmath5 introduced by the cosmological constant @xmath6 , which happens to be comparable to the current hubble rate @xmath7 .",
    "the rough coincidence of this fundamental scale , fixed by the energy density of the physical vacuum @xmath8 , with seemingly unrelated astrophysical timescales determined by stellar evolution , has invited anthropic explanations ( weinberg 1987,1989 , 1997 , vilenkin 1995 , efstathiou 1996 , martel et al 1998 , garriga et al .",
    "2000 ) .",
    "the conjecture is that in a large ensemble of universes ( a multiverse ) , most universes have very large values of the cosmological constant which render them uninhabitable ; the value we observe is not the most probable one but is typical of that seen by the largest number of observers in the multiverse as a whole .",
    "this argument is tied up with another parameter , the amplitude of the fluctuations which produce galaxies , now usually thought to be determined by the detailed shape of the potential controlling cosmological inflation ( e.g. kolb 1996 ) , which may also be determined by selection ( tegmark and rees 1998 ) . the anthropic prediction of cosmological parameters in multiverses is still tied up in the murky unresolved debates of quantum cosmology which describe the ensemble ( turok and hawking 1998 , vilenkin 1998a , linde 1998 ) .",
    "the value of @xmath6 need not be set anthropically .",
    "a similar exotic form of dark energy ( `` quintessence '' ) , a dynamical scalar field with properties controlled by an internal potential , could evolve in such a way as to adjust to give it a density comparable to the matter density today ( e.g. zlatev et al .",
    "1999 ) . or perhaps a `` derivable '' fundamental scale of physics exists , corresponding to a vacuum energy density which happens to be about the same as the current cosmic mean density .",
    "the current cosmic mean density @xmath9 is derivable from dicke s argument in terms of fundamental constants ; the required coincidence ( see equation [ eqn : salpeter ] below ) is that @xmath10 .    one way or another , the intrinsic global cosmological parameters are intimately connected with the large numbers ( or `` hierarchy problem '' ) of fundamental physics ; but the nature of the connection is still not clear",
    ".      why is the universe not much older than it is ? in the anthropic view , part of the reason must be the decrease in new star formation , which both globally and within the galaxy has decreased by almost an order of magnitude during the 4.5 billion years since the solar system formed ( fukugita et al .",
    "1996 , lilly 1998 , madau 1999 ) .",
    "galaxies have converted the bulk of their original gas to stars or ejected it altogether , and the larger reservoir of intergalactic gas is now too hot to cool and collapse to replenish it ( fukugita et al 1998 , cen and ostriker 1999 ) .",
    "the decrease in star formation rate also means that the heavy element production rate is decreasing , and therefore the mean age of radioactive elements ( especially those produced by type ii supernovae , whose rate is closely tied to current star formation ) is increasing .",
    "the new planets which are forming now and in the future are less radioactively alive than earth was when it formed .",
    "since abundant live radioactive nuclei in the earth s core ( especially uranium 238 , thorium 232 , and potassium 40 , with half - lives of 4.46 , 14 and 1.28 gy respectively ) are needed to power vulcanism , continental drift , seafloor spreading , mountain uplift , and the convective dynamo which creates the earth s magnetic field , new planets even in the rare instances where they do manage to form will in the future not have these important attributes of the earth .",
    "life is also sensitive to other features of the detailed composition inside the earth : the correct iron abundance is needed to provide sufficiently conductive core flows to give a strong magnetic field . without its protection , the solar wind would erode the atmosphere as it appears to have done on mars since the magnetic dynamo ceased there ( acua et al .",
    "1999 , connerney et al .",
    "the coupling of bioevolution with astrophysics thus defines a fairly sharp window of habitability in cosmic time as well as space ( ward and brownlee 1999 ) : new stars and new habitable planets are becoming increasingly rare .",
    "we find more specific clues to factors influencing our time coordinate by a closer examination of local natural history , both in the fossil record ( e.g. knoll 1999 ) and the genomic one ( e.g. woese et al .",
    "1990 , doolittle 1999 ) . the oldest sedimentary rocks ( from 3.9 gya , where gya=@xmath11 years ago ) on the surface of the earth are almost as old as the earth itself ( 4.55 gya ) , yet appear to harbor fossilized cells . unambiguous fossils of cyanobacteria , closely resembling modern species , are found from 3.5 gya .",
    "the earliest life seems to have emerged soon ( within of the order of 0.1 gy ) after the last globally - sterilizing meteoroid impact .",
    "the first eukaryotic fossils ( _ grypania _ ) show up much later , about 2gya ( about the time when the atmospheric oxygen level rose substantially ) ; widespread eukarya ( acritarchs , a form of planktonic algae ) do not appear until much more recently ( 1.5 gya ) .",
    "significant morphological diversity only began about 1 gya , possibly paced by the emergence of sex .",
    "the cambrian explosion , which took place over a remarkably narrow interval of time between about 0.50 and 0.55 gya , created essentially all of the variety and complexity in body plans of modern animals .",
    "since then there have been several mass extinctions triggered by catastrophic impacts ( including possibly the huge permo - triassic event 0.25 gya , and almost certainly the smaller dinosaur killer cretaceous - tertiary ( kt ) event 0.065 gya ) , indicating that extraterrestrial factors are even recently at work in shaping biological history .",
    "what is the clock that determines the roughly 4 gy timescale from the formation of the earth to the cambrian explosion ? if it is a purely biological clock , there is a striking coincidence between this timescale and the main - sequence lifetime of the sun , about 10gy .",
    "why should darwinian bioevolution occur on a similar timescale to stellar evolution ? why should it be that we show up when the sun is just halfway through its lifetime ?",
    "carter ( 1983 ) considered these coincidences and proposed an anthropic explanation : if the biological clock has a very long intrinsic timescale , most systems fail to evolve significantly before their suns die ; those that by chance evolve quickly enough will tend to do so `` at the last minute '' .",
    "if there are a small number of rare rate - limiting steps , the coincidence can be explained .",
    "indeed the emerging picture of continual cosmic catastrophes affecting the biosphere and the mounting evidence for the intimate coupling of life and the global environment has started to flesh out the details of what paced evolution , and how it has been controlled or limited by astrophysical events and thereby by astrophysical timescales .",
    "in addition to asteroid and comet impacts , intimate couplings are now recognized between geophysical and biological evolution , although their relative importance is not settled .",
    "one example is the global carbon cycle , which includes biological components ( important in the precipitation of carbonates ) as well as plate tectonics , vulcanism , and climate - controlled erosion ; the sum of these elements may allow the planet to maintain a surface temperature which tracks the habitable zone , in spite of variations in insolation since the sun formed of up to twenty percent ( schwartzmann and volk 1989 ) .",
    "the most spectacular failures of this stabilization mechanism may have led to  snowball earth \" events ( evans et al .",
    "1997 , hoffman et al .",
    "1998 ) where the entire surface of the planet iced over , and the subsequent superheated recovery from these events by volcanic replenishment of greenhouse gases .",
    "the most recent of these events may have triggered the cambrian explosion .",
    "another example is the accumulation of oxygen , a biological process partly paced by geochemistry ( the global oxidation of iron ) which also took place over a billion years , which certainly enabled and may have paced the explosion of complex life forms .    direct evidence thus suggests that interdependent `` co - evolution '' accounts for the coincidence of biological and astrophysical timescales , even though the dominant couplings may not yet be known .",
    "the actual situation is subtly different from carter s original guess ; the intrinsic timescale of biological evolution , if one exists , appears to be relatively rapid , and the pace of evolution has been set by occasional rare opportunities ( such as the isolation of darwin s finches on various galapagos islands , but on a global scale ) .",
    "carter s main conclusion , that advanced life is relatively rare , is substantiated by the accumulation of evidence over the last twenty years : many fortuitous circumstances seem to have played a role in the emergence of animal life on earth ( ward and brownlee 1999 ) .",
    "the standard model of fundamental quantum fields has at least 20 adjustable parameters ( including for this count einstein s classical theory of gravity ) , although it explains almost all natural phenomena with less than half of these , and the basic structures are fixed by just a handful of them . at a deeper level ,",
    "the values of the parameters are presumed to be not all truly independent and adjustable ; symmetries fix relationships between some of them .",
    "the minimal standard model has 19 `` adjustable '' parameters ( cahn 1996 , gaillard et al .",
    "1999 ) : yukawa coefficients fixing the masses of the six quark and three lepton flavors ( @xmath12 ) , the higgs mass and vacuum expectation value @xmath13 ( which multiplies the yukawa coefficients to determine the fermion masses ) , three angles and one phase of the ckm ( cabibbo - kobayashi - maskawa ) matrix ( which mixes quark weak- and strong - interaction eigenstates ) , a phase for the quantum chromodynamic ( qcd ) vacuum , and three coupling constants @xmath14 of the gauge group , @xmath15 .",
    "if as seems likely the neutrinos are not massless , there are seven more parameters for them ( three masses and another four ckm matrix elements ) .    various more or less observable combinations of these parameters appear in discussing phenomenology , taking account of the change of couplings with energy .",
    "the traditional zero - energy electromagnetic fine structure constant @xmath16 , changes with energy scale to @xmath17 at the @xmath18 mass scale ; it is related to the electroweak parameters by @xmath19 , where the weak mixing angle @xmath20 also fixes the @xmath21 and @xmath18 mass ratio , @xmath22 , and for consistently normalized currents one defines @xmath23 .",
    "the fermi constant of weak interactions can be written @xmath24 where @xmath25gev is the expectation value of the higgs field .",
    "the strong coupling @xmath26 can be defined at some energy scale @xmath6 , say @xmath27 ; or , an energy scale @xmath28mev can be defined where the coupling diverges .",
    "the masses of protons and other hadrons are thereby approximately fixed by the value of @xmath29 at any energy . to @xmath30",
    "also depends on the fermion and higgs masses , through threshold effects . ]",
    "the standard model plus classical gravity describes all known physical phenomenology within the present - day universe .",
    "everyday matter ( indeed nearly all of the `` baryonic '' matter of the universe aside from energetic particles ) is almost entirely made of the lightest first generation fermions . ( with @xmath31 fixed by so(10 ) ) . ]",
    "since we may take the strong coupling to be fixed at the proton mass scale , and the fermion masses enter mostly through their ratio to the nucleon mass , the basic structures ( almost ) just depend on four parameters , which we may take to be the three light fermion masses @xmath32 and the elecromagnetic coupling constant @xmath33 , plus gravity . is the one tunable parameter singled out in the standard model by having a dimension .",
    "indeed the fundamental degrees of freedom of the fundamental theory are not known and one of the main objectives of studies such as these is to sniff them out . here",
    "i imagine adjusting some coefficients in the lagrangian according to the constraints imposed by unification .",
    "this amounts to exploring a different space of variation , with more degrees of freedom , than agrawal et al . for most of the arguments presented here",
    ", it does not matter whether the higgs is counted as a separate degree of freedom .",
    "note however that tuning only the higgs varies all the fermion masses in lockstep , and can not by itself tune more than one degree of freedom . ]",
    "newton s constant of universal gravitation @xmath34 specifies the coupling of all forms of energy to gravity ( which is usually regarded as outside the `` standard model '' ) . in the next section",
    "we review how the gravitational coupling of nucleons @xmath35 defines the relationship between the structure of the astronomical scales of the universe and those of the microworld .",
    "the electron mass and fine structure constant together determine the basic behavior of atomic matter and its interaction with radiation in other words , all of chemistry and biology .",
    "they enter in familiar combinations such as the classical electron radius @xmath36 , the thomson cross section @xmath37 , the electron compton wavelength @xmath38 , and the bohr radius @xmath39 .",
    "the rydberg energy @xmath40 sets the scale of atomic binding ; atomic fine structure ( spin - orbit ) splittings depends on higher powers of @xmath33 , and splittings of molecular modes , which include electronic , vibrational and rotational states , depend on powers of @xmath41 .",
    "the detailed relationships among atomic and molecular eigenstates are not preserved continuously or homologously as @xmath33 and @xmath42 are adjusted , and would be scrambled with even small changes . however , structural chemistry would not change much if @xmath33 and @xmath42 were adjusted slightly differently .",
    "the structure of electron orbitals in atoms and molecules scales homologously in first order with the bohr radius , and the energy levels of the ground - state orbitals scale with the rydberg .",
    "so , while it does seem miraculous that complementary structures can form with the specificity ( say ) of purines and pyramidines in dna , the possibility of this miracle can be traced back to group theory and quantum mechnanics ; if @xmath33 and/or @xmath42 changed , the dna structure would remain almost the same , it would just change size relative to , say , the classical electron radius .",
    "( the departure from homology enters only in subdominant terms in the hamiltonian , such as the spin - orbit or nucleus - nucleus interactions . )",
    "this amazing achievement of quantum theory illuminates another good example of failed anthropic reasoning . before quantum mechanics",
    ", it was suggested that atomic properties must have been tuned to achieve the marvellous chemical structures needed for life ( henderson 1913 ) .",
    "instead it appears that ordinary darwinian natural selection has found and exploited the structural opportunities presented by underlying symmetries .",
    "biology and not physics or cosmology should be given credit for this miracle !",
    "by contrast , changing the quark masses even a small amount has drastic consequences which no amount of darwinian selection can compensate .",
    "the @xmath43 mass difference in particular attracts attention because the @xmath44 is just enough heavier than @xmath45 to overcome the electromagnetic energy difference to make the proton ( @xmath46 ) lighter than the neutron ( @xmath47 ) and therefore stable . on the other hand",
    "if it were a little heavier still , the deuteron would be unstable and it would be difficult to assemble any nuclei heavier than hydrogen .",
    "this then is a good candidate for selective tuning among multiverses . similarly , the sum of the quark masses controls the pion mass , so changing them alters the range of the nuclear potential and significantly changes nuclear structure and energy levels .",
    "even a small change radically alters the history of nuclear astrophysics , for example , by eliminating critical resonances of nucleosynthesis needed to produce abundant carbon ( hoyle 1953 )",
    ". it would be surprising if symmetries conspired to satisfy these constraints , but quite natural if the parameters can adopt a continuous range of values .",
    "_ one therefore expects these particular parameters to continue to elude relationships fixed by symmetries . _",
    "essentially all astrophysical structures , sizes and timescales are controlled by one dimensionless ratio , sometimes called the `` gravitational coupling constant , '' @xmath48 where @xmath49 gev is the planck mass and @xmath50 is newton s gravitational constant.sec is the quantum of time , @xmath51 times smaller than the nuclear timescale @xmath52 ( translating to the preferred system of units where @xmath53 ) . the schwarzschild radius for mass @xmath54",
    "is @xmath55 ; for the sun it is 2.95 km . ]",
    "although the exact value of this ratio is not critical variations of ( say ) less than a few percent would not lead to major qualitative changes in the world neither do structures scale with exact homology , since other scales of physics are involved in many different contexts ( carr and rees 1979 ) .",
    "the maximum number of atoms in any kind of star is given to order of magnitude by the large number @xmath56 many kinds of equilibria are possible below @xmath57 but they are all destabilized above @xmath57 ( times a numerical coefficient depending on the structure and composition of the star under consideration ) .",
    "the reason is that above @xmath57 the particles providing pressure support against gravity , whatever they are , become relativistic and develop a soft equation of state which no longer resists collapse ; far above @xmath57 the only stable compact structures are black holes .",
    "a star in hydrostatic equilibrium has a size @xmath58 where the particle energy @xmath59 may be thermal or from degeneracy .",
    "both @xmath60 and @xmath59 vary enormously , for example in main sequence stars thermonuclear burning regulates the temperature at @xmath61 , in white dwarfs the degeneracy energy can be as large as @xmath62 and in neutron stars , @xmath63 .    for example , the chandrasekhar ( 1935 ) mass , the maximum stable mass of an electron - degeneracy supported dwarf , occurs when the electrons become relativistic , at @xmath64 , @xmath65 where @xmath18 and @xmath66 are the average charge and mass of the ions ; typically @xmath67 and @xmath68 , where @xmath69 is the mass of the sun .    for main - sequence stars undergoing nuclear burning ,",
    "the size is fixed by equating the gravitational binding energy ( the typical thermal particle energy in hydrostatic equilibrium ) to the temperature at which nuclear burning occurs at a sufficient rate to maintain the outward energy flux .",
    "the rate for nuclear reactions is determined by quantum tunneling through a coulomb barrier by particles on the tail of a thermal distribution ; the rate at temperature @xmath70 is a thermal particle rate times @xmath71 $ ] where @xmath72 . equating this with a stellar lifetime ( see below ) yields @xmath73^{-3};\\ ] ] note that the steep dependence of rate on temperature means that the gravitational binding energy per particle , @xmath74 , is almost the same for all main - sequence stars , typically about @xmath75 .",
    "the radius of a star is larger than its schwarzschild radius @xmath76 by the same factor .",
    "since @xmath77 is fixed , the matter pressure @xmath78 and at large masses ( many times @xmath57 ) is less than the radiation pressure , leading to instability .",
    "there is a minimum mass for hydrogen - burning stars because electron degeneracy supports a cold star in equilibrium with a particle energy @xmath79 .",
    "below about 0.08 @xmath80 the hydrogen never ignites and one has a large planet or brown dwarf .",
    "the maximum radius of a cold planet ( above which atoms are gradually crushed by gravity ) occurs where the gravitational binding per atom is about 1 rydberg , hence @xmath81 about the mass of jupiter .",
    "the same scale governs the formation of stars .",
    "stars form from interstellar gas clouds in a complex interplay of many scales coupled by radiation and magnetic fields , controlled by transport of radiation and angular momentum . roughly speaking ( rees 1976 ) the clouds break up into small pieces until their radiation is trapped , when the total binding energy @xmath82 divided by the gravitational collapse time @xmath83 is equal to the rate of radiation ( say @xmath84 times the maximum blackbody rate ) at @xmath85 , giving a characteristic mass of order @xmath86 , controlled by the same large number .",
    "similarly we can estimate lifetimes of stars .",
    "massive stars as well as many quasars radiate close to the eddington luminosity per mass @xmath87 erg / sec ( at which momentum transfer by electrons scattering outward radiation flux balances gravity on protons ) , yielding a minimum stellar lifetime ( that is , lower - mass stars radiate less and last longer than this ) .",
    "the resulting characteristic `` salpeter time '' is @xmath88 \\left({m_{planck}\\over m_{proton}}\\right)^3 t_{planck}\\approx 4\\times 10 ^ 8\\epsilon\\ { \\rm years}\\ ] ] the energy efficiency @xmath89 for hydrogen - burning stars and @xmath90 for black - hole - powered systems such as quasars .",
    "the minimum timescale of astronomical variability is the schwarzschild time at @xmath57 , @xmath91 the ratio of the two times , @xmath92 and @xmath93 , which is @xmath94 , gives the dynamic range of astrophysical phenomena in time , the ratio of a stellar evolution time to the collapse time of a stellar - mass black hole .",
    "a `` neutrino eddington limit '' can be estimated by replacing the thomson cross section by the cross section for neutrinos at temperature @xmath70 , @xmath95 in a gamma - ray burst fireball or a core collapse supernova , a collapsing neutron star releases its binding energy @xmath96 per nucleon , and the neutrino luminosity @xmath97 erg / sec liberates the binding energy in a matter of seconds .",
    "this is a rare example of a situation where weak interactions and second - generation fermions play a controlling role in macroscopic dynamics , since the energy deposited in the outer layers by neutrinos is important to the explosion mechanism ( as well as nucleosynthesis ) in core - collapse supernovae .",
    "the neutrino luminosity of a core - collapse supernova briefly exceeds the light output of all the stars of universe , each burst involving @xmath98 of the baryonic mass and lasting a little more than @xmath99 of the time .",
    "note that there is a purely relativistic schwarzschild luminosity limit , @xmath100 erg / sec , corresponding to a mass divided by its schwarzschild radius .",
    "neither planck s constant nor the proton mass enter here , only gravitational physics .",
    "the luminosity is achieved in a sense by the big bang ( dividing radiation in a hubble volume by a hubble time any time during the radiation era ) , by gravitational radiation during the final stages of comparable - mass black hole mergers , and continuously by the @xmath101 work done by the negative pressure of the cosmological constant in a hubble volume as the universe expands .",
    "the brightest individual sources of light , gamma ray bursts , fall four or five orders of magnitude short of this limit , as does the sum of all astrophysical sources of energy ( radiation and neutrinos ) in the observable universe .    using cosmological dynamics the friedmann equation @xmath102 relating the expansion rate @xmath103 and mean density",
    "@xmath104 one can show that the same number @xmath105 gives the number of stars within a hubble volume @xmath106 , or that the optical depth of the universe to thomson scattering is of the order of @xmath107 . the cosmological connection between density and time played prominently in dicke s rebuttal of dirac .",
    "dicke s point is that the large size and age of the universe the reason it is much bigger than the proton and longer - lived than a nuclear collision stem from the large numbers @xmath108 and @xmath109 , which in turn derive from the large ratio of the planck mass to the proton mass .",
    "but where does that large ratio come from ?",
    "is there an explanation that might have satisfied dirac ?",
    "grand unified theories point to such an explanation a unified model from which one can derive the values and ratios of the coupling constants . in these unification schemes , the three standard model",
    "coupling constants derive from one unified coupling ( which is still arbitrary at this level ) .",
    "the logarithmic running of coupling strength with energy , derived from renormalization theory , leads to the large ratio between unification scale and the proton mass .",
    "although gravity is not included in these theories , the inferred unification scale ( @xmath110 gev ) is close to the planck mass ; the running couplings thus account for most of the `` largeness '' of the astrophysical large numbers .",
    "phenomenological coupling constants such as those we have been using ( e.g. , @xmath33 ) are not really constant but `` run '' or change with energy scale ( wilczek 1999 ) .",
    "the vacuum is full of virtual particles which are polarized by the presence of a charge .",
    "an electrical charge ( or a weak isospin charge ) attracts like charges , which tend to screen its charge as measured from far away . at small distances",
    "there is less screening , so the charge appears bigger , so the effective coupling grows with energy . on the other hand",
    "a strong color charge attracts mostly virtual like - color charged gluons , so it is antiscreened and the coupling changes with the opposite sign it gets weaker at high energy , and is said to display `` asymptotic freedom '' .",
    "the freedom comes about from the antiscreening by gluons .",
    "the bookkeeping of how the constants change with the energy scale @xmath54 of interactions is done by renormalization group calculations .",
    "these show that the running coupling constant of u(1 ) , @xmath111 , obeys @xmath112 where the sum is over the charges @xmath113 of all fermions of mass less than @xmath54 .",
    "the amount of charge screening by virtual particles increases if the vacuum contains more degrees of freedom that can be excited at a given energy .",
    "if all fermions in the standard model are included ( and no more ) , the total sum on the right side is @xmath114 , yielding a slope of @xmath115 .    for su(3 ) , there is again a screening term depending on the number of color - charged fermions , but there is also an antiscreening term from the ( known number of ) gluons , @xmath116 where @xmath117 is the number of quark flavors of mass less than @xmath54 .",
    "the factor of 11 from gluons dominates if the number of quark flavors is not too large , giving asymptotic freedom . in the standard model , @xmath118 , yielding a slope of @xmath119 .",
    "the running of couplings depends on the particle degrees of freedom at each energy scale , that is , counting virtual particles with rest mass below that energy .",
    "thus in reality the slopes change with energy scale and with the addition of new species , if there are any .",
    "it has been known for over 20 years that the gauge groups of the standard model fit nicely into larger groups of certain grand unified theories ( guts ) , the simplest ones being su(5 ) and so(10 ) .",
    "the coupling constants of @xmath120 all approach each other logarithmically , merging at the gut scale , about @xmath110 gev . in recent years measurements of the couplings near @xmath121 have steadily improved and for some guts ( such as minimal su(5 ) ) the three couplings no longer meet at a point ; however , the agreement survives impressively well in supersymmetric models ( langacker and polonsky 1994 ) , or in models such as so(10 ) .",
    "there is thus some reason to believe that these models work up to the large scale of unification , which is already close to the planck mass .      by the same token ,",
    "if one of these guts is correct , it will provide a derivation of the @xmath123 coupling constants at any scale from one unified constant @xmath124 at the unification scale . recall that the mass of the proton is fixed by the scale at which the su(3 ) coupling diverges . because of the slow variation of coupling with energy , this takes a large range of energy and leads to a large ratio of proton to unification mass .",
    "we can run through a toy calculation as follows . assuming the degrees of freedom are constant",
    ", the inverse couplings just depend linearly on the log of the energy scale , so ( 9 ) and ( 10 ) can be trivially integrated . equating them at the unification scale @xmath125 , @xmath126 , yields @xmath127\\ ] ] naiively plugging in the standard model numbers ( which give 2.1 for the denominator ) , and the values @xmath128 and @xmath129 for the coupling constants at the @xmath18 scale , yields a mass ratio of @xmath130=10^{11}$ ] .",
    "this toy estimate is wrong in several details ( most notably , not having included supersymmetry ) but correctly illustrates the main point , that there exists an exact calculation that yields a large ratio of fundamental masses , roughly @xmath131 the numerical factors here are just approximate , but are exactly computable within the framework of supersymmetric guts and yield a unification scale of @xmath132 gev . in this framework",
    ", this is essentially the explanation of the `` weakness '' of gravity , the smallness of @xmath133 . since @xmath134 there are three of the nineteen orders of magnitude still to be accounted for , presumably by the final unification with gravity .",
    "formulae very similar to ( 12 ) have appeared for many years ( see , for example , eq .",
    "( 54 ) of carr and rees 1979 ) .",
    "the rationale has always centered ( as it does here ) on the logarithmic divergences of renormalization but in the context of supersymmetry the derivation is much crisper it comes in the framework of rigorous derivations in a well - motivated theory now being tested ( wilczek 1998 ) .",
    "if this guess about unification is correct , we have most of the explanation of the large numbers of astrophysics , subject to the value of one independent , apparently arbitrary coupling - constant parameter ( @xmath135 or @xmath136 ) , a moderately small number ( of the order of 1/25 ) .",
    "the value of @xmath137 depends exponentially on @xmath124 ( and hence also on @xmath33 ) .",
    "changes of a few percent in the couplings lead to order - of - magnitude variations in the astrophysical large numbers , enough to cause qualitative change in the behavior of the astrophysical world .",
    "the fine structure constant thereby becomes a candidate for selective tuning connected to obtaining a suitable strength for gravitation !",
    "like the electronic structure of atoms , the basic structure of neutrons and protons depend hardly at all on any of the parameters . ignoring for now the small effect of electric charge and quark mass , proton and neutron structure are the same , with labels related by isospin symmetry . their internal structure and mass are entirely determined by strong qcd su(3 ) gauge fields ( gluons ) interacting with each other and with the quarks .",
    "there are no adjustable parameters in the structure , not even a coupling constant , except for the setting of the energy scale .",
    "although these nucleon field configurations are not really `` solved '' , the equations which govern them are known exactly and their structure can be approximately solved in lattice models of qcd which correctly estimate for example the mass ratios of the proton and other hadrons .",
    "basically , the mass of the proton @xmath138 is some calculable dimensionless number ( about 5 ) times the energy scale @xmath139 fixed by the strong interaction coupling constant .",
    "the structure and mass of hadrons is as mathematically rigid as a platonic solid .",
    "even so , because @xmath140 and @xmath141 are so similar , the stability of the proton is very sensitive to the electromagnetic effects and to the much smaller , and seemingly unrelated , up and down quark masses , which break the symmetry .",
    "strong interactions not only create isolated hadronic structures , but also bind them together into nuclei . although the individual hadrons are to first approximation pure su(3 ) solitons , nuclear structure is also directly influenced by quark masses , especially through their effect on the range of the nuclear potential .",
    "the strong interactions of hadrons can be thought of as being mediated by pions , which have relatively low mass ( @xmath142135 mev ) and therefore a range which reaches significantly farther than the hadronic radius .",
    "the light quark masses determine the pion mass via breaking of chiral symmetry , @xmath143 , and therefore the details of nuclear energy levels are sensitive to @xmath45 and @xmath44 masses .",
    "the dependence of nuclear structures on quark masses and electromagnetic forces is hard to compute exactly but we can sketch the rough scalings .",
    "the nuclear binding energy in a nucleus with @xmath144 nucleons is about @xmath145 where the specific binding energy per mass is about @xmath146 and hence the typical separation is @xmath147 .",
    "the nuclear size therefore is typically @xmath148 .",
    "larger nuclei develop increasing electromagnetic repulsion , scaling like @xmath149 .",
    "they become unstable above a maximum charge where the nuclear and electrostatic energies match , @xmath150 the basic reason for the number of stable nuclei is that the electromagnetic coupling is weak , but not extremely weak , compared to the strong interactions .",
    "it has long been noted that the stability of the proton depends on the up and down quark masses , requiring @xmath151 to overcome the extra electromagnetic mass - energy @xmath152 of a proton relative to a neutron .",
    "detailed considerations suggest that @xmath153 is quite finely tuned , in the sense that if it were changed by more than a fraction of its value either way , nuclear astrophysics as we know it would radically change .",
    "quarks being always confined never appear `` on - shell '' so their masses are tricky to measure precisely .",
    "a recent review by fusaoka and koide ( 1998 ) gives @xmath154 mev , @xmath155 mev , larger than the 0.511 mev of the electron but negligible compared to the 938.272 mev mass of the proton , 939.566 mev of the neutron , or 1875.613 mev of the deuteron . on the other hand small changes in @xmath153 can have surprisingly profound effects on the world through their effect on the relative masses of the proton , neutron and deuteron .",
    "if @xmath156 the proton is unstable and there are no atoms , no chemistry .",
    "it is thus important that @xmath157 , but not by too much since the neutron becomes too unstable .",
    "the neutron @xmath158 decay rate is as small as it is only because of the small @xmath159 mass difference : it is closely controlled by the phase space suppression . with a small increase in the mass difference",
    "the neutron decays much faster and the deuteron becomes unstable , also leading to radical changes in the world .",
    "consider for example the @xmath160 reaction , @xmath161 which begins the conversion of hydrogen to helium in the sun .",
    "the endpoint of this reaction is only 420 kev , meaning that if the deuteron were 420 kev heavier ( relative to the other reactants ) the reaction would not even be exothermic and would tend to run in the other direction .",
    "although the quark masses are uncertain , we can estimate the effect a change in their difference would have .",
    "to the extent that the neutron and proton structures preserve isospin symmetry , the calculation is simple since their masses just change additively in response to a change in the quark masses . for the deuteron",
    "the story is a little more involved because of the effect on the nuclear potential .",
    "consider a transformation to a different world with different values of the quark and electron masses , @xmath162 we then have @xmath163 we have defined a key parameter , the amount of change in the mass difference , @xmath164 .",
    "now consider the effect of this transformation on the reactions @xmath165 the heat balance of these reactions in our world is @xmath166 in the transformed world , a hydrogen atom ( hi ) is unstable ( through the proton capturing the electron and converting into a stable neutron ) if @xmath167 in atoms , or in plasmas where electrons are readily available , the neutron becomes the energetically favored state .",
    "as @xmath168 drops , big bang nucleosynthesis first increases the helium abundance to near 1 , then makes most of the baryons into neutrons .",
    "there would be no hydrogen atoms except a small residue of deuterium .",
    "synthesis of heavy elements could still continue ( although as shown below , with the nuclei somewhat altered ) .",
    "indeed there is no coulomb barrier to keep the neutrons apart and hardly any electrons to provide opacity , so the familiar equilibrium state of main - sequence stars would disappear .",
    "the effects get even more radical as @xmath168 decreases even more ; rapid , spontaneous decay of a free proton to a neutron happens if @xmath169    for positive @xmath168 , we have the opposite problem ; neutrons and deuterons are destabilized .",
    "first , we restrict ourselves to constant @xmath170 , so changes in nuclear potential can be neglected .",
    "then we consider just the effect of the change in deuteron mass , @xmath171 on the @xmath160 reactions @xmath172 . in our world",
    "the heat balance is @xmath173 the @xmath174 direction stops being energetically favored if @xmath175 in the big bang plasma , the abundance of deuterons in this world is highly suppressed , so there is no stepping - stone to the production of helium and heavier nuclei , so the universe initially is made of essentially pure protons .",
    "mass difference , requiring @xmath176 furthermore , since the @xmath160 chain is broken , cosmic chemical history would be radically altered : for example , there is no two - body reaction for nucleosynthesis in stars to get started so main - sequence stars would all have to use catalytic cycles such as the cno process ( where the heavy catalysts would have to be generated in an early generation under degenerate conditions ) .    as long as stable states of heavier nuclei exist ,",
    "some of them would likely be produced occasionally in degenerate deflagrations ( akin to type ia supernovae ) .",
    "as @xmath168 increases , the valley of @xmath177-stability moves to favor fewer neutrons ; a free deuteron spontaneously fissions into two protons if @xmath178 above some threshold , stable states of heavier nuclei disappear altogether and there is no nuclear physics at all .",
    "thresholds for these effects are shown in figure 1 .",
    "note that @xmath153 is bounded within a small interval if it departs from this range one way or another a major change in nuclear astrophysics results .",
    "the total width of the interval , of the order of an mev , depending on how drastic the changes are , should be compared with the values @xmath1795 mev and @xmath18010 mev , or the mass of the proton , 1 gev .",
    "we should consider these constraints with the kind of additional joint constraints that unification symmetry is likely to impose on the fermion masses .",
    "for example , suppose that some symmetry fixes the ratio @xmath31 ( e.g. , fukugita et al .",
    "1999 ) , thereby fixing @xmath181 , and we require that @xmath182 .",
    "the resulting constraint is illustrated in figure 1 .",
    "we have explored two of the three dimensions in @xmath183 space : @xmath184 and @xmath42 .",
    "in addition there is a third dimension to explore , @xmath185 .",
    "this quantity affects the pion mass and therefore the range of the nuclear interactions ; this does not affect the @xmath186 stability arguments but does affect the @xmath187 stability .",
    "the dependence on this third dimension of fermion mass variation can be estimated through the effect of changes in nucleon potential through the pion mass , @xmath188 . in this framework agrawal",
    "1998 ) investigated the effect of varying the higgs expectation value @xmath13 , which changes all the fermion masses in proportion . using a simple model of the deuteron potential",
    "( range 2 fm , depth 35mev ) they found no bound states anymore if the range is reduced by 20% , or the quark mass sum is increased by 40% .",
    "this corresponds to a change @xmath189 or @xmath190 , or approximately @xmath191 mev .",
    "( see also the earlier discussion of light nuclei stability by pochet et al .",
    "on the side of decreasing quark masses or increasing range ( i.e. @xmath192 ) , the effects are opposite ; at about @xmath193mev , the diproton @xmath194he or the dineutron become bound ( dyson 1971 ) .",
    "( which one is stable depends on the mass difference @xmath168 . )",
    "however , a tighter constraint in this dimension is likely to arise from the behavior of heavier nuclei .",
    "the most celebrated nuclear tunings , first noticed by salpeter and hoyle , involve the resonant levels of carbon and oxygen nuclei .",
    "the excited resonance level of @xmath195 at 7.65 mev lies just 0.3mev above the 7.3667 mev energy of @xmath196 , allowing rapid enough reactions for carbon to form before the unstable @xmath197 decays . on the other hand the level of @xmath198 at 7.1187",
    "mev lies just below that of @xmath199 at 7.1616 mev ; if it were higher by just 0.043 mev , reactions to oxygen would quickly destroy the carbon .",
    "the way these interlocking levels depend on @xmath200 is too hard to compute from first principles in detail , but jeltema and sher ( 1999 ) have recently estimated the effect on the nuclear potential of adjusting the higgs parameter @xmath13 , tracing its effect on the first reaction above through the work of oberhummer et al .",
    "( 1994 ) and livio et al .",
    "( 1989 ) . in this way they estimate a lower bound @xmath201 .",
    "oberhummer et al .",
    "( 1999 ) have recently computed the dependence of these levels in a simple cluster model for the nuclei , and conclude that the strength of the nuclear force needs to be tuned to the 1% level .",
    "this can be interpreted to mean that the products would be radically altered if @xmath202 changed by even a few percent of @xmath203 , on the order of 0.05 mev .",
    "the structural properties of the world are not sensitive to small local perturbations of many parameters about their actual values . however , nuclear physics would change drastically with even small changes in @xmath204 and @xmath205 at the level of a few percent .",
    "grand unification leaves these as independent parameters without relations fixed by symmetries , so we may conjecture that they remain so in more inclusive unified theories .",
    "this leaves just about enough freedom for a multiverse to find a world which has stable protons , produces carbon and oxygen , and still endows these atoms with a rich interactive chemistry .",
    "the paradigm of a fixed , calculable , dimensionless quantity in physics is the anomalous magnetic moment of the electron ( hughes and kinoshita 1999 ) . in a display of spectacular experimental and theoretical technique",
    ", it is measured to be ( van dyck , schwinberg and dehmelt 1987 ) @xmath206 , a precision of 4 parts per billion ; it is calculated to even better accuracy except for the uncertainty in the fine structure constant , which limits accuracy of the agreement to about 30 ppb .",
    "this agreement can not be an accident the precision tells us that we really understand the origin of this dimensionless number .",
    "the precision is exceptional because the dimensionless numbers can be measured so accurately and the theory is clean enough to calculate so accurately .",
    "it is hard to measure precisely because nothing in particular depends critically on what the exact final digits in the expansion are .",
    "we expect this to be so in such a case of a mathematically computable number",
    ". it would be disturbing if a different number in the ninth decimal place would make a big difference to ( say ) element production , because it would indicate a conspiracy at a level where we have no mechanism to explain it .",
    "on the other hand a fine tuning in an adjustable parameter is easy to live with because we have a physical way to arrange that .",
    "so , the attitude adopted here is that maybe we can find the adjustable parameters by looking for the places where fine tuning is needed .",
    "the clue is in the derivative @xmath207world/@xmath207parameter , how much the phenomena change as a result of a parameter change ; we should look for the fundamental flexibilities in the fundamental theory where this derivative is large .",
    "grand unification permits about enough freedom in standard model parameters to account for the apparent fine tunings by selection from an ensemble of possibilities .",
    "this is a useful lesson to bear in mind as unification theory forges ahead seeking to fix new predictions contrary to the aspirations of many in the unification community , we should not expect to find more relationships among standard model parameters to be fixed by symmetry in the final theory than are fixed by the ideas we have in place already , at least not among the light fermion masses .",
    "these considerations may help to guide us to the connections of superstrings to the low energy world .",
    "for example , kane et al . ( 2000 ) have pointed out that the ideal superstring theory indeed predicts absolutely everything , including the light lepton mass ratios , seemingly allowing no room for tuning . however , even here there is the possibility that the exact predictions do not specify a unique universe at low energy but correspond to many discrete options many minima in a vast superpotential .",
    "if the minima are numerous enough a close - to - optimal set of parameters can still be found .",
    "the fundamental theory might predict the properties of all the minima but the main choice may still be made by selection .",
    "string - motivated ideas for explaining the mass hierarchy outside of the context of standard guts ( e.g. theories with extra dimensions arkani - hamed et al .",
    "1998 , dienes et al .",
    "1998 , 1999 , randall and sundrum 1999 ) may offer similar options for optimizing the yukawa couplings .",
    "anthropic arguments are often said to lack predictive power .",
    "however , within a theoretical framework specific predictions do emerge from the guesses made from anthropic clues , which could falsify a particular conjecture : for example , the conjecture that the deuteron and proton stability arise from selection of light quark masses from a continuous spectrum of possible values predicts that in fundamental theory , it will not be possible to mathematically derive from first principles the value of @xmath4 . at the very least this",
    "should be regarded as a challenge to a community which has so far been very successful in discovering ways to reduce the number of free parameters in various unification schemes .",
    "one is reminded of darwin s theory , which is a powerful explanatory tool even though some question its predictive power .",
    "anthropic arguments are vulnerable in the same way to `` just - so '' storytelling but may nevertheless form an important part of cosmological theory .",
    "i am grateful for conversations with d. brownlee , s. ellis , g. gonzalez , w. haxton , g. kane , m. perry , j. preskill , m. rees , s. sharpe , m. tegmark , p. ward , and l. yaffe , and am particularly grateful for detailed comments by m. fukugita .",
    "this work was supported by nasa and nsf at the university of washington , by the isaac newton institute for mathematical sciences , university of cambridge , and by a humboldt research award at the max planck institute fr astrophysik , garching .",
    "acua et al . 1999 ,",
    "science 284 , 790 agrawal , b. , barr , j. f. , donoghue , j.f . and",
    "seckel , d. 1998 , phys rev lett 80 , 1822 agrawal , b. , barr , j. f. , donoghue , j.f . and seckel , d. 1998 , phys rev lett d57,5480 arkani - hamed , n. , dimopoulos , s. , and dvali , g. phys .",
    "b429 , 263 berezhiani , z. 1996 , in proceedings of ictp summer school , hep - ph/9602325 barrow , j. and tipler , f. 1986 , _ the anthropic cosmological principle _ ( clarendon press , oxford ) de bernardis , p. et al .",
    "2000 , nature 404 , 955 cahn , r. n. 1996 , rev .",
    "phys 68 , 951 carr , b. j. and rees , m. j. , 1979 .",
    "nature 278,611 carter , b. 1974 . in _ confrontation of cosmological theories with observational data _ , iau symp .",
    "m. longair ( reidel : dordrecht ) carter , b. 1983 .",
    "soc . a 310 , 347 cen , r. and ostriker , j. p. 1999",
    ", astrophys .",
    "j. 519 , 1 chandrasekhar , s. 1935 , mon . not .",
    "95 , 207 connerney , j. e. p. et al .",
    "1999 , science 284 , 794 dicke , r. h. 1961 , nature 192 , 440 dienes , k. r. , dudas , e. and gerghetta , t. 1998 phys.lett .",
    "b436 , 55 dienes , k. r. , dudas , e. and gerghetta , t. 1999 nucl.phys .",
    "b537 , 47 dirac , p. a. m. 1938 , proc .",
    "165a , 199 doolittle , w. f. 1999 , science 284 , 2124 doyle , l. r. , ed .",
    ", 1996 , _ circumstellar habitable zones _ ,",
    "( menlo park : travis house ) dyson , f. j. 1971 , scientific american , 225 ( september ) , 51 efstathiou , g. 1995 , mon . not .",
    "roy astro .",
    "274 , l73 evans , d. a. , beukes , n. j. and kirschvink , j. l. 1997 , nature 386 , 262 fukugita , m. 1999 , in _ structure formation in the universe _",
    "nato asi , cambridge , astro - ph/0005069 fukugita , m. , hogan , c. j. and peebles , p. j. e. 1996 , nature 381 , 489 fukugita , m. , tanimoto , m. and yanagida , t. 1999 , phys rev d 59 , 113016 fusaoka , h. and koide , y 1998 , phys .",
    "d 57 , 3986 gaillard , m. k. , grannis , p. d. and sciulli , f. j. 1999 , rev .",
    "71 , s96 garriga , j. , livio , m. and vilenkin , a. 2000 , phys.rev .",
    "d61 023503 gonzalez , g. , 1999 , preprint , university of washington hanany , s. et al .",
    "2000 , apj submitted , astro - ph/0005123 heisler , j. and tremaine , s. 1986 , icarus 65 , 13 henderson , l. j. 1913 , _ the fitness of the environment ; an inquiry into the biological significance of the properties of matter _ , boston , beacon press ( 1958 ) hoffman , p. kaufman , a. , halverson , g. and schrag , d. 1998 , science 281 , 1342 hoyle , f. , dunbar , d. n. f. , wenzel , w. a. and whaling , w. 1953 , phys rev 92 , 1095 hughes , v. w. and kinoshita , t. 1999 , rev .",
    "71 , s133 jeltema , t. and sher , m. 1999 , hep - ph/9905494 kane , g. perry , m. , and zytkow , a. , preprint astr0-ph/0001197 kasting , j. f. , whitmire , d. p. and reynolds , r. t. 1993 , icarus 101 , 108 knoll , a. h. 1999 , science 285 , 1025 kolb , e. w. 1997 , in _",
    "astrofundamental physics _",
    "n. sanchez and a. zichichi , ( world scientific ) , p. 162 , astro - ph/9612138 langacker , p. and polonsky , n. 1994 , phys rev d 49 , 1454 leslie , j. 1989 , _ universes _ , new york : routledge",
    "lilly , s. et al .",
    "1998 , astrophys .",
    "j. 500 , 75 linde , a. 1998 , phys . rev d. 58 , 083514 , gr - qc/9802038 livio , m. , hollowell , d. , weiss , a. and truran , j. w. 1989 , 340 , 281 madau , p. 1999 , physica scripta , in press , astro - ph/9902228 martel , h. , shapiro , p. and weinberg , s. 1998 , astrophys .",
    "j. 497 , 29 matese , j. and whitmire , d. 1996 , astrophys . j. 472 , l41 miller , a. d. et al .",
    "1999 , astro - ph/9906421 oberhummer , h. et al .",
    "1994 , z. phys . a 349 , 241 oberhummer , h. , csoto , a. and schlattl , h. 1999 , astro - ph/9908247 perlmutter , s. et al . 1999 ,",
    "j. 517 , 565 pochet , t. , pearson , j. m. , beaudet , g. and reeves , h. 1991 , astron .",
    "243 , 1 randall , l. and sundrum , r. 1999 dimension ,  phys.rev.lett .",
    "83 , 3370 rees , m. j. 1976 , mon .",
    "not r. astr .",
    "176 , 483 rees , m. j.,1997 , _ before the beginning _ ( reading : perseus )",
    "riess , a. g. et al .",
    "1998 , astron .",
    "j. 116 , 1009 rozenthal , i. l. 1980 , sov .",
    "23(6 ) , 296 salpeter , e. e. 1964 , astrophys .",
    "j. 140 , 796 schwartzmann , d. w. and volk , t. 1989 , nature 340 , 457 tegmark , m. 1998 , annals phys .",
    "270 , 1 tegmark , m. and rees , m. j. 1998 , apj 499 , 526 , astro - ph/9709058 turok , n. and hawking , s. 1998 , phys .",
    "b432 , 271 , hep - ph/9803156 vilenkin , a. 1995 phys.rev .",
    "d52 , 3365 vilenkin , a. 1998a , phys . rev .",
    "d 57 , 7069 , hep - ph/9803084 vilenkin , a. 1998b , phys .",
    "81 , 5501 gr - qc/9806185 ward , p. and brownlee , d. 1999 , _ rare earth _ , ( new york : springer ) weinberg , s. 1987 , phys rev lett 59 , 2607 weinberg , s. 1989 , rev mod phys 61 , 1 weinberg , s. 1997 , in _",
    "critical dialogues in cosmology _ , ed .",
    "n. turok ( world scientific ) , p. 195 weinberg , s. 2000 , preprint , astro - ph/0005265 wilczek , f. 1998 , hep - ph/9809509 wilczek , f. 1999 , rev .",
    "71 , s85 bibitem woese , c. r. , kandler , o. and wheelis , m. l. 1990 , proc .",
    "usa 87 , 4576 zlatev , i. , wang , l. and steinhardt , p. j. 1999 , phys ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> some properties of the world are fixed by physics derived from mathematical symmetries , while others are selected from an ensemble of possibilities . </S>",
    "<S> several successes and failures of `` anthropic '' reasoning in this context are reviewed in the light of recent developments in astrobiology , cosmology and unification physics . </S>",
    "<S> specific issues raised include our spacetime location ( including the reason for the present age of the universe ) , the timescale of biological evolution , the tuning of global cosmological parameters , and the origin of the large numbers of astrophysics and the parameters of the standard model . out of the twenty parameters of the standard model , the basic behavior and structures of the world ( nucleons , nuclei , atoms , molecules , planets , stars , galaxies ) depend mainly on five of them : @xmath0 and @xmath1 ( where @xmath2 and @xmath3 are taken as defined quantities ) . </S>",
    "<S> three of these appear to be independent in the context of grand unified theories ( that is , not fixed by any known symmetry ) and at the same time have values within a very narrow window which provides for stable nucleons and nuclei and abundant carbon . </S>",
    "<S> the conjecture is made that the two light quark masses and one coupling constant are ultimately determined even in the `` final theory '' by a choice from a large or continuous ensemble , and the prediction is offered that the correct unification scheme will not allow calculation of @xmath4 from first principles alone .    </S>",
    "<S> _ `` what really interests me is whether god had any choice in creating the world . '' _    einstein </S>"
  ]
}