{
  "article_text": [
    "in recent years , many new methods have been developed for the problem of cluster geometry optimization ( see , e.g. , refs @xcite ) , that is , the search for the lowest energy configuration of a cluster of a given number of atoms or molecules with a given interaction .",
    "also , attempts are being made to discover links between features in model potentials and the resulting minimal energy structures @xcite .",
    "nevertheless , the following difficulties persist and are not fully solved ( or , partly , not even addressed ) by the above methods :    1 .   exponential increase of the number of local minima with cluster size @xcite ; 2 .   suitable representation of the problem ( e.g. , choice of coordinates or parameters to be optimized ) @xcite ; 3 .   proper restriction of the search space @xcite ; 4 .   high expense of ab initio potential energy surface calculation .",
    "item ( 1 ) is well - known .",
    "much less attention is paid to items ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) , although they are just as important as the choice of a good optimization algorithm . finally , the number and location of minima on a potential energy surface depends critically on details of the potential energy function used @xcite .",
    "therefore , ideally , geometry optimizations should be performed at the ab initio level of theory ; in that case , item ( 4 ) is of paramount importance .",
    "recently , it has been proven that one can not hope for discovery of a global optimization method that performs well for every conceivable problem and problem representation ( `` no free lunch theorem '' @xcite ) .",
    "hence , one should not try to tweak an existing optimization strategy to perform acceptably for a given problem , but instead construct a new strategy based upon prior information on the problem .",
    "in this letter , i present goals ( global optimization by optimized assembly of local structure ) , a strategy specifically designed to address problems ( 1)-(3 ) mentioned above , by the following features :    1 .",
    "transfer of knowledge from small clusters to larger ones ; 2 .",
    "no direct optimization of simple coordinates of individual atoms ( which will always exhibit a high degree of correlation ) ; 3 .",
    "all obviously nonsensical cluster structures are avoided by construction .",
    "problem ( 4 ) will be dealt with in a subsequent paper .",
    "one ingredient of the new method is a cluster growth strategy .",
    "such growth strategies have been used before ( see , e.g. , refs @xcite and refs cited therein , in particular also @xcite ) , but only with rather crude ad - hoc methods of adding new atoms , followed by local optimization . here , the different ways of growth themselves are subject to optimization .",
    "it is important to emphasize that this letter is a presentation of a new method , _ not _ an investigation into particular cluster structures or into the quality of a particular empirical potential .",
    "this letter is organized as follows : section 2 contains the presentation of the general idea and of a particular implementation ; in section 3 , this implementation is applied to small silicon clusters ; in section 4 , limitations and further work are discussed .",
    "the central idea of goals is to construct global energy minimum structures of _ large _ clusters ( of @xmath1 atoms ) without explicitly subjecting them to a global optimization strategy . instead",
    ", structural information from globaly optimized _ smaller _ clusters ( of @xmath2 atoms ) is used to build up starting geometries for the large clusters wich are then only locally optimized .",
    "at the same time , the problem of coordinates and proper search space restriction is avoided by construction , in the following way :    `` cluster assembly agents '' are introduced : each agent can act on a cluster of @xmath3 atoms , for arbitrary values of @xmath3 .",
    "it selects a particular site next to the cluster ( or inside the cluster ) according to given criteria , and adds a new atom such that a specific geometric arrangement is generated at this site , for example , a face capping or a dangling atom .",
    "the parameters to be optimized are then simply the relative probabilities of these agents .",
    "proper design of these agents can approximate a one - to - one relationship between agents and local structural features in a cluster . in this way",
    ", correlations between parameters to be optimized are kept minimal .",
    "optimization of agent probabilities proceeds via a series of assemblies of a cluster of @xmath2 atoms , starting from a small seed structure of @xmath4 atoms .",
    "more atoms are added by choosing cluster assembly agents according to their probabilities , at each stage @xmath5 ; the potential energy of the resulting cluster of @xmath2 atoms is minimized by variation of the agent probabilities .",
    "after completion of this stage , the resulting set of optimized cluster assembly agent probabilities can then be applied to generate good starting guesses for traditional , local optimizations of _ larger _ clusters ( of @xmath1 atoms , with @xmath6 ) .",
    "these local optimizations will arrive at the global energy minimum structure(s ) with unusually high probability , provided the local structures present in the global minima geometries of larger clusters are not very different from those found in the global minima geometries of smaller ones .      in this letter ,",
    "i present a particular , preliminary implementation of goals . in order to keep the implementation simple , several approximations to the general concept",
    "are introduced :    each cluster assembly is done initially on fcc lattice sites only .",
    "the fcc lattice was chosen simply because fcc and hcp are known to be the closest packings of hard spheres in 3d , for @xmath7 @xcite ( the problem of optimal cluster packings with @xmath8 is still unsolved , though ) .",
    "contrary to the hcp lattice , the fcc lattice points are easily encodable via an oblique coordinate system .",
    "furthermore , many other lattices are related ( in a formal way ) to the fcc lattice .",
    "note , however , that the fcc lattice only serves as a temporary template to establish neighborhood relationships .    as an approximation to the cluster assembly agents of section 2.1 ,",
    "i introduce `` numerical fcc - agents '' .",
    "they are _ solely _ characterized by the number of nearest fcc - neighbors the atom will have that they are about to introduce .",
    "for example , imagine a triangle of 3 atoms on neighboring fcc lattice sites .",
    "the `` 1-agent '' adds another atom such that this new atom will have exactly 1 nearest neighbor in the resulting 4-atom structure .",
    "that is , it introduces a dangling atom at one corner of the triangle . similarly , if we instead let the `` 2-agent '' operate on the trianlge , we will get a flat or bent rhombus .",
    "action of the `` 3-agent '' on the triangle generates a tetrahedron .",
    "obviously , none of the other agents ( 4-agent through 12-agent ) is applicable to a 3-atom triangle .",
    "of course , these numerical fcc - agents are a very crude approximation , but they have the following advantages : there are only twelve possible agents , thus we can not miss one inadvertently .",
    "all twelve agents are easy to code , no exercises in artificial intelligence or pattern recognition are necessary .",
    "nevertheless , the number of nearest neighbors is an essential feature which is directly connected to sterical crowdedness vs.  openness , and to chains vs.  flat structures vs.  3d ones .",
    "disadvantages of this choice will be discussed in section iv .    in order to arrive at realistic structures , independent of the fcc lattice , each completed cluster",
    "is subjected to a traditional , local conjugate gradient optimization @xcite .",
    "the resulting minimized potential energy is taken as characteristic for the whole cluster assembly that lead to the fcc structure prior to the local optimization .    in order to destroy accidental symmetries present in the fcc - based geometries ,",
    "small random displacements are added to all coordinates before doing the local optimization step .",
    "both the assembly and the random displacements preclude a one - to - one relationship between the parameters to be optimized and the cluster geometries .",
    "possible artifacts arising from this ambiguity are avoided by taking the average potential energy from five different sequences [ assembly + random displacement + local optimization ] , for each set of agent probabilities .",
    "the agent probabilities themselves can be optimized using any global optimization method ; here i am using the standard genetic algorithm ( ga ) as described by holland and goldberg @xcite and used in ref @xcite . in a ga",
    ", the optimization problem is mapped onto an algorithm that mimics natural evolution . in particular , the parameters to be optimized are called genes , one particular instance of a complete parameter set is the genome of an individuum , and many such individuals form a population .",
    "the cost function measures the fitness of an individuum , which in turn determines how many children this individuum will have in the next generation .",
    "optimization proceeds through mutation , exchange of information between individuals ( via genetic crossover ) , and preferential inheritance of favorable genes . in the present case ,",
    "each individual in the ga consists of 12 values for the agent probabilities ; each of these values is encoded as a 5-bit binary number ( this is a compromise between short genes and a sufficiently fine grid ) .",
    "an elitist strategy is employed ( the best individuum of each generation is guaranteed to survive unchanged into the next ) , since it seems to be performing slightly better than the standard non - elitist version .",
    "it turns out that fairly small ga s are sufficient in this context : 10 generations of 10 individuals each already yield satisfactory results .",
    "a separate program takes a given cluster assembly agent probability distribution , builds new clusters of arbitrary size ( again , on the fcc lattice ) , and locally optimizes them ( in cartesian coordinates , independent of the fcc lattice sites ) .",
    "if this whole concept works , the probability to find the global optimum for these new cluster sizes will be significantly larger for agent probabilities optimized for smaller clusters than for random agent probabilities or for completely random starting geometries .",
    "to summarize , the final algorithm to be applied in the next section is this :    stage 1 : : :    optimize agent probabilities for an @xmath2-atom cluster by    iterating the following steps :    +    * choose agent probability values    * starting from the @xmath4-atom seed , use these    probabilities to build up 5 @xmath2-atom clusters    * locally optimize these 5 clusters ; the resulting minimal energies    are @xmath9 , @xmath10    * let @xmath11    +    and by minimizing @xmath12 .",
    "actually , this whole stage is    done by the ga , but this is omitted for clarity . stage 2 : : :    construct optimized larger clusters by the following steps :    +    * use the optimized agent probabilities resulting from stage 1 to    build up clusters of @xmath1 atoms from the same    @xmath4 seed    * locally optimize these clusters .",
    "the first application of the goals strategy focuses on small silicon clusters and employs the empirical potential developed by bolding and andersen @xcite .",
    "this potential is particularly good for small clusters , as opposed to many others ; and it is fairly complicated , hence effects of a complexity similar to an ab initio potential can be expected .",
    "the objective of this letter is not an exhaustive exploration of this potential for large @xmath3 ; therefore , this application is limited to clusters up to @xmath13 , for which the most important minimum structures are given in ref @xcite .    in converting from fcc structures to cartesian coordinates ( required as input for the local optimization on the bolding - andersen potential )",
    ", i used the si - si distance of bulk silicon as distance between nearest - neighbor fcc lattice sites .",
    "this turns out to be a very reasonable choice , since most fcc structures change only marginally upon optimization .",
    "this observation also allays the suspicion that the choice of the fcc lattice could impede the algorithm in this application , as silicon prefers the diamond lattice in the bulk crystal .    as a first , trivial check of stage 1 of goals ,",
    "i have taken a 3-atom seed ( a triangle on fcc lattice points ) , and optimized the cluster assembly agent probabilities for a target cluster of @xmath14 atoms , i.e. , just one more atom is added .",
    "the global minimum structure for @xmath14 on the bolding - andersen surface is a planar rhombus , hence the following outcome is to be expected ( cf .",
    "section 2.2 ) : the 2-agent should be clearly favored over the 1-agent and the 3-agent . obviously , all other agents are irrelevant for this example .",
    "in fact , the best individuum after 10 generations shows the following probability distribution : 0.19 for the 1-agent , 1.0 for the 2-agent , and 0.0 for the 3-agent ( for simplicity , each single probability can take on values between 0 and 1 ; the algorithm used does not require that all probabilities sum to 1.0 ) .",
    "this shows that the agent probability optimization part of goals works as expected .    a more realistic example for the full goals strategy is the global geometry optimization of si@xmath0 .",
    "1 summarizes the results ( the numbers shown are no full statistics , but merely particular runs ; but i have checked that they are representative ) :    traditional , local optimizations of starting geometries with the coordinates of all atoms chosen at random have practically no chance of finding the global minimum at all . in 1000 runs ,",
    "the global minimum at -39.2 ev was not found even once ; and the lowest structure found ( -33 ev ) was not even close to it .",
    "a direct ga - optimization of the cartesian coordinates of all atoms ( not shown ) suffers from correlations between the coordinates , that is , the problem representation is unsuitable .",
    "hence , this approach has problems in finding the global minimum structures of clusters with @xmath15 .",
    "the next step in sophistication is generating starting geometries for local optimization by the cluster assembly agent approach , but with random probabilities for the agents ( that is , using only stage 2 of section 2.2 ) .",
    "in such structures , all nearest neighbor distances are in a favorable range ; hence , this amounts to a massive but intelligent restriction of the search space .",
    "therefore , the chances for finding the global minimum are drastically improved to 4% .    using agent probabilities optimized for smaller clusters ( i.e. , the full goals strategy , stages 1 and 2 of section 2.2 ) leads to further improvement :",
    "if agent probabilities optimized for @xmath16 are used for generating starting geometries for optimization of the @xmath13 cluster , the chances for finding the global minimum rise to 21% .",
    "in fact , the overall performance is even better than this single number suggests : the chances of hitting one of the two lowest stationary points are close to 40% , and it is very hard to generate unfavorable structures with energies higher than -32 ev .    if , however , agent probabilities optimized for @xmath17 are used , chances for finding the global minimum for @xmath13 are with 6% only marginally better than with random probabilities .",
    "the reason for this is a structural transition from planar geometries to 3d ones , which occurs between @xmath17 and @xmath18 on the bolding - andersen surface .",
    "such a drastic change is a peculiarity of the small cluster range studied here ; there are also structural transitions in the higher-@xmath3 range @xcite , but they are less severe .",
    "it must be emphasized that the si@xmath0 example given is not trivial : lennard - jones cluster studies have completely enumerated all minima up to @xmath19 @xcite . for @xmath16 , only 8 minima are found , but 57 ( ! ) minima for @xmath13 .",
    "there is no complete enumeration of all local minima available for the bolding - anderson potential , but it is likely that the situation is similar .",
    "the numerical fcc agents are only a crude approximation to true cluster assembly agents envisaged in section 2.1 . by construction , there are only 12 numerical fcc agents , and one can easily think of structures that are not covered by them , for example c@xmath20-like geometries .",
    "even more aggravating is the fact that some agents do lead to unique structural features , but others do not : for example , the 12-agent obviously has a singular meaning ; similarly , the 1-agent generates only dangling atoms or ( linear or bent ) chains .",
    "the 3-agent , however , can mean anything between a closed tetrahedron , a capped triangular outside face , a reconstructed surface , or even a fully planar one .",
    "this ambiguity is reflected in the results shown above : the probability for this agent shows wide variations , even when others are already well converged .",
    "similarly , the 4- , 5- , and 6-agents can still lead to ( planar or reconstructed ) 2d forms instead of 3d structures , albeit with less probability .",
    "this is not in accord with the original idea of assembly agents : each agent should lead to a unique structural feature in the resulting cluster ; in this way , correlations between agent probabilities are minimized .",
    "therefore , one can conclude that there is presumably some significant correlation left between the probabilities for the numerical agents .",
    "the fact that the method works in spite of these shortcomings shows that it also contains important , favorable features . as mentioned in the introduction , these are :    * suitable restriction of search space ; * diminished correlation between parameters to be optimized ; * flattening of the exponential-@xmath3-cliff of cluster geometry optimization , by easy transferability of cluster assembly agent probabilities from small @xmath3 to large @xmath3 .    it can be argued that the possibility of unforeseen structural transitions totally precludes the application of the goals strategy in the latter sense . on the other hand , while the problem of structural transitions can not be denied , strategies like goals that transfer information from smaller clusters or cluster subregions to larger clusters are the only way to weaken the full impact of the exponential increase in complexity of the cluster geometry optimization problem",
    ".    further exploitation of the goals idea clearly calls for development of better cluster assembly agents .",
    "another aim of future work in this area is geometry optimization on the ab initio level ; to this end , methods for more effective use of ab initio potential energy and gradient information are being developed .",
    "99    r.  car and m.  parrinello , phys .  rev .",
    "55 ( 1985 ) 2471 ; w.  andreoni , p.  giannozzi and m.  parrinello , phys .",
    "b 51 ( 1995 ) 2087 .",
    "b.  hartke and e.  a.  carter , j.  chem .",
    "97 ( 1992 ) 6569 .",
    "l.  piela , j.  kostrowicki and h.  a.  scheraga , j.  phys .",
    "93 ( 1989 ) 3339 .",
    "k.  a.  olszewski , l.  piela and h.  a.  scheraga , j.  phys .",
    "96 ( 1992 ) 4672 .",
    "a.  b.  finnila , m.  a.  gomez , c.  sebenik , c.  stenson and j.  d.  doll , chem .",
    "219 ( 1994 ) 343 . c.  tsoo and c.  l.  brooks iii . , j.  chem .",
    "( 1994 ) 6405 .",
    "r.  poteau and f.  spiegelmann , j.  chem .  phys .",
    "98 ( 1993 ) 6540 .",
    "s.  m.  le grand and k.  m.  merz , jr . , j.  global opt . 3 ( 1993 ) 49 .",
    "b.  hartke , j.  phys .",
    "( 1993 ) 9973 .",
    "d.  j.  wales , j.  chem .",
    "faraday trans .",
    "86 ( 1990 ) 3505 .",
    "m.  r.  hoare , adv .",
    "40 ( 1979 ) 49 .",
    "d.  h.  wolpert and w.  g.  macready , santa fe institute technical report sfi - tr-95 - 02 - 010 ( to be submitted to the journal of operations research ) . j.  h.  holland , `` adaption in natural and artificial systems '' ( university of michigan press , ann arbor , mi , 1975 ) .",
    "d.  e.  goldberg , `` genetic algorithms in search , optimization , and machine learning '' ( addison - wesley , reading , ma , 1989 ) .",
    "m.  r.  hoare and j.  a.  mcinnes , advan .",
    "32 ( 1983 ) 791 .",
    "d.  g.  vlachos , l.  d.  schmidt and r.  aris , j.  chem .",
    "( 1992 ) 6880 .",
    "j.  a.  northby , j.  chem .",
    "( 1987 ) 6166 .",
    "j.  h.  conway and n.  j.  a.  sloane , `` sphere packings , lattices , and groups '' ( springer , new york , 1993 ) . w.  h.  press , b.  p.  flannery , s.  a.  teukolsky and w.  t.  vetterling , `` numerical recipes '' ( cambridge university press , cambridge , 1989 ) .",
    "b.  c.  bolding and h.  c.  andersen , phys .",
    "rev .  a 41 ( 1990 ) 10568 .",
    "b.  van de waal , j.  chem .",
    "98 ( 1993 ) 4909 .",
    "* figure 1 : * probability in % of finding stationary si@xmath0 structures , using several optimization methods .",
    "figure 1b is a blow - up of the leftmost part of figure 1a . on the x - axis",
    ", the potential energy of the structures is given in ev ; for clarity , all structures within 1 ev are binned together .",
    "this distorts the presentation somewhat ; for example , the bin at -39 ev contains only one structure , the global minimum .",
    "the results shown are from 100 local optimizations of starting geometries generated by the following methods : randomly chosen atomic coordinates ( `` random '' , @xmath21 ) , fcc cluster assembly using random agent probabilities ( `` random - fcc '' , @xmath22 ) , fcc cluster assembly using agent probabilities optimized for si@xmath23 ( `` opt-5 '' , @xmath24 ) , and fcc cluster assembly using agent probabilities optimized for si@xmath25 ( `` opt-8 '' , @xmath26 ) . for further details ,"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> a new strategy for global geometry optimization of clusters is presented . </S>",
    "<S> important features are a restriction of search space to favorable nearest - neighbor distance ranges , a suitable cluster growth representation with diminished correlations , and easy transferability of the results to larger clusters . </S>",
    "<S> the strengths and possible limitations of the method are demonstrated for si@xmath0 using an empirical potential . </S>"
  ]
}