{
  "article_text": [
    "there are many situations where we want to interact with the surrounding real world .",
    "we would also like to communicate with the objects used in our everyday life .",
    "_ augmented reality _ is a research area that tries to incorporate an electronic information space into the real world , by means of computational devices .",
    "this approach enriches , rather than replaces the real world ( i.e. , a virtual reality ) , by providing valuable information , such as descriptions of objects , navigational help in places , and instructions for performing physical tasks .",
    "augmented reality essentially requires the ability to recognize real world objects / situations .",
    "there are several approaches to situation awareness , such as detection of physical objects using visual processing , detection of location / orientation by positioning systems , and communication with physically embedded computers ( i.e. , ubiquitous computing @xcite ) . for situation awareness",
    ", we employ a colored _ barcode _ system @xcite . in this system ,",
    "any real world object has a color - bar tag attached to it that makes it easily identifiable .    on the other hand , in order to make natural language processing , especially spoken language processing , more practical , we must restrict or constrain the domains , contexts , or tasks , since it requires a potentially broad search space on a phonetic and linguistic level .",
    "recently , there has been a big trend in multimodal approaches to combine verbal and nonverbal modalities in human - computer communication .",
    "various sorts of nonverbal information play a role in setting the situational context , which is useful in restricting the hypothesis space constructed during language processing .",
    "when a context or a situation is fixed by using nonverbal information , the interpretation of utterances becomes much easier , even if the utterances are ill - formed . in other words ,",
    "the correct interpretation of natural language utterances essentially requires the integration of both linguistic and non - linguistic contexts .",
    "understanding multimodal dialogues is not possible without some account of the role of the non - linguistic context .",
    "considering such a context , results in knowledge bases that are very efficient and robust .",
    "we have therefore introduced robust natural language processing into a system of augmented reality .",
    "we have developed a portable system , called the _",
    "ubiquitous talker_. this consists of an lcd display which presents the view at which a user is looking , as if it is a transparent glass , a ccd camera for recognizing real world objects with color - bar i d codes , a microphone for recognizing a human voice , and a speaker that outputs a synthesized voice .",
    "the ubiquitous talker augments reality with some additional information related to a recognized object / situation .",
    "such information is conveyed by using the lcd display and voice .",
    "the system accepts and interprets user voice requests and questions .",
    "the user may feel as if he / she is talking with the object itself through the system .",
    "in the rest of this paper , we discuss a combination of verbal and nonverbal modalities and its role in effective interaction , explain some implementation issues and sample applications of the ubiquitous talker , and compare this research with some related work .",
    "a real world situation includes a place where a human is , a time when an event occurs , living and non - living things that exist in the vacinity , and a physical action that he or she does ( e.g. , looking at something ) .    using situation awareness , humans",
    "can naturally interact with the system by spoken language without being specially conscious of domains or regulations that constrain the system .",
    "this type of interaction , is called _ situated interaction _ and is very useful in certain situations . in this case",
    ", language use can be flexible and robust , since a shared situation apparently reveals a topic or focus of the dialogue and objects referred to by deictic expressions . by recognizing situations and knowing behaviors that humans usually do in those situations , the system can be aware of humans intentions and predict what they do next .",
    "also the system can clarify humans desires by accepting information conveyed through voices and/or actions .",
    "the semantics of natural language expressions is anchored to real world objects and events by means of pointing , demonstrating actions and deictic expressions such as `` this , '' `` that , '' `` here , '' `` there , '' `` then , '' and `` now . ''",
    "some research on dialogue systems has combined deictic gestures and natural language such as put - that - there @xcite , cubricon @xcite , and alfresco @xcite .",
    "the efficiency of situated conversation causes ambiguities of conversational contents .",
    "ambiguities are inherent in natural language communication ; however , they can be resolved more easily when the real world situation is recognized , than resolved by verbally - conveyed information alone .",
    "in addition , the focus of attention or the focal point plays a very important role in processing applications within a broad hypothesis space , such as speech recognition .",
    "one example of focusing modality is following the humans looking behavior .",
    "fixation or gaze is useful for the dialogue system to determine the context of the humans interests .",
    "for example , when a person is looking at a car , what he / she says at that time may be related to the car .",
    "prosodic information ( e.g. , voice tones ) in the humans utterances also helps to determine focus .",
    "for example , if a person puts a stress on a particular word , he / she has a special interest in an object or an event connected to the word .",
    "combining gestural information with spoken language comprehension shows another example of how context may be determined by the user s nonverbal behavior @xcite .",
    "this research uses multimodal forms that prompt a user to speak or write into labeled fields .",
    "the forms are capable of guiding and segmenting inputs , of conveying the kind of information the system is expecting , and of reducing ambiguities in utterances by restricting syntactic and semantic complexities .    on the other hand , humans can move from one situation to another by physical actions ( e.g. , walking ) . when moving closer toward a situation , he / she gets information related to the situation that is confronting him / her .",
    "this can be an intuitive process for information seeking .",
    "walking through real world situations is a more natural way of information retrieval than a search within a complex information space .",
    "our method can be considered as putting a retrieval cue to a situation .",
    "for example , if a person wants to read a book , he / she naturally has the idea of going to a place where a bookshelf exists .",
    "this means that a situation that includes a bookshelf can be a retrieval cue for searching for books .",
    "human memories consist of mixtures of real world situations and information that was accessed in those situations . therefore ,",
    "recognizing a real world situation can be a trigger for extracting a memory partially matched with that situation and associating information related to the memory .    in the next section , we present a prototype system based on the idea of situated interaction .",
    "the system recognizes real world situations / objects by putting i d tags on objects , then performs situated conversation .",
    "an important point is that the system accepts the real world situation as a new input modality and integrates it into spoken dialogue processing .",
    "the ubiquitous talker is a speech dialogue system with situation awareness of the real world .",
    "when it detects a real world object , interactions with it makes its user feel as if he / she is talking with the focused object itself .",
    "this is a ( pseudo ) portable system like so - called pdas ( personal digital assistants ) .",
    "figure [ ubitalk ] shows the system configuration .",
    "this system basically consists of two subsystems .",
    "one subsystem recognizes a number of real world situations that include objects with color - bar i d codes , and shows some textual and graphical information superimposed on an lcd display as shown in figure [ navicam ] .",
    "the other subsystem recognizes and interprets user speech inputs and generates voice outputs .",
    "these two subsystems communicate with each other .",
    "the image ( color - code ) recognizer triggers the speech recognizer and sends a message to it in order to select the appropriate vocabulary and grammar for analyzing the spoken utterances .",
    "it also selects a knowledge base for processing the utterances and generating voice responses . the spoken message generator and the visual message ( text and graphics ) generator also communicate with each other and synchronize the time at which to say / show information .",
    "the user can verbally select an item from the displayed menu , or ask some questions according to guidance conveyed by the voice and/or the text .",
    "when the system recognizes a real world object , for instance , a calendar on the wall , the system sends a message such as `` today is april 24 , 1995 .",
    "your schedule is , '' and displays a timetable of the user s schedule .",
    "then , the user asks `` what about tomorrow ? , '' and the system replies `` your schedule tomorrow is '' and proceeds as before .",
    "figure [ snapshot ] shows a snapshot of conversation with an object through the system .      to easily recognize real world situations / objects",
    ", we use a colored _ barcode _ system as a real world identification @xcite .",
    "the color - code consists of a number of blue and red stripes that encodes the i d of a real world object .",
    "an image input from a small ccd camera is processed in real time by a workstation .",
    "the image recognizer continuously scans any objects with the color - code .",
    "the system generates a synthesized image by superimposing visual messages related to the color - code on the real world image obtained from the camera .",
    "the output image is shown on the lcd display .",
    "image processing is done by software except for conversion between ntsc video signals and bitmap digital images .",
    "the output image is updated at a rate of 10 frames per second .",
    "recognition of objects can be naturally extended to the recognition of situations .",
    "suppose that there is an i d code on every door in the building .",
    "when the user stands in front of a door , the system detects where the user is located and may understand what he / she intends to do by scanning the i d code on the door and by processing the information related to it .",
    "the speech dialogue subsystem works as follows .",
    "first , a voice input is acoustically analyzed by a built - in sound processing board .",
    "then , a speech recognition module is invoked to output word sequences that have been assigned higher scores by a probabilistic phoneme model and phonetic dictionaries that are changed according to the situation .",
    "these word sequences are syntactically and semantically analyzed and disambiguated by applying a relatively loose grammar and a restricted domain knowledge . using a semantic representation of the input utterance",
    ", a plan recognition module extracts the speaker s intention .",
    "for example , from the utterance `` i want to learn computer science '' at a library front desk , the module interprets the speaker s intention as `` the speaker wants to get information about books on computer science ( for example , the place where he / she can get them ) . ''",
    "once the system determines the speaker s intention , a response generation module is invoked .",
    "this generates a response to satisfy the speaker s request .",
    "finally , the system s response is outputted as a voice by a voice synthesis module .",
    "this subsystem also sends a message to the visual message generator about what graphical and/or textual information should be displayed with the voice responses .",
    "speaker - independent continuous speech inputs are accepted without special hardware . to obtain a high level of accuracy ,",
    "context - dependent phonetic hidden markov models are used to construct phoneme - level hypotheses @xcite .",
    "the speech recognizer outputs n - best word - level hypotheses .",
    "as mentioned above , an appropriate phonetic dictionary is dynamically selected by considering the speaker s real world situation . therefore , the perplexities or hypothetical spaces are always maintained in tractable sizes without more advanced ( and high - cost ) speech technologies .",
    "the semantic analyzer handles ambiguities in syntactic structures and generates a semantic representation of the utterance .",
    "we applied a preferential constraint satisfaction technique for disambiguation and semantic analysis @xcite .",
    "for example , the following semantic representation is constructed from the utterance `` i want to learn computer science '' at the library front desk .    .... ( * want-1 ; ; * want-1 indicates that it is an instance ; ; of frame * want .",
    "( : agent * i-1 )     ( : theme ( * learn-1                ( : agent * i-1 )                ( : theme * computer - science-1 ) ) )     ( : situation * library - front-1 )     ; ; : situation is added by the situation     ; ; awareness module . ) ....    the plan recognition module determines the speaker s intention by constructing his / her belief model and dynamically adjusting and expanding the model as the conversation progresses @xcite .",
    "we use a plan library that is selected according to the situation . in the case of the above example",
    ", library - front - plan is selected .",
    "then , the recognized intention will be as follows .    ....",
    "( * intend - to - know-1 ; ; * intend - to - know comes from ( * want ; ; ( : theme * learn ) ) in library - front - plan .",
    "( : agent * speaker-1 )     ; ; * i-1 is replaced with * speaker-1 .",
    "( : theme ( * location - of - bookshelf-1                ( : area * computer - science-1 ) ) )     ; ; * location - of - bookshelf is inserted by     ; ; means of plan inference . ) ....    the spoken message generation module generates a response by using a domain - dependent knowledge base and text templates ( typical patterns of utterances ) .",
    "it selects appropriate templates and combines them to construct a response that satisfies the speaker s request .",
    "when the system detects a real world situation , it performs not only a selection of knowledge sources ( e.g. , phonetic / linguistic dictionaries ) but also the introduction of a non - linguistic context .",
    "a non - linguistic context includes an object at which a user is currently looking , a location where he / she currently is , graphical information displayed on the screen , and chronological relations of situation shifts . on the other hand ,",
    "a linguistic context involves semantic contents of utterances , displayed textual information , and inferred beliefs and intentions ( plans and goals ) of the user .    knowing the user s intention is necessary for natural human - computer interaction .",
    "a real world situation is just a clue for it .",
    "however , integrating the non - linguistic context introduced with the situation , with the linguistic context constructed by dialogue processing , is an important step .    in general , user s intentions",
    "are abductively inferred by using a plan library @xcite .",
    "a plan library is represented as an event network whose nodes are events with their preconditions and effects , and links are is - a / is - part - of relationships @xcite .    in the ubiquitous talker ,",
    "plan inference is initially triggered by introducing a new non - linguistic context , since the motivation of our situated interaction is closely related to the physical actions for entering a new situation .",
    "for example , in a situation where a person is standing in front of a bookshelf , for example a bookshelf on computer science , the situation will motivate the person to search for a book on computer science , read it , and study it .",
    "therefore , when the dialogue system is aware of the situation by recognizing the bookshelf s i d , the plan library shown in figure [ plan - library ] is introduced and used for further plan inference . in this figure , the upward - pointing thick arrows correspond to is - a ( a - kind - of ) relationships , while downward - pointing thin arrows indicate has - a ( part - of ) relationships .",
    "introducing and focusing a specific plan library makes plan recognition easier and more feasible .",
    "another connection between linguistic and non - linguistic contexts is _",
    "deictic centers _ @xcite that are possible referents of deictic expressions .",
    "the object and the location in a non - linguistic context can be current deictic centers .",
    "also graphical and textual information on the screen includes deictic centers .",
    "preferences on possible deictic centers as a referent are determined based on coherence of a dialogue like the case of anaphora / ellipsis resolution in a linguistic context @xcite .",
    "we now describe some sample applications of the ubiquitous talker .",
    "the current implementation of these applications is limited , so the size of the vocabulary and the database are relatively small .",
    "however , the concept presented here is sufficiently feasible and scaleable based on current technology .",
    "the examples show that situated interaction appropriately helps human activities of information seeking , and supports human everyday life .",
    "the electronic library plan is to make all published material computerized , and to construct an efficient , easy - to - use management and retrieval system for them ( i.e. , a library in virtual space ) .",
    "however , it is a very difficult task to digitize all published documents , and as long as physical libraries exists in the real world , we must think about the connection between physical and electronic libraries . in the real world library , people must be able to retrieve useful information from an electronic library by using the link between this and physical libraries .    the ubiquitous talker can embody electronic information in the confronted real world situation .",
    "therefore in a physical library , when the system is aware of the situation , it creates an information space that augments the library .",
    "this works well even if this information space is not yet mature and well constructed .",
    "for example , this information does not need to include the contents of books themselves , because books exist in the real world .",
    "we call the composite space of physical and electronic information an _ augmented library_.    when a user uses his / her ubiquitous talker at the library front desk ( observing the signboard with the color - bar through it ) , a voice comes to the user from the system , saying `` this is the library of the tokyo institute of technology .",
    "which area do you want ? '' .",
    "the user replies `` computer science '' .",
    "the system then shows a map and indicates the route to the bookshelf for computer science books before saying `` please take this route . ''",
    "after he / she reaches the bookshelf , he / she sees it through the system , which then says , ( in fact the voice is generated by the system ) `` here we have books on computer science .",
    "what are you looking for ? '' after replying `` a book on language , '' it then asks `` which kind of language , a programming language or natural language ? ''",
    "assuming the user does not know what natural language is , he / she asks `` what is natural language ? '' the response is `` natural language is the language that humans use for communication . ''",
    "when the user asks `` where are the programming language books ?",
    ", '' the system replies `` books on programming languages are on the third shelf of this bookshelf . ''",
    "he / she selects a book there and looks at it through the system .",
    "then the book seems to say `` the title of this is ` object - oriented languages ' and this was written by mario tokoro '' and a description of the book is shown on the lcd display .",
    "the user asks `` tell me about the author , ''",
    "so it then displays and relates the profiles , achievements , and other publications of the author with a photograph . after seeing the publication list",
    ", the user asks `` where is the fourth book on this publication list ? ''",
    "the answer is `` this is about computer architecture and is fifth from the right on the top shelf . ''    in implementing the processing described above",
    ", we developed a situation table which makes relationships between the identified situation , resources for generating messages , and related phonetic / linguistic dictionaries and knowledge bases ( including plan libraries ) for processing utterances .",
    "part of the situation table is shown in table [ relation ] .    [ cols=\"<,<,<\",options=\"header \" , ]     when people know the exact name of a book that they want to read and/or the name of its author before coming to the library , they will immediately ask the location of the book at the library front desk .",
    "however , it is not feasible for the system to accept speech inputs of all names of the books that the library has and the names of their authors , regardless of their areas . in this case , typing and/or hand - written inputs must be accepted by the system . in this paper , we concentrate on making speech interaction more feasible by using the information about the physical environment .",
    "signboards are salient markers that act as representatives for certain situations or objects .",
    "people see a signboard when they have some interests in what is prepared beyond the signboard rather than the signboard itself .",
    "the ubiquitous talker plays the role of a mediator for the conversation between a human and a signboard . in this case , in order to pinpoint a user s request , the system tries to make the situation more specific by making suggestions on the display .",
    "for example , suppose a man stands in front of a french restaurant , e.g. ` maxim s de paris , ' and looks at its signboard through his ubiquitous talker .",
    "the system identifies the restaurant from the i d code attached to the signboard .",
    "then , a voice message announces `` welcome to ` maxim s de paris . '",
    "we are ready to tell you about the following items , '' and a text message appears on the lcd display .",
    "it describes `` 1 .",
    "menu and price , 2 .",
    "special dishes recommended by the chef , 3 .",
    "wine list , ... '' when the user asks about the menu , the system displays it and says `` ok , here you are . ''",
    "the user can also ask for a more detail description of any dish listed on the menu .",
    "there are several other researchers following similar directions to ours .",
    "the major difference between our work and that of others is that we have employed relatively light - weight and robust techniques for visual and language processing and have combined them effectively .",
    "below we discuss related work in more detail .",
    "ubiquitous computing @xcite proposes that very small computational devices ( i.e. , ubiquitous computers ) be embedded and integrated into physical environments in such a way that they operate seamlessly and almost transparently .",
    "these devices are aware of their physical surroundings .",
    "in contrast to ubiquitous computers , our barcode ( color - code ) system is a low cost and reliable solution to making everything a computer .",
    "suppose that every page in a book has a unique barcode .",
    "when the user opens a page , its page i d is detected by the system , so it can supply specific information regarding the page .",
    "when the user adds some information to the page , the system stores it with the page i d tagged for later retrieval .",
    "this is almost the same as having a computer in every page of the book without the cost .",
    "our id - aware system is better than ubiquitous computers from the viewpoint of reliability and cost - performance , since it does not require batteries and never breaks down .",
    "chameleon @xcite is a spatially - aware palmtop computer .",
    "it shows situated information according to its three - dimensional location and orientation on a small lcd display .",
    "this system is not as robust because it is aware of the situation only from the location of the system itself .",
    "when physical objects change their locations , it can not recognize their movements .",
    "the ubiquitous talker recognizes the situation from the visual information of the real world .",
    "therefore , it can follow the changes of the real world .",
    "in addition , since our system integrates a speech dialogue technique , the user can interact with the system more flexibly and deeply .",
    "our research is motivated by not only augmented reality but also agent - oriented systems @xcite .",
    "agents ( or robots ) recognize real world situations by using complicated perception techniques .",
    "these techniques are currently not fully developed and difficult to use in practice .",
    "we have adopted an easy , reliable situation awareness technique by using machine - recognizable ids .",
    "this idea is also applicable for agents .",
    "another key issue of agent - oriented interfaces is the inference of user s intention .",
    "our solution is to use non - linguistic contexts for focusing the user s attention and restricting the user s possible plans .",
    "real world situations can be information for selecting appropriate plan libraries .",
    "therefore , our real world - oriented speech dialogue processing improves not only the accuracy of speech / language analysis , but also the tractability of intention recognition .",
    "we have developed an augmented reality system that integrates situation awareness and spoken dialogue processing techniques .",
    "we employed a barcode ( color - code ) system for easily recognizing real world situations / objects .",
    "situation awareness contributes to reducing any hypothesis space constructed during language processing , reducing the complexity associated with understanding speech .",
    "situated conversation makes human - computer interaction more natural and efficient by combining linguistic and non - linguistic contexts .    as a future research direction ,",
    "we plan to integrate more communication channels and modalities .",
    "for example , detection of the user s head / eye orientation will be useful when it is necessary to determine the user s more precise focus of attention in a complex situation where there are several objects which are not placed in an ordered fashion .",
    "in addition , we are interested in the integration of prosodic information in speech recognition / synthesis .",
    "we are also extending the technique for identifying real world situations .",
    "currently , our color - code system is so naive that it is difficult to scale up .",
    "there are , however , some wireless electronic label systems that use batteryless passive ics .",
    "these technologies are applicable and would improve our system .",
    "in addition , location awareness methods such as the global positioning system are also useful for situation awareness , for example fitzmaurice s chameleon system",
    ". several real world information ( location , i d labels , time , distance , etc . ) can increase the accuracy of situation recognition and be used as sources of non - linguistic contexts .",
    "the authors would like to thank mario tokoro and colleagues at sony csl for their encouragement and discussion .",
    "special thanks go to researchers in speech technology group at electrotechnical laboratory for their help to develop the speech recognition module .",
    "we also extend our thanks to hiroko inui and takashi miyata for their contributions to the implementation of the prototype system .",
    "katunobu itou , satoru hayamizu , and hozumi tanaka .",
    "continuous speech recognition by context - dependent phonetic hmm and an efficient algorithm for finding n - best sentence hypotheses . in _ proceedings of the international conference on acoustics , speech , and signal processing ( icassp-92 ) _ , pages i.21i.24 .",
    "ieee , 1992 .",
    "katashi nagao . a preferential constraint satisfaction technique for natural language analysis . in _ proceedings of the tenth european conference on artificial intelligence ( ecai-92 )",
    "_ , pages 523527 .",
    "john wiley & sons , 1992 .",
    "katashi nagao .",
    "abduction and dynamic preference in plan - based dialogue understanding . in _ proceedings of the thirteenth international joint conference on artificial intelligence ( ijcai-93 )",
    "_ , pages 11861192 .",
    "morgan kaufmann publishers , inc . , 1993",
    ".    katashi nagao and + akikazu takeuchi . social interaction : multimodal conversation with social agents . in",
    "_ proceedings of the twelfth national conference on artificial intelligence ( aaai-94 ) _ , pages 2228 . the mit press , 1994 .",
    "jeannette  g. neal , zuzana dobes , keith  e. bettinger , and jong  s. byoun .",
    "multi - modal references in human - computer dialogue . in _ proceedings of the seventh national conference on artificial intelligence ( aaai-88 )",
    "_ , pages 819823 .",
    "morgan kaufmann publishers , inc . , 1988 .",
    "sharon  l. oviatt , philip  r. cohen , and michelle wang .",
    "reducing linguistic variability in speech and handwriting through selection of presentation format . in _ proceedings of the international symposium on spoken dialogue ( issd-93 )",
    "_ , pages 227230 .",
    "waseda university , tokyo , japan , 1993 .",
    "jun rekimoto .",
    "the world through the computer : a new human computer interaction style based on wearable computers .",
    "technical report scsl - tr-94 - 013 , sony computer science laboratory inc . ,",
    "tokyo , japan , 1994 .",
    "oliviero stock .",
    "natural language and exploration of an information space : the alfresco interactive system . in _ proceedings of the twelfth international joint conference on artificial intelligence ( ijcai-91 )",
    "_ , pages 972978 .",
    "morgan kaufmann publishers , inc . , 1991 .        massimo zancanaro , oliviero stock , and carlo strapparava . dialogue cohesion sharing and adjusting in an enhanced multimodal environment . in _ proceedings of the thirteenth international joint conference on artificial intelligence ( ijcai-93 )",
    "_ , pages 12301236 .",
    "morgan kaufmann publishers , inc . , 1993 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> _ augmented reality _ is a research area that tries to embody an electronic information space within the real world , through computational devices . </S>",
    "<S> a crucial issue within this area , is the recognition of real world objects or situations . in natural language processing </S>",
    "<S> , it is much easier to determine interpretations of utterances , even if they are ill - formed , when the context or situation is fixed . </S>",
    "<S> we therefore introduce robust , natural language processing into a system of augmented reality with situation awareness . based on this idea , we have developed a portable system , called the _ </S>",
    "<S> ubiquitous talker_. this consists of an lcd display that reflects the scene at which a user is looking as if it is a transparent glass , a ccd camera for recognizing real world objects with color - bar i d codes , a microphone for recognizing a human voice and a speaker which outputs a synthesized voice . </S>",
    "<S> the ubiquitous talker provides its user with some information related to a recognized object , by using the display and voice </S>",
    "<S> . it also accepts requests or questions as voice inputs . </S>",
    "<S> the user feels as if he / she is talking with the object itself through the system . </S>"
  ]
}