{
  "article_text": [
    "in our work to date on news summarization at columbia university , information is extracted from a series of input news articles and is analyzed by a generation component to produce a summary that shows how perception of the event has changed over time . in this summarization paradigm , problems arise when information needed for the summary is either missing from the input article(s ) or not extracted by the information extraction system . in such cases , the information may be readily available in other current news stories , in past news , or in online databases .",
    "if the summarization system can find the needed information in other online sources , then it can produce an improved summary by merging information from multiple sources with information extracted from the input articles .    in the news domain",
    ", a summary needs to refer to people , places , and organizations and provide descriptions that clearly identify the entity for the reader .",
    "such descriptions may not be present in the original text that is being summarized .",
    "for example , the american pilot scott ogrady , downed in bosnia in june of 1995 , was unheard of by the american public prior to the incident .",
    "if a reader tuned into news on this event days later , descriptions from the initial articles may be more useful .",
    "a summarizer that has access to different descriptions will be able to select the description that best suits both the reader and the series of articles being summarized .    in this paper",
    ", we describe a system called profile that tracks prior references to a given entity by extracting descriptions for later use in summarization . in contrast with previous work on information extraction , our work has the following features :    * it builds a database of profiles for entities by storing descriptions from a collected corpus of past news . *",
    "it operates in real time , allowing for connections with the latest breaking , online news to extract information about the most recently mentioned individuals and organizations .",
    "* it collects and merges information from distributed sources thus allowing for a more complete record of information . *",
    "as it parses and identifies descriptions , it builds a lexicalized , syntactic representation of the description in a form suitable for input to the fuf / surge language generation system @xcite .    the result is a system that can combine descriptions from articles appearing only a few minutes before the ones being summarized with descriptions from past news in a permanent record for future use .",
    "its utility lies in its potential for representing entities , present in one article , with descriptions found in other articles , possibly coming from another source .",
    "since the system constructs a lexicalized , syntactic functional description ( fd ) from the extracted description , the generator can re - use the description in new contexts , merging it with other descriptions , into a new grammatical sentence .",
    "this would not be possible if only canned strings were used , with no information about their internal structure .",
    "thus , in addition to collecting a knowledge source which provides identifying features of individuals , profile also provides a lexicon of domain appropriate phrases that can be integrated with individual words from a generator s lexicon to flexibly produce summary wording .",
    "we have extended the system by semantically categorizing descriptions using wordnet , so that a generator can more easily determine which description is relevant in different contexts .",
    "profile can also be used in a real - time fashion to monitor entities and the changes of descriptions associated with them over the course of time .    in the following sections , we first overview related work in the area of information extraction .",
    "we then turn to a discussion of the system components which build the profile database , followed by a description of how the results are used in generation .",
    "we close with our current directions , describing what parameters can influence a strategy for generating a sequence of anaphoric references to the same entity over time .",
    "research related to ours falls into two main categories : extraction of information from input text and construction of knowledge sources for generation .",
    "work on information extraction is quite broad and covers far more topics and problems than the information extraction problem we address .",
    "we restrict our comparison here to work on proper noun extraction , extraction of people descriptions in various information extraction systems developed for the message understanding conferences @xcite , and use of extracted information for question answering .",
    "techniques for proper noun extraction include the use of regular grammars to delimit and identify proper nouns @xcite , the use of extensive name lists , place names , titles and `` gazetteers '' in conjunction with partial grammars in order to recognize proper nouns as unknown words in close proximity to known words @xcite , statistical training to learn , for example , spanish names , from online corpora @xcite , and the use of concept based pattern matchers that use semantic concepts as pattern categories as well as part - of - speech information @xcite .",
    "in addition , some researchers have explored the use of both local context surrounding the hypothesized proper nouns @xcite and the larger discourse context @xcite to improve the accuracy of proper noun extraction when large known word lists are not available . like this research",
    ", our work also aims at extracting proper nouns without the aid of large word lists .",
    "we use a regular grammar encoding part - of - speech categories to extract certain text patterns and we use wordnet to provide semantic filtering .    our work on extracting descriptions is quite similar to the work carried out under the darpa message understanding program for extracting descriptions @xcite .",
    "the purpose for and the scenario in which description extraction is done is quite different , but the techniques are very similar",
    ". it is based on the paradigm of representing patterns that express the kinds of descriptions we expect ; unlike previous work we do not encode semantic categories in the patterns since we want to capture all descriptions regardless of domain .",
    "research on a system called murax @xcite is similar to ours from a different perspective .",
    "murax also extracts information from a text to serve directly in response to a user question .",
    "murax uses lexico - syntactic patterns , collocational analysis , along with information retrieval statistics , to find the string of words in a text that is most likely to serve as an answer to a user s wh - query . in our work ,",
    "the string that is extracted may be merged , or regenerated , as part of a larger textual summary .",
    "the construction of a database of phrases for re - use in generation is quite novel .",
    "previous work on extraction of collocations for use in generation is related in that full phrases are extracted and syntactically typed so that they can be merged with individual words in a generation lexicon to produce a full sentence .",
    "however , extracted collocations were used only to determine _ realization _ of an input concept . in our work",
    ", stored phrases would be used to provide content that can identify a person or place for a reader , in addition to providing the actual phrasing .",
    "figure  [ figure - arch ] shows the overall architecture of profile and the two interfaces to it ( a user interface on the world - wide web and an interface to a natural language generation system ) . in this section",
    ", we describe the extraction component of profile , the following section focuses on the uses of profile for generation , and section  [ section - contributions ] describes the web - based interface .      to seed the database with an initial set of descriptions",
    ", we used a 1.4 mb corpus containing reuters newswire from march to june of 1995 .",
    "the purpose of such an initial set of descriptions is twofold .",
    "first , it allows us to test the other components of the system .",
    "furthermore , at the time a description is needed it limits the amount of online full text , web search that must be done . at this stage ,",
    "search is limited to the database of retrieved descriptions only , thus reducing search time as no connections will be made to external news sources at the time of the query .",
    "only when a suitable stored description can not be found will the system initiate search of additional text .    *",
    "* extraction of candidates for proper nouns*. after tagging the corpus using the pos part - of - speech tagger @xcite , we used a crep @xcite regular grammar to first extract all possible candidates for entities .",
    "these consist of all sequences of words that were tagged as proper nouns ( np ) by pos .",
    "our manual analysis showed that out of a total of 2150 entities recovered in this way , 1139 ( 52.9% ) are not names of entities . among these",
    "are n - grams such as `` prime minister '' or `` egyptian president '' which were tagged as np by pos .",
    "table  [ table - corpus - analysis ] shows how many entities we retrieve at this stage , and of them , how many pass the semantic filtering test .",
    "the numbers in the left - hand column refer to two - word noun phrases that identify entities ( e.g. , `` bill clinton '' ) .",
    "counts for three - word noun phrases are shown in the right - hand column .",
    "we show counts for multiple and unique occurrences of the same noun phrase . * * weeding out of false candidates*. our system analyzed all candidates for entity names using wordnet and removed from consideration those that contain words appearing in wordnet s dictionary .",
    "this resulted in a list of 421 unique entity names that we used for the automatic description extraction stage .",
    "all 421 entity names retrieved by the system are indeed proper nouns .",
    "[ cols= \" < , < , < , < , < \" , ]     ....      ( ( cat np )       ( complex apposition )       ( restrictive no )       ( distinct ~(((cat common )                    ( possessor ( ( cat common )                                ( determiner none )                                ( lex `` italy '' ) ) )                    ( classifier ( ( cat noun - compound )                                 ( classifier ( ( lex `` former '' ) ) )                                 ( head ( ( lex `` prime '' ) ) ) ) )                    ( head ( ( lex `` minister '' ) ) ) )                   ( ( cat person - name )                    ( first - name ( ( lex `` silvio '' ) ) )                    ( last - name ( ( lex `` berlusconi '' ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ....    we have implemented a tcp / ip interface to surge .",
    "the fd generation component uses this interface to send a new fd to the surface realization component of surge which generates an english surface form corresponding to it .",
    "we have identified several major advantages of using fds produced by the system in generation compared to using canned phrases .    * * grammaticality*. the deeper representation allows for grammatical transformations , such as aggregation : e.g. , `` president yeltsin ''",
    "@xmath0 `` president clinton '' can be generated as `` presidents yeltsin and clinton '' .",
    "* * unification with existing ontologies*. e.g. , if an ontology contains information about the word `` president '' as being a realization of the concept `` head of state '' , then under certain conditions , the description can be replaced by one referring to `` head of state '' .",
    "* * generation of referring expressions*. in the previous example , if `` president bill clinton '' is used in a sentence , then `` head of state '' can be used as a referring expression in a subsequent sentence . *",
    "* enhancement of descriptions*. if we have retrieved `` prime minister '' as a description for silvio berlusconi , and later we obtain knowledge that someone else has become italy s primer minister , then we can generate `` former prime minister '' using a transformation of the old fd . *",
    "* lexical choice*. when different descriptions are automatically marked for semantics , profile can prefer to generate one over another based on semantic features .",
    "this is useful if a summary discusses events related to one description associated with the entity more than the others .",
    "* * merging lexicons*. the lexicon generated automatically by the system can be merged with a domain lexicon generated manually .",
    "these advantages look very promising and we will be exploring them in detail in our work on summarization in the near future .",
    "in this section we provide an analysis of the capabilities and current limitations of profile .      at the current stage of implementation",
    ", profile has the following coverage .    * * syntactic coverage*. currently , the system includes an extensive finite - state grammar that can handle various pre - modifiers and appositions .",
    "the grammar matches arbitrary noun phrases in each of these two cases to the extent that the pos part - of - speech tagger provides a correct tagging . * * precision*. in subsection  [ subsection-3.1 ] we showed the precision of the extraction of entity names .",
    "similarly , we have computed the precision of retrieved 611 descriptions using randomly selected entities from the list retrieved in subsection  [ subsection-3.1 ] .",
    "of the 611 descriptions , 551 ( 90.2% ) were correct .",
    "the others included a roughly equal number of cases of incorrect np attachment and incorrect part - of - speech assignment .",
    "for our task ( symbolic text generation ) , precision is more important than recall ; it is critical that the extracted descriptions are correct in order to be converted to fd and generated . *",
    "* length of descriptions*. the longest description retrieved by the system was 9 lexical items long : `` maurizio gucci , the former head of italy s gucci fashion dynasty '' .",
    "the shortest descriptions are 1 lexical item in length - e.g. `` president bill clinton '' . * * protocol coverage*. we have implemented retrieval facilities to extract descriptions using the nntp ( usenet news ) and http ( world - wide web ) protocols .",
    "our system currently does nt handle entity cross - referencing .",
    "it will not realize that `` clinton '' and `` bill clinton '' refer to the same person . nor will it link a person s profile with the profile of the organization of which he is a member .    at this stage ,",
    "the system generates functional descriptions ( fd ) , but they are not being used in a summarization system yet .",
    "one of the more important current goals is to increase coverage of the system by providing interfaces to a large number of on - line sources of news .",
    "we would ideally want to build a comprehensive and shareable database of profiles that can be queried over the world - wide web .",
    "we need to refine the algorithm to handle cases that are currently problematic .",
    "for example , polysemy is not properly handled .",
    "for instance , we would not label properly noun phrases such as `` rice university '' , as it contains the word `` rice '' which can be categorized as a food .",
    "another long - term goal of our research is the generation of evolving summaries that continuously update the user on a given topic of interest . in that case",
    ", the system will have a model containing all prior interaction with the user . to avoid repetitiveness ,",
    "such a system will have to resort to using different descriptions ( as well as referring expressions ) to address a specific entity .",
    "we will be investigating an algorithm that will select a proper ordering of multiple descriptions referring to the same person .",
    "after we collect a series of descriptions for each possible entity , we need to decide how to select among all of them .",
    "there are two scenarios . in the first one",
    ", we have to pick one single description from the database which best fits the summary that we are generating . in the second scenario , the evolving summary , we have to generate a _ sequence _ of descriptions , which might possibly view the entity from different perspectives .",
    "we are investigating algorithms that will decide the order of generation of the different descriptions . among the factors that will influence the selection and ordering of descriptions",
    ", we can note the user s interests , his knowledge of the entity , the focus of the summary ( e.g. , `` democratic presidential candidate '' for bill clinton , vs. `` u.s .",
    "president '' ) .",
    "we can also select one description over another based on how recent they have been included in the database , whether or not one of them has been used in a summary already , whether the summary is an update to an earlier summary , and whether another description from the same category has been used already .",
    "we have yet to decide under what circumstances a description needs to be generated at all .",
    "we are interested in implementing existing algorithms or designing our own that will match different instances of the same entity appearing in different syntactic forms - e.g. , to establish that `` plo '' is an alias for the `` palestine liberation organization '' .",
    "we will investigate using cooccurrence information to match acronyms to full organization names and alternative spellings of the same name with each other .",
    "an important application that we are considering is applying the technology to text available using other protocols - such as smtp ( for electronic mail ) and retrieve descriptions for entities mentioned in such messages .",
    "we will also look into connecting the current interface with news available to the internet with an existing search engine such as lycos ( www.lycos.com ) or altavista ( www.altavista.digital.com ) .",
    "we can then use the existing indices of all web documents mentioning a given entity as a news corpus on which to perform the extraction of descriptions .",
    "finally , we will investigate the creation of kqml interfaces to the different components of profile which will be linked to other information access modules at columbia university .",
    "we have described a system that allows users to retrieve descriptions of entities using a web - based search engine .",
    "figure  [ figure - web - interface ] shows the web interface to profile .",
    "users can select an entity ( such as `` john major '' ) , specify what semantic classes of descriptions they want to retrieve ( e.g. , age , position , nationality ) as well as the maximal number of queries that they want .",
    "they can also specify which sources of news should be searched .",
    "currently , the system has an interface to reuters at www.yahoo.com , the cnn web site , and to all local news delivered via nntp to our local news domain .",
    "the web - based interface is accessible publicly ( currently within columbia university only ) .",
    "all queries are cached and the descriptions retrieved can be reused in a subsequent query .",
    "we believe that such an approach to information extraction can be classified as a collaborative database .",
    "the fd generation component produces syntactically correct functional descriptions that can be used to generate english - language descriptions using fuf and surge , and can also be used in a general - purpose summarization system in the domain of current news .",
    "all components of the system assume no prior domain knowledge and are therefore portable to many domains - such as sports , entertainment , and business .",
    "this work was partially supported by nsf grant ger-90 - 2406 and by a grant from columbia university s strategic initiative fund sponsored by the provost s office .",
    "john aberdeen , john burger , dennis connolly , susan roberts , and marc vilain .",
    "mitre - bedford : description of the alembic system as used for muc-4 . in _ proceedings of the fourth message understanding conference ( muc-4 )",
    "_ , pages 215222 , mclean , virginia , june .",
    "damaris ayuso , sean boisen , heidi fox , herb gish , robert ingria , and ralph weischedel . 1992 .",
    "bbn : description of the plum system as used for muc-4 . in _ proceedings of the fourth message understanding conference ( muc-4 )",
    "_ , pages 169176 , mclean , virginia , june .",
    "kenneth  w. church .",
    "1988 . a stochastic parts program and noun phrase parser for unrestricted text .",
    "in _ proceedings of the second conference on applied natural language processing ( anlp-88 ) _ , pages 136143 , austin , texas , february .",
    "association for computational linguistics .",
    "sam coates - stephens .",
    "automatic lexical acquisition using within - text descriptions of proper nouns . in _ proceedings of the seventh annual conference of the uw centre for the new oed and text research _ , pages 154169 .",
    "jim cowie , louise guthrie , yorick wilks , james pustejovsky , and scott waterman .",
    "crl / nmsu and brandeis : description of the _ mucbruce _ system as used for muc-4 . in _ proceedings of the fourth message understanding conference ( muc-4 ) _ , pages 223232 , mclean , virginia , june .",
    "tim finin , rich fritzson , don mckay , and robin mcentire .",
    "1994 . - a language and protocol for knowledge and information exchange .",
    "technical report cs-94 - 02 , computer science department , university of maryland and valley forge engineering center , unisys corporation .",
    "julian  m. kupiec .",
    "murax : a robust linguistic approach for question answering using an on - line encyclopedia . in _",
    "proceedings , 16th annual international acm sigir conference on research and development in information retrieval_.    w.  lehnert , j.  mccarthy , s.  soderlan , e.  riloff , c.  cardie , j.  peterson , and f.  feng . 1993 .",
    "umass / hughes : description of the circus system used for muc-5 . in _ proceedings of the fifth message understanding conference ( muc-5 ) _ , pages 277291 , baltimore , md . , august .",
    "inderjeet mani , richard  t. macmillan , susann luperfoy , elaine lusher , and sharon laskowski .",
    "identifying unknown proper names in newswire text . in _ proceedings of the workshop on acquisition of lexical knowledge from text _ ,",
    "pages 4454 , columbus , ohio , june .",
    "special interest group on the lexicon of the association for computational linguistics .",
    "david  d. mcdonald .",
    "internal and external evidence in the identification and semantic cateogrization of proper names . in _ proceedings of the workshop on acquisition of lexical knowledge from text _ , pages 3243 , columbus , ohio , june .",
    "special interest group on the lexicon of the association for computational linguistics .",
    "kathleen  r. mckeown and dragomir  r. radev .",
    "1995 . generating summaries of multiple news articles . in _ proceedings , 18th annual international acm sigir conference on research and development in information retrieval _ , pages 7482 , seattle , washington , july .",
    "woojin paik , elizabeth  d. liddy , edmund yu , and mary mckenna .",
    "interpretation of proper nouns for information retrieval . in _ proceedings of the human language technology workshop _ , pages 309313 , plainsboro , new jersey , march .",
    "arpa software and intelligent systems technology office , morgan kaufmann .",
    "dragomir  r. radev",
    "an architecture for distributed natural language summarization . in",
    "_ proceedings of the 8th international workshop on natural language generation : demonstrations and posters _ , pages 4548 , herstmonceaux , england , june .",
    "ralph weischedel , damaris ayuso , sean boisen , heidi fox , robert ingria , tomoyoshi matsukawa , constantine papageorgiou , dawn maclaughlin , masaichiro kitagawa , tsutomu sakai , june abe , hiroto hosihi , yoichi miyamoto , and scott miller . 1993 .",
    "bbn : description of the plum system as used for muc-5 . in _ proceedings of the fifth message understanding conference ( muc-5 )",
    "_ , pages 93108 , baltimore , md . , august"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in this paper , we describe a method for automatic creation of a knowledge source for text generation using information extraction over the internet . </S>",
    "<S> we present a prototype system called profile which uses a client - server architecture to extract noun - phrase descriptions of entities such as people , places , and organizations . </S>",
    "<S> the system serves two purposes : as an information extraction tool , it allows users to search for textual descriptions of entities ; as a utility to generate functional descriptions ( fd ) , it is used in a functional - unification based generation system . </S>",
    "<S> we present an evaluation of the approach and its applications to natural language generation and summarization .    6.25 in 0.25 in .15 in    0.2 in </S>"
  ]
}