{
  "article_text": [
    "in the course of developing natural language interfaces , computational linguists are often in the position of evaluating different theoretical approaches to the analysis of natural language ( nl )",
    ". they might want to ( a ) evaluate and improve on a current system , ( b ) add a capability to a system that it did nt previously have , ( c ) combine modules from different systems .",
    "consider the goal of adding a discourse component to a system , or evaluating and improving one that is already in place .",
    "a discourse module might combine theories on , e.g. , centering or local focusing @xcite , global focus @xcite , coherence relations@xcite , event reference @xcite , intonational structure @xcite , system vs. user beliefs @xcite , plan or intent recognition or production @xcite , control@xcite , or complex syntactic structures @xcite .",
    "how might one evaluate the relative contributions of each of these factors or compare two approaches to the same problem ?    in order to take steps towards establishing a methodology for doing this type of comparison , we conducted a case study .",
    "we attempt to evaluate two different approaches to anaphoric processing in discourse by comparing the accuracy and coverage of two published algorithms for finding the co - specifiers of pronouns in naturally occurring texts and dialogues@xcite .",
    "thus there are two parts to this paper : we present the quantitative results of hand - simulating these algorithms ( henceforth hobbs algorithm and bfp algorithm ) , but this analysis naturally gives rise to both a qualitative evaluation and recommendations for performing such evaluations in general .",
    "we illustrate the general difficulties encountered with quantitative evaluation . these are problems with : ( a ) allowing for underlying assumptions , ( b ) determining how to handle underspecifications , and ( c ) evaluating the contribution of false positives and error chaining .",
    "although both algorithms are part of theories of discourse that posit the interaction of the algorithm with an inference or intentional component , we will not use reasoning in tandem with the algorithm s operation .",
    "we have made this choice because we want to be able to analyse the performance of the algorithms across different domains .",
    "we focus on the linguistic basis of these approaches , using only selectional restrictions , so that our analysis is independent of the vagaries of a particular knowledge representation .",
    "thus what we are evaluating is the extent to which these algorithms suffice to narrow the search of an inference component . ] .",
    "this analysis gives us some indication of the contribution of syntactic constraints , task structure and global focus to anaphoric processing .",
    "the data on which we compare the algorithms are important if we are to evaluate claims of generality .",
    "if we look at types of nl input , one clear division is between textual and interactive input .",
    "a related , though not identical factor is whether the language being analysed is produced by more than one person , although this distinction may be conflated in textual material such as novels that contain reported conversations . within two - person interactive dialogues , there are the task - oriented master - slave type , where all the expertise and hence much of the initiative , rests with one person . in other two - person dialogues ,",
    "both parties may contribute discourse entities to the conversation on a more equal basis .",
    "other factors of interest are whether the dialogues are human - to - human or human - to - computer , as well as the modality of communication , e.g. spoken or typed , since some researchers have indicated that dialogues , and particularly uses of reference within them , vary along these dimensions @xcite .",
    "we analyse the performance of the algorithms on three types of data .",
    "two of the samples are those that hobbs used when developing his algorithm .",
    "one is an excerpt from a novel and the other a sample of journalistic writing .",
    "the remaining sample is a set of 5 human - human , keyboard - mediated , task - oriented dialogues about the assembly of a plastic water pump @xcite .",
    "this covers only a subset of the above types",
    ". obviously it would be instructive to conduct a similar analysis on other textual types .",
    "when embarking on such a comparison , it would be convenient to assume that the inputs to the algorithms are identical and compare their outputs .",
    "unfortunately since researchers do not even agree on which phenomena can be explained syntactically and which semantically , the boundaries between two modules are rarely the same in nl systems . in this case the bfp centering algorithm and hobbs algorithm both make assumptions about other system components .",
    "these are , in some sense , a further specification of the operation of the algorithms that must be made in order to hand - simulate the algorithms .",
    "there are two major sets of assumptions , based on discourse segmentation and syntactic representation .",
    "we attempt to make these explicit for each algorithm and pinpoint where the algorithms might behave differently were these assumptions not well - founded .",
    "in addition , there may be a number of underspecifications in the descriptions of the algorithms .",
    "these often arise because theories that attempt to categorize naturally occurring data and algorithms based on them will always be prey to previously unencountered examples .",
    "for example , since the bfp salience hierarchy for discourse entities is based on grammatical relation , an implicit assumption is that an utterance only has one subject .",
    "however the novel _ wheels _ has many examples of reported dialogue such as _ she continued , unperturbed , `` mr .",
    "vale quotes the bible about air pollution . ''",
    "_ one might wonder whether the subject is _ she _ or _ mr .",
    "vale_. in some cases , the algorithm might need to be further specificied in order to be able to process any of the data , whereas in others they may just highlight where the algorithm needs to be modified ( see section [ mod ] ) .",
    "in general we count underspecifications as failures .",
    "finally , it may not be clear what the definition of success is .",
    "in particular it is not clear what to do in those cases where an algorithm produces multiple or partial interpretations .",
    "in this situation a system might flag the utterance as ambiguous and draw in support from other discourse components .",
    "this arises in the present analysis for two reasons : ( 1 ) the constraints given by @xcite do not always allow one to choose a preferred interpretation , ( 2 ) the bfp algorithm proposes equally ranked interpretations in parallel .",
    "this does nt happen with the hobbs algorithm because it proposes interpretations in a sequential manner , one at a time .",
    "we chose to count as a failure those situations in which the bfp algorithm only reduces the number of possible interpretations , but hobbs algorithm stops with a correct interpretation .",
    "this ignores the fact that hobbs may have rejected a number of interpretations before stopping .",
    "we also have not needed to make a decision on how to score an algorithm that only finds one interpretation for an utterance that humans find ambiguous .      the centering algorithm as defined by brennan , friedman and pollard , ( bfp algorithm ) ,",
    "is derived from a set of rules and constraints put forth by grosz , joshi and weinstein @xcite .",
    "we shall not reproduce this algorithm here ( see @xcite ) .",
    "there are two main structures in the centering algorithm , the cb , the backward looking center , which is what the discourse is ` about ' , and an ordered list , cf , of forward looking centers , which are the discourse entities available to the next utterance for pronominalization .",
    "the centering framework predicts that in a local coherent stretch of dialogue , speakers will prefer to continue talking about the same discourse entity , that the cb will be the highest ranked entity of the previous utterance s forward centers that is realized in the current utterance , and that if anything is pronominalized the cb must be .    in the centering framework , the order of the forward - centers list is intended to reflect the salience of discourse entities .",
    "the bfp algorithm orders this list by grammatical relation of the complements of the main verb , i.e. first the subject , then object , then indirect object , then other subcategorized - for complements , then noun phrases found in adjunct clauses .",
    "this captures the intuition that subjects are more salient than other discourse entities .",
    "the bfp algorithm added linguistic constraints on contra - indexing to the centering framework .",
    "these constraints are exemplified by the fact that , in the sentence _ he likes him _ , the entity cospecified by _ he _ can not be the same as that cospecified by _",
    "we say that _ he _ and _ him _ are contra - indexed .",
    "the bfp algorithm depends on semantic processing to precompute these constraints , since they are derived from the syntactic structure , and depend on some notion of c - command@xcite .",
    "the other assumption that is dependent on syntax is that the the representations of discourse entities can be marked with the grammatical function through which they were realized , e.g. subject .",
    "the bfp algorithm assumes that some other mechanism can structure both written texts and task - oriented dialogues into hierarchical segments .",
    "the present concern is not with whether there might be a grammar of discourse that determines this structure , or whether it is derived from the cues that cooperative speakers give hearers to aid in processing .",
    "since centering is a local phenomenon and is intended to operate within a segment , we needed to deduce a segmental structure in order to analyse the data .",
    "speaker s intentions , task structure , cue words like _ o.k .",
    "now .. _ , intonational properties of utterances , coherence relations , the scoping of modal operators , and mechanisms for shifting control between discourse participants have all been proposed as ways of determining discourse segmentation @xcite . here , we use a combination of orthography , anaphora distribution , cue words and task structure .",
    "the rules are :    * in published texts , a paragraph is a new segment unless the first sentence has a pronoun in subject position or a pronoun where none of the preceding sentence - internal noun phrases match its syntactic features .",
    "* in the task - oriented dialogues , the action pick - up marks task boundaries hence segment boundaries . cue words like _ next , then , _ and _ now _ also mark segment boundaries",
    ". these will usually co - occur but either one is sufficient for marking a segment boundary .",
    "bfp never state that cospecifiers for pronouns within the same segment are preferred over those in previous segments , but this is an implicit assumption , since this line of research is derived from sidner s work on local focusing .",
    "segment initial utterances therefore are the only situation where the bfp algorithm will prefer a within - sentence noun phrase as the cospecifier of a pronoun .",
    "the hobbs algorithm is based on searching for a pronoun s co - specifier in the syntactic parse tree of input sentences @xcite .",
    "we reproduce this algorithm in full in the appendix along with an example .",
    "hobbs algorithm operates on one sentence at a time , but the structure of previous sentences in the discourse is available .",
    "it is stated in terms of searches on parse trees . when looking for an intrasentential antecedent , these searches are conducted in a left - to - right , breadth - first manner . however , when looking for a pronoun s antecedent within a sentence , it will go sequentially further and further up the tree to the left of the pronoun , and that failing will look in the previous sentence .",
    "hobbs does not assume a segmentation of discourse structure in this algorithm ; the algorithm will go back arbitrarily far in the text to find an antecedent .",
    "in more recent work , hobbs uses the notion of coherence relations to structure the discourse @xcite .",
    "the order by which hobbs algorithm traverses the parse tree is the closest thing in his framework to predictions about which discourse entities are salient . in the main it prefers co - specifiers for pronouns that are within the same sentence , and also ones that are closer to the pronoun in the sentence .",
    "this amounts to a claim that different discourse entities are salient , depending on the position of a pronoun in a sentence .",
    "when seeking an intersentential co - specification , hobbs algorithm searches the parse tree of the previous utterance breadth - first , from left to right .",
    "this predicts that entities realized in subject position are more salient , since even if an adjunct clause linearly precedes the main subject , any noun phrases within it will be deeper in the parse tree .",
    "this also means that objects and indirect objects will be among the first possible antecedents found , and in general that the depth of syntactic embedding is an important determiner of discourse prominence .",
    "turning to the assumptions about syntax , we note that hobbs assumes that one can produce the correct syntactic structure for an utterance , with all adjunct phrases attached at the proper point of the parse tree .",
    "in addition , in order to obey linguistic constraints on coreference , the algorithm depends on the existence of a @xmath0 parse tree node , which denotes a noun phrase without its determiner ( see the example in the appendix ) .",
    "hobbs algorithm procedurally encodes contra - indexing constraints by skipping over np nodes whose @xmath0 node dominates the part of the parse tree in which the pronoun is found , which means that he can not guarantee that two contra - indexed pronouns will not choose the same np as a co - specifier .",
    "hobbs also assumes that his algorithm can somehow collect discourse entities mentioned alone into sets as co - specifiers of plural anaphors .",
    "hobbs discusses at length other assumptions that he makes about the capabilities of an interpretive process that operates before the algorithm @xcite .",
    "this includes such things as being able to recover syntactically recoverable omitted text , such as elided verb phrases , and the identities of the speakers and hearers in a dialogue .",
    "a major component of any discourse algorithm is the prediction of which entities are salient , even though all the factors that contribute to the salience of a discourse entity have not been identified @xcite .",
    "so an obvious question is when the two algorithms actually make different predictions .",
    "the main difference is that the choice of a co - specifier for a pronoun in the hobbs algorithm depends in part on the position of that pronoun in the sentence . in the centering framework ,",
    "no matter what criteria one uses to order the forward - centers list , pronouns take the most salient entities as antecedents , irrespective of that pronoun s position .",
    "hobbs ordering of entities from a previous utterance varies from bfp in that possessors come before case - marked objects and indirect objects , and there may be some other differences as well but none of them were relevant to the analysis that follows .",
    "the effects of some of the assumptions are measurable and we will attempt to specify exactly what these effects are , however some are not , e.g. we can not measure the effect of hobbs syntax assumption since it is difficult to say how likely one is to get the wrong parse .",
    "we adopt the set collection assumption for both algorithms as well as the ability to recover the identity of speakers and hearers in dialogue .",
    "the texts on which the algorithms are analysed are the first chapter of arthur hailey s novel _ wheels _ , and the july 7 , 1975 edition of newsweek .",
    "the sentences in _ wheels _ are short and simple with long sequences consisting of reported conversation , so it is similar to a conversational text .",
    "the articles from _ newsweek _ are typical of journalistic writing . for each text",
    ", the first 100 occurrences of singular and plural third - person pronouns were used to test the performance of the algorithms .",
    "the task - dialogues contain a total of 81 uses of _ it _ and no other pronouns except for _ i _ and _ you_. in the figures below note that possessives like _ his _ are counted along with _ he _ and that accusatives like _ him _ and _ her _ are counted as _ he _ and _",
    "she_.    [ cols=\"<,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     however , the statistical analyses still show that there is no significant difference in the performance of the algorithms in general .",
    "it is also still the case that the performance of each algorithm significantly varies depending on the data .",
    "the only significant difference as a result of the modifications is that the bfp algorithm now performs significantly better on the pump dialogues alone ( @xmath1 ) .",
    "we can benefit in two ways from performing such evaluations : ( a ) we get general results on a methodology for doing evaluation , ( b ) we discover ways we can improve current theories .",
    "a split of evaluation efforts into quantitative versus qualitative is incoherent .",
    "we can not trust the results of a quantitative evaluation without doing a considerable amount of qualitative analyses and we should perform our qualitative analyses on those components that make a significant contribution to the quantitative results ; we need to be able to measure the effect of various factors .",
    "these measurements must be made by doing comparisons at the data level .    in terms of general results",
    ", we have identified some factors that make evaluations of this type more complicated and which might lead us to evaluate solely quantitative results with care .",
    "these are : ( a ) to decide how to evaluate underspecifications and the contribution of assumptions , and ( b ) to determine the effects of false positives and error chaining .",
    "we advocate an approach in which the contribution of each underspecification and assumption is tabulated as well as the effect of error chains .",
    "if a principled way could be found to identify false positives , their effect should be reported as well as part of any quantitative evaluation .",
    "in addition , we have taken a few steps towards determining the relative importance of different factors to the successful operation of discourse modules .",
    "the percent of successes that * both * algorithms get indicates that syntax has a strong influence , and that at the very least we can reduce the amount of inference required . in 59% to 82% of the cases both algorithms get the correct result .",
    "this probably means that in a large number of cases there was no potential conflict of co - specifiers .",
    "in addition , this analysis has shown , that at least for task - oriented dialogues global focus is a significant factor , and in general discourse structure is more important in the task dialogues .",
    "however simple devices such as cue words may go a long way toward determining this structure .    finally , we should note that doing evaluations such as this allows us to determine the generality of our approaches .",
    "since the performance of both hobbs and bfp varies according to the type of the text , and in fact was significantly worse on the task dialogues than on the texts , we might question how their performance would vary on other inputs .",
    "an annotated corpus comprising some of the various nl input types such as those i discussed in the introduction would go a long way towards giving us a basis against which we could evaluate the generality of our theories .",
    "david carter , phil cohen , nick haddock , jerry hobbs , aravind joshi , don knuth , candy sidner , phil stenton , bonnie webber , and steve whittaker have provided valuable insights toward this endeavor and critical comments on a multiplicity of earlier versions of this paper .",
    "steve whittaker advised me on the statistical analyses .",
    "i would like to thank jerry hobbs for encouraging me to do this in the first place .",
    "gsbc86    james  f. allen and c.  raymond perrault .",
    "analyzing intention in utterances .",
    ", 15:143178 , 1980 .",
    "anne abeille and yves schabes . parsing idioms in lexicalized tags . in _ proc .",
    "4th conference of the european chapter of the acl , association of computational linguistics _ , pages 16165 , 1989 .",
    "roger brown and deborah fish .",
    "the psychological causality implicit in language .",
    ", 14:237273 , 1983 .",
    "susan  e. brennan , marilyn  walker friedman , and carl  j. pollard . a centering approach to pronouns . in _ proc .",
    "25th annual meeting of the acl , stanford _ , pages 155162 , 1987",
    ".    david  m. carter . .",
    "ellis horwood , 1987 .    phillip  r. cohen .",
    "on knowing what to say : planning speech acts .",
    "technical report 118 , university of toronto ; department of computer science , 1978 .",
    "phillip  r. cohen .",
    "the pragmatics of referring and the modality of communication .",
    "10:97146 , 1984 .    barbara  grosz deutsch .",
    "typescripts of task oriented dialogs , august 1974 .",
    "nils dahlback and arne jonsson .",
    "empirical studies of discourse representations for natural language interfaces . in _ proc .",
    "4th conference of the european chapter of the acl , association of computational linguistics _ , pages 291298 , 1989 .",
    "barbara  j. grosz , aravind  k. joshi , and scott weinstein . providing a unified account of definite noun phrases in discourse . in _ proc .",
    "21st annual meeting of the acl , association of computational linguistics _ , pages 4450 , 1983 .",
    "barbara  j. grosz , aravind  k. joshi , and scott weinstein .",
    "towards a computational theory of discourse interpretation . unpublished manuscript , 1986 .",
    "barbara  j. grosz .",
    "the representation and use of focus in dialogue understanding .",
    "technical report 151 , sri international , 333 ravenswood ave , menlo park , ca . 94025 , 1977 .",
    "barbara  j. grosz and candace  l. sidner .",
    "attentions , intentions and the structure of discourse . , 12:175204 , 1986 .",
    "raymonde guindon , p.  sladky , h.  brunner , and j.  conner .",
    "the structure of user - adviser dialogues : is there method in their madness ? in _ proc .",
    "24th annual meeting of the acl , association of computational linguistics _ , pages 224230 , 1986 .",
    "julia hirschberg and diane litman . now lets talk about now : identifying cue phrases intonationally . in _ proc .",
    "25th annual meeting of the acl , stanford _ , pages 163171 , stanford university , stanford , ca .",
    ", 1987 .",
    "jerry  r. hobbs and paul martin .",
    "local pragmatics . technical report ,",
    "sri international , 333 ravenswood ave .",
    ", menlo park , ca 94025 , 1987 .",
    "jerry  r. hobbs",
    ". a computational approach to discourse analysis .",
    "technical report 76 - 2 , department of computer science , city college , city university of new york , 1976 .",
    "jerry  r. hobbs .",
    "pronoun resolution .",
    "technical report 76 - 1 , department of computer science , city college , city university of new york , 1976 .",
    "jerry  r. hobbs .",
    "why is discourse coherent ?",
    "technical report 176 , sri international , 333 ravenswood ave . , menlo park , ca 94025 , 1978 .",
    "jerry  r. hobbs . on the coherence and structure of discourse .",
    "technical report csli-85 - 37 , center for the study of language and information , ventura hall , stanford university , stanford , ca 94305 , 1985 .",
    "susan  b. hudson , michael  k. tanenhaus , and gary  s. dell .",
    "the effect of the discourse center on the local coherence of a discourse .",
    "technical report.university of rochester , 1986 .",
    "janet pierrehumbert and julia hirschberg .",
    "the meaning of intonational contours in the interpretation of discourse . in _ cohen , morgan and pollack , eds .",
    "intentions in communication , mit press _ , 1990 .    martha pollack . a model of plan inference that distinguishes between the beliefs of actors and observers .",
    "in _ proc .",
    "24th annual meeting of the association of computational linguistics _ , pages 207214 , columbia university , n.y . ,",
    "n.y , 1986 .",
    "ellen  f. prince . toward a taxonomy of given - new information . in _ radical pragmatics _ , pages 223255 . academic press , 1981 .",
    "ellen  f. prince .",
    "fancy syntax and shared knowledge .",
    ", pages 6581 , 1985 .",
    "tanya reinhart . .",
    "phd thesis , mit , cambridge mass .",
    ", 1976 .",
    "rachel reichman . .",
    "press , cambridge , ma , 1985 .",
    "craige roberts .",
    "modal subordination and pronominal anaphora in discourse .",
    "technical report no .",
    "127 , csli , may,1988",
    ". also appeared in linguistics and philosophy .",
    "deborah schiffrin . .",
    "cambridge university press , 1987 .",
    "candace sidner and david israel . recognizing intended meaning and speakers plans . in _ proc .",
    "international joint conference on artificial intelligence _ , pages 203208 , vancouver , bc , canada , 1981 .",
    "candace  l. sidner . toward a computational theory of definite anaphora comprehension in english .",
    "technical report ai - tr-537 , mit , 1979 .",
    "bozena  henisz thompson .",
    "linguistic analysis of natural language communication with computers . in _",
    "coling80 : proc .",
    "8th international conference on computational linguistics .",
    "tokyo _ , pages 190201 , 1980 .",
    "bonnie  lynn webber .",
    "two steps closer to event reference .",
    "technical report ms - cis-86 - 74 , linc lab 42 , department of computer and information science , university of pennsylvania , 1986 .",
    "steve whittaker and phil stenton .",
    "cues and control in expert client dialogues . in _ proc .",
    "26th annual meeting of the acl , association of computational linguistics _ , pages 123130 , 1988 .",
    "steve whittaker and phil stenton .",
    "user studies and the design of natural language systems . in _ proc .",
    "4th conference of the european chapter of the acl , association of computational linguistics _ , pages 116123 , 1989 .",
    "the algorithm and an example is reproduced below . in it , np denotes noun phrase and s denotes sentence .    1 .",
    "begin at the np node immediately dominating the pronoun in the parse tree of s. 2 .",
    "go up the tree until you encounter an np or s node . call this node @xmath2 , and call the path used to reach it @xmath3 .",
    "3 .   traverse all branches below node @xmath2 to the left of path @xmath3 in a left - to - right breadth - first fashion .",
    "propose as the antecedent any np node encountered that has an np or s node on the path from it to @xmath2 .",
    "4 .   if @xmath2 is not the highest s node in the sentence , continue to step 5 .",
    "otherwise traverse the surface parse trees of previous sentences in the text in reverse chronological order until an acceptable antecedent is found ; each tree is traversed in a left - to - right , breadth - first manner , and when an np node is encountered , it is proposed as the antecedent . 5 .   from node @xmath2 ,",
    "go up the tree to the first np or s node encountered .",
    "call this new node @xmath2 , and call the path traversed to reach it @xmath3 .",
    "if @xmath2 is an np node and if the path @xmath3 to @xmath2 did not pass through the @xmath0 node that @xmath2 immediately dominates , propose @xmath2 as the antecedent .",
    "traverse all branches below node @xmath2 to the left of path @xmath3 in a left - to - right , breadth - first manner , but do not go below any np or s node encountered . propose any np or s node encountered as the antecedent .",
    "go to step 4 .            1 .",
    "@xmath6 labels the starting point of step 1",
    "@xmath7 is called @xmath2 .",
    "we mark the path @xmath3 with a dotted line .",
    "we traverse @xmath7 to the left of @xmath3 .",
    "we encounter @xmath8 but it does not have an np or s node between it and @xmath2 .",
    "this means that @xmath8 is contra - indexed with @xmath6 .",
    "note that if the structure corresponded to _",
    "s mom likes her _ then the np for _ craige _ would be an np to the left of @xmath3 that has an np node between it and @xmath2 , and _ craige _ would be selected as the antecedent for _ her_. 4 .",
    "the node @xmath2 is the highest s node in @xmath5 , so we go to the previous sentence @xmath4 .",
    "as we traverse the tree of @xmath4 , the first np we encounter is @xmath9 , so _",
    "lyn s mom _ is proposed as the antecedent for _ her _ and we are done ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> in order to take steps towards establishing a methodology for evaluating natural language systems , we conducted a case study . </S>",
    "<S> we attempt to evaluate two different approaches to anaphoric processing in discourse by comparing the accuracy and coverage of two published algorithms for finding the co - specifiers of pronouns in naturally occurring texts and dialogues . </S>",
    "<S> we present the quantitative results of hand - simulating these algorithms , but this analysis naturally gives rise to both a qualitative evaluation and recommendations for performing such evaluations in general . </S>",
    "<S> we illustrate the general difficulties encountered with quantitative evaluation . </S>",
    "<S> these are problems with : ( a ) allowing for underlying assumptions , ( b ) determining how to handle underspecifications , and ( c ) evaluating the contribution of false positives and error chaining .    </S>",
    "<S> = 6.5 in = 8.9 in = -.5 in </S>"
  ]
}