{
  "article_text": [
    "the goal of an _ information extraction _",
    "( ie ) system is to identify information of interest from a collection of texts . within a particular text ,",
    "objects of interest are often referenced in different places and in different ways .",
    "one of the many challenges facing an ie system is to determine which references refer to which objects . this problem can be recast as a classification problem : given two references , do they refer to the same object or different objects .    the message understanding conferences ( mucs ) @xcite and the tipster project @xcite helped both to define the information extraction task and to push the technology of ie systems .",
    "each of these evaluation efforts provided a corpus of news articles about a domain , a specification of the relevant information that was to be extracted from each article , the output representation of that information , and a set of key templates representing the information extracted from each article by human readers . for the final evaluations ,",
    "participating systems were given a set of blind texts and their output was scored against the key templates to determine how much of the relevant information they were able to extract .",
    "the sentence analyzers used in many of these systems have shown significant improvement over the past several years . however , the discourse processing capabilities of these systems , particularly their coreference resolution components , have often been cited as weak areas @xcite .",
    "the ie systems developed at umass @xcite also displayed weak coreference resolution capabilities .",
    "each of these systems used a set of manually engineered rules to resolve some obvious types of coreference , but they tended to be very conservative , i.e. , they only considered phrases to be coreferent if there was overwhelming evidence in support of that hypothesis .",
    "one of the problems with these coreference resolution components was figuring out which features of the phrases to look at when determining coreference .",
    "another , related set of problems was determining how to combine positive and negative evidence into individual rules and then how to order the rule set .",
    "a third problem area was the accumulation of errors at that late stage of processing , e.g. , from incorrectly delimited sentences , incorrect part - of - speech tags , and other sentence analysis errors .    in an effort to address these problems , a new approach to coreference resolution",
    "was begun after the evaluation : a system named resolve  was created to build decision trees that can be used to classify pairs of phrases as coreferent or not coreferent .",
    "the errors generated by the sentence analyzer were eliminated by using a special tool  the coreference marking interface , or cmi   to extract a set of phrases from the english joint venture ( ejv ) corpus . in order to minimize the difficulties involved with creating and maintaining complex sets of rules ,",
    "a machine learning approach was adopted , in which a decision tree determines the order and relative weight of different pieces of evidence .",
    "resolve  used the c4.5 decision tree system @xcite to learn how to classify coreferent phrases for the experiments reported in this paper .",
    "c4.5 was chosen primarily due to its ease of use and its widespread acceptance ; however , resolve  can use any learning system that uses feature vectors composed of attribute - value pairs .",
    "an experiment was conducted to compare the performance of the decision trees generated by resolve  with the performance of manually engineered rules used for coreference classification in the umass / hughes ie system .",
    "a set of references , along with the coreference links among these , were extracted from a group of texts via cmi .",
    "all possible pairings of references from each text were generated , and these pairings were used to create a set of feature vectors used by resolve .",
    "the pairings that contained coreferent phrases formed positive instances , while those that contained two non - coreferent phrases formed negative instances .",
    "resolve  was then iteratively trained and tested on different partitions of this set of feature vectors .",
    "the data structure used in discourse processing by the umass / hughes ie system was the _ memory token _ , which converted the case frame output from the circus  sentence analyzer @xcite into a more system - independent representation .",
    "prior to coreference processing , each memory token contained one noun phrase , one or more lexical patterns encompassing that phrase , part - of - speech tags , semantic features , and information that was inferred from either the phrase or the context in which the phrase was found .",
    "this inferred information included the type of object referenced by the phrase , any name or location substring contained in the phrase , and some domain - specific information such as whether the phrase was a joint venture parent ( one of the entities who formed a joint venture ) or joint venture child ( the joint venture company itself ) .",
    "the references marked via cmi  were converted into a memory token representation in order to test the performance of the system s coreference module .",
    "the articles in the ejv corpus describe business joint ventures among two or more entities ( companies , governments and/or people ) . the task definition provided for required ie systems to extract information about the entities involved , the relationships among these entities , the facilities associated with the joint venture , the products or services offered by the joint venture , its capitalization and revenue projections , and a variety of other related information . since the entities involved in these joint ventures were the main focus of most of these articles , references to entities were much more numerous than references to other types of object classes , e.g. , people .",
    "therefore , entity references were selected as the focus of the experiments reported in this paper .",
    "cmi  is a graphical user interface that permits the user to mark phrases in a text ; for each phrase , the user can indicate the object(s ) with which the phrase is coreferent and some additional information about the phrase that can be inferred either from the phrase itself or its local context .",
    "this additional information is parameterized and can be modified easily for use in different domains .",
    "the data used in this experiment was based on a set of phrases extracted using cmi .    as an example , consider the following sentence , from text 0970 from the ejv corpus :    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ of will open +   + in with , + the company said wednesday . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    the phrases underlined in this sentence contain relevant information that must be extracted by an ie system .",
    "the phrases in * boldface * refer to entity objects that are important to the task . as an example of the types of information collected about each phrase ,",
    "consider the first phrase in the sentence :    ( : string `` familymart co. '' + : slots ( ntity + ( name `` familymart co. '' ) + ( type company ) + ( relationship jv - parent child ) ) ) +    information collected about each phrase includes the string itself , the character position of the string in the source text ( not shown ) , the index of the sentence within which the string is found ( also not shown ) , and some slot information that can be inferred from either the string itself or its local context  the same kind of information that was contained in the memory tokens used by the system . in this example , the name of the entity and the fact that it is a company entity can both be inferred from the string itself .",
    "the fact that familymart company plans to open a store in `` a joint venture '' with another entity is considered adequate evidence that the company is the parent of a joint venture ( jv - parent ) ; the fact that the sentence contains the pattern `` _ company - name-1 _ of _ company - name-2 _ '' is evidence that _ company - name-1 _ , in this case familymart co. , is a subsidiary ( child ) of _ company - name-2 _ , in this case seibu saison group .    a second example of output from cmi  can be seen below , where nationality information has been extracted from the reference to the car dealer :    ( : string `` taiwan s largest car dealer '' + : slots ( ntity + ( type company ) + ( relationship jv - parent ) + ( nationality `` taiwan ( country ) '' ) ) ) +    in principle , much of the information gathered about a particular string could be found automatically : there are numerous proper name recognizer programs , programs that extract location information , and sentence analyzers that can infer relationship information  any system that exhibited good performance in must be good at inferring such relationships .    for the purposes of our experiment , however , this information was specified by a user via cmi .",
    "the primary motivation for this was to minimize the noise in the data ; coreference resolution often occurs at a late processing stage in an ie system , and earlier errors such as incorrect part - of - speech tags , incorrectly delimited sentences and semantic tagging errors can create significant noise for a coreference classifier .",
    "cmi  was used to mark references to a variety of relevant object types ( entity , facility , person and product - or - service ) in 50 randomly selected texts . since references to entity objects were most numerous , this was the object class chosen for the experiment .",
    "in the 50 texts , 472 references to a total of 205 entity objects were marked using cmi .",
    "some phrases are _ multireferent _ , i.e. , they refer to more than one object .",
    "these multireferent phrases pose difficulties for classification , since it means that some phrases will be coreferent with other phrases in the text that have distinct referents .",
    "thus for a set of phrase pairs which share a given phrase , more than one pair would be classified as a positive instance of coreference .",
    "further complications are created for evaluating the performance of a coreference system when multireferent phrases are included in the data ( see section [ evaluation ] ) . to simplify the initial experiments reported here",
    ", multireferent phrases were excluded from the data set .",
    "the capability to handle such phrases will be incorporated in a later version of resolve .",
    "the coreference module of the umass / hughes ie system was designed to minimize false positives , i.e. , minimize the likelihood that two phrases that were not coreferent would be labeled coreferent .",
    "this design decision was based on the assumption that false positive errors , resulting in the merging of non - coreferent phrases in the final system output , would harm system performance more than false negative errors , which would result in coreferent phrases showing up in distinct objects in the system output .",
    "this rather conservative approach to coreference was shared by a number of muc system developers @xcite , though not all @xcite .",
    "another factor influencing the coreference module was the short time allotted to developing and testing this system component . since coreference resolution was a late stage in processing , upstream components had to be stabilized before serious development could take place on coreference .",
    "several late - stage components were being developed in parallel , so it is difficult to assess the time devoted exclusively to developing the coreference module , but we estimate it was two person - weeks .    the rules used to determine whether two phrases ( represented as memory tokens ) were coreferent in the system are shown in table [ table : muc5-rules ] .",
    "following the policy of minimizing false positives , whenever none of the rules fired , the system classified the pair of tokens as not coreferent .",
    ".the system s coreference rules . [ cols= \" < , < \" , ]",
    "one of the original goals of this new approach was to develop a system that achieved good performance in resolving references  performance that was at least as good as the performance achieved using manually engineered rules in our system .",
    "however , as we continue to pursue this approach , we find that there is another advantage to using decision trees : they allow us to focus on determining which features work well for resolving references .",
    "we are encouraged by the performance of the decision trees on the coreference resolution problem .",
    "the features we have used in the experiment described above are not considered comprehensive by any means .",
    "while they have proved sufficient for attaining a certain level of performance , an examination of specific errors made by the trees shows that additional features will be needed to attain higher levels .",
    "one area we will develop further is a set of features that incorporate syntactic knowledge .",
    "we do nt have any features that identify the various syntactic constituents of a sentence , e.g. , subject or direct object , nor do we have any features that identify clause boundaries ( only sentence boundaries ) .",
    "these features will be incorporated in future experiments .",
    "features based on focus of attention @xcite , which presuppose knowledge about syntactic constituents may also prove useful .",
    "our experiment used a feature set that was largely semantic in nature : it is interesting to see how well semantic features work as a basis for coreference resolution ... and it is not surprising to see that they are also insufficient .    ultimately , we hope to understand better which features are important for coreference classification , across different objects and different domains .",
    "such an understanding would benefit people involved with ie system development , and should be of interest to people outside the ie community as well .",
    "we think that decision trees are an important tool in a systematic study of coreference resolution .",
    "d.  e. appelt , j.  bear , j.  r. hobbs , d.  israel , and m.  tyson .",
    "nternational fastus system : test results and analysis . in",
    "_ proceedings of the fourth message understanding conference ( ) _ , pages 143147 , 1992 .",
    "d.  ayuso , s.  boisen , h.  fox , h.  gish , r.  ingria , and r.  weischedel . : description of the plum system as used in . in _ proceedings of the fourth message understanding conference ( ) _ , pages 169176 , 1992 .",
    "l.  iwaska , d.  appelt , d.  ayuso , k.  dahlgren , b.  glover stalls , r.  grishman , g.  krupka , c.  montgomery , and e.  riloff .",
    "computational aspects of discourse in the context of . in _ proceedings of the third message understanding conference ( ) _ , pages 256282 , 1992 .",
    "w.  lehnert , c.  cardie , d.  fisher , e.  riloff , and r.  williams .",
    "niversity of massachusetts : description of the circus system as used for . in _ proceedings of the third message understanding conference ( ) _ , pages 223233 , 1991 .",
    "w.  lehnert , c.  cardie , d.  fisher , j.  mccarthy , e.  riloff , and s.  soderland .",
    "niversity of massachusetts : description of the circus system as used for . in _ proceedings of the fourth message understanding conference ( ) _ , pages 282288 , 1992 .",
    "w.  lehnert , j.  mccarthy , s.  soderland , e.  riloff , c.  cardie , j.  peterson , f.  feng , c.  dolan , and s.  goldman .",
    "niversity of massachusetts / ughes : description of the circus system as used for . in _ proceedings of the fourth message understanding conference ( ) _ ,",
    "pages 277290 , 1993 .",
    "w.  lehnert .",
    "symbolic / subsymbolic sentence analysis : exploiting the best of two worlds . in j.",
    "barnden and j.  pollack , editors , _ advances in connectionist and neural computation theory , vol . 1 _ , pages 135164 .",
    "ablex publishers , norwood , nj , 1991 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this paper describes resolve , a system that uses decision trees to learn how to classify coreferent phrases in the domain of business joint ventures . </S>",
    "<S> an experiment is presented in which the performance of resolve  is compared to the performance of a manually engineered set of rules for the same task . </S>",
    "<S> the results show that decision trees achieve higher performance than the rules in two of three evaluation metrics developed for the coreference task . </S>",
    "<S> in addition to achieving better performance than the rules , resolve  provides a framework that facilitates the exploration of the types of knowledge that are useful for solving the coreference problem . </S>"
  ]
}