{
  "article_text": [
    "in this paper  not intended for publication in a formal journal ",
    "i present a list of `` things we know '' and `` things we do not know '' about manganites and related compounds .",
    "this text is adapted from the last chapter of a book i recently finished on manganites @xcite , after receiving the suggestion by some colleagues of making the `` open questions '' discussion available to a wider readership .",
    "the presentation is very informal to keep the discussion fluid , and it is intended for researchers with some background in manganites ( other materials , such as cuprates , are also addressed ) . only a handful of references are included here for simplicity .",
    "however , close to 1,000 citations can be found in the original source @xcite as well as the detailed justification of many of the matter - of - fact statements expressed here , particularly in the `` things we know '' section .",
    "many reviews are also available @xcite with plenty of references : this paper is not a review article but an informal discussion , with many comments and sketchy ideas .",
    "also , some items reflect the personal opinion of the author and may be debatable .",
    "in addition , this paper discusses results for other families of compounds which exhibit similarities with manganites .",
    "it is conceivable that the knowledge accumulated in mn - oxides may be applicable to the famous high - t@xmath1 cuprates , as well as other materials discussed here and in other chapters of @xcite .",
    "the stability of `` clustered '' states  often called phase - separated or mixed - phase states  appears to be an intriguing property of a variety of compounds , and `` colossal effects '' should be a phenomenon far more common than previously believed . there is plenty of work ahead , and surprises waiting to be unveiled .",
    "after the huge effort carried out in recent years in the study of manganites , involving both experimental and theoretical investigations , much progress has been achieved , described in the bulk of @xcite and in @xcite . here , a brief list of established results is presented . in the next section",
    ", the detail of the discussion will increase when issues that remain to be understood are addressed .    0.5 cm    * 1 . * at hole density @xmath2=0 , as in @xmath3 , the ground state has staggered orbital order ( concept first discussed by khomskii and kugel ) .",
    "the spins form an a - type antiferromagnet ( antiparallel spins along one direction , parallel along the other two ) , although very recently more exotic spin arrangements at @xmath2=0 have been proposed for some manganites @xcite .",
    "several other doped mn - oxides have orbital order ( oo ) as well .",
    "this orbital ordering appears to be triggered by a large electron  jahn - teller phonon coupling , as discussed by kanamori and more recently in mn - oxides by millis and collaborators .",
    "the orbital degree of freedom plays a role as important as the spin , charge , and lattice degrees of freedom .",
    "this leads to a complex phase diagram , with many competing phases , a characteristic of most correlated electron systems .",
    "i believe it is time to fully bring manganites within the umbrella of `` correlated electrons '' , since the subject s complexity goes well - beyond standard issues of plain `` magnetism ''",
    ".    0.3 cm * 2 .",
    "* at @xmath2=1 , fully hole doped , the spin arrangement is of g - type ( antiparallel spins in the three directions )",
    ".    0.3 cm * 3 .",
    "* there are many manganites with a metallic ferromagnetic ( fm ) ground state at intermediate densities .",
    "the zener mechanism for historical reasons widely known as `` double exchange'' appears to capture the essence of the tendency to ferromagnetism .",
    "this fm metallic state is a poor metal , and it is only one of the several possible states of manganites .",
    "some authors believe that orbital correlations may play a role in this ferromagnet .",
    "it is also unclear to what extent oxygens should be explicitly included in the electronic sectors of manganite models , or whether they can be `` integrated out '' as usually assumed in theoretical studies of mn - oxides .",
    "this also occurs in @xmath4-@xmath5 models for cuprates that invoke zhang - rice singlets and only focus on the cu sites .",
    "thus , there is still some discussion about the fine details of this state , but the essential features of the fm phase appear to be qualitatively understood",
    ".    0.3 cm * 4 .",
    "* at other hole densities , such as @xmath2=0.5 , charge / orbital / spin ordered states can be stabilized , leading to a phase diagram interestingly asymmetric with respect to half doping .",
    "the existence of these half - doped charge - ordered states has been established in monte carlo simulations , as well as in mean - field studies , in spite of their complicated structure .",
    "this gives hope that the theoretical studies are on the right track .",
    "the charge ordered ( co ) states strongly compete with the metallic ferromagnetic state , both in real experiments and theoretical studies .",
    "this is a key observation leading to potential explanations of the cmr , since this phenomenon appears to occur when two phases metal and insulator are in competition .",
    "it happens at the boundaries between fm metal and paramagnetic insulator or fm metal and co / oo / af states .",
    "this line of thinking  cmr as caused by phase competition  is relatively new but currently dominates the literature .",
    "we simply can not understand the cmr effect from the ferromagnetic metallic state alone .",
    "0.3 cm * 5 . * the existence of intrinsic inhomogeneities in single crystals has been established experimentally ( the list of experimental groups involved is too long to be provided here , please see @xcite ) .",
    "this can occur within the ordered phases , or above the ordering temperatures , and even in the high hole - doping region ( see work by neumeier and collaborators ) .",
    "charge - ordered _ nanoclusters _ above the curie temperatures have been found in many low- and intermediate - bandwidth manganites . in the interesting cmr regime",
    "this behavior is correlated with the resistivity , according to neutron scattering experiments carried out by groups in japan , oak ridge , maryland , brookhaven , rutgers , and other locations , that have studied hidden structures near bragg peaks ( diffuse scattering ) .",
    "these nano - clusters are believed to be crucial for the occurrence of cmr @xcite .    0.3 cm * 6 .",
    "* related with the previous item , percolative tendencies in manganites have been unveiled experimentally and in theoretical studies . but",
    "sharp first - order metal - insulator transitions have also been reported , again both in theory and experiments . in some compounds , a mixture of these behaviors percolation and first - order features have been found ( for more information , see section vi below ) .",
    "these different behaviors may depend on the strength of the inevitable disorder in the samples .",
    "some experiments  notably those by cheong s and mydosh s groups  have revealed the presence of submicrometer - size regions , to be contrasted with the more common occurrence of nanometer - size clusters ( see above ) .",
    "this is a remarkable effect that deserves to be analyzed in detail .",
    "it is unclear to what extent the submicrometer clusters are truly needed to understand the cmr and whether they are present in single crystals .",
    "0.3 cm * 7 . *",
    "the presence of phase separation tendencies in theoretical models has been unveiled and confirmed , after the work of yunoki , moreo and collaborators in 1998 using monte carlo simulations of realistic models , followed by a large number of other studies that reached similar conclusions ( see work by arovas , guinea , khomskii , kagan , and others ) .",
    "phase separation can be caused by at least two tendencies : ( 1 ) _ electronic phase separation _ , where competing states have different hole densities and @xmath6 coulomb effects lead to nanocluster coexistence .",
    "this is similar in spirit to the phase separation much discussed in cuprates ( see kivelson , tranquada , zaanen , di castro and others ) .",
    "( 2 ) disorder - driven phase separation near first - order transitions ( see @xcite ) , with competing states of equal density that leads to large coexisting clusters .",
    "0.3 cm * 8 .",
    "* theories based on states composed of ferromagnetic small islands with randomly oriented magnetizations appear to capture the essence of the cmr phenomenon @xcite .",
    "electrons with spin , say , up are mobile within ferro clusters with magnetization up .",
    "however , they can not travel through magnetization - down clusters , which effectively act as insulators to the spin - up electron carriers .",
    "however , the large effective spin of these clusters can be easily rotated upon the application of very modest fields , much smaller than the natural scales in the problem , leading to a metallic state @xcite .",
    "note that in these simulations there was no need to carry out studies using submicrometer size clusters , since nanoclusters were sufficient .",
    "0.3 cm * 9 .",
    "* theoretical studies have predicted that the metal and insulator phases of manganites are separated by first - order transitions leading to bicritical or tricritical behavior in the clean limit ( see @xcite ) .",
    "experiments by tomioka and tokura have recently reported an example with such a behavior .",
    "when quenched disorder is sufficiently strong , a `` window '' with disorder characteristics opens in between the two phases as shown in the figure below .",
    "the group of ibarra has reported results for a material that indeed has a glassy state between the fm metal and the af insulator .",
    "the particular case of a quantum critical point is only obtained in this context by fine - tuning of parameters ( although multicritical phenomena may still be of relevance in this context as proposed by nagaosa and collaborators ) .",
    "0.3 cm * 10 . *",
    "related to the previous item , theoretical and experimental studies have unveiled the existence of a new temperature scale @xmath0 where clusters start forming well above the curie temperature .",
    "independent studies by burgy et al . and salamon et al . have characterized this critical temperature as a griffiths temperature .",
    "the griffiths effects appear to be larger than usual due to phase competition .",
    "is some parameter needed to change from one phase to the other .",
    "( _ middle _ ) with increasing disorder the temperature range of first - order transitions separating the ordered states is reduced , and eventually for a _ fine - tuned _ value of the disorder the resulting phase diagram contains a quantum critical point . in this context",
    "this should be a rare occurrence .",
    "( _ right _ ) in the limit of substantial disorder , a window opens between the ordered phases .",
    "the state in between has glassy characteristics and it is composed of coexisting clusters of both phases .",
    "the size of the coexisting islands can be regulated by disorder and by the proximity to the original first - order transition . for more details",
    "see @xcite . the @xmath0",
    "discussed in the previous item  remnant of the clean - limit transition  is also shown .",
    "[ sketch.eps ] ]",
    "the enormous experimental effort on mn - oxides has already provided sufficient results to decide whether or not some of the theories proposed in recent years realistically explain the unusual magnetotransport properties of these compounds .",
    "indeed , some of the early proposals for theories of cmr manganites have already been shown to be incomplete and the current leading effort centers around inhomogeneities and first - order metal - insulator transitions .",
    "the detail is the following :    , also without phase competition . in ( d )",
    ", a phase - separated state above the ordering temperatures is sketched .",
    "details can be found in the text . [ theories.eps ] ]    0.3 cm * 1 . * in theories sometimes referred to as `` double exchange '' , electron hopping above the curie temperature @xmath7 is simply described by a renormalized hopping `` @xmath8 '' .",
    "these theories are based on the movement of electrons in a disordered spin - localized background ( see fig.[theories.eps ] ( a ) , for a crude sketch ) , without invoking other phases .",
    "however , quantitative investigations have shown that this approach does not appear to be sufficient to produce neither an insulating state nor a cmr phenomenon , although this simple idea may be suitable for large bandwidth manganites , such as @xmath2=0.4 lasrmno .",
    "0.3 cm * 2 * some theories rely on anderson localization to explain the insulating state above @xmath7 . however , the amount of disorder needed to achieve localization at the densities of relevance is very large ( at least in a simple three - dimensional anderson model ) .",
    "computational studies @xcite locate the critical value at @xmath9@xmath1016 ( in units of the hopping ) , assuming a uniform box distribution of random on - site energies [ -@xmath11,+@xmath11 ] , and with the fermi energy at the band center .",
    "perhaps this large disorder strength crudely mimics the influence of large electron - phonon couplings , strong coulomb correlations , nanoclusters , strain , and quenched disorder present in the real materials .",
    "but , even in this case , it is difficult to explain the density - of - states pseudogap found in photoemission experiments by dessau s group .",
    "anderson localization does not produce such a pseudogap ( fig.[theories.eps ] ( b ) ) .",
    "in addition , experimentally it is clear that the cmr originates in the competition between phases , typically fm - metallic and af / co - insulating , but this fundamental effect is not included in simple anderson localization scenarios , where ordering and phase competition are absent . for these reasons ,",
    "i believe anderson localization does not seem to be the best approach to explain manganite physics .    0.3 cm    * 3 . *",
    "some theories are based on a picture in which the paramagnetic insulating state is made out of a gas of small and heavy polarons ( fig.[theories.eps ] ( c ) ) .",
    "these theories do not address neutron experiments reporting ce charge - ordered clusters above @xmath7 , correlated to the resistivity , nor the many indications of inhomogeneities .",
    "a polaron gas may be a good description at much higher temperatures , well above room temperature , but such a state does not appear sufficient in the region for cmr , close to the curie temperature .",
    "the charge - ordered small clusters found experimentally above @xmath7 have properties corresponding to phases that are stable at low temperatures , such as the ce - phase .",
    "these complex clusters certainly can not be considered to be mere polarons .",
    "they are more like `` correlated polarons '' , as some researchers in this field prefer to call the charge - ordered islands .",
    "0.5 cm    theories based on microscopic phase separation ( fig.[theories.eps ] ( d ) ) appear to provide a more realistic starting point to manganites since they are compatible with dozens of experiments .",
    "however , as shown below , there is plenty of room for improvement as well !",
    "0.2 cm @xmath13 * the evidence for charge - ordered nanoclusters above @xmath7 should be further confirmed*. it is important that a variety of techniques reach the same conclusions regarding the presence of nanoclusters above @xmath7 , definitely ruling out an homogeneous state as the cause of the cmr effect .",
    "for instance , it would be important to find out the role played by nanoclusters on optical conductivity results , which thus far has been described mainly as consisting of `` small polarons '' ( noh and collaborators ) .",
    "how do the nanoclusters manifest themselves in the optical spectra ?",
    "recent results at @xmath2@xmath140.5 by noh s group much contribute to this issue , since a pseudogap was observed compatible with photoemission results .    0.3 cm    @xmath13 * the existence of the predicted new temperature scale @xmath0 above the curie temperature should be further investigated*. ( i ) thermal expansion , magnetic susceptibility , x - rays , neutron scattering , and other techniques have already provided results supporting the existence of a new scale @xmath0 , where clusters start forming upon cooling . in fact , very early in manganite investigations , the group of ibarra at zaragoza reported the existence of such a scale , in agreement with more recent theoretical and experimental developments . this scale should manifest itself even in the d.c .",
    "resistivity , as it does in the high temperature superconductors at the analog @xmath0 `` pseudogap temperature '' .",
    "are there anomalies in @xmath15 vs. temperature in mn - oxides as well ?",
    "are the @xmath0 scales in cuprates and manganites indicative of similar physics ?",
    "( ii ) in addition , the specific heat should systematically show the existence of structure at @xmath0 due to the development of short - range order ( at @xmath0 , even a glassy phase transition may occur , as recently proposed by argyriou et al . ) .",
    "( iii ) the dependence of @xmath0 with doping and tolerance factors should be analyzed systematically .",
    "theoretical studies @xcite suggest that the tolerance factor may not change @xmath0 substantially , although it affects the ordering temperatures dramatically .",
    "is there experimental support for this prediction ? ( iv ) is the crude picture of the state between @xmath7 and @xmath0 shown in fig.[cartoon.eps ] qualitatively correct ?",
    "0.3 cm    @xmath13 * x - rays and neutron - scattering studies of @xmath16 ( lpcmo ) are needed to analyze the evolution of charge - ordered nanoclusters*. there is considerable evidence that lcmo @xmath2=0.3 at temperatures above @xmath7 presents charge ordered nanoclusters , correlated with the behavior of the resistivity , as already discussed .",
    "it is important to track the intensity and location in momentum space of the peaks associated with charge ordering as la is replaced by pr .",
    "this replacement enhances charge ordering tendencies , as discussed by cheong and collaborators .",
    "it is also important to notice that the substitution of ca by sr decreases that tendency .",
    "is there a smooth evolution from lcmo to the regime found by cheong s group in lpcmo with phase separation at low temperatures , as well as from lcmo to the more `` double exchange '' homogeneous regime of lsmo ?     and @xmath0 .",
    "small polarons are represented by circles , and electrons traveling across the sample ( thick line ) may not scatter much from them .",
    "the grey areas are the co clusters where scattering is more severe .",
    "the fm regions , expected to be present in this state according to some experiments , are not shown .",
    "they can also contribute substantially to scattering , since their orientations are random .",
    "[ cartoon.eps ] ]    0.3 cm @xmath13 * are the mesoscopic clusters found in lpcmo using electron diffraction representative of the bulk ? are there other compounds with the same behavior ?",
    "* the evidence for nanocluster formation appears robust in manganites .",
    "however , the evidence for larger structures of the mesoscopic kind is based on a smaller number of experiments : electron diffraction and stm techniques ( see sec .",
    "ii ) . are these results representative of single - crystal behavior ? to what extent should one consider two kinds of phase separation , i.e. , nanoscale and microscale ?",
    "can one evolve smoothly from one to the other as the curie temperature decreases ?",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * what is the nature of the ferromagnetic - insulating phases that appear in some phase diagrams ? * is this phase truly qualitatively different from the ferromagnetic - metallic phase , or are they very similar microscopically ?",
    "in other words , is there a spontaneously broken symmetry in the ferro - insulator state ? does charge ordering and/or orbital ordering exist there ?",
    "theoretical studies by yunoki , hotta , and others have shown the presence of many novel spin ferromagnetic phases , with or without charge and orbital order @xcite .",
    "there is no reason why these phases could not be stabilized in experiments .",
    "in fact , a new `` e - phase '' of manganites at @xmath2=0 has recently been discussed @xcite .",
    "this is an exciting new area of investigations and plenty of phases found in simulations could be observed experimentally , as recently exemplified by the ferromagnetic charge - ordered phase discussed by loudon and collaborators ( see @xcite ) , which had been predicted by yunoki _",
    "_ @xcite .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * atomic resolution stm experiments should be performed , at many hole densities*. the very recent atomic - resolution stm results for bicamno by renner et al .",
    "are very important for the clarification of the nature of manganites , and for the explicit visual confirmation of phase separation ideas .",
    "extending experiments of this variety to other hole densities , particularly those where the system becomes ferromagnetic metallic at low temperatures , is of much importance . in the area of cuprates , high resolution stm results by davis , pan and",
    "collaborators have made a tremendous impact , and hopefully similar experiments can be carried out in manganites .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * the regime of temperatures well above room temperature must be carefully explored , even beyond @xmath0*. at @xmath17@xmath14@xmath0 , the co clusters are no longer formed but a gas of polarons may still be present . perhaps this leads to another temperature scale , denoted by @xmath18 in fig.[correlated.polarons.eps ] , where individual polarons start forming ? is the system metallic upon further increasing the temperature ?",
    "we may have interesting physics even at temperatures close to 1,000 k in this context .     in the vertical axis",
    "correspond to momenta associated with ( 1 ) correlated polarons ( a.k.a .",
    "charge - ordered clusters ) , and ( 2 ) uncorrelated polarons .",
    "two proposed temperature scales , @xmath0 and @xmath18 , are shown .",
    "the results are normalized to the same intensity at the curie temperature @xmath7 . for a discussion , see text and @xcite .",
    "these are theoretical proposals , that need further experimental confirmation .",
    "[ correlated.polarons.eps ] ]    0.3 cm @xmath13 * is the glassy state in some manganites of the same variety as a standard spin - glass , or does it belong to a new class of `` phase - separated glasses '' ? *",
    "the issue is subtle since , as of today , proper definitions of glasses and associated transitions are still under much discussion .",
    "can glasses be classified into different groups ?",
    "are glassy manganites a new class ? what is the actual nature of the `` cluster glasses '' frequently mentioned in manganites ?",
    "important work by schiffer s group , by levy , parisi and collaborators in buenos aires , and by many other researchers , has added key information to this subarea of manganite investigations .",
    "studies of time - dependent phenomena in the @xmath2=0.5 regime has provided fascinating results , that deserve further research .",
    "related with the previous item , should nanocluster phase - separated states be considered as a `` new state of matter '' in any respect ?",
    "this issue is obviously very important . in order to arrive at an answer",
    ", the origin of the nanocluster formation must be fully clarified .",
    "is it purely electronic - driven , or a first - order transition rendered continuous by quenched disorder , or strain - driven ? if the inevitable disorder related to tolerance factors could be tuned , what happens with the nanoclusters and critical temperatures ?",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * what is the nature of the charge - ordered states at @xmath2@xmath190.5 , such as those in pcmo ?",
    "* it is accepted that these states `` resemble '' the ce - state in their charge distribution , but what is the actual arrangement of spins and orbitals ? is the excess of electronic charge distributed randomly in the @xmath2=0.5 ce structure or is it uniformly distributed , for instance by increasing uniformly the amount of charge in the mn@xmath20 sites ?",
    "theoretical studies are difficult at these hole concentrations .",
    "it is important to know whether entropy is large in the co states at these densities , to justify thermodynamically their existence ( as discussed by khomskii ) .",
    "otherwise , how can a putative low - entropy co state be stabilized at high temperature ? the opposite , a fm state stable above the co state , is more reasonable and has been already shown to be the case in simulations by aliaga and collaborators .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * is there any compound with a truly spin - canted homogeneous ground state ?",
    "* as far as i know , theoretical studies using robust techniques have not been able to find spin - canted homogeneous states in reasonable models for manganites",
    "( of course , if no magnetic field is added ) .",
    "are there experiments suggesting otherwise ? thus far , experimental evidence for canting can be always alternatively explained through inhomogeneities in the ground state .",
    "a counterexample are perhaps bilayers in the direction perpendicular to the planes ( see the many results by the argonne group ) , but this may be a different kind of state , unrelated to the original proposal by degennes that postulated a homogeneous spin - canted state interpolating between fm and af limits .    0.3 cm @xmath13 * the temperature dependence of the d.c .",
    "resistivity of manganites has not been sufficiently analyzed * can non - fermi - liquid behavior be shown to be present in metallic manganites , as it occurs in many other exotic metals ?",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * are the nanoclusters found in manganites and cuprates ( see below ) characteristic of other oxides as well ? *",
    "the answer seems to be yes . in chapter 21 of @xcite ,",
    "many materials that behave similarly to mn- and cu - oxides are listed .",
    "nickelates are another family of compounds that have stripes and charge - ordering competing with antiferromagnetism .",
    "below , other materials with similar characteristics are briefly discussed .",
    "these analogies are more than accidents .",
    "they suggest that many compounds are intrinsically inhomogeneous .",
    "theories based on homogeneous states appear unrealistic .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * are eu - based semiconductors truly described by ferromagnetic polarons as believed until recently , or is a nanocluster picture more appropriate ?",
    "* the recent studies by lance cooper s group using raman scattering suggest the existence of close analogies between eu semiconductors and manganites .",
    "perhaps phase separation dominates in eu compounds as well , and the long - held view of eu - semiconductors as containing simple `` ferromagnetic polarons '' ( one carrier , with a spin polarized cloud around ) should be revised .",
    "@xmath13 * the study of models for manganites is far from over ! * although much progress has been made @xcite many important issues are still unexplored or under discussion . for example , the phase diagram in _ three dimensions _ of the two - orbitals model may contain many surprises .",
    "it is already known that the 1d and 2d models have a rich phase diagram , with a variety of competing phases .",
    "in addition , studies by hotta et al . in two dimensions including cooperative effects",
    "have also revealed the presence of stripes at densities @xmath2=1/3 and 1/4 , and probably others .",
    "then , one can easily imagine a surprisingly rich phase diagram for bilayers or 3d systems .",
    "perhaps the dominant phases will still be the a - type af at @xmath2=0 , ferro - metal at @xmath2@xmath100.3 , ce - type at @xmath2=0.5 , c - type at @xmath2@xmath100.75 , and g - type at @xmath2=1.0 .",
    "however , the details remain unclear .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * the theory of phase separation should be made more quantitative .",
    "* can a rough temperature dependence of the d.c .",
    "resistivity be calculated within the percolative scenario ?",
    "certainly we already have resistor - network calculations that match the experiments , but not a simple anybody - can - use formula .",
    "this is a complicated task due to the difficulty in handling inhomogeneities .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * is the `` small '' @xmath21 coupling between localized @xmath22 spins truly an important coupling for manganites ?",
    "* the heisenberg coupling between localized spins appears to play a key role in the stabilization of the a - type af state at @xmath2=0 .",
    "this small coupling selects whether the system is in a fm , a- , c- or g - type state , namely its influence is amplified in the presence of nearly degenerate states .",
    "this coupling is also important in the stabilization of the correct spin arrangement for the ce - phase ( if @xmath21 is too small , ferromagnetism wins , if too large g - type antiferromagnetism wins ) , and in the charge stacking of the ce - phase , according to studies by yunoki , hotta , terakura , khomskii and others .",
    "this key role appears not only in jahn - teller but also in coulombic - based theories as well , as shown by ishihara , maekawa and collaborators .",
    "are there alternative mechanisms for stabilization of a- , ce- and charge stacking states ?",
    "the importance of @xmath21 may be magnified by the competition between many phases in manganites , with several nearly degenerate states .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * why is the ce - state so sensitive to cr - doping ? *",
    "experimentally it is not expected that a robust charge - ordered state could be destabilized by a relatively very small percentage of impurities .",
    "can this be reproduced in mc simulations ?",
    "note that high - tc cuprates are also very sensitive to impurities .",
    "i believe that materials near percolative transitions are naturally sensitive to disorder .",
    "these effects may provide even more evidence for the relevance of inhomogeneous states in oxides .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * for the explanation of cmr , is there a fundamental difference between jt- and coulomb - based theories ? *",
    "technically , it is quite hard to handle models where simultaneously the coulomb hubbard interactions as well as the electron - phonon couplings are large .",
    "however , thus far for cmr phenomena the origin ( jt vs. coulomb ) of the competing phases does not appear to be crucial , but the competition itself is . is this correct ?",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * in the calculations by burgy et al .",
    "@xcite , phenomenological models were used for cmr .",
    "can a large mr effect be obtained with more realistic models ?",
    "* of course the calculations would be very complicated in this context , if unbiased robust many - body techniques are used , due to cluster size limitations .",
    "0.3 cm @xmath13 * are there models with spin canted homogeneous ground states ? * thus far , when models for manganites were seriously studied with unbiased techniques , no homogeneous spin canted states have been identified ( at zero magnetic field ) .",
    "perhaps other models ?    0.3 cm @xmath13",
    "* can a model develop a charge - ordered af phase at intermediate temperatures while having a ferromagnetic metallic phase at low temperatures ? *",
    "this is quite hard and perhaps can only occur if the co phase has an associated high entropy , as has been discussed by khomskii ( see similar discussion in the previous section ) .",
    "the manganite @xmath23 investigated by tokura and collaborators has an interesting behavior , shown in fig .",
    "[ twotypes.eps ] .",
    "this compound presents _ two _ types of cmr phenomena : ( 1 ) at temperatures in the vicinity of 250  k ( @xmath24=0 ) and 150  k ( @xmath24=0.75 ) a somewhat `` standard '' cmr is observed . here ,",
    "by standard it is understood the cmr behavior described in reviews and @xcite , with the canonical shape of the resistivity vs. temperature . however , ( 2 ) at lower temperatures where the system is insulating , a _ huge _ mr effect is observed as well .",
    "results for two values of `` @xmath24 '' are shown in the figure .",
    "is this indicative of two independent mechanisms for cmr ?     with @xmath24=0 ( a ) and 0.75 ( b ) .",
    "the hatched area represents thermal hysteresis .",
    "results from tokura _ et al .",
    "_ @xcite . [ twotypes.eps ] ]    related with this issue is the recent work of fernandez - baca and collaborators studying @xmath25 , where they reported the discontinuous character of the insulator to metal transition induced by an external field .",
    "those authors argued correctly that the cmr phenomenon can be more complex than the percolation of fm clusters proposed for the standard cmr .",
    "their results are in qualitative agreement with those of fig.[twotypes.eps ] where , at low temperatures , a fairly abrupt transition is observed .",
    "in fact , it is known that even in percolative processes such as those in lpcmo ( see work of cheong and collaborators ) , hysteresis has been found in the resistivity .",
    "this suggests that a _ mixture _ of percolation with first - order features could be at work in manganites , as theoretically discussed by burgy _",
    "_ @xcite .",
    "can theory explain the presence of two types of cmr transitions ?",
    "the answer is tentatively yes , although more work is needed to confirm the picture .",
    "the main reason for expecting two types of cmr is already contained in the phase diagram of the models studied by burgy et al . @xcite to address the competition of two phases , as schematically reproduced in fig.[twocmr.eps ] .",
    "there , two possible regions with cmrs effects are shown .",
    "one corresponds to the `` standard '' region , at the transition from a `` clustered '' short - range ordered phase to the fm metallic phase with decreasing temperature ( cmr2 ) .",
    "however , at low temperatures , and if the quenched disorder is not too strong , the transition between the competing phases can remain of first order in a finite range of temperatures ( see fig.1 and discussion in sec.ii ) . as a consequence ,",
    "if the system is very close to the metal - insulator transition and on the insulating side , a small magnetic field can cause a first - order transition between the two phases ( in the cmr1 region in the figure ) , which will imply a dramatic and discontinuous change in the resistivity .",
    "this effect has been recently confirmed in simulations of the two - orbital model with jahn - teller phonons by aliaga and collaborators ( to be published ) .",
    "clearly , the theory predicts two types of cmr transitions and this is already in agreement with experiments .",
    "note that if there were an external means to favor the co / af phase over the fm phase ( for instance by an `` external staggered field '' ) , then the process could be reversed and a metal to insulator exotic transition would be induced . see more about this when potential colossal effects are discussed for cuprates .",
    "is a generic variable needed to transfer the system from one phase to the other .",
    "cmr1 and cmr2 are the regions with two types of large mr transitions , as described in the text and in @xcite .",
    "[ twocmr.eps ] ]",
    "at the risk of sounding naive , here are very general issues that in my opinion should also be addressed by experts :    0.5 cm    * can quasi one - dimensional manganites be prepared experimentally ? * perhaps chemists may already know that this is impossible , but here let us just say that in the area of cuprates it was quite instructive to synthesize copper - oxides with _",
    "chain or ladder structures_. these quasi-1d systems can usually be studied fairly accurately by theorists , and concrete quantitative predictions can be made , both for static as well as dynamical properties .",
    "regarding the cmr effect , there are already calculations ( see fig.[eps15.35 ] ) that show a very large mr effect in 1d models . in a 1d system",
    "a single perfectly antiferromagnetic link is sufficient to block the movement of charge ( since its effective hopping in the large hund coupling limit is zero ) , creating a huge resistance .",
    "small fields can slightly bend those af oriented spins , allowing for charge movement and decreasing rapidly the resistivity by several orders of magnitude , as shown in the figure .",
    "( in units of the hopping ) as indicated .",
    "note the enormous changes in the conductivity with increasing fields .",
    "couplings and details can be found in the original work by mayr and collaborators @xcite .",
    "[ eps15.35 ] ]    0.3 cm * should we totally exclude superconductivity as a possibility in manganites ? *",
    "naively , the presence of superconductivity in transition - metal oxides of the @xmath26=3 shell should not be necessarily restricted to just the cuprates . in the cu - oxide context",
    ", superconductivity appears when the insulator is rendered unstable by hole doping .",
    "antiferromagnetic correlations are among the leading candidates to explain the @xmath27-wave character of the superconducting state . in the high - doping side of the superconducting region ,",
    "a fermi liquid exists even at low temperature .",
    "is there a doped - manganite compound , likely a large bandwidth one , that does not order at low temperatures and maintains a metallic character ? or ,",
    "alternatively , can a metallic manganite compound become paramagnetic upon the application of , e.g. , high pressure , at low temperatures ? searching for metal - insulator transitions near these _ quantum critical points _ , if they exist , may lead to surprises . if it is confirmed that , even in these circumstances , no superconductivity is found , then the @xmath28=1/2 spins of cuprates ( as opposed to the higher spins of other materials ) is likely to play a key role in the process .",
    "studies by riera and collaborators @xcite have shown that the prominent presence of ferromagnetism and phase separation as the spin grows , may render superconductivity unstable in mn oxides .",
    "0.3 cm * technical applications of manganites remain a possibility .",
    "* there are two areas of technologically - motivated investigations .",
    "one is based on materials with high @xmath7 , at or above room temperature , which may be useful as nearly half - metals in the construction of multilayers spin - valve - like devices .",
    "the group of fert has made progress in this area recently , and there are several other groups working on the subject .",
    "another area is the investigations of thin - films , exploiting cmr as an intrinsic property of these materials .",
    "especial treatments of those films may still lead to a large mr at high temperatures and small fields , as needed for applications .",
    "of course , there is a long way before cmr even matches the remarkable performance of the giant - mr ( gmr ) devices .",
    "we end this informal paper with a description of materials that present properties similar to those of the mn - oxides , particularly regarding inhomogeneities , phase competition , and the occurrence of a @xmath0 ( for a detailed long list of materials see @xcite ) .",
    "it is interesting to speculate that all of these compounds share a similar phenomenology .",
    "then , by investigating one particular system progress could be made in understanding the others as well .",
    "we start with the famous high - t@xmath1 compounds , continue with diluted magnetic semiconductors  of much interest these days due to spintronic applications  and finish with organic and heavy - fermion materials .",
    "considerable work has been recently devoted to the study of inhomogeneous states in cuprates . in this context , the issue of stripes as a form of inhomogeneity was raised several years ago after experimental work by tranquada and collaborators and theoretical work by kivelson , zaanen , poilblanc , and others .",
    "however , recent results obtained with stm techniques by davis , pan , and collaborators have revealed inhomogeneous states of a more complex nature . they appear in the surface of one of the most studied superconductors bi2212 ( but they may be representative of the bulk as well ) , at low temperatures in the superconducting phase , both in the underdoped and optimally doped regions .",
    "figure [ pan2.eps ] shows the spatial distribution of @xmath27-wave superconducting gaps , where the inhomogeneities are notorious .",
    "indications of similar inhomogeneities have been observed using a variety of other techniques as well ( the list of relevant experiments is simply too large to be reproduced here . for a partial list see @xcite ) .",
    "currently , this is a much debated area of research in high critical temperature superconductors , and it is unclear whether cuprates are intrinsically inhomogeneous in all its forms , or whether the inhomogeneities are a pathology of only a fraction of the cu oxides .",
    "it is also unclear to what extend the notion of stripes , with at least partial order in its dynamical form , survives the bi2212 evidence of inhomogeneities where the patches are totally random .",
    "600 @xmath29 area . on the right",
    "a 150@xmath30150 @xmath29 subset is enlarged .",
    "the gap scales are also shown .",
    "[ pan2.eps ] , title=\"fig : \" ] 600 @xmath29 area . on the right a 150@xmath30150 @xmath29 subset",
    "is enlarged .",
    "the gap scales are also shown .",
    "[ pan2.eps ] , title=\"fig : \" ]    note that recent nmr work on ybco by bobroff et al . has not reported inhomogeneities , suggesting that phase separation may not be a generic feature of the cuprates .",
    "similar conclusions were reached by yeh and collaborators through the analysis of quasiparticle tunneling spectra .",
    "clearly , more work is needed to clarify the role of inhomogeneities in the cuprate compounds .",
    "the results discussing the general aspects of the competition between two ordered phases in the presence of quenched disorder ( see for instance the phase diagram in sec.ii ) can in principle be applied to the cuprates as well , where superconductivity competes with an antiferromagnetic state ( the latter perhaps including stripes ) . in fact , the phase diagram of the single - layer high-@xmath31 compound @xmath32 contains a regime widely known as the `` spin glass '' region . in view of the results in @xcite , it is conceivable that this spin - glass region could have emerged , due to the influence of disorder , from a clean - limit first - order phase transition separating the doped antiferromagnetic state ( again , probably with stripes ) and the superconducting state",
    ". the resulting phase diagram would be as in fig .",
    "[ eps.prl2001.4](a ) .",
    "the grey region exhibits a possible coexistence of small locally - ordered clusters , globally forming a disordered phase",
    ". if this conjecture is correct , then _ small superconducting islands should exist in the spin - glass regime _",
    ", an effect that may have already been observed by iguchi _",
    "the results of ong et al . on the nernst effect may also find an explanation with this scenario .",
    "is the remnant of the clean - limit ordering temperature .",
    "( b ) resistivity of the state conjectured in ( a ) using a crude resistor - network approximation , as calculated by mayr .",
    "more details can be found in the original reference @xcite .",
    "@xmath33 is insulating fraction at 100  k. these fractions are also temperature dependent . figure ( b ) simply illustrates the possibility of a percolative transition in the cuprate context .",
    "[ eps.prl2001.4 ] ]    if preformed superconducting regions are indeed present in underdoped cuprates , then the `` alignment '' of their order parameter ( i.e. alignment of the local phases @xmath34 that appear in the complex - number order parameter @xmath35=@xmath36@xmath37 for different islands ) should be possible upon the influence of small external perturbations .",
    "this is similar to the presence of preformed ferromagnetic clusters in manganites , which align their moments when a relatively small external magnetic field is applied ( see @xcite and also cheong and collaborators ) .",
    "could it be that `` colossal '' effects occur in cuprates and other materials as well ?",
    "this is an intriguing possibility raised by burgy _",
    "there are already experiments by decca and collaborators @xcite that have reported an anomalously large `` proximity effect '' in underdoped @xmath38 .",
    "in fact , decca _",
    "et al . _ referred to the effect as `` colossal proximity effect '' . perhaps colossal - type effects are more frequent than previously expected , and they are prominent in manganites simply because one of the competing phases is a ferromagnet which can be favored by an easily available uniform magnetic field .",
    "if a simple external perturbation would favor charge - ordered , antiferromagnetic , or superconducting states , large effects may be observed in the region of competition with other phases . if this scenario is correct , several problems should be percolative , and studies by mayr in @xcite suggest that a resistor network mixing superconducting and insulating islands could roughly mimic results for cuprates ( see fig.9(b ) ) .",
    "however , obviously more work is needed to test these very sketchy challenging ideas .",
    "note that this scenario for cuprates is totally different from the `` preformed cooper pairs '' ideas of randeria and collaborators where the state above the critical temperature is homogeneous , but contains pairs that have not condensed .",
    "here , the superconducting regions can be fairly large , containing probably hundreds of pairs , and are expected to move very slowly with time .    even at a phenomenological level , the order of the transition between an antiferromagnet and a superconductor is still unknown .",
    "mayr and collaborators are carrying simulations of toy models with both phases which hopefully will clarify these matters . the possibilities for the phase diagrams of two competing phases according to general argumentations based on landau free energies involve bi- , tri- , and tetra - critical order . in the context of manganite models ,",
    "the first two appear to be favored for the af - fm competition since first - order transition at low temperatures have been found .",
    "however , in cuprates the tetracritical possibility in the clean limit has been proposed by sachdev and collaborators as well .",
    "this would lead to local coexistence of antiferromagnetism and @xmath27-wave superconductivity in the underdoped region .",
    "some experiments support this view @xcite .",
    "recent theoretical work also favors the emergence of tetracriticality from this competition @xcite , although a first - order transition is not excluded .",
    "more work is needed to clarify this elementary aspect of the problem .",
    "the results for manganites and cuprates have also similarities with the physics of superconductivity in granular and highly disordered metals @xcite . in this context",
    ", a critical temperature is obtained when the phases of the order parameters in different grains locks .",
    "this temperature is much smaller than the critical temperature of the homogeneous system . in manganites",
    ", the curie or charge - ordering temperature may also be much higher in a clean system than in the real system , as discussed here and in @xcite .",
    "the so - called _ relaxor ferroelectrics _ are an interesting family of compounds , with ferroelectric properties and diffuse phase transitions @xcite .",
    "the analogies with manganites are notorious .",
    "representative cubic materials , such as @xmath39 , exhibit a glass - like phase transition at a freezing temperature @xmath40@xmath10230  k. besides the usual features of a glassy transition , a broad frequency dependent peak in the dielectric constant has been found .",
    "the transition does not involve long - range ferroelectric order , providing a difference with most manganites that tend to have some form of long - range order at low temperature ( although there are several with glassy behavior ) .",
    "however , a remarkable similarity is the appearance of another temperature scale , the so - called burns temperature @xcite , which is @xmath10650  k in @xmath39 .",
    "below this temperature , polar _ nanoregions _ are formed .",
    "the burns temperature appears to be the analog of the @xmath0 temperature of manganites discussed here .",
    "these analogies between ferroelectrics and mn - oxides should be explored further .",
    "for example , is there some sort of `` colossal '' effect in the relaxor ferroelectrics ?",
    "are there two or more phases in competition ?",
    "can we alter the chemical compositions and obtain phase diagrams as rich as in manganites , including regimes with long - range order ?",
    "diluted magnetic semiconductors ( dms ) based on iii - v compounds are recently attracting considerable attention due to their combination of magnetic and semiconducting properties , that may lead to spintronic applications @xcite .",
    "ga@xmath41mn@xmath42as is the most studied of these compounds with a maximum curie temperature @xmath7@xmath43@xmath44k at low doping @xmath2 , and with a carrier concentration @xmath33=0.1@xmath2 @xcite .",
    "the ferromagnetism is carrier - induced , with holes introduced by doping mediating the interaction between @xmath28=5/2 mn@xmath45-spins .",
    "models similar to those proposed for manganites , with coupled spins and carriers , have been used for these compounds . recently",
    ", the presence of a @xmath0 has also been proposed by mayr _",
    "et al . _ and alvarez _ et al . _",
    "@xcite , using monte carlo methods quite similar to those discussed in the manganite context .",
    "the idea is that in the random distribution of mn spins , some of them spontaneously form clusters ( i.e. , they lie close to each other ) .",
    "these clusters can magnetically order by the standard zener mechanism at some temperature , but different clusters may not correlate with each other until a much lower temperature is reached .",
    "this situation is illustrated in fig.[diluted.eps ] .",
    "naively , we expect that above the true @xmath7 , the clustered state will lead to an insulating behavior in the resistivity , as it happens in mn - oxides ( recent work by alvarez has confirmed this hypothesis ) .",
    "this , together with the zener character of the ferromagnetism , unveils unexpected similarities between dms and mn - oxides that should be studied in more detail .",
    ", uncorrelated ferromagnetic clusters are formed . at @xmath7",
    ", they orient their moments in the same direction . [ diluted.eps ] ]      recent work has shown that cobaltites , such as @xmath46 , also present tendencies toward magnetic phase separation @xcite .",
    "nmr studies have established the coexistence of ferromagnetic regions , spin - glass regions , and hole - poor low - spin regions in these materials @xcite .",
    "this occurs at all values @xmath2 from 0.1 to 0.5 .",
    "there are interesting similarities between these results and the nmr results of papavassiliou and collaborators for the manganites , that showed clearly the tendencies toward mixed - phase states .",
    "the analysis of common features ( and differences ) between manganites and cobaltites should be pursued in the near future .",
    "pf@xmath47 @xcite .",
    "sdw , m , and sc indicate spin - density - wave , metallic , and superconducting regimes .",
    "the gradient in shading indicates the amount of sc phase . _",
    "( right ) _ phase diagram of @xmath48-(et)@xmath49x @xcite .",
    "pnm means paramagnetic non - metallic , aff a metallic phase with large af fluctuations , and dwf is a density - wave with fluctuations .",
    "note the first - order sc - af transition ( dashed lines ) , as well as the presence of a @xmath0 scale .",
    "other details can be found in @xcite .",
    "[ organic.eps ] ]    there are other families of materials that also present a competition between superconductivity and antiferromagnetism , as the cuprates do .",
    "one of them is the group of organic superconductors @xcite .",
    "the large field of organic superconductivity will certainly not be reviewed here , but some recent references will be provided to guide the manganite / cuprate experts into this interesting area of research . in fig.[organic.eps ] ( left ) , the phase diagram @xcite of a much studied material known as ( tmtst)@xmath49pf@xmath47 is shown . in a narrow region of pressures , a mixture of sdw ( spin - density - wave ) and sc ( superconductivity ) is observed at low temperatures .",
    "this region may result from coexisting domains of both phases , as in the fm - co competition in manganites .",
    "the two competing phases have the same electronic density and the domains can be large . alternatively , the coexistence of the two order parameters can be local , as in tetracritical phase diagrams .",
    "the layered organic superconductor @xmath48-(et)@xmath49cu[n(cn)@xmath49]cl has also a phase diagram with coexisting sc and af @xcite .",
    "in addition , other materials of the same family present a @xmath51-@xmath52 sc - af transition at low temperatures , according to the phase diagram recently reported in @xcite .",
    "this result is reproduced in fig.[organic.eps ] ( right ) , where a characteristic scale @xmath0 produced by charge fluctuations is also shown .",
    "the similarities with results for manganites are strong : first - order transitions or phase coexistence , and the presence of a @xmath0 .",
    "it remains to be investigated whether the similarities are accidental or reveal the same phenomenology observed in competing phases of manganites .",
    "]    another family of materials with competing sc and af are the heavy fermions . as in previous cases , here",
    "just a few references are provided to illustrate similarities with other compounds . in fig.[heavy.fermions.eps ] , a schematic phase diagram of ce - based heavy fermions is shown @xcite .",
    "note the presence of a pseudogap ( pg ) region , with non fermi - liquid ( nfl ) behavior at higher temperatures . the pg phase is reminiscent of the region between ordering temperatures and @xmath0 , discussed in manganites and cuprates , and it may arise from phase competition .",
    "in addition , clusters in u- and ce - alloys were discussed in @xcite , and spin - glass behavior in @xmath53 was reported in @xcite .",
    "recently , takimoto _ et al .",
    "_ @xcite found interesting formal analogies between models for manganites and for @xmath54-electron systems that deserve further studies .",
    "in recent years a large effort has been devoted to the study of manganese oxides .",
    "considerable progress has been achieved . among the most important unveiled aspects",
    "is the presence of tendencies toward inhomogeneous states , both in experiments and in simulations of models .",
    "however , considerably more work is needed to fully understand these challenging compounds and confirm the relevance of nanoclusters for the cmr effect .    considering a more global view of the problem , recent years have brought a deeper understanding of the many analogies among a large fraction of the materials belonging to the correlated - electron family .",
    "the analogies between organic , cuprate , and heavy - fermion superconductors are strong .",
    "the sc - af phase competition with the presence of a @xmath0 , pseudogaps , phase coexistence , and first - order transitions , is formally similar to analogous phenomena unveiled in the fm - co competition for manganites .",
    "in addition , all of these compounds share a similar phenomenology above the critical temperature , with nanoclusters formed .",
    "this phenomenon occurs even in diluted magnetic semiconductors , relaxor ferroelectrics , and other families of compounds . _",
    "the self - organization of clustered structures in the ground state appears to be a characteristic of many interesting materials , and work in this promising area of investigations is just starting .",
    "_ this `` complexity '' seems a common feature of correlated electron systems , particularly in the regime of colossal effects where small changes in external parameters leads to a drastic rearrangement of the ground state .",
    "the author thanks s. l. cooper , j. a. fernandez - baca , g. alvarez , and a. moreo , for comments and help in the preparation of this manuscript . the work is supported by the division of materials research of the national science foundation ( grant dmr-0122523 ) .",
    "a. moreo , s. yunoki and e. dagotto , science * 283 * , 2034 ( 1999 ) ; e. dagotto , t. hotta , and a. moreo , phys .",
    "reports * 344 * , 1 ( 2001 ) ; a. ramirez , j. phys .",
    "* 9 * , 8171 ( 1997 ) ; j. coey , m. viret , and s. von molnar , adv . phys . * 48 * , 167 ( 1999 ) ; y. tokura and y. tomioka , j. of mag . and mag . materials",
    "* 200 * , 1 ( 1999 ) ; m. r. ibarra and j. m. de teresa , materials science forum vols . *",
    "302 - 303 * , 125 ( 1999 ) ; trans tech publications , switzerland ; c. rao _ et al .",
    "_ , j. phys .",
    "matt . * 12 * , r83 ( 2000 ) ; a. moreo , journal of electron spectroscopy and related phenomena * 117 - 118 * , 251 ( 2001 ) ; m. b. salamon and m. jaime , rev .",
    "phys . * 73 * , 583 ( 2001 ) ; m. imada , a. fujimori , and y. tokura , rev . mod . phys . * 70 * , 1039 ( 1998 ) ; e. dagotto , rev .",
    "phys . * 66 * , 763 ( 1994 ) ; c. n. r. rao and b. raveau , editors , _ colossal magnetoresistance , charge ordering , and related properties of manganese oxides _ , world scientific , singapore , 1998 ; t. a. kaplan and s. d. mahanti , editors , _ physics of manganites _ ,",
    "kluwer academic / plenum publishers , new york , 1998 ; y. tokura , editor , _ colossal magnetoresistive oxides _ , gordon and breach , 2000 ; n. mathur and p. littlewood , phys . today , january 2003 , page 25 ; and many others .    ,",
    "t. hotta , m. moraghebi , a. feiguin , a. moreo , s. yunoki , and e. dagotto , cond - mat/0211049 .",
    "recently , a new fm charge - ordered phase was observed experimentally j. loudon _ et al .",
    "_ , nature * 420 * , 797 ( 2002 )",
    ". this phase has been predicted in @xcite                              m. strongin , r. thompson , o. kammerer and j. crow , phys .",
    "b*1 * , 1078 ( 1970 ) ; y. imry and m. strongin , phys .",
    "rev . b*24 * , 6353 ( 1981 ) ; and references therein . for related more recent references",
    "see : a. f. hebard and m. a. paalanen , phys .",
    "* 65 * , 927 ( 1990 ) ; a. yazdani and a. kapitulnik , phys .",
    "lett . * 74 * , 3037 ( 1995 ) ; m. fisher , g. grinstein , and s. girvin , phys .",
    "lett . * 64 * , 587 ( 1990 ) ; a. goldman and n. markovic , physics today * 51 * ( 11 ) , 39 ( 1998 ) .",
    "t. ishiguro , k. yamaji , and g. saito , _ organic superconductors _ , springer - verlag 1998 .",
    "phase diagrams of relevance for our discussion can be found , e.g. , in figures 3.14 , 3.15 , 3.19 , 3.23 , 4.14 , 5.67 , and 7.6 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> this is an informal paper that contains a list of `` things we know '' and `` things we do not know '' in manganites . </S>",
    "<S> it is adapted from the conclusions chapter of a recent book by the author , _ nanoscale phase separation and colossal magnetoresistance . </S>",
    "<S> the physics of manganites and related compounds _ , springer - verlag , berlin , november 2002 . </S>",
    "<S> the main new result of recent manganite investigations is the discovery of tendencies toward inhomogeneous states , both in experiments and in simulations of models . </S>",
    "<S> the colossal magnetoresistance effect appears to be closely linked to these mixed - phase tendencies , although considerably more work is needed to fully confirm these ideas . </S>",
    "<S> the paper also includes information on cuprates , diluted magnetic semiconductors , relaxor ferroelectrics , cobaltites , and organic and heavy fermion superconductors . </S>",
    "<S> these materials potentially share some common phenomenology with the manganites , such as a temperature scale @xmath0 above the ordering temperature where anomalous behavior starts . </S>",
    "<S> many of these materials also present low - temperature phase competition . </S>",
    "<S> the possibility of colossal - like effects in compounds that do not involve ferromagnets is briefly discussed . </S>",
    "<S> overall , it is concluded that inhomogeneous `` clustered '' states should be considered a new paradigm in condensed matter physics , since their presence appears to be far more common than previously anticipated . </S>"
  ]
}