{
  "article_text": [
    "the dominant role played by coulomb correlation in the optical response of semiconductors and its dependence on dimensionality has now been long recognized @xcite . more recently , increasing interest has been devoted to one - dimensional ( 1d ) structures @xcite , prompted by promising advances in quantum - wire fabrication and application , e.g. in quantum - wire lasers .",
    "the main goal of such effort in basic research as well as technological applications is to achieve structures with improved optical efficiency as compared to two - dimensional ( 2d ) and three - dimensional ( 3d ) ones .",
    "a common argument in favour of this effort is based on the well known van hove divergence in the 1d joint density - of - states ( dos ) , which is expected to give rise to very sharp peaks in the optical spectra of 1d structures .",
    "such prediction is however based on free - particle properties of ideal 1d systems and it ignores any disorder - induced and coulomb - correlation effects .    as pointed out in the pioneering papers by ogawa et al .",
    "@xcite , electron - hole correlation is expected to strongly influence the optical spectra of 1d systems .",
    "their theoretical investigation based on a single - subband - model solution of the 1d schrdinger equation in terms of a modified 1d coulomb potential",
    "@xcite shows that the inverse - square - root singularity in the 1d dos at the band edge is smoothed when electron - hole correlation is taken into account .",
    "the question is whether one can expect that the above theoretical predictions , obtained for model 1d systems , also apply to the real quantum wires made available by the present technology .",
    "indeed , wires with the best optical quality presently include structures obtained by epitaxial growth on non - planar substrates ( v - shaped wires ) @xcite , or by cleaved - edge quantum well overgrowth ( t - shaped wires ) @xcite .",
    "owing to the shape of the confinement potential , these systems are far from an ideal 1d character .",
    "while quasi-1d confinement has been demonstrated for the lowest level @xcite , excited states gradually approach a 2d - like behaviour .",
    "moreover , in the available samples the subband separation is still relatively small , so that the coupling between different subbands may be important .    from an experimental point of view , it is a matter of fact that , while 2d features are clearly observed in photoluminescence excitation spectra of quantum wells , so far no  sharp \" 1d features have been detected in the corresponding spectra of quantum wires .",
    "this is true despite the high quality of some of these structures , whose 1d character has been independently established by other methods @xcite .",
    "however , the measured spectra are expected to be also strongly influenced by disorder - induced inhomogeneous broadening @xcite and , therefore , it has been sofar difficult to identify the role played by electron - hole correlation .    from all these considerations ,",
    "the following questions need to be answered :    * _ are electron - hole correlation effects playing a dominant role also in realistic quantum - wire structures ?",
    "if so , are these expected to hinder the possible advantages of the reduced dimensionality for relevant values of temperature and carrier density ? _",
    "to answer these questions , a full 3d approach for the analysis of coulomb correlation in realistic quantum wires has been recently proposed @xcite .",
    "this theoretical scheme , described in , is based on a generalization of the well - known semiconductor bloch equations ( sbe ) @xcite to the case of a multisubband wire .    more specifically , by denoting with @xmath0 the free electron and hole states ( @xmath1 and @xmath2 being , respectively , the wavevector along the wire direction , @xmath3 , and the subband index corresponding to the confinement potential in the @xmath4 plane ) , we consider as kinetic variables the various distribution functions of electrons and holes @xmath5 as well as the corresponding diagonal ( @xmath6 ) interband polarizations @xmath7 .",
    "this kinetic description is a generalization to 1d systems of a standard approach for the study of bulk semiconductors @xcite recently applied also to superlattice structures @xcite . within our @xmath8 representation ,",
    "the sbe , describing the time evolution of the above kinetic variables , are written as @xmath9 where @xmath10 and @xmath11 are , respectively , the renormalized fields and subbands , whose explicit form involves the full 3d coulomb potential @xcite . the @xmath12 sign in eq .",
    "( [ sbe ] ) refers to electrons ( @xmath13 ) and holes ( @xmath14 ) , respectively , while the last terms on the rhs of eq .",
    "( [ sbe ] ) denote the contributions due to incoherent processes , e.g. carrier - carrier and carrier - phonon scattering .",
    "in this paper we focus on the quasi - equilibrium regime . therefore , fermi - dirac @xmath5 are assumed and the solution of the set of sbe ( [ sbe ] ) simply reduces to the solution of the polarization equation .",
    "this is performed by means of a direct numerical evaluation of the stationary solutions , i.e. polarization eigenvalues and eigenvectors .",
    "these two ingredients fully determine the absorption spectrum as well as the exciton wavefunction in 3d real space .",
    "in particular , the electron - hole correlation function vs. the relative free coordinate @xmath15 is given by : @xmath16 .",
    "the main ingredients entering our calculation are then the single - particle energies and wavefunctions , which in turn are numerically computed starting from the real shape of the 2d confinement potential deduced from tem , as in ref . @xcite .",
    "the above theoretical scheme has been applied to realistic v- and t - shaped wire structures . in particular , here we show results for the gaas / algaas v - wires of ref .",
    "@xcite and the gaas / alas t - shaped wire of ref .",
    "@xcite ( sample s2 [ @xmath17 ) .",
    "in order to better illustrate the role played by electron - hole correlation , in fig .",
    "1 we first show the linear - absorption spectra obtained when taking into account the lowest wire subband only . here , results of our coulomb - correlated ( cc ) approach are compared with those of the free - carrier ( fc ) model @xcite . for both",
    "v - shaped [ fig .",
    "1(a ) ] and t - shaped [ fig .",
    "1(b ) ] structures , electron - hole correlation introduces two important effects : first , the excitonic peak arises below the onset of the continuum , with different values of binding energies ( about @xmath18 and @xmath19mev , respectively ) in good agreement with experiments @xcite .",
    "as discussed in , this difference is mainly ascribed to the different barrier height while the excitonic confinement is found to be shape ( v vs. t ) independent .",
    "second , we find a strong suppression of the 1d dos singularity , in agreement with previous investigations based on simplified 1d models @xcite .",
    "let us now discuss the physical origin of the dramatic suppression of the band - edge singularity in the cc absorption spectrum [ solid lines in fig",
    ".  1 ] . since the optical absorption is proportional to the product of the electron - hole dos and the oscillator strength ( os )",
    ", we have studied these two quantities separately .",
    "figure 2(a ) shows that the quantity which is mainly modified by cc is the os . here",
    ", the ratio between the cc and fc os is plotted as a function of the excess energy with respect to the band edge ( solid line ) .",
    "this ratio is always less than one and , in agreement with the results of 1d models @xcite , it goes to zero at the band edge .",
    "such vanishing behaviour is found to dominate the 1d dos singularity ( dashed line ) and , as a result , the absorption spectrum exhibits a regular behaviour at the band edge [ solid lines in fig .  1 ] .    since the os reflects the value of the correlation function @xmath20 for @xmath21 @xcite , i.e. the probability of finding electron and hole at the same place , the vanishing behaviour of the os in fig .",
    "2(a ) seems to indicate a sort of electron - hole `` effective repulsion '' .",
    "this is confirmed by a detailed analysis of the electron - hole correlation function , @xmath20 , reported in fig .",
    "2(b ) . here",
    "@xmath20 ( corresponding to the square of the exciton wavefunction in a 1d model ) is plotted for three different values of the excess energy .",
    "we clearly see that the values of @xmath22 for @xmath21 correspond to the values of the os ratio at the same energies [ solid line in fig .  2(a ) ] .",
    "moreover , we notice the presence of a true `` electron - hole correlation hole '' , whose spatial extension strongly increases when approaching the band edge .",
    "the above analysis provides a positive answer to our first question : also for realistic quantum - wire structures electron - hole correlation leads to a strong suppression of the 1d band - edge singularity in the linear - absorption spectrum .",
    "contrary to the 2d and 3d case , the sommerfeld factor , i.e. the ratio between the cc and fc absorption , results to be less than unity .    finally , in order to answer our second and more crucial question",
    ", we must consider that most of the potential quantum - wire applications , i.e. 1d lasers and modulators , operate in strongly non - linear - response regimes @xcite .",
    "in such conditions , the above linear - response analysis has to be generalized taking into account additional factors as : ( i ) screening effects , ( ii ) band renormalization , ( iii ) space - phase filling .",
    "we want to stress that all these effects are already accounted for in our sbe ( [ sbe ] ) @xcite .",
    "figure 3 shows the first quantitative analysis of non - linear absorption spectra of realistic v - shaped wire structures for different carrier densities at room temperature . in fig .",
    "3(a ) we show as a reference the results obtained by including the lowest subband only .",
    "in the low - density limit ( case a : @xmath23 @xmath24 ) we clearly recognize the exciton peak . with increasing carrier density",
    ", the strength of the excitonic absorption decreases due to phase - space filling and screening of the attractive electron - hole interaction , and moreover the band renormalization leads to a red - shift of the continuum . above the mott density ( here about @xmath25 ) , the exciton completely disappears . at a density of @xmath26 @xmath24",
    "( case d ) the spectrum already exhibits a negative region corresponding to stimulated emission , i.e. gain regime .",
    "as desired , the well pronounced gain spectrum extends over a limited energy region ( smaller than the thermal energy ) ; however , its shape results to differ considerably from the ideal fc one .",
    "the fc result is plotted in the same figure and marked with diamonds ; note that it has been shifted in energy to align the onset of the absorption , to allow a better comparison of the line - shapes @xcite .",
    "the typical shape of the band - edge singularity in the ideal fc gain spectrum results to be strongly modified by electron - hole correlation .",
    "also at this relatively high carrier density the os corresponding to the cc model goes to zero at the band edge as for the low - density limit [ fig .",
    "as a consequence , the fc peak is strongly suppressed and only its high - energy part survives .",
    "the overall effect is a broader and less pronounced gain region .",
    "finally , fig .",
    "3(b ) shows the non - linear spectra corresponding to the realistic case of a 12-subband v - shaped wire . in comparison with the single - subband case [ fig3(a ) ] ,",
    "the multisubband nature is found to play an important role in modifying the typical shape of the gain spectra , which for both cc and fc models result to extend over a range much larger than that of the single - subband case for the present wire geometry [ fig .",
    "in addition , the coulomb - induced suppression of the single - subband singularities , here also due to intersubband - coupling effects , tends to further reduce the residual structures in the gain profile .",
    "thus , even in the ideal case of a quantum wire with negligible disorder- and scattering - induced broadening , our analysis indicates that , for the typical structure considered , the shape of the absorption spectra over the whole density range differs considerably from the relatively sharp fc spectrum of fig .  1 .",
    "we have presented a theoretical analysis of the linear and non - linear optical properties of realistic quantum wires .",
    "our approach is based on a numerical solution of the semiconductor bloch equations describing the multisubband 1d system .",
    "we have applied such approach to typical t- and v - shaped structures , whose parameters reflect the current state - of - the - art in the quantum - wire fabrication .    our results allow us to reconsider the perspectives of quantum - wire physics and technology . in particular , comparing the non - linear absorption spectra of fig .  3(a ) and ( b ) , we see that the broad gain region in ( b ) is mainly ascribed to the multisubband nature or , more precisely , to the small intersubband splitting compared to the single - subband gain range in ( a ) .",
    "this confirms that , in order to obtain sharp gain profiles , one of the basic steps in quantum - wire technology is to produce structures with increased subband splitting .",
    "however , the disorder - induced inhomogeneous broadening , not considered here , is known to increase significantly the spectral broadening @xcite and this effect is expected to increase with increasing subband splitting .",
    "therefore , extremely - high - quality structures ( e.g. single - monolayer control ) seem to be the only possible candidates for successful quantum - wire applications .",
    "we thank roberto cingolani and guido goldoni for stimulating and fruitful discussions . this work was supported in part by the ec commission through the network `` ultrafast '' .",
    "see e.g. j. shah , _ ultrafast spectroscopy of semiconductors and semiconductor nanostructures _",
    "( springer , berlin , 1996 ) ; h.  haug and s.w .",
    "koch , _ quantum theory of the optical and electronic properties of semiconductors _",
    ", 3rd edn . , world scientific , singapore ( 1994 ) . for",
    "a review see : r.  cingolani and r.  rinaldi , rivista nuovo cimento * 16 * , 1 ( 1993 ) .",
    "tetsuo ogawa and toshihide takagahara , phys . rev . * b43 * , 14325 ( 1991 ) ; ibid . * b44 * , 8138 ( 1991 ) .",
    "e.  kapon et al . , phys .",
    "lett . * 63 * , 430 ( 1989 ) .",
    "r.  rinaldi et al . , phys .",
    "lett . * 73 * , 2899 ( 1994 ) .",
    "l.  pfeiffer et al . , appl .",
    "* 56 * , 967 ( 1990 ) ; w.  wegscheider et al . ,",
    "phys . lett . *",
    "65 * , 2510 ( 1994 ) .",
    "t.  someya , h.  akiyama , and h.  sakaki , phys .",
    "lett . * 76 * , 2965 ( 1996 ) .",
    "e.  molinari et al .",
    ", in _ proc .",
    "22nd internat . conf . on the physics of semiconductors _ , edited by d.j .",
    "lockwood , world scientific , singapore ( 1994 ) , p.  1707 .",
    "f.  rossi and e.  molinari , phys .",
    "lett . * 76 * , 3642 ( 1996 ) ; phys .",
    "b53 , 16462 ( 1996 ) .",
    "f.  rossi , g.  goldoni , and e.  molinari , phys .",
    "78 * , 3527 ( 1997 ) .",
    "t.  meier , f.  rossi , p.  thomas , and s.w .",
    "koch , phys .",
    "lett . * 75 * , 2558 ( 1995 ) .",
    "all the spectra were computed assuming a phenomenological energy broadening of 2 mev .",
    "this small broadening ( as compared to that of realistic wire structures @xcite ) allows to better identify the role played by electron - hole correlation .",
    "as for the case of 3d and 2d systems ( see e.g. r. cingolani et al . , adv .",
    "phys . * 40 * , 535 ( 1991 ) ; phys . rev . *",
    "b48 * , 14331 ( 1993 ) , and refs . therein ) , our analysis seems to indicate a moderate red - shift of the band gap .",
    "however , in order to provide a detailed analysis of the band - gap renormalization , a more refined screening model ( including non - diagonal terms of the dielectric tensor as well as dynamic - screening effects ) is required ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we review recent results on the linear and non - linear optical response of realistic quantum - wire structures . </S>",
    "<S> our theoretical approach is based on a set of generalized semiconductor bloch equations , and allows a full three - dimensional multisubband description of coulomb correlation for any shape of the confinement profile , thus permitting a direct comparison with experiments for available state - of - the - art wire structures .    </S>",
    "<S> our results show that electron - hole coulomb correlation removes the one - dimensional band - edge singularities from the absorption spectra , whose shape results to be heavily modified with respect to the ideal free - particle case over the whole range of photoexcited carrier densities </S>",
    "<S> .    -4 mm -4 mm </S>"
  ]
}