{
  "article_text": [
    "friction is an old but unsettled problem in physics@xcite .",
    "the coulomb - amonton s law of friction is one of the most well - known laws in physics .",
    "it has been examined that the law holds well under usual conditions , but breaks in some cases .",
    "it is still unsuccessfull , however , to clarify the conditions of coulomb - amonton s law to hold and the physical mechanism of friction . on the other hand ,",
    "recent experimental measurement techniques of frictional phenomena have made great progress .",
    "one of the direction of such studies of friction tends to investigate nano - scale frictional phenomena .",
    "for example , atomic and frictional force microscope measurements at nanometer scale and quartz - microbalance measurements of frictional phenomena of monolayers have been performed extensively@xcite .",
    "stimulated by these experiments , theoretical approaches based on a microscopic model have been investigated extensively @xcite .    as a simple microscopic model of friction , the frenkel - kontorova model ( fk model)@xcite has been employed in several works@xcite .",
    "the fk model consists of atoms interacting with each other via a harmonic force under a periodic potential , which is originally sinusoidal . in the case",
    "that the ratio between the mean atomic spacing and the period of the potential is irrational , i.e. , in an incommensurate case , the fk model shows a phase transition that is called the breaking of analyticity transition or aubry transition@xcite . when the amplitude of sinusoidal potential is smaller than a certain critical value , the maximum static frictional force vanishes .",
    "otherwise it becomes finite .",
    "the existence of this phase transition was originally pointed out in a one - dimensional incommensurate fk model by aubry@xcite . in three - dimensions , the peculiar frictional nature of the incommensurate fk model was found by hirano and shinjo@xcite .",
    "they pointed out the possibility of the appearance of a superlubrication state , that is the vanishing static frictional force state , between incommensurate surfaces in real materials .",
    "matsukawa and fukuyama investigated the static and kinetic properties of friction in a one - dimensional model@xcite .",
    "the model employed in their study consists of two atomic chains , where interchain force works between atoms in one chain and those in another and harmonic force works between neighber atoms in each chain .",
    "the effect of energy dissipation and the relaxation of atoms in both chains are taken into accout properly .",
    "on the basis of their model , a definitive expression of both static and kinetic frictional force can be derived .",
    "they found that the critical value of the potential strength of the breaking of analyticity transition depends strongly on the rigidity of the chains . in the case",
    "that atoms in the lower chain are fixed periodically , which corresponds to the fk model , that critical value is large .",
    "when atoms in the lower chain can relax , that critical value decreases and the parameter range for the state with vanishing maximum static frictional force becomes small .",
    "they also found that the sliding velocity dependence of the kinetic frictional force becomes weaker as the maximum static frictional force increases .    in these theoretical studies of friction",
    ", surface randomness has not been taken into account . in a realistic system",
    ", however , there always exists surface randomness .",
    "the effects of surface randomness should be taken into consideration to understand frictional phenomena in realistic systems .",
    "based on a variational method and a perturbational analysis , matsukawa and fukuyama showed that the state with vanishing maximum static frictional force becomes unstable against surface randomness@xcite .",
    "the frictional transition is smeared out because the randomness breaks the translational symmetry of the system .",
    "hence a finite maximum static frictional force appears even if the interatomic interaction is sufficiently small @xcite .",
    "while finite static frictional force is expected to appear in systems with surface randomness , the magnitude of the maximum static frictional force has not been clarified yet .",
    "furthermore , surface randomness influences the kinetic friction .",
    "the velocity dependence of the kinetic frictional force would be different from that of the system with clean surfaces . in this paper , using a one - dimensional incommensurate model , we investigate the static and kinetic frictional forces subject to surface randomness .",
    "this paper is organized as follows . in section * ii * we define a one - dimensional incommensurate model of friction and introduce surface randomness . based on a numerical study and the impurity pinning theory of density waves",
    ", we discuss the static frictional force in section * iii*. the kinetic frictional force , in particular its velocity dependence , is investigated in section * iv*. section * v * is devoted to summary and discussion .",
    "in order to calculate frictional force , we consider a one - dimensional model of friction proposed by matsukawa and fukuyama@xcite .",
    "this model can deal with the friction between two deformable atomic chains interacting each other . to simplify the problem , however , we here assume that one of the two chains is fixed and the other chain can be deformed .",
    "the atoms of the fixed chain are periodically arranged at a regular position .",
    "we call the deformable chain the upper body and the fixed chain the lower body .",
    "the atoms in the upper body have a one - dimensional degree of freedom in the direction parallel to the chain .",
    "the interatomic force of the upper body is approximated by the harmonic one .",
    "the effect of the energy dissipation is taken into account by the term in the equation of motion which is proportional to the difference between the velocity of each atom and that of the center of gravity .",
    "the external force is applied to the upper body to the horizontal direction .",
    "assuming an overdamped condition , we get the equation of motion of the i - th atom of the upper body as follows .",
    "@xmath0 where @xmath1 ( @xmath2 ) is the position of the i - th atom of the upper ( lower ) body , @xmath3 the atomic mass , @xmath4 the parameter of energy dissipation , @xmath5 the strength of the interatomic froce , and @xmath6 represents the average of @xmath7 with respect to @xmath8 .",
    "@xmath9 and @xmath10 are the interchain force between atoms in different chains and the external force , respectively .",
    "we adopt the following interchain potential : @xmath11},\\ ] ] where @xmath12 is the interchain potential strength and @xmath13 the mean atomic spacing of the lower body .",
    "the interchain force is given by @xmath14 .",
    "since we now consider the case where all the atoms of the lower body are fixed , the total interchain force that acts on the i - th atom of the upper body is a function of @xmath1 only , which is obtained by summing up the contribution from all the atoms of the lower body .",
    "@xmath15 this means that the present model corresponds to the kinetic fk model with energy dissipation .",
    "now we consider surface randomness such as impurities .",
    "it is assumed that the interchain potential consists of two parts , i.e. , the original regular potential and the impurity potential , which is distributed randomly .",
    "furthermore we assume that the impurity potential has the same form as the original one except for the potential strength .",
    "hence the total interchain potential is given by @xmath16 where @xmath17 represents the original interatomic potential , @xmath18 the impurity potential and @xmath19 is the number of impurities .",
    "the impurity potential , @xmath18 , is written as @xmath20},\\ ] ] where @xmath21 is the strength of the impurity potential . in this model , the frictional force @xmath22 in a steady state can be calculated by the following equation : @xmath23 where @xmath24 means the temporal average and @xmath25 . because the system is in a steady state @xmath22 is equal to the total external force , @xmath26 .",
    "the equation of motion is numerically solved using the runge - kutta formula . in the calculation the periodic boundary condition , @xmath27 , is adopted , where @xmath28 is the system size .",
    "then the ratio @xmath29 is equal to the ratio @xmath30 , where @xmath31 is the mean lattice spacing of the upper body and @xmath32 and @xmath33 are the number of atoms of the upper and lower bodies , respectively .",
    "we here consider an incommensurate system with periodic boundary condition and determine the ratio @xmath29 based on the continued - fraction expansion of the golden mean .",
    "@xmath34 where the expansion is truncated at the tenth order .",
    "the parameters of the present model are set as @xmath35 the number of impurities @xmath19 is fixed throughout the present numerical simulation . with increasing external force , the maximum static frictional force , i.e. , the threshold force at which the upper body starts to slide , is numerically estimated .",
    "the kinetic frictional force is evaluated in steady sliding states with constant velocities @xcite .",
    "for convenience of the following discussion , we define some energy scales that characterize the present model . the impurity potential energy , the elastic energy , and the coupling energy to the external force per impurity are expressed as @xmath36 , @xmath37 , and @xmath38 , respectively , and are given by @xmath39 for the comparison between these energy scales it is convenient to introduce the parameters @xmath40 and @xmath41 as follows : @xmath42 the strengths of the impurity potential and the external force are discussed in terms of @xmath40 and @xmath41 , respectively . according to the impurity pinning theory of density waves@xcite the nature of the impurity pinning is quite different whether @xmath43 or @xmath44 .",
    "we now attempt to interpret the impurity pinning effect as the origin of static friction .",
    "the scenario is as follows . for large",
    "@xmath40 the effect of the impurity potential overcomes those of the elastic energy , and strong pinning states , in which each impurity pins the chain and the large lattice distortion is accompanied , are preferred .",
    "maximum static frictional force is expected to be proportional to the pinning energy , which is the sum of the impurity potential energy and the elastic energy in the pinned state .",
    "hence , the normalized maximum static frictional force @xmath45 behaves as @xmath46 on the other hand , for small values of @xmath40 each impurity can not pin the upper body due to the resulting large loss of elastic energy .",
    "instead collection of impurities in a finite domain pin the upper body .",
    "the size of the domain is determined so as to minimize the pinning energy . in each domain",
    "the system can gain the impurity energy in the scale of fluctuation .",
    "then we get @xmath47 in the case of one - dimensions .",
    "the consideration above , however , does not take into accout the effect of the originally underlying regular potential @xmath48 .",
    "even for impurity - free cases there can exist the pinning behavior in the present system , i.e. , the appearance of the finite maximum static frictional force due to the aubry transition for @xmath12 larger than a certain critical value .",
    "this effect is crucial in considering the static frictional force",
    ".    figs .",
    "1(a)-(c ) show @xmath49 versus @xmath40 curves for the several strengths of the interchain potential @xmath12 , where the maximum static frictional forces obtained are averaged over 3 to 10 samples . for @xmath50 ( fig .",
    "1(a ) ) , the weak impurity pinning relation ( @xmath51 ) and the strong impurity pinning relation ( @xmath52 ) hold well in the regimes @xmath53 and @xmath54 , respectively",
    ". there exists a crossover point between the two characteristic impurity pinning states around @xmath55 .",
    "additional crossover behavior appears for @xmath56 where the corresponing clean systems have finite static frictional force . as observed in fig .",
    "1(b ) , the crossover between weak and strong impurity pinning states found for @xmath50 apparently exist around @xmath57 even for @xmath56 .",
    "the regime of the weak impurity pinning states for @xmath56 , however , is rather narrowed , and apparent deviation from the weak impurity pinning behavior is observed for @xmath58 . this deviational behavior is considered a crossover between the weak impurity pinning state and an another state . the latter is the state pinned mainly by the regular potential and is close to the breaking of analyticity state due to the aubry phase transition in the impurity - free case . in this regime",
    "the impurity potential is considered approximately to be a weak perturbation to the impurity - free state . however , in the regimes @xmath59 , the effect of the impurity potential becomes dominant , and then the weak pinning state appears . the deviation point from the weak pinning state shifts to the large @xmath40 regime as @xmath12 increases . for a strong interaction ( @xmath60 , fig .",
    "1(c ) ) , the weak pinning regime is not observed .",
    "it is confirmed from the fact that the exponent of @xmath49 on @xmath40 in the regime @xmath53 is quite different from that of the weak pinning state .",
    "the weak pinning states are destroyed by the regular interchain potential because this potential always dominates the impurity potential in the weak impurity pinning regimes @xmath53 .",
    "in this section we investigate the effect of the impurity potential on the velocity dependence of the kinetic frictional force .",
    "figs.2(a - b ) show the velocity(@xmath61 ) dependence of the kinetic frictional force for various strengths of the impurity potential .",
    "these values of the impurity potential correspond to the weak pinning regime .",
    "in addition to the finite @xmath40 cases we show the kinetic frictional force of the clean system(@xmath62 ) for comparison . in a weak regular interchain interaction case , @xmath50(fig.2(a ) ) , it is obviously observed that the kinetic frictional force for @xmath62 exhibits velocity strengthening(@xmath63 ) and weakening(@xmath64 ) features in low and high velocity regimes , respectively .",
    "such behavior is excellently explained by a perturbational analysis @xcite . in the case of finite @xmath40 ,",
    "the behavior is quite different and the frictional force tends to a finite value in the limit of vanishing velocity @xcite .",
    "it is an effect of the impurity potential . for small @xmath40",
    "the effect is more significant at low velocities than at high velocities , and additional velocity - weakening kinetic frictional force appears in the low volocity regime . as the strength of the impurity potential increases the maximum static frictional force becomes larger than the kinetic frictional force .",
    "we here note that the behavior of kinetic frictional force in disordered systems was discussed theoretically by sokoloff @xcite .",
    "when applying his method to one - dimensions , a velocity - weakening feature of kinetic frictional force can be deduced based on the perturbation theory for a general disordered potential .",
    "the result is , however , obtained in the underdamped regime , while the present results are obtained in the overdamped regime .",
    "fig.2(b ) shows the result on the kinetic frictional force for @xmath56 where there exists large maximum static frictional force . in this case",
    "the kinetic frictional force for @xmath62 shows a similar velocity dependence to that for finite @xmath40 , that is , almost velocity - independent behavior in the low - velocity regime and inversely proportional behavior to the sliding velocity in the high - velocity regime . in both cases of figs.2(a ) and ( b ) the strength of the kinetic frictional force monotonically increases with increasing @xmath40 .",
    "the kinetic frictional force in the sliding states evolved from strong impurity pinning states is shown in fig.3 . under this condition , a very large maximum static frictional force appears and the static and kinetic friction is mainly caused by the interaction between the chain and the impurities . the kinetic frictional force in fig.3 is similar to that in fig.2(b ) , i.e. , the velocity - independent and velocity - weakening features . no distinct qualitative difference in the behavior of the kinetic frictional force",
    "is observed between the different strengths of the interchain potential , @xmath50 and @xmath65 .    from the above results on kinetic frictional force",
    ", we found that the velocity - weakening behavior in the high - velocity regime is a common feature of the present model and the velocity - independent behavior in the low - velocity regime is peculiar to the system with large maximum static frictional force .",
    "we have calculated the static frictional force by computer simulations using a one - dimensional incommensurate model of friction . it has been numerically confirmed that the randomness due to impurities destroys the vanishing static frictional force states and the maximum static frictional force always becomes finite .",
    "this is consistent with the variational calculation by matsukawa and fukuyama @xcite .",
    "we have also found that frictional phenomena have a close relationship to impurity pinning phenomena in density wave systems .",
    "for the case of weak regular interchain interaction the nature of impurity pinning states changes from weak pinning to strong pinning as the strength of impurity potential increases .",
    "similar behavior is also observed in density waves@xcite . for a strong regular interchain interaction",
    "the maximum static frictional force is finite even in impurity - free systems",
    ". the feature of the impurity pinning in the weak pinning regimes is modified . in this case",
    "the pinning is caused essentially by the strong regular potential rather than by the impurity potential .",
    "the crossover behavior of the maximum static frictional force has been found from the pinned sate affected by the regular potential to the weak or strong impurity pinning state as the impurity potential is strengthened .",
    "we have also investigated the kinetic frictional force in the presence of impurities .",
    "it has been found that surface randomness is crucial to the velocity dependence of the kinetic frictional force .",
    "the behavior of the kinetic frictional force in the present work should be compared with that of the coulomb - amonton s law , i.e. , the kinetic frictional force is less than the maximum static frictional force and does not depend on the sliding velocity . in the case of large maximum static frictional force the velocity - independent behavior of kinetic frictional force",
    "is observed in the low - velocity regime .",
    "the magnitude of the kinetic frictional force is , however , equal to the maximum static frictional force .    in a realistic system",
    "there are several complicated factors that are not taken into consideration in the present theoretical model .",
    "for example , the effect of other types of randomness such as steps on surfaces is not examined here .",
    "such an effect may be also an important factor , but we expect that the velocity dependence of the kinetic frictional force would not depend on the details of the randomness and would show a similar behavior to that of the present model because the major contribution to the kinetic frictional force comes from the excitation of phonons with long wavelength",
    ". nevertheless several important issues are left unsolved and therefore we need further investigation to compare the detailed features of the friction model with those of realistic systems .",
    "we make some comments on eqs .",
    "( 13 ) and ( 14 ) .",
    "as mentioned in the text , these relations are derived using the impurity pinning theory of density waves . concerning the analogy between the present model and the model of density waves , the following points should be noted . in the case of density waves",
    "@xcite , the average impurity energy vanishes when density waves are rigid and have perfect periodicity . the energy gain due to",
    "the impurity potential arises from the distortion of density waves . on the other hand ,",
    "since the present model has the attractive potential @xmath66 , the energy gain always exists even without the distortion of the chain .",
    "this energy , however , does not affect the frictional force because the amount of the energy is independent of the position of the chain . in both systems",
    "the energy cost caused by the distortion is relevant to the pinning effect .",
    "hence , in the present model , the same behavior of the impurity pinning as that in density waves is observed .",
    "f. p. bowden and d. tabor , _ the friction and lubrication of solids _",
    "( clarendon press , oxford , 1954 ) .",
    "g. binnig , c. f. quate , and ch .",
    "gerber , phys .",
    "lett . * 56 * , 930 ( 1986 ) .",
    "j. krim , comments on cond .",
    "part b * 17 * , 263 ( 1995 ) .",
    "b. n. j. persson , comments on cond .",
    "part b * 17 * , 281 ( 1995 ) .",
    "for example , see theoretical articles in _ physics of sliding friction _",
    "( b. n. j. persson and e. tosatti eds . ,",
    "kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , 1996 ) and references therein . y. frenkel and t. kontrova , zh .",
    ". fiz . * 89 * , 1340 ( 1938 ) ; * 89 * , 1349 ( 1938 ) .",
    "m. peyrard and s. aubry , j. phys .",
    "c * 16 * , 1593 ( 1983 ) .",
    "m. hirano and k. shinjo , phys .",
    "b * 41 * , 11837 ( 1990 ) .",
    "k. shinjo and m. hirano , surf .",
    "* 283 * , 473 ( 1993 ) .",
    "e. granato , m.r .",
    "baldan , and s.c .",
    "ying , in _ physics of sliding friction _ ,",
    "b. n. j. persson and e. tosatti eds . , ( kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , 1996 ) . t. strunz and f.j .",
    "elmer , ibid , m. weiss and f.j .",
    "elmer , ibid .",
    "h. matsukawa and h. fukuyama , phys .",
    "b * 49 * , 17286 ( 1994 ) .",
    "h. matsukawa and h. fukuyama , in _ physics of sliding friction _",
    "j. persson and e. tosatti eds . , ( kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , 1996 ) . in three - dimensional systems with impurities at the surface ,",
    "the instability of the states with vanishing static frictional force is considered to be marginal .",
    "that is , in three - dimensional systems , the appearance of pinning by impurities only at the surface depends on the impurity strength .",
    "m. robbins , private communication .",
    "h. matsukawa , j. phys .",
    "* 57 * , 3463 ( 1988 ) .",
    "h. fukuyama , j. phys .",
    ". jpn . * 41 * , 513 ( 1976 ) .",
    "h. fukuyama and p.a .",
    "lee , phys .",
    "b * 17 * , 535 ( 1978 ) .",
    "sokoloff , phys .",
    "b * 42 * , 760 ( 1990 ) , j. appl . phys . *",
    "72 * , 1262 ( 1992 ) .",
    "t. kawaguchi and h. matsukawa , to be published .",
    "it is to be noted that in our calculation the limiting value of the kinetic frictional force to vanishing velocity coincides with the maximum static frictional force .",
    "a similar relationship between kinetic and static frictional forces has been found also in a theoretical study based on an elastic responce of asperities by caroli and nozieres . c. caroli and p. nozieres , in _ physics of sliding friction _ ,",
    "b. n. j. persson and e. tosatti eds . , ( kluwer academic publishers , dordrecht , 1996 ) . j.b .",
    "sokoloff , phys .",
    "b * 51 * , 15573 ( 1995 )",
    "brill , n.p .",
    "ong , j.c .",
    "eckert , j. savage , s.k .",
    "khanna , and r.b .",
    "somoano , phys .",
    "b * 23 * , 1517 ( 1981 ) .",
    "@xmath40 versus @xmath49 .",
    "the solid and dashed lines represent the relations : @xmath67 and @xmath68 , respectively . when @xmath69(@xmath70 ) , @xmath71 , and @xmath72 for @xmath73 , and @xmath74 respectively",
    "2 . the velocity dependence of kinetic frictional force for weak pinning .",
    "( a ) @xmath50 .",
    "squares , circles , diamonds , triangles , and crosses represent the results for @xmath75 and @xmath76 ( @xmath77 and @xmath76 ) , respectively .",
    "( b ) @xmath56 .",
    "squares , circles , triangles and crosses represent the results for @xmath78 and @xmath76 ( @xmath79 and @xmath76 ) , respectively .",
    "arrows indicate the maximum static frictional force .",
    "the velocity dependence of kinetic frictional force for strong pinning . circles and triangles represent the results for @xmath80 ( @xmath81 ) and @xmath50 and for @xmath82 ( @xmath83 ) and @xmath56 , respectively .",
    "arrows indicate the maximum static frictional force ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> static and dynamic frictional phenomena at the interface with random impurities are investigated in a two - chain model with incommensurate structure . </S>",
    "<S> static frictional force is caused by the impurity pinning and/or by the pinning due to the regular potential , which is responsible for the breaking of analyticity transition for impurity - free cases . </S>",
    "<S> it is confirmed that the static frictional force is always finite in the presence of impurities , in contrast to the impurity - free system . </S>",
    "<S> the nature of impurity pinning is discussed in connection with that in density waves . </S>",
    "<S> the kinetic frictional force of a steady sliding state is also investigated numerically . </S>",
    "<S> the relationship between the sliding velocity dependence of the kinetic frictional force and the strength of impurity potential is discussed . </S>"
  ]
}