{
  "article_text": [
    "our goal in this paper is to describe an rf circuit model for the effective electrical ( dc to ghz to thz ) properties of carbon nanotubes .",
    "while we restrict our attention to metallic single walled nanotubes , the general approach can be used to describe semiconducting carbon nanotubes , multi - walled carbon nanotubes , quantum wires in gaas heterostructures@xcite , and any other system of one - dimensional interacting electrons@xcite .",
    "an additional goal of this paper is to describe a technique that can be used to directly excite 1d plasmons in carbon nanotubes using a microwave signal generator .",
    "this technique was recently applied to measure collective oscillations ( plasmons ) in a two - dimensional electron gas , including measurements of the 2d plasmon velocity , as well as the temperature and disorder dependent damping@xcite .",
    "the high frequency circuit model developed herein may have direct applications in determining the switching speed of a variety of nanotube based electronic devices .",
    "in our recent 2d plasmon work , we suggested a transmission - line effective circuit model to relate our electrical impedance measurements to the properties of the 2d plasmon collective excitation@xcite .",
    "there , we measured the kinetic inductance of a two - dimensional electron gas , as well as its distributed distributed electrostatic capacitance to a metallic `` gate '' by directly exciting it with a microwave voltage .",
    "the distributed capacitance and inductance form a transmission line , which is an electrical engineer s view of a 2d plasmon .",
    "since then , the transmission - line description has been discussed in the context of both single - walled@xcite and multi - walled@xcite carbon nanotubes . in reference",
    "@xcite , by considering the lagrangian of a one - dimensional electron gas ( 1deg ) , an expression for the quantum capacitance ( which was not important in our 2d experiments ) as well as the kinetic inductance of a swnt is derived . in reference",
    "@xcite the tunnel conductance at high voltages is related to electrical parameters ( the characteristic impedance ) of the transmission line in a multi - walled nanotube . in both of these discussions ,",
    "the distributed inductance and capacitance per unit length form a transmission line , which is an electrical engineer s description of a 1d plasmon .    in what follows we present an rf circuit model based on the transmission line properties of a carbon nanotube .",
    "we use this model to calculate the nanotube dynamical impedance ( real and imaginary ) as a function of frequency , as well as the ac damping and wave velocity .",
    "we discuss possible practical consequences@xcite of the results in nanotube electronic and micro / nano - mechanical high - frequency circuits .",
    "a more detailed discussion of the rf circuit model can be found in our recent manuscript@xcite . a description from a theoretical physics point of view ( complementary to the circuit description discussed here )",
    "can be found in reference  @xcite , and references therein .",
    "the dc circuit model for a one - channel quantum wire of non - interacting electrons is well known from the landauer - buttiker formalism of conduction in quantum systems .",
    "the dc conductance is simply given by @xmath0 . if the spin degree of freedom is accounted for , there are two `` channels '' in a quantum wire : spin up and spin down , both in parallel .",
    "we postpone our discussion of spin until the next section , and assume for the moment the electrons are spinless . at ac , the circuit model is not well established experimentally . in this manuscript",
    "we propose and discuss a transmission line equivalent circuit model that can be used to predict the dynamical impedance of a single walled nanotube under a variety of measurement geometries .",
    "the effective circuit diagram we are proposing is shown in figure  [ fig : spinlesscircuit ] .",
    "below , we will discuss each of the four contributions to the total circuit , and then discuss some of its general properties , such as the wave velocity and characteristic impedance .",
    "for the sake of simplicity , as shown in figure  [ fig : geometry ] , we will restrict ourselves to the case of a wire over a `` ground plane '' .      in order to calculate the kinetic inductance per unit length",
    ", we follow reference  @xcite and calculate the kinetic energy per unit length and equate that with the @xmath1 energy of the kinetic inductance .",
    "the kinetic energy per unit length in a 1d wire is the sum of the kinetic energies of the left - movers and right - movers .",
    "if there is a net current in the wire , then there are more left - movers than right - movers , say . if the fermi level of the left - movers is raised by @xmath2 , and the fermi - level of the right - movers is decreased by the same amount , then the current in the 1d wire is @xmath3 .",
    "the net increase in energy of the system is the excess number of electrons ( @xmath4 ) in the left vs. right moving states times the energy added per electron @xmath5 . here",
    "@xmath6 is the single particle energy level spacing , which is related to the fermi velocity through @xmath7 .",
    "thus the excess kinetic energy is given by @xmath8 . by equating this energy with the @xmath1 energy , we have the following expression for the kinetic energy per unit length : @xmath9 the fermi velocity for graphene and also carbon nanotubes is usually taken as @xmath10 , so that numerically @xmath11    in reference  @xcite , we show that in 1d systems , the kinetic inductance will always dominate the magnetic inductance .",
    "this is an important point for engineering nano - electronics : in engineering macroscopic circuits , long thin wires are usually considered to have relatively large ( magnetic ) inductances .",
    "this is not the case in nano - wires , where the kinetic inductance dominates .",
    "the electrostatic capacitance between a wire and a ground plane as shown in figure  [ fig : geometry ] is given by@xcite @xmath12 where the approximation is good to within 1  % for @xmath13 .",
    "( if the distance to the ground plane becomes larger than the tube length such as in some free - standing carbon nanotubes@xcite , another formula for the capacitance has to be used , which involves replacing h with the length of the 1d wire . )",
    "this can be approximated numerically as @xmath14 this is calculated using the standard technique of setting the capacitive energy equal to the stored electrostatic energy : @xmath15 and using the relationship between @xmath16 and @xmath17 in the geometry of interest , in this case a wire on top of a ground plane .      in a classical electron gas ( in a box in 1,2 , or 3 dimensions ) , to add an extra electron costs no energy .",
    "( one can add the electron with any arbitrary energy to the system . ) in a quantum electron gas ( in a box in 1,2 , or 3 dimensions ) , due to the pauli exclusion principle it is not possible to add an electron with energy less than the fermi energy @xmath18 .",
    "one must add an electron at an available quantum state above @xmath18 . in a 1d system of length l ,",
    "the spacing between quantum states is given by : @xmath19 where l is the length of the system , and we have assumed a linear dispersion curve appropriate for carbon nanotubes . by equating this energy cost with an effective quantum capacitance@xcite with energy given by @xmath20 one arrives at the following expression for the ( quantum ) capacitance per unit length : @xmath21 which comes out to be numerically @xmath22      the wave velocity of a ( any ) transmission line with inductance per unit length @xmath23 and capacitance per unit length @xmath24 is simply @xmath25 . in the case under consideration here , the inductance is simply the kinetic inductance ; the total capacitance per unit length is given by @xmath26 if we were to neglect the screened coulomb interaction , it would be equivalent to neglecting the electrostatic capacitance . in that case we have @xmath27 one method of including the effect of electron - electron interactions in the context of the above discussion is simply to include the electrostatic capacitance as well as the quantum capacitance , so that the wave velocity is not quite exactly equal to the fermi velocity : @xmath28 the ratio of the wave ( plasmon ) velocity in the absence of interactions to the wave ( plasmon ) velocity in the presence of interactions has a special significance in the theory of luttinger liquids , and is denoted by the letter `` g '' .",
    "another property of interest of the nano - transmission line is the characteristic impedance , defined as the ratio of the ac voltage to the ac current .",
    "this is especially important for measurement purposes .",
    "the characteristic impedance of a ( any ) transmission line with inductance per unit length @xmath23 and capacitance per unit length @xmath24 is simply @xmath29 .",
    "if one considers only the quantum capacitance and only the kinetic inductance , the characteristic impedance turns out to be the resistance quantum : @xmath30 if one both considers both components of the capacitance ( electrostatic + quantum ) , then one finds : @xmath31 where we have inserted the definition of @xmath32 .",
    "an important question to consider is the damping of the 1d plasma waves .",
    "currently very little is known theoretically or experimentally about the damping _",
    "mechanisms_. in the absence of such knowledge , we model the damping as distributed resistance along the length of the tube , with resistance per unit length @xmath33 .",
    "this model of damping of 2d plasmons we recently measured@xcite was successful in describing our experimental results , using the dc resistance to estimate the ac damping coefficient .",
    "a carbon nanotube , because of its band structure , has two propagating channels@xcite . in addition",
    ", the electrons can be spin up or spin down . hence , there are four channels in the landauer - bttiker formalism language . in this section",
    "we discuss an effective high - frequency circuit model which includes the contributions of all four channels , and makes the spin - charge separation ( the hallmark of a luttinger liquid ) clear and intuitive .",
    "the non - interacting ac circuit model ( i.e. , one neglecting the electrostatic capacitance ) of a single - walled carbon nanotube is fairly straightforward : one simply has four quantum channels in parallel each with its own kinetic inductance and quantum capacitance per unit length .",
    "all of the above calculations would apply to that system , accept that there are four transmission lines in parallel .",
    "when one includes the effect of electrostatic capacitance , the four individual propagating modes all share the same capacitance to the ground plane , and hence become coupled .",
    "the equations of motion for the four coupled transmission lines can be diagonalized , and the eigenmodes become three spin waves and one charged ( voltage ) wave . in reference",
    "@xcite , we show that the circuit model of figure  [ fig : spinlesscircuit ] is still valid as as an effective circuit model for the charged mode if the kinetic inductance and quantum capacitance ( but _ not _ the electrostatic capacitance ) are simply divided by _",
    "using the above described circuit description , we numerically calculate the complex , frequency dependent impedance of an electrically contacted single nanotube ( including the effects of spin ) for two cases : high damping and low damping , i.e. high and low resistance per unit length . in the low damping limit , shown in figure  [ fig : ohmic ] , the predicted impedance has resonant frequency behavior , corresponding to standing waves along the length of the tube .    in the high - damping limit , shown in figure  [ fig : overdamped ] , the resonances are washed out and one sees two limits .",
    "first , at dc the real impedance is simply the resistance per length times the length , i.e. @xmath34 , plus the landauer - buttiker contact resistance .",
    "the frequency scale at which the impedance starts to change is given by the inverse of the total capacitance ( @xmath35 ) times the total resistance . at very high frequencies ,",
    "the impedance becomes equal to the characteristic impedance given in equation  [ eq : zchar ] ( corrected for the spin - charge effects discussed in section  [ sec : spincharge ] ) .",
    "the frequency at which this occurs is given by the inverse of the effective `` lr '' time constant , which is the resistance per unit length divided by the inductance per unit length .",
    "we have derived an effective rf circuit model for a single walled carbon nanotube , including the effects of kinetic inductance as well as the electrostatic and quantum capacitance .",
    "the nano - transmission line model we developed is a circuit description of a 1d plasmon , and as such is directly related to the long postulated luttinger liquid properties of 1d systems .",
    "our next step will be to experimentally test the validity of this circuit model in either the frequency or time domain , and to develop an rf circuit model for _ active _ nanotube devices .",
    "this work was supported by the onr .",
    "we thank j.p . eisenstein and cees dekker for useful discussions .",
    "auslaender , a.  yacoby , r.  de  picciotto , k.w .",
    "baldwin , l.n .",
    "pfieffer , and k.  w. west , `` tunneling spectroscopy of the elementary excitations in a one - dimensional wire , '' , vol .",
    "295 , pp . 825828 , 2002 .",
    "burke , i.b .",
    "spielman , j.p .",
    "eisenstein , l.n .",
    "pfeiffer , and k.w .",
    "west , `` high frequency conductivity of the high - mobility two - dimensional electron gas , '' , vol .",
    "76 , no . 6 , pp . 745747 , february 2000 .",
    "peralta , s.j .",
    "allen , n.e .",
    "harff , m.c .",
    "wanke , m.p .",
    "lilly , j.a .",
    "simmons , j.l .",
    "reno , p.j .",
    "burke , and j.p .",
    "eisenstein , `` terahertz photoconductivity and plasmon modes in double quantum well field effect transistors , '' , july 2002 .",
    "r.  tarkiainen , m.  ahlskog , j.  pentill , l.  roschier , p.  hakonen , m.  paalanen , and e.  sonin , `` multiwalled carbon nanotube : luttinger versus fermi liquid , '' , vol .",
    "1954121  1954124 , october 2001 .",
    "m.  dyakonov and m.s .",
    "shur , , vol .  27 of _ nato science series , ii",
    ". mathematics , physics and chemistry _ , chapter plasma wave electronics for terahertz applications , pp .",
    "187207 , kluwer academic publishers , boston , 2001 .",
    "burke received his ph.d . in physics from yale university in 1998 .",
    "his thesis research involved a combination of fundamental and applied physics , aimed at the development of fast nb superconducting hot - electron bolometer mixers for sensitive thz heterodyne receivers . from 1998 - 2001 , he was a sherman fairchild postdoctoral scholar in physics at caltech , where he studied resonant tunnel diodes for thz detectors and sources , 2d plasmons , and the interaction between johnson noise and quantum coherence in 2d systems . since 2001 , he has been an assistant professor in the department of electrical and computer engineering at the university of california , irvine , where , as the recipient of an onr young investigator award , he is currently leading the initiative in nanotechnology .",
    "his research interests include nanoelectronics , nanomechanics , and nano - biotechnology , as well as quantum computation and quantum information processing ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> we develop an rf circuit model for single walled carbon nanotubes for both dc and capacitively contacted geometries . by modeling the nanotube as a nano - transmission line with distributed kinetic and magnetic inductance as well as </S>",
    "<S> distributed quantum and electrostatic capacitance , we calculate the complex , frequency dependent impedance for a variety of measurement geometries . </S>",
    "<S> exciting voltage waves on the nano - transmission line is equivalent to directly exciting the yet - to - be observed one dimensional plasmons , the low energy excitation of a luttinger liquid . </S>"
  ]
}