{
  "article_text": [
    "despite their narrow @xmath1-bands and high densities of states ( dos ) at the fermi level , which favor magnetism , there are only three ferromagnetic transition metals in nature .",
    "palladium is paramagnetic in its stable fcc structure , but with a very high magnetic susceptibility .",
    "several calculations have shown that its fermi level lies just above a large peak in the dos , at the top of the @xmath1-bands .",
    "the dos at the fermi - level , of @xmath2 states per spin , ev and atom ( chen _ et al_. @xcite and references therein ) is almost high enough , but not quite so , to fulfill the stoner criterion for itinerant magnetism , since the stoner exchange parameter is @xmath3 ev @xcite .",
    "the calculations have also shown that pd , in its fcc crystal structure , becomes ferromagnetic by increasing the lattice constant by just a few percent @xcite .",
    "all these results have stressed the subtle balance of magnetism in pd .",
    "therefore , we suggest that variations in the atomic arrangement can induce changes in the density of states at the fermi level that , in turn , can induce magnetism . in this direction , it has been proposed that monatomic pd nanowires are ferromagnetic , either in their energetic @xcite or thermodynamic @xcite equilibrium length .",
    "also , recent experimental results @xcite indicate that fcc pd nanoparticles with stacking faults and twin boundaries present ferromagnetism .",
    "other experiments @xcite on small pd nanoparticles also indicate the existence of a hysteresis loop which , in this case , is interpreted as due to a non zero magnetic moment at the surface atoms .",
    "stacking faults and twin boundaries are very common two - dimensional defects in face centered cubic ( fcc ) metals as well as in diamond and wurtzite - structure semiconductors .",
    "their abundance is partly due to their low energy of formation , since they preserve the local geometry and close packing .",
    "their importance in the mechanical properties , like hardness and brittleness are recognized since many years .",
    "recently , the role played by the stacking of ( 111 ) layers has been emphasized in connection with magnetic orientation and magnetic ordering of thin layers and superlattices of magnetic metals  @xcite .",
    "the growth of co on top of the cu(111 ) surface has been extensively studied experimentally , and the correlation between stacking pattern and magnetic properties has been reasonably well established .    at this stage",
    "it seems worth studying the effect of the stacking sequences and of the surfaces on the electronic and magnetic properties of pd . with these ideas in mind",
    ", we have calculated total energies and magnetic moments of pd in both the fcc and hexagonal close - packed ( hcp ) phases , as well as in surfaces and near two - dimensional stacking defects like intrinsic and extrinsic stacking faults , and twin boundaries .",
    "all our calculations are performed within density functional theory @xcite ( dft ) , using either the local density approximation @xcite ( lda ) or the generalized gradient approximation @xcite ( gga ) to exchange and correlation .",
    "most of the calculations were obtained with the siesta  @xcite method , which uses a basis of numerical atomic orbitals  @xcite and separable  @xcite norm conserving pseudopotentials  @xcite with partial core corrections  @xcite . to generate the pseudopotentials and basis orbitals",
    ", we use a pd configuration @xmath4 , since we have checked that it leads to better transferability and bulk properties than the ground state configuration @xmath5 .",
    "after several tests we have found satisfactory the standard double-@xmath6 basis with polarization orbitals ( dzp ) which has been used throughout this work .",
    "the convergence of other precision parameters was carefully checked .",
    "the range of the atomic basis orbitals was obtained using an energy shift  @xcite of 50 mev .",
    "the real space integration grid had a cut - off of 500 ryd , while around 9000 @xmath7 points / atom@xmath8 were used in the brillouin zone sampling . to accelerate the selfconsistency convergence ,",
    "a broadening of the energy levels was performed using the method of methfessel and paxton @xcite which is very suitable for systems with a large variation of the density of states at the vicinity of the fermi level .",
    "it is necessary to mention that most of the energy differences between paramagnetic and ferromagnetic solutions in pd structures are extremely small , what requires a very high convergence in all precision parameters and tolerances , and specially in the number of @xmath7 points .",
    "it must be recognized , however , that the basic dft uncertainty is probably larger than those energy differences , so that it is not really possible to determine reliably whether a particular defect or structure is para or ferromagnetic .",
    "still , we think that it is possible to find reliably the relative tendency towards magnetism of different structures .",
    "in particular , @xmath9 curves , of total energy versus total magnetic moment , provide an excellent tool to study the tendency to magnetism in different systems : independently of whether the systems are para or ferromagnetic , one may determine if a defect or a surface has a smaller or a larger tendency to magnetism than the bulk , depending on which of the two @xmath9 curves is higher .",
    "in addition , the selfconsistent convergengy is considerably faster at constant magnetic moment , so that it is possible to determine reliably ( for a given functional ) relative energies as small as a fraction of an mev .",
    "the first mandatory system to be considered is the perfect bulk crystal in its experimentally - stable fcc phase . in principle",
    ", the gga functional goes beyond the lda and it is generally considered to be more accurate and reliable . however , in the case of pd , we find that the gga gives a lattice constant of 3.99  , 2.5% larger than experiment , and a ferromagnetic ground state with a magnetic moment of @xmath10atom and an energy 4.5 mev / atom below the paramagnetic phase ( figure 1 ) .",
    "since this energy difference is very small , and to discard that the ferromagnetic phase is favoured by the pseudopotential or basis set used , we have reproduced  @xcite this result using two other dft methods : the pseudopotential plane wave code vasp @xcite and the all - electron augmented plane wave method wien @xcite , both with the same gga functional @xcite .",
    "previous gga calculations by singh and ashkenazi @xcite , using a different functional , also found a lattice constant larger than the experimental one , but did not address the subtle ferromagnetic - paramagnetic transition with sufficient detail .    on the other hand , within the lda",
    "we find a paramagnetic ground state and a lattice constant of 3.89  , both in agreement with the experimental values and with previous lda calculations of moruzzi and marcus @xcite .",
    "these results suggest that the gga is not necessarily more reliable to study magnetism in pd .",
    "in fact , it is not feasible to study the possible existence of magnetic defects in fcc pd when the bulk result is already ferromagnetic .",
    "therefore , we have chosen the spin - dependent lda to perform most of the remaining calculations in this work , although gga results have been obtained also as a check in some cases .",
    "the magnetic susceptibility @xmath11 of the magnetic moment @xmath12 to an external magnetic field @xmath13 is @xmath14 thus , the flatness of the @xmath9 curve in figure [ fig : fccbulk ] implies a very large susceptibility , even within the lda . to compare with the other transition metals in the same column of the periodic table we have calculated the variation of energy with magnetic moment for ni and pt .",
    "the results are shown in figure [ fig : nipdpt ] .",
    "we immediately observe a clear ferromagnetic and paramagnetic behavior of ni and pt respectively , while pd , as indicated above , is paramagnetic but very close to the ferromagnetic transition .    in order to study how magnetism depends on the local geometry and stacking of atoms ,",
    "we have first considered the hcp structure as compared to the fcc one .",
    "it is known that the breaking of the cubic symmetry in stacking faults , while keeping the number of nearest - neighbor atoms and their bond lengths and angles , induces a rearrangement of the @xmath1 energy bands that can even give rise to localized electronic states  @xcite .",
    "the dos of hcp and fcc structures , in the paramagnetic phase , shown in figure [ fig : densidade ] , were calculated for the same nearest neighbor distance of 2.76  and the ideal ratio @xmath15 for the hcp structure , since we obtain that both structures are stable at this distance , with the hcp @xmath16 ratio only 0.75% larger than the ideal value .",
    "several points are worth mentioning : _",
    "( i ) _ the @xmath1 bandwidth is almost identical in both structures because they have identical nearest - neighbor configurations . _",
    "( ii ) _ the shapes of the dos are very different , as a consequence of the breaking of the cubic symmetry : in fcc the second - nearest - neighbor atoms are staggered whereas in hcp they are eclipsed and the lack of cubic symmetry inhibits the @xmath17 splitting of the @xmath1 bands . _",
    "( iii ) _ the dos at the fermi level is larger in hcp than in fcc ( 1.43 versus 1.15 states per atom per ev and per spin ) .",
    "this implies that pd in the hcp structure satisfies the stoner condition for ferromagnetism : with a stoner exchange parameter @xmath18=0.73 ev @xcite , we get @xmath19 for fcc and @xmath20 for hcp .    we have then calculated the total energy and the magnetic order in the hcp phase in the lda .",
    "the results are shown in figure [ fig : hcpfccmaio ] .",
    "we immediately observe that , contrary to what happens in the fcc structure , there is a non zero magnetic moment of 0.35  @xmath0/atom at the equilibrium interatomic separation for the hcp structure , @xmath1=2.76  . like in the fcc phase ,",
    "the system is close to a magnetic - nonmagnetic transition but , in this case , in the ferromagnetic side , with the ferromagnetic hcp phase approximately 1.7 mev lower in energy than the paramagnetic one .",
    "the transition from para to ferromagnetism , as a function of the lattice constant , is abrupt , like in the fcc case , although we can not assess with enough confidence whether it is first or second order @xcite .    finally , the hcp structure is 4.0 mev higher in energy than the fcc .",
    "this ordering is in agreement with experiment , and we reproduce it also with the gga , but it is in contradiction with the calculations of huger and osuch @xcite that reported an hcp structure lower in energy , but also ferromagnetic .",
    "hexagonal ( 111 ) closed packed planes of atoms can be stacked in different ways , giving rise to different structures .",
    "if we label the three possible positions of the atoms as a , b and c , the fcc stacking is ... abcabc ... and that of hcp is ......",
    "@xcite , where the layers with hexagonal symmetry are undelined .",
    "different defects can be generated in the fcc structure : the intrinsic and extrinsic stacking faults have two hexagonal layers , with stacking sequences ... abcabc ... and ... abcccabc ... respectively .",
    "the twin boundary has a single hexagonal layer with ... abccba ... stacking .",
    "previous model calculations @xcite at stacking faults of transition metals indicate an important perturbation of the local densities of states from that of the perfect fcc lattice .",
    "the presence of a hexagonal stacking of layers induces localized electronic states @xcite and an enhancement of the dos at the top of the valence band .",
    "these calculations suggest possible variations of the magnetic properties around the extended defect .",
    "we have performed calculations of several packing sequences , in supercells containing various numbers of fcc layers , to study to what extent different local configurations can give rise to magnetic moments .",
    "the results of the calculations , both in the perfect crystals and in the defects , are independent ( within less than 1% ) of the initial input moment .",
    "most of the calculated supercells have a finite magnetic moment and some are shown in figure  [ fig : superceldas ] .        however , its variation with the supercell thickness is rather complex and nonmonotonic .",
    "we suspect that this complex behaviour is due to an oscillatory component of the magnetic coupling between the neighbouring stacking faults , like that observed in superstructures of magnetic slabs sandwiched between nonmagnetic metals  @xcite .",
    "although we have not been able to stabilize any antiferromagnetic solution in double - size supercells , this may be due to the size limitations and to the difficulties of convergence . as expected , the magnetic moments are smaller in fcc than in hcp layers , but they are nevertheless far from negligible . the interplay between the magnetism of the hexagonal layers and",
    "the paramagnetism of the cubic ones , both close to a paramagnetic to ferromagnetic transition , is very subtle .",
    "what is important is that the hexagonal layers have a tendency to become magnetic and they induce magnetic moments at the atoms in the cubic layers .",
    "this is due first , to the large magnetic susceptibility in fcc pd , where the hexagonal layers act as magnetic impurities . and",
    "second , because of the two - dimensional character of the defects , any magnetic perturbation decays very slowly with distance , like in a pseudo one - dimensional metal . in other words , there is a long - range rkky - like interaction between the hcp layers through the intermediate fcc ones .",
    "given the size limitations of our calculated supercells , and the nonmonotonic magnetic moment with increasing supercell thickness , it is not possible to conclude confidently whether isolated planar defects in fcc pd have a finite magnetic moment , within the lda .",
    "however , fig .",
    "[ fig : defectos ] clearly shows that all the hexagonal defects have a larger tendency to magnetism than the bulk fcc lattice , as indicated by their respective @xmath9 curves .",
    "this is hardly surprising , given the ferromagnetic character of hcp pd .",
    "has been shifted to a common value .",
    "the defects are separated by 6 fcc layers like in figure 5(b ) .",
    "the stacking fault curve has a minimum of -0.2 mev at @xmath21/atom , in agreement with figure [ fig : superceldas]b , which is not noticeable at the figure scale . ]    on the other hand , all the supercells are of course strongly magnetic within the gga , with a larger tendency to magnetism ( lower @xmath9 curve ) than the bulk fcc crystal .",
    "therefore , it is perfectly possible that an isolated stacking fault in fcc pd is indeed magnetic in nature .",
    "recent experimental results @xcite on pd nanoparticles have been interpreted as magnetism at ( 100 ) surfaces . in principle ,",
    "surface magnetism is plausible in general because the lower coordination of surface atoms favors narrower bands and larger densities of states . in practice , however , surface relaxation and reconstruction may contract the surface bond lengths and more than compensate for the lower coordination .",
    "we have then calculated the electronic structure of finite pd slabs in the ( 100 ) and ( 111 ) orientations , after carefully relaxing their geommetry .",
    "the results of the calculated total energy versus magnetic moment are shown in figure  [ fig : slabenergy ] for the largest calculated thickness .",
    "has been shifted to a common value . ]",
    "this general tendency is consistently obtained for sufficiently thick slabs , but the thikness dependence of the total magnetic moment , shown in fig .",
    "[ fig : slabmoment ] is not monotonic , as in the bulk supercells .",
    "we observe in fig .",
    "[ fig : slabenergy ] that the minimun energy is at zero magnetic moment and therefore the two surfaces are paramagnetic .",
    "moreover , the @xmath9 curve of the ( 100 ) surface is higher than that of the bulk , showing that this surface is less prone to magnetism than the bulk . on the other hand , the ( 111 ) surface , although also paramagnetic within the lda , has a larger susceptibility than the bulk , what makes plausible that it may be magnetic in nature .",
    "we have found that bulk planar defects , as well as ( 111 ) surfaces , have a larger tendency to magnetism than the bulk pd crystal , which is itself on the verge of ferromagnetism .",
    "since both surfaces and defects are in high concentrations in nanoparticles , and both have in fact been proposed independently  @xcite as responsible of the observed magnetic moment of these particles , it makes sense to consider their combined effect . to this end , we have calculated the geometry , energy , and magnetism , of planar defects close to a ( 111 ) surface .",
    "we use a slab in which the opposite surface is `` magnetically passivated '' by imposing a short distance between the first two atomic planes , what inmediately kills their local magnetic monent . in this way , we ensure that the possible magnetic moment of the slab is due to the combination of the stacking fault and a single surface ( in fact , this structure penalizes and sets a lower limit for the appearence of magnetism ) . still ,",
    "as shown in figure  [ fig : isolstak ] , we find a clear magnetic moment in all the cases considered .",
    "this tendency is further demonstrated by their @xmath9 curves , presented in figure [ fig : slab9-exm ] for two cases , which show unambiguously their magnetic character .",
    "( c ) and ( e ) ) .",
    ", scaledwidth=40.0% ]    furthermore , the total energy of all the slabs is lower than that of the defects in the bulk , plus that of the unfaulted slab , implying that the surface atracts the defects and that they should therefore be expected to appear together in nanoparticles , due to the high concentration of stacking faults and to the small space between surfaces .",
    "notice that the extrinsic stacking fault is more stable than the intrinsic one both at the surface and at the bulk .",
    "our main conclusions can be summarized as follows : _ ( i ) _ the gga functional gives an incorrect ferromagnetic ground state for the fcc pd crystal .",
    "accordingly , all the defects studied are also magnetic within the gga but , obviously , this does not imply that they are magnetic in nature . on the contrary",
    ", the simpler lda gives the correct lattice constant and paramagnetic state .",
    "_ ( ii ) _ the hcp phase is ferromagnetic , within both the lda and gga . in the lda",
    ", it has an energy 1.7 mev lower than the hcp paramagnetic state and 4.0 mev above the fcc phase . _",
    "( iii ) _ we can not determine whether an isolated stacking fault is magnetic in the lda , but it certainly has a larger magnetic susceptibility than the perfect crystal , and might be magnetic in nature , given the uncertainty between the different functionals . _ ( iv ) _ the free ( 100 ) surface is paramagnetic , with a lower susceptibility than the bulk crystal .",
    "_ ( v ) _ the ( 111 ) surface is paramagnetic in the lda , but it has a larger susceptibility than the bulk crystal , and it might be magnetic in nature . _ ( vi ) _ hexagonal planar defects are atracted towards a ( 111 ) surface , and they become clearly magnetic when close enough .",
    "therefore , ( 100 ) surfaces are not good candidates as the origin of magnetism in pd nanoparticles , as they had been proposed  @xcite .",
    "in contrast , planar stacking defects , ( 111 ) surfaces , and specially a combination of both , are plausible candidates to present permanent magnetic moments and to be responsible for the magnetism observed in pd nanoparticles .",
    "thus , our results are consistent with experiments in small pd clusters of average diameter 2.4 nm , which are reported to display spontaneous magnetization @xcite .",
    "high - resolution transmission electron microscopy has shown that a high percentage of the particles exhibit single and multiple twinning boundaries .",
    "in addition , the smallness of the spontaneous magnetization seems to indicate that only a small fraction of atoms hold a permanent magnetic moment and contribute to ferromagnetism .",
    "other experimental results @xcite on small pd particles have also shown their ferromagnetic character .",
    "besides , ferromagnetism can also take place in other non ideal structures like nanowires @xcite .    magnetic anomalies observed experimentally in different ni @xcite and co @xcite stacking can be interpreted along the lines described in this work .",
    "the fact that stacking - faults in pd display non negligible magnetic moments , not present in bulk fcc crystal , opens new lines of research .",
    "the appearance of magnetism in nominal fcc samples should be revisited in view of our results , since so far the possibility of magnetism around stacking faults has been overlooked .",
    "also , layer growth of pd on top of non magnetic substrates , including pd itself , may produce an interesting magnetic phenomenology in connection with the stacking structure which , in turn , depends on the method used for growth .",
    "the study of the dependence of the magnetic properties of pd grown ag(111 ) and pd / ag multilayers on the stacking sequences is under way and will be reported elsewhere .",
    "we would like to thank a. hernando , who brought our attention to this problem , to  .",
    "paz for his assistance in the technical part of this work , and to m. mattesini for his help in the plane wave basis calculations .",
    "work supported spain s ministery of science through grants bfm2002 - 10510-e and bfm2003 - 03372 .",
    "h. chen , n. e. brener and j. callaway , phys .",
    "b * 40 * , 1443 ( 1989 ) .",
    "j. f. janak , phys .",
    "b * 16 * , 255 ( 1977 ) .",
    "n. takano , t. kai , k. shiiki and f. terasaki , solid state commun . *",
    "97 * , 153 ( 1996 ) .",
    "v. l. moruzzi and p. m. marcus , phys .",
    "b * 39 * , 471 ( 1989 ) .",
    "a. delin , e. tosatti and r. weht , phys .",
    "lett . * 92 * , 057201 ( 2004 ) .",
    "s. s. alexandre , m. mattesini , j. m. soler , and f. yndurain , to be published .",
    "e. tosatti , s. prestipino , s. kostlmeier , a. dal corso , and f. d. di tolla , science * 291 * , 288 ( 2001 ) .",
    "b. sampedro _",
    "et al . _ ,",
    "lett . * 91 * , 237203 ( 2004 ) .",
    "t. shinohara , t. sato and t. taniyama , phys .",
    "lett . * 91 * , 197201 ( 2004 ) .",
    "s. s. p. parkin , r. f. marks , r. f. c. farrow , g. r. harp , q. h. lam and r. j. savoy , phys .",
    "b * 46 * , 9262 ( 1992 ) .",
    "m. zheng , j. shen , j. barthel , p. ohresser , ch .",
    "v. mohan and j. kirchner , j. phys : condens .",
    "matter * 12 * , 783 ( 2000 ) .",
    "o. pietzsch , a. kubetzka , m. bode , and r. wiesendanger , phys .",
    "lett . * 92 * , 057202 ( 2004 ) .",
    "w. kohn and l. j. sham , phys . rev .",
    "* 140 * , a1133 ( 1965 ) .",
    "j. p. perdew and a. zunger , phys . rev .",
    "b * 23 * , 5048 ( 1981 ) j. p. perdew , k. burke , m. ernzerhof , phys . rev . lett .",
    "* 77 * , 3865 ( 1996 ) .",
    "p. ordejn , e. artacho , and j. m. soler phys .",
    "rev b * 53 * r10441 ( 1996 ) .",
    "j. m. soler _",
    "et al . _ , j. phys : condens .",
    "* 14 * , 2745 ( 2002 ) . o. f. sankey and d. j. niclewski , phys .",
    "b * 40 * 3979 ( 1989 ) .",
    "l. kleinman and d. m. bylander , phys .",
    "lett . * 48 * , 1425 ( 1982 ) .",
    "n. troullier and j. l. martins , phys .",
    "b * 43 * , 1993 ( 1991 )",
    ". s. g. louie , s. froyen , and m. l. cohen , phys .",
    "b * 26 * , 1738 ( 1982 ) .",
    "m. methfessel and a. t. paxton , phys .",
    "b * 40 * , 3616 ( 1989 ) .",
    "g. kresse and j. furthmuller , phys .",
    "b * 54 * , 11169 ( 1996 ) .",
    "p. blaha , k. schwarz , g. k. h. madsen , d. kvasnicka , and j. luitz , _",
    "wien2k , an augmented plane wave + local orbitals program for calculating crystal properties _ , techn .",
    "universitt wien , austria , 2001 .",
    "isbn 3 - 9501031 - 1 - 2 .",
    "d. j. singh and j. ashkenazi , phys .",
    "b * 46 * , 11570 ( 1992 ) .",
    "f. yndurain and l. m. falicov , phys .",
    "* 37 * , 928 ( 1976 ) . v. l. moruzzi , phys .",
    "lett . * 57 * , 2211 ( 1986 ) .",
    "e. huger and k. osuch , europhys .",
    "lett * 63 * , 90 ( 2003 ) . c. kittel .",
    "_ introduction to solid state physics_. john wiley . new york ( 1996 ) .",
    "a. l. vzquez de parga , f. j. garca - vidal , and r. miranda , phys .",
    "lett . * 85 * , 4365 ( 2000 ) .",
    "p. bruno and c. chappert , phys .",
    "67 * , 1602 ( 1991 ) .",
    "o. robach , c. quiros , h. isern , p. steadman , k. f. peters , and s. ferrer , phys .",
    "b * 67 * , 220405 ( 2003 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> careful first - principles density functional calculations reveal the importance of hexagonal versus cubic stacking of closed packed planes of pd as far as local magnetic properties are concerned . </S>",
    "<S> we find that , contrary to the stable face centered cubic phase , which is paramagnetic , the hexagonal close - packed phase of pd is ferromagnetic with a magnetic moment of 0.35  @xmath0/atom . </S>",
    "<S> our results show that two - dimensional defects with local hcp stacking , like twin boundaries and stacking faults , in the otherwise fcc pd structure , increase the magnetic susceptibility . </S>",
    "<S> the ( 111 ) surface also increases the magnetic susceptibility and it becomes ferromagnetic in combination with an individual stacking fault or twin boundary close to it . on the contrary , we find that the ( 100 ) surface decreases the tendency to ferromagnetism . the results are consistent with the magnetic moment recently observed in small pd nanoparticles , with a large surface area and a high concentration of two - dimensional stacking defects . </S>"
  ]
}