{
  "article_text": [
    "the characterization of the process by which proteins fold into their native structures is at the heart of molecular biology .",
    "starting from the pioneering work of anfinsen , several experimental studies in the past decades have provided support for the fact that the knowledge of the mere primary sequence ought to allow the prediction of the native structure for a large class of proteins @xcite .",
    "this conclusion relies on the notion that , under physiological conditions , the native conformation is at a minimum of a multidimensional free - energy landscape @xcite .",
    "furthermore , the fact that several proteins are known to reach the native configuration from a variety of initial configurations has been rationalized in the assumption that , through natural evolution , the free - energy profile around the native minimum is relatively smooth and with a wide basin of attraction in configuration space @xcite .",
    "these facts open , in principle , the possibility to predict the native state of proteins through a numerical simulation of the dynamical evolution of an arbitrary initial ( `` unfolded '' ) conformation .",
    "the feasibility of this scheme would have profound ramifications both from the theoretical and practical point of view .",
    "though there is an ongoing progress in this direction @xcite , present computational techniques and resources are not adequate to follow the folding dynamics of a medium - size protein ( e.g. 100 residues ) in its surrounding solvent for time intervals comparable to the experimental folding times@xcite .",
    "the methodology that we discuss here aims at augmenting the reach of numerical folding dynamics starting from the only knowledge of the protein sequence .",
    "the strategy exploits a two - stage simulation scheme where a protein s dynamical evolution is first followed through a coarse - grained monte carlo ( mc ) conformational search followed by all atom molecular dynamics ( md ) simulations in explicit solvent .",
    "we discuss its application to the villin headpiece ( hp36 ) for which we generate several independent trajectories ( and reach , for the core region , residues 932 , a root mean square deviation ( rmsd ) of 0.24 nm from the closest nmr model@xcite ) .",
    "the interest in the villin headpiece stems from the fact that , despite it consists of only 36 residues , with no cysteines , it is able to fold autonomously and rapidly ( in about 10 @xmath0s @xcite ) . along with other short fast - folding proteins , it has been extensively investigated experimentally with the purpose of elucidating general mechanisms of the folding kinetics that ought to be transferable to longer and more complex proteins . on the other hand villin",
    "also constitutes an ideal reference case for theoretical studies , since its short length and folding rapidity allow to bridge the gap between the time scales addressable by explicit numerical dynamics and those relevant for folding@xcite .    in this respect ,",
    "a notable reference study is constituted by the one of duan and kollman which , starting from an extended villin conformation , followed its evolution for about 1 @xmath0s using the amber force field and explicit solvent@xcite .",
    "it is important to remark that the explicit modeling of water molecules in the simulation introduces a number of atoms that typically greatly exceeds the ones constituting the protein itself and hence is computationally very intensive .",
    "this computational cost is rewarded by the possibility to capture the delicate , but crucial effects of the solvent - protein interactions@xcite .    by relaxing the accuracy of the solvent treatment it is possible to increase the md efficiency .",
    "this approach , which usually entails the `` integration '' of the solvent degrees of freedom in effective inter - atomic potentials has been adopted in several simulation studies .",
    "ferrara and caflisch , for instance , could follow the folding pathway of a three - stranded antiparallel @xmath1-sheet peptide at high temperature with md @xcite .",
    "more recently pande and shirts adopted the implicit solvent approximation in an innovative distributed - computing approach @xcite .",
    "for the case of villin , the numerical speed - up obtained by the simplified solvent treatment allowed to address a total time scale of the order of 1 @xmath0s , distributed across a large number of short trajectories each of about 30 ns . in such short simulations",
    "the choice of the starting protein structures has a profound impact on the possibility to relate the properties of the simulated system to experiments .",
    "this issue has been recently addressed by fersht who discussed the presence of important lag ",
    "phases in all  atom md simulations starting from random or completely extended conformations @xcite .    several methods and techniques have been developed over the years to overcome the time limitations of all - atom md .",
    "a widely - used strategy is to renounce to follow the folding pathway in favor of identifying the conformations of lowest free energy through various optimization techniques including simulated annealing , multicanonical methods , genetic algorithms etc . @xcite .",
    "another commonly employed route is to simplify not only the description of the solvent but also of the protein structure itself .",
    "accordingly , several coarse - grained models have been introduced where the protein is described as a chain of linked beads which interact through suitable effective potentials .",
    "the drastic structural simplification entailed by these models allows to explore a portion of the conformational space vastly larger than in all - atom md .",
    "however , the limitations of both the structural representations and of the energy functions clearly prevent from reproducing the finer features of the folding process .",
    "nevertheless they have proved valuable for capturing and analyzing various general aspects such as the calorimetric cooperativity , the relation between native - state topology and folding rates , the identification of folding nuclei and the modeling of functional motions etc . @xcite    these observations suggested the present approach which combines a coarse - grained monte carlo ( mc )",
    "search with all atom molecular dynamics ( md ) simulations in explicit solvent .",
    "the effect of the coarse - grained part is to simplify the protein s energy landscape so to identify efficiently physically - meaningful starting conformations for the md . after bringing these structures into the realm of all - atom representations ,",
    "explicit solvent md is used to introduce back the fine chemical details which are ultimately responsible for driving the evolution towards the native state .",
    "the link between the two structural representations is a fine - graining algorithm which allows to reconstruct reliably the full atomic detail of the protein using a library of previously generated protein fragments .",
    "the scheme adopted here therefore aims at extending the reach of ordinary md simulations by using simple physico - chemical criteria to identify the marginally - compact starting conformations in which partial formation of secondary and tertiary interactions has taken place .",
    "thus , the approach has a different spirit from that followed in other two - stage approaches , notably the pioneering work of vieth et al .",
    "@xcite and liwo et al .",
    "@xcite , where the fine - graining step was aimed at perturbing or refining the coarse - grained structures which minimized a given energy functional",
    "the simplification of the free - energy landscape operated by the coarse - grained mc approach is achieved through a coarse - graining of the structural degrees of freedom of the protein ; in particular the protein is described in terms of its @xmath2 trace and of the associated @xmath3 centroids .",
    "this schematic description is accompanied by a simplification of the energy functional ( see methods ) which incorporates effective pairwise interactions among amino acids , the local propensity to form secondary motifs and a term favoring the packing of the latter . within this framework ,",
    "the thermodynamics of the hp36 protein can be characterized by means of a mc evolution involving crankshaft and pivot moves .",
    "these moves preserve the length of the effective bonds joining consecutive @xmath2 s ( equal to 3.8 ) .",
    "the average energy and radius of gyration , @xmath4 as a function of temperature of the coarse - grained system are visible in fig .",
    "[ fig : mc ] .    as the temperature of the system",
    "is decreased , the protein undergoes a collapse signaled by the concomitant decrease of both the radius of gyration , @xmath4 , and the average system energy , see fig .",
    "[ fig : mc ] .",
    "the system density of states does not however possess the marked concavity which is distinctive of first - order transitions .",
    "this fact reflects the generality of the coarse - grained energy functional adopted here .",
    "in fact , in order to reproduce in simplified models the typical all - or - none character of folding transitions it is necessary to optimize either the protein sequence or the energy parameters @xcite . in correspondence of the collapse temperature , @xmath5 , the specific heat exhibits a peak which reflects the large energy fluctuations associated to the coexistence of rather open configurations with more globular structures ( see fig . [ fig : mc ] ) .",
    "the latter ones typically possess local secondary elements ( up to 1/3 of the residues are found in helical conformations ) and are further compactified at lower temperatures .",
    "the protein at @xmath5 is thus poised to collapse into compact conformations with non - trivial secondary content .",
    "thus , the structures sampled by the mc algorithm at @xmath5 represent attractive candidates for all - atom md evolution for several reasons : ( 1 ) they possess good secondary content , ( 2 ) they are not unnaturally compact and ( 3 ) the conformational variability at @xmath5 is such that significantly different structures can be picked .",
    "it is also worth to mention that another intuitive strategy would be to start the md runs from the lowest energy states of the coarse - grained model .",
    "however , the resulting structures , once reconstructed with their atomic detail , produced steric clashes among the atoms which could not be removed by e.g. relaxing the reconstructed structure before the actual md run .",
    "accordingly , the lowest - energy conformations of the coarse - grained model were not used as inputs for the all - atom dynamical evolution .",
    "seven uncorrelated conformations were thus chosen from a mc trajectory thermalised at @xmath5 and subject to the fine  graining reconstruction procedure described in material and methods .",
    "the all  atom protein models obtained were first solvated using the spc water model and subjected to minimization in order to remove possible bad steric contacts .",
    "after equilibration , as described in materials and methods ( section molecular dynamics ) each model was evolved with completely unbiased md simulations at 300 @xmath6 based on the gromos96 force field and explicit solvent . to test the viability of the force field at this temperature , and also to produce a term of reference for the other simulations we first followed the dynamical evolution of hp36 for 50 ns starting from the minimized averaged nmr model of the pdb structure 1vii .",
    "the evolution shows a marked stability of @xmath4 and of the overall protein structure .",
    "the average rmsd of the core region ( residues 9 to 32 ) was about 0.2 nm , while for the whole protein was 0.3 nm , consistently with the high core stability already pointed out by duan and kollman ( see figure  [ native ] ) @xcite . in accord with this study and more recent ones  @xcite , the dynamical evolution appears to entail a substantial movement of the helix at the n terminal which is responsible for the rmsd increase in the last 7 ns of the trajectory .    for reasons of brevity , of the seven simulations ( f1 , f2 , ... f7 ) carried out starting from the reconstructed mc conformations",
    "we shall typically concentrate on four of them : f1 , f3 , f4 and f7 , which exemplify the variety of observed dynamical behavior .    to summarize and illustrate the system dynamics we report the time evolution of several quantities including the radius of gyration , the rmsd from the native state .",
    "several clues about the dynamical behavior are further obtained by inspecting the evolution of helical content in the protein ( measured by means of the dssp criterion ) . in this context ,",
    "when referring to the native helical content , we shall follow the notation of duan and kollman and denote with h1 , h2 and h3 the regions involving residues 48 , 1518 and 2330 , respectively . as a further characterization of the degree of nativeness we have also calculated , at various stages of the simulation , the length of the largest protein segment(s ) whose rmsd from the native state is lower than 0.25 nm ( see fig . [",
    "fig : window ] ) . this cutoff distance was chosen because it represents an upper limit for the structural heterogeneity observed among conformations compatible with the experimental indications .",
    "in fact , within this threshold nearly all the nmr models are compatible with each other ( while the maximum rmsd deviation between the reference structure of the 1vii pdb entry and any other nmr models is 2.1  ) .    as visible in fig .",
    "[ f1 ] the structure evolving in simulation f1 , after a short equilibration time , undergoes a rapid compaction as shown by the decrease of @xmath4 from an initial value of 1.2 nm to about the native one , @xmath7 nm .",
    "the collapse in f1 is not only rapid , but also ordered and productive of tertiary structures yielding a core rmsd of 0.27 nm from the minimized average nmr determined structure ( fig .",
    "[ f1 ] lower panel ) .",
    "the number of consecutive residues whose rmsd is less than 0.25 nm from the nmr determined structure is stable around 22 residues , that is about 60% of the whole structure ( fig .",
    "[ fig : window ] ) .",
    "the helical content corresponding to segments h2 and h3 is well conserved during the simulation time ( fig .",
    "[ dssp ] ) .",
    "the flexibility of the n - terminal region prevents the formation of an optimal helical geometry of the h1 segment .",
    "the rmsd value of the whole sequence with respect to the nmr determined structure stabilizes at values around 0.40 nm .",
    "the minimum rmsd value calculated over the whole ensemble of 29 model structures respecting the whole set of nmr restraints is as low as 0.23 nm for the core region and 0.35 nm for the whole protein .",
    "the starting structures of the other simulations were substantially more compact than f1 with @xmath4 values of about 1 nm ( see fig  [ f3f7 ] ) .",
    "the selected structures typically display a non - negligible content of secondary structure , as visible in fig .",
    "the inspection of overall native similarity parameters , such as the rmsd , shows that a number of these runs does not exhibit , within the simulated time span , any trend of systematic approach of the native structure or native basin ( fig  [ f3f7 ] ) .",
    "trajectory f3 displays a particularly interesting behavior .",
    "the dssp analysis reveals that helices h1 , h2 and h3 are correctly formed ( fig .",
    "[ dssp ] ) . however , within the simulated time span the trajectory is not approaching the native conformation since the rmsd from the native state stabilizes around 0.6 nm ( fig  [ f3f7 ] , black line ) . the secondary elements ,",
    "while formed in the correct native helical regions , assemble in a non - native geometry mainly due to the formation of a stable hydrophobic core involving phe11 , leu21 , trp24 and leu29 .",
    "a markedly different behavior is recorded in e.g. run f4 where ( 1 ) the initial native similarity is acceptable , the core rmsd core being @xmath8 nm ( fig  [ f3f7 ] ) , ( 2 ) there is a good helical content in h1 and h3 and ( 3 ) there are stretches of more than ten consecutive residues below the rmsd threshold of 0.25 nm .",
    "this initially promisingly similarity is , however , rapidly lost in a few ns of dynamical evolution , eventually leading to negligible helical content and overall native similarity .",
    "interestingly , the loss of native structure content is paralleled by the formation of a turn conformation involving residues 810 and the paring of @xmath9like structures involving residues 27 and 1015 .",
    "the tendency of the same segments to form @xmath9 structures is further observed on trajectories starting from conformations without significant helical content .",
    "this effect is here exemplified by run f7 ( see figs . [ f3f7]-[representative ] ) .    in summary , on the simulated time - scales , all  atom md runs starting from different selected structures display rather different behaviors depending on the initial degree of compactness and native helical content .",
    "in particular , the rapid progress towards the native villin structure was observed in the case where the starting conformation was not too compact and with good helical content in regions h2 and h3 . on the other hand , if the initial structure is rather compact and poor in helical content then hydrophobic clusters are likely to form since they lead to a rapid lowering of the protein internal energy .",
    "interestingly , the latter remains higher than the one achieved in f1 or in the protein native state .",
    "in fact , the average internal energy of runs f2f7 is in the range [ -1078,-1021 ] kj / mol while for run f1 and the native structure we observe -1109 and -1094 kj / mol , respectively .",
    "moreover , the `` eager '' energy gain brought about by the hydrophobic clusters leads to structures with several non - native long - range contacts ( in terms of the sequence separation ) .",
    "this fact implies that a further progress towards the native state requires major structural rearrangements .    besides the native trajectory",
    ", we have considered another reference case constituted by runs started from fully extended conformation of hp36 ( fig .  [ extended ] ) .",
    "these runs are important to check the possibility to reach states with some degree of nativeness from completely open conformations . in all the cases",
    "examined , the extended structures rapidly collapse from the all  extended conformation to compact ones in which no secondary or tertiary structure ordering occurs on the same md time scales of trajectories f1-f7 .",
    "these runs were stopped after 20 ns since md at 300 k is unable to induce the conformational changes necessary to break the compact and disordered globular structures obtained , and because the number of required water molecules made computation extremely slow . in all the simulations ,",
    "the structures become more compact because of solvent exclusion from the contact with hydrophobic side  chains .",
    "this sort of hydrophobic collapse , at least in the time spans analyzed here , is not enough to bring about the ordering of local structures needed to move in the proximity of the native basin .",
    "the present study aims at improving the reach of ordinary md folding simulations by recoursing to a preliminary , simplified , monte carlo exploration of the free - energy landscape .",
    "if the free - energy landscape associated to the simplified mc dynamics retained all the relevant features of the true one , we could expect that the all - atom md simulations started from the sampled conformations are expected to have significant advantages over , e.g. those starting from fully extended protein configurations which can be affected by significant lag - phases@xcite .",
    "the advantage could , however , be more conspicuous if the mc procedure allowed to pick structures from the protein transition state ensemble , in which case the all - atom dynamics would progress towards the native ensemble in a time scale much shorter than the protein typical folding time .    thus , the expectation is that the two - stage mc ",
    "md trajectories are `` time - advanced '' with respect to those started , e.g. from extended or other subjectively - chosen conformations .",
    "the quantification of the expected time - advancement would be transparent and straightforward if the folding process could be characterized in terms of one ( or more ) reaction coordinates .",
    "all the natural and intuitive order - parameters ( such as @xmath4 , rmsd , buried hydrophobic surface etc . )",
    "however appear inadequate to this scope due to their wide degree of fluctuation already observed by duan and kollman ( and found also in the present study ) at all stages of their 1@xmath0s - long folding trajectory .",
    "therefore , the benefits of the present strategy can be ascertained only through the comparison of the degree of order and `` nativeness '' of the explored trajectories compared to that achievable by e.g. starting from extended conformations .",
    "therefore , we first discuss the reference cases constituted by the runs carried out starting from the native structure and from extended conformations . over the simulated time scale ,",
    "the native run appears to be very stable , the only appreciable structural changes involving the mobile regions outside the protein core .",
    "we have monitored the stability of the local and non - local native contacts .",
    "two amino acids are said to be in contact if the spatial separation of their @xmath2 s is below 7.5  .",
    "we classify as local contacts those involving residues at a sequence separation equal to three or four ( i.e. we omit from the count the non - informative contribution of separation 1 or 2 ) .",
    "the native structure possesses 52 distinct local contacts , while the non - local ones , pertaining to sequence separation greater than 5 are 13 . in the native run the fraction of local native contacts maintained during the simulation",
    "has the nearly constant value of @xmath10 .",
    "the non - local one , @xmath11 instead , due to the mobility of the n - terminus , oscillates between 0.55 and 0.75 .",
    "the overall rmsd from the native structure remains low and compatible with what found in ref .",
    ", despite the use of a different force - field .",
    "the high rmsd observed in runs started from the extended structures are obviously reflected in low values for both @xmath12 and @xmath11 . in particular , @xmath12 typically fluctuates between 0.2 and 0.3 , while @xmath11 , is practically zero .",
    "this does not imply that long - range contacts are absent . on the contrary , as mentioned in the results section , all extended runs evolve rapidly towards globular conformations , and hence with non - local contacts , with formed hydrophobic clusters ( different across the runs ) .",
    "+ the coarse - grained structures sampled at the collapse temperature , @xmath5 , have various degree of compactness with @xmath4 ranging between 8 and 13  . as a consequence",
    "the sampled conformations have a good degree of structural heterogeneity , since the average rmsd between any pair of these structures is 5.9 @xmath13 1.2  , while the typical rmsd against the core of the villin headpiece is 7.1 @xmath13 1  .",
    "out of these ensemble ten structures were randomly selected ; since their mutual rmsd was not inferior to 6 they represent well the structural diversity encountered at @xmath5 . after the reconstruction and energy - minimization procedure",
    "these structures were used as inputs for the md runs .",
    "all these starting conformations had a degree of local native similarity substantially higher than what achieved in the extended runs , as summarized in table [ mdtable ] .",
    "the observed degree of native similarity is not the result of a `` blind '' , featureless , compactification , but reflects the fact that the coarse - grained model indeed captures some of the physico - chemical forces that govern the folding process . to ascertain this",
    "we have applied the same mc scheme on a sequence obtained by a random reshuffling of the villin one . despite the preservation of the native composition , which must reflect in an overall bias towards local helical conformations ,",
    "the native similarity at @xmath5 in this second situation is appreciably different .",
    "in fact , the average values of @xmath12 and @xmath11 are 0.25 and 0.08 , respectively , while the average rmsd against the protein core is 8.2  .    on the contrary , @xmath12 ranged from 0.3 , for f6 , to more than 0.6 , for cases f1 and",
    "f3 which had partially - formed helices in the correct regions . in these two runs , the initially good local similarity is further improved in about 10 ns of evolution , reaching @xmath14 . as pointed out in the results section , despite the presence of well - formed helices the tertiary organization found in the two runs",
    "is distinctly different .",
    "this is reflected by @xmath11 which starts from a negligible value in both cases and reaches again in about 10 ns of evolution the excellent peak value of 0.75 for f1 ( and then stabilizing to 0.7 ) , while it remains virtually zero for the whole f3 run .",
    "the case of two trajectories containing structures with high native local content but markedly different non - local one provides an appealing illustration of the role played by the interplay of local and non - local interactions for steering the folding process . in fact , the establishment of the correctly - formed non - local contacts appears to be crucial for providing the necessary stability to maintain both the native secondary and tertiary organization .",
    "in fact , after the first 10 ns of dynamical evolution , both @xmath12 and @xmath11 settle to the stable values of 0.7 and 0.45 , respectively . on the contrary , due to the lack of a native ( correct ) non - local scaffolding",
    "the secondary content in simulation f3 is steadily degraded , dropping from 0.8 to 0.5 , in the subsequent evolution .",
    "a similar erosion of the native local similarity is further encountered for simulation f4 .",
    "the starting value of @xmath15 which falls to values of about 0.25 due to the lack of a substantial native non - local network of interaction ( the typical value of @xmath11 being about 0.3 ) .",
    "the evolution of trajectory f7 is , among all those started from mc - sampled configurations , the one that has the worst performance , since the average value of @xmath12 is only about 0.3 while @xmath11 is negligible .    the analysis of several dynamical parameters and the inspection of structures sampled from the md runs shows that there are several mechanisms responsible for thwarting the dynamics towards states with low native similarity . for trajectory f3 ,",
    "the inability to attain the correct helical packing is due to the formation of a hydrophobic cluster involving phe11 , leu21 , trp24 and leu29 which traps the system and prevents its further evolution on the simulated time - scale .",
    "the cases of the other trajectories that , on the simulated time scale , do not evolve towards the native basin is somewhat different from the previous one .",
    "it appears that a systematic mechanism that opposes and destabilizes the formation or packing of the native helices in the native fold is the tendency to form @xmath9-sheets . in fact , concomitant with the disruption of helical content ( especially of the `` frail '' h1 helical region ) we have observed the systematic appearance of extended regions ( strands ) in the protein .",
    "this is visible , for example , in fig .",
    "[ dssp ] and  [ representative ] where the existence of extended conformations as well as their stability under subsequent dynamical evolution is evident . a more precise insight in the mechanism leading to @xmath9-sheets",
    "is obtained by examining the sequences of the residues taking part into the strands .",
    "both sequence 27 and 1015 contain hydrophobic residues such as phe7 , phe11 , met 13 and val10 .",
    "these residues have unfavorable interactions with water , and one mechanism to minimize the contact is the packing of hydrophobic side  chains in adjacent extended regions of @xmath9-structure .    moreover , the short stretch of the three native helical segments , is such that each individual helix is not expected , on the basis of helix - coil transition models , to be stable on its own but ought to rely on additional mid- and long - range interactions in terms of sequence separation .",
    "the importance of optimal mid- and long - range has been recently verified experimentally by raleigh and coworkers  @xcite .",
    "these authors systematically studied through cd and nmr spectroscopy peptides spanning different regions of hp36 , and showed that only when tertiary interactions are present in a sequence comprising at least two helices , a significant amount of ordered structure is present .    in this picture ,",
    "a generic hydrophobic collapse is thus not enough to determine the onset of a sufficient number of native  like interactions necessary for driving the system in proximity of the native basin .",
    "a different kind of structural organization appears to be required , based on the harmonious interplay of non - local interactions with the local ones favoring helical conformations @xcite .",
    "this picture is consistent with the topomer search mechanism which assumes that the rapid progress towards the native state is possible only after the establishment , in a diffusive conformational search , of a minimal set of contacts embodying the main traits of a protein native topology @xcite . in this scheme a paramount role",
    "is played by mid - range interactions @xcite .",
    "the emphasis here is that , for the case of the villin headpiece , the structures leading to this correct interplay of short and long - range contacts can be generated through a preliminary stochastic search of the simplified free - energy landscape .",
    "all - atom and explicit - solvent md runs starting from these configurations present significant advantages over the traditional choice of extended conformations .",
    "in fact , the regions in structure - space visited by the seven trajectories considered here are on average much closer to the native basin than for extended runs .",
    "not only there is a benefit in terms of the quality and variety of the trajectories , but there is a further advantage in terms of computational expenditure .",
    "in fact , the necessity to take explicitly into account the solvent during the simulation  @xcite , implies that a very large number of water molecules need to be considered in the simulation cell enclosing extended starting simulations .",
    "though this number can be decreased as the protein compactifies , it impacts severely on the total simulation time so that reaching the same - simulation time of e.g. 20 ns each extended run typically requires a sixfold cpu increase over cases f1-f7 .",
    "the validity and power of the method discuss here is revealed not only by the typical improvement of the two - stage runs against the extended case , but especially by the ability to reach and maintain the villin hp36 core during simulation f1 .",
    "this success reflects the viability of both the starting structure picked by the mc search and of the md force field .",
    "in fact , as visible in fig .",
    "[ f1 ] the f1 starting structure is not similar to the native state but it presents the possibility of rapidly evolving towards it due to the presence of two partial native helices in an overall non - compact conformation .",
    "it is the action of the force - field that makes this progression possible ( of course after the reconstruction of the atom detail from the coarse model ) .",
    "the representative structure of run f1 ( determined through the application of the structural clustering method described by daura and coworkers  @xcite ) has an rmsd over the core region of 0.27 nm from the minimized average nmr structure , and a minimum of only 0.24 nm over the whole set of 29 nmr models .",
    "this represents an improvement over the landmark result of duan and kollman @xcite who obtained an rmsd of 0.4 nm with a threefold increase of simulation time .",
    "the significance of the degree of nativeness obtained here for the hp36 core is highlighted by two facts .",
    "first , the core rmsd is smaller that typical thresholds used to define a successfully - folded conformation in similar contexts ( and for analogous lengths)@xcite . secondly , it should be borne in mind that the 29 nmr models of the villin headpiece have a non - negligible degree of structural heterogeneity among themselves ( up to nearly 3  ) , with the maximum rmsd difference between the minimized average nmr structure ( pdb code 1vii ) and any other model being 0.21 nm .    to summarize ,",
    "we have followed the all - atom dynamical evolution of the villin headpiece starting from several configurations obtained by a coarse exploration of the system energy landscape .",
    "the seven simulated trajectories included a notable instance where a correctly - folded configuration of the protein core was reached and maintained .",
    "furthermore , the significant secondary content and organization found in all starting structures resulted in interesting dynamical evolutions that , even when not progressing towards the folded state , convey valuable information on the folding process , as the trapping mechanism associated with the formation of contacting strands .",
    "the protocol used here has been kept as general and unbiased as possible and may be further extended e.g. at the level of the coarse - grained model and/or of the selection criteria of the starting structures .",
    "therefore , the proposed strategy ought to be applicable to other instances of short proteins with significant advantages over the use of extended structures as the default unbiased starting point of all - atom dynamical simulations with explicit solvent .",
    "every all  atom molecular dynamics experiment was run using the same simulation protocol and conditions . in the simulations starting from the nmr ,",
    "completely extended and reconstructed conformations derived from the preliminary mc analysis ( runs f1 to f7 ) , all basic nh@xmath16 groups were considered protonated while all the acidic coo@xmath17 groups were considered deprotonated .",
    "these conditions resulted in a total charge of @xmath18 on the protein .",
    "the protein in each simulation was solvated with explicit water molecules in a period octahedral box large enough to contain the protein and @xmath19 nm of solvent on all sides . the simple point charge ( spc )  @xcite water model was used to simulate the solvent .",
    "electroneutrality of the system was ensured by the addition of two negatively charged chloride ions .",
    "table  [ mdtable ] reports the number of water molecules in each simulation .",
    "the same equilibration protocol was used in all simulation : +    1 . : :    each system was initially energy minimized with a steepest descent    method for @xmath20 steps .",
    "the calculation of    electrostatic forces utilized the pme implementation of the ewald    summation method  @xcite .",
    "the gromos96 force field  @xcite was    used .",
    "2 . : :    to release excess strain in simulations f1f7 due to possible    artifacts in the reconstruction procedure , three sequential md runs of    @xmath21  ps each with position restraints on the protein ,    backbone and sidechains , respectively . in the first ,",
    "the protein atoms    were kept fixed with the solvent molecules free to move . in the    subsequent run , the backbone of the protein was kept fixed with both    the sidechains and solvent free to move in md . in the third and final    simulation ,",
    "the sidechains were kept fixed , while the backbone and    solvent atoms were allowed to move .",
    "3 . : :    after these first relaxation steps , each system was heated to 300k by    @xmath22  ps of md simulation under npt conditions , with no    restraints , by weak coupling to a bath of constant pressure    ( p@xmath23 bar , coupling time    @xmath24 ps )  @xcite .",
    ":    each of the systems was then equilibrated by @xmath21 ps of    unrestrained md with coupling to an external temperature bath  @xcite    with coupling constant of @xmath25  ps .",
    "5 . : :    the production runs at 300k , using npt conditions were    @xmath26 ns long in the case of the simulation starting from    the nmr determined structure 1vii.pdb and simulations f1 to f7 .",
    "due to    the extremely high number of explicit water molecules , the three    independent md simulations starting from the totally extended    conformation were run for 20 ns . in",
    "all production runs , the    temperature was maintained close to the intended values , by weak    coupling to an external temperature bath  @xcite with a coupling    constant of @xmath25  ps .",
    "the protein and the rest of the    system were coupled separately to the temperature bath .",
    "the lincs    algorithm  @xcite was used to constrain all bond lengths . for the    water molecules",
    "the settle algorithm  @xcite was used .",
    "a dielectric    permittivity , @xmath27 , and a time step of @xmath28  fs were used .",
    "all    atoms were given an initial velocity obtained from a maxwellian    distribution at the desired initial temperature of 300k .",
    "all the minimization , md runs and analysis of the trajectories were performed using the gromacs software package .",
    "@xcite the graphical representations of the protein were realized with the program molmol  @xcite .",
    ".summary of the main feature of the various md runs number of solvent particles in each of the simulations . for trajectories",
    "f1-f7 are also provided the fraction of local and non - local native contacts at the beginning of the md run , as well as the initial rmsd over the core of the protein ( residues 9 - 32 ) . [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]      a test on an independent set of proteins has shown that a useful criterion to identify putative helical fragments is to require that @xmath29 and @xmath30 .",
    "these inequalities ensure that about 50 % of helical fragments are correctly recognized , while the probability that an extended fragment is mistakenly labeled as helical is about 10% .",
    "each putative helical fragment is biased towards occupying the helical region of the @xmath31 plane through the following potential term :      the values of @xmath33 and @xmath34 are set to 0.1 and 0.3 , respectively to reflect the spread observed in the @xmath35 distribution of helical fragments .",
    "these potential biases are accumulated in the energy term @xmath36 :      where the sum runs over all putative helical fragments of four residues and the amplitude coefficient , @xmath38 , is equal to 3.0 .",
    "this value was chosen after applying the mc sampling strategy to various short proteins ( from about 30 to 50 residues ) belonging to different structural families , ( pdb codes 1aie , 1ajj , 1ppt , 1ptq , 2erl ) .",
    "we stress again that , in our scheme , we have not found the necessity to add any bias towards extended conformations for local sequences that were not putatively helical .",
    "indeed , for @xmath9 proteins of length comparable to the villin headpiece ( e.g. 1eit , 1pmc ) virtually no residues can be found in helical conformations at all mc temperatures .",
    "finally , the mc exploration was performed starting from extended conformations at high @xmath39 and then gradually lowering the temperature as in traditional simulated annealing schemes .",
    "for @xmath40 the formation of secondary structures occurred at about the collapse temperature ( i.e. the temperature where a rapid decrease of the radius of gyration occurs ) .",
    "in this situation , the presence of secondary structures results from a physically - appealing similar interplay of the sequence - dependent chiral bias and of the more complicated energy terms .",
    "+ in essence , the present hamiltonian embodies the main ingredients that are regarded as crucial in coarse - grained approaches to protein folding , namely pairwise interactions , local biases for backbone chirality and cooperative interactions to promote the packing of secondary motifs .",
    "therefore , the interesting and rich md evolution of the reconstructed coarse - grained structures is indicative that the two - stage scheme can be profitably used under quite general conditions , and not the necessity to use the present coarse - grained energy functional . in particular a foreseable improvement to the present hamiltonian",
    "would be to substitute the cooperative term by a suitable modeling of main - chain hydrogen bonds .",
    "this has , in fact , proved to be an important ingredient to aid the formation of beta - sheets structures in globular proteins @xcite .",
    "as explained above , all the protein conformations generated through the monte carlo procedure have a simplified structural representation essentially described by the @xmath2 degrees of freedom .",
    "these coarse - grained structures need to be reconstructed with all the atomic detail before they can be processed in ordinary all - atom molecular dynamics schemes .",
    "the problem of reconstructing reliably a protein s atomic detail starting from a coarse - grained representation has been addressed previously .",
    "several studies have appeared which address the problem of reconstructing , with full atomic detail , a protein s backbone and/or sidechains starting from very limited structural informations @xcite . in the present study",
    "we have developed a novel knowledge - based strategy that is simple and whose accuracy is not inferior to more sophisticated techniques .",
    "we now illustrate this reconstruction scheme . for reasons of space",
    "our description will be complete , but schematic ; a more detailed presentation of the method and its performance will be published in the future .",
    "the algorithm that reconstructs the full atomic detail of a given @xmath2 trace is based on the use of a library of protein fragments built from about 100 nmr gapless structures taken from the pdbselect list@xcite .",
    "these structures were parsed into template fragments of four consecutive residues retaining the whole atomic detail of the mainchain and of the sidechains of the middle residues . for each set of four consecutive @xmath2 s in the @xmath2 trace",
    "one finds the best superimposable fragment in the library and assigns the central peptide plane to the protein to be reconstructed after an optimal roto - translation @xcite ; the first and last peptide planes are treated separately .",
    "finally , the sidechain of any given residue , @xmath41 , is obtained by first considering only the set of template fragments where one of the middle residues , @xmath42 , is of the same type as @xmath41 .",
    "next , after aligning ( in sequence ) @xmath41 and @xmath42 , the sidechain of @xmath41 is assigned ( again after an optimal roto - translation ) from the fragment providing the best superposition with the reconstructed backbone .    in fig .",
    "[ fig : reconstruction ] we have reported the distribution for the errors in the reconstruction of known protein structures .",
    "it appears that 70 % of the heavy atoms are placed within 1   of the crystallographic positions ( and 62 % within only 0.5  ) .",
    "although the typical performance is very satisfactory , it is worth pointing out that , as for other methods , a wrong placement of ramified sidechains can occasionally give rise to large deviations from the correct positions ( see the tail of the error distribution in fig .",
    "[ fig : reconstruction ] ) .",
    "large deviations may also be encountered in correspondence of charged residues , whose sidechain orientation is heavily influenced by the local electrostatic ( obviously not captured in our simple reconstruction scheme ) .",
    "this is , however , a minor problem in this context , since the reconstructed structure is solvated , energy - minimized and equilibrated before starting the md run .",
    "wang , m. , y.tang , s.sato , vugmeyster , l. , mcknight , c. , and raleigh , d. dynamic nmr line - shape analysis demonstrates that the villin headpiece subdomain folds on the microsecond time scale .",
    "chem . soc .",
    "125:6032 6033 , 2003 .",
    "ripoll , d.  r. , vila , j.  a. , and scheraga , h.  a. folding of the villin headpiece subdomain from random structures .",
    "analysis of the charge distribution as a function of ph .",
    "biol . 339:915925 , 2004 .",
    "paci , e. , cavalli , a. , vendruscolo , m. , and caflisch , a. analysis of the distributed computing approach applied to the folding of a small beta peptide .",
    "usa 100(14):82178222 , 2003 .",
    "clementi , c. , nymeyer , h. , and onuchic , j.  n. topological and energetic factors : what determines the structural details of the transition state ensemble and en - route intermediates for protein folding ?",
    "an investigation for small globular proteins .",
    "298:937953 , 2000 .",
    "bahar , i. , erman , b. , jernigan , r.  l. , atilgan , a.  r. , and covell , d.  g. collective motions in hiv-1 reverse transcriptase : examination of flexibility and enzyme function .",
    "biol . 285:10231037 , 1999 .",
    "liwo , a. , pincus , m. , wawak , r. , rackowsky , s. , and scheraga , h. prediction of protein conformation on the basis of a search for compact structures ; test on avian pancreatic polypeptide .",
    "sci . 2:17151731 , 1993 .",
    "tang , y. , rigotti , d.  j. , fairman , r. , and raleigh , d.  p. peptide models provide evidence for significant structure in the denatured state of a rapidly folding protein : the villin headpiece subdomain .",
    "biochemistry 43:32643272 , 2004 .                    , w.  f. , billeter , s.  r. , eising , a.  a. , hnenberger , p.  h. , krger , p. , mark , a.  e. , scott , w. r.  p. , and tironi , i.  g. biomolecular simulation : the gromos96 manual and user guide .",
    "vdf hochschulverlag , eth zrich , switzerland , , 1996 .            , d. , van drunen , r. , and berendsen , h. j.  c. groningen machine for chemical simulations . department of biophysical chemistry , bioson research institute , nijenborgh 4 nl-9717 ag groningen , , 1994 .",
    "e - mail to gromacs@chem.rug.nl .",
    "kolinsky , a. , godzik , a. , and skolnick , j. a general method for the prediction of the three dimensional structure and folding pathway of globular proteins : application to designed helical proteins .",
    "j. chem . phys . 98:74207433 , 1993 .",
    "holm , l. and sander , c. database algorithm for generating protein backbone and side - chain co - ordinates from a @xmath44 trace .",
    "application to model building and detection of co - ordinate errors .",
    "218:183194 , 1991 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the folding mechanism of the villin headpiece ( hp36 ) is studied by means of a novel approach which entails an initial coarse - grained monte carlo ( mc ) scheme followed by all - atom molecular dynamics ( md ) simulations in explicit solvent . </S>",
    "<S> the mc evolution occurs in a simplified free - energy landscape and allows an efficient selection of marginally - compact structures which are taken as viable initial conformations for the md . </S>",
    "<S> the coarse - grained mc structural representation is connected to the one with atomic resolution through a `` fine  graining '' reconstruction algorithm . </S>",
    "<S> this two - stage strategy is used to select and follow the dynamics of seven different unrelated conformations of hp36 . in a notable case </S>",
    "<S> the md trajectory rapidly evolves towards the folded state , yielding a typical rms deviation of the core region of only 2.4  from the closest nmr model ( the typical rmsd over the whole structure being 4.0 ) . </S>",
    "<S> the analysis of the various mc - md trajectories provides valuable insight into the details of the folding and mis - folding mechanisms and particularly about the delicate influence of local and non - local interactions in steering the folding process . </S>"
  ]
}