{
  "article_text": [
    "it is well known that even small changes in the composition of cell membranes can strongly affect the functioning of intrinsic membrane proteins , such as ion and water channels , which regulate the chemical and physical balance in cells  @xcite .",
    "such changes may occur due to the introduction of short - chain alcohols , or other anaesthetics , at membrane surfaces .",
    "although anaesthetics are being used every single day in hospitals around the world , the molecular level mechanisms of general anaesthesia remain elusive , see e.g.  @xcite .",
    "the same applies to the effect of alcohols on biological systems .",
    "@xcite provides a good review of the topic .",
    "another aspect to the effect of alcohols appears in a more applied context . in the process of producing alcoholic beverages , wine in particular ,",
    "yeasts like _ saccharomyces cervisiae _ have to sustain high ethanol concentrations without losing their viability .",
    "however , in about @xmath2 of all wine fermentations the industry encounters so - called stuck fermentations  @xcite .",
    "there is no satisfactory understanding of this effect .",
    "some models propose that an effect very similar to general anaesthesia is responsible for rendering the yeast cells dormant  @xcite .",
    "it has been suggested that high alcohol concentrations change the membrane structure and force transmembrane proteins into unfavourable conformations . in these conformations proteins",
    "can not fulfil their functions and thus the yield drops dramatically .",
    "in addition to the above aspects , there are other important issues as well .",
    "in particular , in cellular systems such as bacteria and yeast , the toxicity of ethanol has been suggested to be due to its interaction with membranes  @xcite and the consequent general effects such as changes in mechanical properties , permeability and diffusion .",
    "changes in such generic membrane properties may affect the functions of proteins and binding sites due to changes in lateral pressure  @xcite , or , if the membrane becomes more permeable , changes in the electrostatic potential may affect signalling .",
    "these effects are not to be mixed up with the toxicity due to metabolic products such as acetaldehyde from consumption of ethanol  the cause of poisoning commonly known as hangover .",
    "we concentrate on the effects of ethanol and methanol on structural properties of membranes .",
    "it is quite surprising that despite a vast number of clinical and biochemical studies , there has been very few computational investigations of the effect of short - chain alcohols , or other anaesthetics , on membranes .",
    "the only simulational studies of bilayers and ethanol are , to the authors knowledge , the one by @xcite who used molecular dynamics simulations of ethanol and popc ( palmitoyloleoylphosphatidylcholine ) lipid bilayers and nmr to study the molecular level interactions in these systems , and the article by @xcite discussing alcohol ",
    "membrane systems briefly .",
    "direct comparison of our results with feller  et  al .",
    "is not meaningful since their study was performed using a different ensemble close to the gel state at @xmath3 whereas here we are in the biologically relevant fluid phase at @xmath0 . for methanol  bilayer systems there exists to the authors knowledge only one computational article  @xcite .    for anaesthetics",
    "the situation is slightly better . @xcite",
    "used molecular dynamics simulations to study molecular level mechanisms of general anaesthesia using halothane as a specific anaesthetic .",
    "they concluded that the global effects of anaesthetics , i.e. , due to generic interaction mechanisms , are important and lead to modulations in the functions of channels and/or proteins .",
    "these conclusions are also supported by the fact that the same anaesthetics are effective for humans and a variety of animals .",
    "similar conclusions for halothane interactions with bilayers have been pointed out by @xcite .",
    "the importance of generic effects has also been indicated in recent experimental studies of the effect of ethanol on _ oenococcus oeni _",
    "cells  @xcite .",
    "although the shortage of simulational studies may be due to the high computational demands of these systems , it is still surprising since computer simulations can provide detailed information about fundamental molecular level mechanisms .    in this article",
    "we study the effect of two short - chain alcohols , ethanol and methanol , on two different lipid membranes consisting of either pure dppc ( dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine ) or popc .",
    "methanol is a small solute having a single hydrophilic hydroxyl group whereas ethanol possesses an additional hydrophobic carboxyl group .",
    "dppc and popc share the same headgroup but one of the tails of popc has a double bond and is two carbon atoms longer , whereas dppc has only single bonds in its chains , see fig .",
    "[ figchemie ] .",
    "we have studied these systems under fully hydrated conditions using microscopic molecular dynamics .",
    "@xmath4 trajectories for each of the four combinations of lipid and alcohol allow us to gather high statistical accuracy .",
    "phospholipid bilayers can be considered as a first approximation to understand the behaviour of cell membranes under the influence of alcohol , and much information can be extracted from such systems .",
    "the simulations show that ethanol is able to pass through the bilayer much more easily than methanol .",
    "this can be explained by the hydrophobic nature of the carbon `` tail '' of ethanol , making passing through the hydrophobic tail regions of lipid bilayers easier .",
    "in addition , ethanol molecules condense near the interface region between lipids and the surrounding water , i.e. , there is a sharply increased density of ethanol near the interface region , while for methanol only a moderate increase of the density is seen near the interface region .",
    "these effects are very pronounced for dppc bilayers , and only slightly weaker for popc bilayers .",
    "this has far reaching implications for the basic properties of bilayers .",
    "the rest of this article is organised as follows . in the next section",
    "we describe the model and the simulation details . then , in sec",
    ".  [ secresults ] , we present the results from the simulations .",
    "section  [ secdiscussion ] contains a discussion and conclusions .",
    "we have simulated lipid bilayer systems consisting of either 128 dppc or 128 popc molecules ( i.e. , 64 lipids in each leaflet ) . for the lipids we used a previously validated united atom model  @xcite .",
    "the dppc simulations are based on the final structure of a @xmath5 run of a dppc bilayer that is fully hydrated by 3655 water molecules .",
    "the configuration is available online .",
    "the simulations by @xcite were run using the same parameters as here ( details below ) , and the @xmath5 run used in this study is a continuation of a @xmath4 study  @xcite . for the popc simulations , such an initial structure had to be generated first .",
    "we started with a fully hydrated popc bilayer  @xcite and simulated it for @xmath6 .",
    "the final structure of that simulation run was used as a starting point for the popc simulations reported here .    in order to add the alcohol molecules ,",
    "the simulation box was first extended in @xmath7-direction such that an empty volume was created .",
    "a total of @xmath8 ethanol ( methanol ) molecules were randomly inserted in the empty volume , and the remaining space was filled with water .",
    "the total number of water molecules then amounted to 8958 for the dppc systems and 8948 for the popc systems , or , in other words , 1 mol% alcohol on a lipid free basis .",
    "the small difference between dppc and popc systems is due to the different lateral extensions of the bilayers .",
    "the force field parameters for bonded and non - bonded interaction were taken from @xcite , available online .",
    "partial charges were taken from  @xcite , available online for both dppc   and popc  . as is seen in the chemical structures in fig .",
    "[ figchemie ] , dppc and popc are identical up to a single pair of ch - groups , connected by a double bond instead of a single bond in the",
    "_ sn_2 chain of popc , and the two additional ch@xmath9 groups at the end of that chain .",
    "this similarity is reflected in the force fields , which are identical up to the modelling of the four affected atoms .",
    "ethanol and methanol were modelled using the gromacs force field parameters  @xcite which are identical with the exception of the added ch@xmath9 group for ethanol .",
    "thus , differences observed between the two lipids or the two alcohols do not originate from differences in their respective force field parameterisations but are due to the physics and/or chemistry of those components . for water the simple point charge ( spc ) model  @xcite was used .",
    "the simulations were performed with the gromacs package  @xcite .",
    "the lipids , water molecules and alcohols were separately coupled to a heat bath at temperature @xmath10 using the berendsen thermostat  @xcite with a coupling time constant of @xmath11 .",
    "all the bond lengths were constrained to their equilibrium values by the lincs algorithm  @xcite .",
    "pressure was controlled using the berendsen barostat  @xcite with a time constant of @xmath12 .",
    "the pressure coupling was used semi - isotropically such that height of the box ( @xmath7 direction ) and the cross sectional area ( @xmath13-plane ) were allowed to vary independently of each other .",
    "lennard - jones interactions were cut off at a distance of @xmath14 and the time step was set to @xmath15 .",
    "long - range electrostatics were updated every 10-th time step [ the twin - range scheme  @xcite was used ] , and handled by the particle - mesh ewald ( pme ) algorithm  @xcite . for dppc bilayers it has been shown that replacing pme by the computationally cheaper cut - off scheme leads to pronounced artifacts  @xcite .",
    "the systems were simulated for a total of @xmath4 each .",
    "after @xmath16 , the samples had equilibrated , and the remaining @xmath17 were used for data collection .",
    "equilibration was determined by monitoring the area per lipid as described in the next section . for completeness , we also present results for pure dppc and popc bilayers .",
    "in particular the latter ones are important since many of the results have so far only been published based on simulations using a cutoff for handling electrostatics .",
    "in addition to the above systems , we also performed a control simulation with a dehydrated system containing only 10 water molecules per lipid .",
    "this was done in order to see if dehydration has a direct effect on the properties but no significant effects were found .",
    "the simulations took a total of 16  000 cpu hours using an ibm cluster 1600 ( power4 processors ) .",
    "before presenting a systematic summary of our results , we give a quick overview of the basic properties of these systems .",
    "alcohol molecules have a tendency to collect in or near the bilayer ( sec .  [ secmassdensity ] ) .",
    "this tendency is stronger for ethanol than for methanol as confirmed by a partition analysis ( sec .",
    "[ secpartitioning ] ) .",
    "ethanol is able to form hydrogen bonds with the lipids in the bilayer ( sec .",
    "[ secbinding ] ) , and these hydrogen bonds reduce the order parameter of the lipid hydrocarbon tails .",
    "the combination of all this results in an easy penetration of ethanol through the bilayer .",
    "in contrast , no hydrogen bonds or penetration was observed for methanol .    in this paper",
    "we use the following colour code for all figures .",
    "curves for systems containing ethanol are drawn in red , curves for methanol in green and pure lipid systems without alcohol in blue .",
    "the area per lipid is one of the most important quantities characterising lipid bilayer systems and it can also be used to monitor equilibration during a simulation run .",
    "the time evolutions of the area per lipid in the systems studied here are shown in fig .",
    "[ figareaperlipid ] .",
    "the average areas per lipid , @xmath18 , obtained in our simulations are listed in table  [ tabarea ] .     for a dppc bilayer ( left ) and a popc bilayer ( right ) .",
    "the colour of the line marks whether the lipid bilayer has been simulated in the presence of ethanol ( red ) , of methanol ( green ) , or of no alcohol ( blue ) .",
    "this is our standard colour code employed throughout this paper.,height=143 ]    .",
    "average area per lipid for all systems studied in this work .",
    "a weak effect of the alcohols is visible .",
    "the error estimates have been computed from block averaging and extrapolating to large block sizes . [ cols=\"<,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     using the collected information , each alcohol molecule is at any given moment in one of five different states ( water phase , upper leaflet , upper leaflet hydrogen - bonded , lower leaflet and lower leaflet hydrogen - bonded ; we will discuss the methanol - containing systems a bit further down ) .",
    "it is of little interest if an alcohol molecule is `` scratching '' at the surface of the bilayer  rather it is important whether the alcohol molecule reaches the part of the leaflet where it can form a hydrogen bond .",
    "this immediately gives functional definitions for different kinetic events that can be used for an automatic analysis .",
    "a successful crossing event from the upper to the lower leaflet is for example given by a sequence `` upper leaflet hydrogen - bonded @xmath19 \\{upper leaflet } @xmath19 \\{lower leaflet } @xmath19 lower leaflet hydrogen - bonded '' where the curly braces mean that this step may also be skipped .",
    "similarly , an unsuccessful crossing from top to bottom would be `` upper leaflet hydrogen - bonded @xmath19 \\{upper leaflet } @xmath19 lower leaflet @xmath19 \\{upper leaflet } @xmath19 upper leaflet hydrogen - bonded '' .",
    "other criteria are constructed similarly .",
    "table  [ tabcrossings ] shows the results of the analysis for crossings of ethanol molecules between the two leaflets .",
    "a simple calculation shows that ethanol molecules are able to move from one leaflet to the other on a time scale of @xmath20 for dppc and @xmath21 for popc .",
    "the number of unsuccessful crossing attempts outnumbers the number of successful attempts by a factor of @xmath22 , thereby demonstrating that the hydrophobic tails of the lipid pose a significant barrier to ethanol not only from the outside of the leaflet but also from the inside . for methanol",
    "we did not find any crossing events in our simulations , implying that the corresponding time scale must be at least of the order of microseconds .    a closer study of the systems containing methanol is hindered by a problem that is not obvious from any of the data presented so far . as fig .",
    "[ figtopview ] shows , methanol is virtually never really inside the bilayer , i.e. , located such that it no longer has direct contact with the bulk water phase  in all of our data for dppc and popc with methanol , we found only a single methanol molecule that had actually lost contact with water .     of the time @xmath23",
    "for which an alcohol molecule stays inside the membrane , left for dppc , right for popc . due to limited statistics",
    ", we can not plot @xmath24 directly but are limited to the cumulative probability @xmath25.,height=143 ]    the above observation is also able to explain why no hydrogen bonds are formed between methanol and the lipids : water is simply too energetically favourable a binding partner for methanol , or , in other words , the surface tension of water is too high for methanol to leave the water phase .",
    "the concept of an alcohol being inside the membrane thus does not apply  topologically , methanols are always located outside the membrane . rather we need to introduce the concept of a methanol being located in a sufficiently deep well .",
    "this can be quantified by counting the number of atoms belonging to lipids within a certain distance around some particular methanol molecule .",
    "this number will be much larger if the methanol is inside such a well .",
    "( we use the criterion that the number of atoms belonging to lipid molecules within @xmath26 is larger than @xmath27 . )    using that functional definition , we are able to treat ethanol and methanol containing systems on a similar footage . while there are no crossing events for methanol , another interesting question still arises , namely the dynamics of alcohol exchange between the membrane and the water phase .",
    "quantitatively , the interesting quantity is the time @xmath23 between an alcohol molecule entering the membrane and its subsequent leaving it again .",
    "our results are shown in fig .",
    "[ figsurvivaltime ] .",
    "since there are only of the order of @xmath28 ( @xmath29 ) events for ethanol ( methanol ) , the statistics is insufficient to compute the probability distribution @xmath24 .",
    "rather , we present the cumulative probability @xmath25 , i.e. , the probability that an alcohol stays inside the membrane no longer than some time @xmath23 , since this quantity can be computed without binning the data point .",
    "( @xmath24 follows , in principle , by differentiation of the depicted curves . )",
    "it is seen from the figure that the dynamics is much faster for methanol than for ethanol .",
    "this comes as no surprise since methanol is not really inside the bilayer  it does not need to cross the bilayer interface but only needs to deform it ( to create a well ) .",
    "this study is , to the best of our knowledge , the first detailed computational study characterising the behaviour of lipid bilayers ( popc and dppc ) under the influence of methanol and ethanol .",
    "the other existing molecular dynamics study of ethanol and popc  @xcite concentrated on the comparisons with an nmr study under different conditions ( at 10 degrees celsius close to the gel phase and using an @xmath30 ensemble ) . to obtain detailed information about alcohol ",
    "membrane interactions , it is thus important to study the biologically important fluid phase .    let us first discuss the area per lipid and bilayer thickness .",
    "the increase in the area per lipid is larger for dppc bilayers ( about @xmath31 for ethanol and @xmath32 for methanol ) as compared to popc systems ( @xmath33 for ethanol and @xmath34 for methanol ) .",
    "this compares well with the recent micropipette studies of @xcite who used sopc vesicles under slightly different conditions ( @xmath35 vol.-@xmath36 ethanol at room temperature ) .",
    "they observed @xmath37 increase in the area per lipid and @xmath38 decrease in the thickness of the bilayer .",
    "here , we obtained a decrease of @xmath31@xmath2 ( ethanol and dppc ) and @xmath39@xmath40 ( ethanol popc ) in thickness depending on the definition used , see eq .",
    "( [ eq : vols ] ) .    as a purely structural effect ,",
    "it is clear that the membrane thus becomes more permeable to small molecules due to its increased area per lipid .",
    "the differences between dppc and popc are most likely due to the slightly longer _",
    "sn_2 chain of popc and the double bond in it .",
    "in addition to the effects captured by the average area per lipid , steric constraints seem to make the popc bilayer less susceptible to penetration of small solutes .    furthermore , in a recent study @xcite proposed that the penetration of alcohols inside the bilayer , and their binding at it , and the resulting decrease in bending rigidity is a feasible pathway for promoting fusion of cells .",
    "although it is not possible to probe this directly by current computer resources , our observations support the possibility of such a mechanism .",
    "it has been suggested that the preferred location of ethanol close to the membrane dehydrates it  @xcite .",
    "this should show in the water dipole orientation data , fig .",
    "[ waterdipole ] .",
    "the relatively small changes in it , and in the electrostatic potential across the membrane , suggest that indirect effects , such as receptor blocking , may be more important in producing changes in these quantities .",
    "to characterise thermodynamic properties , we have measured the partitioning coefficients .",
    "our estimates of @xmath41 for the different alcohol - lipid combinations are given in table  [ tabpartitioning ] .",
    "due to the lack of experimental data , no quantitative comparison could be made but qualitatively experiments and simulations are in agreement .",
    "short - chain alcohols have an amphiphilic character and it has been known for long that addition of each new ch@xmath9 group  adding a ch@xmath9 group on methanol gives ethanol and so on  has a strong effect on the interactions with membranes .",
    "this is indicated by the well known traube s rule  @xcite which states that the addition of a new ch@xmath9 group leads to a decrease in surface tension .",
    "in other words , short - chain alcohols have a strong effect on membrane properties and the effect depends on both the length of the hydrophobic part of the alcohol and on concentration .",
    "this has also been observed in recent experiments  @xcite .",
    "our data for methanol and ethanol supports these conclusions .",
    "methanol does not penetrate through the lipid tail region which is easily understood by the hydrophobic nature of the lipid tails which are repelling methanol as it is more polar than ethanol . as a second effect",
    ", methanol rarely reaches the tail region as each methanol molecule moves together with a small cluster of water molecules when it is trying to enter the membrane .",
    "this means that , on one hand , methanol is pulled back into the water phase by this , and , on the other hand , not a single small methanol molecule but a significantly larger dressed particle , or a small cluster , would need to penetrate the membrane .",
    "the analysis of crossing events , i.e. , how often the molecules travel through the membrane , showed that ethanol is able to penetrate the membrane easily whereas for methanol not a single crossing event was observed .",
    "this confirms the interpretation given above .",
    "it is difficult to compare these results directly with experiments but the possibility of such crossing events has been proposed on the basis of nmr studies  @xcite .",
    "the results presented here are , to our knowledge , the first detailed analysis of crossing events .",
    "further experiments would be needed in order to better characterise the situation as the system here is a simple model system and the relevance of these results to biological systems , in particular yeasts , needs to be better studied .",
    "the only such a study we were able to find uses nmr and _ z. mobilis _",
    "@xcite but direct comparison is not possible due to the different experimental setup .    in the introduction we briefly discussed general anaesthesia and membrane  protein interactions induced by the addition of anaesthetics , such as small alcohols .",
    "this was observed in a recent experiment  @xcite where the potassium channel kcsa was observed to dissociate due to the changes in lateral membrane pressure induced by small alcohols . here , we have characterised simple membrane  alcohol systems .",
    "the detailed characterisation presented here is essential for extensive simulational studies of membrane  protein  anaesthetic systems . from our results",
    "it is obvious that the changes in pure membranes are subtle but the effects of those changes to , e.g. , embedded proteins may be significant  @xcite .",
    "this is also supported by recent experiments using enflurane and dppc  @xcite .",
    "similar conclusions have been drawn by @xcite for the interaction of halothane with bilayers . as pointed out by hauet  et  al . , there are various intriguing questions regarding small molecules and anaesthesia .",
    "these questions are related to interactions between membranes and small molecules and computer simulations give a direct access to study them .",
    "we are grateful to ole g. mouritsen , amy rowat , margie longo , and john crowe for fruitful discussions .",
    "this work has , in part , been supported the european union through marie curie fellowship program no .",
    "hpmf  ct200201794 ( m.p . ) , the academy of finland through its centre of excellence program ( e.s .",
    ", e.t . and i.v .",
    ") , and the academy of finland grant nos .",
    "54113 , 00119 ( m.k . ) , 80246 ( i.v . ) , and 202598 ( e.t . ) .",
    "we would like to thank the finnish it centre for science and the horseshoe ( dcsc ) supercluster computing facility at the university of southern denmark for computer resources .",
    "berendsen , h. j.  c. , j.  p.  m. postma , w.  f. van gunsteren , and j.  hermans , 1981 .",
    "interaction models for water in relation to protein hydration . in b.",
    "pullman , editor , _ intermolecular forces _ , pages 331342 .",
    "reidel , dordrecht .",
    "berger , o. , o.  edholm , and f.  jahnig , 1997 .",
    "molecular dynamics simulations of a fluid bilayer of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine at full hydration , constant pressure , and constant temperature .",
    "72:20022013 .",
    "chiu , s.  w. , e.  jakobsson , s.  subramanian , and h.  l. scott , 1999 .",
    "combined monte carlo and molecular dynamics simulation of fully hydrated dioleyl and palmitoyl - oleyl phosphatidylcholine lipid bilayers .",
    "77:24622469 .",
    "falck , e. , m.  patra , m.  karttunen , m.  t. hyvnen , and i.  vattulainen , 2004 .",
    "lessons of slicing membranes : interplay of packing , free area , and lateral diffusion in phospholipid / cholesterol bilayers . in print .",
    "hauet , n. , f.  artzner , f.  boucer , c.  grabielle - madelmont , i.  cloutier , g.  keller , p.  leiseur , d.  durand , and m.  paternostre , 2003 .",
    "interaction between artificial membrane and enflurane , a general volatile anesthetic : dppc  enflurane interaction .",
    "84:31233137 .",
    "nagle , j.  f. , r.  zhang , s.  tristram - nagle , w.  sun , h.  i. petrache , and r.  m. suter , 1996 .",
    "x - ray structure determination of fully hydrated _",
    "l_@xmath42 phase dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine bilayers .",
    "70:14191431 .",
    "pabst , g. , m.  rappolt , h.  amenitsch , and p.  laggner , 2000b .",
    "structural information from multilamellar liposomes at full hydration : full @xmath43-range fitting with high quality x - ray data .",
    "62:40004009 .",
    "pasenkiewicz - gierula , m. , t.  rg , j.  grochowski , p.  serda , r.  czarnecki , t.  librowski , and s.  lochyski , 2003 .",
    "effects of carane derivative local anesthetic on a phospholipid bilayer studied by molecular dynamics simulation . 85:14281258 .",
    "patra , m. , m.  karttunen , m.  hyvnen , e.  falck , p.  lindqvist , and i.  vattulainen , 2003 .",
    "molecular dynamics simulations of lipid bilayers : major artifacts due to truncating electrostatic interactions . 84:36363645 .",
    "patra , m. , m.  karttunen , m.  t. hyvnen , e.  falck , and i.  vattulainen , 2004 .",
    "lipid bilayers driven to a wrong lane in molecular dynamics simulations by subtle changes in long - range electrostatic interactions .",
    "108:44854494 .",
    "rowe , e.  s. , f.  zhang , t.  w. leung , j.  s. parr , and p.  t. guy , 1998 .",
    "thermodynamics of membrane partitioning for a series of n - alcohols determined by titration calorimetry : role of hydrophobic effects . 7:24302440 .",
    "schobert , s.  m. , b.  e. chapman , p.  w. kuchel , r.  m. wittig , j.  grotendorst , p.  jansen , and a.  a. de graaf , 1996 .",
    "ethanol transport in _ zymomonas mobilis _ measured by using in vivo nuclear magnetic resonance spin transfer .",
    "178:17561761 .",
    "tang , p. and y.  xu , 2002 .",
    "large - scale molecular dynamics simulations of general anesthetic effects on the ion channel in the fully hydrated membrane : the implication of molecular mechanisms of general anesthesia . 99:1603516040 .",
    "tieleman , d.  p. and h.  j.  c. berendsen , 1996 .",
    "molecular dynamics simulations of a fully hydrated dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine bilayer with different macroscopic boundary conditions and parameters",
    ". 105:48714880 .",
    "tu , k. , m.  tarek , m.  l. klein , and d.  scharf , 1998 .",
    "effects of anesthetics on the structure of a phospholipid bilayer : molecular dynamics investigation of halothane in the hydrated liquid crystal phase of dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine . 75:21232134 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> extensive microscopic molecular dynamics simulations have been performed to study the effects of short - chain alcohols , methanol and ethanol , on two different fully hydrated lipid bilayer systems in the fluid phase at @xmath0 . </S>",
    "<S> it is found that ethanol has a stronger effect on the structural properties of the membranes . in particular , </S>",
    "<S> the bilayers become more fluid and permeable : ethanol molecules are able to penetrate through the membrane in typical time scales of about @xmath1 whereas for methanol that time scale is considerably longer , at least of the order of microseconds . </S>",
    "<S> we find good agreement with nmr and micropipette studies . </S>",
    "<S> we have also measured partitioning coefficients and the rate of crossing events for alcohols , i.e. , typical time scale it takes for a molecule to cross the lipid bilayer and to move from one leaflet to the other . for structural properties , </S>",
    "<S> two - dimensional centre of mass radial - distribution functions indicate the possibility for quasi long - range order for ethanol  ethanol correlations in contrast to liquid - like behaviour for all other combinations . </S>"
  ]
}