{
  "article_text": [
    "the absorption of visible light and its conversion to other forms of energy is at the heart of some of the most fundamental processes in biology .",
    "a familiar example of light absorption initiating a biological response is the primary event of vision : light induces a conformational change in rhodopsin , the photoreceptor in the retina , which is followed by a cascade of chemical reactions culminating in the stimulation of the optical nerve .",
    "a microscopic understanding of light induced conformational changes in photoactive biomolecules is both important from a fundamental point of view and because of existing and potential applications in biology and biotechnology .",
    "the advances in understanding biological photosystems are so far mainly due to experimental discoveries since theoretical studies are currently hindered by the lack of a theoretical approach which is applicable to realistically large systems while possessing a sufficient degree of reliability .",
    "on the one hand , several accurate quantum chemical approaches have been developed for a proper description of excited states but they are only applicable to relatively small systems . for instance , complete active space second - order perturbation theory ( caspt2 )  @xcite has been employed to investigate the photoisomerization mechanism in simple models of the retinal chromophore of rhodopsin  @xcite . the approach is able to accurately describe the excited state potential energy surface along the photoisomerization path , but it is limited to relatively small model compounds and a proper description of the important ligand - protein interactions is still computationally prohibitive . on the other hand ,",
    "density functional theory ( dft ) based approaches have a much more favorable scaling with system size than caspt2 and can therefore be applied to considerably larger molecules . in particular , the restricted open - shell kohn - sham method ( roks )  @xcite has been recently developed to study the dynamics in low - spin excited states and used to model the full retinal chromophore , including relevant parts of the protein environment  @xcite .",
    "the resulting excited state potential energy surface along the isomerization coordinate is qualitatively different from the one derived with the caspt2 method  @xcite , though the model systems used in these two works are different and therefore a direct comparison is not possible .",
    "therefore , while the roks method is appealing for the low computational cost and for the possibility of performing molecular dynamics in the excited state , its adequateness needs to be further validated .",
    "alternatively , linear response calculations within time - dependent density functional theory ( tddft )  @xcite often yield accurate excitation energies but fail for instance in describing extended conjugated systems  @xcite or proton transfer  @xcite in excited states , that is , systems closely related to photoactive molecules .",
    "the capabilities and limitations of tddft in describing excited state potential surfaces of conjugated organic molecules have been extensively investigated in ref .  .",
    "quantum monte carlo ( qmc ) is an alternative to conventional quantum chemical and density functional methods , and has been successfully employed to compute ground state properties of large molecules and solids  @xcite .",
    "compared to other theoretical approaches , qmc has the advantage that it can be applied to sufficiently large systems and still provide an accurate description of both dynamical and static electronic correlation . despite the successful use of qmc for ground state problems",
    ", there is relatively little experience on its application to excited states  @xcite .",
    "the recent qmc computation of excitation energies of large silicon nanostructures  @xcite is very encouraging but the simple homo - lumo wave functions employed there are not likely to be adequate for photoactive systems due to the more complex nature of their electronic excitation .    to compare the accuracy of roks , tddft and qmc in the study of photochemical processes ,",
    "we compute the excitation to the lowest singlet state for a set of prototypical photoactive molecules : formaldimine ( ch@xmath0nh ) , formaldehyde ( ch@xmath0o ) and a minimal protonated schiff base model ( c@xmath1h@xmath2nh@xmath3 ) of the retinal chromophore . for formaldimine and the protonated schiff base model , we find that roks differs quantitatively and qualitatively from the other methods under consideration at low - symmetry molecular structures .",
    "while tddft excitation energies are fairly accurate in most situations , this method gives a qualitatively different result along a complete - active - space self - consistent - field ( casscf ) minimum energy path for the isomerization of the protonated schiff base model . finally , we find that qmc provides a reliable estimate of the lowest singlet excitation energies of the studied molecules , provided one makes an adequate and careful choice of the trial wave function .",
    "although simple mean - field homo - lumo jastrow - slater wave functions are not always adequate for these systems , we can recover accurate excitations energies by using a relatively small expansion in slater determinants , whose orbitals and/or coefficients are reoptimized within qmc .    in sec .",
    "[ methods ] , we review the theoretical approaches employed in this work .",
    "the computational details are given in sec .",
    "[ comp_details ] and the numerical results are shown in sec .",
    "[ formald ] and  [ psb ] . finally , in sec .",
    "[ wfqmc ] , we discuss the sensitivity of the qmc results to the choice of the trial wave function .",
    "we briefly review the theoretical methods used in this work for the computation of excited states , and refer for more details to the literature .",
    "the restricted open - shell kohn - sham ( roks ) method  @xcite is a recent modification of the @xmath4scf approach used for the computation of multiplet splittings  @xcite . in the roks approach , the energies of the states given by single determinants are not computed in separate calculations as in @xmath4scf , but the linear combination corresponding to the desired state of pure symmetry is directly minimized under the constraint of orthogonality among the kohn - sham orbitals . in particular , the energy of an open shell singlet is estimated as @xmath5 , where @xmath6 is the energy of the mixed singlet configuration , i.e. a single determinant having the open shell orbitals occupied with electrons of opposite spin , and @xmath7 the energy of the corresponding triplet configuration . within roks , the energy @xmath8 is optimized using conventional ground state density functionals and a common set of orthogonal orbitals is used for both contributions  @xcite .",
    "both the @xmath4scf and roks approaches offer a practical recipe to the computation of excited states but they can not be fully justified from a theoretical point of view and their validity must be empirically corroborated .",
    "an appealing feature of roks is that the method can be easily combined with ab - initio molecular dynamics and used to optimize the geometries in the excited state , access adiabatic excitations , and study the dynamics in the excited state  @xcite . in general",
    ", even though the roks method tends to underestimate the excitation energies in particular for @xmath9 transitions  @xcite , it was shown to give a good description of the optimal geometries of the lowest excited states of small organic molecules , especially for @xmath10 transitions  @xcite .    time - dependent density functional theory ( tddft ) is a different framework for the calculations of excited state properties which has become widely used in recent years  @xcite",
    ". the method can handle large systems and , differently from @xmath4scf or roks , is formally exact even though , in practice , one has to resort to approximate exchange - correlation functionals .",
    "tddft has been extensively applied to the computation of vertical excitation energies since the calculation of forces within tddft is not straightforward and only recently a few implementation and applications of tddft to compute excited state geometries and adiabatic excitations have been published  @xcite .",
    "several quantum chemical approaches have been developed for a proper description of excited states .",
    "methods such as multi - reference configuration interaction ( mrci ) and complete active space second - order perturbation theory ( caspt2 ) rely on expanding , explicitly or implicitly , the wave function in slater determinants . as the system size increases and",
    "the energies of the single - particle orbitals become closely spaced , the space of orbitals which must be included in the expansion to recover a significant fraction of electronic correlation grows enormously .",
    "therefore , these techniques are very accurate but can only be applied to small systems .",
    "even though caspt2 was originally proposed as a method to compute excited state energies with an accuracy not better than 0.5 ev , it is now regarded as an approach which on average yields excitations in agreement with experiments to better than 0.2 ev  @xcite .",
    "the method is quite sensitive to the construction of the active space which must include all important orbital excitations and is limited on current computers to a maximum of about 15 active orbitals .",
    "quantum monte carlo techniques  @xcite is an alternative to density functional and conventional quantum chemistry approaches .",
    "while many studies have demonstrated the use and reliability of qmc for the description of ground state properties of molecular and solid systems , relatively little experience exists concerning its application to low - lying excited states .",
    "recent studies of the excited states of methane , ethene , and small hydrogenated si clusters indicate that the method is capable of reproducing the excitation energies of accurate quantum chemistry calculations  @xcite .",
    "the qmc approach was also recently applied to the study of the excitations of large silicon nano - clusters , in combination with simple trial wave functions  @xcite .",
    "qmc methods provide a stochastic solution of the schrdinger equation : in diffusion monte carlo ( dmc ) , the imaginary - time evolution operator @xmath11 is used to project out the ground state from a given trial wave function  @xcite . to prevent the collapse to the bosonic ground state in fermionic systems , one works in the fixed - node approximation , that is , finds the best solution which has the same nodes as a given trial wave function .",
    "the solution is variational for the lowest state of a given spin symmetry belonging to a one - dimensional irreducible representation of the point group of the molecule .",
    "it is exact for any state if the nodes are exact .",
    "therefore , if the nodal surface of the trial wave function is a good approximation to the excited state one , the fixed - node constraint can be used to access accurate excitation energies also of states which are not the lowest in their symmetry .",
    "the trial many - body wave function employed in this paper is of the slater - jastrow form : @xmath12 @xmath13 and @xmath14 are slater determinants of single particle orbitals for the up- and down - spin electrons , respectively , and the orbitals are represented using atomic gaussian basis .",
    "the jastrow factor correlates pairs of electrons _",
    "i _ and _ j _ with each other , and with every nucleus @xmath15 , and different jastrow factors are used to describe the correlation with different types of atoms .",
    "the parameters in the jastrow factor are optimized within qmc using the variance minimization method  @xcite .",
    "the jastrow factor is positive and does not alter the nodal surface of the wave function which is instead fixed by the determinantal part  @xcite .",
    "particular attention must therefore be paid to the choice of the slater component which is usually a linear combination of a small number of determinants . in the context of excited states , the complete - active - space self - consistent - field ( casscf ) variant of the multi - configuration self - consistent - field method ( mcscf )",
    "is particularly useful .",
    "these wave functions include all possible excitations for a given set of electrons within a chosen set of orbitals .",
    "when the excited state is not orthogonal to the ground state by symmetry , the determinantal component of the trial wave function is obtained in a state - average mcscf approach  @xcite , that is , by optimizing an average of the ground and excited state energies .",
    "thus , the orbitals represent a compromise for describing both states .",
    "since the optimal orbitals and expansion coefficients in the presence of the jastrow factor may differ from their optimal values in its absence , it is important to reoptimize them in the presence of the jastrow component . to this end , we extended the energy fluctuation potential ( efp ) method  @xcite to simultaneously minimize the energy with respect to the orbitals and the expansion coefficients of a slater - jastrow wave function , as well as to handle state averaging necessary for excited states  @xcite . in the absence of the jastrow component ,",
    "the method is analogous to the mcscf technique for the lowest - state of a given symmetry , and to a state - average mcscf approach if the excited state of interest is not the lowest in its symmetry .",
    "once the jastrow factor is included , the orthogonality between the ground and excited states is only approximately preserved in the state - average efp approach .",
    "the approach was tested for several singlet states of ethene and was shown to systematically improve the starting trial wave functions , correcting the initial excitation energies by as much as 0.5 - 0.6 ev and yielding results in excellent agreement with experiments  @xcite .",
    "the ground - state dft , and the excited - state roks and tddft calculations are performed with the car - parrinello molecular dynamics cpmd code  @xcite .",
    "we employ the blyp generalized gradient approximation for the exchange and correlation functional  @xcite , the goedecker pseudopotentials  @xcite , an energy cutoff of 70  ry for the plane - wave expansion , and a box size about 5   larger then the size of the molecule . in order to avoid the inherent periodicity of a plane - wave calculation ,",
    "we use the method described in ref .",
    "@xcite , which solves the poisson equation for non - periodic boundary conditions , thus enabling the study of isolated molecules .    for formaldimine , the multi - reference configuration interaction singles and doubles ( mr - cisd ) calculations and the optimization of the excited state geometry within the state - average casscf method",
    "are performed with the columbus quantum chemistry program  @xcite .",
    "equal weights are used in the state - average casscf calculations for the optimization of the geometries .",
    "the reference space for mrci is of 6 active electrons in 6 orbitals and the final mrci energetics include davidson corrections .",
    "it must be stressed that these mrci calculations were performed with a moderate basis ( @xmath16 $ ] for carbon and nitrogen , and @xmath17 $ ] for hydrogen ) and could certainly be improved .",
    "however , for the purpose of establishing the reliability of the other theoretical approaches , we consider the accuracy of the mrci energetics to be sufficient .    for the qmc calculations",
    ", we use the champ quantum monte carlo code  @xcite and norm - conserving _ sp_-non - local pseudopotentials for carbon , nitrogen and oxigen , generated in an all - electron hartree - fock calculation for the atoms  @xcite .",
    "the orbitals in the determinantal component of the wave functions are expanded in the gaussian basis sets ( 11@xmath1811@xmath192@xmath20)/[4@xmath184@xmath192@xmath20 ] for carbon , nitrogen , and oxigen , and ( 10@xmath182@xmath19)/[3@xmath182@xmath19 ] for hydrogen .",
    "the basis sets are optimized at the hf level for formaldimine and formaldehyde .",
    "the determinantal part of the wave function , before reoptimization in qmc , is generated within hartree - fock , casscf or state - average casscf , using the quantum chemistry package gamess(us )  @xcite .",
    "equal weights are used in the state - average casscf calculations , and in the state - average efp optimization of the wave function .",
    "the jastrow factor contains electron - electron , electron - nucleus and electron - electron - nucleus terms and is described in ref .  .",
    "for reasons of efficiency , most calculations are performed omitting the electron - electron - nucleus terms since the excitation energies for these systems computed with or without the three - body terms are the same within better than 0.1 ev  @xcite .",
    "the diffusion monte carlo time - step used for these molecules is 0.075 h@xmath23 .",
    "most of the qmc results presented below are obtained in diffusion monte carlo .",
    "variational monte carlo ( vmc ) is also used to compute various expectation values of the trial jastrow - slater wave function .",
    "the photosensitive molecules we investigate are schematically shown in fig .",
    "[ fig1 ] . in formaldimine and formaldehyde ,",
    "the lowest singlet excitation has predominantly a @xmath10 character and , in the protonated schiff base model , a @xmath24 character .",
    "the performance of the dft - based approaches may differ for the two types of excitation , as has previously been stated for the roks method .",
    "while qmc does not seem to be sensitive to the character of the excitation , a different complication is encountered when performing excited state qmc calculations .",
    "if the excited state of interest is the lowest state of a given spin symmetry belonging to a one - dimensional irreducible representation , the dmc energy is variational . in all other cases , dmc is no longer variational and the quality of the trial wave function becomes increasingly important .",
    "the vertical and adiabatic excitations of formaldimine and formaldehyde belong to the first category while the excitations of the minimal protonated schiff base model and of formaldimine along its isomerization path belong to the other case .          in the @xmath10 excitation of formaldimine and formaldehyde , a lone - pair electron",
    "is transferred to a @xmath25 antibonding orbital .",
    "the excitation is almost purely of the homo - lumo type and has therefore been considered ideal for the roks approach  @xcite , which was also used to study the excited state _ cis - trans _ isomerization of formaldimine in a born - oppenheimer molecular dynamics simulation  @xcite and , more recently , in a non - adiabatic car - parrinello dynamics  @xcite .",
    ".vertical and adiabatic lowest singlet excitation energies in ev for formaldehyde and formaldimine , calculated within roks , tddft and dmc .",
    "the numbers in parentheses are the statistical errors on the dmc results . [ cols=\"<,<,^,^,^,^\",options=\"header \" , ]     in table  [ table5 ] , we show the vmc and dmc excited state energies for formaldimine , computed on the roks geometries at various torsional angles when applying two different thresholds on the expansion coefficients in symmetry - adapted configuration state functions .",
    "the starting trial wave function is obtained from a state - average casscf with an active space of 6 electrons in 6 orbitals . as the threshold is lowered from 0.1 to 0.01 ,",
    "both vmc and dmc energies become higher at all angles .",
    "since at 0 and 90 degrees the energies are variational due to symmetry , one is unequivocally aiming at obtaining the lowest possible energy at those geometries and one would have expected a lowering of the energy by including more configurations .",
    "this indicates that the result is strongly dependent on the chosen threshold if one does not reoptimize the determinantal expansion in the presence of the jastrow factor .",
    "the coefficients of the starting casscf wave function are therefore reoptimized with the state - average efp method .",
    "the natural orbitals of the averaged single - particle density matrix of the reoptimized expansions are here used to obtain a more compact wave function , and a threshold of 0.01 is then applied . the corresponding vmc and dmc energies",
    "are also shown in table  [ table5 ] . at all angles ,",
    "the vmc energies for the reoptimized wave function are lower than the values obtained using the original casscf coefficients with respect to the same threshold .",
    "moreover , the optimal energies are also systematically better than the vmc values obtained with a threshold of 0.1 . in table",
    "[ table5 ] , we also list the number of determinants with coefficients greater than the chosen threshold .",
    "as expected , due to the inclusion of dynamical correlation through the jastrow factor , the wave function becomes more compact as an effect of the reoptimization .",
    "the dmc energies behave similarly to the vmc values with respect to both threshold and reoptimization .",
    "the excitation energies obtained in dmc with the reoptimized wave function are in excellent agreement with the mrci values as shown in section  [ formald ] .",
    "if a threshold of 0.1 is used when reoptimizing the expansion coefficients in a state - average efp method , there is no improvement in the qmc energies compared to the values obtained with the original casscf coefficients and the same threshold .",
    "finally , if the orbitals are optimized with the state - average efp approach and a threshold of 0.1 , both vmc and dmc energies improve and became equal to the values obtained with the casscf - efp with 0.01 threshold .",
    "for instance , for a torsional angle of 30 degrees , the optimization of the orbitals yields a vmc and a dmc energy of -17.156(1 ) and -17.2071(4 ) hartree , respectively .",
    "we want to stress that there is in general no justification for using a threshold as high as 0.1 and the apparent agreement with the optimized energies is here a fortunate case .",
    "using tddft , roks and qmc , we have investigated the lowest - singlet excitation energies along various isomerization paths for the following representative photoactive molecules : formaldehyde , formaldimine and a minimal protonated schiff base model c@xmath1h@xmath2nh@xmath3 .    we show that fixed - node diffusion monte carlo can give accurate excitation energies , provided a careful choice of qmc trial wave function is made . while simple homo - lumo trial wave functions are not always adequate to describe the excited states of these photoactive molecules ,",
    "accurate results are recovered when using a relatively small expansion in slater determinants , whose coefficients and/or orbitals are reoptimized in the presence of the jastrow factor with the efp method .",
    "tddft yields excitation energies which are generally in reasonable agreement with the qmc results . however , the tddft energies for the minimal model of the retinal chromophore are in qualitative disagreement with qmc and caspt2 , giving a barrier to isomerization along the casscf minimal energy path .",
    "we find that the roks method does not produce reliable results for the excited - state potential energy surface at low - symmetry configurations .",
    "the major source of error in the roks approach seems to be the contamination of the excited state with the ground state .",
    "for example , roks predicts an energy barrier to isomerization with a maximum at 90 degrees along the relevant torsional angle of the minimal protonated schiff base model of the retinal chromophore , while tddft and qmc show a minimum at this point .",
    "therefore , even though the roks method is appealing for its simplicity in computing forces , it should be generally used with caution in excited - state molecular dynamics simulations .",
    "we thank j. hutter for helpful discussions and c.  j.  umrigar for a critical reading of the manuscript .",
    "this work is in part funded by the stichting voor fundamenteel onderzoek der materie ( fom ) , which is financially supported by the nederlandse organisatie voor wetenschappelijk onderzoek ( nwo ) .",
    "a. puzder , a. j. williamson , j. c. grossman , and g. galli , phys .",
    "lett . * 88 * , 097401 ( 2002 ) ; a. j. williamson , j. c. grossman , r. q. hood , a. puzder , and g. galli , phys .",
    "lett . * 89 * , 196803 ( 2002 ) .",
    "p. j. reynolds _ et al .",
    "_ , j. chem . phys . * 77 * 5593 ( 1982 ) ; l. mitas , e. l. shirley , and d. m. ceperley , _ ibid . _",
    "* 95 * , 3467 ( 1991 ) ; c. j. umrigar , m. p. nightingale , and k. j. runge , _ ibid . _ * 99 * , 2865 ( 1993 ) .",
    "werner , and p. j. knowles , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 82 * , 5053 ( 1985 ) ; a. spielfiedel , n. g. feautrier , p. r. chambaud , and h. j. werner , chem .",
    ". lett . * 183 * , 16 ( 1991 ) ; k. docken and j. hinze , j. chem . phys .",
    "* 57 * , 4928 ( 1972 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> despite significant advances in electronic structure methods for the treatment of excited states , attaining an accurate description of the photoinduced processes in photoactive biomolecules is proving very difficult . </S>",
    "<S> for the prototypical photosensitive molecules , formaldimine , formaldehyde and a minimal protonated schiff base model of the retinal chromophore , we investigate the performance of various approaches generally considered promising for the computation of excited potential energy surfaces . </S>",
    "<S> we show that quantum monte carlo can accurately estimate the excitation energies of the studied systems if one constructs carefully the trial wave function , including in most cases the reoptimization of its determinantal part within quantum monte carlo . while time - dependent density functional theory and quantum monte carlo are generally in reasonable agreement , they yield a qualitatively different description of the isomerization of the schiff base model . </S>",
    "<S> finally , we find that the restricted open shell kohn - sham method is at variance with quantum monte carlo in estimating the lowest - singlet excited state potential energy surface for low - symmetry molecular structures . </S>"
  ]
}