{
  "article_text": [
    "mass storage , sensing , spintronics , quantum computing and other applications of magnetic thin - film devices are driving the current interest in understanding the nature and extent of magnetic exchange interactions and coupling effects arising between layers and nanostructures . while most investigations have focused on metal - sandwiched multilayer systems like fe / cr and co / cu where the thickness of the metallic material between the ferromagnetic layers determines whether the interlayer coupling will be ferromagnetic or antiferromagnetic , this work is focused on ferromagnetic layers sandwiching an insulating or semiconducting spacer of variable thickness .",
    "these systems are of interest in the study of e.g. read heads made from multilayered films laminated with insulators ( usually @xmath2 ) to prevent eddy currents or magnetic tunnel junctions using two magnetic layers with different coercivities , separated by a thin insulating layer ( 1 to 2 nm thick ) .",
    "one of the most striking effects of this coupling , is the reduction of coercivity of a single layer , attributed to reduced domain wall energy , that may alter drastically the device behavior .",
    "+ several possibilities exist and have been studied to describe interactions between two ferromagnetic layers across an insulating or semiconducting layer @xcite ( see fig .",
    "pinholes generally mediate direct ferromagnetic coupling between neighbouring multilayers .",
    "they are viewed like shorts across the insulating or semiconducting layer .",
    "nel proposed that conformal roughness ( orange - peel model ) at interfaces can result in ferromagnetic coupling for a moderate thickness of spacer material .",
    "recently , an uncorrelated roughness model for biquadratic coupling has been proposed as well @xcite . in nel model ,",
    "roughness features on the surface of the bottom ferromagnetic layer propagate through the uppermost layers as they are deposited @xcite .",
    "+ magnetostatic coupling occurs between the roughness features or between domain walls in the two magnetic layers . in this case , stray flux fields from walls in one film can influence the magnetization reversal process in the other .",
    "+ slonczewski loose - spin model @xcite is based on the change in angular momentum experienced by spin - polarized electrons tunneling across a spacer barrier resulting in a magnetic exchange coupling . the magnitude and sign of the coupling oscillates depending on the interfacial barrier properties .",
    "this work aim is to collect various structural , layer morphology , magnetic ( mainly bh loop and coercive field @xmath3 measurements ) and transport evidences in order to discriminate among all these different models .",
    "the trilayer samples in this study were grown by rf sputtering onto corning 7059 glass substrates at nominal room temperature .",
    "the wafers were mounted on a rotating substrate table that passes the wafers over individual sputtering guns .",
    "the sputtering gas used is @xmath4 mbar of ar in a background pressure of @xmath5 mbar and an rf power density of 1w/@xmath6 .",
    "the base magnetic layer is 480  of permalloy ( @xmath0 alloy denoted as py ) with @xmath1 as the spacer material , and another top layer of py 480  thick .",
    "each magnetic film was sputtered from a composite target .",
    "the @xmath1 was also rf sputtered from an oxide target at a power density of 1w/@xmath6 .",
    "the thickness of the py layers was monitored precisely and kept constant .",
    "its value was carefully chosen in order to minimise h@xmath7 for this type of structure ( in fig.2 the morphology of the trilayer is shown with a special high resolution tem technique ) .",
    "the magnetization of all the py films was planar in all the samples studied .",
    "clearly , a small undulation is visible in the tem image ( with an average amplitude h @xmath8 1 nm and wavelengh @xmath9 30 nm ) indicating that the roughness of the @xmath1 layer at the two interfaces with the py layers is conformal and might play a role in the physical properties as discussed later .",
    "the amorphous nature of the structure is demonstrated by the x - ray diagram shown in fig.3 .",
    "the sharp feature appearing in the diagram corresponds to the presence of microcrystallites of py type with a textured growth along ( 111 ) direction .",
    "the trilayers showed marked anisotropic magnetization behavior in hysteresis bh loop measurements . on the average , the anisotropy field observed in the the hard axis configuration of the bh loop was about 4 oe .",
    "that is not the case of the easy axis coercivity as described in the next section .",
    "we believe that our samples possess a uniaxial anisotropy character as shown by platt et al .",
    "@xcite whose high - field torque measurements confirm the presence of a uniaxial anisotropy , under similar conditions .",
    "+ several sets of bh loop measurements were performed in addition to understand and assess the true nature of the coupling between the layers .",
    "we performed measurements on raw films , uncoupled layers , saturated layers and finally fully coupled layers .",
    "magnetic coupling between double thin films separated by the insulating @xmath1 spacer layer is investigated with magnetization measurements ( bh loop ) under the conditions of variable @xmath1 spacer thickness ranging from 0 to @xmath105000  .",
    "+ the easy axis coercive field h@xmath7 displayed in fig . 4 decreases , then shows a fine structure in the form of damped oscillations to increase again with the thickness of the @xmath1 spacer layer .",
    "the drop of the coercivity h@xmath7 compared to the free py layer may attain a factor of 15 under certain conditions . for larger values of @xmath1 thickness",
    ", the magnetization reversal becomes sharper .",
    "in addition , when the spacer layer is thicker than 100  , separate reversal of the magnetic layers is observed in the hysteresis loop .",
    "magnetoresistive devices have transport properties that depend on the relative orientation of magnetic moments in neighboring grains or thin films .",
    "application of an external magnetic field along different axes ( easy and hard axes of py ) and with respect to the injected current direction * j * results in a specific dependence of scattering on spacer thickness .",
    "the key to understanding of the scattering is based on domain wall orientation in the layers @xcite .",
    "+ the in - layer magnetic domain wall structure is the source of scattering for the injected electrical current in the structure . fig .",
    "5 displays , respectively , the easy axis ( ea ) coercive field h@xmath7 with a damped oscillating fine structure ( for an @xmath1 thickness 0.6 to @xmath113 nm ) and the corresponding magnetoresistance ratio mr values defined as @xmath12 where @xmath13 et @xmath14 are measured with and without the saturation magnetic field .",
    "magneto - transport data were taken with a high resolution four - point probe with the current * j * flowing either parallel to the domain wall , i.e. parallel to the easy axis ( ea ) or perpendicular to the domain wall , i.e. parallel to the hard axis ( ha ) . the magnetic field * b * is applied either parallel to the current * j * direction ( * b * @xmath15 * j * ) or perpendicular to * j * ( * b * @xmath16 * j * ) .",
    "the coupling between the layers alters the domain wall configuration and thus modulates the scattering affecting the magnetoresistance .",
    "different orientation of the domain walls for different thickness has been studied extensively in the past @xcite and the transport data correlate well with h@xmath7 fine structure as discussed next .",
    "our study reveals that the ea coercivity field is a powerful probe to test magnetization reversal processes in magnetically ordered and artificially structured magnetic materials . for any given material h@xmath7",
    "depends on coupling reflecting the average properties of the sample as well as local interactions such as wall - wall interaction or magnetization anisotropy dispersion ( ripples ) , in addition to some intrinsic quantities ( such as the effective anisotropy and saturation magnetization ) .",
    "this paves the way to manufacture ultra - soft artificial magnetic nanostructures , e.g. our structure was so soft ( in comparison with a single layer of same thickness ) that the fine structure in h@xmath7 may be viewed as some kind of magnetic imaging of wall topography in coupled thin films .",
    "+ the observed decrease in h@xmath7 is more pronounced for the ea field direction , where the magnetization process is determined by domain wall motion .",
    "the internal flux closure of the nel - wall like structures leads to a reduced interaction in the film and between walls in coupled layers , resulting in a drop of h@xmath7 .",
    "in addition , we believe that wall character changes are driven by coupling in the following way . if the magnetization is reversed by wall motion , the effect of the coupling will be that both py film magnetizations are reversed simultaneously .",
    "this means that a wall in one film is always close to another in the other film . because of the dipolar magnetic moment of the nel - walls there will be a magnetostatic interaction between the walls ( in addition to an eventual coupling in the case of loose spins at the interface or pinhole presence ) .",
    "following @xcite , the resulting configurations are shown in fig .",
    "two principally different configurations must be considered , one with the magnetization of both walls parallel ( fig .",
    "6a and c ) , and another with anti - parallel magnetizations .",
    "when the coupling is weak , the arrangement will be governed by magnetostatic interaction yielding the configuration shown in fig .",
    "6a and b. for a stronger coupling ( due to a thinner intermediate layer ( or with loose spins at interfaces or pinholes ) , the configurations shown in fig .",
    "6c and d must be expected . the configuration of fig .",
    "6c and d will have a wall energy larger than those of fig .",
    "6a and b. in addition , specific energy conditions in the film ( generally of magnetostatic origin ) , favor a local ferro or antiferromagnetic - like coupling ( see fig . 5 ) .",
    "we estimate following @xcite and by looking at fig.2 that orange - peel coupling , induced by the roughness of the layers is negligible in our case .",
    "+ in conclusion , our work illustrates the detailed study of the nature of the coupling between two magnetic layers separated by an insulator spacer of variable thickness . +",
    "* acknowledgements * : the authors thank j. ostorero , f. michaud and x. castel for the x - ray measurements and e. snoeck for the cross section tem microscopy",
    ".    9 c.l .",
    "platt , m.r .",
    "mc cartney , f.t .",
    "parker and a.e .",
    "berkowitz , phys .",
    "b 61 , 9633 ( 2000 ) , f.j .",
    "himpsel , j.e .",
    "ortega , g.j .",
    "mankey and r.f .",
    "willis , adv . in phys .",
    "47 , 511 ( 1998 ) .",
    "strijkers , j.t .",
    "kohlhepp , h.j.m .",
    "swagten and w.j.m .",
    "de jonge , phys . rev",
    "84 , 8 ( 2000 ) .",
    "e. feldtkeller , k.u .",
    "stein and h. harms , _ proc .",
    "intermag . conf .",
    "p8.4 - 1 ( 1965 ) .",
    "m. viret , y. samson , p. warin , a. marty , f. ott , e. sndergrd , o. klein , and c. fermon , phys .",
    "85 , 3962 ( 2000 ) .",
    "bobo , h. kikuchi , o. redon , e. snoeck , m. piecuch and r.l .",
    "white , phys .",
    "b , vol . 60 , 6 , 4131 ( 1999 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> magnetic coupling between @xmath0 double thin films separated by an insulating @xmath1 spacer layer is investigated with structural measurements , cross sectional imaging , magnetization measurements ( bh loop ) and transport under the conditions of variable spacer thickness ranging from 0 to 5000 angstroms . </S>",
    "<S> we investigate several models to explain the coercivity variation with spacer thickness as well as the transport measurements . </S>"
  ]
}