{
  "article_text": [
    "upon cooling below the melting point , liquids may either crystallize or enter a super cooled regime . in the latter case , as the glass transition temperature @xmath0 is approached , molecular motion gets slower and slower and the viscosity increases enormously .",
    "the relaxation time increases by several orders of magnitude and for all practical purposes the system remains out of equilibrium .",
    "although mechanically responding as a solid , structural relaxation is still present , slowing down as the system ages .",
    "the response to a perturbation applied at a particular time @xmath1 will persist for very long times ( long term memory ) , preventing the system from reaching equilibrium .",
    "while the system ages , one time quantities asymptotically tend to their equilibrium values while two times quantities depend explicitly both on the observation time and on the time when the perturbation was applied : time translation invariance ( tti ) is broken , which is a manifestation of history dependence . upon cooling the system gets trapped on long lived meta stable states which depend on the cooling rate , eventually escaping as a result of activated processes .",
    "this complex glassy dynamics is reflected in several characteristic features , as non - exponential relaxation , breakdown of fluctuation - dissipation relations , etc , and there is a widespread believe that the underlying rugged energy landscape plays a fundamental role on the dynamics@xcite .",
    "many aspects related to the structural glass transition and the nature of the glassy phase are still poorly understood  @xcite , as a consequence of the inherent complexity of the underlying physics and the corresponding lack of a simple but non - trivial model .",
    "only recently some analytical progress has been made with classic models based on lennard - jones or soft spheres potentials  @xcite which , on the other hand , have been extensively studied via molecular dynamics simulations  @xcite . meanwhile , in the field of spin glasses , disordered magnetic systems which share many physical properties with structural glasses , a reasonable theoretical understanding of the basic physics has been achieved at least at the mean field level  @xcite .",
    "recently it has been found that the equations describing dynamical correlation functions of a kind of mean field spin glasses simplify , above the transition , to the single equation of the mode coupling theory of super cooled liquids  @xcite . in particular ,",
    "several results point out that these models ( e.g.  the @xmath2-spin model ) with one step of replica symmetry breaking and structural glasses are in the same universality class  @xcite , indicating a deeper analogy between the physics of spin glasses and structural glasses than previously thought",
    ". nevertheless , it is still matter of debate to what extent this analogy can be pushed forward . some important differences between these two kinds of systems",
    "are evident : while a defining feature of spin glasses is the quenched disorder and frustration , no obvious quench disorder is present in structural glasses .",
    "several models with frustration but no disorder have been studied recently  @xcite .",
    "another important difference is the fact that the dynamical variables in a spin glass are localized in space and do not diffuse as the molecules in a super cooled liquid .",
    "we would like to have at hand a simple , yet non trivial , microscopic model of super cooled liquids in which the fruitful techniques developed in spin glass theory could be applied and possibly be extended to finite dimension .",
    "moreover , mode coupling theory and mean field models in general do not describe activated processes , which are responsible for some important characteristics of the glass phase , as e.g.  cooling rate dependence of the asymptotic state .",
    "there are some other very simple models with kinetic constraints which reproduce quite well the glassy phenomenology  @xcite , but being essentially dynamical they are hard to be studied with analytic techniques .    in this paper",
    "we describe salient dynamical features of a hamiltonian lattice model of structural glasses , the frustrated ising lattice gas ( filg ) .",
    "the interesting properties revealed by the model rest on an interplay between two different kinds of degrees of freedom : diffusive particles or translational degrees of freedom and internal or orientational degrees of freedom .",
    "we present results of monte carlo simulations of one and two times quantities , like density relaxation , density - density correlations and responses , correlations and responses of internal degrees of freedom , mean square displacements of the particles and compression experiments .",
    "this three dimensional model may serve as a numerical laboratory to perform a systematic study of the role played by activated processes on the long time dynamics of glass formers , a feature that is missing from mean field approximations .",
    "the paper is organized as follows . in section  [ section.filg ]",
    "we review the essential results both from equilibrium and out of equilibrium dynamics for the filg . in section  [ section.cycle ] results for slowly varying chemical potentials",
    "are presented and compared with the case where a sudden quench is performed , while in section  [ section.fdt ] the breakdown of the fluctuation - dissipation theorem in this model is analyzed . finally , in section  [ section.conclusions ]",
    ", we present some conclusions and discuss some open questions .",
    "the filg  @xcite is defined by the hamiltonian : @xmath3 the dynamical variables @xmath4 ( @xmath5 ) are local densities or site occupations . the @xmath6",
    "represent internal degrees of freedom , e.g.  rotational ones .",
    "although molecules in glass forming liquids may assume several spatial orientations , here we take the simpler case of only two possibilities , @xmath7 .",
    "the usually complex spatial structure of these molecules is in part responsible for the geometric constraints , imposed by the neighborhood , on their translational and rotational dynamics .",
    "this hindrance effect is mimicked by the quenched random variables @xmath8 . when @xmath9 , in order to minimize @xmath10 , either the spins should satisfy the bond @xmath11 or at least one of the sites @xmath12 or @xmath13 must be empty .",
    "in this limit , the ( site ) frustrated percolation  @xcite model is recovered , where no frustrated link can be fully occupied , implying that any frustrated loop in the lattice will have a hole and then @xmath14 , preventing the system from reaching the close packed configuration .",
    "the equilibrium properties of the @xmath15 model have been studied in  @xcite for @xmath16 and @xmath17 , which corresponds in practice to the frustrated percolation limit . in the low density regime ( @xmath18 )",
    "the behavior is liquid like , time correlation functions decay exponentially , equilibration is quickly achieved and the particles mean squared displacement grows linearly with time , a simple diffusion scenario since particles hardly feel any constraint in their mobility . at @xmath19 there is a percolation transition , the corresponding density being @xmath20 .",
    "this first transition manifests dynamically in the onset of two different relaxation regimes in the correlation functions , a fast exponential relaxation at short times and a slow , stretched exponential relaxation at longer times . while for intermediate times the diffusion is anomalous , for longer times it is linear with the diffusion coefficient becoming smaller as the density grows with growing chemical potential ( or equivalently , with lowering temperature ) .",
    "a second transition appears for @xmath21 , corresponding to a density @xmath22 .",
    "this is a glass transition at which the relaxation times diverge and the diffusion constant goes to zero . in the filg",
    "the structural manifestation of this transition is the presence of a _ frozen _ percolating cluster .",
    "this transition corresponds to the dynamical one in mean field @xmath2-spin or potts glasses or the ideal glass transition in the mode coupling theory .",
    "@xcite studied an equivalent , non local version of the filg ( the site frustrated percolation , sfp ) in 2d , finding a behavior similar to the 3d filg , the main difference being the ( arrhenius ) dynamical singularity occurring at zero temperature .",
    "it was also found in  @xcite that the spin glass susceptibility @xmath23 , associated with the internal degrees of freedom of occupied sites , diverges at the same value of @xmath24 where a glass transition takes place .",
    "this is a thermodynamic spin glass transition associated with the frozen - in of the internal degrees of freedom . on the other hand , the compressibility associated with the density variables does not present critical behavior but only a maximum as observed in many glass formers . in view of this behavior",
    "one could ask whether a suitably defined nonlinear compressibility should diverge at the glass transition .",
    "this should indicate the thermodynamic al character of the glass transition in this model .",
    "a nonlinear compressibility , @xmath25 , can be introduced with @xmath26 where 1 and 2 label two real replicas of the system .",
    "one could think that in this quantity , associated with fluctuations of an edwards - anderson like order parameter involving only density variables , a divergence analogous to the one present in the @xmath23 might be detected .",
    "this quantity has been measured  @xcite but no evidence of critical behavior has been found near @xmath27 : @xmath28 attains a plateau that seems to be roughly sample and size independent .",
    "the fact that the spin variables present a thermodynamic transition while the particles do not points once more to the purely dynamical character of the glass transition .",
    "of course , a thermodynamic transition may be present at a lower temperature ( or a higher chemical potential ) corresponding to the kauzmann @xmath29 and associated with a configurational entropy collapse , but this remains an open question in this model which deserves further study .    at a mean field level ,",
    "equilibrium properties have been studied in closely related models  @xcite . for large @xmath24 all sites",
    "are occupied and the behavior corresponds to the sherrington - kirkpatrick model , with a continuous spin glass transition . upon decreasing @xmath24 one reaches a tricritical point , below which the transition is first order . in this region , analogously to other first order transition models like the @xmath2-spin and the potts glass  @xcite , above the critical temperature there is a dynamical transition where meta stable states first appear@xcite .",
    "we still do not know to what extension this scenario remains valid in finite dimensions .",
    "a characteristic feature of the out of equilibrium dynamics of glassy systems is aging  @xcite .",
    "slow aging dynamics is present in the filg both in density - density two times correlations as well as in correlations of the internal degrees of freedom  @xcite after performing sudden quenches in @xmath24 from a very small value characteristic of the liquid phase ( low density ) to a high value corresponding to the glassy phase .",
    "performing a quench in @xmath24 is similar to the application of a sudden compression , we raise the density of the system keeping the ratio @xmath30 in order to prevent close packing .",
    "connected two point correlations can be defined as : @xmath31 where the global density at time @xmath32 is given by @xmath33 .",
    "we now define the density autocorrelations as @xmath34 .    in fig .",
    "[ densitycorrelation ] the behavior of @xmath35 is shown as a function of @xmath32 in a semi log plot after a quench in chemical potential to a value @xmath36 , for waiting times between @xmath37 and @xmath38 .",
    "a typical aging scenario is present signalling the slowing down of the dynamics as the waiting time grows .",
    "for the longest waiting times the correlation presents a rather fast relaxation to a plateau in which the system evolves in quasi equilibrium : the dynamics is stationary and the fluctuation - dissipation relations hold .",
    "the plateau separates two time scales typical of glassy systems : a @xmath39 ( fast ) relaxation for short times and an @xmath40 ( slow ) relaxation at longer times , corresponding respectively to the fast movements of the particles inside the dynamical cages and the large scale , cooperative process that takes much more time in order to rearrange the cages . moreover , in this very long time regime ( @xmath41 ) , the system falls out of equilibrium , the correlations decay to zero asymptotically and time translational invariance ( tti ) no longer holds with the corresponding violation of the fluctuation - dissipation theorem ( fdt ) , as will be shown in the following sections .",
    "a good scaling of the correlation functions is obtained assuming a time dependence of the form @xmath42 with @xmath43 given by @xmath44 $ ] where @xmath45 and @xmath46 is a microscopic time scale  @xcite .",
    "this form is quite general as one recovers the cases of a simple @xmath47 dependence ( full aging ) when @xmath48 and stationary dynamics when @xmath49  @xcite .",
    "a similar aging scenario has been found associated with the relaxation of internal degrees of freedom  @xcite .",
    "when the system is gently compressed the glass transition depends on the rate of compression . for a fixed temperature",
    "we have done simulations of slow compression experiments , where at each monte carlo step ( mcs ) @xmath24 is increased by a quantity @xmath50 .",
    "[ annealing ] shows the evolution of the density for several compression rates , ranging from @xmath51 to @xmath52 .",
    "it can be noted that for slower compressions , the final density is higher . up to @xmath53 the density remains small enough and the system is able to equilibrate sufficiently fast , regardless of @xmath50 , and all curves collapse . as the density increases , the equilibration time also increases since the system cooperative rearrangement involves a larger number of particles in a smaller region . in analogy with cooling experiments ,",
    "for each compression rate the system gets out of equilibrium at a different value of @xmath24 and the asymptotic density increases with decreasing rates .",
    "the points where the curves for each rate depart from the master curve define the glass transition point @xmath54 .",
    "the dependence of @xmath54 on the compression rate is characteristic of glass formers and is thought to be consequence of activated processes : no cooling ( compression ) rate dependence is observed in mean field models where the glass transition appears at a fixed temperature ( chemical potential ) . for a fixed @xmath24 , by decreasing the compression rate , the density @xmath55 tends to the equilibrium density @xmath56 as a power law @xmath57 , as can be seen in the inset of fig .",
    "[ annealing ] , the parameters depending on the value of @xmath24 .",
    "the extrapolated equilibrium value is slightly higher than the one obtained upon fast compressions , as will be shown later .    in analogy with temperature cycling experiments in spin glasses which show the onset of irreversible processes , here , by increasing and decreasing the chemical potential at a given rate",
    ", hysteresis cycles can be produced whose internal area increases with @xmath50 .",
    "moreover , the chemical potential range in which the system behaves in an irreversible way also increases with @xmath50 . in fig .",
    "[ cycle ] the hysteresis curves are presented for several cycling rates .",
    "notice that the lower left part of the cycle coincides with the equilibrium curve and for very slow rates the cycle tends to disappear and we recover the above annealing equilibrium curve . as before ,",
    "the maximum achieved density increases for slower rates .    instead of slowly compressing the sample , high densities",
    "can also be obtained by a fast compression analogous to temperature quenching experiments .",
    "here we consider an initial state with an empty lattice , corresponding to @xmath58 .",
    "then the chemical potential is suddenly increased to a value above the critical one . in fig .",
    "[ dens ] we show how the density increases after a sudden quench to different @xmath24 values , ranging from 1 to 10 .",
    "for all @xmath59 the density converges more or less rapidly to an asymptotic value , which depends on @xmath24 .",
    "for @xmath60 the density increases with a law @xmath61 which seems to be independent of the chemical potential and that converges to the asymptotic value with a power law : @xmath62 .",
    "the best value for the parameters are @xmath63 and @xmath64 , slightly lower than the value obtained in the slow compressions .",
    "in contrast to a sudden compression , by gently annealing the system can approach equilibrium more efficiently .",
    "nevertheless one can expect that the equilibrium density will be reached after a quench in a much longer time scale driven by activated processes . in fig .",
    "[ density ] we show the relaxation of the density after a sudden compression to @xmath36 , deep in the glass phase .",
    "if we assume that the density asymptotic value is essentially determined by the amount of frustration present in a sample , then it is possible to calculate the range of allowed values for @xmath65 . in a sample with no frustration obviously @xmath66 , while in a fully frustrated sample we have that @xmath67 .",
    "a fully frustrated sample has the interactions @xmath11 such that every plaquette is frustrated .",
    "the value we find for the random model , @xmath68 , falls in this interval , as it should , and is not very far from the one found in the fully frustrated case .",
    "this would suggest that the filg defined on a fully frustrated lattice may be an interesting non random model with features similar to those presented in this paper .",
    "in fact we believe that the glassy behavior of the filg is based much more on its frustration rather than on its randomness .    as long as activated processes do not enter the scene we would expect a behavior reminiscent of mean field models . in the thermodynamic limit ,",
    "mean field theory for the @xmath2-spin spin glass predicts that the internal energy will relax with a power law to a threshold value @xmath69 greater than the equilibrium one  @xcite .",
    "the absence of activated processes will prevent the system from escaping the threshold states and it will be kept out of equilibrium forever . in a true glass",
    "the relaxation of the density at sufficiently low temperatures should behave this way . in the case of the filg",
    "we do not know what the equilibrium density is , so in order to test the previous hypothesis we have measured autocorrelations at constant density .",
    "considering again the connected two times autocorrelations ( eq .  [ density - density ] ) , we present in fig .",
    "[ constant ] results of simulations of quenches at fixed densities .",
    "the upper figure shows results for a density that is slightly below the critical one ( @xmath70 ) for several waiting times @xmath1 .",
    "there exists a characteristic waiting time after which all the curves collapse on a master one , meaning that aging is interrupted and time translation invariance ( tti ) is recovered .",
    "the relaxation preserves the characteristic two steps with equilibrium dynamics for large @xmath1 . on the other hand , for a density @xmath71 , slightly above the critical one , the system seems to age forever , as can be seen in the lower figure . in this case , even for the largest waiting times , the quasi - equilibrium regime is followed by an out of equilibrium relaxation where tti no longer holds and fluctuation - dissipation relations are violated .",
    "the behavior in this two cases is qualitatively different and is reminiscent of mean field behavior with a threshold or critical value for the density .",
    "this will be reflected also in the form in which the fluctuation - dissipation theorem is violated , as will be discussed below .    in real space , one way of seeing aging effects is looking at the diffusion properties of the particles .",
    "the averaged mean square displacement ( msd ) in the time interval @xmath72 is defined by @xmath73 ^ 2\\ ] ] where the function @xmath74 is 1 if the @xmath12-@xmath75 particle is present at both times @xmath32 and @xmath1 and is 0 otherwise . in this way",
    "only particles that do not leave the system enter the measures . obviously , if the density is kept constant , @xmath76 . for the smallest waiting times , the density is low and diffusion is like in a simple fluid , @xmath77 being linear in @xmath32 ( see fig .",
    "[ diffusion ] ) . only for large times",
    "the density attains a large value , cages are formed trapping the particles , and the diffusion is arrested , as signaled by the appearance of a plateau . for larger @xmath1 and @xmath78 , the particles are rattling inside the cages formed by their neighbors and the diffusion is still normal , @xmath77 being again linear in @xmath32 . the fact that the first linear regime is longer the smaller is",
    "@xmath1 is simply because for larger @xmath1 the density at @xmath79 is larger .",
    "as soon as @xmath77 is comparable to the cage linear size , the diffusion halts and a plateau is attained . to escape from the cage ( hence from the plateau ) , a large , cooperative rearrangement must occur among neighbor cages .",
    "this slow phenomenon is reflected in the extension of the plateau .",
    "moreover , for larger times we are essentially measuring the diffusion of the cages , what can be seen as the second linear regime present in fig .",
    "[ diffusion ] . from this figure",
    "it is clear that aging effects with characteristic dynamical regimes are also present in real space properties of the system .",
    "when glasses evolve slowly out of equilibrium fluctuation - dissipation relations are no longer valid . instead , in computer simulations and mean field approximations a generalized relation",
    "is obtained  @xcite : @xmath80}{t}\\frac{\\partial c(t , t_w)}{\\partial t_w}\\ , \\label{gfdt}\\ ] ] where @xmath81 is a two times correlation function and @xmath82 with @xmath83 is the associated response .",
    "@xmath84 is the heat bath temperature and @xmath85 , the `` fluctuation - dissipation ratio''(fdr ) , is a function that measures the departure from fdt : at equilibrium @xmath86 and the usual fdt is recovered , while in the out of equilibrium regime , @xmath87 .",
    "the function @xmath88 turns out to be a constant in mean field models of glasses , signalling that the asymptotic dynamics of the system is dominated by only one time scale ( apart from the fdt scale ) . in this time scale , corresponding to the aging regime , the slow degrees of freedom are at an effective temperature different from the bath one and that depends on the fdr as @xmath89  @xcite .",
    "recently the first attempt at an experimental measurement of this effective temperature has been done in glycerol glass  @xcite .    in a finite system aging",
    "will eventually be interrupted due to activated processes leading the system to equilibration at the temperature of the bath .",
    "nevertheless the true role of activated processes in the long time dynamics of glassy systems still remains to be understood .",
    "while an analytic approach to the problem is very difficult one may gain insight from simulations on finite systems .",
    "we have measured the fdr on the filg  @xcite .",
    "the main result is shown in fig .",
    "[ fdt_1 ] , where @xmath88 is given by minus the derivative of the data curves . in this case",
    "we have measured density correlations and associated compressibilities ( for details see  @xcite ) .",
    "this result was obtained in a lattice of linear size @xmath90 .",
    "the result is the one expected for a model having only two dominating time scales : the fdt one , when @xmath91 and another one , when the system is relaxing very slowly out of equilibrium and @xmath92 , being the edwards - anderson ( ea ) order parameter  @xcite .",
    "the constancy of @xmath88 in the aging regime is exactly what is predicted by mean field theory .",
    "what is very remarkable is that this constancy seems to be valid not only for the asymptotic curve ( @xmath93 ) , but also for finite ( although large ) @xmath1 curves",
    ". then we can express the fdr as function only of the smaller time , @xmath1 , and we observe that it changes very slowly with @xmath1 .",
    "we also note that the fact that @xmath88 seems to depend only on the smaller time is in agreement with some recent analytical results . in  @xcite it has been shown that slow glassy dynamics can be viewed as an evolution between `` quasi states '' , where the system ( almost ) equilibrates before relaxing further .",
    "when the field is switched on at time @xmath1 it will select a particular set of quasi - states , those with the `` right '' magnetization .",
    "if this is the case then the externally induced small perturbation  @xcite will regress in the same way a spontaneous fluctuation does and one can show  @xcite that the fdr may depend on the smaller time , but not on the larger one . and",
    "this is exactly what we have observed numerically in the filg model .",
    "nevertheless , in contrast with mean field predictions , the curves for different temperatures and chemical potentials in the glass phase ( for a fixed large @xmath1 ) remain parallel , simply shifting upwards with a corresponding decrease in the value of the ea parameter  @xcite .",
    "this is reasonable as one expects that the fdt regime will be the only one present as @xmath94 .",
    "this behavior is not observed in mean field approximation , where the ea parameter has a discontinuous jump at @xmath0 and @xmath88 changes continuously for @xmath95 .",
    "other studies in long range models seem to point out a continuous approach of @xmath96 to the bath one  @xcite .",
    "a systematic study of these effects is necessary in order to understand the underlying mechanisms responsible for them .",
    "it is not clear whether the system will undergo also a static transition with one step of replica symmetry breaking , as the off - equilibrium dynamics would suggest .",
    "thermalization at @xmath97 is really hard to attain and so we did not succeed in answering this question .",
    "however , even in the case that all the observed dynamical features would not correspond to an underlying static transition and they would eventually disappear as the system equilibrates , the results are interesting for at least two reasons .",
    "first , real glassy systems can be in the off - equilibrium regime all along their life and so it is more relevant the study of their out of equilibrium behavior than the static one .",
    "second , even if what we are observing is due to finite time effects ( although very large ) , it is very remarkable that it is well described by mean field approximations . maybe is the case that on time scales where activated processes are very rare mean field theories ( that completely neglect activated processes ) are really a good approximation .    we have also measured the fdr associated with the relaxation of the spin or internal degrees of freedom .",
    "one can consider the spin - spin autocorrelation @xmath98 or , only taking spins from occupied sites , the spin - density - spin - density one @xmath99 by applying suitable perturbations , like small random magnetic fields , one can define in the standard way the integrated responses corresponding to the correlations defined above .",
    "the parametric plot of the integrated responses versus correlations is shown in fig .",
    "[ fdt_2 ] .",
    "the interesting result which shows up here is that , qualitatively , the fdr is the same in the three cases .",
    "furthermore , fits to the data show approximately the same asymptotic value of @xmath88 .",
    "while the data for spin - density - spin - density and density - density are exactly on the same straight curve the data for spin - spin variables depart from the fdt line at a smaller value of the edwards - anderson parameter .",
    "this is due to the fraction of spins placed on empty sites .",
    "the fact that we have measured the same effective temperature @xmath96 perturbing different degrees of freedom is remarkable .",
    "it is known that when different degrees of freedom are coupled they must reach the same temperature .",
    "however to our knowledge this is the first time that such behavior has been measured in the aging regime of a finite dimensional system .",
    "it is worth noting that there is strong evidence  @xcite that the internal degrees of freedom are responsible for a thermodynamic spin glass transition at a temperature near @xmath0 , the structural glass transition temperature .",
    "the constant value of the fdr for the spin variables indicates that the transition should be typical of systems with one replica symmetry breaking .",
    "if this is confirmed we have at hand a finite model , with short range interactions , which presents a discontinuous transition , like that present in mean field models as the @xmath2-spin .",
    "in fact , at a mean field level , a line of discontinuous transitions have been found in models closely related to the filg  @xcite .",
    "more work is needed in order to test this possibility in the short range model .    for the sake of comparison , in fig .",
    "[ 3corr ] results for all three correlations studied are shown for @xmath100 . notice that the correlation involving both occupation and spin variables is always smaller than the other two : @xmath101 . for small times",
    ", @xmath102 is dominated by the particles dynamics , while , for large times , by the internal degrees of freedom dynamics .",
    "we have described the main characteristics of the out of equilibrium dynamics of the three dimensional frustrated ising lattice gas .",
    "it shows a very complex and interesting phenomenology similar to that observed in real glass formers .",
    "the glass transition seems to have a purely dynamical origin as no evidence of singular behavior was found neither in the linear nor in nonlinear compressibilities .",
    "aging dynamics is present in both density and internal degrees of freedom and the decay of autocorrelations is similar to that observed in molecular dynamics simulations of lennard - jones glasses .",
    "cage effects are evident both in density relaxation and on diffusion properties where a clear characterization of different regimes is possible . from slow compression experiments different densities",
    "are reached depending on the compression rate and hysteresis is observed from cycling experiments .",
    "after a sudden compression the density slowly approaches a limiting value .",
    "aging experiments at fixed densities slightly above and below this limiting value show clear qualitative differences showing that this density may separate two different dynamical regimes .",
    "the overall scenario is very reminiscent of mean field scenarios for the glass transition , except for the presence of compression rate dependence which is absent in mean field .",
    "interestingly , the form of the fluctuation - dissipation theorem violations is exactly that predicted in mean field approximations , i.e.  a constant fluctuation - dissipation ratio .",
    "this means that this model presents two very separated time scales .",
    "the effective temperature in the out of equilibrium scale is nearly temperature independent in the glassy phase .",
    "this raises the question whether activated processes play or not an important role in its dynamics .",
    "the same constant effective temperature is observed associated with the internal degrees of freedom . at mean field level ,",
    "a constant effective temperature has been obtained in systems characterized by one step replica symmetry braking ( 1rsb ) .",
    "thermodynamically , a phase transition with a divergent susceptibility associated with internal degrees of freedom is observed .",
    "this may be the first realization of a glassy phase characterized by 1rsb in a finite dimensional model .",
    "the presence of a static transition associated with density variables at a low `` kauzmann temperature '' @xmath103 remains an open problem in this model .",
    "it would be interesting to study in more detail how the restoration of fdt relations is achieved as @xmath0 is approached from below in order to test the strength of the time scales separation . also activated processes may show up for bath temperatures larger than those explored in these simulations as long as frustration begins to be lifted by thermal activation .",
    "thanks s. franz for useful discussions on the subject .",
    "this work was partly supported by the brazilian agency cnpq .",
    "jja acknowledges the abdus salam international centre of theoretical physics for support during his stay , where part of this work was done .",
    "r. bhmer , k.l .",
    "ngai , c.a .",
    "angell , and d.j .",
    "plazek , j. chem . phys .",
    "* 99 * , 4201 ( 1993 ) .",
    "angell , science * 267 * , 1924 ( 1995 ) .",
    "ediger , c.a . angell and s.r .",
    "nagel , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 100 * , 13200 ( 1996 ) .",
    "w. gtze and l. sjgren , rep .",
    "* 55 * , 241 ( 1992 ) .",
    "w. gtze in _ liquids , freezing and the glass transition _ , les houches 1989 , eds .",
    "hansen , d. levesque and j. zinn - justin ( north holland , amsterdam , 1991 ) .",
    "bouchaud and m. mzard , j. phys .",
    "i ( france ) * 4 * , 1109 ( 1994 ) .",
    "e. marinari , g. parisi , and f. ritort , j. phys .",
    "a * 27 * , 7647 ( 1994 ) .",
    "cugliandolo , j. kurchan , g. parisi and f. ritort , phys .",
    "lett . * 74 * , 1012 ( 1995 ) .",
    "fredrickson and h.c .",
    "andersen , phys .",
    "lett . * 53 * , 1244 ( 1985 ) ; j. chem . phys .",
    "* 83 * , 5822 ( 1985 ) . w. kob and h.c .",
    "andersen , phys .",
    "e * 48 * , 4364 ( 1993 ) .",
    "j. kurchan , l. peliti , and m. sellitto , europhys . lett . * 39 * , 365 ( 1997 ) . l. peliti and m. sellitto , in _ disorder and chaos _ , ed .",
    "a. vulpiani , ( editions de physique 1998 ) ; m. sellitto , preprint cond - mat/9912257 .",
    "e. follana and f. ritort , phys .",
    "e * 54 * , 930 ( 1996 ) .",
    "i.s . graham , l. pich and m. grant , phys .",
    "e * 55 * , 2132 ( 1997 ) .",
    "arenzon , m. nicodemi , and m. sellitto , j. de physique * 6 * , 1143 ( 1996 ) .",
    "m. sellitto , m. nicodemi , and j.j .",
    "arenzon , j. de physique * 7 * , 45 ( 1997 ) .",
    "schreiber , eur .",
    "j. b * 9 * 479 ( 1999 ) .",
    "a. coniglio , a. de candia , a. fierro and m. nicodemi , j. phys .",
    "c * 11 * , a167 ( 1999 ) .",
    "see e.g.  j.p .",
    "bouchaud , l.f .",
    "cugliandolo , j. kurchan and m. mzard in @xcite and e. vincent , j. hammann , m. ocio , j.p .",
    "bouchaud and l.f .",
    "cugliandolo , in proceedings of the sitges conference on glassy dynamics , ed .",
    "e. rubi ( springer , berlin , 1996 ) .",
    "s. franz and h. rieger , j. stat .",
    "phys . * 79 * , 749 ( 1995 ) .",
    "e. marinari , g. parisi , f. ricci - tersenghi and j.j .",
    "ruiz - lorenzo , j. phys .",
    "a * 31 * , 2611 ( 1998 ) .",
    "a. barrat , phys .",
    "e * 57 * , 3629 ( 1998 ) .",
    "g. parisi , f. ricci - tersenghi and j.j .",
    "ruiz - lorenzo , eur .",
    "j. b * 11 * , 317 ( 1999 ) .",
    "g. parisi , phys .",
    "lett . * 79 * , 3660 ( 1997 ) .",
    "barrat and w. kob , europhys . lett . *",
    "46 * , 637 ( 1999 ) .",
    "m. sellitto , eur .",
    "j. b * 4 * , 135 ( 1998 ) .",
    "r. di leonardo , l. angelani , g. parisi and g. ruocco , preprint cond - mat/0001311 ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the dynamical properties of a three dimensional model glass , the frustrated ising lattice gas ( filg ) are studied by monte carlo simulations . </S>",
    "<S> we present results of compression experiments , where the chemical potential is either slowly or abruptly changed , as well as simulations at constant density . </S>",
    "<S> one time quantities like density and two times ones as correlations , responses and mean square displacements are measured , and the departure from equilibrium clearly characterized . </S>",
    "<S> the aging scenario , particularly in the case of the density autocorrelations , is reminiscent of spin glass phenomenology with violations of the fluctuation - dissipation theorem , typical of systems with one replica symmetry breaking . </S>",
    "<S> the filg , as a valid on - lattice model of structural glasses , can be described with tools developed in spin glass theory and , being a finite dimensional model , can open the way for a systematic study of activated processes in glasses .    </S>",
    "<S> = -1.5 cm    2 </S>"
  ]
}