{
  "article_text": [
    "surface dynamics has attracted much interest in recent years , partly due to progress in experimental techniques to measure atomic processes at surfaces .",
    "a variety of phenomena has been studied , both experimentally and theoretically , including fluctuations of isolated and bunches of steps , island motion , and thermal relaxation of sinusoidal gratings ( @xcite ) .    in this contribution",
    ", we shall draw attention to the ( sub)diffusive dynamics of the meandering of steps of monoatomic height .",
    "we shall emphasize the role of different atomic mechanisms leading to distinct limiting cases for the asymptotic time laws .",
    "in particular , ( i ) evaporation  condensation ( ec ) , i.e. uncorrelated attachment and detachment of atoms at the step edge , ( ii ) periphery diffusion ( pd ) along the step edge , and ( iii ) terrace diffusion ( td ) will be discriminated ( these three cases correspond to evaporation  condensation , surface diffusion and volume diffusion in the pioneering work of mullins ( 1959 ) on thermal flattening of crystal surfaces ) .",
    "results of langevin descriptions and of monte carlo simulations will be presented .",
    "let us consider a surface with an isolated step of monoatomic height . the step position , at time @xmath0 and step site @xmath1 ,",
    "is specified by @xmath2 ( in units of the lattice spacing , i.e. , @xmath3 ; likewise @xmath4 , where @xmath5 is the length of the step ) .",
    "for instance , @xmath6 describes a perfectly straight step .",
    "step fluctuations may be quantified by the correlation function @xmath7 where the brackets denote spatial ( along the step edge , @xmath1 ) and ensemble averages .",
    "the initial step position , @xmath8 , may be chosen in various ways , for instance , it may be straight or thermally equilibrated .    at fixed time",
    ", the step stiffness may be characterised by the spatial correlation function @xmath9 where @xmath10 is the distance between @xmath11 and @xmath12 .",
    "choosing @xmath11 and @xmath12 in the center and at the end of the step , respectively , @xmath13 then measures the width of the step ( and will be denoted by @xmath14 ) .",
    "usually , the width of the step is limited by and related to its length , @xmath5 .",
    "if each step position would be completely free to wander back and forth with the same probability at any time ( i.e. each step position would be a random walker ) , then @xmath15 would obviously obey a diffusive behaviour , @xmath16 .",
    "this situation may be realized , e.g. , at infinite temperature .",
    "however , in general , the motion of each step position is hindered due to the other parts of the step .",
    "indeed , the step meandering is typically subdiffusive , with a simple power law at late times , @xmath17 , where the exponent @xmath18 .",
    "the value of @xmath19 depends on the atomic process driving the step fluctuations , and @xmath19 may be determined theoretically or in experiments .    in the theoretical approaches ,",
    "assumptions are made on the transition rates and correlations for the attachment and detachment of the atoms at the step edges as well as on the boundary conditions at the ends of the step ( for example , periodic or pinned ) .",
    "in particular , langevin descriptions and monte carlo simulations have been applied .",
    "the basic equation of the langevin theory for step dynamics has the form ( @xcite ) @xmath20 where the functional @xmath21 describes the reduction of the step free energy , and @xmath22 is the noise term . both quantities depend on the microscopic processes driving the step fluctuations .",
    "usually , @xmath23 and @xmath1 are assumed to be continuous variables .",
    "the monte carlo simulations ( for an introduction , see binder ( 1992 ) ) are performed for microscopic models , specifying the interactions between the surface ( or step ) atoms and the transition rates for the motion of the atoms at the surface , as shown in the following .",
    "let us assume that the step fluctuations are due to uncorrelated attachment and detachment of atoms at the step edges ( as may be realized when the surface dynamics is governed by exchange of atoms with the surrounding vapour : kinetics of evaporation and condensation , ec ) .    in a monte carlo simulation , the step",
    "may now be mimicked by a one  dimensional sos model @xmath24 where the sum runs over all nearest neighbour pairs @xmath25 of step sites ; @xmath26 is the kink energy .",
    "a resulting step configuration is depicted in fig .",
    "= 9.0 cm    the ec kinetics corresponds , in the simulations , to glauber dynamics .",
    "the transition rate for attachment or detachment of an atom at a randomly chosen step site is given by the boltzmann factor @xmath27 , with @xmath28 being the energy change needed for the possible attachment or detachment , @xmath29 is the boltzmann constant , and @xmath30 the temperature . choosing the initial step positions @xmath31 ,",
    "@xmath15 is computed by averaging over a large number , @xmath32 , of samples .",
    "the results depend on the temperature , the number of active step sites , @xmath5 , the boundary conditions at the ends of the step , and the initial step configuration .",
    "in particular , we monitored @xmath15 and the step width @xmath14 for steps of length @xmath5 ranging from 4 to 200 at various temperatures ( @xmath33 going from 0.5 to 4.0 ) , pinning the step positions at the ends , @xmath34 and @xmath35 ( usually , we took @xmath36 ) , or using periodic boundary conditions ( pbc ) at the ends of the steps .",
    "the time @xmath0 is measured in monte carlo steps per site ( mcs ) , i.e. one time unit has elapsed after @xmath5 attempts to change the step position by one .",
    "averages have been taken over typically @xmath37 to @xmath38 samples .    at very short times , the step fluctuations are nearly diffusive , with @xmath16 , due to the random events at ( almost ) equivalent step sites .",
    "however , caused by the rigidity of the step , deviations show up soon . they may be monitored conveniently by the effective exponent @xmath39 if @xmath15 would obey a simple power law , the exponent would be a constant , @xmath40 .",
    "= 8.0 cm    as depicted in fig .",
    "2 , @xmath41 tends to decrease with time ( apart from the behaviour of initially straight steps , where the exponent first increases slightly to values larger than one before getting smaller ) .",
    "the rate of the decrease in @xmath41 depends non  monotonically on temperature , being fastest at some intermediate values , say , @xmath42 .",
    "it is higher when using thermally equilibrated initial step positions @xmath31 , compared to straight steps . for sufficiently long steps the effective exponent seems to approach , at large times , @xmath43 , the asymptotic value obtained from langevin descriptions for ec kinetics of indefinitely extended steps ( @xcite ) , and observed experimentally , e.g. , on a au(110 ) surface ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , as illustrated in fig .",
    "2 , the finite length of the step leads to different asymptotics , depending on the boundary conditions . for pbc",
    ", @xmath41 may get close to 1/2 , before it rises at later times when the step width @xmath14 saturates .",
    "the time @xmath44 , at which the step width has reached its saturation value depends on the length of the step ( exact calculations for a simplified model suggest @xmath45 ( @xcite ) , in reasonable agreement with our simulations ) . eventually , the step behaves effectively like a single random walker with a reduced diffusion coefficient , i.e. @xmath46 .    in the pinned case ,",
    "the step width also saturates , @xmath47 for both boundary conditions ( @xcite ) .",
    "obviously , the motion of the step is now hindered because the step is fixed at the ends .",
    "therefore , @xmath15 remains bounded and @xmath41 tends towards zero .",
    "we now suppose that the step fluctuations are caused by direct hops of step atoms between neighbouring step sites ( in nature , the hops correspond to the motion of individual atoms or they may result from a particle exchange mechanism ) .",
    "the step or periphery diffusion ( pd ) may be simulated again for a one  dimensional sos model , equation ( 4 ) , applying now kawasaki dynamics ( @xcite ) .",
    "the transition rates for diffusion of a randomly chosen step atom to a neighbouring site are given by the boltzmann factor of the energy change needed for the hop .",
    "the monte carlo simulations for pd are done in complete analogy to those for ec , studying the impact of the step length , the initial step configuration , temperature , and the boundary conditions .",
    "most runs were done at @xmath48 .",
    "averages were taken over @xmath37 to @xmath38 samples .",
    "the step length @xmath5 ranged from 6 to 200 .    at very short times , the step fluctuations are nearly diffusive , before the rigidity of the step starts to slow down their growth .",
    "the corresponding rate of decrease in the effective exponent @xmath41 of the correlation function @xmath15 depends again in a non ",
    "monotonic fashion on temperature .",
    "@xmath41 seems to approach the value 1/4 for indefinitely long steps , see fig .",
    "3 , in accordance with predictions from langevin descriptions ( @xcite ) and experimental data for steps on , e.g. , cu surfaces ( @xcite ) .",
    "however , the finite step length @xmath5 modifies that behaviour at late times , reflecting also the boundary conditions at the ends of the step , as illustrated in fig.3 .",
    "pinning of the steps limits the fluctuations , with @xmath41 decreasing eventually to zero when the width of the step has acquired its saturation value . for periodic boundary conditions and short steps",
    ", the effective exponent shows a rather peculiar time dependence , as depicted in fig .",
    "the step fluctuations @xmath15 are bounded , because the average step position is , by definition of pd , conserved , in contrast to the ec case where the entire step of finite width may move like a random walker at late times .",
    "accordingly , @xmath41 goes to zero .",
    "note the pronounced maximum in @xmath41 for the short step ( @xmath5 = 10 , at about 100 mcs , see fig .",
    "3 ) . this feature seems to be typical for longer steps as well ( e.g. , for @xmath49 , the maximum shows up at about 1600 mcs ) .",
    "the faster growth in the step fluctuations might be related to a modulation in the step positions .",
    "then the amplitudes of the hill and valley parts of the fluctuations may increase , satisfying the above conservation requirement , until finally these excursions get bounded as well .",
    "this aspect , which we also noticed for pinned steps , deserves further studies .",
    "= 8.0 cm    in addition , we studied the situation where the step is pinned at some angle , i.e. , the ends of the steps are at different positions , @xmath50 , and @xmath51 .",
    "the dynamics seems to be quite similar to that of step where the pinning introduces no additional kinks ( @xmath52 ) , at least at the fairly high temperature which we considered , @xmath53 .",
    "a more detailed analysis seems to be desirable .      in general",
    ", the step dynamics on crystal surfaces is expected to be rather complex , because atoms detaching from a step may diffuse ( anisotropically and in external potentials ) on the neighbouring lower and upper terraces , colliding with other atoms on the terraces .",
    "in addition , exchange mechanisms may introduce correlations of different ranges between atoms detaching from and attaching at the steps .",
    "there have been a few attempts to study the complexity of these processes in the framework of langevin descriptions .",
    "a rather appealing picture has been suggested by duxbury and blagojevic ( 1997 ) , by expressing the functional @xmath21 of the langevin equation in terms of the chemical potential at the step sites and a diffusion kernel @xmath54 , which denotes the probability of an atom being originally one lattice spacing in front of the step site @xmath1 to attach at step position @xmath55 , after having undergone an appropriate walk on the terrace .",
    "the approach has been critically discussed by einstein and khare ( 1998 ) . in any event",
    ", it poses the well defined and interesting problem to calculate the diffusion kernel for various scenarios .    for ec , p(l ) would be obviously constant , i.e. the wandering atom could attach with the same probability at each step site .",
    "indeed , one obtains , via equation ( 3 ) , that the step fluctuations obey , at late times , the power ",
    "law @xmath56 . for pd",
    ", @xmath54 vanishes for @xmath57 , yielding the asymptotic exponent @xmath58 . perfect terrace diffusion ( td ) , where the atom executes a standard random walk on the terrace in front of a straight step until it attaches at that reference step ,",
    "is described by a diffusion kernel , at large distance @xmath59 , of the form @xmath60 .",
    "this decay law leads then to subdiffusive step fluctuations with @xmath61 , being intermediate between ec and pd ( @xcite ) .",
    "the previous calculations of @xmath54 for td had been done in the continuum limit for the step position @xmath2 .",
    "we extended those calculations in several ways .",
    "@xmath54 was determined by an exact numerical enumeration of the probability to visit a given , discrete site of the terrace ( @xcite ) , which is supposed to be a square lattice . in doing that",
    ", we are dealing with a lattice of finite extent , bordered by a step being parallel and opposite ( at a distance @xmath62 ) to the reference step and two steps starting at the ends and being perpendicular to the reference step of length @xmath5 .",
    "the three boundary steps may either reflect or absorb the wandering adatom .",
    "the boundary conditions allow one to study , for instance , in which way the step dynamics changes because of the presence of a neighbouring step with a large ( reflecting ) or small ( absorbing ) schwoebel  ehrlich barrier .",
    "in particular , we considered an external potential , v , of the form @xmath63 where @xmath64 measures the distance of the diffusing adatom from the reference step ; a ( in units of @xmath65 ) is the strength of the potential originating from elastic or dipolar interactions of the adatom with the reference step ( and its opposite step ) .",
    "thence , the hopping probabitities for the wandering adatom are different for moves towards and away from the steps . assuming straight steps , the resulting diffusion kernel @xmath54 is shown to display the same limiting behaviour as in the potential  free ( @xmath66 ) case , as illustrated in fig .",
    "4 . in particular , for large distances @xmath62 between the reference and the opposite step , @xmath54 falls off as @xmath67 for @xmath68 . only the prefactor of the power ",
    "law depends on the strength @xmath69 of the potential , increasing exponentially with @xmath69 ( at least for small values of @xmath69 ) .",
    "accordingly , the interaction of the adatom with the step may be expected to be irrelevant for td , with @xmath61 . for smaller distances @xmath62 , @xmath54 decreases exponentially with @xmath59 .",
    "the exponential decay , due to reflection or adsorption at the neighbouring step , leads to a slowing down of the step fluctuations , being now in the limiting case of pd , @xmath70 ( @xcite ) . of course",
    ", it would only hold if there is a reflecting ( infinite ) schwoebel  ehrlich barrier , because otherwise the neighbouring ( opposite ) step would be a source of adatoms which could attach at the reference step in an uncorrelated manner , giving rise to the fast step fluctuations of ec , @xmath56 .",
    "= 8.0 cm    furthermore , we studied the situation , where the reference step is rough .",
    "the asymptotics of @xmath54 seems to be unaffected by this modification as well ( @xcite ) , e.g. , if the influence of the opposite step is sufficiently strong , we recover the same exponential decay in @xmath54 as for straight steps , with the prefactor reflecting the roughness .",
    "the findings suggest that the corresponding time dependence of the step fluctuations at late stages , @xmath61 , is rather robust against including elastic or dipolar interactions of the diffusing adatom with the step and also against the roughness of the step .",
    "different time laws , with @xmath19 deviating from 1/3 , may , however , result from a competition between terrace and periphery diffusion with various sticking coefficients ( @xcite ) or collisions between adatoms diffusing on the terrace . the topic may be studied in simulations using , for instance , the kinetic monte carlo approach with suitable activation energies ( or using standard monte carlo techniques for a two  dimensional sos model with a step ( @xcite ) , applying kawasaki dynamics ) .",
    "such simulations have been done in particular for a model of steps of monoatomic height on ag(110 ) ( @xcite ) , motivated by recent experiments ( @xcite ) .",
    "the terrace diffusion is extremely anisotropic .",
    "the steps may become quickly very fuzzy , and they are no longer uniquely defined , so that rather involved analyses are needed to identify the characteristic time ",
    "law for the step fluctuations .",
    "we considered three limiting cases for step fluctuations at crystal surfaces , where the attachment and detachment of atoms at the steps is ( i ) uncorrelated , ec , ( ii ) due to local moves along the surface edge , pd , or ( iii ) mediated by random walks of adatoms on the neighbouring terraces , td . in all three cases ,",
    "the fluctuations of an indefinitely long step are expected to grow subdiffusively at large times , @xmath71 , with @xmath19= 1/2 , 1/4 and 1/3 , respectively .",
    "the first two cases have been studied by doing monte carlo simulations for one  dimensional sos models .",
    "we confirmed the generic time laws for step fluctuations at late stages , with @xmath43 for ec , and 1/4 for pd .",
    "however , due to the finite length of the step and boundary effects at the ends of the step , various other typical scenarios are encountered , including the crossover from subdiffusive to diffusive behaviour , for ec and periodic boundary conditions .",
    "the case of terrace diffusion has been discussed in the framework of a recent langevin description .",
    "the main quantity is the diffusion kernel , describing the return probability of an adatom wandering on the terrace to a step site .",
    "its asymptotics , which is supposed to determine the exponent @xmath19 ( being 1/3 for perfect terrace diffusion ) , is found to be robust against realistic interactions of the adatom with the step as well as against roughening of the step .",
    "abraham , d .",
    "b. , upton , p .",
    "j. ( 1989 ) : dynamics of gaussian interface models .",
    "phys . rev .",
    "b * 39 * , 736 bartelt , n . c. , einstein , t . l. , williams , e.d .",
    "( 1994 ) : measuring surface mass diffusion coefficients by observing step fluctuations . surf .",
    "sci . * 312 * , 411 binder , k . , ( ed . ) ( 1992 ) : the monte carlo method in condensed matter physics .",
    "( springer , berlin , heidelberg ) bisani , m .",
    "( 1998 ) : zur theorie wechselwirkender stufen auf kristalloberflchen .",
    "diplomarbeit , rwth aachen blagojevic , w . , duxbury , p . m. ( 1997 ) : from atomic diffusion to step dynamics . in : dynamics of crystal surfaces and interfaces .",
    "duxbury , p .",
    "m. , pence , t .",
    "j. ( plenum press , new york , london ) , p.1 bonzel , h .",
    "p. , surnev , s .",
    "( 1997 ) : morphologies of periodic surface profiles and small particles . in : .",
    "dynamics of crystal surfaces and interfaces .",
    "duxbury , p .",
    "m. , pence , t .",
    "j. ( plenum press , new york , london ) , p.41 edwards , s .",
    "f. , wilkinson , d .",
    "r. ( 1982 ) : the surface statistics of a granular aggregate .",
    "a * 381 * , 17 giesen  seibert , m . ,",
    "jentjens , r. , poensgen , m . , ibach , h .",
    "( 1993 ) : time dependence of step fluctuations on vicinal cu ( 1 1 19 ) surfaces investigated by tunneling microscopy .",
    "lett.*71 * , 3521 hager , j . ,",
    "spohn , h .",
    "( 1995 ) : self  similar morphology and dynamics of periodic surface profiles below the roughening transition .",
    "sci . * 324 * , 365 khare , s .",
    "v. , bartelt , n .",
    "c. , einstein , t .",
    "l. ( 1996 ) : brownian motion and shape fluctuations of single ",
    "layer adatom and vacancy clusters on surfaces : theory and simulations .",
    "b * 54 * , 11752 khare , s .",
    "v. , einstein , t .",
    "l. ( 1998 ) : unified view of step - edge kinetics and fluctuations .",
    "b * 57 * , 4782 kuipers , l . , hoogeman , m .",
    "s. , frenken , j .",
    "w. m. ( 1993 ) : step dynamics on au(110 ) studied with a high  temperature , high  speed scanning tunneling microscope .",
    "phys . rev .",
    "lett.*71 * , 3517 lancon , f . ,",
    "villain , j . ( 1990 ) : dynamics of a crystal surface below its roughening . in : kinetics of ordering and growth at surfaces . ed .",
    "lagally , m .",
    "g. ( plenum press , new york , london ) , p.369 li , j . ,",
    "berndt , r . ,",
    "schneider , w .",
    "1996 ) : tip  assisted diffusion on ag(110 ) in scanning tunneling microscopy .",
    "lett.*76 * , 11 lipowsky , r .",
    "( 1985 ) : nonlinear growth of wetting layers .",
    "a * 18 * , l 585 majid , i . ,",
    "avraham , d. , havlin , s . ,",
    "stanley , h .",
    "e. ( 1984 ) : exact enumeration approach to random walks on percolation clusters in two dimensions .",
    "b * 30 * , 1626 mullins , w . w. ( 1959 ) : flattening of nearly plane solid surface due to capillarity .",
    ". phys . * 30 * , 77 pimpinelli , a . ,",
    "villain , j . , wolf , d. e. , metois , j .",
    "j. , heyraud , j .",
    "c. , elkiani , i . , uimin , g .",
    "( 1993 ) : equilibrium step dynamics on vicinal surfaces .",
    "sci . * 295 * , 143 selke , w . , duxbury , p .",
    "m. ( 1995 ) : equilibration of crystal surfaces .",
    "b * 57 * , 4782 stauffer , d . ,",
    "landau , d .",
    "p. ( 1989 ) : interface growth in a two  dimensional ising model .",
    "phys . rev .",
    "b * 57 * , 4782 stebens , a . ( 1998 ) : monte  carlo simulationen von dynamischen prozessen auf kristalloberflchen .",
    "diplomarbeit , rwth aachen van beijeren , h .",
    ", kehr , k . w. , kutner , r .",
    "( 1983 ) : diffusion in concentrated lattice gases .",
    "tracer diffusion on a one  diemnsional lattice .",
    "b * 28 * , 5711 weeks , j .",
    "d. , liu , d . j . , jeong , h.c .",
    "( 1997 ) : two  dimensional models for step dynamics . in : . dynamics of crystal surfaces and interfaces .",
    "duxbury , p .",
    "m. , pence , t .",
    "j. ( plenum press , new york , london ) , p.41 williams , e .",
    "d. ( 1994 ) : surface steps and surface morphology : understanding macroscopic phenomena from atomic observations .",
    "* 299/300 * , 502"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the dynamics of steps on crystal surfaces is considered . in general </S>",
    "<S> , the meandering of the steps obeys a subdiffusive behaviour . </S>",
    "<S> the characteristic asymptotic time laws depend on the microscopic mechanism for detachment and attachment of the atoms at the steps . </S>",
    "<S> the three limiting cases of step  edge diffusion , evaporation  condensation and terrace diffusion are studied in the framework of langevin descriptions and by monte carlo simulations . </S>"
  ]
}