{
  "article_text": [
    "we have numerically studied the dynamical heterogeneity in strongly correlated many - body systems , for example , the critical spin state@xcite , the supercooled liquid near the glass transition@xcite and the turbulence@xcite .",
    "these systems are scale - invariant and multifractal . in this paper",
    "we briefly review how we quantify the dynamical heterogeneity and discuss in detail the turbulence simulation data recently obtained .    in order to quantify the dynamical heterogeneity we have two measures .",
    "one is the non - equilibrium parameter @xmath0 of the rnyi - tsallis distribution function .",
    "the other is the singularity spectrum @xmath1 .",
    "these two measures are closely related and important ingredients of the multifractal analysis .    in the numerical study of the critical spin state@xcite",
    "we have found that the @xmath0-parameter represents the degree of non - equilibrium .",
    "we have actually quantified the deviation of the q - parameter from the equilibrium value according to the spatio - temporal scale of the observation .    in the numerical study of the the supercooled liquid near the glass transition@xcite",
    "we have found that the broken - bond distribution which reflects the nature of the cooperatively rearranging region is well described by the singularity spectrum @xmath1 of multifractal .",
    "the width of the spectrum becomes broader as approaching the glass transition .",
    "such a broadening is similar to that observed in the numerical study of the anderson - localization transition .",
    "in the numerical study of the turbulence@xcite we have adopted the lattice boltzmann method .",
    "our numerical turbulence on @xmath2 cubic lattice points is sustained by a random forcing and the reynolds number is about 500 .",
    "turbulence is one of the typical phenomena with multiscale motions .",
    "each phenomena of a scale strongly couples with all the other scales of turbulent motion . in order to analyze such a system a scale - dependent entropy ,",
    "the so - called @xmath3-entropy @xmath4 , works well .",
    "for example , the time series of the velocity field in turbulence leads to a non - trivial scaling relation , @xmath5 , expected from kolmogorov s scaling . here",
    "@xmath3 is the scale of the observation .",
    "the existing experimental data are consistent with this scaling . by our numerical experiment simulating the navier - stokes equation",
    "we have shown the consistency of the scaling .",
    "in contrast to the evaluation of the energy spectrum , which is usually employed for testing kolmogorov s scaling and determined by the two - point correlation function , kolmogorov s scaling is easily observed in the @xmath3-entropy , since it is determined by the mean of the exit time from the observation window and fluctuations are averaged out .",
    "such a unifractal scaling is a mean - field description and fluctuations can be taken into account in a multifractal analysis as shown in the following . in the above",
    "mentioned mean - field description the velocity difference in temporal and spatial directions have the same fractal scaling exponent .",
    "thus we have confirmed kolmogorov s scaling and taylor s hypothesis at the same time .",
    "the probability distribution function ( pdf ) for the velocity or vorticity field is non - gaussian . the non - gaussianity is quantified by the @xmath0-parameter .",
    "the strong non - gaussianity is observed at small spatio - temporal scale comparable to that for the coherent vortex in the pdf for the velocity or vorticity difference between two space - time points . by using the wavelet denoising",
    "we have clarified that the non - gaussianity or dynamical heterogeneity results from the existence of the coherent vortex which is a strongly - correlated non - equilibrium region .",
    "the strength of the vortices is shown in fig . 1 to be intermittent . the spatial distribution of the coherent vortices is quantified by the singularity spectrum of multifractal @xmath1 as shown in fig .",
    "the remainder of this subsection is devoted to some speculations . as seen in our previous study@xcite",
    "the width of the singularity spectrum depends on the degree of intermittency so that we expect some reynolds - number dependence of the spectrum .",
    "it has been discussed by many authors and should be claryfied in future systematic study . in our present study",
    "the density of the vortex is dilute .",
    "thus the singularity spectrum in fig .",
    "2 describes the spatial distribution of relatively free vortices . as the reynolds number",
    "is increased the density increases . in this case",
    "the interaction among vortices becomes important and the correlation length of the vorticity fluctuation becomes large . while we can observe the vortex only as an individual elementary excitation in our numerical experiment , some collective excitation is expected to dominate at higher reynolds number . in the limit of divergently",
    "large reynolds number the correlation length becomes divergently large so that we can expect full scale - invariance .",
    "we can find a resemblance to the case of the scaling theory in polymers where an ideal scaling relation is realized for dense solutions where polymers are strongly entangled . in the limit of high reynolds number",
    "each boxes counting the coherent vortex for calculating @xmath1 will be filled by almost equal number of vortices so that intermittency will disappear and unifractal kolmogorov s scaling will prevail .",
    "our new findings are summarized into two points .",
    "first in the unifractal analysis using the exit - time statistics we have verified kolmogorov s scaling and taylor s hypothesis at the same time .",
    "second in the analysis using the rnyi - tsallis pdf and the wavelet denoising we have clarified that the coherent vortices sustain the power - law velocity correlation in the non - equilibrium state ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> by calculating the non - equilibrium parameter of the probability distribution function and the singularity spectrum of multifractal we have quantified the dynamical heterogeneity in strongly correlated many - body systems .     </S>",
    "<S> address = department of physics , kyushu university , fukuoka 810 - 8560 , japan </S>"
  ]
}