{
  "article_text": [
    "conjugated polymers , which derive their semiconducting properties from delocalized @xmath0 bonding along the polymer chain @xcite , enable cheap , lightweight , portable and large area displays , with promising applications to solar cells and photodetectors @xcite . since the first observation of polymer light - emitting diodes ( leds ) @xcite , detailed investigation of the aspects of chemistry , physics and engineering of materials has resulted in rapid progress @xcite . in order to commercialize polymer devices , high efficiencies , brightness , and carrier lifetimes are required @xcite .",
    "it is , therefore , essential to fully understand the fundamental physics of electrical transport through conjugated polymers , for a recent review see @xcite .",
    "previous theoretical studies have dealt with strongly disordered organic materials , in which charge transport is mainly attributed to hopping @xcite .",
    "the charge carrier mobilities of such systems are low and exhibit a strong temperature and electric field dependence",
    ". however , large carrier mobilities are generally highly desirable .",
    "most recently , measurements in light - emitting diodes @xcite have demonstrated enhanced carrier mobilities , varying only weakly with the electric field , for devices characterized by high degree of order in the polymeric material . this weak dependence , which contradicts the theoretical predictions , has been attributed to the purity of the polymer films , but it is not yet understood .",
    "this realization has motivated us to investigate the transport properties of liquid - crystalline conjugated polymer films in which the chains are nematically aligned perpendicular to the direction of transport . in a previous work @xcite we looked into the character of transport through such polymer films . by employing the monte carlo technique",
    ", we showed that it is possible to obtain non - dispersive transport in such systems .",
    "this observation is in agreement with time - of - flight experiments conducted on liquid - crystalline polyfluorene films @xcite , which demonstrate non - dispersive hole transport with enhanced charge carrier mobilities compared to previously examined conjugated polymers .",
    "moreover , we established the conditions under which such transport is retained . however , our initial model was a simplistic one , with the film morphology reduced to occupied sites of a two - dimensional lattice , the variation of the hopping probability with the field being rather crude , and there was no temperature dependence . in order to accomplish more detailed studies , we have first extended the model to fully describe the geometry of the polymer film , so that various film morphologies , similar to those appearing in realistic systems , can be considered .",
    "secondly , we have explicitly included all parameters of interest , such as the electric field , temperature , and disorder ( both spatial and energetic ) .",
    "the aim of the present work is to probe in detail the field and temperature dependence of the mobility in liquid - crystalline conjugated polymer films .",
    "in particular , we discuss the effect of the electric field on the inter - chain mobility of such polymer films , and we attempt to explain the weak dependence on the field .",
    "the interplay between electric field and temperature on the transport characteristics is also examined .",
    "we begin our investigation with spatially ordered films in which all polymer chains are perfectly aligned perpendicular to the direction of the field .",
    "the additional effect of spatial disorder in the film configurations on the transport properties of such films , is also considered . to account for the chemical regularity and the extended backbone conjugation of liquid - crystalline chains",
    "we have included only a small amount of energetic disorder .",
    "in order to investigate the transport properties of charge carriers moving within a liquid - crystalline polymer film , we have performed numerical simulations of the time - of - flight technique .",
    "the system under study contains a polymer film sandwiched between two electrodes , and charge carriers are generated on one side by illumination of the electrode with an intense pulse of light of short duration .",
    "the photogenerated carriers move within the bulk of the film under the effect of an external bias , whose sign determines the type of the charge carriers that will get transported .",
    "the film is composed of conjugated polymer chains of length @xmath1 nm , which are nematically aligned perpendicular to the direction of the electric field , chosen as the @xmath2 direction . for the construction of the film",
    "periodic boundary conditions have been applied along the other two directions .",
    "based on the extended backbone conjugation of liquid - crystalline polymers , such as polyfluorene , that makes them stiff , and on bond vibrations being of very high frequency and low amplitude , we have assumed that the polymer chains can be described as rigid rods .",
    "the thickness of the film in the direction of transport has been taken equal to @xmath3 m , since relatively thick films are required for such measurements .    hopping motion of the charge carriers under the influence of the electric field",
    "is assumed , which in general can be either intra- or inter - chain .",
    "this is described by the monte carlo technique , in which the carriers perform random walks within the bulk of the film until they reach the collecting electrode .",
    "the probability of hopping between two sites @xmath4 and @xmath5 is equal to    @xmath6    where @xmath7 is the unnormalized hopping probability , which is taken to be of the form    @xmath8    @xmath9 is the electric field , @xmath10 is the relative position vector , @xmath11 is the boltzmann factor , @xmath12 is the temperature , and @xmath13 denotes the electronic wavefunction overlap . here , we have considered only nearest - neighbouring hopping within a cutoff distance equal to 10 .",
    "@xmath14 is the on - site energy of site @xmath4 and is taken from a gaussian distribution    @xmath15    whose width @xmath16 determines the degree of energetic disorder present in the film .",
    "notice that in equation [ symm ] there is no other activation energy except the difference in the electronic site energies a carrier has to overcome during each jump .",
    "equation [ symm ] satisfies the principle of detailed balance @xcite .",
    "intra - chain charge motion is , in general , a very rapid process compared with the inter - chain one @xcite .",
    "moreover , it was recently shown that in liquid - crystalline polymer films inter - chain hopping accounts for non - dispersive transport @xcite . taking these into account ,",
    "we have mainly focused on inter - chain transport , so that in what follows , each monte carlo step corresponds to the time required for an inter - chain jump .",
    "the drift of the photogenerated carriers under the external bias results in a time - dependent current @xmath17 , which reads @xcite    @xmath18    @xmath19 is the film thickness , and @xmath20 is the charge density in the direction of transport , integrated over the @xmath21 and @xmath22 directions . from the current transient the transit time @xmath23 , which is the time the carriers need to reach the discharging electrode , is obtained .",
    "we then use this extracted transit time to get the mobility @xmath24 via the relation    @xmath25",
    "we present results for the charge carrier mobilities of liquid - crystalline conjugated polymer films , obtained by using the monte carlo model described in the previous section . unless stated otherwise , all inter - chain distances are equal to 10 .",
    "the output of such calculations is the current transient , eq .",
    "[ curr ] , which arises from the application of the external bias . in fig .",
    "[ current ] we present a current transient from our numerical simulations for electric field @xmath26v / cm at room temperature , and for disorder @xmath27 , where @xmath28 is defined as @xmath29 and @xmath30k .",
    "the calculated current exhibits the typical behaviour of a time - of - flight signal , with a distinctive plateau followed by a decaying tail , thus shows non - dispersive transport @xcite . from the current plot",
    "we obtain the transit time @xmath31 , which is required for the calculation of the mobility , by using the current integration mode .",
    "the latter gives the transit time as the point at which the current has fallen to half its value in the plateau region . in fig .",
    "[ current ] the transit time is indicated by the arrow .    in most experimental time - of - flight signals ,",
    "the current transients initially exhibit a spike , which rapidly falls into the plateau .",
    "however , in our results such a pronounced peak is missing @xcite .",
    "we attribute the lack of the initial spike to the low degree of disorder present in our system , and in particular near the injecting electrode .",
    "a demonstration of the effect of purity , in the initial peak is presented in fig .",
    "curve ( a ) shows the current transient for a film with no energetic disorder at all ( @xmath32 ) , whereas curve ( b ) corresponds to the case of @xmath27 .",
    "curve ( a ) has been shifted along the @xmath21 axis for clarity . after the illumination of the electrode , the simulated photogenerated charge packet begins its motion within the film .",
    "if no disorder is present , the packet is adequately described by a delta function moving within the bulk of the film with constant mean velocity .",
    "if some disorder is introduced into the system , the propagating packet will become more extended ( gaussian ) , and the carriers will no longer move together . the resulting change in the charge profile produces a spike in the current transient , as shown in curve ( b ) , even though the disorder that we have considered is too small to give a pronounced peak .",
    "additionally , spatial irregularities near the injecting electrode would lead to much larger peaks @xcite , similar to those observed in experiments .    by identifying the transit times from the current transients for various values of the external electric field and for different temperatures",
    ", we have calculated the mobility by using equation [ mobil ] .",
    "figure [ mob1 ] shows one set of such results for @xmath33 . in this graph",
    "the logarithm of the mobility , ln(@xmath24 ) , has been plotted as a function of @xmath34 for temperatures in the range of @xmath35k to @xmath36k . in this figure",
    "we see that for low temperatures @xmath37 shows a more pronounced dependence on @xmath34 , with a slight increase at low fields , which switches to a decrease at larger values of the bias . as the temperature increases , and , thus , the thermal energy becomes comparable to the energetic disorder , this variation disappears and the mobility changes only weakly with the field .",
    "the reduction of the mobility at large electric fields and at all temperatures is the outcome of the saturation of the transit time , since the electrostatic energy is sufficient for the charge carriers to move fast enough and exit the film at the minimum number of time steps required .",
    "however , we should point out that we are not aware of any experimental results which show such a decreasing mobility .",
    "this indicates that in reality there are not liquid - crystalline polymer films of such energetic purity , even if they are characterized by perfect alignment of the chains .    in figure [ mob2 ] the logarithm of the mobility",
    "is shown as a function of @xmath34 and for the same range of temperatures as previously , but for disorder @xmath27 .",
    "in contrast to fig . [ mob1 ] , @xmath37 now exhibits a positive gradient at all fields . for small values of @xmath12",
    "the thermal energy is not adequate to enable the carriers to surmount the energy barriers , and the electrostatic energy becomes important .",
    "@xmath37 increases with the field as the electrostatic energy permits the carriers to follow shorter paths within the film .",
    "nevertheless , for larger temperatures , the energetic disorder is rather small , and the thermal and electrostatic energies have similar contributions .",
    "thus , the strong field dependence seen in more disordered systems is smoothed out and the carriers move with a constant velocity .",
    "a direct comparison with experimental data @xcite shows that our calculations for the mobility at room temperature and for @xmath27 lead to the same qualitative behaviour .",
    "figure [ temp ] shows the behaviour of the mobility as a function of temperature .",
    "the circles correspond to @xmath33 and the squares to @xmath27 . in the former case",
    ", @xmath37 decreases with @xmath12 for both small ( filled circles ) and large ( open circles ) electric fields .",
    "energetic disorder is relatively small so that the thermal energy dominates , making the charge carriers to remain longer within the film , following larger paths .",
    "hence , the mobility decreases with temperature .",
    "this is analogous to carriers being scattered by phonons in conventional semiconductors .",
    "when @xmath28 increases , on the other hand , we see that at a low electric field the mobility increases with temperature ( filled squares ) , whereas for a larger field @xmath37 decreases with @xmath12 ( open squares ) . for small fields ,",
    "thermal activation is the leading mechanism for the carriers to overcome the energy barriers .",
    "nevertheless , the energetic disorder is still weak and at large fields longer paths due to the excess thermal energy prevail , as before .",
    "this is an important result because it shows how much the mobility is affected by the interplay between electrostatic and thermal energy in the case of small energetic disorder .",
    "a similar behaviour of the mobility as a function of temperature has also been observed in other types of polymers within a master equation approach @xcite , although in that case the crossover appears to occur at the same field for all temperatures considered .",
    "moreover , at these small amounts of energetic disorder changes in @xmath37 with temperature are also weak .",
    "nevertheless , this crossover from increasing to decreasing mobility with temperature is not observed if we depart from the equidistant chains arrangement . in fig .",
    "[ irreg2 ] we show @xmath38 as a function of @xmath34 and for various temperatures , for a film in which the liquid - crystalline chains are still all nematically aligned , but at inter - chain distances that vary randomly between 7 and 13 ( irregularly spaced chains ) .",
    "the disorder strength is @xmath27 , as in figure [ mob2 ] .",
    "a line has been fitted to the simulation data points to guide the eye .",
    "hopping is only allowed between nearest - neighbours within the same cutoff distance as before ( 10 ) , discussed in the previous section . when the chains are irregularly spaced within the film ( fig .",
    "[ irreg2 ] ) the mobility is enhanced with temperature for all values of the electric field , as was shown in recent measurements of polyfluorene films @xcite .",
    "this behaviour resembles that of strongly disordered polymer films @xcite .",
    "however , in our case the increase of the mobility with temperature arises from spatial irregularities in the arrangement of the chains within the film .",
    "the distribution in the relative position vector leads to variations in the electrostatic energy ( eq . [ symm ] ) , so that thermal activation dominates , and the field dependence of ln@xmath24 remains weak for all temperatures .",
    "comparison between figures [ mob2 ] and [ irreg2 ] also shows that , even though in both regularly and irregularly spaced polymer films ln@xmath24 varies only slightly with the electric field , the introduction of some spatial disorder leads to the reduction of ln@xmath24 . in the latter case ,",
    "the charge carriers require more time to reach the discharging electrode as some nearest - neighbouring chains appear in distances larger than 10 .",
    "such jumps are prohibited , and the carriers must find alternative paths that might be longer .",
    "this would lead to greater transit times and , therefore , to smaller mobilities , as seen from eq .",
    "[ mobil ] .",
    "when the spatial disorder is retained and the energetic disorder is increased , ln@xmath24 decreases even more",
    ". moreover , its qualitative behaviour approaches the disordered limit , with a stronger dependence of ln@xmath24 on the electric field .",
    "this is shown in figure [ comp_irr ] , in which ln@xmath24 is plotted as a function of @xmath34 and at room temperature for an irregularly spaced film , for two different strengths of energetic disorder .",
    "the diamonds correspond to @xmath27 , and the circles to @xmath39 .",
    "the lines are drawn as a guide to the eye .",
    "not only are the charge carriers obliged to avoid large inter - chain distances , but also they have to surmount larger energy barriers . in this case , the charge carriers rely mostly on the electrostatic energy as a source for the energy required to overcome the barriers , similarly to previously examined disordered films @xcite .    from the above discussion",
    "it is understood that the weak field and temperature dependence of ln@xmath24 in liquid - crystalline conjugated polymer films originates from the low energetic disorder present in the film .",
    "the addition of spatial disorder , by irregularly spacing the liquid - crystalline chains , does not affect this dependence , but only results in the reduction of the absolute value of the mobility .",
    "nonetheless , it is possible that another form of spatial disorder might be present in such films , and this is the existence of chains which deviate from perfect nematic alignment . in other words , it is possible that during the formation of such polymer films , some chains might appear at an angle @xmath40 with respect to the axis of alignment .",
    "we have examined this case by assigning in our simulations a random value of this angle @xmath40 to each chain .",
    "the chains were also positioned in random inter - chain distances , as in figures [ irreg2 ] and [ comp_irr ] .",
    "figure [ mis5 ] shows the outcome of such calculations , in which @xmath40 varies randomly between @xmath41 and @xmath42 .",
    "the logarithm of the mobility is plotted as a function of @xmath34 , for various temperatures , as before , with energetic disorder @xmath27 .",
    "the lines are drawn as a guide to the eye .",
    "this figure shows that ln@xmath24 is only weakly dependent on the electric field , and increases with temperature , in a similar fashion to the case of perfect alignment .",
    "hence , the inclusion of an extra form of spatial disorder does not seem to influence the qualitative behaviour of the mobility , and stresses the importance of low energetic disorder as the factor that determines the degree of dependence on the field and the temperature .",
    "unfortunately , we can not make any comparisons as to whether the mobility increases or decreases with respect to the perfect alignment case , since our simulations for the randomly oriented case have been performed for films with thickness @xmath43 m .",
    "although such film thickness might be considered small for real time - of - flight experiments , we believe that our calculations are able to represent the qualitative behaviour of the mobility for films which show deviations from perfect alignment .",
    "liquid - crystalline polymer films are generally expected to be characterized by spatial purity and chemical regularity . in this paper , we have presented calculations of the inter - chain mobility of charge carriers through such polymer films , by employing the monte carlo technique . in particular",
    ", we have investigated the effect of low energetic disorder in the electric field and temperature dependence of the mobility , in order to account for the weak dependence observed in experiments .",
    "initially , films with no spatial disorder were examined .",
    "our numerical simulations have shown that for relatively clean systems , @xmath33 , the mobility decreases with the field , as a result of the saturation of the transit time by the electrostatic energy .",
    "nevertheless , this behaviour does not depict a realistic situation and a higher amount of disorder , @xmath27 , was required to achieve qualitative agreement with experiments @xcite .",
    "when the thermal energy is not enough for the charge carriers to overcome the energy barriers , the electrostatic energy becomes important and ln@xmath24 increases with the field .",
    "the weak field dependence of the mobility arises from equivalent contributions from the thermal and the electrostatic energy when the thermal energy is comparable to the energetic disorder .",
    "the interplay between energetic disorder and thermal energy also appears in the temperature dependence of the mobility at a given electric field . for low energetic disorder , @xmath33 ,",
    "the mobility decreases with temperature at all fields , as is commonly seen in crystalline conductors . for larger energetic disorder , @xmath27 , and for constant inter - chain distances ,",
    "the mobility increases with temperature for small fields , but a crossover to the opposite behaviour appears at larger fields .",
    "this result is another demonstration of the combined effect of the electric field and the temperature on the mobility of charge carriers through spatially ordered liquid - crystalline polymer films with low energetic disorder .    when spatial disorder is taken into account",
    ", in the form of randomly varying inter - chain distances , the observed crossover from increasing to decreasing mobility with temperature is no longer present .",
    "instead , the mobility always increases with @xmath12 , as was seen in the experiments @xcite . because of the presence of a distribution of the relative position vectors , the effect of temperature",
    "is now enhanced , even though the mobility is still only weakly dependent on the electric field .",
    "similar behaviour was also observed in films in which the chains deviate slightly from perfect nematic alignment perpendicular to the direction of the electric field .",
    "finally , our numerical simulations in liquid - crystalline polymer films have helped us to distinguish between the effects of energetic and spatial disorder in such systems .",
    "low energetic disorder , thus , high chemical purity of the chains , is responsible for the weak dependence of the mobility in the field .",
    "the inclusion of spatial disorder , associated with irregularities in the arrangement of the polymer chains within the film , does not make this dependence any stronger so long as the energetic disorder remains low .",
    "the influence of spatial disorder appears at the quantitative behaviour of the mobility , as it results in decreasing considerably the absolute value of ln@xmath24 for a given range of fields and at a given temperature .",
    "we should note , however , that our model does not allow the calculation of the exact value of the mobility , or make predictions about how many orders of magnitude the mobility might increase or decrease .",
    "we thank prof a. m. stoneham for his useful comments and discussions .",
    "the authors acknowledge the _ engineering and physical sciences research council _ ( epsrc ) , and _ sharp labs of europe _ for funding the project .",
    "one of the authors , a. k. , would also like to thank the _ alexander von humboldt _ foundation .",
    "m. pope and c. e. swenberg , _ electronic processes in organic crystals and polymers _ , oxford university press ( 1999 ) p. gattinger , h. rengel , d. neher , j. appl",
    ". phys . * 84 * , 3731 ( 1998 ) p. peumans , v. bulovi@xmath44 , s. r. forrest , appl .",
    ". lett . * 76 * , 2650 ( 2000 ) f. zhang , m. svensson , m. r. andersson , m. maggini , s. bucella , e. menna , o. ingan@xmath45s , adv .",
    "* 13 * , 1871 ( 2001 ) j. h. burroughes , d. d. c. bradley , a. r. brown , r. n. marks , k. mackay , r. h. friend , p. l. burn , a. b. holmes , nature * 347 * , 359 ( 1990 ) g. hadziioannou and p. f. van hutten , _ semiconducting polymers , chemistry , physics and engineering _ , wiley - vch ( 2000 ) r. h. friend , r. w. gymer , a. b. holmes , j. h. burroughes , r. n. marks , c. taliani , d. d. c. bradley , d. a. dos santos , j. l. br@xmath46das , m. l@xmath47gdlund , w. r. salaneck , nature * 397 * , 121 ( 1999 ) a. b. walker , a. kambili , s. j. martin , to be published in j. phys . : condens .",
    "october ( 2002 ) h. b@xmath45ssler , phys .",
    "status solidi , * 175 * , 15 ( 1993 ) s. v. novikov , d. h. dunlap , v. m. kenkre , p. e. parris , a. v. vannikov , phys .",
    "lett . * 81 * , 4472 ( 1998 ) s. v. rakhmanova , e. m. conwell , synth . met . *",
    "116 * , 389 ( 2001 ) m. redecker , d. d. c. bradley , m. inbasekaran , e. p. woo , appl .",
    "73 * , 1565 ( 1998 ) m. redecker , d. d. c. bradley , m. inbasekaran , e. p. woo , appl .",
    "lett . * 74 * , 1400 ( 1999 ) h. c. f. martens , o. hilt , h. b. brom , p. w. m. blom , j. n. huiberts , phys .",
    "87 * , 086601 ( 2001 ) a. kambili , a. b. walker , phys .",
    "b * 63 * , 012201 ( 2001 ) a. m. stoneham , m. m. d. ramos , j. phys . : condens",
    ". matt . * 13 * , 2411 ( 2001 ) g. f. l. ferreira , phys .",
    "b * 16 * , 4719 ( 1976 ) j. c. scott , b. a. jones , l. t. pautmeier , mol .",
    ". liq . * 253 * , 183 ( 1994 ) h. scher , e. w. montroll , phys .",
    "b * 12 * , 2455 ( 1975 ) z. g. yu , d. l. smith , a. saxena , r. l. martin , a. r. bishop , phys .",
    "b * 63 * , 085202 ( 2001 ) d. poplavskyy , t. kreouzis , a. j. campbell , j. nelson , d. d. c. bradley , paper p1.4 , materials research society 2002 spring meeting , mrs proceedings * 725 * , editors : g. e. jabbour , n. s. sariciftci , s. t. lee , s. carter , j. kido ( 2002 )"
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> the transport properties of organic light - emitting diodes in which the emissive layer is composed of conjugated polymers in the liquid - crystalline phase have been investigated . </S>",
    "<S> we have performed simulations of the current transient response to an illumination pulse via the monte carlo approach , and from the transit times we have extracted the mobility of the charge carriers as a function of both the electric field and the temperature . </S>",
    "<S> the transport properties of such films are different from their disordered counterparts , with charge carrier mobilities exhibiting only a weak dependence on both the electric field and temperature . </S>",
    "<S> we show that for spatially ordered polymer films , this weak dependence arises for thermal energy being comparable to the energetic disorder , due to the combined effect of the electrostatic and thermal energies . </S>",
    "<S> the inclusion of spatial disorder , on the other hand , does not alter the qualitative behaviour of the mobility , but results in decreasing its absolute value . + </S>",
    "<S> pacs : 72.10.-d , 72.80.le + </S>"
  ]
}