{
  "article_text": [
    "a critical issue in molecular electronics @xcite is to find anchoring groups and construct contact structures which provide both stability and high contact transparency . in many recent experiments",
    "@xcite , au electrodes were used as leads for electronic current because of their high conductivity , stability , and well - defined fabrication technique . a common way to construct a lead - molecule - lead ( lml ) system is by using a break junction , formed either mechanically @xcite or electrically @xcite . in these break - junction experiments ,",
    "the atomic structure of the molecule - lead contact is unknown .",
    "therefore , neither the influence of detailed atomic structure on transport through the molecules nor a path to improved performance is clear . with regard to anchoring groups ,",
    "a s atom is commonly used @xcite to connect various benzene - like organic molecules to au leads because of its good binding with au and good stability . however , a recent experiment for @xmath0,@xmath1-bisacetylthio - terthiophene and @xmath0,@xmath1-bisacetylseleno - terthiophene @xcite showed that a se anchoring atom is better than s for zero bias conductance .",
    "currently , it is an open problem whether there are other better choices and what the system dependence is .    in terms of theoretical studies",
    ", there are mainly two _ ab initio _",
    "approaches for electron transport through molecules .",
    "one was developed by lang , _ et al .",
    "_ @xcite : the kohn - sham equation of the system is mapped into a lippmann - schwinger scattering equation which is solved for the scattering states self - consistently . in the implementation @xcite",
    ", the jellium model was adopted for the two metallic electrodes of an lml system . the other approach @xcite ,",
    "is based on a density functional theory ( dft ) calculation for the molecular electronic structure combined with a non - equilibrium green function ( negf ) method for electron transport .",
    "very close to the latter approach there is also an approach based on a self - consistent tight - binding method combined with the negf method @xcite .    within the dft+negf method itself , there are generally two approaches describing the boundary between the leads and the molecule of a lml system . in one category ,",
    "a _ cluster _",
    "geometry is adopted , either for all the subsystems of a lml system or for only the extended molecule while the leads are handled by an extended system method ( for example , refs .",
    "the other type of dft+negf approach @xcite uses _ periodic boundary conditions _ ( pbc ) with large parts of the leads included in the extended molecule , so that the interaction between the molecule and its images will be screened off by the metallic lead in between . in this case",
    "all the subsystems can be treated on the same footing . concerning the important issue of the best anchoring group ,",
    "surprisingly few studies have been done .",
    "first , there is a theoretical calculation @xcite for the benzene molecule using jellium leads which demonstrated that the best anchoring atom for contact transparency is not an s atom but rather a te atom  it increases the equilibrium conductance by about 25 times .",
    "a potential problem with this calculation , however , is the neglect of the detailed electronic structure of au as well as the contact atomic structure .",
    "although in the dft+negf method both molecule - lead interaction and contact structure can be taken into account in principle , in practice this has not been done : contact atomic structures were predetermined in all previous calculations .",
    "thus , to the best of our knowledge , the effect of relaxing atomic positions in the contacts has not been investigated theoretically .",
    "very recently , the effect of three different molecular end groups has been evaluated with dft+negf @xcite , though not the ones considered here nor with contact structure relaxation .    in this paper",
    "we investigate systematically the effects of different realistic contact atomic structures and re - examine the important issue of the best anchoring group .",
    "we use our previously developed self - consistent implementation of the dft+negf method @xcite . in our method , as in the other two implementations @xcite , pbc are adopted and large parts of the two metallic leads are included in the device region ( about 40 au atoms per lead ) so that the molecule - lead interactions ( including electron transfer and atomic relaxation ) are fully included , and the electronic structure of the molecule and leads are treated on exactly the same footing .",
    "we calculate the molecular conductance of benzene connected to two au leads with real atomic structure and finite width in order to simulate physical leads in break - junction experiments .",
    "the connection is made through three different anchoring atoms : s , se , and te .",
    "we consider fully the atomic relaxation of these lml systems , and consider different lead orientations and different adsorption sites of the anchoring groups .",
    "the fully optimized atomic structures and high level basis set for all the atomic species make our calculations well converged .",
    "it is found that the molecule - lead coupling , the electron transfer , and therefore the conductance depend strongly on the adsorption site , lead orientation , and local contact atomic configuration .",
    "it turns out that for ideally flat contacts the equilibrium conductance decreases with increasing atomic number of the anchoring group , regardless of the contact atomic structure and bias .",
    "however , for contacts with a fluctuation of one au atom , se becomes slightly better than s for small bias , although for large bias the chemical trend goes back and s becomes better .",
    "this shows the critical role of the real contact atomic structure in electron transport through molecules .",
    "[ fig1 ] [ fig_str ]    [ table1 ]    [ cols=\"^,^,^,^,^,^,^,^ \" , ]     in order to check whether the clear chemical trend in @xmath2 is affected by the width of the leads , we carry out calculations for ( 001)_h systems using two wider leads : @xmath3 and @xmath4 .",
    "furthermore , we also carry out test calculations using a ( 001)-(@xmath4 ) periodic surface for the leads , which will be a good approximation to an infinitely large surface because of the large separation between the molecule and its images ( larger than 12 ) . to avoid prohibitive computational effort",
    ", we adopted a single zeta plus polarization ( szp ) basis set here .",
    "table iv shows that the chemical trend remains with the wider au leads .",
    "\\(a ) + ( b )    results for finite bias provide further support for our conclusions . under 1 or 3",
    "v bias , the current decreases with increasing atomic number of the anchoring atom for both ( 001 ) and ( 111 ) leads ( table iii ) .",
    "@xmath5 , shown in fig .",
    "5 for the ( 001)_h cases , decreases at most energies as atomic number increases . from the voltage drop profiles in fig .",
    "4 , for both ( 001 ) and ( 111 ) the drops around the anchoring atoms become slightly sharper as the atomic number of the anchoring atom increases .",
    "this is direct evidence that the surface to anchoring - atom coupling under finite bias becomes weaker as atomic number increases .    in break junction experiments ,",
    "the break surfaces are certainly not as flat as assumed above but rather very likely have atomic fluctuation ( atomic scale roughness ) .",
    "to see whether or not the clear chemical trend of the different anchoring atoms is affected by the change in contact atomic configuration , we consider an additional au atom adsorbed at the h site of the two au(111 ) lead surfaces .",
    "there has been previous work on this system using dft+negf calculations @xcite using an unrelaxed s_(111)_h configuration , as well as a calculation modeling the leads with jellium @xcite .",
    "first , using an approximate non - self - consistent approach in which a constant imaginary self - energy is adopted for the au lead , one study found that the current under 4  v bias depends strongly on the adsorption site on the au lead @xcite ; when the connection was made by an apex au atom , the current was significantly reduced .",
    "second , in a systematic calculation for the unrelaxed s_(111)_h system adopting a cluster method in which only 6 au atoms are included to form the device region @xcite , the equilibrium conductance was significantly increased by the addition of the au atoms at each contact , but the current under large bias was decreased . the result for",
    "equilibrium conductance was opposite to that obtained with jellium leads @xcite , showing that one must use caution when considering the latter .    in view of these previous results ,",
    "our goal here is two fold : on the one hand , we wish to study this system with the more recently developed presumably more accurate methods ; in particular , we will include 36 au atoms per ( 111 ) lead and 50 per ( 001 ) lead in contrast to the 6 used previously . summarizing the results below",
    ", we find that the more accurate methods give qualitatively the same results as those used previously .",
    "\\(a ) + ( b ) + ( c ) [ fig_vdmap111 ]    on the other hand , and more importantly , we wish to investigate the chemical trend in the effect of the additional au atom .",
    "our results for electron transfer and equilibrium conductance are listed in table ii , with the adsorption site denoted ` h - au ' .",
    "the additional au atom increases significantly the electron transfer from the leads to the molecule , while the difference among the three anchoring atoms is strongly reduced .",
    "because of the large electron transfer , the lumo resonance becomes close to the fermi energy ; consequently , the equilibrium conductance also increases significantly .",
    "note that introduction of the additional au atoms at the contacts changes the chemical trend : se becomes the best anchoring atom in terms of contact transparency .    under a finite bias",
    ", the relatively large amount of charge transferred to the molecule causes a large density of states at energies between the left and right fermi energies .",
    "this in turn causes very different voltage drop behavior in the presence of additional au atoms : fluctuations in the voltage drop profile become large because of a large bias - induced polarization ( compare fig .",
    "6 with fig .",
    "if the bias is relatively small ( 1  v in table iii ) , se remains the best anchoring atom for contact transparency ; however , if the bias is large ( 3  v ) , then the chemical trend reverts to s being best .",
    "although the introduction of the additional au atoms increases significantly the molecular conductance for zero or small bias , it decreases the current under large bias ( table iii ) .",
    "by using a state - of - the - art _ ab initio _",
    "method for electronic structure and electron transport , we have carried out a systematic calculation for the molecular conductance of benzene sandwiched between two au electrodes . our calculation is the first to fully include the effects of relaxing the contact atomic structure .",
    "the main results are : ( 1 )  detailed contact structure strongly affects molecule - lead coupling , electron transfer , and molecular conductance .",
    "( 2 )  there is no general relation between the binding strength of an anchoring atom and the transparency of the contact ; however , in the special case of comparing contacts with very similar atomic structure , stronger binding does imply increased transparency .",
    "( 3 )  for ideally flat break surfaces , the equilibrium conductance decreases with increasing atomic number of the anchoring group regardless of the adsorption site , lead orientation , or bias .",
    "( 4 )  this chemical trend is , however , affected by the local contact atomic configuration : an additional au atom at the contact with the au(111 ) lead changes the best anchoring atom for small bias ( from s to se ) although not for large bias .",
    "these results demonstrate the critical role of realistic contact atomic structure in electron transport through molecules .",
    "y. xue , s. datta , and m. a. ratner , j. chem .",
    "phys . * 115 * , 4292 ( 2001 ) .",
    "y. xue and m. a. ratner , phys .",
    "b * 68 * , 115407 ( 2003 ) ; y. xue and m. a. ratner , phys . rev .",
    "b * 68 * , 115406 ( 2003 ) . for example , j. heurich , j.c .",
    "cuevas , w. wenzel , and g. schon , phys .",
    "lett . * 88 * , 256803 ( 2002 ) .",
    "y. xue and m.a .",
    "ratner , phys .",
    "b * 69 * , 085403 ( 2004 ) .",
    "stefan franzen , chem .",
    ". lett . * 381 * , 315 ( 2003 ) .",
    "alessandra ricca , charles w. bauschlicher jr . ,",
    ". lett . * 372 * , 873 ( 2003 ) .",
    "weber , j. reichert , f. weigend , r. ochs , d. beckmann , m. mayor , r. ahlrichs , h.v .",
    "lhneysen , chem . phys . * 281 * , 113 ( 2002 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> combining density functional theory calculations for molecular electronic structure with a green function method for electron transport , we calculate from first principles the molecular conductance of benzene connected to two au leads through different anchoring atoms  s , se , and te . </S>",
    "<S> the relaxed atomic structure of the contact , different lead orientations , and different adsorption sites are fully considered . </S>",
    "<S> we find that the molecule - lead coupling , electron transfer , and conductance all depend strongly on the adsorption site , lead orientation , and local contact atomic configuration . </S>",
    "<S> for flat contacts the conductance decreases as the atomic number of the anchoring atom increases , regardless of the adsorption site , lead orientation , or bias . for small bias </S>",
    "<S> this chemical trend is , however , dependent on the contact atomic configuration : an additional au atom at the contact with the ( 111 ) lead changes the best anchoring atom from s to se although for large bias the original chemical trend is recovered . </S>"
  ]
}