{
  "article_text": [
    "the fracture of ductile metals at high strain rates has been understood at the microscopic level as a process of nucleation , growth and coalescence of voids .",
    "@xcite initially voids nucleate at the weak points in the material such as inclusions and/or grain boundary junctions .",
    "once nucleated , the voids grow under the tensile stress , driven by the reduction in elastic energy .",
    "eventually , the voids grow sufficiently large that they interact with each other , in some cases link through localized shear , coalesce into larger voids , and finally form the fracture surface .",
    "@xcite considerable experimental and theoretical work has gone into the development of our understanding of fracture .",
    "the fracture process has been modeled at various levels , but most of the work involving the simulation of the activity of individual voids has concentrated on the void growth and its relationship to the plastic deformation of the surrounding material , including effects such as the localization of this shear deformation . relatively little work has gone into the explicit modeling of void coalescence , and both the understanding of the physics of this process and the knowledge of how it should be implemented robustly in continuum fracture codes remain open issues .",
    "the point at which voids begin to coalesce during dynamic fracture is of considerable interest because complete fracture of the material typically ensues rapidly thereafter . as new experimental techniques have constrained the void growth models ever more stringently ,  @xcite a real need for a well developed theory of coalescence has arisen .",
    "computationally void growth has been studied extensively at the continuum level ,  @xcite also in dynamic , high strain - rate , conditions .",
    "@xcite recently we have studied void growth at the atomistic level under high strain - rate expansion , motivated by spallation experiments .",
    "@xcite the atomistic studies demonstrate that voids grow by emitting dislocations that carry away the material , platelets of atoms , from the void and are responsible for the plastic deformations needed to accommodate significant void growth .",
    "there are also many recent studies of fracture in ductile metals with several holes or voids .",
    "@xcite while these studies model the void growth explicitly with fairly sophisticated models of plasticity in many cases , they typically simplify the coalescence process to instantaneous unification of the voids when some threshold is reached , such as once the voids grow to within one diameter of each other .",
    "there are also studies that investigate the competition between void by void growth versus multiple void interaction in crack propagation .",
    "@xcite several earlier continuum studies  @xcite and the one atomistic study known to us  @xcite of the coalescence process have been typically conducted in effectively two dimensional and highly symmetric systems .",
    "this article covers in detail a study of the onset of void coalescence .",
    "the first results of this study have been presented in a letter .",
    "@xcite here we provide a more complete presentation of the results of our study of void coalescence .",
    "in addition to a more detailed description of the results presented in the letter , we describe different measures of void interactions such as shape changes induced by a neighboring void , additional analysis of the behavior of the system including stress - strain curves and void volume curves , and a new analysis of how the coalescence of isolated pairs of voids differs from that of voids in highly symmetric periodic arrays .    in particular the goal of this article",
    "is to quantify the point at which coalescence begins , as measured by a critical _ inter - void ligament distance _ ( ild ) , and examine the mechanisms involved in the transition from independent void growth to coalescence .",
    "there are several ways in which two voids can interact . in the case of pure impingement",
    ", the voids only interact when they grow to the point that they intersect and join into a single void . in reality , the voids interact before they intersect . their range of interaction is extended due to their elastic and plastic fields .",
    "each void generates an elastic strain field of the form generally associated with centers of dilatation .",
    "@xcite the shear stress decreases with the distance from the void like @xmath0 . for voids sufficiently close each void s growth rate is altered by the stress field of the proximal void .",
    "the modification of the elastic field can affect the initiation of plasticity , as well as the subsequent development of the plastic zone around the voids .",
    "the voids may interact through their plastic fields , too , in which case the fields may give rise to an increased hardening rate in a localized region or to thermal softening and shear localization . an argument due to",
    "brown and embury for a transition to shear deformation based on simple geometrical considerations suggests that the critical inter - void ligament distance , ild@xmath1 , should be equal to one diameter of a void ;  @xcite that is , when the surfaces of a pair of voids are separated by one void diameter , they transition from independent void growth to coalescence .",
    "it is at this point , they argue , that the dominant void process switches from the radial plastic flow around isolated growing voids to a large - scale shear deformation allowing the rapid coalescence of the pair of voids . however , more recent two - dimensional studies suggest that for distances between voids as large as six diameters the void growth rate is enhanced .",
    "@xcite    the use of atomistic techniques permits the analysis of the contributions of these competing mechanisms to the onset of void coalescence , as we describe in this article .",
    "we demonstrate the existence of , and compute , the critical inter - void ligament distance ild@xmath1 by starting with two voids well separated from each other and detecting the point at which correlated growth begins , marked both by the accelerated rate at which the two void surfaces approach each other and by biased growth causing the voids to start to extend toward each other .",
    "these changes give an indication of the onset of the coalescence process , and it tests the argument by brown and embury .",
    "@xcite we also test the setup by horstemeyer _",
    "_  @xcite by varying the initial distances between the voids and measuring the asymptotic growth rate of the voids .",
    "the initial void - to - void distance below which the growth - rate is enhanced should give another candidate for the critical distance and measure it in a volumetric sense .",
    "it should be noted , however , that the three - dimensional void coalescence studied here with molecular dynamics , as indeed any 3d coalescence of roughly spherical voids , does not admit the two - dimensional shear mechanism proposed by brown and embury in its simplest form , and therefore these different analyses are not fully comparable . also horstemeyer _ et al .",
    "_ used a more symmetric setup than the simulations covered in this article .",
    "the article is organized as follows .",
    "the simulation method and the performed computations are introduced in section  [ sec_method ] . the basic mechanism , dislocation driven void growth , is demonstrated and the key reference parameter , mean linear void size , is introduced in section  [ sec_voidgrowth ] . the interaction between voids are studied in section  [ sec_interaction ] : section  [ sec_dist ] uses two different distance measurements to study the interaction ; section  [ sec_shape ] introduces a shape parameter for the purpose .",
    "finally the volume effects of the void growth are studied in section  [ sec_volume ] : two separate voids are studied in section  [ sec_volume_twovoids ] and one void and the interaction with its periodic image are studied in section  [ sec_volume_onevoids ] .",
    "the paper ends with conclusions , section  [ concl ] .",
    "fcc unit cells with periodic boundary conditions for a total of 6  912  000 atoms initially . from this two equal size voids are created by removing approximately 3620 atoms for each void .",
    "the thin arrow shows the inter - void ligament distance ( ild ) , the shortest surface - to - surface distance between the voids , identified as a and b. the initial ild ranges between one - half and five times the initial void radius .",
    "the bold arrows denote triaxial , hydrostatic , expansion of the box .",
    "the strain - controlled expansion is applied with constant strain - rates of @xmath2/sec and @xmath3/sec.,width=283 ]    .[tab1 ] the initial position for void b relative to void a and the center - to - center distances for various initial inter - void ( surface - to - surface ) ligament distances ild@xmath4 used in this study . [ cols=\"^,^,^ \" , ]     we have also performed a series of simulations of a single void with fixed initial radius size @xmath5 in various initial box sizes @xmath6 in order to find the coalescence process of the void with its ( six ) periodic image(s ) , similar to the manner in which some continuum calculations of coalescence have been done ( cf .",
    "refs .   and ) .",
    "the details of the different box sizes are reported in table  [ tab3 ] .",
    "figure  [ fig9 ] shows the data from this series of simulations .",
    "there we have scaled the void fraction @xmath7 with the exponential , @xmath8 ( as in fig .",
    "[ fig8 ] ) as well as @xmath9 in order to take into account different initial volumes @xmath6 of the box .",
    "also @xmath10 scaling is applied to the linear void @xmath11 ( horizontal axis ) . from the figure one",
    "concludes that the behavior is opposite to the results from the case of an isolated pair of voids , section  [ sec_volume_twovoids ] , in an important way .",
    "the smaller the box size , and hence the smaller the ild@xmath4 , the later the void starts to grow .",
    "this is easy to understand since measured from afar the two separate voids act as one big void , and thus grow faster than a smaller void . in a single void with its periodic image",
    "that picture does not hold .",
    "for example , there is no distance at which the stress field approaches a single void stress field .",
    "the periodic image only restricts the growth of the void . at a more mechanistic level ,",
    "the net effect of the array of voids is to reduce the resolved shear stress driving dislocation emission from the void surface , whereas a single nearby void enhances this resolved shear stress on some regions of the void surface .",
    "an intuitive way to understand this phenomenon is to consider that the shear stress field of a single void forces interstitial loops away from the void .",
    "this field decreases with the distance from the void as @xmath12 . at the near side of a neighboring void",
    ", this field would tend to drive interstitial loops into that void ; in combination , it reduces that void s own stress field . at the far side",
    ", it adds to the other void s field , but the effect is smaller due to the greater distance . for a symmetric array ,",
    "the effect is to reduce the maximum resolved shear stress across the surface and delay dislocation emission .",
    "to summarize , interaction and coalescence of two voids in copper under tension have been simulated in multi - million - atom md simulations .",
    "the effects of interactions between voids have been quantified by the increased reduction - rate of their separation , by the movement of their centers , and by their shape evolutions .",
    "the void interaction has also been visualized by detecting the dislocations moving in the system using the generalized centrosymmetry parameter .",
    "the critical inter - void ligament distance has been found to be close to one void radius , independent of the strain - rate or the initial separation distance ild@xmath4 .",
    "the onset of coalescence occurs at the point that the plastic zones surrounding the voids first interact strongly .",
    "signatures of coalescence have been found in the dynamic ild curves and the void center movements , as explained in detail here , including reference to the stress - strain and void volume curves",
    ". a weaker signature of the onset of coalescence has also been found in the void shape curves giving the quadrupole moment evolution .",
    "it has been demonstrated that the interaction of the voids is not reflected in the volumetric asymptotic growth rate of the voids .",
    "finally , the coalescence process of an isolated pair of voids has been shown to be markedly different than the coalescence of a single void with its periodic images , so the latter would not provide a reliable description of coalescence in typical low - symmetry configurations .    in the future",
    "it would be interesting to study the cases with uniaxial expansion ( and the various orientations of the voids with respect to the expansion direction ) , different sizes of the voids relative to each other , other crystal structures as body - center cubic and hexagonal lattices , and systems including larger collections of voids .",
    "this work was performed under the auspices of the u.s .",
    "dept .  of energy by the university of california , lawrence livermore national laboratory , under contract no .",
    "we would like to thank r.  becker for useful discussions .",
    "j.  koplik and a.  needleman , int .",
    "j.  solids structures * 24 * , 835 ( 1988 ) ; v.  tvergaard and a.  needleman , int .",
    "j.  solids structures * 32 * , 1063 ( 1995 ) ; v.  tvergaard and a.  needleman , int .",
    "j.  solids structures * 34 * , 2221 ( 1997 ) ; v.  tvergaard , int .",
    "j.  solids structures * 35 * , 3989 ( 1998 ) .",
    "j.  p.  bandstra and d.  a.  koss , mat .",
    "eng .  a * 319 - 321 * , 490 ( 2001 ) ; a.  b.  geltmacher , d.  a.  koss , p.  matic , and m.  g.  stout , acta mater .  * 44 * , 2201 ( 1996 ) ; d.  m.  goto and d.  a.  koss , scripta mater .",
    "* 35 * , 459 ( 1996 ) ; p.  e.  magnusen , d.  j.  srolovitz , and d.  a.  koss , acta metall .",
    "mater .  *",
    "38 * , 1013 ( 1990 ) ; p.  e.  magnusen , e.  m.  dubensky , and d.  a.  koss , acta metall .",
    "* 36 * , 1503 ( 1988 ) ; v.  jablokov , d.  m.  goto , and d.  a.  koss , metall .  and mater .",
    "a * 32 * , 2985 ( 2001 ) .",
    "j. a. zimmerman , e. b. webb iii , j. j. hoyt , r. e. jones , p. a. klein and d. j. bammann , modelling and simul .",
    "* 12 * , s319 ( 2004 ) .",
    "p.  j.  steinhardt , d.  r.  nelson , and m.  ronchetti , phys .",
    "b * 28 * , 784 ( 1983 ) ."
  ],
  "abstract_text": [
    "<S> void coalescence and interaction in dynamic fracture of ductile metals have been investigated using three - dimensional strain - controlled multi - million atom molecular dynamics simulations of copper . </S>",
    "<S> the correlated growth of two voids during the coalescence process leading to fracture is investigated , both in terms of its onset and the ensuing dynamical interactions . </S>",
    "<S> void interactions are quantified through the rate of reduction of the distance between the voids , through the correlated directional growth of the voids , and through correlated shape evolution of the voids . the critical inter - void ligament distance marking the onset of coalescence </S>",
    "<S> is shown to be approximately one void radius based on the quantification measurements used , independent of the initial separation distance between the voids and the strain - rate of the expansion of the system . </S>",
    "<S> the interaction of the voids is not reflected in the volumetric asymptotic growth rate of the voids , as demonstrated here . finally , the practice of using a single void and periodic boundary conditions to study coalescence is examined critically and shown to produce results markedly different than the coalescence of a pair of isolated voids . </S>"
  ]
}